Nob& 2>awte
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 82
October 13, 1944
No. 13

•	Dean Manion to Address Graduates
•	Wendell L Willkie Dies in New York
9 Irish Face Dartmouth Tomorrow
^he ^Notre %bame Scholastic
Di see Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY ...	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE -	-	-	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	-
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner - Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters The Periscope The Gabby Gizmo
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM HECK -EMMETT HASSETT BLAIR NATTKEMPER PETE BROWN HARRY LEBIEN ARNIE SKLARE
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY jack McCarthy JOHN BUTLER TOM DINGES JIM CAREY DICK GORMAN JACK CAHILL DICK MELLETT JOHN MORRIS tom McNally JACK MILES JAMES KEENAN. GEORGE DESPOT
GEORGE KRAUSER RONALD BYERSMITH JOHN FEENEY HARRY SEIMONSMA GREG HALPIN ROBERT MOLNAR GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIN JOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL J. S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS
R. L. VOSBERG TOM SHANAHAN BILL LESSARD JIM FOY
J. KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. HERGSTEIN C. STONEBARGER BILL OVER JIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEPRGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE
BEV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC . is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and - examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manu' script to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
A- 2	•	.	.
Au Revoir
In one more week another chapter in the long story of Notre Dame will be completed. The small group of V-12 marine trainees still remaining on .campus will move on to sites of further training at Cornell and Colgate Universities. With them will go the famous “Hut, two, three...that has echoed and re-echoed throughout the campus the past year and a half.	.
In the spring of 1943, military and University representatives agreed on the establishment of a V-12 unit on the campus to augment the already large navy midshipmen class that was here. Marines and sailors, therefore, many of whom were from active duty with the service, invaded the campus in the early days of July 1943, to pioneer one of the largest V-12 units in the nation.
Participate Actively
Since their coming, the Marines have gradually become a significant part of the wartime University. They have accepted the necessary navy discipline in true military fashion, but at the same time have not neglected to take advantage of opportunities on campus to do a little more than just what was required of them. They have participated actively in every phase of campus life; have made their stay here as profitable as possible by taking full advantage of the University’s various spiritual, mental, and physical activities.
They have grown physically in the strenuous daily routine of exercise, discipline and athletic competition. Marines have stood and cheered their teams on.... marines in uniforms on the bench, marines in the stadium, in the fieldhouse, at the trackside.... marines perspiring at practice for the real game yet to come. Both among themselves and in contests between our teams’ and those of other schools they have learned the principles of friendly combat.
The marines’ days at Notre Dame have been days of war: they have lived in the tradition of patriotism here; something they shall take with them into life. .They have grown in the libraries on campus, the class-rooms, the laboratories. They have grown through the many hours spent in quiet, earnest study, and the long afternoons of technical report writing.
To those who participated in Notre Dame life, to all who gave so generously of their time and talents to ease the tension of a war-minded schedule, to all who donned the colors of the Gold and Blue in the various athletic fields of endeavor, to all who lived here and left their mark in the clubs, the societies, the periodicals, and in the minds of their friends__to all these gentlemen in khaki, a warm Au Revoir.
—Al Lesmez
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 82
OCTOBER 13. 1944
No. 13
Dean C. E. Manion to Address Graduates
Fr. Connerton Represents N. D. at Al Smith Funeral
Rev. James F. Connerton, C.S.C., registrar, represented the University of Notre Dame at the funeral of Alfred E. Smith, in St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York City, last Saturday morning. At the same time, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, offered Mass here on the campus for the repose of Mr. Smith’s soul. Later, Father O’Donnell issued the following statement :
“Notre Dame will always remember her distinguished Laetare Medalist, Alfred Emanuel Smith, for his fidelity to God and country. He came up the hard way and achieved success, but he never lost the human touch along the road to greatness. His tolerance and forebear-ance, firmly rooted in a Christlike charity, won for him the esteem and regard of all classes of society that had come to know and respect him for what he was —a true Catholic American. His noble soul will be generously remembered in the Masses and prayers of all at the University. May he rest in peace!”
Church officials estimated that the crowd in. attendance at the funeral of Mr. Smith was the largest ever. Msgr. Joseph P. Donahue, vicar-general of the New York archdiocese, gave the eulogy, saying: “Not often does the death of one man produce a grief so sincere in the whole nation. Alfred Smith was a man among men—a sincere Catholic by profession and practice, and a real American. He was a pioneer in instituting social reform and his terms as governor of New York have served as models for such social legislation in other states and for the nation.”
After the service the Smith family and a few close friends went to Calvary Cemetery in Queens, where the “Happy Warrior” was laid to rest beside his wife, Kitty, whose death in May left him lonely and in ill health.
(Continued on page 17)
Knights Hold Open Meeting Tonight
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will hold a special open meeting tonight, Friday, at 8:00 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. All Catholic students who are over 18 years old are urged to attend this meeting which will feature football pictures and refreshments. No admission will be charged.
The Knights has long been the largest and most active organization on the campus, and judging from the success of their membership drive so far, they will again be the active group they have been in the past.
Grand Knight Tim Cotter and Financial Secretary Ernie Howard have sent out a special invitation to all Notre Dame men who are eligible to join the Knights to attend this meeting.—R. R.
Fr. Cavanaugh Speaks
Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame will address members of the Michigan Chapter of the International Federation of Catholic Alumnae at the convention banquet at Kalamazoo, Mich., tomorrow.
Father Cavanaugh will address members at Nazareth College in Kalamazoo.
Are You Interested?
The SCHOLASTIC drive for soap and candy in behalf of the children war victims of allied Europe is on now. The Marine Detachment, both officers and men, responded 100%. The V-12 Navy and Civilians on campus are yet to be heard from. It is a splendid charity, and within your reach. Are you interested? (Full particulars are given elsewhere in this issue).
BY BOB RIORDAN
"Scholastic" Managing Editor
Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law will deliver the convocation address at the ceremonies in Washington Hall, Friday evening, Oct. 27, at 8:00 p.m. Dean Manion has had considerable experience as a commencement speaker, having addressed the graduating class of Webster College, St. Louis, last June-He also was the speaker at the graduation of Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, several years ago, at which ttime he received an honorary degree of Doctor of Civil and Canon Law (J.U.D.) from Boston University.
, ; W
►
Dean Manion
The commencement day program will open when Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, celebrates a low mass in the Chapel of Our Lady, Sacred Heart Church, at 8:00 aan., the morning of Oct. 27, for the graduates. Following this will be the traditional farewell visit to the church, by the seniors. Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., will conduct this ceremony. At 9:00 aan. the seniors will gather in the dining hall for a communion breakfast
At 4:00 pan. a reception will be held in the Rockne Lounge for the graduates and their families. This reception is a new part of graduation ceremonies, and will add much to the success of the program.
At the convocation that evening, degrees will be conferred upon three graduates from the College of Arts and Letters; three from the College of Science; eight from the College of Engineering; five from the College of Law; and seven from the College of Commerce. Nineteen graduate degrees will be conferred.
3
Death of Wendell L. Willkie Recalls Visit to Campus and Speech to Student Body
The death of Wendell L. Willkie, last Sunday morning in New York was the occasion for many on campus to recall his visit to Notre Dame early on the morning of September 3, 1940, when he was the Republican candidate for president.
Mr. Willkie and his auto-caravan party were met by Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, and other local officials, on the front porch of the Administration building. The colorful, shaggy-haired political figure then addressed the student body and several hundred townspeople gathered in the main quadrangle below.
While Mr. Willkie expressed satisfaction in the crowd gathered to pay him
Wendell L. Willkie and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C.
homage, he confessed a special pride in Notre Dame as a Hoosier institution, recalling that he was likewise a product of the same state. He then touched upon the accomplishments of the University, noting.	•
“The great glory of this country and of this way of life is that scattered all over this country are these great institutions of learning, and particularly those supported by the religious bodies, where there is complete academic freedom, where men meet and learn and discuss and go forth to play their part in world affairs. For 98 years, this institution has gathered here young men and taught them and whether it sent them forth as missionaries of the faith it teaches or as men better equipped to perform their
respective tasks in life, no greater contribution can be made to our civilization and our democracy than that we have such institutions as this.
“I have been much impressed, of course by the great athletic prowess of Notre Dame. It is known throughout the world. But more than that, great as that has been, just think that in this moment, such a thing as rubber may determine the productive ability of America.
“If war breaks out in the Far East, whether we are involved or not, our source of rubber may be taken from us. Yet in this quiet spot, in one of these University halls, Father Nieuwland developed synthetic rubber, which may be the salvation of this civilization. This has always happened, and it always will happen where human society permits the mind to develop the sciences and the arts.”
After leaving the University, Mr. Willkie motored to St. Mary’s College, and then to the 12-car special train at the Dore road crossing.
Soap and Candy Bars
Coming In for Italy
“The Marines have come through again, this time in the Soap and Candy Campaign for the War Children of Italy,” according to Miss Marguerite Varga, who has taken over the collection of these items for the Scholastic. Private Roy Rademacher made the first contribution, First Sgt. Don Wiehel, Privates Bob Jochums, Bob Gouer and Ewald Rodin helped start the ball rolling. To date some ten pounds of candy and over 100 pounds of soap have been collected.
The question now is whether the civilians and navy trainees are going to let the Marines run away with the campaign. The collection is not ended—there is still much to be collected and much help needed.	'
The campaign got underway at the request of Major John V. Hinkel, a graduate of the University and a former editor of the Scholastic. He contacted Mr. James Armstrong, national secretary of the Alumni Association, and requested that the candy and soap be collected and sent to him in time for distribution at a Christmas party to be given for the children of the Rome area. Mr. Armstrong turned the idea over to the Scholastic, and it was the Marines who took up the work with enthusiasm.
Contributions to this very worthy charity will be accepted in the Publications Office in the East Wing of the Administration building. Since the campaign will close shortly, it is requested that all contributions be brought to the office as soon as possible.
4
Fun and Festivity of RO Week-End Ranks It the Greatest in Local Unit's Annals
Life around Walsh Hall has resumed its natural course but there’s been something added. The RO Bail has come and
gone, the football game between Notre Dame and Tulane with its pleasing score is history, the victory dance and other added bits of week are now in the past but not forgotten.
As the lads ambled back to their Walsh hall quarters on Sunday, there was a complete attitude of reminiscing surviving in the battalion. All of those who attended, including the officers and guests, had nothing but praise for the event. Hal McIntyre and company who played for the Naval Ball on Friday night at the Service Center was the new high in the bands engaged by the Corps. The dance was aired over CBS coast-to-coast from 11:05 to 11:30 (CWT), another new innovation in the RO doings.
After the Ball is Over
In the gayly decorated ballroom, all of the tables were adorned by bottles with candles and dripping candle wax, the waiters carried out the theme being piratical with their sashes, cutlasses, and bandanas, the waterfall was something new and in a decorative creation but very novel. Photographers made the rounds taking pictures of the couples— practically a must at every Naval Ball. But at 1:00 a.m. the Ball was over and that was the saddest part of the whole three day excursion in South Bend and vicinity.
Then, of course, there was the game that found the cadets and their guests in between the 40 and 50 yard stripes on the east side of the field from where they viewed Notre Dame’s one-sided victory over the Green Wave of Tulane. The victory dance that evening drew a great many of the week-enders but a general tour of South Bend was also in order. With the major contingent of dates pulling out on Sunday afternoon, there was nothing left to do but wait till the next one. By Monday, the community life of Walsh assumed its normal tempo with all of the sweet and lovelies ultimately headed for home somewhere in the states.
Co-chairmen for the ball Herb Daiker of Utica, New York and Bill Grant of Erie, Pa. schemed a very elaborate affair as were the decorations under the guidance of Rudy Anderson and Dick Bateman. The entire committee along with
the inexpendable source of reserves should be congratulated for the best ball in a set of six affairs held to date.
Johnson to Judge Seven
Photography Finalists
The judging of the Scholastic photography contest is now almost over. The preliminary judging has been completed, and the pictures remaining in competition are now in the hands of the final judge, Eddie Johnson. Mr. Johnson, director of the far-famed Tribune color studio in Chicago, has consented to act as judge in this, the final phase of the photography contest. The work of Mr. Johnson is well-known in the pioneer field of color photography because it was he, leading the Tribune’s staff of photography, that began experiments in colorphotography which led to the skillful and artistic work evidenced in the work of the Tribune.
Remaining in the contest are pictures entered by the following men: D. L. White of Alumni; J. A. Arcaeli of Sorin; T. E. Snyder of St. Ed’s; C. B. Renaud of St. Ed’s; H. C. Schwan of Dillon; Al Lesmez of Sorin; and M. J. O’Connor of the Graduate School.
Since the studio first began its work several years ago, it has photographed in color nearly every prominent and- important figure in the country, and every international figure who passed through
NROTC Ball Committeemen and their dates, left to right: George Finn, Miss Mirth Tippy, Miss Beau Quinn. Rudy Anderson, Miss June Haubrich. Bill Waddington, Herb Daiker, Miss June Barnum. Bill Grant. Miss Mary Agnes Culhane, John Caron. Miss Betty Lee Landing. Miss Pat Mehring, Ed Stroot, Miss Virginia Hildebrand, Dave Champion. Miss Jean Schmidt, and Dick Bateman.
Chicago. In the dressing room which is maintained for the convenience of those being photographed are scores of autographs. These have been left on the wall by everyone who has used this room, and one look over the collection shows just how extensive has been the successful work of Mr. Johnson and his staff.
"The Hand of God...
Word has reached the University stating that a former Notre Dame man is now personal pilot for Lieut. General Joseph Stillwell in the Indo-China theater. The man is Major Emmett J. Thaisen, of Detroit, who attended the University in 1936-37.
According to the report, “Vinegar Joe” uses his plane like a taxi, and it is Major Thaisen’s job to pilot the general wherever the general desires. On one trip, they became lost in a storm over the Himalaya Mountains, and after flying blind for some time, he finally broke through the overcast and landed, and it is reported that General Stillwell commented, “Only the hand of God brought us through that one.”
Alumnus Visits Campus
A visitor on the campus last week was Major John B. Berteling of the Marine Corps, and a graduate in 1938. Major Berteling has seen action in the Southwest Pacific Area.
His grandfather was formerly University physician, and both his father and grandfather were Notre Dame graduates.
S
Civilian Week-end Enjoyed by All Participants; Rally. Ball. Game. Dance. Mass-All on Program
BY BOB O'TOOLE
The Townsend Plan, the Social Security Plan, the G-I Plan.... all these were laid aside last week-end in favor of the Student Council’s civilian week-end plan, and a bright plan it was for the 200 lads and their guests who participated.
The week-end began Friday afternoon when the South Shore pulled into South Bend (on time) overladen with pretty •‘imports.” There followed a great migration to Rosie’s where the usual spaghetti was served.
After that it was out to the campus for the pep rally that turned out to be a real reminder of pre-war spirit. Ending on a high pitch of enthusiasm, it served to key the Ball-goers for the excellent evening of dancing ahead.
Under the direction of Chuck Cavallo, the music was soft and well-rendered, sometimes slipping into a few fast tempos for the hepsters in the crowd. The lights in the Rockne Memorial burned bright with the Fall atmosphere, and the decorations added color to the whole scene. Harry Berliner turned out a good dance program on his Eric Gill Press, setting it in a combination of different type that blended nicely.
A momentary struggle over cabs and the exact location of parked cars, and
Myron Walz and His Orchestra
the Rockne Memorial was suddenly empty; the lasses tucked into their hotel left the young swains with nothing to do but hightail it back to the halls to beat the two o’clock curfew.
After Saturday classes had been completed, things got going again, and the Notre Dame-Tulane game fitted right into the program of the week-end. Seated together, the students and their guests cheered themselves hoarse, and gave competition to the cheering abilities of the regular stands and their cheerleaders.
Saturday night found a good number of the “weekenders” at the St. Edwards’-promoted Victory dance at the Indiana club. Here music was supplied by Myron Walz and his orchestra. After a short session in neighboring restaurants, the inevitable dash to the bus-stop was witnessed as the boys rushed back before the church-clock struck 12 and campused the late arrivals.
Sunday found the mixed company at the 10:10 Mass in Sacred Heart church, and the shiftier lads beat the rest of the company to the cafeteria for breakfast. Then came the slow procession toward the train stations and the whispered farewells; the week-end had come to a close, but would linger to take up more than one letter’s discussion.
Conversation Method
Featured in Languages
Professor Earl Langwell, head of the Department of Modern Languages, has announced that in the coming semester courses in spoken French, German, and Spanish will be offered. Each of these courses will meet five hours a week for two semesters. The French section will be conducted by Professoi’ Langwell, the Spanish by Professor Walter Langford, and the German by Professor George Wack.
The conversational approach to the study of living languages, though not new, has attained a much greater efficiency in recent years, particularly as a consequence of experiments conducted in some American universities, and a further impetus has been provided by the results thus far obtained in the linguistic division of the Army Specialized Training Program.
Under pressure of the war emergency, the linguists who have contributed to the Army’s language training program have been impelled to expand and develop a radically different method of teaching. Under this method the student learns a language by speaking it and by hearing it spoken, much as if he were a small child in the process of learning his native tongue. Everywhere the emphasis is placed upon the formation of speech habits, not upon an analytical study of grammar. As a result, the student speaks whole sentences from the outset, and he makes no attempt to translate the foreign language into his native idiom.
The new language courses at Notre Dame are accordingly in keeping with the times. Students who are interested should consult the announcement of these courses in the University Bulletin.
V-J2 Clubs Under Way
As the current semester draws nearer to its conclusion, the men throughout the navy halls who have been in charge of the organization of clubs to brighten campus activities, announce that to date nine clubs are either underway or will get under way in a matter of days.
These organizations include ping pong, debating, Spanish, flying, biology, bridge, current events, fencing and archery clubs. Several have already laid the plans for meetings and the selection of club officers.
One of the largest groups to organize is a biology club, which will be known as the Science club. The debating group is planning a schedule of debates with other schools.
V-12 Engineer Student
Builds Model Bridge
Robert William Coyle of Co. C, a V-12 student here at the University, has just completed constructing a model of a 70 foot highway timber bridge. The construction of the model, which was not part of the regular work in the course, was worked on for several weeks by Seaman Coyle in his spare time until its recent completion. The model w’as built on the scale of % inch to a foot.
Seaman Coyle is a junior in the Civil Engineering course and is president of the student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineering. The entire model was constructed without any supervision from the various instructors, and the only help which he received was through answers to questions which he asked. To test the stability of the model, Seaman Coyle placed his entire weight on the structure, which suffered not the worse for the experiment. Through various calculations, it was determined that the bridge, if built to actual size would support a vehicle weighing 50 tons.
According to Professor Shilts, who is head of the Department of Civil Engineering, the model is an excellent reproduction and Seaman Coyle deserves a great deal of praise for his efforts.'
—Robert Molnar
Lieut. Northrop Arrives to Replace Lieut. Collins
In the latest changes in the officer personnel of the V-12 unit, Lt. (jg) J. H. Northrop reported aboard on Monday of this week to replace Lt. J. J. Collins, first lieutenant of the unit, who is scheduled to leave for a new assignment about Nov. 20.
Lieut. Northrop entered the service on April 26, 1943, and was sent to Fort Schuyler indoctrination school in the Bronx, N. Y. Since that time he has seen mine sweep and convoy duty in the Atlantic, Mediterranean, and Caribbean.
The new officer of the unit received his B.S. from St. Lawrence university, his M.S. from the State Teachers College, Albany, N. Y., and his Ph.D. from New York University. Prior to entering the service he was a high school instructor in history and physical education at Ticonderoga, N. Y., and Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Later he was principal of the junior high school at Babylon, L. I.
Lt. Northrop, whose home has been in Babylon, L. I., is married and has one child.—Al Broten
Figures Reveal that Nearly One-Fourth of Local V-12 Group Has Had Previous Service
BY AL BROTEN "Scholastic" Associate Editor
The Navy’s desire to give to as many enlisted men as possible the opportunity of becoming officers has been illustrated in the results of a recent survey made among the trainees on the Notre Dame campus, a survey which lists 327 men who have seen service in the Navy prior to their entrance into the V-12 program. This represents 23.3 % of the men in the entire unit at the present time.
Although the figure is but a close approximation based on blanks filled out by the Seamen and Marines, it is sufficient to show the large “fleet reserve” which Notre Dame has been carrying in its V-12 setup. These men have either served with the Navy or Marine Corps ashore or aboard ships.
Of the 327 men, a total of 174 have served for varying periods of time in the Pacific and Southwest Pacific areas; whereas, only 55 have come from ships and stations in the European theater of operations. All of the European veterans and 165 of the Pacific veterans are seamen.
Collectively, the sailors and marines have contributed 2095 months of service in the Pacific and 350 months in the European area. Co. G represents, through its membership, 238 months of Pacific duty for the largest total in that category. Co. P is second with 204 months in that area. Other totals include Co. L, 190 months; Co. N, 167 months; Co. F, 150 months; and Co. D, 140 months.
In considering months of service in the European areas, Co. G heads the list with 81 months. Next in line are Co. P, 74 months; Co. L, 55 months; and Co. A, 27 months.
From the point of view of individuals, the survey discovered that Seaman Vincent D. Gugger of Co. D has compiled the longest service record of any trainee in the unit service to his credit. This is correct on the basis of the returned blanks.
Seaman Edward E. Hannah of Co. L is a close runner-up for this honor with 71 months. He spent 30 of these in Pacific areas. Others who boast long service records include Seaman Francis Bedard of Co. H, 70 months; Seaman M. E. Pedley of Co. L, 63 months; Pvt. John A. McKenzie of Marine Co. B, 63 months; Seaman Gerald Field of Co. N, 62 months; and Seaman Francis S. Sheekey of Co. N, 62 months.
Earning top billeting as the man with the longest record in the Pacific areas is Seaman Albert Schramm of Co. F with 40 months of duty. Other high men include Seaman Richard M. Vanderwall of Co. G, 38 months; Seaman John -Weaver of Co. K, 37 months; Seaman Francis Bedard, 36 months; and Seaman Francis Sheekey, 34 months.
In the European theater, Seaman John J. Pare of Co. P served 19 months for top honors. Others with long records are Seaman Bernard Freed of Co. G, 15 months; Seaman Donley Brody of Co. G, 15 months; Seaman Charles Mor-head of Co. A, 14 months; and Seaman Julius Madvay, of Co. P, 14 months.
In addition to the preceding statistics, the survey revealed various citations and awards given to men of this unit. Warne Schaap of Co. A was awarded a presidential unit citation. James Curtis of Co. D has a presidential unit citation pending. A commendation for performance of duty from Task Force Commander, Rear Admiral Turner, was presented to Jim Groves of Co. D.
George Boothby, Co. L, received a commendation for invasion of Salerno. Palmer Amundsen earned an individual letter of commendation from his unit. A letter of commendation from the commanding officer of a Brazilian battleship for duties aboard while in convoy is held by Harrison Campbell of Co.. I.
William Gaus of Co. G was awarded a commendation for participation in the rescue and salvage of a torpedoed tanker. Presidential citations have been presented to Robert Cutter of Co. L; Richard Bradley of Co. G; Leo Phillips of Co. N, and James Fitzpatrick, B. G. Knapper, and John Ferguson of Marine Co. A.
Purple Heart awards have been presented to Pvt. Knapper of the Marines, Seaman Bernard Meddleton of Co. E, and Seaman William Pearson of Co. L.
Party for Navy Men
A party to which all navy men of the V-12 unit are invited without charge will be staged in the Studebaker Administration building on Saturday, Oct. 21, from 8:30 until 12 p.m. The Mary Ann club of the Studebaker organization has made the arrangements.
7
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY. USNR
1.	Orders for Midshipmen’s School:
Of the 135 men who are finishing their V-12 work and whose orders for midshipmen’s school have been received, 16 are to go to Supply Corps training at the Naval Training Center at Lido Beach, Long Island, N. Y., and the other 119 are to go to the following seven midshipmen’s schools: Northwestern; Cornell (for engineeers chiefly); Camp Macdon-ough at Plattsburg, N. Y., (the engineers sent here will be transferred to Cornell on 6 December); Fort Schuyler, N. Y.; Notre Dame; Columbia University; and Asbury Park, N. J. (until assigned to a later class at one of the midshipmen’s schools). The Commanding Officer has been advised by the Bureau of Naval Personnel to cancel transfers for any students who are not recommended as qualified in all respects for further training as officer candidates “Any student who is not in good standing academically upon completion of his allowed number of terms in V-12, regardless of the fact that he may have successfully completed the minimum course requirements for the type of candidacy to which he has been assigned, shall not be considered academically qualified for further training as an officer candidate, nor shall a student who fails to obtain a satisfactory grade with respect to officer aptitude be continued in the program.”
2.	“A Short History of the Army and Navy”: This is the title of the paperbound Penguin book available at newsstands for 25 cents, written by Admiral Fletcher Pratt, USN (ret.), with the subtitle “A Completely New and Concise History.” It contains 24 maps, is one of the Fighting Forces series, and is published by the Infantry Journal, Inc., Washington, the first issue being dated March, 1944, 262 pages. This short pocket-size history begins with the Revolutionary period in the history of our nation, and concludes with Chapter 10, “The U. S. and the World Stage,” which is an exciting analysis of World War I with the pointed advantage of hindsight from World War II. Throughout the volume there is a running commentary on changing U. S. Naval policy and the consequences of that policy on world affairs. Admiral Pratt is well known as an author of more than 15 works on naval and military history, with special emphasis on our own national history. Aviators
4
know his book, The Navy Has Wings, and all Naval personnel are interested in his Fighting Ships of the U. S. Navy. Students of Naval strategy read his Sea Power and Today’s War, 1940. In recent issues of Harper’s Magazine the Admiral has vividly recounted several of the most decisive Naval battles of the present war.
3.	Air Bases Created in All Naval Districts: In a far-reaching move directed at complete co-ordination of shore establishments supporting Navy and Marine Corps flying activity, the Secretary of the Navy has issued General Order No. 210, which designates as Air Bases all seven of the existing Naval Air Centers and extends the Air Bases concept to the rest of the naval districts. The General Order provides that a line officer (Naval Aviator) shall be commander of these bases. His title as an example, would be: Commander, Naval Air Bases, Fifth Naval District. The chain of command for a naval air station under the new system first would lead to NAB, next to district commandant, thence to the Navy Department. The General Order established only one Marine Corps Air Base with various auxiliary facilities in the area. Headquarters and the main base are at Cherry Point, N. C. All other Marine Corps activities are unaffected.
4.	British, French, Latin Americans Receive Training at Navy Bases: Aviation cadets of ten countries fighting under the Allied Nations banner are trained as pilots at naval air stations. The men receive the same thorough ground and aerial training as any cadet of the United States so that when they are graduated they can fly American plane types. The nations represented are Great Britain, France, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay.
5.	“Information Bulletin on Subscription Basis: The Bureau of Naval Personnel Information Bulletin now may be obtained by any interested civilian or military personnel by writing to the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, 25, D. C. Copies may be ordered either singly or by yearly subscription. For single copies the rate is 15 cents; annual subscription of 12 issues is $1.50 which includes personnel having Fleet Post Office (or APO) addresses.
N. D. Men in Rome Tell Scholastic of Experiences
Among the recent letters received from men at the front are two of special interest to readers of the Scholastic. Both letters came from Rome and describe the liberation of the city and subsequent explorations and excursions on the part of the Notre Dame soldiers. Wally Rogers, ’41, of Oak Park, Ill., tells of his meeting with Father Joe Barry, a Notre Dame chaplain, and others. In his own words:
“We -were in the drive to Rome and on up. But the thing I’ll never forget is when we entered the city. We were the first elements to go in after the fall, and the joy and thrill of the Romans were terrific. Flowers, gals on the jeep, wine being offered—it was truly a triumphal march. When the Pope first appeared, I was in the throng he greeted. I was also in the early audiences he granted. Then the outfit had a rest period, and of course being with Father Crowley (Chaplain from Syracuse, N. Y.), it was but natural for us to see a great deal of Rome. In fact I know as much about it now as I did of South Bend. It was there I met Father Joe Barry (Chaplain from Notre Dame). We had a marvelous time talking over everything. Then came another surprise; he introduced me to Father Sauvage, representative of the Holy Cross Congregation at the Vatican. What a fine man he is. This meeting called for more long sessions. I finally had to say goodby to them, but I shall never forget them. I thought our outfit had gone through the mill, but Father Barry is an old veteran who still asks for more.
“The 88th has quite a few N. D. men in it, the majority coming with me. I think you may know Ray O’Connell, Tom O’Connor and John Reilly. Of course you know Johnny Lynch, the old “Parader” for the Scholastic. Also there is Capt. John Hennessy, ’41, a peach of a fellow, and a great friend of Father Barry’s. One of the reasons I write is that Father Barry gave me an old Alumnus, and I just about tore it apart, it was so interesting. Would you enlighten me as to how I can procure other copies?”
John Lynch, who wrote the “College Parade” for many months in the Scholastic, contributes the following interesting sidelights:
“I have been to Rome again, have seen the Pope, St. Peter’s, the Vatican galleries and the works of Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel. But the Army influence is very noticeable in Rome. The best hotels have MP’s for doormen, the Bourg-hese Gardens have a Red Cross Club, the (Continued on page 17)
Of Men Who Determine the World's Future
BY ROBERT MOLNAR
The College of Commerce was established in 1920 under Father O’Hara, who was the first dean and who is now Titular Bishop of Milasa and military delegate. At the present time the College of Commerce is under the able deanship of Mr. James E. McCarthy, who succeeded Bishop O’Hara in 1924. The College of Commerce was established as a result of a development that had begun seven years earlier, when a course in commerce was first offered at the University. From the first enrollment of six students in commerce, in 1913, the number increased by 1920 to a total of more than 300. In 21 years since the College was established, the enrollment has in some school years exceeded 1100 students; but since the war, this large number has dropped down to the present enrollment of approximately 300 students. The College of Commerce is the youngest college to be established at the University.
The College of Commerce offers two degrees: bachelor of philosophy in commerce and bachelor of science in commerce. The program leading to the first of these degrees gives more place to the study of philosophy. The subjects of the freshman and the sophomore year are the same for all students in the College.
In the summer of 1941, provision was made by the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, the Outdoor Advertising Incorporated, and the Traffic Audit Bureau for special instruction in outdoor advertising in the College of Commerce of the University of Notre Dame. Under the terms of the foundation between these cooperating organizations and the selected group of juniors and seniors, as preparation for careers in the field of outdoor advertising. To this end regular class instruction is to be given in the history, organization, objectives, methods, technique, and problems involved in the business of outdoor advertising. Research in that field and the study of traffic audit problems are to be an integral part of the training. A good collection of books and various exhibits concerned with outdoor advertising are being made available for the students in the University library.
The Department of Business Administration offers courses intended to acquaint the student with the principles of business organization, business law, advertising, and marketing, as applied to the problems confronting the executive staff of a fair-sized business. In setting
forth in systematic form the best experience of modern business organizations, the department prepares the student for his future work by giving him instruction that will shorten his apprenticeship for the larger tasks in the commercial world.
Dean McCarthy
The Department of Finance offers instruction with a view to giving the student a knowledge of the fundamental principles of money, banking, credit, investment, and exchange, which condition the operation and development of commercial practice.
The Department of Accounting provides fundamental courses in the principles of accounting for all strdents in the College of Commerce, and advanced and specialized courses of accounting for the student who wishes to take accounting as major subject for the degree of bachelor of philosophy in commerce or bachelor of science in commerce—with a view to becoming a professional practitioner and securing, through state examination, the status of certified public accountant, to become a private accountant in the field of industry, government, or finance, or to acquiring a thorough knowledge of the theory and practice of advanced accounting as background for a career in general business.
Every freshman in the College of Commerce is required to take a semester course in the mathematics of accounting, for the purpose of improving his fundamental mathematics and of introducing
him to a variety of matters involved in later courses. For all the sophomores in the College a full year course in the principles of accounting is prescribed, the purpose of which is to give the student the basic training in the fundamentals of accounting necessary for any career in business. Throughout the courses in accounting, problem material and practice sets are used extensively, to develop and train the student in analysis and in the application of principles. The instruction in the theory of accounting is effectively supplemented by supervised laboratory and work with various business machines.
The Department of Foreign Commerce aims to acquaint the. student with the principles and the technique involved in the conduct of export and import trade. Special attention is given to merchandising in the Latin-Ameiican countries and to the growth of trade relations between the United States and those countries. Arrangements have been made by which a number of graduates in foreign commerce are given opportunity for graduate work at universities in other countries. In 1922 a mutual recognition of credits was effected between the Notre Dame College of Comemrce and the Faculty of Economic Science of the University of Buenos Aires. This is the first . instance in which such recognition has been given by the University of Buenos Aires to a foreign university without an educational treaty.
’ Special mention is to be made of two men who were formerly connected -with the College of Commerce and who are now giving their all by serving in the armed services of our country. They are Professor A. Davis, head of the Department of Business Administration, who is a lieutenant commander in the Navy; and Mr. Guy McMichael, who was an instructor in business law and who is a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy.
The program of courses in commerce are meant to give the student a general cultural education and a specialized knowledge of the fundamentals of business, and so enable him to advance in his chosen field faster and farther than those who have not the advantage of this kind of training. In the programs of courses special importance is given to such cultural subjects as religion, English, history, philosophy, and political science, because it is believed that these subjects are the essential ones in a college education and training for the best citizenship.	‘
9
Brown, ex-lrish Gridder, Heads Dartmouth, But Notre Dame Tilt is His Last Contest
SPCR
According to reports from the Atlantic seaboard, Dartmouth’s youthful mentor and All-American end from Notre Dame in 1938, Earl Brown, will be viewing
Head Coach Earl Brown
“Big Green” in their last contest Saturday as he’s bound for the Navy later in the week. Taking over in his stead will be another Irish gridder who did a lot of fullback for the Blue and Gold up to 1941, the year he graduated, Milt Piepul.
At present, Piepul is an assistant coach to Brown and will take over the head reins after Brown’s departure. Piepul gained his greatest feat in Notre Dame football hihstory when he scored all ten points against Southern California in a 10-6 contest in Los Angeles
Assistant Milt Piepul
Stadium in the season of 1940. Piepul first held a high school coaching job in Indianapolis but then went to Brown’s assistance at Dartmouth when called.
Brown, one of the younger head coaches in the game, was destined for success but it looks as though the Navy is going to cut his coaching career short, at least, they’re putting a crimp in it. However, all the Fighting Irish alike wish an old alumnus good luck whether it be on the gridiron or in Uncle Sam’s forces.
Irish Harriers Defeat
Wheaton College, 37-20
Notre Dame unveiled its cross-country team for the 1944 season Saturday as the Irish harriers overwhelmed Wheaton College, 37 - 20. Although Wheaton’s Bucher beat out Ken Muening of Notre Dame by 25 yards to garner first place, four other Irish thinlies, Roger Wheeler, Bill Tully, Steve Provost, and Tom McGuire were bunched closely behind Muening, which won the team title for the Blue and Gold.
Coach Handy was quite pleased with the showing of his charges and was especially happy that his squad finished in close formation. This is an indication of a well-balanced team and one which can be counted upon for team triumphs, if not for individual excellence.
This Saturday, the team will face both Wisconsin and Purdue here at 11 a.m. in a triangular meet.—Jack McGrane
— BEAT DARTMOUTH —
Company K Wins Again
The Navy produced the softball champions of the University as Company K, the winners of the V-12 Interhall tourney, drubbed the civilians of Carroll Hall 6-0 and 8-3 in the two contests played on campus diamonds last week.
Jim Mazar, star twirler for the Kay-ites, did not allow a single run until the final frame of the final game on Friday. It was the sixth straight victory for the new softball champs.
— BEAT DARTMOUTH —
Former Editor Gains New Position with the Tribune
The Scholastic has received word that Dave Condon, former editor-in-chief, has been appointed high school sports’ editor for the Chicago Tribune. Dave was editor until the middle of last semester, when he left for his job with the Tribune.
l i ru
Dartmouth	».
Morter....................... L.
Washburn .................."...
Fusilli ........................>... Grant............................. McKinnon......................
Harvey ..................... Peck........................L.
Holt .......................... R. Bennett..................... Fritts ........................
Clayton ........................
THE SH L
The Green Wave did a little rolling a waves are supposed to do but the Iris! loi rolled up the points.	te
The Tulanes had a few boys who couh make any man’s team.
The gentlemen from the South.playe< good tough football. They were tryin® just as hard to keep McKeever’s kid® from scoring number five as they wer« trying to score one for themselves in th< | first minute of the contest.	; j
By the way, the contest starts as sooi as the whistle blows. After that almos anything can happen, almost anytime. I: you don’t believe it, ask Johnny Ray Texas beat Notre Dame that way once Johnny made up for it during the con test. Except for giving the other fellow; a good start, he did a lot of good linebacking and passing from center. Besides the boy is just a freshman.
That new kick off business should keep everybody on the alert.
Fred Rovai played himself a bal game.
The Marines should be proud of Chick Maggioli.
Young Elmer Angsman is beginning to look the part.
That’s a swell band the boys got together.
The old fullback, Lt. Fred Carideo, was around looking over the 1944 edition. I think he liked it.
ic
gc ba
ah
th
te; tr;
ws do
do
N< foi
shi ga va th;
Dz inj
Sc
ph hii
CRTS V?
I MJ PS
». Notre Dame
—.................Guthrie
—'...............Sullivan
....'........................... Filley
..................... Ray
... >...............Rovai
...'................Adams
... ;..........  O'Connor
...:........... Dancewicz
.................Maggioli
................... Kelly
... ..................... Angsman
H LELAGH
j a risl
>ul<
ye<
■in® tidl
rer« th<|
oor IOS' . L 'ay ice on )W‘ ne-des
eep
ial
ick
ing
to-
If the coaches tell the team they didn’t look so hot plenty of times, they’ll he telling the truth. Some halfbacks will be going all the way if the line and the backers-up don’t play together.
Bob Kelly looked fine. I think he’s liable to be a great back.
Dancewicz called them right most of the time. Nice passing, Boley!
The cheering section didn’t hurt the team. Stay with the boys, they’re really trying.
One of the busiest guys on the field was Steve Nemeth. And he was busy doing some good things.
Two for four on points after touchdown isn’t anything to brag about. Neither is four for nine. Neither is six for 13. Is there a kicker on the squad?
With that new style kick-off, there should be infield practice before the game. There are still a couple of other variations that haven’t been tried. And they might be of some use.
Zeke O’Connor and Tom Guthrie, Mike Davlin and Bob Skoglund are all learning fast.
Sully and Adams and Berezney and Schuster are steady tackles.
Mergenthal may belong in there some leo, place. I’d like to have another look at on. him.
(Continued on page 17)
Fighting Irish Renew Play in New England Against Dartmouth After 30 Year Absence
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
Optimism reigns supreme on the campus as a result of the 26-0 triumph over Tulane’s “Green Wave”—and rightly so. An unbeaten, untied, and unscored upon eleven has directed its attention during the past week toward beating a diminishing Dartmouth squad.
A 6 to 6 tie with Holy Cross and a 20-6 defeat at the hands of Penn has been the sad fate of the “Big Green” to date. Now, with their biggest chance for national recognition, Earl Brown’s aggregate has lost the further services of three of the backfield stalwarts. On paper, the Irish loom as a team that won’t be denied victory when they take to the turf of Fenway Park in Boston, but then again, that’s what they said . about Navy in their opener with North Carolina Pre-Flight this year, that’s what they thought when Michigan faced lowly Indiana two weeks ago, in fact, even Notre Dame got the same billing when they were pitted with mediocre Great Lakes in their finale last year.
Changes Pay Off
The changes instigated in last week’s lineup, the moving of Zeke O’Connor to right end and putting Tom Guthrie at left end and Johnny Ray at center proved to be of advantage to the Irish
Contrary to the ancient traditions of the coaching craft, the 1944 football staff at Notre Dame smiles en masse for the photographer at the beginning of the season. This beaming delegation is composed, left to right, of Adam Walsh, Hughie Devore. Jake Kline, Head Coach Ed McKeever, Clem Crowe and Wally Ziemba. After this picture was taken, Creighton Miller, extraordinary halfback of the 1943 team, was added to the staff to assist McKeever in coaching the backs. Creighton will begin his law studies at Notre Dame at the beginning of the next term in November.
cause. Coach Ed McKeever anticipates no change tomorrow. There’ll be Frank Dancewicz at quarter, playing before a home town crowd as Lynn, Mass., his off-campus domicile, is but ten miles from Bean town. Frank’s big moment has finally arrived and you can bet he’ll be putting on a good show for the fans back home. In case he needs help, there’s big Joe Gasparella to lend a helping hand if Frank gets abused too much.
Trying to move Bob Kelly out of the right half spot is just like trying to displace the rock of Gibraltar. Chick Maggioli proved himself most worthy of the position he holds at left half during the Tulane encounter while Elmer Angsman, who was a partial disappointment to the coaching staff in the opener against Pitt, is now much improved, playing fullback just like a “Fighting Irishman.”
Line Improved
After being caught offside several times in the Panther tussle, the Irish got down to the more serious business of getting their signals straight, resultingly the Green Wave tilt was run-off much smoother from the forward wall. The boys broke from the barrier together and were not penalized as much. Fred Rovai, George Sullivan, and John Adams did (Continued on page 13)
11
Students Optimistic as Result of First 2 Games; Predict Win Over Dartmouth by 5 Touchdowns
BY PAUL WOOD
After last Saturday’s victory over Tulane, a spirit of optimism has swept over the student body as is evidenced by the returns of the Football Poll for tomorrow’s game. Such phrases as “A great team”, and “A coaching staff that can’t be beat”, and even “possible champions” echoed throughout the celebrating campus.
The present two-game score of Notre Dame 84, Opponents 0 is a very impressive demonstration of the power on the field. One interviewee, however, believes that Dartmouth is due for a ■victory; Notre Dame for a'shock. And he is not a V-7 “sailor.”
The guest interviewee for the week is Jim Cooper, V-12 marine from Newark, Ohio, who made the closest prediction on last week’s score. He guessed a Notre Dame victory of 32-6, ranking each team only one touchdown too much.
Jim Cooper says: “It will be Notre Dame 55 to Dartmouth’s six. Dartmouth is picked as a dark horse this year and as I see it, will continue to be so against Notre Dame. She is too young to cope with our T-formation.”
Dan Schmid, V-12 navy junior from Excelsior, Minn: “Notre Dame is due for a big shock one of these Saturdays, and I think Dartmouth will be the likely one to cause the first defeat for the Irish. The score will be 13-7 in favor of Dartmouth.”
•
Thomas Nolan, R.O.T.C. junior from Chicago: “Notre Dame should win by several touchdowns. The Irish looked very strong last Saturday while Dartmouth was losing to Penn. 33-0.”
•
John O’Rourke, civilian junior from Brooklyn, N. Y: “Notre Dame will completely outclass the boys from Dartmouth. I’m not very good at guessing but I’d say the score will be 34 to 7. Notre Dame has a well coached, excellently trained team and a good proof of this is the last two scores.” "
•
Terry McGovern, Marine V-12 junior from Hollywood, Cal.: “Notre Dame will win 32 to 0. I think Notre Dame with the experience it has picked up in its last two games, will ride rough-shod over an only fair Dartmouth team.”
, Raymond Miller, Navy V-12 sophomore from Muskegon, Mich.: “Notre
12
Dame will beat Dartmouth by 20 points at least. Our potential scoring ability and experienced line will be enough to put them away. Score 29-0.”
•
Daniel Monahan, Midshipman from Staten Island, N. Y: “I think Notre Dame will beat Dartmouth and do it quite handily. Notre Dame was weak (off tackle) against Tulane but that seemed to be their only weakness. The score will be 34-0.”
•
Bill O’Connell, Civilian senior from Chicago: “Its the Irish all the way. The great work of Notre Dame’s forward wall, coupled with the speed of Kelly and Angsman .will spell Dartmouth’s downfall. Score 42-0.”
d
Leo Kiely, Midshipman from Homer, N. Y: “Penn defeated Dartmouth rather easily last week. Therefore I don’t believe that the Irish will have much trouble against the Indians this Saturday. Final score, Notre Dame 35-Dart-mouth, 7.”
•
Lavern Holzworth, Marine V-12 junior from Barberton, Ohio: “Notre Dame 41-6, because of their fine showing so far. But I think Dartmouth may score because of their play against Penn.”
O
Martin Trueblood, R.O.T.C. sophomore from Palo Alto, Calif.: “Notre Dame will win by 25 points and will probably be unscored upon.”
•
Joe Sylvester, Civilian junior from New York, N. Y: “I’ll take Notre Dame on the long end of a 46-0 count. The Irish gained invaluable experience against a Tulane team that fought all the way. Dartmouth hasn’t done so this year and should be a comparatively easy win.”-
•
Bob Bauer, Marine V-12 junior from Toledo, Ohio: “Notre Dame 39-Dart. 7. Penn beat Dartmouth and I think Notre Dame can take Penn by at least two touchdowns.” -
•
Jean Brauweiler, R.O.T.C. junior from Chicago, “Notre Dame of course, by about 30 points—probably 30-0. We haven’t been scored on yet and I don’t think Dartmouth will be the team to break that record.”
Irish Defeat Tulane;
Game Seen by 45,000
BY GEORGE KRAUSER
Before a home crowd of 45,000 the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame calmed the Green Wave from Tulane and rolled to a 26-0 triumph to mark up the second straight win of the ’44 season. Superior line play and a devastating ground and aerial attack that accumulated 538 yards, proved the downfall of the Green Wave as the Blue and Gold tallied twice .in the second quarter and once each in the last two periods.
Tulane shocked the Irish with an onside kickoff to start the game and had possession of the pigskin on the Notre Dame 46 yard stripe. But after advancing to the Irish 27, the Wave was stopped and the Golden Domers began a long march to the Tulane 22, where they relinquished the ball on downs. The Southerners advanced to their 33 and then Joe Renfroe punted to Kelly on the Irish 31. At this point, with Kelly, Angsman, and Dancewicz alternatirig, the Irish moved to the Wave 28 as the first period ended.
Kelly and Angsman Tally
On the first play of the second quarter, “Boley” Dancewicz faded back and chucked the oval to Bob Kelly on the ' double stripe for a 28 yard completion and the first tally of the day. Kelly failed to convert but the Irish led 6-0. After Notre Dame kicked Tulane marked up a first down, but then their attack stalled and Renfroe booted out on the ND 28: From this point the Irish, led by the passing of Dancewicz and Joe Gaspa-rella, marked up four first downs and advanced to the Tulane 9. Elmer Angsman then sliced over left tackle to score standing up and Kelly converted to enable the Irish to lead 13-0 at halftime.
Early in the third canto, Kelly bottled up Tulane when his punt went out of bounds on the Wave 7. However, Tulane moved slowly downfield to their 36 and Renfroe got off a towering 53 yard quick kick that rolled dead on the Irish 11. Then it was from this point that an 89 yard march produced the third touchdown of the day. After “Chick” Maggioli and Angsman advanced the leather to the Notre Dame 25, Dancewicz hit Maggioli on the midfield stripe and he was finally whistled out of bounds on the Tulane 30. Dancewicz again struck, this time to Kelly on the 10, but a penalty forced them back to the Rebel 25. Then “Boley” chucked to Maggioli and he was finally stopped on the Green Wave 3. Maggioli cracked over for the score and Kelly added the conversion to up the lead to 20-0. (See next page for more)
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS
BY JOHN FEENEY
The reduction of Tulane’s Green Wave to little more than a mere ripple by Notre Dame’s formidable grid forces to the tune of 26-0, Saturday, gave the nation’s sportswriters plenty of basis for laudatory comments on the Irish. Sunday’s editions extolled the power and strategy of Ed McKeever’s charges as Notre Dame’s favorite sons continued unbeaten, untied and unscored upon with 83 digits to their credit.
Here are the different stories of Notre Dame’s second conquest of the season as told by various football writers:
Charles Bartlett, Chicago Tribune:
“Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, about whose youthful talents their friends have been curious, today passed another test in their 1944 examination to prove they are worthy successors to the national championship eleven of last season. And they passed it with flying colors, as may be attested by the jury of 45,000 who watched them trounce a more seasoned Tulane team, 26 to 0.”
Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun:
“Notre Dame, knifing passes and power in the proper proportions, rolled back Tulane’s Green Wave as expected here
FIGHTING IRISH IN NEW ENGLAND (Continued from page 11)
plenty of line-playing for the Blue and Gold and with such blocks of granite in the opposition’s way, there is hardly much worry as far as the line goes.
Zeke O’Connor and Tom Guthrie at the ends do much to bolster the prestige of the squad—both are capable passreceivers and are defensively the strongest pair available on the team. Johnny Ray, added to starting eleven for defensive strength, turned in more than a creditable performance as a line backer-up, in fact, his frequency on the tackles was plenty noticeable.
Johnny Mastrangelo, occupying the left guard position while Pat Filley fully recovers from his knee operation, is doing nicely, but when Pat gets in there for a short spell, it seems like the golden guardwork of old. And don’t ever discard the ability of “Tree” Adams who does a full capacity job at blocking and tackling, all six foot seven of it. Then George Sullivan is one guy who’ll be pushing others around more this season
today 26 to 0. The Irish, with a sureness born of tradition, generated their head of football steam slowly and then opened the throttle wide on four occasions to find the route to the goal line as 45,000 looked on in the first intersectional game ever played between teams of the two schools.”
Leo Fischer, Chi. Herald-American:
“Notre Dame’s 1944 home football debut today was a complete success before some 45,000 satisfied customers. The Irish put on a spectacular show as they passed and ran a scrappy Tulane aggregation into submission, 26 to 0, for their second impressive win of the current campaign.”
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“That Bobby Sox brigade which puts on Notre Dame football uniforms each Saturday afternoon and pretends to be grown up men, threw practically everything in its first reader at a strong Tulane university eleven yesterday afternoon and trounced the New Orleans outfit, 26-0, to the great delight of a crowd of 45,000 in the opening game of the home season on the stadium turf.”
than they will be pushing him.
Coach Ed McKeever, in the title, role of head coach, will be gunning for his third straight win of the season and his sixth at Notre Dame, having guided the Irish to three victories in ’42 during Frank Leahy’s absence. And with all eyes glued on New England, it’ll be a happy day for Irish in the hub-city if the South Bend Irish come home with the chips.
IRISH DEFEAT TULANE (Continued from previous page)
Middle ways in the last quarter a Tulane drive was halted on the Irish 25 and a 75 yard touchdown march followed for the Blue and Gold. A 20 yard sweep of right end by Maggioli, two five yard plunges by Kelly, and a screen play, Dancewicz to O’Connor which covered 22 yards placed the ball on the Tulane 25. Maggioli then circled right end—this time for the last Irish tally. Later in the period a Gasparella to Nemeth pass play put the Irish on the Wave five, but the game ended moments later and the final tabulation stood Notre Dame 26, Tulane 0.
FRANK DANCEWICZ
Stepping right into the quarter back slot, left vacated by the departure of Bertelli and Lujack of 1943 fame, Frank “Boley” Dancewicz showed Pitt and Tulane that the Irish again have a rugged field general. His passing and running ability, coupled with his prowess at signal-calling kept the opposition guessing at every play. Judging from the scores the representatives from Pitt, and New Orleans guessed wrong quite frequently on what Frank would call.
A member of the squad of the National Champs of ’43, “Boley’s” aptitude was rather unknown to the fans as names like Angelo Bertelli and Johnny Lujack were foremost in their minds. But the coaches who knew his potentialities were quietly grooming him for this year, when they knew that he would make a name for himself. Learning much from being understudy to Bertelli and Lujack and knowing plenty from his own experience makes Dancewicz one of the most feared quarterbacks in the nation.
Frank’s home town is Lynn, Mass.; he attended Lynn Classical high where he earned three letters in football. He is nineteen years old, five feet ten inches tall, and tips the Toledos at 178. The Danceman resides in Sorin hall and is in his sixth semester in the College of Commerce.
During his idle moments, Frank likes to take in a movie or drop into Rosie’s on a Friday night with the boys. We think that his top sports thrill will come when the final gun has sounded in the Great Lakes game and it will be known that he has quarterbacked the Irish to an undefeated season and another National Championship. Steak, Glenn Miller, and the Notre Dame “Victory March” are some of his favorites. His ambition is to make exactly one million dollars. When asked, “Why one million?”, he replied, “After that, you pay too much income tax”.
JOE GASPERELLA
Tabbed as the probable “most outstanding freshman star of the year”, Joe Gasperella, both in practice and in the games with Pitt and Tulane, has proved that he is most worthy of the title. In the game with the Panthers, Joe completed three of six passes for a (Continued on page 15)
13
^gXWXXXWTXZXXrXTrTTTTXXXXTXXTXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXTYTa.
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
THREE TIMES A YEAR
I know, we’re not prepared for finals, either. Guess we’ll have to get ourselves campused, and knuckle down to some real studying, eh Egbert! (whoops, forgot; what a glunk!! You’ve been campused all semester anyway, haven’t you?)
When one stops to think about the examination schedule, he begins to realize how thoughtful the University was for preparing the finals with a football week-end in the center of the quizzing activities. A week from Saturday afternoon we may all go out and forget about the exams we’ve taken by concentrating on the team’s victory over Wisconsin. Some of the jokers will probably bring along textbooks to glance over during the time-out periods. For the benefit of the borderline students, the programs being sold at the stadium before the game will have an extra page of vital statistics— the heights and weights of all the professors; also whether or not they wear glasses. Crib notes will be raffled off at the half. Desks will be brought into the Arcadia, that evening, for the benefit of those who wish to combine play with study, or vice versa. Bring your own ink.
Concerning graduation—26 good men and true—and 4-F—have hopes of receiving degrees, Oct. 27. It’s a crying shame they have to leave in the middle of the football season, but rumor has it that such is the reason why Jim Thomas and Buzz Hassett are planning on returning to Law School.
DA BRAWL
The Autumn Ball, a week ago, was the social climax of a long semester for sev
Odd sort of fellow! Keeps thinking about final exams at N. D.
M M
H
eral hundred students. Although the dance was held in Rockne Memorial, notice was sent out by word of mouth that it was not necessary to wear gym shoes —even so a number of the patrons were caught flat-footed. The ballroom was tastefully decorated with odds and ends taken from here and there; and the dance was perfect except for one thing— the Prefect of Discipline wouldn’t turn off the lights.
The climax of the evening came when someone suggested that Dick (I move everything but my lips when I sing) Ames should give with a song or two in his own swoon-crooning style. Remarked Dick was in excellent voice, but Tony without another word he was up there strangling the mike. We thought that Dick was in excellent voice; but Tony Bristol, band chairman, didn’t think it was worth the $57.22 of the orchestra’s time that Dick used up.
Saturday evening, couples had a grand time standing about, and chatting about the game at the Victory Dance. We say standing, because it was almost too crowded for dancing. The promoters from St. Ed’s really know how to pack them in. Too bad the same number were not at the Friday night shindig—it would have been a financial success.
CRACKS FROM THE WHACKS
“But is Washington Hall equipped to show first-run pictures?” ... “Naw, a Holstein is two half steins.” ... “McKeever for President.” ... “I just saw an awful accident.” . . . “Yeah, I’ve got a date with her tonight.” . . . “Just where is Hoffman Hall?” . . . “Gosh, Matilda,
look at them swell pidgeons.” . . . “Them •' ain’t pidgeons, Egbert; them’s gulls.” ...
“Well, gulls or boys, them’s mighty fine pidgeons!” ... “When in Nome, do as the (headcold) Nomans do.” . . . “From where I sat,” said Harry Ryan, “the game was only a rumor.”
MINOR LOGIC, No. 1
“What are you shooting at, little man,” we asked innocently of one of the local oakies who was rushing around the outside of the stadium, the other evening.
“Nothing,” came the laconic reply.
“Then how do you know when you miss?” we pursued the conversation relentlessly.
“Can’t miss when you ain’t shootin’ at nothin’.”
“With that ringing in our ears, we went right up to the stadium wall and batted our head against the smooth bricks six times.
WE LAUGH AT OURSELVES
“Some things in the Scholastic are fit for framing and hanging.” (overheard.)
Especially the editors.
TRADITION!!!
The band was excellent, last .week, during their first home appearance in the stadium. The clock was clever; the dome was symmetrical. But when are we going to have any Irish airs?... As for the “pep” rally on Friday night—will the local yokels please refrain from interrupting the speakers with bursts of lame witticisms? And please, gentlemen, let the men in charge of the rally conduct the proceedings. A short, snappy program means much, if everyone is to enjoy the gathering.
* .
BIG BLOWS FOR
The third deck in the U. S. S. Walsh for putting over the NROTC Ball at the Servicemen’s Center. And a whole snoot full of gardenias to Herb Daiker, for his clever favor.... The decorations committee outdid itself and transformed the old Palais Royale Ballroom into a land of enchantment, complete with waterfalls... The cheering youngsters from South Bend.___The cheerleaders who worked heroically with a slightly befuddled and divided student section, obtaining only meager results. Come on, men, we can give them more support than that! ... The team on its magnificent display of excellent football.... The Marines for their whole-hearted support of the Scholastic drive for the starving European children.... And you, Edgar, if you have any candy or soap you care to contribute bring it to the Scholastic offices in the Brownson wing of Main Building. It isn’t too late, yet....
14
South Bend, Ind. . . .
Typical American City
“The man behind the man behind the gun” is the motto of South Bend as it enters its 104th year as a settled place.
The first settler, Pierre Navarre, who in 1820 founded a post of John Jacob Astor’s American Fur company on the territory where once had trodden thousands of Indians, LaSalle, Marquette, and a host of others, would never have dreamed that the site would one day contain the city which ranks as one of the most important industrial centers in the country. For, next to Chicago itself, South Bend and its environs rank as the most important manufacturing area in the entire Chicago region.
Three Major Industries
Swollen by a war-time influx of workers to almost 120,000 population, South Bend today is busily engaged in turning out the materials of war to support its thousands of sons fighting in the four corners of the world, and to commemorate the more than 120 St. Joseph county servicemen who have lost their lives already in this war.
Three major industries furnish the backbone of the city’s prosperity, while hundreds of smaller plants are busy at work too. Best known of the city’s industries is the Studebaker corporation, whose gigantic plant lays sprawled just southwest of the business district. Production of more than 120,000 heavy trucks have earned the army-navy “E” award for the company, while many more thousands of workers are producing airplane engines in the company’s aviation division for flying fortresses.
Some 15,000 workers are employed at the Bendix Products division of the Bendix Aviation Corporation where airplane instruments, accessories, gun turrets, carburetors, brakes and other aviation material are made. Founded by Vincent Bendix, the main plant and home offices of the company are here. The Bendix Aviation Trophy was for many years one of the major aviation awards in the country.
In Mishawaka, the Mishawaka Rubber and Woollen Manufacturing company furnishes the lions’ share of many of the rubber products used in the war. The Ball-Band trademark of the company was a familiar one in peacetime on rubber footware. The company is a subsidiary of the United States Rubber company. Also in Mishawaka are the Amer
ican Foundry Equipment company, the Dodge Manufacturing company, also an “E” winner. One of the region’s three breweries, Kamms, is located in Mishawaka. The other two Hoosier, and Drew-rys, are in South Bend.
Six Railroad Services
Much of the farm equipment in the country is made at Oliver Farm Equipment company, once known as the famous Oliver Chilled Plow works. At the “E” winner South Bend Lathe works, many machine tools are made, as are also at the multitude of small machine shops which have helped the city gain its enviable industrial position. Other major companies are the Bantam Bearings division of the Torrington company, the Bendix Home Appliance company, from where many washing machines and other home equipment came in peacetime, O’Brien Varnish company, the Singer Sewing machine company, South Bend Bait company, home of sporting equipment, Malleable Steel Range Manufacturing company, and many others.
Six railroads service the city and its heavy industrial transportation in addition to many truck lines. They include the NYC, Pennsylvania, Grand Trunk Western, Michigan Central, and Wabash, A large Union Station near the business section is the main station. An efficient bus system constitutes the city’s internal transportation.
Despite its emphasis on industry, South Bend is still known as a city of homes, parks, schools, and stores, and business. Many beautiful residential sections abound through the city, and well-kept homes are seen everywhere, for South Bend ranks as one of the five top American cities in the number of homes owned by the occupants.
In South Bend’s business district, which encompasses a trading area of more than 500,000 people in northern Indiana and southern Michigan, are found many fine stores. Here also are the home offices of the Conservative Life Insurance company, the Associates Investment company, and many lawyers and prominent businessmen.
Recreation Facilities
South Bend school system is renowned for its excellence and beauty of its buildings. St. Mary’s and Notre Dame enhance the educational spirit of the city. There are six high schools, ten junior
high schools, 18 grammar schools, and IS parochial schools in the city.
A large airport, founded by Vincent Bendix and now owned by St. Joseph county, services South Bend. Three airlines, TWA, United, and American, have regular flights. A tremendous post-war expansion of the airport is planned, since South Bend has a major place in the American aircraft industry.
Cultural advantages are found in the 139,000 volumes of the six branches of the South Bend library, the South Bend Symphony orchestra, museums, and a host of lodges, clubs, and organizations. Many technical societies hold regular meetings. More than 100 churches are in South Bend.
A large park system, five golf courses, a municipal natatorium, and 13 motion picture theaters help make the city liveable.
Three hospitals in the area care for the sick, and South Bend is one of the most important medical centers in the state. Five big hotels, and many smaller ones, are in the city. The South Bend Tribune is the only daily paper in the town.
South Bend is in St. Joseph county (171,000), and in addition to the county government has a city government headed by Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, a democrat, and a city council. Its police department has earned for the city a number of national traffic safety awards.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 13)
total gain of approximately 90 yards. He has an uncanny knack of putting the pigskin exactly where he wants it. He is also very adept at signal calling and possesses great power, which comes in quite handy when the Irish are on the offensive.
Joe lives in St. Ed’s, where he rooms with two of his team-mates, Johnny Mastrangelo and Johnny Ray. He is in his second semester of Arts and Letters, and expects to major in Journalism.
Joe’s sports idol is Angelo Bertelli, quarterback of last years National Champs and winner of the Heisman Memorial trophy. His free time is spent either drawing or engaging in some-form of outdoor sports. His biggest sports thrill came when he scored four touchdowns in a high school football game. A real accomplishment when you consider a quarterback does not run the ball a great deal.
Tops among his likes are Tommy Dorsey’s, “I’ll Be Seeing You”, and steak with all the trimmings. He has. hopes of someday being a coach or a journalist.
15-
THE SKLARE SURVEY
It is generally conceded that the Marines are the most beloved of all groups on campus. Everyone likes the ND Marines. The swabbies revere them; the chow-hall girls love them; the Middies crawl at their feet; the Profs fight to get them in classes; and the RO’s and civilians (terms to be used interchang-ably) attempt to emulate them on every occasion. The Gizmo, fascinated by this sociological phenomenon, after a long study, hereby sets down the reasons for the Marines’ gratifying popularity:
1.	Marines are always gentlemen. They seldom raise their voices above a whisper and never indulge in naughty words.
2.	Marines are brilliant students. Any swabbie flunking physics can depend upon aid from a brighter Marine.
3.	Marines never boast. One seldom hears of the glories of the Marine Corps from a member; it must come from an impartial observer.
4.	Murines never quarrel about women. The opposite sex may cause swabbies to squabble, but never Marines.
•5. Marines are not clannish. No matter what uniform a man wears, be it swabbie or doggie, a Marine welcomes him as a brother.
6.	Marines love the classics. No one group supports symphony, opera, and the ballet, and reads Homer and Virgil (not to even mention Euripides, Sophocles, Aeschylus, and Aristophanes) as noticeably as the Marines.
7.	Marines are generous. Because they don’t gamble, marines always have an extra dollar to lend a buddy, or to contribute to some worthy organization.
8.	Marines can drill. An ode celebrating this subject has already been written and published, and so we’ll just skip it here.
9.	Marines do not jitterbug. An ode celebrating this subject has already been written and published, and so we’ll just skip it here.
10.	Marines are all exceedingly hand
some. Well, what more can I say?
(Will everyone lucky enough to read these Titanic Ten Points please clip them from this page, and paste them in scrapbooks along side of “Rocks and Shoals” and the “Atlantic Charter.’’-Thank You)
FOR ALL COMPANIES
There will be a special V-12 Regimental Review in the Stadium next Wednesday at 0715 for the chow-hall girls.
IN SPRING
The love bug (not the same germ causing mu-mu) has stung (we use the Picadilly spelling of the verb) several Marines, and diamond rings have been flying like mad. Harold Ven Asselt for one, and Ed Van Ryn for two, have become officially engaged to two happy young ladies. Well, I guess they know what they’re doing.
WE WIN
Did someone make a crack about the Marines losing at boxing and baseball? We are willing to forgive and forget, if the culprit will examine our record in wrestling, where four out of five Marine entrants copped laurels. Nice going Mowry, Steinbaach, Norini, and Stavridis. You saved the day.
❖ "SCHOLASTIC" PREDICTIONS ❖ ❖	FOR THE WEEK	❖
♦	J> Notre Dame over Dartmouth	❖
❖	Army over Pittsburgh
Navy over Duke	❖
Illinois over Iowa
Indiana over Nebraska
Michigan over Northwestern	❖
❖	Ohio State over Wisconsin	❖
❖	Georgia Tech over Auburn	❖
•	J1 Great Lakes over Western Michigan & ❖ Tulane over Rice	❖
❖ Minnesota over Missouri	‘J*
Texas over Oklahoma	❖
California over College of Pacific	#
U.C.L.A. over St. Mary's ❖ • <•
By PETE BROWN
When fate has her shining light on someone it seems to stay there. At the moment we are speaking of Purdue in their game with Illinois last Saturday. Illinois, who seems to have the habit of fumbling at the wrong time, all the time, miscued on their own seven yard line. On the next play the Illini were penalized five yards thus putting the ball on the two. What else was Purdue to do, but score a touchdown. Ed Cody was the lucky man.
An epoch has passed. During the past decade there has been a team from Chicago whose name seemed to put fear into everyone’s heart. It was the Chicago Bears of the National Pro League. There were such men as McAfee, Standlee, Galeneau. Osmanski, Fortman, Kavanaugh, Artoe. and many others too numerous to mention. The only “Bears” left are Turner, McLean, Wilson and Fanxi-glietti. In league play so far this year they have yet to win a ball game. They have scored a mere 35 points to their opponent’s 61. A day can be remembered when the Bears would score that many points in the first half. Maybe someday the Bears will gain back their prestige, but it will take a long time.
The tackle talent at Randolph Field, Texas, conies in such big packages this season that Coach Lt. Frank Tritico is describing it in terms of tons. Four of their tackles tip the scales at more than 215 pounds. Martin Ruby, formerly of Texas A. & M.. comes in at a cool 245; Walt Merrill, University of Alabama, 220; Clem Crabtree, Wake Forest, 215; and 'William Causey, Elon College, 217. Nice men to block no doubt.
The Big Ten (or Nine) has had theii' football championships pretty well split up. Since the conference was founded in 1896 by .Minnesota, Michigan, Chicago, Purdue, Illinois, Wisconsin and Northwestern; Minnesota has come out on top with nine outright titles and five splits. Next in order are Michigan with six and eight, Chicago seven and one, Illinois six and two, Ohio State five and one, Wisconsin two and two, Northwestern two and two, Iowa one and two, and Purdue one and one. Indiana has yet to win or share a title.
— BEAT DARTMOUTH —
16
THE SHILLELAGH (Continued from page 10)
Big Joe Gasparella is getting there pretty fast.
No. 3 is Dartmouth. They started off like the Irish a couple of years ago with a draw and a loss. They’ll be up for the Irish just like the Irish were up for Stanford and the Seahawks. They have an all Notre Dame coaching staff and a good ball club and a chance at a successful season by beating Notre Dame. If Pat Filley can keep his gang from thinking they’re better than they are, the “Big Green” won’t look as good as the Irish green. Put ’em alongside the Panther and the Green Wave.
N. D. MEN IN ROME (Continued from page 8) Coliseum is plastered with GI directional signs and old and young Romans peddle souvenirs on every street corner.
“An American Catholic Club has been opened in Rome and it was there that I met Msgr. Carroll of New York. He directed me to Fr. Sauvage of Notre Dame, a C.S.C. representative at the Vatican. Father lives in a little side street called Via del Cappuccini and there is still a notice on the door that entrance is forbidden to German troops. It is signed by a German general.
“At one of the Allied buildings I met Major John Hinkel, ’29, who heads the Alumni Club of Italy. He hadn’t any names from the 88th but now he has six. He is full of that Notre Dame spirit, so we went over what common memories we share.”
AL SMITH FUNERAL (Continued from page 3)
In the formal document naming Mr. Smith to the ranks of Laetare winners, the University of Notre Dame noted:
“Your title to enrollment there is found in your long and honorable public career as a statesman and in the unsullied virtue of your private life, for both of which alike the soundness and sincerity of your Catholic Faith stand out as the moving force and radiant inspiration. As a public servant you have been such a one as could bring his record into the sanctity of his home without fear of violating that sanctuary; as a private citizen you could present such a record of domestic fidelity as might be fearlessly exhibited in the market place or on the hustings, or in the courts of all the world. Public life in America is the more honorable for your having-shared it in the high station which you have adorned, and the private life of the simple home-loving citizen is enobled by
your example.____”
The presentation was made by Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, at _ the Plaza Hotel, New York City, May 5, 1929. The medal was conferred on Mr. Smith by Patrick Cardinal Hayes, archbishop of New York, and close friend of the recipient.
7ml VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B, (G)-C-Bc
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D”
as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi”
as 33 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “Bi”
FOR ADULTS OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “B5” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as V- lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE
as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS ™s3.50
ON SALE AT THE BOOKSTORE
Have a Coca-Cola = Put ’er there, old timer
U U u
... or greeting new pals in Ketchikan
In Alaska, just as here in the States, to say Have a “Coke” is to say Pal, we're right glad you're here, just as it does in your own home. In many lands around the globe, the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola has become a symbol of a friendly way of living.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
high-sigrr
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
17
Changes in Campus
Naw Personnel Continue
“A Changing World” may very rightfully be applied to the Notre Dame V-12 Unit this semester and next, as personalities both of the trainee population and of the ship’s company rosters come and go as each new order from Washington commands.
Within the past two weeks, three physical training instructors of the unit have left the campus for assignments elsewhere. According to Lt. (jg) Brewbaker, no new orders have been received within the past 12 hours.
First of the threesome to leave was Chief Rollin Ball, who had been connected with the ROTC and V-12 programs continuously since April, 1943. In addition to being an instructor in beginning swimmers’ classes and other physical training pursuits, he was an instructor of companies on the campus. His new assignment takes him to the Naval Training Center, Sampson, N. Y., where he will receive four weeks of training in connection with the rehabilitation program. Following this, he will be sent on to a more permanent assignment.
Chief Norris Goes to Minnesota
Chief George W. Norris, who has been at Notre Dame as a physical training instructor since June, 1943, was the second of the group to leave. He is now stationed at St. Mary’s College in Winona, Minn., where his duties will be similar to those he performed at Notre Dame. Chief Norris, who had been company instructor of Co. B for the past two semesters, also taught swimming classes both in the “Rock” and at the lake.
The last of the men to leave for a new assignment was Russell F. Ellington, Spl/c, who last Monday checked off the campus. Like Chief Ball, he will report to the NTC, Sampson, N. Y., where he will receive training in connection with the rehabilitation program. He also served as instructor of a navy company and of physical training classes.
As the veterans left, three new men reported aboard to fill the vacancies. All of them were recent graduates of the Physical instructor’s school at NTC, Bainbridge, Md. They are M. H. Fleming, Sp 3/c, Ned Wolfe, Sp 3/c, and John Durdach, Sp 3/c.
Fleming hails from Detroit, Mich; Wolfe, from Wolmedolf, Pa.; and Durdach, from Shamokin, Pa.—Al Broten
18
GIFTS
for those at home— beautifully boxed and wrapped.
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN x., WASHINGTON ;
525H5ESE525E5H5H5E5HSB5B52SH5H5H5H5BSj
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE! I
HARPER
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
METHOD MEN'S SHOP
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
50Uthnseh°r[
Forum Holds Banquet
The Commerce Forum held its annual banquet at the Hotel Hoffman, Wednesday evening, Oct. 11.
Edmund A Smith, associate professor of business administration, presented the principal address of the evening on the subject of “Demobilization Plans.”
First of all, Professor Smith outlined the magnitude of the demobilization and reconversion program.
Secondly, the speaker listed the concrete recommendations set down in the Baruch Report on War and Post-War Adjustment Policies. Most detailed treatment was devoted to the three most significant items: (1) Human Side of Demobilization; (2), Settlement of Terminated War Contracts; and, (3), Surplus Property Disposal.
Finally, Mr. Smith presented a balance sheet which indicated the action that had been taken by the President and the Congress in carrying out the recommendations of the report.
Toastmaster for the affair was Professor Wesley C. Bender, acting head of the department of business administration. Emmett “Buzz” Hassett was chairman of arrangements.
Others who addressed the Forum briefly were Dean James E. McCarthy, retiring co-presidents Dick Murphy and Tony Bristol, and president-elect Jim Donnelly.
Joe Fisher Addresses
Economic Roundtable
The final meeting of the Economic Roundtable was held at the Town Club, Friday evening, Sept. 29. The group was addressed by Joseph Fisher, of the N. R. 0. T. C. President Jim Clynes conducted the meeting.
Mr. Fisher pointed out that eighteen million, including those in the armed forces, will be faced with demobilization when hostilities cease. In spite of the magnitude of the problem it will be materially eased by the fact that demobilization will necessarily proceed at a slow rate and in all probability will consume a period of two and a half years; hence affording demobilized individuals opportunity to make gradual readjustment.
After Mr. Fisher’s address, a short business meeting was held and plans for the coming semester were discussed.
Alumni Vocational Group Meets at Notre Dame
Thirty-eight percent of the Notre Dame men in service want job aid after the war; 33% do not want job aid; and 29% will return to complete their educations. These were figures revealed at a meeting of the Vocational Committee of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, held Friday, Oct. 6, on the University campus.
William R. Dooley, assistant Alumni secretary and secretary of the Vocational Committee quoted these statistics on the basis of returned questionnaires sent out six weeks ago to 4,500 Notre Dame men in service. The survey also revealed that the greater percentage desiring job aid are graduates of 1940 or later—students who went directly, or almost directly, from college into service.
At the one day session, John F. McMahon, ’28, of Pittsburgh, Pa., summarized educational benefits provided by government bills, and the Rev. John J. Lane, director of the recently established Office of Veterans Affairs, outlined the functions of the new bureau. Present at the meeting was the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Thomas F. Byrne, of Cleveland, 0., national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Bernard J. Voll, of South Bend, Ind., chairman of the Vocational Committee, presided at the conference. Other members of the committee who attended include : William C. Schmidt, ’10, Portland, Ore.; John T. Balfe, ’20, New York City; Daniel H. Young, ’22, Philadelphia, Pa.; Joseph F. Donaldson, ’23 Louisville, Ky.; Edward F. O’Toole, ’25, Chicago, HL; John W. Brennan, ’27, Detroit, Mich.; Clayton G. Leroux, ’27, Cleveland, Ohio.
Clyde E. Broussard of Beaumont, Texas, was unable to attend.
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years.
$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell__________$2.50
at the Bookstore
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND* IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
, South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.
M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
Igulsmgs
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, O.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, O.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, O.D.S.
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. INO.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
4O6-4OS TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2S74
19