

Tuition 
The Sky's the Limit 


Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 

Name ---------------------­
Address ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.00X __ years=$___ 




COVER 9 

Sexuality at Notre Dame Student Government report 

ENTERTAINMENT 6 
Music 
7 
Movies 
Wild at Heart 


NEWS 
13 
Newbriefs 

CAMPUS LIFE 
14 
The Building Boom Campus expansion study 

· 17 
The Sky is the Limit Tuition increases continue 

SPORTS 19 
Kick Start 


WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS 
2 
Editorial 
3 

On Other Campuses 
4 
Week In Distortion 
5 
Unexamined Life 
23 

Coming Distractions 
24 
Final Word 
New Music Reviews Notre Dame soccer report 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 




SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Vol. 132, No. 2 September 20, 1990 

EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael C. Wieber 
MANAGING EDITOR 
Derik T. Weldon 
NEWS EDITOR Traci Taghon 
SPORTS EDITOR Brian McMahon 
SPORTS ASSISTANT Jon Paul Potts 
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange 
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Tim Rogers 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
Mari Okuda 
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT Paul Webb 
COPY EDITOR Dave Raedy 
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER Patricia Doyle 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli 
BUSINESS MANAGER Jim Fitzgerald 
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER Jeanne Naylor 
Sclwlastic is publishal ww:Jy throughout thl: school ya,r acept during =imination il1ld txzuuion pmads .i IN! Uniw:rsity ofNolrt! Dam,, Not r, Dam,,IN,46556 il1ld prinl.do! ThePaptrs,Inc.,Milford,IN 46542. The subscription role is $25.00/y=il1ld biu:kiss=11Tein11zi/Jzhko! $1.25 /copy. Theopinions apresud in ScholasiicllTe those ofIN! ••lhorsillld tdilorsillld d,, not necessmily rq,resenl IN! opinions of IN! cilire ,diJorW board of Sclwlastic or ofIN! Unfoersity ofNoire Dame, ils adminislro!ion, fiu,,lly or slwfmts. Editorials sig=l Sclwlastic rq,resenl IN! opinion of IN! 
majority ofIN! exec.Ii"" ,diJorW board. Mani=ripls llTe tvelct11ne. All 1mSOliciti"1 mataWs b<anne IN! prqpt:rly ofSclwlastic. 
Copyright 1990 Scholastic Magaine. All rights "5e1Wd. &prod•ctian in whole or in parl VJithoMt written pennissi,m is pral,ibiled. 

sepa r ate' 
but 

Equal? 
Considering their volume when cheering may be ego-driven, but is not necessarily at home football games, it is interesting to arrogant. There is a certain pride in knowing find Notre Dame students making that Notre Dame is among the most themselves conspicuous through their competitive national universities in silence. America. Domers need not share this 
It is, however, not surprising. In what has recognition with another school, even if it is become a yearly ritual, Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's. students are again defending their position in Saint Mary's students should take pride in 
the Notre Dame community. This happens their school's tradition and goals because itis each September when football tickets are what it is, a fine midwest, liberal arts college distributed and Saint Mary's students are that derives a great deal of strength from its forced to pay more for them. rnumacy. · It has a growing national Silence by Notre Dame students has turned reputation as a ~nique learning environment 
this discussion into a diatribe. Saint Mary's because the college truly is no longer in the students and a few Notre Dame shadow of the Dome. administrators speak of equality, but rarely Notre Dame cannot boast as much are other voices heard. Quite simply, the idea anymore, what with its new NBC television 
is too hard to stomach from· a Notre Dame contract and the construction of DeBartolo perspective. Quad. Notre Dame has become big business, which is paradoxically exciting and sad. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students From a student perspective, there are two 
share a common heritage, but notnecessarily college communities at work here-a Notre a common destiny. Administrators Dame community and a Saint Mary's reinforced this in the early seventies when the community. Unless the two schools unify, 
first women were admitted to Notre Dame. which is highly unlikely, this will continue to 
No longer sharing a brother-sister be the case. Neither school need suffer relationship, the two schools' paths continue because both stand alone. to diverge. Silence does not have to show tension. 
Silence on the part ofNotre Dame students Itmay also show respect. 
ullas ta Sdwlasl ic mJZSI be typed,mdincliuhIN! writtr's name, address illldphonenumba. Unir,ersity.iiuhntsshouldinc/MC/elheiryearinschool il1ld college. F=lty members should incliule their dq,llrlmt:nt •. All lellas mllSI b<sig=l. Names will b<wilhlrdd upon rap;esl in etrtain instanc,s. 
Sclwlaslic reseroes IN! right ta rejed Idlers lhal llTe libeloas or obscene by IN! laws oflni! United Stoles. Scholaslic also will ,ml for copyfilling, grammaJiCJZl or spelling errors il1ld Scholastic style. Because of space limiWians, Scholastic cannot print all lellas recdvtd. 
Addre,z; all com.spandmce lo: The Editor Sclwlaslic Wortun,, Cmla Noire Dame,IN 46556 
SCHOLASTIC 





Get My Name Off Your Underwear 
If you think your underwear is your own business, think again. The chapters of seven University of Kansas sororities remind us that underwear is big business. As reported by the Kansan, the seven fine organizations received licenses to prevent the printing of their names on "inappropriate" items. Susan Schmitt, business manager for Kappa Kappa Gamma, said the reasoi:i for the chapter's concern arose when members noticed that manufacturers had printed the sorority letters on undergarments and toilet seats. Reports were unclear as to whether the toilet seats were padded or not 

Gimme All Your Slips 

According to the Kansan, a criminal genius made off with 24 transfer slips after holding a bus driver at gunpoint. In an operation that officials called "smooth and professional," an unidentified man stopped a school transport and demanded that the · driver hand over all his bus passes. Chris Ogle, owner of the Lawrence Bus Company, said that once the man got the transfer slips, he "ran away." Police are still searching for leads in what they call "one of the worst jobs ever pulled in the University's history." 
No Penalty For Withdrawal 
As reported by The Weekly Collegian, Penn State has responded to the Middle East crisis by making withdrawal easier for students in the military reserve. According to the new policy, students called to active duty will only have to present a copy of their orders in order to withdraw. The new process will eliminate troublesome paperwork and unnecessary hassle. 
Stanford Stockpiles For Disaster 
Has South Bend weather got your tongue stuck to a flagpole? Are you wishing that you went to school someplace on the west coast? Well at least we don't have earthquakes. So there. According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education, Stanford University has buried a dozen containers chock full o' emergency supplies that could be used in case of another eartJiquake. The custom-made, fiber-glass containers are five feet high and nine feet in diameter. They are filled with enough ding-dongs and the like to feed 10,000 people for two days. To prevent meddlesome squirrels from unearthing the containers, only a few top-ranking university officials know of the container's locations. 
Self Defense With What God Gave You 
According to The Weekly Collegian, the Undergraduate Student Government Department of Safety at Penn. State is selling a $5 safety device which emits a bothersome noise and has a built-in flashlight The device is for people leery of walking alone at night. However, Melissa Hardoby, co-director of the Department ofWomen's Concerns, said, "I advocate using the weapons you have on your body --your hands, your feet, your mouth." Beware to the robber of that well-prepared lady. . 
edited by Tim Rogers 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 




It has long been acknowledged that male~female relations on this campus are somewhat less than ideal. One might imagine that Notre Dame's Administration would give up in the face of· such a long-standing sore spot-but not so! On the contrary, the University has decided to take that most daring of all steps (short of forming a committee): It has declared the 1990-91 school year to be: THE YEAR OF WOMEN. This bold strategy, showing the blinding foresight and l0ve for punch, crackers and cheese functions that has always characterized Notre Dame's ruling elite, doubtless came straight from the very bowels of the Administration Building. 
Being of an inquisitive nature, and of course· being curious to see just what the "very bowels" of the Administration Building might actually look like, I decided to trek on over to the old Dome and to see what a randomly chosen, high-ranking member ofthe Administration might have to say about The Year of Women. My contact, whom I will hereafter refer to as "Deep Left Tonsil" (or "Lefty" for short), agreed to speak with me only on the condition of anonymity. 
I began what soon proved to be a short interview by asking "Lefty" how effective he thought the Year of Women would be in improving Male-Female relations here on campus. 
"Well, I'm quite optimistic," Lefty said. "I have no doubt that whatever difficulties men and women have had here in the past, they'll all be ironed out by the time May rolls around. After all, the Year of Cultural Diversity was tremendously useful for getting Notre Dame students Lo loosen up and take a look at the world around them. Why, I've never seen so many bandanas and so much long hair here at the University before-some of these guys have even let their hair grow down to their shoulders. And the Year of the Family was also a great success. By all accounts, many students were so enthusiastic that they went right out and started families of their own over the course of the year. Now if that's not student response, I don't know what is." 
"Yes," I replied, ''but do you really think that the Year of Cultural Diversity, for example, opened the average Notre Dame student up to the cultural possibilities and contributions offered by Notre Dame's minorities? And do you think that it helped make those minorities feel more accepted and important in the Notre Dame community? After all, one would hope that's what the Year of the Woman would do for women here on campus." 
"Now wait a minut~who said thatND's minority students feel uncomfortable? Hell, we love Democrats here, and they know it. We try to do everything in our power to make 

them go ... er, feel at home." 
At this point, I began to feel 
thoroughly confused, and a slight 
throb bing began in my temples. I was 
tempted to question his assumption 
that I was talking about something 
political when I said the word 
"minority." However, as I didn't 
want to blow a rare chance to talk"off 
the record" with a highly placed 
Administration official, I simply 
asked more questions. 

"But, Lefty, don't you think it'dbe more effective if you had co~d dorms, or something along those lines? Wouldn't that give ND men and women a chance to get to know each other better in a socially positive atmosphere?" 
"Co-ed? Hah-hah, that's a good one! The Alumni would never go for it. They're a bunch of real squares-not like us conservative-priest types. Hah-hah. Well, if you'II excuse me, son, I've got an important 'hoops' game to go play. Remember-no names." 
Feeling a bit lost and disillusioned, I wandered forlornly back to the old dormstead. Could it be that ND's Administration didn't really have clue one about what to do to improve male-female relations on campus? Don't get me wrong­the Year of Women, in and of itself, still strikes me as a fine idea (of course, one wonders what the response of the campus would be if Notre Dame declared this the "Year of Men"-but then again, the way people act on this campus, it may well be that every year is the unofficial "Year of Men"). But could it be that the YearofWomen is the kind ofgreat PR event that will soon be little but an ineffectual memory? As a die-hard Alan Alda fan, I sure hope not. 
by Alex Halow 


Dear Dr. Head: My mom can't cook. For this I can forgive her. I gave her fourte_en hours of pelvis-wrenching pain in a labor that her obstetrician still talks about. She forgave me. However, my mom also has a nasty habit ofstoring batteries in the refrigerator. Many a time I have opened the refrigerator, seeking something to quaff my thirst, and found the damn thing stocked full of Duracels™. Is there any reason for chilling batteries? Mike S. Richardson, junior, Morrissey 
I called-your mother's obstetrician. Good story. Your mom knows what she's doing. Mike, batteries should always be served chilled. Always. I mean without exception. Like fine vichyssoise, and a few other French delicacies such as vis-a-vis, batteries taste best at around ten degrees below room temperature. Some recipes even call for a bed ofcrushed ice. Since you seem fairly clueless, Mike, allow me to also remind you how to choose your batteries. Al ways buy them fresh. Never settle for frozen. A void the temptation to buy big batteries. They may look more attractive, but D batteries lack the flavor ofsmaller ones. I prefer AA. Fora change of pace, try nickel cadmium. 

Dear Dr. Head: I recently spent a pleasant afternoon at the Northern Indiana Broccoli Growers Association second annual Parade of Stars. The NIB GA organized a splendid gala, and I couldn't have enjoyed myself more. · Except for one thing. About midway through the parade, I noticed those darn Shriners, with their fezzes and tiny cars. _Ever since, I've been wondering why those guys drive such little cars. I can't sleep, and whenI do, I dream ofShriners. Please put my mind to rest. Janice Archer, junior, Howard 
Janice, theNIBGA is a fine organization and I'm pleased to hear that you support their efforts to provide the nation with quality broccoli. The origin of the tiny cars is an interesting story. Elvin Sheath was the first Shriner to wear a fez. He was the sole member ofthe Shriners and in 1754, Elvin realized that he looked ridiculous in a fez. He figured the only way to appear more respectable was to drive around in a smallish car with the steering wheel between his knees. Elvin's hunch was correct and he soon had many followers. Elvin's small villagein England was soon filled with grown men driving around in miniature cars, wearing fezzes -every one of them looking as 
dapper as Elvin himself. The organization has thrived ever since. Janice, I would like to add a personal comment ifl may. Shriners are wonderfulin paradesandlwholeheartedlysupportthemin their endeavors. However, they are a nuisance on the open road. Their cars, 
·because of the lack of horsepower, are far too slow for the freeway. I urge you to write your senator and demand tougher restrictions on Shriner travel. Thank you. 
When you were a little kid, did you ask your parents stupid questions until they got fed up and beat you? Ifso.Dr. Head/eels badlyfor you. However, ifyou'd like to see your name in print, then sendthose selfsame questions to the good folks at Scholastic. Our address is 303 LaFortune. Send them care ofDr.Head. Also, please include your place ofresidence and year. No matter how dumb your questions are, Dr. Head vows not to physically harm you. . 



Productions 
Edutainment 

"Rap Music, what does it mean? What is everybody in this industry for? Why is everybody buying rap for?" asks Kris Parker, a.k.a. ~S-ONE, of the rap group Boogie Down Produc­tions (BDP). KRS-ONE an­swers his question by calling the current exploitation of rap mu­sic, a form ofmusic that was once unique to Black America, a "theft" by the white-controlled media giants. He goes on to add that rap music acts as "a revolu­tionary tool in changing the stuc­ture of racist America." 
KRS-ONE, with his message of intelligence as the uplifter of an oppressed race, is a refreshing alternative for all races in the lightofother "revolutionary" rap artists currently preaching anti­Semitism, violence, or voluntary racial exclusion. In fact, KRS­ONE is an acronym for "Knowl­edge Reigns Supreme Over Nearly Everyone". Ever since BDP exploded on the scene with the controversial By All Means Necessary two years ago, KRS-ONE and his posse ( composed of, more or less, ofD­Square, Ms. Melodie, D-Nice, Sidney Mills, and DJ Kenny 
N 

Parker) have been speaking out how Western "civilization" has been brainwashed by neglecting the rich and important contribu­tions ofnon-Europeans through­out history. These themes of the power of knowlege and racial pride are quite evident in BDP's newesteffort,Edutainment. The name ''Edutainment", according to BDP, is a combination of the words EDUcation and enter­TAINMENT. One of the most interesting and provocative ideas putforward on Edutainment is the differences within the rap community. In songs like "Ya Know the Rules" and "House Nigga's", KRS­ONE attacks such "Uncle Tom" rappers who try and appeal to a more lucrative audience. Rap­pers like M.C. Hammer, Rob Base, and D.J. Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince create sugary-sweet mixes that white America doesn't mind hearing. By wear­ing gold 'n' Gucci, rapping for money instead of message, they 
perpetuate the stereotypes of the "happy-go-lucky Negro". 
Throughout Edutainment , KRS-ONE and the rest of BDP call for a regection of material excess, knowledge about one's ethnic background, a pride in one's ethnic background, and a sense of unity, not only between races, but in each distinct ethnic community. KRS-ONE wraps up Edutainment by saying "but the more we stay separated, and the more we don'tunderstand the concept of the "I" that is within all of us, then we will constantly and constantly lose every single battle, from day one to day for­ever ... " 



W MUSIC 

white media has taken in only the non-threatening aspects of Afri­. can-American life, spitting it all back in accptable forms like the artists listed in the BDP article. Here, Reid sings, "You like our hair/you love our music/our culture's large so you abuse it/ take time to understand, I'm an equal man". "Type" begins as·a metallic throb and quickly takes Living Colour on that distinctive Vernon Reid Time's Up energy. Thesongitselfseemsas 
After a three-year hiatus, Liv-an attack on the blurred and in­ing Colour has finally released creasingly growing dangers of their long-awaited second LP, the growth of corporate Amer­Time's Up. After litening to it ica, and its fascination with tech­incessantly for about a week, I nology. am convinced that it far sur-Finally, both BDP and Living passes the brilliance ofVivid. Color, each with its own unique Not only do the lyrics contain musical format, have shown that postitive messages for all races, they both carry postitive, con­but the combination of funk, structive messages against cor­hardcore, rap, R & B, and metal porate and historical racism prnvide a solid musical partner while supporting racial under­for Vernon' Reid's vocal blasts. standing. Time's Up boastsalargeamiyof · by JeffJotz 
contributing musicians such as Jeff Jotz is currently the Music Little Richard, Queen Latifah, Director at WVFI and is a regu­Mick Jagger, and Doug E. Fresh. . lar contributor ofmusic reviews. It was produced by veteran front­man Ed Stasium, who has worked with bands like the Ramones in the past. 
The album begins with the title track, a blistering hardcore frenzy that sounds more like Bad Brains than Living Colour. As each track progresses, educa~ tional themes similar to those found in BDP's Edutainment become more and more evident. Roger Waters 


My favorite tunes on the album The Wall Live were definitely "Pride" and Whenever a band ( or worse "Type". Both em bodied the idea yet, a bunch ofmusicians) does a above of a great message benefit concert that's billed as coupled with great music. In "The Rock Event of The Year," "Pride", Reid attacks how the be very afraid. Be even more 


REVIEWS 
afraid if one of the bands in­
volved is Pink Floyd. · All of the 
publicity and money titat get 
sunk into these big benefit deals 
usually turn the music being 
played into cheesy reproductions 
ofstudio music that require mini­
mal exertion from the musicians 
involved to produce a huge reac­
tion from the garganrtuan 
crowds that one always sees at­
tending these big to-dos. This is 
unfortunately once again the 
case with Roger Waters' presen­
tation ofhis epic The Wall on the 
site of the Berlin Wall this sum­
mer. 
Why Waters decided to in­clude all ofthe outside musicians that he did is beyond me-The Wall is not really an album that lends itself well to people play­ing parts, and even more so when thosepeoplearen'tRogeWaters. In any case, some record com­pany bigwig (probably) decided that there had to be tons of "big stars" in order for this to beone of those "rock events of the year," so they're there whether you like them or not, and with mixed re­sults. . Some· of the pairings of performers to songs are quite apt but don't work, while others are· a complete surprise in both pair­ing and performance. 
The prime example of a song/ performer pairing that should have worked but didn't is Sinead O'Connor's attempt at "Mother." I will confess that her backup band (consisting of three members of The Band) really screwed it up for her, but the song just doesn't work like it could. Only once during the entire song does Sinead manage to reach the emotional levels needed for this song (and of which she is defi­nitely capable.) Somehow, the cynically minded can also see Sinead' s presence as a diabolical record company plot to sell more albums (it never hurts to have the artist with the current number one album on your compilation). 
There are versions of songs that are surprisingly good, and the one of these (and the album's real standout cut) is the version of "Goodbye Blue Sky" per­formed by Joni Mitchell and jazz flautist James Galway. This pairing of Mitchell's unique vocal style and Galway's haunt­ing flute yields a very striking, sensual chemistry that makes "Goodbye Blue Sky" sound like it never has 
The other guest artists land somewhere in the middle. Van Morrison's try at "Comfortably Numb" shouldn't work, but it does. It just goes to show that Van can do no wrong. Cyndi Lauper pulls off"Another Brick pt. II"· without sounding too annoying, and the Scorpions even· manage to crank out "In The Flesh" with a minimum of ad-libbing or overly macho gui­tar (although their opening scream should have been edited out). 
As far as the rest of the album goes, thereisn'tmuch to say. The Wall definitely loses some ofits texture when played live, try as Waters does to include the snip­pets of telephone calls and old war movies that are on the al­bum. There are some points in the album that make you wonder why the performance didn't come off. better than it did, or why Waters chose to put it to­gether in the way that he did. He includes the additional tag at the end of"Empty Spaces," which is part of the animated sequence in the movie, but still didn't include the incredible "When The Tigers Broke Free" (which so far is only available in the movie or on an album called Elements of Fan­tasy -the London Symphony Orchestra Plays Pink Floyd­but please don't buy that album just for this song). 

The main problem with this album is the loss of the spirit of the work: The guest artists, al­though they are sometime inter­esting and do provide some new ideas about Roger Waters' mag­num opus generally drive the original intention of the album too far out ofwhack. This album worries too much about show­manship and not enough about the music. 


David J 
Songs from Another Season 
I think sooner or later all of this solo-album nonsense with the former members of Bauhaus has to end. It's getting to bea little bit ridiculous. The members of Bauhaus have now appeared in seven incarnations (if you count the Bubblemen and David J's stint with theJazzButcher.) This new release from singer/bassist David J is nothing that should really surprise you, but it still manages to hold your interest 
Songs from Another Season 
sounds pretty much like a stripped-down version of the slow tunes from Love and Rockets' Earth-Sun-Moon (most ofwhich, by no small coin­cidence, were penned by David. The vocals are still the same raspy, low-pitched vocals that you know and love, the lyrics are still contemplative and loaded with natural imagery, and the overall instrument textures are general! y the same. A few of the album's tracks take on subjects that Love and Rockets really couldn't handle, like David's dissatisfaction with fame on "Stranded Trans-Atlantic Hotel Nearly Famous Blues." Other tracks are explorations of terri­tory that Love and Rockets might have opted to explore had they stayed in an acoustic-contempla­ti ve mode after Earth-Sun-Moon instead of going back to their three-chord roots. It's obvious that this is basically a backlog of material that David didn't want to throw away, but instead com­piled into a solo project. 
David does a great job with this solo album, it's just that the world didn't need another solo project from one-fourth of Bauhaus. It's hard to resist comparing this with ex-band­mate Peter Murphy's Deep, but the two albums are meant to serve entirely different purposes. Maybe it's just that all of these solo projects are starting to blur together... 
by Dave Holsinger 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 


David Lynch's latest masterpiece is a masterful insight into man's darker side 
David Lynch's latest film,Wild at Heart, is an absolute masterpiece for the senses. The winnerof the Palmed'Orprize at the Cannes Film Festival, this film combines Lynch's offbeat humor with his obsession for the disturbing and grotesque. How many direc­tors can you think of who manage to capture the symbolic qualities of fire, vomit, The Wizard ofOz, abortion, mental illness, rape, and rock and roll in roughly two hours? The effect is tremendous as a cast including Nico­las Cage, Laura Dem, Diane Ladd, Willem Dafoe, and Harry Dean Stanton manage to create perhaps the wildest and weirdest array of emotionally troubled characters in one film. The amazing thing is that the viewer can actually symapthize with the pitiful char­acters of "Lula" (Laura J;)em) and "Sailor" (Nicolas Cage). Lynch also brilliantly weaves flashbacks of the main characters. The result is an incredible film about love, rebellion, and man's darker side. 
It comes as little surprise that Wild at H eari has been the center of controversy since its conception. Due to the amount of sex and violence in this film, Wild at Heart nearly incurred an "X" rating. However, Lynch is not using graphic scenes merely for the sake of having a dose of sex and violence for audiences. Rather, he is demonstrating how Lula and Sailor have been trapped in a web of lies and deception all their lives. The plot revolves around this deception, as Sailor and Lula run away to escape the authorities after Sailor jumps bail. Sailor is wanted for mur­der, but as Lynch carefully points out, that is the least of his problems. Lula's mother (played by Diane Ladd) is furious that Lula has fled with Sailor, and she hires a sleaze named Santos along with her detective-lover, Johnny, to track them down. 
Driving down the American highways, Lula and Johnny each learn a great deal about their pasts. Lula discovers that Santos burned down her house, killing her father, and also that Sailor watched the entire trag­edy from a car parked outside when he worked as a driver for Santos. Other flash­.· backs reveal how Lula was raped by a family friend and had an abortion as a result, and also ·how her mentally ill cousin Dale disap­
peared. 

These revelations are complemented by several scenes destined to become, at the very least, cult classics. The last scenes show Sailor being beaten unconscious by a gang in an alley, only to wake up bound and find a "Good Witch" floating over him saying, "Don't tum away from love." Heeding her advice,· Sailor runs through a traffic jam to find Lula, and then professes his love by singing "Love Me Tender." Other scenes show Sailor and Lula humorously displaying their penchant for the outrageous by dancing to speed-metal in a smoky bar. A somewhat disturbing scene shows the two rebels arriv­ing at the scene of a fatal accident to find a bloodied teenager frantically searching for her purse and lipstick. In the face ofimpend­ing death, surrounded by the battered bodies of her parents, the only thing this girl can worry about is locating her belongings. 
WhileWild at Heart is certainly worth see­ing, it is not for the queasy or timid viewer. Lynch's disturbing characters present film­goers with a taste of the dark, evil side of humanity that may in fact lurk inside of everyone. As shocking or frightening as it may seem, Lynch is actually telling the viewer that there is a little bit of Sailor and Lula in all of us. The cool yet loving rebel of Sailor, mixed with the insecurity and inno­cence ofLula make for an incredibly unusual love story. Nicolas Cage and Laura Dem give their best performances to date, and an excellent supporting cast makes Wild at Heart easily one of the best films of the year. Wild at Heart once again proves that we can expect nothing but the unexpected from David Lynch. 
by Karen Holderer 
SCHOLASTIC 



A REPORT ON THE REPORT 
COMPILED BY TRACI TAGHON 
The 1990 Student Government Report to the Board of Trustees concerns itself with the controversial issue of sex and sexuality at Notre Dame. To formulate the report, stu­dents were randomly selected and surveyed about several aspects of sexuality, and their perception of Notre Dame's attitude toward relationships between the sexes. The results of this survey led the Committee to issue recommendations in the areas of: sexual ethics; parietals; co-residentiality; sexual harassment and rape; contraceptives and AIDS;andhomosexuality. Asstatedonpage one of the report, "the Committee's primary concern was researching, formulating, and presenting a report on such a sensitive topic that successfully addressed major campus issues of concern." 



JLJJ1I'Y 
Student (jovernment 2?..f,port to tfie ~oarr£ of 'Trustees 1.1niversity of 'J\(ptre 'lJame 1989-90 

Sexual Ethics 

"Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to total living and sharing to­gether of two persons in marriage, the Uni­versity believes that sexual uriion should only occur in marriage. Violations shall involve suspension or dismissal." (Du Lac, 
p. 22; emphasis added) 

The Committee found that the Uni­versity is too concerned with the punishment of the act, and not enough with the real purpose behind having a code of sexual behavior. The Office of Residence Life maintains that the severity of the sanction depends on the individual case, and that a student is not automatically subject to sus­pension or dismissal. This, however, the committee notes as merely confusing. 
Because of this ambiguous policy, the Committee made the following recom­mendations: 
''That the aforementioned state­ment from Du Lac be reworded so as to accurately reflect the actual disciplinary measures sanctioned. For example: 'The Office of Residence Life shall deal with the violations of this code. Disciplinary action may involve, but shall not be limited to, suspension or dismissal.' 
That the University re-evaluate the inclusion of these options -suspen­sion ordismissal-within the disciplinary code." 
Furthermore, the Committee dis­covered that some students come to Notre Dame unaware of the University's policies governing relationships between the sexes. These students are among the most critical of 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 


said policies. Membership in the Notre Dame community is voluntary, but the Committee recommended that the Univer­sity bemore explicit about its expectations to alleviate possible misunderstandings. 
"Recommendation: That the University provide a short, one paragraph statement in the application to Notre Dame that recognizes the Catholic charac­ter of the school, and consequently its stance on premarital sex and visitation hours." 
Parietals 

Seventy-nine percent of students surveyed did not feel that Notre Dame pro­vides a healthy environment for interaction with the opposite sex. Of these, 75.7% cited parietals as a major reason. Students have long disagreed with the official reasoning behind parietal visitation. As written on one survey , "Parietals ... eslrange males and fe­males, emphasizing differences instead of fostering friendships." (Appendix A) Du 
parietal violations so severe? ["Overnight 
parietal violations involve suspension or 
dismissal," (p.24, Du Lac)] The University 
can impose more severe sanctions on a 
woman for having a man in her room over­
night than for being apprehended for her first 
drunk driving offense. The report notes, "the 
disciplinary action imposed on an individual 
for violation ofparietals is equal to that which 
is applied to an act ofphysical violence." 
Third, why does Du Lac contain a 
vague statement about the application of 
parietals to off-campus students as well? 
Students are under the impression that parie­
tals are intended to follow them everywhere. 
Ifthe aim ofvisitation hours is privacy, order 
and unity, how can they apply offUniversity 
grounds? 

The report ultimately acknowl­edges that the majority (72.9%) of students would rather live in a dorm without parietals. The residence halls have been unable to cre­ate the kind ofatmosphere intended under the visitation rules, evidenced by the students' 
· ponfusion as to the purpose of these restric­
visitation regulation. At this point~ the Committee wishes to assert its disappoint­ment that such aninfringemen ton student rights could be a motivation for school policy. This policy would then be consid­ered by the Committee as completely un­justified." 
The Committee also recommends that ifthe aforementioned is not the case, the parietalpolicy should be modified. Nine 
a.m. to 2 a.m. on the weekdays and 9 a.m .. to 3 a.m. on Friday and Saturday are mentioned as acceptable visiting hours. Disciplinary action should also be modified, according to the report, to a warning for the first violation, followed by temporary, then permanent dis­missal from the dormitory. Co-residentiality 
Single-sex dorms are one of the main reasons for unhealthy male/female re-· lations at the University, said 76.6% of re­spondents to the survey. The Committee reminded the Board of Trustees that Student Government has filed two reports on . co­residentiality (November 1988 and a Prog-
Lac, on the other hand, states, 
ress Report 1989-90), and then "Coeducation allows men and made the following recom­women to contribute to one mendations: another's education and to form "That co-residen­genuine friendships. It is for tiality be implemented as these reasons that the program soon as possible. of limited parietal visitation in "That parietals not dormitory student rooms is be implemented in a co-resi­supported by the University. In dential situation because the the proper context visitation aim ofsuch is not to live next·. can facilitate personal and so­to or above members of the cial development and enhance opposite sex, but to interact the quality of life on our cam­with them. The desired level pus." (p.24) The section con­of interaction could riot pos­tinues with the outlining of the sibly be achieved within the visitation hours. The hours af­structure of the parietals ter 12 a.m. weekdays and 2 a.m. policy." Fridays and Saturdays are not within the "proper context" as Sexual Harassment and defined by the University. · Rape 
Most students believe that parietals are intended to Yet another reference prevent sexual activity, and the to the "unhealthy state ofrela­report notes three reasons for tionships" between the· sexes this rationale. Administration policy dictates that sexual union belongs within 
occurs in this section of the 


First, why need only the bonds of marriage. 

members of the opposite sex leave the dorm at the prescribed times? If parietals aim toward dorm unity, order and privacy, why shouldn't all non-residents, regardless of sex, be required to leave? 
Second, why is the punishment for 

tions. The Committee recommends: 
''That the University acknowl­edge, if it is indeed the case, that_ the pre­vention of sexual relations between stu­dents is the goal of the limited parietal 
report. Six percent of the fe­male respondents to the survey said they had been victims of date rape, and 29% of all persons surveyed knew a victim ofdate rape. A large majority of the victims (5 of21) did not report the incident due to fear ofUniver~ sity response or lack of confidentiality, the 

10 


T:rteF"'.':'"~.:rt,1ITw" 
~'fi!!r,;Bf:afl;l; ;(!iil.;i'' ~'m:;;-::~"":~ uf .~.t:XLl~1 &~•°§[ on. ~~ Nl}~,rt~ lr:fi== E?=~I"' 1~'•\ ;1"u~5 µ~~ =e-km! w:i.~h 'PLl~•a ~~ng ·a ~d-:~r :~~:~ni!,.. 
~fn~1w~'t;:sµ~!_;'~i:?~ 
~---:;J f-Qlicy ,u;rw~rd;f;; 
vi•_#._fa~~ li!H;:j p!;;\!l'l}~'i'.i'tli• 
~-¥ 
Ctmtr"af;t:ptit't$ :ttnd 
AIDS 
I~IN1tt
......: ·--... ­;bn~IB1'f rt:.{;,t,4.. ;lr,-•.: ~dhlk~vofag;~,dr~.:~:zt:=t=mi 'Wfiu~ptkm Iit ;~ C~h~lk lJ~i,r~r:a.it:r~ · ft~ ~"~~ ~J!Wi;t'~IJ';, ~'ef~l:ili ~~-~..e ~::;df ~ ~oc<ly thwt .~.!; 

~hL-rlffi ef.,wp ;:'°~jj5"[ ~~f 
i.,1:fu~~. 
:FiiJl'litili ~:i¥G~-~'~:::,~ ·!i/ffi... ~ ~ ~ ~24.\s;r,.~,~ 'ai'!i1.,,; Pf",ilf"~~~ i:'.:~,~t.}! "'d~ 

li;fil~Htkik.,gi~of:f~.;;;::~m--• 
· .~~;f! T£~-(~m:mijit~~. 
did n,"1t., h.."1-i!'iii::,""'!,"£~·, ]:!!t;~l 
!~ ·~ the ~::1;'!~~ nf ~~Jv~ tili't:-d (~tily ~ 'bh'ih ~,otr~t 
Th,e rnp;r.;,!f~ ~ ~~ ~!,p<J'litrJ;'f\~t: ,u:[ eons1uenng certain

Homo~exuality perplexes even the niost well-meaning administrators. 
contraceptive devices as a safeguard against the 

that counseling should be provided immedi­dations: spread. of disease, in particular the AIDS ately upon report ofsexual assault Officials ''That the University widely pub­virus. While the Committee found several of University Counseling Services had told licize its counseling services for victims of other schools to have comprehensive AIDS the Committee that victims may have to go sexual assault and that immediate coun­policies and Task Forces to study the issue, through the investigation by Notre. Dame seling be offered to victims of sexual as­they found no such forum at Notre Dame. Security and the Office of Student Life be­sault. The Committee made the following fore being referred to Counseling. "That awareness and education recommendations: 
The Report also notes that peer of sexual assault and rape be fostered ''That Notre Dame recognize the 
institutions have a stronger and better publi­through seminars or forums to educate all use of condoms as a means of disease pre­cized stance on rape and sexual harassment. students about healthy relationships, spe­vention, which is possible without encour­Northwestern University, which mandates cifically during Freshman Orientation. aging or condoning sexual activity. 
that its policy on these topics be published in 'That support groups be offered ''That , the University specify its several places many times a year, is offered to victims fsexual assault through Univer­procedure should a student contract the as an example. In light of the growing trend sity Health Services to aid in the psycho­AIDS virus. toward addressing and halting rape and sex­logical healing of victims and encourage 
''That Notre Dame upgrade the ual harassment on all college campuses, the others to feel comfortable about reporti,!}g quality of sexual education regarding Committee made the following recommen-· such occurrences." -·· 
AIDS. Educational material should be 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 
11 


distributed to the student body. The entire student body should participate iri an AIDS education campaign." 
Homosexuality 

Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/ St. Mary's College (GLND/SMC) is a group, which, although unrecognized officially by the University, has a mailing list of about seventy names, plus an additional alumni and contact mailing list of about one hundred names. Based on the responses which the Committee received from its survey, seniors 
!1 supported the issue of the recognition of the group overwhelmingly (82.2%). Freshman did not show quite as much support, with 73% of them answering "yes" to this ques­tion. Tolerance of homosexuality by the 
student population surveyed was minimal. Students seem, in general, to become more tolerant of homosexuality as they age, ac­cording to the report. 54.5%ofthe Freshmen responded with a negative attitude toward homosexuality, while only 40.6% of the seniors held a negative · attitude. Women consistently held the issue in a more positive light, with 30% of the females indicating a positive attitude as compared to 15.2% ofthe males. 
Based on the results of this survey and from interviews with homosexual stu­dents, the Committee concluded that the atmosphere at Notre Dame of "general homophobia and low-grade harassment cre­ates a highly oppressive atmosphere ... " for homosexual students. The Report states that GLND/SMC could relieve some of this ten­sion if it were more free to advertise, sponsor lectures, etc. Because it is not officially recognized by the University, it is limited in these areas. The administration says that it cannotdothisbecausethatwould "carrywith it an implicit approval of homosexuality, which is not in keeping with the values ofthe University or the teachings of the Church." (Rev.David Tyson, C.S.C., 7 July 1986) 
This position seems to conflict, however, to the University's position on other clubs which hold beliefs that oppose Catholic teachings, the Committee noted. These clubs include the Baptist Student Union, which accepts the use of contracep­tives by married people, a group called Women United for Justice and Peace which advocates the ordination of women, to name a few. The Committee recommends: 
''That the University publish a clear statement of its position on various issues of sexuality, including homosexual­ity. If the sexual activity of the students is seen by the University as a problem, then the University's obligation is to educate, not to ignore. 
''That the University add "sexual orientation" to its nondiscrimination poli­cies, which already include "race, color, national and ethnic origin ... [and] handi­cap. 
''That the University recognize and grant club status to the group Gays and Lesbian at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College or a similar group. 
''Dissenting Opinion: That the University grant GLND/SMC all the privileges of a recognized club with the exception of funding. The concern here was that such an organization is inher­ently in conflict with Catholic doctrine." 
The Committee also recommends that the University develop a task force and a symposium or workshops to study the issue. 
0 

Cathy Flynn also contributed to this story. 
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 



272-9000 
*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST *PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS *FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN *IN ROOM MOVIESNCR ( over 50 titles) *FREE LOCAL CALLS *KITCHENEITES *LAUNDRY 
*AAA AND MOBILE RA1ED 


FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE: 
1-800-347-8016 
12 
r f 
• 


Addition To Notre Dame Faculty 

A new assistant dean of graduate admis­sions has been appointed. Errol Lawrence most recently was an access and retention specialist for Lilly, Lopez and Associates, an independent consulting finn in Princeton, NJ. In 1971, Lawrence graduated from Bluffton College in Ohio. He later earned a master's degree in sociology and a doctoral degree in education from Northwestern Uni­versity. At Rider college in Lawrenceville, NJ, he was an assistant dean and director of the educational opportunity program. Among Lawrence's responsibilities will be the recruitment and retention of minority graduate students. 

Curricular Revisions and Cultural Diversity 
The University ofNotre Dame will begin preparations for a June 1991 faculty confer­ence to adopt coures revisions designed to . broaden the cultural deversity of the curriculum.Rev. Oliver F. Willians. C.S.C., associate Provost of the University said, " We believe that, at the college level, expo­sure to cultural diversity is the key to the evolutionary process of eliminating preju­dices... The curricular changes adopted by the conference wil stumulate this process and will expose students to diverse points ofview early in their academic careers, in required freshman and sophomore courses." 
In charge of the conference will be profes­sor ofEnglish and African-American studies scholar Erskine A. Peters. The primary focus of the program will be the Sophomore Core Course, a requirement for all second-year students entering the university's College of .Arts and Letters, the largest of the five col­leges. After that attention will be centered of the Freshman Writing and Seminar Program, a requirement for all first-year students. Two University bibliographers, one from the so­cial sciences and one from humanities will research and assemble potential new course materials for presentation at the conference. 
Hopes are that participation will not only come from the humanities and social science programs, but also from faculty in other areas interested bringing about changes as well. The goal ofthe conference," is to expand the scope of the curriculum, increase students' awareness of the cultural achievements of minority cultures, and ideally open the door to new coureses," such as those specifically designed to study the math and science sys­tems in ancient Africa, America, and Asia. 
The idea for the conference was born through the"YearofCulturalDiversity", the series of lectures, musical and dance per­formances, workshops and student discus­sions presented in 1988-1989. 
The conference is also the latest part of Notre Dame president, Rev. Edward A. Malloy's, C.S.C. plan to increse minority prpresentation and to enhance cultural diver­sity in the university. 
The conference is funded through a $91,000 grant from the Ford Foundation designed as an iniative to improve campus race relations and foster intellectual and cul­tural diversity. 
For further information, contact Rev. Ol­iver F. Williams, C.S.C., at (219) 239-6858 or Erskine A. Peters at (219) 239-5578. 

Air Force ROTC Reception For POW/MIA 
On Friday, September 21, National POW/ MIA Recognition Day, the Arnold Air Soci­ety of the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC will host a reception in honor of National POW/ MIA week which is from September 15 through the 2 I. The reception will take place from 3 to 4 p.m. in the Air Force cadet lounge in the Pasquerilla Center. At 4 p.m. the reception will proceed to the main flag pole on campus where all three ROTC services will participate in a formal retreat ceremony. 
South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan, a former row, will address the gathering. Addition­ally, Indiana Gobemor Evan Bayh's office will issue a proclamation declaring Septem­ber 21 as POW/MIA Recognition Day in Indiana. 
compiled by Noelle Ries 



SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 






The Building 
Boom 
Notre Dame's campus expands to meet the needs of its growing student body 
By Mary Schultz 

l 
'IXT hereas most Notre Dame students f l' view summer as their chance to es­cape from schoolwork, the construction crews and grounds keepers on the campus of 
the University of Notre Dame see it as aI prime opportunity to start new projects and finish old ones. A sum of over sixty million 
1 
I 
dollars is being used to complete and under­take various works ofconstruction on cam­pus. I As the fall semester begins, students have 
\ 
or will have the opportunity to benefit from 
i 
these new additions. Already useful to stu­dents· are the new band and ROTC buildings, a renovated Sacred Heart Church, a repaved and landscaped Juniper Road, and a new interior for Dillon Hall. The new band building; officially named The John W. Hoons Jr. Rehearsal Hall, is locatedjusteast ofJuniperRoad opposite the 
j 
Memorial Library. This three million dollar I facility, donated by a 1965 alumnus, serves l the University's marching band, concert
i 
band, three varsity bands, two jazz. bands, and woodwind and brass ensembles. In the past, the bands and ensembles re­hearsed and performed in Washington Hall. In addition, the marching band used the small building adjacent to the eastsideofWashing­ton Hall as storage space for their instruments and unifor,1;:-:. \Vith the everincreasing inter­est in these musical groups, the Koons Re­hearsal Hall allows more space for both prac­
14 
tice and storage. There are two rehearsal halls, lockers for instruments, a sheet music library, and office space for both the groups' directors and their respective student offi­cers. 
According to Marching Band sophomore member Andrea Ericson, "The new building has more space which facilitates a larger band, but there has been concern over the tradition of playing in Washington Hall, especially now since the old storage building has been tom down." Nevertheless, the new and old merge, as there has been considerable planning to preserve the Marching Band tra­dition ofstarting offfrom the Administration Building's steps and continuing on to the stadium on football game days. 
Right next to the Koon Rehearsal Hall lies 

nanced by two 


gracious anony­mous donors. The churc has taken on a re­freshing new look with en­hanced lighting illuminating the restored fres­coes, the gold sheeting on the columns, and the stained glass windows. Furthermore for increased safety andcomfort, air c_onditioning, heating and fire systems, and a new slate roof have· beenin­stalled. When the last stained glass windows are set in place in early Decem­ber, the renova­tion will be complete. 
On a more secular level, Juniper Road has been re­paved, with improved land­scaping. This 

2.6 million dol­LA_m_a_p_,p_u_b_l-1s_h_e_d_b_y_th_e_S_o_ut_h_B_en_d_T-ri_b_u_n_e_,s_u_m_m_a_r-lz_e_s_t-he_e_x_p_an_s_l=-0-n-t-ak=-i=-n-g-p-:l-a-ce-o-n-c-a-m-p-u-s-_-an-d--:--s-u-r----' lar engineering 
rounding the University. improvement the newly built Pasquerilla Center. Under-they are air conditioned. Although this build-project between Douglas and Dorr Roads not written for five million dollars by Notre ing is on the very opposite end of campus only improves its appearance superficially, Dame Trustee Frank J. Pasquerilla, the Cen-from the old ROTC building, it is conviently but creates much needed additional parking ter is the new residence of the ROTC pro-located near Stepan field, the place of much for students, faculty, and visitors. Additional grams for the Army, Air Force, Navy and drill training. stop signs have beeninstalled to help control I Marines. "The new ROTC building has more Meanwhile, the old ROTC building, which traffic as well as crosswalks and sidewalks to office space for each military division and is across from the Rockne Memorial, under-better facilitate pedestrians. The increased larger storage areas for various equipment," goes a face lift. It sports new panelling on the parking space helps deter overcrowding re­states sophomore Navy ROTC member outside and air conditioned classrooms and a siilting from the onslaught of vehicles on Chris Radzik. Since more and more students computer laboratory on the inside. Whenthe football weekends since much parking space are taking advantage of ROTC scholarships renovations are completed, this building will has been taken away by the DeBartolo Quad. as a means of funding their education, the be used as the headquarters of University Although there is now more space, the proj­Pasquerilla Center responds with an in-Security and the Risk Management Office. ect has resulted in an unfortunate inconven­creased classroom capacity. Not only are the After being closed to the public for more ience for those students on South Quad who classrooms better suited for learning pur-than a year, Sacred Heart Church has reopens must now park there instead of near the sta­poses, they are also more comfortable since · after a seven million dollar renovation fi-dium. Hopefully congestion is heading for a 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 15 


Workers lay new sidewalks on Juniper Road as part of Notre Dame's vast improve­
ment and expansion. 
decline and will end next year with the paving of Orange Field and the completion of con­struction between Dorr Road and Edison A venue. Another uplifting sight to many residents is the interior improvements in Dillon Hall, Except for a few minorlocations, namely the "ghetto" areas, Dillonites found themselves greeted by light, newly painted rooms and hallways. Apart from the better appearance created by the lights and paint, new plumbing lines have also been installed for more effi­cient water control. 
These completed projects notwithstand­ing, there is still much construction to be completed. In the area of academics, work continues on the Edward J. DeBartolo Quad and The Hesburgh Center for International 
I' Studies. Supported by a thirty-three million 
I dollar gift, the quad concentrates on increas­ing class space and supporting the fine arts. A classroom facility, to be finished in 1992, contains thirty tiered seating classrooms, thirty lecture halls, and twenty seminar rooms. Plus, the building houses a four hundred and fifty seat auditorium which will help draw influential entertainers to the campus, and allow such events as ''The Keenan Revue" and the "Mr. Stanford" con­test to take place here as opposed to the St Mary's campus. 
1:. ­! Besides the Classroom Facility, the DeBar­tolo Quad includes the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Presently located in the Memorial Library, the Center for Interna­
16 
Paul Mantey 
tional Studies will move later this ye ar into 
three buildings donated at a cost of 10.3 
million dollars by Joan Kroc. 

Renovations to enhance and upgrade the Aerospace Engineering facilities are under­way. The Old Aerospace Engineering Labo­ratory to the north of the JACC is to be demolishedsoon. ItwillmoveovertotheRe­habilitated Mechanical Engineering Labora­tory just south of the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
Despite a decline in housing services offered, student residential life gains many advantages from this continuing construc­tion. Over the summer, workers tore down· both St. Michael's Laundry and Holy Cross Hall. Although the latter dates back to 1885, 
i 

even staunch supporters of tradition couldn't save this building from its grisly fate as the condition of the rooms and the maintenance costs worsened. 
On a more joyful note, even though St. Michael's Laundry burned last November, leaving and guys to do their own laundry, a new laundry will be established near the credit union. Not only will it be rebuilt but it will be liberated as well as offering services to both sexes. 
In another effort to improve the plight of our graduate students, a new housing devel­opment is rising up under the financial back­ing of alumnus Charles K. Fischer. The Fischer Graduate Housing Complex, being built just north of the O'Hara-Grace Gradu­ate Residences, will boast two hundred two bedroom apartments and a community cen­ter. This new complex will hopefully make 
graduate students feel more closely tied to the Notre Dame community. 
Finally, 1.2 million dollars will go toto fur­nishing a building for custodial services, groundskeepingand general maintenance. Although it only requires common sense to understand the need for this building espe­cially for the grounds keepers and mainte­nance, one can't help but wonder why the custodial services are involved since they have drastically cut back on services once offered to students. 
Nevertheless, these projects, both com­pleted and still in the works, contribute greatly to enhancing the overall academic, social and spiritual experience of the Notre Dame community. ,(And it never hurts to know where that slight increase in tuition is going!) D 
Tih11 DaBart,ol:o quad ls being 'funded b'f' ill 33 million dollar endowment. ll will Include new housing, the Heaburgh Center for International Studies and a per­forming arts center. · 
SCHOLASTIC 


0

Thee Sky ]1§ 



JLimit 

By Beth Kessler 

Q nee again this summer students re­ceived a letter from Rev. Edward Malloy an­nouncing that fees would be raised. Tuition would increase by $1,075,raising the total to $12,390. Room and board would average an increase of $200, totaling $3,475. All to­gether, fees would increase a total of$1,275, approximately 8.5 %. although not surprising in light of past years and past increases, the financial dealings of the University are often a source of specula­tion and wonder. Each year students keep paying more, and where it all goes isn't always clear. Students and parents question whether or not they are getting an honest deal in education, or even simply what they are supposed to be paying for with each tuition check. According to Tom Mason, Vice President of Business Affairs for the University , the increasein tuition, and room and board are simply in keeping with the increases in the expenses of the University each year. Fre­quently, students charge that the rate of in­crease is higher than the rate ofinflation, and· 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 
wonder how the University can justify this increase. Mason gives five additional rea­sons. Assuming that the rate of inflation is steady,around 5% per year, three and a half percentage points are added through addi­tional expenses. Mason first cites first the commitment that the University has made to the faculty to maintain salaries in the first quarter as ranked by the American Associa­tion of University Professors. The rate of increase in salaries is faster than the rate of inflation, adding approximately one percent­age point Further, Notre Dame has made a pledge to upgrade the computer systems available on campus. Projected to cost a total of $27 million, this commitment adds an­other percentage point each year. Another expense is health insurance provided to the faculty and staff of Notre Dame. Currently rising at about 25% per year, this adds an­other percentage point. A fourth cause of increased expenses is what Mason termed "academic enhancements." This term refers to any new positions, labs, equipment, and other amenities that are added each year. 
Because students are constantly switching their majors and departments are ever­changing in size, Notre Dame adds six to ten new faculty members per year. Once again, these "enhancements" add a percentage point. Finally, there are new buildings. Al­though the cost of constructing the new buildings is covered by endowments and gifts, maintenahce is the responsibility ofthe University, an addition of about half a per­centage point to expenses. All of these fac­tors combined , equals the 8.5 % rate of increase students have experienced this past year. It is a logical explanation, but it does not help to lower costs. Mason did say the goal of the University was to have tuition · moderate downward, but he questions how realistic this speculation is stating, "It's based on inflation and if you ask six different people they'll give you six different answers (about the future rate of inflation.) No one has a so~ution to the problem of increasing costs of health insurance. And computers aren't going to go away." 
If expenses are not going to go down, the 

next logical question is one of worth. Are students really getting what they pay for? As stated in the annual financial statement of the University ofNotre Dame, June 30, 1989 (the edition for June 30, 1990 is not yet published) the total revenue the University receives from student tuition and fees is $97,393,833. Educational and general expenditures amount to $164,720,212, far more than the income received from student tuition and fees.. "Students say tuition is high, but in reality it only covers 60% of the cost of tion", Mason said. The difference between the two figures is made up by endowments, gifts, grants and contracts. Also in the finan­
cial report are figures con­cerning how the Univer­of comparison to public schools of equal quality, but less expense, saying "You have to ask what is the extra expense for and it has to be apersonal decision of the student." Parents are perhaps the most concerned with tuition costs because more often than not, they are the ones who are footing the tuition bills. 
"Ihave to say that I was a little disappointed to see the large jump in tuition this year," said Robert DeGange, the parent ofa sophomore. "It has slightly diminished my enthusiasm for my daughter's education. On the other hand, I feel that the value of education at Notre Dame is tremendous, she is getting for example, the $33-million gift from Edward J. DeBartolo, and the $38-million contract with NBC for the rights to cover football games. These enormous sums seem to contradict what the administration insists is necessary increases in fees. In the case of the DeBartolo endowment and other similar gifts, the money is earmarked to be used for a certain project like a new building; it can not be applied to other needs of the institu­tion. The income from the NBC contract, on the other hand, will be used for scholarships, with an emphasis on aid for minorities. The results of this should be seen next year. For this year the University has set aside $1 
million of unre­stricted gifts to be used for scholar­ships. Mason said 


the University has 
sity actually 
set a goal to raise

spends the 
$50 million more

money it re­
in endowments.

ceives, from 
Though definitely 

whatever 
an optimistic tar­

source. First 
get Mason be­

on the list is 
lieves it to be

instruction 
achievable. This

and depart­
money should

mental re­
help to cover any

search which 
further discrepan­

amounts to 
cies in cost and

$61,828,988, 
actual tuition paid 

or approxi­
by students. 

mately 40%. 
As Vice Presi­

Second is stu­
dent of Business

dent aid: 
scholarships, fellowships, and prizes, with $26,020,764 spent. The list continues on through spon­sored research, administration, maintenance of the physical plant, student activities, li­
I;· braries, and so on. 
In addition to these figures, the University talces pride in how it compares to other, similar institutions. Notre Dame participates in an annual survey ofthirty-five universities which includes such prestigious institutions such as Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Geor­getown, and Northwestern . The schools are compared in terms of tuition, room and board, and the combination ofthe two. Notre Dame has repeatedly ranked among the lowest in all three categories. In the most recent survey, Notre Dame is thirtieth, in the category of tuition, thirty-fifth in room and board, and thirty-third when the two figures are combined. Mason addressed the problem 

18 
exposure to things there that she wouldn't get anywhere else." 
Mrs. Mustillo and her husband have edu­cated four children at Notre Dame. Three are presently enrolled. "Iknow that the tuition at Notre Dame is much higher than the state schools. Villanova, Boston College, Holy Cross and other private Catholic schools are pretty much the same, though. We like the idea of Notre Dame, its a special place. The wholeenvironmentis good. There's more to it than just education, the Blessed Mother is there to help." Finally, she added, "Don'tget me wrong, I don't want the tuition to go up anymore, butireallythink its worth the cost." 
All these comparisons and numbers don't talce away from the simple fact that education at Notre Dame is expensive. Often, news about the financial state ofthe University has seemed almost too good to be true; consider 
Affairs, Tom Ma­son emphasized that there are no secrets about the financial ~atters of the University. He sees the Office of Business Affairs as "allowing the basic functions of the Univer­sity, teaching and research, to talce place in an orderly manner." He welcomes questions about official policies and practices , even opening up the first five minutes of his ac­counting classes to questions and concerns students might have about the workings of the University. This gives students an oppor­tunity to voice their problems directly to an administrator . He gives the impression of being genuinely concerned about the stu­dents, and working to provide the best finan­cial situation to best utilize all the resources available to the University. Students can only hope that it will be a way which is kind to their wallets while providing a good edu­cation, as well.. . 
SCHOLASTIC 





START 
Notre Dame soccer is hoping a new coach can lead them back to an NCAA tournament berth 

BY STEVE WA1ZKE 
W hen you get a taste of success, you want more of it right away. When it doesn't come again for a while, you want it even more. The 1990 Irish men's soccer team is trying to regain something it had two years ago: a trip to the NCAA tourna­ment. The man vowing to bring Irish soccer to national championship caliber is first-year head coach Mike Berticelli, who has coached for fourteen years with three differentteams,compilinga 190-54-23rec­ord. Before settling in at Notre Dame, Ber­ticelli established a reputation as a strong recruiter and motivator at Thomas College (I 976-79), UNC-Greensboro (1980-83), and Old Dominion (1984-89). Berticelli has re­ceived nine coach of the year honors, high­lighted by a 1982 NCAA Division III Coach of the Year Award after his first national championship at UNC-Greensboro. 
What intrigued Coach Berticelli most about Notre Dame's soccer program when he interviewed for the job was the potential to be successful on a national basis. ''The reputation that the school has academi­cally and athletically certainly creates a po­tential environment where if a person comes in and works hard, they should certainly be able to compete with the other schools in the country in terms of recruiting and attracting the top student-athletes, which in turn, allows you to develop a nationally competitive pro­gram," he said. 
The new coach hopes to builq on what former coach Dennis Grace accomplished in 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 

year." The team finished just barely over .500 (10­7-3) a year ago and several key players were lost to graduation, most notably goalkeeper Dan Lyons. Berticelli realizes there will be a period offamili­arization. "It's a year in between coaches and a year to implement a new attitude, style of play, and coaching philosophy so thatwe can bring this pro­gram to the next level." 
The new coach believes that soccer is best played by talented, crea­tive and imaginative indi­viduals who also have the capacity to handle the mental aspects of the sport. So, in order for players to become team­oriented, they must be great individuals first. "Soccer is somewhat unique to a degree in that there is a great deal of 
Scholastic Staff 
Bertlcelll brings a 190-54-23 record to Notre Dame. 
his six years as Irish coach. "I think Coach Grace de­serves a lot of credit for bringing the pro­gram up to a level that is reasonably competitive on a Di­vision I level." In fact, since Notre Dame joined the Midwestern Colle­giate Conference in 1988, they have lost only three times to conference oppo­nents, all three at the hands of St. Louis, most recently last Friday at Krause Sta­dium as Notre Dame lost 3-2. 
For the Irish, 1990 is defi­nitely a "transition 
room for individualism, yet players must be able to 
do what's right at a particular point in time for the success of the team," Berticelli ex­plained. "Itbecomes part ofthe coaching re­sponsibility, then, to take the most talented, creative individuals and make them become team-oriented." 
Berticelli has made his coaching philosophy clear by warning that the players should know what is expected of them. He tends to be a perfectionist and demands a great deal from his players. Whatever his players do on oroffthe field, they must make acommitmenttobe the best they can be. "My philosophy is such that no player should ever expect less ofhimself than the coach expects of him," he said. 
Although Berticelli can speak firmly about this topic off the field, on the field he remains cautious not to let philosophy get in the way of his team's performance. "You have to be careful as a coach in a sport like soccer not to become too structured ortoo de­manding. Too demanding in the sense that we must play this way or we must play that way because the team becomes predictable and then we're an easy team to stop." 
This philosophy can take a back seat to creativity and imagination as long as the players adhere to what the team as a whole is 
trying. to · 
Senior Steve LaVigne 
accom­
leads the Irish mldflelders. 

plish. 
In assessing who would be the toughest Irish opponents this season, the coach admitted, "all ofthem." Thelrishhave already played Duke, North Carolina State, and St. Louis, and have yet to meet Evansville, Indiana University, and Wiscon­sin. These six teams are all rated in the pre­season top 20, and all of them are deep in talent and are more experienced at a higher level of competition than the Irish. Never.,.· theless, Berticelli is up to the challenge. He is content with the com­petitiveness of his schedule right now and· in the future he wili seek more national at­tention by playing top . 20 teams on a more consistent basis. 
·when Ber­ticelli took the job, he saw strengths as well as some obvious weak­nesses in the team he inherited. On the plus 
. side, Notre Dame soc­cer is blessed with a group of athletes who want to do well. From what Berticelli has seen, he knows thathis­t.eam is motivated and excited about playing. 
ized defensively because we're giving up far too many goals this early in the season," said the coach. 
"There's a lot of pressure on the goalkeepers to do the job following Dan's departure," said sophomore sweeper Mario Tricoci. "But they've been working tremen­dously hard in practice to help the team." 
Two goalkeepers are fighting for the starting position this season. Pet.er Gulli, a goal in every game so far but we 're giving up too many goals inside the box," supported senior captain Paul LaVigne. ''We've lost three straight games against top 10 teams, so we have to keep scoring on offense our­selves." 

Mistakes have been common but Berticelli has been tolerant "Sometimes you have to sacrifice just going out and trying to win the game to try to play a different sty le in 
hopes that down the road it will pay off. It's sort ofone step backward to take two steps for­ward." 
Through the first five games, Mike has been pleased with two players in par­
. ticular. They are Tricoci and Kenyon Meyer, a junior midfielder who has scored a goal in four offive Irish games. "They've estab­lished themselves in a starting role and have played very consistently," admired the coach. 
Furthermore, he feels that they will learn his system very quickly. 
The tough part for the team is going to be realizing how quickly it can happen. Youth and inexperience are perhaps the most glar­ing weaknesses at this stage. Combine that with the mutual adjustment of players to a new coach, and vice-versa, and one can see why the Irish are struggling right now. 
The coaching staff started four sophomores and three freshman out ofeleven starters against Duke, who was rated #7 at the time, and it was asking a lot to try and compete with Duke with that kind of lineup. "I think the lack of a couple of high-level, technical and tactical players is a weakness," Berticelli said. "We need a creative midfield player and a big, strong goal scorer." 
Inexperience in goal is another problem. "We have to become more organ-a junior, spent his first two seasons backing up former sensation Dan Lyons, who last year compiled a 1.43 GAA. The other candi­date is Matt Fitz, who made the team as a freshman walk-on. He lacks experience, however, in higher level competition despite possessing decent size, range, and good hands. 
Berticelli pointed out that both keepers have been somewhat inconsistent, but he also thinks that the inconsistency has to do with the adjustment to a different style of play stressed by the coaching staff. ''We dido't expect to be a world beater in the first two weeks of the season," assured Berticelli, "butwe want to be a better team each time we play than the time before." 
"Individually, St. Louis has some of the best players in the country, but we shut them down in the first half. We have scored his coaching tenure here, Berticelli isn't ready to push the panic button despite a 1-3­1 record to start the year. "I'm always disap­pointed when we lose, but more often than not, I'm disappointed in myself," he con­ceded. "It's a question ofwhat could I or the coaching staff have done differently or better to win a game." 
The players and the coaching staff are all learning together. It's a long season with many games left to be played and the Irish have come up on the short end of some close games in the early going. The St Louis game last Friday was a good example ofwhat Notre Dame's strengths and weaknesses are. 
"We've increased our performance in the last few games but our results don't show it and we haven't had any luck," added Tricoci. "We could be rated in the top 10 right now with a couple more wins." . 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 
( 
!, 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Mike O'Connor: O'Connor, a seniorfromBright­water, NY, won the men's cross-country dual meet with the Hoyas of Georgetown University for the second straight year. The team captain covered the course in 24:43.3 to pace the meet which was held 
on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
60~ 
'\~':> 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Tasha Strawbridge: Strawbridge, a freshman from Palatine, IL, made an impressive debut last Friday for the women's soccer team. She netted three goals and assisted on another, all in the second half, as the Irish demolished Valparaiso University, 12-1. 
!<!LU 

~~~"1.,. 
-~~ 
•/ 
Fri.  
 
Sat. ,'fc Wed.  Celebrate the rest of o winnin season! Cross the Border  
Thurs.  cu  

1: 
i! 
~ (fJ (P) (P) [ff)  ll OU CC IX  0[GJ0~f]{]g U U  
22  SCHOLASTIC  


Coming 'Distractions· 

. MOVIES 
BLAZING SADDLES: The goofiest wild west film ever made is showing at the Montgomery Theater of LaFortune on Thursday. September 20. 
STEELMAGNOLIAS: Theultimatefemale bonding movie, with an all.astar cast includ­ing Daryl Hannah, Olympia Dukakis, and Dolly Parton, is S.U.B. •s Friday night movie this week. Shows are at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
THE MEANING OF LIFE: Monty Python makes fun of everything sacred ( or should I say especially what's sacred) and then some. At Cushing Auditorium on Saturday. Sep­tember 22 at 8 and IO:15 p.m. Sponsored by S.U.B. 
AT THE SNITE: Roger and Me. last year's hit documentary about the closing of a GM plant in Flint, Michigan. will be shown on Friday, September 21 at 6:30, 8:15 and 10 
p.m. Also showing this week are Dark Vic­tory and Suspicion on Tuesday, September 25, and Meet Me in St Louis and Hiroshima, Mon Amour on Wednesday, September 26. 
THEATRE 
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW will con­tinue its run at Washington Hall through Sunday, September 23. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Infonnation Desk ($5 for students, $7 for non-students). 
MUSIC 
Guest violinist Ruben Gonzalez will be fea­tured at the Notre Dame Faculty Quartet's concert on Sunday, September 23 at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite. 
SPORTS 
FOOTBALL vs. MICHIGAN STATE: This is the only close-by road game this year, so if you can get tickets, get yourself to Lansing and watch the Irish take on the Spartans on Saturday, September 22. 
MEN'S TENNIS: The Men's Tennis Invita­tional runs from Friday, September 21 at 9 
a.m. through Sunday, September 23. The action will be taking place at Courtney Courts (between the A.C.C. and Loftus). 
MISCELLANEOUS 
WINDY CITY SHUTTLE: For those ofyou who can't get to Michigan State for the weekend, you can still get out of town by taking the Windy City Shuttle for only $10. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Infor­mation Desk. 
THIRD ANNUAL LYONS HALL VOL­LEYBALL TOURNAMENT: If you dig volleyball, this charity tournment will take place at Stepan Field on Sunday. September 23. 
SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 A s sunlight seared through the tree branches and past my squinted eyelashes, I followed my familiar path home from school through Hyde Park and chatted with Brad, a fellow ND London Program-ee, who strolled beside me. Although it was December, the London grass was still a vivid green. The maple leaves, too, refused to believe they were deciduous. So close to the sea, freezing weather is rare, and London's schizophrenic blend of fair and foul is downright invigorating to its plant residents. As long as the livin' was good, they seemed to argue, why give up? 

As Brad and I walked weslward in the laLe afternoon, the sun sat directly on the path before us, glaring in our eyes when we looked ahead. Still, I couldn't resist a peaceful hour in the "countryside" -especially since my otheroption was the Tube. London's subway is quick and efficient, but eerily reminiscent of cattle cars. Thirty minutes in a carriage crammed with spit-shined British yuppies who refused to look at anyone is a foolproof recipe for a headache. Anyway, the sunlight did neat things at that angle; and as long as there was enough to see by, why not use it to walk home? Brad and I faced each other as we hiked to avoid being blinded. 

"Are you going home for Christmas, Christine, or will you be traveling?" he asked. 
24 

While 

the 

Light is 
Good 
"Traveling," I answered, and explained my plans to meet an archie ( as in Architecture Rome Program) buddy in Zurich and make a circle tour of west-central Europe. "How about you?" 
Without a millisecond's hesitation, Brad sang out, "I'm goin' home! I wouldn't miss Christmas with my family for anything in the world. There just isn't even a question about that!" 
Outwardly, I smiled and asked him questions about his family. As he glowingly recounted some of their antics, images of my own family drifted about my head, slowly gathering into a shadowy mass of homesickness and doubt. 
December crept steadily by, and cheery makeshift Christmas decorations began appearing inside and outside the students' flats. Bing Crosby and ''The Muppets' Christmas" wafted up and down the stairwells, and people chatted excitedly about their family holiday plans. I had been eagerly awaiting my European adventure for almost a year, but now that it was tangibly close, a fog of anxiety trapped me. I was being selfish and stupid to spend such a special time 3000 miles from home. 
December 22nd arrived at last. I hitched a ride on the bus which took the East Coast Students to their group flight, and shivered, gazing blankly out the window while the air rang wannly with voices singing "Leavin' On a Jet Plane" and "I'll be Home for Christmas." When we reached Heathrow Airport, I hugged my friends good-bye and turned around as quickly as I could manage. With a couple ofrunaway tears racing down my face, I heaved my luggage-laden trolley toward the shuttle which would take me to another terminal and my flight to Zurich. 
* * * * * 
One week later, I stood awestruck atop a mountain in the Black Forest, the brilliant New\ Year's sun piercing the evergreen boughs above me, glinting off the thick remnants of frost from the night before, pulsing life into the vibrant green expanse which fell from my feet all the way to France, 100 miles away. 
First, I thanked God for creating a sight so unutterably beautiful. Second, I thanked Him forgiving me the sense to see it while the chance existed. Back in London, I had come dangerously close to letting it slide by. 
I remember reading once about Ivan Mestrovic, an artist whose memory and work are so much a part of Notre Dame, and his refusal to be bothered for any reason while he was sculpting. He said he must "fulfill his destiny while the light was good." 
Fortunately, something strong enough to penetrate my anxious fog had told me to do what was important to me while I could ... "while the light was good." And wow, was it good! D 
by Christine Walske 
SCHOLASTIC 



Isn't it time 

you got yours in? 
Open Forum Issues Discussion Series 
The students of Notre Dame are invited to speak their minds every Thursday between September 13th and October 18th
C 
0
:.::w -~ U) < 
§ <( ---:2 
Cllf--"Ql .
.__,,,1...1EO 
. o v, -o< 
it: 0 <C a:<::c 
oo._D..QJE 
Q . "5Q>
C: (f) -,. Q
0 • <.. 
C :::) 
at 4 pm in Fieldhouse Mall. 


I'.·.,..,, 


