and how it started.
TERESA WRIGHT says: “Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted
to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers’ reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with
a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!”
It IBIW
4?

B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem. N. C.
SUCCESS STORY:
Camels — now more than ever the nationwide favorite cigarette!
’’ Several years ago, I -found out Come/s hove ■fke most delightful -flavor and mildness op any cigarette.~Try Cornels and you'll be as enthusiastic as I ! ,f
START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Make the 30-day Camel mildness test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
ELS
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
£
f
Scholastic
Vol. 96 OCTOBER 8, 1954 No. 2
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Bidiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor -	FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS ................    News
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News ’AUL J. LaFRENIERE  ........... Copy
jharles McKendrick .................
.................     Assistant	Copy DAVE COHEN ______________________Features
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER ............Circulation
DICK HAIRSINE ....... ...Photo	Editor
^UL FITZGERALD .....................
___________ Photography Coordinator JOHN P. DEFANT ____Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff photographers appear on the following pages:
Jim Guide—pages 17, 25, 28. John O’Brien—pages 15, 18, 19, 27.
Gerry Trafficanda—page 11.
Mike Thompson—pages 12, 14, 25, 29.
OUR COVER—As a veteran settles into W dogmatic occupational nonchalance succeeding a campaign, so also does the blase senior—three years of lines, aftermidnight cramming, proms, gridiron spectacles, and sunset visits at the Grotto filling the recesses of his mind with memories he’ll recall as the century turns. Jim Shane, Bill Valus and Tony Lapasso display undaunted airs to Scholastic Photographer Jim Guide on the golf course.
Color + collar + comfort =
The right ARROW Shirt for you!
You don’t have to be a math major to figure it out. Arrow shirts offer you so many fine colors and patterns in your favorite collars, that it’s a breeze to have plenty of style in your wardrobe.
Shown above are, the Sussex button-down in a neat tattersol check, and the smooth Radnor “E” in solid colors. Both 85.00. The goodlooking Arrow Sussex in a well-bred stripe, S4.50. They’re comfortable, “correct thrifty too.
A/l/tOW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
ctober 8, 1954
3
^FARlXSS^OSDICK
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE."
ILLEGAL-MYNAME isurgle.? BLURR’7 GURGLEfT
KEEPS HAIR NEAT
BUT NOT-^.'-GREASY" J WOULD BE
LOOK YOUR BEST WITH MfILDROOT CREAM-OIL. KEEPS HAIR NEAT-BUT HOT-UGHS^-GREASY.
NON-ALCOHOLIC. RELIEVES DRYNESS. REMOVES LOOSE DANDRUFF I
WOD Hike Chatter
As you may, or may not, know WNDU is the campus radio station of the University of Notre Dame. It is located, as Harry Wismer would say, high atop the tower of the O’Shaughnessy Liberal Arts Building. These plush studios are the tangible expression of WNDU’s process of growth into its position as one of the most listened to stations in collegiate broadcasting circles.
What WNDU is set up to do is to keep the student body both entertained and informed. This is done in the usual fashion that can be placed under the label of music, news and sports. However, what is unusual about the programming on WNDU is the wide scope of interest provided in each of these fields. In music, for example, not only is popular music provided with each particular disk jockey giving his own treatment of the modem musical scene, but show music and classical music also come in for their share of time. In fact WNDU programs two and a half hours of classics daily, something of a record as far as campus radio stations go. As far as sports and news are concerned we can note that there are six news shows daily on the station, while every major Notre Dame athletic event receives coverage by the campus station.
What is additionally unique about WNDU’s programming is its refusal to merely supply the basic format of music, news and sports. At various times during the year WNDU has various panel discussions on topics of vital interest to the student body. These prove to be not only current in their interest value, but . also clear up many questions which perplex the student mind. Likewise discussion forums in various fields of academic interests and a new dramatic series display the multitude facets of student radio as it is at Notre Dame.
—Bill Byrne
RELIGION TEACHERS NEEDED
Members of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine who have completed their freshman year are needed to teach religion to students of high school age in South Bend.
Anyone interested should contact Jack Casey in 109 Sorin before next Thursday.
D*RWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -----
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
---- EYES EXAMINED -------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone 4-5777
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
We Welcome You to the
THE TWINS RESTAURANT
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI * our specialties g
CHOPS CHICKEN
T-Bone—STEAKS—Porterhouse
713 E. LaSALLE
2 blocks east of Hill St. Phone 3-0951	?
---- -------------------1
onca. Immediate delivery. Special ratal to students.
free delivery, pick-up and service.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO.
309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone No. 2-3336
4
The Scholast^
the week
by Jim O'Shea and John O'Brien
fop of the WEEK
A I sent a shirt to the ND laundry this week . . .
Gung-Ho!
And by the way, have you seen the way shirts are being done at the laundry these days? They come back all done up in a real gung-ho cardboard collar stay that has a picture of the Dome on it, and is emblazoned with the words “Notre Dame Laundry.” This, of course, gives the impression that the laundry is located somewhere under the Dome, an impression which I’m sure will confuse freshmen for years to come. The new system does have its advantages, he can flip them up and down and watch the Dome move (a pastime which will prove invaluable once the movie circuit has been exhausted).
£jyptian Antics
Speaking of the movie circuit, it certainly is exhausted! I dropped down to the Granada a couple of nights ago to take a look at a new cinemascope epic entitled The Egyptian. Gad, fellas, was it ever terrific! It was all about a guy who went around Egypt murdering kings and taking out sultry females. Then, after the whole thing was all over, a great big sign flashed on the screen and said, “All these things took place £100 years before the birth of Jesus Christ.” (The insinuation, I think, was that we Christians don’t have a monopoly on murder after all. It was real nice of them to let us know, wasn’t it?) At any rate, I hear they’re making a sequel entitled I Want My Mummy. The WEEK welcomes another member to the Pyramid Club.
Graveyard Parties
"l’ve heard (through questionable sources) that there has been a revival of the graveyard party on campus this year. As we all know, the graveyard party was very popular last semester. A jovial group of students, with or without dates, would gather around a tomb and tell ghost stories. Although I’ve never been to one of these soirees, it sounds like real great fun.
Tossing Posies
^Orchids again—this time to another celebrity who visited the campus in the past week—Miss Irene Dunne, Laetare Medalist, wife, mother, and movie star. It does us all a lot of good, sometimes, to meet a Hollywood personality who doesn’t act like a Hollywood personality, and who doesn’t live by the Hollywood moral code. Miss Dunne is a fine actress and also a fine human being. To her, this column tips its imaginary hat.
Tomatoes, Too
Tossing Howel'S isn’t exactly my line, so I’d like to take time out here to throw a few rotten tomatoes too — especially at that cynical group of students who have forgotten that there are eight more games on the Notre Dame football schedule. A veiy nice bunch, I must say—they’re all for the team— when it wins. If this is Notre Dame spirit, men, then I’d rather be without it.
And a Double Dose . . .
Then there’s the “very funny” kind of fellow who goes to pep rallies to gather a little public recognition of his own “talents.” He showed up at the prePurdue game rally and, as always, distracted speakers and surrounding students with his antics, “funny” faces and remarks. Pep rallies used to be (and still are, we hope) for the team, to show them the fellows are behind them. We hear that the team didn’t find the comedian’s line very funny, especially while sitting in the terrific heat of the balcony. So, how about it, fella. . .
Ah, Yes!
On the lighter side of life, there’s always St. Mary’s. The girls, as you know, have decided to have their Sophomore Cotillion on the same night as our AB Ball. This, of course, poses a problem for AB men who date St. Mary’s sophomores, and vice-versa. I’m looking for the Student Senate to organize a fast shuttle bus service between dances for those who wish to take in both. If this can’t be accomplished, perhaps someone can set up a bicycle rental service. . . . We’d all look cute scooting around on bikes in our tuxedoes —especially with girls in formals on the handlebars. I have no doubt that some
solution to the problem will be found. . . . Maybe we could all go to the movies on that night.
Flub of the WEEK
This WEEK’s flub was made by a good friend of mine, who was asked this question by his prof:
“Frank, what do we call a man who commits an act of infidelity?”
Frank’s reply was quick and confident:
“An infidel,” he said.
Hooray for Pangborn Hall!
It was quite wonderful to learn that we’ll soon have anothei’ hall on campus, and the WEEK pauses here to salute Thomas and John Pangborn, who made this possible. It’ll certainly be a relief, after this era of forced singles and cramped cubicles, to see a hall with 100 natural-born doubles in it. (I hate to say that campus living conditions have become crowded, but there’s a guy in our hall whose roommate is a broom.)
Three Cheers for Ralph
Ralph Marterie was pretty good last Tuesday night, when he dropped in for an impromptu concert at -the Field House. It seems that Ralph was scheduled for a nearby dance hall date, when the dance hall burned down. This columnist writes with the sincere hope that the concert was profitable, so we can have more of the same without burning down more dance halls. At any rate, the Big Noise from Winnetka made a pretty big noise in South Bend, too. (By the way, men, you can get 20 years for arson. . . .)
Ah, Sweet Politics!
Now that the hall elections are over, I notice that a lot of the boys who were running have become a lot less friendly overnight. Oh, well, it was nice while it lasted. Free cigars, solicitous smiles, door-to-door handshaking—there ought to be some sort of election eveiy week. It’s good for the ego.
Now that the Senate is completely filled up, there won’t be much room for by-standers in the amphitheatre. (Heh, heh. . . . Did you ever see a by-stander at a Senate meeting?) Neither did I, and if I did, it would probably be a meeting of the “bored.” So much for politics.
An Insert
This paragraph is what the Scholastic calls “an insert.” An insert is what a columnist writes to fill up space after the lighter echelon has edited his column. I’m afraid you’ll be seeing a lot of inserts this year, men.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . got back one collar, four dustcloths, and a shoeshine rag.
^ctober 8, 1954
5
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.

DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to ZJt-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
Glasses Fitted
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years.
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
SLEEP LEARNING “The Revolution in Education” Now . . . you can literally “sleep your way through college”—actually learn languages, poetry, prose, tables of numbers, vocabulary words, lecture notes —ALL WHILE YOU SLEEP! Illustrated booklet, “Learn a Language—While You Sleep,” tells astonishing results—gives complete instructions on how any student can make device cheaply, with no work involved —no mechanical experience necessary
Sleep-learning is not injurious in any way—does not disturb sleep. Your money back if results not obtained. Clip this ad —send for booklet today. (Price $2.00).
Sleep-Learning Research Ass’u. 114 S. 38th. Ave.-Omaha 3, Refer.
OCTOBER 8
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS—The Notre Dame football team leaves home I for the first time this year to meet the Pittsburgh Panthers in Pittsburgh, -I’ Pa.
COLFAX (through Oct. 15)—Audrey Hepburn stars as a Cinderella and manages to lead tough-man Humphrey Bogart and William Holden on a merry chase in Sabrina (B). The result is worth seeing, and it’s excellent entertainment.
GRANADA (indefinite)—Van Johnson and Gene Kelly stick around a while longer in their musical show Brigadoon (A-l). Cyd Charisse plays the village girl who manages to pull love-struck Gene Kelly away from New York and into the Scottish village of Brigadoon. It’s a choice between magic and reality for Mr. Kelly, and he takes the magical little village. It must be love.
AVON (through Oct. 16)—Broken Arrow (A-2)—good entertainment. Spencer Tracy and Richard Widmark get turned upside down, and Robert Wagner walks off with all the prizes in the end—including Jean Peters. A story with a moral.
PALACE (through Oct. 14)—The Human Jungle is something of a James T. Farrell version of life. Police captain Gary Merrill cleans his precinct of juvenile delinquents, petty larcenists and murder. Be ready for this one; it will be tough to take. Stamping herds of cattle and one climatic gun battle make up John Derek’s horse-opera, The Outcast (A-2).
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—Knights of the Round Table (A-2) with Robert Taylor and Ava Gardner returns to South Bend for those J who missed this superior production last year.
STATE (ends tomorrow)—Randolph Scott and his horse ride again in Gunfighters and Coroner Creek.
STUDENT CENTER (8-11 p.m.)—At 10 cents per person, the Student .Senate sponsors a party. St. Mary’s, St. Joseph nursing students, and Daughters of Isabella will be there.
OCTOBER 9
WASHINGTON HALL—Liz Taylor and Dana Andrews in Elephant Walk.	,)
DRILL HALL (8:30-11)—Don Gels and company will play for the guys and gals at the Pittsburgh Prance.
OCTOBER 10
RIVER PARK (ends Tuesday)—Gable-Leigh-deHaviland come back in the Southern spectacle Gone with the Wind with its improved color and sound. It’s a four hour production with an intermission for those who want to step into the lobby and discuss the Civil War.
STATE (ends Tuesday)—Seven Brides for Seven Brothers with Howard Keel and Arrow in the Dust.
OCTOBER 13
RIVER PARK (ends Saturday)—Ann Blyth and Edmund Purdon in the Student Prince. Excellent entertainment.
STATE (ends Thursday)—World for Ransom and Loophole.
OCTOBER 15
STATE (ends Saturday)—Jack Slade and Desperado.
6
The Scholast'^
Edi fof '$ Page
Someone quit in the second half last Saturday. It wasn’t the football team. They bowed to a fine Purdue University squad, 27-14, but they didn’t quit.	•
Trailing the Boilermakers by two touchdowns from the third quarter to the end, the Fighting Irish didn’t stop fighting—until the final whistle. Win or lose, in our book Terry’ Brennan and his boys are still the best in the nation. They were outscored Saturday, but never outfought, even though they weren’t clicking.	I
But if the team didn’t quit, who did? A lot of the troops in the stands, the fellows who make up that “twelfth man” the team has had behind them for years. Not all the students quit when the going got tough and looked hopeless in the second half, but a good number did lie down. Cheering used to be at its best when the going got toughest, with Notre Dame behind.	'
Two fast Purdue touchdowns in the first quarter stunned us, but recovery came fast and the Stadium echoed with loud cheering through the first half and into the second. That support helped the boys on the field to tie it up, 14-14. But another Boilermaker TD immediately afterward silenced many students for the remainder of the game. When the team needed support most, they didn’t get much, some sideline personnel have since remarked.	|
A number of people, including some students, declared that the small section of St. Mary’s j students and an even smaller group of organized Purdue supporters outcheered us in the waning min- ■ utes. About the only noise in the Notre Dame section came from isolated groups that cheered to the	|
end and other groups that shouted “Down in front!” It seems they wanted to watch the game in peace	|
and quiet, sitting down even for the kickoffs.	|
-	.	I
Things weren’t always like that here. A lot of us can probably remember 1951 and Freddy	=
Benners’ sharpshooting that led Southern Methodist to a 27-20 victory over the Irish. There was a lot of	i
cheering then, right to the end. And again, when the Pitt Panthers pulled a 22-19 upset in 1952. Some graduate students will1 never forget 1950, when another Purdue eleven broke Notre Dame’s longest streak by a 28-14 count. The loss ended a string of 38 consecutive games without defeat. The troops didn’t stop	j
cheering before the end of any one of those games or even long after. After the last, they gathered en masse	|
in a downpour outside the dressing room to show the players they were still behind them, win or lose, then carried them to their halls. Only a thousand' or so people, students and visitors, gathered outside the ! same dressing room Saturdav. O	O
On the team side, back in 1952 when Michigan State trampled the Irish the third game in a row, 21-3, halfback Dave Flood suffered a broken collarbone. He wanted to go back into the game, his last at Notre Dame. He didn’t quit of his own choice.
Something has been lacking in the spirit ever since the first pep rally. Organized cheering hasn’t been long, loud, spontaneous and, most of all, wholehearted as in past years. Maybe the season started too soon after school started when we were all busv with first classes and buying books; too soon to get built up. At any rate, it shouldn’t take victory to kindle support for the team; it should be there, win or lose, and especially when losing.	"	i
At the pep rally last Friday night there was a fellow, reportedly a sophomore, who seemed to	1
have forgotten that the idea of pep rallies is to show support for the team and build up spirit for the game.	|
This student did his best to attract attention to himself—and got it. But his antics disgusted many persons at the rally and probably weakened the general spirit of the rally. We ask that such exhibitions be	j
refrained from during any future rallies. Rallies are for the team.
Terry Brennan came out of the dressing room last week and said to the crowd: “Don’t be too hard on the team, on the fellows. They’re going to do their best to win the next eight for you.”
Let’s do our best for them. Win, lose or tie, they’re still No. 1 around here.
October 8, 1954
7
APPROVED f
by faculty and students
New! Exclusive!
Paper-Mate TV Sweethearts
Nowl Write legible papers and notes, because Paper-Mate never smears, blots or clogs! Guaranteed .leak-proof. No stoppages— more than 70,000 words without refilling.
for smoother, easier, faster writing
Silvered-Tip Refills in Red. Blue, Green. Black ...
49*
Perfect size for purse or pocket
Click—point out Click—point retracts
Wide choice of school or college colors
FAIR TRADED

Paper Mate Pens Now Featured at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
BASEMENT OF BADIN HALL
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
•	Nearly 1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large de-mand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL 107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel

$
The Scholastic -
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 2	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 8, 1954
* Margaret Webster, Noted Actress, Appears As First Offering in Concert-Lecture Series
Margaret Webster, noted director, act- • ress, author, and lecturer, will appear in Washington Hall the evening of Tuesday, Oct. 19, as the University’s first offering in the 1954-55 Concert and Lecture Series.
Miss Webster is one of the outstand-^ing figures in the contemporary American theater.
She is an actress of note, a successful author and lecturer and is distinguished as perhaps the greatest director of Shakespearean drama today.
Among the most successful of her some 18 Shakespearean productions were the Maurice Evans Richard II and Hamlet, the Helen Hayes Twelfth Night and the Robeson-Ferrer Othello.
^Debuts in Hamlet
In London her training in classical theater included her debut in John Barrymore’s Hamlet, seasons with the Ben Greet Players and the Old Vic Company and many appearances with Dame Sybil Thorndike, Sir John Gielgud and other famous stars.
Since her return to New York, where she was born, she has directed or acted ®in numberless productions including
Family Portrait, The Devil’s Disciple, Therese and Saint Joan.
She was co-founder, actress and director for the American Repertory Theater and has recently earned the honor of being the first woman to stage opera at the Metropolitan Opera House, where she directed the first opera of the Rudolf Bing regime, Don Carlo, and, in the following season, Aida.
•
‘Shakespeare Without Tears’
Miss Webster is the authoi- of Shakespeare Without Tears and is engaged on an autobiography tentatively entitled Webster Unabridged. She is a member of the boards or councils of many theater organizations and has received honorary degrees from a number of colleges and universities, as well as numerous awards and citations for her work in
the field of classical and educational theater.
Miss Webster has been virtually reared in the theater; her mother was the well-loved Dame May Whitty of
MARGARET WEBSTER Concert Series Kickoff
stage and screen fame, and her father was Ben Webster, who came of a long line of famous theater people.
Glee Club Opens 39th Season In Concert Monday Evening
The Notre Dame Glee Club will open its 39th season Monday night at 8:15 p.m. with its annual fall campus concert in Washington Hall.
The choraliers will be under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, who took over as director of the club 19 years ago. Baritone Eugene Gorski and tenor John Noland, both in post-graduate work, are returning soloists this year.
Last year the 120-member Glee Club realized a very successful season, relates Tom May, president of the club. It is estimated that over 100,000 persons
heard the Glee Club. The club traveled over 10,000 miles during the season, including tours to the Southwest and the East. While on these tours the campus singers appeared on three nationwide telecasts, including their sixth consecutive appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town.” The three television appearances were viewed by an estimated 38 million people.
This year the club will journey to Chicago for two concerts, the first of which will be held Oct. 12 at the Independent Telephone Convention. The second will be given Oct. 15 at the Illinois State Chamber of Commerce annual banquet in the Palmer House. On Nov. 6, the choraliers will give a concert at Blue Island, Hl.
Club officers for the 1954-55 school year are: May; Jim Barry, vice-president; John Goedecke. secretary; and Jim Cremins, treasurer. Lee Crean is the business manager and Jim Irvin, publicity manager.
MSC Tilt Sets Stage For Hall Decorations
Hall Decorations weekend will begin next Saturday, the day of the Michigan State-ND football game.
The Student Senate will provide §15 for each hall to be used in defraying the cost of the decorations. In addition, each hall may expend $15 more of its own funds, but total expenditures of each individual hall must not exceed $30.
Decorations will be judged Saturday morning, Oct. 16, and awards will be made during halftime of the football game.
First prize is a traveling trophy which will be engraved with the name of the winning hall. This trophy will be on display in the Student Center during the year. The victorious hall will also be presented ■with a permanent plaque. Certificates will be given for second and third places.-
The Hall Decorations weekend has been a long-standing tradition at the University. The themes of the various decorations should emphasize the Michigan State-Notre Dame rivalry. All decorations should conform to standards of
(Continued on Page 32)
^October 8, 1954
9
Actress Irene Dunne Pays Visit to Campus;
Cinema Star Named to AB Advisory Council
Irene Dunne, famed Hollywood movie actress and winner of the University’s Laetare Medal in 1949, visited Notre Dame last weekend in connection with her appointment to the new advisory council of the College of Arts and Letters.
On her first return to ND since 1949 Miss Dunne commented on her nomination to the advisory council: “I am so very pleased to be working with this committee and I think that the young men in school who participated in one of our panel discussions were excellent examples of how Notre Dame develops the ‘whole man.’ ”
The five-time nominee for the Academy award said she was a staunch Notre Dame football fan. Like many “experts” Miss Dunne had foreseen an Irish win in Saturday’s game with Purdue. She said, “I was impressed this morning when I was in Dillon Hall Chapel and saw members of the football squad receive Holy Communion.”
Irene of Troy
Miss Dunne expressed a desire to meet the new Irish football coach, Terry Brennan. At the same time, she conceded to be an envoy from the University of Southern California. Friends of the actress in Hollywood asked her to intercede for the Trojans in the annual game to be played in South Bend in late November.
Because of the honors bestowed upon her by the University, Miss Dunne said she feels very much indebted to Notre Dame. She commented that if her daughter, Mary Frances, had been a boy she would have sent her to ND. Mary Frances, now 18 years old, is a student at UCLA.
The Doctor’s Wife
In her offstage life, Miss Dunne is the wife of Dr. Francis D. Griffin, a retired dentist. They have been married since 1927.
Known to all Hollywood as an exemplary wife and mother, and a daily attendant at Mass, Miss Dunne was presented the American Brotherhood award by the National Conference of Christians and Jews for her role in I Remember Mama.
Now working in television and enjoying the new medium very much, she believes that production is on a superior level to the movies.
Miss Dunne plans a return visit to Notre Dame in the spring for the meet-ting of the new advisory council.
Engineers' Ball Sales Close This Afternoon
Today is the last day of ticket sales in the lobby of the Engineering Building for the Engineers’ Ball to be held Friday evening, Oct. 22, in the LaFor-tune Student Center. However, tickets may still be obtained until Oct. 19 in Rooms 104 Walsh and 257 Alumni.
The Engineers and their dates will
JOHNNY PALMER “Greenwich Village" Maestro
dance to the music of Johnny Palmer and his orchestra from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. During the intermissions Don Gels and a combo will provide additional tunes for the slide rule men. Johnny Palmer is a favorite of many Big Ten schools and other 'Midwestern colleges. Notre Dame men remember him from one of last year’s Chicago Club dances.
According to Co-chairmen Bob Bau-denistel and Tom Magill, the theme of this year’s ball is “A Night in Greenwich Village,” featuring a New York skyline and scenes which will recreate the atmosphere of the quaint village. George Van Beisen is decorations chairman.
Replacing favors this yeai- will be charcoal sketches of the dance-goers drawn by several roving artists. Pictures of those couples who desire them will be taken using the New York skyline as a backdrop.
A blind date bureau has been set up with St. Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s Nurses’ School. Randall Carli,
Room 324 Alumni, is in charge of blind dates.	r
Joe Kearney is ticket chairman of the^ ball, while Paul Marbach is business I manager. Bernard Tracy and Frank I McCarthy are refreshment and publicity j chairmen, respectively.	j
Bids are $3.75. Residence permissions for 2 a.m. have been granted and car 1 permissions will run from 12 noon Fri- j day until 2 a.m.
i
New Hammes Center Opens Next Semester
Approximately three months’ work 9 remains before completion of the Ham- 3 mes Shopping Center, now rising on Badin Bog. By the end of this semester, jB ten bowling alleys, a new book store three times as spacious as the present one, and a men’s clothing shop will^i swing open their doors to serve the cam- S pus. The undertaking was made pos- ® sible through the generosity of its donor, S Mr. Romy Hammes, prominent Kanka- a kee, Ill., automobile dealer.	M
P^'ofs. Francesco Montana and Robert a J. Schultz of the Department of Archi- a tecture havfe designed the $330,000 struc- 3 ture, actually two separate buildings ■ joined by a covered patio. The exterior h® walls are buff brick, similar to the newer
residence halls; a sloping slate will cap the Center.
roof of dark
The main section, 130 feet long by 63 feet wide, will be two stories high; the annex, a one-story building, has a width of 50 feet, a length of 65 feet, j Both are equipped with full basements, 'j
Brother Conan Moran, C.S.C., director i of the Notre Dame Book Store, has both floors of the main section at his dis- g posal. On the ground level school andM office supplies, toilet articles, jewelry, • radios, luggage, photo equipment, ND j monogram clothing and souvenirs, and a large selection of popular books will be featured.
The second floor will house a vastly expanded text-book department. Remaining space upstairs will provide | modern offices and a work room for the ‘
staff.
“Naturally,” says Brother Conan, “our aim is to provide prompt service for all our customers. In the past, overcrowded conditions have made this virtually impossible; but in our new location, I’m sure the problem can be eliminated.”
After studying recent trends in college book stores throughout the country, Brother Conan has decided to install a self-service policy, comparable to that of a super-market. Modern display racks should also add to shopping ease.
10
The Scholastic
Editor LaLonde Reports 9 On *55 'Dome1 Progress
The 1955 Dome is now three months ahead of last year’s book, announced - Editor Bud LaLonde today. Senior pictures have already been completed by Delma Studios and the book has been completely laid out. The cover is also in production.
Circulation is anticipated for May 15, with two-thirds of the publication being R finished by Christmas.
LaLonde, who is assisted by Frank Burke, associate editor, Dick Williams, managing editor, and Jim Yonke, business manager, stated his complete satisfaction with the ability and eagerness of’the staff. A new staff set-up has enabled a better distribution of the work and provides for a stronger future staff. New organization has also made possible the carrying of more freshmen on the D staff.
Many changes are being incorporated in this year’s Dome. These include a ' halls section instead of geographical ; clubs, new layout for senior pictures, expansion of the general interest section j to include sports and social activities, i The new cover has strong masculine lines and an entirely new color treatment. In addition, four new four-color process plates will be used to attain more variety.
" Dome editors are following the modem trend in yearbook work by planning the book and fitting the pictures to the plan. They are departing from the traditional method which follows the reverse order.
Production schedules permitting, the late spring class dances will be included, along with the Senior Ball.
Deatrick-Houck, Pollard-Kelly To Vie in Moot Court Finals
On the evening of Oct. 20 the final argument in the annual Moot Court competition will be held in Washington Hall. The two finalists that are chosen will represent the University at Chicago in regional competition. The University of Nebraska won national honors last .year. The following universities are "among the many that will be competing in Chicago: Marquette, Chicago, Northwestern, DePaul, and Loyola.
Armand Deatrick and John Houck will battle against Will Pollard and Jim Kelly in the campus finals. Both sides have made intense preparations for this finale. One alternate will be chosen, after the two finalists are named, in case sickness should incapacitate one of the representatives to Chicago.
SOPHOMORE COTILLION COMMITTEE—1954
Anish Scheme for Great White Way’s ND “Premiere”
Sophs' 'Great White Way* Gets Anal Touches For 42nd & Broadway 'Premiere' Next Friday
All the magic of Broadway and 42nd Street will greet Sophomores and their dates as they herald in the gala Michigan State weekend with the Sophomore Cotillion next Friday night. Reproductions of the Stork Club, El Morocco, and other renowned night-spots along the “Great White Way” will form an appropriate backdrop for the formally-attired promoters.
Complementing the premiere theme will be the music of Charlie Spivak, whose orchestra provided the music for such motion pictures as Pin-Up Girl and Follow the Boys.
Tiffany Singing Star Debuts
As an added feature for Cotilliongoers, Tiffany Recording star, Pat Scot, a vocalist, is tentatively set to make her debut in college circles. Pat appears daily on the Jim Conway Show over CBS.
The weekend will get underway Friday at 6:30 in the evening with a pep rally in the Fieldhouse. From 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. the Student Center will hold the spotlight for the Cotillion.
Saturday morning strolls around the campus, viewing homecoming displays,
will be in order before the Irish and the Spartans of Michigan State collide in the top Notre Dame home game of the year. The regular Saturday night Victory Dance will provide the entertainment for that evening.
The activities will close Sunday morning with a Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall. Bert Millen, breakfast chairman, has engaged Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., and Coach Terry Brennan as principal speakers.
Souvenir Memory Books
Following the precedent set by last year’s Cotillion committee, memory books of ■ the weekend have been made available at 50 cents each. These books, edited by Jerry Murphy and Joe McMahon, will contain pictures of the rally, dance, game, and Communion Breakfast.
Other committee chairmen are: John Slevin, business manager; Ron Francis, accommodations; John Meagher, decorations; and Tom Doyle, tickets.
Weekend car permissions will be granted from 2 o’clock on Friday to noon Sunday.
^October 8, 1954
11
Reading Program Aids Plodding Students; Study Time Cut, Comprehension Increased
By PETER STURTEVANT
The reading ability of the average 'student is not keeping pace with the ever-increasing amount of reading matter that he has to digest, according to R. D. Willemin, director of the University’s Developmental Reading Program. Willemin characterizes the average student as a slow, plodding reader who is handicapped as a student by his failure to attain his full reading potential.
The Developmental Reading Program is Notre Dame’s answer to the reading .problem. Using the most modern meth-, ods and machines, the program helps students to become better readers by developing in them more effective reading skills.
In a regularly scheduled three-hour course students are taught to read more rapidly and at the same time increase their comprehension. They learn to read intelligently by “participating” in the reading. “Reading,” Willemin explains, “consists of more than transferring images. The reader must think along with the author to get the most out of his reading.”
Mechanical Teachers
An important aid in teaching good reading habits is the reading pacer. This machine lowers a shutter at a set speed over the page of a book, forcing the reader to keep reading at a rate faster than the descending shutter. The reading pacer is designed to make the student read at a rhythmic, steady pace.
Another device employed is the tachis-toscope, which flashes words, numbers, or phrases on a screen for a fraction of a second. By using the tachistoscope the reader learns to see more at a glance and thus to read larger word groups. This increases the reading rate since less time is spent moving the eye from one part of a line of print to the next. After three weeks of training with this machine, some students have been able to identify eight digits which have been exposed for only 1/100 of a second.
Also used in an effort to increase reading speed is the Harvard film series. This series consists of 16 films, each one run at a faster rate than the preceding film. In addition to these special devices, practice in study and recreational reading, comprehension exercises, vocabulary lessons, and instruction in reading methods and techniques are all used in making better readers of those taking the course.
This type of reading program has been developed largely-in' the post-war period, but is now available* .in almost
all major colleges and universities. College counselors have found that most students get out of the habit of reading in high school because of the stress laid on other activities. As a result the average American reads at only the seventh or eighth grade level. An increasing volume of reading required in
ERNIE D’HAENENS
Readin’—College Style
college has aggravated the problem until positive steps to improve the reading level have become necessary.
The University began its reading program in 1950 as part of the Department of Testing and Guidance after the freshman tests administered by the department revealed a high degree of correlation between poor reading rates and failures. The Developmental Reading Program came into existence as a separate department in the fall of 1953 when it moved into its present location in Room 240 of the Main Building.
A Record Enrolment
This fall 200 are enrolled in the course. Instruction is given three times a week for a full semester. The course is offered as a non-credit elective to all students in both the graduate and undergraduate schools of the University. A laboratory fee of §30 is charged. Registration for the spring semester can now be made either through the deans of the colleges or through the office of the Developmental Reading Program Monday through Friday after 12:30 p.m.
The program’s director, R. D. Wil-
lemin, graduated from the University inj 1942. Previous to his appointment as? director of the reading program he spenw seven years in the University’s Depart-! ment of Testing and Guidance. Assist-, ing Willemin is Cecil Birder.
Results of last semester’s course show: an average of 33 per cent increase in reading rate coupled with a five per cent rise in comprehension. “It is quite likely/’ Willemin reported, “that a student" will come close to doubling his speed while increasing his skill and compre-j hension and eliminating wasted reading^ time.” He pointed to the record of a j freshman in last year’s course as an example of what can be accomplished. | The freshman increased his reading rate from 500 words per minute to approximately 1,000 to 1,200 words per minute while scoring an increase in comprehen-> sion from 93 to 97 per cent.
Willemin stressed the value of the -course both for the poor student who is| having trouble keeping up with hif^ studies and for the good student who: wants to be able to read more and still: have more leisure time. “A man who • reads well contributes more to his stud-1 ies or his job, is better informed, and I can better evaluate and criticize current* events,” he added.	]
Senate By-Law Resolves 1 Off-Campus Vote Question fl
At its regular Monday night meeting®)] the Student Senate reversed itself five'; minutes after defeating a proposal call-; ing for another election to rectify the invalidated off-campus elections last’ spring. The final result of the spirited,, debate was a by-law to the Senate con-1 stitution providing an opportunity fori nominations until Oct. 25, with elections I the following week.	i
In his opening report, President Jo^ Daley emphasized the need for “cleaning® up our own house before acting.” Daley® stressed the need for “effective public® relations in light of the lack of interest [■ in the upperclass elections.” He also® announced the appointment of JimM Broughton as spiritual commissioner,® Richard Lewis as science senator sue-® ceeding Jim Norton, who resigned, and® Roy Belknap to the concessions com-® mittee.	«
Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., asked th^H cooperation of the Senate and the stu^j dent body in receiving a tuberculosis H check-up. Father Norton said that “the I health of the individual and the close® community living makes TB check-ups® necessary. Last year only 1900 out of j® a potential 7,000 took advantage of® this service.”	■
The Senate also passed a resolution I advising that the Sunday noon meal ■ begin at 11:30.	I
The Scholasti^M
12
Irish-Middie Struggle Highlights Student Trip; e Tickets On Sale Oct. 13-14 in Student Center
The traditional Student Trip, highlighting- this year’s football season, is all set to leave for Baltimore on Oct. 29. A record vanguard of Irish fans is expected to follow the team to Baltimore for this year’s edition of the traditional Irish-Middie clash.
Several different rates are being a offered by the Blue Circle’s Student Trip W Committee. Prices, which vary according to facilities used, are outlined below:
The bare essentials of train fare and meals while traveling will cost $38. The fee of $42.25 includes train fare, meals while traveling, and the game ticket. A rate of $45.25 covers the train fare, the meals enroute, lodging for two nights, bus transportation from train to hotel, but not the game ticket. All the above, ~ plus the game ticket, is available at an " even $50. Everything, including taxes and tips, is figured in the prices.
The tickets for the trip -will be sold only in the Student Center. They will go on sale Oct. 13, which is Founder’s Day, and Oct. 14 for three hours, from 4:30 until 7:30. 1
Tickets for the colorful Navy game, as well as cancelled cuts will be available only to those who go on the train as official members of the Student Trip. The band will do its part to add spirit • to the trek, as it too is going along on the train and will perform between halves. Another spectacle will greet the fans just before the game as the middies from Annapolis parade onto the playing field.

Eastern Dates Available
A victory dance has been arranged by the Washington alumni clubs for Saturday night. Blind dates for the dance with girls from the Washington area colleges can be secured at the time of the Student Trip ticket sale, Oct. 13 and 14.
Dance tickets will be sold on the train enroute to Baltimore and at the door of the dance that night. Complete information as to dance time and location will be issued several days before departure.
For those who desire further social activity, the girls from Dunbarton and Trinity Colleges are having mixers for Notre Dame men on Sunday afternoon. Information on available tours of the nation’s capital will be passed out on the train and tickets for these tours will be sold on the train, between Washington and Baltimore.
The Student Trip train will leave St. Mary’s siding at 4 p.m. Friday, Oct. 29. It will travel from Notre Dame to
October 8, 1954
Martinsburg, W. Va., for Mass and breakfast. Leaving Martinsburg at 9:20 a.m., the train will proceed to the game in Baltimore, pausing for a moment in Silver Springs, Md. at 10:45 a.m. to discharge the men who live in the Washington area. The train will get into Baltimore at noon, two hours before the kickoff.
Forty-five minutes following the final whistle, the train will head back to Washington and the Annapolis Hotel. Then, after the weekend of activities, the students will pull out for Notre Dame at 2:30 p.m. on Monday, and reach campus before breakfast the following day.
AFROTC Lists Changes;
Col. Towner New Commander
Col. Milton Towner has been named professor of air science of the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC unit. He replaces Col. Melie Coutlee.
Colonel Towner has compiled an excellent military record and is holder of the Croix de Guerre, the highest military award given by France. Before his appointment to Notre Dame, Colonel Towner was base commander of Norton Air Force Base, San Bernardino, Calif.
Together with the change in faculty will be a revamping of Air Force policy and uniforms. Policy changes will place more responsibility on the cadet wing commander for the organization, planning, and conduct of the cadet leaders. The present wing commander is Cadet Lt. Col. Robert Lee Kerby.
The change in uniform will be a shoulder insignia which distinguishes the Notre Dame AFROTC unit from all others. Robert L. Bundschuh, a junior, designed the insignia and received 25 merits for his work.
NOTICE
The Scholastic is now accepting feature and short stories from 1400 to 2800 words in length.
Concerning letters to the editor: no anonymous letters will be printed, but name or names will be withheld upon request.
Address all manuscripts and letters to:
The Editors, Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind., or bring to the office in the basement of Farley Hall.
ND Retreafants Plan Huge, $325,000 House
Final plans are being drawn up for a $325,000 retreat house to be erected on the northwestern edge of the Notre Dame campus. The Holy Cross mission band will operate the unit to be named Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House.
Construction will get underway by spring of 1955. Location of the building will be between U.S. 31 and St. Mary’s Lake near the present Fatima Shrine.
Facilities are to include 55 single rooms with individual baths; a chapel to seat 100; restful reading lounge with glassed-in porch overlooking St. Mary’s Lake; monastic-type dining room with a large, modem kitchen. Plans for the structure are being prepared by Callix E. Miller, South Bend architect.
The landscaping around the building will incorporate the Shrine which fronts on the highway. This property has been the scene of pilgrimages for many thousands during the past years.
Only organized retreats will use the facilities of the new structure. Individuals will not be accepted. Formerly retreatants were housed in halls on campus or in local hotels. Now whole families may be housed at the very place of retreatl	•
The huge expense necessary for the erection of the house is being met by Notre Dame men and friends who attend the retreats.
Third Order of St. Francis Announces Meeting Change
The Third Order of St. Francis has announced a change in the time of its monthly meetings. The gatherings, formerly held on Sunday afternoons, will begin in the future on Sunday mornings with a private Mass celebrated by Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C. After Mass the group will attend breakfast, followed by the meeting itself.
The Third Order held its first gathering, the Transitus, last Sunday night. The Transitus, a service consisting of hymns, a sermon delivered by Father Lochner, and Benediction, is held every year on the Vigil of the Feast of St. Francis. On Monday, the Feast was commemorated by a special Mass in Our Lady’s Chapel. The Mass officially inaugurated the year for the “fraternity.”
The Third Order of St. Francis was installed at Notre Dame by the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., in 1936 and is now composed of approximately 70 members.
13
I!
PNEUMATIC TUBES, REFERENCE ROOM SHUFFLE ARE INNOVATIONS Modern System Brings House of Knowledge Up-to-Date
ND Library Undergoes Summer Face-Lifting; Efficient Service, Specialty Sections Provided
By RAY WALSH
The University Library has undergone a series of recent alterations, according to Victor Schaefer, library director. The re-organizing program currently in operation is aimed at eliminating much of the delay involved in the past in securing desired books.
The card catalogues have been moved to the front lobby for student convenience, while the circulation desk now occupies the inner lobby. Call numbers of books desired will now be sent ..via air tube to the book stacks where student attendants will locate the book and relay it back to the circulation desk by means of special book lifts, soon to be installed.
Such facilities should produce the three- to four-minute service promised by library officials. Students desiring books which at the time have been lent out will be supplied with the name of the person possessing it and should be able to secure the book in a few days.
Rearrangement of rooms for the purpose of fully utilizing available space is also part of the library’s new system. Mr. Schaefer expects the room capacity to be more than doubled by new stacking and seating arrangements. Additional book stacks are proposed and will eventually result in roughly 100,000 more books available for student use.
Contents of the Reference and Social Science rooms are in the process of being re-organized. This revamping will attempt to house as many books as possible on the shelves, open to student browsing. Reference books considered for purchase by the library will be
judged as to their readability and will, in most cases, be the first book recommended in its particular field.
Three reference rooms will adopt the form of miniature libraries and each will be devoted entirely to all books covering a distinct subject, eliminating any reference section as such. The first, a Humanities Library, located on the main floor, south wing, includes books, periodicals and reference books in the fields of art, classics, journalism, languages and literature, music, philosophy, religion and speech.
The second, a Social Sciences Library, also on the main floor, north wing, will offer books, periodicals and reference books in the fields of education, history, physical education, political science, and sociology.
The third, located in the basement, north wing, is the Business and Economics Library. This will contain a selection in the fields of economics, accounting, business administration, finance and marketing. This setup eliminates the Periodical Library of the past. Current periodicals and periodicals dating five years back will be on the stacks for immediate use.
A professional library staff is on duty all working hours of the day and night, meaning complete servi'ce 84% hours a week. Schaefer stressed the fact that he and the entire library staff are in the library to assist the students, and want to be consulted when any student problems arise.
B-X Used Texts Saleslj Nearing $9,000 Mark fl
Setting a record high for sales, the' student-operated Book Exchange grossed almost 89.000 from the sale of used : texts during the first few weeks of ■■ school, according to Manager Pat Robin- J son. Almost all the books in stock were -1 sold, with English and history texts be- ’ ing in greatest demand.
■ Redemption on the books will be made JR to students beginning tomorrow at the® Exchange office in the Main Building. J Ownership slips are necessary to estab- ; lish rights for reimbursement.	; ;
Begun in 1943 by the Young Christian I Students at the suggestion of fellow; students, it has served a two-fold pur-J pose. Besides selling low-priced texts, it offers a means for students to dispose | easily of used texts.	j
When the books are sold the owner I1 receives.70 per cent of the original cost;* however* if the texts are removed from j the University’s book list, the Book Ex- | change sells them to a book store and the student is reimbursed.	‘
After a successful trial during the summer, the Exchange plans to add an- ] other feature to its list of services. At I mid-semester, books whose use has been j discontinued by the University will be 1 placed on sale at reductions in price of J 50 to 75 per cent.	®
The Book Exchange plans to remain® open throughout the year; an announce- 1 ment of its hours will be posted in the I Main Building.	/ ‘ |
First Issue of 'Tech Review' | Slated for Nov. 15 Circulation !
The first issue of the engineering pub- 1 lication, Technical Revieiv, will be pub- fl lished Nov. 15, Co-Editor Frank Flor-® ian revealed this week. .	,	1
The Review, which is entirely student- a managed, edited, and operated, is a quar- J terly publication of the College of En- | . gineering.	fl
The Technical Review was first pub- S lished in 1949 under the supervision of 1 Dean Karl E. Schoenherr of the College j of Engineering. It is a member of the 1 Engineering College Magazine Associa- I tion. Of the 32 competing schools in I the association, the Technical Review ® won first place award for article layout I in 1952 and second place award for. the j best all-around magazine in 1953.	|
The Review is co-edited by Gerald | Schoenherr in addition to Florian. I
The circulation of the Review, which | has gained nation-wide recognition, includes some 1,300 engineering students on campus and over 150 alumni and faculty.
The Scholastic^
M
14
Debaters Card Busy Fall Speech Schedule; ^Oxford, Purdue, Butler on Tap for October
The University of Notre Dame debate team will kick off its 1954-55 season on Oct. 18, against the perennially rugged Oxford University team. The Oxfordians are on their annual tour of this country, and have offered a very interesting selection of topics, of which the two teams will debate the proposition, 1‘Resolved: that the Western powers nave failed to understand and meet the challenge of Communism.”
The debate will be in split style; that is, one Notre Dame debater and one from Oxford will be teamed together against their respective schoolmates. Representing Notre Dame will be Pittsburgh Senior Chuck Doherty, president of the team, and Dick Schiller, junior from Aurora, Ill., this year’s ■naster-of-novices.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director' of forensics, has announced that the debate will be held in Washington Hall, due to the fact that a large crowd is expected because of the outstanding reputations of both teams.
Boilermakers Again?
Later in the week, on Oct. 22, 23, and 24, the varsity team will travel to Purdue to take part in the annual Purdue ^nvitational Tournament. Speaking for the Irish will be Doherty and Kamal Hossain, senior from Pakistan, for the affirmative, and Schiller and Chicago Sophomore Al Riley for the negative. The topic for this tournament this year will be the national collegiate topic, “Resolved: that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China.”
On Oct. 28-29, the team will again gravel southward, this time to Butler University, where the members will engage in ’ a discussion of the debate topic. The discussion tournament is being sponsored by Tau Kappa Alpha, national honorary speech fraternity, of which several of the Notre Darners are already members.
Novices Get A Chance
The first novice tournaments will be held in November and December. On ®STov. 2, eight frosh will travel to Chicago for the annual round-robin tournament with Loyola and Mundelein. Then, on Nov. 19 and 20, six more 1 novices will go to Peoria for the Bradley Invitational Tournament.
J There will also be two freshman tournaments during December. On Dec. 3 and 4, Butler will host Notre Dame for the second time at its novice tournament, while on Dec. 11 and, 12,
the frosh again journey to Chicago, this time to participate in the annual University of Illinois Navy Pier freshman tournament.
In preparation for these four freshman tournaments, Master-of-Novices Dick Schiller has mapped out an intensive program of speeches and practice debates to familiarize beginners with the fundamentals and fine points of forensics. This year’s freshman class contains several very fine debaters, and Schiller assures the University that they will continue the tradition of winning which has become a part of all Notre Dame debating teams.
Another Irish First
The Irish will score another first in the field of public speech when, on Nov. 12, they travel to Milwaukee to participate in the opening of that city’s newest television station, WMIL. They will spend a full hour and a half before the cameras when they meet the debaters of Marquette University.
Prof. Sommer made this statement concerning the invitation: “The very fact that Notre Dame was asked to participate in this function illustrates that we are still one of the most respected debating teams in the country, and we will do everything we can to make the occasion another triumph for Notre Dame in every way.”
International Relations Club Inaugurates Member Drive
The Notre Dame International Relations Club, formerly known as the Economics Round Table, is seeking new members. The club meets each Thursday evening to discuss an issue prominent in current national or international affairs. Every week one member reads a paper on his chosen topic. Then, in an open seminar, the other members evaluate his views and express their own opinions on the subject.
On Feb. 25 and 26, representatives of international relations clubs in 40 colleges and universities throughout Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin will convene here for their annual midwest conference. As host, the Notre Dame club will make arrangements and lead all discussions.
According to Jack Goetsch, the club’s president, “This conference will provide IRC members with an invaluable opportunity to meet students from other schools and to exchange viewpoints with them.”
Hitchhiking Crackdown Ordered by Local Police
The traditional echoes of “How about a lift?” soon will take their place in the forgotten memories of Notre Dame, as University officials last week promised strict enforcement of its new anti-hitchhiking policy. Students were reminded of this new policy in a special bulletin from Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
“Special attention is given to the area of the Notre Dame circle,” warns Father McCarragher, “because of the great number of abuses which have occurred in this area, and because of the number of accidents which have resulted.”
The action of University officials was prompted by complaints received from the South Bend Police Department. Indiana law prohibits hitchhiking as does a South Bend traffic ordinance.
“Officers are reluctant to welcome Notre Dame men to South Bend by arresting them,” says Police Captain Clement Hazinski, head of the traffic division of the South Bend Police Department, “but we would hate further to inform parents of a traffic death.” Hazinski claims that each year the problem seems to grow, but cooperation from the University has always been received.
“Hitchhiking causes congestion and is a traffic hazard, making it dangerous for both the motorist and hitchhiker,” continues Captain Hazinski, who warns that arrests will follow. Hitchhiking is a minor traffic violation in the state of Indiana and carries a one dollai' fine.
University police have instructions to take up the identification cards of violators and turn them into the office of the Prefect of Discipline.
NO MORE
Freeloaders Get Vetoed
October 8, 1954
15
Det’s Cross the Dixie
By DAVE METZ
ori scan
The best way to get in touch with a St. Mary’s student is to phone—or write—or both. They aren’t all dated up, -according to word received from across the highway.
Are you one of those shy fellows who goes to an ND-SMC mixer, then crawls into a corner and watches while the “big operators” grab all the available girls and monopolize the dancing?
If so, you might be interested in the advice Dr. George W. Crane, nationally syndicated columnist, gave to a couple of lonely hearts from two neighboring no-coed Catholic colleges in northern Indiana. He decided that the muddled state of affairs between these two schools,
let’s call them Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College, isn’t the fault of poor planning, lack of social facilities or even the rules and regulations. Rather, he thought the trouble was due to a mental roadblock thrown up by students at both schools.
Around campus at Notre Dame, you
find talk who just
a group of non-SMC-daters who about those girls across the road are always dated up or busy or plain unavailable.
ND Too Bashful
Over at SMC the female Irish complain that the troops here are too bashful and ought to get on that phone (which oddly enough seems busy most of the time) once in a while—rather than spend those Saturdays alone in a South Bend theater or Washington Hall.
The belles of St. Mary’s willingly admit that the odds—about seven to one this year—aren’t too inviting for a prospective dater. But, on the other hand, the set-up isn’t hopeless, either.
The gals seem to be willing. They don’t like to sit home on those Saturdays either. But it looks like the guys have to make the first move.
Doc Crane Says:
Dr. Crane gives the first SMC-daters some advice that may help them to be a big hit at St. Mary’s.
Dr. Crane’s secret lies with the magic prescription—“HELP.” The old doc says the magic word “HELP” may help you, too.
H—is for hobbies: dogs, cats, skiing, collecting stamps, playing varsity football and saving money.
E—is for entertainment: movies, wrestling on television, and dancing.
L—is for literature: Mad Comics, “Pogo,” Tennyson, Guardini and Joyce are recommended.
P—is for politics: campus rather than national but spiced with word-droppings like McCarthyism, EDC, SEATO, IKE and RFC.
The friendly doctor claims that if you
master these topics you can’t miss^ You’ll just overwhelm the Dixiebellesl with your gab.	I
Play Dumb, Gals	i
And now some advice for you waiting I and hoping girls. Dr. Crane feels that fl you’re frightening the men away with fl your scholarship. He says, “leave the I bifocals home, chick, and let the male I members of the party monopolize the® conversation.” He goes on to say tha^ the gals ought to appear interested, II blink those long eyelashes and let the fl pool- guy think he’s telling her some- fl thing she doesn’t already know. ||
He claims
that students at women’s
colleges can dust off the welcome mat if they stick to his advice.
Maybe the doc’s right. It might work
—even here.

De-Be get
Don’t be shy—be forceful, velop hobbies. Save your money, a football player and you can those dates with SMC’s finest.
16
The Scholasti

Bud Dinwiddie and his orchestra played. Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, dean pf the college of science, spoke. Science Ball co-chainnen, Joe Swift and John Sowa, crowned the dance queens, Miss Susan Eager of Bloomfield, N. J., and Miss Mary Walsh of Erie, Pa. The Student Center wasn’t overcrowded and the 228 couples danced until morning —1 a.m.
But the big news at the 1954 Science Ball wasn’t the band or the speeches or even the dancing. It was old Mr. Indiana weather.
All day Friday the campus was shrouded in big, black and very soggy clouds. It looked like a washout for sure. The science men were cursing their luck.
Then late Friday afternoon the clouds went off duty and things started looking better. And they stayed that way long enough for the Ball goers to take their dates home. Then the rains came £ back with a vengeance.
, Scientists Rout the Rain
O-o-o—It’s a long way down	Here’s another one with sore tootsies.
Student Government
The Senate
By TIM DEVEREUX
PART ONE
Daley, Student Senate president.
Joe
Another phase of student government will be presented next week. That article will cover the Blue Circle and the Student Activities Court.
What can a student government do if the administration has the last word? This question is often asked by the student body, and here answered by Joe

said, “As student' representatives, we are not mouthpieces for the administration; the Student Senate is not their toy.”
The Senate represents the students’ opinion to the administration and faculty. It coordinates all extra-curricular affairs, satisfies the academic, spiritual and social needs of the students and provides an invaluable education in government and democracy.
In three years only two minor proposals by the Senate have" been turned
down by the administration. The first of these was a letter from the student body to Senator Joseph McCarthy condemning him for his attack on the “Commonweal.” The other turned-down proposal was one for a student tuxedo concession. Rev. James E. Norton, . C.S.C., faculty advisor to the Senate, advised against this proposal saying that it would be unfair to the South Bend businessmen who have been very generous to Notre Dame students for the past years.
Senate Staff Big
Running the Senate, a $40,000 business, requires a staff of nearly 300 students. These 300 students work with the Blue Circle, NSA, NFCCS, YCS, and other affiliates of the Student Senate.
Assisting Joe Daley is a huge staff including a vice-president, treasurer, secretary, class presidents, college, hall, . off-campus and stay senators. Stay
Senate president Joe Daley smile: then wields the gavel.
senators are senators from previous years who were not re-elected.
Daley said, “There is no room for the politician or the personality kid in student government. The affairs of the senate require unselfish cooperation among the representatives and these things can’t be accomplished when gloryj seeking candidates are elected.”
Daley, himself, is an example of that unselfish, hardworking representative. Last summer Joe attended numerous conventions with student officers from Notre Dame and from colleges and universities over the entire United States.
Some of the more important conventions were: the National Student Body Presidents’ Association in Chicago; the National Students Associa£) tion in Ames, Iowa and the Congress of United Nations Education in Chicago.
ND Way Ahead
In speaking with the representatives of some of the attending institutions Joe concluded that we at Notre Dame are further ahead in student government than most colleges. He said, “Notre Dame is becoming a leader in student government, and will continue to be.^ near the top if the students take anv active interest in their Senate.”
“Students can be a big help by voting for the best candidates and then supporting them throughout the year,” said Daley.
“There is plenty of work to be done, and if any student wants to work in student government even though he is not among the elected few we can give him something to do,” Joe said. ’,0
There is always something going on over in the Student Center where the Senate operates. Almost every afternoon one is sure to find a committee of some kind in session discussing some new proposal or project.
On Monday evenings, there is a Senate meeting with Joe Daley presiding. In previous years this meeting used to last over three hours, but now that Joe has eliminated minor proposals by establishing committees these meetings^ seldom last over two hours. The student body is invited to these sessions, which are held in the Student Center.
Tuesday nights, Daley meets with his commissioners. The Blue Circle meeting takes place on Wednesday, and the academic, spiritual, and social commissions meet with Daley on Thursdays.
Daley’s routine includes a 15 minute radio program over WNDU each Tues-
IS
The Scholastic^
Jim Sherer and John O’Meara go over the books at a Senate session.
day night at 7:15. On this program he introduces new projects and the various committee members working on these projects.
Aside from routine Joe has some very pleasant jobs. Two weeks ago he had a date with the daughter of a University trustee. ,She spoke five languages, French, Spanish, German, Russian, and English. When asked what they did that night he said, “We talked.”
.	I
Senate Projects
Some of the most important projects sponsored by the senate are: the Engineer’s Open House, Festival of Arts (Novembei- 8-25), Science Seminar, student musical, college and club dances and the Mardi Gras.
Proceeds from this year’s Mardi Gras will be matched with a similai- amount donated by Mr. Joseph La Fortune. The entire amount will be used for the many renovations to the Student Senate basement.
The Saturday Night victory dances 9 are not a source of income for the Senate. “We try to make the dances as nice as possible,” said Daley, “and consequently we almost break even. Our biggest income is realized by the student activities fee which is collected each semester at registration.”
The Senate has a yearly expenditure that averages $20,000. Part of this expenditure is taken-up by a $2,000 CharA ity Fund. The Senate receives over 300 appeals for charity each year.
Closely related to this Charity Fund is a committee that sponsors a party for the crippled children’s hospital each year. Last year, Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students and players from the 1953 Fighting Irish football and basketball teams entertained the crippled children.
Besides the projects listed above, £ Daley has plans for a few new ones. A leadership training program is the one he is presently working on. He hopes to be able to get experienced men
Tonini, Schaefer, O’Malley, Hesburgh, and Belknap in an official bull session.
.October 8, 1954
from within the University and outside of it to conduct classes for students interested in student government and for some of those who are presently holding office.
One of the most popular services the Senate handles is the benefit loan fund where a student may borrow up to $50 for 30 days at no interest. This benefit is sponsored by the University.
To Expand Influence
Joe would like to expand the influence of the Senate by reaching into more veins of student life on the campus. Taking over the student employment agency, which is located in the admin
istration building, would be one such | vein.
“Sitting in on the disciplinary board with the faculty members as an unbiased observer would be anothei' vein that we would like to take part in,” ' said Daley.	i
The Student Senate’s growth has : been phenomenal since its conception, | three years ago. The biggest factor in making this growth possible was the cooperation shown by the students and especially the undaunted work put in by the representatives. Similar success can be attained if the same cooperation continues and if the students elect the best candidates in the coming hall elections.
19
NSA CONGRESS—
“You Americans,” said the huge, olive-skinned fellow sitting across from us, “are trying to rob me of my freedom. You say you want a free world and yet your money supports the French and English colonial policies which keep my people in slavery.”
Needless to say, we were taken aback by this, but it was not the first time that we had received similar jolts to our composure. Our Notre Dame delegation had already been at the seventh National Students’ Association Congress for four eventful days when this occurred.
Irish at Ames
We learned a lot in those ten days, we ten Irishmen. Some of it came hard, some easy; some of it was pleasing, some of it was not so pleasing. We met people from all over the country, indeed, from all over the world who gave us a first-hand report on their ideas, their customs, their history. They presented strong arguments for what they do and for not liking what we do in many instances.
We met Southerners, both Negro and white, who defended the South’s views on segregation and others who opposed it. We met members of the questionable Labor Youth League who campaigned against the McCarran Act and distributed pamphlets written by Paul Robeson. We met students from Pakistan who described the plight of their starving country. We met members of the Israeli • delegation and students from the Arab countries who gave us both sides of that tense situation.
We were told that 70 million Arabs would become our allies overnight if the United States retracted its support of the English and French, colonial interests. We were told that no intelligent Southerner believes that segregation can last, but that they want a more gradual de-segregation than the Supreme Court ruling allows. We were told of the French rationale for their attitude towards Germany and towards the Communist party in their country. This, however, was only a part of what we gained from personal contact; much more was accomplished by the Congress itself.
Held at Iowa State University, Ames, la., during the last ten days of August, the Congress brought together some 750 representatives from 250 colleges and
Illustration and Research by WALT CLEMENS Text by JOHN ADAMS
universities in the U. S. and 23 foreign nations. Probably no other conclave in recent years has brought such a great cross-section of student leadership together in one place for such a long period of time. Certainly no congress has been of more value to those in attendance.
The Congress plenary considered and passed numerous resolutions, ranging from the sponsorship of an academic freedom week to the endorsement of an Association for the Free College Press, but far and away the most dramatic resolutions that the Congress considered were those on the exchange of students with Iron Curtain countries and the implementation of the Supreme Court ruling on segregation.
U.S.—U.SS.R. Exchange?
The question of whether or not we should exchange students with Russia and her satellites revolved around the evaluation of the good to be accomplished by each course of action. One side, led by a young University of Chicago student who had been one of the college editors allowed to visit the Soviet Union, maintained that this exchange would tend to promote a greater understanding on the part of both Russia and the United States and, at the very least, would eliminate the possibility of Russian “anti-social” propaganda.
The other side insisted that this was the height of naivety and that the Russian government was certainly wise enough to' ascertain that this plan is definitely not in accord with its own diabolical purposes and thus the Kremlin would either refuse it or twist it to suit its own ends. After much delay and debate, the resolution was defeated with Notre Dame and the entire Ohio-Indiana region voting unanimously against it.
Two proposals, one “Northern” and the other “Southern,” offering codification of existing NSA policy on the right of all people to an equal education became hopelessly deadlocked on the plen
ary floor. As prospects for agreement I became dimmer, the Virginia-Carolina I delegation huddled together. The spon- I taneous caucus lasted but a short time; || a representative of the region was rec-^ ognized by the Chair.	■
“Mr. Chairman,” he said, “We are I months behind the times in our discus- || sion of codes of student rights. Last I May 17, segregation in schools was outlawed by the Supreme Court!
“The Virginia-Carolina Region therefore moves that a committee be appointed by the NSA president to draw up a plan which will suggest to the Su- j preme Court practical steps for the im-^i piementation of its decision!”	§
Pass Segregation Ruling	j
The motion was seconded and carried, I the committee appointed, and the Con- i gress continued its other work. Thirty-two hours later, one-half hour before the Congress was to end, the committee’s report was distributed to the delegates; the members had worked straight through a day and a night to finish it. 1 The acting chairman read the reports through slowly and before the last word was out of his mouth the 750 delegates rose as one in a standing, ten-minute ovation.
Various members of the committee, which was composed of Negroes and whites, Northerners and Southerners, stood up to give their reasons for accepting the document as it stood. One Southern fellow, who had told our dele- , gation privately that most of the South-^ ern representatives felt they almost couldn’t go back home if any unfavorable de-segregation policy was passed by the Congress, said that he considered this to be the finest document of its kind he had ever seen, and he had seen many. A move was made to accept the resolution by acclamation as it stood, but this was objected to and so a roll call was ordered. Of some 300 voting delegates, I 285 voted in favor of the resolution and a four voted against. Strangely enough,"^ not one of the dissenting votes was from a Southern region.
Briefly, the plan calls for immediate de-segregation in all U. S. colleges and in “border state” public schools. Progressive de-segregation would be employed beginning in the lower grades, in the “middle” and “deep” South public schools. A multitude of incidental de-
20
The Scholastic
Report to the Student Body

tails provided the NS A and its member schools with concrete suggestions on how to assist the Courts and communities in the implementation of this undertaking. It is now being sent to the President, the Supreme Court, state and federal education officials, NS A member schools, and other unions of students.
“So who will listen to a bunch of college kids?” you ask. The answer to that question is to be found by merely observing the great strength that the students of other lands have as a body, because they are organized. In Egypt, Pakistan, Syria, France we find the students in the roles of major political factors which are constantly being appealed to by those in power or by those who seek it.
It was precisely the recognition of this potential power that led 25 young men to found the National Students Association in 1946. From its humble position at that time it has grown in only seven years to a membership embracing over one million students. It has been responsible, in part at least, for the favorable tax revision with regard to students as dependents. It has been instrumental in securing certain ROTC commissions which might have otherwise never been granted. It has established a self-sustaining tour bureau which sends hundreds of students to Europe every year. It has established a system of newsletters which distributes student news all over the country.
The administrative
operations are han-
died by three paid, but elected, officers. In short, it has become a stable, growing organization which in a few years may become a figure to be reckoned with on the American scene. Recognition of this fact has already been evidenced by a grant of $30,000 from the Ford Foundation to further research in student government.	.
Such an enormous amount of work was accomplished at the Congress that it would be relatively impossible even to outline it in these pages. Suffice to say that the American student is coming to a new evaluation of his worth and strength in our society. We felt it at the Congress—so did the others—so will the men of Notre Dame.
OH 1 O MM ANA
CARMLWA VI NftINIA
YCS Inaugurates Monthly 'Days of Devotion'; Father Wilson to Speak on ND Religious Life
Inaugurating a series of monthly “days of devotion,” the Young Christian Students, under the direction of Rev. Louis A. Putz, C.S.C., will present special religious programs tomorrow evening at 9 o’clock and Sunday morning at 8 o’clock in Dillon Hall.
Evening devotions will include a conference and Benediction. A Mass will be celebrated Sunday, followed by a conference and concluded with Benediction.
Featured speaker for the first of eight monthly days of recollection will be Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of business affairs at the University, who will speak on “The Religious Life at Notre Dame.” The religious service is organized with the purpose of intensifying the spiritual life of students.
Seek to Improve Student Life
Religious observances are but one of the services performed by the YCS in accordance with its purpose to analyze and seek improvement of the academic, social, and religious phases of student life. Other activities of the YCS include the Book Exchange, Student Press, and Catholic Action Committees.
•Since its establishment in 1940 by Father Putz, the Young Christian Students idea has spread throughout the United States and the world. Though the national headquarters were originally located here, they have since been moved to Chicago, while a world center has been founded in Paris.
Headed by Clark, Pottebaum
The YCS reaches into all phases of student life with organizations in the freshman and sophomore halls and in the junior and senior colleges. These groups are connected to a section committee and an executive board headed by Co-Presidents Richard Clark and Jerry Pottebaum.
The office of the Young Christian Students has been moved from the Law Building to the Student Center midway between the first and second floors on the North landing.
The complete schedule for the remaining Monthly days of recollection follows:
Nov. 6 and 7—Rev. Louis A. Putz, C.S.C., “The Vocation of Student Life.”
Dec. 4 and 5—Rev. Glenn O. Boarman, C.S.C., “Liturgical Prayer.”
Jan. 8 and 9—Rev. Robert A. Pelton, C.S.C., “Mental Prayer.”
Feb. 5 and 6 — Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C., “Penance.”
March 5 and 6—Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., “The Mass.”
April 2 and 3—Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., “Docility to the Church.”
May 7 and 8—Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C., “The Divine Gifts.”
'Juggler1 Now Accepting Copy for Winter Edition
Original manuscripts are now being accepted in Room 205 Walsh for the winter issue of the Juggler, Editor Frank Maier announced recently.
The Juggler is a literary magazine designed especially for creative writing by undergraduate students. It is published three times during the school term and contains essays, short stories, poems, book reviews, and other material of literary value.
The history of the Juggler, once the name of the University humor magazine, dates back to the late twenties when its predecessor, Script, began publication. That magazine remained in existence until shortly after the outbreak of World War II. With the cessation of hostilities, the present literary magazine was organized.
“The Juggler,” says Maier, “is a serious attempt to encourage the creative and critical minds of Notre Dame undergraduates and to provide them with an outlet for displaying their work.”
In addition to Maier, other executive staff members are: Frank Newman, associate editor; John Slavick, business manager; Patrick M. Sweeney, poetry editor. The only member of the staff named at this time is John Meagher.
WNDU Promises Originality In This Year's Programming
Jim Bergquist, new program director of “Radio Notre Dame,” has announced that this year’s programming will reveal marked changes from the past. Since assuming command of his new position, Bergquist has added a note of originality—long lacking with regard to programming at the local station.
Plans for this year include: dramatic presentations drawing local talent right from the campus, discussion forums aimed at informing the ever-inquiring student and a host of other shows of immediate interest to the man on the campus.
Bergquist, a senior history major from Council Bluffs, la., has served the station for four years in the capacities of record librarian and public relations director before taking over his new post this September.
22
The Scholastic .,
Summer Renovations
•Aid Campus Beauty
University to Observe Founder's Day, Oct. 13; Father Sorin Honored as Pioneer Educator
When the 5,400 Notre Dame students left last June for summer vacation, i there remained behind some 265 individ-। uals, who maintained the campus, both ! on the interior and the exterior.
Under Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Superintendent of Academic and Student Buildings, 160 employees, who al-^ternately took their vacations in groups of 30, kept up, repaired and redecorated the interiors of the buildings. Summer school students and 20 conventions brought the maintenance crew extra duties. For example, they offered over 7,000 visiting conventioneers hotel-type accommodations throughout the summer months.
Halls Get the Brush
Besides this, there were many special jobs. Both Dillon and Howard Halls were painted; floors were repaired in Dillon and new plumbing fixtures installed in Howard.
While Father Holderith directed his group, another 75 employees, under Mr. Vincent Fraatz, University engineer and director of maintenance, were busy with the exterior upkeep of the campus. In ^addition to the conventional ground-^keeping, these men tuck-pointed the gymnasium, laid a new roof on the Engineering Building, and black-topped various walks and roads.
Costliest Job
The most expensive duty performed by the maintenance crew was installing a hot water line from the O’Shaugh-Anessy Building to the dressing rooms in the Stadium, which were formerly gas-heated. Expenses on this job totaled $15,000.
Library improvements, amounting to $9,000, were high on the list of projects. A new air-tube delivery system was set up and much electrical equipment was installed.
Present plans for campus improvement include repair of the windows and ^leakage problems below the dome of the WMain Building, and installation of a sanitary line from the Library to the new Shopping Center, for which excavation is now underway behind Badin Hall.
Work slated for the near future includes renovation of Sorin Hall’s plumbing system, black-topping of the road from the Lake Road to the Post Office, and preparation for construction of Pangborn Hall.
Every year on Oct. 13, the feast of St. Edward, the University commemorates the memory of Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of Notre Dame. Few people realize or know that if it wasn’t for a Bishop’s refusal Notre Dame might never have been founded.
When Father Sorin and six Brothers arrived in New York on Sept. 13, 1841, it was a happy and grateful occasion for all of them. The young priest was only 28 years old, and had spent just nine months in a novitiate before being sent to America.
This was a fai’ cry from the training a young man has to go through today for about seven years or more before he is ordained. But the French revolution had changed France to an anti-clerical country and expediency was the rule of the day.
A Dramatic Arrival
Father Sorin loved America. As a young priest in France he yearned to come to this country and work for conversions. It is said that the first thing he did, after landing, was kiss the ground symbolizing his adoption of America, and thanking God for a safe crossing.
The little band left New York, and headed for its destination of Vincennes, Ind. Bishop Halandiere welcomed them, for he was badly in need of missionaries and school teachers.
The Bishop had planned for Father Sorin and the Brothers to set up a novitiate and elementary school. Father Sorin, a brilliant and aggressive man, immediately set himself to the task of finding a place to start building.
I
The New St. Peter’s
He picked a.spot 27 miles outside of Vincennes called St. Peter’s. The Community didn’t progress very rapidly, but the many difficulties only increased Father Sorin’s courage. In fact, he decided to build a college. However, Bishop Halandiere was not in favor of it for two reasons. First, he couldn’t finance the building of a college; and secondly, there already was a college in Vincennes opeiuted by the Eudists.
This was hard for Father Sorin to accept. Nevertheless, the Bishop stood firm on his decision. He had nothing against a college being built, but not in the Vincennes diocese.
After a few months, Father Sorin tried to persuade the Bishop to change his mind, but the Bishop was as strong-
minded a man as Father Sorin, and once again refused.
However, Bishop Halandiere offered him a piece of land in the northern part of the state near South Bend telling him that he could build a college there. Father Sorin wasn’t enthusiastic about the idea, but decided to give the matter some thought. He went back to St. Peter’s and told the Brothers about the Bishop’s offer.
A Momentous Decision
They thought over the proposal for many days, but still couldn’t reach a decision. Finally, after much prayer and consultation they decided it would be better to take the Bishop’s offer. Little did they realize that from their decision would rise the University of Notre Dame.
Thus, because of an old Bishop’s refusal and the resolve of Rev. Edward F. Sorin and his little band of six Brothers to start all over again, there are thousands of Notre Dame almuni throughout the world, over 5400 men at the University, and thousands of Notre Dame men yet to come.
Dr. Harold Ellithorn Named Electrical Engineering Head
Appointment of Dr. Harold Ellithorn as head of the Department of Electrical Engineering was announced Oct. 5 by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs at the University. Ellithorn succeeds Prof. John A. Northcott who relinquished the post for reasons of health. Northcott, who joined the Notre Dame staff in 1922 and became department head in 1939, will continue as a faculty member.
A specialist in network theory, Dr. Ellithorn is a native of Detroit, Mich. He took his undergraduate work at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., and received his master’s degree at Harvard University. Ellithorn joined the electrical engineering faculty in 1940 and was awarded a Ph.D. in physics by the University in 1945. From 1935-38 he was director of the engineering laboratory at the Sylvania Electric Co., Salem, Mass.
Dr. Ellithorn is a member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the Institute of Radio Engineers, the American Association of Engineering Educators and the American Institute of Physics.
23
ctober 8, 1954
Frosh Administered Math, Aptitude Tests
In the past, it has been the practice of the Department of Testing and Guidance to administer a battery of tests to the incoming freshman, but this year the program was changed. Each freshman was required to take a College Entrance Board Test at his high school during the spring. The tests were scored by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N. J., and the results were then sent to the deans of the students’ respective colleges. The information is strictly confidential and is not discussed with the student as has been the custom in the past.
However, the Department of Testing and Guidance did give aptitude and mathematics tests to the 1,425 new
freshmen. According to Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Testing and Guidance, the purpose of tests is to help the student determine where the strong and weak points of his interests lie. With this knowledge the student will be able to apply himself to a greater extent.
The results of the aptitude and mathematics tests are almost tabulated and will be interpreted for each student during the third week in October. Notices will be placed in the freshman halls.
Any freshman who did not take the aptitude and mathmatics tests should report to the Department of Testing and Guidance before Oct. 19.
In addition to the freshman tests, the Department of Testing and Guidance administers the entrance examinations for law schools, medical schools, and
HALL PICTURES FOR “DOME” |l £
Due to the inclement weather
which prevailed last Sunday, hall pictures for the Dome had to be cancelled.
They will be taken this Sunday, Oct. 10, according to the same schedule, which appears below. Coats and ties must be worn.
Farley, Zahm, Sorin, Howard— 1 to 1:45 p.m.
Breen-Phillips, St. E d w a rd ’ s, Walsh, Morrissey—2 to 2:45 p.m.
Cavanaugh, Badin, Alumni, Lyons —3 to 3:45 p.m.
Dillon, Fisher—4 to 4:45 p.m.
graduate schools, the Navy Aptitude Test and the Selective Service Test.
J)1
Brilliant and enduring


24
The Scholastic.
Scholastic Sports
ND SEEKS TO REGAIN VICTORY STRING
Irish Eleven Invades Pittsburgh Tomorrow To Tangle With Twice-Beaten Pitt Panthers
KERR TAKES NO. 1
The Beginning of the End
Terry Brennan’s charges, seeking to build another winning streak after their 13-game string was snapped by Purdue last Saturday, invade Pittsburgh tomorrow to tangle with Red Dawson’s twice-beaten Panthers. Pitt dropped its opening start to Southern California, 27-7, and last Saturday absorbed a 46-7 shellacking at the hands of Minnesota’s Golden Gophers.
First Capacity Crowd at Pitt
The first capacity crowd of the year, an expected 62,000 fans, will jam the stadium tomorrow to get their first glimpse of a Brennan-coached team on the road.
There will be 19 lettermen returning from the 1953 Pitt squad and six players who won their letters in previous seasons. In addition, the Panthers have 21 sophomores who were members of the undefeated 1953 freshman team.
The Pitt attack, unlike that of Texas and Purdue, features fonnations from the conventional T, the split-T, and the single wing. Coach Dawson has two experienced passers in his starting back-field and he will be able to rely on both of these men to aim passes at the faulty Irish pass defense.
Brennan has drilled his secondary on pass coverage all week. The coaches feel that it was not failure to cover the receivers that allowed Purdue to score four touchdowns by air, but rather an inability to drop the receiver once he got his hands on the ball.
Pitt has the same general style as Iowa, who so successively found the Irish weakspots last year. Notre Dame will get a chance to look at this system tomorrow at Pittsburgh and then again in Iowa City in November.
Coach Red Dawson, starting his third yeai- as head coach at Pitt, has installed a more varied attack than the straight T-formation, which the Panthers used almost exclusively in 1953. Rudy Mattioli, 6 ft. 195 lb. passing sensation, who sparked the Panthers to a winning season in 1952, is back at quarterback
Guglielmi Goes Wide for Yardage
Brock Nails Schaefer at Line
^October 8, 1954
25
after warming’ the bench most of last season. Darrell Lewis, a left-handed sophomore, is his understudy at the signal-caller's post, but may miss the game because of injury. Bill Amos, a transfer from the University of Maryland, also may see a lot of action at quarter.
Henry Ford, Panther co-captain, and Ambrose (Bags) Bagamery, a 6 ft. 180 lb. sophomore, will be at left and right halves, respectively. Ford lettered as a defensive halfback on the 1951 and 1952 Pitt elevens, and last year was Dawson’s number one quarterback. Pressing Ford and Bagamery for their jobs are Cornelius Salvaterra, who played quarterback with the frosh, and Nick Passodelis, a sophomore who had the inside track for the right half post in spring drills.
Jenkins is Doubtful Starter
Tom Jenkins will probably get the nod at fullback if he has fully recovered from his injury in the Southern Cal game. Bob Grier, a junior who gained 240 yards in 20 carries the only two games he played last fall, will be Dawson’s second choice.
John Paluck, 6-1 215 lb. letterman, will team with sophomore Joe Walton, 5-11 215 lb. lineman, at the ends in a line that averages 213 lbs. Only three lettermen are returning at the ends, although the sophs have been filling the gaps quite capably.
The tackle situation -will be taken
care of by Lou Palatela, a 6 ft. 220 lb. co-captain, who won letters in 1951 and 1952, but was out last year because of injuries, and Eldred Kraemer, a 6-3 220 lb. triple monogram winner.
At the guards Pitt will field 6 ft. 200 lb. Al Bolkovac, who saw limited service as a sophomore last season, and Ed
RUDY MATTIOLI
Slinging Senior Quarterback
26
Stowe, a 6 ft. 210 lb. letter winner. John Cenci will be at center, while Ed Bose, who started at center in several games in 1953, and Bob Ballock are his understudies.
Fullback Tom Jenkins and third string guard Bill Schmitt do most of the punting, while Gene Steratore, a reserve halfback, handles the placekicking. Though the quarterbacks do most of the passing, Ford and reserve halfback Corny Salvaterra take to the air on occasion also.
Last season Notre Dame beat the Panthers by a 23 to 14 margin.
Last Saturday afternoon Notre Dame’s string of 13 straight victories was snapped by a strong aerial-minded Purdue team, 27-14.
With 57,000 spectators looking on, Purdue’s sophomore signal-caller Len Dawson decided to take to the airways and found end Bob Springer clear. Dawson, sparked the Boilermakers by
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
Pittsburgh	Notre Dame
Walton .......... LE	.... Shannon (c)
Palatella(c) .... LT	...... Palumbo
Stowe __________  LG	_____ Lemek
Cenci ......... C   Syzmanski
Bolkovac ........ RG	....... Lee
Kraemer ......... RT	....	Varrichione
Paluck    RE ........... Matz (c)
Mattioli _______  QB	. Guglielmi
Ford (c) ________ LH	_____ Heap
Bagamery ________ RH	_____ Morse
Jenkins ......... FB	. Schaefer
Time—12:30 p.m. (CST)
Broadcast: WSBT—12:15 p.m.
pitching four touchdown passes and completing 7 of 12 attempts.
Dawson, who threw four t.d. passes in the Boilermaker’s opening game with Missouri, wasted no time in wanning up. Notre Dame’s Jim Morse returned the opening kickoff to the Irish 34. Don Schaefer fumbled on the first play from scrimmage. Purdue recovered and was on its way.
Fullback Bill Murakowski smashed over his own right tackle for eight yards. The following two plays were squelched by a tightly-drawn Irish line. Springer scampered to the six for a first down. On the next play Dawson pitched to left end Johnny Kerr for the first Purdue touchdown.
Notre Dame failed to gain ground on its four plays after receiving the kickoff. Don Schaefer punted out on the ND 42. Dawson found the Irish aerial defense vulnerable again and passed to halfback Rex Brock for 41 yards and another touchdown. Purdue led 14-0.
HENRY FORD
“Model T” Running Again
«
T J
The Irish broke into the scoring column when Sam Palumbo and Ray Lemek tackled Brock in the end zone after a bad pass from center.
Sophomore quarterback Paul Hornung received the ensuing Purdue kickoff and threaded his way down to the Boilermaker one. Fulback Nick Raich plunged ■ over for the score.’ Notre Dame, 8; Purdue, 14.
Third quarter action saw the Irish combine a fine running pattern with thf|« necessary passing attack to tie the score. Joe Heap returned the second-half kickoff to the 24. But a clipping penalty brought the pigskin back to the Irish nine. Notre Dame began to chop away at the Purdue line for three first downs.
With the ball resting on the Notre Dame 45, Guglielmi passed to halfback Morse who bulled his way to the Purdue 44. Co-Captain Matz caught Guglielmi’s next pass and carried down to the 32j* A 15-yard penalty nullified two running plays and put the ball on the Boilermaker 43. On second down and 22 to go, Guglielmi hit Shannon with a long pass, and Shannon got down to the two yard line. Schaefer crashed over to tie the score, 14-14.
After Peters had brought the kickoff to the Purdue 27, Dawson tossed to 6-7 end Lamar Lundy who caught the ball on the 5 and went all the way to score. Purdue then led 21-14.
In the fourth quarter Notre Dame tried vainly to move against a hard-charging Boilermaker line. The Irish on fourth and six punted down to the Purdue 21. Murakowski and halfback Jim Peters took turns carrying for first downs. Peters made the last one on the ND 38. After missing one passing attempt, Dawson hit Murakowski who battled his way down the sidelines for the final touchdown.
i
The Scholastic
i
Minnesota's Gophers Rout Pittsburgh, 46-7, ®As Four of Eight Future ND Opponents Lose
By DAVE DAVIN
Four of the eight remaining ND opponents shared the same fate as the Irish last Saturday. Pittsburgh, Michigan State, Pennsylvania, and Southern Methodist all found themselves in the lost column after another week of collegiate play.
In Pittsburgh the Panthers succumbed 46-7 to a touchdown barrage staged by Minnesota’s Gophers and a pair of McNamaras named Dick and Bob. Minnesota led 13-7 at the end of the half but pushed three quick touchdowns across in less than eight minutes of the third period.
The scoring started slowly with the first Gopher tally coming on a pass from ■Geno Cappelletti to Dick McNamara who ran the final 17 yards. The Big Ten Powerhouse’s second score came later in the first quarter when they churned out 82 yards in ten plays. Frank Bachman blasted over from the Pitt 1-foot line.
The Panthers roared back when Henry
Hornung Starts 60-yard Jaunt Down Sidelines Soph provides One of Few Irish Thrills in Purdue Upset
Ford took a pitchout from quarterback Mattioli and scampered to the Minnesota 4. It was Ford who slipped through his right side to score the lone Pitt six-pointer. From here on in it was all Minnesota.
Dick McNamara took a Pitt punt on his 40, reversed the ball to Brother Bob who went the distance. Pitt’s Nick Passodellis fumbled after the kickoff and Smith recovered for the Gophers. Cappelletti scored from the 14, but missed the point.
Smith again recovered the fumbled kickoff on the Panther 16. With first down on the six, Dick McNamara scored.
Minnesota went 34 yards in the next scoring drive. Don Swanson pitched to Darrell Cochran who squirmed his way to more paydirt.
The final score came after Vernon Frey intercepted Mattioli’s pass and ran to the Panther 37. Swanson passed to Tom Juhl on the four and he scored.
Michigan State’s Spartans couldn’t
quite hold back Alan the Horse Ameche and Wisconsin and suffered their second straight defeat 6-0. It was Ameche who scored the lone touchdown on a 29-yard jaunt around the right side of the Wisconsin line.
Both teams had several scoring opportunities but failed to capitalize on them. The biggest single factor that slowed the State offense considerably was the hard charging Badger forward wall. They held Bolden and Co- to a mere eight yards rushing for the afternoon. Two Wisconsin fumbles were recovered by the Spartans, but the Badger defense frustrated State down close.
The Naval Academy pursued its winning ways for the second week by soundly trouncing the Dartmouth Indians, 42-7. The Middies held a 7-7 tie going into the final quarter, but Dick Echard and Dave Korzep opened the locks with a brutal passing attack.
Navy end Ron Beagle snared eight aerials for 106 yards and two scores. It was fullback Billy Hepworth who knotted the score in the third period on a one-yard smash.
Pennsylvania’s Quakers, the Irish foe for Nov. 6, were set back for the second straight week, this time by William and Mary, 27-7. Indian quarterback Charlie Sumner dashed 93 yards for one score, plunged for another and passed for a third. The win was an upset over Penn’s new coach, Steve Sebo, and the first time since 1935 that the Pennsylvanians have lost their first two games.
Sumner squirted six inches for the first William and Mary score and clinched victory with his return of Walt Hynoski’s punt for the second tally in the second quarter.
Two minutes later, Al. Grieco passed to Bill Martin for 23 yards and the third touchdown. Sumner passed to Bob Hornsby for the final score in the fourth period.
The lone Quaker score came on Hynoski’s 31-yard run after a 55-yard drive.
The University of Noath Carolina and Tulane’s Green Wave hammered at each other all afternoon but ended up tying, 7-7.	•
Out in Iowa City the Hawkeyes bowled over the Montana Grizzlies for a lopsided 48-6 score. Halfbacks Earl Smith and Bobby Stearnes led the Hawkeye touchdown parade with two tallies apiece. '
Iowa’s first score came after they received a Grizzly punt on the 47 yard line. Smith drove for 14 yards in two carries, Reichhow, Hawk quarterback, punched to the five and Smith scored after Ed Vincent had driven to the three.
The second score of the day came via
(Continued on Page 30)
^Ictober 8, 1954
27
f^fie
by Paul Fullmer
An eerie mist hung over the campus like a prophet of gloom. And when Purdue took possession for the first time, the sun burst forth and beamed on the battling Boilermakers from Lafayette for the remainder of the afternoon as a Notre Dame 13-game winning streak fell.
A lot of people all over the country are mighty happy this week. They are the fans who just love to see Notre Dame go , down to defeat. Their joy is especially sweet since they get to rejoice so seldom. The Boilermakers not only dealt the Irish a crushing defeat last Saturday, but also eighth and ninth rankings in the national pools.
Purdue got the jump on the Irish and were able to make Notre Dame play their type of game. The Irish were unable to stick with their usual ball control game because they were dropped 14 points behind early
in the first quarter. Coach Stu Holcomb time and paced his eleven with remarkable He dropped a D-bomb on the Irish in the one Len Dawson. Coach George Dickson
hided his efficiency, person of said that
Anl Dawson was very good, but no one believed he could wnBv nnruMiu Pass against the Irish like he did against Missouri. TcKKT BKcNNAN _ , ,	...
But he did.
Although the Boilermakers looked very sharp in every phase of the game, the fact remains that the Irish didn’t look good. Notre Dame had many chances to fight their way uphill and overtake Purdue who looked like they had shot the works in the first half. The sports winters were willing to concede at half time that Purdue had a pretty good team, but then the Irish backs went marching for the first time in the contest. Don Schaefer cracked over for the TD and it looked like the invaders were through. But when Don’s attempted conversion went wide, the Irish hopes sagged. This may have been the turning point as both Holcomb and Brennan pointed out after the game.
Guglielmi Paces Irish In Statistical Column c
All-American candidate Ralph Guglielmi is pacing the Irish both offensively and defensively. Guglielmi is living up to expectations with a passing percentage of .594 on 19 completions out of 32 attempts for 179 yards and one touchdown. He also leads the Irish in pass defense with three interceptions and in scoring with two touchdowns.	*
Fullback Don Schaefer leads in total'' yardage rushing with 80 yards in 18 carries for a 4.4-yard average. Guglielmi is second with 39 yards on 17 carries, and a 2.3-yard average. Jim Morse is third with 34 yards on 14 carries and a 2.4-yard average. Joe Heap rounds out the starting Irish backfield with 26 yards on 10 carries and a 2.6-yard average.
Jim Morse leads all pass receivers* with seven receptions good for 94 yards. ' Joe Heap and Paul Matz are tied for second in this department with four catches each. Heap’s catches accounted for 71 yards and those of Matz for 41 yards. Don Shannon has caught two passes for 61 yards and one touchdown.
Nick Raich leads the Irish punters with a 40-yard average on two punts. Paul Hornung is second with a 35-yard average.
Jim Morse leads in kickoff return^* with three for 65 yards. Joe Heap is ' second with 47 yards on two returns. Frank Varrichione and Jack Lee lead in recovering fumbles with three each. Pat Bisceglia and Nick Raich are second with one recovery each.
Running Game Not Up to Par
The feebleness of the Notre Dame running game is reflected in the individual statistics. Schaefer is the only regular Irish back with an average over two yards, and this is a result of his great Texas game. Joe Heap, who had been counted on for the bread-and-butter plays this year, has been hampered by severe tonsilitis attacks and a bad leg. Dick Fitzgerald was running on one leg Saturday and he had the task of chasing Lamar Lundy who carried the outcome of the game in his arms. Lundy, incidentally was not “Fitzie’s” man.
The Irish realized their mistakes and the coaching staff will hammer the rest in during the week on Cartier field. The Notre Dame rarity—a tough Monday afternoon scrimmage—set the mood for this week’s practice schedule. Brennan knows the Irish must rebound this week against Pitt and the nation will be watching Pittsburgh as closely as it watched the
Stadium in the opener against convincing.
Texas. The result will have to be equally
This Is Real Test ‘
Notre Dame doesn’t like to game winning streaks broken.
lose. Notre Dame doesn’t like to have 13 Notre Dame always bounces back. Frank
Leahy expressed the opinion of every Notre Dame fan when he spoke to Paul Matz in the dressing room, “Next week will be the real test. It will be a real mark of greatness if the team can shake off defeat as easily as it accepts victory.” Last week I was only one point off on the score, but unfortunately had the wrong team. Red Dawson’s boys will be up, but the Irish will be on the rebound and raring to go if the Cartier field techniques hold their old magic. Tomorrow it will be Notre Dame in a breeze, 27-7.
Sailors Open at Michigan;
Six Regattas on Tap for YeaP
The Notre Dame sailing team will open its season this weekend at the University of Michigan. The regatta will run Saturday and Sunday.
The team now has four tech dinghies in its fleet. Six regattas have been scheduled this year and the Irish have their sights set on the national collegiate championships.
The club is open to new members. Experienced members are needed, buC the team members are willing to break in any interested newcomers. Meetings are .held at 6:45 p.m. in Room 209 of the Engineering Building each Wednesday evening.
Inter-club races are held every weekend that regular intercollegiate regattas aren’t scheduled.
The Irish failed to qualify for the nationals last year by one slim point.
28
The Scholastic
I
Carideo, Former All-American Quarterback, enshrined in National Football Hall of Fame
Rain Slows Netters In First-Round Starts
■ Frank Carideo, one of Notre Dame’s j all-time gridiron greats, officially became 1 a member of the National Football Hall j of Fame at halftime ceremonies of the ' Purdue game last Saturday.
“I am deeply grateful to every man on those teams of 1928, ’29, and ’30, and "o our immortal coach, Knute Rockne, ’ ™or if it were not for those men, I could not be here to receive this honor today.” It was in this spirit of humility that , Carideo, accompanied by his wife and daughter, received the plaque from Rev. . Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University, making him the sixth ND man to receive this honor.
Knute Rockne, George Gipp, Elmer Layden, Frank Thomas, and Gus Dorais ^ound out the list of Notre Dame’s dele-™ation in the national football shrine, which is to be built soon on the campus of Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N. J., site of the first intercollegiate football game in 1869.
। Carideo, Gipp, and Layden were sei lected on the merits of their outstanding i playing ability while at ND, while the ■ coaching records of Rockne, Thomas, and • Dorais dictated their selection.
Carideo is probably best remembered ' for his great quarterbacking which 9elped ND to two successive national , championships. He was also a valuable ' defensive player, blocker, and punter. , Carideo was twice named a football I All-American, an achievement matched । by only 12 other Notre Dame players, i Carideo took up coaching after leav-■ ing Notre Dame, a career which took him to Purdue, Missouri, Mississippi ; State, and Iowa. He retired from ath-Optics in 1949 and is now an insurance Executive in Cedar Rapids, la.
The National Football Hall of Fame was initiated three years ago, largely through the efforts of the late Arthur 1 L. Evans of Syracuse, N. Y., and now J contains a roster of 72 players from 40 i colleges and universities, and 34 coaches, i The purposes of this enterprise, pres-i ently headed by Vice-Admiral John H. Brown, Jr., himself a member of the Hall of Fame, is six-fold: to honor men Ahose deeds as players and coaches and by the example of their lives have made the greatest contribution to football; to preserve the ideals and traditions of football and remembrances from its greatest moments; to defend football from unjust and misguided attacks; to serve football and the youth of our country; to promote the public service of football; and to maintain and improve the position of football in our educational and athletic programs.
To be nominated to the Hall of Fame, a player must be out of college ten years, and a coach must be retired for five years. In selecting the 105 men already honored, the honors court, representing all sections of the U. S., re-
CARIDEO RECEIVES SCROLL
Father Joyce Does the Honors
viewed the qualifications of thousands of players and coaches.
Assurance of sound financial status is now being attained through a nationwide membership drive.
ENGINEERING SENIORS... North American Aviation
Los Angeles will interview here
November 9
The intra-mural tennis tournament, scheduled to start last week, had several bad breaks from the weatherman, necessitating late first-round starts. Head Tennis Coach Charlie Samson expects the tourney to end around the middle of the month. With winter practice slated to start in November, the tourney will give Samson a chance to see whom he will call from this group.
Word from Samson’s office is that the varsity tennis squad will be improved and much deeper than last year’s. Captained by Maurice Reidy, five other members of last year’s team return. Wally Clark, number one singles man, Bill Reale, number three, John Stuhl-dreher, son of the famous Notre Dame quarterback of the Four Horsemen Era and number five man, and Frank Lynch, who was in number seven position, will be back.
Promising sophomores include Harry Pagel and Harry Smith, who should give Clark and Reidy, the top two men a year ago, good scraps to retain their positions. Other second year men are Dean Richards, Jim Rich, and Tom Guilford. Richards and Pagel are favored to capture the intramural crown.
With Jerry Budzelek, Indiana state junior champ, and Chuck Vanoncini, a California hotshot, enrolled as freshmen, the gleam in Coach Samson’s eye these days can readily be understood. .
October 8, 1954
29
Twelve Teams Ready For Interhall Football
The Notre Dame Interhall Football League, under the direction of Mr. Dominic Napolitano, will open next week. The 12 teams are holding daily workouts on the practice fields to work themselves into playing shape.
The league will be divided into two divisions, the East and the West. The Eastern Division will consist of Zahm, Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, St. Ed’s, and Off-Campus. Alumni, Dillon, Badin, Sorin, Howard, and Morrissey will compose the Western Division. Sorin, coached by Jack Kirth, will field its first team in 15 years. Fisher and Walsh may field teams, but their status is still indefinite.
Alumni, last year’s champions, will be coached by Marty Martin and Jont “Tex” Tyson, who will double as playercoach. Tyson has been an outstanding back for the past two years.
St. Ed’s, last year’s runnerup, will be tutored by John Reardon. The strength of this year’s team is unknown. St. Ed’s 1953 backfield, sparked by Jerry Ryan, has moved over to Badin. The strong “Boggers,” coached by Gene O’Connor and Bill Schellong, also have another outstanding back in Dick Rust, an All-Interhall selection in his freshman year. Dillon’s tough outfit will be coached by Joe Honn and Jerry Miller.
"I lacked Confidence
but one visit to Arthur Murray's changed my whole life."
“Yes, I was always shy, reserved and never had much fun. Then I went to Arthur Murray’s. At my very first dance lesson, I discovered my dormant ability to dance. In almost no time I became a smooth dancer, had new self-confidence and popularity.”
Let Arthur Murray’s expert teachers bring out your hidden dancing ability. Come in for a $1.00 trial lesson now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 e. wayne Ph. 2-3339
Their hopes will rest on the shoulders of Don Costello, another membei* of the mythical eleven.	•
The schedule for the league will be posted soon at convenient locations.
At the close of the league, the winners of the respective divisions will play off the championship in the Stadium. Awards will be presented to the two teams participating in the interhall classic.
ND's Cross Country Squad Tips Wheaton Runners, 20-38
Notre Dame’s long distance runners beat Wheaton College 20-38 in a three-mile cross country event last Saturday on the golf course.
The Irish face Michigan Normal tomorrow at Ypsilanti in quest of their second win.
N.C.A.A. champion Kikuo (Cookie) Morya, Wheaton senior from Tokyo, Japan, finished first in the race with a time of 15 minutes, 13 seconds. Tied for second were Bill Squires and Jim Daly of Notre Dame with 15 minutes, 36 seconds.
Morya, who expects to be a writer for a Tokyo business and economic newspaper, is probably the best cross country man in the nation today. Recently, however, he seems to tire early. Twentyeight years old, he said after the race, “I was very tired when I passed the
two-mile marker, and had a hard time catching Squires and Daly.”
Individual Notre Dame times for thd event are Squires, 15:35; Daly, 15:35; Michno, 16:14; Wallace, 16:17; Gits, 16:24.
ND Opponents
(Continued from Page 27) a 33-yard pass play which ended on Montana’s one-yard stripe and Vincent doing the honors.	z
Again in the second quarter the ho^O team drew blood. Smith returned a punt 43 yards to the Grizzly 39. He scored three plays later with a jaunt around right end.
The third period saw two more touchdowns—and both Iowa’s. Hawkeye captain George Broeder’s fumble was recovered by teammate Gilliam on the Montana ten, and Reichow scored four plays later from the two. A few minutes later, an Iowa drive that started from midfield culminated in the Grizzly end zone where Stearnes ended up after a 13-yard off-tackle slash.
It was Stearnes in the fourth period who grabbed an errant Grizzly pass on his own six-yard marker and stopped running 94 yards and six points later.
Southern California’s Trojans pounced on six Northwestern fumbles to beat the Wildcats 12-7. The Californians scored both touchdowns in the first half, the first by 234 lb. Trojan tackle, Ed Fouclpy who grabbed a “live” fumble and raced 68 yards for six points.
The second California score came in the second period when Jim Contratto passed to Chuck Greenwood for ten yards.
Northwestern didn’t reach pay dirt until the third quarter. They started on the Trojan 33-yard line, and little George Gondek scored through left tackle.
The final Irish opponent for the season, Southern Methodist, was stung by Georgia Tech’s Yellow jacket, 10-7. Tech turned two Mustang fumbles into a field goal and a touchdown to close the flaps on the famous Methodist aerial circus.
Yellowjacket Burt Grant kicked the nine-yard field goal in the second period and the quarterback figured in the fourth quarter desperation touchdown, i Mitchell recovered Frank Eidom’s fumble on the SMU 47-yard line. Mitchel^ then tossed a screen pass to George Volkert who squirmed 49 yards for the score. Mitchell then added the extra point.
Southern Methodist ate huge chunks of yardage after Grant’s field goal and paraded 77 yards for the score. It was Duane Nutt who scored from inside the one-yard stripe. Tom Beal converted. After that, the Georgia defense held and SMU was powerless.
30
The Scholast^
'Detective Story' Tryouts ^Attract Over 100 Students
A tentative cast was selected for the 34 parts in the forthcoming stage play by the University Theater, Detective Story. The play is taken from the Broadway hit of the same name by Sidney Kingsley.
The University Theater, under the new direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., held tryouts for the play last ^week in Washington Hall.
“The selected cast is still tentative,” said Father Harvey after the tryouts, “because permanent parts have not yet : been assigned to each member of the l cast, and changes among the cast may have to be made before the assignments i become a matter of permanency.” '
Father Harvey expressed extreme satisfaction over the fact that an overwhelming number of students showed ®up for the tryouts last week, and that of this number some wonderful talent was portrayed. Over 100 Notre Dame students tried out, ranging from freshmen up through graduate students. About 15 girls from St. Mary’s College reported for the tryouts.
The first rehearsal with the tentative - cast got under way last Monday night at ।	7:45 p.m. The Theater Workshop also
held its first meeting in Washington [ Hall at the same time. The Workshop, ; Sunder the auspices of the Faculty University Theater, is intended for all who ; are interested in any aspect of the ; theater.
i	----. —- - ---
• New Disposal System Joins i University With City's Lines
■ Because of a recent Indiana law which prohibits the dumping of raw •^sewage into the St. Joseph River, the University is constructing a new sewage line that will connect to the South Bend system, thus utilizing the new sewage ■ disposal plant to be completed by the J city sometime in the fall of 1955.
। According to Father Joyce, the cost i of the University’s new lines will be j about $100,000. The new lines will ran . from the end of the University’s property at the Dixie Highway, where they ^intersect with the old lines, to the rail-^way track; they will then follow the railway track to Angela Ave. at which point they will join the South Bend system.
Though the work was started just recently, it is now about 20 per cent completed and will be finished by the end of the year.
St. Mary’s College is also putting in a new line which will be tunneled under the river in back of the college to the disposal plant.
Law School Inaugurates Natural Law Journal; Legal Scholars Meet to Plan New PublicaHon
Inauguration of a journal of natural law studies was announced here recently by Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., of the College of Law. The new publication will explore what and how the natural law can contribute to the solution of today’s problems, Dean O’Meara said.
A group of 16 lawyers, legal educators, philosophers and political scientists, all ,known for their scholarship in the field of natural law, are meeting at Notre Dame today and tomorrow to consult with University officials on plans for the new publication. The scholars, representing a cross-section of the nation’s leading universities and law schools, are also attending a series of lectures on natural law by Dr. A. P. d’Entreves of Oxford University, England.
The new journal, as yet unnamed, will be published under the auspices of the Natural Law Institute which sponsored annual convocations at the University from 1947 to 1951. It is hoped that the new journal will have an even wider influence than the campus convocations held in former years.
CAIRO and Sav*
hotel
Running water, from $2.7$ with bath from $4.00
DOUBLE ROOMS Running wafar. from $430 With bath from $6.00
Large, two-room suites- with bath, ideal for families of four paopl* from $10.00 per day $2.00 par day for any additional person, up to 0 people BEAUTIFUL DINING ROOM
AND COFFEE SHOP MEALS AT POPULAR PRICES Liberal commission to Travel Agents on aB
The Capitol’s tallest building offers BEST VALUES in
^shington r	Stop at th*	SINGLE ROOMS
SINGLE ROOMS
bookings.
cam
QSfreefofld^N.W.
JAMES C. VANSTORY, SR., MGR.
Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the law school and one of the founders of the Natural Law Institute, is among those conferring with University officials this weekend on plans for the publication. Others include Dr. Jacques Mantain, Princeton University faculty member and a lecturer at Notre Dame; Dr. Heinrich Ronunen, Georgetown University; Prof. Frederick K. Beutel, University of Nebraska College of Law; and Prof. Vernon J. Bourke, St. Louis University.
Dr. d’Entreves, is Serena Professor of Italian Studies at Oxford University. He is also a fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, and of the Royal Historical Society. He received his Doctor of Laws degree at the University of Turin in 1922 and took his Ph.D. at Oxford ten years later. Dr. d’Entreves is the author of a number of books including Dante as a Political Thinker, published in 1952, and Natural Law; An Introduction to Legal Philosophy. He has also edited the Selected Writings of Thomas Aquinas.
^October 8, 1954
31
Courses in Theology Begin for Lay Faculty $
THE BROOKS BROTHERS LOOK has been an outstanding tradition with generations of undergraduates
Whether it’s our casual sportwear, popular flannel or tweed suits, or fine evening wear, you can be assured of clothing that’s distinctive and in good taste when it’s from Brooks Brothers. Visit our "346” department, created just to serve you.
24-page Fall catalogue upon request
ESTABLISHED 1818
Mtns Furnishings, Hats ^$hoes
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST„ NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Another series of courses in theology and allied subjects for members of the lay faculty and their families is now underway, announces Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., acting head of the Department of Religion.
Course One, which started last night, treats “The Period of the Church Fathers,” with special emphasis on the writings of Irenaeus and Athanasius. It is being conducted in Room 331 O’Shaughnessy Hall at 8 o’clock Sunday evenings by Rev. Phillip Hanley, O.P. The remainder of the meetings will be held Oct. 10, 17, 24, 31; Nov. 7, 14, 21, 28; and Dec. 5.
Course Two deals with “Sacred Scripture,” and includes a study of the epistles of St. Paul and of Pauline theology. Meetings are scheduled for Room 335 O’Shaughnessy Hall at 8 p.m. on Wed- * nesdays. Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., will be the instructor. The remaining classes are slated for Oct. 13, 20, 27; Nov. 3, 10, 17, 14; and Dec. 1 and 8.
A combination of the two above courses is available.
Second semester studies will treat excerpts of St. Augustine and the doctrine of the Trinity according to St. Thomas. Rev. Roman Ladewski, C.S.C., will conduct. The remaining classes will deal with the psalms in Sacred Scripture and will be handled by Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C.
An outline of the possible series of courses for the year 1955-56 follows:
The Council of Trent: Problems raised by the Protestant Movement; Sacred Scripture: The Gospels of Christ; The Problem of Faith or the Social Encyclicals; and Spirituality: Ascetical and Mystical Theology.
Registrations for courses are still be- * ing accepted.
MSC Tilt
(Continued from Page 9)
decency and good taste; prejudice of any kind should definitely be avoided. Judges for the event will be Mr.
Frank Montana of the Department of Architecture, Mr. Stanley Sessler of thea-Department of Art, and Rev. Anthony * Lauck also of the Department of Art.
Last year Howard was adjudged winner of the Hall Decorations contest.
The event is being sponsored by the Physical Facilities Committee of the Student Senate. Jim Hesburgh is commissioner of the committee.
For further information on the Hall Decorations weekend contact Hesburgh in Room 303 Alumni.
32
The ScholasticQ)
Frosh View ND Social Life With Optimism; delations With St. Mary's Belles on Upgrade?
Each school year brings a bumper crop of green freshmen to the Notre Dame campus. And being normal young men they look anxiously about for some form of diversion from the grind of the classroom. Thus the freshman is introduced into college social life by means of special kind of recreation often referred to as a mixer.
The Student Senate has sponsored a number of social functions already this year. Most of the class of ’58 has had some type of social activity by this time. Therefore, the Scholastic conducted its annual freshman poll this week in an effort to determine what the frosh think I of social life at Notre Dame.
^ncredible!
Most freshmen believe that there is an adequate amount of social life here at ND!
Mike Berickoff of Salem, Ill., ex. pressed the sentiment of the majority of his class when he said, “The social life at ND is adequate for those who seek it. Even with classes there is enough time for social life.”
Another satisfied frosh is Dick Kohler, Peekskill, N. Y., who commented, “Social ®ife vould be all right except that first-year studies don’t leave enough time.”
A fatalistic first-year man, Rod Jav-aby, had this to say, “The social life is fine considering that Notre Dame is an ' all-boys’ school.”
Bob Moran, of Indianapolis, was very ; optimistic, but still preferred the girls back home. “The girls at St. Mary’s ; are very nice. I think it is swell that we can visit them at almost any time. I ^Ivill ay, though, that I prefer the girls from my home town.”
‘A Place to Be Alone’
Tom Moore of Detroit has a plea for informality: “I think that there should be a place for the boys and girls to be alone. Whenever we go out we always have to be dressed up. A place where we could dress informally would be nice.”
£ One frosh struck a note sounded by rnany Notre Dame men of all classes. Roy Williams of Philadelphia, said, “I think that the girls are always looking for a hero. The football players seem to have preference over the non-athletes.” Bernie Cooper of Indianapolis thinks relations with local girls should be built up. “I think a closer association between the South Bend (proper) girls and ND men should be formed.”
Ken Heineniann of Kokomo, Ind., com
^October 8, 1954
mented on the shortage of dates: “If some way could be found to alleviate the shortage of women, social life would take on renewed vigor.”
“Fundamentally, relations with the girls of St. Mary’s are inadequate, especially concerning telephone seiwice. This, combined with other inefficiencies, almost entirely dominates secondary affiliations,” is the comment of Bob Early of Indianapolis.
The above comments do not necessarily represent the overall views of the frosh toward St. Mary’s, but they do indicate that relations with the girls across the Dixie are on the upgrade.
The Slim Look In Slacks
'Who's Who’ Nominations
Nominations for the 1954-55 Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities will be accepted until Oct. 18.
Send nominee’s name, campus address, and qualifications to: Who’s Who Committee, 5 Sorin.
Any senior or graduate student is eligible to be nominated by himself or others.
Fr. McDonagh Inaugurates Graduate Economic Seminar
Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C., head of the Department of Economics, recently announced the appointment of a new professor and the inauguration of a graduate research team.
Dr. Arnold McKee is the new professor of economics. Born in New Zealand, Dr. McKee left his homeland five years ago and journeyed to France where he obtained his degree at the Law Faculty of the University of Paris. His past two years were spent at the University of Southampton in England doing research work.
The research team, comprised of Rev. Francis Smyth from Nova Scotia, Robert Bendel from Minnesota, Daniel Connell and John Dudley from Massachusetts, has just begun a Graduate Economic Seminar on Labor Problems.
They are endeavoring to obtain a clear, factual knowledge of industrial relations in the greater South Bend area, through personal contacts and intensive study of union files. The purpose of the seminar is indefinite at this time, but it may be used for the dissertations of doctors and professors in the Department of Economics.
Chetopa Twill KHAKI SLACKS by Lee »498
Favorites for sitting in class or strolling on campus ... a sturdy cotton twill, sanforized and machine washable. Guaranteed to look better, fit better and wear longer, or vour monev back. In khaki or grey color. Waist sizes 28 to 42 ; lengths 29 to 36.
JUST ARRIVED!
“Ivy League” charcoal flannel slacks . . . plain front with strapped back . . .
$14.95
Michigan at Washington
the heck page
by Doti Yeckel
Two weeks ago the Studebaker-Packard Corporation staged a giant extravaganza in Notre Dame Stadium. Despite the presence of Bob Hope, Jerry Colona, and Les Brown and his orchestra, the attention of most of the spectators was centered on two attractive young misses named Gloria de Haven and Terry Moore. Over 50,000 people saw and listened to Gloria and Terry.
Last Friday Miss Irene Dunne came to Notre Dame. Few knew of her arrival. She was not here to sell cars, or gain publicity. Noi- was she paid for coming. Her only public appearance was at the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall on Saturday night. She left on Sunday as quietly as she had come.
Three women. . . . Two were glamorous young women, whose arrival and departure were highly publicized, and whose appearance was witnessed by over 50,000 people. The other, the mother of an 18-year-old daughter, arrived and departed with no fanfare, with only about 1,000 people even knowing that she had been here.
Hollywood—Two Sides
Still, I am sure that Miss Dunne’s visit to Notre Dame will be remembered long after the spectacle in the Stadium is forgotten. No one will ever forget her pleasant graciousness or her sincere concern and love for Notre Dame. Still less will they forget that day in 1949 when she was awarded the Laetare Medal as the outstanding Catholic lay-woman in America.
And yet, when people think of Hollywood, what do they think of? Do they think of Terry and Gloria, or do they think of Miss Dunne? Do they ever imagine that at least one Hollywood star goes to Mass every morning before Teporting to the studio at 7 a.m.? I think not.
I mention these things because I think it important to defend Hollywood. The movie-capital has been abused so much that the word Hollywood has become synonymous with all that is cheap and superficial and worthless. I think it important to defend Hollywood, not only out of simple justice, and because to most of the world Hollywood is the
34
United States, but because Hollywood has taught me something.
We are all more or less familiar with the Europeans’ “Hollywood” conception of the United States. A young high school teacher who had studied at the Sorbonne told me that all the Frenchmen whom he met in Paris invariably sneered at Hollywood and its film products. And yet, the only kind of American picture that Frenchmen patronize is the kind that they criticize the most. He showed me an edition of “Le Figaro,” one of France’s most highly regarded newspapers. On the theater page was a huge spread advertising, in French, Marilyn Monroe’s latest movie. The French flock to movies like this in droves, while at the same time they criticize America for producing them.
Good Movies By-passed
But if this seems to be hypocrisy in the French, what is it in us? We think of Hollywood in the same way that much of the world thinks of us, and for the same reasons. We ignore the truly good movies that have been made, and are being made, there; we ignore the witness of people like Irene Dunne and Leo McCarey (who also visited Notre Dame last weekend). We think only of the poor movies (even if poor work is inevitable in any art-form), and the cheap movies (even if we patronize them continually). If we think and talk about Hollywood in this entirely one-sided way, how can we expect the rest of the world to do otherwise?
It is about time we all began to look honestly at things: to recognize that Hollywood, and America, and mankind itself are not all good or all bad. I have just taken one example here of how we tend to type things—to make them all black or all white. We are always doing it—I know I am.
We Make ‘Typings’
It is such a commonplace to say that there is good in the worst of us and bad in the best of us that it hardly seems worthwhile saying. But it is just the thing that we are always doing: this person is just plain dumb and that one is no good; immigrants are always stupid and Englishmen are always dull;
Hollywood is entirely cheap. The list of “typings” is endless, and we all use them.
Little Things Add Up
In a little talk that I heard given by the late Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., former head of the English Department at Notre Dame, he told of an incident that had happened to him when he was a young priest here. He was walking near the “Rock” one day, just full of youthful vitality and the beauty of the day,^ when he met an old laborer raking* * leaves. He was going to say something to the man about the beauty of the day, but decided that the remark would be lost on such a fellow. The old man looked up from his work and said, "Good morning, Father. Isn’t it a beautiful day?” Father said that he would never forget what the old fellow had taught him about people, and I don’t think that I will ever forget Father,^ Ward’s telling of it.	*
These little things, when we think about them, will perhaps help us to respect people and countries and institutions for the good that is in them, to think before we judge, and to judge kindly when we do judge. It is so easy not to do so.
And so I thank Miss Irene Dunne for helping me to realize these things, for showing me that Hollywood, like all other things, can be very good as well as very bad. At the Victory Dance Satur-* day night Miss Dunne spoke about taking some new ideas away with her. She has also left some.
minis LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
FAMILY CONSECRATION PICTURES
• A solemn rededication of the University of Notre Dame to the Immaculate Heart of Mary will be observed on Dec. 8. Have your parents, relatives, and friends consecrate their homes at the same time by mailing them a beautiful 9 x 12 full-color reproduction of an oil painting of the Immaculate Heart, with the family consecration prayer included. Offering: 40c each, or 3 for $1.00. postpaid. Save by pooling orders to one address.
• A companion picture of the Sacred Heart of Jesus is available at the same price.
• Hand made, plastic covered, Sacred Heart badges, offering: 10c each, or 3 for 25c.
• Remit with order: The Brother Columba Apostolate, Columba Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic}
5)

A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
Here Don Garland makes noise distribution measurements
ivith a Level Distribution Recorder
My job is to help solve problems of noise and other interference on telephone lines due to power interference. Inductive co-ordination is the technical term for the work.
“First tiling the Chief Engineer explained to me was that ‘all the answers aren’t in the book.’ He was right. Most of the problems have required a combination of electrical engineering, a knowledge of costs and generous amount of ingenuity. I like it that way. It’s given me an immediate opportunity to put into practice the theory I learned at school.
“In addition to this on-the-job experience, I have attended several special training courses conducted by the company. Now I’m breaking in a new man, just like when I started.”
• • •
Don Garland’s work is typical of many engineering assignments in the Bell Telephone Companies. There are similar opportunities for college graduates with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. If you’d like to get more details, see your Placement Officer. He will be glad to help you.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
*
O (V
tobacco co.
UCGerr«
wins
JACK WEBB & BEN ALEXANDER
You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Frank Smith — stars of Chesterfield’s award winning “Dragnet” on TV and radio. They’re now in movies too . . . Warner Bros, great new picture “Dragnet”.

WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield King Size at the New Low Price and Chesterfield Regular

You’ll like Chesterfield regular — as Jack Webb does —or king-size, like Ben Alexander. Either way, you get the same satisfying mildness, the same wonderful taste, the same refreshing smoke every time. And you get the cigarette proved highest in quality — low in nicotine.
So change to Chesterfield. Enjoy America’s favorite two-way cigarette. They satisfy millions — they’ll satisfy you.
TODAY S CHESTERFIELD IS THE BEST CIGARETTE EVER MADE
CHESTERFIELD
aesrfMnw


•K
as
