Summer2009 

University of Notre Dame's Student Magazine since 1867 -----------------------1 
I 
\ 




news 04 
6 News Story of the Year: The Barack Obama Commencement Controversy 
Jason G'Sell, Kate Mullaney & Erica Pepitone 
Get up-to-date on campus happenings with a review of the top news story of the2008-2009 school year. 

10 Faces to Remember 
Christopher Meskill & David Poell 
Take a sneak-peek at the campus celebrities that you should know. 
14 culture 
1 5 Perfect Strangers 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic slims down the spectrum of roommate relations into three basic categories -"kindred spirits," "I'm OK, you're OK," and "it wasn't meant to be." 
1 6 Home, Sweet Home 
Peter Hadley & Jessica Farmwald An overview ofyour future home -the residence halls and their traditions. 

24 Clubbing at Notre Dame 
Michael O'Connor 
A sampling of the opportunities -from service to athletics -available to help you do more than just homework. 

38 Is there anything to do around here? 
Nick Kolman-Mandie 
From live music to films and plays to art, literature and beyond, Notre Dame is alive and thriving with fun. 


sports 34 
34 Sports Stories of the Year 
Scholastic Staff 
Read up on the most newsworthy stories in Irish athletics during the -2008-2009 school year. 
SUMMER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 1 


EDNOTES 
HOME SWEET DOME \Ve at Scholastic would like to welcome you, the class of 2013, and congratulations on being among the most talented classes in the school's history. You are truly the best of the best. 
It has often been said by many a wise teacher and parent that the transition to college life is difficult, but you truly won't get the sense of how difficult this transition is until you are years out of college, looking back and reflecting on how you have changed as a person, and how college truly was the four formative years ofyour life. Embrace the difficulty. Embrace hard-to-please professors, embrace your academic struggles, embrace your social struggles, and embrace the homesickness and the occasional bouts of loneliness. All of these things are merely your initiations into the Notre Dame community, a community that, unlike those in many other universities, will provide you support well beyond your four years here. 
These worries about college are natural, and the reason you are Notre Dame students is that you are capable of transcending these difficulties and using thein as foundations for who you are and who you will become. We at Scholastic have created this issue to help give you a sense of what being a part of the Notre Dame community means. 
Notre Dame is unique among universities because, although it carries the same opportunities and challenges as other universities, it is a place you can truly call home. Among the many opportunities you will have to join the myriad student groups and clubs, as we present on pages 24-26, are the many opportunities you will have to create families ofyour own, whether it is through getting to 
know people in your dorm, developing friendships with those in your classes, 
or bonding with those in these aforementioned student groups. As you will also discover, your peers are also much more likely to help you than compete with you, while also pushing you to be the very best that you can be. That is what a 
family is, and that is what calling a place home is all about 
Don't fret if over the course ofyour first semester at Notre Dame you don't 
know how you fit or what your place is at the-university, because oftentimes this 
epiphany will come when you least expect it -all you have to do is stay active 
and enthusiastic and be willing to try things thatyou had never considered trying 
before. Taking these personal risks (cliched advice to be sure, but important 
nonetheless) is what being in college and finding yourself is all about. 
We are all in for an incredible ride at Notre Dame, and we are glad you have decided to join us. 

Marques Camp Interim Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 

Corby Night 


Men ofthe class of2013 ... Is God calling you? 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 

Wednesday, Sept. 16, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? call 1-6385 


Why Notre Dame? 
A primer on Our Lady's University 
Notre Dame is. a unique place. It is in the middle of nowhere and seemingly archaic with its single-sex dorms, parietals and unyielding Catholic identity. Yet, the vast majority of alums speak so positively about their alma mater, not to mention the donations they pour in. Many employers gush at the prospect ofhiring Notre Dame students. So what is it about Notre Dame that makes it so special? Notre Dame is technically a university, but it's more than just that. It is a place that strives to fulfill its goal to educate, not just the mind, but also the body and spirit. Although this aim may seem a bit lofty, if you let the university shape you, you will find yourself growing in more ways than just intellectually. Your four years under the Dome will give you the ultimate college experience. There is no other place that offers the combination of top-notch academics, high-profile athletics, stellar Campus Ministry programs (and not just for Catholics), a gorgeous campus and a tight-knit community that feels like family. You'll find that Notre Dame is a demanding place. There will be plenty of parties and SYRs to attend, as well as more interhall sports opportunities than you can imagine; however, there will also be presentations to prepare for, 10-page papers to turn in and some bickering with professors over your final grade. During the fall, you'll find that postponing your school work until the weekend will become a pointless exercise. Notre Dame football weekends will consume your life, period. There are so many things to do, but seemingly so lit_tle time to do it all. Life at Notre Dame may be overwhelming at times, but think of it as an opportunity to sharpen your time management skills. Think of it as a place that tests your ability to have the boldness to say "no" in the right situations. If attending Notre Dame isn't exactly your dream come true, think ofwhat a Notre Dame education can provide you. As an undergraduate, you might not be able to see the bigger picture of where your education will take you, but trust us -a Notre Dame degree will prepare you for the real world. We live in a society that i~ driven by success, one that tempts many students to choose majors they think will lead to a big paycheck. But it is essential that you study what you care about. It is true that picking the right major can be difficult, especially given all of the available options. Still, college is a place where you will learn how to think, write and read critically, as well as where you will receive a holistic sense of the vast span of opportunities that are available to you. Choose a major that will fulfill you intellectually, and the rest will take care of itself. Look at Head Football Coach Charlie Weis (ND '78). How many football coaches do you know that majored in speech and drama? Take advantage ofNotre Dame. You'll be surprised how much it has to offer. Get to know your professors. Most don't bite and can be valuable resources. Study hard, but don't let it deter you from getting out of the library to experience campus events and meet lifelong friends. Enjoy the traditions, and don't take anything for granted, because it all will go by faster than you think. 
Fight Song & Alma Mater 
The essential songs for life under the Dome 

ome incoming freshmen have the luxury of already having the Fight Song and the Alma Mater ingrained in their minds since birth. But for many freshmen, the first time they hear these songs will be during their 
first pep rally or the opening school-wide Mass. Here, Scholastic gives you an introduction to the lyrics that, by the time you graduate in 2013, you'll know as well as your own name. 
"Notre Dame Victory March" 
(The Fight Song) 
Honored by college football as "the greatest of all college fight songs," the "Notre Dame Victory March" was written by two Notre Dame graduates ­brothers Michael Shea, a priest, and John Shea, a monogram winner in baseball -in 1908. It was first performed on campus in the .Main Building rotunda on Easter Sunday in 1909. (Hint: You really only need to know the chorus.) 
Rally sons ofNotre Dame: 
Sing her glory and sound he1·fimze,  
Raise her Gold and Blue  Chorus:  
And cheer with voices true:  Chee1; cheerfor old Notre Dame,  
Rah, rah! for Notre Dame  Wake up the echoes cheering he1· name,  
We will fight in ev'ry game,  Send a volley cheer on high,  
Strong ofheart and true to her name  Shake down the t!nmderfrom the sky.  
We will ne'erforget her  What though the odds be great or small  
And will cheer her ever  Old Notre Dame will win over all,  
Loyal to Notre Danie.  While her loyal sons go marching  
Onward to victo1y.  
"Notre Dame, Our Mother"  
(The Alma Mater)  

The Notre Dame Alma Mater is performed at the end of every football game at Notre Dame Stadium, win or lose. It was composed in 1930 by Joseph J. Casasanta, a 1923 ND graduate, in honor of the dedication of Notre Dame Stadium -the House that Rockne Built. The lyrics were written by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., a 1906 graduate and ND's president from 1928­1934. 
Notre Dame, oui· lvlothe1; Tende1; strong and true, Proudly in the heavens, Gleams thy Gold and Blue. Glo1y's mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts foreve1; Praise thee, Notre Dame; And oui· heartsforeve1; Love thee, Notre Dmne! 



ews 
tory of the . r The Barack 
bama 
Commencement Controversy 
Jason G'Sell, Kate Mullaney & Erica Pepitone 
A Presidential History 
-
1
Notre Dame is noted for its commitment to tradition. President Barack Obama's Commencement speech continued the 
. 
longstanding practice of inviting standing 
. 
presidents to address the graduating class. 
. 
Obama is the ninth president to be awarded an honorary degree from Notre Dame and, in accordance with tradition, the latest in a line of Commencement speakers to create controversy at Notre Dame. 
I 
Although the United States has had only one Catholic president,] ohn F. Kennedy, who gave the Commencement address in 1950, the speakers university chooses are often criticized for the holding beliefs that are not in accordance with Catholic teaching. 
"\Vhile, according to a May 10, 2008 report 
in The Observe1; the only uproar surrounding. the 1977 Commencement at which President 
Jimmy Carter spoke seemed to be a lack of available tickets for families, bothDemocratic and Republican Commencement speakers have been condemned for opposing values the university espouses, oftentimes a single issue. Even the politician who had already secured a spot in Notre Dame lore by portraying the Gipper in "Knute Rockne, All-American" faced disapproval when awarded an honorary degree as Commencement speaker in 1981­those affiliated with the university objected to then-President Ronald Reagan's support of capital punishment, lax gun-control laws and military action during peacetime, which they said were in opposition to Catholic social teaching. 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 
President George H.W. Bush appeared with Sen. Daniel Moynihan at the 1992 Commencement, a decision met with protest. While the March 30, 1992 edition of The Observerquoted then-University PresidentFr. Edward "Monk" Malloy praising Moynihan's intellectual pursuits, "sensitive [ity] to the cry of the poor and commendably supportive [attitude toward] higher education," his pro­choice voting record concerned many Notre Dame affiliates. Similar to his course of action for the 2009 commencement speaker, Bishop John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend did not attend the 1992 Commencement because he believed it would demonstrate approval for Moynihan's position on the single issue. 
Another 82 (of 283) U.S. bishops joined D'Arcy in opposing ND's decision this year. 
Controversy again arose in 2001, this time against the conservatives, with President George W. Bush's speech. Protestors gathered because, as the May 10, 2008 edition of The Observer reported, "his stance on capital punishment, labor, the environment and the military were seen as c~ntrary to Catholi~ moral teaching." 
An Immediate Reaction 
Immediately after the Rev. John Jenkins C.S.C. announced the university's invitation to Obama, the response from all those affiliated with the University was overwhelming. Everyone had an opinion; the opinions, however, were extremely varied. 
The vVeb site NDResponse.com was 
created shortly after the announcement to 
combat the President's visit with the support 
of several student groups. 
"Our objection is not a matter of political partisanship, but of President Obama's hostility to the Catholic Church's teachings on the sanctity of human life at its earliest stages. Further, the University's decision runs counter to the policy of the United · States Conference of Catholic Bishops against honoring pro-choice politici;ms," the 
site read. 
Jenkins's response argued the Bishops' 
ruling did not apply because Obama is not 
Catholic. In addition, he affirmed Notre 
Dame's commitment to the pro-life cause. 
"The invitation to President Obama... 
should not be taken as condoning or 
endorsing his positions on specific issues 
;egarding the protection of human life, 
including abortion and embryonic stem cell 
research. Yet, we see his visit as a basis for 
further positive engagement," said Jenkins 
in a statement on March 24. 
The reaction to many protests, particularly 
those displaying graphic images of aborted 
fetuses, was very mixed and passionate on 
both sides, heightening the emotional aspect 
of the controversy. 
"It cheapens the argument. As someone 
who is pro-life, I don't respect it," Mary 
Teresa Disipio said in The Washington Post 
regarding the plane displaying such an image 
which flew over campus in the weeks prior to 
commencement. 
Alumni made their opinions, both for and 
against Obama's visit, known as well, many 
NEWS 
through Viewpoint letters to The Observe1: However, students were among · the most opinionated on both sides. Junior Kathleen Donahue spoke on behalf of NDResp~nse view on Fox News. 
"You can't separate [Obama's] views on abortion and his actual actions...from his leadership, so as a Catholic institution, we can't honor leadership that doesn't consider the sanctity of human life," Donahue said in the appearance. "President Obama's hostile actions towards the unborn directly· contradict Church teaching: abortion is in every case an intrinsic evil." 
In the March 26, 2009 edition of The Observe1; senior Andrew Nesi said in an Op-Ed column that both the President and the protestors should be embraced by the University. 
"Welcoming all to our campus and allowing this critical Catholic debate to play out here are not just numb tolerance. They're an all-too-rare opportunity to live out the mission of our University in a prominent, public way," Nesi said. 
Outside Reaction 
The Obama controversy sparked not only spirited student responses, but drew much national attention as well. Given Notre Dame's status as a pre-eminent Catholic university, it seemed inevitable that Obama's visit would create national attention, but few could have expected the amount of letters, emails, and phone calls that came forth from activists with little or no connection to the university. 
Protestors came from across the country to persuade Jenkins to rescind the university's invitation to Obama, livid with the notion that a Catholic university would choose to honor a pro-choice politician. Activist Randali Terry took charge, organizing a series of protests in front of the university's main gates. Pro-life supporters held posters depicting aborted fetuses as Terry waved a banner with images of Fr.Jenkins, President Obama and Christ crucified, stating, "Would you invite Pilate after he condemned Christ?" 
As Notre Dame students became more upset with the nature of the protests, Terry was quoted on the front page of the April 8, 2009 edition of The Observer saying, "We will make this a circus". Though many students and faculty called the protestors to engage in scholarly debate, it seemed as if the efforts of the protesters only intensified. Alan Keyes, a Republican who ran against and lost to Obama in 2004 for an Illinois Senate seat, joined Terry in his protests. Both men were arrested when they tried to march onto campus grounds. 
The conflict seemed to peak when the Center for Bio-ethical Reform, a non-profit organization claiming to fight for the dignity of all life through education, introduced the student nicknamed "Abortion Plane", as well as trucks with graphic images of aborted fetuses. The plane circled campus carrying banners behind it with an image of an aborted fetus and messages such as "Fr. Jenkins change your mind," and "this is what you're [sic] honoring." The plane continued flying in the airspace around campus throughout final exams and senior week. 
Because Notre Dame is a private university, all non-student protestors must remain off campus or run the risk of arrest; the university, however, did not have authority over the airspace around campus. 
The Center for Bio-ethical Reform claims that such protests will continue in the fall. 0 
The Big Day
Commencement day, May 19, dawned sunny and cool. Several hundred anti-abortion demonstrators, dozens of whom were arrested when they attempted to march onto campus, lined Angela Boulevard. Apeaceful pro-life Mass on South Quad drew more than 1,000 people, and about 25 seniors who chose not to attend the Joyce Center ceremonies marked commencement with a prayer service at the Grotto. Meanwhile, inside the Joyce, Obama received an enthusiastic welcome. He and Jenkins addressed the controversy, with Jenkins quoting Pope John Paul ll's call for universities to be places "for a fruitful dialogue between the Gospel and culture." "More than any problem in the arts or sciences-engineering or medicine-easing the hateful divisions between human beings is the supreme challenge of this age," Jenkins said. "If we can solve this problem, we have achance to come together and solve all the others." Obama said he seeks adialogue of "fair minded words." "When we open our hearts and our minds to those who may not think precisely like we do or believe precisely what we believe-that's when we discover at least the possibility of common ground," Obama said. "So let's work together to reduce the number of women seeking abortions by reducing unintended pregnancies, and making adoption more available, and providing care and support for women who do carry their child to term. "Let's honor the conscience of those who disagree with abortion, and draft a sensible conscience clause, and make sure that all of our health care policies are grounded not only in sound science but also in clear ethics as well as respect for the quality of life." Obama's speech was interrupted by individuals shouting from the crowd. They were drowned · out by graduates chanting "We are ND," and removed by security. By Monday afternoon, the usual summer quiet had returned to campus. 


THE SHIRT 2009: GOLDE,N·IS THY FAME 
CELEBRATING TWENTY YEARS 
lrt honor ofthe 1loenlieth Anrliuersary ofThe Shirt Project, T/ze Shirt 2009 is gold. Throughout the design, both the type alld images haue been grapliically distressed, symbolizing the old but enduring legacy ofNotre Dame football created by Notre Dame's loyal sons and daughters. 
THE CALL TO RISE AND STRIKE 
Taken from the song, "Hike, Notre Dame," Rise and Strike is a call to action. It commands the Notre Dame community 
to rise and strike our opponents, and it demands that UJe fight UJith force andferocity. These three simple UJords urge 
both fans and players to UJake up the echoes and shake doUJn 
the thunder. There is no room for UJeakness or doubt in the Notre Dame community-only maximum effort is acceptable. 
FIGHTING TO DEFEND OUR HONOR 
A call that goes ullheeded or unanswered is pointle.~s. Why must UJe Ilise and Strike?-The back ofThe Shirt 2009 has the answer: To Defend Our Honor. The design references a famous third-quarter goal-line stand against Penn Stale in 
the Snow Bowl of1992, serving as a tribute to the countless football players UJho haue defended the honor ofNotre Dame 
in years past. 
The message ofThe Sliirt 2009, then, is simple. We-the/ans, students, athletes, and alumni ofNotre Dame -need lo rise and strike. /rt Notre Dame Stadium, on the battleground of champions, we must strike fear iflto the hearts ofour oppo­nents dnd drive them from the field. We must show the UJorld that we are Notre Dame, that this place is sacred, and that we will not back down. We never haue. We l!euer will. 

NEWS 
Michael O'Connor 
AnTostal: The Celtic festival of spring; a week.long celebration hosted by the Student Union Board with fun events for students. 

Bookstore Basketball: The largest 5-on-5 outdoor basketball tournament in the world, held on campus every spring. 

D6, D2/D2000: Student parking lots, located near South Quad and North Quad, respectively. 

Dogbook: The photo directory of Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen; a traditional aid for finding dates to dances. 

The Huddle: A convenience store located in LaFortune Student Center. 

JACC ("Jack"): Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center; home of basketball and hockey games. 


Parietals: Dorm visiting hours that permit members of the opposite sex to be present only during certain times of the day. 

Reckers: A 24-hour restaurant located behind South Dining Hall. 

The Rock: Knute Rockne Memorial, an exercise facility on South Quad. 

The Shirt:: Worn by most students and fans at football games; proceeds from sales are used to fund many student activities on campus. 

Slonehenge: War memorial fountain at the south end of North Quad; a popular location for many unofficial freshman orientation activities. 

SYR: Officially called a "theme dance," "Screw Your Roommate" got its name from the legendary tradition of setting up one's roommate with a date from the Dogbook. 

Clover Village: Apartment complex formerly known as Turtle Creek and formerly popular among ND students; located very close to campus, it was hit hard by a local noise ordinance, but remains home to "Rally in the Alley," a large party at the beginning and end of the school year. 


Make sure to look good and hard. The following faces belong to those people that you, as a Notre Dame student, should know. JENKINS: InApril 2004, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was elected the 17th president of Notre Dame by the board of trustees. He is the university's third president since 1952. Jenkins, 55, is a 1976 graduate of Notre Dame. He received a master's degree from the university in 1978, and he also holds two degrees in philosophy from Oxford University. Jenkins was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1983. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1990 as a professor in the Department of Philosophy. From 1997 to 2000, Jenkins served as the religious superior for the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. In 2000, he was named vice president and associate provost of the university. During the 2003-2004 school year, Jenkins was on sabbatical, serving as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago. Jenkins made himself the subject of much controversy two years ago when he initiated a campus-wide discussion on the relationship 
10 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2009 
between academic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. The discussion centered around whether or not to allow the continued presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Gay and Lesbian Film Event on campus . Jenkins ultimately decided not to prohibit these two events but to require discussion panels as a way to encourage dialogue about the issues. He has also come under much scrutiny recently for inviting pro-choice President Barack Obama to speak at the 2009 Commencement and awarding him an honorary law degree. 
WEIS: In December 2004, Charlie Weis was hired as the head football coach of the Fighting Irish, following the firing of Tyrone Willingham, who had served for three years as head coach. 
Although Weis was not the university's first choice, he fit the job description. Even before coaching his first game in blue and gold, he already had something in common with Irish legends Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy-a Notre Dame diploma. In addition to his Class of 1978 ring, he has four Super Bowl rings from his 27-year coaching career. 
Weis has studied the game from every 
perspective and at every level. He began his 
career as a high school coach in New Jersey 
before moving to the collegiate level with 
the University of South Carolina and from · 
there on to the NFL. Along the way, Weis 
worked as a defensive assistant, offensive 
coordinator and special teams coach. 
Weis was greeted enthusiastically and 
quickly achieved rock-star status on campus. During his second year as head coach, Weis led the Notre Dame football team to an · impressive 10-3 record and a place in the 
Sugar Bowl. After a dismal record of 3-9 in 
2007 and a disappointing 7-6 record in 2008, 
Weis will need to prove that he can carry 
on the winning tradition of Notre Dame 
football in 2009 and beyond. 
POORMAN: The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., is beginning his 11th year as vice president of student affairs, a position in which he oversees several programs, including Campus Ministry, Student Activities, multicultural and international student affairs, Notre Dame Security Police and the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife). When he accepted the position in April of 1999, he said that his new 
NEWS 

responsibilities gave him a chance to "serve since 1986. He also has served as a professor of "Father Ted" finds time to connect with [the] students," a task which he admits is "at theology since 1974. Malloy was remarkably students, often guest-lecturing in the once daunting and exciting." accessible for a university president, and he classroom and presiding over Mass in 
Prior to serving as vice president, Poorman continues conducts a freshman seminar each residence halls. His presence on campus was an associate director ofCampus Ministry, semester and resides in an undergraduate is ubiquitous; the library, center for rectorofDillon Hall and a priest-in-residence residence hall. Several years ago, before international studies and the public service in Grace Hall before it was converted into a knee injury, Malloy even played an program all bear his name. offices. Poorman received his bachelor's occasional game of basketball with students. degree from the University of Illinois and He received undergraduate and graduate BREY: Brey joined the Irish as the men's a Master of Divinity from Notre Dame. He degrees in English from Notre Dame, a head basketball coach .in July 2000 after later earned a doctorate in Christian ethics second master's in theology while studying leaving the University of Delaware. He from the Graduate Theological Union in for the priesthood, and a doctorate in made his excitement about coaching at Notre Berkeley, Calif. Christian ethics from Vanderbilt University. Dame clear in his first press conference: "I've 
He also has received countless awards, only been to South Bend twice before today, MCGRAW: Entering her 23rd season including 22 honorary degrees. Malloy has road games when I was at Duke University," 
as the women's basketball coach, Muffet McGraw is only the third person to head the women's basketball program at Notre Dame. Over the past two decades, McGraw has led the Irish to an NCAA Championship in 2001, two Final Four appearances in 1997 and 2001, and six Sweet Sixteen trips, all in the last 11 seasons. 
iVIcGraw draws from her own experiences on the court. She was a four-year starter at Saint Joseph's University in Philadelphia, Pa. The 5-foot-6-inch point guard then coached at a Catholic high school for two years before joining the California Dreams, of the since­folded Women's Professional Basketball League, for one season. 
McGraw has built the Irish women's program into one of the most competitive _in the country, and she is not going anywhere else anytime soon. InJune 2008, she signed a contract extension that leaves her at the helm of the Irish women through the 2014-15 season. 
MALLOY: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., (ND '63, '67, '69) served his final term as the 16th president of Notre Dame in 2004, a position that he had held served as co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (a component 
ofthe Nationa!Institutes ofHealth) and chair · 
of the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. 
HESBURGH: The Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (ND '39) served as Notre Dame's 15th president from 1952 to 1987, the longest tenure of any active American university president. As president emeritus to the university (the position that he currently holds), Hesburgh has played a pivotal role in developing several of Notre Dame's academic institutes.· 
Perhaps Hesburgh's most distinguished contributions are those he has made to national and international public service. He has held 16 U.S. presidential appointments involving many major social issues, including civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, Third World development and immigration reform. Among the recognitions that he has received are the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Freedom. 
he said. "[I] left on the bus [ ... ] and drove off this campus many times, [thinking,] 'I wonder if I could ever be good enough to [coach] at a place like this.' All I can say is, wow, we're here." 
And Brey has left his mark. In 2001, he led the Irish to their first NCAA tournament appearance since 1990. He since has led the team to four more tournament appearances, including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2003. Earlier that season, Brey's Irish defeated three top-10 opponents, a first in Notre Dame history. Brey was named Big East Coach of the Year in 2007 and 2008. 
Brey's career winning percentage in 13 years as an NCAA head coach is .658. Before coaching at Delaware and Notre Dame, Brey served as an assistant at Duke under Mike Krzyzewski and as head coach at prep powerhouse De.Matha High School in Maryland. 
0 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 

Regina Gesicki 
It's time to begin that daunting task of packing. "Where do I start?" you ask. Never fear. VVhether you're a list-maker or a bag-stuffer, Scholastic has the low-down on dorm room necessities. When you arrive on campus, don't be discouraged by the looks of your room. \il/hile they come with the standard desk, bed and closet, empty dorm quarters tend to resemble prison cells. Be sure to bring plenty of posters, pictures and even Christmas lights to spruce up the walls. Some students buy rope lights or shamrock­shaped lights for school spirit. .Most rooms have only a single overhead light fixture and fluorescent lights over the sink, so floor lamps do wonders. You also will want a desk lamp and maybe one small light to clip onto your bed for late-night reading before you doze off to sleep. Speaking of sleeping, the beds do not come with linens, so make sure you bring some bedding -sheets, blankets, pillows, comforters for the cold winters, etc. ­whatever will make you feel comfortable. Body pillows are great for lying on the floor and studying. Most dorm rooms are now equipped 
12 ISCHOLASTIC ISUMMER 2009 
with modular furniture, which means you can bunk your bed on top of your desk and wardrobe. 
To make for a homier crib, you might want to bring a couch or futon. Ifspace, money or transportation is a problem, canvas butterfly chairs or bean bag chairs are the way to go. You also may want carpet or rugs to cover the hard floor, which can get very cold to walk on in the winter. A carpet sale takes place on campus at the Stepan Center during Freshman Orientation weekend, and usually you can find the right fit for your room at the campus sale. Room dimensions vary, and some can be found on the Office of Residence Life and Housing Web site. (Visit http://orlh.nd.ec1u.) 
Pack a shower caddy to tote your soap and shampoo to and from the community bathrooms. A robe or large towel and shower shoes (i.e., flip-flops) are also a necessity. 
As far as laundry goes, you can do it yourself or use St. .Michael's Laundry Service. St. Michael's is an on-campus laundry service that will pick up your dirty clothes, wash them and return them for a fee. Ifyou decide to do your own laundry, most dorms have coin-operated washers and dryers ($1.50 and $1.00 to wash and dry one load, respectively). Make sure to bring rolls of quarters, a laundry basket or bag to haul your duels to the laundry room, detergent, stain remover and a drying rack for clothing you'd rather not shrink. Also, if you do not want to lug those quarters around, you should think about purchasing Domer Dollars, which are credited to your student card. As an added incentive, each load of laundry is 25 cents cheaper using the "dollars." 
One of the most important decisions will be whether or not to bring a computer and, if so, whether to use a desktop or a laptop. If you choose to leave your computer at home, you can use one in a computer cluster on campus. Some students, however, prefer to write papers and e-mails from the comfort of their rooms, which makes a desktop computer an ideal choice. Most students find it easier to bring a laptop computer to school. This allows students more freedom when working on papers or using the Internet, as they can relocate to their hearts' desire. 
There are many ways to connect to the Internet in Lafortune Student Center and Hesburgh Library if you bring a laptop. These campus buildings and all the dorms recently have been outfitted with wireless Internet connections. For non-wireless computers, there are standard ethernet jacks available around campus. Additionally, if you don't want to lug a printer to campus, both color and black and white printers are available in the computer clusters. Every student is given $100 in his print quota at the start of the school year; black-and-white printing costs 10 cents per page. Color pages deduct 75 cents. 
As far as entertainment goes, bring whatever tickles your fancy. Many students bring televisions for those much-needed study breaks. The dorms are equipped with cable, but if you and your roommate are movie addicts, you may want to bring a DVD player. A CD player or iPod will provide some musical variety. Get in touch with your roommate to divvy up the more expensive items you'll share. 
Aside from West and Mod Quad dorms, most are without air conditioning. A fan may come in handy for those hot nights at the beginning and end of the school year. 
One thing to remember is that microwaves are not allowed in the dorm rooms. Most floors in the dorms have a microwave in the common room for making popcorn or Easy Mac late at night. It might be a good idea to bring a hot pot that will boil water so you can make Ramen noodles, the quintessential college food. 
Rooms no longer come equipped with land line phones. For an extra fee, however, you can get one for your room. A cellular phone has many advantages, often including free long distance service and increased mobility. Cell phones are one of the easiest ways to keep in touch with family, old friends from home anc! new friends around campus. 
As far as wardrobe goes, there are a few must-haves. Don't forget warm clothing for the infamously cold South Bend winter. You'll need a warm coat, gloves or mittens and a hat if you don't want to freeze. Bring a raincoat, umbrella or poncho for rainy walks to class and football games. Remember to bring outfits and shirts in your dorm's color to show your spirit at pep rallies. Since most of the closets are small, you may want to buy some plastic shelving containers, which are cheap and practical. 
A swimsuit is a must for the mandatory swim test that all freshmen take at the beginning of the year. Each dorm will have a couple of dances -both formal and semi­formal -each semester. Pack a fun dress or two or a jacket or suit and tie for such occasions. 
Don't forget a camera to capture all the fun memories you are about to experience at football games, pep rallies and dorm events. 
Ifyour suitcases are stuffed, or ifyou forget something, do not worry. Although South Bend may not be a buzzing metropolis, it does have plenty of retail stores. The University Park Mall is complete with a Macy's, Banana Republic, Gap, Sephora, Express and many other stores. And ifyou absolutely must have your favorite teddy bear or your bottle cap collection, Mom and Dad are just a phone call and a care package away. 
CULTURE 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 
CROSSINGS 
i;;-~ 2 -a----m ~acg :q 
cArf r9ffif 

f!!9 &l&a e+9 HHFdfEdfY 


~esc
HUDDLE 
FOOD COURT 
nungrya7/ 
NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
Wherever you are on campus, there's a~ood Services location to serve you. 
---~
·~~~-,-i-c 

CULTURE 
Per ect 
@ 
-' 
w 
0 
w 
z 
:;;: w
Strangers z 
2 

Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Welcome to your new dorm room. Behind your door you will find a bed, a desk and a roommate. Have a good year! It may be true that some universities house gigantic supercomputers that match each incoming freshman with a roommate of compatible sleeping and study habits, as well as similiar musical and neatness preferences. Alas, at Notre Dame there is no such system. Roommate pairings are randomly selected, and you will not receive any sort · of personality questionnaire that will be fed into a supercomputer to match you to your dream roommate. But fear not. The indiscriminate process of the Office of Residence Life and Housing is not without its merits. For many of you, college will be your first experience living in the same room with another human being. Even for those who currently share rooms with siblings, your dorm situation will be much different. It is no longer feasible, for example, to resolve every disagreement with a punch in the arm or relentless teasing. While the resident assistant (RA) is there to help _you with your problems, you'll find that. banging on the wall and constant finger-pointing will get you nowhere. Rarely, however, will a situation arise which needs more than a little heart-to-heart talk. Rooming with a complete stranger is a unique opportunity. Despite Notre Dame's unsystematic approach, you'll find that you are more adaptable to dealing with a shared room than you may think. vVhat's more, the amount of influence you currently have on the matter is, well, none. Fretting about your future roomie is a waste of your precious summer time, so don't lose sleep over it. The spectrum of roommate relations can be divided into three simple categories. Note: Rememberthatyourroommate-to-beis 
in 
z 
~ 
>--"' 
U) 
:::, 
-' 
cc! 
probably reading this same thing right now. You both have the opportunity to make your living situation as comfortable as possible. 
Kindred Spirits 
You may move in on your first day, meet your roommate and pledge your eternal friendship to him or her within an hour. Or the engagement may take a couple weeks. In either case, count yourself among the lucky few if you find a best friend in your roommate. You'll both love Kanye West and hate country. You'll own the same color of shower sandals, and you'll have more fun playing in the box your Gateway was shipped in than actually using the computer. Within a month, you'll know each other inside and out. 
While rare, this situation is certainly possible. Always having your best friend around you adds to your comfort level, and you'll likely meet people together and share a good number of friends. Beware, though. Don't box yourself in during Freshman Orientation weekend. Use it as a chance to meet as many fellow students as possible. Remember to be your own person and, for goodness' sake, don't pass up a chance to play volleyball with your brother-sister dorm because you and your roommate are busy battling it out on the Xbox. 
I'm OK, You're OK 
This may be the most common situation for roommates. There is absolutely nothing wrong with not asking your first-year roommate to be best man or maid of honor at your wedding. In this instance, your roommate is nice, considerate, relatively neat and gives you your space. Whatever his or her personality may be, it's not difficult to live with this person. In this scenario, you'll both make friends ofyour own but have pizza and 
. . 
---~.-.-~ 
watch a movie together every once in a while. At the very least, you'll have a comrade to join you as you head to the dining hall those first few nights or to throw a Frisbee on the quad with after class. 
You'll get to meet all of your roommate's friends, and you can introduce him or her to yours. Failing to achieve communal nirvana in your own room will send you down the hall, to another floor or to another dorm for your best friends. The more effort you make, the more people you'll meet, and the more likely you are to make those lifelong friends. 
It Wasn't Meant to Be 
Sadly, some roommates just don't get along. You may verbally argue on several room-related points, or your roommate could be so inconsiderate that you actually look forward to parietals. Whatever the case may be, don't hesitate to ask your RA for advice. The worst rooming situations can warrant room changes, but this scenario is rare. 
On the bright side, you will have an especially strong impetus for making friends outside the room and a good reason to get involved in extracurricular activities. Don't let the person you share a room with taint your overall college experience. 
Chances are, despite your assigned roommate, your first year at Notre Dame will be among the greatest ofyour life. Take heart in the fact that your future roommate has the same reservations you might have about living with someone you've never met. To ensure a good year, be yourself, be considerate and,' perhaps most important of all, keep your mess confined to your side of the room. 
0 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 15 
-

Peter Hadley & Jessica Farmwald 
Everyone knows Notre Dame has a Jong history of tradition, but few besides alumni and students are familiar with the traditions ofits residence halls. Read on for a briefintroduction to some ofthese time-honored events -from the charitable to the bizarre. 
west 
Welsh Family: Welsh Fam is home to the Whirlwinds and is traditionally a sports powerhouse on campus. The easternmost residence hall on West Quad organizes one of the more unique events on campus: the Welsh Family Feud, a game-show style competition that pits dorms against each other, part of a spirit week full of events centered around dorm pride. West Quad boasts the newest dorms on campus, the only residence halls on campus other than Mod Quad to have air-conditioning. 
Keough: The Kangaroos put on the annual Keough Chariot Race. Each dorm 
16 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 
builds its own chariot to 
win fame, Ben-Hur style. 
For their White Wedding 
Dance -with themes such 
as "Pirates" and "Mafia" 
-the men of Keough 
nominate one 'Roo from 
each section to compete for 
the title of Captain Keough. 
_ ,_,,, Keough, partnered with 
Welsh Fam, is known for dominating Late Night Olympics, a night of competitions for charity among the halls. 
McGlinn: The Shamrocks of McGlinn are best known for hosting Casino Night, a1,1 evening ofgambling and games. Students can buy raffle tickets and place bets with fake money or display their moves on the dance floor. All proceeds benefit Our Lady of Hungary Catholic Parish and School. 
O'Neill: Built as the first male residence hall on West Quad in 1996, O'Neill has been home to some of the most active and rowdy men on campus ever since. Known as "The Angry Mob," the men of O'Neill show their dorm pride at pep rallies and at signature events, including the Miss ND Pageant. O'Neill co-sponsors an event with Lyons called "Recess" -a number of playground games and Ring-Pops and candy necklaces br-ing students back to their middle-school years. 
Duncan: The Highlanders, the new kids on the block for 2008, welcomed in their inaugural year with the Highlander games, which had participants battle in "Scottish" events including a shackle race and javelin throw. 
Ryan: Following the 2008 opening of men's dorm Duncan Hall, Ryan Hall will be a women's dorm opening in fall 2009. Underwritten by the Ryan Family, the 74,600-square-foot hall will house 246 students of which approximately 87 will be first-year students. It will feature a variety of room types and is designed in the University's traditional collegiate Gothic style. 

CULTURE 

Sorin College: The Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., former university president, lives in this men's dorm, the oldest residence hall on campus. It became a "college" in the 1960s when the Otters seceded from the university to protest Notre Dame's stance on the Vietnam War. Sorin hosts an off­color talent show during one home football weekend each year. Rubbing the right foot on the statue of Father Sorin at the main entrance brings good luck. Past residents of 
north 
Sorin College include Knute Rockne, George Gipp and Moose Krause. 
Walsh: Not to be confused with Welsh Fam, Walsh Hall was named for Notre Dame's sixth president, who is credited with instituting the university's first intercollegiate football team. The Wild Women host the Walsh Wild ·week 
in the fall, a series of competitive and not-so­competitive events. It culminates in the Mr. ND Pageant. vValsh also hosts Football 101, a popular question and answer session with players from the football team. 
Lewis: Lewis is the largest women's dorm on campus, and its residents, the Chicks, participate in the SK Chicken Run to kick off their spirit week. Each resident anonymously invites a date to the Chicks' signature dance, the Lewis Crush, which ends the week of activities. The names of the Chicks' chosen dates are announced in an ad in the Observer, the university newspaper. The building served as housing for nuns until 1975 and is famous for their patio and accompanying covered walkway. 
St. Edward's: St. Ed's is the oldest campus building now used as a dorm, although it didn't become a residence hall until 1929. It is the only residence hall listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall, or the Stedsmen, began a tradition of wearing kilts to football pep rallies. St. Ed's holds an annual event called Founders Week which includes a 2-on-2 basketball tournament and a charity shootout. All proceeds from Founders Week go to a charitable cause. St. Ed's has an end-of-the­year dance on a yacht in Chicago. It is also home to a weekly Spanish Mass. 


Cavanaugh: The women of Cavanaugh have an annual weekend in the spring during which dads become dates for a dance at the College Football Hall of Fame or moms come in for a brunch. Which parent comes alternates each year. Every winter, they also put on a spirit week leading up to their Snow Ball, a formal dance held in LaFortune Student Center. This past spring, the Chaos hosted their annual Dance-a-than as a fundraiser for Hannah and Friends, a foundation that works with children with autism. The foundation was started by Head Football Coach Charlie Weis. Cavanaugh was hall of the year in 2008-2009. 
Zahm: The most infamous dorm on campus, Zahm transforms its incoming freshmen into loyal, mischievous Zahmbies. Before the first pep rally each year, the men of Zahm perform the Torquemada (a ceremony mysteriously kept under wraps). In true fraternity spirit, most members of the dorm insist on calling their home 
"Zahm House" instead of Zahm Hall. 
Keenan: Keenan is connected to Stanford Hall by the Chapel of the Holy Cross. The Keenan Knights distinguish themselves with their signature event, the wildly successful Keenan Revue. The revue is a three-night show that the Knights put on every February. A sellout crowd attends this collection of original student comedy. Keenan is also host to a huge mud volleyball tournament in the spring. 
Stanford: The men of Stanford live directly across the quad from North Dining Hall. The Griffins once were known as the Studs; but changed their mascot in tribute to former rector, the Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. They also put on an Iron Grill contest where contestants from each dorm compete 
. to grill the best steak. Every spring they host the Benefit Bash, a late-night event, with proceeds supporting an orphanage in Chile. 
Farley: Farley Hall, located next to North Dining Hall, has been a women's dorm since Notre Dame went co-ed in 1972. Pop Farley week is perhaps the best-known event of the Finest. This celebration, which culminates with a dance, features a different fun activity for the Finest and their dates each day of the week. 
Breen-Phillips: The Babes of BP raise money each year for diabetic patients with their Meal Auction. Students and faculty members bid to eat with campus celebrities who have volunteered for the event, such as former university president Father Hesburgh and former Notre Dame running back and vVashington Redskin Reggie Brooks. In the late winter or early spring, Breen­Phillips provides relief from the cold with its Beach vVeek. 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 
CULTURE 
mod 

Siegfried: The Ramblers of Siegfried compete annually against Knottin the Flanner Cup, a week's worth of events including tug­o-war matches, arm wrestling and relay races. The week culminates with a dance co­sponsored by the two men's dorms. Siegfried also sponsors the annual Rambler Scrambler, a putt-putt tournament where sections in the dorm construct each hole of the course. 
south 

Alumni: Conveniently located at the intersection of God Quad and South Quad and known to its residents as "The Center of the Universe," Alumni is home to the Dawgs. Each spring, the Dawgs host Wake Week, an event steeped in tradition and shrouded in mystery. Alumni's biggest rival is its neighbor, Dillon. The rivalry is re-ignited with Rivals Week, during which Alumni and Dillon compete in different sports competitions. 
Dillon: The largest dorm on campus, housing over 350 students, Dillon was voted Hall of the Century. Its signature event is the Dillon Pep Rally, which is held before the first home football game. The Pep Rally satirizes life at ND and includes keynote speakers and ND cheerleaders. The Big Red also hold the Stache Bash in the spring. The Dillonites all grow mustaches to raise money for charity in anticipation ofa dance. 
Fisher: You'll know Fisher by the gigantic green 'F' on the building. Every spring, Fisher 
18 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 
Knott: At pep rallies, the Juggerknotts can be easily spotted in their orange and blue attire. Each spring, they hold Knott on the Knoll, an afternoon of free food and entertainment from campus bands. Knott also hosts the Justin Brumbaugh Basketball Tournament in honor of a 
former resident who died in his senior year. The Juggerknotts had the honor of being named the 2007-2008 Hall of the Year. 
Pasquerilla West: Nicknamed PW or P­Dub, this dorm is home to the Purple Weasels. In 1981, Pasquerilla West was the first dorm built specifically for women at the University of Notre Dame. In the spring, Queen Week, 
hosts the Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide boat race on St. Mary's Lake. In the fall the Green Wave holds a 50­hour roof-sit, during which students from around campus take turns sitting on Fisher's roof for charity. Plus, Joe Montana lived there. 
Pangborn: Pangborn sits on the far west end of South Quad. It hosts Phoxy Facts (a trivia contest) and a 3-on-3 volleyball tournament in the spring. It also is the site for A Life Uncommon, a group that meets regularly to help students deal with eating disorders. Pangborn hosts the Phox Phire, a bonfire where the effigies of the mascots of opposing football teams are ceremoniously burned. 
Lyons: Easily recognized by its famous arch overlooking St. Mary's Lake, this women's dorm sponsors the Mara Fox Fun Run every fall in honor of a freshman resident killed by a drunk driver in 1993. Money raised from the event goes to a student scholarship fund. Lyons also hosts a beach-themed dance each fall. 
Morrissey Manor: The building isn't just its residents' home, it's also their mascot, the Manor. Morrissey is the second largest men's dorm on campus. Each fall, the men of Morrissey host the Tomatina, a food fight festival based on an annual event held in the an intradorm event, fosters inter-section competitions and ends in a dance. One girl from the winning section is crowned Queen. 
Pasquerilla East: PE is the home of the Pyros and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (a.k.a. PEMCo), which stages a complete musical every February. The troupe's history includes productions of "Godspell," "Guys and Dolls," "Damn Yankees" a~d "Footloose." This past year's play was "Kiss Me, Kate." PE is also proud of its annual intradorm event, the PyrOlympics. The sections compete against each other in relay races and costume contests, among other events. PE is unique because its first through fourth floors are numbered five through eight, in order to differentiate it from Pasquerilla West. 
Valencia region of Spain. The event raises money for the St. Vincent de Paul Society. 
Howard: The ladies of Howard put on a marshmallow roast to celebrate the first snowfall of the school year {arguably the only time that the arrival of snow is welcomed). -Room decorations are a big deal for the Ducks, as they compete against each other in an annual Parade of Rooms. Every fall they host the Howard Hoedown,· a country western-themed dance to kick off the school year. 
Badin: The home of the Bullfrogs is the second-oldest dorm at Notre Dame. In the spring, the women of Badin host a campus­wide karaoke and dance competition, the Badin Breakdown. Their scores from the first round qualify them for a chance to spin the karaoke "Wheel of Death" to compete for gift certificates at local restaurants. 
Carroll: Overlooking St. Mary's Lake from the west edge of campus, Carroll Hall offers a beautiful view. The Vermin enjoy a close-knit environmentas Carroll has the fewest residents ofany dorm. "A Carroll Christmas" features a tree-lighting ceremony and performances by university choirs. The hall's "GO IRISH" banner is made with 80 bed sheets and 10,000 staples. If you've been assigned to Carroll, a bike is a must, unless you want to be late to class every day; this dorm is located farthest from the rest of campus. 

The Core Council for Gay, lesbian, Bi--sexual & Questioning Students 

We Core Council members are administrators, and gay, lesbian, and ally students who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bi-sexual students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and bisexual concerns, we strive to eliminate homophobia, and to make Notre Dame a welcoming and accepting place that prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 
Meet student members of the Core Council and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame campus. 
\··---~---· ·.. .· · ­
.. . ---·-···-------.. 
]·, A ~ECEPTl()N . · .. / 
Foblnterested First-Year Students ·'11t.9?ted by The Core Council 
\'1Jhursday, August 2ih 
Lc;_'t 
·~{;:l:3o:.3:30pjri.·7 
t' ' . .·. .J
316 Col.~rr1a11-l\/l<>.,~~-~.1B'uilding 
( 3rd1tlo,C>r:~Q~,nge) 
Visit our web site~tt6recouncil.,nd.. ed:u 
"L,J• J 
The Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bi-Sexual & Questioning Students also sponsors: Coffee & Conversation at the Co-Mo * Gold Room "Conversations//* Solidarity Sunday* Comm Unity NETWORK Sessions *StaND Against Hate Week *Day of Silence 





CULTURE 
This here is the Gipper, the anonymous spy/writer who keeps this campus up-to-beat on its most absurd, disgusting, immoral and hilarious events. In every issue of Scholastic, Gipp gets to describe the best "tips" received since the last publication. This is where you come in. As readers, you will provide the bullets that allow Gipp to make his fortnightly character assassinations. The Gipper needs you to be his eyes and ears. So screw loyalty to your roommate, friends and lovers. If it's funny, juicy or obscene, Gipp needs to know about it. You report, Gipp derides. 

You've probably heard a few times that Notre Dame is all about Jesus. Actually, many students say that Notre Dame is all about football, beer and strained gender relations, but Gipp supposes that, to some extent, it still is about ol' JC. After all, his mosaic is the officially recognized signaler of touchdowns, and that's kind of important. Plus, you can't spit in the air on this campus without hitting a chapel. But for the sake of brevity, Gipp will try to give you a run-through of the heathen, secular aspects of our campus life. 
• Now, on to dorm life. While ND doesn't have Greek life, it does have a pretty solid system of on-campus housing. Compared to our peers, we have an amazingly high percentage of students living on campus, and almost everyone stays in the dorm they were assigned to freshman year. There is one gigantic catch to our dorms, though. Boys and girls, the Gipper hath seen illogical repression, and thy name is Parietals. Your dictionary (a.k.a. dulac, the official campus rule book) can give you an exact definition, but just know this: If you came to college 
hoping to get closer to a special someone after 1 2 a.m. on weekdays or 2 a.m. on weekends, you might be in for a rude awakening. Some people will tell you that parietals are a good thing, because they signal the end of the night and let everyone get to rest. Right ... because college students aren't old enough to decide when the night is over for themselves. 

That should beall for now, young ones. The Gipper hopes you are as excited to start yourtime here as he is to ruthlessly embarrass you on these pages. Please don't be nervous as you enter this bawdy new world of GippLand, because Gipp promises that you'll adjust quickly. By mid-September you'll be hoppin' across South Quad on your way to LaFun to get some ODs, complaining about ResLife and debating whether to ask your crush from the Rock or that cutie from FYC out on a date to NDH or SDH. Sound fun? 
Enjoy the rest of your summer, and do try to lose 15 pounds in August -just so things are back to even by fall break. And if you remember one thing when you step onto this campus, it's this: Tip Gipp! See ya soon. 
TfPTHeg;PP 
o o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC J23 



\ii 
CULTURE 
j 
YOUR GUIDE TO 
I 
AT NOTRE DAME 

Whether you want to continue your involvement in student government or meet other Domers who share your love of horseback riding, Notre Dame has a club or activity for everyone. Take a look at a few of your choices 



Michael O'Connor 

Scholastic choice: SIBC 
One of the largest student organizations at Notre Dame, the Student International Business Council (SIBC) is the only one of its kind in the nation. Open to all majors, the SIBC is dedicated to providing students with real-world professional experience and international development. Every summer, the SIBC sends dozens ofstudents around the world on international summer internships and teaching positions. 
ANTHROPOLOGY CLUB 
As a club within a major, it aims to establish connections between students and faculty within the department. 
Scholastic choice: ITALIAN AND GERMAN CLUBS 
These two are just a few ofthe many cultural/ language clubs on campus. The Italian Club's activities include opportunities to practice speaking Italian, cooking classes, trips to Chicago's Italian neighborhood and Italian operas in Chicago. The German Club's two yearly highlights are Ok"domer"fest and a trip to Chicago's famed Christkindlmarkt. 
WABRUDA 
This is a relatively new club for African­American males on campus. Part support group and part leadership organization, Wabruda's events range from professional 

·-·~--··-.. ·-_,·.l 
MATH CLUB 
This club brings together students and faculty with and interest in mathematics by hosting guest lecturers and other events. 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL CLUBS These include Pre-Law, Dental, Veterinary and Medicine; they bring guest speakers and admissions representatives from post­graduate schools to campus and provide resources to learn more about the fields of study. 
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 
This club fosters a sense of community among women in engineering through social activities, career aid, service and academic support. 
development workshops to a "Brain Bowl" for localgrade school students to barbeques on campus. 
LAALIANZA 
One of the largest cultural clubs on campus, it was formed about five years ago when several other groups merged. It educates and entertains students through programs that include Hispanic Heritage Month Celebrations and the Latino Formal. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
This club celebrates Asian-American heritage through fellowship, service and events that showcase the unique values of various Asian cultures. 
ENTREPRENEUR CLUB 
A group of individuals who plan to start or have already started their own businesses, the "E-Club" travels to national conferences, sponsors campus speakers, provides internships and job opportunities for club members and prepares members to write business plans and compete in competitions. 
INVESTMENT CLUB 
It provides students of all majors with the opportunity to manage an investment portfolio of over $300,000 of real· money. Weekly presentations, discussions and semester trips to the Chicago Board of Trade make this club vital for establishing connections. 
. . 
~--~-. __ . ., . --~------~-"----·· 
HAWAII CLUB 
Works to share the culture ofHawaii through various social and educational activities, including a luau each spring. This club is open to all students. 
TEXAS CLUB 
An outlet for ND Texans to celebrate and learn about Texas pride and culture. The club sponsors various social activities and campus-related events, as well as helping to bring country artist and Texan Pat Green to campus for a concert in spring 2006. 
24 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 

tournament offers an opportunity for men with va1ying levels of experience to compete to raise money for Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. If you are into boxing and happen to be female, check out the Women's Boxing Club, which hosts Baraka Bouts, the sister event to the Bengal Bouts. 
WOMEN'S RUNNING CLUB 
This running club offers women of all levels the chance to get in shape and learn more about running.They compete in road races in the area and sponsor two big events: the Holy Half Marathon and the Relay for Life, on-campus races that raise money for charity. 
CLIMBING CLUB 
Sponsors rock-climbing trips to places like the Red River Gorge in Kentucky and provides all the necessary gear and training for participants of all levels of experience. 

Scholastic choice: 
UNIVERSITY BANDS 
They include the marching band, several concert bands, jazz bands and brass and percussion ensembles. Tryouts for the bands · are open to all students, undergraduate and graduate, who are enrolled at Notre Dame, 
Saint Mary's or Holy Cross. 
SWING CLUB 
Members meet weekly for two hours of "East Coast" swin.g lessons and dance time. The class is geared toward beginning dancers, but there are student instructors who work privately to challenge and teach intermediate and advanced dancers. 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS, COLLEGE 
LIBERTARIANS, AND COLLEGE 
REPUBLICANS 
These groups hope to raise political awareness and participation among university students. Members also campaign for local candidates. 
THE DOME YEARBOOK 
Always looking for writers and photographers to help with spreads, the Dome is an all-color publication. The time commitment is very flexible, and although experience helps, it is not necessary. 
FARLEY PLAYERS, ST. ED'S HALL PLAYERS AND PASQUERILLA EAST MUSICAL PLAYERS 
A few dorms sponsor groups tl1at put on student tl1eater and musical productions each year. 
ND-8 
Sparked by Notre Dame's Millenium Development Goals, this group works to petition goverments to end extreme poverty. 
GLEE CLUB 
Notre Dame's all-male choir has a strong fraternal atmosphere and focuses on vocal technique and style. The group performs on campus and travels in the U.S. and abroad. 
BAGPIPE BAND 
No prior experience is necessary, as new members are provided free bagpipes for four years and given lessons. The band performs on football weekend mornings in full dress 
(i.e. kilts), as well as at other university and dorm events, particularly around St. Patrick's Day. 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE 
An all-inclusi,:e group that works to improve race relations and interaction at Notre Dame, it encourages increased communication between different racial and cultural groups through informal weekly small group meetings and special events. 
GreenND One of the most environmentally active groups on campus, GreenND provides support for student environmental groups, as ,vell as helping these groups put on events Earth \Veek and Energy week. 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 



CULTURE 

Scholastic choice: csc 
Cross certifications in standard first aid and interested in teaching techniques for non­The Notre Dame Center for Social 
CPR for the professional rescuer. violent conflict resolution to grade school Concerns offers a number of very popular 
students. service trips over fall and spring breaks, 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY providing opportunities to better understand CIRCLE K 
Notre Dame's chapter of the national group social justice issues across the country, from This service group offers around 20 projects 
works each year to build a home in the South 
Florida to D.C. covering a wide range of interests, from
Bend area and sponsors the annual "Shack 
playing with animals at the Humane Society
City" fundraiser. to working at the Juvenile Justice Center.
C.A.S.H. (COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO 
This is the club to join if you can't decide
SERVE HISPANICS) AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE 
what kind of service you want to do.
This group works with local community The university's chapter of the U.S. centers and offers a number of opportunities organization seeks to integrate Catholic for students to serve as translators and social teaching into U.S. policies in Africa. English-language instructors to the Hispanic Each year, this club sponsors Africa Week, community. aimed at raising awareness for justice issues 
in Africa. 
FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) This group serves as the first level of the TAKE TEN emergency medical system for events and A program initiated by the Kroc Institute athletics on campus. Team members hold Red for -Peace Studies, it is open to students 


Scholastic choice: THE BASILICA GROUPS BAPTIST COLLEGIATE MINISTRY CAMPUS MINISTRY RETREATS 
The Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart has a number An organization open to all Christian Notre Dame offers many retreats, including the Freshman Retreat, which is geared
of ministries open to new members. Their traditions, it focuses on fellowship, faith­toward the issues and experiences of early
choirs include the Folk Choir, the Liturgical sharing and Christian living. It holds weekly college life. There are opportunities to leadChoir, the Women's Liturgical Choir and Bible study meetings, church visits, retreats, retreats as upperclassmen, as well as to attend . the Handbell Choir. The Basilica is always shared meals and other activities . 
the popular NDE (Notre Dame Encounter looking for new readers, Eucharistic ministers 
with Christ). and altar servers. KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS A Catholic men's organization focused on IRON SHARPENS IRON service to the community and loyalty to This interdenominational, student-led Bible the Church, the Notre Dame chapter is study group seeks to foster solid Christian dedicated to the principles of the nationwide relationships and to challenge and encourage order through many activities, including its students to grow in their faith through Steak Sales, which raise $40,000 annually for fellowship, praise and worship, Biblical charity. teaching and prayer. -,-------~------~~-,,--,---,,...----,---,--­
•·•.LEADERSHIP/PROGRAMMING> 
~~~-~-~~~-~-~~~~~......._ _.....;.__~-.•,·~~ ·,.t•-'-'-,~._,.;_~--"-----~·'. •"' 
Scholastic choice: STUDENT GOVERNMENT wide events like movies and concerts. Each FLIPSIDE Student government includes class councils class has a council that also plans events. This is a student-run organization whose that plan events for each class, the Hall Many of the candidates each year for student purpose is to program weekend events that Presidents' Council, a Student Senate with council president are former SUB officers. do not involve alcohol, such as bowling, ice­members elected from each dorm and the Joining SUB is a great way to get involved in skating and trips to Chicago. The events Executive Staff. Student Government is student government during freshman year. are open to all students and aim to provide 
the best way for student voices to be heard alternatives to drinking on campus. 0 and for student-planned events and ideas to JUDICIAL COUNCIL become realities. Judicial Council provides peer advocates to 
students facing disciplinary hearings in the SUB Office of Residence Life and Housing. Student Union Board (SUB) plans campus­
26 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 


PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
.. 

Published Since 1867 
Serving the Notre Dame Community SCHOLASTIC 
I 
ISSUES DOLLARS First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
IO 35 
PLEASE PLACE ME ONYOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. NAME:----------------­ADDRESS:--------------­
National Pacemaker Award Winner I 
SENDTHIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENTTO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:IIMARKETPLACE.ND.EDU/ STUDENTSHOPl 

SCHOLASTIC SNAPSHOT 


CULTURE 

Michael O'Connor & Regina Gesicki 
Sometime during the semester, the dining hall's spicy sea nuggets will send you running, or crawling, off campus to the nearest eating establishment. Or perhaps late-night Reckers just isn't making your sweetie feel special enough. Better yet, maybe the parents are in town and want to fulfill their biological duty to feed you. Whatever the reason, getting off campus every now and then will keep your tastebuds in better shape. We propose visiting some of the following venues to satiate your deepest culinary hankerings. 
THE WHITEHOUSE DINER ("FAT SHIRLEY'S") 
Location: Corner of Mishawaka and Twyckenham Prices: Meals range from $2 to $5 
The atmosphere is smoky and the food is greasy, but man is it good. The Whitehouse Diner, nicknamed "Fat Shirley's" after a former waitress' girth, is the place to be after parietals have taken effect and Reeker's becomes a little too played out. The food is cheap, off of a classic diner menu, and breakfast is the house specialty, served all day and all night (the diner is open 24 hours). Note: Avoid anything labeled "stew." 
THE VINE 
Location: 103 W. Colfax (Corner of Michigan and Colfax) Prices: Main courses range from $8 to $15 
Looking for a restaurant that is perfect for a date, dinner with the family or a casual evening with friends? The Vine, in downtown South Bend, has a great atmosphere and even better food. For your main course, try one of several delicious pasta dishes, with or without meat. The dessert menu changes every day, and the wine list is extensive. Best of all, nothing at The Vine is very expensive. 
CJ'S PUB 
Location: 417 North Michigan Street Prices: Burger platters from $6.45 to $10.95 
CJ's Pub is famous for one thing: its burgers. They are enormous, delicious, prepared to order and can be topped with BBQ sauce, Canadian bacon, grilled onions and four types of cheese. It's projector screen and excessive ND paraphernalia add to the experience. It's crowded on football weekends, but it's a fantastic way to experience great food and the ND culture. 
ROCCO'S RESTAURANT 
Location: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. Prices: Pizza starts at $7 
Rocco's has been a Notre Dame staple for many years. All the decorations herald Notre Dame traditions and victories past and present. It is close to campus, so students can be found enjoying the excellent (and inexpensive) pizza on almost any night. Though most people do go for the pizza, the pre-meal antipasto is not to be missed. 
ELIA'S MEDITERRANEAN CUISINE 
Location: 111 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Appetizers range from $1.50 to $4 Entrees range from $6 to $10 
lVIost newcomers -and current students -are surprised at the diversity that South Bend can offer: diversity of food, that is. One Lebanese family operating an ethnic restaurant doesn't exactly mark a boom in 
·the city's cultural demographic, but it does make for interesting eating. Appetizers include hummus, baba ghannouge and grape-leaf rolls. Main courses are healthy and most frequently contain rice, chicken and beans. Desserts, like everything else, are homemade and perfectly complement the coffee. Also, Elia's is cheap, making it a great eat for those on a tight budget. 
_LA ESPERANZA MIKADO 
Location: 1636 North Ironwood Prices: Traditional Mexican food from $8 to $12 
An authentic Mexican Restaurant, La Esperanza serves up fresh and delicious Mexican originals and favorites, from tacos and gorditas to sizzling fajitas. With southwestern decor and music, it has a real Mexican feel. Try it out if you are looking for a more traditional "south of the border" experience than dining hall quesadillas. 
Location: 402 Dixieway North (Route 31) Prices: Dinners range from $6 to $16 
Either sit at a conventional table or up at the teppanyaki counter where the chef will prepare your food right in front ofyou. This Japanese restaurant is popular with students and South Bend residents alike. Its 
•relaxed atmosphere is fine for family dining or a date. Ifyou like darker meat, we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak. If you like sushi, come here to get it fresh. The menu includes items like octopus and barbequed eel for more adverturous eaters. Relatively inexpensive, Mikado is fun for a quick break from campus dining fare. 
LULA'S CAFE 
Location: 1631 Edison Road Prices: Coffee from $2 to $5, food from $3 to $7 
Lula's Cafe is located just off campus, making it a popular study spot and hangout 
· for students. The coffee is always fresh, and the specials change daily. Try one of Lula's seasonal offerings or go for one of the cafe's new twists on old favorites, such as the Brie grilled cheese. Take some time to check out the eclectic decor ·as you enjoy your meal. 0 
SUMMER 2009 I'SCHOLASTIC I31 



NOTRE DAME'S MOST POPULAR 
SOCIAL NETWORK 

There are over 250 undergraduate clubs and organizations at ND that draw more than 500,000 participants every academic year to events, performances, competitions, rehearsals, practices, meetings and more. Learn more about getting involved with a student group that interests you at Activities Night. 
TUESDAY• SEPTEMBER 1ST • 7PM-9PM JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
STUDENT AC1111111ES
BAD 
SAO.ND.EDU 
SPORTS 

Sports toriesofth¥ear 
The Magic of Notre Dame 
Marques Camp 
Magic. 
IfI could describe the culture of 
Notre Dame in one word, magic is perhaps the only one that seems appropriate. This magic, rather than the sleight of hand and deception we sometimes associate it with, is an experience of mystical, powerful and charming proportions. The magic is sensed all around, yet cannot be described. The magic is there, but cannot be seen. 
Aside from the undeniable spiritual influence of the magic ofNotre Dame, it is the tradition ofIrish athletics that gives the school its magic. This tradition is what experiencing Notre Dame means. More so than any other college institution in the country, Notre Dame was shaped by the great names of the past who built the foundations for a tradition. The Four Horsemen. Knute Rockne. George Gipp. Austin Carr. Paul Hornung. Joe Montana. Rudy. These are some of the authors that helped pen the magic. 
It is a curious fact that despite the school's prestigious academic and spiritual reputation, it is the athletic tradition that brings in rabid fans from different walks of life; different parts of the world, of all ages -in fact, many of these fans have no direct connection to the university. Yet they are drawn in by the magic, most notably the magic of the football team. Everybody, whether a fan or not, knows about Notre Dame because ofthe unparalleled tradition of the football program. Eleven national championships, seven Reisman 


trophy winners and 96 All-Americans are only 
the beginning of the story. 
For many fans, the Notre Dame campus 
is the Mecca. of college football. Strolling 
across the campus on a crisp autumn Saturday, 
making their way to the legendary Notre 
Dame Stadium, fans can't help but feel 
overwhelmed by the magic and tradition. Less 
like a stadium and more like a cathedral, Notre 
Dame Stadium evokes a transcendent quality; 
more than a 100-yard field and bieacher seats, 
tens of thousands of fans show up every home 
football game to pay homage to the tradition. 
It is an experience that simply cannot be 
duplicated anywhere. 
\tVe often see sports as a novel way to ward off the pressures of everyday life. Attending the football game on Saturday keeps a student's mind off of the homework that is clue for Monday; taking in an exciting basketball game will make one forget about all of the pressures of tests, friends, roommates and homesickness. But more than this, sports, especially at the college level, share a more aggregating quality that not many other activities share: They serve to unite individual people into communities and communities into a whole. Sports bind us together in a web of common experience -they give us all a stake in something, leading us to come together as one body. Much like religion, sports unite people that in many ways had nothing else in common but a shared passion. This fact is what makes Notre Dame and its tradition of athletics unique. More so 
than any other school, Notre Dame is about unity. Not only does the unique athletic tradition build a community of people on campus; it builds a community of people from all over the world. Ask any passionate fan about what makes Notre Dame so special, and the likely answer that you'll get is the magic. For those people who are lucky enough to make the trip to campus, the magic is something that is felt the instant you stand and admire the statue of Mary and the Golden Dome. At this instant you truly recognize that you are standing in a very special place, a place where some of the greatest athletes and coaches in Notre Dame history have also stood. A place where tradition was born and continues to evolve. A place where human experience goes beyond the material and into the spiritual. Notre Dame, above all else, is a place where the spiritual 

·experience takes precedence over all else. 
So feel truly blessed to be on such a magical campus. Every clay, in every Irish athletic team, new authors are working on the story that Rockne, Rudy and others previously wrote. In a sense, to experience athletics today is to experience the works of these great individuals firsthand. vVhether you are a fan of sports or not, Notre Dame will likely touch you in such a way that the transcendent purpose of sport will become apparent. By experiencing the magic and the tradition, you are becoming a part of a strong, united community that is unlike any other. 
Welcome to Notre Dame, and I hope you 
enjoy the show. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily the views of 
Scholastic. 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 


SPORTS 
Women's Soccer 
Lauren Cook 
Although the 2008 Notre Dame women's soccer season culminated in a devastating loss to the University of North Carolina in the final minutes of the NCAA Championship game, the team had an outstanding overall record, and ranked No. 1 in the NCAA. Prior to the championship game, the Irish had only a single loss, in their second game of the year, an exhibition match against Virginia. The Irish recorded 27 wins, 26 of which were consecutive. Their overall season record was 26-1-0, topping the previous school record for most wins (25), tying the record the fewest losses (1) and fewest ties (0). The team also set a school record with a win-loss percentage of .963 If the Irish maintain this record-breaking path, the 2009 season 
is guaranteed to be the best yet. 
The team, however, will have to overcome the loss of some key senior contributors: Brittany Bock, a NSCAA first team All­American and midfielder for the Los Angeles Sol, has been called up to the U.S. National Team; Carrie Dew, a NSCAA first team All­American and current defender for the FC Gold Pride; Kerri Hanks, a three-time NSCAA first-team All-American, two-time Hermann Trophy recipient and player for the Saint Louis Athletica; Rebecca Mendoza, player for the Mexican National Team; as well as Elise Weber and Kerry Inglis. 
With the experience of seven rising seniors, and the promise of strong contributions by a talented new freshman class, the Irish of 2009 show immense promise, especially considering their strong spring season record of 3-1-1. 0 
Men's Basketball 
Tommy Krcmaric 
The men's basketball team began the year ranked seventh in the ESPN poll, the team's highest preseason ranking in many years. Reigning Big East player of the year Luke Harangody and first team all-conference member Kyle McAlarney were two ofthe four starters returning from the previous season's Sweet Sixteen team . 
The Irish rattled off six straight wins to begin the year, including a nail biting 81-80 victory over fifth-ranked Texas. The team's first loss came at the hands ofeventual national champion North Carolina. However, the wheels would soon come off and the Irish would be in for a bumpy ride . 
After a 3-1 start in.the incredibly tough Big East Conference, the Irish looked to be in prime position for a high seed in the NCAA tournament. However, the Irish soon went into a tailspin. Towards the end of the season, the team suffered a seven game losing streak, all but eliminating any NCAA hopes. In the final few games, the Irish were unable to overcome the hole they had dug. The team finished the regular season with a disappointing record of 17-13 and were invited to the National Invitational Tournament (NIT). The Irish made it to the semi-finals of the NIT before falling to Penn State. Overall, though, the season was surely a disappointment. 
Looking forward to next season, the Irish will be relatively inexperienced, as Jackson and Harangody are the only starters returning. Expectations will be low, but the one lesson that can be learned from this year is that expectations aren't everything. 0 

Matt Formica 
Notre Dame vs. Hawaii December 24, 2008 
Christmas Eve could not have been sweeter for Irish fans across the nation, as they watched their blue anq gold clad football team sprint to a Sheraton Hawaii Bowl victory over the Hawaii Warriors, ending an agonizing 9-game bowl-losing streak. 
Maybe it was tl1e refreshing ocean breeze, or maybe it was actually seeing the sun for more than an hour at a time (a rarity during South Bend winters), but there is no denying that the Hawaiian islands brought out the bestinNotre Dame. What had been weaknesses during the regular season suddenly became strengths for the Irish. Notre Dame's return men had gone the entire season without returning a kickoff or punt for a touchdown until sophomore Armando Allen exploded for a 96-yard kickoff return in the third quarter. Additionally, the Irish defense, which managed only 21 sacks in its first 12 games, pressured Hawaii's quarterbacks and recorded eight sacks. 
Notre Dame's offense orchestrated a nearly flawless performance. Sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen displayed phenomenal accuracy in three touchdown grabs and amassed 177 total receiving yards. 

The Fighting Irish could not have snapped their postseason losing streak in a more emphatic fashion. They set team bowl records in points (49), passing yards (413), passingTDs (five) and total yards (478). 
The Irish led comfortably from start to finish. Sophomore running back Robert Hughes opened the scoring with a 2-yard run with 3:07 remaining in the first quarter. Notre Dame's high flying aerial assault, spearheaded by Clausen, proceeded to convert five touchdowns in the second and third _quarters, which put the game out of reach for the vVarriors. 
More important than the bowl game records and gaudy statistics, however, is the momentum this victory helped a struggling Notre Dame football program to develop. As head coach Charlie Weis said, "This was a great step forward for us. It leads us into 2009 with a good taste in our mouth." 0 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
Listening In ... 
~~w Student 1: What's that? 
~i,?Student 2: Scholastic. Law Student 1: What is it? Law Student 2: It's campus news for literate people. 
~ouldn'teven eat that stuff drunk." ~ -Huddle worker, in reference to quarter dogs 
~o,I hooked up with h~s friendyeste1·day." ; r ~ -not-so-secretive female student 
I I fi 
§t)dent 1: What's your favorite class this semester? i ~tuuent : ro a y paras1to ogy. 
l 
c,<~ 2 P b bl . I Student 1: Wow! That's so cool that you get to study all about Paris! 
~Qwdo you spell 'masochist'?" ~ -student filling out a Teacher-Course Evaluation 
132 Years Ago 
An Ideal Freshman 
On September 6, 1876, Scholastic "ventured on giving a little counsel [ ... ] to those who begin their college life this year." 
The freshmen will be ''placed in the midst ofcomrades hailing from all parts ofthe country [. .. } They have good and bad qualities, both ofwhich may exercise some influence on his conduct in life." Each student should only "endeavor to cultivate the friendship of such as may be distinguished for their virtue and intelligence." Lilee the good and bad companions, there are good and bad inclinations: "If he would become an estimable and accomplished man, faithful to the duties oflife, he mustfollow faithfully the promptings ofhis good inclinations and banish at once those ofthe bad." 
The administration strongly adheres to this severe philosophy. Now is the time to begin the banishing, so as to arrive on campus prepared to become "an estimable and accomplished man." 
-Doug Schlarman 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 


CULTURE 
Is there 
anything 
todo around 
here? 
Ryan Greene & Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Welcome to South Bend, the city that sleeps. A lot. If you're looking for a lively, exciting 
town to paint red, don't hold your breath. But while the surrounding area is hardly a wealth of entertaining possibilities, campus life can more than make up for any such shortcomings. Here's a handy guide ofwhat to do on those otherwise dull weekends. 
SCREEN AND STAGE 
• Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) Opened in the fall of 2004, the DPAC is 
one of Notre Dame's newest buildings in an ambitious campus-wide construction plan. The center features five different theatres, including the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre and an innovative 100-seat pipe-organ theater. The theaters have been designed so that concerts may be held simultaneously without noise interference from one theater to another. Covering 150,000 square feet and at a cost-of $64 million, DPAC is the home of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. The new theaters absorb some of the student performances traditionally held in Washington Hall in addition to serving as a venue for outside acts. The Browning Cinema is also the only THX-certified movie theater in Indiana. 
•NDCinema 
You can catch the best of Hollywood, independent and international films at DPAC 
I 
I 38 I SCHOLASTIC I SUMMER 2009 

every Thursday through Saturday night. Recent films have included "Rear Window," "Paranoid Park" and "The Red Balloon." Formerly known as Cinema at the Snite, this project is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. 
• SUB Movies 
The Student Union Board shows movies every Thursday through Saturday night for an entrance fee of $3. While it also shows older, second-run films, it tends to focus on larger Hollywood hits, like "The Dark Knight," "The Reader" and "Gran Torino." 
• Student Film Festival 
In January, the films made by Notre Dame's film-production students are showcased for a week in the state-of-the-art Browning Cinema at the DPAC, courtesy of NDCinema. Consider this your chance to check out the films before they hit the indie film-festival circuit. This must-see event promises controversy, artistic expression and even a few laughs. 
• Theater 
From classical tragedy to lowbrow comedy to foot-tapping musicals, Notre Dame has it all. Washington Hall hosts many performances during the year, and student plays have also been performed in DPAC. Performances featuring the professional English troupe "Actors from the London Stage" in their unique renditions of Shakespeare's plays are a special feature at Notre Dame. Every year the Pasquerilla East Music Company presents a popular musical to sell-out crowds. Recent hits have included "West Side Story" and "Kiss Me, Kate." A variety of other shows are hosted through additional groups such as ND Opera, The­Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company and St. Edward's Hall Players. 
LIVE MUSIC & MEDIA 
• Acousti.Cafe Every Thursday night at LaFortune 
Student Center, the Student Union Board 
hosts an open-mic night for student solo 
musicians and campus bands. Whether you've got a hankering for some John Mayer and Norah Jones covers or you want to check out the original music produced by campus talent, this event is free for everyone. If you're interested in performing yourself, SUB has open sign-ups each week. 
• Concerts and Shows Legends of Notre Dame, an all-ages, 
university-run nightclub south ofthe stadium, features live entertainment-every Thursday, 
Friday a11d Saturday night. Nationally 
touring bands and comedians such as Plain 
White T's, Blue October Flogging Molly, Howie Day, Gym Class Heroes,Jim Gaffigan and Christian Finnegan have performed live at Legends in recent years. As a matter offact, 
in 2008, Pollstar Magazine named Legends 
one ofthe top 12 nightclubs in the country for 

live music. The midnight nightclubs, which feature a live DJ spinning specific genres on given nights, are also a popular destination. Be sure to arrive early because the club fills up fast. Great bands should continue to invade campus with the year's kickoff event, "Bl Block Party," which Legends is sponsoring Aug. 29 in the Bl parking lot adjacent to the club. Other concerts are sponsored by the Student Union Board and usually take place in Stepan Center. 
• Collegiate Jazz Festival 
This competition between college jazz bands from all over the country draws a lot of attention from jazz enthusiasts nationwide, including Brandon Marsalis, who made an appearance at the festival a few years back. 
•NDTV 
The newest addition to student-run media, Notre Dame Television broadcasts around the clock. NDTV's news program highlights campus news, sports, entertainment events and more. Tune in to campus cable channel 53 for the goods. 
ARTS & LITERATURE 
• Notre Dame Literary Festival 
For one week each February, the Student Union Board hosts nightly readings from notable writers, with one night set aside for student writers to read their own work. Formerly known as the sophomore literary festival and going into its 41st year, it has featured such legendary writers as Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, Dave Eggers,John Irving and Tom Clancy. 
• The Visiting Writers Series 
The Creative Writing Program, a graduate program at Notre Dame, also hosts a number of writers throughout the year. These readings don't tend to get a great deal of press, so look around the hallways of O'Shaughnessy for posters, or check out the English department's calendar of events at www.english.nd.edu/events. 
• Snite Museum 
The Snite is open Tuesday through Sunday, and admission is free. It tends to be one of Notre Dame's less-traveled treasures, although many students and professors attend the opening of the spring exhibit where the MFA and BFA students showcase their work 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
• Student Union Board (SUB) 
While South Bend isn't exactly an entertainment hub like New York or Chicago, SUB does a good job of bringing outside shows · and speakers to campus as well as sponsoring various on-campus activities. Divided into several branches, SUB not only provides weekly movies and occasional concerts, but also multicultural and intellectual activities, in addition to student services like prize raffles, organized trips, and final exam stress relievers. 
CULTURE 
• FlipSide 
Though looked down on by some as an "anti-drinking" organization, FlipSide does a good job of providing consistent student activities, usually on the mellower side. Expect a few video game and board game tournaments and prize nights, as well as organized trips to local mini-golf and bowling establishments. While not the premier source of entertainment on campus, FlipSide can be counted on for planned events nearly every weekend. 

ff all entertainment ciptionsJail,. you'r.e . 
going. ·to · have do it yourseif. · Though. this . list m:ay sei:m extensive,. it's ilinost guaranteed that you're going to hit a few .. gray_ and dismal Saturday evenings here in. South Bend. But Notre_Dame isn't so . much about the things yoµ do as it is alJOut . the people you meet. When_ your calendar. . is empty and the snow is piled up outside, . theres nothing like an. impromptu. dorm" roqm luau · or something as simple as hot chocolate withyour new friends. Freshman 
.__ year can be the best of times and.the worst .• of times, but alitt;le ~eati½ty can ·go a long way. Itcan: save a lot ofmoney, i:oo. .. ·_ Of course if all else fails, and youfind -. 
_yourself spending your .Fric!ay nights staring at the wall, you can always apply for. • 'a job at Sch~iastic. · · · __ ·_· 
SUMMER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 39 

IJ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
would like to invite you to the 4th annual ... 
j 
I 
I 
~South 
I 
I 2. Be n d 
Q. 
>< 
a, 
Don't forget to sign up! Free giveaways! 
When: Monday, August 24 Time: 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
5,\~
~ ttlI~ flJ . . . . . ' . . ·~ f!ii1ilfHuffJ~·~~41
CHl''.IHITI .,,. OllfGE+ INOl,~N,\ UNI\. l:,IC$11 Y fyt/\h"(S ';;T,r~ :Gf; -I LJ . . . . . -. c:7. 
KOTitEO.\ME ,\1<1:atw..;,, SOUUI.BEND U!H-'-~!, ,.. -,._ . . · · ­
stu den tg ove rn me nt. n d .ed u 


Work for Scholastic Notre Dame's student magazine since 1867 Sign up at Activities Night or e-mail Scholast@nd.edu 


DomerD 

Mail in application (To arrive prior to August 1) 
ndlD Number 
Last Name 

·---------~-------··---··1 
Middle Initial i 
-·---· --~--·····--······. -------·····-•·-~---·· .l 
-i 
Local Address 
I ··--•·~~ ----------. -----.... -·-" ...... ----....... j 
11 
. ' 
! Permanent Address
! 
: ---. I [ Primary Phone Number 
-----------............. -. __..__ j 
Enclosed is the following amount: 
$___ 
(minimum $20) 
Deposit is by: __Cash __Check 
(Make checks payable to University of Notre Dame.) 
Signature 
Domer Dollars make campus life easier. 
You don't need to carry cash. Simply use your University ID card to buy just about anything on campus. 
Domer Dollars are safe, convenient, electronic funds purchased by credit card, cash, or check and programmed directly onto your University ID card. To learn more about Domer Dollars, visit 
www.nd.edu/-cardsvcs 
Mail in the application (at left) prior to August 1st, or use our website after August 1st to make a credit card deposit. (Mastercard, Visa, or Diners Club accepted.) To view your sales history, to inquire about your balance, and to make future deposits, please visit www.nd.edu/-cardsvcs. 
A few Domer Dollar locations: 
Hammes Bookstore 
http://nd.edu/campus-and-community/sights-sounds/virtual-tour/bookstore-ext/ 
all ND Food Service locations 
http://food.nd.edu/dining/ 
Vending and Laundry Sorin's at The Morris Inn The OIT Solutions Center Riley Digital Imaging Studio University Hairstylists 




