The Notre Dame Scholastic
C Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
May 3, 1935
No. 24
MONOGRAM CLUB WILL PRESENT SHOW IN MAY
FATHER O’HARA ANNOUNCES PLANS FOR EXPANSION OF CURRICULUM
The recent illness of Rocco Schir-alli, president of the Monogram Club, has caused the postponement of the 1935 edition of the Monogram Jamboree. The production originally scheduled for appearances in Washington Hall, May 5 and 6, was tentatively set back to May 12 and 13, by Production Manager Mike Layden.
Schiralli was seized with appendicitis in his Gary, Indiana, home Easter Monday and was immediately rushed to Mercy Hospital where an appendectomy was performed. The watch-charm guard, fully recovered, was released from the hospital Tuesday.
With everything in readiness for a big Sunday night bow, the cast was reluctant to accept the postponement, but with one more week of rehearsal left, Layden is assured of presenting to the public a finished revue which will outdo all previous Monogram Jamborees.
Packed with songs and dances, sporting an all-star cast, the 1936 Monogram Jamboree brings to Notre Dame the hit of the year. Prof. Joseph Casasanta’s singing and playing ensemble will furnish the pit music in accompaniment to the many lilting tunes.
“Joe Sullivan,” written in memory of the late captain-elect of the 1935 football team by Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., “An Old-Timer” by Dean James McCarthy and Prof. Vincent Fagan, and Prof. Casasanta’s latest melody with lyrics by Father Burke, are but three of the many song hits in this carnival of fun.
Sprightly quips come flying when Jerry Foley doubles in brass, and snoops through keyholes as Notre Dame’s Walter Winchell giving the dirt. Orchids and scallions are indiscriminately strewn by Walsh Hall’s pride.
The inimitable “Chris” Matthews, master of ceremonies, and the star in this big star parade, reaches his peak, to judge by the dress rehearsals. Matthews takes a well deserved rest when the specialty numbers come on.
Vince Murphy and Sonny Church will give their classical dance interpretation in modern symbolism of rustic dances. In sweeping classicism, (Continued on Page 9)
Frank C. Walker, ’09 His duties were increased.
FRANK C. WALKER, ’09 IS APPOINTED TO HIGH GOVERNMENT POST
With the recent reappointment of Frank C. Walker as executive of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s National Emergency Council, another famous Notre Dame man comes in to prominence. Mr. Walker has held this important position once before, but he resigned about a year ago, Donald Richberg taking his place.
The story of how this Notre Dame alumnus acquired his present office goes back to the year 1920. Then, as head of a state delegation, he welcomed to Montana the democratic vice-presidential candidate of that year, Franklin D. Roosevelt. That was the first meeting of the two men.
A few years later Walker went to New York City to act as attorney for his uncle’s chain of moving picture theaters. At that time he renewed (Continued on Page 20)
SIX VISITING TEACHERS
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, announced in a coast-to-coast broadcast last Monday during the twelfth Universal Notre Dame Night, the presentation of three gift study funds to carry on the work in the fields of chemistry, economics, and education.
Father’ O’Hara said that the Chemical Foundation, through its president, Francis P. Garwin, had contributed $10,000 to establish at Notre Dame the Julius A. Nieuwland Fund for Chemistry. The donation is not restricted for use in the field of chemical research, but may be used, at the discretion of the University, in any field of chemistry. This, it is hoped, will be the beginning of a larger fund to aid in the development of this science.
Father O’Hara also revealed that an anonymous benefactor interested in the recently inaugurated field of economic research at Notre Dame, has donated §25,000 to carry on this entirely new line of study at the University. The terms of the donation stipulated that there were to be no restrictions in regard to its use. Christopher Hollis, European economist, who is to teach at Notre Dame next year, will assist in the research to be carried on under this grant. He will work in fields allied to the subject of his recent book, “The Breakdown of Money.”
The final announcement regarding recent gifts to the University was made by Father O’Hara during his second broadcast Monday evening. It concerns the establishment of a scholarship fund by the alumni of New York City. “The New York Scholarship,” as it is to be known, is to be given each year to a high school graduate of greater New York. A committee composed of two bishops and several alumni is to administer the fund.
Upon his return to the campus early this week, Father O’Hara told The Scholastic that several visiting pro-(Continued on Page 17)
May 3, 1935
One
Notre Dame Is Host at Annual Convention of French Teachers
FATHER O’HARA TELLS OF EUROPEAN TRAVELS
PRIZES TO BE AWARDED
By Lindsay Phoebus
French teachers and students will meet at Notre Dame tomorrow when the Indiana chapter of the American Association of French Teachers holds its spring reunion here.
Arrangements for the reunion have been made by the Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., Professor Benjamin G. DuBois, and Professor Earl F.
Rev. Charles Doremus, C.S.C. He will welcome the visitors.
Langwell, of the French department. A student reception committee has been formed to welcome the guests. On it are the officers of the Cercle Francais of Notre Dame, President Carmi A. Belmont, Vice-president Darius J. Ferland, Secretary Lindsay B. Phoebus, and a number.of members of the Cercle and students of French.
The feature of the meeting will be a contest for freshmen students in French. The idea of this contest was originated at a meeting of the Association’s Indiana chapter last October. The competition will be held annually in conjunction with the spring meeting of the State chapter, and its object is to create a greater interest in French language and literature. To be eligible for it, the student must be a freshman in college and must be regularly enrolled in elementary French at the time of the contest.
The examination is to be composed of a dictation test, a translation of English into French, and a translation of French into English. It will be made out by an instructor from a college or university outside of the State of Indiana.
Prizes of $25.00, $15.00, and $10.00 will be awarded to the respective composers of the three best papers. The examination is to be held at 10:30 o’clock Saturday morning in Room 1 of the Law Building. The prize winners will be announced at
(Continued on Page 5)	.
Committee Is Ready To Take All Orders For
Commencement Invitations
Frank J. Holahan, chairman of the Commencement Invitations Committee, has announced that all orders for invitations must be in by May 10 and that payment must be made with the orders. The committee reminds purchasers that last year more than 800 orders came in later than the announced closing date, and the consequent rush on the printer resulted in many refunds and no invitations.
The committee has a selection of two alternative invitations: a cardboard covered invitation with a sale price of 21 cents each, and a blue leather covered one with a sale price of 38 cents each.
Both are very attractive, of good material, and of neat workmanship. Complete lists of the graduates, Senior class officers, Senior committees, and the program for Commencement Week are contained in them. Several pen sketches of campus institutions and personalities give them a distinctive art touch.
Frank Holahan and Phil Jacobs are handling the sale of the invitations. Next week the halls are to be canvassed, but those who wish to inspect the invitations can see them at 213 Corby Hall. The other members of the Invitations Committee are: Harold Gooden, Bill Hoffert, Bill Measer, and Tom Masterson.
Fr., Miltner Speaks To Nurses on the Family
On April 26, 27, and 28 the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arst and Letters, gave a series of three lectures on “The Family” at the Training school for nurses in Mt. Caramel hospital, Columbus, Ohio.
On Monday Fr. Miltner went to Cleveland and joined the Alumni in celebrating Universal Notre Dame night. Present among the large and enthusiastic audience were Rt. Rev. Monsignor Maurice Griffin, the Rev. James Moran, ’27, and William Cer-ney of South Bend.
Father Miltner returned to the University Tuesday to resume teaching and his duties as Dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
The . furniture storing concession for the summer of 1935 has been given to Edwin Caldwell of Carroll Hall. Caldwell and his assistants will canvass the halls to secure orders. All goods will be stored with the Woodworth concern in South Bend.
By Mitchell C. Tackley
More than six weeks of extensive European travel and study was the feature of the two months absence of the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Hara returned to Notre Dame Tuesday with a story of European conditions fully as interesting as it is educational.
’ The first stop on the itinerary of Father O’Hara’s trip was in Southwestern England. From there he traveled to London for one week. While in London and vicinity, he visited Cambridge and Oxford. At these universities he studied the educational methods. He also visited the Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy at Notre Dame last year, who is studying at Oxford.
From London, Father O’Hara journeyed to Ireland where he reported a decided improvement in economic and governmental conditions. Dublin, Kil-larney, and Cork were his main stops on the isle.
Before sailing for the Continent, Father O’Hara again visited London, after which his next stops were in Brussels and Louvain. Paris, France was liis next objective followed by a visit to Le Mans where the Congregation of Holy Cross was established. „ Here he visited the grave of Cardinal Du Bois, who stopped at Notre Dame about ten years ago while in America. Fr. O’Hara then went to Orveau where he spent some time at the provincial house of the order.
Father O’Hara then returned to Paris where he conferred with Archbishop Baudrillart, director of the Institute Catholique. He also visited Ecole Des Chartes where he met several professors. Other visits in France included a stop at the Shrine of Our Lady of Lourdes, and a brief visit at Cannes by the Riviera.
In Italy, Father O’Hara traveled to Milan and Pavia. While at Pavia, he conversed with the officials concerning the plan of exchanging students. This plan is not sponsored by the private institutions, but rather by the government, he said. Fr. O’Hara expects that some Notre Dame student will be sent to an Italian school next year. He said that the school does not necessarily have to be Pavia.
Although only eleven years old, the University of Milan, directed by Father Ginelli, has progressed greatly, he stated. Already courses are offered (Continued on Page 17)
The Scholastic
CLASS PRIMARIES ARE BITTERLY CONTESTED
Little Jack Little’s Orchestra
To Play For Senior Ball, May 10
In the primary elections to determine candidates for next year’s Senior offices, which were held yesterday afternoon in the gymnasium, the following men were selected to run: For president, Howard Cusack and Joseph Waldron; for vice president, Daniel O’Brien and Wil)	liam Belden; for secretary, Arthur
Kearns and Conrad Byrne; for treasurer, John Schultz and Arthur Huber. The Cusack ticket led the field.
Cavanaugh, Murphy Represent Notre Dame At N, S. F. A. Meet
The primaries for next year’s Junior offices were carried over until today when weird noises and groans of heavy voting were heard in the original ballot-boxes Wednesday. After much discussion, some wrangling and other sundry display of political । fire-works the result of the original " trial run proved unsatisfactory to all three of the candidates.
In the first balloting Marty Burns, running with the backing of Jim Bacon and the McNally brothers, garnered 118 votes. Walter Neinaber, backed by “Skip” Cormier, who was staging a comeback run after successfully championing Hal Miller last year, managed to attain the other running spot when he received 104 votes. Larry O’Donnell, third party candidate, received 81 ballots in his favor. But all the dope was upset and the political sprinters were called back to their marks after what was quite definitely a false start.
Today’s balloting finds Gillespie running with the Neinaber faction I for vice-president, Lynaugh is running with Burns, and Thomas Foy is teamed up with O’Donnell. For the secretaryship Bill Lynch is running under the Burns’ colors with Bob Wilke running on the Neinaber ticket and Hayes with the O’Donnell group.
In Wednesday’s original balloting Gillespie, inmning far ahead of his ticket, received more votes than any candidate for any position on either of the three tickets.
The treasurer’s race finds George Lane, Ed Boyle, and Don Hennessey trying for the laurels. Lane and Hen--nessey led in the first sprint, with Lane holding a slight edge over the field.
* Wednesday’s trial was cut short and all the wearers of the political saddles were called back for another heat when a general misunderstanding arose over the method in which the ballots were transported from the polling place in the gymnasium. Walter Neinaber and Larry O’Donnell seemed to be the principal objectors, with Burns apparently in the clear f with a very comfortable lead. No
A precedent was set by the Student Activities Council when it recently announced that Robert Cavanaugh, Secretary of the S.A.C., and Thomas Murphy would be sent as delegates from Notre Dame to the East Central district convention of the National Student Federation of America, which will be held at Purdue University on Friday and Saturday, May 3-4. It was formerly the custom to send the president and vice-president of the S.A.C., who were always seniors. The reason foi the change is not known, unless it is a desire to keep the senior delegates’ financial condition intact for the Senior Ball. The new deal delegates, who are juniors, are both leading candidates for the presidency of the S.A.C., held this year by Tom LaLonde.
Representatives of the student governments of universities and colleges located in Indiana, -Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin will attend the two day session. Some of the universities and colleges represented are: Butler, University of Cincinnati, Denison, De Pauw, Ohio State, Purdue, and Western Reserve.
At the opening formal session on Saturday morning, May 4, topics to be considered include the structural set-up and constitution of student governments and extra-curricular activities. A luncheon at noon will be followed by a plenary session at which Professor C. B. Murphy, of Purdue; will lead an open discussion of students and student government.
objection was voiced to the Bums’ ballots but the general effect of weirdness in the whole Neinaber-O’Donnell contest resulted in the resumption of voting today.
Sophomore Results
Presidential nominees Kilraine and Mulligan were very widely separated, Kilraine getting 51 votes while Mulligan was able to gather 27. The vice-presidential nomination was a complete rout with candidate O’Boyle amassing more than a two-thirds majority. His showing automatically makes him vice-president of the 1935-1936 sophomores. Zerbst and Rooney were nominated for the office of secretary with 42 and 40 votes respectively. The treasurer’s berths went to Moore and Brannigan, while the nominations to the Student Activities Council were given to Kelley and Morrow.
TO BROADCAST PROGRAM
By Paul Foley
“Little Jack” Little, whose Columbia network broadcasts have made him nationally known and widely popular, will bring his orchestra to the Palais Royale for the 1935 Senior Ball, to be held Friday evening, Mav 10.
Plans for broadcasting part of the
“Little Jack” Little He will furnish the music.
musical program over a national hook-up have been arranged. The entire Columbia system will carry the music of the Notre Dame affair. The broadcast will be on the air from 10 ’ to 10:30. This will be the first time that a University dance program received national attention.
Little’s orchestra is enroute to Detroit from a long engagement in the Silver Grill of the Hotel Lexington, in New York. In the motor city it will appear briefly before playing in Chicago for the summer.
A definite locale for the Tea Dance had not been decided Thursday afternoon. Originally planned for the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club, the action of the Club’s Board of Directors against outside groups almost prevented the selection of this traditional scene. However, through the efforts of Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University, a meeting with the directors was arranged and the club consented to allow the seniors to use the building.
The Tea Dance is to be held from three until six o’clock on Saturday afternoon, May 11. Myron Waltz’s orchestra will supply the music.
Tickets for the Ball are to go on sale today and may be obtained from
(Continued on Page t) ’
£May 3 , 193 5
Three
N.D. DEBATING TEAM CONCLUDES SCHEDULE
C. PHILLIPS CRACOW CLUB SPONSORS MEET OF N.D. SOCIETIES
PROCTOR SPEAKS ON STATE ABSOLUTISM
The two man negative team of the varsity debate squad which toured the east just before Easter vacation returned on the eve of the holiday with a loss checked against them in a critic debate with John Carroll University of Cleveland. John Locher and Joseph Becek, debating for Notre Dame, lost the decision which was rendered by Professor Grose of Notre Dame College.
In their debates with Western Reserve and Pittsburgh, both of which were non-decision, Coach Coyne’s men met stiff competition. At Pittsburgh 500 people were in attendance.
Tomorrow, Saturday, May 4, over Station WSBT, the South Bend Tribune Station, there will be a radio debate at 6:30 p. m. between Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle on the affirmative and John Locher and Joseph Becek on the negative. The proposition will be the varsity armament question. The main speeches will be eight minutes and the rebuttals five minutes.
Upon returning from their Easter sojourn, three members of the varsity squad were presented with Notre Dame Varsity Debate keys by Professor William Coyne. The men so honored were Richard Meier, sophomore; Eugene Malloy, junior; and George Krug, senior. The Varsity key is the highest recognition to be received in debating at Notre Dame. The coveted prize is now worn by eleven men on the campus.
James Boyle, Arthur Sandusky, John Locher, John Heywood, lawyers; Thomas Proctor, Joseph Becek, Franklyn Hochreiter, seniors; and Robert Schmelzle, junior are the other eight men now wearing Varsity Debate keys.
Adelman Collection To Be Exhibited at N. D.
The Seymour Adelman collection of Thompsoniana—one of the most complete collections of any modern poet— will be exhibited in the University Library, beginning Tuesday, May 7, for one week. It will be the first time that this collection, whose exhibition is under the personal direction of Mr. Shane Leslie, has been shown in the western part of the United States. On the evening of the opening date, May 7, Mr. Leslie will lecture on the Religious Ode, giving particular attention to the life and work of Francis Thompson.
The collection, occupying seven cases, will be brought from Boston. Mr. Leslie is to meet with Mr. Adelman at Plymouth, Mass., this coming Sunday, where details for the transportation of the collection to the university will be arranged.
Four
The Charles Phillips Cracow Club of the University of Notre Dame will receive at a district convention of the Polish Students’ Association of America on May 11 and 12 in the Oliver Hotel.
Students of Polish extraction from Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minne-
Arthur Korzeneski He will be the host.
sota and western states will be in South Bend for the sessions. Registrations for the convention will begin at 9 o’clock on the morning of May 11. A toui‘ of the University will be made at 2 o’clock in the afternoon, and an informal dance will be held in the main dining room of the Oliver hotel at 8:30 o’clock that night. The last convention sessions will start at 2 o’clock in the afternoon of May 12.
The Cracow club is the only club of its type on the campus which is a member of a national organization. The Polish Students’ Association, to which it belongs, is composed of university clubs throughout the country.
Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the campus organization since its birth in 1932, was elected cultural director of the association’s first district at the last national convention. Recently he has been instrumental in the establishment of a chair of Polish culture at Notre Dame.
The committees in charge of the convention are as follows:
Reception: Max Marek, Stanley Partyka, Joseph Skoczylas, Joseph Krupa, Anthony Sulewski, and Felix Zaczek.
Saturday Luncheon: Albert Crze-chowski, Walter Carr, and Alfred Sniadowski.
Registration: Eugene Rybicki, Felix Zadzek and Joseph Skoczylas.
Press: Joseph Krupa, Max Marek, and Eugene Rybicki.
Dance: Co-chairmen Joseph Pawlowski and Dan Kalczynski, Richard Kowaczek, Joseph Skoczylas, John Zdanowicz, and Alfred Sniadowski.
Sunday Luncheon: Joseph Krupa, Charles Butz, and Joseph Stolarski.
At the Wranglers’ meeting, April 29, Thomas Proctor delivered the main speech of the evening on “State Absolutism,” Proctor opened the extended session of discussion with the words, “that although the present age of constant change causes an endless number of subjects for consideration, the one that looms above all the rest is the present program of state absolutism in the nations of Europe.”
After defining state absolutism, according to Miltner, as “the doctrine that allows the state to claim the supreme loyalty and even supreme sacrifice from the individual,” the speaker gave some philosophical, religious, political and economic implications of the doctrine. “Its close alliance with socialism, communism and fascism is evident,” Proctor related. “That the principle leads to eventual dictatorship has been proved in Europe.”	•
The speaker ridiculed various defenses for absolutism adopted by Russia, Germany and Italy on the grounds that it is the only remedy of . inherent conditions, fulfillment of the needs and the promotion of greater progress of the country. Subsequent wrangling justified the system of absolutism insofar as it does not interfere with religion. The fatalists who declare that state absolutism will result if certain conditions are present have no place in a government influenced by Catholic thought.
In the great portion of Proctor’s speech and in the discussion that followed, considerable attention was directed to the possibility of the United States applying this philosophy of government. Our commercial expansion, our policies that resemble imperialism, our close association with Europe were cited as factors that might lead us to this extreme of dictatorship and state absolutism.
*3‘
SENIOR BALL
(Continued from Page 3)
Ed Simpson in Walsh Hall, from Mitchell Saleh in Corby Hall, or from Patrick Quigley in Sorin Hall. Invitations for the affair are to be han-
• died by the same men. The price has been set at $8.75.
“Dancing With You,” the Ball song, was written this year by James . Marohn. There is a possibility that the number may be included in the broadcast program from the Ball.
Favors for the affair are not confined to any one type but a variety of attractive gifts has been secured, each bearing the University monogram.
Present plans call for the dance to start at 9:30 and continue until 2:00, with Seniors having permissions extending until 3:00 o’clock.
The Scholastic
ORATORICAL CONTEST WILL BEGIN NEXT WEEK
American Chemical Society Honors Father Nieuwland
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Department of Speech, announced during the past week the annual Breen Oratorical contest.
The preliminaiy contests will be held on Wednesday, May 8; Friday, May 10; and Monday, May 13. Later in the week of the 13th the finals will be staged.
There are certain specific qualifications to be fulfilled to enter the contest; The orations must be of original composition and of ten minutes in length. This constitutes a speech of about twelve hundred words. Notice of desire to enter the Breen Medal contest should be given to Professor Kelly or a member of the Department of Speech by tomorrow, Saturday, May 4. It is open to all classes. No student may win the award of the Breen Medal for first place more than once.
In judging the speakers, both delivery and composition will be considered. The award is made after a decision by three judges selected by the faculty.
The Breen Medal has been, for many years, the symbol of what is highest in Notre Dame oratory. To those who are acquainted with the University’s record in debate and public speech the symbol is rich in significance.
The Reverend Martin J. Regan Chair of Public Speaking was founded by the Honorable William P. Breen of the class of 1877 and a bequest of 850,000 was made to maintain the foundation. The Breen Medal is awarded annually to the student of the University who excels in oratory. The presentation of the coveted medal is made at the class-day exercises on the day preceding Baccalaureate Sunday.
In the past years the Breen Contest has proved a vigorous and hard fought battle for those excelling in forensics at Notre Dame. With the large number who have already stated their desire to enter the contest, the Breen Medal for 1935 will not easily be won.
FRENCH CONVENTION
(Continued from Page 2)
the close of the afternoon session of the convention.
The convention will open at 9:45 o’clock in the Law Building, when the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will greet the guests. During the morning session the following order will be followed in the program:
(Continued on Page 7)
At the 300th anniversary in New York City, from April 22 to 26, commemorating the founding of the nation’s chemical industry, the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., upheld Notre Dame’s reputation in the field of chemistry by receiving the William H. Nichols medal of the New York section “for basic work on syntheses from unsaturated hydrocarbons.”
In addition to this it was announced this week that Father Nieuwland had been further honored by the establishment at Notre Dame of the Julius A. Nieuwland Fund for Chemistry, fol
Left to right—Dr. John Weiss, Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., and Professor Arthur Hixson.
lowing a contribution of §10,000 from the Chemical Foundation through its president, Francis P. Garvan.
Conferring of the medal upon the famous scientist took place at a dinner session on Tuesday, April 23, at which Father Nieuwland delivered the annual Nichols Address on “Basic Research on Unsaturated Hydrocarbons.” The speech was part of the program to discuss the dramatic growth of the American chemical industry at an assembly of more than ten thousand chemists, industrialists and representatives in allied fields. The group included Nobel Prize win
ners in chemistry and men nationally known for chemical research and inventions.
Reverend Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., head of the University’s English department, accompanied Father Nieuwland to New York, participating in the proceedings as a narrator of “The Personal Side of Dr. Nieuwland’s Life.” The scholarly chemist’s value to industry was revealed by E. R. Bridewater of the Du Pont Co., who made an address on the “Practical Applications of Dr. Nieuwland’s Work.”
Dr. Frank Sowa, a specialist in Notre Dame’s Organic Chemistry department, collaborated with Father Nieuwland in the presentation of a paper on “The Use of Boron Fluoride in Alkylation Reactions.”
Beside these activities Father .Nieuwland represented the St. Joseph . Valley Section of Indiana on the governing council of the Chemical Society. The council held a meeting, as a program, to discuss future proceedings. Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, also of Notre Dame’s Chemistry department, is secretary of the St. Joseph Valley section of the governing council.
Five
May 3, 1933
NR. LESLIE LECTURES ON HISTORICAL MYSTERY
MR. LESLIE’S LECTURES
May 7-----Francis Thompson.
May 14---Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
May 21---Cardinal Manning.
In a very interesting and highly entertaining lecture in Washington Hall last Tuesday evening, Mr. Shane Leslie dealt with that great historical mystery, the relationship between the most beautiful woman of her time, Mrs. FitzHerbert, and the Prince of Wales who was later to become George IV of England.
Taking his audience in imagination back to eighteenth century England, Mr. Leslie began his story with the noble, though poor, Catholic family of Smythe in Shropshire. He dealt particularly with a beautiful child born to this family, a daughter named Maria.
Since she was a Catholic in a Protestant land which was antagonistic to the “Papists,” her family was unable to provide her with a formal education, so, not knowing what else to do with her, they married her, at the age of 18, to an elderly gentleman of 60. He soon died, and once again she married another old man, the wealthy Mr. FitzHerbert who also passed away, 1 eart ng Maria a rich widow for a second time before she was 25.
It was then that she went to London and met the Prince of Wales who fell in love with her at first sight. As a result she soon found herself the object of the persistent attentions of England’s handsomest dare devil.
She, however, refused his attentions and the desperate prince, as a last resort, severed the veins in his wrists and, summoning Mrs. FitzHerbert to his bedside, swore that he would never staunch the flow of blood, unless she married him. The distraught woman gave in, and a wedding ring was slipped on her finger then and there. She realized, however, that such a marriage would never be recognized by any church, so she fled to France, knowing that the king would never give his son permission to follow.
However, an agreement was reached and the handsome couple were married on December 10, 1785 by a minister whom the prince had bailed out of jail: Such a marriage was recognized as valid by the Catholic Church in those days. In this manner did a Catholic secretly marry an English prince in spite of the Constitution of England, Parliament, the Royal Marriage Act, and the mad old king.	-
Six
'^^obouf +h« camPys
They still tell the story of the week-ender who signed out for Chicago and surprised even himself by going to Chicago. But now in his stead is offered a baseball manager who spent the night of his birthday in a graveyard.
If such a practice seems odd it is no more than logical that Carl Weber should indulge in it for Carl was bom in an odd spot, Aurora, Illinois. Other
than paying a needed and hurried visit to a graveyard on his natal day, Kirley’s roommate claims to be the only man on campus that didn’t captain his high school’s football team for at least two years. Perhaps that is the reason for his great number of friends. There are reports, however, that his stooge list grows weekly because he possesses a theatre pass and three charming sisters.
At present Carl is working on a plan whereby he may take care of his managerial duties and attend the Tea Dance the Senior Ball week-end. With an Aurora architect’s sister on hand they’re betting two to one in Kalamazoo that Weber attends the T.D.
While leaning toward things architectural in nature, Carl remains loyal to the baseball squad, which he manages. His faithfulness recently reached a point where he wagered a small fortune that Kline’s combine would finish this season with an average better than .600. In doing his part to effect such success, Carl has been so busy the mail to Aurora is taking the count from the mail coming from there, 2 to 5.	'
Phil Kirley has been Weber’s roommate for two years and his neighbor during another school term. As a combination they are unanimously recognized as the two slowest thinkers and fastest talkers from the Sucker state. One of Carl’s prize stories con-
BENNETT SPEAKS TO ACCOUNTING MAJORS
G. H. Bennett, Jr., control manager of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Good Company, the home of Ball brand shoes and boots, addressed the members of the advanced accountingclasses in the Commerce Building Tuesday. Mr. Bennett explained the arrangements necessary to secure maximum efficiency in an office. ’
The speaker said that the first step in arranging an office should be to place the equipment so as to eliminate as much walking around as possible. He then explained the time wasting defects the Mishawaka company had found in the common desk and showed the advantages of using a common table with cutouts in the corners.
Mr. Bennett stated that some sort of bonus system should be used for office workers. In his office, he said, there was a calculator attached to each typewriter to count the number of strokes taken by each typist. If a typist exceeds a certain set standard, she is given a bonus at the end of the month. There is also a general competitive system among the other employees and any worker who maintains a grade A rating under this system for a prolonged period automatically receives a wage increase.
Each worker should be impressed with his own importance. In the Mishawaka company elaborate charts are placed on the walls showing the importance of each of the workers and the mutual interdependence of all. Boxes in which employees may place suggestions for greater efficiency are placed at convenient spots in the office. Any worker, whose suggestion is used, is given half of the resulting monetary saving.
The speaker was introduced by Mr. Chizek and was assisted in his lecture by Carl Bassler, office personnel manager of the concern.
2
cerns Kirley and himself. One afternoon in their freshman year while working on football they were stationed at opposite ends of Cartier Field to shag pigskins that sailed over the green wall. Kirley happened to wander down to Weber’s end to find Carl sound asleep outside the park with Hunk Anderson hollering for the return of seven footballs that flew over Weber’s end of the field.
Although Carl Weber doesn’t know weber or not he’ll get a job after graduation in June, he hopes his four years under Dean McCarthy will entitle him to something a little better than theatre passes, baseball managerships, nights in a graveyard, and insulting remarks from the Sours Club trio in 119 Walsh.
,	. The Scholastic
CAVANAUGH ELECTED PRESIDENT OF FORUM
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
“TAKE YOUR MEDICINE” TO BE GIVEN MAY 4,5
At the last meeting of the Commerce Forum, Thursday, April 11, the officers for next year were elected. The election was handled smoothly, with the candidates meeting little opposition. Robert Cavanaugh was elected president, Raymond Deely,
Robert Cavanaugh He’s president now.
vice-president, Arch Gott, secretary, and Joseph Dorgan, treasurer.
Edward Benkert was named Chairman of the Board. Assistant directors appointed were: Frank Kellner, John O’Malley, Paul Rubly, John Coyle, Paul Doran, and Francis Reedy.
Although the meeting was primarily for the election of officers for next year, the Forum maintained its policy of informal discussions, and had for a guest speaker, Mr. Carpenter, manager of Kresge’s store in South Bend, who spoke on: “Chain Store Retailing.” Following the address an open forum was held on questions of interest.
The directors met again on May 1 to make arrangements for the annual Commerce Forum banquet.
FRENCH CONVENTION
(Continued from Page 5)
“Propos de la Bretagne” by Father Doremus.
“La Vie d’un Assistant dans 1’Ecole Normale de Valence” by Dr. Lee W. Ryan, Indiana University.
“Dramatisation, Poesies et Chansons francaise” by South Bend Central Senior High School pupils directed by Mlles. Jeanne Gienand and Antoinette Ceyak.
After luncheon at 12:15 o’clock in the University cafeteria, members of the association will visit the library and museum and will then be shown around the campus by Mr. Langwell. The afternoon session will start at 1:30 o’clock with “ ‘Old France’ in Louisiana” given in dialect by Mr. Clyde Martin, Marion College. “Le
NOTES ON EATING
Crew-cut heads shook with indignation over wormy haddock, old toast, sour cream, hardly edible pork chops, warm milk, bad eggs, rancid butter, unremoved silverware polish, and stew made up of gristle and old meat. ’Twas just the Harvard dandies complaining to the manager of the university dining halls about the food. Can’t take it, eh?. . . . Missouri coeds signed a pledge not to eat more than fifteen cents worth of food, but didn’t specify the time limit. . . . Marshall College students now raise chickens in their rooms. A bird in the hand is evidently worth more than two on a plate. ... A prof at U. of Toledo drank a cup of tea in which a dead spider was reposing just to prove there could be no injurious effects. . . Doctors of Albany Medical College have analyzed the young ladies of today. Chemically one girl is made of enough glycerine to explode a naval shell, has enough lime to whitewash a chicken coop, enough gluten to make five pounds of glue, enough sulphur to rid an ordinary dog of fleas and sufficient chlorine to sanitize three swimming pools. Salt, carbon and water too, but who said “sweet young thing?”
STRIKE DENOUNCED
One of the better editorials condemning the deplorable college ‘strike’ comes from the Minnesota Daily. The writer intelligently discloses the underlying causes of the maniacal disturbances by naming five outside groups: “the National Students League, the League for Industrial Democracy, the National Council for Methodist Youth, the Inter-Seminary movement and the American Youth Congress.” He warns the student body that the inevitable result of heeding such radical propagandists is the loss of university reputation and the right to academic freedom.
Congratulations, A. F. K.!
COLLEGE IS:
To Father—A place where the kids go and spend more in four, years than the old man makes in six.
To Mother—The place from which the laundry case is mailed.
To Sister—The place from which brother brings all those good-looking fellows.
To Brother—The place where sister learns to be sophisticated.
To Sweetheart—The place where the one and only proves untrue.
To the General Public—The place where gin, rah-rah and racoon coats abound.
In Reality—The place where you go to classes five days a week, and use the weekends to study for next week’s classes.
From the Green and White.
To “Take Your Medicine” will be a pleasant task when this musical romance is produced by the combined glee clubs of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame at St. Mary’s on Saturday and Sunday, May 4-and 5, at 8:15 o’clock. Both performances will be open to the public at a $.25 admission price.
Sister Judith, C.S.C., directress of the St. Mary’s music department, and
Prof. Joseph CasasaiXTa
He wrote “Doctors and Nurses.”
Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the music department at Notre Dame, are in charge of production. The scene is set in the sunken garden of the Stuart’s home and the time is the present or “perhaps next summer.”
The female lead is taken by Jane Moore as Lynette Russel who is home from an Eastern college. Jane Stuart, a fresh freshman from St. Mary’s, is portrayed by Laura Lou Finan. Demise Davalle, a South Bender, will be depicted by Nancy Mark. Carolyn O’Connor, as Mrs. Stuart, is a.patient mother with the younger generation.
Heading the male leads is Thomas Flynn who plays Gerald Stuart, for the past month an alumnus of Notre Dame. Mark Finocchiaro, noted glee clubber and portrayer of female operatic parts, will be Freddie Thorne, recently hatched from the Culver Military Academy. Dr. Stuart, a physician by profession and a golfer by preference, amply describes the character taken by Chauncey Rooney, a newcomer to the Notre Dame glee club. The final role is Uncle Horace, a rich man with an abundance of imaginary ailments, played by Ralph Cardinal.
This musical presentation has been adapted from' a play of the same name written by Richard Kinney, of St. Thomas College, and Nellie Corcoran, of St. Catherine’s College, both in St. Paul. Mr. Kinney will be here to view the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame version. All the music, with the exception of “Doctors and Nurses,” by Professor Casasanta was written by Mr. Kinney.
The dancing is being, directed by John Dasso, Betty Ward, and Mary Nash. Miss Ward and Mr. Dasso .will do a specialty waltz-ballet dance.
ZMay 3, 1935
Seven
D’ARCY SPEAKS BEFORE LARGE STUDENT GROUP
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
MARBACH ADDRESSES
PATRICIAN MEETING
A large and appreciative audience assembled in Washington Hall, Friday night, April 26, to hear the Reverend Martin Cyril D’Arcy, S.J., M. A., speak on “The Modern Trend in Thought”. This eminent English philosopher and author was introduced to his listeners by Reverend William A. Carey, C.S.C.
Father D’Arcy began his treatise by portraying several movements in the field of thought prior to the last war.
To appear* important, according to the speaker, it was once good taste to first criticize Mills and then proceed to attack idealism. This was one of the early movements—one of criticism.
“At the present day we are suffering a gigantic change. Now, no one, outside of the Church, is sure of himself.” Father D’Arcy thus characterized our present trend of thought and went on to explain the cause.
After the war, the younger generation would take nothing for granted, but challenged every doctrine of their elders. The philosophies followed suit; they sought certitude.
“In Psychology and Biology,” added Father D’Arcy, “the tendency was to think of man, not as divine, but as a mere animal. This was based on his impulses as shown in the war.”
The author-philosopher ended his detailed explanation by saying that, because of the war, there are men and women who no longer can look upon life in the optimistic manner they once did. Consequently, we have this reflection in our present day philosophy and literature. It represents a movement of despair.
Father D’Arcy brought an interesting lecture to a beautiful conclusion when he said, “If man is to redeem his greatness, he must regain dignity. He can never recover dignity without religion.”
Fr. O’Donnell, Faculty Members, Attend Funeral
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vicepresident, and members of the faculty represented the University of Notre Dame at the funeral, Wednesday morning, of Mr. William- E. Donahue, former advertising managei* of the Chicago Tribune.
Dr. Donahue was a close friend of the University for many years and came to Notre Dame frequently for special lectures.
Those who accompanied Father O’Donnell are Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., and James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce.
Eight
SO WHAT?
This isn’t a column of dramatic criticism, but never has a local house packed in the student body as Fred Astair and “Roberta” drew the intel-legentia and faculty to the Colfax over last weekend. In the critical west corner of the caf, there was only one dissenting voice. That was cast by a lay member of the English faculty.
Will some kind fellow engineer inform the draughtsmen in the light leather coat who escorts the three comely maids from the main building about the quadrangle in the noon hour that the bets are ten to one that soon, maybe not tomorrow, but soon they’ll still be the three of them?
The legally prominent Mr. Costello met his equal in that wealth of information, Link of the Caf, and proceeded to lose fifteen good nickle cigars last Sunday afternoon. It is a sad story, but one with a moral.
It seems that the two gentlemen were gathered before the radio in the caf, listening to the first inning of the White Sox game. There arose a amicable difference of opinion as to the Sox’s chances of making a run in the first inning. The host thought they would and Mr. Costello offered odds of three to one.
Score three cigars for mine host.
Up came Zeke Bonura to the plate. The host, in his ‘I’ve got the inside’ manner, ventured that the giant Chicago first baseman would add another to his home run record. Genial Al differed again, this time to the extent of ten to one.
Score ten more for mine host.
Mr. Costello, by this time, was glad to leave the Sox to their athletic destiny and talked of Cleveland’s chances of winning the pennant. The host decided that their current winning streak would end that afternoon. This brought a wager of two cigars.
Final score: Mr. Costello—0; Mine Host—15.
As the lads left for a belated Easter vacation, we sighed a senior sigh and thought we had heard the last of comprehensive examinations. It was a welcome gift from the bunny, thought we. But how pained were we to return to Sorin and find a pink bulletin informing all concerned that the history comprehensive would be held in the near future.
You can’t beat the game.
“Catallus, the Lyric Poet” was the subject on which John Marbach, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, spoke to the Patricians at their weekly meeting, April 30. With the significant aspects of his life and the more outstanding parts of his poetry related, Catallus was sketched as a romantic and interesting character.
In opening, Marbach compared Catallus to Horace and Vergil in that the former was far more human and readable. His public appeal was ascribed, in a measure, to his birth and early life. “Born in Cisalpine Gaul of a family of nobles, his early life was surrounded by nature’s beauty,” the speaker said, “and this Gallic strain made him sensitive to beauty in nature and in life.”
His venture to Rome was to try his fortune in love. He realized his ambition by falling in love with Clodia, pretty daughter of a famous public figure. “She was the consuming passion of his life and the inspiration for his lyrics,” Marbach emphasized.
When Clodia showed that he was the only one of many lovers by marrying another, Catallus became disillusioned. He turned his interests to the politics of Rome. As he finally struck a friendly acquaintance with Caesar, Clodia pleaded to get back into his good graces. Catallus expresses his reply by a lyric which ends:
“Touched by the plow at last, the flower is dead.”
Catallus’ versatility with other than lyric poetry and his influence upon specific English literary immortals, such as Tennyson and Sydney, was discussed.
€
€1

Faculty Members Honored At Alumni Conference
Notre Dame was both represented and honored in the decentennial convention of National Catholic Alumni Federation which closed Saturday night in Chicago.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., acting president of the University, was one of the twenty-foui* Catholic college presidents who were guests of honor at a banquet Thursday night.
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University, who was program-chairman of the convention, was elected to the executive committee at the final session and was also made chairman of a committee to study alumni ; organizations in the Catholic colleges of this country.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, May 3
Baseball, varsity vs. Toledo. Tennis, varsity vs. Northwestern. Scholastic staff meeting, editorial 6:30, general, 7:00 p.m. Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington hall, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, May 4
* Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Ohio State, Cartier Field 2:00. Track meet, varsity vs. Ohio State. Golf meet, varsity vs. Wisconsin. Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15, “Great Expectations.”
Sunday, May 5
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, May 6
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Indiana.
Tuesday, May 7
Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m. St. Vincent de Paul meeting, 6:45, Walsh Hall basement. Economics Seminar, 6:30 Law building. Lecture by Shane Leslie, Washington Hall 8:00 p. m.
Wednesday, May 8
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern. Tennis, varsity vs. Chicago.
Thursday, May 9
Finals, class elections, Dining Hall, all day.
MONOGRAM SHOW
(Continued from Paste 1) country reels and other folk dances are admirably presented.
Then there is Tony Mazziotti and Sal Ducasa bringing the latest rhumbas, tangoes, and other Latin dances in their Yeloz and Volanda number.
Not content with giving the public one gigantic chorus of dancing cuties, the Jamboree brings two choruses. Washington Hall will reverberate with the twinkling toes of tons of athletic beauties, in the greatest beauty spectacle ever to trod its historic boards.
A new phy-ed coach joins the faculty when Jim Bowdren takes Johnny Ford and Joe O’Kane over the bumps in a tough exam. A spectacular finish enlivens the skit.
Joe Beach comes booming out of Birmingham with soft drawling south-l ern melodies. Joe teams up with Carl Link who has been humming “Emaline” since Monogram initiation and has been sufficiently trained to give a polished rendition.
With the show a little more than a week off, production manager Mike Layden urges all to take advantage of this gift bargain. “Mike can’t see how this show can miss. Featuring an All-American cast, loaded down with stars, songs, and comedy, it brings to the campus a remarkable show which will be another milestone in the history of Monogram Jamborees.
3Way 3, 1933
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Easterview
Well, there we was. I thought sure we were going to have a lot of trouble getting rides, too. Then along comes a fellow and in about five minutes we’re on our way. He says where you going, and I tell him and he says I’m going there, too, and then he even stops off and buys us a big dinner. Well, when we got home ....
We got three of them, but Sis was off with one and somebody had another, but I managed to get hold of the big job before Dad took it. And let me tell you, that bus has plenty of speed. You did 85? Well, I only got up to 83 per, but it was raining that first night, and after all, was it my car? Well, was it?
And there I was, coming in the front door, and him through the back, and he says, “Who’s there?” and I says.......
Yeh, we made that one. Yeh, crashed it. And that club’s always bragging about not letting anyone crash. The whole mob of us got in. It was the third one that night, too. We were getting groggy from going in and out of places. Yeh, we were, too. All week long. You know, we’d start as soon as we’d get up in the morning. Know what I mean?
Which one you talking about? Oh, the blond. Oh yes, she was with Jack, but Jack was supposed to be with. . .
I brought a book home and forgot it. I’ll have to write and have the folks send it on. It’s a pretty important course.
Flowers
Out of the vast army of gardeners, diggers, men riding wagons, men pushing electric lawnmowers, people scraping, pecking, digging, planting —out of this annual campus mess we single out one pleasant-looking creature as 1935 King of the Notre Dame Clean-up-the-backyard Festival.
As he wheeled a huge barrow past us, we saw that he had one small pot of flowers sitting in the middle. Nothing else, except a book entitled, “How To Make A Garden.” He was pretty solemn about it, too, as if he had long since despaired of any recognition. We hope he sees this.
You’ll notice that it’s pretty late and the tulips aren’t out yet. They have usually come up and been beaten back down again long before this date. And if they come up this month, think what it will mean to all those men who practically live for the yearly job of sticking fake flowers in the ground to impress the Commencement visitors.
Week’s Best Story
A fellow called Tommy Hughes, it is reported, paid §3.15 as his part of the assessment in the Met Club deficit affair. Paid before the vacation, so that it “ would be off his mind.”
•
Dance
The engineers dance tonight. Let ’em dance. Frankly, we’re afraid to go. You see, the seniors will be there, and the post grads, of course, and the juniors, sophomores, and the freshmen. The engineers a.re out to please everyone. They don’t want the money. They just like big crowds. They want to have a million people there. At least a million. Maybe even a thousand.
Think we’re going to get caught in that mob? Well, we don’t know yet. We’ve been running around the lakes every morning for the past week, getting in trim to take whatever might come, but we rather think we’ll play exclusive. Wonder if we’ll need special permission to stay on campus tonight?
Trouble and Worry Department
Both Scrip and the Senior Ball, at this writing, are wondering what, when, and how. Scrip is still trying to make up its mind what it wants to be on the 17th. The Ball has passed the “what” stage and is gradually going into a state of “why.” Proctor is thinking of staying home and not even coming to the blamed thing. That’s silly, we think. How can you stay away from something that isn’t?
But we’re kidding, of course. The Senior Ball is certain. What it’s certain about, we can’t say.
•
Chisellers
We notice that the boys who specialize in desk-digging are sort of falling down on the job. Time was when anyone who dug his initials on the desk, or wrote something on the ■wall, was jealous of what he left there for posterity. Now look at the kind of stuff being turned out in the Commerce Building. “Nuts to you goofs” (Room 109, Row 4, Seat 2), and trivia like that. Where are the old-fashioned men that took pride in their work?
Top of the Week
We are still asking why such artists as Melchione, Davidson, and that other batch of two-piano performers wait until the end of the year to show publicly.
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disee Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBJNE ......................Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING.............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI----------------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.___________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY---------------._____________Dome Dust
VIN CENT A. GORMAN, JR--------------------College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY---------------------Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN---------------------------------News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN--------------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL-------------------Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN---------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY---------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI---------------------FREDERICK SHANLEY
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE--------------FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH.--------------------------LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS----------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST.____________________Eports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER---------------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER________________......ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN----------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT__________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james McMullen
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.........--..............._..........._....Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated goHesiate $rcss r*ushu» er	r
(EoUegialf PuytSl 1935 e-
•““S0"	WISCONSIN
May 3, 1935
ONLY A FEW ARE WORTHWHILE
This is the time of year when all good politicians run for president of some club or campus organization. And this is likewise the time of year when many rear up their heads and ask if these so called clubs are worthy of the title of campus organizations or if they are groups existing merely for the purposes of sponsoring a Christmas dance and giving someone an opportunity to hold office.
The fact is that while some organizations are commendable in both purpose and activity, and others are worthy only in their purpose, there are some whose only excuse for existence is the sponsoring of a Christmas dance.
Among the organizations whose purposes and activities are laudable are the Wranglers, Patricians, Bookmen, Commerce Forum, Academy of Science and the language groups. The Wranglers held weekly meetings devoted to
Ten
the intelligent discussion of previously selected economic and political subjects; conducted a very successful interhall debating league and initiated the I. C. 0. which should develop into a very worthwhile project. The Bookmen conducted seminars in contemporary literature and formed their own rotating library. The language clubs held frequent meetings devoted to a consideration of the culture of the country whose language they were studying and brought to the campus motion pictures in foreign tongues. The Commerce Forum, Knights of Columbus, -Charles Phillips Cracow Club, the Engineers, and the Academy of Science all participated in laudable activities. Such clubs are worthy in both purpose and activity and < there is a definite place for them on the campus.
Other groups have worthy enough purposes, but must bs classified as failures because, owing to the somnolent laxity of their officers, they did absolutely nothing. Included in this group are the International Relations Club, the Economic Seminar, Radio Club, and the Press Club. Their purposes, as stated in their charters and constitutions are praiseworthy, but the officers evidently worked on the theory that the members would derive all benefits promised in the charter by merely joining the organization and that meetings were an unnecessary . formality. Such groups, unless they became more active, should be forced to end their parasitical existence.
Most of the city clubs fall into the classification of organizations with no purpose other than sponsoring a Christmas dance. There are a few exceptions to this statement. The New Jersey Club promulgated a constitution which should serve as a model for every club on campus. The Metropolitan Club, on the opposite side of the ledger from its dance deficits, conducted several successful communion breakfasts. The Pittsburgh Club held meetings with more or less regularity. The other city clubs did not offer even a pretense of a reason to justify their existence. They ran a Christmas dance—that constituted a year’s activity. The Scholastic has, for years, advocated that the charters of such clubs be rescinded. We reiterate that statement now because such clubs serve no purpose at all and the financial losses incurred at g their dances often cause considerable embarrassment to the University officials.
There is another organization on campus for whose existence The Scholastic can see no legitimate reason. That is the Blue Circle. This body is supposed to perform certain vague duties which would make it a sort of intermediary between the student body and the administrative offices. Even if the members of the Blue Circle showed a willingness to carry out these purposes, they would still be far too utopian for practical usefulness. In actual practice the members do absolutely nothing to accomplish these aims and are, in fact, so inactive that the names of the members are unknown to the chairman of the group. The only known function of the Blue Circle is to run, in a haphazard fashion, one of two pep meetings in the fall of each year. There is no reason why a separate organization should exist to perform this function. The S.A.C. could handle it easily enough for, as it is, that alleged student governing body, has barely enough activities to give it a legitimate excuse for its existence.
The Scholastic hopes that this year will see the end of the Blue Circle and the last elections to elect futile officers of parasitical clubs.	i
The Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
kdiNTEPS
FROM TRE
lPRESS box
VICTORIOUS BASEBALL NINE FACES FOUR HARD CONTESTS THIS WEEK
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
AVERAGES
The ability of Andy Pilney as a right fielder and hitter must be well established in the mind of Coach Jake Kline as a recent check on the Irish nine’s batting average shows Andy leading the regulars with the remarkable figure of .433. He is topped only by Tom Sepe who saw service in only one game, the Chicago fracas on Cartier Field Tuesday.
Within striking distance of Andy is “Wibby” Wentworth. The Irish shortstop boasts a batting average of .423. Next in line appears Danny Cunha who dropped from the four hundred class after the recent Maroon tussle and now swings at .382. Frankie “Prunes” Gaul is the only other Irish hitter within the charmed .300 circle. In 22 trips to the plate the Notre Dame backstop has collected seven bingles for an average of .318. The following averages include the game with Chicago Tuesday:
	AB	R	H	Pct.
Sepe, If 			 4	1	2	.500
Pilney, rf 				 30	5	13	.433
Wentworth, ss 			 26	6	11	.123
Cunha, 2b 			 34	6	13	.382
Gaul, c 			 22	5	7	.318
Dunn, lb 			 20	4	5	.250
Van Wagner, p 			 4	1	1	.250
Mettler, cf 			_.34	5	8	.235
Velcheck, If 				 20	3	3	.150
Fromhart, 3b 			 22	4	3	.136
Tourney, p 				 8	0	1	.125
Costello, lb. 3b 			 16	0	3	.118
Themes, p 				 8	0	0	.000
Reagan, ss 			 6	0	0	.000
Beach, p 			 6	2	0	.000
Rydell, p 				1	0	.000
Underkoffler, c 					 3	0	0	.000
Palkovic, ph 			 1	0	0	.000
Totals 					266	43	70	.263
PERSONAL OPINION
Notre Dame’s track team will defeat Pittsburgh this spring and thus be the first Notre Dame athletic team to defeat a Pitt crew since the winter of 1932. Glenn Cunningham will not lower the outlook mark for the one mile this season. . . . Lou Gehrig (Continued on Page 15)
3, 193 3
COACH AND TEACHER
Jake Kline
No reason to scowl, Jake.
TENNIS TEAM TO ENGAGE WILDCAT NETTERS AT EVANSTON
Today the Irish net stars tune up their racquets and meet the potent, snarling Wildcats of Northwestern at Evanston. The Purple, led by the famous Ball duo, will provide the most formidable opposition the Irish have faced this season. With Captain Weldon, Buchart and Fallon in midseason form, Northwestern faces a tartar that will be hard to overthrow.
George Ball, western indoor champion, and his brother, Russell, newly-crowned Chicago indoor champion, have been playing superb tennis. After blazing a trail of victories in the southwest, these two Texans have garnered a large share of Chicago titles for the family trophy case.
The caliber of the Purple team this year is such that Captain Rasmussen has been relegated to the number four post in the singles, one notch below the sensational Rugg. Coach Paul Bennett, former Canadian Davis Cup
(Continued on Page 16)
INDIANA HERE ON MONDAY
By John Cackley
Jake Kline’s sluggers embark on a two game trip this week, meeting the University of Toledo today, while stacking up against Ohio State’s powerful aggregation on May 4. The Rockets, being a newcomer to the Irish schedule, are looked upon to provide plenty of worry for Captain Lefty Dunn and his mates. Comparatively little is known concerning their relative strength, but they will enter the Notre Dame fracas with impressive wins at the expense of Oberlin and Defiance.
Coach Dave Connelly will probably rely on Norm Lippincott, big righthander, to do the hurling with Sie-mans working behind the plate. Maurice Connell by his recent showing, will no doubt earn a starting berth in the center field position. Holding down the, initial sack will be Cupp, with Hayes at short, while McDermott and Rapperlie are slated to patrol the outer garden. All are dangerous hitters.
Ohio State is reputed to be polishing up their war clubs in an attempt to revenge the 4-3 pasting, administered by Notre Dame in the season’s opener on Cartier Field. Fresh from an 8-2 victory over Indiana, the Bucks have been going exceptionally strong since the recent setback they suffered here on the local diamond. In ’34, after copping the first issue 7-5. Ohio State succumbed 5-3 before a mighty Irish onslaught in their latter engagement. Previously the Ohioans had knocked the Hoosiers from the Big Ten top rung by virtue of a 11-2 triumph.
Playing errorless ball behind Bill Tourney’s pitching, the Irish came into their own last Saturday, ekeing out a hard-fought 2-1 contest from Illinois, Big Ten champions, enhancing their chances no little bit in Columbus. Dietz, a pitching sensation in his sophomore year, is carded to oppose Matt Themes on the mound. If Themes can put the “Indian sign” on the Red and White batting array as he so successfully did in the other encounter, Notre Dame should experience no difficulty in taking the opposition’s “measure.”
Eleven
Nickmen Seek Second Win of Outdoor Season Against Buckeyes
OLD TIMERS’ GRIDIRON
BATTLE OCCURS SUNDAY
WILL MEET IN COLUMBUS
Notre Dame’s trackmen travel to Columbus tomorrow where they will meet Ohio State in their second dual meet of the outdoor season. According to the latest dope handed out by Nick, this will be the Irish’s first defeat of the year in dual competition;
George Meagher
He wanted to be treasurer.
the main reason is State’s great scoring power in Jesse Owens, their great Negro sprinter and jumper. It is a known fact that Owens is superior to any of the Irish thinlies in the dashes, hurdles and broad jump, but in all probability won’t compete in these events unless his team needs the points for a victory. Alone he is capable of making 25 points.
Leaving out the events that Owens has a chance in, the Irish may have a slight edge. Elser, winner of the shot put in the Penn relays, should win this event, although Neal, former Big Ten champion, will make his bid for the winning position. Elser may also be counted on for a place in the discus, along with John Levicki. Captain Murphy should come through with a first in his specialty, the high jump, but he may receive some competition from Walker, a Buckeye jumper who has cleared the bar at 6 feet four inches.
Notre Dame looks good-for at least two places in the quart?r-mile and half-mile events, with Bernard and Shiels standing a chance of winning their particular races. Now that McFarlane has proved, “that they do come back,” when he won the two-mile in the recent meet "with Purdue, the long race belongs to the Irish Saturday, with Gott finishing in the scoring. McKenna will get the call in the mile run, and will try to add a few points to the Irish score.
Notre Dame will probably be represented in the high hnrdles by Layden and Link, while Meagher will join the
T ttlre
Two Big Ten Schools On Slate Next Week
For N. D.’s Ball Nine
Returning to the fold, Coach Kline’s diamond outfit will clash on May 6 with Indiana University, while two days later Northwestern is to be entertained on Cartier Field. The Crimson boast a capable pitching-staff composed of Kehrt, Wilshire, Roberts, and Hosier.
With the exception of two defeats by Ohio State, the Indianans have been progressing extremely well this season. Until recently they occupied the lead-off position in the Big Ten conference. Playing but one contest last spring against their down-state rivals, the Irish with Matt Themes doing the twirling, manhandled the Red and White 7-3. Themes, starting his initial assignment, proved very effective, striking out nine men.
Northwestern, one of the most feared clubs in the Big Ten, will provide the opposition for Notre Dame on Wednesday, May 8. From advance . reports leaking out of the Wildcats’ lair, they are said to have the strongest team in years. Behind the tossing of Tom Woods, speedy southpaw, the Purple were downed the past week 3-2 by Iowa in a hectic twelveinning battle.
Statistically speaking from a viewpoint of the recent series which both combines encountered with the Hawk-eyes, Northwestern is shown to have an advantage of eight runs, but the scoreboard doesn’t pay-off on statistics. Art Pedersen, husky outfielder, is pacing the Wildcat batters, having collected eight hits in 17 trips to the plate on their Michigan hop. In a single game he pounded out a pair of triples, and a four bagger. The Irish, provided they click on their week-end jaunt against Toledo and Ohio State, should continue in then- victory march over the Purple, from the 3-2 win of 1934.
same two in the lows. It is expected that Layden will be in good shape for Saturday’s race, and will give Owens a good battle should they meet in either of the hurdle races. Meagher will also compete in the broad jump, and unless something happens to the State star the Irish jumper must be content with a second place.
Levicki proved himself capable of winning the javelin and discus events in the Purdue meet, but to repeat this win on Saturday, he will have to make longer throws, because the Buckeyes have fairly good men in these events.
The annual grid battle, terminating the end of spring practice sessions at the University, between the “Old-Timers” and the present varsity squad will be played in the Stadium this Sunday afternoon at 2 o’clock —school time.
Included in the list of Old-Timers who will see action during the course
Dominic Vairo
For the last time.
of the contest are many past Irish stars. Harry Wunsch, Carl Cronin, Steve Banas, Frank LaBorne, Tom “Kitty” Gorman and possibly Ed Krause, are a few of the Notre Dame shining lights of a seasons back that are slated to appear in the Stadium Sunday afternoon. Recruited from last season’s varsity will be such well known players as Bud Bonar, Dominic Vairo, George Melinkovich, Paul Schrenker, Ed Caldwell, Hal Quinlan, Matt Ronzone, Fritz Weidner, Hal Schroeder, Phil Heinle, Carl Fulnecky and John D’Amora. There is a chance that Jack Robinson, last season’s All-American center for the Fighting Irish, will be lined up with the Old-Timers when the opening gun is fired.
Head Coach Elmer Layden has been drilling the varsity intensively for this clash, for as has been the case in past spring games between these two, the Old-Timers prove to be much stronger than is anticipated. The contest will mark the first occasion in which the Old-Timers living off the the campus have engaged in actual Play.
Students will be admitted by their A.A. books while the charge of twenty-five cents for adults and ten cents for children will be levied on outsiders. The tentative lineups follow:
a
a
Varsity	Old-Timers
Millner ______________LE----------- Quinlan
Pfefferle or Stilley ______________LT------------ Wunsch
Lauter _______________LG----------- Weidner
Poiman ______________C............ Gorman	or
Robinson
Beckei' _____________-RG......... Schrenker
Michuta --------------RT------------ Vvzral
Peters __________-—RE---------------- Vairo
Moriarty _____________QB------------- Bonar
Shakespeare ---------LH------------ LaBorne
Layden _______________RH------- Melinkovich
Elser _______________FB-------.------ Banas

The Scholastic
BASEBALL NINE BEATS
HAROONS AND ILLINI
Irish Golfers Have Bagged Five Wins Since Opening Schedule
By James A. Waldron
Notre Dame’s surprising baseball team continued to upset the best teams in the Middle West, defeating Illinois, Big Ten champions, at Urbana last Saturday, 2-1. Seeking revenge for an early season defeat, the Chicago Maroons engaged the Irish on Cartier Field last Tuesday and lost a closely contested game, 8-7.
Dan Cunha
.4 had man on the bases.
With Bill Tourney setting down the hard-hitting Illinois batsmen with six hits and the Notre Dame infield supplying senational support, the Irish added an impressive win to their victory column at Urbana.
A squeeze play perfectly executed by Arnie Velcheck manufactured the run which defeated Chicago 8-7. Up to this point, the fans were treated to a well-played game which introduced Gerry Van Wagner in his first start as a Notre Dame pitcher.
Notre Dame (8)
AB R H P A Cunha.2b ..40112 Went’th, ss 5 0 2 2 7 Mettler.cf- 4 110 0 Pilney.lf —.4 2 3 0 0 Fr’mh’t,3b 3 10 15 Dunn.lb.... 4 2 2 16 0 Sepe, If .... 4 12 2 0 Celcheck.lf 0 0 0 0 0 Undk’fl’r.c 3 0 0 5 0 V’W’gner.p 3 0 0 5 0 Thernes.p.. 0 0 0 0 1
Chicago (7
AB
W’ling.IC 5
Levin.cf 4
Tyk,2b ....3
H’rl’w.lb 4
Macey.rf 3
Coeh’n.ss 4
Kr’zic.3b 4
Ship’ay.c 4
Yedor.p.. 0
Nestler.p 1
Laird.p.. 2
Vanek.... 0
Totals ..34
R H PA 0 0 10 1111 0 13 2 0 1 13 0 10 10 2 2 2 3 0 15 3 2 2 0 4 0 0 0 0 10 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0
7 8 26 16
Totals ....34	8 12 27 17
Notre Dame (2)
AB	R	H	P	A
Cunha.2b.. ..3	0	0	1	3
W’ntw’th.ss 3	0	0	1	3
Mettler, cf 3	0	1	1	0
Pilney.rf .. 3	0	0	1	0
Fr’mh’rt.Sb 3 10 18 Dunn.lb .... 4	1	1	18	0
Velcheck.lf 3	0	0	0	0
Gaul.c .... 3	0 14 2
Toumey.p ..30102
Totals ____28 2 4 27 18
Illinois (1) AB R H P A
Moyer.ef 4 0 110
R’nh’t.lf 2 110 0
Henry.rf 4 0 110
D’fner.lb 4 0 18 1
Lewis,3b 4 0 0 1 1
|Frank..2b4 0 0 4 4
Swikle.ss 4 0 14 3
K’alski.c 2 0 14 3
M’Don’Id 0 0 0 0 0
Combes .. 0 0 0 0 0
Weber.... 1 0 0 0 0
Cherry.p 0 0 0 0 0
Pershel.p 10 0 11
Hinze.... 1 0 0 0 0
Russell,c 0 0 0 3 1
Sw’son.p 0 0 0 0 0
Hotch’n.. 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ..32 1 6 27 14
Many Irish Athletes Win High Awards In
Big Track Carnivals
Big Don Elser, Notre Dame’s star shot putter, tossed the 16-pound shot 50 feet, two and three-fourths inches to capture first place at the annual Penn relays. Competing against some of the finest shot putters in the country, the Gary giant proved to the 35,000 track enthusiasts that he is to be ranked with the best. His toss barely nosed out W. D. Wood, of Cornell, and was an inch farther than the winning heave at the Drake relays.
While Elser was proving his worth in the east, other Notre Dame track-sters were carrying off honors in the famous western track carnival, the Drake Relays. George Meagher, diminutive, blond Irish star, broke the Drake broad jump record with a leap of 24 feet 9% inches only to take second place to Jesse Owens’ record breaking jump of 26 feet 1% inches. The tremendous leap of the Negro from Ohio State prevented Meagher from establishing a new Drake relay record and George is eagerly awaiting another crack at the Ohio Stater.
Captain Vince Murphy placed second in the high jump by clearing the bar at six feet four inches. The lanky Irish jumper has bettered this mark many times, both in meets and in practice, and is expected to do better in forthcoming meets. As it was, the winning jump at the Penn games was no better than Murphy’s second place leap at the Drake carnival.
The Notre Dame two mile relay team composed of Cavanaugh, Bernard, Shiels, and Ducassa took third place against a field of fast teams. Besides carrying off third place honors this team ran the two miles faster than any other Notre Dame relay team has ever covered the distance.
Another relay team, the half mile quartet, also placed third in the half mile relay. Running smoothly and brilliantly McGrath, Jordan, Frawley, and Boyle took third place from the runners from Wisconsin.
“Chick” Levicki failed to place in the javelin throw at the games in the Quaker city. The sophomore star was competing in only his second collegiate outdoor meet and was up against some of the most experienced throwers in the country, and while not placing, gained enough experience to make him a menace to all in the coming meets. The Irish four mile relay team at Drake was nosed out of fourth place by a very small margin by the thinlies from Kansas State.
PLAY 3 TEAMS IN 4 DAYS
By Robert Donahue
The Notre Dame golf team forsook Easter vacations to engage in dual matches with Purdue, Wayne, and Detroit universities and thereby to expand an ever-growing victory list. The rushing playing and tiresome
Johnny Banks They bank on him.
travel necessitated by the three-match-in-four-days schedule appeared not to bother the Irish golfers in the least and all matches were won by decisive scores.
Purdue was met on Saturday, April 20, play being over the West Lafayette course. Captain Johnny Banks and Lou Fehlig paired together in the morning to win three points in their best-ball match with Ken Dobelbauer and Bob Rollins. Win Day and Bill Cole drew a two to one decision over Harold Brewer and Jack Smith.
In the singles matches Purdue proved itself a most worthy opponent. Win Day took three points from Brewer and Banks dropped the first nine to Smith hut rallied on the back side to win two points. Bill Cole lost to Dobelbauer a two to one decision. Lefthanded Harry Baldwin started strongly against Lockwood but encountered difficulties on the second. nine which cost him a two to one loss.
On cold, cloudy Easter Monday the golfers of Wayne University (formerly City College of Detroit) found out for themselves just how easily it is to drop a match to determined Notre Dame units. Play was over the Western Country Club, a long narrow layout which stimulates good golf but harshly penalizes misplayed shots, and the Irish came out on the long end of a 17% to % score.
The Detroit match followed the next day and became the season’s fourth win and the team’s nineteenth (Continued on Page 16)
SMay 3, 1935
T hir teen
By Joe Prendergast
KLINEMEN WIN THREE OF FIRST FOUR GAMES
In a large airy triple on the fourth floor of Walsh Hall room Dale Pillars, Matt Ronzone and Vic Mettler. Pillars was asleep, Ronzone was absent and Vic Mettler was present so youi' correspondent started his bombardment of questions at Mettler, sometimes shouting his queries so as to be heard above Dale Pillars’ musical snores. The sum total of these interrogations follow:
Victor H. Mettler, 21 .years old of Hammond, Ind., is one of the great
est natural athletes that this Hoosier town ever produced. Jack Chevigny was the last of the fine athletes from this northwestern Indiana industrial belt to enroll at Notre Dame before Vic Mettler began his reign on the campus. Vic learned whatever he he knows about baseball from his father, “Hans,” who was no slouch in the national game himself. When Vic was six years old his dad bought him a ball glove and used to play catch with him for hours in the back yard.
Hammond, back in 1925, was the, home of the world’s champion baseball team for railroads, the Indiana
Fourteen
Harbor Belt Railroad nine. Vic Mettler was the mascot for this team for five years. He traveled all ovei' the country with the team and picked up a world of baseball knowledge. Vic attended Hammond High School for four years, being graduated in 1931, While at Hammond High, he was a member of the baseball team for four years, the basketball team for four years, and won three monogram sweaters as a member of the football team. He captured both the baseball
and basketball outfits when he was a senior. Vic was quarterback of the state football champs as a junior and was picked as all-tournament forward in the sectional basketball meet, both in his junior and senior years.
Colgate, Michigan, and Indiana were all considered by Vic as possible alma maters but all were rejected once Jack Chevigny started singing the praises of Notre Dame. As a freshman here in 1931-32, Vic won his numerals in three sports. In the spring of 1932 when he was still a freshman, he won the Hering Medal in spring football practice for punt-
(Gontinued on Page 17)
The Notre Dame baseball team won its opening game of the season April 12 by defeating the Ohio State nine on Cartier field by the score of 4-3. The game, which stretched out for ten long innings, was bitterly contested and featured few hits by either side.
The cold, raw weather in which the game was played evidently had little effect on Themes’ pitching arm for he held the Buckeyes to six hits. Ohio State started out strongly, making one tally in the first inning and two in the third. Notre Dame then began to bear down to such an extent that the visitors were unable to connect with the ball for any scoring.
The Notre Dame baseball team, after defeating Ohio State in the opening game of the season, came out on top in the next three games on the schedule, winning two and losing one. The Irish were defeated by Purdue 9-5, April 16, at Lafayette, eased out Western State at Kalamazoo on April 18 with the score 6-5, and thoroughly trimmed Chicago in the Windy City April 20, 12-6.
The Western State game saw the Irish in much better* form than they showed in the Purdue contest the preceding day. Although Western State led the scoring in the first part of the game by making three runs in the third inning, Notre Dame began to catch up in the fifth when two runs brought the Western State lead down to a margin of one. The Irish forged ahead in the eighth by making three tallies to their opponents’ one.
The University of Chicago was the next team to fall before the Irish onslaught when, on April 20, it bowed to Notre Dame to the tune of 12-6. The Maroons went scoreless to the ninth frame while Notre Dame, which scored six runs in the first two innings, continued to an imposing number* of counts. . Haarlow was batted out of the box and was replaced before the second inning finished. The Chicago team made a desperate effort to even things up in the ninth by getting eight hits and a walk for six runs, but it was not enough and Notre Dame was the victor with a six run margin when the game ended.
Notre Dame (4)	Ohio State (3)
AB	R H	P	A| AB	R	H	PA
Reagan.ss.. 5	0 0	3	11 Dye.ss....	5	2	0	2	7
Cunha.2b— 4	0 1	3	3|Pros’k.rf	5	12	0	0
Mettler.cf.. 5	114	2|W’kel.3b	5	0	0	2	3
Pilney.rf ....5 - 1	2	2	01 Cl’sen,2b	5	0	2	4	2
Dunn.lb.... 3	0	0	8	0|M”fee,lb	5	0	014	1
Fromh’t,3b 3	10	1	2|KH’ski.lf	3	0	0	1	0
xM’th’ws,lf 5	0	0	1	OlBlues.p..	3	0	0	0	1
Sepe.lf--- 0 0 0 1 01 Mont’y.p 10 112 Gaul.c-.:.—4 12 6 11 Moser,? 4 0 13 1 Thernes.p.. 4 0 0 1 lILewis.cf 3 0 0 1 0 --------------------1	-----------.
Totals ......38 4 6 30 101 Totals ..39 3 6 28 17 x Costello batted for Mathews in Sth.
The Scholastic
9
FOUR GAMES PLAYED IN INTERHALL LEAGUE
SPLINTERS
TRACKHEN LICK PURDUE IN OPENING CONFLICT
>
*
*
►
By John I. Flanagan
The Interhall baseball season started last Sunday with four games, a somewhat unprecedented fact because there were only eight teams entered in the league and there were no cancellations.
Of the four games perhaps the most exciting from the , spectator’s standpoint was the slugfest between Morrissey and Badin in which the sophomores emerged the victors 15-13 after trailing for the first five innings of the game. In the sixth inning the Morrissev boys donned their hitting togs and when the side was finally retired ten runs had crossed home plate. The inspired team did not quit then but went on to score two more runs in the seventh inning and send the Badin boys back to their hall lamenting the fact that they ever entered the league. The winning battery was Blake and Crotty.
The Sorin Tigers transferred their winning streak from the football field to the baseball diamond and gave the Juniors from the Gold Coast a lesson in the fine art of plaving the great American pastime. The score was 3-1 but it does not show the superiority of the Seniors who far outshone the Alumni lads in the fielding and pitching departments. The game was far superior to former interhall contests.
St. Edward’s started their season in improving fashion by defeating their fellow classmates from under the arch. The final score was 5-3.
The final game of the dav pitted Howard against Carroll and what started as a baseball game rapidly took on the aspects of a track meet as time after time the juniors dented the plate with theii’ spikes. When the third out of the seventh inning was made and the scorers totaled the runs the dormitory lads were on the short end of a 12-4 score.
All the games in the interhall league are seven inning frays and are officiated by physical education men, the football men handling the Sunday contests and the men who are not football men handling the weekday contests.
A new feature this year is the revision of the rules to allow the coaches to play with their teams. Because of this ruling some changes have been made in the coaches of the various halls.
Because of the short time left for games and possible conflicts with the baseball games the indoor games this season will not be played according to a full game schedule but there will be an elimination tournament and the campus champion will be decided in that manner.
(Continued from Page 11)
will lead both leagues in home runs this season and Zeke Bo-nura of the amazing White Sox will be second. . . . Notre Dame’s fencing team will experience a reversal of form next year. . . . The strong freshman basketball squad will help put Coach George Keogan’s quintet on the front page nert winter. . . .
Ohio State will win the Big Ten football title next fall . . . Minnesota will finish a strong second . . . Barney Ross will drop his boxing title before another year passes . . . Fred Perry will win the Wimbledon singles championship this summer . . . Max Baer will knock out Jim Braddock within eight rounds (some gamble) . . . Helen Jacobs will rank as the No. 1 woman tennis player this year . . . Rabbit Maranville is in his last season as an active player . . . The Montreal Maroons will defend their Stan-lep Cup, emblematic of hockey supremacy, next winter . . . C. V. Whitney’s Today, as well as Chance Sun will finish in the Derby money tomorrow . . . And watch a Bradley horse -with a fast track . . . Southern California is on the wav up in football.
Notre Dame Gridsters Run In Shuttle Relay Race
Notre Dame is still champion of Indiana in regards to football. Mike Layden, Bill Shakespeare, Harry Becker, and Dick Pfefferle representing the Irish squad at the Northwestern football carnival held two weeks ago at Evanston upheld this title when they competed in a shuttle relay in which football players from five colleges participated. The Irishmen defeated Purdue, the other Indiana representatives, though they trailed the other three teams. Through this they are still considered the Hoosier football champions in every respect.
Chicago, Northwestern, and De Pauw finished in that order in front of the two Indiana teams. If any of the Irish who competed there are asked, they will inform one that they went ther primarily to defeat Purdue.
Punting, passing, and drop kicking contests were also held but the Irish did not compete in these. The main event of the day was a football game between two Northwestern squads. No decision was reached as the game ended in a 0-0 tie.
Lynn Waldorf,'new Northwestern football coach, under whose supervision the carnival was held, plans to make this an annual event each spring.
Scoring first places in 13 of 15 events, Notre Dame’s track team ran wild against Purdue on April 20 to win 91-39. This was the fifth straight victory for the Irish in dual meet competition and marked the opening of the home outdoor season. Although a stiff breeze prevailed, times and dis-
Leo McFarlane
He ivon and collapsed.
tances were almost at par. Purdue never threatened and the Nickmen scored slams in the discus throw, the quarter mile run, and the 180 yard low hurdles.
In the 120 yard high hurdles Mike Layden was leading until he struck one of the hurdles and fell just behind Sandbach of Purdue. In the same race Link of Notre Dame also tripped, but gallantly stumbled across the finish to capture a third. In the low hurdles Sandbach suffered a collision with the last barrier and failed to place.
John Levicki led the scoring for the day with 10 points, getting firsts in both the javelin and the discus throws. Captain Vince Murphy of the Irish jumped six feet, 3% inches to narrowly miss the Cartier field record. George Meagher cleared 24 feet, % inch to safely trim his expert rival, co-Captain Harry Hollis of Purdue, in the broad jump. Hollis was the high scorer for the Boilermakers with seven points scored in 100 yard dash, broad jump and 220 yard dash.
Leo McFarlane of the Irish, making his first start in ten months after an injury to his foot, stuck valiantly with Moore of Purdue in the two mile run and in a thrilling stretch drive, the Notre Dame runner pulled ahead to win by a small margin. Don Elser showed evidence that he was ready for the Penn relays when he tossed the 16 pound shot 49 feet, 6% inches.
The javelin battle between John Levicki of Notre Dame and Duand Purvis of Purdue failed to materialize because Purvis was kept out of action with an injured foot.
Way 3, 1933
Fifteen
On Down The Line

BOX SCORES
By Jim McMullen
Quoting Irvin Cobb, the philosophical Kentuckian: “Until you go to Kentucky and with your own eyes behold a Derby, ‘you ain’t never been nowheres and you ain’t never seen nothin’ ”... Sixty-first running of that great classic tomorrow at Louisville in the blue grass region. . . . There meet the ladies and gentlemen of the turf—the aristocrats of the maverick world ... a King or Queen will be crowned . . . while thousands watch, and other thousands pray . . . the eyes of the world—on old Kain-tuck. ...	•
Tomorrow promises a bunting grabbing jamboree that may crack an entree record ... 110 nominations thrown into the jaws of America’s handicapping genius — and the boys couldn’t handle the food . . . Upshot —many entrees, and few favorites with the common people riding the family fortunes on the long ones . . . So be it . . . Chance Sun, established by followers of the* jobbie world as a winter book favorite is no longer considered a contender . . . toted to the Louisville strip, he failed to please the railbirds . . . won the Belmont Futurity, but undoubtedly just another appleknocker . . . Omaha, sired by Gallant Fox, leading equine of a few years back, is a great favorite with the wise ones this Derby eve . . . Closed 23 lengths in the Wood Memorial two weeks ago to finish a fast moving third ... a cinch to be in the lucre, but will he grab it all? . . . The hay and feed possessor of the immortal Equipose, C. V. Whitney, has Today entered ... a good hidefront runner, but inclined to die . . . cavorted ahead of Omaha in the Memorial . . . The Whitney Greentree Stable has Plateye on the firing line. ... a steady horse, almost too steady for this unfigured and undopable Darby . . . Kunnel Bradley, the idol of the Blue Grass, will shoot Boxthorn to the “when in doubt boys.” ... It’s a long chance, but the Kunnel is a gambler. . . .
Every sporting event has its ballyhoo . . . The Derby uses its filly entree . . . Miss Nellie Flag to you, sub. . . .but she’s been acting mighty nice and could be dangerous — if she weren’t a filly . . . The strong silent horse in the glamorous setting appears to be Mrs. W. M. Jefford’s Commonwealth ... a great grass burner-smart baskers, and sure to be a contender . . . The boys say— (Kentucky boys, by the way) that a horse that has run in the winter campaigns has a great handicap in his battle for the crown of horseflesh. . . . Roman Soldier is just such a maverick, and who are we to argue with the boys? . . .
Sixteen
Running time
SPEEDED UP
Effective April 28
• South Shore trains will speed along at a faster clip than ever . . . starting April 28. Trains will leave South Bend at the same times as always, but on daylight saving time schedule. The running time to Chicago is cut 10 minutes . . . and the return trip is cut 8 minutes ... effective April 28.
'DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME
APRIL 28
APRIL 28
l. AU trains on daylight saving time.
2.	No change in departure time iom South Bend or Chicago.
3.	Faster running time between South Bend and Chicago.
ASK FOR NEW TIME TABLE
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE
AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

GOLF TEAM
(Continued from Page 13)
the Oakland Hills Country Club course and Notre Dame was victorious by a 14-4 score. In the doubles Banks and Baldwin won all three points from Waggoner and Crusoe, but Day and Cole lost out to Taylor and Lapham 2 % to %. In the afternoon’s singles Johnny Banks turned in the best medal card of the day, a fine seventy-four, to win easily from Crusoe.
Notre Dame (5)
AB R H P Cunha,2b.. 5 2 2 3 Went’th.ss 3 111 Mettler,cf.. 3 0 0 1 Pilney.rf ....3 0 2 3 Fromh’t,3b *10 12 Costello,lb 4 0 15 Velcheck.lf 4 111 Gaul.c_____ 3 118 Thernes,p.. 4 0 0 0
Purdue (9) A | AB R H P A 2 | Lucas.ss 4	2	0	1	0
2|Arm'n,3b 3	2	3	4	7
0|Dailey,3b 1	0	0	0	0
11 Craig,2b 4	2	4	0	1
llB’beck.rf 3 1110 0 I Lang,If 5 14 4 1 0 Sk’ski.lb 5 0 2 10 0 11 Cherico.c 3 0 0 3 0 21 W’msn.cf 4 113 0 Martin.p 1 0 0 0 1
Totals -----33 5 9 24 9 Totals.. 33 9 15 27 10
Notre Dame (6) AB R
Cunha, 2b„ 5 0 Went’th.ss 4 1 Mettler,cf 5 1
Pilney.rf— 3 1 Fromh’t,3b 4 0 Costello, lb 4 0 Velcheck.lf 4 1 Gaul.c---- 3 1 Beach, p.„. 3 1
West. State (5)
H P A	AB R H P A
3 5 2 B’rber,3b 2 0 111 10 3 N’m’n.3b 3 0 0 0 0 12 0 B’n’bo,2b 5 0 110 12 0 Miller,lb 4 0 0 2 0 12 21 Emery.c 4 2 4 4 2 12 2 Hibb’d.lf 5 114 0 14 0 Milesp.,ss 3 113 3 2 4 1 Salter,rf 5 0 10 0 10 3 Secory.cf 4 0 110 Brandt,p 2 0 12 4
Totals ----35 6 12 27 11 Totals ..37 5 11 27 10
Notre Dame (12) AB R H
Cunha,2b— 4 3 2
Went’th.ss '4 3 2
Mettler,cf.. 5 13
Pilney.rf— 5 13
Fromh’t.3b 10 0
Costello,3b 4 0 1
Dunn.lb— 2 11
Ponzevic.lb 0 0 0
Velcheck,lf 4 0 0
Mathews,If 10 0
Gaul.c____ 3 10
Und’k’fler.c 4 10
Rydell.p— 4 10
Themes,p- 0 0 0
PA	AB
Chicago (6)
4 1
2 2 0
2 9
2 1
1 1 0 0 0
1 4 0
0 0
3 0 0
0
W’ling.lf Kr’zic,3b Levin,cf Cbch’n.ss Vansk.ss Nancy.rf H’low.p Tyk.2b„ N’sler.lb
2 S’pway.c
0 Curtis.c Bernard
5
4
4
3
1
5
5 0
3
0
1
2
2
1
R H 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 0 2 1 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0
PA 0 0 1 1 3 0 1 5 0 0 1 0 7 0 4 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 9 3 1 0 0 0
Totals —41 12 12 27 12 Totals ..38 6 13 27 12
Notre Dame (1)
AB R H P A Cunha,2b —4 12 2 2 Went’th.ss 4 0 2 2 5 Mettler, cf 5 0 0 3 0 Pilney.rf— 3 0 10 0 Costello,3b 3 0 0 1 2 Dunn.lb_____ 4 0 1 13 0 Velcheck.lf 4 0 12 0 Gaul.c _____ 4	0 0 4 1
Thernes.p.. 1 0 0 0 1 Toumey.p.. 1 0 0 0 2 Palkovic— 1 0 0 0 0 V’W’gner.p 0 0 0 0 0 Reagan----- 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ____35 1 7 27 13
Iowa (11) AB R H P A Ste’ns,2b 6 12 0 4 T’ylor.3b 4 10 12 Mason,ss 5 13 3 3 Cl’sen.lb 5 1 1 10 1 Und’d.If 4 0 110 B’ck’n.rf 4 10 0 0 H’lt’m.cf 3 2 0 3 0 Hoover,c 5 2 19 0 Ford, p 5 2 2 0 2
Totals „41 11 10 27 12
Errors—Clausen, Ford. Cunha (2), Costello. Dunn, Gaul (3) ; Three-base hits—Stephens: sacrifice hits—Wentworth : stolen bases—Stephens. Mason, Mettler : double plays—Wentworth to Cunha to Dunn ; hits—off Thernes 5 in 2 innings, off Tourney 4 in 5 innings, off Van Wagner 1 in 2 innings; base on balls— off Thernes 5, off Ford 3.
Iowa (3)
AB R H P A St’ph’ns.2b 4	0	0	5	1
Taylor,3b„ 4	0	2	0	2
Mason.ss— 5	0	2	3	1
Claussen.lb 4	0	18	0
Und’wod.lf 5	0	3	0	0
Murphy,rf 5	2	3	3	0
Hal tom, cf.. 5 12 10 Nelson.c— 3	0	0	1	0
Hoover,c— 2	0	0	3	1
Mau, p — 1	0	0	0	2
Reese, p —1	0	0	0	1
Benedict — 1	0	0	0	0
Dosser ___ 1	0	0	0	0
Totals ____41 3 14 24 8
Notre Dame (5)
AB R H P A Cunha,2b 5 0 2 5 1 Went.,ss 3 12 11 M’tler.cf 4 0 110 Pilney.rf 4 0 110 Fr’h’rt.Sb 4 1115 Dunn.lb 3 0 0 10 0 V’lch’k.lf 110 0 1 Gaul.c— 3 119 1 Beach,p„ 3 10 0 2 Th’nes.p 0 0 0 0 0
Totals -30 5 8 27 11
Errors — Stephens, Wentworth (2), Mason (2), Underwood. Two-base hits — Haltom. Three-base hits—Murphy. Stolen bases—Wentworth, Cunha. Sacrifice hits — Wentworth. Dunn, Velcheck, Gaul. Hits—off Beach, 14 in 8 1-3 innings; off Mau 6 in 5 innings.
The Scholastic
FR. O’HARA’S TRAVELS
(Continued from Base 2)
From Arrow headquarters
in law and the social sciences, and a school of medicine is planned. In Florence, Father O’Hara visited the famous art galleries.
A ten day stay in Rome climaxed Father O’Hara’s visit in Italy. He was granted a twenty minute audience with His Holiness Pope Pius XI. The Pontiff was especially interested in religion at Notre Dame, the Uni-, versity’s library, and the development of its athletics. Father O’Hara left Italy, by boat from Naples.
When asked to comment on Mussolini and his work, Father O’Hara said that he has done wonders in making the country self sufficient. Work has been successfully conducted in the drainage of the vast swamps in Southern Italy with the result that wheat and olives can grow within twenty feet of the sea. Each government, since the days of ancient Rome, has attempted this task, but it took Mus-) solini and his carefully organized forces to make these swamps fit country for human and vegetative life, concluded Father O’Hara.
■ Speaking of the probability of an European war, he said, “There seemed to be a real fear that war was imminent.” The real fear, he asserted, seemed to be centered about Paris. Little war talk was heard in England, and Italy seemed to be far too busy to be thinking of war.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
ing, both for accuracy and distance.
i)	Last year as a junior Vic won his
baseball monogram, playing every inning of every game on the schedule. He started off the season as an infielder, but was shifted to the outfield midway in the campaign to bolster a weak spot. This did not hinder his batting prowess, in the least, for he led the team at bat with a magnif-cent average of .460. The most unforgettable event for Vic, while wearing the colors of the Irish, occurred in his sophomore year. Notre Dame was playing against Northwestern on
► Cartier Field, and Johnson, a fair flinger, was on the mound for the Wildcats. It was the first inning, and Vic was the second Irish hitter to face Johnson and inaugurated his career here in the right manner by clouting a nice single to center.
Vic looks forward to a very successful season for the team this year. He thinks Jake Kline is a great coach and with a little help from the hitting department the pitchers ought to fare mighty well. He is a senior in the Physical Education school and ex-’ pects to coach or play ball after graduation this spring. He is a member
May 3, 1935
DRESS SHIRTS, $2.50
Elkwurtljs
FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU'LL LEAD THE STYLE
Peace of mind in knowing that your evening attire is unassailably correct, adds much to the suavity of your appearance. Whether you are wearing a tail coat or tuxedo—turn to Arrow for the dress shirt, collar, handkerchief and tie, and be assured of quality haberdashery in the latest style.
SANFORIZED SHRUNK
Seventeen
TENNIS
(Continued from Papte 11)
star, has pointed his men for the clash with Notre Dame.
Last week the Purple met unexpected opposition from Illinois and tied the fighting Illini at 3-all. George Ball bowed to the sophomore Illini star, Mclnich in straight sets, and teamed with his brother, succumbed to the Illinois pair, Mclnich and Mott.
Following, the Northwestern clash the Irish engage Bradley and Chicago. Bradley has long led the Little Nineteen in tennis. Chicago, defending champion of the Big Ten, served notice of her defense of the laurels by defeating Illinois and northern Illinois Teachers. The Maroons are led by Captain Trevor Weiss, who has cut quite a swath in Big Ten net circles the past two years as the partner of Max Davidson. The Irish will meet the Maroons on May 8 at the Midway.
Pep on
THE \jr
COLLEGE PROM
RUTH ETTING and her melody RED NICHOLS and his rhythm
Don’t miss Ruth Etting when she sings at the “prom” next week. Don’t miss your chance to dance when Red Nichols plays hot music. Kellogg.’s College Prom pays respects to a different campus next Friday night. All the thrills and merriment of a happy party. Plus excitement from the sports world. Be sure to tune in!
^very Fri. Night ' 8:30
Eastern Daylight Time WJZ Network—AT. B. C.
EXPANSION PLANS
(Continued from Paste 1)
fessors had been engaged to lecture . at Notre Dame during the next scholastic year. Heading the list is the well-known G. K. Chesteron, who has already given a series of lectures at the University. Mr. Chesterton has not definitely stated when he will come to Notre Dame, but the announcement is expected to be forthcoming in the near future.
Jacques Maritain, famous philoso- . pher, who was to have lectured here . this spring, but was prevented from coming because of the illness of his mother, will be at Notre Dame some time next fall.	.
Etienne Gilson, who is also well-known on the campus, is to lecture at Notre Dame after he returns from a three months visit to Brazil, and a like stay at St. Michael’s College in Toronto. Gilson is from the Sorbonne and the Institute Catholique in Paris.
Other visiting lecturers include Arnold Lund, Christopher Hollis, and Desmond Fitzgerald. Lund, who will come to America in October, is at present in Switzerland, where he is writing a book in cooperation with J. S. V. Haldane. Hollis will teach courses for the entire year, while Fitzgerald will come in October for a stay of six weeks. Mr. Fitzgerald was for ten years a minister of the Irish government, and was a delegate to the League of Nations. His theory is that Catholics know the truths of their religion but do not realize how closely these truths are allied to the economic, political, and social life of today. .
On the same program with Father O’Hara Monday night was Frank C. Walker, Eddie Dowling, and Elmer Layden. The Glee Club rendered vocal selections which went out over a network of- one hundred and fifty individual stations. In addition, alumni in London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, Madrid, Buenos Aires, Bogota, Bombay, Shanghai, and other foreign cities paid homage to their alma mater by special meetings.
I am a friSi?< others, becauni grant, expeiEni a single shades tom leaf to lily j mildness. If >t
' । bring compaiip
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
TUNE IN—Luckies are on the air Satth T
Eighteen
liness—I bring companionship
^OWl fcjX -PUjM^cI
y good, taste or my uniform
>i[
j )t irritate. To loneliness I
; I
aiip. I am the best of friends.
atth THE HIT PARADE, over NBC Network 8 to 9 p. m. E. D. S.T.
Copyright 1935, The American Tobacco Company.
il?ed. A better friend than mm made only of mild, fra-fenter leaves. I don’t permit deaf nor a single coarse bot-

"LETTER" MEN
“Letter” men, as well as other leaders in undergraduate life, are individuals with lots of vitality. Their energy and their enthusiasm make them popular.
But many others fail to take proper care of their health. Their drive and pep is often slowed down by constipation due to insufficient “bulk.”
Fortunately, this can be corrected. Kellogg’s All-Bran, a del icious cereal, supplies “bulk” as well as vitamin B and iron. This “bulk” is mild in action.
Two tablespoonfuls daily, served with milk or cream, are usually sufficient to promote regular habits. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house, eating-club or campus restaurant.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating-clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg's Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg's whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee—97% caffeine free.
FRANK WALKER
(Continued from Page 1)
his acquaintance with Mr. Roosevelt, and the two became close friends. In 1928 this Notre Dame alumnus contributed time, money, and effort to the campaign which made his friend governor of New York.
Later in 1932, when Roosevelt was nominated as the Democratic party’s candidate for the presidency, Walker was made treasurer of the national committee. His remarkable managerial ability then earned him the position of head of the Emergency Council a short time after Mr. Roosevelt was put into the White House.
Born 1886 in Plymouth, Pennsylvania, he was taken to Montana at an early age and was reared and educated in the mining fields. He later came to Notre Dame ■where he became prominent as a member of the debating team and as editor of the Dome and The Scholastic. He partly earned his way through college by serving as correspondent for Chicago, Indianapolis, and South Bend newspapers.
Then, as now, he was a quiet and retiring fellow. Not even his classmates knew him thoroughly. In a poll of his class he was rated as one of the two most likely to succeed and as one of the most energetic members of the class; and at the same time he was listed as one of the two laziest seniors in the University.
In 1909 Walker was graduated from Notre Dame’s College of Law with a magna cum laude LL.B, degree. Returning to his home in Butte, Montana, he started out on a successful career as a member of the bar. Mr. Walker’s present home is on Fifth Avenue, New York City. In addition to his many duties, he is also a trustee of the University.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS 222^2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE • PERSONAL SERVICE
▼
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
For More Information About Study And Travel Abroad See
3. JHittermaper 904 W. INDIANA AVE. Representing all trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific Steamship Lines. Free Assistance in Free Service on all Securing Passports Travel Planning
TO EUROPE
TOURIST CLASS
in the American manner
UP HIGH in value
DOWN LOW in cost
e The luxurious cabin illustrated above isn’t the only feature of American travel on the famous, modern American ships, Washington and Manhattan.
These great ships, fastest of their type, are the sensations of the sea! Because they offer so much for so little! For only $113 one way; $204 round trip, you enjoy real American standards! Spacious decks, delicious food in air-conditioned dining salons {exclusive in the service), real beds in all cabins, tiled swimming pool, prerelease talking pictures and many other great features! No wonder these ships have set enviable popularity records!
In Cabin Class — highest aboard the ship—on either the Pres. Harding or Pres. Roosevelt, you enjoy the top decks, finest cabins—very best the ship offers—at modest fares. Rates as low as $126 one. way; $234 round trip.
These four finelinerssail weekly to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg. Apply to your travel agent. His services are free.
UNITED STATES ■INF*..- a M
Associated with American Merchant and Baltimore Mail Lines to Europe; Panama Pacific Line (□California; U.S. Lines and Panama Pacific Cruises.
Company's Office, 21S NO. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO
Twenty
The Scholastic