SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send
years of Scholastic to:
Name:_________________________________________________
A ddress:_____________________________________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
Contents
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE

s
w
E
N
3 Flu Season
5 End Time
D E
8 All Night Long
10 Students in Public Service
14 A Winning Combination
16 In the Name of Pride
2 Editor’s Notes/Letter
7 CampusWatch
.22 On Other Campuses
23	Week In Distortion
24	Final Word
18 Out of Bounds
19 Daisy Chainsaw
20 Malcolm X
Cover photo by Nick Spangler
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME’S STUDENT MAGAZINE
,’■■	j '.; .1 . ■; .Y:.'	. ' * 1	''^-■ .A	C; . =J. •• • •
:''X^	T
.v Secern	?/"
Disce 'Quasi Semper Victurus . ViveQuasi Cras.Moriturus 7
Fpund0d;i867
■^D^INCHIEF /Tatrici YKtDdyle/
A
/MAN AGINGEDITOR
l^argaret S< Kenny:
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
i: David Holsinger F
On the Cover

This week’s cover story, by writer Michelle Crouch, highlights Notre Dame’s outstanding fencing program. This program is one that has developed by leaps and bounds over the years, and this article, which focuses on the contribution of coach Yves Auriol, should serve as a good introduction to the team and its achievements.
Please Take Note
Due to space constraints, Scholastic was unable to credit this week’s Final Word writer on the same page as her article. The piece was written by Laurie Brink, rector of Pasquerilla West.
In This Issue
In addition to the pieces mentioned above, this issue contains articles on the Hesburgh Program in Public Policy, reviews and commentary on SpikeLe&’s MalcolmX, and a feature on all-nighters (which is becoming increasingly relevant as the end of the semester approaches). Also, readers will find all of the usual weekly departments.
This is our last issue of the semester. We would like to wish you a safe, happy and healthy holiday season. See you next year!
David J. Holsinger
Executive Editor
/CAMPUS LIFE // ■ / ■ y Editor: Mollie, MuddY- ’. ■
/	77 Y A Y < Y
- :A • •'	■- '■'■	.
*O$y^
Lawrence;^::
Mark Mitcfiel(<Y •
XXi/Y/Y	‘: v' ; Y-‘
£ t Editpr: jfo Kusey	•'
|f A$S;istant:'Am
■ /. ’' <r: ■/ • /.", 'Z
t^EBART MENTSX/'; <y
Z '■ -Z',
gEditprijKeh'^
Z;Z ■'
gEditog;Chri%Bianford:7/Y-

;SBldR;STAHF WAITERS;-:
'/L/ /' - ? 4 s :	S', e, ' ' yz/z'<' 4 z *z’z 7C'' v' 'S - z
I would like to commend Scholastic for its piece entitled “Black and White” in its November 19,1992 edition. Michelle Crouch’s analysis of theproblem of racial tensions on campus was refreshing. This particular issue is one that odes not get the attention it demands. As a sophomore, I have seen first-hand the strained relations, academically, spiritually and socially, between whites and blacks at the university. It is my hope that Ms. Crouch’s article may prove to be a foundation upon which the Notre Dame student body, faculty and staff can begin to build a more positive relationship between the races.
A few years ago, the predominantly African-American organization Students United, for Respect (SUFR) participated in various activities to highlight their disenchantment with race relations on campus. The discrimination policy cited in du Lac is one result of this group’s actions. I firmly believe that the Scholastic article “Black and White” coupled with the current outpouring of concern from both blacks and whites at Notre Dame may facilitate a change in race relations.
Any student at Notre Dame cannot deny that racial discrimination occurs. None of us should be proud of this fact, but more importantly, we all must strive to address this problem honestly, rationally and with open minds. It is also important to recognize that the student body is not solely at fault for the current state of affairs. The true test of the administration of the University of Notre Dame and its dedication to the “strong belief in the integrity and dignity of all people” will beits response to Michelle Crouch’s“Black and White.”
Karen DuBay	.
Sophomore
Breen Phillips Hall
^X0U>:-7<-<^:;Y'YY
z; WK- V "- ''A C	' >!$/' < z' z v • \&. / z -‘r - 'f v < '
^Mana$i»^
"My S./s/f'	■>	<'Z z z £ Z ,<'Zzo$ lr''j' S' '"'



Scholastic ispublished weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rale is $25 ,00/year and back issues are available al $1.25 (copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction inwhole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leiters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name,address and phone number. 1 University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfilting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because o f space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received. ' ‘
Address all correspondence to:	"
•The Editor ' \
Scholastic
’ LaFortune Center
... Notre Dame, IN 46556
News
Flu Season
d SE
Campus fortified against bug's early assault
by Patrick Lyons
T ust as every spring millions of birds J migrate from south to north, so does the virus that causes the flu every fall and winter, according to Dr. James Moriarity, lead physican of University Health Services. “As the Northern hemisphere gets colder in the fall, the flu viruses that were in the Southern hemisphere migrate north,” Moriarity said.
This year, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the state of Indiana warned the St. Joseph County Health Department to start its flu prevention early. According to the department’s director of nursing, Patricia Paszkiet, “This year we started giving out shots in October, but usually we start in November.” The reason is simple: last year the flu season started early, so it is very possible that it will start early this year as well.
While St. Joseph County charged $4 for flu shots (the cost of the vaccination) at Notre Dame, University Health Services provided free shots. This ;year, health services reported that it gave out 3 ,659 fl u shots to students, staff arid retirees. About half of the vaccinations were given to students.
Although a pharmacist at a local drug store said that it isn’t necessary for college students to have flu shots, Carol Seager, the director of University Health Services, said that the CDC recommends flu shots for people living in “military barracks, prisons
and residence halls.” These three living arrangements shareonecommon trait: each masses hundreds of people into a relatively small living area where the people have a good deal of personal contact.
These shots havebeen offered for the past four years, and in each of these years, the
,:-<y	A-..
: ::y ; .-J	J
SWSilugB®
number of flu cases has been lower than in the years before they were offered, accord-, ing to Seager.
Before the shots, “so many people were sick that you could hardly get in the door [of the health center],” Seager said. “We had to
set up cots in the halls.” In the pastfour years, the number of cases has fallen significantly.
But one North quad resident who contracted the flu last year, said that long waits and overcrowded waiting rooms have not been completely remedied. “I had to wait for two hours just to get to see the nurse, and then another hour to see the doctor,” the junior said. Students can avoid some of the lines by avoiding the peak hours. Seager said that the lines are longest on Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays at 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. She said that “class schedules play a major part as to when students come to infirmary. In general, the earlier in the day that a student comes in, the shorter the lines.”
The shots, which were given in October, take about a month to be effective. About 90 percent of people who get a flu shot will be protected from the flu. This protection may not entirely keep its recipient from developing the flu, but if the person does come down with influenza, it will be a much milder case than it would have been without the shot.
There is no danger of catching the flu from these shots, Moriarity said. “The vaccine contains killed viruses which cannot cause the flu.” Some people may complain of a mild fever,joint aches or, rarely, serum sickness, but the flu itself is never caused by the vaccine.
Internationally, the World Health Organization (WHO), an arm of the United Nations, monitors flu outbreaks and their effects on. different populations. Using data from WHO and information that they have collected on

their own, the CDC and the National Influenza Center decide upon the vaccine’s ingredients each year. The contents of the vaccine change annually, based on the strains that were widespread during the last flu season.
Because there are so many new and different strains of flu virus, these groups cannot always predict which one will be dominant in a given year. “A couple years ago, the vaccine manufacturers provided us with a vaccine that was not useful,” Moriarity said.
“This year’s vaccine contains the Texas A virus, which started last year in Texas, the Beijing A virus, which started in China in 1989 and should be dying out this year, and the Panama B virus, which started in 1990,” Paszkiet said. Different strains of the flu are named after the area in which they are first reported. In general, the A viruses cause more severe symptoms and can cause both epidemics and pandemics, while B viruses . are less severe and can cause only epidem
• ■ silliisTic
suppressant and aspirin, keep warm, eat wisely and avoid smoking. Antibiotics
flu,” are there- University Health Services recom-fore misleading mends that students, and anyone else who names for en- doescontracttheflu.getplentyofbedrest, tirely different drink lots of fluids, take a cough
maladies.
While
millions of arenoteffectiveagainsttheflu.butmaybe
ics. According to a flu information pamphlet distributed at University Health Services, an epidemic is an outbreak of illness that can spread from region to region, while a pandemic spreads worldwide.
“Indiana wasn ’ t hi t hard last year,” Paszkiet said, “and from what I heard, there weren’t as many cases at Notre Dame as there were in the county proportionally.”
But with its geographical diversity and frequent visitors, Moriarty said, “Notre Dame mirrors the nation” with respect to the impact of the flu virus.
There are no concrete numbers on just how many people get the flu each year in St. Joseph CountyorSouthBend. “Thefluisn’tareport-able disease like AIDS, but we call doctors and emergency rooms every so often to get an idea of how the disease is spreading,” Paszkiet said.
According to University Health Services, the symptoms of the flu are fever, chills, an extremely sore throat, a cough, a general sick



feeling and muscle aches. A common misconception is that the influenza virus can cause vomiting. But vomiting is indicative of a gastro-intestinal virus or disease, whereas the flu is a bronchial disease. “The flu is a two-week disease,” Moriarity added. Long bouts of the flu, especially the “stomach
Nick Spangler
people are infected with the flu each year and the vast majority recover, some people do die.
The flu is a potentially life-threatening disease, especially for the chronically ill j and the elderly. There have been three i major epidemics in this century, accord- j ing to a pamphlet from the health center, : In 1918, the Spanish flu killed 500,000 ; Americans. The Asian flu killed 70,000 j Americans in 1957. And in 1968,35,000 ; Americans died from the Hong Kong flu.
Besides the flu shot, which is an impor- ; tant step toward preventing the influenza virus, there are several precautions students can take to reduce their chances of , contracting the disease, according to in- : formation furnished by University Health Services.	!
Unlike AIDS, the flu is transmitted very ■ easily. The flu can be transmitted through the air, from a door handle or a phone, towels, glasses and dishes, and even a tube of toothpaste. Besides just avoiding sick people, people who wash their hands of- । ten, use disposable tissues (as opposed to i handkerchiefs) and avoid rubbing their i eyes or touching their mouths or noses are i less likely to come down with the flu. j Furthermore, getting enough sleep, eating a well-balanced diet with extra fruits and fruit juices and exercising regularly can : keep up the body’s natural resistance. Smoking, which damages air passages,	i
can make the body less able to resist the virus.	i
Cold air or dampness cannot cause the	i
flu. There is some evidence that a sudden temperature change can bring on symp- । toms more rapidly, but the temperature | cannot itself cause the flu. Dry heat may ' aggravate flu symptoms because de-hu-midified air can increase the discomfort of a cough by drying out the bronchial passages.
required if complications occur. Antihistamines are also not effective and may cause bronchial complications; A student with a serious case of the flu should stay home from classes, not only to recover, but also to avoid infecting anyone else. □
End Time
At the end of the semester, students now have two days of uninhibited study or play
by Mark Mitchell
Stanford has a full week, Princeton has nearly a month and, for the first time, Notre Dame has two. These unknown elements are study days: days before final exams during which there are no classes, but which count as class days. The concept is not new; most universities throughout the country have some number of study days, but this exam period marks the advent of the days at Notre Dame.
The issue was first brought before the academic council last spring as one of the present presidential administration’s campaignpromises. While the matter passed the council, it did not ride without objections.
Junior Bill Dailey acted as the student advocate before the council, which is comprised of faculty and administrators. “I researched the matter, determined exactly what I would be seeking from the council and gotmyself on theagerida,” he said. “We were trying to address two problems: first, that two days is not enough to effectively study for final exams, and second, that there is a certain inequity to the exam schedule when one person can have four day s to study and another can have only two simply be
cause of when their exams fall.” After discussing study day policy with several other universities, Dailey proposed to the council
that the last two days of the semester be scheduled class days (for accreditation purposes), but that there be no scheduled classes. While professors may call review sessions, they cannot be mandatory. The net result is four days (including the weekend)
of preparation for final exams.
“There were three objections raised in the course of the discussion: that if students have four days to study, they just won’tgo to class during the semester and cram all their studying into the last four days; that given two days without classes, students will seize the opportunity to destroy their dorms; and that professors would not be able to effectively teach their material because they lose one full class day,” said Dr. Neal Delaney, a member of the academic council. “After Bill [Dailey] addressed these objections, it became clear that if students don’t go to class because they have study days, we need to recruit a new student body and a new faculty; if they destroy their dorms, we need a new student body and new rectors; and if teachers can’t reorganize their material to accommodate the loss of a day, we new a new faculty.” Even though the matter passed the council unanimously, with the approach of the first study days, many are watching with a cautious eye to see if the free time will prove to be an effective addition to the academic calendar.
Members of the faculty are largely in favor of the measures to give students more time to study. “I. think it’s a great idea.
Students really need time to relax
and
regroup and do some constructive studying before their exams. I really think that students will use the time to their advantage with responsible studying/’ said Dr. Elizabeth Forbis of the College of Arts and Letters. Delaney said, “Just the fact that this was a measure proposed by the students, researched by the students and presented so well that it passes the council unanimously lends the study days great legitimacy.” He continued, “I think it’s a great opportunity for students — every other college has them — and if they don’t go to class because of their study days, then we’ve made more mistakes than just approving the study days.”
The office of residence life has issued rules for the days which the rectors of the halls are to enforce. Primarily, the study days will be periods of 24-hour quiet time. But much responsibility is still.left to the rectors with respect to keeping order during the new period. “I have more faith in the students than topresume that they will abuse this privilege. I think they will recognize the value of the study days and behave accordingly. I’m not allowing any partying in the dorm over the four days, but I don ’ t think that’s ridiculous,”
golx Vo a class
study DAYS’.
said Brother Edward Luther, rector of Fisher Hall.
“I think we may see a little bit of a challenge with so many free days, but I’m sure the students won’t go crazy or anything. If anything, they’ll get bored with all the free time, but we’ve got a hall decoration
Free
'MM
Ju
BURN .DADORMU^
Ar?

contest during those days and a big Christmas Mass to break up the time,” said Father Andre Leveille of Cavanaugh Hall. Luther added, “If anyone decides to use his study days to damage his room, he’ll be living off-campus next semester.”
Students are prepared to use their study days fully and, most likely, responsibly. “I’ll study for a couple hours each day and I’ll spend the rest of the time relaxing and recovering from the semester,” said junior John Vissari. Freshman Chris Lee, who has not known an exam period without study days, commented, “I think it’s a great idea for us to catch up on homework and get a little rest. It may not seem like a lot of time, but four days is plenty.” And senior Kirsten Binda, who has spent three years of final exams without the study days, noted, “It’ll help not to be given new material so close to the exam, and if teachers are worried about losing class time, it’s only one day off. They can live with that.”
Thus, as final exams approach and Notre Dame acquires its first study days, a close eye will be kept on how the two new days work. Delaney noted, “How these first two go will determine whether or not study days, win a spot on the schedule in the future — some .people really want their class days back.”


KIU-!
jam


News Commentary
Campusl//a^7
I never thought I would have to say this in CampusWatch, but it has finally happened. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that’s right: The Gipper received too much mail to be able to respond to all of your letters! Wow! Thanks, folks, and keep writing in.
FISHER WANTS THE “F” BACK
A concerned Fisherite, Mr. Brian Foley, wrote to the Gipper this week to lament the loss of the giant neon “F’ which formerly adorned South quad’s second most hideous concrete edifice (after the Bookstore). Apparently Fisher residents have become quite irate at the loss of the “F” because unsuspecting Pangbom residents, no longer able to tell their own dorm apart from neighboring Fisher, have begun to wander into the wrong dormitory. (Just kidding.) Those who really want that loathsome piece of alphabetic bravado to illuminate South quad once again can contact Mr. Foley. Personally, the Gipp is pleased that it’s gone. Maybe Fisher could try hanging some kind of modem neon sculpture up there instead.
FALL SLIME
CONTEST WINNERS
Three readers responded to the Gipp’s plea to name that gunk made of wet leaves and dirt which sticks to sidewalks during the month of November. Michael Steinbacher of Keenan Hall suggests calling it “aquamuck,” and Dan Sheridan of Fisher Hall says to call the stuff “schmeg.” Mr. Sheridan also recommends modifying the word “schmeg” as conditions warrant. For instance, frozen wet leaves could be called “Arctic schmeg.” The other suggestion, from Dave Horan of Stanford Hall, is "quadmire" (like "quagmire"). Readers are
free to choose which term to pencil into their dictionaries. Thanks, guys.
COMPUTER LAB
METHODS REVEALED
A source known as Pat wrote the Gipp to explain how computer lab assistants decide which computer to assign to users. This sounds like a bunch of malarkey to all of us hereatScholastic. (Our editor is even a math major.) We’ll let it slide for the sake of running this blurb. Lab assistants use the following procedure:
(1)	Convert the last four digits of the user’s ID number into binary. (For example, the Gipp’s 1234 would equal 0000 0100 11010010.)
(2)	This number is shifted bitwise to the left, 10 digits for a Mac user or 11 digits for an IBM user, and then shifted back the same number of digits to the right. (This means
that the Gipp’s number is now 0001 OOlOfor a Mac, or 0000 0010 for an IBM.)
(3)	Take the numerical value of the user’s initials and then convert this to binary. (For The Gipper, T+G=20+7=27=0001 1011.)
(4)	These two numbers are “exclusive-or”ed together and converted back to base 10. (This is the part that confuses us.) This would yield 9 (00001001) for a Mac user, or else 25 (0001 1001) foran IBM user. If this terminal number is already taken, the attendants can pretty much just put you where they want to. Questions? Don’t write back to the Gipp because he doesn’t understand math well enough to balance his own checkbook.
So there you have it. The Gipp gets mail, and you get your answers. Since this is the last issue of the semester, don’t bother writing to the Gipp until next semester. Thanks, and have a great break.
DECEMBERS, 1992	■. "•••.	..... -	. 7-
~ Campus Life
Students pull all-nighters to prepare for exams and finish projects
_____________By Mollie Mudd______________ All-nighters: they are the result of procrastination, poor planning, the quest for perfection and the threatening reality of four assignments due the next day. Having the willpower and strength to keep heavy, tired eyelids from drooping and sleep from overtaking one’s mind is essential for successfully pulling an all-nighter.
In all majors, from engineering to English, from art to architecture, everyone seems to have pulled at least one all-nighter during their college years. With finals week approaching, the possibility of pulling one, or even two, is even more likely for students than during the regular semester. Following are some true stories of determined and sleepy students that persevered through night and day wi thout rest.
Senior chemical engineer Paul Chisholm said, “I pull all-nighters about once every other week. I’m usually up all night in the DeBartolo computer cluster with my lab partners.” Chisholm recalled seeing other engineers in the computer lab working all day and night. “There was one afternoon when my friend and I were working in the computer lab. I left to go get a haircut, came back that night, left again the next morning to go to army P.T. and then came back again
and my friend was still sitting there working. He had seen me come and go each time.”
Chisholm pulls all-nighters with a serious attitude. “I never take a break or procrastinate. Forget it. I’ve got a deadline staring me in the face! ” he said. After staying up all night, or with a maximum of one hour of . sleep, Chisholm said, “The adrenaline rush lasts until around 11:00 a.m., then tiredness hits you like a ton of bricks, my mind just turns to mush.”
Joe Benco, a civil engineering senior, recalls one all-nighter where almost his entire class was in the Fitzpatrick computer lab working on a project “It was about 2:30 a.m., everyone was tired and a bunch of guys burst out singing some Spanish drinking song. It was pretty funny,” he said. Staying up in the computer lab working on a group project may seem better than trying to stay up alone, but, Benco said, “in multipleeffort projects the last person’s work usually makes no sense at all. Some people just can’t function without any sleep.”
While pulling all-nighters, Benco enjoys taking a study break and “going to Senior Bar about an hour before it closes.” The worst thing about all-nighters, however, Benco said, is the recovery. "You just have to realize that you will never recover all of
that lost sleep.”
Chisholm and Benco agree that what keeps one awake all night is “impending death, raw fear and lack of alternatives once you are in that situation.” Chisholm said, “The best sleep you ever have is after you’ve run that last spell check, printed your lab out and left the computer lab as the sun is coming up.”
Carter Risdon, a junior mechanical engineer, “operates better under pressure.” Because of that, and the “few distractions at night,” Risdon pulls about five all-nighters per semester.
Risdon, a resident of Keenan Hall, said, “One of the most interesting things about pulling all-nighters is that you get to see the workers going into the dining hall at 5:00 a.m., and you haven’t even been to sleep yet.” Risdon usually stays awake to study for 8:00 a.m. exams. “When they are over, I just want to die, take a shower and go to sleep.”
Risdon and Chisholm together had ten to 12 exams during one week and pulled three all-nighters in a row. “We started having hallucinations,” Chisholm said. “After about hour 36, my mind was pretty scrambled.” Risdon said that on the third morning, Chisholm was trying to answer


Vl#»T
be able to stay up all night, so we put a note on our professor’s office door in Riley, to > come and wake us up before the exam. That 'I. morning we woke up to our professor saying, 0 ‘Wake up girls, time to take the test’ It was pretty fun,’’she said.
“I stayed up for 99 hours straight,” Jeff Mazurek, fourth-year architecture student,
% said. While in Rome last year, Mazurek
the phone but couldn’t figure out what was going on. "The phone was ringing and he justkept pushing the buttons and telling me that nobody was there. He just couldn’t answerit.”
During another all-nighter, Risdon almost woke up the entire dorm. “I turned off the top light in my room about 4:00 a.m., and the fire alarm went off (for some weird electrical reason). I had about three min
utes to turn it off before it set off the dorm ’ s	had consisted of Mountain Dews, buttered
fire alarm. I had to wake up one of my roommates, and we just hit it until it finally broke.”
One senior remembers an exciting night during her freshman year — an all-nighter thatwentawry. Shewasplanningtostayup all night to study for a Math 105 exam. Later that night her friends from Stanford. Hall telephoned her and told her that St. Michael’s Laundry was on fire. “I just couldn’t miss a real live .fire,” she said. “Studying is important but this was much more exciting and I figured I’d study when I gotback home.” The majority of her night was spent watching the flames and she finally returned home at 5:00 a.m. She studied a bit then planned to sleep for 45 minutes before the 8:00 a.m. exam. “I woke up and the clock read 9:02. My brain finally

realized that the exam had started an hour earlier and that I was very late. I rushed over there, without brushing my hair or teeth, and proceeded to take the entire exam in seven minutes.”
Stress and lack of sleep make some people a little crazy. A group of English majors were in Knott Hall's 24-hour lounge preparing for an exam. All were wired with caffeine, their diet for the past five hours
popcorn and two pizzas. The studying was slow, and they were getting lethargic. One student said: “I forget who got up first, but suddenly we were outside with no shoes or coats, playing in the snow. What a stress reliever! It was freezing but exhilarating. We stayed awake, cold, wet and laughing the rest Of the night.”
A group of graphic design majors had a long night recently, complete with a trip to Azar’s. Up all night studying for an art history exam, two seniors and a graduate student were studying in the Riley Hall of Art and Design. They needed a break so they went to Azar’s to study and eat. “We were all grunged out in sweats and looking
gross,’’one student said. After that, they as the sun is coming up. "We are giddy, slap-came back to Riley and resumed studying, happy, laughing and rambunctious. We are “We got really tired and knew we wouldn’t a boisterous bunch at 7:00 a.m.l” □
worked on a final design project without sleep for a total of 99 hours. “I was going for 100, but I finished my project, so I went ahead and went to sleep.” Mazurek was concerned about staying up for so long because, someone in his class told him that if one stays up for 120 hours he or she will go insane. "I just didn’t think I wanted to go that far.” He said, “I had a lot of people helping me stay awake. I needed support from my friends, because after about two days of no sleep, I’m usually dying.”
Mazurek’s 99-hour feat in Rome is an extreme length for an all-nighter, even for an architecture student Now that Mazurek is back at Notre Dame, he pulls all-nighters about once every two weeks. “I don’t plan them, but one can really only plan their schedule so far ahead. Sometimes the workload is so great that one needs extra time to finish, especially if it is a project that demands tedium. I spend a lot of mindless hours drawing bricks, one can get away with being tired for that. Thinking of ideas requires sleep though; one loses their creative capacities without sleep,” he said.
Mazurek has a variety of things to keep him awake. “Caffeine is only necessary if you are pulling more than one all-nighter. Usually I have a bowl of sugar on my desk and I take spoonfuls to stay awake. I also constantly drink water,” he said. Though he works at his table in the architecture building, Mazurek is usually by himself. “As long as I have my radio, I am all right. It is a powerful catalyst for staying awake. I like to listen to something provocative, depending on the mood I’m in.”
Finally, Mazurek said, “One of the best things about pulling all-nighters is going to the dining hall the next morning.” After spending the night in the architecture building, students will all go to breakfast together
Mjj|BER3.1992

S
a
£
Students in
Public Service
The Hesburgh Program in Public Service focuses on students’ intrests in public policy
By Peg Ward
J ; i
The typical summer job usually involves long hours, low pay and little satisfaction. For 18 students involved in a unique program, however, their summer employment involved working beside politicians, lobbyists and other public policy experts at sites all across the United States. '
Just what is this program that affords such a wonderful and exciting opportunity for practical, hands-on work experience? It is the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, an academic concentration that allows students to learn about the formulation of public policy in the classroom setting then to apply that knowledge with summer internships. This past summer, Hesburgh students worked with a variety of organizations dealing with public policy, including the Democratic National Committee, the Social Security Administration and the offices of several congressmen.
Founded in 1987 with the support of a grant from the Exxon Corporation, the program is currently under the leadership of newly appointed director, David Betson, a member of the economics department, and coordinator Dr. Martine DeRidder. Former director Prof. David Leege stepped down
from the directorship to complete a manuscript on politics and religion and is currently on sabbatical.
According to Betson, “the program was


&
originally conceived as an undergraduate concentration that would enable students to gain an interdisciplinary approach to public policy and would include involvement in, as
well as the study of, public policy.” Currently, over 100 students from ill of the colleges of the university are enrolled in the program , and ithas become the most popular concentration offered to Notre Dame students.
Students typically apply for the program during their sophomore or junior year. If accepted, they begin the five course curriculum, which consists of an introductory course in public policy, three electives that expose the student to the research tools, values, institutions and processes that influence public policy, and a senior seminar. In addition to promoting the study of public policy through classroom learning, the Hesburgh Program also encourages students to participate in the policy making process. This goal is accomplished through the concentration ’ s internship program.
Each year the Hesburgh Program in Public Service sponsors up to 20 student internships, and, in the words of senior government major Meredith Reid, “It’s a good program if you are interested in public policy, and it is a worthwhile experience. The internships, though, are by far the best part of the program.” This past summer, Reid spent eight weeks in Washington, D.C., working for the Center for Public Integrity.
“I did research for a study on national
party chairpeople that tried to determine that does, in fact, offer a whether their association with various greater amount of field ex-
firms constituted conflicts of interest. 1 assisted in interviews of former chairmen such as William Brock and John White. The experience really opened my eyes to investigative reporting, and Washington itself was such an exciting place.” Reid is currently researching a paper on lobbying and conflicts of interest that is based on her work with the Center for Public Integrity. She said, her involvement in the Hesburgh Program has provided her with opportunities that are usually not available to the average college student.
Senior David Leahy’s internship with the American Legislative Exchange Council brought him into contact with congressmen, cabinet members and other high ranking government officials involved in the formation of education policy. His 12-week internship with the think tank, based in Washington, D.C., included two trips to the White House. One of these visits was for a reception for Boris Yeltsin that occurred during the Soviet leader’s visit to the United States.
The highlight of Leahy’s experience, however, was a conference in Colorado Springs that brought together public policy experts from all around the country and
provided a forum for a wide variety of
current issues. Leahy said, “Over 2000 state legislators attended this conference, as well as five or six cabinet members. President Bush even attended. It was a fantastic experience!”
Students such as Reid and Leahy who
participated in internships during the summer following their junior year, draw on their experiences to develop research papers for a seminar course that is taken during the senior year. Those students who do not participate in internships enroll in a seminar course in which they engage in an
in-depth study of a particular policy issue. Prof. Betson said, “The seminar does not provide nearly as much of a ‘hands-on’ experience as an internship, but it does have a strong research component which allows a student to immerse himself into one policy area.” Past seminars have included research on public health care, education and urban planning. This year has seen the establishment of a seminar course
perience.
Hesburgh participants enrolled in Associate Dean Jennifer Warlick’s “Seminar in Policy Evaluation” are currently working with the United Way of SL Joseph County. They are conducting a survey to determine both the needs of the community and how well those needs are being met by public service organizations.
Prof. Betson said: “Students are actually going out into the community, and their involvement with the seminar will result in a product that will have an impact on people. They are performing a service and are providing the community with information that it needs to have.” The objective of the Hesburgh Program, after all, involves commitment to, and not just the study of, public service.
An additional goal of the
Hesburgh Program in Public Service is an
increase in university-wide awareness of currentpolicy issues. This goal is being achieved through a series of guest speakers and round-table discussions that the program has sponsored throughout its existence. On February 15 and 16, Donald Barlett and James Steele,
co-authors of the best-selling book America: What Went Wrong?, will be speaking at Notre Dame. The following week Ronald Bowes, director of educational planning and development for the Diocese of Pittsburgh, is scheduled to discuss his views on the education system.
What does the future hold for the already successful Hesburgh Program? Next year should bring the establishment of a faculty apprenticeship program in which students will be matched with faculty members and assist in semester or year long research projects that deal with some aspect of public policy. “We hope to solicit requests from faculty and identify what kinds of projects they would like to work on with students, and
Nick Spangler
David Betson Is the newly appointed director of the Hesburgh Program in Public Service.
allow the students to receive academic
credit for working with professors,” said Betson.
As far as long term goals are concerned, Betson would like to see one day the establishment of a permanent Notre Dame presence in Washington, D.C. —namely a facil
ity located in the capital that would allow Notre Dame students, faculty and public policy experts to come together and exchange ideas. Washington is ideal for anyone interested in public policy.
The Hesburgh Program in Public Service attracts young mien and women who have a
wide variety of interests and career goals. While some students who graduate with a concentration in the program do, in fact, go on to pursue a graduate degree or career in public policy, many others have attended law school or found jobs in the private sector. The program invites all students from future politicians to those who just want to become more informed citizens, to learn about public policy .	□
DECEMBER 3,1992
il

Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions,
Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569
Thursday 3
Movie: "The Hunt for Red October," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. UNICEF Card Sale: Concourse, Hesburgh Library, 9:00 am. to 4:00 p.m. Performance: "Ordinary People," Student Players, LaFortune Ballroan, 7:30 p.m.
Concert: Kingston Trio, Elco Theater, Elkhart, 7:15 p.m.
Friday 4
Movie: "Patriot Games," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Naked Lunch," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
UNICEF Card Sale: Concourse, Hesburgh Library, 9:00 am. to 4:00 p.m.
Lecture: "Improper Designs: Gender and Architecture in La Princesse de Cheves," Room 131, Decio Hall.
Basketball: Notre Dame Women vs.
Purdue, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
Performance: "Ordinary People," Student Players, LaFortune Ballroom, 7:30 p.m.
Saturday 5
. Movie: "Patriot Games," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Naked Lunch," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: "Ordinary People," Student Players, LaFortune Ballroan, 7:30 p.m.
Storytelling: "Celebrations and Seasons: Stories of Winter and Festivity," The Snite Museum of Art, 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.
Basketball: Notre Dame vs. Evansville, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
For More Information Call


SophomoreClass:239-5225
JACCTicketlhformation:

V^kendWheelsSch^
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 1211 for news headlines x 1212 for local news ... ' x 1932 for top pop: albums x 1911 for prime time TV x 1906 for video releases
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie reviews	;;
x 1300 for local sports info.
x 1301for TV sports events f
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world news
Sunday
6
Concert: Shenanigans Christmas Concert, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. Concert: South Bend Symphony Orchestra, Annual Family Holiday Concert, Morris Civic Auditorium, 2:30 p.m., $7.
Recital: Karen Buranskas and William Cemy on piano and cello, Annenberg Auditorium, 2:00 p.m.
Performance: Advent Lessons and Carols with the Notre Dame Liturgical Choirs and Handbells, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 7:15 pun.
Monday 7
Film: "The Lady from Shanghai," Snite, 7:00 p.m., $2.
Film: "Dead Ringers," Snite, $2,9:00 p.m.
Tuesday
8
Film: "Vertigo," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Basketball: Notre Dame vs. Indiana, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
TOUCH
FOUR
Wednesday 9
Last day of classes!

259-0414
Here's a sampling of some of the upcoming holiday events you won't want to miss
$ NotreDame Glee Club Christmas Concert: Decentber 12, JACC, 8:15 p.m., $1
December.10, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. - ?:■	\ ... • .: T
* South Bend Symphony Orchestra: Annual Family Holiday Concert, December 6, Morris Civic Auditorium,:2:30 p.m., $7.,	■■	:	'
® Faculty Organ Recital: Craig Cramer, featuring the works of IS. Bach, December ■ 13, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8:00 pm.	,”T:,T	,<7, jT
Sebttsdale Theatre: / 291-4583
259-9090 ; <
University Park Cinema East:
277-7336
University Park Cinema West .	277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema:
277-1522

SbMts
A WINNING COMBINATION
Yves Auriol has coached the Notre Dame women's fencing team to the highest winning percentage on campus
By Michelle Crouch
IT f anyone were asked about Notre Dame A sports, they would probably talk first about football. Then maybe they would say something about basketball, track or swimming.
Not many people would talk to you about fencing. Most people do not know that Notre Dame’s fencing team has a higher winning percentage than any other Notre Dame sports team.
One of the reasons for this succes is Yves Auriol.
Once a top fencer himself, Auriol has been the Notre Dame women’s fencing coach since 1985, and he also helps with the men’s team. Moreover, Auriol has been a United States Olympic fencing coach for over twelve years.
When Auriol came to Notre Dame in 1985, the women’s fencing team had only existed for three years. Yet Auriol launched the team into intensive practices, and in his first year here the women’s fencing team placed second in the nation.
Then, in 1986, the women’s fencing team
made history at Notre Dame by winning the NCAA championships. This was the first time a women’s team at Notre Dame had won a national championship. Auriol described that moment as his most memorable at Notre Dame.
If you add his easy sense of humor and warm manner to his expertise in the sport, it is easy to see why his fencers like and admire him.
“I’m so happy to have the opportunity to work with him,” said freshman fencer Maria Panyi,
who came to Notre Dame from Hungary. “He has the same worldwide experience as I do, and I still have things to learn from him. He’s very precise. The French are very precise.”
Auriol is also well-known across campus for his popular freshman physical education
Coach Auriol, once a ranked fencer and a professional rugby player in France, cools down after one of his intensely conducted practices.
fencing and rugby classes. The four full fencing classes he is teaching right now attest to the popularity of his classes.
“His P.E. class is good because it exposes people to a very important and old sport. It’s something I would have never learned any-where else, and it’s fun!” said freshman

SMiLASTlC
James Bums, a student in one of Auriol’s P.E. classes.	.
“It’s every kid’s dream to be good with swords, and he sort of lets us fulfill that dream,” said Mike Fleisch, another student taking fencing in P.E. “One day, he split the class into two groups and let us have an all-out war. He’s really funny. He brings a lot of humor into the class.”
Auriol was not always a fencer. He grew up in Toulouse, France, the rugby capital of the world. Accordingly, his number one priority when he was younger was rugby.
When he was twelve, however, his older
brother introduced him to fencing, and he was hooked. He then continued to play both sports at very competitive levels. He became a professional rugby player and competed in two national championships.
At the same time, Auriol was a top junior fencer in France, ranked third in the country in 1955-56. “If I trained seriously, I probably could have been in the 1960 Olympic games,” he said, “butit was hard when
I was playing rugby too.”	NickSpangw it’SOne of the top in the country,”
Auriol considers him- Coach Auriol instructs one of his pupils In freshman physical said Auriol) «but it>s not more self lucky to have started	education class.	popular because it is difficult to
playing these sports so early. “It’s like any Olympics, and he finds this job “very reward- understand if you do not already know the
sport. If you want to be good at state levels, you have to start when you are younger. It takes ten years to become good at any individual sport,” he asserted.
In 1963, Auriol decided to become a coach. “I’ve been in sports all my life. It’s the only thing I know, and I truly enjoy it. It’s very challenging to bring athletes to the top,” he said.
He chose fencing as his sport because “Rugby is very popular in France so there are many coaches. I thought it would be more challenging to teach fencing.”
He then went to fencing masters school in Paris for three years. When he got his degree, he returned to Toulouse and began teaching on the club level while he continued to play professional rugby.
Auriol moved to the United States in 1971. After teaching in Canada for two
years, he started a very successful club in Portland, Oregon, which was turning out the top fencers in the country.
In 1980, he became a United States Olympic fencing coach. This involves taking time every year to train the Olympic athletes. He takes many trips to Europe, visits training camps and trains with the athletes over the summers.
Recalling the boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympic Games, Auriol said, “That was the greatest disappointment an athlete or a coach could suffer.”. Over the years, however, he has sent many of his fencers to the
ing.”
Finally, Auriol came, to Notre Dame in 1985. “I knew about the fencing program here and it was time for me to make a move,”
he explained. “Club level coaching is nice to develop fencers, but I wanted to work at the university level.”-
When comparing coaching the Olympic team to coaching at a university level, Auriol said, “It’s a totally different philosophy of teaching. The athletes in the Olympics are the best in the nation, and fencing is their number one priority. Here, it’s not so easy. The athletes have so many different things to worry about, like their school work.”
This year, Auriol predicted that “the team’s going to be competitive, especially if Maria [Panyi] can fence.” He is worried that Panyi, a world-ranked fencer, will not be able to fence because of a glitch in NCAA regula
tions. She has already sat out of two tournaments. The next tournament is not until January, and the NCAA is supposed to determine whether or not Panyi can fence for the team before that tournament
The women’s team this year is very young. The top two fencers, Panyi and Claudette de Bruin, are both underclassmen. De Bruin, a freshman, is ranked fifth in the country, and Auriol expects her to “make big contributions this year.”
In addition, he expects senior Kathleen Vogt, third on the team, to make further contributions to the team. He commented
that many of the girls on the team are inexperienced, but as they get more experience they will bring the team to even higher levels.
Before a big match Auriol offers the women important advice. Mainly, he tells them “to focus and to stay cool,” he said.
“The girls havea tendency to get very emotional,” according to Auriol. “When you get emotional in fencing, you probably will lose. If they do something wrong, I tell them. It’s not the end of the world.”
“People know about the fencing program at Notre Dame because
main rules. People do not understand what fencing is about. All they know is what they see on movies and television.”
This is the reason he encourages students
te take fencing as a physical education class, so they can learn about and truly understand the sport. In fact, according to Auriol, some people from his P.E. classes have enjoyed fencing so much that they joined the fencing team. Currently, three members on the team came from his P.E. classes.
“I think that makes fencing a really original, neat thing on campus,” said Auriol.
Auriol plans to continue coaching at Notre Dame. His goal is to spur the team to win another national championship before he retires. With the young talent of the team it looks like Auriol may succeed at this goal sometime very soon.	.	□
B|i|iPER3,1992
15
la^ .> /	Sports ■ ......
In the Name of

Perfection is the rule, not the exception, as far as Notre Dame defensive coordinator Rick Minter is concerned
By Jim Kuser
TKT otre Dame Stadium's capacity crowd of 59,075 had come to 1 see the Irish shake the thunder down upon the Stanford Cardinal on Saturday, October 3. Instead, it saw the Cardinal soar to a 33-16 upset victory. Silence, and silence alone, cascaded down upon the Notre Dame faithful as they shook their heads in disbelief. The Irish offense, ranked first in the country at that time, had sputtered to the tune of a season low of 154 rushing yards on 42 carries and 195 passing yards on 13 receptions out of 38 attempts, including one interception and no touchdowns. Irish quarterback Rick Mirer found himself in and out of the grasp all day, rolling left and rolling right to evade a fierce Cardinal defense that forced five Irish fumbles, recovering four of them. As for Notre Dame’s defense, Stanford recorded 46 carries for 157 rushing yards and 21 receptions out of 33 attempts (mostly short, sideline strikes) for 372 passing yards and two touchdowns. The Notre Dame defense, although it actually had the better game, took the heat for relinquishing 33 unanswered points after the Notre Dame offense added two touchdowns to a safety that was recorded on the game’s first play from scrimmage. Nonetheless, changes had to be made.
Enter first year defensive coordinator Rick Minter.
“In the game of football, the performance of the defense is often judged by one thing and one thing only: the final score,” said Minter. “In the Stanford game, there is no question that we did not execute to the extent that we had hoped. However, we did not play as poor a game as people think. It was just an unfortunate game in which turnovers and field position determined the outcome.”
In his first season at Notre Dame, Minter has emerged as a defensive mastermind. He has held four of the nation's top ten offenses to over 100 yards below their average per game.
“This is not to say,” continued Minter, “that things did not need reevaluation. We started out against Stanford by converting a safety, but giving up 33 unanswered points was frustrating. Fundamentals, like dropping interceptable balls or getting Stanford into a third and nine situation with seven minutes left in the game only to give up a 27-yard run, are the key. We were lacking our fundamentals, and so we had to regroup.”
A doctor of defense, Minter assessed the ailment, rationalized its cure and performed the appropriate surgery. .
“The way we got picked apart by the short pass hurt us the most
against Stanford. We beefed up our underneath pass coverage. Since then we have been much better on getting into advantageous situations for third downs and then converting in those situations.”
After focusing on the fundamentals of defensive football for a week, Notre Dame travelled to Pitt the following Saturday, and all defensive pistons began to fire.
“We were living third downs like Murphy’s Law until that game,” said Minter. “Then we picked up our performance a little bit. A big part of that was the change in personnel that we introduced, namely the debut of freshman free safety Bobby Taylor who is capable of covering the deep threat as well as anyone.”
To say that the defense picked up its performance “a little bit” is a little bit of an understatement. After recording a season high six quarterback sacks against Southern Cal last Saturday, Notre Dame has a total of 37 on the season, compared to 11 last season. Since the Pitt game, Notre Dame has shut down Heisman hopefuls like running backs Chuckie Dukes of Boston College and Richie Anderson of Penn State, both of whom had been averaging over 100 yards a
game before being held respectively to under 50 and 80 yards against Notre Dame. The Irish also checked one of college football’s premier passing attacks as they limited Brigham Young to 164 passing yards. This season, the defense has held four of college football’s top ten offenses to between 100 and 150 yards below their averages.
Minter is adamant about accrediting much of this defensive success to the seniors.
On defensive captain Demetrius DuBose, Minter said, “I respect DuBose. He is improving day to day into one of the best college linebackers around. I ask a lot out of him, and he always responds with a lot of big plays (like 17 tackles against Penn State). DuBose is intense in the huddle. He brings leadership to the field of play.”
On alternate defensive captain Devon McDonald, Minter said, “Devon is the man among the defense. He leads by example and by playing to the utmost of his ability. He is an admired role model whose quiet leadership compliments DuBose. His work ethic is incredible, and it shows in that he is one of our premier pass rushers.”
Talking about the rest of the senior defensive players, Minter said, “Junior Bryant,
Karmeeleyah McGill and Nick Smith are role model players who have stepped it up in their final season of college football. Brian Ratigan is the utility man among the group because he gives us versatility in that he can play all three linebacker spots.”
“We have become more aggressive since the Stanford game,” explained Minter. “They have grown into the system and have gained in confidence. But we are only as good as our last time out.”
Arguably Notre Dame’s best defensive game was against Boston College. En route to a 54-7 victory, the Irish defense played, according to Minter, “Fifty-five minutes of perfect defensive football in which we allowed only fifty yards, no third down conversions and no defensive penalties. In the last five minutes, however, we gave up a48-yard reception, a touchdown, a third down conversion, 122 yards and a penalty. We let ourselves down. Our objective is to record a shutout every game.”
Perfection is Minter’s expectation. “It is the obligation of our defense to come into the game and to leave things as we found them. We play in the name of pride, and, in this case, pride is a shutout.”	□
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Jamie Ling: Ling, a freshman hockey player from Charlottetown, Canada, made history last weekend. He scored the first goal in the first hockey game ever played in the Palace at Auburn Hills, MI. The crowd of 18,147 was the largest ever assembled for a college hockey game. Ling, who ended up tallying two goals and an assist, is currently atop the CCHA scoring chart with eighteen points.
Jessica Fiebelkorn: Fiebelkom, a senior volleyball player from Maple Grove, MN, recorded 13 digs in a losing effort against USC last weekend. It was performances throughout the year like this one thatearhed Fiebelkom MCC Player of the Year honors. Nextup for Fiebelkorn is Penn State in the first round of the NCAA Championships.
E&EM6ER 3^992
Review & Preview
by J. Bradley Keck
Sitcom Quiz
Due to the overwhelming popularity of the “cartoon quiz” of a few weeks ago, we at O.O.B. have rustled up another quiz fit for the couch-potato Olympics. So, those who watch Three’s Company twice a day, don’t spill your dining hall Dixie cup of Minute Maid all over the tray and your Scholastic in excitement if you know an answer.
1)	Name the oldest Cunningham son from the first season of Happy Days.
2)	Name Radar’s pet mouse on M*A*S*H. 3) What were the names of Wally’s and Beaver’s best friends on Leave it to Beaver?
4)	On what sitcom did Janet Jackson have a cameo role, and what was her character’s name?
5)	Name the top three sitcom series of all time (highest average lifetime A. C. Nielsen . rating).
6)	Which sitcom was a spinoff of A ll in The Family?
7)	On which sitcom are the characters thought to represent the seven deadly sins?
8)	What were Crissy’s and Janet’s last names on Three’s Company?
9)	Which sitcom produced the highest rated single show of all time?
10)	Which sitcom is the inspiration for a prime-time cartoon series?
The Adventures of Fart Mouth
Some of you might remember the superhero of the MTV music awards, Fart Man, gliding to the podium as a presenter with .a buttless superhero suit. Others may have heard of the man behind the hero, the selfproclaimed “sultan of shock,” Howard Stern. For those of you in the dark, allow me to explain. Stem is a syndicated morning-drive time, potty-mouthed DJ, and he is in a lot of hot water. Fart Man is Howard’s
creation, alter ego and soon to be a movie star.
You see, Stem talks about anything and everything on the air in the daytime—a big F.C.C. no-no. And now he has had to pay some big fines to the government agency. He paid $105,000 as of now and another $315,000 is pending. How bad can he be, one might ask? Well, after the first fine, Stem, asked all of his listeners to pray that F.C.C. Chairman Alfred Skies’s prostrate cancer would spread so that he could no longer harass Stern. Another Christian comment by Stem, after the Filipino team won a Little League series game, was that all Filipinos were “cheaters,” that they “eat their young” and that Filipino fathers “sell their daughters for sex.” We won’ t stoop so low as to reprint many of his comments here, but you know when a person talks about interracial sex, masturbation and a photo of Aunt Jemima in the same sentence, that we just might be talking obscenity.
But hey, that’s okay. Stem gets a little fine, but America loves him. I’ve got an idea: let’s show our nation’s class by giving him is own show on the E! network and letting him write and star in a feature film. Oh! I see. We have already done that. As one station director put it, “If you swim in a cesspool you come out smelling.” Sometimes it does get a little smelly.
Up and Coming
Al the movies soon and over break: Friday, Distinguished Gentleman, starring Eddie Murphy ... On December 11, A Few Good Men, starring Tom Cruise, Jack Nicholson and Demi Moore ... The Muppets9Christmas Carol... On December 18, Forever Young, starring Mel Gibson and Jamie Lee Curtis ... Leap of Faith, starring Steve Martin ... Toys, reuniting Good Morning Vietnam team of Robin Williams and director Barry Levinson ... On Christmas Day, Chaplin, starring Rob
ert Downey, Jr., Dan Aykroyd and Anthony Hopkins ... Hoffa, directed by and starring Danny Devito. Also starring Jack Nicholson ... January 8, Scent of a Woman, starring Al Pacino.
In record stores soon and over break, albums by: On December 8, Utah Saints... Julian Cope ... Above the Law ... Smiths (Best of II)... Helmet (reissue)... Dr. Dre... Bell Biv DeVoe ... A Few Good Men (soundtrack). On December 11, Tad. On December 15, James Brown ... Nirvana... Distinguished Gentleman (soundtrack)... Hoffa (soundtrack). On December 29, Christopher Williams ... Heavy D. & the Boyz ... The Tragically Hip. And in January, Lemonheads..: Lyres... Neil Young... Lulabox ... Liquid Jesus ... Ultra Vivid Scene ... Therapy? ... David Baerwald .. Jesus Lizard/Nirvana (7”) ... Pavement (7")... Superchunk ... King Missile ... Genesis (live) ... 2Pac ... Young Black Teenagers.
WVFITopTen
1.	King,Missile — Happy 14 ^12
2.	Edsel vi S(range Loop	/
3.	Wax — What Else Could WeDo
4.,	.Lemonheads—It's a Shame About Ray 5. Ned’s Atomic Dustbin —r Are You Normal?
6.	Ween — Pure Guava <	• . . .
7.	Wynona Riders — Some Enchanted Evening!'?	N? A? ‘
8.	Swirlies.— What to Do About Them 9. Soul Asylum -4 Grav^Dancers Union 10. Seven Year Bitch — Sick ’em
srauoouiXauoH 3lIl (01 ..ustuy	•nHqpooQ,,
— aposida jnuif aqi *H*S*V*W(6 pooM iaunp pun Moug (ssiaqj (g puepi sub8ih[o suosiojjaf am (9 WIPO Xpuy pun XptUB j atp ut py ‘Xanq axoq J (g auSmujnqj ‘sa^ops (p kwjpun g ^jndg(g	([ :sjaMsun ziriQ
18
SCHOLASTIC
Daisy Chainsaw
O.O.B EXTRA by Kevin McDonough
Tp ven the most experienced music listener BUshould get the subtle warning that Daisy Chainsaw’s current album, Eleventeen, is not going to be the usual injury-free musical event. Just look at the first song title, “I Feel Insane.” The album opens with about five seconds of the lead singer, Katie Jane Garside, screeching out a childish, evil laugh. This is probably an attempt to begin the 4/4 beat that, by the end of the album, will pummel your brain into thinking, and I quote this from myself, “Help me, that was so good I hurt.” After Katie’s intro, the music kicks in with a rhythm that is seemingly all over the place but, at the same time, is so tight that everything fits together as well as those patched-up jeans that senior smoker, Pete Dedman, wears.
The strength of Daisy Chainsaw’s sound is the maniacal driving thunder which the bassist, Richard Adams, produces throughout the 12 songs on Eleventeen, On songs such as “You be my Friend” and “Dog with Sharper Teeth,” he plays the bass in such
chord-like fashion that it melts together with the squeals of Crispin Gray’s guitar like its fraternal twin on acid. Drummer Vince Johnson’s efforts must be rewarded, however, because I would not want the job of keeping up with the frenetic pace the three other musicians/psychotics set.
The first single, “Love Your Money,” is an anti-corporate rock song that does its job in a very sarcastic tone. With lyrics such as “We love what you do and you are really cool,” it is obvious that these four do not appreciate the pathetic calling cards of the major labels. You can just imagine them sitting there, making stupid faces at any one of a thousand agents who say things like, “We love your sound, it’s oh so silly, you’re natural stars and we mean that, really.” They are actually on one of the “majors,” A&M, but remember that this is the label that gave us Soundgarden and Swervedriver as well. After “Money,” the band slows down—not too much, though — and gives us two me-lodic pieces thatcontrast with their titles and
subject matter. “Lovely Ugly Brutal World” projects a steady rhythm that struggles to contain Katie’s vocals, which are constantly attempting to escape and penetrate the listener ’ s inner ear, caressing it as one would caress a baby doll’s head with a Black and Decker drill. “Use Me, Use You" screams in quickly with a jangly guitar sound. The song is made solid with superb drumming by Mr. Johnson. The highlight of the album is the two-song mesh of “The Future Free” and “Pink Flower.” “Future” is a two-minute shower of pure power interspersed with mounds of feedback. It somehow falls right back into place as quickly as it scurries out of control. “Flower” charges forward, after a gun shot blast, with a furious energy that is sliced up during the middle by Katie’s breathy, yet shrieking, fits of singing.
The best way to grab a feel for this group of well-trained musicians/schizophrenics is to see them live. The pounding rhythm lasted for an hour and a half, during which not a quiet moment passed. The carpetbombing of my eardrums was relentless, but this was a pleasure that I felt for three more days thanks to that now-too-familiar ringing in my ears. Anyway, I’m running out of room to tell you how good this album is, so please help stop U-93’s airwave stranglehold and buy it — then play it loud. .,□
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatball Sub
Only $1.69!
•SUBWAY'
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
DECEMBER 3,1992 :
by Pete Dedman & Shonda Wilson
November 18, Spike Lee’s Malcolm V-FXwasfinallyreleased. Foralmosttwo years, the director fought with Warner Bros, over the length of the film, intended to be 2 hours and 15 minutes, and over a budget which, at last count, exceeded $33 million. More recently, Lee continued to haggle with executives to be allowed to use the Rodney King video during the film’s opening credits. Lee won that battle only a few weeks before the release date, yet found himself still beleaguered by critics from all sides. He urged African-Americans across the country to take the day off from school or work to see Malcolm X, which he considers to be not only his most important work to date, but also one of the most important films ever made.
MalcolmX is a powerful movie. When the dust clears from the hype over the budget, length, ubiquitous marketing and even Lee himself, the film will retain its potency be-. cause of the strength of its subject, Malcolm X.. The omnipresence of “X” baseball caps and T-shirts bearing Malcolm’s image and words do not stem just from publicity for the film. Malcolm X remains a tremendous African-American influence as well as a great national figure whose stature has not diminished even 27 years after his murder.
Fortunately for the filmgoer, Spike Lee recognizes that the key to the film’s punch lies in the main character, rather than in any inflammatory techniques. He trusts the title . role to Denzel Washington, who was with the project even before Lee was chosen as director. As one of the leading actors in
America, Washington convincingly lets the spirit of Malcolm take him over. (According to Lee, Washington “was regurgitating Malcolm verbatim. And after we cut, Denzel said he didn’t even know what he was saying.”)
Lee’s depiction of Malcolm’s life is guided, for the most part, by The Autobiography of Malcolm X, as told to Alex Haley. In this way, this is no typical Spike
“Perhaps Spike Lee is no longer struggling to say as much, because all the teachings he wants to illuminate are embodied in
Malcolm himself.”
Lee, Forty Acres and a Mule production. Lee is typically an impressionistic director, utilizing fisheye lenses, direct actor-to-camera soliloquies and fantastic sets to grab and pull the viewer into his intense vision of the world. In Malcolm X, the technique is still there, yet toned down, as he allows the life of the leader to be the force behind the film. A rather experimental shot of Malcolm “gliding” along a sidewalk to
wards the end of the movie, much like a type of scene in Jungle Fever, seems out of place in the context of the movie’s bitter reality.
Aside from the opening scene, wherein clips of Rodney King being beaten by members of the L.AP.D. are interspersed with the image of an American flag burning down to form an “X,” there are no such incendiary clips of violence as seen in the climax of Do The Right Thing or in Mo’ Better Blues when the character of Bleek is graphically beaten by thugs.
Yet Malcolm X is by no means a less intense film than any ofLee’sprevious efforts. Not once does the 3 hour and 20 minute film drag or lose focus. Other than his first feature, She’s Gotta Have It, Malcolm X is Lee’s most solid and complete work. Though brilliantly done, the four films between these two at times lack a clear theme and plot direction. Perhaps Spike Lee is no longer struggling to say as much, because all the teachings he wants illuminate are embodied in Malcolm himself.
It is with this assurance that the film moves along in an epic fashion. The story is split into three parts, accounting for the major influential periods in Malcolm’s life. These are tied together by frequent flashbacks to his home in Nebraska which was attacked and set aflame by Ku Klux Klan members. This is presented with a narrative taken directly from the early pages of his autobiography. Malcolm Little is first seen as a wanna-be street hustler. He has his hair straightened by his best friend, Shorty (played by Lee), after which he looks in the mirror and with a satisfied grin says, “It looks white.” He achieves notoriety and


steal a ^^ip^n|;p^
Throug^fitffii^piti^segi^nt^fe^^^S’W^^llS^Wt |j

scene isbnlhantandcolonulvsuggestingth^g: carefre|h|ate;jbf^^^^
•	. ..	’-V ZK:. •	:xVY-::< «f ■
btilffiiiiii
transfom? itself inftliisTeridtkfe^	jl $	§
grin turns	nhdreincarriaiebits A sirriplyrepresents: human potential. He ex-
Arres^iffB»stBt|(<^^	theiWW^fo£ts>^	can
is sent to prison for se^hy^ftLeeuW	phrases and moviesA^heyft makefotfit^^	For all that he
blue filter over the carndfeWundq^	changing	especially in the lives of Af-
depths of despair found iri^jai^	non-troubl^m^i^^ ric^rAmen:canX/El-Hajj MalikEl-Shabazz
changed Malcolm’s life.	Means	w& j^;spta0uperhuman, abstract myth,
away from God, Malcolm is taught the waysftphr^	among mdnypbsletshas^ butarejilmanwith a real vision. By building
of Elijah Muhammed by a feli<^|ri|3n^ ;: ;: nS?yitaljty;:buf^hen yc^j^	and placing Malcolm’s
As he educates himself with bobk^Wd the:ft into:	ij&^ho?^’repveA4	it, we limit mankind’s possi-
way of Islam, he becomes awareofhis/ftnanage arid?^^^	.then : bn	is not to say that Malcolm
predicament. He drops his ‘‘slave^rh^g^r^m^idi^i^,^#^^^^^^	great man, because he was. How-
Little, and renames himself Malcolm X, tjfe|A4|Th^	his greatness or maybebecause
X symbolizing the African-American’sla^^d^gi^peygrj^	he was simply a man.
of ontological foundation.	the same way that Malcolm shouldn’t
Once released from prison, Malcolm Xi^ra^oirpufe^b;^	expanded to mythological proportions,
immediately enlisted by Elijah ^ctm'foWe^®	We
Muhammed’s Nation of Islam. In the final	----- —------------------ —
section of the film, Malcolm ascends to ntah/bl?^ national leadership and separates from the ous'i^Tbefefpie^ilie'm^
section of the film, Malcolm ascends to
cannot reduce him to some quaint saying
Nation of Islam; he is then murdered. The somber reality of Malcolm’s difficult mis-
a
and falsely portray that phrase as exemplary of all that he was. He was too complex for that. We cannot limit the spirit of Malcolm to one letter. For some youths, he is only the
dr^m.:^
sion, as well as the strict discipline with putonlyasaphrase. Aylongasihephrases A ulluutp, iUC7 navcn c vaguest which he has taught himself to live, is high-/yjn&Wdxi^^^^	memory ofwho Malcolm X was. Itisourjob
lighted by scenes which are filled mostly b)^41e^$^:i^es|^^	inform them. Let’s not reduce his
black and white shades. Bearing goatee and / uriavenged.?^	memory to a letter. He was too human fbr
glasses, Washington’s resemblance t<^&^
latter-day Malcolm X is striking, as}is ihe: : achieved .vvil^ deaths have meaning.'
charisma with which he dcliv^s:?hiS'??5?THis^cIidnige;;w^
speeches	•	'	■ •':; '■ n‘/n<:a™u•
After the depiction of his nwrder^i^	^u^jWaShing-My
X” on a cap. They haven’t the vaguest
that..
■Mglcolm X was not a perfect being. He . .. ... . . . . ....................... . was a man. He made mistakes like any man. mi|s^^..................................~ Malcom was only set apart because he acted
ismdt hi'dqen;;bchind ^u&^afohmg-My! on his beliefs. His life made and continues
fornakefadifference in the world, justas ours shouldilf Purliyes fail to make a difference,
Islam for the slaughter, the^in^^^®	of dollars. projec.ted na-
end. Several minutes are>dile^witii>&cti£fi^	ourselves to become
mentary clips, portions^fi^^^	of the spirit ofa'foanwho^^	However, we can
shots of the real-life ^alcoImXzPresentra	in all of us. ft	as Malcolm did and, in
day shots of street^f$^^]|^	formerly Malcolm iiitde,y&^
shouti^Wcoln9’,y^ii£^t^	truih-and^^l^^fttlftftTh^^	its
image ^^Isoi^nd^	towardtruth;top!y.him:greilhon^
South ^African chijd^ about^'icaderS?phlpngscv^	andg|u^£^y^
After s|o^mgusiMai£q^	o|u^whamisse^j|^^
Spike ^-prg|^sWti^j^^	nre&piece|^y^	Much
and intMthe 'still^fe^^^	rp?aamgsX^d Viiiore sho^^
racisn^ ^dy^res&oi^^w^	<|usivq|fi^i^^ife;wtih;:;j^	iiSJtlj
Malco^^^$i&&6t^Iy;^W&friqa^§:^dpn^ie$^^
“ i “ y	% ? 'ft"	J *	z w	>';	i/z w Zft \b	vv	‘'	;:	v w v	* * •*'w	J	i	C fA ' 'ft Y ‘ 'ft	Y	V “? x > *\w '	‘	'C v	1
man who lived andtgrew and learned and made a Hifferehce^Ihisman’s spirit can be
I l:
□


SOB
■tiit...
■ Tales of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities
ki
In
Just in time to relieve you of pre/post holiday stress, here's some interesting tales from schools across the nation:
Nudity Nixed in California
We’re pretty sure you’ve all heard of the “Naked Guy” by now. No, there is not a skit on Saturday Night Live called “The College Naked Man,” although there probably could be. Andrew Martinez, a.k.a. “Naked Guy,” has made national news recently for walking around the University of California at Berkeley campus completely nude. USA Today reports that Martinez bares it all “to protest society’s insistence that people wear clothes.” Sure, that’s easy to do in sunny California. However, school officials are trying to stop him — or at least get him to put on some clothes. They just passed a regulation to ban public nudity. If people who are caught naked refuse to leave campus, the new rule will allow them to be arrested for trespassing. Lieutenant Bill Foley, a campus policeman atUCB, stated “Now wedon’tallow naked people on campus, unless they’re in a shower.” Sounds like all those who sleep in the nude had better watch out!	•
Studying Hard at Miami
The Miami Hurricane reports that the library is extending its hours because ofrecent student requests to remain open longer. You mean that students at UM actually study? Well, maybe. But even with theirextended hours they can’tcompare to good old Hesburgh. The new, hours on Saturdays are from 9 a.m. to an early 10 p.m. Hours like that at Notre Dame would displace quite a few regular weekend ‘Brare goers. They also decided to open earlier on Sunday mornings:, a bright and early IQ a.m. It looks like we don’t have too mtich to worry about after all.'
Sweatin’ to the New Sounds
Students at theUniversity of Portland have taken tqa new, trendy hobby, reports The Beacon. Thursday night’s new activity is none other than country western line-dancing. InstructorCrystalEncinas, who leads the.class dressed in boots and denim, confesses, “I hated Country when.! first started. But country line dancing is universal, whether you like it or not.” One of the dances is nicknamed the “Tush Push,” and a favorite song to line dance to is Billy Ray Cyrus’ “Achey-Breaky Heart” Hey, it took a while for even the Chicken Dance and the Limbo to catch on! ,	. .	■
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
Stanford “Studs,” Literally
Stanford University senior Lisa Huerta is something of a campus celebrity lately, after appearing on an episode of “Studs,” the new, more brainless (is it possible?) version of “The Dating Game.” Huerta, a former cheerleader, appeared in a special cheerleader/ athlete special. Her experience was interesting. The show’s producers dressed her in her sister’s high school cheerleading outfit
for the show. They also rewrote her responses. After her date with a 25-year-old triathlete, Huerta told the show, “I thought he was really gorgeous. He looked like a true California babe.” What was written on her cue-card was “Ooh baby, that rippling Romeo can fluff my pom-poms any time.” Another comment was butchered even more. She described his dancing ability as “Okay... He’s got rhythm, but he does the exact same moves to every single song.” What she ended up saying on the air was “His pelvis was twitchin’ like he had a caterpillar in his Calvins.” It's relieving to know that some of the people on that sho w aren ’ t as stupid as they usually look.
1*11 Fix Them!
A look at the sad state of activism at Notre Dame
By Kenneth A. Osgood
Happy fans gather around the cooler, cracking open cans of ice-cold Busch Light in triumphant celebration of a grand Notre Dame victory. Mark runs to the scene, eyes burning with rage, cheeks flushed and pulse racing, “I can’t believe it!” he cries, “Those police officers were beating us ... I wasn’t doing anything and I got knocked down by a billy club!” OHNO! The curious fans circle around to hear the details of injustice. What are you going to do?
“Fm fed up. That’s it. ” His lips purse and his eyes gleam with vengeance, “I’m writing a letter to The Observed.”
“You are?” a passing activist querries, “I am tool There were way too many people sitting in my row!”
“Yeah?” another chimes in, “I’m writing about that that jerk with the stinking cigar. I can’t believe they allow smoking!”
You’ll fix them good!!!
Monday’s Viewpoint page is littered with letters of conscience. In addition to enraged football fans, political and local activists publish their pleas for justice, too. Annie writes to tell all pro-choice Domers that they are baby killers. John tells Annieihat she is a fascist, freedom-hating slime, and hopes she will be swayed to the pro-choice camp. Lorraine, who once wrote to tell everyone to support the troops, now calls pleadingly for an end to hunger. Steve, after reading Lorraine’s article over lunch, dumps his Observer and half a plate of Meatless Baked Ziti promptly in the.trash receptacle. Carlos,
concerned with more immediate social ills, writes about the local drug store that won’t sell him a case of Miller. The concerned-letter writing team drop their letters in the box, satisfied.
Two weeks later, when confronted with the possibility that maybe women are still getting abortions, that children are still
starving arid that maybe drug stores are still not selling to dishonest Nbtre Dame students, they reply “I don’t understand! I wrote a letter to The Observed."
That’s not to say that Notre Dame students don’t know how to be activists.
SUFR knew how to protest racial discrimination. Taking the best of both Martin Luthers, they pounded their 95 theses on the administration door, demanding rights for minorities. Not only that, but they
succesfully staged a sit-in, blocking traffic to the Registrar’s office for days. Their terror tactics must have worked, too. I haven’t seen them in a year.
The Student Senate knew how to protest disrespect for the Pope. In a sweeping resolution they demanded an apology for Sinead O’Connor’s defamation of the Holy Father’s picture. Unable to reach Sinead at her summer resort in the rolling hills of Ireland, the Senate demanded an apology from NBC for allowing such trash to appear on such a respectable show as Saturday Night Live.
Democrats knew how to protest war. A year after the Gulf War ended they fixed George Bush good. In a climactic moment of hightened student passion, 15 students turned their backs during his commencement address. This baffling symbolic protest demonstrated the determination of Notre Dame students to oppose war at all costs. It taught future presidents a lesson too: The next President who wants to wage war against Saddam Hussein will speak at someone else’s graduation.
Conservatives knew how to protest abortion. While Clinton tried to explain his plan for America, they hooted and hollored and yelled “pro-life,” and let the fierce voice of justice be heard. They were successful, too. We couldn’t hear what he had to say and accidentally elected him President.
Journalists know how to protest crummy activists and letter writers. We write'Week In Distortion-for Scholastic.	□
Ken Osgood is a frantic Observer letterwriter. .	•
Final Word
A Baby for Johnny
| by Laurie Brink
Last Advent held a particular promise for my friend's brother, Johnny, and his wife. After nearly nine years of marriage, they were to adopt a baby. Shortly before Christmas, the long waiting ended. The woman, whose gift of life was to be their greatest Christmas present, decided to raise her child herself. As the winter wind whipped through the trees, they stood in the empty nursery and cried.
I have heard the sided arguments cutting into each other's logic like steel, serrated and tearing. I have seen the bloody movies and read the accounts of coat hangers and vacuums. A war is being waged. And the battlefield is mined with vicious words and barbed insults.
While the camps argue rights of unborn and rights of mothers, no one sees the face. No one hears the heart. No one stops to listen to the whole story. I have heard. And so, for those faces, hearts and hopes, I now retell. And on whichever side you stand, sit or kneel, I ask you to listen: imagine for yourself the faces, for I promise they are all real.
I taught as a volunteer for a time in the West Indies. Right out of college, I beamed the enthusiasm of youth. One student, Olive, came to me after a month's absence. We had worked diligently together, she and I. Her lisp was nearly gone. Her reading level was inching upward. Now she stood before me, an awkward 14-year-old, wearing a faded uniform frayed at the hem. She asked me for $200 to have an abortion. The lisp was back as she struggled to retel 1 a story of incest, of venereal disease, of abuse.
I watched Olive walk off the school compound — she could not return until her mother spoke with the principal. But I knew she would never return. In a third world country, school is a child’s lifeline. To be asked to leave is death, a death of poverty, unemployment, hopelessness.
Could I have given Olive the money she needed? Not as a Catholic. Butas I watched her disappear, I wondered whatkind of baby her brother’s lust would produce. I wondered why, if abortion is morally wrong and so many eloquently, vehemently oppose it, why are there so few options?
She was one of my best friends in high school. We shared everything, from our clothes to our deepest secrets. There was one I wished I had never heard. She thought she was pregnant. At 17. I prayed that night on giant wooden rosary beads my aunt had given me. Bigger beads, better prayers, I thought. It was near another Christmas and this time there would be no baby. That was 12 years ago. And though we don’t see each other anymore, I daresay she has not forgotten. Once there was a baby. Wejustdidn’tknow of any other options. And though ending its unwanted life seemed the best, easiest, quickest solution, it is not without its gnawing pain. It was not my baby; it was not my decision; it was not my life, but I ache.
To be a senior at Notre Dame and to be pregnant. Why is it that the greatest gift human life possesses is also a shame? No one will
doubt that marriage and the fidelity of a loving couple produce the best environment for a new life. She didn’t know if she loved him for life. Abortion was an option. They sought other options. They carried the new life and the possible shame and dared enough to share it. Now eight years later, she hasn’ t spent much time working in her major and that she misses. It 8:00 a.m. on a cold Saturday. He wobbles out on the ice, all uniform and padding, and much to his amazement and her joy, he scores his first goal.
It was a crisp March 12, and the young woman couldn’t stop looking out the window. So soon, she thought. But it was an eternity in a moment. Her husband was at sea. Would he hear? Could the Red Cross get in contact with him? They had waited so long and now she was alone. Then the knock. The kind that echoes in your heart forever. The kind that says your emptiness is filled forever. Advent is over. The caseworker placed, the baby girl into her arms and, though I had been bom to another, she now became my mother.
It’s Advent again. A time of waiting. A time of reflection. The various camps on the pro-life issue would do well to ask the question, “Who is God to us?” An absurd question? I don’t think so, for isn’t this all about “playing God?” Deciding who has the right to make decisions about life: mother’s or child’s. Supporting life is a full-time process. It isn’t enough to prevent a woman from terminating her pregnancy. I know, I helped prevent Olive from doing just that. But my help ended there. Would that I had been so moralistic so as to stand up against the principal who sent her away out of shame. Would that I had offered to help care for the baby to come. It is easy to say abortion is wrong. It is much harder to say, “I will help you raise your child.”
I have spent most of my adult life living as a minority in culturally diverse environments. In some it is no shame to give birth before marriage. There are those who would argue this only encourages irresponsible sexual behavior. Maybe so, but responsibility is never legislated. It is learned. Should we not be creating supportive environments in which women will feel capable of bringing their babies to birth? Given viable options, financial, moral and spiritual support, would not most women choose life? Given a community that welcomes, though maybe doesn’t condone, pregnancy outside of marriage, would more women bring their babies to term?
I do have a vested interest in this question. Because my biological mother had options, I am alive. While proponents argue and protest and plan, tiny brothers and sisters are terminated. It is not that they are not wanted. It is that we as a community haven’t created an environment where the choice for life is easier than the choice for death. Ending abortions will not do that. It is not a change of law we need but a change of heart.
I think of Johnny often. He reminds me of how eager my own father was to get me. He is successful and caring and waiting still. Waiting for a life to give his more meaning. I cannot imagine what life would be like had I been terminated before birth. But my parents can. They talk of what emptiness is when hands desire so much to hold, when hearts cry to care. And i think they know what Johnny feels.	-
Postscript: In August, Johnny and his wife, Kathy, became parents. Their adopted son, Kevin, has made their Advent complete. This year they celebrate Christmas as a family.	□
24,	:,	•• ::	-	..... .-y SCHOLASTIC
Early H^Z'-One.
fineS^eriEue
^>«ens
^T<y<PlFf
$

MARK AA.AZXOCA $PoJ>iSDVuSl

4-©d&.y’S'
U)W4ke hell is ^hgonzi


Ci
>,
Y^l

MOoU ’. Look a.4
Wie Mka+k , , -Hab. wkt% he/e?,
y»u^yS)
9o Wdn$iAe/ ..i»^
ST
jT '
g W'M
gross... H ^A^AN v^ii <.
zv^ v (sy ^6h* -
^7 Sfzzfe
llo


:THq ResHfs
•t S-Hwiol Ptarrh Voll^^^s repaid ky n<_ Uo4re bQiwx.
ResegtoA ^pcu+nAejtf
Hello 5cmqlashc
XeapcRS.. Jajx has
TkMAreii -This Sface 5^
J Caa SUo\J -TAE T^swatso^ MY SctsMTific ExpfX/ME’Mr OX 77/£ Sexual. Sem/iOR Cc?lu£6E-45E
Awa-TS,
v/£ PMC£I> SlscWPES Obi wrs of r^E ^ajEcrs’ 3oPj£S7 -Tj1£^ WMirtKE® Itet* •^esp^SES 4r Various <'Mes , (345?m)
XM^££LII^ ^YFMfaMiC, METoO. X yjbuAEX'TP^H OF 1VW)H&$EX. lE^’S 'DISCUSS WUX» ABAIRS?
there Vou Have irj
Ta/yT
VodHS/DuL-rs’ Uow-wneS
Kick iK Exactly ATMn>tfiA?H7
This DEhVHstates Just HoX XeceSSART AdD E^EC-nvE Taketa ls ARE ( Further. SramES HHve T^rttHe Subjects1 6wwai^4 CuxxfCwicg^ fin MY AW
SAraR^ru^ sex vx.we T>o^r Tpttehsift umtu-2-00AM. ^'ftbSe'pAYS.
Tkamk you 'PkoF^soR. X Scot? At Al^-THE Naysayers am& ME^sts WHO L>iS PicTE TARJETA AS / X>ST DO^’Z ^Dg^STAMI>
TM& • -fa? F^FeSS^R-^eFE^EoTo C0LLE6E^^£ JM^iVit>ui?AS AS ^Yau^AAULT^ WHEbl ACTiAiLLY ^£Y ARg XMFAr^TiLE WHO Md ST S£ ^ELTEKFD FR0/^ EYI LS dF
Outride

S.U.B. at the Movies
The Hunt for Red October Thursday, Dec. 3
Patriot Games
Friday, Dec. 4 & Saturday Dec. 5
Movies are shown at 8:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium.
Price of Admission is $2.00.
STUDENT UNION BOARD