

President Student Affairs 



...William· Kirk·· · ·~··Joseph·cassidy ·--~-.. · President Residence Life Student Activities 
... Aaronkreider ···" Progressive Student Alliance Senior Class President Student Affairs 
Student Senate 
UNIVERSITY OIF NOTRE DAME• 






Bruno's 
Pizza· 
ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR$12.00 EVERY DAY 
119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 
4:00 
to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 

4:00 
to 11:00 Friday and Saturday 


273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 



Bai Jo's 
Noodle House 
Chinese Cuisine // 


Check out those issues you missed last year 
SCHOLASTIC 

E 

www.nd.edu/ ~scholast 

MAGAZI N E 

Looking Over Her Shoulder E) 
Is Anybody Listening? 


Don't be afraid if Patty O'Hara leaves a voicemail on your phone you may not be in trouble. In recent years, the university has gone to some lengths to take student viewpoint into account. more development on the way, students may be called on to put in their two cents. by Zac Kulsrud 
It might be fun to get 30 unplayed messages on your voicemail, but it's not as fun when they' re all from the same person. Scholastic takes a look at stalking and discovers that it happens on this campus, too. by Meredith Salisbury 
Brew Talk ~ 
· If you thought Allegro had good coffee, you should see these places. Now that Molly McGuire's has joined the coffee shop scene, South Bend is brewing with some hot places to pick up some java. by Joshua Bourgeois 
Irish Need Not Apply by Jim Pastore 10 Buy Low, AIM High by Patrick Downes 12 Serving a Purpose by Melissa Kalas 14 The Dating Game by Katie Keller 19 Defending Their Turf by Corey Spinelli 22 Speed Skating by Corey Spinelli . 23 Bye Bye, WVFI by Allison Fashek 25 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 ND Notebook 5 Man on the Street 7 Campus Watch 13 Splinters 21 Out of Bounds 24 Week in Distortion 28 Comic Strip 29 On Other Cam·puses 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 
UNIVER.SITY OF NOTRE DAME•NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
~ 
0 
l­
o 
w w I 
I­
~ 
0 
~ 
LL 


Hear, Hear 
Iwas about eight years old, warm in my bed and about to fall asleep, when I saw 
it. A shadow flew across my walls, wings flapped and a small animal swooped down, dive-bombing in front of me. I screamed hysterically and ran into my parents' room where they were watching TV. 
"There's something flying over my bed," I told them. 
All right, looking back, maybe it doesn't sound so plausible. They looked at me, laughed and turned back to the TV. They didn'tbelieveme. Theythoughtiwas mak­ing up an excuse to stay up a little later. I guess I had done that sort of thing before, but I had never lied about an animal being in my room. I went back and poked my head in the doorway, praying that 'it' had found an escape route. But my friend was still there, smashing itself against my window shades, squawking. I didn't know what to do. No­body was listening to me. 
Lucky for me, my parents eventually came to my rescue and to their surprise, found that a huge bird had flown in from the attic and was perched on top of my dresser. At the time, though, I was helpless, much the same situation students have found themselves in, year after year, begging administrators to look up from their desks for five minutes. In this week's cover story, Zac Kulsrud looks at where things currently stand in terms ofcommunication between these two often opposed groups. Check out who's listening and who's not on page 16, 
Dating Don'ts 
There's a fine line between finding an SYR date and stalking someone, as several students have discovered. Read about their horror sto­ries and how to handle potential stalkers in Meredith Salisbury's article on page 8. Scho­lastic also takes a look at the ever-changing Notre Dame dating scene by examining dorm stereotypes and how they can affect their inhabitants' social lives. Katie Keller shows what the opposite sex is really saying about you behind your back on page 19. 

In This Issue 
There is a group offootball players on this campus who are beginning to get a little recognition. Their games aren't televised by NBC or swarmed by tailgating fans, but the level of competition and the players' dedication is just as intense. Read more about women's interhall football and the road to the championship on page 22. 
Scholastic's latest addition is senior Jeff Spoonhower's comic strip HERD on page 
29. Enjoy. 


Correction 
Scholastic incorrectly identified the pho­tographer ofthe "Home Sweet Home" photo essay in the last issue as Katie Cleary. The actual photographer was Christy Duval. Scholastic regrets the error. 
~~ 
Managing Editor 

45 Years Ago: 
Time for a Commercial Break 
. nder the heading "Wherefore Art 
U
Thou, WNDU?" the following appeared in the November 13, 1953, issue of Scholastic: 
We don't know ifit's a case oflaryngi­tis brought on by the cold weather or what, but the local answer to a radio station has lost its voice. 
Speculation on campus has been wide­spread. Some feel that WNDU may have gotten a couple of its signals crossed, while others feel that the kilocycles may not be on speaking terms with the thingamajigs. A few others even insinu­ated that the static sounds better. 
But most of the troops sincerely miss the friendly chit-chat and worn-out re­cordings, particularly the show "Letters from Home" -it's the only mail some of us have been getting. 
In case no one's said it before, I think history repeats itself. 
-MWS 


2 

SCHOLASTIC NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
MAGAZINE 



Something got your goat? You're not as dum.b as an ox. Don't let the cat get your tongue ( or pen). You're sly like a fox. Show us. Don't wait 'til pigs fly .. 




Letters to the Editor: 
. SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


.NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
3 
MAGAZINE 


I . 
looking or o ob! 


Ifyou thought the job board was a goodplace to find a job, think again. Check out the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. Scholastic Magazine is now•hiring a campus life editor, an assistant campus life editor and a systems manager. Applications are due Thursday, November 19, 1998. 



MAGAZINE 
B004 South Dining Hall • phone: 1-7569 • fax: 1-4464 • Scholastic.scholast. l@nd.edu 4 SCHOLASTIC NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
MAGAZINE 


¦ 
THE W_AY TO SAN JOSE 
They Got Game 
Ranked 17th, the women's basketball team tries for a fourth straight NCAA berth
Riding on the heels of three straight NCAA Tou~ame~t berths, i?cluding the school's first tnp to the Fmal Four in 1997, the Notre Dame Women's Basket­ball program has recently established itself as a force to be reckoned with on the college landscape. The 1998-99 Irish look to improve on last season's 22-10 record and number 17 ranking after losing only two players to graduation. Head Coach Muffet McGraw, who has led Notre Dame to nine seasons with 20 or more wins, guides the Irish in her 12th season. "I think our strength is our balance," says McGraw. "We have a lot of weapons on this team." Notre Dame's biggest weapon is senior captain Sheila McMillen, who is the top re­turning scorer from last year with 13.6 points per game. The Rochester, Ind., native pro­vides the Irish with a deadly threat from the perimeter, but is perhaps even more important to the team in terms of the leadership she provides. "Sheila McMillen is without ques­tion our leader," McGraw says. "She's some­body that the team looks to for direction." Sophomores Ruth Riley and Kelley Siemon are also returning. Riley is the team's top rebounderandblockeraswellasNotreDame's second-l~ading scorer from a year ago. Siemon alsohadaremarkablefreshmanyear,irnmedi­ately capturing the starting position at forward and averaging 8 points and 5.2 rebounds per game. To top it all off, the Irish have inked one of their most.impressive recruiting hauls in re­cent memory, including guard Sherisha Hills and forward Ericka Haney. "I'm very excited aboutourtwofreshmen," says McGraw. 'They are both going to contribute tremendously, probably off the bench." 
Coach McGraw's troops face an extremely demanding schedule. Four oftheir first seven opponents are ranked. While the schedule may seem intimidating, McGraw does draw some positives from it. "It doesn't hurt to play good teams," she says. "We feel that with our success the past couple of years in the Tournament, the thing that really helped us is when we played really goodteams [in the regular season]."This Saturday atthe Joyce Center, the Irish· dive right into their :!! 

fii 
"ll

daunting 
:c 

schedule as a ·Are you usually treated with the respect 
they do battle 
THE WOMAN IN THE with 6th­MIDDLE. Sophomore rankedUCLA. 
Ruth Riley looks to 
improve on her team­
-Chris 
leading blocking and 
Hamilton 
rebounding stats. 








r:6i1m~~~-~,;;::1t;,z~•~k~~1{~,~~~0~i~i!~~Rt~,~\t&~,;.~ 
~: 1,<L:-~:. 1!...-1 ·r-11·sl --_ 

Q.ilA... "'" r:..., . .,-,,rr• -·-·· t',-~-,­
---:-; ({//\' ~.; . ,,-:: ; :f;:; H:.
-.LIBS:u1011,, = :: · , 

Denis Ellis 

Dining Hall Gourmet 

You have all tasted his culinary delights, and some ofyou may have even seen his striking presence strolling around campus. Scholastic satdown with the manfromLiverpool,Execu­tive Chef Denis Ellis. Since 1987, Chef Ellis has been making the meals youfeast on daily. 
How would you best describe your job? Wonderful, both professionally and person­ally. The nature ofthis school is very refresh­ing, cosmopolitan and youthful. 
What is your most memorable experience as the head chef at Notre Dame? I have a difficulty distinguishing, it seems that all of my experiences here have been memo­rable.I would say the meal that we prepared for the Junior Parents Weekend Brunch in 1998. We prepared eggs benedict. .. and it was difficult to decide how to be able to poach 9,000 eggs and still have a quality meal. 
you deserve from the other members of the 
Dining Hall staff? 
Always. I do not know ifI can begin to explain the level of professionalism that the workers have here .... I do not feel out of place here, I am just part of the woodwork. 
How did you decide to become a chef? My entire body and soul was consumed with the notion ofgoing to sea, being a sailor, and so when I went to interview for the job, I told the officer that I wanted to cook. So, in 1949 I went to cooking school, and here I am. 
Does anything about the dining hall dis­turb or perturb you? Nothing. I have a rather simple philosophy: it is not where you are cooking, it is not who you are cooking for, itis how you cook that matters. 
continued on next page­

µ 
z 
0, z,ll 
01 
-I i
mi 
OJ ! 
o!0 
7\ 
' 
i 
!
I.,i 
.NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 5 
MAGAZINE 


0 ~ 
i' 0 co 
w 
l­
o 
z 
,0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
Occasionally chefs are afra;d to taste their own food. Do you have this problem? I have no hang-up with that really. In order to be a successful chef, you have to be willing to taste the food you prepare, even ifyou do not particularly like it. 
Have you experienced the relativity oftaste? Yes, I once attended a chef conference and they presented us with the five best-selling candies from five countries. I can surely tell you that taste is relative from that experience! 
How would you describe Notre Dame? 
I often use the metaphor that all places are made up ofpsychological peaks and valleys. I think that Notre Dame is made up of-peaks and mountains. 

If you could pick any other path of life, what would you choose? I am not going to say that I would not change certain deeds that I may have done, but I think · I would never ask for another profession. 
Do you wear your chefs hat everywhere, for example, in your car? No, I do not drive my car with my hat on. I do, however, occasionally forget that I have it on, and when I get into my car it hits the ceiling and falls off.... I have always wondered if anyone was watching me and saying to them­selves, "Now there is a strange one." I guess they were. -John Grisham 
.; ._., 
CINEMASCOPE 



To the Movies 

·Like the Ivies, .Notre Dame has its own film club 
The Ivy League colleges have had them for years, and most ofthe major Catho­. lie universities have them as well, but until this semester, Notre Dame has been without one. No, the reference is not to a nondiscriminationclause that includes sexual orientation. Notre Dame has. lacked a stu­dent film society, until now. Disappointed and frustrated with the lack of a film culture on this campus, two junior film majors have organized the Notre Dame Film Society in hopes of creating an outlet for the enjoyment and appreciation of film as art. "Watching movies is a part of a student's weekly or even daily routine," says Notre Dame Film Society Treasurer Andrew Philip. · "Nonetheless, the film culture among the Notre Dame population is fairly poor. It's exciting to be a part of the film society, on the one hand because I am a full-fledged, self-proclaimed cinephile; on the other be­cause I feel that I am helping_ to widen the cinematic and intellectual horizons of any student who cares to be a member," he adds. The film club shows a wide variety of films by directors from Martin Scorsese, Spike Lee and Jim Jarmusch, to French filmmakers like Jean-Luc Godard, and even · 
to documentary filmmakers like Errol Mor­ris. It meets every Sunday at 7:00 p.m. in the loft of O'Shaughnessy. 
"Movies likeArmageddon, Deep Impact, and other disaster movies have their place in the movie industry. And that's great, I enjoy them once in a while, but there's a whole other side to film outside of Holly­wood," one ofthe club's copresidents, Sean Daily, says. "Now don't think that all we do is watch Russian montage movies from the 1920s while wearing black turtle necks, smoking cigarettes and sipping espresso. We'rejustlookingtoletpeopleknowwhat's .out there." 
So far this semester, the club has taken a trip to Vicker's Theatre, a small avant­garde art house cinema in Michigan, as well as to the Chicago International Film Festi­val. After Christmas break, the officers hope to sponsor a lecture from an indepen­dent 'director as well as a screening of a local filmmaker's work. 
Daily adds, "We've received _a lot of positive response from people. There's_ noth­ing else like it at Notre Dame." 
"My only regret is that we did not start this club years ago," Philip says. 
-KellyMcGann 

··;: ---~,· .: '.. ,,. -. ..-:--... ~ _·: ._.. .. . . . ', 
IRC)'N.tv\AN _; ::i; ,.,-., . .i ';.. ··_··;_:;,;::.':. ,/ ,·.•,'.ii:. .·•i•i·,;,)/:
~er~~(\IV~ I~i~i:1~1f~itffli;t,1\]1\~'"i121r0:~-,;u,{~\1(f('i';}tt,fS\)t";,\t,;~;~ 
.Waffl.eJroµs 04¾e. fggu]q:r qpp¢alqnq/~:~/-'in 1}/;ort-h;'q)id $qil/h}]J,ining]faU~-~ 
. Bow~es says: ''Solith h_as haclA.w~ffi~. ~ar.. , were llS_ecl:Jqr.,TJ,>)\T_,'.ai),tl) . (i,irt·twq :we~ks>Aft~~ 
'all,. 

6 

SCHOLASTIC NOVEMBER 12, 1998
MAGAZINE 


,.··:; ', ·' y'' z /:. '.. :-·:_:.·'_:,._·,_·:.•..:.·_i_}_.:,;_;__:~
;,,g 

·{{ff:? 
~f~i 








!11Wii!~111~1 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
Exceptions to the Rule 
Rules are made to be bent 
BY ERIN LUMIhad seven_ minutes to print my paper, run across campus and turn it in. The clock was ticking, my heart accelerating and the two printers in LaFortune's computer cluster were making weird groaning sounds. Normally, I wouldn't worry so much about turning in a paper past deadline, but I had heard my professor was a stickler for rules. I stood at the printer, calling it names under niy breath arid cursing all the biology stu­dents clogging the line with their Powerpoint notes. I changed printers, changed comput­ers and even begged a computer consultant 
for help, but my paper would not appear. When I finally arrived out of breath and crazed-looking -but with my paper·.:_ I 
found that my discussion group had fin­
ished 10 minutes earlier. I was frazzled, but still relieved. At least I .was done with the 
whole mess. That is, until my TA told me 
late papers were not allowed and refused to accept it. 
Now, I agree wholeheartedly that some rules can be essential some ofthe time. They prevent all kinds ofchaos: car wrecks, crime and even lacerations by airborne frogs. But 
what I don't understand or agree with is when rules are enforced for the wrong rea­sons. What was the point of not letting me turn in my paper? It wasn't as iflhad spent 10 extra minutes gaining some kind of ad~ vantage over all the other students (as would have been obvious if my TA had taken my paper and read a paragraph or two). 
I went to my professor, sure that he would see my point and fire his TA, but was told that they were in fact his rules; the TA was merely enforcing them. 
The situation was ridiculous. I was deter­
mined to change his mind. A professor•~ 
ultimate purpose is to teach his students and help them to better understand the subject 
material. How does such a rule accomplish. this?· When the rule itself becomes more 
important than the objective it tries to pro­mote, it has lost_ its purpose. Rules should notbewritten in stone. Rather, they ought to be standard-setting guidelines and should allow for exceptions. 
My professor openly admitted that he didn't think I was trying to gain an advan­tage in those extra 10 minutes, but that nonetheless, accepting my paper would be unfair to the other students. Still, it seems both illogical and unfair to dwell on rules at the expense. of an obviously higher cause. 
Later that day, I went home and whined to my roommates about the injustice of my situation. We sat around and recalled many of the dumb rules we had been forced to obey during the course ofour lives, and how those rules were often antithetical to the purpose they were trying to achieve. During high school, one ofmy friends had a curfew of 11 p.m. on the dot, and if she was even one minute late, her mom would ground her. Wherever her group offriends was hanging out, she would wait until IO or 15 minutes before 11:00, and then get someone to drive her home. Often, those drives were made 20 or 30 miles above the speed limit in order to arrive by exactly 11:00. Granted, she could have allotted more time to get home, but 
_who thinks oftime management when she's having fun? The 11 p.m. rule made no sense because its purpose was to get her home safely when it took a fair amount of reck­lessness to do just that. 
So you may be wondering what ever happened with my professor. In the end, I never convinced him to bend .his rules, but he also never convinced me that they shouldn't be bent. The experience only re­inforced· for me .the idea that rules aren't always necessarily right, but that often one must simply accept them in order to get by. 
Maybe someday I'll be in a position to write a rule or two myself, and when I do they'll be in erasable ink. . 
The opinions expressed in this commentary are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial staff of Scholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC 
7 
MAGAZINE 
~ 
)> 

ZI 0 
z 
-I 
I 

m 
(/) 
-I 
iC 
m 
m 
-I 





eahdidn'tgetscaredrightaway. 
When he drove six hours to 
visit her on July fourth, she 
thought it was a little strange. 
When he sent flowers, 15-page letters and 10 e-mail messages a day over the summer, she thought it was annoying. 
When she came back to school a week early and found her dorm room filled with flowers and letters, she got concerned. She asked around. Nobody knew how he got past the 24-hour detex, the security guard or the locked door. 
By the time he had to be physically re­strained from coming after her at Heartland a few nights later, Leah was genuine! y fright­ened. 

eahdidn'tgetscaredrightaway, and that's perfectly normal. Leah Nosa, a senior, has de­scribed the typical stalking ex­perience. Nosa's stalker is also a senior and is under strict orders from the university to have no further contact with her. He seemed 
SCHOLASTIC
8 
MAGAZINE 

like a nice, normal guy, Nosa says. "You wouldn't think that it would happen at Notre Dame," she adds. 
Gavin de Becker believes otherwise. He has spent 20 years studying criminal behav­ior and is considered an expert on the pre­diction ofviolent behavior, including stalk­ing. 
"The fact is that some number of people will be victimized on this campus," says de Becker. In fact, three out offour women will experience some kind of criminal victim­ization in their lives, he adds. 
Stalking is certainly not unheard of at Notre Dame, says Rex Rakow, director of security for the university. He estimates that approximately six cases of stalking, with differing degrees ofseverity, are handled by security each year. The victims are usually students, although some faculty members have been targets as well. 
The way security handles the case com­pletely depends on what the victim wants, Rakow says. Options range from· phone traces to having police with the victim at all times, an extreme measure Rakow recalls using once ·years ago. In Nosa's case, she was given the choice of going through uni­versity security to get an unofficial restrain­ing order or to get an official order from the local police. Nosa says she chose to go through university channels because she felt the penalties they could inflict (up to and including expulsion) would be more effective in deterring her stalker. 
What security can do depends largely on if and when the victim comes forward. Vic­tims of stalking are often reluctant about reporting the incidents. Nosa says going through every step of the stalking left her unable to see the whole picture. "I couldn't see right away how ridiculous he was be­ing," she says. She also wasn't sure she wanted to go to security because she didn't know if they could do anything, and be­cause reporting the problem meant acknowl­edging a vulnerability that she did not want to feel. However, as she told her friends more about what her stalker was doing, they urged her to go to security. 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 


1111 
Her hesitance to admit the problem is easy to understand. N:osa's stalker had been a close friend toward the end of last semes­ter, and she believed for some time that she would be able to convince him to stop what he was doing. When he e-mailed her con­tinually over the summer, she replied by trying to rationalize with him to get him to leave her alone. Every time he called during this semester, Nosarecalls, "I would say, 'I don't want to talk to you' and hang up." But the stalker was still getting what he wanted: contact with his victim. 
According to de Becker, Nosa's feeling that she could rationalize with the stalker, as well as the continual communication, even if it wasn't positive, was what kept the victimization going. "One explicit rejection is all that's necessary," says de Becker. "Do not negotiate." He gives the example of a stalker who left 30 messages on a woman's answering machine after she had rejected him; she felt so guilty about the glut of messages that she finally returned his calls with the intention of repeating her initial rejection. 
But the second rejection is not what the harasser hears, de Becker explains. "All he learns is that it takes 30 messages to get you to call back." Itis absolutely crucial inthese cases, he says, that after the initial rejection there not be any form ofsubsequent contact whatsoever. As long as there is sustained contact, the stalker will continue his behav­ior. 
Nosa agrees with de Becker's view on negotiation. "I think I should have been more up front about the fact that I wanted no 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 

contact from him .... The whole thing prob­ably would have ended [sooner]." 
Fortunately for N osa, she finally did go to security. As soon as security is aware of a problem, officials will take steps to ensure that the victimization, at least, is stopped immediately. Nosa brought copies of her stalker's letters and e-mail messages for security to review. Representatives went to the stalker's house right away and informed him that he was under no circumstances allowed to have contact with her and could not set foot in her dorm. 
For her part, Nosa distributed his picture to the dorm security guard and rector, tell­ing them that he was not to be let in. And Nosa herself made some sacrifices: for the week following security's visit to her stalker, "Security told me I wasn't allowed to walk anywhere by myself." 
The case went through typical university channels after that. Residence Life sched­ul~d a hearing, and in response to Nosa's discomfort with the idea ofbeing in a room with her stalker, university officials limited the time to 10 minutes and established the ground rule that he could not speak directly to her. Ifthe stalker had something to say to Nosa, he would have to tell someone else, and that person would relay the_information to her. "H was a strange and unnerving thing to sit through," she says. 
Nosahasn'tyetheard the outcome ofthe hearing, but she says she hasn't encoun­tered any more problems from the stalker. Now, she regrets having waited so long to approach officials. 
Rakow stresses the importance ofreport­ing to security as soon as possible. "The quicker it gets to us, the better," he says. Whenever stu­dents have a "bad feeling," Rakow says, they should talk to an investiga­
. tor or at least go to their rector about it. It's security's job to determine. whether the fear is valid, but they can't do that if nobody reports it, he adds. 
It's that "bad 

f
; 

feeling" that de Becker has come to believe in with such conviction. "Warranted fear is a gift," he says. De Becker believes this fear can save people when they are in danger. It stems from a series of signals people may notice but choose to ignore. "There's a universal code ofviolence acted out before every violent act," he explains. "The irony is how reluctant we are to respect our intu­ition." 
"Women are hung up on the issue of rudeness," he continues. This has contrib­uted to crimes against women, which are rising four times faster than the general crime rate. 
That's not to say every stalker is male. Rakow attests to this: "We have had both sexes as victims and both sexes as stalkers." 
But the fact remains that the vast majority ofstalkers are male. Women have to realize they have survival skills, too, de Becker says. They should "stop buying into the mythofdefenselessness." Staying ingroups is one means of defense. Another is to control the signals one gives off. "The woman who freezes up and tenses [around strangers] conveys fear and vulnerability," de Becker says. The woman who exudes confidence and control tells the potential criminal she is nothis victim. "It'seasier for him to abort the plan" than to go through with violence toward someone who isn't an easy target, he says. 
Does this mean people should constantly I 
I

be watching over their shoulder? Abso­lutely not, de Becker says. "There is nothing to be afraid ofin this life until you feel fear." (De Becker makes a distinction between warranted fear, which is based on a current, tangible stimulus, and unwarrarited fear, which is based on imagination ormemory.) Stalkers are normal people who use normal tactics to get what they want, tactics anyone would use in trying to persuade someone. "The moment fear is introduced as a strat­egy," de Becker comments, is the point at which the incident should be· considered serious and threatening. 
Nosa hasn't turned into a paranoiac, but an element of extra caution definitely stays with her. "It leads you to be more skeptical of other people," she says. Although no longer under security's rule to be with other people, she still makes a concerted effort not to go places alone. And she's become more conscious of the need for safety mea­
. sures, such as not letting strangers into her dorm, which is under 24-hour detex. "I haven't opened the door [for a guy] once this year," she says. D 
SCHOLASTIC 9 
MAGAZINE 



Controversy erupts over the selection of The Shirt Project's next coordinator 


BY JIM PASTOREEach year, the Student Senate must approve a number of nominations for various positions within the Stu­dent Union. Normally, such nominations meet with little or no opposition and often pass by unanimous consent. On November 4, however, the Senate deviated from that norm when senators broke into heated de­bate over whether or not to approve sopho­more Garett Skiba' s nomination as the next Shirt Project Coordinator. When the votes were initially tallied, it appeared that Skiba had received the two­thirds majority necessary to take over as coordinator. But sophomore Keough Hall Senator Brian 

been given a chance. It seemed pretty shady, the whole deal," Seeley says. Seeley had first expressed his interest in becoming the new Shirt Project coordinator in early Octo­ber. "I talked to a student government rep­resentative and he referred me to [Student Union Treasurer] TJ [Wolfe]," Seeley ex­plains. "I said Tm interested in The Shirt Project. How does it work? How can I get involved?"' Wolfe, in tum, referred Seeley to the current shirt project coordinator, jun­ior John Maus. 
"When [Seeley] contacted me, my basic sentiments to him were that I was not the person to talk to," Wolfe, a senior, says. "I tried to steer Mike in that direction towards John. John is the expert and knows what's tions, the constitution lacks any clearly de­fined selection process. With the exception of detailed guidelines for the SUB applica­tion process, the constitution simply names the organization responsible for nominat­ing student candidates. The organizations present their nominees to the Student Sen­ate, which then has the option of approving or rejecting the candidate. 
In the absence ofclear constitutional rules, most offices that nominate students for vari­ous positions have developed their own selection processes. The Office ofthe Presi­dent is one organization that appoints nearly its entire staff. In order to find the best candidates, Selak and senior Student Body President Peter Cesaro used an open appli­
O'Donoghue 

quickly intervened "I think I should have been given a chance. It 
and appealed to the 

seemed pretty shady, the whole deal." 
student body vice­
president, junior Andrea Selak for a rare roll call vote, in which each senator must verbally de­clare his or her vote. When the Student Union secretary ,jun­ior Mike Palumbo, called the roll and tallied the results, the vote resulted, surprisingly, in Skiba's rejection. 
At the heart of the Senate's decision to reject Skiba's nomination lie larger ques­tions concerning how the Student Union appoints students to fill the many positions within its organizations. In the weeks be­fore the Student Senate voted on the nomi­nation, students raised concerns that the nomination process for the Shirt Project Coordinator ignored students interested in the position. 
At the senate meeting on November 4, Mike Seeley, a junior from Keenan Hall, expressed his belief that the process had treated him unfairly. "I think I should've 
10 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


-Mike Seeley rejected .candidate for Shirt Project coordinator 
going on." Because the nomination was little more than a month away, Seeley felt it was unnecessary to get involved under Maus and never directly contacted him. "The way it came across to me was that it wasn't important to contact Maus. There was no reason for me to believe that I had to," Seeley says. 
Nearly all of the parties involved believe that the root of the confusion lies in the vagueness of the constitution. "What's wrong, I think the main thing is the consti­tution. It allows loopholes to be made," Seeley says. The constitution provides no clear instructions for selecting the next co­ordinator. In fact, in nearly all of the offices where students are appointed to fill posi­cation process that included interviews and advertising. 
"This university has so many talented people ... and the application process just seems like the best way to give people the opportunity to get involved," Selak says. "Simply choosing people limits those who can get involved." 
Although Cesaro and Selak decided to use an open application process, each ad­ministration has the ability to decide how it will select its staff and organize its depart­ments. "I see the openness in terms ofcreat­ing departments as a positive because each administration can organize the Office of the President as they see most beneficial to the agenda," Selak says. "But in terms ofthe 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 



. .Notre Dame Film,Television, and . Theatre presents 
~\ getting 

, . wrecked 

standing offices, I think that a little more specific selection pr.ocess could be very beneficial." 
Other organizations that rely heavily on appointed students have also adopted this application process. Wolfe actively sought out business students for his two assistant treasurer positions. Although the constitu­tion did not require him to adopt any par­ticular process, Wolfe decided to follow the same method that last year's treasurer used. "What I did was write a letter and I handed that to all of the intro-level Accounting professors and asked them to give this infor­mation out to their class," says Wolfe. He also conducted an interview with each ap­plicant before presenting his nominations to the Senate. The constitution, however, leaves each new treasurer free to follow his or her own selection method. "In the past, there's been a couple of different ways," he says. 
Although such ad hoc systems have worked well in the past, the debate over the nomination ofthe Shirt Project Coordinator raises concerns within the senate. Many feel that the situation indicates potential flaws with the system. Junior Keenan Hall Sena­tor Matt Mamak believes the confusion points to a problematic situation. "This is the same type of thing that happened with 
a long . . 

flight hOm,8,

the plane 
goe9doWn, · buthertrip is just beginning 

by Christina Gorman 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, November 18 7:30 p.m. Thursday, November 19 7:30p.m. Friday, November 20 7:30p.m. Saturday, November 21 7:30 p.m. Sunday, November 22 2:30 p.m. 
Playing atWashington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$9 

monday -thursday 7 a.m. -11 pm
Senior Citizens -$8 All Students -$6 

friday 7a.m. -midnight 
Tickets are available at the 
saturday 8a.m. -midnight
LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders cail 631-8128. 
sunday 9a.m. -10 p.m. 
the budget," he says. "People overspent for years and years because nothing was done about it. Then, this past year, we had prob­lems because the system was flawed. The Student Senate has to become more proac­tive to prevent these problems from happen­ing." 
While some support the adoption of an open application process, some worry about the qualifications of outside applicants. Breen-Phillips Hall Senator Rhea Gertken sits on the Financial Management Board and was involved in the Skiba nomination. "Outside applicants might have good ideas, but there are some important things in the project where experience might be a good idea," Gertken says. Maus also believes that experience constitutes an essential compo­nent for an effective Shirt Project Coordina­tor. "The Shirt Project is not really some­thing that you can justsubmitan application and be successful in. I think the senate can waste their time arguing about stuff like this, but the Shirt Project Coordinator al­ways has the best idea. I think the Shirt Coordinator should have total responsibil­ity for who they approve," Maus says. 
On the other hand, some feel that experi­ence does not play such a crucial role. Mamak understands why some view experience as crucial, but believes new people can bejust as effective. "Youhave to look at something like the Student Senate," Mamak says. "People get elected and you get a whole bunch ofnew people every year, but it does fine,,,Selak also notes that experience can have a negative side. "Whereas with expe­rience you know the system, lack ofexperi­ence can render a person more creative, more visionary because you don't have ... the mindset of being limited by . . . your previous experiences," she explains. 
Despite the differing opinions on the ne­cessity of experience, nearly all those in­volved agree that the Senate must develop clear guidelines for organizations to follow. "Ithink it needs revisions, I think itneeds to be addressed. All of these nomination sys­tems need to be at least expressed in a more direct maimer," Wolfe says. O'Donoghue, -i 
I 
I

who chairs the Senate Oversight Commit­l
;!

tee, agrees. "There is going to be a much more formal process for next year with applications. I can assure you that." While the current situation remains imperfect, Mamak feels that the confusion is under­standable. "The constitution is young. It's only been in existence two years, there's problems with it, and we're finding those one by one." D 
1025 south bend avenue (corner of eddy &so. bend ave.) south bend, indiana 46617 (219) 287-6966 
11

NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 





he says. But Malpass does not feel



-Mike Monroe 
that performance is the issue. "The 
BY PATRICK DOWNES 
Aselect group of seniors has gotten ahold of $560,000 of Notre Dame's ndowment, and they're doing what they please with the money. One might expect that these students are currently on the run, being chased down by a pack of NDSP bloodhounds, but this is far from the case. In fact, the university's financial offic­ers are encouraging them. Each semester about 25 students -un­dergraduates in the fall and MBA students in the spring -are chosen from a pool of applicants to form the finance department's Applied Investment Management (AIM) class. This labor-intensive, four-credit class receives an active stock portfolio, currently worth over half a· million dollars, and re­searches and trades the stocks. Also, the class takes trips to big-city investment firms to meet and observe professional money managers. This past weekend, the AIM class took a field trip to New York. The class 


"They're saying to us, 'We trust your abi to do this in a professiona n he class t that resp zbility seriously." 
visited the New York Stock Exchange and 
several investment banks. "We went to 
Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Morgan 

Stanley," senior Kim Smith says. "At each . 
one they told us what it is like to be an 
investment banking analyst." 

! 
AIM class members may not be profes­sional money managers yet, but the assets they deal with are no less real than those 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

handled by their Wall Street counterparts. The class deals with money as opposed to hypothetical figures to add urgency to their work. "It's a whole different ballgame when you start managing someone else's money," says Scott Malpass, the associate vice presi­dent for finance and investment and one of the class's three teachers. "The incentive is to do much more detailed, much more so­phisticated analysis," he adds. 
Senior Mike Monroe, an AIM student, agrees. "They're saying to us, 'We trust your ability to do this in a professional manner,"' he says. "The class takes that responsibility seriously." 
By and large, that responsibility belongs to the students. Though the university re­stricts them from dealing with co_mpanies that sell tobacco, alcohol or birth control products, the students are free to choose which stocks to invest in. Professor Frank Reilly, another of AIM's three teachers, emphasizes that the professors hardly inter­fere. "About the biggest thing we'll say is 
'We think you need to do more analysis,"' Reilly says. He adds that professors will often disagree among themselves as to whether any particular trade was wise. 
The AIM class does have a benchmark to determine whether or not those decisions were good. The class measures its success against the Standard and Poor (S&P) 500 index, a stock index, similar to the Dow 
purpose of the class is to learn how to do stock research," he says. "If the perfor­mance isn't as good because of the structure of the class, that's fine." 
Whether they meet their goal or not, most 
. of the students agree that the experience has been worth more than 1,000 shares of any stock. "I'm learning how the real world works," Driscoll says. "We're not playing around anymore -it's real money." D 
NOVEMBER 12,. 1998 

Jones, which is a good indicator of the market's overall performance. The class's goal is for the portfolio's growth rate to outpace the growth rate of the S&P 500. They generally do well. "Except for the first class," Reilly says, "we have beaten our benchmark every semester." 
This semester, however, things are not going as well. When the last class left the portfolio at the end of April it was worth nearly $620,000. Over the summer, several stocks dropped significantly and by Sep­tember the collection was worth just $503,000. Since then, though, the portfolio has done better. The stocks are now worth _close to $560,000. This represents an 11 percent gain since early September, and they have outstripped their S&P 5·00 bench­mark (9.67 percent growth) over that period. Even so, there is more work to be done. Overall, the class is down more than seven percent. 
Most members believe it would be far­fetched to think they will meet their goal. 
"Hopefully we'11 shorten the gap," 
senior Mike Driscoll says. "It would 
be nice if we just came back into 
positive territory." 
Malpass·; though, thinks it is pos­
sible. "Certainly by the end of the 
class they could outperform the bench­
mark if some of their picks go well," 




TIP THE G I P P . GIPPER. l@ND.EDU pretentious beyond belief. A certain sense 
ofsmugness, eclipsing simple school pride, 
Hello again, everyone. Please excuse the Gipp while he digs himself out from under a mountain of e-mail. Judging by the volume of tips the Gipp has received lately, Notre Dame is becoming a very exciting place to live. It's about time. The Gipp wants to begin by saying hello to his friends at Boston College. He hopes the seniors enjoyed their last home game as much as he did. But the Gipp will have more on that later. He will use small words in case any BC people would like to follow along. 
Debbie Does 517 Grace 

Right now, the Gipp wants to tell you a little story about an enemy ofNotre Dame who lives a little bit closer to home. YOU '11 have to use your imagination on this one, because the Gipp remembers the last time he mentioned wayward admin­istrators by name. He has not yet recov­ered the use of his kneecaps. 
This tip c_omes from some football play­ers who, demonstrating the class we have come to expect from football players, were browsing in a local establishment called the Adult Emporium. The gridiron heroes were not the only members of the Notre Dame community in the building, though. When their attention strayed mo­mentarily from the vast selection oftoys and other devices, they spotted what appeared to be a certain Residence Life official doing a little shopping of his own. 
The Gipp wouldn't even mention this, but he knows that if students were caught in a dorm trying out any of the products this administrator was apparently looking• at, 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 

Res Life officials would not exactly be warm and sympathetic. The Gipp guesses this guy's motto is "Do as I say, not as I do." 
Former Observer Columnist Makes Good 

The Gipp is always glad to take the oppor­tunity to gloat, so he especially enjoyed this tip. 
The week before the Boston College game, several tippers sent the Gipp copies of an 
' 
~­

essay that appeared in BC's school paper, comparing our school to theirs. The author spent two years here before caving to the pressures of life at a top-25 school and transferring to BC. 
The whole essay is available at http:// bcheights.com/insidebc/index.html, but here's a taste: "ND can be, quite simply, hangs over the campus and permeates the classrooms, the stadium and the students themselves." 
The Gipp thinks you get the idea, and he thinks you know what to do about it. The author's name is Catherine Deely, and you can e-mail her at or Deelyc@bc.edu. 
Be warned that at least one tipper who tried to rationally discuss Deely's short­comings with her received a form letter calling him hypocritical and un-Christian. 
The Gipp isn't worried. He thinks you can handle a little name-calling. After all, you 're smarter than she is. 
Conveniently Located Next To The Counseling Center 
The Gipp recently had the privilege of hearing from those Zahm guys who like to play music out their window on football weekends. Unfortunately, he did not get a chance to smack them on the heads for annoying the whole campus. 
He did, however, get a good tip out of it. The day before Halloween, after a couple of hours of nonstop music, an angry, older gentleman burst into the Zahmbies' room claiming to be Monk Malloy, grabbed their CD, and threatened to smash their CD player. 
The Vigilante's name? Brother Bonaven­ture Scully, rector of Keenan Hall. 
The Gipp hopes Brother Scully has calmed down a bit by now. Father Hes burgh is still going strong, and there's only room for one crazy cleric around here. 
Reason #713 The Gipp Loves Notre Dame 

Flying animal carcasses. The Gipp can­not get enough ofthose things. He knows that Student Affairs, whiny Observer columnists, and 10-year-old girls with poor reflexes do not feel the same way, but he doesn't care.' "Only' the strong survive," the Gipp always says. 
The point is, dodging that octopus was the most fun the Gipp had at a football game in years, and he thinks a lot of you agree. So seniors, don't let the Gipp down. Don't let them take away your flying . animal carcasses like they took away your "sucks" chant during the pre-game intro­ductions. Next week, celebrate your last · home game in style and show Bill Kirk what you think of his threats. Find a dead animal and throw it. The lady on the dome would be proud. D 
SCHOLASTIC 
13 
MAGAZINE 



w 



Serving a Purpose 
Some feel Notre Dame'sfocus on undergraduate service options leads to a high number of 
graduates in service work 
BY MELISSA KALAS iles of applications flooding the 
desktop and interview appoint­
ments scrawled on the calendar remind Notre Dame seniors that somewhere between resumes and phone numbers lies next year's endeavor. The following year may bring more classes and term papers for some, and for others it will require brief­cases and cell phones. But there are other students, like seniors Jennifer Ehren · arid Kate Kowalski, who will not sit in class or attend company meetings -they will be spending their first year as graduates teach­ing in the inner city or working in Africa. 
Like many college graduates across the nation, these members of Notre Dame's class of 1999 will perform post-graduate service work. According to an October is­sue ofU.S. News & WorldReport,almost 10 percent of Notre Dame graduates go on to do service work. The article attributes this high number to the many opportunities stu-
P 

dents have for undergraduate service work. 
There is an endless list of options avail­able for graduates, and the Center for Social Concerns sends approximately 40 to 60 graduates a year throughout the world to perform service work. Andrea Smith Shappell, Director ofSenior Transition Pro­grams at the CSC, says the Alliance for Catholic Education and the Jesuit Volun­teer Corps are two groups that have had many·Notre Dame participants in the past. ACE is a domestic organization whose par­ticipants focus on the intellectual and spiri­tual development of Catholic schoolchil­dren in the southern United States. The JVC is another domestic group whose purpose is to promote justice and peace through a di­verse list of possible occupations; 
In addition to the opportunities available in the United States, the Peace Corps and the Holy Cross Associates, based at Notre Dame, are two organizations that send their volun­teers overseas. The Holy Cross Program in Chile is a two-and-a-half year program that 
ROLE MODEL Denise Talotta, a former Peace Corp volunteer who is currently a grad student, speaks to interested students at the post-graduate service fair. 

offers a variety• of jobs, such as teaching, 
legal work and working with those infected 
with the HIV virus. 
Two members ofthe Class of 1995, Sarah 
Badger and Paul Voelker, chose to commit 
to service upon receiving their degree. 
Voelker, a theology and philosophy major, 
worked at the Baltimore Residential AIDS 
hospice through the JVC. His duties in­
cluded cooking, feeding and clothing five 
men in the final stage of AIDS. 
Not only did Voelker perform the neces­
sary daily tasks for the patients, but he also 
became a psychological and spiritual com­
panion to the patients and their families as 
well. "It gave me an awareness ofthe good­
ness and holiness of people in the midst of 
pain and crisis," Voelker says. 
Through the Alliance for Catholic Educa­
tion, Sarah Badger discovered something 
unexpected. "After graduation, I planned 
on going to law school and afterwards live 
in a French-speaking country where I would 
practice international law," Badger says. 
Instead, she taught fifth grade in a Char­
lotte, N.C. Catholic grade school for two 
years. Her experiences inspired her to apply 
for a position at the Center for the Homeless 
in South Bend, where she works with chil­
dren who live in poverty. "The spiritual 
rewards definitely override the monetary 
rewards," Badger says. 
The service opportunities for undergradu­ates often provide the motivation to enter post-graduate service work. Both Voelker · and Badger became dedicated to service as undergraduates at Notre Dame. VoelkC?r, who participated in the Community Meal Program in Madison, Wis., and Badger, who has an extensive list of service partici­pation, made the decision to become in­volved in post-graduate service projects during senior year. "I had been considering [post-graduate service] all along," Badger says. "The satisfaction I got from doing service as an undergraduate really made me want to continue with it after graduation." 
One of the most successful undergradu­
ate programs that the CSC runs is the Appa­
lachia Seminar, where over280 Notre Dame, 
Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students spend 
either fall or spring break in the Appalachia 
region. Similarly, the Urban Plunge gives 
students a chance to gain more knowledge 
of the problems within the cities of the 
United States. 
For students looking for a longer service 
commitment, the .CSC provides summer 
service projects in various places through­
out the United States. Sue Cunningham, 
NOVEMBER·12, 1998 



siderations and other  about his experience with Farm of the Child.  
programs may hold  
them back. But she does agree that it is the  year ofservice work after graduation. Brick,  quickly. [Post-graduate service] allows  a  
same motivation.  although uncertain whether she will take the  more structured way of taking a year off,"  
Shappell believes there is a connection.  service path, is considering a project in the  Kowalski says. Though she is undecided as  
"It is a natural progression," she says. "Of­ teaching area, namely the Teach for America  to which program she will join next year,  
ten they want to continue to do more."  organization. Jones, on the other hand, has  Kowalski has submitted applications to the  
Seniors Dina Brick and Doug Jones are  thought about submitting applications to  Peace Corps and the Holy Cross Associates.  
two Notre Dame students who spent their  the Holy Cross in Chile program, the Peace  If she chooses· the Peace Corps, she will  
summer experiencing lives that differed from  . Corps and ACE.  .  most likely work in Africa and concentrate  
their own.  Brick traveled to Anchorage,  It seems as though the attitudes devel­ on solving agricultural problems.  
Alaska, and worked in a day-care center for  . oped toward service as an undergraduate  Some students may be concerned that  
the mentally and physically handicapped.  encourage more and more seniors to set  they will lose their offers from graduate  

"I think people aren't comfortable jumping into the career world so quickly. [Post-graduate service] allows a more structured way oftaking a year-off." -Kate Kowalski 
She saw the hardships the children's parents had to deal with on a daily basis. But for Brick, this experience was worth it. "I've always been interested in service. I wanted to see another part of the world, do some service and, hopefully, make an impact on somebody's life," she says. "It was an amaz­ing experience to work with people I had never dealt with before." Jones, too, had similar motivations for spending a summer performing a service._ While living in a homeless shelter for two months in Aurora, Ill., he cooked, cleaned and played with the children who often came into the shelter. "I also wanted to see if that was the kind of work that I want to do after I graduate," says Jones, who is considering social work. 
Both Brick and Jones are consideril).g a 

NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
aside a year or two for service work. Ehren says the projects she participated in as an undergraduate motivated her to make the· decision for post-graduate work. "The grati­fication I get when I help people inspired me to resume service after graduation. I feel like I can have an influence on people's lives and brighten their day," she says. Ehren hopes to apply the knowledge she gained from tutoring with the Upward Bound orga­nization, volunteering at an early childhood center and participating in Christmas in . April to teach math or science at an inner city high school next year. 
Kowalski was also active in the Christ­mas in April program as well as the Appala­chia seminar. "1 think people aren't com­fortable jumping into the career world so schools and employers if they do a year of service, but Shappell asserts otherwise. "School and companies see it as an asset," she says. "[Service projects] can provide an informal type ofeducatfon. Pre-med majors often go to work in health clinics. It's also good to see that more business majors defer their job for a year." 
Whether engineering or psychology ma­jors, Notre Dame students have in the past and will continue to spend their first year out of school experiencing other cultures and lifestyles that have been otherwise inac­cessible to them. It is their chance to face problems unlike the ones they have dealt with as students and to work on those prob­lems with the knowledge they have gained 
through four years at Notre Dame.  D  
SCHOLASTIC  15  
MAGAZINE  



i >­
ii~ 
i!O 
'i'I.  I­ 
i  (/)  
~  
Ll.J  
>0  
u  

! i ' 

~-:_1.•
,._t_:_._._;_:.1,:_•_:_:_•.:,'_'_·,::~,; 
~ .·}-"~:,·.,•>·.> 


ls:1111 ldl:llSICl:11 << 
.· ·. --;,\? =·,,;:,:;x~:;V .. >:/~:~·:,ttf~i'??J~~~\_··--:::'?'/'::''•v:,.·· ;,t/-\ .·,--lf--\>:f:\·?-·.:>'?\L .-Ji/''.,'·,-· ·-·x,'jt ,. 
_,._f-1; 1• • . >.:: -:; "'·-)=· .'.;, ,--:-._,... -~-,.:-• •_ --·••-.. r1. -.-.:-:i;by Zac.Kulsrud ... ·. ,...:· ., 
dJ;f: < -"..J, >.<: ,·, ', ,:· ~,\r;\,(:~Jt/_.;J~\ \:-~r-/:(~t-.Jjf£?....-:'ft~i~{<. ?-:<i·}:,;\>f'.;;,'~
-Edi, 11,il)bfsclmcs. stU1Clitlll@1,c'ffliiliig•aniinPlt1:· ;.....,c .-,c.... J 
. 0!J~f:J_f~l!!IJ!f·s•JCci,f!:~~~':[li\.·..•-~,.,:, ,ii;,i~"(\;;;(r.~i




s:~J.·~~~.;;ai;~~ ·· 
·to enjoy 6i'ange0-~m<>bthies at Reckers, but­
they are qtiicktb <iuistion those,:1who were 
responsible:for the:ne'W:floorpl~ at South 

Dining HalLWlien:,-students ·are content ·· the most :v:isibl~Jp. student~ti'.llius{thbr~so-react, the senators believe th,at student opin­

;;,ji~]~w::~i\iliil\t~J;:tiiifiiJ :~i::;~:i:;:::Y:0 
;adllitmsti,'~tors, but1sit Justifie<;i?'.-Stild_epts,,' j, the;d~c,;I'~19n~mfil9Ilg 'proc;~~.~-? ·; ;-:r:t. _. ',~-, \j·.. was the p~1mary purpose for the CLCand ;; ·';iiy''"tliey speak anci no•-one Iistens;\viiifec.'.~---T1tih'e~cas<to(stitiafsp'iillffs1eni'tifiJt; senate's recent :resciiuffons::iv.tainik;-whd; 
T
•:~a~:;!;~~~~~ir;;:trit:;~:~tin~?t·.:••::1i::;f:;~~~@~!~i1;;;~1~)·-:•.::~e;::=:~lt~{~!;~i~~~~:!a~~~:l ;\:?; .. -::\ -_ conduct-a c;omp:r:ehens1:ve.cs_tuc;ly on,;the so_-feehngs through such proact1xe': measures.! here ;~PP~-~:r:s tp be a trend qri,ccampus .. cia~~~P-i{~}ffi,{~i!:~Rj~6fr~\tj(~~{~€f9fding ;.-' He seesjhe resolutions Il~fi~tij:~ffort ,t?; 
whe:reili~ffie adininistratio1:ilis':consid~ -.toDii.:ecitpr)if:~tti4e'ntActivitiesJo.~,Cassidy; ·i ·_. change adininistratjv.e,p_olicy.f:J,:utas awayi erinlJNcienib~ihion rribl~\Nosely ~ .·.. stud~n.i::Iri~htY:Wff an int~gt;rj1lrrt\1i the) :to-;park tfie,interesibf:theB'oa;tdgfTrustees: 
:~~~t~~a:~·. =!1•ri1::.ri~tiiei't!II=~ 
contact witJ1?ih~se',_processei;, ),~t in the but you ar,~n!-J;;~ss?gI1~ci)-$oda'.t space," i.•. foralmost eight'yeai(but:-.y~6•¥Je~rnedth~ 
general smtJ~pt:ri~:tiW~Jtp11' s-~inbracing of Cassidy sa'y~?'.$.w.dentirip~t'.'is ~ritical be-~ iadfilinistratio,nhasm~Y:I>t1tt. ;w.e;w,~t\ 
the i;t~'.Y:~lij~r,King(~d)'iii~-'f.!~~~14 plan cause student~'.n.\~~t,';Ymp.'~!fbtjitg the life :,:t.t(~*~.!r:a:t~~~Ppp.fi.WtitITTi,,:r,::,)fJ}::;)}Nri
::-:-{both of~:WJlic;.l! are tht?.;,r,es_ult§;;pfl:l:,~Qng to the student:ceriter." > < ...· ' , -Mamaki-efers\to''thS;time tlia:t:has passe~i 
1ii~i~~in·1r::~·,r u~ai, cip::.~_~_·t:._•-_.-r~t-~fY.-,:~::r f;_.~it_ ~~llirfi_l_:fdf:
~::!!!;!!_gJ:it9L,..~~!eE!1.1:U?h@gc-· ~..~~--=A1 .. ... . . ... ~ -~-" .. _ . , •• .,.__ ••-.,,.,.J,_., -· ..,., ,...~-­
L.,C .. . 
space issued by the c,;onst1lting grb~p--~;Stu-: therEdwardMal!q. :"s C<;i,liqquyfoithe)'ear dent input was,'ye , ,'Very_ important for the · 2000 also addhf . 'a\rl~~tlifoi-in.ore so._ group," ~iq'.if0·•j:i:M9:'.iwid the two cial space,jiJiJ~·-.., Jtijyi~itid~f#.~ feel that other stifgl*fi'.t .. 'fffi,'t~~SfP}lP was al--thosenee.4(#~notorilyfarfrciin_:i-,~ingmet, 




~~ili?!;t~~~ lfEiii!~i~f1~~ 
ofthe stutlerit.bog.y;'.1µ1d the Boiµ-d ofTrust-William Kiik;-assistant'tice president for 1.1iie_bt1{',fp~w)J~\~)[~#1,::9{/fi,~#~fs}uid ees and th,~ Ofi~i~i~i~f the)jijiYersity are Residence UJf~;·s~yK'that•.priorities play a 
.iff~ •~•MJflJ\~'Li now c-~:;:~~f si~~,i;;i;,;i: 


i:~~,~~;I~!JifE;~ :::,i,~=:::1r~;
sideration:-Thecl~yelopiiieritofspcial space is too slti~J6!~i::tand thatthe achiiiitl,tration's on campus i~_jusfone'keniel_in{he granary caution cift~h weakens: thef~tce 'bf student ofadministratir~_dl?cisions;-,§#t.ifa~,J?~rhaps opinion. When the administr~tion is slow to 


ideas from students and administrators be-\ ¦
I d I V¦ 
come realities. "There are a number of com-\ •• 
•snan I11111I Ir 11c• 
peting priorities that the Board ofTrustees and I, p 6 I, 
Officers of the University recognize. Social space is but one of them," Kirk says. "Is social space important? Yes. Is it the number one priority? No. Their number one priority is edu­cating, and that entails faculty concerns such as providing research and office space, building up our international studies programs .... Then there are other things to worry about-there's a power plant we've got to run, too." 
l There are many other reasons why the admin­
l 
istration acts cautiously, Director of Food Ser­
vices David Prentkowski says. Students often 
view administrative caution as an unwillingness to act in the students' best interests, Prentkowski says. "Sometimes change is slow because of the consideration that must be taken on how the many cultures on campus will be effected, the Catholic culture being just one of them." He draws the analogy of consideration given to building a new social center to that ofthe years ofdeliberation preceding the expansion of the football stadium. "In that process we had to 
. consider not only if it would be good for the / 
II: 

football team, but how the community would / 
be affected. From roads to hotel space to 
summer.

parking.... So many things have to be con­
sidered before there's action." 
The Student­
Administration Divide 

The 1997 social survey may be visible evidence tha(the administration has made concerted efforts to gather student opin­ion, but there 1s still some debate as to whether that input is being considered at the right points in the administration's decision-making processes. Some stu­dents feel thatthe administration needs to consider student opinion at the ground level, where·students can be involved in the brainstorming processes that take place when administrative committees initially discuss specific issues. 
"I hear a lot ofmixed opinion among the student body on this issue," says Pangborn l senator Susan Roberts. "Students are con­cerned that the information collected is 
r collected either at the wrong time or else the wrong questions are being asked." Roberts cites the absence of stl.!dent representation l •cLO,·s¦ The administration responded lo the call for 24­on the Board ofTruste_es and the university's " ll11 ¦ hour space when ii remodeled South Dinine Hall. 
Space Allocation Committee, which is re­sponsible for zoning specific areas of cam­efits. Kirk believes the intended student simply do not have. Kirk also sees a poten­pus for specific needs of the university. need is not met by representation on such tial problem in the flow of information be­
Many .administrators are weary ofplacing bodies,·because the extensive legwork that tween these student representatives and the students on such committees, believing the must be done as a member of these bodies student body. "You can't rnn this like a costs to students would outweigh the b~n-requires time and experience that students democracy," Kirk says. "There are some 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 17 
MAGAZINE 

After years ofrequests from the student body. Notre Dame Food Service finally placed afast food restaurant in LaFortune last 


early decisions that must be made by the administration in a confidential manner." 
Kirk is quick to say, however, that the concealment ofsuch discussions is not done in a clandestine way by the administration. The confidential nature of the administration's discussions is intended to prevent the student body from taking the university's speculation as fact. "We're not meeting in secret dark rooms discussing students' fate over cigars," Kirk says. "Though it's difficult for students to be­lieve, we're trying to act in their best inter­est." 


Farley senator Michelle Mendoza agrees with Kirk. "Initially I thought it would be great for some of the higher level commit­tees to have students on them, but after gaining a better understanding of how the process works you realize the difficulties in that," Mendoza says. "Even with one or two students on these committees, word would leak out about prospective projects before they became definite, and the administra­tion doesn't want students to get their hopes up just to be let down." 
Student Input in Action 
If certain decisions, such as the cost of tuition, are well out of the realm of direct student influence for the time being, stu­dents might take as consolation a related administrative tendency that has· recently manifested itself in a number of university projects. Though the administration believes students must sometimes be excluded from their speculative discussions, once it has decided to act it has been fairly diligent in soliciting student opinion. 
Reckers and the proposed library renova­tion are two visible examples of this trend. Prentkowski says that once it became clear that funding would be available to renovate South Dining Hall, the administration mo­bilized to gather student input. Students now see the results of the admil)istration' s 

ii 
. ! efforts in the presence of Reckers. Prentkowski says student focus groups is­sued reports to the administration after view­ing similar eateries and coffeeshops at other universities, and the focus groups were re­peatedly consulted to help plan everything from the menu to the furniture. 
In the case ofthe proposed library renova­tion, Director of Library Services Jennifer Younger hopes to gather as many students' suggestions as possible before ground is broken. "We are very open at this point and want to leave it that way," Younger says. "We don't want to shut out any possibilities 


18 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
by asking too specific questions at this point in the process." 
Early efforts such as those by the Library Reno­vation Committee often go unnoticed by the greater part of the student body, and Younger believes that this is one public relations problem administrators often have. Younger cites numerous ways that the committee plans to gather student input, includ­ing works with student focus groups and a suggestion box on the library's home page on the Internet, but also says, "We can certainly db more to make it publicly known that we are soliciting student input." 
The Value of Initiative 
Perhaps the one thing ad­ministrators and student government representatives can agree on is that im­proving student-adminis­tration communication re­quires students to take an active, open-minded role when dealing with admin­istrators. The ability to do this, administrators say, de­pends greatly upon student leadership's willingness to gain a comprehensive un­



Hcsbureb: 
Commlllees are now being formed to take the opinions ofstudents into account for renovation of the library. ­
derstanding of campus is­
. sues before they offer solutions. "Many times students feel that ifstudent leadership isn't clashing with the adm.inistration then it's not doing its job," Kirk says. "But that method is, for the most part, ineffective." 
Kirk and other administrators note that 
· the current student government has been very prudent in the issues they have decided to evaluate and have taken intelligent steps toward discussing these issues with admin­istrators. Cassidy feels that Student Body President Pete Cesaro and Vice President Andrea Selak's efforts this year are indica­tive of such prudence. "Pete and Andrea have been very inclusive in terms of build­ing bridges between student organizations and opening up communication between administration and faculty," Cassidy says. Cesaro and Selak believe their efforts are paying off. In a recent meeting between four top-level administrators and student gov­
ernment representatives, Selak noted that much of the dialogue concerned a number of current and future university projects. Among the items discussed were the plans for the new golf course, the construction schedule for the future performing arts cen­ter, and the possibility of social space in the new Coleman-Morris building, scheduled to take the place of the current bookstore. "I have a pretty positive feeling about the way things are going this year," Selak says. "The adminis~ation really took time to explain the reasoning behind the propositions and listened to our concerns." 
Selak likens her efforts to the recent reso­lutions by the Student Senate and CLC. "It is vital to keep stressing to the administra­tion how vital student input is. Students are the ones that make this university ... and the resolutions are trying to reaffirm that fact in the minds of others." D 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 






The Dating Game 
A sociology professor's survey indicates patterns in the student 
dating scene, largely based on dorm stereotypes 
dr ~ 
~\\i,,,..... 1111//tlm~ . ~ 
BY KATIE KELLERDuring your 8:30 philo class your attention drifts toward the cute boy in the first row. You successfully stake him out in the dining hall and, after some resourceful spying, figure out his name. You run home and look him up in the directory. Oh, no, he's from Zahm. This story is a little trite but it raises the question of whether dorms' stereotypes affect their inhabitants social lives. Everyone knows that the Notre Dame dating scene is strange; from people being observed in the dining hall to random hook­ups to a number of marriages immediately following graduation. So how do we go from spying on someone in the computer lab to walking down the aisle ofthe Basilica with a mate on our arm? Getting from points A to B at Notre Dame can require some bizarre dating rituals. It may surprise some students to learn how Notre Dame students pick out the people they want to date. A unique campus culture which includes the notion of not liking guys from Zahm, has 
NOVEMBER 12; 1998 
invaded our psyches and influences how students feel about the opposite sex. 
Professor David Klein of the Sociology Department has studied campus dating for the last 10 years through a Sociology Course called Marriage and the Family. Klein's study has yielded some interesting results regarding how the campus dorm system affects the way students feel about dating partners. In his class, Klein asks students to fill out a survey which poses various ques­tions including from which dorm they would most prefer and least prefer to date some­one. Many students respond based on per­sonal feelings, such as preferring a certain dorm because it is a brother or sister dorm, because they know a lot of people there or because it is close by. However, there is reason to believe that stereotypes and repu­tations affect student responses. "There is more agreement than one would expect by chance about the reputations of dorms and other residences here," Klein says. 
For example, based on his studies over the last six semesters, Klein names Zahm and Breen-Phillips as the most consistently disliked dorms. As far as positive choices for men, they most often choose their home­town as the place where they wish to find someone to date, followed by Saint Mary's College and off-campus students. The most preferred women's dorms have been Cavanaugh and Walsh, with Lewis and McGlinn gaining ground in recent years. 

For women, off-campus and hometown romance also topped the list, followed by Flanner and Grace (when they still housed students). Themostpopularmen's dorms in recent years have been Morrissey, Alumni, Stanford and Keenan. Both men and women tend to look unfavorably at IUSB students, and people not in college. 
Klein points out that it is interesting that people consistently choose large dorms as some of their top choices. Although the number of people in large dorms raises the 
· number ofpossibly desirable choices, there are plenty of undesirable people as well. The larger the dorm, the more difficult it becomes to characterize. 
Another interesting phenomenon found in the study concerns Saint Mary's College. 
SCHOLASTIC 
19 
MAGAZINE 

n 
)> 
~ 
-0 C 
(/) 
r­-n 
m 






-·-hi-_ 
irks
•:· ,.'_ ·,,•'.' .· . ' 


6b'J1() lo. 
.•-• • r "-. ••' • ,'.' • •' / •.' , ',,'' • ' ~ 
)pgf1idl"S 
l i•no··· -,,sMc .ove __.--...-____ )
.-·:. :l 
rJj~c,· ' 
(·.< :.:\.~.-:·-·, .. '._ ::;-~-·-·, ;.·.--·:·'."-._ '~-~ 
SO YOU WANT TO DATE A DAWG. Here are some of the things they're saying about residents of Alumni hall. 
Saint Mary's makes it onto almost every male survey, either as preferred or unpreferred. 
Klein's study was initially inspired by a similar study by sociologist Willard Waller at Penn State in the 1930s about how frater­nities and sororities affected dating. Waller found that people of higher socially ranked fraternities and sororities tended to date more often and with other people of similar social rank. 
What is interesting about the Notre Dame study is that students are placed randomly in their dorms whereas fraternities and sorori­ties are most often composed of people drawn together by common interests, ath­letics or good looks. Unlike Waller's study, Klein has not found that students tend to date according to dorm status. In other words, Breen-Philips women are not doomed to date Zahm men. 
Even though students are aware that dorms are randomly chosen before anyone arrives on campus freshman year, Notre Dame s_tu­dents still consistently find ways to stereo­type the dorms. Klein asks his students to use campus jargon to describe the type of people that live in the dorms they choose as preferred and least preferred. Even the most 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
popular dorms get negative connotations sometimes. 
For example, common stereotypes for Morrissey men have been "cocky" and "us­ers" as well as "genuine." Stanford men seem to have earned a reputation for being "horny" and "pigs" as well as "studs." 
Even Zahm, a dorm that seems to have the worst reputation on campus is known as "friendly" and "male bonders." While BP women are notoriously labeled as· over­weight, male students also called them "in­telligent." 
Most students are not surprised to hear that others harbor stereotypes about their dorms. Former Zahm Hall resident Andrew Seng says men in Zahm don't take the reputation too seriously. "We think it's funny," he says. Breen-Phillips women are also light-hearted about their own stereo­types. This year a group of BP women dressed as pigs for Halloween in defiance of the ungoingjoke. "You always find out that they [dorm stereotypes] are not true, but I can't help thinking about them when I first meet someone," senior Jim Arkedis says. 
But cliches must start somewhere. So where do campus stereotypes come from? While BP can trace its bad reputation back to a yo-cream contest a few years ago, Zahm Hall's reputation goes back further. 
Alumnus Bob Smith, who graduated in 1968, explains that back when Notre Dame was an all male school, changing dorms was very common. In fact, based on GPA, stu­dents earned the privilege of getting first pick at the best dorms which were located on South Quad -far from the freshman dorms on North Quad. Supposedly the men with the lowest GP A got stuck in Zahm, close to all the freshmen. Zahm became known as an obnoxious party dorm where the men with the lowest GP As lived. The origins have been forgotten, but the stigma remains. 
Klein's study has yielded fairly consis­tent results over the last 10 years, changing only when dorms change gender or new dorms are built. Although unsure exactly how dorms gain reputations, Klein says a possibility is that upperclassmen pass down · these traditions to younger generations. 
But senior Sara West, who is a campus tour guide, once had a prospective student ask her, when she described Zahm Hall as one of the most spirited dorms on campus, "Isn'tthatwhere all the jerks live?" It seems that campus stereotypes may be known be­fore students enroll. 
Other findings in Klein's study include an overall drop in dating over the past 10 years. Klein describes the change: "Traditional dating as a couple may have decreased, being replaced somewhat by larger and loosely structured groups offriends of both sexes hanging out together." 
Anotherreason for the drop may be higher academic standards. People are just too busy for relationships when there is so much academic pressure. This type ofdating with­out commitment easily facilitates what is known to students and sociologists alike as the "random hook-up." Klein says hook­ups "allow for c9upling, but outside the context of dating." 
While Klein's study reveals hidden preju­dices based on dorm stereotypes, it also shows that students do not really act on them. Klein doubts people would not date solely because of one's dorm. Dorm stereo­types, which most recognize as untrue be­cause ofrandom placement in dorms, "exist for people to have something to talk about," Klein says. 
While most students have some opinions about certain dorms, they probably do not act on them. Klein's study shows that most people would go on a date with someone no matter where the person lives. 
That is -if tht?Y could get a date. 
INTERESTED IN A WALSH WOMAN? Professor Klein's class collected these observations -for what they're worth. 




r;. :~~D.).'~~j~t~0 -i I 

NOVEMBER 12, 1998 

Irish Eye~1/-~ 
C/)




SPLINTERS 

FROM THE PRESSBOX 
Edited by Christopher Hamilton Women's Soccer • 1998 Record 19-2-1 

Streaking: Fifth-ranked Notre Dame won its fourth consecutive Big East Championship after defeating number three Connecticut 1-0 in the title game. Prime Tinie Performer: Sophomore midfielder Anne Makinen, named the Big East Championship's most outstanding player for the second year in a row, scored the game-winning and only goal against UConn. Did You Know? Led by goaltender LaKeysia Beene, Notre Dame has shut out its opponents 15 times in 22 games. On the Horizon: With the start of the NCAA Tournament, the Irish host a second-round game at Alumni Field this Friday at 7:30 p.m. 
Women's Volleyball • 1998 Record 12-11 Streaking: Notre Dame is riding its first three-game winning streak of the season. 
Prime Time Performer: Leading the Irish attack for the fifth consecutive game, sophomore Christi Girton recorded 14 kills in Notre Dame's win over Villanova. Did You Know? The Irish are tied with Georgetown and Connecticut for first place in the conference. On the Horizon: Notre Dame finishes off its conference schedule with home games against Pittsburgh and West Virginia, on ~aturday and Sunday respectively, at 1 p.~. 
Hockey • 1998 Record 7-1-1 Streaking: The seventh-ranked Irish, who play two home games this weekend, are 3-0 on their home ice. 
Prime Time Performer: Senior right winger Brian Urick notched his team-leading eighth goal, which was also his 11th career game-winning goal, last weekend as Notre Dame knocked off Northeastern 4-3. ·Did You Know? This season Notre Dame leads the CCHA with a power.:play percentage of .321 (17 for 53). On the Horizon: The Irish return to action tomorrow against Bowling Green at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

0 
,c 
-I 
C/) 

Football • 1998 Record 7-1 
Streaking: Since going 1-4 in his first games as Irish head coach, Bob Davie is 13-3. Prime Time Performer: Against Boston College, fifth-year 
senior wide receiver Malcolm Johnson accounted for 150 yards receiving on 6 catches and recorded one touchdown. Did You Know? Autry Denson_needs only 47 yards against Navy to surpass Allen Pinkett as Notre Dame's career 
rushing leader. On the Horizon: The Irish battle the Midshipmen Saturday at Jack Kent Cooke Stadium in Raljon, Md., at 3:30 p.m. 


ir1.tµa~/-sai_d _13i·iafi Pqli~piip11i t(CJCLA ,;eceiyei)a/i~i:'the)fuins· bar:ely_ be(!t,d#,;ugg/iJig:()/egon State sq_ucid:. UQL,r is:> -­·Undeserving, overiatedteafuifwilLfmally drop-from theJop ,10 tlusweekend, as Teiihessee bea,ts Arkansas and Michigan: defeats_·.

-~~~~,!;~~~~,~~!l~~t~lti~1£e~~!11~;°'


·_':pie·-college football rarik!~gs_ )Ylll'.~ee plenty of actiyt~ .af!~t.~ut'nerous upsets-~n Saturd1:1-y:-Jyl9.s(n~tably~ Michig~)m~cks .off_:. -­

'A~d.the Irish :pre'(ai.127~2~_ag~ms_t the_M1dsh1pmen: . ,·_.\. '< / ·:::_<'..' · ...·.·_ · · •. · <· ;, ,.:,;!,-:::-: 
-;.·:,.: :-· ; ,.•· ·.·.· ,,.· ,-.._._ ... ' ' •.•, ., __ ,..•• ... :.,;.. 
21

NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


(/) l­
o:::: 
a.. 
(/) 


Defending TheirTulf 
Competition is intense late in the women's 
inter hall football season 
By COREY SPINELLIAt a crucial moment late in the foot­ball game last weekend, the Notre Dame quarterback dropped back in the pocket, surveyed the secondary and calmly delivered a perfect strike across the middle for a 20-yard touchdown. While postseason hopes were on the line and the pass was delivered under the gaze of the Golden Dome, the quarterback was not Jarious Jackson, the receiver was not Malcolm Johnson and the completion did not trigger an eruption from more than 80,000 faithful in Notre Dame Stadium. Actually, Walsh Hall senior Carolyn Parnell threw the tight spiral to fellow senior cap­tain Amy Krayeron Stepan Field that helped secure a 13-0 victory over Cavanaugh, pro­pelling the Wild Women into the semifinals ofpostseason play where they lost to P.E. Women's interhall football has traditions and rivalries that are making for heated competition late among playoff teams. Al­
though it does not gamer the attention that Bob Davie's team does, the intensity and spirit with which women's interhall foot­ball is played is similar to that displayed by the athletes in gold helmets on Saturdays. Walsh head coach Durran Alexander says, "The players and coaches take the games very seriously, want to win badly and are driven to succeed." 
The rules differ slightly from the men's game, as the sport is eight-versus-eight flag football instead of 11-on-ll tackle. The games last for 20-minute halves and are played on an 80-yard field. Offenses have four plays to advance 20 yards for a first down. Extra points are not kicked, as teams must score from the three-yard line and the pigskin is placed at the eight for two-point conversions. There are no turnovers result­ing from fumbles, the ball is merely whistled dead. There are also no kickoffs as teams begin their drives at the 15-yard line. 
Women's teams usually practice two or three times per week for about 90 minutes. 

TOUCHDOWN! Walsh Hall quarterback Carolyn Parnell, while evading defenders, eyes her teammate in the endzone. 

"Our practices begin with stretching," Parnell says, "move to offensive and defen­sive drills and finish with a 30-minute scrim­mage. We have the upcoming team scouted and run plays designed to attack their styles of offense and defense. We also update our play book depending on our opponents' for­mations," she adds. 
Student-coaches are responsible for orga­nizing practices, teaching fundamentals to newcomers and scripting the playbook. "At the beginning of every season, our coaches create the playbook, work on mechanics, and explain our respective positions to us," Parnell says. 
Alexander cites the opportunity to work with a group of students for a common goal as his primary motivation for coaching. "I'm competitive by nature and I really enjoy devising a gameplan each week for new teams on our schedule," he says. "There is also a great feeling of satisfaction in seeing your team execute the gameplan on the field every Sunday." The Walsh coach is also impressed with the level of athletic ability displayed by novices to the sport. "The girls, especially at the skill positions, really do some amazing things out there athletically for being new to the sport," Alexander says. "Our quarterback [Parnell], 
· for example, can make virtually any throw on the field." Women's motivations for joining their 
. interhall football teams vary. Farley fresh­man Beth.McKay says, "It was our dorm's first interhall sport, and I knew I could meet people right away through football." Breen­Phillips quarterback Jenny Choi says, "I had never played football before and it looked interesting. The popularity of it among the dorms has surprised me." Choi adds, "Everyone is friends on and off the field and our.team brings our whole dorm together as one during games. Parents visit­ing for football weekends often stay until Sunday to see us play." The senior says, "Women's football provides a great boost to dorm spirit." 
Parnell had a different reason for playing. "We're all aware ofthe history and tradition of Notre Dame football. We appreciate it and love the chance to participate in it," Parnell says. "There are friendly rivalries between teams, but it is every team's goal to advance to the championship because it's 
G> played in Notre Dame Stadium." And the §l legend will continue when Pasquerilla East 
0 

m and Breen-Phillips play the championship 
OJ 

~ game on November 22. 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
C/)

Speed Skating 
-0 
0 
iO

The hockey team starts offthe season on a high note 
-I 
C/) 

BY COREY SPINELLI 
his was not your ordinary victory. 

T 
Senior goalie Forrest Karr had 

stopped 30 of the 31 shots fired at him during the evening and the Irish lit the lamp twice on that early October night. The 2-1 victory in the Hall ofFame Game, the contest that officially opened the col­lege hockey season, was a shocker. Notre Dame had just defeated 10th-ranked Wis­consin before 13,398 red-clad fans in at­tendance, spoiling the Badgers' dedication of their brand new Kohl Center. The win was a surprise to some hockey experts, but to Irish Head Coach Dave Poulin, it was merely another obstacle cleared on his team's path to their ultimate goal: the na­tional championship. "Our goal is to win a national title and I'm confident that will happen," Poulin says. "We're not content just being a good team." . 
Talk of a championship was the furthest thing from the minds of those involved in the Notre Danie hockey program in 1983, when the team was almost disbanded be­fore reverting to club status. Following eight years as a non-scholarship team, the Irish hockey team again became a scholar-
J J 
w 
m 
w 
i5 
er 
(!) 
ship squad in 1992. After its return to the 11­team Central Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion the Irish stumbled to 10th, eighth and ninth-place finishes. In 1995, Poulin took over the helm and his first two teams ended their seasons 10th in the conference, but last season the leers improved to a sixth-place CCHA finish. 
Poulin' s squad won 18 games last season, equaling the number of victories of his first two campaigns. Inconsistency plagued the '97-'98 team, but the Irish showed the po­tential to take the next step and join the elite programs in the country. Last year Notre Dame lost a hard-fought three-game series to eventual national champion Michigan to end their season in heartbreaking fashion. The Irish won the first game 4-2 before losing game two in overtime and game three 4-3. The Wolverines led for only 14 of the 199 minutes played in the series. 
Notre Dame has succeeded in landing highly touted recruiting classes during Poulin' s brief tenure in South Bend, and the inexperienced newcomers of a few years ago are now seasoned veterans. The Irish return 22 of 27 players from last season, including five of the top six scorers and eight defensemen. The talent and experi-

II ~ 
itj
'~"
~ 
' 
-J 
~\r. '~"{' _..,.~r-.~ l... +1-fi-.. 

ence of the '98-99 leers has the team out of 
the gates to its fastest start in the program's 
history. Notre Dame won its first six games 
of '98, propelling the Irish to a number 
se'venranking before a loss at Wes tern Michi­
gan. Following a tie with number one Bos­
ton College and a win over Northeastern, 
the squad stands at 7-1-1 on the year. 
Led by the strong goaltending of senior 
Forrest Karr and an excellent senior class, 
the Irish are poised to make a serious run at 
the CCHA title for the first time in 17 years. 
Karr was a question mark coming into the 
season, but has proved his mettle nine games 
into the season. Replacing last season's 
team MVP, Matt Eisler, is no small chore. 
Eisler tallied an Irish record 3.66 goals 
against average and finished second in ca­
reer saves with 2,892. Karr has performed 
admirably between the pipes in Eisler's 
absence, notching 199 saves against 219 
shots thus far. 
The Irish have dangerous offensive threats 
up and down their roster, but perhaps none as potent as senior left wing Aniket Dhadphale. One of the deadliest scorers in all of collegiate hockey, Dhadphale scored 25 goals and accounted for 10 assists in 41 games last season, good enough for third in the entire CCHA. This season, the All­America candidate currently has six goals and eight assists. "Aniket is obviously the classic goalscorer, but his overall game also continues to improve," says Poulin. "He is an individual who leads by his play and has · set the tone for us offensively early in the 
year." 
Dhadphale is complemented up front by 
felJow senior Brian Urick. The Irish captain 
has enjoyed a stellar career at Notre Dame 
in three seasons. The right wing has totaled 
49 goals and 50 assists in his time at South 
Bend, placing him just one point shy of the 
100-point plateau. "Brian is doing a great 
· job leading this team and deserves a memo­
rable final year after all the hard work he has 
put into this program," Poulin says. "He has 
developed into a great hockey player and 
has made tremendous strides in poise and 
control." 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
·MAGAZINE 

1­
z 
I.LI 
~ 
z i 
~ 
I.LI 
1­
z 
I.LI 
.·DEATH BECOMES HIM 
Of Oscars and the Undead 

Despite his gory past, director Sam Raimi is generating {ln Oscar buzz 
with his newfilm A Simple Plan 
ThefilmA·S.imple. Pia.n is. an..ada.ptationo.fa 1993. suspen.s.e novel about two brothers who find $4 million in stolen 
money. Although it doesn't arrive in South Bend theaters 
until December 18,the movie is already receiving considerable 
Oscar buzz. 
There's nothing especially unusual about the preceding two sentences. After all, lots ofmovies get an Oscar buzz before their . release. But itmay interest you that A Simple PIan is directed by 
that infamous, shocking, legendary director Sam Raimi. 
Sam Raimi's films aren't your typical Oscar-winning epics or 
social discourses. Rairni movies are comic books, With buckets 
of gore, wildly nonsensical camera· movements· and stupidly 
· obvious jokes, Raiini achieves profound filrnic childishness, a 
giddy sense of what ridiculous fun the movies can be. ; 
Unlike other horror maestros who like leaving the most 
punishingly bloody incidents ofa story to the viewer'sjmagina-. 
tioll, Raimi revels in creating geyse~s of hemoglobin. Unlike 
Brian DePalrna or Martin Scorsese, he has no tactical reasons for 
his cinematographic grandstanding: shots twist, tum, zoom and 
fly through the afr just because they look 
cool. And Raimi' s · Internet-dwelling, · Fangoria-readingworshippers gobble up every bloody joke and silly line the mas­ter grants them. · 
Ra.imi' s Evil Dead trilogyisfilmdom's apex ofexuberantly rancid violence.The .Evil Dead, filmed bya 1.9-year-old Rairni · in 1979; lives up to its modestsubtitleThe 
UltimateExperience .in GnielingTerror. 
It's hard to pinpoint exactly whyMarga­
retThatcher's censors decided to ban the 
film from British· theaters: was it when 
they: saw our hero Ash (played by co~ 
producer and Rainii's chHdlfood friend 
Bruce Campbell) eye-gouge a zombie in 
lengthy and bloody close-up? The shred-· 
ding ofa coed's ankle with a pencil? The 
infamous'tree rape?. . . . .· ., . . • alongside legions of splatter-film buffs, electrified by the film's audacious technical wizardry. Raiini utilized shots from every conceivable angle, most famously in his use ofa ''shaky-cam" to represent the forest0 dwellingmonster's point of view. Wes Cra­ven was so impressed he inserted an Evil Dead clip into A Nightmare on Elm Street and personally thanked Raimi in the•. 

.film's credits for reinvigoratingthehorr6r genre. Raimi continued the Evil Dead series with EvilDead 2.' Dead by Dawn in 1987 and Army ofDarkn.ess in 1993: These films' 
· physical humor blend brilliantly with Raimi'ssick knack for ·stomach-churning violence. In one terrific scene from Evil Dead · ·2;Ash (Campbell again) is attacked by his possessed right hand. 
He impales the demonic appendage with a kitchen knife, sticking it to the floor. Screaming in utteragony; Ash growls to the hand withoutii-ony, "Who's laughing now?" Believe me, it gets wilder, bloodier and funnier. · · · 
DespiteRaimi's brilliance in conjuring onscreeri mayhem, it's remarkable thathe1s receiving critical raves for ASimplePlan, a story that doesn't shy away from emotional depth. He has until · now displayed neither interest in nor ap­titude for this facet offilmrnaking, The 
. orily Raimi scene to have ge~ernted any warmth is when young fovebirds playa . cute game ofpeek:a-booinTheEvilDead. Raimi~irected thatqefore he turned 20, · and· it• seems as though he has actually . grown'less maturewith age. The most loving moment frbmhis latest EvilDead 
. picture, Army'ofDarkness, comes when . Ash tongue-in-cheekily commands a me­dieval damsel to ''Gimme some· sugar, 
baby!" . . . . . 
Of course,~Raimi's.fanslike hirnbe­

cause 11e doesn't ca.re for emoticiris. They want movies dedicatedto kicking ass and taldng1iames.It's notyetclearhoWthese disciples will respond to his adoption of 
. DEADFINGER. Bruce CampbeHstarsin :more dlainstieaminaterialwithA Simple . Despite its borderline obscenity; Raimi's firstfilm, Evil Dead, A Simple F]lan ·l'Ian. What is clear is that we '11 all be in 





Bye Bye, 
The student-run radio station takes a temporary break so it can 
reach out and touch more ofthe student body 
BY ALLISON FASHEK 
here was a little more dead air than 
usual on campus this week. 

It started last Sunday evening, the day the music died for the student-run radio station, WVFI. But most students probably didn't even notice. 
Seventeen years after its split from WSND, the classical campus radio station, WVFI is still the only on-campus station playing mainly popular and alternative music. But most students can't obtain decent reception in their dorm rooms. In fact, only six out of 27 dorms can tune in to WVFI. According to WVFI' s temporary engineer Ed Jaroszew­ski, the station's transmitters are only oper­ating at 20 percent. 
Frustration over lack ofaudience coupled with failing equipment caused the station's executive board to consider whether they should remain on the air early last week. 
"Going off the air wasn't a sudden idea," says senior Cui-tis Norvett, station manager and a station DJ for the past four years. "It came up at a board meeting and we decided to hold a question and answer session with the DJs to let them decide. When it came to 
T
. I. 
\s 

PUMP DOWN THE VOLUME. If you're looking for a quiet place to study over the next couple of months, the WVFI studio has plenty of empty seats and desks. 
'V'i':.. 

~ 
w 
:i: 
C/J
u': 
z 
C/J
:::i 
J 
<( 
a vote, almost every hand in the room was raised in favor of closing down." 
Jaroszewski says the station could remain on the air by using its fully equipped pro­duction studio instead of its main studio. "We knew that choice was available, but the main reason we're taking this break is be­cause we're not getting out to everybody," Norvett says. 
The station's plan is to remain off the air until February, using the time to implement new equipment and organize the office. "It''s really a blessing," senior DJ Jen Coleman says. "We don't feel that we're a respected radio station as we are." 
Coleman stresses that going off the air has nothing to do with the station's long-awaited plans to go FM or conflicts with the admin­istration. 
The station's faculty advisor, Adele Lanan, supports the students' decision to try to make improvements. "I.think it's a wise decision based on the technical problems they've been having," she says. "They want to make a fresh start in the spring and come back with a new image." Lanan' s goal is to help the station make the switch to FM by September. The station has already obtained 

NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
the administration's approval to do so and is 
currently waiting for approval by the Fed­
eral Communications Commission. 
According to Coleman, the goal of the 
break is to revamp the current transmission 
system, which only allows certain dorms to 
tune in. "Over the years, as the dorms have 
become more Internet-oriented, there has 
been tremendous interference," she says. 
"That's why people haven't been able to get 
the signal as well." 
But Norvett and senior assistant station 
manager Kathleen Sullivan have both no­
ticed a gradual decline in the organization 
of the station since initially joining WVFI. 
"Little by little the station started falling 
apart, especially in terms of equipment," 
Sullivan says. "But the station is used so 
much during the week, we only have about 
four hours total off the air and it's not 
enough time to clean and reorganize." 
According to Sullivan, for the past 15 years 
the station used to have student engineers 
taking care of the equipment who would 
train younger students to follow in their 
footsteps. But gradually the training stopped 
and the station currently has no student 
engineers helping them, although they can 
afford them . 
Sullivan feels the decision was the right 
one, noting that most ofthe DJs are excited 
about the break. "No one wants to take the 
time to work four hours a week to DJ if no 
one's listening," she says. "The goal is to 
get people listening and make the station a 
better instrument for the university." 
"I'm not upset about the situation," 
Norvett says. "It's a positive move. I 
wouldn't feel sorry for us." 
Sullivan wants the station to be able to inform the student body of daily events. "Radio is an important way to keep students and faculty better informed," she says. The · break, which will only take the station off the air for an extra four weeks ( due to time during finals and winter break that the sta­tion would have taken off anyway), will be 
used to achieve this goal. 
"As a board member," Sullivan says, "I 
think it was the only-way to go." 0 
SCHOLASTIC 25 
MAGAZINE 
m 
z 
-I 
m 
iU 
~ 
z 
s 
m 
z 
-I 


1­
z 
I.LI 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
I.LI 
1­
z 
I.LI 


Brew Talk 

Scholastic reviews coffee houses from all over the Bend 
BY JOSHUA BOURGEOISIt's that time of year again. No, not the upcoming bitter-cold winter season, and not the Thanksgiving and Christmas holi­days. It's that time of year when Notre Dame students are faced with the grim real­ity that the football season is nearing comple­tion, and they must venture forth to find social activity in the grand metropolis of South Bend. Since many are not of age yet, do not have a good ID, and Bridget's has shut its doors, they may be forced to satisfy another vice: caffeine. That's right, coffee, java, a cup of joe . . . that little cup so essential to study hours or pleasant conver­sation. If you have no idea where to find a cappuccino with a shot of Torrani's hazel­nut flavoring, don't worry: Scholastic has already examined the coffee shop scene in South Bend and prepared a review of some of the local coffee shops. 
Lula's Cafe: four out of four coffee mugs 

Lula's, located on Edison Road next to the Jamison Inn, is one of the best coffee shops in the area. Only a short walk from campus, Lula's allows any student to ven­ture off campus and enjoy a cup ofjoe at an authentic coffee house. Upon entering Lula's, students cannot help but appreciate the eclectic atmosphere. With a giant pic­ture of a crying eye, numerous postcards and two bras covering chairs, Lula's has personality that appeals both to the student needing to study and to the student needing to take a study break. The "library" is a shelf containing books and games such as Trivial Pursuit and Scrabble that should add to any student's enjoyment. Most importantly, the coffee at Lula's is good and inexpensive (about $1.90 for a cappuccino). Lula's also has a wide assortment of flavored coffees and teas, as well as a special coffee drink of the month that every student should try at least once. Great coffee and delicious soups, sandwiches and snacks give students an excellent place to visit. 
Barnes and Noble: two and half mugs 

~-a,
UJ. 
The Barnes and Noble bookstore on Grape Road houses one ofthe best coffee shops for 



STUDY SPACE. Barnes and Noble offers Starbucks. With a sedate atmosphere, its the perfect place for serious study. 

ii: 
<( 
w 
.J 
u 
w 
~ 
students who have both a craving for caf­feine and serious studying ahead. Ifyou are willing to find the transportation, both your thirsts for coffee and for knowledge will be satisfied at the Starbucks Coffee Company inside the bookstore's cafe. Since there are plenty of tables and chairs in Starbucks, · students can enjoy the academic atmosphere. Itmightlack creativity, butthe quality ofthe coffee makes up for it. This Starbucks pos­sesses a high-class ambiance and coffee that is well worth the higher price. 
Higher Grounds: four mugs 

One interesting coffee shop with a lot of cultural flavor is the Higher Grounds coffee shop located. on Washington Street next to B W-3 's restaurant. It's worth the trip down­town because it possesses all the essentials for an excellent coffee shop. First, and prob­ably most important, Higher Grounds serves quality coffee, including tempting special coffee drinks and a fabulous blend of fla­
. vored teas at a price similar to Starbucks. Second, there are intriguing and thought­provoking pieces ofart hanging on the walls. The noise level and atmosphere in Higher Grounds allows for studying, but it also encourages conversation. Higher Grounds has a comfortable atmosphere offering booths, tables and chairs, and sofas for its customers' pleasure. Also, this entertaining coffee shop offers an environment suitable for any Beatnik, as it plays trendy mood music and offers an occasional poetry night. The typical coffee shop atmosphere along with its class, style and personality make Higher Grounds a coffee shop worth inves­tigating. 
Gloria Jean's: two and a half mugs 
,r •.+:,, ~ ~z.: 
' Ifgourmet coffee is your taste of choice, then a visit to Gloria Jean's Gourmet Coffees in the University Park Mall is the way to go. This coffee shop serves the richest andmost expensive coffee of the reviewed shops, but 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 


it is worth it. One sip from a Gloria Jean's cup and you will be convinced that your money was well spent. Gloria Jean's also serves soothing teas, refreshing chillers and enticing hot chocolates. The one thing that prevents Gloria Jean's from being the great­est thing since sliced bread is its location. Being in th~ mall means that seating is nearly nonexistent, except for a few chairs and tables outside the store, and hours coin­cide with mall hours so it can't fulfill late­nightcravings. The atmosphere also doesn't encourage people to sit down and enjoy conversation. -Instead, it forces a "Grab-n­Go" style ofcoffee-drinking on its patrons. A great cup of coffee like Gloria Jean's deserves better than this. 
Border's Bookstore: three mugs 

Surprisingly, one ofJhe quaintest coffee shops in the South Bend area can be found in the ultra-modern Border's Bookstore. Cafe Espresso is the coffee shop for the student who wants more personality than Starbucks, but also wants to study. The shop has comfortable leather sofas and a number 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
ofchairs and tables. Like Barnes and Noble, customers may select any book or magazine from the store to read while drinking their cup of java. Their cappuccino has just the right blend of espresso, steamed milk and foam, and ihe service with a smile definitely adds to the quality. 
Molly McGuire's: three mugs 
The most recent addition to NotreDame's coffee culture is Molly McGuire's coffee shop. The "little sister" of the infamous undergraduate bar, Bridget McGuire's, has a superb location within stumbling distance ofcampus. This time, though, the stumbling won't be due to an over-consumption of alcohol, but rather from disorientation from too many hours of studying. Inside Molly McGuire's, Bridget's sentimentalists will be quick to note the two pieces of Bridget's memorabilia-aframed Bridget McGuire's sweatshirt and the trademark bright red fill­ing station pump. However, the transforma­tion from a bar to a coffee house is inescap­able. The bottles of liquor behind the refin­ished bar have been replaced with bottles of various coffee flavorings. Where once the DJ used to linger high above the drunken crowd, there is now a smoking section with a love seat, three glass-topped tables and a television. 

Molly's provides single, double and triple­sized coffee. drinks ranging in price from $1.25 to $3 per cup. Additionally, Molly's provides a wide variety ofsoup, salad, sand­wich and dessert selections to satisfy the cravings felt by the many studying students. One such student, David Freddoso, said that he plans on studying at Molly's during the day because he "likes the higher tone" and the availability ofa smoking section, which is not a feature present at most coffee houses in the area. And just like good ol' Bridget's it still has a nightly security guard -but this officer won't be checking IDs. 
Such is the coffee shop scene in South 
Bend. It might not be a large scene, 

but it does offer quality. So when looking for something to do after football season, consider visiting one of these fine establishments. And keep that extra ID in­side your wallet. 0 
Kelly McGann contributed to this review. 
SCHOLASTIC 
27 
MAGAZINE 



I. 
z 
0 
l­
o:::: 
0 
I­
V) 
0 
z 
~ 
w 
w 
~ 


Mama's Family 
Holiday meal or three-ring circus? 
BY KARA ZUARO 

othing is more dismal than November in South Bend. The temperature plummets, the gray 
cloud of winter descends. Every dining hall specialty starts tasting tired and stale. You can't help but yearn to go home for the holidays, But when the November Blues start bringing me down, I'm going to head over to Reeker's and stare into those speak­ers that are always blasting such unlikely tunes as Guns 'N' Roses' "Paradise City." For me, this is a sure way to revive some holiday joy. One long look into those speakers and I'll 

.--be catapulted back into last Thanksgiving, 
~ 
~ 

~ ~ 'r/f/flk --j ~ 
through the creaky front door of Grandma and Grandpa Zuaro' s suburban home. I can smell the thick red scent of Grandma's sauce, mingled with cigarette smoke and festive pumpkin potpourri. I hear Grandma's natu­rally resonant voice amplified further from the depths of the dining room. "Up yours, Larry," she hollers. "These speakers work just fine." I follow Mom, Dad and my sister Ky le into the dining room. The typical deco­rations like com husks and pictures of the Mayflower are substituted by two huge ob­-jects of celebration -speakers identical to those at Reeker's, hovering like uninvited 
guests at either end of the table. 
"My bee-you-dee-full granddaughters are 
here!" Grandma's voice blares.from every 
~ 
~­
~ 

~ rfJ» lk((_ 
Q 
J(« ,. @ ~ 
28 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

angle. She stretches her arms out to greet us, revealing the full glory of her leopard-print muumuu. With the microphone still in her acrylic-nailed hand, Grandma's kisses are amplified, and she brands our cheeks with her signature red lipstick. Similar marks are left by my aunts and various other women, all in attendance at the spectacle I like to call "Thanksgiving: Zuaro Style." 
My aunt Yvonne, who provided the speak­ers, sings in a wedding band and leads karaoke on Thursday nights at an Italian restaurant. Upon our arrival, she presents Kyle and me with an extensive song list and promises that we could sing next. Kyle looks at me in horror . 
By the grace of God, the phone rings. 
NOVEMBER 12, 1998 

r Since my grandparents only have one phone, which is portable and always missing; pandemonium ensues and everyone forgets that we're supposed to sing. Cushions are torn from the couch and Grandma utters a prayer to Saint Anthony. "Ma," my dad says to Grandma, "Saint Anthony is busy tonight. Help us find the phone." "Hey, Saint Anthony and I are like this," says Grandma, shoving her crossed fingers into my father's face. "Why do you think I named you after him? I pray to the saints every day, you know. I'm not ashamed. I pray to the saints even when I'm on the toilet." Just then, as if by fate, the toilet flushes. Grandpa enters the dining room, still tucking in his shirt while he cradles the phone between his shoulder and his ear. Grandma snatches the receiver, holds it to her own ear, and says to Grandpa, rather menacingly, "You had the phone in the bathroom again, Larry? You keep bringing this phone in the bathroom and one ofthese days I'm gonna put you in a diaper and stick you with the freakin' pin. I hope you washed your hands." After losing the phone to my grandmother, Grandpa snags the microphone and belts out a little Sinatra, which he artfully punctu­ates with spicy interjections, "Hates California-it's cold and it's damp. Wow! That's why the lady is a tramp. Yeah!" 
Grandmashoutsoverthephone, "Larry! Stop that! You've got a frog. Go gargle." In an effort to tune her out, Grandpa sings louder, but his attempt backfires when his voice cracks on a high note. 
"Larry! Enough already!" 
Singing continues throughout our seven-course meal. Yvonne performs audience requests, including the theme song to Archie Bunker's Place, complete with a convincing impersc:mation of Edith Bunker's screeching voice. An elderly woman whom I don't recognize sings an impassioned rendition of the Weather Girls' "It's Raining Men," while Grandma cheers, "Mellow it out, Honey! Mellow it out!" 
My father questions the value of saving the turkey for the fourth course, at which point everyone is already stuffed with anti-pasta, 


HERD 

salad and risotto. "Ant'ny," Grandma explains, "This is a tradi­tional Thanksgiving celebration, as perfected by the Italians." Then my cousin, Chuckie, performs a freestyle rap, rolling up his sleeves to exhibit his new tattoo. 
After swallowing our last bites of dessert, canolis and sweet potato pie, -Kyle and I find ourselves alone in the kitchen with Grandma as we help her clean up. 
And it is then that she pops the question, the inevitable question, the question dreaded by grandchildren everywhere, "So, ya gotcha eye on anybody out there at school?" 
Kyle proceeds to wash the dishes, glad it had been directed at me instead of her. 
It'snever easy to tell your grandmother that you 're single without feeling like some kind ofloser, so I attempt to dodge her inquiry. "You know, Grandma," I say, "it's a little weird out there. I mean, it takes getting used to. Everything you do relates to God or guys, or some twisted combination ofthe two. In fact, just the other day I got a message from my dorm's liturgical commissioner, urging us to all go walk around the lakes with our brother dorm to say the rosary and, hopefully, to find a date to our upcoming formal." 
"Eh," says my grandma. "You know what? You just find a nice boy out there -he doesn't even need to be Italian. That's a plus, of course, but what you really need to look for in a guy are two things: communication skills and ambition." 
"Yeah. Okay," I say, silently wondering ifthat was her formula when she first met Grandpa. 
"ButI'mnot finished," she continues. "This is the most important part: When looking for a man, you must keep your eyes open, keep your ears open, arid-:-Kyle, are you listening to this? This goes for you, too:" Grandma repeats, "You keep your eyes open, your ears open and your legs closed." 
With that, Kyle's jaw drops and my dad bursts into the kitchen saying, "ENOUGH, Ma. We're leaving. Girls, kiss your grand­mother goodbye," he pecks her on the cheek and give her a big hug, smiling a little as he continues to shake his head. "See ya on Christmas Eve." 0 



NOVEMBER 12, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

(/) 
LU 
(/) 
:J 
a.. 
~ 
<( 
u 
~ 
LU 
I 
l­
o 
z 
0 


First Amendmenf rights· were violated 'by' KSUadministrators whon~fusedtodistri.bute, theBchool's yearbo()k, 'The,Thoi·o/jred, ..'on the groundstheydid notappr6ve ofits content or :appearance. .Reported]y, the staff was too honest in. its portfayal ofthe s.chooL. The t\VO students ~dded that th~ KSU adrti.inistration has at-. teriiptedto ~bhtiol th~·school fl~\\'SJ)aper as teU;w1tijtheintentof 

Cutting Down the Stanford Tree 
At this year's Cal-Stanford game the Cal mascot, Oski the Bear, will not be able to strut the sidelines until Stanford's tree mascot is returned. Berkeley Chancellor Robert Berdahl acknowledged that UC Berkeley students took the mascot and has asked for the return of the tree to Stanford. The theft of the mascot marks the beginning of a string of activities displaying the anticipation of the big game in late November. Two years ago, after the 42-21 loss to Stanford, riotous spectators stormed the field and attacked the Stanford tree mascot, ripping offparts and leaving with mementos. Cal should be commended for its efforts to destroy what is perhaps the worst mascot in college sports. 
by Eric Yuva 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

versity; The court . sided with the KSU administration as they ruled that censorshipofcollegemedia is1egat __.• ·. .·_· ..··. ·•. _·. _. . The.appeal wiU be heard in a Cincinnati courfinearly 1999.· ·. -__ Other appeals arebeing hearclin 1999 as:well; including the right . forKentucky;women fo yote and the abblition of Kentucky's. 
. segregated schools; 

Terrorism at Yale 
A group of would-be terrorists stormed an auditorium, kidnap­ping a student from H. Bradford Westerfield's Intelligence and Covert Operations class. Students were surprised when the Mission Impossible theme blasted from the auditorium speakers as a group entered wearing black with stocking masks covering their faces. After putting a plastic bag over the hostage's head, two men carried her out of the auditorium. Then, another masked man ran into the auditorium, posted a ransom note on the board and quickly exited. The hostage was returned moments later as the infamous Yale Pundits took credit for the prank. Earlier this year, the Pundits played a recording of a couple having sex over a speaker system. Future pranks for the Pundits include spreading manure throughout Michigan State's campus and kidnapping the Stanford tree. 

NOVEMBER 12, 1998 




;5;;:a3fiihffi1~rnr:.·J 
~ 


r 
m 
z 


;:}~~;{ti
5d5;3Q,: 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


z by Eric Robben <( Hey, Brent 
Brent Moberg has come back to see us. You know who he is. He's the senior whose brain exploded, who almost died but who's fine now. That's what we all say, at least, be­cause he can still make jokes about the girls we don't like and that little brainiac-looking kid we would see all the time and call "superchip." I wonder, sometimes, what we all learned from this thing. Here are some easy ones. Keenan RAs learned that one less man means a lot more duty. Guys in Brent's section learned that, with­out anyone to take it away, beer in the hallway was A-OK. And Brent learned that a good way to get some free Notre Dame memorabilia is to have brain surgery. We paused our Nintendo game to go to the chapel and pray when we heard that Brent was in the hospital.We were Highlight this next sen­all close friends with Brent, but we paused 

tence and give this column our game, because to one of the girls who this kind of thing 
doesn't happen to

baked or stayed up in the people. And it 
doesn't happen to our 

chapel all night • ••• Thank 
friends. And it 
you very much doesn't happen to 
Eric Robben is an RA in Keenan and one ofBrent Moberg' s longtime friends. Moberg is recovering rapidly. He plans on returning to the university next semester. 
Brent. 
Brent was on a roll. Our band, the Sampsons, had a date to play Stonehenge two days later. Brent had a date for that weekend's SYR with a girl who he was sure would someday have his children ( or at least might kiss him at the end of the night). Sammy Sosa was sitting on 62 home runs and Brent's Cubs were on their way to a playoff finish. He had 20-plus med-school appli­cations strewn across his floor. His PlayStation was paused, too, and Steve Trachsel had a per­fect game in the eighth. 
But it did happen to Brent. Eight hours after we shuffled out of my room, Brent was through surgery and resting, in a coma. His parents flew nonstop from Rockford, Ill., to South Bend in the tiniest airplane I have ever seen and his sister's studies in her first year at St. Mary's suddenly became less impor­tant. The doctors told us he'd be in a coma for at least a week. They said they had no idea what the potential brain damage could be. At leas~ he was alive, we thought. Prayer can get you through a lot of stuff. 

We had a mass that night. I had to sit on the floor. I think it was then that we all began to understand. The guys at Zahm hung a sheet out of their window, spray-painted with the words, "We're With You Brent." All of the sudden, it was, "You 're an RA in Keenan? How's Brent? We're all praying for him." Our chapel was occupied every minute of the day from the time Brent was in surgery until more than a week afterward. Off-campus friends and guys from the dorm filled up a lot of the spaces, but freshmen from the Lewis football team Brent coached and sophomores from Cavanaugh and RAs from Walsh were there, too. Brent's story meant so much more than we thought it would. 
Women's dorms from all over campus baked for us. I guess they figured coping is easier with a brownie in your mouth. It was. We knew, and Brent knew as soon as he woke up, how many people cared about him. I don't think we ever really said "thank you" to everyone who helped us get through, so highlight this next sentence and give this column to one of the girls who baked or stayed up in the chapel all night or the woman at the guard gate who told us she was praying each night ( and let us on campus). Thank you very much. 
Brent made small but frequent steps in the next few weeks. When we finally got to see him, we let Joe break the news to him that he had stolen Brent's SYR date. We laughed when Brent made the same jokes we have been making for three years. This time they seemed funnier somehow. We knew Brent would have to work hard. We knew that he would be frustrated for a while, trying to make all of his parts work again. But we knew that he would do it and that he will be back again. 
I could use the quote Ferris Bueller says in the shower, or you could play "Chariots of Fire" right now or some­thing. I've got to go, though. Brent said he's been practic­ing, and I'm not about to let a kid whose brain exploded beat me at Nintendo. 
32 SCHOLASTIC NOVEMBER 12, 1998 
MAGAZINE 


Subscribe to: 









H 
Tl 


Fried Ri~e·  
f!!:!1  Qt  
Vegetable Fried Rice  3.69  5.69  
Chicken Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
Shrimp Fried Rice  4.99  6.99  
Beef Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
•curry Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
combination Fried Rice  5.79  7.79  
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable  
'Szechuan Fried Rice  5.79  7.79  
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable  
Soup  
'Hot and Sour Soup  1.49  
Wanton Soup  2.49  
Egg Drop Soup  0.99  

Customer's Choices 
(served with steamed rice) 'Chicken in Hot Garlic Sauce 6.66 'Kung Pao Chicken 6.66 Cashew Chicken 6.66 Almond Chicken 6.66 •curry Chicken 6.66 Chicken Chop Suey 6.66 Sweet & Sour Chicken 6.66 Chicken with Broccoli 6.99 Chicken with Peapods 7.99 Orange-Flavored Chicken 7.99 Empress Chicken 7.99 Sesame Chicken 7.99 'GeneralTso's Chicken 7.99 'Hunan Beef 6.99 Mongolian Beef 6.99 Pepper Steak 6.99 Fresh Mushroom Beef 6.99 Beef Chop Suey 6.99 Beef with Broccoli 7.99 Beef with Peapods 7.99 

Fat Free Dishes 
Vegetable Deluxe 6.66 stir-Fry Broccoli in Brown Sauce 6.66 Steamed Broccoli 6.66 Steamed Caullflower 6.66 Steamed Cabbage 3.98 

House Specials 
Noodles with Sauce Vegetable Sauteed Noodles Chicken Sauteed Noodles Beef Sauteed Noodles Shrimp Sauteed Noodles Combination Sauteed Noodles Chicken-Shrimp-Veg *Szechuan Sauteed Noodles Chicken-Shrimp-Veg  Pint 3.69 3.99 4.69 4.69 5.79 5.79  Qt. 5.69 5.99 6.69 6.69 7.79 7.79  
Appetizers Egg Roll (1) Cream Cheese Wanton (6) Pot Stickers (6) • Hot and Spicy •  0.99 2.29 2.49  
Side Orders  
Steamed Rice (1) Fortune Cookies  0.99 0.99  
Beverages All Soft Drinks (Per Can)  0.65  


Chinese Cuisine 
Delivery Hours: Mon-Sun 
5:00 pm to 11 :00 pm 271-0125 

I.

1ver.I 
. ($7 minimum order) 
Only $35 a year -regular bi­weekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: 
• the lat.est Gampus news and sports 
0 
national and campus entertainment coverage . 
• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weeken~s • off-the-wall humor 



MAGAZ N E 
r-·:r-------~---'.-:---~-----~-~-~---------c-------l 
I . · Please put me on your subscrlptioi1.listfor 1998'.'.1999 I 
I ,,,,• ';,' · ••· . ' ', ,' .• · •• :., • ' I 
I I
I Nar:n.~•...,_,,.:, ., .· '1
1 ·'....·,-'-. '1
f ..,,/"c} . :;. 
I; .I
f ~.:...;._.,,..........,..;,.__;_;,,.~~~,.,...;,--:....:.,. '1 
( )
I .,,_.,,,,.,;---,-"--.....;;...;._.:...;.__ __;_ I 
' ! -J 
I, ' Please sendthisform;:withpayment, fo:. . . II I· .BusinessManager,Scholastic Magazine · II/ .. :·taFortui:ie'Sttid~il{Center --:-''1 
~··'. ••·•.•·. l'J?tr~ D~~•~·-4.~~56-/./·•. ·.. /'.·:•>· {'.i) 
t;...ci;,..;;:'-~~~~:.i,;.i~~-'aiiai.:_l~~~~~\...i.L0~-i~1J 

11/12 Cushing 11/13 Cushing 11/14 Cushing 

11/12 LaFortune 

11/12 LaFortune 11/13 Reckers 11/16 Reckers 



11/18 Reckers 
10:30pm 8pm/10:30pm 8pm/10:30pm 
9pm-12am 9pm 
12:30am-:3:30am 8pm-12am 
9pm 
$2 $2 $2 
FREE! FREE! FREE! FREE! 

FREE!~ 

www.nd.edu/~sub 


A very special message from WVFI 640 am 
This is the ND campus This is the ND campus with WVFI 640 am without WVFI 640 am 

We here at your beloved campus radio station (WVFI 640 am) regret to inform you that we will be going off the air for the remainder of the semester to allow for much needed repairs. ·We do this, not to take your monkey away, but to build the sort of radio station this campus deserves. So get ready for the screen to be lifted next semester! 






