
Last chance for applications. 
SCHOL8STIC 
w a n t s _v O U 
Now accepting applications for: Departments Editor Photo Editor Assistant Photo Editor Assistant Entertainment Editor 
I Pick up an application in the basement of South Dining Hall or call 1-7569 for more information. 
deadline: SU_NDAY, DECEMBER 9 AT NOON 

COVER PHOTOS TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO PAGE MICHAEL 
KATE 
10 

GRIFFIN FOSTER Statue of Jesus on God Quad opens His arms to all. V 
,',:•·:_yr, ·-1 ; ~ . ·-1 

»  Around the World in 40 Years by Danica Skeoch  08  
»  I Believe by Sean Dudley and Kristin Steckbeck  10  
»  New Goals byDavid Murray  22  
»  Feliz Navidad byKathleen Corte  25  
»  A Modern Twist by Tracy Evans  29  

The Rest  Splinters  17  
From the Editor  2  Out of Bounds  28  
Letter to the Editor  3  Week in Distortion  30  
ND Notebook  4  Calendar  31  
Campus Watch  16  Finar Word  32  

In the Line of Fire 
by MatthewZiegler 
.12 

COVER: Scholastic takes a look at the place of 
the ROTC on a Catholic campus and how 
Notre Dame's ROTC programs fit in. 
-1 ·Rebuildin_g_i~e__• House of Rockne -20· · 
by Gerard Meskill •. . · -· . _ . · . 
Now thatDavie has been dumped, the Irish seek a replacement. See who tops the list. · 
I}he 1? Days of ChristtnE!S .. . . 

2s· '. 

by CameSweeney . . ·· 
. Get i~to the llolid_ay ~pirit with a preview of . area winter activities and events.• · 
.... . . . 
•. .r. 


;: look for 
t ~~SUE 8 t'' JAN 31 
Vol. 143, No. 07 • 06 DEC 2001 
SCHOL8STIC 
-1 Editor in Chief
1
f : Michael P. Griffin 
, . Managing Editor
i . Matthew Barr 
1 
Ii .·. Associate Editor : Jessica L. Daues 
1,i .1iExecutive Editor Sarah Childress 
i News 
•.: Matthew C. Ziegler, editor 
l.:. !Jeffrey Drocco, assistant i Katie Freddoso, assistant 
! jCampus LifeIJacklyn D. Kiefer, editor : Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
· i Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 
Kathleen Corte, editor Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
. Departments . 
Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design 
, Crissy Manary, editor !Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Brendan Condon 
t Nick Dailey Eric Doversberger Ryan .Greenberg 
. Beth Murphy 
Photography 
Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Graphic Arts 
Michael M. delaRosa, editor Maryn Necel, assistant 
.. 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant , Cecilia Hadley!Soquel Harding 
j Distribution Felisia Johns, manager 
'[:· Advertising 
•,. Jessica B. Polish, manager 

[1:.•I ;~i;L:~:::::.,., 
iAdvisor · cJ Robert E. Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
n·•·· Published biweekly at the University of Notre. Dame1:.1 and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 
f
. : 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is ,. Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of 
'•' this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be publjshed in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.ni. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Crissy Manary is the official office Lance girl. Stay 'NSyncl Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The.
subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and 
I
number, or date. Copies of the annual football review '• are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates 
•· available on request. The opinions expressed in 
··1 Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the ; University of Notre Dame or the student body. 


Responding to irrationality
Afootball season that started with great expectations has ended with great dis­
appointment. But should that incur irrationality in students? 
In a 30 November 2001 letter to the Obse,verViewpoint section, Vinnie Zuccaro questions the need to educate the football team. Why should we? "GPA doesn't end up on the scoreboard or in the rankings," he writes. I mean, what else is there? Zuccaro calls for a loosening of the standards to the point where it doesn't matter "if our football recruits aren't smart enough to tie their own shoes before the game as long as they can win." (That's a real quote; I didn't make it up.) 
Perhaps Zuccaro would prefer our football players not to take any classes at all. Then they could practice more and sacrifice even more of themselves and their futures in order to make money for the university and satisfy little whiny sopho­mores who think that a national championship is the only thing with which these players should ever concern themselves. What good is a knowledge ofbusiness or of engineering when you can just focus on football? 
I think that in the excitement of the game, we have lost sight of the point. The sentiments of Zuccaro, and others like him, completely devalue the players as humans and as students of our university. The truth is that most collegiate players, no matter how successful their alma mater, will never make it to the NFL. But they' re treated sometimes as though that is all that is important -as if they can't be successful in any other pursuit in life. 
So ifsome care so little for the players or their futures, for whom or for what are they rooting? Not the University of Notre Dame, for a "university" supports the ideals of higher learning, which implies the mixing of academics and athletics ­or other activities -to promote the well roundedness of its students. 
Could some of us want ND to win just to satisfy some inner pride, regardless of the harm done to the players? 
And no, I don't care if the third-string comerbacker or first-string quarterback doesn't want to work hard academically. If they choose not to work hard in their classes, fine. What bothers me is the call for a change in the sy,,stem -to a struc­ture that devalues the need for success in academics. But I love Notre Dame foot­ball because we hold ourselves to a high standard, academically and athletically. I love Notre Dame because our players are real students, not thoughtless mercenar­ies. 
Our cover story this week focuses on another realmwhere students are pulled in differentdirections: ROTC cadets have to balance schoolwork with their training, but for years, many have questioned the existence of the ROTC in an academic setting. On page 12, Matthew Ziegler explores some new aspects of the debate and finds that compromise may be the best answer. This is the last issue ofSchoiastic for the semester. Best wishes for the holidays to all. 


2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR NY's Spirit is Stronger than Ever 
There's hope for the future as the city rebuilds 
Dear Editor, 
I am writing in response to the letter to the editor ("The Spirit of New York is Dead") published in Scholastic's last issue. I am genuinely sorry that Alison feels New York has lost its spirit since September 11 and hope she finds happiness in her trans­fer to New Jersey. But I feel compelled to share with all of you what so many of us here in New York have seen -not the bleakness Alison describes, but rather a fresh, growing spirit and a renewed appre­ciation for the city and for each other. 
I work about five blocks from the World Trade Center. Nothing I have ever experi­enced in my life compares to the things I saw and did on September 11. But even in the middle of the horrors, I marveled at how people responded to the tragedy. The out­pouring of love never stopped, not for one single second. You've heard about the he­roes of that day, the firefighters and rescue workers who gave up their lives to save oth­ers, the passengers of Flight 93 who sacri­ficed themselves in Pennsylvania. But what you may not have heard is the simple truth: 
Everyone was a hero that day. In big ways and small, everyone helped everyone else. For what may have been the first time, ev­eryone cared. 
Sure, it was natural for people to bond, to cling to each other on that extraordinary day. But the magical thing that's happened is that this spirit, this atmosphere of togeth­erness, has persevered. As we lost hope for the missing in the World Trade Center, as attention shifted to anthrax and the war in Afghanistan, there's still a palpable differ­ence in the city. A native New Yorker I work with summed it up: "People are kind to each oth~r." And that is indeed a difference. 
In the days after the attacks, people hung signs all over the city proclaiming, "I love NY more thai:i ever." Anytime anybody called someone else in the city, no matter how ill-acquainted they were, the first line was always, "How are you? Are your friends and family all right?" My little company, a start-up constantly wondering where the next funding will come from, joined tons of other offices in ordering lunch for its entire staff once or twice a week to keep local eateries afloat. My boss changed her screen saver to read, "Seize the day." 
Perhaps the most noticeable change is one of the silliest, but one of the most telling. There's a basic commuter rule on any type of mass transit: Don't talk, don't make eye contact. But now, it's OK to talk to people on the subway. I see people breaking the old rule more and more often. 
In the first weeks after that day, people came for miles to see Ground Zero, to weep over its ashes. The cops and troopers prod­ded us along. But people have begun to re­build their lives and to focus on what's left rather than what's gone. At Ground Zero, like any other place in New York, you can tell the tourists now-they're the ones who stand still, cameras in hand, while the rest of us have learned to keep walking, to prod ourselves along and get back to living life. 
New York has kept going in the past three months, and it has shown the resilience and character that so long ago made this city famous. And-it's the incredible people here who have kept it going with all the courage they can muster. People who returned to work, even when no one could see the point. People who find little ways, day after day, to make this unutterably changed place seem almost normal again. People who fo­cus on the lesson learned -that when you get right down to it, all that will matter is whom and what you love. And people who strive to be just a bit cheerier, a bit friend­lier than they might have been a few months ago, because you never know when it will mean something. 
The city I never wanted to \York in has grown on me since I started working here a year and a half ago. But on September 11, I saw its heart for the first time. And I can honestly join all tbe others here when they say: I love New York. Now, more than ever. 
-Meredith Salisbury 2000 Scholastic Editor 


SCHOLASTICLETTER TO THE EDITOR 3 


 ll Good 'til the Last Drop Explaining the shrinking-juice-box mystery JEFFDROCCO I think Del Monte," he says. "Then they made their juice boxes smaller, so weDid your last Grab 'n' Go lunch leave switched to Mott's. Now Mott's made your palate a little drier than usual? their boxes smaller." Not quite able to pinpoint what's The story seems to show, literally, that changed about your favorite combo of there's no such thing as a free lunch. Says one entree and four sides? Chances are Patterson: "We were getting a great deal the oddity you found in your sack of from Mott's before. I think they realized vittles was a small decrease in the size this and figured they had to either make of your juice box, noticed by many the boxes smaller or raise the price." Grab 'n' Go regulars. The boxes of But students shouldn't start boycotting apple juice, orange juice and fruit Grab 'n' Go just yet. At least one divi­punch, once eight ounces, now only sion within Food Services is at work look­carry 6.75 ounces of refreshment. ing for other options. "Purchasing is look­Ready to shake your head at the Golden ing into getting orange juice from Prairie Dome for counting its pennies at the ex­Farms," Patterson says. "We can get that pense of student lunches? Hold up a sec­in half-pint cartons, like the milk." But ond, says Dan Patterson, one of the man­this wouldn't replace the apple juice or agers of South Dining Hall. "What hap­the fruit punch. pened was Mott's changed the size of the Never fear, however. Although satisfy.: boxes on us," he says. "It's not some big ing the appetite of the college student is ploy to try to save money." no easy task, Food Services seems accus­According to Patterson, the nickel-and­tomed to the difficulties of the job. "We diming is on the side of the juice indus­had the same issue with the waters," says try. "Something like two years ago, we Patterson, referring to the mini water were buying from a different company ­bottles that appeared at Grab 'n' Go this  year. "We thought about getting a bigger size and charging for two sides, but we knew some people wouldn't be happy with that either. So we took the smaller size and figured people could take two if they wanted." Hopefully, Food Services can solve the problem of the mysterious shrinking juice boxes soon. In the meantime, maybe you should look for a water fountain. .  
Chances are that ifyou live on campus,Ten Questions you've heard them ­even Scholastic has, with a guy in a skirt ... and we're in the basement of SDH. The  actually supposed to play them as they marched in front of the band, but that didn;t  


Irish Bagpipes have.,niade a vociferous comeback this yea,; so we tracked down sophomore Dan McCabe, the official "Pipe Master" ofthe club, to find out more about these "noisemakers." Shown here cuddling his bagpipes, Dan told us that you don't even have to know how to play the bagpipes to join -this accounting major from Stanford Hall will teach you. Could things get any more exciting? 
Tell us, 0 mighty Pipe Master, about your minions, the Irish Bagpipes. 
They originally appeared on campus in the late 1940s with the Irish Guard, who were really work, because it was cold and they didn't really know how to play, so they ended up dropping the bagpipes. They reappeared in the mid-80s with some students who knew how to play, and this year we have our big­gest group, with 15 pipers and two drummers. 

How did you get to be the Pipe Master? Did you have to smoke out any other guys for the job? 
We actually had an election at the end of last year. There were four guys with expeq­ence, and I won. 
Call us stupid, but you guys have been a little more audible on campus this year, 

. "All unattended vehicles will be ticketed $100 and towed. ·God bless America." ) -sign at South Bend Regional Airport 
"Are you sure th_at's a woman and not a coach?" -·student referring to Jesus the Teacher ) statue near the bookstore 
"And Clinton got lucky ... wait, that's not the best way to put it." -economics professor 
"You see, that's why I hate the business school -I've forgotten how to think." 
) -member of student government 
"You know, it wouldn't be a Lifetime movie if it didn't involve paralysis." 
) -overheard student in Reckers 
I39 Years Ago Battle of the Books 
The following appeared in the February 16 issue of Notre Dame Scholastic in 1962: Entries are now being accepted for Fa­
ther Hesburgh sprivate library contest. This contest, which is in its second yea,; is open to all undergraduate students and carries ofprize of $100 to the Notre Dame Book­store. Entries for the contest must meet the following qualifications: 
1) A list ofbooks bought during the present academic year must be submitted. Textbooks will not be considered but books which are recommended reading for a particular course may be included. 
2) The contestant must prepare a statement of500 words o,i his pu,pose in acquiring a private library and the reason he chose these particular books ... : 
The prize will not necessarily go to the long­est list; a sh011er list ofclosely related books, together with a good statement, will receive much consideration. The entries, which must be submitted by May 4 to 356 0 'Shaughnessy, will be judged by selected faculty members. 
These people actually had time tq read something other than their textbooks? Fas­cinating. -Cristin Fenzel 
haven't you? 
Yeah, we practice Tuesday and Thursday nights in Crowley-they don't like us very much there-and then we march around cam­pus. We also perform on football Saturdays. 
What do your duties as the Pipe Master entail? 
I'm responsible for the instruction of new members, selection of the music, the march­ing that we do and all the other club stuff. 
When did you start playing the bagpipes? 
I started playing back in seventh grade. My grandfather played the drums in a band, and I always liked [the bagpipes]. 
Now we at Scholastic are big bagpiping fans, but we were wondering if the Irish Bagpipes ever receive any-er -com­plaints about their playing? 
Yes, we have. People have shouted out of their dorm windows that they're studying, and at one point Father Malloy came out of his office and asked us to practice somewhere else. We have some guys in Stanford who are just learning to play, so they'll go outside and practice there and people from Stanford and Keenan yell at them from their windows. 
What's another use for your bagpipes other than playing them? 
Some people have suggested we start bon­fires with them. 
What's YC?Ur favorite or ideal place to play? 
Hmm, I don't know about my favorite, but the ideal place is somewhere out in the open, preferably with people watching and listen­ing. 
We've all heard about the Irish Guard and their kilts. Do you, uh, wear anything under your kilt? 
All I have to say is that those November football games get pretty cold. 
Do you ever receive illicit late-night phone calls soliciting your services as the Pipe Master? 
I haven't yet, but I'm looking forward to it. From the ladies, that is. -Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

• 
Study in the nation's capitol 

•Work 
in an internship 

• 
Fulfill philosophy, theology, and fine arts requirements 

• 
Study public affairs 

• 
Live in an exciting city 


•
Applications for Fall 2002 & Spring 2003 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors · from all colleges 


John Eriksen, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 


GLOBE-TROTTER A former diplomat and translator for the U.S. during the cold war, Curtis Kamman currently is teaching a government class at Notre Dame. 


the World 
/0 /1~(1 
11 1 1
//· 1J11
// . .. 1 .'.. y'..·.•·e.·ars 
, ~• '· I 1
1 ..... ·· .. 1/I //
[__1.r I~(/
~ \__~_/ 
Visiting professor relates his experiences as a U.S. diplomat 
DANICASKEOCH 
0 fficially class is over, but profes­sor Curtis Kamman stops everyone in their efforts to pack up. He tells them to open their course packets for just a moment and look at the copy of Nikita Khrushchev's letter to President Kennedy re­garding the resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis. Kamman directs their attention to a set of numbers at the top of the document-these numbers identify the State Department trans­lator who translated the document from its original Russian. The number given is T94. "I would submit to you," he says deadpan, ''T94 is yours truly." Kamman cracks a small smile as everyone stares at their course pack­ets in amazement. This semester Kamman is a visiting pro­fessor with the government and interna­tional studies department, but his experi­ences go far beyond the field of academics. In his 40 years as a career diplomat with the Foreign Service, Kamman ha~ held countle:ss positions in Washington as well as abroad. Most recently, before retiring, he served as the U.S. ambassador to Colom­bia. He is highly regarded within the diplo­matic community, and in 1991 he won the Presidential Distinguished Service Award, the federal government's highest honor for civilian career empl9ye,;,s. More recently, he received the Order of Boyaca, the high­est distinction the Colombian government can give to a civilian. 
Born in Chicago but raised in Tucson, Ariz., Kamman began his diplomatic career after graduating with highest honors from Yale. He took the Foreign Service Exam and taught Russian for a year at Yale before be­ginning graduate school at Harvard. Not far into his Harvard education, representatives of the Foreign Service offered him a posi­tion in their next class. That was the oppor­tunity he had been waiting for, and, as he says, "that was the end of my career at Harvard." 

He credits his early interest in interna~ tional affairs -as well as his classes in Russian -with giving him a head start on his career. "I was a year and a couple of months into Russian when Sputnik went up, and that's when people got very interested and started to pay a lot more attention to what was happening in the Soviet Union," he says. "It was also not too long after Stalin died, so all of this proved to be good timing because I was about two years ahead of a lot of people who decided they would study Russian." It was his-knowledge of th~ lan­guage that led him to a position where he was in contact with the two centers of the Cold War world. 
His first assignment was supposed to be Havana, Cuba, but due to the cessation of 

8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE . 

diplomatic contact between Cuba and the United States, he was reassigned to Russia. "I was able to go to the Soviet Union for my first assignment, not in the embassy but in small exhibits traveling around the coun­try," he says. 'That was extremely good back­ground for further work on the Soviet Union." 
Time in the Division of Language Ser­vices as a translator and his travels as an interpreter deepened Kamman's involve­ment in U.S.-Soviet relations to the point where he found himself vacationing with Soviet Premiere Nikita Khrushchev. While serving as an interpreter for Secretary of State Stewart Udall, he swam with the 
Kamman's family, particularly his wife, has been fortunate to share these unique ex­periences with him. "My family was with me at luckily all the assignments that we had when the family could be along," he says. Due to the lack of American schools in Moscow during his time there, Kamman's three sons attended prep school in the United States, but they visited Moscow on their school breaks. 
Though they grew up in a Foreign Ser­vice household, none of Kamman's sons followed in his footsteps. He suspects that this is related to a dip in the respectability ship at Notre Dame. It was suggested that upon his retirement Kamman contact pro­fessor James McAdams in the government and international studies department. As it stands, Kamman is teaching at Notre Dame only for this semester; there are no concrete plans for next year. In his words, though, "At this point I'm still enjoying the modest pleasures of living a little bit quieter life." 
Here at Notre Dame, Kamman is doing his best to teach his students about the real­ity ofdiplomatic relations, both through lec­tures and personal anecdotes. Those who have taken his class can attest to his end-
secretary and Khrushchev at the Soviet 
"[America] can't afford the luxury of being isolationist; we have
leader's vacation house on the Black Sea. All of his experiences -both ev­

to be part of the global society that is not always friendly to us
eryday and extraordinary -with the major players of international diplo­

but also presents us with some great opportunities." 
macy helped lead him to the position of deputy chief of mission at the Ameri--Professor Kamman can embassy in Moscow. 
The former Soviet Union, however, is not Kamman's only interest. His profi­ciency in Spanish made him a logical choice for participation in the politics of Latin America and the Caribbean. Although his original assignment to Havana had fallen through, Kamman later returned to Cuba as the chief of the U.S. interests section in Havana. Though not an official embassy, it is the main channel for the United States to maintain some form of diplomatic contact with the Communist government of Fidel Castro. "You can see immediately why he cast a spell over people, from reporters to visiting congressmen," he says of Castro. "He just has that sort of personal magnetism. I don't admire what he's done in Cuba, but he's certainly a personage of the recent past." 
Kamman's nominations and confirma­tions to three separate ambassadorships in Latin America-to Chile, Bolivia and Co­lombia -have made the concerns of those nations near and dear to his heart. He saw their struggles against militaristic dictators and the lingering effects ofcommunism and the war on drugs. He feels that his position in Bolivia was the most interesting post. "Bolivia is a fairly exotic place, and yet it's a place in which you can feel very much at home very quickly," he says. "It's an abso­lutely beautiful country, and [it is] our high­est embassy. The office building is at 11,500 feet, the airport is at 13,000 feet [and] our house was at only 10,500 feet." 
afforded to government jobs since the time he entered the State Department. "I think we're swinging back now to a point where government is seen as a somewhat more re­spectable, even maybe noble profession, at least more necessary," he says. "More people, I hope, are considering govern­ment." 
Kamman encourages Notre Dame stu­dents to-consider the Foreign Service an option. "The Foreign Service exam is hard, but I think most Notre Dame students who have a fair background in history, econom­ics and government could pass the written exam," he says. "Where you really have the major hurdle, real tight competition, is the oral examination." 
Only about one in 20 people pass this test, which qualifies one for a diplomatic posi­tion in the Foreign Service. He has advice to individuals considering a career in the State Department. "Every student who has an interest in foreign policy and interna­tional affairs should consider the Foreign Service," he says. "Prepare yourself if you have an interest; take a good mixture of his­tory, social science [and] economics courses; and learn to write." Other ways to prepare include learning a foreign language and spending a semester abroad. 
A Notre Dame alumnus who worked for Kamman in the U.S. embassy in Bogota, Colombia, inspired his visiting professor-less wealth of amazing stories. Though they involve such things as writing speeches, ne­gotiating elements of. treaties and even tracking down the Vatican's secretary of state during Midnight Mass at St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, his favorite story holds more personal significance: 
."In September of199 l, [Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia] had proclaimed their indepen­dence from the Soviet Union .... The inde­pendence this time was recognized by the parliament in Moscow, the Supreme Soviet, which made it no longer just a dream but a reality. And I was sent by President Bush to those three capitals, Tallinn, Vilnius and Riga, to sign an agreement reestablishing Ameri­can relations with those three countries after a break of 50 years. I thought it was maybe about the most exciting moment in terms of being part of a great historical event." 
Kamman is careful to explain why he feels that imparting his knowledge to students and young people is important. "I think many Americans have come to realize since Sep­tember 11 [that] our fate is tied up with what happens in the world," he says. "We can't af­ford the luxury of being isolationist; we have to be part of the global society that is not al­ways friendly to us but also presents us with some great opportunities." 
His parting words to future diplomates: "Stay in touch with the great, the mighty, the small and the weak." 

SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 


/
/ 

n in Notre Dame's predominantly holic environment, non-Catholics, 
, can grow and share their faiths 


SEANDUDLEY & KRISTINSTECKBECK 
I. There has always been a str.ong sense" 
I of community at Notre Dame," the 
Reverend Theodore Hesburgh once said. "Much more than at most universities or other human institutions I haveJrnown." 
Fewer qualities are more quickly impressed upon incoming freshmen than those of com­munity and the storied "Notre Dame" family. Socially, academically and spiritually, students and alumni are united uhderthe Golden Dome. But while it's easy to feel like a family when everyone links arms for the alma mater on a football Saturday, non-Catholics might feel 

· differently the next night when their section-mates head to dorm Mass. · 
"I felt estranged from the institutional re­ligion at Notre Dame," says pastoi: Bob Heimach '81, a Presbyterian minister. "I practiced religion more at a personal level through prayer, study and journaling." On a campus that is 88 percent Roman 
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
Catholic, feeling like an outsider is some­times hard to avoid. Kevin O'Leary, a fresh­man biochemistry major, came knowing he would fall into the religious minority. It doesn't bother him, though. "I came because it's Notre Dame," he says. "I came for all 
· the other reasons why people come here. Nobody's ever given me crap for not being Catholic." 
Notre Dame's educational philosophy obviously is Catholic, but it strives to wel­come students of all faiths. The Rev. Will­iam Beauchamp, executive vice president 
--emeritus· and special ·assistant to the presi­dent, says: "We're not here to proselytize. This is simply a place that stresses a value-oriented education." Campus Ministry is here to help students in the process, and it looks beyond just Catholics when developing programs. Priscilla Wong, an assistant director and ad­ministrator of Campus Ministry, says: "We . · wantto help students develop their spiritu-· · 
ality, it doesn't matter whether they're Catholic or Protestant, Buddhist, Hindu, etc. The spirit is there that challenges each stu­dent to deepen his or her faith." 
Each year, Campus Ministry updates a list of places of non-Catholic worship in South Bend to make it easier for students of other faith traditions to continue practicing their religions. Although the university does not provide a transportation service to local churches, synagogues and mosques, some ofthese off-campus houses ofworship have offered transportation for students. 
The Coleman-Morse Center also has a meditation room, which is designed for people of all faiths. Every Friday, Muslim students on campus use the facility for weekly prayer services. The room even features a wall foun­tain specifically for the Islamic purification ritual of washing feet prior to services. Oth­ers from any faith tradition always are wel­come to use this space for quiet reflection and group prayer as well. 
"I know a lot of people can feel like they're not part ofthe family," says the Rev. Bill Wack, director of the freshman retreat program and vocational counseling, "but I hope we're changing that." He continues: "Put pressure on us to help you find people of your spiritual faith. I think that's so im­portant. Put the burden to Campus Minis­try, because we have many things that people don't know about." 
Wong also emphasizes that all Campus Ministry events are open to everyone. Re­treats, Emmaus faith-sharing groups and Campus Ministry-sponsored ecumenical 
-Christian traditions to come together and share faith. Iron Sharpens Iron, for example, is an ecumenical group that meets on Thurs­day nights at 10 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse groups welcome people of all faith back­grounds in the Notre Dame community. Even the Notre Dame Encounter, one ofthe most popular retreats offered at Notre Dame, is headed by a non-Catholic, Jeff Shoup, director of Residence Life. 
Inarguably, it is more of a challenge for a non-Catholic student to matriculate into the religious life on campus than a Catholic stu­dent. The Catholic Mass may be intimidating and unfamiliar to students of different faiths. There also is a tendency for non-Catholics to feelexcludedduringcertainpartsoftheMass, such as the Eucharist. "One thing we cannot extend [to non-Catholics] is the invitation to Communion," Wack says. "And I know that is a very painful moment. But we are more than happy to have everyone come to Mass to join us in as full a way as possible." 
Junior Julie Davis, an Assemblies of God Christian, has come to appreciate what the Catholic Church can offer her as a non-Catho­lie participant. "AtMass Ifeel very welcome," ·· she says. "Going up and getting blessed at Communion makes me feel extra welcome." Davis doesn't feel Center. President Craig Kline says, "What we want to do is basically glorify Christ in community." 
Davis gets a lot out of Campus Fellow­ship, a group that meets on Thursdays at 7:30 p.m., upstairs in South Dining Hall. "Fel­lowship is much more like the faith back­ground I came from," she says. "Ithelps me connect with the way I am accustomed to worshipping." 
In addition, Morissey Manor hosts interfaith prayer nights every Wednesday at 10 p.m., and the Rev. Al Delonzo offers a Bible study to anyone who wants to come at 7 p.m: on Tues:.· · days. Campus Ministry can be contacted for more information on any ofthese groups. 
Even those outside the Christian faith tra­dition can feel a part ofthe Notre Dame faith family. Michele Gelfman, an assistant staff professional specialist in the department of physical education, is a reformed Jew. Hav­ing taught at Notre Dame for 16 years, she says: "Thereligious aspect ofbeing Jewish here at Notre Dame affords me the oppor­tunity to share that with other people. I also 
learn a lot. One of 

that the university the great -things
"Whether it's Catholic or
and Campus Min­about being here is istry go a great Jewish or Protestant, I think that it lets me be 
deal out of their all religions can work well who I am. way to embrace "Whether it's
together. [As a reformed Jew,]
her and others of Catholic or Jewish non-Catholic I can talk to a priest here on or Protestant, I 
backgrounds. campus ... and feel at think all religions "But I don't ex­can work well to­
peace."

pect them to and I gether," she contin­
-Michelle Gelfman 
knew that coming ues. "I can talk to a 
in here," she says. "Still, there's nothing they do that particularly excludes me." 
The Rev. Peter Rocca, rector of the Ba­silica of the Sacred Heart, believes that cer­tain aspects of the Mass are truly universal among all Christians. "One ofthe things we share with [other] baptized Christians is our love for sacred Scripture," he says. "So, for example, the Liturgy of the Word is some­thing that Christians can certainly share to­gether." 
He adds, "We all believe in the one God that we profess in our creed Sunday after Sunday. Many Christians profess that same creed, so we are all one in terms of the God we worship." 
Numerous groups throughout campus pro­vide opportunities for students of differen_t 
priest here on cam­pus without any problems, or a brother, and feel at peace, and I think that's very impor­tant. I've never been made to feel that my being Jewish is a detriment to my teach­ing, nor a detriment to the fact that this is a Catholic university." 
Living in a community so infused with spirituality might even strengthen the be­liefs of non-Catholics in their own faiths. "I attend the Masses every week and have never felt unwelcome at them or any other religious meeting," says sophomore Divish Ranjan, a practicing Hindu. "I would say I am much more of a believer, be it in my own religion, than I was be­fore coming to Notre Dame." 
Beauchamp stresses the need to respect all the members of the Notre Dame com­munity. "Notre Dame is clearly a Catho­lic university," he says. "We want to make sure it is a place where everyone feels welcome." D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 


Scholastic examines the state of ROTC in the midst of national and on-campus opposition 
BY MATTHEW ZIEGLER 
The debate over ROTC's pr~sence on campus has gone on so long that it seems to have become background noise to life at Notre Dame. Is the Reserve Officers Train­ing Corps compatible with the mission of a Catholic university? The opinion gap does not appear to be narrowing, particularly as the United States becomes once again embroiled in conflict overseas. Since 1990, the number of campus ROTC programs nationally has decreased from 413 to fewer than 270, under the pressure of both peace lobbyists and, recently, gay rights advocates. Notre Dame, with its large ROTC program and its prominence among Catholic schools, holds a special place in the peace debate, and, remarkably, appears to be standing against national trends. 
12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STOR 
·:~ 
f:i.t~;_.
~·?~~u\



~,.. 
'j I: 
i"]., ·.-...... 
s .... ~· 


'.*\~~~:~tr~~t!~·.ii._, 
Ideals 
Pax Christi has been outspoken in its criticisms of ROTC over the last few years, but it is misun­derstood by many students. It is not the monolithic, "get-rid-of-ROTC" group that many at Notre Dame perceive; it is a nationwide Catholic orga­nization devoted to "the transformation of society through nonviolence," and to advocating "peace­making as a priority in the Catholic Church in the United States," according to its mission statement. Its members -many of whom are active on col-· lege campuses -hold varying opinions as to what should happen to the ROTC as a system for mili­tary recruitment and training; but their objections to it are rooted in the same beliefs. 
This variety is expressed by Notre Dame's own chapter of Pax Christi. For example, Tom Feeney, a sophomore member, takes a hard-line approach to the ROTC's presence on campus, saying, "If you were to ask me ifROTC has a place at a Catho­lic university, I would say no." While he insists that he does not speak for all of Pax Christi, his objections to the ROTC are cormnon among mem­bers. ''First, the U.S. military has a history of act­ing irresponsibly and unjustly," he says. "Second, 
ANGELA CAMPOS 

there ... are many Catholic soldiers with too-un­questioning an obedience to their commanding officers and [to] Catholic institutions which are too quick to cooperate in military projects. Finally, [Notre Dame's ROTC] program, as it stands now, requires no Catholic war-ethics course for its stu­dents." 
The Rev. Michael Baxter agrees with these ar­guments, and he wishes to start taking action with the last. He cites the Just War Theory, a military ethical code outlined by the U.S. Bishops' Pasto­ral Letter on War and Peace in 1983 as a guide for training Catholic officers. "The Catholic Church teaches that the state has the right to defend itself if it follows [the Just War Theory]," he says, "but are the officers here at Notre Dame trained in it?" According to him, by the Just War Theory, it is "always wrong to take the lives of innocents"; hence, U.S. military actions from Hiroshima to Iraq, where U.S. sanctions have caused the cor­ruption of the civilian water supply, are against Catholic teaching. Thus, for Baxter, "the military has proven itself incapable of adhering to Just War Theory," and it should not receive further support from Catholic institutions. 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 

t 
ANbTHER TIME This c. 1940s po~ter still hangs in Pasquerilla Cerliter. 
Still, Baxter insists that he does not wish to eliminate ROTC from cam­pus. His immediate goal is to force amendments to the military curricu­lum at Notre Dame that would ensure that ROTC students were trained ac­cording to Catholic military prin­ciples. He doubts Notre Dame's present effectiveness in creating a truly different breed of officers. "Some people say that ND should have ROTC in order to 'Christianize the military' ... but is the behavior [ of ND-educated officers] palpably dif­ferent from those of other schools?" 
he asks. Until the ROTC curriculum here is realigned with Catholic teaching, Baxter believes, there is no hope of achiev­ing this hoped-for "Christian" military. He laments that too many officer cadets "think the teaching of Christ is some disembod­ied ideal," rather than a real expectation of behavior. 
Feeney agrees. "When you live in a country that doesn't share [Christian] values, you're going to need to have them firmly ingrained in your own conscience," he says. 
The Rev. Mark Poorman offers some defense of the Christian character of the Notre Dame ROTC program, but he admits that the military curriculum might lack a hard Catholic focus. He notes that, as a whole, ND's ROTC students "are service­minded people" with strong personal convictions and devotions that match their military fidelity. He cites the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, a strong defender of ROTC at Notre Dame during his tenure as university president: "[Hesburgh] defended [ROTC based on its] very strong formational aspect -heart, mind and spirit," he says. Poorman is more confident than Baxter that Notre Dame can enrich the military through the Christian ide­als it imbues in students, but he acknowledges that "the burden remains on the institution, as to whether that happens." As a result, he joins Baxter in questioning how Notre Dame aids the formation of a Christian military conscience: "How are we promoting the analytical development of the [military mind]?" he asks. 
and attitudinal roots. 

Arata responds to the claim that the military has proven itself 
incapable of acting in an ethical manner by saying: "Have we 
done things in the past that are open to [moral] interpretation? 
Sure. So have people operating under the aegis of the Catholic 
Church. Does that make it a bad institution? No." Arata does 
not outwardly defend any particular military abuses in the past, 
but he is careful to point out that, abuses of power do not give 
grounds for breaking down the system within which they oper­
ated. "Regardless of how carefully you monitor an institution, 
you cannot control the individual," he says, adding that "if we 
were to look, we'd find Notre Dame graduates in business, law 
-even theology -who have done bad things." So, despite 
the authoritative dangers inherent in a military setting, Arata 
rejects that the military itself is in any way flawed. 
The financial question 

Last year, the U.S. government paid $6.2 million in tuition 
fees to Notre Dame in exchange for the service of its 279 ROTC 
students. This incentive, according to Baxter, Feeney and oth­
ers, makes it very difficult for some students to choose military 
service with a clear conscience. "Most students are in ROTC 
for financial reasons," Baxter says. Poorman agrees: "The people 
who are in ROTC often do it for financial aid," he says. "I don't 
think you can get around that." Many peace activists are con­
cerned that the military coerces students into service that may 
be against their moral beliefs by offering them an altern?tive to 
student loans and employment. But students' devotion to the . ROTC, in many cases, at least, runs deeper than money. 
"Ifyou're doing it for the money, you might as well not be 
in ROTC," says-Charlie Longanecker, a sophomore in the 
Army ROTC. Longanecker, who attended a Catholic high 
school that mandated two years of Junior ROTC service, was 
offered a university scholarship equal to what the Army pro­
vides. He chose to join the Army, he says, for "the security 
of having a job after college, and because it's a great stepping 
stone into civilian life." 

Ruben Medina is a sophomore from Mexico in the Air Force 
ROTC. Since he is not an American citizen, he is ineligible for 
The last thing that I would ever characterize anyEvery one of our sol,diers is trained in the just
( 

Lt. Col. John Arata, U.S. Army retired, is a professor of military science at Notre Dame. He claims that there is a "rigorous and comprehensive educational program for all our soldiers in ethics and military law." Arata continues: ''The last thing that I would ever characterize anyone in the military as is an unguided missile. Every one ofour soldiers is trained in the just application of force." 
While the military obviously does not abide by any particu­lar religious standards, its code of ethics bears many similari­ties to the Catholic Just War Theory. Students are versed in the Hague and Geneva conventions, which, among other things, include directives to treat prisoners humanely, to protect civil­ians wherever possible and to refuse orders which violate the laws ofjust war. Cadets also engage in a series of case studies, in which they examine apocryphal war crimes and abuses ­and even popular military chants -for their unethical content 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
the usual military scholarships given to ROTC students. "I joined it because I want to be an aerospace engineer," he says. "It's been my dream to design military aircraft for most of my life. Why not [study with] the best Air Force in the world?" Medina points to the military's reputation for character development as another reason for his participation: "[The Air Force] is a bunch of great people," he says. "They really teach you to be a leader." He adds: "ROTC's goal is to develop leaders for the Air Force and better citizens for the nation. They teach you honesty, cour­tesy and devotion." 
Christopher Baughman is another example of a student who is not doing it for the money. Also a sophomore in the Air Force, Baughman had planned to attend the Air Force Academy, "but then I realized I wanted to live a more normal, college-student life," he says. "I chose Notre Dame because it has a great ROTC, even though I got better scholarships at other schools without Air Force." 

In attempts to curb a rising dropout rate, beginning in spring 2002, the Army ROTC will raise its level of financial assis­tance to meet all tuition costs of undergraduates at Notre Dame and a selection of other top-end schools, and it will eliminate mandatory early-morning physical training sessions. The Navy program offers students $90,000 towards their undergraduate educations. Air Force cadets can tailor their scholarship amounts, depending on the amount of service they plan to perform after graduation. All ROTC programs give students a one-year grace period-typically the freshman year-during which students can drop ROTC without owing back any of their tuition money or having to serve· any further. After this point, most students are given an additional year to determine their futures without the obligation of military service should they choose to drop out; however, they must pay back their tuition money as they would an interest-free loan. Usually, after the sophomore year, students are required to commit to military service. 
Arata admits that a number of cadets -"smaller than a small minority," he says -do join ROTC purely for the money. But, he says, these students "generally do not stay after the first year." 
Despite these concessions, many critics still feel that students' decisions to join the military will be colored by money. Such an alternative is not unheard of. During the mid-1990s, the Massa­chusetts Institute ofTechnology faced growing pressure to abol­ish ROTC because the military's homosexual stance was in­compatible with the school's nondiscrimination policy. By this point, most ofthe Ivy League had already abolished ROTC (most notably Harvard, whose students depend on the neighboring MIT program to fulfill their training). Instead of following suit, however, MIT created a program for service-minded homosexu­als whose public stance bars them from the military. Under the system, created in 1997, any homosexual student can apply for loans equal to the ROTC scholarships, and after graduation, MIT will forgive these loans provided that the student performs some sort of full-time public service, such as the Peace Corps, or even teaching at a public school. 
Baxter wants to create a similar system here at Notre Dame, 
And so, it appears that Pax Christi and other campus peace activists are a long way from achieving their tangible goals. But raising awareness is a different issue, and many Catholic campuses have begun creating cultures of informed ethical con­sideration of military issues through peace-studies departments. Colman McCarthy wrote in the September 29, 2000 National Catholic Reporter that "the University of Notre Dame under­graduate course catalogue uses four pages to describe 34 ROTC military courses ranging from 'Amphibious Warfare I and II' to 'The Evolution of Warfare I and IL' Peace studies receives less than a fourth of a page." But the program is doing better than this may imply, particularly after September 11. 
Notre Dame's undergraduate peace-studies minor department, which recently has applied for supplemental major status, has approximately 90 students. Hesburgh founded it as a program by which Soviet Russians and Americans could live together, but it has grown into a broadly international think tank. Like other peace-studies departments, Notre Dame's incorporates an element of Pax Christi-like grassroots campaigning with seri­ous political and military involvement. Cynthia Mahmood, a professor of anthropology who works with the department, ex­plains the mindset: "We do have an element of activism in our ethos, but we are also grounded in policy-making," she says. 
Mahmood senses no contention at the institutional level be­tween her fellow peacemakers and the military; in fact, she claims that in her work studying terrorism, "the military is of­ten the voice of restraint." Mahmood extols the relationship that can be fostered between the armed forces, with their real expe­rience of violence, and the peace lobby, with its devotion to ethical consideration, in the creation of a peaceful society. 
Hope tor the future 

So, while ROTC and the peace lobby will never be completely in agreement, they can be reconciled. This is evident at several other colleges, where Pax Christi chapters and other similar or­ganizations have joined into such mutualistic relationships with their ROTC counterparts. 
The College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. may be the best example ofsuch an alignment. Through the efforts ofthe peace 
one in the military as is an unrgJuncciea mnss~~(e. 
application Of force. 
and he is calling upon the administration to fund it. "Wouldn't it be interesting if, just as homosexual students [at MIT] are found unfit for military service, Christians were found unfit because of their baptism?" he muses. Fittingly, then, Notre Dame could create a scholarship program for those who are willing to serve, but whose moral principles prevent them from engaging in military activity. As for the payment of such scholarships? "There's money floating around this place," Baxter contends. 
Poorman approaches this issue delicately. "It's a great pro­posal, but it would have to be worked out practically," he says. While he does not deny that the university could afford such a scholarship program, he acknowledges the complications that would arise with financial aid and the administration if such an idea were to materialize. As of now, the administration has not formally considered this type of program. 
-Lt.Col.John-Arata 
studies department and the members ofROTC and Pax Christi, the two previously opposing sides share members and engage in open dialogue. Nathanael Shea, a sophomore peace-studies minor, re­ports that "Pax Christi and the ROTC used to be very much at odds, especially during the Vietnam War." He says: "In fact, a lot of people were in both, and ended up leaving ROTC because of their convictions, but they eventually came to an agreement that they're not so fundamentally opposed that they can't work together to achieve the same ends. They may not use the methods, but their ends are the same." 
By the same token, Notre Dame's peace lobby and its ROTC program can info1m each other and accomplish peaceful ends more effectively. But it will require willingness on both sides to for­get past name-calling and to moderate opinions for the sake of a common goal. D 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 




their romantic exploits resulted in the pro­duction of ... don't look, Mom ... "their own special brand of whitening-action" toothpaste, which they promptly applied to the bristles of the· former item. Now the "evil, heartless wench" has a gleaming, pearly smile. Unless he finds out her identity, the Gipper is going to play it safe and never kiss a girl again. 
The Gipper received another tip involv­ing procreative bodily fluids, but he's had enough of the subject, so he'll leave it with this: keep your clothes out ofthe Zahm laun­dry machines. 

An Early Epiphany 
OK, Gipplings, you can finish your dinner now -the worst is over. And if you're at North, take a look over at the nativity scene. Something missing? _,<\ppare_ntly, according to a trio of tipsters, one of the wise men has managed to escape. He's known by his res­cuers, with whom he now resides, as "Melchior." They insist that he just wants 
to live as a college stu­dent for a couple of weeks before returning to NFC to fulfil his duty as a bearer of frankin­cense at Jesus' birth. 

I 
I And so, in order to show the wise one a good time, Melchior's room­mates took himto Purdue r I.last weekend. Apparently he was a real hit with the ladies, who, being from Purdue, instinctively started "getting it on" with the old boy at par­ties across campus. In fact, one young woman's newly awoken libido took her so far as to try to steal the old fellow. Luckily, one ofhis ever­

"The Dental Hygienists" requested a signed photo of the Gipp. 

vigilant roommates
Unfortunately, the Gipper is fresh out of pies, so please accept this substitute of Melchior having a ball at Purdue. 
tracked her down and found her in a bedrpom; 

16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 

after much debate, he gave up trying to talk her out ofitand seized the poor old man from her lustful grasp. Hugh Hefner, step aside. 
Father's at Four 

Ifyou're near Stanford Hall, you may want to stop by the rector's room and down a forty with Pops. According to a pair of loyal tip­sters, he recently confiscated something on the order of 114 of them. The story: A group ofstudents, whom_one tipster calls ''Taskforce 40," made the mistake of pulling their car up to Stanford to unload 4,500 ounces of the wonderful yellow liquid. Father, who must have been scoping the liquor store waiting for just such a day, pulled up next to them and diverted their intended distri­bution around the dorm into his suite. No word on what has become ofthe forties, but if you see the Stanford dog dancing on a table at Reckers with a shower curtain around its shoulders, you'll know. 
Well, Gipplings, that's it for this issue. Have a Jolly Noel · and a Happy New Year. Drink plenty of 'nog to keep in good cheer. (Not the cartoned kind ­the stuff with rum.) And please, send a tip that doesn't involve ... uh, Merry Christmas, Mom. 



z 
0 
~ 
::;;
a: 
5: 
~ 
~ 
a: 
0 
a. 
Cf) 
u.. 
Q! 
>­
Cf) 
b: w f 
::::)!
o' 
() 

EvanNielsen is a junior defense man and captain · for the Irish hockey squad. He hails from Evanston, 
· Ill., and is majoring in government. With his 6­foot-3, 212-pound frame, Nielsen is a force on the ice, combining excellent skating skills with intel­ligent play. In the 2000 NHL Entry Draft, Nielsen was an eighth-round selection of the Atlanta Thrashers, but he chose to remain with the Irish. 
'  (  ~  .  ,  "  .,  . .  ..  
'  ~  ~  '  ' :·  •  , ~~  '  ~  • •  •  
'  - .  ~ ,'  . .  

What is it like to be the team's captain as a junior? 
It's an honor to be chosen by your team­mates, but it's also abig responsibility. I try to lead by example and play solid. 
What has been the highlight of your career thus far? 
My highlight was scoring a breakaway goal with about 40 seconds left in a game to beat Bowling Green. 
What music do you listen to before a game to get pumped up? 
Techno. Dance music gets me pumped up. 
Do you ever find yourself on the rink saying, "Damn, it's cold out here?" 
I actually find myself saying, "Damn, it's hot out here." We wear a lot of equipment, so it can get pretty hot. 
What is more fun -playing hockey on an indoor rink or outside on a frozen pond? 

It's definitely fun to play pick up hockey outside. Playing in front of a big crowd is great, too. 
What in the world is the blue line? That's an interesting question. It's the line that determines off-sides. 
Do you have any superstitions? 
Before a game I always eat two cookies for two points. 
What kind of cookies? 

It's kind of a chocolate chip and has macadamia nuts. Sometimes the dining hall doesn't have the right ones. 
Have you ever driven a zamboni? 
No. I definitely want to. We've talked to the rink manager, and I think I will 
[drive one] by the time I leave here. 
What is your favorite part about 
Notre Dame? 

Parietals. That way I don't have to police myself; the university does it for me. 
What are your goals for the future? 
I just want to make the most out of 
every day -hopefully that includes 
some hockey. 

-Lynn Olszowy 
Jerry's Jabber 
On Sunday, Athletic Director Kevin White fired head football coach Bob Davie. No successor has been named yet. ... The Notre Dame football team completed the 2001 season last Saturday, defeating Purdue 24-18 in West Lafayette, Ind. CB Vontez Duff returned a kickoff for a 96-yard score, and CB Jason Beckstrom returned an interception 29 yards for a touchdown. QB 
Carlyle Holiday 
completed seven of 15 passes for a total of just 31 yards. The Irish amassed just 162 yards of total offense.... The volleyball team fell in the first round of the NCAA tournament last Friday, losing 3-1 to No. 20 Michigan State. Kim Fletcher led the Irish in kills, tallying 16 while hitting .355 .... The women's basketball team lost to No. 16 Michigan Sunday, 78-63. G Alicia Ratay led the Irish attack, scoring 19 points and grabbing seven rebounds. F Jacqueline Batteast added 17 points and nine rebounds.... The men's basketball team lost for the first time in eight games, falling 76-75 to Indiana. The win was Indiana's 13th straight over the Irish in Bloomington, and its seventh straight overall in the series. PG Chris Thomas scored 24 points for the Irish, while F Ryan Humphrey added 23 points, 12 rebounds, and six blocks .... The hockey team continues to recover from its early-season woes, improving to 4-6-4 after a two-game sweep of Lake Superior State. Rob Globke scored twice in Sunday's victory over the Lakers. The Irish are 4-2-3 in their last seven games after opening the season 0-4-1. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 17 


When Matt Doherty left the Irish for North Carolina, ND fans were de­vastated. But now, one year later, the Irish are 7-1 under coach Mike Brey, and Doherty' s Tar Heels began the season 0-3. Irish fans now can see Doherty for what he really is: a mediocre coach. 

The North Carolina Tar Heels have made 27 consecutive appearances in the NCAA Tournament, a streak unmatched in America. Will they make it 28? After opening the season with losses to Hampton, Davidson and Indiana, this question has rare validity. But head coach MattDoherty isn' tafraid ofbreak­ing the streak. "Iflwas afraid ofthose streaks, I would have stayed at Notre Dame," he told The Sporting News last week. It's too bad Doherty wasn't afraid, because he should have remained at Notre Dame. The timing for his move to North Carolina couldn't have been worse, and if he can't make ends meet, it will be his head that rolls for it. Carolina has just two seniors on its 2001-02 roster, meaning Doherty' s Tar Heels lack experience. They've proven this, as North Carolina opened up 0-3 for the first time since before the Great Depression. 
The weakness in North Carolina's roster is not Doherty' s fault. After Dean Smith retired in 1997, Bill Guthridge replaced him on an intetim basis. He was never intended to be Smith's replacement, but other schools took advantage of the situation to steal recruits from the Tar Heels. 
Thus, it's hard to blame Doherty for the team's recent failures. But those who fol­lowed ND under Doherty know that he has a track record of doing two things: winning big games and dropping ones he shouldn't lose. Such inconsistency made for exciting basket­ball at ND, since the Irish had not seen the NCAA tournament in more than a decade. Irish fans overlooked losses to Pittsburgh and Rutgers for wins against Connecticut and Saint John's. 
Doherty can't expect such an attitude from Tar Heels fans. First of all, there's no such thing as an upset win-at Chapel Hill; North Carolina is supposed to be able to beat anyone. More importantly, they aren't supposed to lose in the second round ofthe NCAA tourna­ment to a heavy underdog. But that's what happened last year when number seven seed Penn State knocked off No. 2 North Carolina. 
The disappointing loss sent Carolina home a couple of weeks early. And then when the Tar Heels finally did take the court again, they opened with three straight losses. While the state of recruiting at Carolina to this point is not Doherty's fault he still must take the blame for what happens on the court. Caro­lina, arguably collepe basketball's most sto­ried and consistent powerhouse, got whooped at home by two mid-conference schools. 
The Tar Heels are inexperienced. But los­ing to Hampton and Davidson? In Chapel Hill? That should never happen to a program like North Carolina, no matter what the roster. 

Doherty never should have left Notre Dame. Fans believed he was the solution to the ills that plagued Irish basketball. His enthusiasm was embraced by the Notre Dame commu­nity, and he received nothing but praise from the fans and media alike. By recent standards, his recruiting was stellar, and indeed, Notre Dame still is reaping the benefits ofhis efforts, as two top-100 prospects have signed intents to attend Notre Dame next fall. In just one year, Doherty had become king of the Notre Dame campus, overshadowing even Bob Davie and his football team. 
And then he relinquished his throne. He bid farewell to the shocked faces staring at the hero who was abandoning them. Some wished him well. Some swore never to forgive him. All felt betrayed. Doherty had left us to chase his dream job at his alma mater. 
And it is that school that will eventually dismiss him. You see, Matt Doherty is not a goodbasketballcoach.MikeBrey'slrishsquad proves this, demonstrating a stability that Doherty's team lacked. Under Doherty, the Irish ran a slow offense that consisted of hurling the ball around the arch until someone could bounce it in to Troy Murphy. If that didn't happen, then someone fired a three, usually at a totally inappropriate time for such a shot. No one could drive the paint, or so it seemed, since no one ever ttied. It wasn't Doherty's basketball savvy that made him successful at Notre Dame; rather, it was his tremendous enthusiasm, great chatisma and even-greater recruiting instincts. These quali­ties were more than sufficient at a school where basketball had been in the doldrums prior to his arrival. At Carolina, such qualities don't mean anything unless they bring Final Fourappearances and national championships with them. And while it's still early, Carolina looks like a team that will be fortunate even to make the NCAA tournament. For better or for · worse, Doherty will be blamed. D 


SPORT: MEN'S BASKETBALL OPPONENT: MIAMI OF OHIO. WHERE: OXFORD, OHIO WHEN: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 
3:00 PM The Irish got their first taste of legitimate Division I-A basketball in Bloomington Tuesday, and they nearly overcame an early 14-point deficit. ND will put up a more consistent effort this Saturday, taking Miami of Ohio by?. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor The Irish played their first off-game all season on Tuesday, and Indiana barely squeaked by them. Notre Dame won't take long to regain its aggressive rebounding and perimeter shooting touch, and it will stomp Miami, 88-70. 

-David Murray 
Assistant Sports Editor Coming off a zero-point performance against Indiana, Matt Carroll will torch the Red Hawks for 20­plus points. No n:iore fooling around: Irish win, 81-63. 
-Matthew Barr Managing Editor 

18 SCHOLASTICSPORTS PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


WHAT DO YOU HAVE THAT HEMINGWAY AND PICASSO DID NOT? 
A chance to be published in The Juggler. 
Submit work for the Spring 2002 issue of Notre Dame's annual student literary 

magazine. 

Short stories,_poetry and essay~ 
to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of SOUTH DINING HALL 
by FRIDAY, JANUARY 18th 

(poetry written in Spanish, French or Italian is encouraged) 

Artwork and design submissions 
to 212 Riley Hall 
by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1st 
(please submit any large or three-dimensional work in slide form) 

juggler@nd.edu ... make Ernie and Pablo proud. 



SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
13 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 




SCHOLaSTIC 
INFORMED. INTELLIGENT. OUT OF THE ORDINARY. 
,.---------------~--------------I 
·· , . PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR ®QJI@:sl:;jJ~i_rtJ§ht LIST.. SEND THIS FORM AND 1 $35.00 PAYMENT TO: 
. I NAME: --------------SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE I 
j 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER j NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 I
I ADDRESS:-----------­
! ----"---------I
I I 


COMMENTARY 
Rebuilding the House of Rockne 
With Davie gone, Jon Gruden is an early favorite to lead the Irish back to glory 
GERARDMESKILL 
It's almost eerie the way recent major events for Notre Dame football happen to correspond to the liturgical calendar. In 2000, Kevin White arrived in South Bend to take the helm as athletic director just one day after Palm Sunday. Just as Christians celebrate the anniversary of Jesus' trium­phant arrival into Jerusalem as they await Easter, Irish fans celebrated White's arrival as the beginning of a resurrection in Notre Dame football. Nineteen months later, White has made his first major stride toward such a rejuve­nation. On Sunday, the first day of Advent, White informed the college football world that Bob Davie had been dismissed. True to form, as that Sunday marked the beginning of the vigil for the birth of Jesus, so too did it begin the wait for Notre Dame's savior. Of course, there's no real connection be­tween religion and Notre Dame football. (Basilica bells ringing after home football wins is just a coincidence.) Nevertheless, after Davie's lackluster five-year tenure, the Irish faithful are not willing to settle for much less than a football god at the team's helm. Such job requirements eliminate 99 per­cent of the football world. What remains is a short list of football deities, namely the Oakland Raiders' Jon Groden, the Jackson­ville Jaguars' Tom Coughlin, and the Uni­versity of Oregon's Mike Bellotti. Here's a breakdown of why any of these three grid­iron titans would make a perfect elixir for what ails the Irish: 
Jon Gruden 
Now that Davie is officially gone, specu­lation has reached a crescendo that Groden might be headed to South Bend. His wide appeal with the Notre Dame community is obvious. He grew up in South Bend an ar­dent Notre Dame fan. His mother painted a mural of Notre Dame Staclium on his base­ment wall. His father was an assistant under Dan-Devine. Groden was even quoted re­cently as saying: ''To see that marching band walking across campus at 8 o'clock in the morning, to look up and see Touchdown Jesus and the Golden Dome, to feel Rockne's 
20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
ghost, the best word I can use to describe it is chilling. Every time I see Notre Dame on TV, it gives me goose bumps." 
Enough said. Jon Gruden loves Notre Dame, and, right now, Notre Dame loves Groden right back. But that doesn't answer two very important questions: One, will Jon 

THE CHOSEN ONE Jon Gruden, well­known as an Irish supporter, is many fans' favorite to replace Bob Davie. The unexpired contract he holds with the Oakland Raiders is, however, a factor that must be considered. 
Groden leave Oakland for Notre Dame? And two, is Jon Groden the right man for the job? 
The answer to the first question is fiercely debate. According to ESPN's Joe Theismann, there's no chance. "Iflcould pick one NFL coach I would want at Notre Dame, it would be Groden becaus6 I know him and his com­mitment and his passion and love for the uni­versity," he says. "But it ain't going to hap­pen -period." 
I'm not wholly convinced, though. Yes, Groden is locked up by the Raiders through next season. Yes, his team looks poised to make a run at the Super Bowl. And yes, all of this means that the Irish would have to wait until late January or early February to get the man in here. But it still is not hope­less. 
It doesn't really matter that the Irish would have to wait. The buzz has been that leaving the office vacant that long will hurt recruit­ing. The truth is that Notre Dame has more 

than half ofits recruiting class signed. Even 
with a vacant office, the entire country is 
aware that a big name is highly likely to 
succeed Davie. So, if anything, the rest of 
Notre Dame's prospects should be enticed. 
No matter how long it takes to fill the void, 
rest assured that the Irish recruiting class 
will be strong. 
The best person to answer questions about 

prying Groden from the Raiders is none 
other than Gruden, himself. And guess 
what? He isn't saying anything. Oruden's 
silence is all the more reason to believe he's 
coming to South Bend. He knows full:well 
that all he needs to do is definitively say 
that he isn't interested in the Irish head­
coaching job, and all of the hype will fade 
away. Ifhe really weren't interested, this is 
exactly what he would do. Yet he chooses 
not to say anything definitive, even at the 
expense of being distracted from his duties 
as an NFL coach. Don't be misled; Jon 
Groden is very interested in this job, and if 
he receives the right offer, he's coming back 
to South Bend. 
Will he receive that offer? Is he the best man for the job? The answer to both ofthose questions should be "yes." In four years with the Oakland Raiders, he transformed them from a 4-12 team into a Super Bowl con­tender. Groden is considered one of the best offensive minds in football today, a quality sorely needed a.t Notre Dame. Unlike most NFL coaches, he favors a running-based of­fense, which makes him an even more valu­able commodity to Notre Dame, a school whose offense has been tailored to the run­ning game both by playbook writing and recruiting. He is a charismatic leader who· demands excellence and produces results. · He's perfect for Notre Dame. He should be 
the next coach of the Fighting Irish. 

Tom Coughlin 
What if Groden doesn't work out? The next best answer is Coughlin. True, his team is 3-7 and hasn't been competitive lately, but losing at the pro level has much less to do with the coaching staff than it does in collegiate football, since player acquisitions are the responsibility of a front office and not the coaches themselves. Of all coaches in NFL history, only five with more than 100 career wins have averaged 10 wins per season or better, a feat that Coughlin has ac­
complished with the Jaguars. In six full sea­sons of NFL football, Coughlin matched 
Davie's .583 winning percentage at Notre Dame. Keep in mind that lofty long-term winning percentages do not come as easily in the NFL as they do in the NCAA, making Coughlin's record appealing while Davie's is appalling. Furthermore, Coughlin's record includes Jacksonville's expansion year, a 4­12 season that set the record for most wins by an expansion team in the NFL. 
Like Groden, Coughlin is respected as an 
offensive mastermind, demonstrated by 
Jacksonville's NFLleading numbers in pass­ing (1996) and rushing (1999). Such statis­tics show the versatility of Coughlin's playbook, which would revive Notre Dame's own stale offense. The 2001 Irish ranked 110th in total offense, a statistic more shame­ful than Davie's three 6-loss seasons. 
Unfortunately, Coughlin also is under contract. However, his team's disap­pointing season means he will not be working this year's NFL playoffs, making him easier for the Irish to access should they decide not to wait for Groden. 

Mike Bellotti 
Ifthe Irish choose to go with a col­lege coach, Bellotti probably will be at the top of their list. His .690 win­ning percentage in six full seasons with the Ducks is second in school history, ranking only behind legend­ary Hugo Bezdek's tenure from 1913-17. For the past two seasons,. Bellotti's Ducks have challenged for the national championship, ringing in an era ofsuccess never before experi­enced at the University of Oregon. 
More enticing to the Irish is Bellotti's offensive numbers at Oregon: 55,000-plus total offensive yards and sixty-six 30-point games. both ofwhich are Oregon records for the time period in which they have been amassed. 
However, it is difficult to tell whether ornot Bellotti will leave Oregon for Notre Dame. On one hand, he has achieved un­paralleled success during his time at Or­egon. Yet, it is also questionable whether' he can improve the Oregon program any more than he has, which may lead hiin to seek a change. Also, it is important to re­member that Kevin White has Pac-10 ties from his time at Arizona State, which may help him bring Bellotti to Notre Dame. 

The Rest 
Many other names are swirling around the rumor mill. Notable among them are Stanford's Tyrone Willingham, Georgia Tech's George O'Leary, Wisconsin's Barry Alvarez and Washington's Rick Neuheisel. While all of these men are excellent football coaches, none of them deserve much con­sideration until Groden, Coughlin and Bellotti all get the opportunity to tum down the Irish. But in my opinion, the offer sheet won't get past the top man on the list. . 
SHOES TO FILL Bob Davie is widely acknowledged to have run a clean program, but his fortunes on the field were mixed. This year's lackluster 5-6 season prompted the university to fire hiin after the Purdue game, a five-year contract notwithstanding. 
NEW GOALS 
Under new leadership, the men's 
soccer team gets back to the basics 


DAVIDMURRAY 
0 ver the past couple of years, not much has been said about the Irish men's soccer team. While the women took over the soccer spotlight, ad­vancing deep into the NCAA Tournament and consistently ranking in the top 10, their male counterparts found the going to be tough -until this season. In 2001, under the direction of coach Bobby Clark, the team's third head coach in as many years, the Irish compiled an impressive 12-7-0 overall record and reached the NCAA Tour­nament for the first time since 1996 before falling to Maryland in the first round. Thus, after two mediocre seasons, it appears that the men are ready to establish themselves among the top teams in the Big East , and the coun­try. After their 9-6-3 season in 1998, the Irish encountered a number of obstacles, most no­tably the tragic loss of coach Mike Berticelli to a sudden heart attack following the 1999 season. Berticelli was an extremely success­ful coach who had built a reputation of get­ting along well with his players. He had guided the Irish to a 104-80-19 record in his 10-year tenure as head coach, though in his final sea­son they were only 8-9-3. Chris Apple, a former assistant ofBerticelli, stepped in as the interim coach for the 2000 season. Apple had only marginal success, helping the Irish to a 7-8-2 finish. Enter Clark, the former Stanford head coach who was handed the reins of the program in January 2001. Clark had compiled an eye­I popping 71-21-12 record with the Cardinal, 
1, 
and he came to South Bend with a clear vi­I sion ofwhat his new team was lacking. "They ' had a rough time with the circums_tances of 
losing Coach Berticelli," Clark says. 'The way it happened, it would have taken its toll on any team. I think Chris Apple did a great job with the boys. The one thing I tried to do was give [the players] a little bit of stabi_lity." 
Tl}e plan that Clark imposed on the team was rather basic. He began by convincing the players that this season would represent a fresh start, unrelated to the previous seasons. Clark also laid down goals that were more oriented to fulfilling potential than to accumulating sta­
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
tistics. "I think our goals are pretty simple," he says. "They are just things like coming to practice every day, practicing well and being the best team that we can be. It's all goals like that. Can we reach our full potential? Can everyone get a 3.0 [GPA]? I don't ever put myself or the team under pressure. The only thing we are under pressure to do is to be the . best that we can be at training, in the class­room and in the games." 
Throughout the season, Clark continually reminded his players that they needed to 
"I don't ever put myself or the team under pressure. The only thing we are under pressure to do is to be the best that we can be at training, in the classroom and in the games." 
-Bobby Clark 
work hard. He pressed them to get better every day so that they would gradually ap­proach their full potential. The players bought into his system, in part due to his successful career prior to being hired at Notre Dame. 
"He taught a sy~.fom that was proven and that he believed in," sophomore midfielder Chad Riley says. "He knows what it is to make a team. He told us that the beginning of the year would be tough, but if we were a good team that we would continue to im­prove while other teams lost their way." 
One of the most notable goals has been developing a team concept, rather than one focused on individuals. Sophomore midfielder Justin Detter claims that this was a key problem from the previous season that needed to be addressed. "One of the weak­nesses within the team last year was indi­vidualism," he says. "A lot of times, people were more worried about scoring a goal than winning the game, and that hurt the team. 

This year, we all wanted to work for each other, and we would do anything for our teammates. We are learning how to be the best team, not the best individuals." 
Junior tri-captainAndreas Forstner agrees that the players developed more into team members this year. "I think this year's team was a team without stars," Forstner says. "Everyone had to play a certain role, and each player knew that every role was equally important." 
Though Clark's emphasis. on the team mentality was important, he also took the team's work ethic to a new level. Junior for­ward Erich Braun says that this development began immediately in the offseason workouts. 
"We matured as a team out of the effort in the spring," he says. "Our success this sea­son is not surprising for the team [because] we put in the proper effort in the spring." 
Detter feels that the team developed a higher level of work and effort. "One of the biggest pieces to our success this year was becoming a 'blue-collar team' and working harder than every team we play. In almost every game we won this year, we outworked the [opponent]. It's a great mentality to have, and it has propelled us to the next level." 
Despite their intense offseason prepara­tion, the Irish were able to muster only three wins in their first seven games. This period included crushing defeats by Clemson and Big East rival Rutgers. But, instead of get­

ting discouraged, the team responded by rat­tling off six consecutive victories, five of which were against conference opponents. 
"At the beginning of the season, we had a very tough schedule," says junior fullback Justin Ratcliffe. "From our record, you might have thought that we started out kind ofslow. We did in some ways, but we picked it up in the middle of our season with the long winning streak." 
Freshman goaltender Chris Sawyer, who allowed only one goal during that streak, said that the team never lost heart because of the new philosophy that Clark had in­stilled in the players. "The key is to take it one game at a time," Sawyer says, "and fo­cus on the performance of each game, not the result." 
Two ingredients contributed to the team's success on the field. One was certainly the stellar play of a number of freshman and sophomores. Just as important, according to Clark and most of the team members, was the senior leadership. Clark calls the seniors "inspirational, a terrific group to work with, and role models for all the younger boys." Clark and Braun both specifically admired the work of seniors Tim Storino and B.J. Cotter. 
"They are great competitors and they con­tributed so much over this season," Braun says. Clark says that Cotter was a particu­larly valuable asset to the team. "[He was] someone who played a support role all year,'' Clark says, "but every time he was called on, when [senior tri-captain] Griffin Howard was injured or someone else was in­jured, he came on and did a wonderful job." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, their strong sea­son ended with a loss in a tough game against Mary land in the first round ofthe NCAA Tour­nament. Though the Irish felt they were get­ting stronger as the game wore on, their hopes at advancing were all but dashed when Mary­land scored the first goal of the game with under two minutes remaining. Notre Dame continued to battle valiantly for the remain­der of the match, but to no avail. 
"It was a game that we thought we should have won, and we thought we had a good grip on it," Detter says. "Now we can only use the bitter tastes in our mouth to build from. We expect to be playing in December next year." 
Almost everyone on the team feels that the current Irish squad al­ways had the talent to be successful and that the addition ofClark was the final, crucial piece to the puzzle. 
"Without Coach Clark, none ofthis would have been possible," claims sophomore tri­captain Greg Martin. Riley agrees. "I think our team has great players, but having a great coach­ing staff on top of that makes everything come together." 
The lessons that the Irish players learned this year and the growth they underwent as a team makes it likely that they will be far more than a one-hit wonder. 
"I believe this year wasjusta glimpse at what we are capable of," Sawyer says. "We still have a long way to go before we reach our full potential. If things go the way we are planning, we should make a strong run through the NCAAs next year, and tum a few heads in doing so." 

Clark believes that the team progressed and showed a lot of promise this year, and he thinks that the possibilities for the future are endless. "I think we were able to get things back on even keel," he says. "Hope­fully, we can give it a bit of stability for a few years now and build from that." D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
NOTRE DAME ISN'T A FOOTBALL FACTORY. 



IT'S A PRIEST FACTORY. 
our tea,n ofrecent ND alums ... 

Discover Your Vocation At Notre Dame. 

www.nd.edu/ ~vocation 
,ANSWER ~ 

THECALL,"1Y 





iFeliz Navidad! 
Notre Dame continues traditional Latino celebration of Las Posadas 
KATHLEENCORTE 
Bethlehem probably wasn't this cold, and the tall gingerbread-house dorms on South Quad are a far cry from the inns of yore. But with the Mexi­can tradition of Las Posadas, Campus Ministry and Coro Primavera bring the ancient Christmas story to life, right here on campus. Las Posadas, which originated in Mexico but is celebrated in other Latin American countries as well, means "the inns" in Spanish. "It's a dramatization of the pilgrimage of Mary and Joseph through Bethlehem, looking for room at the inn," explains the Rev. Tom Bednar, director of cross-cultural ministry. Traditionally, the event takes place in neighborhoods, with different families volunteering their houses as the inns. Two parishioners portray Mary and Joseph. They lead a procession from house to house, knocking on doors and pleading for lodging, only to be turned away. After this, Bednar says, "The family would join up with the group and follow them to the next house." Carrying-candles and singing Spanish Christmas songs, the group finally comes to the last house, where Mary and Joseph are welcomed and all are invited inside for a reception. The Notre Dame version of Las Posadas will preserve the main aspects of the cel­ebration, with some minor changes, in­cluding the duration of the celebration. "Here at ND, we do it all in one night," says junior Andy Gomez, co-president of Coro Primavera, ND's Spanish choir. "But at home with my church, we do it over a week-long period." Traditionally, the event lasts nine days, commemorating the nine months of Mary's pregnancy. "It's like a feast for every day," Gomez says. On acollege campus, dorms serve as inns for the reenactment. Last year's cel­ebration took place on North Quad, so this year's Las Posadas will begin at the book­store and work its way through the dorms on West Quad and South Quad, ending with a reception in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
In some places, it is considered a great honor to be chosen for the parts of Mary and Joseph in the Las Posadas celebra­tion. Bednar plans to ask for volunteers for the parts, but he says that the Notre Dame version might not have specific people representing the couple. "We all represent Mary and Joseph," he says. "We're all on a pilgrimage." 
ANGELA CAMPOS 


"It's a dramatization of the pilgrimage of Mary and Joseph through Bethlehem, looking for room at the inn." 
-Rev. Tom Bednar, director of cross-cultural ministry 
Nor will the participants in Notre Dame's Las Posadas be costumed. But one important aspect of the celebration will be preserved: the Spanish caroling. Led by Coro Primavera, the procession will carry candles and sing carols as it walks from dorm to dorm. 
Gomez remembers being pleasantly surprised the first time he took part in Notre Dame's Las Posadas celebration as a freshman. "When I came here, [I thought], 'Oh wow, these are the songs we sing at home,' "he says. In past years, the songbook, printed so that all partici­pants can join in the singing, has included traditional carols such as "Campana Sohre Campana" and "Noche de Paz," as well as English favorites like "The Little Drummer Boy." 
At each dorm, the procession asks for lodging through song. Bednar plans to meet with the cultural commissioners of each dorm and ask them to gather a group of students, who will then respond in 
song, refusing to let Mary and Joseph stay at their inn. "Once the singing is over, we invite them to join us," Gomez says. "We usually start off small, but when we get to the dorms, people join in." 
After Mary and Joseph finally are wel­comed at the last dorm, the Las Posadas celebration will finish with the reception. Gomez remembers dishes like tamales, rice and beans from the feasts at home, but Notre Dame's celebration will con­clude with hot chocolate, flautas and churros, a deep-fried sweet bread filled with cream. 
According to Gomez, the Las Posadas celebration is a way for Hispanic students to carry on with familiar Christmas tradi­tions while at Notre Dame. "I think it's a way for all the people to feel at home," he says. 
But both Gomez and Bednar emphasize that all students are invited to join in the Las Posadas processfon, regardless of background or knowledge of the Spanish 
-language. "The people in the dorms struggle through the words, but they get the job done, and they have smiles on their faces," Gomez says. "It's great to see how they want to get involved in other tradi­tions." 
"It's something Latino students can of­fer to the campus," Bednar says, adding that Las Posadas is a way for Latinos to say, "This is something we're proud of­celebrate with us." 
The Las Posadas procession will begin in the lobby ofthe Hammes Bookstore at · 7:30 p.m. on December 13. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 






of Christrrras 
A day-to-day guide to holiday cheer in South Bend 

At this point, it's not exactly begin­ning to look a lot like Christmas here in northern Indiana. Contributing to the decidedly un-holiday-ish attitude around this place are. the unusually balmy tempera­tures oflate and the before-break forecast call­ing for a whole lot of rain, not flakes, to fall from the sky. Throw in a campus-wide sense ofirritation ( or, maybe more aptly, panic) re­garding the always-colossal amount of pre­break work to be done, and you don't get a warm and fuzzy Christmas-y feeling in your heart. But things can change. Living in South Bend does not necessitate a blue Christmas. Consider this an early present from us here at Scholastic -12 ideas, some perhaps better than others, to get you in a festive mood. Here they are, arranged in ever-so-convenient cal­endar form, to help you transform ND into something of a winter wonderland, whether it wants to be or not. 

Thursday, December 6 
Go hear the ND Chorale perform excerpts from Handel's Messiah in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. "It's pretty much our biggest con­cert of the year," says junior soprano An­gela Zawada. "We perform with a chamber orchestra, and there are several solos." Tick­ets for the concert, which usually lasts about an hour, are on sale for $Jto $6 at LaFor-. tune. 

Friday, December 7 
Make the trek out to Carroll to watch its 
fourth annual Christmas tree lighting cer­
emony at 7 p.m. "The Glee Club .will sing, 
and the tree will be blessed by one of the 
university's administrators who's a priest, 
usually Father Scully or Father Poorman,'' 
says dorm president Kevin Thomas. "The tree 
is usually around 30 to 40 feet tall. A couple 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
of weeks before the event, we go up to a tree farm in Michigan and pick out the tree and then have itdelivered. Itis a really great event, and we usually get a nice-sized crowd.'.' Af­terwards, everyone's invited back into Carroll to warm up with hot chocolate and cookies. 



Saturday, December 8 
Arrive back on campus in time to catch the Glee Club's annual Christmas concert, In Dulci Jubilo, at Stepan at 6 p.m. and 
8:30 p.m. "The concert has always been a tradition of ours," says senior Aaron Trulley. "We play a mix of music, from old standbys like 'Jingle Bells' to more religious songs." Most of the songs also are featured on the.club's new Christmas CD, which will be on sale at the conpert. Tickets are available at the LaFortune In­formation Desk for $3, and proceeds will benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 


Sunday, December 9 
Go sledding at Bendix Woods, located 10 miles west of South Bend on Timothy Road in New Carlisle, Ind. Call (219) 654-3155 to get directions to 195 acres of sledding possi­bilities. The park ~lso proudly claims to en­compass "the second-highest point in the county," which is a pretty impressive claim, given the many formidable hills in competi­tion for such a title here in the Midwest. Take the challenge and try to make it down this monster slope in one piece. 



Monday, December 10 
Set aside a few hours tonight to stop by Howard Park and ice skate under the stars. Located downtown near the Emporium, the park is an outdoor skating rink in South Bend and promises to provide an effective means ofprocrastination and escapism. 



Tuesday, December 11 

Catch a performance of the Southold Dance Theater's Nutcracker at 2 p.m. at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Even if you're not a ballet enthusiast, the music will get you in the mood for a very merry Christ­mas. Call (219) 235-9190 to order tickets, which range in price from $9.50 to $24.50. 
iz1:::~Ski/th:etaaY}aWaY.'.):{\.;\!\I. 
Wednesday, December 12 

Study days -what better time for a (very mini) roadtrip? Pile ·some friends and ski equipment in your car and head 45 minutes north to Jones, Mich., where the Swiss Valley Ski Area is located. It offers 11 runs and lighted courses for. night skiing. f'.or you intense people, the club features· races and other events throughout the. season. For those of you who might not even know what a chair lift looks like, there's also a rustic ski shop full of cute winter apparel, so you can kill some time comparing the merits of dif­ferent snowflake-patterned wool mittens while everyone else in on the slopes. Check out www.skiswissvalley.com be­fore you go to find out the conditions and upcoming events. When you're finally done skiing for the day, cram everyone into a room at the nearby (and relatively cheap) Holiday Inn (www.holidayinn.com for reservations). 


Thursday, December 13 

Wake up and continue skiing, or shop­ping, as the case may be. 

Friday, December 14 
Upon arriving home from Michigan, de­cide that you're just not ready to hit the books -or stay in Indiana -quite yet. Take a final or two, and then head to Chicago for the weekend. It's virtually an ND admissions requirement to either live in the city or have at least 18 friends who do, so invite yourself to crash at their houses at night and then de­mand that they act as tour guide in the city during the day. Start at the Marshall Field's at 111 North State Street, which features elabo­rately decorated storefront windows every holiday seasqn. After checking out this year's theme, which is The Night Before Christmas, it's time to actually set foot inside the store, do some shopping and then head up to the seventh floor for a meal in the Walnut Room. The restaurant features a 45-foot-tall tree in the center, a roaming Christmas fairy princess who sprinkles magic dust on diners and sea­sonally appropriate desserts, such as Yuletide cakes and Frosty the Snowman cookies. Quite satisfactory, indeed. 
iL~eQiift•SCil-d'e~&fiiShUI 

Saturday, December 15 
Assuming that you don't have a final to­day, it's OK that you're still in Chicago. (If you do have a test scheduled, you probably should have gone back to campus last night.) If you're still with us today, head to Michi­gan Avenue for some Christmas shopping along the Magnificent Mile. Then stop by the Daley Plaza, on Washington and Dearborn Streets, which is home to an 85-foot-tall Christmas tree, as well as places to grab ci­der, buy holiday gifts and have your picture taken with Santa. End the night at the Audito­rium Theater, located at 50 E. Congress Park­way, with a performance of the Joffrey Ballet's The Nutcracker. Or, if you took our advice and already saw the Morris Center's version of it, check out A Christmas Cami. Call (312) 902­1500 for tickets and times. 
fliJ2.;;sJ{ate)irt:JDnica~ 

Sunday, December 16 

Spend yet another day on the city sidewalks, shopping and eating, and make sure to swing by Millennium Park on Washington Street. The park features a large outdoor skating rink that is scheduled to open on December 15, so the ice should be virtually brand new and unscuffed. Call it quits by late afternoon and jump in the car to get back to campus and the gloomy reality of a week of tests. 


Monday, December 17 

We know you'll be tired after four days of excursions in other states, so today's plan is easy. Take a study break or celebrate surviv­ing yet another day of finals and swing by Winding Brook and Winding Woods roads. Located on Day Road, about 15 minutes from campus off of Grape Road, they're known for their outrageous light displays. Juniper and Cleveland roads also are home to some more­impressive displays of electrical Christmas cheer-namely, two houses that hang strings of light at the height of their trees. Earlier this year, NewsCenter 16 featured a clip on these festive abodes, so they're worth the effort re­quired to drag yourself away from the books. Then head to Macri's Bakery, at 214 N. Niles Avenue in South Bend, to sample some Christ­mas cookies or hot chocolate and kill some time in the Italian-themed store. The cookies, according to arather chipper store employee, are "really cute-with, like, sprinkles and stuff," so it doesn't sound like you can go wrong here. 
That's it. If you've persevered· and suc­cessfully completed each of the 12 days, well, you're incredible. Throw in a Christ­mas CD, hang some mistletoe around your 
room and enjoy your last 



few days of the semester. You, no doubt, are fully imbued with the holiday spirit at this point, which will come in handy when you're frantically pack­ing up and braving the el­ements and crowds on your journey home. If, at any time, however, you begin to notice that your cheer is faltering, refer to the top of the list and start the process all over again. 
And have yourself a merry little Christmas.. 
IN T~;BLEAK MID----l WINTER Chicago 1 gets decke.d out for ·1 the season (top left), .! the Glee Club brings . 1 cheer through song ··. ! 
· · (bottom ieft) and the I Carroll Hall Christmas ·i .tree brightens the far side of St Mary's · Lake (right). . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT ·27 





i 
I 
I I l: l: 


Strange Gifts Galore 
008 seeks out the Web's weirdest 
This season, insure your gifts against Fruitcake Syndrome: Make them so unique (or so absurd) that no one would dare re-gift them. You don't even have to leave your room to enter into the presence ofstrange presents (that little play on words was my giftto you!). All ofthe following weirdo gifts are available online: 
An entire buffalo 
For $15,000, the nice folks at Heartland Buffalo (www.heartlandbuffalo.com) will butcher, portion and ship you -I am completely serious -a whole buffalo. Hide included. Head, suitable for mounting, also is included, so you can look the son of a gun in the eye while you're eating. The meat is vacuum packed and shipped in 20-pound increments. For an extra $5,000, a gourmet chef will personally prepare the buffalo (or any part thereof) at a dinner party of your choosing. I can see it now: 
Extremely Posh Person: Dahling! This buffalo is absolutely divine! It's much, much classier than caviar. Smashing dinner party, really. 
Host: Oh, it's nothing -I've got gobs more in the freezer. Would you like to see the skin? 
FYI: $15,000 worth ofbuffalo yields 20 filetmignons, 40 New York strip steaks, 40 rib eye steaks, two standing rib roasts, 100 pounds of ground burger, 50 pounds of minute steak, 50 pounds of fajita meat and 40 pounds of London broil. · 

A dancing Christmas flamingo 
Make noise (clap, sneeze, yell obscenities at your family dur­ing Christmas dinner), and this flamingo ($24.99 at www.stupid.com) plays "Jingle Bells" and tap dances. This thing kicks that little butt-shaking Santa's, well, butt. 

The services of one of Vermont's finest Jersey cows 
At www.rentrnothernature.com, you can rent a Jersey cow for $49.95. You select the cow and the milking day, and they send you three seven-ounce wheels of Brie. You can also rent a sheep, an alpine dairy goat, a lobster trap and a variety of trees (maple, apple, coffee, peach or pistachio). 
/ 


The Internet Urinal 
Perfect for that someone who can't bear to stop surfing the 'Net, even when nature calls. The Internet Urinal ($4.99, www.stupid.com) holds 32 ounces and comes in fashionable col­ors. Italso comes with a "female adapter," which is, unfortunately (or, perhaps, fortunately), not described on theWeb site. 

A bicycle that transforms into a suitcase 
Within about 30 seconds, this contraption ($999.95, www.hammacherschlemmer.com) converts from a normal suit­case with room for a slim briefcase or laptop to an actual bicycle that an actual adult can ride. OK, so it weighs 34 pounds -can you think of a better way of making sure your bike isn't stolen? 

The only seven-person tricycle 
Incidentally, Hammacher Schlemmer also sells the world's only seven-person tricycle ($16,000, www.hammacher schlemmer.com). Its base is a heptagon with seven sets ofpedals. The person sitting in the back steers and controls the brakes, and the other six ride along facing each other. It can reach speeds of up to 18 mph and has a 13-foot turning radius. 

Undies you can't help but wear over your clothes 
Click on the "When price is no object" link under the "Gifts" heading on the Victoria's Secret Web site (www. vict01iassecret.com), and you'll find the Heavenly Star Bra and Panty Set. The bra alone weighs in at more than 320 carats and costs more than $12 million. The panty, set with sapphir~s and diamonds, will set you back just $750,000. 

Jedi-worthy Christmas tunes 
Sure, you could always give the Jingle Cats' Here Comes Santa Claws or the Jingle Dogs' Christmas Unleashed (I am holding out for the Jingle Lemurs), but why not take a more decisive step toward absurdity and give the Star Wars Christmas Album, Christ­mas in the Stars ($11.97, www.amazon.com)? Then your friends can open the rest of their presents while they listen to C3PO sing ''What Can You GetAWookie for Christmas? (When He Already Has a Comb)." 

Unique snow domes 
Who doesn't love simulated winter in a plastic bubble? Check out the incredible snow-dome selection at Global Shakeup (www.snowdomes.com), a company that claims it is a "family busi­ness dedicated to snowdomes and floatpens and their responsible use and enjoyment." Isn't that refreshing? It's about time somebody stood up and addressed the snow-dome abuse going on in this country! My picks: the Spam Snowdome ($10.50), da Vinci's Last Supper Snowdome ($7.50), and the Popsicle-shaped Indiana: Crossroads of America Snowdome ($5). Justdon'tdare anyone to drinksnow-dome contents. And, please, shake responsibly. D 
28 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 

..-?> ·:~.. ,.·~>~~, :):~!)•-?<::,:..·,; ,· ·. 



!:~~·~~.·: 
A Modern Twist 
Not-So-Royal staging of Othello relates a classic tragedy to a modern audience 
TRACYEVANS 
0 n stage, Othello bellows a gut­wrenching proclamation of de­spair. Beneath him, his wife, Desdemona, lies in a crumpled heap as direc­tor Matt Holmes watches the scene from the glass-encased director's booth. "It's a challenge to keep them real instead of, well, psychotic," Holmes says. Most au­diences don't think of Othello as being rel­evant to contemporary life, but the Not-So­Royal Shakespeare Company hopes to change this perception. Founded in 1993, the Not-So-Royal Com­pany seeks to bring Shakespeare to students, by students. In recent years, productions have included Romeo and Juliet and Much Ado About Nothing. This semester, Holmes chose one of Shakespeare's most popular tragedies. A second-year law student, Holmes brings to the stage seven years of experience, includ­ing an acting career of his own as a Notre Dame undergrad. · For many, the daunting mystique that sur­rounds Shakespeare originates in their memory of high-school English classes and long hours spent-begrudgingly :flipping between the text of the play and extensiveline-by-lineexplanations. Modem interpretations like the movie O repre­sent a pared-down, CliffsNotes-like reaction to the challenge of understanding Othello. For Holmes, this is not enough. ''What's great about the play isn't just the story but the subtlety and perfection of the language," he says. ''It elicits emotion in the line." Holmes orients his production of Othello around the actors as direct portrayals of the characters. His set design is minimal; the stage consists of a single multipurpose wood block. As the play progresses, this block changes smoothly from benches to tables to the eerie deathbed upon which Desdemona gasps her last breath. The engaging motions of the ac­tors, who boldly throw both venomous lines and jealous fists at one another, draw the audience's attention away from the set and to the meaning behind Shakespeare's words. The only other visible change to the play is the contemporary, urban costumes that add an additional dimension of reality to the scenes. Iago, for example, wears a starched business suit. Aside from these changes, Holmes does not alter the play in any way. His purpose sim­ply is to make the characters "contemporary and accessible." 

The majority of the actors in Othello are unusually young. Both leads -Adel Hanash (Othello) and Tom Conner (Iago) -are sophomores who are new to the Shakespeare stage at ND. They have had previous acting experience, though, and their young age be­lies their level of maturity in handling the pro­duction. "I would say that we conduct our­selves most like a professional company," Holmes says. 'There is an understanding that this is an artistic endeavor and something to be passionate about." 
Theater at Notre Dame calls for a unique level of involvement, given the course loads that the actors must balance along with the play. Holmes recognizes the commitment of the cast and says that their interest is "intense without being forced." He provides an atmo­sphere in which the cast can interact readily with the play. "Matt is probably an actor's dream," Hanash says. "He lets us experiment with movement and characters, and if it doesn't fit with his vision, he'll tell you." 
Holmes sees the message behind Othello as particularly modem, one that can be un­derstood equally well by a Domer and an Elizabethan peasant standing beside the stage at the Globe Theatre. "People think Shakespeare's plays are wordy and boring, but Othello has the most real application of all," Holmes says, with a look ofsheer admiration for the art. ''It's a play about truth and reality and what happens when our concepts of it erode. It describes the failure of trust." 

Holmes speaks excitedly about one of his favorite scenes in the fourth act of the play, shortly before Othello kills Desdemona. On stage, Desdemona, played by senior Katy Wilcox, gently rocks back and forth, distraught by her humiliation by Othello. At her side, her maid extends tender words and embraces. 
From the stillness of this exchange between heroine and confidant to chaotic scenes of con­frontation, the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Com­pany has produced a living rendition of a well­known play. Iri the words ofone ofthe perform­ers, ''I only wish I could watch it myself!" D 
Othello will be peifonned in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Stud­ies on December 5 th,vugh 8 at 7:30p.m. Tick­ets can be purchased at the LaFortune Infor­mation Desk for $5for students, $7 for adults. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT . 29 




''What's the Deal with this Pop Life?'' 
How five letters and a star changed our lives 
JENNYWAHOSKE & JACKIKIEFER 
When we last counted, there were 68 pictures ofJustin Timberlake (yes, that curly-haired, nasal­voiced 20-year-old god of the boyband ­though they prefer to be called a vocal group -'NSync) on the walls of our dorm room. Add to that another 50 or so pictures of Justin's band-mate JC Chasez and a few posters and pinups ofthe other guys -Joey Fatone, Lance Bass and Chris Kirkpatrick -and you've got some colorful walls. If this room belonged to two 12-year-old girls, you all would nod and smile and say, "How cute." But because it belongs to two seniors in college, you are 
shocked and horrified. Why? Perhaps we have merely ac­cepted and embraced our inner 12-year-olds. Is there anything wrong with that? 
Jenny's inner 12-year-old owns a Justin marionette pup­pet; a three~foot-tall wall sticker of Justin; 'NSync lip balm, candy hearts, fruit snacks and greeting cards; the 'NSync 2001 calendar; the Justin 2001 calendar; and a Justin gel pen. Justin is the main character in a short story she has written for i}.er senior thesis here at Notre Dame, and she brings 'NSync folders to all ofher classes. She complement Jenny's three-foot Justin sticker, Jacki bought the matching three-foot JC, even though a sticker of Chris came in the same package. We both find Chris to be rather creepy. Ah, the sacrifices one must make when in love with a boyband: The creepy one is an inevitability (case in point: Danny Wood of NKOTB). 
In our quest to embrace our inner teeny­boppers, Thanksgiving marked a major event in our lives: our one-year anniversary as 'NSync fans. We know you've all been asking yourselves, "How do two twenty­something girls fall in love with a boyband?" So we'll explain. Last year, we spent Thanksgiving at the Kiefers'. As the radio while lounging by her pool in mid-July, she heard one of her friends win tickets to the 'NSync concert in Indianapolis -only five days away -but, alas, the friend couldn't go. Jacki was more than happy to relieve the friend of her two tickets, and ­being the ever-faithful roommate -she called Jenny to share the good news. Jenny became enraged, thinking Jacki had called to rub in the fact that she had tickets to 'NSync. But Jacki had actually called to in­vite Jenny to Indianapolis for the concert. Jenny's mom offered to buy her a plane ticket to Indy for the concert, and all was well. 

We learned several things at the show in 
Indianapolis, but this was the 
most intriguing: We discov­ered that one can tell which 'NSyncer a girl likes just by looking at what she is wearing. Some fans took the direct ap­proach and declared their love by spelling it out for the world to see. (Jenny's handmade shirt proclaimed "I'm a Justin girl!") Others just dressed to their favorite boy's tastes. (Jacki wore a shirt with a large g0ld horse galloping across the front of it, which was deter­mined to be right up JC's fash­ion alley -.or detour, as the case may be.) Some girls, how­ever, went with the timeless 

has seven videotapes of 'NSync TV appearances and performances from which she has edited out all the commer­cials, and Justin sings "Gone" on her voice mail. 
In Jacki's world, things are a little differ­ent. Justin was voted Male Hattie ofthe Year at this year's Teen Choice Awards, so liking him might have some credence -bufJC? You mean the guy who is usually a walking fashion disaster and has penned such clas­sic tunes as "Space Cowboy"? Yep, Jacki likes him as much as Jenny likes Justin. Want proof? Jacki has the JC bobble-head doll that Best Buy released for the holiday season ­even though, according to a friend, "He looks like an insurance salesman." To 

"skanktastic" look, which would be considered unseemly even at such South Bend hotspots as the Kitty Kat Lounge. (Yuck.) Indecent exposure aside, what the concert taught us was that there are others out there like us -some of them are even in college. 
So, yeah, it's been a year. Lots of people 
·· get over things in a year -for instance, al­cohol and drug addictions -but for us there is no 12-step program. Now, when asked why we like a band whose name consists of five letters and a star, we just respond as the ever-articulate JC Chasez did when asked by Jay Leno why a millionaire like him feels that he must save all his money: "Because ... yes." . 
I 
two of us were digesting our leftover tur­key sandwiches and flipping through the channels, we came across what has be­come our Holy Grail: 'NSync Live at Madison Square Garden on HBO. Of course, it had been live in July, not No­vember, but we hadn't been interested in 'NSync iii}uli Maybe there was some­thing in the turkey at the Kiefer house~ hold, but when we spotted a flurry of boys in blue and silver costumes dancing up a storm, Jenny yelled: "Stop! Let's watch this!" That was the beginning of the end. 
Our infatuation snowballed from this point on and culminated in this summer's concert experience. As Jacki was listening to the 

30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

EDITOR'S CHOICE 
A Poem for You 
'Tis the night before deadline 
And to my chagrin 
There's nothing to tell you 'bout what's happenin'! 
I sit alone weeping, 
consumed with despair, 
For it seems this month's calendar's dread­fully bare. 
Sure, there's the usual holiday stuff, 
butl chose those things last year-you've all had enough. And so, in conclusion, the Calendar Elf Is going to bed. This time, Choose for yourself! 
-Cristin Fenzel 

SPORTS 

• Thu 06 Basketball: ND women at Purdue, 7:00 PM, West Lafayette, Ind. 
• 
Thu 06 through Sat 08 Swimming: ND women and men Notre Dame Invitational, 

10:00 AM to 6:30 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

• 
Fri 07 and Sat 08 Hockey: ND at Bowl.ing Green, 7:00 PM, Bowling Green, Ohio. 

• 
Sat 08 Basketball: ND men at Miami, 7:00 PM, Oxford, Ohio. 

• 
Sun 09 Basketball: ND women vs. Southern California, 1 :00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Wed 12 Basketball: ND women vs. Western 


Michigan, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 
z 
~ 
:a: 
a: 
0, 
lL 
~ 
Alicia Ratay dribbles around a Michigan defender. 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 


LECTURES 
• 
Thu 06 Representation's Coup: The Violence in Subalternity, 7:00 PM, Room 138, DeBartolo. 

• 
Thu 06 Hope at the Margins: Peace Communities in Columbia, 12:30 PM, Room Ci 03, Hesburgh Center. 



CINEMA 
• 
Thu 06 Risky Business, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Thu 06 Ten Things I Hate About You and 0, 10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 07 and Sat 08 Ten Things I Hate About You and 0, 7:30 and 10:00 PM,. 101 and 155 De Bartolo. 

• 
Thu 13 Mal/rats and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, 10:00 PM,.101 and 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 14 and Sat 15 Mal/rats and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, 7:30 and 


10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo. 


STUDENT LIFE 
• Fri 07 Christmas Foam Making at ND Crafting Corner, 9:00 PM, Dooley Room, LaFortune. 

THE ARTS 
• 
Thu 06 and Fri 07 ND Chorale presents Handel's Messiah, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Sat 08 Glee Club Christmas Concert, 


6:00 and 8:30 PM, Stepan Center. 

• 
Sun 09 Carolyn Plummer, violin, with Scott Holshouser, 2:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 

• 
Sun 09 Notre Dame Jazz Bands, 


3:00 PM, Band Building. 

THE WEEKENDER  Post your event in Scholastic's  
What: The Temptations perform their greatest hits and Christmas songs  Coming Distractions.  
When: Fri 14 at 8:00 PM Where: Morris Performing Arts Center Cheapest Seats: $24.50  Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Cristin Penzel at cfenzel@nd.edu.  
For Tickets: Visit www.morriscenter.com.  
• All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.  
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR  31  

by Eric F. Mason 



Different, but Welcome 
Iam a son of the rural South, population 15 mil­lion or so Baptists. There are barely enough other assorted folks mixed in to prevent an ecclesiasti­cal monopoly. Catholics are rare in the area of middle Tennessee that I call home. I personally knew only one Catholic family there, and those three brothers were not exactly candidates for the priesthood. We did, nevertheless, engage in modest ecumenical dia­logue, as I once traded a book ofBaptist Sunday school lessons for some back issues of Our Sunday Visit01: So, unlike most undergraduate students at Notre Dame, I grew up neither Catholic nor knowledgeable about the Gipper. Thus it was very unexpected that I decided to enter graduate school here to study the Bible. Somewhat surprisingly, I found most of my friends and mentors supportive, though one former grade-school teacher expressed obvious dismay that I would be attending "that northern, Catholic school" (emphasis on both adjectives intended). Attending Notre Dame as a graduate student has allowed me to experience life here as a Baptist from two perspectives: student and instructor. Many people are surprised to learn that numerous graduate students and professors in biblical studies are Protestants. We study history, languages and ancient texts rather than church doctrines. This is not to say that we claim total objectivity, but we do not focus on denominational distinctions. For ex­Many people are surprised to learn ample, I honestly cannot remember disagreeing
that numerous graduate students 
on religious grounds with a Catholic class­

and professors in biblical studies 
Eric F. Mason is a Ph.D. candidate in Theology (New Testament) and an American Baptist minister. He and his wife, Jackie, afirst­grade teacher, have a five-month-old da!fghter, Anastasia. 
mate about the transla­

are Protestants. tion of a Greek verb. · 
The Catholic charac­ter ofour program, however, is unmistakable. For me, the best thing is an atmosphere in which academic biblical study is approached with a1i appreciation of, not disdain for, faith. All my professors and classmates have been respectful and supportive of my faith com­mitments, as I have sought to be of theirs. For ex­ample, two of my Notre Dame mentors, one Protes­tant, one Catholic, read Scripture at my ordination service for Baptist ministry. I can think of no better place to study, and my friends at other universities are quite envious. 
My more-interesting experiences as a Baptist here have come while teaching the required undergradu­ate Foundations of Theology course. I suppose all Protestants who teach this (and there are several) ap­proach it with a bit of trepidation. We recognize that undergraduates' parents do not expect that an expen­sive Catholic education will include instruction in The­ology from a Protestant ... and especially a Baptist! 
My approach is to reveal my background on the first day of class, assure students that I make every effort to be respectful and accurate when discussing Catho­lic teachings, to stress that pushing my Baptist views is neither appropriate nor my goal, and to be honest with students if they ask Catholic-oriented questions that I simply cannot answer. This, along with an ef­fort to anticipate class subjects about which Catho­lics and Protestants historically disagree, has served me well. Even when I have failed -such as a few semesters ago when I assumed we were beyond the tricky stuff, the class launched into a discussion of James, the brother of the Lord, in Acts 15 and Galatians, and noticed 39 puzzled·faces before some­one finally uttered, "Jesus didn't have any brothers!" I have found students sympathetic and eager to con­sider other perspectives, knowing they are free to disc agree with me. Even a decision about what Bible to use in this course requires careful consideration by Protestant instructors. Catholic professors tend to re­quire study Bibles produced primarily by mainline. Protestant scholars. We Protestants, however, tend to use the Catholic Study Bible, with its explicitly Catho­lic study notes (including some very nice ones on the identity of James) and the standard Catholic Bible translation. I hope it assures students that what I dis­cuss in class is not just some sort of Protestant heresy. Plus, as an "outsider" seeking to present Catholic views fairly, I find that imprimatur oddly comforting. 
Despite my fears, several students have commented that they actually prefer not having a Catholic profes-· sor in this course. They feel a Protestant can add per­spectives different from those they are accustomed to hearing. But most students, especially those who did not attend a Catholic high school, have a very differ­ent concern -they enter the course convinced that all their classmates already know much more about the Bible and theology than they do. They quickly realize that theological study at a university is a new ballgame for virtually everyone. The comments I ap­preciate most are from students who say that our class helped them better understand their own faith tradition, whatever that or their high-school pedigree might be. 
Likewise, being at Notre Dame has been a new ballgame for, this Baptist. My understanding of and appreciation for Catholicism has come a long way since a hot August day our firs! year here when my thirsty wife and I hesitated to drink from the water fountain at the Grotto, unsure if it was for sprinkling or drinking. I am sincerely grateful for how Notre Dame has embraced me. Though I often remind my­self -especially when teaching -that I am a guest here, I am also a member of the family. . 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 








