ONE (APIECE) SUIT ... AN ENTIRE WARDROBE!
THE PALM BEACH "FASHION FIVER".....59.95
If you want a clothing tip that will get you into a handsome, cool suit (completely wash ’n wear, too) that includes an extra pair of color-coordinated trousers, so that you can wear the outfit at least 5-different ways, come to the Campus Shop soon and see the Palm Beach “Fashion Fiver.” It’s great for travel, for dress, for almost any occasion. See them soon.
AT THE CAMPUS SHOP ... ON THE CAMPUS, NOTRE DAME
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
1/3 IN JULY ... 1/3 IN AUGUST . . . 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER
NO CARRYING CHARGE
ENJOY A COMFORTABLE, CAREFREE SUMMER IN PALM BEACH COOL CLOTHES . . .
Don’t leave the campus, gentlemen, until you’ve selected your comfortable clothes for the hot weather to come. We have a complete selection now . .. your size ... all colors and patterns . . . and you can ►
charge it the Campus Shop way.
Palm Beach Wash an Wear Suits___ 39.95
Palm Beach Slacks, from
9.95

Palm Beach Sport Coats, from
29.95
On the Campus—Notre Dame -
May 20, i960
On Campus W Shulman
(Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
Today I conclude my sixth year of writing columns for the makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris cigarettes. It has been my custom during these six years to make no attempt to be funny in this final column. (I have achieved this objective many times during the year also, but never on purpose.) The reasons for the lack of levity in this final column are two: first, you are preparing for final exams and, short of holding you down and tickling you, there is no way in the world to make you laugh at this time; and, second, for many of us this is a leave-taking, and leave-takings, I think, ought not to be flippant.
If I have brought you a moment or two of cheer during the past year, I am rewarded. If I have persuaded you to try Marlboro or Philip Morris cigarettes, you are rewarded.
J Let me pause here to express my heartfelt gratitude to the makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris. They have given me complete freedom in the writing of these columns. There has not been the slightest hint of censorship. They have never changed so much as one comma in my copy.
I wish to take this occasion to state publicly that I am forever grateful to these enlightened tobacconists and I hereby serve notice that if they find it in their corporate heart to engage me for another year of columning, I shall require a substantial increase in salary.
The money is not what matters—not as money, that is, but only as a token. I want to be assured that they love me as much as I love Marlboro and Philip Morris. And what, indeed, is not to love? Marlboro is a cigarette which proves beyond cavil that flavor did not go out when filters came in. Philip Morris is a
* * *
We, the makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris, can only echo kindly old Max’s parting words. Stay happy. Stay healthy. Stay loose.
cigarette that is pure mildness from lipend to tip-end. Both of these estimable smokes come in soft-pack or flip-top box. Neither is ever sold in bulk.
The summer lies ahead. For underclassmen summer will be a hiatus, a breather in which to restore yourselves for next year’s resumption of busy college life. For seniors there will be no more college. You must not, however, despair and abandon yourself to idleness. There are other things to do in the world besides going to school—basket weaving, for example, or building boats in bottles, or picking up tinfoil, or reading “War and Peace.” Many graduates fall into the erroneous belief that their lives are over when they leave college. This is not so. It is possible to make some sort of life for yourself with a bit of ingenuity ... or, if that fails, dye your hair, change your name, and enroll at some other college.	•'i
Whatever the future holds for you, be assured that the makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris join me in wishing you the
best of everything. We have taken great pleasure—the makers and I—in bringing you this column each week throughout the school year. We hope a little pleasure has accrued to you too.
May good fortune attend your ventures. Stay happy. Stay healthy. Stay Inncp	© I960 Max Shulman

GOOD CONDUCT?
Editor:
In the past few months you have been trying to express opinions and solutions to the national problem of integration. This is possibly all well and good. But while attending the movie, The Tempest, at Washington Hall, and listening to the let us say “crass” remarks uttered by the students of this university in front of members of religious orders and their fellow students, I wondered if your move to incorporate the Notre Dame student in a national problem was wise. It seems quite clear that a number of them are immature and incapable of participation in a serious problem.
This is also an illustration of a “local” problem which the student government is unable to cope with. I suggest that we all reflect on our moral values over the summer.
Simon St. Laurent 357 Zahm
KENNEDY VS. LOGIC
Editor:
I feel that I have withheld my views on the marvelous attempt to stage a sincere and educational representation of a national political convention as long as I can.
In reference to the letter submitted to this column by the somewhat misin-foi-med chairman of the Oklahoma delegation, I find it hard to believe that a state so composed of Baptists that it has been experiencing the brutal effects of prohibition until only a year ago, would support a Catholic candidate for the presidency to the extent that it would cast its already Johnson committed delegate votes for a Catholic aspirant. Furthermore, I would say to that esteemed state chairman that, if he considers the “Southwest” to include only Oklahoma, New Mexcio, and Arizona, then he is most correct in stating that “Oklahoma is rapidly becoming the industrial centei-of the Southwest.” In closing, I would ask that state chairman why he so vehemently and openly campaigned for Lyndon Johnson until four* days before the convention opened, at which time he switched his support to John Kennedy. Was it for the greater honor and glory of that state chairman? Many think thusly.
Pat Nicosia
205 Keenan (Continued on page 15)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. AU unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic

M-
s


The Notre Dame
Vol. 101
No. 25 1^
MAY 20, 1960

Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors
E. (TEDJ THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI Wade Clarke . Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss ' .
features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK . Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan William Sweeney ■ William Veeder
sports editor and staff THOMAS ROSE William Cary , J. (Jay) Kilroy
copy editor and staff WALTER RUDGE .George Casey .
. .Peter Geniesse , Thomas Marciniak
art editor
JERRY FLORENT
photographer.
WALTER DALY, Jr.
. business manager and staff ROBERT HORN Thomas Carey ; Joseph Finnigan ,.
circulation manager LAWRENCE LEACH
moderator	.
REV. CHARLES CAREY* c:
s.c.
, '■ «

2-

Jj:


CONGRATULATIONS AND THANKS: By this time each spring, the new editor of the Scholastic has just about completely assumed his position and already the “glow” has turned to an anxious smile. He finally faces the task ahead. As was earlier announced, the 1960-61 editor is Chas Rieck, the present features editor. Chas obtained his position over some of the hardest competition that the magazine has ever witnessed and those of us on the outgoing editorial staff feel that he deserves a great deal of credit for this success. Working with him in the past year we have been constantly impressed by his aggressive new ideas and his will to work. We take this final opportunity to publicly congratulate the new editor and all his staff. Good luck!
As for ourselves, it’s been a long year. Graduation couldn’t be arriving a bit too soon. To those who in any way contributed to the magazine (even by reading it) : our sincerest thanks.
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE?: This year- the graduation ceremony has been radically changed for a multiplicity of reasons. Some of these changes were made necessary by the fact that President Eisenhower will deliver the commencement address and are therefore only effective for this year. Others are permanent. The change of the site of the ceremony to the University Mall (known until recently as the main quadrangle) may turn out to be very successful, and if so the administration should continue to hold it in the new location which has a slightly more academic atmosphere than the football stadium. The change of the procedure for handing out degrees, however, can only be regarded as a mixed blessing. Following the policy of many other larger schools, the University has dispensed with the custom of handing out each degree individually. This was a wise step. However, abolishing the longer method does not necessitate the extreme measure of distributing degrees at the Stadium’s concession booths upon receipt of an undamaged cap and gown. Certainly this is a rather ignominious end to a four year college career. While most students are probably anxious to get the ceremony over as soon as possible, their parents are looking foiward to seeing them receive a degree officially and it is doubtful whether many of them would care to run over to the concession booths at the Stadium. Our suggestion is this: Award all doctorate and master degrees individually at the commencement exercise as these are few in number and greater in importance. Then, after the official ceremony, award undergraduate degrees at informal convocations at each college where the dean and the assistant dean could give each student his diploma. Such a plan would not require a long drudgerous commencement, but it would give the student and his parents something to remember in the years to come.
WELCOME TO EISENHOWER: In just over two weeks the President of the United States will pay a visit to Notre Dame. Speaking before an “on the grass” ceremony, his presence will represent an event of signal importance to the University (Scholastic, February 19). Already, however, we have heard student dissenters bemoaning the transformation of our graduation into a “political rally.” They feel that a “controversial” politician is being brought here to participate in what should be a purely academic undertaking. In answer to this, we reply that it is more than the individual that Notre Dame is honoring. Our respect is to his office, regardless of his party. It would take a small mind to mock this visit on political grounds. To the President: Welcome!
. news reporters
Philip Larrabee John Ohala Thomas Schlereth : William Sparks
sports reporters x John Bechtold
Jerry Hewitt '/•; • x - ~ ■ George Varis ::
Thomas Walsh y, ad


:S
,xs
WHO WAS IT?: Clouding the elegance of Cardinal Agagianian’s appearance and the brilliance of his address during his visit to the campus last Monday were two disturbing factors. First was the notable lack of students present to welcome and honor this most distinguished guest of the University. Inasmuch as classes and all other campus activities scheduled for late Monday afternoon were cancelled so that students could be present, the turnout of less than five per cent of the students is more than disappointing. The church could well have been besieged by thousands of students eager to hear this most blessed man instead of being approached by only a hundred or so. The students could at least have attended the ceremonies out of courtesy to such a spiritual leader as Cardinal Agagianian if for no other reason.
Compounding the minimal turnout was the fact that so little space was made available to students. Most of the church was reserved for the faculty and practically the entire Congregation of Holy Cross community. Only the left side aisle and the pews just inside the east door of the church were allocated to students and students were expelled from the seats just inside this east door to make room for photographers. If the Cardinal were visiting the Holy Cross order, it would be fitting that the Congregation should dominate the church so that photographers should take preference over students. But, inasmuch as he was visiting the University, it seems that a little more consideration could have been shown those students who did make the effort to greet the Cardinal.
— B. T.&T.
5
HimmiaiiiitiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiMii
SHSO hsbm EBEH ana EHES B
EMBUS EBSHE] EEEJEH 3Q BSE snmn
Contents
BEEBBd] SEHSDS
heej aam
anaESE annHEH
EEEE BED EEEE BEE SHBSE BBB G3BHBEB 0E1BE3EH S0BEEB DEBmEB msese snsaas
tSMSWKDX
I	At the Theaters_________23
I	Back Page_______________34
|	Campus Scene____________ 9
|	Commentary ------------- 5
|	Critical Horizons_______17
di..............
Escape ______________________________ 7	|
L. David Otte_________________________11	|
Our Cover_____________________________15	j
Repercussions _______________________ 4	I
Sports Picture____________________1...27	I
um.uui...H.......ii.uiii.>»......»»».iiu»>ua<ii..»..i»».u.nig
KGDL KROSSWORD No. 14
ACROSS
DOWN
1. What one does to dice, breeze, pool
7. This lack is nearly fatal
13.	This carrier is no pigeon
14.	N. Y. State college for gals
•15. Scott chick
16.	Grid quorum
17.	Fish found in the tide
18.	Soggy characters
20.	The utmost, best
21.	Get a modd and shape it
23.	Dated without the D.A.
24.	Lore rearranged in USSR
25.	What politicians should be
27. Flattened at the poles
29.	Near (dial.)
30.	Spliced
31.	They're off the shoulder
34. Goad, pointedly
38. “----Above All”
coolness in Kool 40. Dig it, man 42. Cannibalized 43. The music goes roundandround 45. A Guinness.
please
46.	A square’s musical instrument
47.	Keep it under your coat
48.	Moonshine source yet
49.	Possible bachelorhood
1.	Shorty
2.	Jinx
3.	He wrote "1984"
4.	What it takes to know one
5.	Baby sit
6.	Buttons on dashes
7.	Where you fed Kool’s smoothness (2 words)
8.	House additions
9.	The soul of the'French
10.	Mexican muralist
11.	The French Sinatra
12.	Kind of bar; with mustache cups?
19. Id est’s nickname r
22. Merrills
24. What you’re growing every minute
26. —a keg
28. Honey child
31.	Flying delivery service
32.	When your tells you it’s timeforachange, make it Kool
33.	Wagner opera
35.	Get a carton of Kool from your________
36.	Le dernier cri
37.	Is choosy
41. Clean, cool, smooth
44.	Half a dollar
45.	Gardner-variety gal
12
15
17
21
25
31
38
42
40
45
43
47
46
49
48
ARE YOU KODL
ENOUGH TO
13
20
27
28
30
34
35
YOU NEED
39
KRACK THIS?
KGDL
THE
CIGARETTES
01960. BROWN * WILUAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
r. ALSO 1 AVAILABLE WITHOUT . FILTER .
When ybur throat tells you i& time for a change you need a real change

ofKCJDL


6
The Scholastic
, waiter mitty at notre dame
by CHRIS FOLEY
1 GUESS you’re all familiar with Walter Mitty, the fellow who’s always day-dreaming about himself in heroic roles, but did you ever realize that right here on campus there’s plenty of Walter Mittys slouching around? Of course each of us have our own private dreams, but just as a case in point let’s follow a particular freshman friend of mine through the course of a week end.
STUCK ON YOU
Freddy Burp is the guy I have in mind, and we can pick him up Friday evening over in his room in Breen-Phillips. Freddy is sitting at his desk trying to digest a little European History when some high-pitched giggles interrupt his reading. Peering out the window, Freddy recognizes that cool stud Gentleman Jim Mottsett, a scintillating female on either arm, heading over to the big frolic at the Student Center. Freddy watches the trio disappear into the darkness and then returns to his text. He’s not studying anymore though, and as his head nods wearily back and forth the scene begins to change . . . Suddenly it’s not Breen-Philips anymore, but rather the exotic back room of the Huddle.
Freddy is sitting alone, nonchalantly sipping a lime phosphate. The room is crowded; the customers noisy. Then there is a sudden and complete hush, as all eyes (except Freddy’s, for he merely draws on his lime phosphate) swing to the doorway. There, standing in the dim fluorescence, is a breathtakingly beautiful blonde. She is at least 24, but the long strands of her golden hair falling on her milky shoulders suggest more a young goddess than a mere mortal. She heads directly for Freddy’s table. The room remains silent as she speaks. “Freddy?” she whispers softly, “Freddy, could I speak to you a moment?”
Choosing not to reply, Freddy nods affirmatively and she sits down across the table from him. “Freddy,” she begins, “I know I’m foolish in even asking, but I thought if there was the slightest chance that you’d say yes ... I mean about the dance, Freddy.... I know how many girls more worthy than I have asked you, but I’d give anything, anything in the world if you’d go with me, Freddy. Could you, would you consider going with me? I’m begging you, Freddy; is there a chance?”
Slowly Freddy crushes the phosphate
May 20, I960
cup in his powerful fist. He looks across the table and remarks dryly: “Don’t call me—I’ll call you.”
WHAT THOUGH THE ODDS BE
GREAT —
But now let’s skip out to School Field for the Old-Timers’ game. Ah, wait a second. That isn’t the Old-Timers’ game Freddy’s watching; that’s Rockne Stadium, home of the Fighting Irish and 58,000 fans are in a state of delirium as Michigan State has scored in the last minute to take a 14-13 lead in the game with the National Championship at stake. The Spartans are preparing to kick off with only 6 seconds showing on the scoreboard clock.
Frantically Coach Kuharich scans his bench. Suddenly his voice cracks through the autumn air. “Burp!” he calls, and All-American halfback Freddy Burp hobbles to his coach’s side. “Fred,” the coach says quickly, “I know that you have 14 torn cartilages and a broken ankle from the game in which you singlehandedly crushed Iowa, but we’re desperate! Can you give it a try?”
ATTENTION SENIORS
Seniors are reminded that commencement exercises will take place this year on Sunday afternoon, June 5. Ceremonies include the graduation address, the conferring of diplomas, and 3 Road Runner Cartoons.
Absolute pandemonium erupts in the stands as Burp trots onto the field. Unbelieving gasps rumble through the crowd as the Irish supporters, mindful of their idol’s injuries, despairingly shake their heads.
The MSU fullback boots the ball, and Freddy fields it 8 yards deep in his own end zone. Roaring straight up the field, Freddy is met by a host of tacklers at his own 10-yard line. Arms flailing, knees churning, he staggers on, as Spartan after Spartan is shaken to the earth. A hypnotizing change of pace baffles two guards and a halfback; Freddy streaks for the sidelines. He’s at midfield! A brawny tackle crashes into him at the 40; Freddy lurches, but keeps his feet.
The screaming of the crowd merely hums in his ears as he calls on every ounce of energy his magnificent body can muster. He nears the end zone, but crouched before him are four menacing tacklers. Freddy refuses to deviate from his path; head down, Notre Dame’s Mr. Foothall crashes into his opponents with a sickening thud of humanity. The referee, ' standing on the goal line, inspects the carnage of the pile-up, notes the position of the ball, and instantly raises his arms above his head. Again a Notre Dame opponent has fallen before the awesome power of Freddy Burp!
OLD SOLDIERS NEVER DIE
But now we have to hustle over to the parking lot west of the stadium, because the Presidential Review has just begun. We have to hurry because Freddy is being reviewed and that hot sun is starting to have some effect. Freddy has started to weave slowly back and forth, back and forth, though his feet stay right in the same spot. Freddy’s a bit dizzy, and any minute now — yep, there he goes — he is going to assume a supine position in the ranks. That old grass feels pretty good after all that standing, so we won’t begrudge Fred a little rest.
The picture’s a little hazy at first, but there’s Freddy, this time standing staunchly in formation. Something’s wrong on the reviewing stand, however, as anxious officers huddle in close conference. The meeting breaks up, and the loud speaker blares out: “Private Burp! Front and Center!”
Instantly Private Burp strides forward. In the center of the field he is met by a military jeep and sped to a private office in the Main Building. Seated around a large circular desk are Generals, Admirals, and State Department officials, one of whom motions for Freddy to take a seat. “Burp,” a gray-haired Rear Admiral begins, “we’re going to lay it on the line. It’s the Russians. They’ve kidnapped the chief of staff of our Combined Military Organization. Frankly, you’re the man, the only man, to succeed him. We realize that it’s a bit irregular to appoint you directly from the ROTC unit here, but under the circumstances no other decision is possible. What is your answer?”
Calmly fingering his lapel, Private Burp eyes the worried faces gathered around the table. In a soft voice, he : speaks. “I will serve.”	-
-	' A >.
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
LIFE
AUTHOR’S NOTE: In this final column LIFE has requested each of its student writers to concentrate on a single topic — America’s national purpose. It is a subject which will shape your life. Think about it and watch LIFE’S next five issues for a serious study of this crucial matter.
During the annual Associated Collegiate Press convention held last November in New York City, an interesting point was raised by Chet Huntley of NBC news. Questioned Mr. Huntley, “Do the recent TV scandals indicate a moral decline in the U. S. ? Have we lost our national purpose?” Linking the two together, he posed the difficult problem of the goal of Americans and suggested the possibility that a nation without a purpose cannot win in an ideological battle. Clearly came the implication
that the United States was on its way out.
The question of a national purpose is indeed, a sticky one. What do Americans want? Generally, with the possible exception of the Negro, it is not freedom for we have that. Likewise, it is not economic security for we have that. Rather than these, it would seem that the American goal today is just one thing: survival. We have what we want, and all we want is to keep it.
THE EPITOME OF PERFECTION?—HARDLY
Now by this it should not be inferred that America has reached the summit and there is nowhere to go but down. We have attained the goals that built the nation. There are no more wildernesses to chain down and our system of government has proven itself successful and worth keeping. Freedom is with us and our material needs are efficiently satisfied. But now that we have built our house, we want to live in it. So what should be our purpose? Protect the house and refine it.
The days of rapid and dramatic expansion have passed and our nation has at last begun to sit back and take stock of itself. For the first time in our history, there is beginning to appear something of a new phenomenon — a genuine American culture. For the first time we have authors, artists, and composers born here at home who have a taste for the native. Where were the Faulkners and Coplands in hurried days of our youth? They just didn’t exist; America was too fast abuilding to perfect itself.
REFINEMENT—WITH A WARY EYE
What should be our purpose? Nothing more and nothing less than to hold onto what we have developed and devote our attention to its cultivation. We need no high sounding words with a hollow ring to tell us where we should
be going. Our purpose need not be as exciting and as dramatic as it was in the past. We need no longer be world beaters; but we must be careful not to let our cultured dreams come to end in one gigantic atomic cloud. Our opponent is careful and calculating and because he is behind us he will pursue his objective with the fire and vigor of youth. To realize our beautiful dreams of continued bliss and slow advancement, we must not let the vigor of our competitor steal from us our lives.
America need remember that only the house with a sound foundation will weather the storm and should the freedoms we have built upon begin to weaken, we will fall. If the national purpose is survival and perfection, the goal will be reached only if the structure is kept intact. We must guard it jealously, no matter the cost.—Adv.
SPECIAL SPRING SALE
•
EASTMAN KODAK CAMERAS
•
ANSCO CAMERAS
•
POLAROID CAMERAS
•
ALL LP RECORDS
•
AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-the-campus
8
The Scholastic
I
OamfutA SctM
\ GRADUATES TO HEAR EISENHOWER SPEAK
Expect Major Speech - On Future U.S. Policy
The President of the United States, a Prince of the Church, and the President of the United Nations General As. sembly will be among eleven distinguished men who will receive honorary , .. degrees at the University of Notre Dame’s 115th annual commencement ex, • ercises, Sunday, June 5.
( President Eisenhower will be awarded ' ' an honorary Doctor of Law degree and deliver the commencement address dur-■ - ing the ceremonies beginning at 1:30 p.m. The President will speak at Notre ■ »- Dame shortly after attending the explosive Paris summit conference.
' Over 1,000. Approximately 1,280 k t graduate and undergraduate degrees will be conferred during the commencement which will be held for the first
* time on the University mall. In case of . inclement weather, the ceremonies will r take place in the Fieldhouse.
Sunday morning, at 9 a.m., His Eminence Giovanni Battista Cardinal Mon-■ ► tini, Archbishop of Milan, will celebrate a Solemn Pontifical Mass for Notre Dame graduates and their guests. The baccalaureate sermon will be delivered , by Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne. Cardinal Montini will also ac. » cept an honorary doctorate during the commencement ceremonies.
Other recipients of honorary degrees, to be conferred by Rev. Theodore M.
*■ Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame presi-
DR. VICTOR ANDRES BELAUNDE
U.N. leader to receive Honorary Degree
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER From Summit to campus
dent, are: Dr. Victor Andres Belaunde, Archbishop Martin J. O’Connor, Dr. Thomas Dooley, Dr. Laurence M. Gould, J. Peter Grace, Jr., Dr. Kenneth Holland, Dr. Alan T. Waterman, Christopher Dawson and Dr. Raymond Sontag.
A highlight of the ceremonies will be the formal presentation of Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal for 1960 to Dr. George N. Shuster, who recently retired as president of Hunter College, New York City.
Ike first. Mr. Eisenhower will be the first American President to speak at a Notre Dame commencement and the second to become an honorary alumnus of the University. The late President Franklin Roosevelt was honored at a special convocation marking the independence of the Philippines on Dec. 9, 1935.
Spiritual head of Italy’s largest See, Milan, Cardinal Montini is primarily known for his long career' in the Vatican Secretariate of State. He was elevated to the Sacred College of Cardinals by Pope John XXIII on Dec. 15, 1958. Dr. Belaunde was elected president of the General Assembly in Sept. 1959. During the previous nine years he had been chief of the Peruvian delegation at the UN.
Formerly a priest of the Diocese of Scranton, Archbishop O’Connor has been rector of the North American College in Rome since 1946. He also serves as president of the Vatican’s Pontifical Commission for Cinema, Radio and Television.
Dr. Dooley, who took his premedical studies at Notre Dame, will be honored by his alma mater soon after returning from northern Laos where he has estab
lished hospitals and other medical- facilities for the native population. He is the author' of Deliver Us from Evil, The Edge of Tomorrow and The Night They Burned the Mountain.
President of Carleton College since 1945, Dr. Gould served with the first Byrd expedition to the Antarctic in 1928-30 and returned there twice in 1957 as director of the U. S. Antarctic program for the Inter-national Geophysical Year.
Associated with W. R. Grace and Co. since 1936, Mr. Grace has been its president since 1945. He is president of the Catholic Youth Organization in New York City.
Fulbright starter. As a State Department official, Dr. Holland helped set up the now well-known Fulbright Scholarship Program. He has been president of the Institute of International Education since 1950. For nine years Dr. Waterman has headed the National Science Foundation. He was awarded the Medal of Merit in 1948 for his war work with the Office of Scientific Research and Development.
Professor Dawson is the author of nearly a score of works including The Making of Europe, Religion, and the Rise of Western Culture and The Historic Reality of Christian Culture, published this year. Currently he is Charles Chauncey Stillman Guest Professor' of Roman Catholic Theological Studies at Harvard University.
Professor Sontag has been .the Sidney Hellman Ehrman professor of European histoi-y at the University of California since 1941. He is a former president of The American Catholic Historical Association.
GIOVANNI CARDINAL MONTINI
Diplomatic Prince of the Church
May 20, 1960
Hans Set For 115th Commencement Week End; Annual Festivities Begin with Band Concert
Final plans have been laid for the 115th annual commencement exercises to be held here on the week end of June 3-5. Individual programs concerned with the commencement will extend over the entire week end, and come to a peak as Dwight D. Eisenhower, President of the United States, delivers the commencement address.
Festivities will begin on Friday evening, June 3, when the University Band will present a concert in the Drill Hall. The University Theater will present “The Most Happy Fella” in Washington Hall the same evening.
Administration reception planned. Saturday will begin with the “Last Visit,” a private ceremony for the class only. The actual visit will begin with a procession from the Main Building to Sacred Heart Church. The procession will begin at 8:45 a.m. The visit will be followed by a procession to the University gymnasium, where the Class Day Exercises will take place at 10 a.m. At this time prizes will be awarded and ROTC members will receive their commissions.
Dick Corbett will introduce the class oration, which will be delivered by Dennis Shaul. James Hirschfield will then give the valedictory speech for the class of 1960.
Later that afternoon families of the class of ’60 have been invited to meet faculty members in the various offices, classrooms and laboratories of the colleges.
At 8:30 a.m. on Sunday, an academic
JOHN GEIER, PAUL LOMBARDI, DICK CORBETT, RON SOWERS A job completed for outgoing senior officers
procession from the Administration building to the University Mall will begin. There His Eminence Giovanni B. Cardinal Montini, Archbishop of Milan, Italy, will celebrate Mass; Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon and the Washington Day flag will be blessed and raised. Music will be provided by the Moreau Seminary Choir.
President Eisenhower will deliver the commencement address at 1:30 p.m., following a class procession to the Mall. As he will have just recently returned from the summit conference, a major policy speech is being predicted by some.
Degrees conferred simultaneously. Due to the size of the graduating class only doctoral degrees will be conferred individually. All other degrees are conferred simultaneously on all of the graduates of each college.
At 5 p.m. on Saturday, June 4, the campus will be closed to all traffic. Drivers after that hour must park in lots south or east of the University.
In case of rain only two of the four tickets given to seniors will be valid for admittance to the gymnasium, where the ceremony will then be held. Though these tickets do not assure seats, they do at least assure shelter. The other two tickets will allow admittance to the Drill Hall, where the ceremony will be shown on closed circuit TV.
During the entire week end the Bus Shelter will be set up as an information center and programs, information, and maps will be available there.
Father Hesburgh Named New Fellow of American Academy
At its 180th annual meeting in Boston last week, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences paid tribute to the accomplishments of the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University, in naming him a Fellow of the Academy.
Dating back to colonial times, the Academy includes in its membership representatives of the creative arts and men of affairs as well as representatives of many scientific and other intellectual disciplines.
In addition to Father Hesburgh, three other college presidents were among the 116 newly elected Fellows. They are Mary I. Bunting of Radcliffe College in Cambridge, Mass.; Asa Smallidge Knowles, from Northwestern University in Boston, and William Edgar Park, President of Simons College, also located in Boston.
Other newly elected Fellows include Supreme Court Justice John Marshall Harlan, Under Secretary of State C. Douglas Dillon; Critic Brooks Atkinson of the New York Times; sculptor Jacques Lipchitz; architect Edward D. Stone; musician Rudolf Serkin, and Ellsworth Bunker, U.S. ambassador to India.
Publish Alumni Listings For Graduating Seniors
With the publication of the Alumni Directory this past week, one of the campaign promises of Senior Class President Dick Corbett was recently realized. The brochure, which was under the editorship of Paul Lombardi, a commerce student from Rome, Ga., contains the name of every graduating senior, his address, and a personal statement of his future plans. It is this latter feature which forms the core of this publication.
In order to meet the problem of obtaining such information when fifty per cent of the individuals are still undecided as to their future, editor Lombardi began early in April to gather the data with the hope that each senior would have more definite ideas as to his plans upon graduation.
Enlarging upon an original idea of merely a mimeographed hand-out, Lombardi, assisted by John Geier, has incorporated art work, alumni information and items of interest to the graduating class into the new publication.
Also assisting in making the Directory a reality has been the Alumni Office and Mr. James Armstrong, Alumni secretary. The office was responsible for much of the work and the majority of the financial backing.
An estimated 500 copies of the publication will be sent to the presidents of the various Notre Dame geographical clubs, and another 1200 copies will be distributed on campus. Off-campus students may pick up their free copy in 328 Walsh Hall.
10
The Scholastic
IUAIJ1UW
Flanigan Elected New Dome Editor in Chief; Plan Modern, Individualistic View Next Year
JL Otte
“A modern, individualistic view of campus life.” That’s what newly-elected DOME editor-in-chief, John Flanigan, is planning for the 1961 edition of the Notre Dame annual. The theme, which is still in its pilot stages, will attempt to include many more individual photographs on the divider and introductory pages and in turn, these individual photos will portray all the various activities of University life, making the book more ' personal, while still remaining representative of approximately six thousand students.
Top executive Flanigan, who comes from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., also plans a policy similar to the one he inaugurat-
JOHN FLANIGAN, JOHN SCHUSTER Dome Editors to seek new approach
ed while acting as athletic editor this year. Through his “tight layout” method, along with the interjection of short, crisp copy to accompany many of the informal pictures, Flanigan hopes to achieve a thoroughly modern approach to the 368-page book. In addition to these renovations he plans to continue the attempts made by the DOME staffs in the past few years, to reduce the number of stereotyped formal pictures to the much more interesting candid and special effect type of photo.
Flanigan, who is a senior English major in the school of Arts and Letters, has worked on the DOME staff since his freshman year. He acted as an assistant feature editor in his sophomore year, has been active in the student government and is presently on the Dean’s List.
Aiding Flanigan in the production of next year’s DOME will be associate editor John Schuster and assistant editors John Guzzo and Greg Hellrung. Schuster, an accounting major’ from Gary, Ind., formerly held the co-editorship of the organizations section. Guzzo, a native of Columbus, Ohio, and Hellrung, from Alton, Ill., were features and academic editors, respectively, this year. All
three have been with the organization since their freshman year.
Into the role of art editor will step John Martine from Monroeville, Pa. The copy will be handled by Greg Holtz of Elkhart, Ind., and Bill Sullivan who makes his home in Royal Oaks, Mich., will assume the photo editor’s position.
Filling the various section positions will be an all-junior staff with two exceptions. Dick Meece will be the new feature editor; Senior John Osipowitz will direct athletics. In charge of Seniors will be co-editors Frank Oberketter and Bill Dodd, while Tom Gettlefinger will assume the role of academic editor; Senior Harry Hansen, underclassmen; and co-editors Frank O’Donnell and Denny Veck will head the organizations section.
Actual work on the ’61 edition has already begun since the entire cover design must be completely finished and on its way to the publishers before the new staff leaves school this spring. Described as “modernistic and contemporary” its actual design will remain a trade secret until its unveiling at the Publications banquet next May.
Flanigan has stated that the DOME will conduct its usual freshmen recruitment program. For those who miss the initial campaign for new members, the DOME will accept applications in October.
Also, in order to better acquaint the new freshmen members with the workings of yearbook production, an informal techniques course will be presented by the seniors in a series of talks on various editorial topics. An additional idea of the ’61 staff is to utilize these freshmen members and move them into assistant editorships later in the year.
Senior Architect Elected National AIA President
Raymond Gaio, a senior in the department of architecture was recently elected National President of the Association of Student Chapters of the American Institute of Architecture. At the A.I.A. convention in San Francisco, Gaio was elected by delegates representing colleges and universities from all pai-ts of the country.
Communication through education is the idea which Gaio will stress in his position as president. His duties will include the organization of the exchange of exhibits between the various member schools to give the student architect a varied knowledge in his studies.
Gaio hails from Springfield, Ill. He was secretary of the Student Chapter of A.I.A. previous to his election as president. He has represented Notre Dame at the A.I.A. National Convention in New Orleans, La. last year, the regional A.I.A. convention in Cincinnati, Ohio, and the interregional meeting in Chicago.
The Last Wari
SBP John Keegan chaired one of the more adept local controversies last Monday evening, and it is my opinion that he chaired it well. Don’t be totally misled however, because there were parliamentary blunders and the adversaries’ comments were not always relevant, but Keegan remained impartial and the testimony mostly went smoothly. In fact, even to my skeptical
self, Keegan looked promising and I’m now convinced things will go well next year under his stewardship.
The big fight of course, was on the recurring civil rights issue. A motion strongly sympathizing with the nonviolent demonstrations had been tabled, so it automatically became the main motion. Joe Keyerleber made it active again. The more moderate and compromising resolution, proposed by Pete Aylward, sought to amend the other one by substitution, a parliamentary trick. It was on the latter that all the comments were made.
Bear in mind, no one was plugging for segregation or knocking integration, but it was the method that was under consideration. Sit-ins especially were being weighed for their degree of effectiveness.
Most of the arguments were quite intelligent and both sides are to be praised for their work. But there were attempts from both teams to establish or question the legality and constitutionality of the sit-in demonstrations. This was a foolish and impossible thing to try to do in the Senate.
After the din subsided, the voting occurred. A 15-7 decision indicated that the members preferred the weaker resolution over the stronger, but then a 17-5 vote said it was not to be the official Senate stand. This might seem like a waste of time, but the debate was a worthwhile one and those present didn’t object to the outcome. Because of Keegan’s adamant feeling that there must be a student opinion, an official campus-wide referendum seems likely.
In other business, Rich Jalovec was named head of the Mardi Gras, Mike Hartnett took over the Hall Presidents* Council, specific minimum grades were approved for campus offices, $100 was refused a potential engineering honor society, and the $2.25 student government activities fee will henceforth be a part of the semester bill, the University being willing.
This is my last report in the last Scholastic about the last. Senate meeting. I hope the elected and the electors have seen some merit in my comments. Thank you.
May 20, 1960
11
Dr. Bernard Waldman Named MURA Head; Physics Professor to Take Leave of Absence
Dr. Bernard Waldman, professor of physics at Notre Dame, will receive a leave of absence to become director of the Midwestern Universities Research Association laboratory at Madison, Wis., for the year beginning July 1.
Atomic ideas. Employing approximately one hundred scientists, technicians and other personnel, the MURA installation is a research center for designing and testing new ideas in high energy accelerators or atom smashers. Establish by fifteen Midwest universities which banded together in 1956 to conduct nuclear research, the facility is now an integrated laboratory of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission.
Waldman is a noted authority on the properties and the interaction of medium energy electrons with matter. Currently he is engaged in photo-nuclear research here at the University. The appointment was made by MURA’s board of directors and was announced by its president, Dr. H. R. Crane of the University of Michigan.
Other office-holders. Waldman succeeds Dr. R. 0. Rollefson, head of the MURA laboratory for two years, who will return to the University of Wisconsin faculty. Marshall W. Keith, who had been serving as the laboratory’s business manager, was named associate director of administration. He succeeds Dr. Keith R. Symon, who held the title of technical director. Symon will conduct research at the MURA laboratory and teach at the University of Wisconsin.
Fifteen universities are in the Midwestern association. The Notre Dame representatives include Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president; G. Edward Harwood, comptroller- and Waldman, who is currently serving as vice president of MURA.
PROFESSOR WALDMAN Atoms and MURA
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1940, Professor Waldman has been closely associated with the growth and development of nuclear research at the University. He was granted a leave during World War II to assist in the develop of the atomic bomb, and he was one of four scientists to witness, from an observation plane, the atomic destruction of Hiroshima.
Currently Dr. Waldman is director of a Notre Dame nuclear physics project which is supported by the Office of Naval Research and the Atomic Energy Commission. During 1950-51 he was engaged in research at the AEC’s Los Alamos, N.M., laboratory and during the summer of 1956 he was a visiting scientist at the University of California’s Radiation Laboratory at Berkeley.
To Increase Number Of Visiting Professors
Two departments of the College of Arts and Letters have announced impending faculty changes which will bring a number of distinguished scholars to the University next fall.
Teaching in the history department as a visiting professor will be Professor Robert H. Ferrell, of the University of Indiana. Professor Ferrell, who taught in Cairo, Egypt this past year, is the author of American Diplomacy, a text used in many American universities, Peace of Their Time and American Diplomacy in the Great Depression. He will be teaching a graduate course in American diplomacy.
The mathematics department will host Professor L. J. Mordell, who will teach number theory. Professor Mordell is a Fellow of St. John’s College at Cambridge, of which he is Emeritus Professor of pure mathematics; he is a former Fielden Professor of pure mathematics at the University of Manchester. In recent years he has taught at the University of Toronto, Canada, and the University College at Ibadan, Nigeria.
. Permanent appointees to the mathematics faculty effective next semester include Dr. Ranko Bojanic and Professor S. Chowla. Dr. Bojanic was on the faculty of the University of Belgrade, in Yugoslavia, until 1958. Last year he was a visiting member of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Bombay, India, and this year he has been a research associate at Stanford University. Professor Chowla has been professor of mathematics at the University of Colorado since 1951 and has published over 85 research papers.
Two faculty members have been given leaves of absences from the department. Professor Irving Glicksberg will be on a research leave at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, while Professor Ky Fan will be on leave at Wayne University in Detroit.
JEC Announces Two i Engineering Awards *
Recipients of the 1960 Outstanding I Engineer Award have been announced I by the Joint Engineering Council. One t junior and one sophomore were selected > from the list of nominees forwarded to J the awards committee by the engineer- 1 ing department heads. Anthony Ches-sick, a junior in the engineering science .
Well-rounded and also prestigious
department, was selected by the senior members of the JEC. James Pottmeyer, a sophomore in chemical engineering, was determined the outstanding sophomore by the juniors on the JEC.
Tony Chessick has maintained a Dean’s List average while being an active leader in the Engineering Science Club, the Engineering Open House Committee and the Engineering Honor Society. Just recently he was announced as the new station manager of WSND, the campus radio station. Possessing a high academic average, James Pottmeyer is a student member of the A.I.Ch.E. He has also been a member of the Student Senate, the N.S.A. committee, the Naval Institute Society, and has worked on the Engineering Open House.
The Outstanding Engineer Award was instituted this year by the Joint Engineering Council. The purpose for the award, according to Charles Riehm, the chairman of the JEC, is twofold. First, it is to give recognition to outstanding engineering students, where there now is none given. The second reason is to promote the name and prestige of the Engineering College by acknowledging the well-rounded engineering student.
The department heads were asked to nominate students from their- department on the basis of three criteria: high academic standing, engineering activities and extracurricular activities.
12
The Scholastic
Hart to Direct 1960-61 Blue Circle Society; Policy Committee Seeking New Areas to Aid
Next year’s Blue Circle Honor Society activities will be directed by Pat Hart, chairman of the Society for 1960-61. Hart, with the aid of the Circle’s Policy Study Committee will strive to evaluate the committees already organized while looking for new areas in which the Blue Circle can be of service.
Hart, an English major from Wel-lesly, Mass., was president of Zahm Hall his freshman year and secretary of his sophomore class. He has served on various committees with the Circle since his freshman year. Assisting him will be Vice-Chairman John Burns of Scranton, Pa., and Secretary-treasurer Tracy Osborne of Omaha, Nebr.
Working in conjunction with Rev. Glen Boarman, C.S.C., the Blue Circle will operate the Spiritual Commission which they recently took over from the Student Government. Under the direction of Jim O’Rourke, this commission is planning much work in the religious field.
Plans have already been started for the freshman orientation week end by Armando Loizaga. Also, the “Help Week” project, a huge success this year, will be continued under John Burns.
Christmas parties for the invalid and aged will be run by Tony Vierling while Kim McGee will head the organization of Christmas caroling.
The student trip preparations are being supervised by Balfe Wagner, and pep rallies will be run by Joe Della Maria and Mike Sanderson.
Along with these committees, the Blue Circle will head various other equally important committees as campus tours, election returns, Who’s Who selection, etc.
TRACY OSBORN, CHAIRMAN PAT HART, JOHN BURNS Circle leaders looking for new areas of service
Hart has a highly optimistic word in speaking of the future as there are forty-five members in the organization. The following men were recently selected as new members in the Blue Circle: Seniors, Jim Brogan, Art Dechene, Dick Hendricks, Joe Keating, Andy Lawlor, Dennis Montali, Don Rice, Mark Thompson. Juniors, Tom Eiff, Carl Hauck, Bob Henry, Jack Killilea, Mike Ritschel, Bill Scanlin, Bill Wein-sheimer. Sophomores, Jaime Fuster, Tom Harvey, Tom McGowan, Steve McMahon, John Mooney, Bill Moran, Tom O’Connor, Tom Schlereth, and Paul Tschirhart.
Civil Engineers Win Honors In Departmental Competition
It was the civil engineering department that took the top honors in last week end’s Engineering Open House activities, copping both the award for the outstanding departmental display in the show and also winning third place in the individual displays. The industrial and electrical engineering departments tied for second place in the departmental show and the winners in the individual show were: first, nuclear reactor by the nuclear engineers; second, electrical fieldmouse by the electrical engineers; and third the geodetic dome by the civil engineers.
At half-time ceremonies in School Field, the chemical engineers were awarded the Ben-Hur memorial trophy as the winning charioteers, while the design winners in the chariot race were the metallurgical engineers.
Glee Club to Journey To Continent in June
Frankfurt, Germany, will be the first stop of the Europe-bound Notre Dame Glee Club when the group’s charter plane leaves New York City June 6. The organization plans to leave for New York immediately after graduation on Sunday, June 5, and arrive the next' day.
Two concert tours have been planned by the 36-man contingent for their stay on the continent. One will include the Ruhr Festival and the other will be a tour of the major cities of Germany. In the city of West Berlin the Glee Club will give a charity conceit and then journey to Italy where they will perform in four or five cities. Through the efforts of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University, the group will have an audience with Pope John XXIII while they are performing in Rome.
The Club will spend three days in the city of Paris, France, and also sing in Monaco. While in Europe the singers will do all of their traveling by bus.
Returning to Frankfurt again on July 24, the group will fly back to the States via chartered plane, arriving in New York City the next day. That same night (July 25) they will give a concert in New Jersey. Following this performance, they will go on a short tour of the Northwestern States.
Leading the N.D. musical ambassadors will be the newly elected club officers for the 1960-61 season. They are president Frank Loncar, an accounting major from Chicago, Ill. Loncar will be a senior next fall and was the treasurer of this year’s group. The club’s veep will be Junior David Cronin, a chemical engineer from Boston, Mass., and John Crowe, a sophomore history major from Eden, N. Y will fill the position of secretary. The group’s treasurer will be Sophomore Bill Weinsheimer, a marketing major from Chicago.
Wranglers Name Engler President for Next Year
Jack Engler, a junior English major from Tenafly, N. J., has been ^elected president of the Wranglers for the next year. He succeeded this year’s president, Tom Banchoif, at the final Wrangler banquet Wednesday evening at which the moderator, Professor Frank O’Malley, presented a paper.
Engler, an associate editor of the Juggler and a member of the Bookmen, plans to announce a theme before the end of the year on which next year’s philosophical papers will center.
Elected to the post of secretary is Bill Cashore, a sophomore in Science Pre-Med from Norristown, Pa.
New members who were received formally at the banquet are juniors Mike Smith and Jim O’Rourke, sophomores Jack Clark and Cashore, and freshmen Ed Emmer, Ray Kelly and Mike McCarthy.
May 20, 1960
13
The SMtwok SCRIBE* is the Ball Point made to write best on PAPER!
Here is a piece of paper. Clip it out and try this
5 test: write on it with an	and all
other ball point pens, and by golly you’ll see what we mean.
SCRIBE $169
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

BLOCK BROS.
COR. MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON . . . IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND
•
Jewelers to Notre Dame Students and Faculty for Over 37 Years
ARE YOU SUFFERING, FROM ITCHY PALMS ??	'
STUDENT DISCOUNT SERVICE saves you that paiN in the pain wheN you trade*’* ' AT
Reco Sporting Goods Nicola’s Pizza
Eddie’s Restaurant Simeri’s Cafe
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
Sheehan TV Sales and Service William’s Furniture Store
Portage Sunoco Service Station Rubin Cleaners
Palais Royale Bowling Washington Shoe Repair
Walgreen’s Drug Store (Michigan and Colfax)
/
J
14
The Scholastic
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
REVIEW OF REVIEWS
Editor:
In regard to the recent review by Bernie McElroy of the University Theater play, The Most Happy Fella, I would like to make the following comment.
Mr. McElroy made the comment that Karen Koehnemann “can’t sing or act.” I would like Mr. McElroy to understand that Miss Koehnemann has been endowed with a most beautiful soprano voice. This has been proven in several recitals and also in the several musicals that she has played in (to name one, Plain and Fancy). Several critics, other than Mr. McElroy, have complimented her voice on several different occasions.
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING. YOUTH WORK f a r -n । n q clerical work done by Brothers are in great need today m the U S and foreign missions
For information and literature write: BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
study ii num European Year Plan
A full academic year for undergraduate students at the University of Vienna including three Field-Study-Tours through Europe. English-taught courses. German language study. Housing in Austrian homes.
Time: SEPTEMBER to JULY.
Application deadline: JUNE IS.
COST: $2,125 Price includes: Ocean transportation, room, board, tuition and travel in Europe.
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wacker Drive, Dept. R.
Chicago 1, Illinois
Please send this coupon for detailed bulletin.
MM
As regards her acting, I am quite sure that Mr. McElroy has misconstrued the role of Cleo. Cleo is and should be the opposite of the lead, Rosabella. A thorough reading of the script would also reveal that Cleo is a down-to-earth character and one who knows what life is all about. It takes a pretty good actress to put across a role as such and I am sure that Mr. McElroy will agree that Miss Koehnemann succeeds. The role certainly doesn’t call for a soprano voice as such or a sweet acting job. I feel that Miss Koehnemann should receive acclaim for succeeding in her role.
Gregory Rogers Stage Manager The Most Happy Fella 428 Walsh Hall
(ED: We feel that Drama Critic Bernard McElroy has done a more than competent job. His extensive experience with the theater is quite adequate to enable him to evaluate the capabilities of the cast in interpreting their roles.)
SOUND SYSTEM?
Editor:
I believe that the members of the student body should receive more information regarding the election of stay senators for the Student Senate.
Granted that the stay senators will ease the infant period of the next student government administration, I think that it should be noted that a number of the new stay senators were defeated as candidates for offices which would have given them seats in the Senate. Even though those selected to be stay senators might be the best for the job, the fact remains that these men have been turned down by the voters. One should wonder about the possible results of such a system.
While casting no aspersions on any member of the Senate, I would say that such a system could develop into a “spoils system” for rewarding loyal supporters. This could lead to machine-type government, which we all dislike, but which is so convenient for perpetuating established programs.
I believe that the stay senator system is in conflict with the theory of representative government, in that the stay senators have no specific constituents to represent. This could lead to complacency and lack of interest among the stay senators. Would not the elected class officers and college senators provide sufficient membership to carry on the neces-
(Continued on page 32)
WARNER'S RENT-A-TRAILER
Rent A One-Way Trailer	W
TO TAKE YOUR THINGS HOME	C;
PICK UP TRAILER IN SOUTH BEND—LEAVE IT AT HOME	i J
901 WESTERN	AT 7-9494 > ||
a s 8
OUR COVER: Barrie Maguire, a senior art student from Philadelphia, used hrs proficient technique of illustrating our cover this week. He reminded that Mr. Eisenhower will be here
graduation to deliver a major address.
TRAVEL COSTS
Sheraton Hotels
STUDENT-FACULTY DISCOUNTS
Here’s money-saving news -for students, faculty and all other college personnel. During weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates—even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are provided for athletic teams, clubs, other college organizations.
You get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton Student I.D. Card or Faculty Guest Card when you register. To-get your Sheraton card or make reservations, contact:
JAMES NAUGHTON
213 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Phone: CEnfral 4-9011
•• cdumereouMC MUtnoag otMflTMcav
IMMTCR COeW., 470 ATLAMTIC AV*.
MOTOM, MASS.	’

May 20, 1960
Fashion flair and savoir-faire from H-I-S Post-Grad
Slacks
Take my shirt, my lit. notes and my cuff links... but get your own
YOU TELL HER, MAN. The Court King is your shoe...professional traction-tread soles, flexible instep, full cushioning. A pro on the tennis court, but just as right with slacks.
Here is the classic style in men’s slacks. The lines are long and lean and the legs taper down to neat cuffs. The front pockets are unadorned and the back pockets boast the inspired touch of metal blazer buttons. $4.95 to $8.95, in a wide variety of washable fabrics. At stores that cater to college men.
A GIRL HAS RIGHTS. Like having a Champion Oxford made just for women. Comes with fashionable new taper toe-or round toe, if preferred. Light in weight, cool and colorful. Get U.S. KEDS—male or female—at any good shoe or department store.
The temperature in Washington, D.C., on March 26, 1960, was 35°. The sixth decennial White House Conference on Children and Youth began the next day and by the 28th of March the thermometers of the nation’s capitol registered a balmy 75°. A cab driver cracked that the increased temperature was a direct result of the hot air produced by the better than 7,000 official delegates to the Conference. Perhaps he was right, but this writer doesn’t think so. The following article is an attempt to give one delegate’s impressions of the White House Conference — what it was, and what it accomplished.
Since “Teddy” Roosevelt first got the idea in 1909, every ten years representatives from all sections of the country have been meeting to discuss and make recommendations about the problems and prospects of our nation’s children and youth. The delegates this year were about as heterogeneous a group of citizens as would be found anywhere in the United States. They represented state governments and national organizations. Everyone from the PTA to the Planned Parenthood Federation, from the Armed Services to the Boy Scouts, from Maine to Hawaii was there. The common denominator was a sincere professional or lay interest in the younger citizens of this country — in their health, education, recreation, and moral development. Of special note this year were two groups: the first was some 500 international guests and the second was over a thousand young men and women between the ages of 16 and 24 (the youth and “young adults”). Both of these groups were on equal footing with the other delegates to
the Conference and added much to the depth and meaning of the deliberations.
It was quite an accomplishment to involve all 700 plus delegates directly in the discussions but the event’s planned did just that. Only twice, at the opening session addressed by President Eisenhower and at the closing session a week later addressed by Secretary Flemming, did all of the delegates assemble together. During the rest of the week they were spread throughout Washington in the meeting rooms of hotels, government buildings and the headquarters of national organizations. Each delegate was assigned to one of five theme assemblies, one of 18 forums, and one of 210 different workgroups. The first two groups met in the morning and the workgroups met all afternoon.
There were eighteen different forums, each considering some particular aspect of the nation’s youth, which, like the theme assemblies, were addressed by experts in a variety of fields. The forums had titles such as “Family economic conditions which affect the development of the young,” “Family life: attitudes and practices in child-bearing and child rearing,” “Trends in Media of Information, Entertainment and Culture which affect the development of the young,” “Knowing, understanding, and helping the physically handicaped,” and, the one which this writer attended, “Religious, spiritual and secular beliefs and personal codes of conduct which affect the development of the young.” Each of these forums was divided into a number of workgroups, three or four workgroups considering some specific aspect of the forum topic. It was in the workgroups, each of which
consisted of thirty members, where the delegates had a chance to speak their minds. A synthesis of recommendations from the workgroups were considered and voted upon by the parent forums on the fifth day of the conference. The right to dissent was preserved by a provision which allowed 15% or more of the forum to write an official minority opinion for the record, should they disagree with the majority. The recommendations were directed primarily at local, state and national governmental and organization units and agencies and were concerned with youth programs and policies^ both new and old. All of this talk and activity was aimed at fulfilling the stated purpose of the conference “. . . to promote opportunities for children and youth to realize their full potential for a creative life in freedom and dignity.”
The actual Washington meeting was preceded by “little White House Conferences” in. each of the 50 states and by the compiling by various agencies of conference working and background papers about a foot thick. But by far the most important phase of the event is the follow-up, the initiation by various groups of programs of action and the acquainting of the public through articles such as this with the scope and results of the meeting. For only by following through with the impetus the White House Conference provided will the purpose for the gathering be truly fulfilled.
Many things at the meetings deeply impressed me. But by far the most gratifying aspect of the discussions, particularly the workgroup meetings, was the mutual respect which each delegate (Continued on page 22)
May 20, 1960
17
Political
The year has seen a number of distinguished political visitors to campus; the SCHOLASTIC, this week pays tribute to these men. (Left) Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York talks with two Notre Dame students. (Above) Richard M. Nixon, Vice-President of the United States. (Right) Hon. John F. Kennedy of Mass.
18
The Scholastic
61
0961 ‘OZ
4
I960
Anyone who has been associated with the serious business of collegiate journalism is at once cognizant of the tremendous problems that are presented in a yearbook. The editors must compile and study thousands of pictures, strive after an often elusive theme, and finally knit the pictures and the theme into a compact unit which offers the readei- an attractive panorama of a passing year. Difficult as this is, complications are added by the “one chance only” nature of the publication. It is something like composing a symphony without being able to hear- it. Yet for all these problems, the staff of the 1960 Dome will soon release a book which is unsurpassed in concept and execution, and is unquestionally the finest annual that Notre Dame has ever seen.
From the initial pages on, the 1960 Dome rebels against the proposition that a yearbook must inevitably be nothing other than a collection of photographs. Copy has always tended to be the forgotten element among annuals and they have suffered immeasurably for it. However, Dome Editor Pat O’Daly has put special emphasis on what the book says as well as how it looks. Two sections in particular are characteristic of this change. One of these, the “Administration,” combines with the pictures, the edited text of a special Dome discussion between five student leaders and University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Center of discussion is Notre Dame’s “problematical present . . . optimistic future.” The other section of literary interest is the “Graduates.” Completely avoiding the “rogues’ gallery” effect, the seniors section is enlivened by a series of 14 personal letters supposedly written by a fictitious Notre Dame student throughout his college years. The letters are funny but they hold a depth under the humor. Almost everyone contains a line which will recall a similar thought to every undergraduate.
Beyond its text, the Dome contains the pictures which make it what it is. Revolving around the simple theme “People in Action,” the book tells the story of a university in motion. There is no time at Notre Dame for the inactive students and as surely as four years of advantages will pass them up, so have the editors of the new Dome. If it were possible to typify the book in one picture, it would be the one on the opposite page. There, unknown and unobserved, a camera caught several hundred students on their way to and from class. The smiles are not posed and the gestures and frowns are real. This is Notre Dame on the go and this is what the 1960 Dome has captured.
Technically, the cross section of photography found in the book is superior. This can be particularly seen in the “Athletics” section. Sports pictures are very difficult to capture because of the perfect timing that is essential to stopping a play in midaction. Yet the Dome photographers have accomplished this instantaneous feat in almost every photo and what is more, they have caught faces in motion that the spectators never see. The color photos, again, are by and large unsurpassed. Particularly, this is seen in the front piece study of St. Joseph’s Lake. Once more, the emphasis is on action. Unfortunately, however, some of the later photos fail to meet the very high standard set by the initial color spectacular. The colors begin to deceive and the effect is lost. Even so, the color is the best the Dome has yet presented.
Journalistically, the book is very fine. With the use of simple but purposeful effects, the reader’s eyes are guided and checked as the editors have intended. Contrast is very well used. Pictures are enlarged and reduced according to importance and appeal with the result of a flowing variety of combinations. Another journalistic “gimmick” that is well used is the concentration of the color black. Working with it on each of the divisional pages, the editors have developed several quite remarkable spreads. With respect for moderation, the black concentrations have been broken each time they approach the monotonous. Likewise, the photo bleeds are well used but again, moderation rules and margins are kept to lend contrast.
Much more, of course, could be said about the book. Naturally it does contain the inevitable errors. Students will find their names misspelled and close observers will catch a few out-of-date pictures as well as one that is run in reverse order. But such mistakes are, unfortunately, characteristic of student publications and it would take a highly trained copy and proof department to catch them all. The Dome editors have come up with a winner again this year. To Pat O’Daly and his staff, my sincerest congratulations.
—Ron Blubaugh
20
The Scholastic
Nation's Concern
(Continued from page 17) showed for the opinions of the others.
My workgroup was concerned with “the significance of the values and ideals of oui- nation and society for children and youth.” You might well say that the topic was surely an abstract one and that, other than telling people to “be good,” there isn’t too much in the way of recommendation for action which could come from such talk. To give balance and meaning to the conference, however, it is impossible not to thoughtfully consider the values and ideals, the premises if you will, upon which our country is based. The selection of participants in my workshop was done with the idea of providing a broad variety of background.
POLYGLOT AGREEMENT
The amazing thing about this polyglot group was the fact that we all agreed on the basic values to which our society theoretically ascribes, even though our reasons as to why these values were important differed quite a bit. I’m sure the Southern Baptist was surprised to find out that Catholics could indeed disagree with each other and the Americans from the group were interested to learn that the family was revered as the basic social unit in Egypt too. An interesting aspect of the workgroup meetings was (which proved to be true in a good part of the entire conference), that the younger citizens had a good deal to say and that their elders really wanted to listen. According to most reporters the maturity and seriousness of the younger delegates was an encouraging and gratifying fact.
The youth got their opportunity to vote upon what they considered to be top priorities for the next decade, 19601970. They set down three areas which were considered most vital. This was done at a special meeting of all 1000 plus youth and young adult delegates one evening towards the end of the Conference. The top priorities (all passed by large majorities), are interesting enough, I believe, to set them all down in full. They were:
I.	“We believe that any infringement on equality of opportunity denies to youth of various ethnic, credal, and racial backgrounds the possibility for a full life. To eliminate these deprivations we call for the substantial completion of school desegregation by 1970, the provision of equal access to housing for all individuals, and the elimination of discrimination in employment and advancement practices throughout the United States. We also affirm the right of all citizens to peaceful protest and nonviolent resistance against all forms of social injustice.”
II.	“Recognizing the disintegration of the family unit in American culture, we call for a re-emphasis of the family unit as a central force in democracy through education of youth in the role of the family both within the family circle and
in the schools, facilitation of communication between adults and youth, and a recognition by community organizations that they must supplement and not compete with the family.”
III.	“Education is the main basis for the broad political participation and individual mobility essential for a free society. To fulfill these needs we must provide varied educational opportunities to challenge each individual to realize his full abilities. It should be recognized that all institutions and programs designed to meet individual needs can and should maintain high standards. To do this local, state, and federal governments as well as individuals, businesses, and nonprofit bodies must greatly increase their support for education on all levels. Further, the teacher must be more adequately honored as an individual and recompensed as a skilled professional.”
There was an attempt to amend number I by substituting the words “in due time” for “1970” concerning school desegregation. Speaking in favor of the amendment a student from the South said, “We realize integration is coming. We accept that as a fact and we’re prepared to live with it. But for God’s sake don’t cram it down our throats!” At this point a young teenage Negro rose to address the assembly. In measured tones which gradually gained momentum he spoke against the amendment. He delivered a stirring condemnation of the rationalizing which is done behind the words “in due time.” Never have I heard such a remarkable and moving speech by so young a person, a speech which was rewarded by a standing ovation. Needless to say, the amendment was soundly defeated.
INTERESTING SIDELIGHT
An interesting sidelight on the civil rights issue were some conversations I had with the SBP from Auburn and the young lady from Mississippi. Both might be classified as Southern “moderates” on the integration question. Asking what their parents’ or grandparents’ opinion of the segregation situation was, they both said they simply don’t discuss the matter at home any more because their opinions are at odds with those of their parents. The fellow from Alabama described an evolution towards great tolerance and acceptance of the Negro when he compared the opinions of his grandfather, father and himself in his own family. Both said that their opinions were becoming more general, particularly among college students, in the South. These conversations were, I hope, indicative of future attitudes.
One of the most stirring and important speeches delivered at the conference was one given by Abraham Joshua He-schel, a Professor of Jewish Ethics and Mysticism at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. This man, a tall, stately individual with gray hair and a goatee, gave me a greater realization of the Jewish heritage in the Christian religion than any reading ever could. Among the things he said:
“The problem with youth is the spirit of the age and the problem of our time is the emptiness of the spirit. . . . We are faced with an instrumentalization of the spirit. We do not teach to revere but say instead that knowledge is power and power leads to that all-important success. . . . The world is too sublime to be a tool. . . . Knowledge is like the sky and learning is the astronomy of the spirit. . . . The only way to prevent public scandal is not to be involved in private scandal. . . . We have an unwillingness to cope with humiliation and hardship, and this leads to self-indulgence and some of the key problems of our society. . . . Our system of training tends to stifle any sense of wonder and mys- ’ tery. The major challenge of our time is how to save the inner man from oblivion.”
In direct contrast to Professor Heschel ” was the next speaker, Dr. Pstdond, a sociologist from Harvard whose speech was so full of social-scientific jargon as x to make it completely obscure and worthless to almost everyone in the audience.
MUTUAL COOPERATION
As has been mentioned the mutual cooperation and respect shown by the vari- . ous groups was a real knot of hope for the future. The coordinated effort of the Catholic priest, the Protestant minister and the Jewish rabbi on the president’s executive committee for the conference was a first for such a meeting. Not all, however, was sweetness and light. In the forum I attended Mrs. Paul Blanchard . was vehemently opposed to a recommendation (which was passed), approving and encouraging the concept of “released time” for religious instruction. There was quite a bit of friction engendered by the question of artificial birth control d information dissemination. And a representative from the National Education Association berated the conference for not thoroughly considering controversial questions “the burning issues,” one of which he considered to be increased federal aid to education. Several said the conference was only a bunch of nice words with little action. Such people, I believe, overlook the real value that can come from such a collective “investigation in depth” of the policies and programs which affect the nation’s children and youth. While granting that it is only . on the state and particularly local level where real “practical” results can be effected, it must be recognized that the impetus and ■vitality which the national conference gave and is giving to the local personnel and to programs of action is > the key to final success. The wide coverage the press gave to the conference u and the diversity of people who attended it both provide strong sources of spreading the value, discussions and ideas exchanged at the conference to all of the „ citizens of our country.
The 1960 White House Conference on J Children and Youth was indeed worth the effort and it demonstrated the concern of the nation for its newest generation.
22
The Scholastic
J A History of South Bend
by FRANK DUDA
J The earliest inhabitants of South Bend Jp were as mysterious as the present ones. 3 Who they were, where they came from, and what they did when they left, is un-|,-i known. All that is known about these |‘| people is that they were mound builders, Ml and the only artifacts they left was a group of mud hills located five miles east R of the city along the St. Joseph River.
After the pre-historic men left, the Indians came to the beautiful valley of Promise. The Pottowattomies, a peace? loving group of the Miami Confedera-^5 tion, settled along the river and began to farm the fertile land. They were at-.4^ tacked by the Iroquois (who were a B worse scourge than a Notre Dame man > 'A in town on a Saturday night). After a JS few battles the Hometowners were 1Y? soundly beaten and were lucky to make a peace that allowed them to keep their < land.
After the war in 1675, Father Mar. quette sailed down the St. Joseph and ;: made a whistle stop to teach the Indians, v i M He is reportedly the first to make the reI mark repeated by so many of us, “This is a town?”
; v The stories of the settlement interested r f a young Frenchman, LaSalle, who was f .? interested in finding a nice quiet place 3^ for a rest home for old explorers. He was able to persuade a few settlers to | f come to the Michiana area, but wasn’t lb; too successful because of the Indian wars.
I'	During the last half of the seventeenth
’ and the entire eighteenth centuries, not i much was done to settle the South Bend j area. The French didn’t come because J they were busy fighting the English, and 4^ the British didn’t come because they considered the territory French. The Revolutionary War began and ended with nothing being done to develop the area; after the war, the new nation was too IM busy struggling to keep its newly won Vf- independence to bother with this “garden spot” of the Midwest.
After the war, it was some time before America got the idea to take an interest ' in the area. In 1820, Pierre Navarre, a famous scout, came to South Bend and ■^5 began to trade with the natives. Though z / he began a practice that is still carried j on by many modern merchants — taking : 41 advantage of the less intelligent natives, he was very popular with the savages, probably because he was their only £4 source of alcoholic beverages. Having f 7 been invited to many of their ceremonies, he met one of the chief’s daughters, and they were soon married and started the South Bend population growing by hav-feing six children.
The year 1827 was big in local his-fetory. Alexis Coquillard, considered the •■Os founder of South Bend, and Lathrope M. ^5 Taylor, a fur trader, who had achieved ‘ a degree of education not yet mastered jsf by many of the present inhabitants, (he M2 could read and write English) came to the area.
Mg Coquillard named the site Big St. Jo
May 20, 1960
seph Station; a little while later when Taylor arrived the name was changed to St. Joseph’s. In 1829 the town was again renamed Southold. It took the federal government and the post office department to settle the name question finally; they issued a grant to the area under the name South Bend.
In 1842, Father Edward Sorin made the greatest single contribution to the history of the area; he founded the University of Notre Dame. He was trying to find a quiet and harmless spot for his seminary. Father was supremely successful in choosing the site; for after the
AT THE THEATER/
One week from today, exams start for all except seniors, so this may very well be your last chance to go out and try to enjoy yourself downtown. When everything else fails, there are always the cinemporia.
The Avon is still going British, and this week (May 19-25) will be showing Too Many Crooks and As Long as They’re Happy. These movies should have been shown last year (if at all), since that is their vintage. The only thing they might be able to offer is Diana Dors. There are definitely too many crooks around, spoiling the broth, but as long as they’re happy . . . Ten-ible joke.
The Last Voyage of the “S. S. Claridon” graces (?) the screen of the Colfax this week (May 20-26). Produced and directed by Andrew Stone, the film keeps most of the ship’s passengers and crew submerged to the waist in water and from there up in melodramatic slime. George Sanders, playing the captain, dissolves into a tantrum every now and then; Robeit Stack, playing Dorothy Malone’s husband, is feverishly trying to rescue his feminine family; and Miss Malone spends the better part of the movie pinned under a steel beam catching a severe chill. The ship goes down gloriously, carrying its killed-just-in-time captain and sparing him the ordeal of an inquest. Stupid.
Following that at the Colfax (May 27-June 2) is The Greatest Show on Earth, produced by Cecil B. DeMille some ten years ago. It stars a brand new face (at that time); Charlton Ben-Heston, and others too numerous to mention. Among them are Betty Hutton, with her ever-present rasping voice, and Cornell Wilde, who provides a high moment in the movie by falling off a trapeze and maiming himself.
As “promised” last week, the Granada is showing The Fugitive Kind (May 19-June 1). Tennessee Williams wrote the original story (“Orpheus Descending”) and the screenplay, and Marlon Brando, Anna Magnani, Joanne Woodward, and Maureen Stapleton play the leading roles. Those of you who thought Suddenly, Last Summer was weird will really be confused by this one. The story is properly morbid, and at times quite sordid, and has an ending somewhat akin to Hamlet’s. Brando’s performance reminds me of Stanley Kowalski in Williams’ Streetcar, and Joanne Woodward plays a role similar to the one she played in The Sound and the Fury. This might give you an idea of what to expect. The story, including the final bonfire, is too complicated to explain in this limited space.
The State takes us back to the fun-times of World War II with a comedy-tragedy double header. Five Branded Women, starring Silvana Mangano and Van Heflin, seems to be the featured movie of the two. This is the movie made famous by a cover story in LIFE magazine. Miss Mangano and her four friends seem to have one thing in common: excessive friendliness with the Nazis occupying their native Yugoslavia. Their fellow countrymen are fast to cast stones. The women’s heads are shaved, and and they are made to go out alone into the mountains. Here they join guerrilla troops in an effort to win back their countrymen’s esteem. The rest of the picture deals with their adventures (and their baths). By the way, there are a few war scenes, too.
The co-gem is Babette Goes to War. It stars the one and only BB, and co-stars her husband pro-tem, Jacques Charrier. This one isn’t Art-y enough for the Avon, so the State has picked it up. The plot of the picture deals with BB as a spy. It’s supposed to be a comedy, and I guess the joke of the whole thing is that BB plays a spy. Imagine Brigitte as an “under-cover” agent — it’s a new first.
For all we know, we may never meet again — and all that jazz. But I certainly expect to be back next fall, and I’m hoping you will too. That is, except for you seniors who will finally graduate. Now, as the wiser theater managers close for the summer, I say arrivederci to all my devoted fans, especially Monnie, whose every thought belongs to Notre Dame. See you in the fall.
—Tony Wong
23
school changed to the teaching of lay boys, the town remained a quiet place with little evil.
In 1853, Henry and Clement Studebaker, a pair of blacksmiths from the East, came to the area; and they made the town’s first contributions to industry. Studebaker was to buggies what Cadillac is to automobiles and because they were so good many people were employed by the company.
Other industries such as the Oliver Farm Implement Co., the Singer Sewing Machine Co., and the South Bend Lathe (Continued on page 25)
An N. D. Freshman Speaks
by MARV ANDERSON
Sometimes life here gets pretty tough; It takes a man to bear it.
That’s what that ND emblem means, By gosh, we’re proud to wear it!
Long ago and way back when I was just a prep-school punk, A car pulled up to Farley Hall; Inside was me and all my junk.
A smiling rector greeted us: “Hello, my son, Room 3 -2 -3.” “What floor is that?” I dared to ask. “Third!” he said, and glared at me.
A “closet” marked “Room 3 -2 -3” Was all that we could find. “Father, can’t locate my room.” “Son,” said he, “you blind?”
All my junk would not fit in, No matter how we tried.
“At least I’ve got two bunks,” I said;
Then up on top I spied:
A formless mass, a sleeping thing;
I looked at dad and mother.
“Oh no,” I thought, “am I to share This room with yet another?”
The covers moved, a head emerged, One eye opened a peep;
It looked at me with all my stuff And then fell back to sleep.
“We’ll have to hit the road,” Dad said;
“It’s twenty-five past three.”
And so they went, and left behind This whole big world — and me!
I took a hike; I hiked so long That I was almost dead.
And then I came upon a sign: “West Dining Hall,” it read.
I went in; there was a line
Of many boys like me;
And a line of girls was scooping out Pizza pie and tea.
I got sick (I don’t know why) ; And started “homeward” creeping, Then fell in bed beneath the Blob, Motionless, still sleeping.
The morning next a sign made me Cheerful as a Lark:
“A mixer with St. Mary’s Girls
At Pottowattomie Park.”
24
“What fun,” I thought, “By gosh, I’ll go!”
My head was in a whirl.
Something went wrong because there were
Nine Boys to every girl!
I had a girl there for a while;
We sat down by the lake.
She said, “I’m Sue.” And then she asked, “How much does your Dad make?”
The days flew by; soon school began
And ended all my bliss;
I didn’t think that college life
Would be as hard as this.
My first exams quite clearly showed How poorly I had done.
“But in high school I got all ‘A’s.’
“This isn’t high school, son.”
Winter came; South Bend got cold, Coldest in the nation.
Still two days we stood OUTSIDE In line for registration.
Forms in parkas frozen stiff
Could everywhere be seen.
The school said it was planned that way: “To test the cold vaccine.”
Then spring “sprung.” One morn midMarch
We had a rainy day.
“Wonder- when this rain will stop?”
It didn’t stop till May!
Spring visits Notre Dame when things Turn from white to brown;
And no one cuts across the grass.
They don’t dare: they’d drown!
Finals past, we packed our junk Beneath a clear blue sky;
The year was gone; and, as we left, We gestured our good-bye.
And they, in turn, waved back at us As we drove away.
They smiled; but I know what they thought:
“I hope you drown someday!”
Yes, we all gripe about ND And kid about its worth.
But way down deep we’re sure it is
—The greatest place on earth.
LUGGAGE
Trunks and Bags ▼ A	LUGGAGE
JACK’S s"
327 S. MICHIGAN
AT 7-3009 Free Delivery
WHAERNfSS awof mn
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete
camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates.
(P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
New Court Favorite I

RACKET STRING
• Plays like gut e Stays livelier e Lasts longer • Gauge controlled • Moisture Immune
ALWAYS SPECIFY QUALITY STRINGS
Approximate Stringing Cost
VANTAGE Tennis........$9
PRO-FECTED Tennis.....$7
Badminton.....$6
MULTI-PLY Tennis......$9
Badminton .... .$4
At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.
The Scholastic
yours?
These are the silver wings of a U. S. Air Force Navigator. As a flying officer on the Aerospace team, he has chosen a career of leadership, a career that has meaning, rewards and executive opportunity.
The Aviation Cadet Program is the gateway to this career. To qualify for this rigorous and professional training, a high school diploma is required; however, two or more years of college are highly desirable. Upon completion of the program the Air Force encourages the new officer to earn his degree so he can better handle the responsibilities of his position. This includes full pay and allowances while taking off-duty courses under the Bootstrap education program. The Air Force will pay a substantial part of all tuition costs. After having attained enough credits so that he can complete course work and residence requirements for a college degree in 6 months or less, he is eligible to apply for temporary duty at the school of his choice.
If you think you have what it takes to earn the silver wings of an Air Force Navigator, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Ask him about Aviation Cadet Navigator training and the benefits which are available to a flying officer in the Air Force. Or fill in and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the
Aerospace Team. I I
Air Force
*************** ****** • * ******•■
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY ; AVIATION CADET INFORMATION! DEPT. SCLO5	!
BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C.’ I am between 19 and 2672, a citizen ! of the U. S. and a high school graduate ■ with_____years of college. Please ; send me detailed information on the > Aviation Cadet program.	!
I
NAME--------------------- !
STREET-----------------— ;
CITY--------------------- :
I
COUNTY STATE_____________ !
South Bend History
(Continued from page 23)
Company came to the area. The region certainly had potential in the late nineteenth century but these were forgotten in the twentieth.
The most interesting thing that happened in the early twentieth century occurred in 1924. During this period the Klu Klux Klan had a strange-hold on the State of Indiana. The Klan had made plans to hold a rally in town; violence was threatened from every corner so the dutiful police department played Pilot and washed their hands of the whole affair. The students at the University hated these “loyal Americans” and decided to make sure matters stayed under control. Many students went into town and got one or two of the Klan members to follow them into an alley — need I say more. The Headquarters of the KKK
was stoned and trouble erupted all over the city. After few days of peace, the boys decided to. go into town and really clean up. Unfortunately the Klan learned of the plans and together with the sheriff and his deputies they cracked a few Notre Dame skulls. Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, and Father Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University, had to go into town to see if they could restore order. With the chief of police, they got the boys together in front of the Court House and persuaded them to return to campus.
The two World Wars gave this Valley of Promise new life by bringing new industry such as Bendix, and new people, the Polish immigrants. With the return of peace, a rapid decline has been noted. Today we find the area fighting for its life and basing all its hopes for the future on the students, the Golden Dome as a tourist attraction, and a small bird.
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN’T” necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR
STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER UNCOLN WAY EAST
1st comer across the river on the Bus Une
May 20, I960
The most beautiful new look in diamonds
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
You have to see it to believe it! Looks like a diamond star floating on her finger. And it makes any diamond look bigger, brighter, more beautiful. Don't even think of any other engagement ring until you see the dazzling "Evening Star"* col-, lection at your Artcarved jeweler's.
And, for real proof of value, ask your jeweler about Art-corved's famous nationwide Permanent Value Plan. It gives you the right to apply your ring’s full current retail price, should you ever desire to, toward a larger Artcarved diamond—any time—at any of the thousands of Artcarved jewelers throughout the country.
IMPORTANT. Every genuine "Evening Star" diamond is guaranteed in writing, for color... cut... clarity ...and carat weight and only Artcarved stamps the exact diamond weight in the ring. It's a genuine "Evening Star" only whenfhe name is stamped in the ring.
Beloved by brides for more than one hundred years (1850-1960)
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
J. R. Wood &. Sons, Inc., Dept CP, 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N. Y.
FREE: Send me more facts about diamond rings and “WEDDING GUIDE FOR BRIDE AND GROOM.” Also name of nearest (or home-town) Artcarved Jeweler.
AHHrPcc	—
or
•••CVDIIM STAN" OCSIBN MT. AMU TO SON. NINOS SNUUtatOTO SNOW 0CTA1L. COM. IMO, J. a. WOOD ASONS. INC.
26
CANOE TRIPS
An exciting vacation of fishing and camping in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. For everyone —no experience required. Only, $6.00 per day. Write now for complete information to Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
DIAMONDS
a'

si

CE 4-4874
JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.
J.M.S. Bldg.
4

wins
UBRART and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and
Prayer Books.
Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
/or
LIFE INSURANCE
See:
PETE HASBROOK, ’60 CE 4-0330
JACK McKENNA, ’60 AT 7-1738
Prudential Agent
THE PRUDENTIAL teamca Compaay at Amtrica --• auUNal lift Mawaaes
14
I




t
s


I
■


The Scholastic
SfUVtiA PidiM
OLD TIMERS LOSE TO N. D. VARSITY; RATKOWSKI PACES DAZZLING PLAY
Last Saturday, Joe Kuharich’s Varsity squad emerged victorious in a 27-15 battle with the Old Timers in the thirteenth annual spring contest. Twelve thousand fans sat in the blazing sun of School Field, watching the Irish eleven defeat the alumni and seniors.
Varsity score. The first Green tally came quickly, with sophomore quarterback Clay Schulz scooting around left end from the nine-yard line. Schulz’s run culminated a sustained drive. Fullback Bill Henneghan converted for the Varsity.
On the final play of the first period, Paul Hornung fired a 20-yard pass to Monty Stickles for the first of the Old Timers’ scores. In his usual kicking form, Stickles converted to tie the game.
In the third quarter, Ray Ratkowski fielded Hornung’s punt on the 18-yard line and raced down the right sideline with the help of a fine block by end John Powers. Fullback Joe Perkowski missed on the conversion attempt.
Latex- in the third period, freshman quarterback Ed Rutkowski led the Vax-sity down the field to another- score. Rutkowski circled around right end for 20 yards and his first touchdown in college football. Freshman Jim Sherlock kicked the extra point.
With only 4:29 remaining in the game, Rutkowski again took over as field general and quickly maneuvered the team
END OF LINE FOR RATKOWSKI
George Straits (69) and teammate stop Varsity quarterback.
on ioah
down the field for another score. Rutkowski hit the speedy Ratkowski with a 32-yard pass for the score. Sherlock again converted for the Varsity.
Senior George Izo took over the quax--terbacking post fox- the Old Timers. With only 15 seconds left, Izo heaved a perfect strike to senior end Pat Heenan, who streaked into the end zone with the Old Timers’ second score. On the conversion attempt, Stickles faked a kick and then took the ball around right end fox- two points, making the final score 27-15.
The Varsity backfield perfox-med well throughout the game. Coach Kuhax-ich used five quarterbacks during the contest and each responded with good ballhandling and passing ability.
Kuharich’s line also responded well. Led by Bob Bill, Nick Buoniconti, Norb Roy and George Williams, the Varsity defense continually bottled up the Old Timex- offense while blocking well on offense. Ends Les Travers, Sherlock and Powers also played aggressively.
Ratkowski shines. Ratkowski led the halfbacks but his brilliance was challenged by sophomore Angelo Dabiero. Dabiero was a breakaway threat on offense in addition to intercepting a pass. Also looking good at the halfback posts were freshmen Marshall Reilly, Frank Minik, Mike Peterson and Leo Caito. Juniors Dan Gx-iffith and Bill Henneghan ran hard at fullback.
Irish Battle Warriors In Milwaukee Action
Milwaukee will be the scene for Notre Dame’s track perfox-mances tomorrow. The Wilsonmen will participate in a dual meet with Marquette University. Spectators will get a real treat if the Warrior’s Walt Mangham, holder of the national prep school high-jump
RON GREGORY
Irish threat in NCAA
mark with a 6-foot 9 and %-inch effort, decides to compete. A three-year basketball regular, Mangham has pretty much forsaken the track world lately.
Anothex- top pex-fox-mex- who hasn’t competed much is Marquette’s Bob Ver-bick. Injuries have grounded this fine pole vaultex- throughout much of his career. Co-captains Gax-y Mercado and Rogex- Abbott give the Warriors added strength with theix- miming efforts.
Next stop fox- the Ix-ish will be the Central Collegiate Conference Meet on June 3. In the past foux- years Notre Dame has been runner-up three times in this meet and third once. The team which has defeated Notre Dame each of these foux- years has been the Kansas squad, which is the favox-ite again this year.
Ron Gregox-y in the 880-yard run and Tom Reichert in the pole vault will represent Notre Dame in the NCAA meet on June 10 and 11.
Accumulating 9516 points, the Green soared to victox-y in the Indiana State Meet on May 11, followed by Purdue and Indiana.
A victox-y by the Spax-tan mile relay team in the last event of the day gave Michigan State a 72-69 victory over Notre Dame in a dual meet last Saturday. The meet’s big thrill came when Notre Dame’s Gregory and MSU’s Bob Lake clashed in the mile. Lake nipped Gregory at the finish line as he did the distance in 4:16.
'Baseball Appreciation Day’ Program Set; Klinemen Desire NCAA District Four Bid
Tomorrow afternoon at Cartier Field, Notre Dame officials and prominent South Bend citizens will honor the Irish baseball team with “Baseball Appreciation Day.” The purpose of the “Baseball Appreciation Day” program is not only honorary. It also seeks to publicize the highly successful intercollegiate baseball program here at Notre Dame.
Coach Jake Kline’s diamondmen face a crucial test both today and tomorrow when they host a strong visiting Ohio University team. Later in the week, the Irish travel to Northwestern to seek revenge for an earlier setback.
Coach Kline feels that the outcome of these games, along with the results of the games with Michigan and Michigan State played earlier this week, will have great bearing on Notre Dame’s chances of gaining an NCAA berth.
This week end the Irish will have tough opposition. Ohio has already clinched the Mid-American Conference Championship and has received a NCAA District Four bid.
NCAA hopefuls. This Wednesday the Irish take to the road to battle Northwestern, who were victorious in an early season encounter against Notre Dame. The Wildcats are bolstered by 13 lettermen, including seven starters from last year. The Wildcat pitching staff is headed by righthander Bob Miller. Northwestern’s leading hitter is outfielder Don Weaver. Behind the plate for the Wildcats is football stai* Mike Stock. With a NCAA bid probably in the balance, this game will be particularly tough.
Fred Lindstorm, coach of the North
FIRST BASEMAN CARRETTA AWAITS PITCH
First baseman John Carretta looks over pitch from Michigan State hurler in recent game.
western team, ranks as one of the outstanding third basemen in the history of major league baseball. The former Big League star took over the baseball assignment at Northwestern in 1949, and led the Wildcats to the Big Ten Championship in 1957.
On May 10 the Wisconsin Badgers defeated the Irish, 3-1, in a game played in Wisconsin in 38-degree weather. Each team collected only four hits, all singles. Wisconsin bunched two hits, two walks and a double steal off Notre Dame lefthander Mike Brennan for all three of its runs in the first inning.
The Irish scored its run in the fourth inning without the help of a base hit. After Badger pitcher Martin Stillman walked three, he hit centerfielder Bill Brutvan in the back, forcing in a run. Brennan was charged with his first loss after three straight victories.
Notre Dame’s ace righthander Nick Palihnich was tagged for his first loss after foui’ wins on May 11 by Michigan State. The Spartans’ Mickey Sinks, who hurled five innings of shutout relief, singled in the winning run in the ninth inning to clip the Irish, 5-3. The Irish committed four errors in this game which brought their season’s record to 14-5.
Notre Dame second baseman Jack Gentempo continues to lead the team in batting and has also collected the most hits. Frank Finnegan, the rightfielder, leads in home runs, while first baseman John Carretta leads the ballclub in RBI’s. Juniors Brennan, Palihnich and Mitchell continue to pace the pitchers, along with sophomore righthander Jim Fitzpatrick, relief ace of the staff.
Notre Dame Baseball Displays Colorful Era
The baseball story at Notre Dame features not only a memorable beginning but also a vivid history. The “national pastime” began here at the University in 1887 when Adrian (Pop) Anson, a Notre Dame student and later a Chicago Cub Hall of Famer, showed students how to play the game. Anson’s game was similar to the game of “rounders,” a popular sport of the 1880’s that was played with a stick and a ball.
Notre Dame’s greatest success on the diamond was from 1906 to 1908. In these
NOTRE DAME’S FIRST GAME
The first Notre Dame intercollegiate baseball game was played in 1892. In this game, the only one scheduled for the 1892 season, the Irish pounded out a 6-4 victory over Michigan. Interest in the new sport had been increasing for the five years preceding the opener, but travel difficulties and the arrangement of a schedule made it impossible to organize a team at an earlier date.
three years, the squad won 60 games and lost only nine. The Irish record in 1906 was 20-5; in 1907, they won 20 while losing only three. The 1908 season was the greatest in Notre Dame baseball history. Boasting a 20-1 record, the Irish won over outstanding teams throughout the East, losing only to Vermont in the middle of the season.
Recent success. In recent years, the most successful teams have been the 1949 squad, the 1957 and 1959 teams. In 1949, the Green won 18 and lost six, going on to win the District Four NCAA tourney. In regional action however, the Irish did not. do as well, losing to Wake Forest, the District Three Champions, by scores of 4-1 and 10-7.
The 1957 team won eleven of 18 regular season games and were picked to play in the District Four Playoffs again. After losing to Northwestern in the playoffs, the Irish went on to the College World Series in Omaha where they finished fourth in an eight team field. One of the Klinemen’s victories was a 23-2 trouncing of Colorado State.
Last year’s Irish nine ran up a 20-5 record and for the fourth year in succession were selected to play in the District Four Playoffs. Defeating Detroit easily by a score of 10-0 and thumping Big Ten champs Michigan, 12-4, Notre Dame could go no further. Running up against a strong Western Michigan nine, they lost two straight games, 2-0 and 9-6.
In 67 seasons of intercollegiate competition, Notre Dame baseball teams have won 806 games, dropped 425 and tied 13, a winning percentage of .655. The Irish have been in the College World Series five of the thirteen years since its conception in 1949.
The Scholastic
i
28
W	'•'	■- >/WVi'■t■KVr^«V^'ft*•"•'	’s’^> * r^^if^/.'.y^), J> A^!-"- '•*- ‘“’Vft ^-'.'.«V.A ‘AU'.v. ‘ „’.	o'.^ W^i. r^fe^U^SI'^A'-^, $?u’*
The Long dine
The day was June 2, 1953. On this afternoon, in appreciation of the twenty years’ service by Clarence (Jake) Kline as Notre Dame’s baseball coach, the Alumni Monogram Club decided to honor the veteran mentor with a testimonial dinner in the Morris Inn. Bill Early, well known around the Notre Dame campus, was appointed chairman of the affair.
However, all did not go as expected. The Irish diamondmen were engaged in a close contest with a strong Western Michigan team. As the game progressed into the later innings, it appeared that Kline’s charges would have no trouble gaining the victory.
As Western Michigan came to bat in the top of the ninth, the Irish held a comfortable lead. But this lead was wiped out as the visitors tied the score in the top half of this last inning. However, the Green came back in the bottom of the ninth to win.
But things were not so good for the Irish in the Morris Inn. Early and his assistants had planned a pre-dinner cocktail party and everything was elaborately set for the occasion.
The party did not take place however. For when the time came for the occasion
to begin, the Western Michigan bats began to boom, resulting in a much longer game than anticipated. With no party and an expensive affair it was to be at that, the Monogram Club treasury suffered quite a loss.
The long diamond contest finally came to a close. Coach Kline hurriedly adjourned to the dressing room and prepared for the cocktail party. But the drinks were “on the house” as Jake Kline, a winning coach, sat down to enjoy his meal.
Today, Bill Early still likes to kid Jake Kline about the treasury loss. But why should Mr. Kline worry? He won the ball game!
‘Jake’s Nightmare’
There is always one game in a coach’s career that he would like to forget forever. And Notre Dame baseball mentor Jake Kline is no exception to this rule.
The date of Jake’s “unforgettable nightmare” was May 15, 1952. On this afternoon, the Irish were meeting their old “nemesis,” Western Michigan, on Cartier Field.
When the visiting Broncos came to bat in their half of the ninth inning, the score was 8-2 in favor of Notre Dame. The first two Western Michigan batters were easy outs and the count on the third batter was two strikes. With no one on base, the outcome of the game appeared hopeless for the Broncos.
What happened next, even Coach Kline would not be able to describe. The Bron-l co bats began to explode and before the | smoke had cleared, the score was 10-8 in ; their favor. The final score remained ; the same as the Irish were unable to ; tally in their half of the ninth. “Jake’s nightmare” had begun!
ANDY PILNEY
From Notre Dame to majors
Anson, Bresnahan and Pilney Top List of ND Contributions
Notre Dame baseball players have not only made names for themselves in the college ranks. Since the introduction of baseball here on the campus in 1887, the Irish have also sent many of their stars into the pro ranks. Over fifty Notre Dame players have participated in major league baseball.
Heading the list of Notre Dame contributions to the major leagues is Adrian (Pop) Anson, a former Chicago Cub who was one of the first men elected to the Hall of Fame. Another Notre Dame graduate elected to the Hall of Fame was Boger Bresnahan. Bresnahan was a catcher for Chicago and New York in the National League.
The Irish ball teams have made many other notable contributions. John McHale, presently the General Manager of the Milwaukee Braves, was an outstanding player for the American League Detroit Tigers after playing here. Frank Shaughnessy, now the president of the International League, was also an American League star, playing with the Washington Senators.
Andy Pilney, a Notre Dame AllAmerican football player in 1933, was an outstanding Irish diamond man. Pilney played ball for the Boston Braves in the National League.
A more recent contribution to major league baseball was Jack Mayo of the Philadelphia Phillies. Mayo was a pitching star for the Phillies’ 1950 World Series team. He played baseball for the Irish in 1944.
Another Notre Damer who is still active in the pro ranks is Tom Carroll. Carroll signed with the New York Yankees after his freshman year in 1953. He is now in the Kansas City system. Carl Yastrzemski, a recent bonus signer with the Boston Bed Sox, and Frank Carpin, now in the Yankee farm system, are two outstanding prospects that were signed off the Notre Dame campus.
FACTS and FIGURES
Notre Dame baseball coach Jake Kline has been head man on the Irish diamond scene since he took over the reins from George Keogan in 1934. Previous to this, he was a three-time monogram winner in 1915-16-17 as a hard-hitting third baseman who blasted the ball at a .300-plus clip in these three seasons of play. He captained the team in his senior year. The high point of Kline’s playing career came in 1916 when he slammed three homers to lead the Irish to a 14-6 victory over Michigan. His bid for a fourth home run landed foul by only a few inches late in the game. . . .
Jim Gibbons, the popular assistant coach of the baseball squad, played ’both basketball and baseball in his undergraduate days at Notre Dame from 1951-1953. Immediately following graduation, Gibbons signed with the Philadelphia Phillies and pitched for their Salt Lake City farm dub that summer. He served in die Army for two years following the Salt Lake City stint, and then assumed the head coaching chores of basketball and baseball at Mount Carmel High School in Chicago, his ahna mater. From Mount Cannel, he came to Notre Dame and his present duties. ...
Jesse Harper and Walter Halas are two of the more famous names associated with the Notre Dame baseball scene. Harper, better known as the Irish football mentor during the playing days of Knute Rockne, served as head baseball strategist from 1914 to 1918. Halas, brother of the renowned George Halas of Chicago Bears fame, was the head coach in 1921-2223. . . .
DID YOU KNOW? Elmer Kohont, captain of the 1957 Irish diamondmen, was the first Notre Dame baseball player to gain All-American recognition. The selections for All-America in baseball began in the late 1940’s. . . . Also, several major league umpires have had. sons playing for Notre Dame. Babe Panelli, the National League favorite, leads the parade with two sons, Roy and Ray. Bill Stewart had a son, Bill, Jr., playing for the Irish. Bill Greeve’s son, Donnie, .also saw action with the baseball nine. Ed Hurley, one of baseball’s finest men in blue, had a son, Eddie, Jr., on the Notre. Dame squad. . . .
The 1938 baseball team was captained by Charles Borowski. Borowski is' still a leader, now serving as captain of the South Bend police force. . . .
The 1945 squad was matched in one of its games with the Great Lakes team from Illinois. On this 1945 Navy team were such established major league stars as Mickey Cochrane and Schoolboy Rowe. The manager of the chib was one of the greatest pitchers of all time, Bob Feller. Behind the slants of sophomore Jack Barrett, the Irish not only beat the big leaguers, but shut them out in the process, 1-0. .. .
May 20, 1960
29
KEGLERS' KORNER
Displaying the stamina and determination of true champions, the Shady Grove All-Stars went undefeated through five rounds of competition to capture the team championship of the Kampus Keg-lers. Dan Lyons captained the team of Roger Brunelli, Ron Zlotnik, Jack McKenna and Fred Hoey.
In winning the double elimination tourney, the Shady Grovers twice defeated the Lucky Strikes, who had previously beaten the Grovers out of first place in the Yellow league. The Lucky Strikes, Ken Sullivan, Mike Gilbert, Emmett Sharkey, Joe Miller and Fred Gamble, were runner-ups in the tourney, proving the Yellow league to be a real powerhouse.
My congrats to the Grover boys on being truly fine and deserving champions, and to all of the bowlers who participated in the tourney. I’d also like to extend my congrats and sincere thanks to Speed Sheehan, to my fellow Kegler officers, Jim Flannery, Ron Dvorak, and Dan Halloran, to Bob Miller, to all of the Kampus Keglers and to Marian Bar-ranco for their sincere efforts and full cooperation in making this past bowling season and my senior year very memorable.
In the- Classic League the Brunswick Shop team of Dan Halloran, Bill Lieber, Herb (Ringer) Moeller, Ron Dvorak, Frank Duda, and Maurie LeFere defeated the Pabst Blue Ribbon team in a down-to-the-last-game finish. Dan Halloran carried the top average on campus, a respectable 184, in leading his Brunswick team to the year’s high actual game and series, 1026-2840.
John Nanovic copped the Notre Dame singles tourney trophy with a five-game series of 1112. Ken Sullivan was runner-up with 1101. Herb Moeller and Dave Cronin joined forces for 2228 to walk off with the doubles title. Burke Reilly and Earl Mossner placed a distant second with 2104.
Winding up the season was the annual Kampus Keglers’ banquet. Trophies were given to the high scoring teams and individuals in the Kegler and Classic leagues, and to the winning teams from each league. League champions not previously mentioned were the Rochester Club, Sixty-Niners, Detroit Club “A”, and the Five Jokers. Special kudoos went to the Notre Dame Intercollegiate team which won the annual MIBC team tourney for the third straight year.
—ED SILLIMAN
SAILOR SUCCESS
Three weeks ago, the Notre Dame Sailors took a first at Madison, Wis., in their area eliminations, to qualify as Midwest Champs. Last week, on Lake St. Claire, the Irish finished sixth in the Championships, sailing against eight other qualifiers picked from the 30 teams in the M.C.S.A.
The Sailors also took third at a regatta held May 7 and 8 at the Detroit Yacht Club to round out the season.
Farewell, irrational consumers! After four years together we must part, but we will meet again — perhaps sooner than we realize — FAREWELL!
Notre Dame Netters Host Powerful Southern Illinois
Notre Dame’s tennis team will face one of its toughest tests of the 1960 season tomorrow when they host Southern Illinois University on the Irish hard courts. Coach Tom Fallon rates the Carbondale, Ill. squad second only to Michigan State, a team which the net-men squeaked by last Saturday, 5-4. On Monday, the Titans of Detroit visit the Fallonmen in the final home match.
The netters notched their eleventh victory in 15 dual meets in defeating the Spartans last Saturday. The deciding point was registered by the doubles team of Brian Campanaro and Dee Stevenson who defeated Ron Henry and Mel Saperstein in the final match of the meet, 6-3, 7-9, 6-0.
The Irish took three of six singles and two of three doubles matches in winning the match. Singles ace Don Ralph won from Brian Eisner, 6-2, 6-2. Bill Heinbecker decisioned Bill Hotchkiss, 6-0, 6-1. Ray Bender was the other Irish singles winner, defeating Spartan Doug Smith, 6-3, 6-1.
Ralph and Bill Heinbecker were too much for the Spartan duo of Eisner and Smith as the visitors lost in straight sets, 6-1, 6-2. The Spartan win in the second doubles match set the stage for the Campanaro-Stevenson match-clinching win.
Earlier in the week the racqueters beat Western Michigan, 5-4, and Toledo, 9-0.
Irish Linksmen Beat Top Team in Country
Last Saturday the golf team turned in their best performance to date in winning three upset victories. They won a triangular meet against Indiana and Purdue while also taking the Big State Meet Championship.
The Big State Meet was won by the Irish with a score of 762. Seven strokes behind Notre Dame was Purdue with a 769 total and last year’s champion, Indiana, was third with a 779. The medalist honors went to Purdue’s John Konsek who turned in scores of 72 and 73 for a three-over-par 145 total. Tied for second place and only one stroke behind Konsek were Notre Dame’s Christie Flanagan and Tom Grace, both with 36-hole totals of 146.
In the dual matches the Irish defeated both Purdue and Indiana by scores of 20-16 and 24-12 respectively. For the Irish; Flanagan’s score of 146 took eleven points, Frank Hund’s 157 took six and a half points, Grace’s 146 netted eleven and a half points, Ray Patak’s 156 took six and a half and Eddie Schnurr’s 157 was good for eight and a half points. Team Captain, Terry Lally, having his worst day of the season, failed to score.
Schnurr starts. Head Coach, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., started the relatively unseasoned sophomore Eddie Schnurr even though the match was one of the most important ones of the year. Next year will find only three regular starters returning and Father Holderith pointed out the necessity of letting the underclassmen gain playing experience. Father Holderith was very pleased with Schnurr’s performance in his first important match.
In the rest of the season’s matches, Father Holderith plans to play as many sophomores and juniors as possible so that he can build up a seasoned squad for next year.
The toughest match left on the schedule is with Michigan State. After the contest with the Spartans come engagements with Tri-State College, Loyola, Western Michigan and Detroit.
Purdue was rated as the top team in the country and Indiana beat Purdue. Notre Dame beat both teams by a substantial margin, which proves that the Irish performance was superb.
NCAA prospects. When asked about the prospect of taking the team to the NCAA championship held from June 19 thru June 27 at Colorado Springs this year, Father Holderith said whether the team goes or not will be determined by two factors: the team’s performance against its remaining opponents; also the Notre Dame Athletic Commission must give its approval for the trip. Father Holderith hopes he will be allowed to take the team to • this year’s National Collegiate Tournament.
The Scholastic
30
Name New President I Of JEC for Next Fall
1 Presiding over the Joint Engineering ’ Council for the fall semester is Joe Ogurchak, a mechanical engineer from
i, Akron, Ohio. Ogurchak was recently I named an associate editor of the Tech’ nical Review for next year, and is also . a member of Nu Delta Epsilon, the £ Engineering Honor Society.
i Assisting the chairman will be a staff of three recently elected officers: Dave Hipp, vice-chairman, a junior civil engi, neer from Aurora, Ill.; Bill Hug, secreI tary, a junioi- majoring in aeronautical * engineering from Chicago, and Dan Ma-terna, treasurer, a sophomore in Metal-
' lurgy from Bayonne, N. J.
' The JEC is a group composed of two ; representatives from each of the engi-< neering societies, as well as the Tech-• nical Review and the Honor Society. ‘ The engineering senator and the Open House chairman are also voting members of the Council.
' The primary purpose of the JEC is to '' co-ordinate the activities of the individual societies, and oversee such col- lege-wide functions as the annual Engi! neering Open House.
During the past semester, however, a concerted effort at revitalization was at; tempted in the hope that some sori of i' foundation could be set for future ac-/ tivities.
——
Noire Dome Awarded Ford Foundation Grants; Fund to Support Graduate Teaching Program
Notre Dame has been selected as one of eight colleges and universities to help advance a national “breakthrough” in the education of elementary and secondary school teachers.
To initiate this “breakthrough” here, Notre Dame has been awarded a grant of $410,750 by the Ford Foundation. The University’s pari in the program will be the inauguration of a new graduate education program for the preparation of secondary school teachers.
The eight colleges and universities received Ford Foundation grants totalling $2,761,250. The nationwide program now includes 27 colleges and universities which have received support totalling $18,200,200.
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., head of the University’s department of education, said the program, which will begin with the summer session on June 17, will be conducted in cooperation with Saint Mary’s College, the South Bend school system and other public and private high schools in the area.
Scheduled for a full academic year as well as the preceding and following summer sessions, the 15-month program will include graduate study in a specific teaching internship in one of the cooperating secondary schools.
The program will be directed by Dr. Robert W. Strickler, a specialist in educational administration and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1953. Strickler is a graduate of Grove City College in Pennsylvania and holds advanced degrees from Saint Bonaventure University and Cornell University.
Tuition grants and student loans will be available to applicants, particularly during the summer session, depending on individual need.
Thirty men and women, who are interested in high school teaching, will be accepted for the first term of the program opening June 17. Members of the University’s Council on Teacher Education, representing all departments engaged in teacher preparation, will serve as faculty members and consultants in the new program.
During the 1960-61 school year, each student will hold a teaching internship, teaching three classes daily in his major area. The intern will teach with the supervision of an experienced teacher designated by the cooperating school.
He will be paid three-fifths of the salary of the full-time beginning teacher. The second summer session will be devoted to six hours of graduate study in his major area.
Does studying for exams make you want to zzz-zz-zz?
Let safe NoDoz® alert you through study and exams!
If hitting the books ever makes you drowsy, NoDoz is the fast waker-upper you need. NoDoz Stay Awake Tablets deliver an accurate amount of safe stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams. How? With caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant in coffee. But non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Buy some— and be in good company. Millions of times a year safe NoDoz helps busy people keep alert and awake.
P.S. When you need NoDoz, it'll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
NoDoz, the safe stay awake tablet — available everywhere
I May 20, 1960
31
Repercussions (Continued from page 15) sary function of the Senate until the Hall senators were elected in the fall.
Jim O’Hanlon,
245 Cavanaugh
FINAL CHAPTER
Editor:
Apparently my conclusion that Miss Timm was nonexistent was premature. In fact, I have since received two letters from her, one of which indicated her misfortune resulting from an ardent defense of our student body. This has no doubt been increased by the publication of my letter and your reply. Such is the fate of those who dare to express an opinion, in print, which does not coincide with the current view.
Jere Vandewalle 2030 Beverly Pl. South Bend 16, Ind.
ANSWER
Editor:
Enclosed are a few scattered comments to a few of your past contributors, May 13 issue, to be exact. Feel free to not print it all, print parts, delete parts, or just plain throw it in the waste basket.
To Mr. William Scheckler: The Kenosha facts were given to me by an exresident of Kenosha, and there is a letter in the mail in which I have asked him to verify his facts. Unfortunately at this time I have not received an answer.
To Mr. Dennis Penny, and to students from Montgomery and Birmingham: I am sorry that a time shortage and a deadline did not allow for too thorough an inspection of the May 6 Scholastic article. I am sure that the unfortunate error would have been corrected if time had permitted.
To the entire student body: Through circumstances beyond his control Mr. Bernard Lee of Alabama State was unable to visit the University last Sunday (May 15). However, it is hoped that Mr. Lee will be able to speak this week end.
To Mr. Barry Fitzpatrick:
1)	There has never been a case where a Negro demonstrator has carried any weapon whatsoever. All violence is attributable to the nondemonstrators who blatantly jeer the demonstrators to a point beyond human tolerance. The only defense that the demonstrators have is their righteousness.
2)	A longer study of Christian principles and a shorter perusal of Black’s Legal Dictionary would prove that higher laws than these local ordinances are being violated by the fact that discrimination even exists. Never are people more right than when those who are persecuted cry out against the practices which enslave them.
3)	If such wonderful co-operation and tranquility exists in the South then why are lunch counters segregated? I have seen no instance wherein the demonstrators were protesting a false situation. It is time that the “friends of the Negro” began to act positively instead of sitting passively on their posteriors.
Skip Easterly
32
Junior Wins First Prize In Holy Cross Drawing
With cards flying and the conversation on a high moral plane, the annual card party and drawing sponsored by the Holy Cross Columba Hall Foreign Mission Society wah held here last Friday. It was St. Joseph High School that was converted into the “card-shark’s haven.”
Steve Schai-fenberg, a junior science major from Columbus, Ga. was the winner of the first prize in the drawing. The prize, a one hundred dollar bill, was presented to him by Brother Francis Heitzman, C.S.C., president of the society and Brother Eli Pelchat, C.S.C.
GO GREYHOUND
(for out-of-this-worid savings!)
No, there's no Greyhound Scenicruiser® Service to outer space—yet. But if you’re rocketing home for the holidays, there’s no better way to go! It costs less than driving your own jalopy, too. With this exclusive Greyhound Service, you get more—pay less. Getin orbit...goGreyhound.
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
It's such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to us!
210 W. MONROE
AT 7-6541
GREYHOUND
CONFUSION
Due to some apparent confusion over one of last week’s “Commentaries,” we would like to clarify one point. There are two Clarks in student government. There is John E. Clark, a junior modern language major from Glyndon, Md., and Sophomore John P. Clark (better known as Jack Clark) from Dayton, Ohio. The former, next year’s social commissioner, was referred to in last weeks “Commentary.” The latter, next year’s secretary, was not.
I I
i
■ 4
COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES:
Detroit	$ 6.40*
New York	23.35*
Chicago	2.95*
Los Angeles	57.10*
New Orleans	23.50*
’plus tax
The Scholastic
Spring Interhall Laurels Awarded to Kraus. Lotti
t Notre Dame’s spring interhall leagues are well underway, and in two of the . sports, tennis and handball, the competition has already been completed.
► Steve Kraus of Walsh Hall walked
[ off with the interhall tennis crown by defeating Bob Chou of Howard Hall in
' straight sets. Before falling to his senior opponent, Chou put up a stellar
I --------------------------------------
I
show with his consistent tennis. Kraus’ serve was especially effective throughout the match.
The interhall handball title has also been awarded. The winner of this year’s handball tourney was Bob Lotti of Walsh Hall. Runner-up to Lotti this spring was Tom O’Toole of Sorin. Both Lotti and O’Toole have been dominant figures on the Notre Dame handball courts for the past four years.
In the interhall golf tournament, play is now entering the final round. The
golf tournament features six divisions and the winner in each division will be presented with an inscribed trophy. Play in the tournament has been described as excellent.
The three top teams in interhall baseball this spring have been Zahm, Breen-Phillips and Pangborn. In last Wednesday’s game, Zahm faced Breen-Phillips to determine who would meet Pangborn in the finals. Pangborn, sporting a perfect 4-0 record, drew a bye in the first round of the finals.
V HAIR AND SHAKESPEARE Essentials of Good Grooming Prof. Tonsorial


I.
Introspective reading of the Bard’s works to prove that grooming was a motivating factor. Close observation indicating that Shakespeare’s heroines were disillusioned by bad grooming: Lady Macbeth by Macbeth’s hair that went witchever way (alcohol tonics, obviously). Ophelia by Hamlet’s “melancholy mane” (hair creams, no doubt)* Classroom lecture on how to present the perfect image by grooming with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Proof beyond an ibid of a doubt that you can use all the water you want with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces oil that water removes. Keeps hair neater longer and attracts the op. cit. sex as Romeo did Juliet. r-------------------
W


Materials: one 4 oz. bottle of "Vaseline3 Hair Tonic
Vaseline
Vaseline
TRADE MARK*
|| HAIR A TON IC
In the bottle and on your hair the difference is clearly there!
Vaseline 1
I HAIR TONIC

•a?
'VASELINE* IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUCH-POND'S INC.
■54^
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
■st
-^May 20, 1960
33
Back Pop
aims and ends
by THOMAS BANCHOFF
Thomas Banchoff, a senior mathematics major and Chairman of the A.B. Advisory Council, has worked with the theology department over the past three years in the formation of honors religion courses and lecture programs.
Recently he was one of the three speakers at the symposium Religion, Higher Education, and the Service of the Nation sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation. The following is a presentation of several of the ideas he considered in his speech, Religion, Higher Education, and the Life of the Mind.	'	'
Most of the people who attend the University of Notre Dame do not receive a Christian education. Unfortunately, the situation is not unusual. The fact that the majority of students in the colleges and universities of this country graduate without any real educational experience is the scandal of American education. But the fact that our Catholic institutions are not bringing forth truly educated Christian men is more than a scandal — it is a tragedy, because it destroys the very purpose of the System.
No one can achieve a true education without first realizing the essential meaning of an education, and its significance to him as a person. Far too many students fail to see that such a total view is necessary if they are to make meaningful progress toward their goals. Only then can they take any real advantage of what the university has to offer.
It is obvious that this problem can be met only if both groups cooperate. The student must make a sincere attempt to find out what it means to be an educated man, and he must try to do his part in attaining this goal, the only real purpose of a higher education. And on the other hand faculty and administration must do what they can to make the student aware of what the university has to offer. - The university can achieve -its goal only when education is presented in such a way that the student will respond. Then he can see what means are available at the university for him to use in tins process of education.
But while this stirring of awareness
34	’
THE SPECIAL PROBLEM
of education is necessary for all phases of American higher education, it is especially vital to religiously oriented colleges and universities. They present something which is distinct from what other institutions have to offer. They offer the student an opportunity to make his faith a truly meaningful part of his life. They give him something that is very difficult to obtain anywhere else. But if the student is not aware of this either, if the thing which distinguishes this type of education from another is not apparent to him, then the Catholic university loses its justification for being. It can only survive in a scramble to imitate the more successful secular colleges in a way which negates its own existence.
But everyone who comes to a university like Notre Dame has made some decision concerning the advantages and the necessity of education in religion at the level of higher education. The trouble is that a number of the most common motives tend to obscure the most important reason for the existence of a university such as ours. What is the force which necessitates, and all the more justifies Catholic higher education?
CHRISTIANITY IMPELS
This force is the one which acts on the individual by the very fact that he is a Christian. The gift of faith is not neutral — it demands attention. It carries with it a responsibility. In order for a person to be a mature Christian, he must make his Christianity the predominant integrating force of his life. It must develop as he develops, and as his outlook broadens, his religion must likewise expand to maintain its primary place in his life. His Christianity must permeate his entire personality.
It is futile to try to separate religion from the life of a mature person. Any time he faces a problem which has ethical overtones, every time he has a decision to make which will-influence the -rest of his life, temporal and eternal, the main considerations are the ones that are found in his religious background. The religion of a Catholic man is universal in its application to his life, and a person fulfills the responsi
bility of Christianity only when he has his religion as a significant and integral part of his total outlook.
It is not difficult to see how this responsibility of Christianity relates itself to education. All through the process of education, the life of the mind of the individual is growing tremendously. ' Certainly if religion is to remain a vital constituent of a person’s total view, it also must grow as the student grows. But Christianity does not merely assume new emotional and psychological depths for the individual during the period of education; it takes on for him an entirely new aspect. It is only at the level of higher education that the student is able to grasp Catholicism for the highly intellectual religion that it is. This is the first time that he can gain an appreciation for the philosophical foundations of his beliefs, and see the complete and universal interrelation of the moral, ascetical, and dogmatic aspects of Catholic theology.
RESPONSIBILITY AGAIN
More importantly, if this religion is to be a significant part of the person’s total outlook, and if this view changes so radically under the major intellectual influences of higher education, it follows that the student necessarily must continue his education in religion to this higher level. If a person has a developed intellectual life but his Christianity has no part in it, he can in no way be considered a complete man, and certainly not an educated Christian.
The fundamental and pre-eminent fact which determines the necessity and a fortiori the justification for formal education in religion at all levels of intellectual training, is precisely the responsibility which his religion makes on any educated man who hopes to be a mature Christian. There can be no other motivation so compelling and so consonant with the ideals of Christianity.
Only when the Catholic student be- ' comes aware of this responsibility can he receive the major benefits of-a-Chris-tian education, and only when our Catholic colleges have students who are inspired by these ideals can Catholic higher education be the full and productive process that it must be in our world today.
The Scholastic
When things get too close for comfort*
your best friends won’t tell you...
but your opponents will!
Old Spice Stick Deodorant brings you safe, sure, all-day protection.
Better than roll-ons that skip.
Better than sprays that drip.
Better than wrestling with creams that are greasy and messy.
NEW PLASTIC CASE PRE-SET
FOR INSTANT USE

AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
YOU WON’T REST ON YOUR LAURELS AT IBM
DATA

OUTSTANDING CAREER TRAINING KEEPS YOU LEARNING AND GROWING: at IBM, qualified college graduates rapidly develop a broad understanding ofthe many worlds of business. IBM Sales Representatives, for example, learn to work with the top executives of different firms, helping them introduce modern data processing techniques.
Whether you’re majoring in engineering, science, math, business administration, or liberal arts, you
should know about us and about the varied careers we have to offer. See your Placement Officer for more information. If we have already interviewed on this campus, and you did not get to see us, please write or call:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager International Business Machines Corporation 234 N. Michigan St., South Bend 1, Indiana Telephone: CEntral 2-8251
TRM
PROCESSING DIVISION ■■■VH V ■