Vol. XXV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 7, 1892.	No. 35.
’Neath Summer Skies.
’Neath, summer skies. The woodland rings With melody that joyous springs - From tiny throats in accents rare.
No earthly music can compare
With the free notes the brown thrush sings
As o’er his mate, with flutt’ring wipgs, He hovers. A new glory clings
To tree and flower and fills the air ’Neath summer skies.
Of singers sweet, the king of kings, A wizard, who, unconscious, flings
A glamour o’er the forest fair.'
The meadows green and all things bear The touch of his bright caroilings
’Neath summer skies.
,	.	Daniel Casey.
A Study of Tennyson.
BY FRANK A. BOLTON.
'Well might Lord Tennyson be styled “a maker of musical phrases,” “an artist,” living in this the greatest of ages; for he is the strongest, sweetest, clearest voice of the century—the most exact and vivid of artists. His task was truly great; for who could acquire the power of expressing sensuous beauty in melodious language without an infinite deal of preparation, learning and effort? Even in the perfecting of a little song, or in the painting of a simple flower, we find the great soul of the poet reflected. He lived amongst flowers, free from the annoyances and frivolities of societies. His life seems to be a beautiful dream as sweet as those he has pictured. From the first he desired to infuse into his poems the color, the harmony of the outward world.	*	.
In the first of his pictures and melodies, like “The Mermaid,” “Clafibel” one finds traces of effort. In the best of them, like “The Lady of Shallott,” he seems to have set himself to conquer the difficulties of his art,—to render the things heard and seen, the rhythm and color beautiful for the sake of their beauty. Take a little melody that has long stood on the first page of Tennyson’s poems,—it is from “Claribel”:
“At eve the beetle boometh
Athwart the thicket lone, ' At noon the wild bee hummeth About the moss’d headstone.”
How finished each thought! How exquisite each word! Like soft, clear notes they blend -together in a simple effect. His words, like vibrations in a note, come together in a gentle swelling:
.	“At midnight the moon cometh	’
And looketh down alone.”
It is said that Tennyson was an artist. In his picture poems may be found distinct traces of this; for none but a true artist could be so exact and vivid. His color words are few, but see how perfectly they are used:	-
“ The dim red-morn had died, her journey done, -And with dead lips smiled at twilight plain.”
And again from his “ Ode to Memory,”
“ What time the amber mom
Forth gushes from beneath a low hung cloud.”
What throws such a splendor over the landscape at day break? We find it expressed exactly, vividly, by his color word, the “amber” color of the morn. How minutely does it not picture in our minds the beautiful.hue that sheds such a lustre on awakening nature! How exquisite, ornate, elegant are his words! They are like beautiful tints, each deepened and shaded by the presence of the other, the loss of the one destroying the picture. Truly, indeed, we may say he is an artist. But his ambition soars no
SCMOZAST/C.
58o	.	NOTRE DAME
higher than the simple beauties of nature. Man has entered into pleasures.
We have roamed through his gardens and inhaled the odor of the flowers, admired his pretty rustic scenes, touching, remembrances and lifelike portraits in the gallery of his female characters “Madeline, Maud, Elaine.” We find in these portraits his melodies begin to have a meaning, and his pictures to take form; we see their smiles, their sudden hauteurs; we hear their almost inaudible sighs, enter into their thoughts, follow them in their happy dreams, and weep with them in their sorrows. None alike, and all painted by the same delicate hand. They form, as it were, a portrait gallery where each is preserved for all of us by the master-touch of Tennyson. “Madeline,” as she is styled, “The ever. varying Madeline,” changeful as the thoughts of youth, now frowning, now smiling, angry, and then happy again. Elaine, “The Lily Maid of Astolat” the sweetest, purest, gentlest maid of all. Even the little child is there,	.
“ So innocent arch, so cunning simple, From beneath her gather’d rimple Glancing with black-beaded eyes, Till the lightning laughters dimple ' The baby roses in.her cheeks;
Then away she flies,”
The gallery is complete. The least alteration would obscure all. How can we express our admiration of the features of so great a talent? Tennyson is indeed the poetic light of the age; for if this age, with its universal admiration of elegant, ornate and beautiful, is great, then Tennyson, such as he is, we will love him forever; for he is the gentlest, sweetest, richest voice that in this age has sung to tuneful souls.
Illusions.
There’s nothing like a starry night in May, To heal the wounds inflicted by the day;
To soothe with peaceful thoughts the weary brain, And make cold hearts once more, feel fond hope’s reign; ■	.
To move the heart that.glows with anger’s fire;
To raise the sinner from the earthly mire;
To calm the mind to anguish given o’er,
-And raise it to a peaceful state once more. . .
The subtle charms which float upon the wind
Now gather up old memories to bind, And interweave with future’s splendid dreams, Until at last this world no longer seems
To have a single drop of trouble left; -
• Of woe, and pain, and sin, it seems bereft, , And thus we have, without a sin ’gainst Heaven, An opium dream, but not by? opium given.	.
J. W. Egan.
Geology and Organic Evolution.
BY O. A. ROTIJERT, ’92.
When we reflect on the great progress made in the sciences during the last hundred years, and contrast it with the knowledge of them, which required all early modern, mediaeval and ancient times for its accumulation, we are inclined to boast of the great advancement of our century. How seldom do we consider that many of the sciences originated in antiquity, that their foundations were laid by the ancients! It is true the ancients accomplished little, but their proficiency certainly was in proportion to their means. They surveyed the heavens, studied botany and zoology, and performed experiments in both physics and chemistry.
Even the study of the earth’s crust, which is often looked upon as a purely modern science, received their attention. They noticed that sea shells were often to be found imbedded in solid ground at a great distance from any waters. They plainly saw that these had not been transported by man, and so they concluded that the ocean must have been there. They observed and speculated on the actions of the water of the rivers and the seas. During the Dark Ages, while the other sciences were still supported, geology was entirely neglected. Not until modern times did people again begin to inquire into the meaning of the fossils that were continually being discovered. Many foolish theories to ' explain their origin were proposed. Finally it was accepted that they were but the remains of animals and plants. That the present state of the world is but the result of a long succession of changes, gradual or sudden, recent or remote, became evident.
Before any headway could be made in geoL ogy it was necessary that the other sciences should be understood, and with their rapid advance during this century geology began to grow. Besides, sufficient facts had to be collected before any inductions could possibly be framed, and it is only within the last fifty years that specimens of any value were brought together.
An historian should have a knowledge of politics, theology and the various branches of learning by which he can obtain a clear view of human affairs or man’s moral and intellectual nature. So, too, a geologist should be thoroughly acquainted with zoology, botany, chemistry, natural philosophy; in a word, all the sciences .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
relating to organic and inorganic nature. The geologist must first study the present actions of nature before attempting any investigations into the earth’s early history. It has often been remarked that “the present is the key to the past.” This, to a certain extent, is true, and it is realized above all by the geologist: he can judge the past.only as he kn.ows the present. For the historian many evidences are old coins which fix the reigns of certain kings; relics excavated from the ruins of old cities give him a better idea of the manners and customs of some of the ancients; and from the graves of men buried thousands of years ago he can determine the average stature of the human race at that time. They form, it is true, a comparatively small part of the historian’s resources; but proofs of this nature are the principal ones at the geologist’s command, and, being so frequently imperfect, or very obscure, many scientists are often deceived and misled by them. '
Geology treats of the structure and arrangement of that which goes to make up the earth, —not its origin. Geology takes the earth from astronomy as cooling, incandescent matter, investigates its changes, and traces out the strata that have been formed. These layers, in their various positions, go to make up its detailed form, and the many fossils contained in them give us a closer insight into its life history.
We know very little about the interior of the earth. Geology proper deals only with its crust; the aggregate thickness already measured is about twenty-five miles. These rocks are divided into stratified—those which have been deposited as sediment and lie in beds— and unstratified—-those which have been fused together by heat. To what depth the unstratified extend is unknown. Besides they are of very little importance compared with the stratified; for, as no fossils are found in them, they can reveal nothing to us concerning the succession of life and the stages through which the earth has passed. Of the original crust, in its original, unstratified condition, perhaps no traces remain. Newer rocks have been and still are forming out of the older ones. The stratified rocks and their fossils, then, constitute the geologist’s principal subject for investigation.
The rocks that have been arranged since the cooling of the earth began are classed into seven divisions, each division corresponding to a great age. The first of these is known as the Archean. It commenced with the reduction of the heat of the earth and the solidification of its crust. No life could possibly have existed during
the first part of this age on account of the enormous temperature; fossils indicate that if there was any at the close it may have been in the form of sea-weeds, lichens, fungi and lower plants.
The next is the Silurian Age, or the Age of Invertebrates. During this period the greater, part of the slowly forming continents were still beneath the waters of the ocean. No land animals have been found; corals, sponges, lingula, trilobites and natuli were among the representatives of the animal kingdom. The extensive deposits of the remains of diatoms have been attributed to this age. Besides a number of smaller plants there lived a few of the ancestors of the forest kings of the Carboniferous Age. Fossils of fishes have also been discovered in the upper rocks of this division. Thus the lower vertebrates were gradually introduced, and before the end of the Devonian Age, or the Age of Fishes, a variety of types are brought into notice. The principal of these are the sharks, gars and garnoids, the latter being partly reptilian. Extensive coral reefs were built. The area of land was still small, but covered more or less with plants such as the “horse-tail” (a plant similar to the modern scouring-rushes, but many times larger), ferns and various species of conifers related to our common pines and spruces.
The fourth is the Carboniferous Age. The first known land vertebrates—salamander-like Amphibians—and reptiles of inferior tribes are shown to have existed in this age; and many of the fishes, too, possessed more of a reptilian character. Parts of the continents had gradually risen above the sea-level and now inclosed large fresh-water marshes. Thus, as the soil was becoming more suited for larger vegetation, the existing plants, favored by a temperature and atmosphere especially adapted to their growth, spread and multiplied in species, and soon extensive regions of the earth were covered with dense forests. The fast growing leaves, the broken branches and the trunks of young but large trees gradually formed thick accumulations. These beds of vegetation, often very deep, early began “to undergo at bottom that slow decomposition, the final result of which is mineral coal. But as the coal beds alternate with sandstone, shales, conglomerates and limestone, the long period of verdure was followed by another of overflowing waters which carried sands, pebbles or earth over the old marshes, till scores or hundreds of feet in depth of such . deposits had been made.”
The Reptilian followed the Carboniferous Age.
582
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Many of the types of plants and animals of the preceding ages became extinct, while some forms resembling more recent ones appeared. Large cuttle-fish were abundant. Flying lizards, with hollow bones like birds’, and claws, skin and teeth like reptiles’, animals allied to crocodiles, sea-lizards and the bat-like saurians, all of which attained a gigantic size, dominated. The oldest known birds have been discovered in the rocks of this time. They were of both a bird and reptile-like character; their tails were made up of separable bones, being a prolongation of the backbone. The first marsupials also lived during the latter part. They belong to an order of animals intermediate between ,the oviparous mammals (so abundant during the Reptilian age) and the ordinary mammals, which, during the sixth age, were no longer represented by a few species of pouch bearers but a large number of higher classes.
Carnivorous animals, related to the panther, and herbivorous resembling the rhinoceros, the horse (then an animal with four-hoofed toes on each foot), the deer and camel were among the quadrupeds of the Mammalian age. Fossils indicating that the monkey existed at its close, and even fragments of the skeleton of man, it is asserted, but not by the best authorities, have been taken from the upper strata. In fact, the animals of this age closely resemble those of the present, save in their enormous size. The mastodon and other genera allied to the elephant were indeed monsters. The flora increasd with the fauna, both in the number of species and in their perfection. The flowerless plants of the early periods were followed by those bearing flowers. During the Reptilian age many species of higher forms, such as the willow and dogwood, thrived; in the Mammalian the representatives were of still higher classes; finally they reached the state we now see them about us.
The last is the Quaternary, or Age of Man. The beginning witnessed the great glacial actions which “swept away the northern flora, the existing vegetation being almost entirely postglacial and of Eastern origin.” The animals are of about the same character as those of the present day. In the strata of this age are also found bones of man and a number of rude implements used by him. What follows after his appearance is not in the realm of the geologist.
The above is but a rapid outline of the earth’s past biological history. I have noted only a few of the transitions; for a description of even the principal ones would have carried us into dry details. Summing up, we see that geology reveals to us the fact that-life began in the lowest form
of vegetation: sea-weeds and inferior plants were gradually succeeded by the more perfect classes, and the latter, in the course of time, by the highest of those now existing. Among animals it commenced with the simple protozoans; by and by, radiates, articulates and mollusks appeared, later fishes and reptiles, afterwards birds, and then some of the lower mammals which were followed by higher ones; lastly man.
Having viewed the progress of life as represented by geology, the first question that presents itself is, where did the first animals and plants come from? Some maintain that the first germ of living beings must have been transported from other parts of the universe by means of meteors. But how did the germs get in the meteors? This theory cannot be accepted, for it only leads us into deeper confusion. Others imagine they approach the problem by treating of what is common to both the living and the lifeless, and assuming that the organic developed or emanated from the inorganic; they declare that since “ the ingredients are the same, the difference must lie in the mixing.” Such is the doctrine of infidels. They deny the existence of spiritual substance, and their conclusions are illogical. They will, of course, admit any theory except the one attributing life to a Creator, and that is the only one that can satisfactorily account for its origin. All truly scientific men have accepted it—I say truly scientific men, for the world is overburdened with so-called * “scientists.” That life cannot come from inorganic matter without any outside assistance has been established by science. Many and long experiments have been made in chemical laboratories with the intention of generating life; and even those carried on only to renew it after it once fled were in vain. A body once dead is dead forever, unless God by miracle infuses life into it again.
We can easily understand that there was a time when no living plants or animals could possibly have existed on the earth, owing to the intensely high temperature of its surface. When the first life was produced we do not know. It is very likely, though, that plants preceded animals; for they are not only more numerous in the early ages, but the oldest fossils seem to be those of vegetation. Besides, animals are sustained by plants which, in turn, draw their nourishment from minerals. Considering all these facts, we may conclude that plants thrived before animals. According to the genesis of Moses, who was inspired by God, they were created on the Third Day, and animals later on.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Mosaic account of the creation is in harmony with, geology. Unbelievers say that the strata and their numberless fossils testify that more than six days were required to bring about the changes recorded in the Bible. Moses did not explain what kind of days these were, nor how long they lasted. No Christian holds that they must have been days as we now understand the term. We read in Genesis that on the seventh day God completed his work which He had made. The Bible says nothing about the seventh day having ended, and therefore we may believe—as the prejudiced have often been informed—that it is still continuing. Nowhere can there be found a contradiction between Revelation and nature, or between religion and true science. “The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose,” and infidels, too, can interpret it for their cause.
Revelation teaches that God created all things, but does not relate the manner in which it was done, thus leaving an extensive subject for our investigation. Geology shows that the progress of life was upward; the simpler plants and animals were succeeded by more complex ones. But does this order of succession of the thousands of species give us sufficient evidence that they all have descended from one or a few forms which were originally perfectly simple, or in spite of this progression must we confess that the different kinds of animals and plants were created separately? Charles Darwin is an advocate of the first theory, and in his “Natural Selection” or “Survival of the Fittest,” he gives what he considers reasons to account for the numberless cases of apparent design. “ Natural Selection” supposes that “hereditarycharacters admit of being slowly modified, where their modification will render an organism better suited to a change in its condition of life.” Although this theory can assign a ground for the innumerable forms of life, we must not at once conclude that they were not created separately.
Any hypothesis can be explained by referring it to some supernatural agent. When lower causes are sufficient to account for a fact, why should we resort to higher ones; or when we have a natural cause, why take a supernatural? has often been asked. Speaking on this subject, Mr. George J. Romanes remarks that when Kepler was at a loss of knowing how to explain the motions of the various plants he fancied that they were guided by some presiding angel. This supernatural explanation was accepted by many until Newton proposed his laws of gravitation. Kepler’s idea was then, of course, rejected. Those who believe in separate creation,
583
argues Mr. Romanes, ought also adhere to Kepler’s hypothesis, both being supernatural taken in preference to natural explanations. But all scientists are by no means satisfied with the proofs Darwin and his promoters have furnished to uphold his theory. Darwin maintains that life had been “originally breathed by a creator into a few forms or one,” and that the different types of animals and plants gradually changed into others, owing to Natural Selection. Indeed, it is as reasonable to suppose that the millions of species, each of which is so closely connected with the one immediately preceding and following it, have a common ancestry, as to suppose that each required a special creation. If they were created separately their order must be looked upon as somewhat misleading.
Mr. Romanes has advanced several arguments in favor of Darwinism. Those taken from classification, morphology or structure, geology, geographical distribution and embryology are based on scientific facts and have added greatly to his master’s theory, and also made it more comprehensible. However, his minor considerations from a “Divine Beneficence” and psychological point of view are more in opposition to it than in its favor. In order to keep this paper within reasonable bounds, I shall quote from but two. In his chapter on classification he remarks: “Naturalists find that all species of plants and animals present among themselves structural affinities. According as these structural affinities are more or less pronounced, the various species are classified, under genera, orders, families, classes, sub-kingdoms and kingdoms. ... Our system of classification, therefore, may be likened to a tree in which a short trunk may be taken to represent the lowest organisms which cannot properly be termed either plants or animals. This short trunk soon separates into two large trunks, one of which represents the vegetable and the other the animal kingdom. Each of these trunks then gives off large branches, signifying classes, and these give off smaller but more numerous branches, signifying families, which ramify again into orders, genera, and finally into the leaves, which may be taken to represent species. Now, in such a representative tree of life, the height of any branch from thej’ground may be taken to indicate the grade of organization which the leaves or species present; so that if we picture to ourselves such a tree, we shall understand that while there is a general advance of organization from below upwards, there are numberless ■slight variations in this respect between leaves growing even on the same branch; but in a still
584	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
greater number of cases, leaves growing on the same branch are growing on the same level— that is, although they represent different species, it cannot be said that one is more highly organized than the other.”
Considering Darwinism from a geological point of view, he asserts that “ there is the best evidence to show that since the first dawn of „ life in the occurrence of the simplest organisms until the meridian splendor of life, as now we see it, gradual advance from the general to the special—from the low to the high, from the few and simple to the many and complex—has been the law of organic nature. And, of course, it is needless to say that this is precisely the law to which the process of descent with adaptive modification would of necessity give rise.”
Geology, it is true, shows very nicely that there has been a gradual advance in the species of plants and animals; yet this only proves that the new forms were more highly organized than their predecessors. Often fossils representing the transitions between species are wanting; and, of course, if one confines his views, as is often done, to nothing save the facts that there are many chances against an animal’s remains being preserved, and that our geological record is imperfect, he can easily imagine the blank pages filled out.	.
' Have we any direct evidence to show that the more perfect have gradually developed from the less perfect? One of the objections against organic evolution is that “we are in ignorance as to a single instance of the derivation of one good species from another.” _ Varieties have been obtained, but never has a naturalist been able to produce a new species. Another truth which to some seems destructive to the Darwinian theory is that quite a number of our present plants and animals are exactly like they were thousands of years ago. Geikie observes: “The longevity of an organic type has, on the whole, been in inverse proportion to its perfection.” This does not refute the statement, nor do we feel satisfied with the reply that ; all species cannot reach the same goal, being ; prevented by their surroundings and the. laws I	to which they happen to be subjected. The
!	building of the large coral reefs required hun-
i dreds of centuries, and during all the time of :	‘ their formation the polyps remained unchanged.
•	The reefs of the early Darwinian age are com-
।	posed of the same kind of corals now growing
;	in the Pacific Ocean, and their resemblance to
|	the modern reef is perfect. The oyster, one of
J	the later mollusks, which first appeared in the
Carboniferous age, continued to exist unmodi
fied to this day. The diatomes, among the earliest life forms, still resemble their ancestors. Why have these animals and plants survived all changes, while other species have been transmuted into higher ones?
The Darwinian theory does not contradict Divine Revelation so long as it lets the first form of life come from God; and we may add Father John Gmeiner’s remark, that “provided it does not go so far as to degrade man to a species of ape, it cannot be said to be inconsistent with the Mosaic account; although we do not intend to say that this account teaches Darwinism.” The Bible teaches that plants and animals came into existence at the command of God without informing us in how many original forms. We read: “God said let the earth bring forth the green herbs and such as may seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind.” .“Let the waters bring forth the creeping creatures having life.” “Let the earth bring forth the living creatures in its kind.”—“And it was done ” is all we are told; thus we assume the right to make inferences.
The question now arises: If we accept the theory of evolution, must we also maintain that man has gradually developed from some lower species of animals? The teaching of man’s ape-descent is based on nothing else than the assumption of the truth of'the principle upon which the Darwinian theory, depends. If. we grant the truth of this assumption we must confine its application to animals and notextend it to man, as Darwin, Huxley and others would have us do. For, “from the highest exhibition of brute instinct to the lowest manifestation of human reason there is a void as great as that which separates earth from heaven.” Even if we take for granted that a few “missing links” between the most perfect animal and man have been destroyed we would still be obliged to stretch our imagination to see him and the ape spring from the same source. Darwin himself, in his “ Descent of Man,” acknowledges that there exists “ a great break in the organic chain between man and his nearest allies which cannot be bridged over by any extinct or living species.” However, he is consoled by the fact that our imperfect geological record indicates “a great break” between certain lower animals also. He relies, too, on geologists bringing to light some “missing links” in exploring those regions they have not yet searched.
If man were descended from some higher form of animal, there would, I believe, still exist no contradiction in Revelation. We may suppose, as St. George Mivart is said to have
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
suggested, that after man’s body had reached, by evolution, the perfection God had in view He supplied it with a soul. Even in this case we would not deny that “ God formed man of the slime of the earth,” for he may have been taken from the “slime of the earth” indirectly. Such a hypothesis could easily be accepted; but since scientific researches give us no proof of man’s connection with lower animals we must look upo.n it as a purely speculative theory. Revelation teaches that God “ created man to His own image,” and that the Lord “breathed into his face the breath of life, and man became a living soul.” Certainly man, as contemplated by God, was worthy of a special creation, and, so long as no theory accounting for his origin in any other way can be demonstrated, we may well maintain that he came directly forth from God.
Such are the thoughts that occur, or are suggested as we view geology and organic evolution from their many sides. Evolution, when applied to plants and lower animals, and also confined to them, is indeed a fascinating theory. Of its most enthusiastic promoter, Darwin, it may well be said he set the scientific world to thinking. His recorded original observations and investigations are surprisingly numerous, and had he been succeeded by disciples worthy of being called his followers, this wonderful hypothesis might to-day be fastened by a longer and stronger chain of evidences, and would probably have been brought nearer to a demonstrated fact than a mere theory. It is a theory, and an old one, too, and the present indications are that it will always remain one. Darwin’s supporters have done nothing but boast about “discoveries” and complain of the: imperfect geological record at their disposal— a record so incomplete that they experience great difficulty in convincing the “ ordinary minds” of the truth of their “logical” deduction. Many of the so called “scientists” commit a few definitions and immediately begin to philosophize; then, too, they begin to make fools of themselves. Pope has warned us: r
"A little learning is a dangerous thing;
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.” The blunders of these pretenders are ever brought forward as statements indorsed by all men of science. This is very embarrassing to true scientists, and often causes great confusion.
On the one hand are presented infidels who* invariably take up organic evolution as a fact, and never fail to detect, as they assert, a contradiction between nature and the Bible. On the the other hand, we have among Christians, versed in philosophy and science, some who
adhere to it to a certain extent, while others ’ favor the theory, but still declare, with Asa Gray, that “from the nature of the case this conception can never be demonstrated.”
Beside St. Joseph's Wooded Banks.
Beside St. Joseph’s wooded banks, when jocund spring was reigning,	‘
I roamed in peace the lofty groves, as day was slowly waning;	. '
The robin flew from tree to tree, the thrush’s throat was swelling,
Whilst over all St. Mary’s bell was sweetly,'gently telling.
I listened to the sylvan sounds and longed to join the chorus,'	.
To give meet thanks and praise to God who sheds His glory.o’er us.
When, hark! a meek voice, far away, with joyous heart was singing ,	.	,
A hymn, which echoes in my ear with soft and soothing ringing:	.
“ Oh, would I were the silvery sounds That are when bells are pealing, . Resounding clear from hill to dale, Into our heart’s shrine stealing!
To Thee, my God, while time is time, In tones of glad rejoicing, A fervent love I would declare—
The song of Nature voicing.	.
Oh, would I were the purling streams That ripple onward ever, And sing unbidden melodies Extolling Him forever!	’
The lofty oak-trees pointing up, In accents weak and tender	’
Bespeaking to us here below The road to Heaven’s splendor.
Aye, often when alone I hear	.
The gladsome strains at morning,
I wish to lead a nobler life All base emotions scorning.
My tearful heart with grief is touched, My soul with longing fonder
To live again the years gone past,	.
In sin no more to wander.
Oh, strengthen me, my Help! my All! • Thy beams of love extending, That I may laud Thy holy ways
- With descants meet unending;
That I may reach Thy heavenly throne When life’s last sands have meted, And close beside the nailed feet
‘ Eternally be seated.”
Whilst vanished, prayer-like, to His throne this canticle celestial,
The birds, the streams,- the dew-tipped flowers seemed, mute with love terrestrial. ’
Enchanted with my walk at eve I left this scene of pleasure,	■
Aret treasuring within my mind each soft and pleasing measure.	-
• .	A. K.
S86
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

tbtrj JSaturtKQ buring Serm Sime at N. B. 8ni6nstts.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, May 7,1892.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
STAFF.
A. Kehoe, ’93;	Hugh O’Neill, 92;
Louis P. Chute, ’92.
Joseph Just, ’92;	Ernest DuBrul, ’92;
J. R. Fitzgibbon, ’92;
T. J. Hennessy, ’94;	W. M. Houlihan, ’92;
H. C. Murphy, ’92;
A. Ahlrichs, ’92;	Fred B. Chute, ’92;
M. A Quinlan, ’93 ;
J. J. McGrath, ’92;	F. J. Vurpillat, ’92;
B. C. Bachrach, ’92.
An Important Work by Father Zahm.
We are pleased to announce that Rev. Father Zahm, C. S. C., the Professor of Physical Science in the University, has in press a work, to be issued at an early day, which, we feel sure, will attract considerable attention. It is a treatise on “Sound and Music,” to be illustrated by upwards of two hundred engravings.
The.book will make a large, handsome jctavo volume of nearly six hundred pages, and will, in many respects, be altogether different from anything in the language. It discusses in detail the principles of acoustics, and gives a full exposition of the physical basis of musical harmony. Besides this, it presents the science of music in a new light, and embraces an accurate account of all the recent discoveries in the fertile domain of acoustics. Particular attention is given to the researches of Koenig and Mayer whose labors are practically unknown to English readers.
The work is designed primarily for musicians and general readers who are desirous of extending their knowledge so as to embrace the science as well as the art of music. Such a work in English has long been a desideratum. The number of new apparatus and experiments described will make the book of special value to all students and lovers of science. The work is thoroughly up to date, and complete in its resume of all the latest investigations bearing on the nature and laws of musical, harmony.
The book, in manuscript, has been submitted
to some of the most eminent acousticians of Europe and America, and has received their cordial indorsement. Some of the members of the Societe Francaise de Physique, of which, by the way, Father Zahm is the first American member, having been elected in 1878, are enthusiastic in their expressions of approval of the manner in which the subject-matter of the work is treated.
For several years past Father Zahm has given special attention to the science of music, and we may, therefore, feel confident that his work will be an.authority on the subject treated. While in Paris, last summer, as also during previous visits to Europe, he spent much of his time in the superbly appointed laboratories of Dr. Koenig—the greatest living authority on acoustics—and went over experimentally with the distinguished savant all the more important researches which have made him so famous the world over. Over and above this Father Zahm is fortunate enough to have in his cabinet in Science Hall what Dr. Koenig has pronounced to be “one of the best collections of acoustical apparatus in existence.” With this he has been able to verify experimentally all the leading statements made in his book and thus give it a value it could not otherwise possess.
Simultaneously with the appearance of the work in this country, an English edition will be issued in London. Arrangements have likewise been made for the publication of the book in French, German and Italian. The work of translation has been entrusted to some of the author’s scientific friends in France and Germany. We shall take pleasure in giving our readers a full account of the book as soon as it comes from the press.
The Lyons’ Monument.
It is believed that the monument to be erected to the memory of the late Professor Joseph A. Lyons will be in place in the Holy Cross Cemetery at Notre Dame on or before the 20th of this month, and ready for unveiling ten days later, or on Memorial Day. This ceremony will take place in the presence of all the old students and friends of Prof. Lyons who can arrange to attend. About 200 will come from Chicago alone, and at least as many more may be expected from other places.
In November last the monument was ordered by Prof. William Hoynes, the treasurer of the fund. Several firms dealing in monuments in
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	587
this and neighboring states submitted designs and proposals. These were carefully inspected and considered with reference to size, price, quality of granite, etc. It was found, however, in view of all the circumstances, that what appeared to be the best offer came from the firm of May & Johnson, of South Bend, and to that firm the order was given.
The monument agreed upon is to be of the best quality of Quincy granite. The pedestal will be between three and four feet square, while the shaft resting thereon will be twenty inches at the base and from twelve to fourteen inches at the top. Its total height, inclusive of cross, will be but a trifle less than fourteen<feet. Symmetrical and attractive to a notable degree, as shown by the design, it will worthily serve as a mark of the high regard and sincere affection it is intended to symbolize. It is to be paid for by voluntary contributions of the old students, and every inch of it will testify to the respect, admiration and affection cherished by them for one who was Nature’s truest type of gentleman—the courteous, generous, devoted and self-sacrificing Prof. Lyons.
It was understood when the order was given that the monument would arrive at South Bend about the middle of April; but on account of failure through some oversight to quarry a block of granite of the required size, as stated by the firm having the matter in charge, an extension of time has necessarily been granted. However, a definite promise has been received to the effect that the monument will be here as early as the 20th inst., and in place and ready for unveiling at the time stated.
Memorial Day has been fixed upon for the ceremony, not only because Prof. Lyons was in the military service as a lieutenant for a short time during the war, but also because the old students can more conveniently get away from business and come here that day than any other. In fact, several of them have already expressed a preference for it, and it is proposed to hold the regular alumni meeting at the same time.
A short programme of the exercises will be published later in these columns. Suffice it at present to state that the Rev. Dennis A. Tighe, of Chicago, and the Hon. Wm. P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, have consented to deliver brief addresses. The Hon. Wm. T. Ball, of Chicago, who has done more than any other person to honor his old Professor in this way, and to bring the undertaking to a successful issue, has kindly yielded to the request to discharge the duties of poet on the occasion. -
May-Day.
The anxiety and uncertainty which preyed upon the minds of society prior to May i has been set at rest now that the day is over. Mayday passed for the most part without serious event both in this country and Europe. France in particular was wrought up by supposedly portentous forebodings of the culmination of some preconcerted and secret plan of the dynamiters. In Paris the people refused to leave their houses for fear of stepping on a bomb. Three million inhabitants were panic-stricken through dread of three hundred anarchists. Paris, the city in which the greatest agitation was expected, was sunk in funereal silence.
The order seems to have been reversed; had May-day been half so fraught with exciting incident as several of the days immediately preceding, there would have been reason for apprehension. Of all the days of the year it apparently was especially set aside as one of peaceful rest and quietude. In other parts, however, the day was characterized by the usual demonstrations, consisting of large processions and small speeches, some of which were of a more or less incendiary nature. London resembled a great picnic ground, in which those who sought their little “outing” were composed of the May fair contingent, as well as the Whitechapel.
The eagerness, however, with which the socialistic pamphlets, profusely circulated among the crowd, were scanned, and the applause that greeted the speakers who uttered socialistic sentiments, evince clearly that socialism is on the increase in England as well as on the continent, and that the British Parliament may yet have a very unwieldy element to cope with. The only explosions reported were two or three in Belgium, which did comparatively little harm, except in the case of St. Martin’s Church in Liege, which sustained a damage of about twenty thousand dollars.
In the United States, although the relation existing between capital and labor is by no means all that could be desired, yet the situation is not so threatening as in Europe. In Europe the cry that comes from the throats of the laboring class is “bread, give us bread!” In the United States it is, for the most part, “more bread, more bread! ” Europe stands on a volcano whose elements menace the foundation of society; with us the chief aim is to institute a better status between capital and labor—to reconcile
$88	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
them, if possible, by means of the pen and speech and elections—if impossible, to force capital to yield by refusing to serve it.
In the present condition of society, capital and labor, which should go hand in hand, are, to a great extent, two conflicting elements, and such is the constitution of human nature that a compromise between them is an Utopian ideal.
The demonstrations in Chicago, which may be taken as a type of the American sentiment among the masses, consisted mainly of a large procession and of speeches demanding the eight-hour' day and higher wages, interspersed with a little interest by way of the capture of a few red flags. Although there was no special danger of trouble, the authorities acted wisely in having prepared to meet any emergency.
C.
Indiscriminate Immigration.
Out of the tomb of murdered government in Europe come the hideous phantoms of despotism and despair. They come! they who scrupled not to bring disgrace upon their homes, their families and their country. To them the want, the will, the life, the liberty, the blood of man, is nothing. To them spoil and anarchy are all. These adventurers enter American society with all the vices and none of the virtues of European life. .They come! They who forged their fetters by their intemperate passions come, not for mercy,-but for plunder! Listen to the hypocrites who advocate indiscriminate immigration. Their theories cost them little; yet if reduced to practice would soon tumble our fabric of government, and give us in its stead chaos and dismay. Good order is the foundation of society, and without it government becomes a tyranny. Preserve order and fill the land with the progeny of foreign misgovernment and the scum of European society! Stamp.your foot upon the surface of the earth and stop it in its revolution! Raise your voice, like another Joshua, and bid the sun stand still! Invite to our shores the outcasts , that pampered their passions and forgot their duties to their God; that dragged woman from her place of honor, and invaded the rights of men; who walked over the ruins of liberty to uphold decaying monarchy that they might satiate their greed of gain; who despise the law, their country and their God! Invite them all to come! No! O America, ho! In the name of law and order, in the name of national progress, in the name of civil liberty, I protest. Our country has everbeen-the home
of persecuted mankind, but never was, nor never shall be, the sheltering place of European criminals.	>
Stop all immigration? Stop the life blood of the nation? No! To the exile, who leaves his country because her laws are tyrannous, to the immigrant, who comes to make a home by honest means, to the enterprising children of every clime, I offer the hand of friendship. Why should Americans not meet such foreigners with feelings of affection ? Did not their forefathers fight and fall in the cause of American Independence ? And what are Americans but regenerated mankind on American soil?	'
Allow the degraded criminals of Europe to come to our land and follow the propensities of their nature, you cannot and preserve the government; stop all immigration, and freedom, you cannot say, is still compatible with our laws. What then remains? Restriction of immigration only—that sacred right which no power, no man, no influence—which nothing but the folly of politicians can ever destroy. Then you may sound the bugle to the oppressed of mankind. Call them all, for that is the spirit of the law which makes freedom synonymous with our government and inseparable from our soil; that declares to every stranger, the moment he touches the American shore, that the land on which he treads is free and consecrated by the blood of patriots.
As the advocate of society, of peace, of domestic happiness, and the rapid development of our country, I say let those who cannot bear the slavery of the old land burst the chains that bind them; let them come to the New and be regenerated by the redeeming spirit of our laws, and consecrate themselves to the holy cause of God and Liberty! ‘
■ Hugh O’Neill.
The Republican Convention.
We often hear, more frequently in jest than earnest, that the Republican National Convention has, this year, been placed in hands whose body’cannot support the great gathering of people which such an occasion necessarily attracts. This assertion is easily disproven. First, no St. Paul man will confirm it. This is enough to convince the most skeptic person whom the Stars and Stripes protects. A second reason by which the falsity of the saying may be shown is from facts taken from Mr. Albert Shaw’s article in the Review of Reviews for May. Mr. Shaw says that plans on the grandest scale,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and showing the greatest enthusiasm on the part of the Minneapolitan citizens, are on the high road to completion. The Convention Hall was last year remodelled, and seated a convention of twelve thousand Y. P. S. C. E. youths, and for this year’s convocation the same building has undergone another thorough renovation, which will give room for many more men of broad and brawny intellects.
If zeal and push have anything to do with the success of an enterprise, then the R. N. C. will come out as far in the lead of other conventions . just as the Monitor surpassed the Merrimac; for every man in St. Paul and Minneapolis—except one crank who lived in the suburbs of the latter city on the Chicago side and whose hobby was to give. Chicago a chance (he did not want to go so far),—has thrown his whole endeavor . to make each one of the hundred and fifty thousand visitors feel as if the city were doing all for his personal comfort. In fact, the only trouble to be obviated now will be to find a way by which citizens may distinguish themselves from visitors, for the latter will feel so much at home that they will verily believe they “own the city.”	C.
Books and Periodicals.
—The World's Columbian Exposition Illustrated. The 250,000 readers of this very interesting and unique publication will be pleasantly surprised with the April issue, decidedly the handsomest so far published. The frontispiece is an especially fine full-page engraving of the Hon. Thomas M. Waller, of Connecticut, First VicePresident of the National Commission. There are also full-page engravings of the United States Government Building, the Transportation Building, and the Fisheries Building as they will appear when finished; One of the prominent features is a beautiful colored lithographic view of the prominent Exposition buildings as they will appear when finished; also several illustrations showing the buildings in course of erection, an exquisite panoramic view of the buildings and ’grounds as they appear at present, a photograph of Chicago as it appeared in 1833, a beautiful photograph of the members of the National Congress as they viewed the Exposition ground February 22d, together with photographs of the Congressional Committee on the World’s Fair.. Altogether, this number is not only well worthy . of reading, but is invaluable to all those who expect to visit the World’s Fair in 1893, or to anyone who wishes to have an authentic record oftheWorld’s Columbian Exposition. Published by Jas. B. Campbell, 218 La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois.
—The May Century is remarkable for the.
beginning of a new volume and of three new serials, namely, the life of Columbus, by the distinguished Spanish orator and statesman, Emilio Castelar, who, in his first paper, considers the age in which Columbus lived; “The Chosen Valley,” a novel of Western life in the irrigationfields, by Mary Hallock Foote, illustrated by the author; and the architect .Van Brunt’s semi-official and fully illustrated papers on “Architecture at the World’s Columbian Exposition,” from which the reader will obtain a fresh idea of the magnificence of the housing of the Exhibition at Chicago. Iri the way of short stories there are two very interesting ones, namely, one by Wolcott Balestier, posthumously printed, called “Captain, my.Captain!” a story of the town which is the rival of Topaz in “The Naulahka,” and the other “A Gray Jacket,” by Thomas Nelson Page. Few. pictures so charming have been published in the series of Old Masters as that by Luini in this number. Of a particularly timely character is the article on “Coast and Inland Yachting,’ by Frederic W.' Pangborn, with a number of illustrations. He describes the hold yachting has taken among the people by the great and small lakes of the interior as well as among the inhabitants of the two seaboards of the country, and he discusses the merits of the different types of pleasure craft. The opening paper of the number is one of reminiscence by the painter Healy, who is residing in Paris, on Thomas Couture, one of the striking figures in modern French art.
—St. Nicholas for May has a table of contents presenting thirty-nine distinct dishes, each of excellent flavor and well served, but none too highly seasoned for the healthful palate of youth. Of the longer stories, “The Conspirators,” by Emma S. Chester, is an excellent piece of work; it tells how a little South American lad schemed to remain in the United States rather than go back to his uncle in Brazil. His plot, though successful, is none tHe less exceedingly funny reading. Mr. Du Mond’s illustrations are of unusual interest and merit. “Prehistoric Photography,” by Tudor Jenks, shows that even in the good old times the amateur had his troubles when he tried to make pictures. It is an amusing story, and W. H. Drake has cleverly emphasized the most striking points in his artistic and delightful illustrations. In “The Disputed Shinny Match” James L. Ford raises a question over which boys’ debating societies can spend many a profitable evening of discussion. Whether Tommy Wines was fairly. a player or not is very debatable; but the story is enjoyable whatever the outcome of the debate. The number is literally besprinkled with bright bits of verse. Virginia Woodward Cloud writes most poetically of “Fairy-land”; Anna M. Pratt recounts humorously “A Mortifying Mistake” —a little fun for the believers in mnemonic systems; Gertrude Morton paints a boy’s ideal in “Tommy’s School”; Charles H.Crandall has
59o	NOTRE DAM1L SCHOLASTIC.
a lyrical melody “My Troubadour”; Amos R. Wells describes a most chameleon-like “Elizabeth”; and J. Edmund V. Cooke, a new Democritus, advises all to “Laugh a Little Bit.” The advice is excellently meant, but J. G. Francis is the practical philosopher who makes mirth possible by his really funny pictures, “A Case of Highway Robbery.”
Obituary.
Rev. Julius Frere, C. S. C.
On last Monday afternoon one of the venerable priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross— the Rev. Julius Frere—passed away from earth after a lingering illness. The deceased was in the 71st year of his age, and, previous to his entrance into the Community, in 1865, had for a number of years been engaged in active and zealous missionary work in Michigan and Ohio. He made his religious profession in 1866, and since that time had done good service as a member of the Faculty of the University. For many years he was distinguished by the energy and success with which he directed the ecclesiastical chant, and to his untiring efforts is attributable the perfection attained in the execution of Liturgical music at Notre Dame. He was ever active in instructing and training youthful Levites in all that pertained to the Rubrical practices of the Church, and his work ceased only when prostrated by sickness about two years ago. His last moments were calm, and comforted by all the Sacraments of Holy Church. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Omnia dextera.	-
—No, it is not all right!
—Rather damp this week.
—The key was in his other pocket. ~
—Our athletes are training for Field Day.
—What is the matter with the Third nine?
—Are you in good condition for Field Day?
—Several new students entered during the week.
—The weather prophets were in their element lately. .	:	2
. —Why was no report of the Athletic Association given in?
—Captain Slevin of the “Pickwicks” won the first game. Score: 11-12.	•	' .
-—Seventeen to four is not a very creditable score for the----nine.	,
L —The spring meeting of the athletes will take place in the near future. ’ :
—The Carrolls’ specials were shut out by the Brownsons in Thursday’s game.
—Captain Scholer of the “Pickwicks” won in Thursday’s game. Score: 9 to 3.
—The April showers were unavoidably detained, not reaching here till last week.
—Harry Cheney has returned. Wemay expect to hear from the third nine any moment.
—Let no one talk of changeable weather. A week’s rain is regular enough for anybody.
—The typos return thanks to Bro. Alfred for the beautiful cement walk laid around the office.
—The melodious croaking of the frogs is now wafted to us by the gentle zephyrs blowing from the lakes.	.
—Those who find Ccesar dry are referred to Bonny whose risibilities are excited at every line of the Commentaries.
—Yesterday, being the first Friday of _the month, the Catholic students received Holy Communion in a body.
—Captain Janssen was, McGill-like, carried from the field in triumph by some of his admirers in the last game he won.
—The specials belonging to the second nine of Carroll Hall won a game from the antis of the first nine. Score: 13 to 19.
—In the second nine of Carroll Hall Captain Ball had everything his own way in the great game the other day. Score: 17 to 2.
—The “ Invincibles” and the “Tired Athletes ” will play their second game next Thursday afternoon. Rumor has it that it will be exciting.
—The fourth nine played a ten-inning game Thursday. Both sides put up a good game, Captain Janssen winning by a score of 16 toi4.
—Several base-ball reportsjwere received too late to be deciphered in time for insertion in this issue. A little care would have made them more legible.
—Wilhelm and Johann have proclaimed a truce. They intend to allay any . outburst of hostility between them until they have regained sufficient strength to renew the warfare.
—The “ Invincibles ” met and easily defeated the “Tired Athletes.” Score: eleven to three. The double play between first and second was simply irresistible, catching Captain McGrath and Quinlan napping.
—A nine to be known as the “Pickwicks” was organized during'the week, which gives the Carrolls five diamonds, and places ten nines in the field at once. F. Scholer and R. Slevin captain the “ Pickwicks.”
—An interesting game is looked for between the “Invincibles” and Carrolls’ first nine. That it will be lively goes without saying, as both are determined upon winning. All are invited. Due notice will be given.
—The illuminations at the Seminary on the 2d and 3d inst. were exceptionally fine, to say the least. It was whispered about that they com
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	s9r
pare very favorably with similar decorations which the festive Roman citizen sets, up from time to time.
’ —Johnnie, the star of the First German, had a moment of inspiration lately, and gave utterance to this exclamation:
Dies erit pergelida Sinistra cum Germania.
—The base-ball game of the week was that of the third nine in the Minims. The score was 33-30 in favor of the Blues, Captain Jones. The game was called, on account of rain, in the eighth inning. If it had not been for this the score would have been larger.
i	—The beautiful devotion of the Month of
I’	May was solemnly inaugurated in the college
church on last Saturday evening. An appropriate sermon was delivered by Rev. President Walsh, after which solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given.
—The picturesqueness of the scenery around St. Joseph’s Lake has been greatly enhanced during the last few weeks by reason of the great improvements made by Bro. John and his , devoted co-laborers. The work is done according to the plans of Mr. Donahue, and bespeaks the admirably good taste of this accomplished young gentleman; -	-
—Last Tuesday was the third anniversary of the laying of the corner-stone of the Seminary. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Father . French, assisted by Father Linneborn and Rev. Mr. Maloney. Then followed unqualified recreation, a Parisian “spread,” and a number of extra privileges. A magnificent illumination of the buildings took place in the evening, the success of which is due to the efforts of the Committee on Ways and Means.
—On Tuesday last the first nines of Carroll Hall played one of the best games of ball ever 1	witnessed on the Carrolls’ campus. The applause
I which greeted the many fine plays exhibited by I both sides beggars, description. The feature of ■ the game was the close playing when men were on bases. The following is the
Score by Innings:—1 23456789 Blues:—1 .00 1 000 1 0=3 ,	Reds:—o 0 o 1 o o o o 0=1
—May 6, the Feast of St. John the Evangelist, was a day of special rejoicing in St. Edward’s Hall. In the morning the “Princes” assisted at Mass in the beautiful Chapel of St. John. Later .on a delegation of the youngest invited Very Rev. Father General to address the Minims on his favorite saint. With his characteristic amiability he consented, and spoke to them at length, and with his old-time eloquence, of the glorious Evangelist. May the numberless prayers that have been addressed to St. John on behalf of his venerable client be heard, and may he live to see many other returns of the feast of his favorite saint!	’
j	—The Right Rev. Mgr. B. Paquet, the distin-
guished Rector of Laval University, Quebec,
was a .most welcome visitor to Notre Dame on Wednesday and Thursday of this week. The learned prelate is one of the most eminent members of the Hierarchy of Canada, and the honored head of the most renowned Catholic University on the Continent. His words of praise for all the educational advantages possessed by our Alma Mater, and the work accomplished by our Faculty, had a value and significance which could be given by no ordinary individual. We are glad to learn that Mgr. Paquet was pleased with his visit and promised to return in the near future.
—Some very interesting games of ball have been played upon the Carrolls’ campus during the hours devoted to recreation. They are known as “pie games,” each table comprising nine persons and the winning nine receives the pie. The boys on Mr. Bates’ table bit readily at this bait, and challenged the next table to them which happened to be presided over by one of the Prefects. They did not mind this in the least, but thought the pie would.taste a little more savory, if anything, on that account. It was to be a five-inning game. Things looked so blue in the fourth for the Prefect’s table that he took a hand in the game as he did not want his boys to be beaten, not to mention the pie. The game was pretty close all through, the Prefect’s table winning only when there were two men out in the'ninth inning. Lee’s fielding and Jerry’s phenomenal catches are seldom equalled- in such games.
—St. Joseph’s Novitiate.—The devotions of the month of Mary were opened at St. Joseph’s Novitiate on last Saturday evening, in a manner which bespoke, better than words could have done, the tender affection the Novices cherish for their Heavenly Mother. At 7.45 they entered the beautiful chapel while Mr. Joseph Just, the organist of the Novitiate, played a march of his own composition well suited to the festivity of the occasion and the joyous feelings that animated all present. Then followed a hymn to Our Lady, the recitation of the beads and the singing of the Litany of Loreto. After this Father Fitte delivered a short sermon in which he advised his spiritual children to offer to the Queen .of Heaven their hearts adorned with sentiments of faith, hope and love. It is always a subject of special delight to the Novices to listen to the instructions of their dear Superior, and, doubtless, many are the fruits derived from them. Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was next given, during which the choir, under the leadership of Mr. Petry and Bro. Florentins, rendered some difficult pieces with a precision that betokened the careful training it received.
The chapel was decorated in an elegant manner by the zealous sacristan, Mr. W. Houlihan. The altar, a work of art in itself, was decked, with sweet-scented flowers of various colors, and a great number of candles shed over the whole
592
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a sea of light. There is something truly admirable about the refined taste Mr. Houlihan shows in ornamenting that cannot fail to be conducive to the piety of the Novices; for
“----who loves not to dwell	.
Where beauty reigns supreme?”
Mr. Maguire and Bro. Julian deserve great praise for the pretty shrine of Our Lady they have erected in the chapel. It is built in the form of a throne with overhanging canopy, and covered with lace of white and blue color. A beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin stands upon it, and the steps are covered with flowers of all kinds, from amongst which many a candle peeps out. The whole is tastefully done, and all the visitors to the Novitiate call it a little work of art. •
How pleasing it must be to the Queen of May to have her children render her such honor! But her tender heart rejoices yet more when she sees all the members of the Novitiate assemble every evening before her shrine, singing her praises and invoking her powerful intercession before the throne of the Almighty.
Roll of Honor.
-	SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bachrach, Brady, Carney, Combe, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Coady, Carroll, Dechant, Fitzgerald, DuBrul, Fitzgibbon, Flannery, Gillon, Hannin, Howard, Joslyn, Langan, Lancaster, P. Murphy, Monarch, Maurus, McAuliff, McGrath, McKee, Neef, O’Brien, Quinlan, Rothert, Sullivan, E. Scherrer, G. Scherrer, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott, F. Vurpillat, V. Vurpillat.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Arts, Ansberry, Breen, Burns, Brennan, J. Brady, Baldwin, E. W. Brown, Bolton Brinin, Chassaing, Corcoran, Corry, Crawley, Cassidy, Carter, Correll, Chilcote, W. Cummings, Caffrey, F. Cummings, Cherhart, Case, Colby, Carrey, Delaney, Doheny, Dinkel, Devanny, Dumford, Egan, Ellwanger, Flynn, Frizzelle, Foley, Fardy, Heneghan, Healy, R. Harris, Hesse, Holland, E. Harris, Henly, Houlihan, Heer, Hennessy, Hagan, Hartman, Hermann, Jacobs, F. Kenny, Krost, Kleekamp, Kearney, F. Keough, Kennedy, Kearns, • Kunert, Libert, . S. Mitchell, McFadden, Monarch, D. Murphy, Magnus, McErlain, McKee, F. Murphy, Mc-Carnck, McCullough, Murray, O’Donnell, Oide, O’Shea, O’Connor, Powers, Pulskamp, D. Phillips, T. Phillips, Perry, Patier, Quinlan, M. Ryan, J. Ryan, G. Ryan, E. Roby, Ragan, Sherman, Stanton, Schopp, Stace, Vinez, Vurpillat, Welsh, Wilkin, Zeller, Zeitler.
~	: CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Ashford, Bauer, Bixby, Baldauf, Ball, J. Brown, Byrnes, Brennan, Bearss, Bates, Casey, Cullen, Carpenter, Corcoran; Cochrane; Conrad, Dion, DuBois, DeLor-mier, Duncombe, Dillon; Delaney, J. Dempsey, Dixon, ,F. Dempsey, Edwards, Fleming, A. Funke, G. Funke, Foster, Fitzgerald, Feehan,- Ford, Grote, L. Gibson, Gil- bert, Griffin, Gillam, Garfias, Garst, Gemer, Hagan,. Hilger, Hoban, Hargrave, Hagus, Hittson, Harrington, Janssen, Joseph, Kauffmann, Kreicker,. Kraber, W; Keg-ler, A. Kegler, Kerker, Keough, Leej' Luther, Lawlor, Lane, Mills, Martin, Mitchell, J. Miller, Meyers, Marre, Miles, Mahon, . Moss, McPhee, McDowell, McCarthy, McLeod, Medalie, W. Nichols, Hl Nichols, O’Connor, O’Brien, O’Rourke,. W. O’Neill, Oliver, J. O’Neill, Payne,. Prichard, Pope, Rupel, Rogers, Ratterman,- Renesch, . Rumely, -Regan, H. -Reedy,' C. Reedy, Rend, - Reilly, Ryan, Sullivan^ Strauss; Sparks; Sedwick, Shimp, Sweet,
Scholer, Slevin, Thornton, Thome, O. Tong, Teeter, Thorn, Tobin, Todd, J. Tong, Vorhang, Washburn, Walker, Weaver, N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, Wells, Wag-: ner, Wensinger, Warner, Yeager, Yingst, G. Zoehrlaut. • . ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Ahern, Ayers, R. Brown, Burns, Blumenthal, V. Berthelet, R. Berthelet, Ball, Bopp, Corry, Christ, Curtin, Chapoton, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Crandall, Croke, Cross, B. Durand, H. Durand, DuBrul, Dugas, L. Donnell, S. Donnell, F. Emerson, W. Emerson, Egan, Everest, Elliott, Finnerty, Fossick, J. Freeman, N. Freeman, E. Furthmann, C. Furthmann, C. Girsch, Gregg, Gavin, Gilbert, Graf, Hoffman, Howard, Hilger, Healy, Hathaway, Roy Higgins, Ralph Higgins, Hartman, Jon-quet, Jones, Kinney, Krolhnan, Kern, G. Keeler, S. Keeler, Kuehl, E. LaMoure, Londoner, Lawton, Lysle, Langley, Langevin, Lowrey, McPhee, McIntyre, R. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, McGinley, McAlister, McGushin, Maternes, Morrison, R. Morris, F. Morris, Nichols, Ninneman, O’Neill, Oatman, O’Brien, W. Pollitz, H. Pollitz, Pieser, Pratt, Platts, Pursell, Peck, Ransome, Repscher, Rose, W. Scherrer, G. Schqrrer, Swan, Stuckhart, L. Trankle, F. Trankle, P. Trujillo, White, Wilcox, Westover.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. McCarrick, Corcoran, Corry, Palmer, McMahon, Flannery, Mitchell, O’Donnell, M. Ryan, Doheny, J. Ryan, E. Ahlrichs, Crawley, Kearns, M, Quinlan, Devanney, Burns, Houlihan, O’Shea, Cassidy, Correll, Maurus, Neef, Vinez, J. Fitzgerald, Dinkel, Schillo, W. Kennedy, J. Brady, Kearney, D. Phillips, Joslyn, Dacey, E. Brown, Powers, McAuliff, Monarch, Bachrach, McGrath, Rothert, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, A. Ahlrichs, F. Vurpillat, Bolton, P. Murphy, V. Vurpillat, Lancaster, Fitzgibbon, J. McKee, F. McKee, R. Sinnott; O. Sullivan, O’Brien, N. Sinnott, Ragan, Langan, Castenado, Hannin, L. Chute, Cartier, Gillon, Combe, T. Coady, Schaack, F. Chute, Jewett, Flannigan, Frizzelle, Schopp, Dechant, Kunert, T. Quinlan, Jacobs, Davis, Casey, Walker, Mitchell, Marr, Funke, Delaney, Dempsey, Carney, Thome.
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.	.
Moral Philosophy—Messrs. Just, A. Ahlrichs, Petry; Logic—Messrs. Neef, Petry, P. Murphy; Latin—Messrs. Ahlrichs, Quinlan, Hennessy, Dechant, Schopp, E. Ahlrichs, McNamee, Leo, Maurus, Montavon; Greek— Messrs. Schopp, Hennessy,. Morris, Leo, E. Ahlrichs, Montavon; Astronomy—J. Brady; Civil Engineering— Messrs. O. Sullivan, P. Murphy; Analytical Mechanics —O. Sullivan; Calculus — E. Maurus; Surveying— . Messrs. Correll, McMahon, Flannery, Jewett; Analytical. Geometry — W. Correll, Trigonometry — D. Murphy; Geometry—Messrs. D.' Phillips, Montavon, W. Kennedy, Walker, T. Flynn, Corry, H. Mitchell, Palmer; Algebra —Messrs. A. Corry, McNamee, Montavon, Sherman, Lindeke, Rogers, Jacobs; Belles-Lettres—J. Fitzgibbon; Literary Criticism—T. Crumley; English Literature— Messrs. Casey, Phillips, Palmer, O’Donnell; Rhetoric— Messrs. Durbin, Chidester, Vinez; English History— Messrs. Carney,:E. Brown\ Ancient History—Messrs. J. Brady, O’Shea, Smoger; Chemistry—C. Dechant; Botany—W. Kearney; Zoology—A. Corry; Geology— J. McGrath; Ecclesiastical History—Messrs. O’Donnell, Kdarns; JZtogw/z—Messrs. Keough, D. Murphy, Schopp, -Delaney; Drawing A rtistic—Messrs.. Marr, Kearney, Rend, Smith ^-Drawing Liidustrial— Messrs. Correll,. Jacobs, .Hannin, Rumely, Kunert, Palmer, Schillo \ Composition—Messrs. Strauss, Hennessy, Arts, O’Connor, Stace; Modern History—D. Murphy, Kennedy, . Kearns, H. Mitchell, Dinkel,, Walker; Greek—Messrs.
B; Bachrach, A. Ahlrichs, M. Quinlan. .	_ - .
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
St. Many’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The fact that St. Mary’s enjoyed two visits from Very Rev. Father General last week leads all to hope that he will soon feel able to be present at the Sunday evening reunions, to which his presence and words of fatherly advice always lend a special charm.
—The beautiful devotions for the month of May opened on Saturday evening with an appropriate hymn, followed by an earnest, prayer-inspiring instruction by the Rev. D. E. Hudson, G. S. C. The President of the Sodality of the Children of Mary, Miss J. Zahm, then read the Act of Consecration to Mary Immaculate, after which Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given as a seal of God’s blessing on the devotion of faithful children to a loving Mother.
—After the distribution of “good points” on Sunday last, Miss. E. C. Donnelly’s beautiful poem, “Unseen Yet Seen/’ was recited by Miss R. Bero, who expressed the thought therein embodied with an appreciation rare among young elocutionists. The French selection was rendered with the pleasing modulation and correct accent characteristic of the reader, Miss E. Dennison, after which Rev. Father Scherer closed the meeting with a few words expressive of kindly interest in the improvement and welfare of St. Mary’s pupils.
—On Thursday, April 28, St. Mary’s enjoyed the honor of a visit from Most Rev. E. C. Fabre; D. D., Archbishop of Montreal, to whom a warm welcome was extended. His Grace was accompanied by Very Rev. F. L. Adam, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., and Rev. Father Scherer. In the study-hall, where the pupils . were assembled, Miss Ethel Dennison read an address of welcome, after which the Archbishop spoke a few words of kind counsel. A short musical programme was presented in the vocal hall, the Misses Ludwig, Field, Marrinan and the young ladies of the vocal class taking part.
—Dr. M. F. Egan chose for the subject of his last lecture, “ Character as Depicted in Literature,” a subject full of interest from both an ethical and a literary stand-point. The value of character in the individual, and its delineation in the pen-pictures of Shakspere, were the principal points developed; Hamlet, Rosalind, Jacques and Portia serving to illustrate the Professor’s theories. The weakness of words in comparison with facial expression and gesture, as portrayers of feeling and character, was touched upon, arid was exemplified a few moments later by the young ladies’ faces, when the lecturer said that Portia was so noble, so elevated, so honorable in character as to be considered too manly by many critics. The lecture was one long to be remembered, and was especially suggestive to those making a study of . Shakspere.
The Frost had Fallen There.
The frost had fallen there. In sad decay
The ruins of an old cathedral lay; '
Upon a window, tinted red and gold,
Was woven wondrous network white and cold;
The Frost-King in the night had gone that way.
I watched a funeral pass at close of day,	-
The hearse was white, and Evening’s shadows gray, ’
In pity half concealed the story told—
The frost had fallen there. ■
I saw an aged father weep and pray
Beside a new-made grave. Oh! father, may This sorrow cast thy heart in gentler mould, And from the hands of dark despair withhold
Thy spirit, tho’ we hear sweet Sorrow say,— “ The frost had fallen there.”
Alma Thirds.
The Study of History.
The picture of the Muse of History, usually represented with half-open scroll, reminds us that the story of the world is continually being -written, and that great deeds or infamous ones have scarcely been enacted ere Clio’s tireless pen traces an account of them upon her immortal tablet. The love for historical research would seem to be born of the childish fondness for fairy-tales, stories of wonderful prowess and impossible adventure with which the young imagination is fed; so that the mature mind, wearied of the wild and improbable of fiction, turns with delight to the records of the past. History is memory’s golden chain wound through the ages, and binding the whole world into one great family. Each link marks some grand epoch, or immortalizes'the deeds of the world’s heroes. Unlimited pleasure is derived by the student from the perusal of a well-written historical work. It causes him to leave the narrow sphere of his surroundings, and, on the wings of fancy, speed along the highway of time, where he is introduced to the great and good of old, to the tyrant and the weakling, as well as to the master minds of antiquity. By-gone ages pass as if in review before.him, and around them is flung a charm whose influence he is unable to resist. Here he sees the illustrious Charlemagne attracting to his court all the learried men of the world for a revival of literature and science; there he beholds Constantine deposing the troublesome monarchs of the East, and the dreaded tyrants of the West, uniting both countries in one grand empire.
; He sees the twelve Caesars rise and. fall, marvels at the flourishing cities* which spring
594	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
up, as it were, during the night, and disappear under the noon-day sun of luxury, and he is a witness of those tremendous wars which shook the whole civilized world to its very centre. If he choose to remain in the Grecian metropolis, he will, no doubt, be amazed at the wisdom of her philosophers, and thrilled by the eloquence of her orators. Perhaps he will follow Homer through the streets of Athens, or, wandering away to Sparta, will join Agamemnon in the famous Trojan War. If, however, he prefers to visit the Oriental countries, every facility is afforded him, and, passing Cyrus at Babylon, he may enter Jerusalem there to seek the Temple of Solomon, and in spirit pay homage to the God of Israel. These are only few of the delightful tours made by the student of history; but man’s pleasure is not the sole benefit derived from this fascinating study,— its end is a far nobler one. It razes to the ground the wall which time has built between our forefathers and their children, and permits these aged sires to draw us aside, and, to our young ears, relate their experience, followed by loving words of counsel that we may avoid the snares into which they have fallen. It is the soul of literature and the life of poetry. It enlivens the imagination, quickens the judgment, and improves the human heart. Hence, Cicero hesitates not to say that “ to be ignorant of what has happened before one’s birth is nothing less than to remain in a continual state of childhood.”
To take another view of it, we may say that what astronomy is to space, history is to time. The former directs our attention to the star-lit heavens, and points to the blazing luminaries which glide through space ; some it treats individually and others it describes in clusters. The latter invites us to consider the stars which have shone in the firmament of time. Many of them were of the first magnitude, while others were lost in the splendor of surrounding orbs. In the seventeenth century Louis XIV. was the sun which shone with unwonted splendor in the firmament of France, and around this luminary revolved many planets with their satalites, all shining by reflected light. Soon after appeared Napoleon—a blazing meteor which suddenly flashed across the horizon of Europe, startling those who gazed thereon, until its light was quenched in the waters of the Atlantic. But although these orbs have sunk below the horizon of time, we may judge of their brilliancy from the splendor they have shed upon the records of the past. To enlarge upon the advantages derived from historical research would be no easy task since they are
so numerous. It need only be said that on the pages of history is seen, as in a clear mirror, a reflection of the acts of men, of the passions by which they were influenced, the ends at which they aimed; and he who yields to the fascinations of this study opens to himself the door to many pleasures and much profit.
Julia Zahm (Second Senior Class}.
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Augustine, Agney, Bassett, E. Burns, Bell, Butler, Brady, K. Barry, M. Barry, Black, Bogart, Bartholomew, Charles, M. Clifford, Crilly, Car-)enter, L. Clifford, E. Dempsey, Duffy, E. Dennison, )ingee, Field, Griffith, Green, Galvin, Grace, Gibbons, i l,ucy Griffith, Gage, Haitz, B. Hellmann, M. Hutchinson, ; dammond, Hopkins, Hittson, Hunt, Jacobs, Klingberg, : <irley, Kelly, Kauffman, Kingsbaker, Kimmell, Kinney, : lynch, Ludwig, Lennon, Lancaster, Leppel, La Moure, Gantry, M. Moynahan, Marrinan, Murison, Morehead, Moore, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, S. McGuire, A. Moynahan, M. McDonald, Maxon, Nacy, L. Nickel, M. 1 "Jichols, B. Nichols, Nester, O’Sullivan, Plato, M. Patier, ’engemann, Payne, Pfaelzer, Quinn, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, ; Robinson, Roberts, Rizer, Russert, Reid, M. Smyth, E. Seeley,Sena, Sleeper, Thirds, Tietgen, Tod, Van Mourick, S. Wile, Wolffe, Welter, Wolverton, E. Wile, Zahm. •
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Allen, Boyle, Berg, Baxter, Coady, Campau, A. E. Dennison, Field, Ford, A. Girsch, Hickey, Hopper, Kline, Londoner, Morris, Nacey, O’Mara, Ryder, Scott, Tormey, Tilden, White, Wolverton, Williams, Wheeler, Whittenberger.
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ahem, Buckley, J. Brown, E. Brown, M. Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, Keeler, Lingard, McKenna, McCarthy, McCormack, Palmer, Wolverton.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses E. Adelsperger, Griffith, Fitzpatrick, Morse, Nacey, Nester, Nickel, Wile.
ist Senior Class—Misses R. Bassett, E. Dennison, Haight, Lynch, M. Moynahan, A. Ryan, C. Ryan, Thirds, Lantry.	.
2D Senior Class—Misses Bero, Charles, Green, M. Kirley, Ludwig, Murison, Patier, Robinson, Smyth, G. Winstandley, B. Winstandley, Kimmell, Tormey, Zahm, Carpenter, Maxon.	,	-
3D Senior Class—Misses O’Mara, Bell, M. Clifford, Duffy, Farwell, Galvin, Hellmann, Higgins, Hutchinson, Keating, Londoner, Morehead, M. Nichols, Pengemann, Van Mourick, Wurzburg, Gage, Kinney, Carico.
1ST Preparatory Class—Misses M. Davis, B. Davis, Boyle, Garrity, Meskill, Smyth, M. Barry, Bogart, Butler, Dieffenbacher, Hunt, Lennon, Lichtenhein, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, Nichols, A. Moynahan, O’Sullivan, Quinn, Jacobs, Rizer, Tod, Whitmore, Wolverton, Byers. ~2D Prep. Class—Misses Adelsperger, Baxter, Field, Hopper, Hickey, Kaspar, Nacey,White N. Smyth, Agney, Crilly, Daley, Wile, Dennison, Dingee, Hittson, Hopkins, Kauffman, Leppel, Sena, Shaw, Sleeper.
3D Prep. Class—Misses Augustine, Culp, La Moure, Payne, Rothschild, M. Russert, Zucker, McColm, Bartholomew. .	■
Junior Preparatory- Class—Misses M. Cooper, S. Welter, McDonald, Pfaelzer, Berg, Coady, A- Cowan, A. Girsch, Dennison, Londoner, Schaefer, Smyth, Williams, Wolverton, McCormack, Palmer, Keeler, M. Wolverton, McKenna,