Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies.
From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”
Start Smoking Camels Yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!
/STARTED SMOKMG CAMELS
after fryihg mahy bhQhcfs. /
-fbuhcf Camels'MILDNESS Qhd FLAVOR
-far more eojoyable fhar -the rest-.
you will, fool lA/hy cfoht you try
Camels toc/ay

J	-Jbr MUMESQ and FIAVOH.
AMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE
THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE !
10 Hours for $15.00
HURRY!
HURRY!
at Arthur Murray's CALL 2-3339
To enter YOUR NAME for
DANCE LESSONS
ATTENTION: Notre Dome Men — At Your Request
Gentlemen:
In the past four years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the classes below at reduced rates this year. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray
Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
MONDAY—October 5, Enroll—1-5 p. m.
THURSDAY—October 8 Enroll—1-5 p. m.
TUESDAY—October 6 Enroll—1-5 p. m.
FRIDAY—October 9 Enroll—1-5 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—October 7
Enroll—1-5 p. m.
SATURDAY—October 10
Enroll—1-9 p. m.
Think of it. . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange for yoUr dancing lessons.
• FOX TROT • WALTZ
We Teach All the Dances — You May Have Your Choice of:
•	JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING • SAMBA	• RHUMBA
•	POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO	• MAMBO
P.S. If any six or more students want a class at a different hour or on a different day—our women instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of youi- choice.
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne Street
(Above Copp Music Center)
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
October 2, 1953
i
Coeds From Coast-To-Coast “Aye” Arrow Gordon Oxfords
Gals acclaim neatness and style appeal of these campus favorites
The ladies’ vote is unanimous: Arrow Gordon Oxfords do much for a guy’s appearance. Taking their cue from this coed consensus, Arrow dealers are now featuring the largest selection ever of Arrow Oxfords in many smart collar styles.
ARROWSHIRTS )W----------------
--SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS-
Letter to the Editor:	I
Squatters! Move On
i
I realize this is a trifle early to submit a gripe, but perhaps an early word on 1 the matter in your publication may help to alleviate the situation. I refer to 1 the “hangers on” in the cafeteria during J the noon hour.
On Sept. 22, I conducted a little survey out of curiosity. There were 151 people occupying chairs in the cafe- 1 teria at 12:40 p.m., which represents perhaps the peak hour. Of these, 83, or a little over half, were engaged in the consumption of food. The remainder were reading newspapers, chit-chatting, smoking cigarettes, working crossword puzzles, and in two cases, study- > ing.
Even taking .into consideration the courtesy of remaining until your table mate has finished eating, there were several tables where everyone had finished his food.
One look at that 12:30 line should convince even the most doubting that the “caf” is a crowded place around this period. With probably hundreds of empty rooms available on this campus during that hour, where the amenities of sociability might be carried on, it seems to me that the “Golden Rule” suggests that these “squatters” move on when they have finished eating to make room for the fellow behind them.
Sincerely yours, Joseph T. Helling Senior, Law School
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
ND Reserve Officers Eligible For 'Chicago Tribune1 Medals
The University of Notre Dame is one of 158 educational institutions in 19 states at which the Chicago Tribune will award gold and silver medals to selected cadets in Army, Navy, and Air-Force Reserve Officer Training units during this academic year.
The medals will be awarded to cadets selected by regular service officers of their various units on the basis of military achievements, character, and scholarship.
The awards are being made for the 20th consecutive year. Since the Tribune began the program, 12,691 medals have . been awarded.
4
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
We’ve all been back to school for nigh on three weeks . . .
■
Moving Away
It was quite a blow to our well-oiled ego, let me tell you! What am I talking about? Why, hadn’t you heard?—the Scholastic offices have been moved. We have been shoved farther .into the depths of the Farley Hall dungeon to a quaint little chamber which used to be known as the “archives.”
For those of lesser learning, an archives is a repository where old fashioned out of date stuff is kept. Yes sir, let me tell you! Here we’ve been racking our brain cells these past few years attempting to improve the local rag and we even got to thinking we were really progressing—upward and onward, you know—when, like a bolt from the blue, we were knocked from our lofty perch.
The new office really isn’t too bad, though, once you get used to the skeletons lying around here and there and get the cat-o-nine-tails and sundry other 4 quaint old instruments shoved over out of the way. And they feed us, too— bread and water, three times a day— which is just about as good as you can do anyway.
■
Hail to the Queen
After the football team got through shuffling all over the Oklahoma team last Saturday afternoon, approximately 250 of the troops whisked their girls down to the Indiana Club and shuffled all over their dates’ feet at the Sooner Shuffle.
Now, just to set the record straight, we don’t really dance that bad, girls. It’s just that the palladium was so jam-packed, chock-full, that it was a question of stepping on or being stepped on. Survival of the fittest, you know.
A novelty of the affair was the selection of a queen from amongst the' masses, although the selection struck a somewhat sad note. You see, our industrious editor spent a whole half column last week instructing everybody on the proper way to cast a ballot. So what do they do? They pick a stub from a hat to determine the queen. Can’t you just see yourself taking your girl home to meet your folks sometime and say
ing: “Hey! Look what I won as a door prize at one of the dances.”
Oh, well—this WEEK we move back to the spacious Drill Hall, so maybe better days are here. At least if it gets too stuffy in the good old quonset hut you can always go outside and perch on the Cartier’ Field fence.
■
“The Week” Takes A Poll
We were sitting around doing nothing the other day, (as usual), so we decided to take a survey of the freshman class. The object of this was merely to determine how well the freshmen were becoming .integrated into Notre Dame life, you understand.
The question: “What Do You Think About St. Mary’s?”
Reply	Percent
1)	Huh?	39
2)	Well, uh . .	.	27
3)	Oh, it wasn’t	a	bad
high school	13
4)	I think we’ll	beat	them	21
■
High Atop an Oil Well
Speaking of football, and who isn’t these days, we listened to Bill (I Calls ’Em As I Sees’ Em) Stern vocalize a portion of the fray last Saturday. We twisted the dial feverishly trying to locate Harry (High Above The Field) Wismer, but to no avail. Rumor has it that they wouldn’t give Hurrying Harry
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
§

his favorite vantage point high above the you-know-what and so he testily trudged down to the Mason-Dixon boundary to do a play-by-play of the Slimy Pebble -Shabobo Junction clash.
Getting back to Herr Stem, he did a reasonably good job when the crowd was yelling its head off, but when they weren’t making any noise he was barely audible. Naturally they weren’t making any noise whenever we scored, so you can imagine our amazement when we turned the dial of our crystal set to Jumping Joe Boland and discovered that the Irish were leading. If only the crowd had made a little noise when we scored, Stem would have tried to drown them out and everything would have been okay.
■
Sign of the Times
Happen to notice the shiny new marquee outside the Huddle? Obviously a retort at the fancy, modern chairs in the Liberal Arts Building’s new coffee shop. Looks like the battle is on! Wonder who will do what next to try to draw the patrons?
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . which means it’s about time for the “Dear John” letters to start rolling in.
DRRWTURB0W
\ OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
CONTACT LENSES Phone 4-5777
207 W. Washington-Oliver Hotel
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
October 2, 1953
5
Teaches Dancing New Way at Arthur Murray's
OCTOBER 2
SACRED HEART CHURCH (6:45 p.m.)—Renewal of the “Perpetual Novena to Our Lady.”
PALACE (through Oct. 8)—Well-schooled in what makes an All-American football player, ND men should prove capable critics of All-American (Legion of Decency rating A-l) starring Tony Curtis. Of course Curtis can’t run as well as John Lattner but how much can you ask of a Hollywood actor? In the second feature, Glenn Ford gets himself into all kinds of trouble as The Man from the Alamo (A-l).
COLFAX (through Oct. 7)—A solid, simple, plausible non-wandering plot, good photography and John Wayne make Island in the Sky (A-l) a fine motion picture. Happily absent in this story of a lost plane crew is the unrealistic bravery that so often ruins movies of this sort.
AVON (through Oct. 7)—It seems Ted Williams, being nicknamed “The Kid” and playing left field, would have been a natural for the title role in The Kid from Left Field (A-l). But the movie moguls didn’t see it that way so Dan Daily was given the lead.
GRANADA (through Oct. 8)—Randy Scott’s totin’ his faithful .45 again, this time in a really bush production called The Stranger Wore a Gun. If you’re a glutton for punishment, you might hang around to see Dan Duryea trudge his way through 69 long tiresome minutes of Sky Commando.
OCTOBER 3
LAFAYETTE, IND. (1:30)—Many of the troops, including those on the senior trip, invade Ross-Ade stadium to lend a little vocal support as Leahy’s lads try to make Purdue victim nuihber two.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 and 8:30)—Stop, You’re Killing Me is a slapstick about gangsters that is made to order for the Washington Hall howlers. Broderick Crawford and Claire Trevor play the leads.
DRILL HALL (8:30—11:30)—If you choose to bypass the show at Washington Hall, you might get yourself a date and attend the “Boilermaker Bop” (Senate Publicity head’s bolt of-ingenuity for Student Senate dance). If you. paid your Senate dues, a dollar will get you in.
OCTOBER 4
DRILL HALL (7:30—10 p.m.)—Big John Stith and his Dixieland Five play some real crazy music for all you cats in the year’s first jam session. With your Senate fee paid, it only costs 50 cents.
RIVER PARK (through Oct. 6)—Football Highlights of 1952 is a must for those who missed last year’s Oklahoma game. As an added attraction, you see Esther Williams being Dangerous When Wet (A-2).
OCTOBER 6
STATE (two days)—If you’re the curious type, you might want to see just what Katie did in Katie Did It. The co-pic .is Iron Men.
OCTOBER 7
AVON (at least ten days)—If you like Peck, you’ll enjoy Roman Holiday (A-2), a gay, fast moving tale of an American correspondent in search of his “big story.” The “big story” is Audrey Hepburn who plays a runaway princess.
COLFAX (through Oct. 22)—Great performances, especially by Frank Sinatra, make From Here To Eternity (B) one of the year’s top pictures according to movie critics. The movie necessarily loses a lot of the realism present in the book. Perhaps it wouldn’t harm if it had lost a little more.
“Anyone who can walk can learn to dance the New Arthur Murray Way,” says Joyce Lyons. “Why, even beginners go dancing after one hour! Try a lesson today and surprise your friends!”'
ARTHUR MURRAY’S
120 E. Wayne	2-3339
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 21^-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
Frankie Lane made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
6
The Scholastic
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Vol. 95 Oct. 2, 1953 No. 2
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Something the Sports Pages Omit
It didn’t take long . . .
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of O postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.	J
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER . FRED C. ECKART
JOHN
A. ADAMS
........News^
........Copy V
Assistant Copy
PAUL J. LaFRENlERE....Assistant Copy? ;
JOHN
E. SLAVICK
ROBERT B. FROLICHER JERRY D. BAIER .... B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..
FeatureslS ....Sports-,3
By the time some 55,000 partisans had filed out of huge Owen Field last Saturday, after watching the Irish grab their season opener from Oklahoma, national championship fever was infesting the campus again. Most Notre Dame men lifted their eyebrows to the possibility . . . “Maybe we can.”
General speculation has it that if Notre Dame can smother Purdue’s revengeful mood tomorrow, trip Georgia Tech in mid-October, squeeze past Southern California in November, and freeze Southern Methodist up here in December —the pigskin crown will end up in South Bend for the ninth time in the school’s history.
At a time like this, when expectancy is high and Notre Dame’s bid is in the spotlight once again, many football fans may begin to wonder just why Notre
Circulation^?;
BQB FOWLER________Editorial Cartoonist^ DICK HAIRSINE_____.Photography Co-^ ordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
________________________ Ko
Dame is such gridiron, and Americans than any other college in the country. It’s every game to win. She plays to win—not because
a consistent threat on the why she has more Allsimple: Notre Dame plays she fears defeat—but be-
cause her men are taught to give their best . . . regardless of whether they’re o	o	o	•
toting a football, fighting a war, or trving to lead average, decent lives.
That’s something that doesn’t show up in the sports page too often.
~'Jo -0. yikan . • .	dCQ-4-
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Dick Connelly, Carroll Dowden, Ellis Joseph, John Manion, Jim Mason, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Pete Sturtevant, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Gordon DiRenzo, Bob Fowler, Jim Galde, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey, Jerry Traffianda, Ed Turner, Dana Weithers.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the. school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.

OUR COVER: The picture you see on the front of our magazine this week—a Holy Cross Brother, clothed in overalls, meditating before a statue in the farmyard—is the theme setter for an interesting piece which our Feature Editor John Slavick offers this week, beginning on page 18.
It would be interesting to know just how many Notre Dame men ever heard of the little St. Joseph’s Farm which previously furnished most of the food for students in the old days.
Finally: God in the U.N.
Two of the most inspiring items to come out of last week’s news were Secretary of State John Foster Dulles’ speech before the United Nations Assembly, and Life magazine’s subsequent appraisal of the address in its editorial columns a few days later.
Dulles’ speech was inspiring; it advanced a rock-bottom U.S. foreign policy based upon right and wrong. Life, in turn, deserves the credit for presenting the Secretary’s speech in unmistakable tenns and advocating its obvious provisions.
“Our hope,” said Dulles, “is that the Soviet leaders, before it is too late, will recognize that love of God, love of country and sense of human dignity always survive.” By “hoping” the Secretary of State was actually belaboring his diplomatic finesse in an effort to say to the world: “Without God, true peace is unapproachable.” It was a long-awaited act of faith—one which the peoples of the world had found to be indispensable.
To say whether or not Mr. Dulles and the nation’s policy-makers had always held this position, or whether it was taken as a “second choice” after other methods had possibly failed, is beyond our means. The fact remains that God has finally been acknowledged in the family of nations.
The change is reassuring. Let’s hope the Soviet soon recognizes that politics minus morals leaves zero.
October 2, 1953
OXFORD
—no longer a one-collar style shirt!
It’s a bright era for oxford fans. For this rich soft shirting now comes in many smart new collar styles, three of which are illustrated below, in addition to the ever popular buttondown. All handsome and long-wearing—with Manhattan’s traditional tailoring detail subtly present in every stitch. Why not see them today, at your nearest Manhattan dealer.
SEATS ON THE
WYARD
LINE
FOR THE BIG GAME!
MANROL BUTTON-DOWN—band-	BURT—regular “soft-roll1
less, perma-roll wide spread collar.	button-down collar.
with GREGG PALMER
LORI NELSON
RICHARD LONG • PAUL CAVANAGH
•nd Introducing
MAMIE VAN DOREN
ALSO
GLENN FORD JULIA ADAMS in
Q1953.THE MANHATTAN SHIRT CO., 444 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y*
’The Man From the Alamo"
TECHNICOLOR
8
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
* Volume 95, Number 2	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 2, 1953
October 6 Seminar Lists Noted Lawyers '' r
In an effort to help law students dis-i. cover the experiences of attorneys practising in various environments and fields t of law the College of Law has announced a seminar on the practice of law to be ’ held on Tuesday, Oct. 6, in the Law , Auditorium. The sessions will run from 1	9:30 a. m. to 12:00 noon and from
2:00 p. m. until concluded.
Dean Joseph O’Meara has announced (that this meeting will in reality be a “seminar-in-reverse” with members of the student body addressing questions to the members of the panel. The funda-‘ mental purpose of the meeting is to tell the student “where” and “how” to prac-' tice law.
Speakers will be Paul M. Butler of South Bend; John W. Christensen, Co* lumbus, Ohio; Clarence J. Donovan, Bedford, Ind.; Julius Holzberg, Cincinnati, ? Ohio; and Edmund A. Stephan, Chicago, III.
All panel members have distinguished themselves in' the practice of law and general public service.
, Mr. Butler is presently Democratic National Committeeman from Indiana ‘ and is also renowned as a trial lawyer of remarkable success.
Mr. Christensen has had extensive ex-„ perience in the field of corporation law. As a former member of the Securities , and Exchange Commission (SEC), and as Special Counsel of the Public Util' ities Commission, he is expected to indicate the path of a lawyer in corporate |	finance.
_ Mr. Donovan is currently engaged in the general practice of law in Bedford - and is president of the Notre Dame Law Association.
“ Mr. Holzberg has maintained his own general practice in Cincinnati and he I has also been legal representative of the CIO unions in Hamilton County.
As a member of one of Chicago’s largest and most successful law firms, I Stephan is expected to relate the experiences of the attorney in a large city. < Dean O’Meara has announced that the seminar is open to students of the other colleges of the University provided space accommodations are available in the Law Auditorium.
|
; October 2, 1953
Student Center Opening Set for Mid-October; Completion in Time For Sophomore Cotilhon
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., VicePresident in Charge of Student Affairs, has announced that the new Student Center will be completed by mid-October.
It has been confirmed that the center should be ready for the sophomore’s major social event of the season, the Cotillion. The contractors are scheduled to complete their work on Oct. 10.
Mrs. Laura Jenkins of Sophie Marvo Interiors, New York City, will start the decorating of the building immediately following the contractor’s exit. A noted designer, Mrs. Jenkins was responsible for the designing of the Morris Inn and the White House.
“It will be a thing of beauty, a place that all the students can be very proud of,” Father Norton explained. On the main floor there will be a card room, telephone booths, powder room, and numerous meeting rooms. Both Father Norton and the Student Senate will have
WORK CONTINUES IN THE STUDENT CENTER By Mid-October — “A Thing of Beauty”
their offices on the main floor, with a conference room adjacent to them.
Even though the main floor is equipped for dancing, the regular ballroom is located on the second floor. The building is being constructed to handle 500 couples, and by removing the partitions it will be possible to use the adjoining rooms, thus increasing the total capacity.
A public address system will be installed so that if those rooms are ever used for dancing purposes, the couples in them will be able to hear music emanating from the band platform.
The main purpose of the other rooms on the second floor is to provide general offices for the various campus organizations.
A room on the south side of the building, however, might be turned into a television or debate room. An advan-
(Continued on page 33)
9
AB Ball (Woody Herman Style), Pitt Game, Highlight Festival of Arts Weekend Oct. 16-18
ND Band, 105 Strong, Ready Grid Spectacle
Notre Dame’s first Arts and Letters Ball, the first major dance of the fall social season, will highlight the initial home football weekend. Capping a week of academic celebration—the Festival of the Arts — the ball will feature the music of Woody Herman and his “Third Herd” at the 'Indiana Club.
Bids for the Oct. 16 dance, priced at $3.75, went on sale last night in the Dining Hall. They will also be sold tonight and Monday, if necessary, and will be available to students from all colleges.
Highlighting the A. B. weekend will be the Pittsburgh game, the first home game of 1953. Pitt, a traditional opponent, won an upset victory in last year’s encounter. Three hundred tickets to the game are available with the bids for the dates of A. B. ballgoers.
Woody Herman is being accompanied by his entire 14-piece band and a very attractive vocalist, Dolly Houston. He is coming from recent engagements at the Hotel Statler in New York and the Blue Note in Chicago. Although very widely known for his original jazz arrangements, Woody Herman also plays excellent dance music and is featured at many college proms. Experienced in the music business, he is now leading his third band.
The site of the ball will be the Indiana Club in downtown South Bend. Both the main floor and the balcony will be used — the balcony for tables and refreshments—to eliminate any possibility of over-crowding.
“An Evening at the Gallery” will form the theme for the Indiana Club decorations. The theme and the decorations have been selected to point up the ball as the finale to the Festival of the Arts week. In charge of decorations are Bob Obermeyer and Charley O’Neill.
Semi-formal attire will be the dress for the evening. There will be flowers.
Music will last from 9 to 1 a. m. with the arrival and departure deadlines set at 10 and midnight respectively. Residence permissions have been extended until 2.
Sunday morning, ballgoers will attend 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church and afterwards a Communion breakfast in the Morris Inn. Among those who will greet them will be' Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of Arts and Letters. On sale with the dance bids are 90 tickets for the breakfast, which is under the charge of Bob Ettelbyick,
The student lounge in O’Shaughnessy Hall will be the scene of a special luncheon before the game Saturday. Box
lunches will be served to ballgoers at noon so they can avoid the long lines in the cafeteria. In addition they will get an opportunity to see the beautiful new Liberal and Fine Arts Building.
Blind dates for the dance will be available through Bob Swanson in 311 Walsh Hall. He has contacted both St. Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s nursing school.
John Keenan has made hotel arrangements for those who will have dates from out of town. Those who are interested should see him when they buy then- bids.
Taking charge of the whole affair is-Tom Moore, a combination arts-law student from Detroit. The business manager is Jay Baier, while tickets and refreshments are being handled respectively by Larry Dolan and Jim Zavatone. Tom Godfrey is in charge of publicity.
DOLLY HOUSTON She Sings Too
St. Louis Club Fetes 60, Sets Plans at Initial Dinner
Sixty members of the St. Louis club, including 25 incoming freshmen, attended the initial meeting at the Sunny Italy restaurant.
Robert Chickey, vice-president of the club, announced that plans have been made for the coming Christmas dance on Dec. 26. The dance will be held at the Club Capriz of the Hotel Sheraton in St. Louis.
President Phil Higgins, also announced that plans have been made for a summer employment bureau to be set up by the Alumni of St. Louis.
Director Robert F. O’Brien and Drum Major Larry Gatto have selected 40 freshmen to supplement upperclassmen	I
in Notre Dame’s 105-piece marching	'
band.
Innovations this year include three ! bell players in front of the band with the traditional tympani and bagpipes. A freshman baton twirler, Richard No- | vak of Johnstown, Pa., will strut ahead of the drum major and band president ’ John Giambruno of Sioux City, Iowa, who will act as field marshal in directing band formations from the visitors’ side of the stadium.
Every weekday from 4:30 to 6 p. m. the band practices on its private field north of the Ave Maria Press. Prepara- > tions are well underway for the band’s debut at the Pittsburgh game when it will present a Hall of Fame show commemorating Elmer Layden, George Gipp and Knute Rockne. Besides performing at all home games, the band will play in Philadelphia at the Penn-Irish tussle. .
Other officers assisting the director include Vice-President Gene Henry from Arlington, Va.; Social Chairman Bill May from Takoma Park, Md.; Secretary Bob Brown from Bismarck, ND.; Uniform Custodian Don Wiley from Colby, Kan.; and Alumni Secretary Sam Scharber.
Irish Architects to Enter V.P.I. Round Robin Exhibit
Several Notre Dame architecture students will participate in a round robin exhibit sponsored by the student chapter of architects at Valparaiso Technical Institute next month.
Schools from the East and Midwest will be entered, and, according to Mr. Montana, head of the Department of Architecture, the exhibit “will provide an interesting survey of work in this area.”
The department is now using the class rooms on the third floor of the Old Science Annex for its art classes and also for the freshman design classes. Although the students are handicapped by the! lack of lockers, they . are well satisfied with their new setup.
In design classes, the seniors are . working on a coliseum for a city with a population of 125,000, while the juniors . are using their talents to lay out an altitude ski lodge. The sophomores are drawing plans for a reviewing stand and reception hall to be built in front of the courthouse in South Bend.
10
The Scholastic
FROM 1 TO 5 AT POTTAWATOMIE PARK
(L) “Table Talk” in Solitude; (R) And “Galloping” Consumption
Law Entrance Exams Scheduled for Nov. 14
Both the Law School Admission Test, which is required of applicants for many leading law schools throughout the country, and the Graduate Record Examinations, which are required of applicants for many graduate schools will be administered at examination centers four times this year.
The Law School Admission tests will be given at more than 100 centers on Nov. 14, 1953, Feb. 20, April 10, and Aug. 7, 1954. They will feature objective questions, measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning rather than acquired information. A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the test.
Applications should be obtained at least four weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Center, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J.
Dates for the Graduate Record Examinations will be Nov. 14,1953, Jan. 30, May 1, and July 10, 1954. Each applicant should inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take and on which date.
These tests are of general scholastic ability and advanced level of achievement in 17 different subject matter fields.
Application forms and information may be obtained from college advisers or from Educational Testing Center, P. O. Box 9896, Los Feliz Station, Los Angeles 27, Calif.
October 2, 1953
First-Year Men Meet 250 St. Mary's Belles In Feteful Day at Annual Pottawatomie Outing
Prospects for fine weather and a good football game prompted some 250 first-year men and a like number- of girls from across the way to head for Pottawatomie Park and the annual Freshman Picnic last Saturday afternoon.
Glee Club Seeks Bookings For Mid-Year Tour of West
Business Manager Tony Trigiani of the University Glee Club has announced that the club is looking for bookings throughout the West and Southwest for its expected mid-year tour through those areas. The singing Irish would especially like to make arrangements for concerts in San Francisco and any cities in Texas.
There are 60 veterans returning to the organization this year, including soloists Gene Gorski and John Noland and pianist Dick Casper. From a group of approximately 160 trying out for spots in this year’s club, 77 were selected.
Trigiani stated that the group will make its annual Easter vacation tour this year, -with concerts slated for New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. This marks the seventh consecutive year that the .warblers will make this jaunt.
In October the Glee Club will appear in concerts during the Liberal Arts Festival on campus, and at Rosary College in Chicago on the 28th.
Assisting Trigiani in the business department is Lee Crean, while Walt Schneider handles publicity with John Slavick as his assistant.
Neithei- weather nor game disappointed anyone.
The first part of the outing was spent working up an appetite by participating in such recreation as softball, volleyball, and even some touch football among the boys. One frosh provided a little entertainment of his own by climbing, monkey-like, into the upper branches of a . maple to retrieve a volleyball which had lodged there.
Food and Football
Pretty soon everyone was indulging in some refreshments, including cokes, ham sandwiches, potato salad, and potato chips. Soon it was time for the broadcast of the game of the day— Oklahoma vs. ND—so all the picnicgoers settled down to listen to the play-by-play over a specially-erected loudspeaker system. Between bites and sips hearty applause evidenced the fact that the Fighting Irish were going great.
A few frosh and St. Mary’s girls ventured over to the park’s zoo for a glimpse of some Indiana wildlife in captivity.
Promise Future Affairs
There were some camera enthusiasts in the crowd, too, who kept party-goers busy posing for them.
Following the afternoon’s entertainment, the Notre Dame crew promised to continue the goodwill soon after freshmen hall elections allow the juniorgrade politicians to sponsor such scintil-ating social events.
11
’Rock's’ Old Advice We’ll Use Tomorrow
Following is an editorial by Knute Rockne which appeared in our magazine 33 years ago today — and, ironically enough, in preparation for the forthcoming game with Purdue.
As with all of Rockne’s advice, the words still hold true although they’re three decades old.	—Ed.
A good many things may happen on November sixth, but for Notre Dame it’s going to be Homecoming Day. Some-
time in the afternoon, two teams will face each other on Cartier Field for the greatest football battle seen here in years. Purdue will have a strong, aggressive squad, and Purdue will fight; but we know the record behind the Gold and Blue and we knoiv the men of nineteen twenty. It is to the old men, who were fans of yore and yesterday, ivho carried Eichenlaub off the field and lost their voices ichen the returns came in from Michigan in ’09, that we want to say a word. This day, this game; is yours. Every man in the school is ready to do his utmost to make things enthusiastically alive; there is a new stand in the field; there are a thousand things ivhich will help to make a mark in Notre Dame’s history. Remember the days when you used to carry that frayed athletic ticket past the gym, while your heart was pounding ivith excitement and you were wondering whether—? Well, you can’t help it; you must take the train that is headed for South Bend, come out to the old school that yearns for your ■voices, and reassure yourselves that memories are not dreams but living tongues, that the spirit which is the marvel of educational America has not died in you. We’re sure that you have made up your minds. Now look through the athletic comment in this number and find out what’s what. Then, decide to brush up on the yells. —K. K. Rockne
Modem Art to Feature Festival of Arts Week; Fr. Lauck, Sullivan Speak on Sculpture, Novel
By JIM O’BRIEN
A collection of modern art, valued at half a million dollars, will be one of the highlights of the five-day-long Festival of the Arts, which begins Oct. 12. The display will feature primarily the works of French and American artists and will include paintings by such well known artists as Maurice Utrillo, Georges Roualt, Matta, and Stuart Davis.
The Festival of the Arts is a weeklong series of cultural events for Notre Dame students. It is designed to emphasize the cultural aspects of Notre Dame, by presenting a sort of “roundup of the arts,” which will include painting, sculpture, literature, drama, and music. The modern art exhibition will last for a full month, however. ..
On Monday, Oct. 12, Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Art Department, will give a lecture on techniques of sculpture, illustrating his lecture with demonstrations of actual sculptural procedure. On the following Tuesday, there will be an all-day showing of distinguished movies, the titles of which are to be announced.
In order to acquaint the student with modern painting, Mr. George Buehr, an authority on modern art from the Chicago Art Institute, will conduct a gallery tour and lecture on Wednesday afternoon.
Mr. Buehr has gained a reputation as a humorist and will inject a light vein into the lecture.
The same evening, members of the University Theater will produce a novel version of “Hedda Gabler.” Directed by Prof. Francis M. Casey of the Speech Department, the production will consist of a dramatic reading, rather than a formal play.
This technique was recently used by the First Dramatic Quartet in their successful production of “John Brown’s Body” which recently toured the country. Thursday afternoon, Prof. Richard T. Sullivan, noted author of Notre Dame and 311 Congress Court will lecture on “The Intention of the Novel.” The lecture is designed to help the Catholic reader appreciate fiction.
In the evening, the Fine Arts Quartet from the University of Northwestern will give a concert of classical music. Admission to the concert, as well as to the production of “Hedda Gabler,” will be by ticket only.
Tickets may be obtained at the box office of Washington Hall.
The paintings in the modern art
display were assembled from private and public collections in the midwest by Mr. John A. Muldoon. Mr. Muldoon, a Notre Dame alumnus, is a prominent Chicago art collector. Eighteen of the paintings were loaned to the exhibition by the Abbot Laboratories of Chicago.
Dixieland Jazz Concert Set For Drill Hall Sunday Night
Big John Stith and his Dixieland Five will rock the Drill Hall Sunday night from 7:30 to 10 p. m. with “the hottest jazz in the Midwest.”
Stith, who formerly played with Lionel Hampton, is currently filling engagements in the Chicago and South Bend areas.
After a 30-minute jam session, the Spotliters, a campus aggregation, will break the silence with 20 minutes of Notre Dame jazz. The Dixieland Five will perform during the remaining hour of the concert.
For students who have paid their Senate fee, tickets will sell for 50c and $1.00 for couples. For those who have not paid the Senate fee, tickets will cost $2.50 and $3.00. Tickets will be on sale at the Drill Hall door.
On Friday, Oct. 9, the Senate will sponsor a Notre Dame Party for 400 ND students and the girls of St. Mary’s. Upperclassmen can procure tickets from their hall presidents, and freshmen from their rectors.
DIXIELANDER STITH
Music from the Deep, Deep South
12
The Scholastic
Endure 6-Hour Waif For Soph Dance Bids
Miniature Marine Monster Invades Campus; Sorinites Fall in Love With ’Virginia Burke*
By PAUL FULLMER
t The ducat sale for the Sophomore Cotillion assumed its “Fantastic” theme k early as Dave Granger’s ticket committee reported that Roy Luckett and Bill Hawk, both of Morrissey, stood in line continuously from 11:30 a. m. until 5:30 p. m. the first day to get their bids. Afterwards 500 lucky men grabbed off the coveted bids to the 1953 dance during a three-day sale last week.
It was also announced that Jim Cen-fc sky, another Morrissey man, was the winner of the free bid given away at random.
Weekend lodging for anyone desiring r it was available through the efforts of Erwin Alfonsus, chairman of hotel reservations. Tickets for the traditional vi Communion Breakfast “went like hot-cakes,” according to Bob Carrane, who is overseeing the Sunday morning affair in the Morris Inn.
Features Buddy Morrow
*	Taking over the baton for this year’s
annual sophomore dance will be Buddy * Morrow of “Night Train” fame. Also on the bill with Morrow’s trombone will be songstress Jean Terry and musical comedian Frankie Lester.
The grand opening of the almost com-pleted Student Center and the colorful display of Decoration Weekend will T‘ enhance the Oct. 24 menu for second-year men and their dates.
Elrite Chrite is heading preparations for the affair as general chairman. As-sisting him besides those already men-t tioned, are the following committees and chairmen: Boh Bundschuh, decorations; Dan Quigley, business; Frank McCarthy, refreshments; and John Adams, pub-' licity.
BUDDY MORROW
Melody-Maker at the Cotillion
It frightened a maid out of the room with its ferocious appearance.
It purrs like a kitten, but isn’t a feline.
In fact the post office employees didn’t know what was in the harmless-looking box until Frank Lolli, its new owner exposed the label. THIS BOX CONTAINS A LIVE ALLIGATOR stunned the Brother into commenting, “Listen son, where is St. George?”
The strange saga of a 17 inch alligator is now enhancing the fame and tradition of Sorin Hall as a place of weird happenings.
Lolli, who has known other friends of his in Oak Park, Ill. to harbor these creepy mammals, decided to purchase one for a pet. A note to his sister in Miami produced the “monster” by air mail in less than a week.
All of Sorin was anxious to be the original genius to select a name for the unusual roommate. Dick Burke, in open rebellion against another Sorinite, established the first name of Virginia. He, therefore, was forced to lend his monickei- to the alligator for a family name.
The initial problem encountered by the self-appointed feeding committee was a suitable diet for the only on-campus female. An instruction sheet listed tasty raw hamburger, minnows, scraps of fresh fish, and insects.
Dines on Worms
The most common ailment of pet alligators is malnutrition, but Virginia is taking a genuine liking to Notre Dame style food.
Although fed only four times a week, she enjoys a main course of approximately a fistful of raw hamburger capped with a delicious dessert of ten worms.
These delicacies are obtained by the Sorinites with great difficulty by tilling the earth near the lakes by candlelight.
Don Peters, a native Floridian, contends that, “Virginia will eat anything, provided a human hand is behind the choice morsel.” After seeing an alligator nibble on one of his close friends, Don does not trust Virginia in a dark room.
“The ‘baby’ will probably grow to about two feet within a year and then mature slowly,” Don added.
Housed in a corroded bucket for two weeks, a new aquarium was finally secured through the cooperation of a hall financial drive. Now Virginia dives
for her food and lolls in the sun like a Hollywood queen after her meals.
Lolli has decided to keep the aquarium ; in his room to ward off possible alligator thieves. Equipped with lounging rocks and native sea moss, the bowl is all a little alligator’s heart might desire.
A slight problem arises when Lolli changes the water. He is forced to give
VIRGINIA BURKE*
Worms for Dessert
-Virginia a quick dip in his sink while his underwater assistants race into the hall and dump the water down the drain. Only such precision-like cooperation keeps Virginia thriving in this sunny world.
Frank enjoyed his pet until the word spread and he now moans that “almost every fellow in the hall has been in here during the past weeks. Every night a group congregates to watch the marine maneuvers. At least Virginia hasn’t taken a nip out of anyone yet.”
The Sorinites are designing a costume of blue and gold for Virginia to model while parading to the home football contests at the Stadium. As Frank explains it, “I didn’t expect this to blossom into sensationalism, but already I have received offers from people to care for the little monster over the holidays. Others have asked me how to acquire one of these novel roommates.”
“I have entertained thoughts of raising it to maturity and then sending it in after the ‘fish’ in the Notre Dame lakes, but seriously, I intend to take it home. In one sense, however, the experience is rewarding,” Frank continues, “for I now know how a new father feels at night when his baby fusses and then refuses nourishment at 3 a.m.”
“Live and Learn.”
October 2, 1953
13
Kickoff Dance at the Indiana Club
Following the victory of the Fighting Irish on the gridiron Saturday afternoon, over 300 couples descended on the Indiana Club in the evening to enliven a “warm” celebration. As the mercury hovered near the century mark, an official announcement freed the Notre Dame man from his conventional suit coat. The crowning of the initial winner in a weekly “Queen of the Week” contest highlighted the affair. Don Gels and his Lettermen provided the melodies for the dancing. The Victory Dances will be switched to the Drill Hall this Saturday.
AFROTC Loses Nine; Mason New Sergeant
The campus unit of the AFROTC has announced the departure of nine members from the Notre Dame branch and the acquisition of one new teacher.
T/Sgt. Mason is the new supply sergeant and two more aides are expected this month.
The unit has approximately 750 students enrolled, which makes it the largest on campus.
Major Paul Bard and S/Sgt. Funk have been assigned other duties in this country. Capt. Hamilton, M/Sgt. Seward, T/Sgt. Burke, M/Sgt. Teague, M/Sgt. Butterworth, and T/Sgt. Mateyko are now serving in the Far East and European commands.
Lt. Norman Elson has retired into civilian life.
Three of the officers spent the summer as training officers at AFROTC summer camps. Lt. Col. Antone Borecky, Lt. Col. Elmer L. Kieth, and Lt. Col. Milton R. Weaver attended various camps in Texas.
Other non-commissioned officers served at various summer camps throughout
the country.
Major Joseph Chimento conducted a two week workshop here on campus for Air Science instructors from Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan.
Capt. Carins attended a similar workshop at Purdue, while Col. Weaver went to the University of Michigan.
Most of the students from the Notre Dame unit spent their five-week summer camp at Barksdale, La. Others attended camps in Texas, Oklahoma, California, and Virginia. This time was spent in air base indoctrination and training.
This year the Notre Dame unit, as well as some 200 other units, are starting a generalized course of study to train and indoctrinate college men to become officers.
The essential change is that there is no longer any specialized training. The new problem involves a complete change of study and summer camp, and is the result of a study by leading educators and Air Force specialists throughout the- country..
Lay Help Necessary In Winning Converts
More than a million converts a year will be won when our laity roll up their sleeves and really pitch into the work of recruiting churchless friends and neighbors for the inquiry classes now being conducted in virtually every parish, Rev. John A. O’Brien recently declared.
The noted author, convert-maker, and Notre Dame professor emphasized that there are two chief means by which the churchless people of America can be won to Catholicism: the enlistment of thirty millions of our laity in convert work and the inquiry classes where thirty can be instructed as effectively as one.
“Within the past few decades,” Father-O’Brien said, “Catholic men and women have begun to realize that Christ’s command to 'teach all nations’ applies to them as well as to priests. The doubling of the annual total of converts in that period is due largely to their zeal in recruiting prospects for instruction.”
“We have, however, only scratched the surface,” Father O’Brien declared. “The ten per cent who have made an effort to win converts have demonstrated that they can double and triple the fruitfulness of any inquiry class by bringing churchless friends to it,” he said. He told how zealous soldiers and sailors have actually instructed their comrades in the Catholic religion and presented them to their chaplains ready for Baptism.
“What they have done, every Catholic man and woman can do if they will but try,” Father O’Brien stressed. Recalling the Holy Father’s plea for the laity to share in the apostolate, he asserted that “the time has come when every Catholic family must invite unaffiliated neighbors into their home and in a friendly way explain to them the saving truths of Christ.”
Leone Lands 19-inch Bass
To Capture ND Fish Contest
The Father Baldwin Fishing Contest, held each spring on the Notre Dame lakes, was won this year by Pat Leone. He pulled in a 19-inch bass for the first prize of $20.
Second place, and $15 went to Don VanVooren for landing an 18% inch bass. Ken Patterson’s 18% incher took the third prize of $10.
The contest has been sponsored annually since 1950 by the Student Senate and is under the direction of Father Baldwin, C.S.C. All Notre Dame students are eligible to enter the contest, and last spring over 100 fellows participated.
14
The Scholastic
CLASS CHANGES ON FOOTBALL SATURDAYS
It has been announced that classes on football Saturdays will be 35 minutes in length and will meet at the following times: 8.-30 to 9:05 9:15 to 9:50 10:00 to 10:35 10:45 to 11:20
No classes will be cancelled. The above applies on Oct. 17, 24, 31; Nov. 21, and Dec. 5.
Blue Circle Program Aids First-Year Men
When the more than 1,500 incoming freshmen converged on South Bend they were pleasantly surprised: members of the Blue Circle Orientation Committee were on hand to greet them at both the Grand Central Station and the South Shore Depot, and to direct and advise them on their many confusing matters.
In addition, information booths were set up in various spots throughout the campus. Other members of the Circle also met the freshmen as they entered their halls and showed them their rooms.
A president’s reception was held that afternoon in the faculty lounge of the Main Building. Leading the welcoming committee at the reception was Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, along with Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., Jim Richards, Student Senate president, and Gene Howley, Blue Circle chairman. Refreshments were provided by the wives of faculty members.
i Washington Hall was the scene of the annual showing of “Knute Rockne, AllAmerican.” Some 1,200 freshmen attended as assistant football coach John Lujack spoke to the frosh, advising them . to make it a point to attend Mass and receive Communion every morning.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the freshmen were run through a battery of aptitude tests in Washington Hall and the Engineering Building.	'
On Saturday night, a mixer was held at St. Mary’s College. More than 200 freshmen of St. Mary’s were host to some 300 Notre Dame frosh with the usual dates, new-found friends, and forlorn hopes resulting.
The Blue Circle sponsored an Activities Mixer at the Drill Hall with 101 clubs represented. This last activity formally ended the Blue Circle’s job of helping the freshmen adjust themselves to Notre Dame. A picnic for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s freshmen took place last weekend at Pottawatomie Park.
Business’ Loss Becomes Notre Dome’s Profit As Two Executives Join Commerce Faculty
Two former top executives of well-known corporations are sharing their business know-how with Notre Dame students as members of the University’s College of Commerce faculty. With more than 40 years’ experience in the business world, Professors Edgar L. Schna-dig and Harry T. Worthington exchanged front-office desks for the rostrum of the classroom.
Professor Schnadig was president and chairman of the board of Alden’s, the nation’s third largest mail-order house, when he resigned in 1947 after 31 years with the company. Professor Worthington was president of Ditto, Inc., for 17 years and served as executive vice-presi-
SCHNADIG and WORTHINGTON Executive Trainers
Metallurgy Student Glorioso Merits Metals Scholarship
Ettore A. Peretti, head of the Department of Metallurgy, has announced that sophomore metallurgy student Samuel V. Glorioso has been awarded a $400 American Society for Metals scholarship.
The American Society for Metals Foundation for Education and Research is engaged in a program which is aimed at stimulating enrollment of high grade students in metallurgical curricula. As a part of this program the foundation has established undergraduate scholarships for the year 1953-54 in each university in the United States and Canada which has an accredited curriculum in metallurgy.
dent and general manager of the Victor Adding Machine Co., from 1941-47.
Professor Schnadig, who never had the opportunity of a college education as a youth, went to college for the first time at the age of 56 in 1948, receiving his Master’s degree in business administration from the University of Chicago two years later. He now teaches “Essentials of Marketing,” the Experimental Program for Administrators.
Professor Worthington began his business career after making a name for himself in college athletics and Olympic competition. At the age of 16 he travelled to Stockholm on the American Olympic track team. During his college days at Dartmouth he was quarterback on the football team as well as intercollegiate and national broadjump champion. Professor Worthington, who teaches “Sales Management,” says he was “sold” on coming to Notre Dame by his son and two sons-in-law who are alumni of the University.
“There’s not too much difference between teaching and administrative work,” Professor Schnadig says, “because a successful business executive achieves results through teaching and developing men under his supervision. I am particularly impressed by the earnestness of Notre Dame students. This earnestness, coupled with the training they are receiving, will lead to responsible positions in the business world,” he predicted.
Professor Worthington echoes his colleague’s observation, declaring it had always been his practice to share his knowledge and a degree of his authority with young men in the company. “It’s a satisfying experience to teach Notre Dame men from every state in the Union, men who will hold executive positions in many companies a few years hence,” he said.
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty, Professor Schnadig taught briefly at Loyola University, Chicago. He also served as soft goods directoi- for the Office of Price Stabilization in Washington, D. C. From 1938-46 he was treasurer and commissioner of the Chicago Housing Authority. He is now a member of the Citizen’s Board of the University of Chicago as well as a director of the Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago.
Until this September, Professor Worthington was executive vice-president of the Conlon-Moore Corp., manufacturers of laundry and heating equipment in Joliet, Ill. He also has been associated with Beardsley and Piper Co., Chicago, and Manning, Maxwell and Moore, New York City.
October 2, 1953
15
Hank, Doherty Argue Irish to Golden Circle
Notre Dame’s “arguing Irish” continued down their perennial victory trail of last year with Wednesday’s announcement that Notre Dame was once again selected to the “Golden Circle” of debate.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, made the announcement to the new members of the team last week. The two Irish speakers who accomplished the feat were William Hank, team president, and Charles Doherty, director of novice activities. The Doherty-Hank duo was the fifth Notre Dame combination to attain this rating in the past seven years.
The “Golden Circle” rating is granted annually to 30 teams from colleges and universities of the United States.
Each year a rigorous elimination campaign, including eight district tourneys, are mapped out for the country’s collegiate speakers.
Only after the successful completion of these rounds and subsequent invitation to compete in the annual West Point tournament, is this rating achieved.
According to the tourney manager some 7,000 to 10,000 college speakers are eligible each year.
“The fact that only 30 teams are granted this award from the many thousands eligible, indicates the difficulty of the Doherty-Hank feat.” Prof. Sommer remarked.
He concluded by saying, “Even with such accomplished speakers back this year, there are many opportunities for education and travel waiting to be filled by new members of the team.”
Those interested are urged to attend a team meeting held in Room 104, Liberal Arts Building, each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 4:30.
A THREE WAY STUDY IN CONFIDENCE . . .
The old master, assistant Coach John Lujack (top), displays the composed form that won him All-American honors while at Notre Dame. His was an authoritative confidence. All-American halfback Johnny Lattner, not yet at home in front of the mike, nervously fidgets as he casts a modest beam of approval at a predicted Irish victory. His was a spirited confidence. Captain Don Penza (bottom) uses his hands for expression as he explains his pre-rally speech instructions to teammate Sam Palumbo. His was a restrained confidence.
‘SCHOLASTIC’ MEETING TONIGHT
Experienced men who would like to join the SCHOLASTIC staff may do so by attending a general meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium.
Positions are available in the various departments: news, sports, features, business, photography, and art (cartoonists).
Mr. Thomas J. Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism, will be on hand to announce plans for a two-class basic writing course limited only to members of the SCHOLASTIC staff.
AROTC Firing Teams In Elimination Rounds
A heavy schedule lies ahead for the members of the Army ROTC rifle team as elimination firing rounds for selection of the 15-man team get under way next week. In addition to postal matches with ROTC teams of some 30 universities, the rifle team will fire in two major matches and the 5th Army Division of the National ROTC contest.
Tryouts will continue throughout October, with eliminations coming at the end of the month. The first match, an open competition meet sponsored by the American Engineering Society, will be held in December. Each team member will fire 20 shots, five each from prone, sitting, kneeling and standing positions.
In addition to the regular postal matches, the ROTC team is trying to organize a series of “shoulder to shoulder” matches with surrounding teams on a home and home basis. These teams will probably include Purdue, Indiana, Kalamazoo, Western Michigan and possibly other schools of the area.
Seven Members Return
“We have seven men returning from last year’s squad,” reports Sgt. 1/c Frederick Wagner, who is in charge of the rifle team, “and we expect three or four experienced riflemen, plus what we can develop during practice. I feel that we ought to better last year’s record by at least 10%.” Last year’s team won 70% of its matches.
Members of the team have been practicing on their own time with pistols, and Sgt. Wagner feels that a five-man pistol team might be ready for competition by the second semester.
Practice is held at the rifle range under the stadium during class hours and in the afternoon. The range has been improved this year by the addition of bullet traps to -prevent ricochets.
16
The Scholastic
ND Impresses Frosh With Facilities, Lines
The best place on campus to catch up on all the latest gossip and campus news is the Huddle. Students of every caste gather throughout the day comparing notes and forecasting new campus trends.
<* During the past few weeks of the new semester, the freshmen were quick to take advantage of the Huddle by holding informal seminars on all types
1 of subjects. According to Bill Zandas, ‘‘With a fellow like Father Hesburgh at the helm, a fellow can be sure what he’s „ told to do is the best to do, and the best way to do it.”
•- Tom Paliganoff commented on another aspect of Notre Dame life: “The meals
* here aren’t quite as good as mom’s, but this place will do, at least for a day or two until my shoes wear out.”
•3 A very subtle but exacting opinion came from Tom Isphording, an off-cam-
. ' pus student, “I like it, ... I like it, . . . I like it.”
’ Freshman Jim Egan of Farley thinks Notre Dame is psychologically settling us in its environment by “starting us > off with infinitely long lines until a line
* of a few hundred or so at the Bookstore » is a welcome sight.”
Still another observation by George ' Uritis put it short and sweet; “So far, . Notre Dame has really been the greatest.
... I believe it can do wonders for a r man not only academically, but religiously and physically as well.”
Last to put in his two cents worth was Bob Wilson who looked at it this way: “Gee, a guy could spend a mighty busy four years around here, just par! ticipating in the tremendous number of ■ extra-curricular activities offered by the school.”
‘ To those who have never heard a Huddle-philosopher, opportunities are " constantly availing themselves.
Navy Sets Dec. 12 Date For RO Admission Exams
A nation-wide competitive examination for admission to the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps has been set for Dec. 12.
Notre Dame is one of 52 schools operating a Naval ROTC program. It has a quota of 40 midshipmen this year.
NROTC midshipmen receive 24 college hours instruction in naval science for four years. In addition they are paid $600 a year for the four years and take at least a six to eight-week sum-mei- cruise before being commissioned as officers in the Navy or Marine Corps on graduation.
Religious Bulletin—Bishop O’Hara Brainchild— In 33rd Year as Leading Campus Publication
By FRED ECKART
“All students will form in a body at the Main Church at 6:30 this evening . . . ‘Come Holy Ghost’ will be sung . . . followed by a sermon . . . Benediction will close the service . . .”
Thirty-three years ago—in the Fall of 1920—similar words of instruction gave birth to one of the University’s oldest and most widely circulated publications —the Religious Bulletin.
With the semester just begun, Rev.
RELIGIOUS BULLETIN DELIVERY Three Times Weekly
John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., then Prefect of Religion and now Archbishop of Philadelphia, was in a dither attempting to arrange the opening student mission. Then the idea struck him. Why not distribute a sheet of instructions to let the fellows know the when, where, and why of the mission? The Religious Bulletin was distributed for the first time, a small square of typed paper containing the time and place of the student mission along with a few words describing it.
Over 20,000 Copies Weekly
From this first publication—a handful of typewritten bills—the Bulletin has grown to a thrice-weekly publication in excess of 20,000 copies a week. In addition to those distributed on campus, more than 1,200 are mailed weekly all over the world.
Perhaps the Bulletin, containing news of religious happenings on campus and directed commentaries on religious and academic affairs affecting Notre Dame
men, “came of its own” during World War II. In addition to being distributed, along with the Scholastic, to the several thousands of Catholic and nonCatholic students on campus, participating in the V-7, V-12 courses, the Bulletin was mailed overseas to Notre Dame students and Alumni, offering encouragement as well as news from home.
“The effect of the Bulletin on the non-Catholics during the War was astonishing,” states Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., present editor of the Bulletin. “Percentage-wise, it was the most widely read Catholic literature in Protestant circles.”
Notable Men Past Editors
Since its beginning in Bishop O’Hara’s tower room in Sorin, the Bulletin has been edited by many priests of Notre Dame who have gained National recognition as editors and University heads. Numbered among past bulletin editors are: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., past president of the University; Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., present editor of Catholic Boy; and Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., a leader in the current ‘Family Rosary Crusade.’
Alumni Requests Back Copies -
“Besides these,” Father Carey continues, “it is amazing, the number of requests we receive from Notre Dame Alumni, who wish duplicates of copies dating back as far as “1936.” He further adds, “Many fellows actually have copies of the Bulletin bound to occupy a place in their book shelves.”
The Bulletin appears three and occasionally four times a week, each issue on a different color of paper. From Father Carey’s desk, the Bulletin copy proceeds to the University’s Service Department where it is mimeographed and handed over to its carriers.
Father Carey has eight carriers employed delivering the Bulletin in the 14 residence halls on campus. In addition to delivering the Bulletin, the carriers —all students of the University—assist in the mailing of the Bulletin every Thursday afternoon.
“Cognizant of the limited time of the students,” Father Carey iterates, “we try to adapt the Bulletin to the routine on campus. We try to make it concise, and to the point. But most of all, we try to keep the students aware of the importance of Faith in their daily lives.”
October 2, 1953
17
■K3
With the specialization of farming, wheat has become a major crop. Here, Brother Polycarp drills ’ winter wheat.








Down
on the Farm
7

Dedicated to the service of God.
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON Text by RAY KENNEDY

This morning at five, a rooster crowed, and twenty-two Holy Cross Brothers rose from their beds to the familiar tolling of a chapel bell. Before the sun was entirely visible above the tips of the corn shocks, these men were out in the fields and orchards and barns; already busy at their work.
This scene, takes place daily at St. Joseph’s Farm, some seven miles due north of the campus, on Currant Road.
Although little known now, at one
time this farm of 1,800 acres, the largest privately-owned farm in northern Indiana, was frequently referred to in every Notre Dame student’s conversation. That is, if tastes in food haven’t changed. For, up until a few years ago, it supplied most of the food served in the Dining Hall.
Now, however, the principal contribution to the campus is the daily supply of milk for Corby and Dujarie Hhlls, Moreau Seminary, and the Student Infirmary. Also, some fruit is supplied to these places.
The reason for not supplying the Dining Halls anymore isn’t, as some ND men probably think, the fact that anything was -wrong with the food. As a

The Scholastic
matter of fact, their cattle walked away with all the prizes at the recent St. Joseph’s County Fair. The reason was the cause of many changes on the Notre Dame campus—the war. The Navy made special requirements for the food served, 1 and the Brothers felt that the cost of meeting these requirements would be too great. After the war, things just stayed l that way.
A Couple of Farmers
The farm is under the over-all management of Brother Joachim, C.S.C. A short, jolly man, Brother Joachim hails from nearby Jackson, Michigan. He’s ■ well-suited for the job of Superior, for-he’s been a farmer all his life. Right ■ under him, serving as Assistant Superior is Brother Wymer, a young, ruddy-faced ' individual who looks just as you would expect a farmer to look.
But these two men, and the twenty ►- under them, aren’t the usual city boy’s conception of a farmer. Most of them have had some college education. A good example of this is Brother John, C.S.C., who had three semesters at Notre Dame and a couple more at Michigan State.
Another fact blasting this usual no-/ tion is that quite a few of these men are from big cities, New York, as usual, ' having the largest representation. Many are from Chicago.
It would seem odd that there’s even such a thing as St. Joseph’s Farm. But the reason isn’t so strange. It’s the , same for any farmer. There’s money in it. And if it wasn’t for the fact that the farm did make money, there would
be a lot less Holy Cross priests and Brothers than there are. For all the money made on the farm is used to put would-be seminarians through their long years of study. So, although the farm doesn’t supply the campus with food, it indirectly supplies some of our future professors.
Calving Cows
With education at the high price it is, it’s easy to see the need for the farm being prosperous. For this reason dairy products are the chief ‘“crop,” with wheat a poor second.
St. Joe’s dairy herd contains about 120 cattle with about 88 cows giving milk. The remaining 32 head consists of bulls, calving cows and calves.
The milk is cooled, pasteurized, and bottled right on the farm. What is used on campus is brought there early in the morning by one of the Brothers. The rest of the milk is sold on the open market in competition with other farms. The Brothers’ pride in their chief product is evinced by Brother John’s comment that he finds other milk “just a little bit thin.”
Besides the little fruit that the Brothers also contribute to the campus all other produce is also sold on the open market.
Another reason why the farm doesn’t supply most of the food is because St. Joseph’s, like most modern farms, has become largely specialized and mechanized. The 88 contented cows which give milk stand patiently as the mechanical milkers do their job, although some of
This new combine is an example of machinery needed for a modern farm.
Apples are one of the few crops on the farm that are still hand-picked.
Brother Richard hand-milks one of the older heifers not used to machine milkers.
Brother John tests some of the grain as it's processed by the grain-sifter
October 2, 1953
19
One of the Brothers washes off the dirt which is a necessary evil of farming.
the more old-fashioned heifers prefer the assistance of an experienced hand.
The attitude of the Brothers to mechanization is expressed by Brother Wymer, who says, “The efficiency and experience of an individual hand is no longer as important to the farmer as it is to keep the reaper and the combine and the tractors in good running condition, for they represent the labor of twenty men.”
Of course it wouldn’t matter how many men or machines worked on the farm if the soil wasn’t suitable. The quality and fertility of the soil is amazing when you consider that only a few miles west lie the Indiana dunes.
“The reason for this rich black soil,” explains Brother Paulinus, who has been farming the land for more than thirty years, “is due to the fact that we are situated in an area that was formerly
a part of the great Kankakee Marsh. That means this farm, as well as a good part of northern Indiana was under water during the Glacial Age.”
Eighteen hundred acres is an awful lot of land to farm, even if you are mechanized. For this reason, there are four hired men who have their own portion of the Brothers’ house to live in, plus a German DP family, who live in their own house on the farm.
Without a doubt, the most interesting of these hired hands is Jack Lyons. Jack is a senior history major in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. He was raised in the shadow of giant Chicago factories, but decided that he’d like to try a hand at farming. He now works three days a week earning his room and board at the farm. Patting his paunch, he professes, “you can’t beat the healthy work and country cooking.”
College Men and Cow Yards
The farm is not entirely unknown to students because it features a popular picnic area. Several school organizations make the journey out the Edwardsburg Road in the spring to enjoy the rural atmosphere and provided facilities. Referring to some of the exploring visitors, Brother John smiles and says, “You can always tell a college man by the way he tiptoes through a cow yard.”
At five o’clock, the Brothers begin to come in from the fields. After they have washed off the grit and dust of the fields, they don cassocks. The effect is amazing. It is hard to believe that these same men were the ones you saw in the fields just a short time ago. They look just like any other Brother walking on campus as they file into the Chapel for
Two of several big silos used for storing wheat and corn crops.
their evening prayers.
After supper, they all gather in the recreation room to listen to the radio or records, or to read the paper. Then at 9 o’clock, a chapel bell slowly rings, and another day has ended in the service of God.	'
Even in the cow barn are the Brothers reminded of their dedication, for a small white sign with the letters “JMJ” on it, hangs there. A mute reminder of their dedication.
i
Chapel devotions, meals, and a brief recreation period after supper are the only times when the Brothers are together.
20
The Scholastic
Lightning Strikes Twice
By JOHN SLAVICK
There’s never very much truth to old sayings. One of them was violently disproved last Saturday afternoon—“Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.”
Everybody who follows college football knew that the setup for the Notre Dame-Oklahoma football game was going to be just like last year’s. No one was disappointed. There was the same fight displayed that marked last year’s victory fox' ND, and also marked this year’s victory.
To say the least, Oklahoma was in a turmoil over the game. Not only the University, but the whole state felt that this game was a do-or-die affair. Even the state legislature got into the act by threatening to declare martial law in Norman.
The night before the game, the students at the University held a gigantic torchlight parade through the streets of
Norman, and the day of the game saw eighteen special air flights to the battle.
The excitement on the Notre Dame campus was also high, in spite of the fact that it was an away game. Thursday night saw the largest crowd at a football rally, and remarks like Captain Don Penza’s “When the going gets tough for everyone else, it’s just getting right for us,” and his roommate Sam Palumbo’s “They say Oklahoma is up for this game, well, I know a bunch of guys back there that are more up,” got wild applause and approval.
As it turned out, Penza and Palumbo were right. The going did get tough, and it was just right for the Irish. Oklahoma was up, but our boys were just a little bit more up.
The issue was in doubt until the last few minutes, but when the game was over, nobody doubted their right to “bring home one of those oil derricks.”
Captain Don Penza gets first aid after being injured on a crucial play. j
Oklahoma cheer-leaders found less to cheer about as the game progressed.
One of the partisan Oklahoma fans Raises Hands in Hope.
Coach Leahy does an Irish jig as the tension of the game grows tighter.
Two Oklahoma coaches get the nod from their press-box spotters.
October 2, 1953
21
Four Guvs With a Bargain
Text by FRANK MAIER
There’s an old saying: ‘‘You don’t advertise unless you have something to sell.” Quite a few of the hoys kept this in mind as they walked the campus last week. For they had seen an advertisement of a sort and, like everyone else, were always in search of a bargain.
The ad itself gave no hint of just what this bargain was, for all it said was this: “If you have any troubles, come in and tell me about them; if not, come in and tell me how you do it.”
The promoters of this ad were none other than the four class chaplains, who have the job of giving advice and help to any who ask for it. The bargain— “Where can you get so much for just a little of your time?”
In charge of selling this to the students is the Prefect of Religion, the Reverend Charles Carey, C.S.C. Father Carey is a tall, determined-looking man who has spent all the years of his priesthood here. Like so many of the priests now at Notre Dame, he is an alumnus of the school, graduating with the class of ’31. Before his present job, he was Vice-president of Student Affairs.
According to Father Carey, previous to this year there had been no individual
Chapel talks are one of the ways the class chaplains have of getting to know the students on campus.
chaplain assigned to each class. Instead, there had been three chaplains who worked among any of the four classes. The new system, it is hoped, will form a more intimate bond between the chaplains and the’ students. More attention can be given to the individual’s problems.
It is felt that the chaplains can do more for the men as a group, studying the problems in each year that they are here. For example, a senior might be very much more concerned with matrimony than a freshman. And the problem of adjusting to university life isn’t quite as important to the senior.
In accordance with this general aim, there were four missions given at the beginning of the school year, one for each class. Previously, there were only two, one for the freshmen and one for the upper classmen.
As Prefect of Religion, Father Carey is continuing the work begun by the former Notre Dame President, Archbishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., of Philadelphia. This religious program for the students has become so successful here that it has been adopted, fully, or in part, by many other Catholic schools
Reverend Charles Carey, C.S.C.
Prefect of Religion.
around the country.
Reverend Joseph Barry, C.S.C., junior class chaplain, is one of the most popular priests on campus. A witness to Father “Joe’s” popularity is the fact that he is one of the hardest priests to find. He just doesn’t stay in one spot long enough. During his usual day he can be seen rushing about the campus from one appointment to the other with his long black cape floating behind him, as he tries to catch up with his crowded schedule.
Father Barry builds confidence in troubled students coming to him with his fabulous ability to remember names. His method for doing this, he confides, is to allow his mind to go blank immediately upon being introduced to someone. This, he claims, allows the name to settle firmly in his memory. And during the ensuing conversation, he tries to use the name as much as possible. Also, he advises, it’s good to associate the name with something else if possible.
But his system is not infallible and Father Barry has had more than one occasion to rue the day he ever picked up the reputation for having a good memory. One time, while in Chicago’s Loop, a semi-familiar face suddenly confronted him and promptly demanded that the priest give its name.
Somewhat taken aback, the priest was at a loss and he finally had to confess that he just couldn’t recall the name. It turned out that the face belonged to a boy that he had met on campus and had promised that, if they should ever meet again and either could not remember the other’s name, the one with the faulty memory would have to treat the other to hamburgers. Father Barry paid
s

the check at the nearest restaurant.
One wagering experience cost him the price of a steak dinner. Father Barry was talking to the nun who, for years, । was in charge of supplying the campus with wafers to be consecrated and dis:	tributed at the hall chapels and at
!	Sacred Heart Church. She had just in-
formed him that, in an average week, 18,000 consecrated wafers were distributed in Holy Communion.
( Father Barry was amazed to learn that the Prefects of Religion had done '	such a good job, so he stopped a boy
|	passing by and bet him a steak dinner
that the young man couldn’t come within 2,000 of the number of Communions - received by Notre Dame students in an average week. The boy stammered ' around, squinted up at the clouds for a few seconds, and then, taking a ■wild stab, he made his guess. Father was left with an open mouth plus a dinner engagement.
Was at Anzio Beachhead
Much of the Junior Class Chaplain’s experience in helping others solve their problems results from the years that he G T served as a chaplain in the 45th Division of the Army. The “45th” had 511 days of combat during the Second World War, the second largest total of any division in the European theatre.
, Father Barry thus participated in such historic battles as Anzio Beachhead. It 4, was there that he assisted in burying ’	6,000 Americans who were killed in one
of the most costly actions of the war.
j However, what impressed Father | Barry most about his days with the “45th” was the time that the War De' partment lost track of the entire division of some 25,000 men. Chuckling, he recalls the funniest part of the story O is that the division was lost while it was
REV. VICTOR DEAN, C.S.C.
Sophomore Class Chaplain.
still in the United States, training in the Adirondack mountains.
In January of 1947, Father Barry came back to Notre Dame as rector of Farley Hall. Later, he was Prefect of Discipline. “I’ll bet you didn’t know that,” he adds, when asked about his previous positions. More recently, he was Director of Student Activities.
Taking care of the religious needs of the sophomores, is the Reverend Victor Dean, C.S.C., a tall, mild-mannered priest from St. Paul, Minnesota. Father Dean has been at Notre Dame since 1951, coming here from Stonehill College where he was Prefect of Religion.
Clarifying further what it is that the four chaplains have to “sell” to the student body. “The bargain” Father Dean says: “we have to offer . . . you can’t get any place else on the campus.” No-
REV. JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C.
Junior Class Chaplain.
where else can the student come with his troubles, either for advice or merely to have a sympathetic shoulder to cry upon.
Even if he has no troubles, he can find at the chaplain’s door a man who is ready to deal with him personally, completely independent of any administrative or academic branches of the University. “Primarily,” he adds, “the chaplains afford the students opportunities for Confession and the reception of Holy Communion.” As Father smilingly boasts, “This is the best job on campus.”
The freshman chaplain, the Reverend Thomas Baker, C.S.C., although he has been a student chaplain only a few short weeks, is ready to back up Father Dean o n that account. Young-looking Father Baker, ordained last February, has been handed the job of dealing with
REV. THOMAS BAKER, C.S.C.
Freshman Class Chaplain.
the many problems which confront Notre Dame’s newest. arrivals. His is undoubtedly the toughest job, for, although the freshmen do not have the gravest problems on campus, no one can deny that they have the most varied.
Father Baker, following Father Bar-• ry’s lead, also tries to remember names, but he has trouble making the freshmen remember who he is. A great many of them, he says, mistake him for the rector of the hall and come to him with everything from leaking faucets to getting tickets for St. Mary’s mixers. “My office is a kind of clearing-house for all sorts of problems.”
The new chaplain for the Frosh can tell even with his little experience that lonesomeness is the biggest problem which his group has. Theii- first extended stay away from home sometimes makes even their smallest problems balloon to gigantic proportions in their minds. With each that comes to see him, however, Father tries to become a real friend, not just an impersonal advice machine. Every evening of the week his office door is kept swinging from shortly after night prayer until eleven or later.	.
But, it was not a freshman who made the most unusual request for advice from Father Baker. As a matter of fact, it was not even a Notre Dame Student. It came from a nun who teaches at a mid-western girls’ college. She asked the startled young priest why more Notre Dame men didn’t ask some of her students out on dates. That was one question Father couldn’t answer, but he intends to push a few of his lonely freshmen in the direction of that institution.
All in all, the chaplains are known .as “good guys” around campus. They only want a chance to tell the student about the bargain they have to offer.
October 2, 1953
23
Eut your head in the middle of a scrimmage line and you’ll know why football players wear helmets. They’ve got rules, of course, which say you wear helmets whether you want to or not, but there was probably never such an unnecessary rule in the world. Your head is something you want to protect, rules or no rules.
And a scrimmage line isn’t the only place where your head can get into trouble. A good stiff autumn wind can lay you out as effectively
—if not as quickly—as a left tackle’s knee on the back of your head. Jump out of a hot shower into the cold fall air and your head is wide open to serious trouble.
A hat is good looking. It makes you look carefully dressed. It improves your appearance. But more than that, a hat protects your head. That’s what it’s for.
“Wear a Hat—Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!”
Divisions of Hal Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
ND Seeks Second Win At Lafayette
ROY EVANS	FRED PREZIOSIO
Small .... but ... . Mighty	Just Plain Mighty
Future Notre Dame Foes Find Going Rough As Upsets and Surprises Mark Grid Scene
The first big Saturday of the 1953 collegiate football campaign proved a bad one for Notre Dame’s future opponents. Only three of the eight Irish foes to see action came out on top as upsets and surprises dotted the nation’s grid scene.
First, a look at what tomorrow’s ND opponent did in its contest against Missouri last week. Purdue, 1952 Big Ten Co-champion in its first performance was subdued by a hard driving pack of Missouri Tigers 14-7. The Boilermakers had few looks at the Missouri goal line until early in the fourth period when Tom Redinger caught a 30 yard pass from Roy Evans and galloped across the goal line for the tally. The Boilermakers threatened again midway in the final quarter on a series of passes but were stopped on the Missouri three when the Tigers recovered a Purdue fumble. From that point on it was Missouri’s ball game. Walt Cudzik, Purdue’s All Big Ten center of last season,
and Guard Tom Bettis, along with Evans and Redinger were outstanding for* the Boilermakers and could make things mighty rough for the Irish tomorrow.
One of the big upsets last week was West Virginia’s 17-7 win over highly favored Pitt. The Mountaineers had the ball game well controlled, except for a brief period in the second quarter when Henry (Model-T) Ford, second string quarter back, set up the Panthers lone score with a 36 yard pass to Ray DiPasquale.
Florida surprised football fans last week by ending an 18-game Georgia Tech winning streak as they held the Ramblin’ Wrecks to a scoreless tie in the rain at Atlanta. The Yellow Jackets, victorious since a tie with Duke in 1951, controlled the ball and threatened repeatedly, but fumbled away scoring opportunities near* the goal line. The Engineers, rated highly by the experts this year, displayed theii* power by rack-
(Continued on page 28)
Veteran Purdue Team
Provides Tough Test
By WARREN ASHBAUGH
With the first of ten obstacles out of the way, Frank Leahy’s Irish visit Lafayette, Indiana tomorrow to battle traditional foe, Purdue.
Although the Boilermakers, co-champion of the Big Ten last year, lost a 14-7 decision to Missouri in their opener last Saturday, Coach Stu Holcomb will field an adequate and highly experienced team tomonw. Holcomb’s No. 1 problem has been to find sufficient reserve strength to supplement his first string, which is composed entirely of holdovers.
Despite the reserve strength question mark and the loss of Dale Samuels and All-American Bernie Flowers, Holcomb appears optimistic. He summed up Purdue’s over all situation favorably, “If we can avoid injuries to key men, we should be as strong offensively as last year and there is a possibility that we might be stronger defensively.”
Evans Capably Fills Samuels’ Shoes
In the backfield Holcomb has been blessed with Roy Evans as a replacement for Samuels. Reports from Lafayette have it that the 175-lb. quarterback, who is a brilliant passer and an able field general, may make the home fans forget Samuels.
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
PURDUE	NOTRE DAME
Wojcieh’ski	....	LE	... Shannon
Whiteaker	....	LT	..	Varrichione
Preziosio _____ LG	..... Lemek
Cudzik ........ C—...... Schrader
Bettis .......  RG	....	Mavraides
Krupa .........  RT	____ Hunter
Kerr .........  LE	..	Penza (C.)
Evans .......... QB	. Guglielmi
Zembal ________ LH	.... Heap
Brock ........  RH	. Lattner
Schmaling	....	FB	.....  Worden
Kickoff Time—1:30 C.S.T.
October 2, 1953
Behind Evans at the halfback position are two flyweight speedsters Rex Brock (160) and Ed Zembal (164). Brock compiled a 4.70 rushing average last year while Zembal confined his talents to defensive work.
Max Schmaling, the Big Ten’s third leading ground gainer- last season, will man the fullback post. Schmaling tied Bernie Flowers for scoring honors last year with seven touchdowns while shooting his lifetime yardage gained total to 1,017 yards for an average of 4.11 a try. However, despite his ground gaining ability and jet-like speed, Schmaling has yet to prove himself defensively.
Three junior fullbacks, James Reichert, Phil Ehnnan, and Bob Leonard, are ready to step in if Schmaling fails defensively. Backing up Evans is sophomore quarterback Froncie Gutman who was a defensive specialist last year.
On the line Holcomb is well stocked with tested lettermen whose weights average 211 despite right end John Kerr’s meager 167 lbs. Kerr makes up for his lack of weight however, with speed and proven ability both offensively and defensively. At the other flank will be James Wojciehowski, a rugged 205-lb. senior. Although Wojciehowski played only defensively last year he converted himself to two-platoon football during spring practice.
Veterans Bolster Front Wall
The Boilermakers have considerable depth at tackle. Dave Whiteaker, a 2121b. senior who played more minutes than any other Big Ten tackle last fall has the left side job cinched. At the other tackle Holcomb has Joe Krupa, a 2321b. sophomore and Joe Wojtys, a high school teammate of Johnny Lattner’s. Krupa, who earned a letter as a second term frosh last year, and Wojtys rate
ACTION IN 28-21 OPENER
Worden Puts Game On Ice With Final Tally
even at the right side post. Ray Pacer and Frank Angelotti are also ready for duty.
Holcomb is especially well set in the center of the line with guards Fred Preziosio, a 248-lb. junior, and Tom Bettis, a 215-lb. junior. Both boys made all Big-Ten last year and can play both offensively and defensively.
Walt Cudzik, a 199-lb. senior who was unanimous all Big Ten last year, will handle the center chores. Although he has been primarily an offensive performer at Purdue Cudzik has had defensive experience at Harrison high school in Chicago. John Allen is his sub.
Although reserve strength is Holcomb’s main problem he still has several lettermen capable of filling in if needed.
Irish Dump Speedy Sooners
The Irish opened their season last Saturday against Oklahoma with a game that was almost a replica of last year’s Notre Dame victory.
ND was forced to come from behind in both the first and second quarters before they pulled away with two third period scores. The Sooners scored once in the final stanza and threatened again, but Johnny Lattner intercepted one of Buddy Leake’s passes on the Irish 32 to stop the threat.
The Sooners scored first several minutes after the opening kick-off. The initial touchdown was set up when Dick Bowman recovered Neil Worden’s fumble on the ND 23. Jack Ging, Oklahoma left halfback worked the ball to within the five from where Buddy Leake scored.
Likewise a Sooner fumble set up Notre Dame’s first equalizer. Jim Schrader hopped on Max Boydston’s miscue on the Oklahoma 15 from where Ralph Guglielmi pitched a TD pass to Joe Heap.
(Continued on page 29)
All OR NOTHING
Leake Sneaks Through for TD
Net Tourney Favorites Gain Quarter-Final Berths Easily
Top-seeded Harry Pagel of Breen-Phillips combined a slashing, deceptive serve with brilliant defensive work to topple Dick Schmitt of Badin, and thus move into the quarter- finals of this year’s Interhall Tennis competition ■with a still unmarked slate. The freshman wonder earned the right to meet Schmitt by first vanquishing L. William, another Badin entry, 6-1, 6-0 and Dick Rodriquez, 6-1, 6-2.
Forehand Too Much
Second ranked John Stuhldreher, of Lyons traded forehand drives with a pair of Cavanaugh entrants, M. C. Todd and John Aikman, before emerging victorious. He bested Todd, 6-0, 6-1 and dislodged Aikman, 6-0, 6-1.
Freshman Dean Richards, whose father was once rated second only to Bill Tilden in national ratings, kept his third-place ranking intact by downing R. Urquiola of Zahm, 6-1, 6-1. He then trained his sights on another Zahmster, Bob Kuhn, and proceeded to swamp his outclassed opponent, 6-0, 6-0.
All Favorites Advance
By winning his initial start on default, Father Reilly, C.S.C., grounded Rich Shafer’s of B-P attempt to spoil his fourth-place standing, 6-0, 6-0.
Dillon’s fifth seeded Tom Prendergast, beat off Matthew Malison’s bid by routing the Walshite, 6-0, 6-0.
The remainder of the tournament was played off earlier this week.
26
The Scholastic
Irish Face Crusaders In Opener Tomorrow
The Notre Dame Cross Country squad opens its 1953 season at home tomorrow against last season’s undefeated Fighting Crusaders of Wheaton College.
The Irish harriers will be looking for their first cross country victory since 1951. Coach Alex Wilson has five returning veterans from last year’s victory-starved squad: Captain Jack Alexander, senior from Montreal, Canada, Dick De-Schriver, Al Schoenig, Bill Richardson, and Bill Lenihan. Added to these veterans Coach Wilson has Jim (Spike) Daley up from the freshman ranks of last year. Dick O’Keefe will round out the Irish squad.
Wheaton has four letter winners returning from the undefeated 1952 aggregation which finished 11th in the U.S.A, last fall. Gil Dodds, the Wheaton mentor and famous “Flying Parson” has his number one-two-three-four men returning. With such experience back, Dodds hopes to climb much higher in the national standing this season.
“Cookie” Moriya from Tokyo, Japan, is a stocky distance man who received national prominence with his fine second place showing in the Daily News Two-Mile Run. He is considered the foremost half-miler in Japan today and was also a member of Japan’s Olympic team. The other Crusader stars are: Walt Steinkraus from Prescott, Arizona; Tom Wright from Stamford, Conn.; and Taylor McKinzie who hails from Shiprock, N. M.
Tomorrow’s meet will start at 11:30 and end near the Grotto.
Nine Diamond Squads Get Fall Tournament Underway
Notre Dame’s annual fall Interhall Baseball Tournament opened last week under the direction of Physical Education instructor, Mr. Ray Runkle. The tourney is a double elimination playoff.
Nine teams, representing seven of the student halls, will vie for the gold medals which will be awarded to the winning squad. Two freshmen halls, Farley and Zahm, have each entered two teams, while Sorin, Breen-Phillips, Alumni, Badin, and Cavanaugh have one apiece.
Games will be played on the two diamonds south of the tennis courts with two contests being held daily at 3:30 p. m., and with no inning beginning past 5:15 p. m.
Three practice rounds were allotted to each team. Seasonal conditions don’t allow a longer practice session or a longer round robin schedule in which each team plays the others at least once.
ROUGH, TOUGH, LOTS OF DESIRE
Thirteen Teams Eye Campus Championship
Breen-Phillips Squad Out to Defend Crown As Interhall Elevens Open Practice Sessions
The Interhall grid campaign got into full swing last week as the hall football teams started practice sessions in anticipation of a possible division berth and even a shot at the campus championship. The league once again is under the guidance of Mr. Napolitano.
This season, as in the past, finds the campus divided into two leagues. Thirteen halls originally formed the nucleus for the league. However, of the initial entrants, three halls, Badin, Howard and Fisher, have not reported a full roster. The Eastern League is composed of Farley, Breen-Phillips, St. Ed’s, Cavanaugh, Zahm and Off-Campus. Morrissey, Lyons, Howard, Dillon, Badin, Alumni and Fisher constitute the Western half.
Last year Off-Campus, representing the Western side this time, tackled Breen-Phillips for the campus crown. B-P came from behind to win 7-6, so the freshman hall will be gunning to make it two championships in a row. Dillon is expected to be the powerhouse on the western side. Many of the players were on the Morrissey eleven which barely missed nosing out Off-Campus for a sectional title.
Mr. Napolitano announces that after the two-week training period ends, each league will hold a round robin with each team playing one game a week. The league champs then face each other in the stadium for the coveted title of “Campus Champions.” Mr. Napolitano is also pleased with the outlook since he
stated this is the quickest start the interhall gridders have ever had.
The coaches of the halls are Physical Education students, varsity athletes who have been injured, or students who have volunteered to coach a squad. It is up to the mentors of the respective teams to schedule the game with the other coaches at a time convenient for both.
Injured varsity gridder, Gene Carra-bine, is at the helm of the lads of Morrissey, Joe Sassano leads Lyons, Pat Padon is in charge of powerful Dillon and Marty Vieth, last year’s coach of western titlists Off-Campus, is handling the seniors of Alumni. Over in the other division, Cary Carlin is hoping his Off-Campus team can do better than runner-up this fall, while Joe Bonn will try to duplicate B-P’s performance of last year and push his boys to Breen-Phillips second straight campus championship. St. Ed’s is directed by Tom Meglen, Cavanaugh by Tommy Kiernan, and Zahm is under the tutelage of Jim Metress.
“Nappy” urges as many students as possible to make use of the opportunity to participate in interhall sports. He also stated that the equipment issued to members of the hall teams is top grade material with new equipment being purchased regularly through an established fund. Mr. Napolitano promises a good season and some better than average games over on the Interhall fields. The various coaches will attempt to scrimmage other teams as a tune-up in preparation for their opener.
October 2, 1953
27
by Bob Frolicher
Hats Off to One and All
Looking back at last week’s thrilling 28-21 opener against Oklahoma it would almost be impossible to point out any one member of the Irish as the outstanding player. It was the unsung heroes along with the standouts that came from behind to overcome an early Sooner lead and ice the game in the third quarter. The Leahymen made the most of their opportunities - as their four touchdowns will show. The
first was set up by recovering an Oklahoma fumble; second, on a blocked Oklahoma punt; third, an intercepted pass; and fourth, on a recovery of another bobble.
Perhaps one player who turned in his best all-around college performance to date was the Irish field general, Ralph Guglielmi. The “Gug” attempted 10 passes, connecting on six with two of his heaves going for touchdowns, both to halfback Joe Heap. The Irish ace also tallied the second TH on a quarterback sneak to knot the game 14-14 at the half. None of Guglielmi’s tosses fell into the Sooner’s hands.
RALPH GUGLIELMI	An unusual aspect of the game was that
6 out of 10	Irish did not return one punt. Sooner
fullback Max Boydston punted three times, but one was blocked while the other two were quick kicks. One of Boydston’s “quickies” sailed over 70 yards.
New Ruling No Problem
When the NCAA came out with their ruling of the one platoon system, Stu Holcomb, Boilermaker head coach, seemed to have the ideal remedy for the situation. Of the starting Purdue eleven, five are from last season’s defensive unit, five from the offensive squad, while the eleventh man, speedster half Rex Brock was a double duty man last year.
Tomorrow’s tussle will be the Silver Anniversary game of Irish-Boiler-maker football relations, with Notre Dame far out in front with 17 wins against five defeats and two ties. The 1950 clash marked the climax of the series when Purdue ended the Irish’s 39 game winning streak, 28-14.
The contest revives a jinx which annually hovers over Notre Dame. In recent years if the Irish capture an early season victory in southern climate, the following week they suffer defeat in their home state. Three years ago Notre Dame eked past Tulane, at New Orleans 13-9, o.it were defeated the next week 20-7 by the Hoosiers at Bloomington. Just last year, the Irish grounded out a 14-3 victory over the Longhorns of Texas, but the next Saturday they were dropped by Pittsburgh here at home 22-19. In each case they played in the south in above 90 degree temperatures, exhausting to the players, and in each case, they were defeated the following week.
Prediction of the Week
The Boilermakers could be tough with many seasoned veterans returning, but the Irish will be out to show that the 94 degree temperature of Oklahoma had little effect on them, downing Purdue, 34-14.
Future Opponents	j
(Continued from page 25)	g
ing up a total of 220 yards rushing I against Florida’s 75.	|
Another surprise last week was Navy’s | 6-6 deadlock with William and Mary.	|
The Middies, who are also ranked highly g this year, tallied in the third period	I
when Jack Garrow, substitute halfback,	|
broke away for 28 yards to pay dirt. | W&M, taking advantage of a recovered | fumble, caught up with the men from I Crabtown in the final period.	|
Quakers Quiet Commodores	I
i
Pennsylvania conquered Vanderbilt last Saturday, 13-7, behind the pin-point passing of Ed Gramiga and the smashing play of Joe Varaitis. Badly outplayed during the first half and the early part of the third quarter, the Quakers bracketed two touchdowns in the space of two minutes to wipe out a seven point lead by the Commodores.
Turning to the south again, the Tarheels of North Carolina walked away with their game in an impressive 29-7 victory over North Carolina State. Senior Fullback, Billy Williams, broke loose for touchdown runs of 31 and seven yards in the last period to break open a close game and nail down the Tarheels’ first win of the season.
Iowa, who will play at Notre Dame on Nov. 21, was subdued by powerful Michigan State last week, 21-7. Until a quick 43 yard Spartan touchdown pass in the fourth period, the Iowa team, except for two first quarter mistakes which gave MSC two quick scores, fought the Spartans on even terms. The Hawkeyes scored in the third period with a relentless drive which brightened the hopes of Iowa fans. One of the outstanding Iowa players was Ed Vincent who led the ball carriers with 57 yards.
First Half Surge Nets Trojans Win
Mighty Southern Cal scored 17 points in the first half last week and then fought off a determined Minnesota team to triumph, 17-7 for theii' second victory of the season. Halfback Aramis Dandoy sparked the Trojans to its inter-section- I al victory. He was assisted by Quarter- * back George Gozanic and a great line | that proved the Trojans were picking up « defensively where they left off last year.
Tomorrow, two future Notre Dame foes clash in Atlanta, Georgia, as Southern Methodist opens its season with Georgia Tech. Meanwhile, Pittsburgh plays host to Oklahoma; Navy meets Dartmouth; Penn takes on arch-rival Penn State; North Carolina faces Washington & Lee; Iowa tangles with Washington State and Southern California opposes Indiana.


28
The Scholastic
Kline Hopeful as Vefs Begin Fall Workouts
Fall baseball practice opened last Monday and will continue for about two weeks according to Coach “Jake” Kline. The drills are being held in hope of uncovering new talent and to look over last year’s freshman crop.
The Irish who finished a successful season with 16 wins, 7 losses and a tie, will be minus such standouts as Captain Joe Ridge (.323), Roger Braun (.346) last year’s leading hitter, Len LeRose (.222) and pitching aces Stan Konopka, 9-1 and Jim Gibbons, 4-3 who both signed with the Phillies.
Despite' the losses the Irish have a good nucleus returning. Kline has two monogram winning catchers, Dick Gab-erik and Dick Farrell back. First line returning pitchers are: Jim Dalton, Jerry Donnelly, John Reynolds and Ron Mottl.
With only third-baseman Len LeRose missing, the infield could be the bright spot in the Irish future. Returning lettermen are: Dick Rosenthal (.255), Dick Colloton (.271), and Capt. Hal Reilly (.271). Other candidates are Fred Delaney, George Kolasa, Rog Allan, Mike Lesso, Roger Lemke, Don Sniegow-ski, Joe Finn, Tom Russell and Ron Weber.
In the outfield, Joe Ridge and Roger Braun, two of last year’s starting trio have since departed, leaving letterman Mark Tremblay to carry the' load. He will probably be flanked by Joe Yaegar, Bill Goetsch, or Jack Dean. Tremblay capably filled in the centerfield slot last season after Capt. Joe Ridge suffered a leg injury.
f PROGNOSTICATOR PREDICTS:
i	(Last week's percentage—.600, on
।	12 out of 20.)
Alabama, 33; Vanderbilt, 7.
Northwestern, 13; Army, 7.
Ohio State, 28; California, 13.
5 Georgia Tech, 14; S.M.U., 13.
Illinois, 26; Stanford, 14.
So. California, 35; Indiana, 13.
t Iowa, 20; Washington State, 7.
Michigan State, 28; Minnesota, 20.
Michigan, 21; Tulane, 14.
Navy, 27; Dartmouth, 0.
“ Oklahoma, 35; Pittsburgh, 13.
Penn, 20; Penn State, 14.
Wisconsin, 28; Marquette, 6.
N. Carolina, 39; Washington & Lee, 7.
Florida, 27; Kentucky, 7.
Texas, 27; Houston, 13.
Rice, 20; Cornell, 6.
' Duke, 21; Tennessee, 12.
Georgia, 32; Texas A&M, 21.
ND Tackles Purdue
(Continued from Page 26)
one being a 62 yard pass from Leake to Carl Allison. Jack Ging scored three plays later from the five.
Blocked Punt Leads to Tie
The Irish came from behind again late in the half. Frank Varrichione blocked a Sooner punt and Don Penza recovered the ball on the Oklahoma nine. Moments later Guglielmi scored after faking a pitch out.
In the third period Guglielmi intercepted a Leake pass and on the next play tossed another touchdown pass to Heap, this one being good for 36 yards. Notre Dame pulled further ahead in the same stanza when Worden scored from nine yards out. This opportunity was set up several plays earlier when Penza recovered Leake’s fumble at midfield.
The Sooners scored once more in the final five minutes when Merill Green, a substitute halfback dashed 60 yards with a Lattner punt. The Sooners made one more valiant try but Lattner iced the game for the Irish.
Irish Sailing Squad Opposes Midwest's Best in Opener
On October 10 and 11 the Notre Dame Sailing team will open its fall season in a nine-team regatta at the University of Cincinnati. The Irish crew will face some of the best Midwest competition, including such participants as Northwestern, Ohio Wesleyan, Miami, Toledo, Xavier, Michigan, Ohio State, and the host team, Cincinnati.
The Notre Dame sailors are now the proud possessors of four new boats and have since made ample preparation for the regatta. According to Ed Rodgers, the Irish should be strong contenders for the trophy.
They hope to better last season’s performance when they finished second in the Ohio State Invitational Meet and third in the annual Chicago area eliminations for the coveted Timme Angston Memorial Cup Championship, along with finishing third in the Michigan Invitational. The Irish sailors lost their chance to go to the Nationals last year, ending up third in the elimination round.
Among the skippers who expect to make the trip are Bob Fisher, Don Matthews, Commodore Ed Rodgers, and Paul Miller.
The remainder of the schedule is as follows: Oct. 31, Freshman Championship at Toledo; Nov. 7, Fall Championship Eliminations at Notre Dame; Nov. 14, Ohio State Invitational; Nov. 21, team race at Northwestern; Nov. 27, Fall Championships at Chicago.
Former Irish Captain Paces Army Runners
Pfc. Vai Muscato, captain of the Notre Dame track team in 1951, recently paced a U. S. Army track team
VAL MUSCATO
Now Ace for Uncle Sam
to victory in the “Little Olympics” meet at Bad Hersfeld, Germany.
Muscato, a member of the Seventh Army track squad that defeated a German team in which several 1952 Olympic contestants participated, captured both the 800 and the 1,500 meter races. He ran the 800 in 1:54.4 while dashing to victory in the 1,500 with a time of 4:7.6.
In 1951 he broke a meet record against Bradley clicking the half-mile off at 1:56.8. One of his best showings while at Notre Dame was the 1:55 half mile he ran in the Central Collegiate Championships. Muscato, together with John Mohar, his great half-mile ranning mate, ■ was considered able to run with the best in the country.
Minnich Takes Early Lead In Campus Golf Tournament
Senior Paul Minnich, a member of the Notre Dame varsity golf squad, fired two over par 73 last Sunday to take an early 54 hole lead in the annual campus Open Golf Championship. Minnich combined his 73 with two early round 75’s for* a 54 hole total of 223.
Minnich was also the leader after 36 holes with a 150 total. His closest competitor's were Juniors Bob Gerst and Bob Filipiak who shot a 151 and 152 respectively.
October 2, 19S3
29
Draft Dodgers Sulk os Selective Service Sees Quota Increase for '54, Fewer Deferments
By PETER STURTEVANT
Uncle Sam still wants YOU! In spite of the Korean trace, the draft will be continued into the foreseeable future. The outlook is for a small decrease in draft quotas to about 19,000 men a month until July of 1954. Then look out!	.
Draft quotas are expected to be more than doubled in 1954. It is estimated that 40,000 men a month will be called.
This jump in draft calls will be necessary in order to replace the large number of men now in military service who will be discharged, and to compensate for an expected drop in enlistments.
This increased demand coupled with a decline in the number of men eligible for limited service will result in a drastic tightening of student deferments in 1954. Draft boards will be scraping the bottom of the barrel to meet their quotas. Some have predicted that the present deferment system will be discontinued.
All advanced course Air Force ROTC students now under contract will be permitted to complete their college training and will be deferred from Selective Service until the ROTC course is completed, according to word received by Col. Melie J. Coutlee, commanding officer of the Air Force detachment on campus.
The new policy, announced by Air Force ROTC Headquarters at Montgomery, Ala., revises a previous announcement in late July that almost all ROTC students would have to agree to take flight training or be discharged from the program. Exception was made at that, time only for a small number
20% Discount
For Noire Dame Men
SAVE on Cleaning and Pressing
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. Jefferson	1st Corner Across the River
----On the Bus Line-
with highly technical backgrounds also to be commissioned.
“Because of appropriation limitations not all air Force ROTC students, now in the advanced course, will receive commissions,” Colonel Coutlee explained. “This is a competitive situation in which only the best qualified potential junior officers will win commissions with the remainder being awarded certificates of completion,” he said.
Colonel Coutlee pointed out that the Air Force’s primary requirement is for flying officers, pilots and aerial observers. Therefore, the majority of commissions awarded will go to students applying for flight training. A small number of commissions may be given to outstanding cadets, who neither qualify physically for flight training nor have technical background skills.
These observers believe that only those engaged in the study of courses which are' directly related to national defense, such as medicine and engineering, will be deferred, along with a few of the brightest juniors and seniors in other fields.
The armed forces see a need for 457, 000 men in the year ahead. A call to military duty may come to two out of three able-bodied men in the 18% to 26 year age group.
Commissions Not Guaranteed
The chances of obtaining a commission through ROTC have declined, especially in the Air Force. Those who wish to obtain Air Force commissions
must be prepared to fly. Ground officers are no longer in demand.
ROTC graduates who do not receive commissions will be subject to the regular draft, but will be given reserve commissions after serving in the regular army for the customary two years. Standards for entering advanced ROTC programs are being raised.
Deferments are being granted to those who have become fathers since Aug. 15 only if they can prove hardship. This new policy has been adopted to plug a loop-hole in the former draft policy. It is designed to keep those who have already been deferred because of their occupation and then married from escaping the draft.
November Draft Test
Those students who have not yet taken the College Qualification Test and wish to obtain a II-S classification (student occupational deferment) will have the opportunity to take the test on Nov. 19, 1953 and April 22, 1954. The test will be given on campus on those dates. To qualify for a ,II-S deferment, a student must pass the test with a score of 70 or be in the upper half of his class, in the case of freshmen. Sophomores must be in the upper two-thirds, while for juniors it is the upper, three-fourths.
Applications for taking these tests will be available at the Office of Military Affairs in the Main Building as soon as they are received from the Selective Service System.
WIDE Mike Chatter
There’s an often-told story that Glenn Miller paid for his first trombone by milking cows at $2 a week. This may or may not be true, but it serves to illustrate the point that his economic background was a modest one. From this small beginning there emanated a career that gained nation-wide acclaim.
As a trombone player, Miller- was just average; but as an arranger, he had no equal. Those who have been in his orchestra will tell you that he was nothing short of a perfectionist. After a number had been rehearsed many times and most leaders would be satisfied with it, the real Miller rehearsal would then begin. This diligence on his part paid off. For by 1942, he was without a doubt the most popular dance band leader in the world and his annual income was over §800,000.
In 1942 Glenn Miller enlisted in the Air Force. On Christmas Day, 1944, The New York Times contained this un-
The Scholastic
30
welcome news: “Major Glenn Miller, Director of the U. S. Air Force Band, is missing on a flight from England to Paris, it was announced today (December 24).... No trace of the plane has been found.”
You’ve all listened to, and enjoyed Glenn Miller’s records. This past week on WNDU was “Glenn Miller Week.” We have a recently-released album called, “The Glenn Miller Limited Edition Album.” Only a limited quantity of this album will be available to the public. Over 200 test pressings were made to get the final performances for the 70 selections in this album.
“White Plume,” with Tom Knott, and “Old Curiosity Shop,” with Dave Pfaff, feature this fine album.
Over half of the performances on this album are never-before released records made from the great Miller prewar broadcasts. Few people remember that Kay Starr was the vocalist with the Millei- band. This is just one of the unsuspected things that showed up on the air checks.
Along with playing the records in this album Tom and Dave had many interesting facts for you about Glenn Miller and some of the great men that he worked with. If you are a Glenn Miller fan, you didn’t miss “Old Curiosity Shop” and “White Plume” last week when they featured the Glenn Miller Limited Album.
This week “Requestfully Yours” will take requests on the album.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Beclaws He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
"Go jump in the lake,” squalled Sheedy's mermaid with baited breath, “You look simply crabby with that messy hair. Better get your hooks into Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s favorite hair tonic. Keeps hair combed
with no trace of greasiness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Relieves annoying dryness. Contains lanolin. Nonalcoholic. I shell never sea you again until you start using it.” Paul crabbed 29£ and bought Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now he’s the crab-apple of her eye. So water you waiting for? Hurry and geta bottle or handy tube at any toilet goods counter. And nets time you visit your barber, ask for Wildroot Cream-Oil on your hair. Then you’ll be the best catch on campus.
*of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville,IS!. Y
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
WILDROOT CREAM-OIL MAIt TOMIC
1 WOOMSlMMJt *nuh» sarnm itWVIS
toon Dxmuu

COLLEGE MEN’S FAVORITE	QluA- FLANNELS
Even, if you’ve never had a Mt. Rock Yacht Club flannel suit you’ve missed one of the most comfortable, most wearable suits ever made.
%	YACHT CLUB FLANNEL is one of the classics of the flannel world . . . it’s
smooth, it’s supple, and the colors are unusual and outstanding. And Yacht Club Flannel is wonderfully tailored for Parker-Winterrowd by Mt. Rock for seasons of handsome wearing. Come into Parker-Winterrowd, Inc., and try one on. As low as $55.00.
Your Charge Account Accepted.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Ine.
115^ - 117^ No. Main St. - Upstairs
October 2, 1953
31
Up from the bench
OR... You can’t buck that line unless you break into the line-up
A third-string quarterback named Witherspoon had a Laudable Ambition. He wanted to be first-string quarterback. Particularly to start the opening game under the Admiring Eyes of his Number One Girl. Unfortunately the coach was a Hard Man to Convince. So our hero, undismayed, uncorked a Master Plan.
Two weeks before the opening game, the coach got a Telegram. Message— “Ten reasons why Witherspoon should be firet-string quarterback. First, Witherspoon is resourceful. Witness this approach.” Each day the coach received a similar Telegraphic Tribute to the Sterling Qualities and Gridiron Prowess of Witherspoon, ending on the tenth day with “Witherspoon knows
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
NABICHT BROTHERS
Purdue Menu
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
NOTRE DAME 34 Nabicht Brothers Predict:	PURDUE 6
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family
Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
the T-formation to a T. Incidentally, his father is considering endowing a new gymnasium.”
Who started Saturday? Our boy, naturally. Did very well, too. Played all season. “Just one of my Finds,” the coach murmurs modestly, when found in the New Athletics Building.
Nothing puts a point across as convincingly as a Telegram . . . whether you’re trying to get a “Yes” out of a Coach, a Chick or that Checkbook at home. (Fact—when it comes to prying Pesos out of a Recalcitrant Parent, a Telegram is just about the world’s Best Crow-bar). Whatever your message, it’ll Mean More when it goes on the Yellow Blank
$5,600 Budget Gets Senate Approval
A $5,600 budget for the first semester was passed at the weekly student senate meeting Monday night.
Characteristic of this year’s budget is the fact that the Senate is not alloting money to individual halls on campus for purposes of decoration, hall parties, etc. The reason this action was taken was due to the fact that most of the halls did not use the allotment they received last year.
The procedure now for obtaining money is by presentation of the request to one of the various committees originated for such purposes. The committee will then bring the matter before the senate for debate and a vote.
In a special motion before the senate last Monday, the Academic Committee was directed to present $500 to the Festival of Arts to be held on Oct. 12-17.
Phil Bolin, chairman of the Social Committee, presented a tentative calendar of events for approval at the Student Senate meeting Monday. Highlighting this were more informal parties with St. Mary’s, an early Jazz Concert, and increased activities around Christmastime.
A great deal of discussion at the meeting centered around possible date change for the Student Trip. The proposed plan was for the students to leave Thurs., Oct. 5 instead of Friday, Oct. 6, as originally scheduled. A committee of Rick Hicks and Joe Saunders was appointed to investigate the possibility of the change.
The Senate also voted to buy a piano to be kept in the Drill Hall for dances and concerts that may be held there. The amount specified for this purchase was not to exceed $400.
Suwalsky Reveals Plans For Design of *54 'Dome1
“Notre Dame Achievements, 1954” will be the theme of the Dome, the University’s annual yearbook. According to Al Suwalsky, the editor, the Notre Dame story of 1954 will be told in an entirely new and different way.
Inside a modernistic cover of ivory and blue, there will be more pictures than ever before, featuring several full page kodachromes, and accompanied by feature stories rather than the usual historical articles.
The design will be by Alden Balmer, one of the best commercial artists in the Midwest. Emphasis will be on a simpler, more effective design. The book will be divided into seven sections, one for each of the five colleges, one for
32
The Scholastic
student activities, and one foi' sports.
“Every attempt will be made to secure accuracy in names and photographs. A foolproof method of identifying the senior pictures will also be put into use,” says Suwalsky, who heads a staff which includes: Bud Lalonde, associate editor; Ron Mazzoli, managing editor; Ned Griffin, business manager; Bob O’Malley, sports editor; Frank Burke and Dick Williams, co-activities editors; Gavin King, copy editor; and Joe Baumie, college editor.
Suwalsky also announced that there will be a meeting soon for all freshmen and upperclassmen who would like to help on this year’s Dome.
Center Opening Soon
(Continued from page 9) tage for off-campus students is a place on the main floor to do some studying.
Father Norton made clear that the Student Senate would be responsible for the management, administrative, and financial aspects of the building. With regard to St. Mary’s College, Father Norton said, “It is our hope that the Center will be the locale for educational, recreational, and cultural activities with them.”
As far as the financial aspect goes, the building will cost approximately $175,000. A part of the money has been obtained through various student functions, such as the Mardi Gras which
netted $15,000.
The construction work has been financed through the generous donation of Mr. Joseph A. LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla., a graduate of the class of 1916, and a member of»the Associated Board of Lay Trustees. The Women’s Advisory Council, with Mrs. E. M. Morris chairman, is collecting funds to be used for furnishing the lounge.
“It should be known,” said Father Norton, “that lack of finances makes it impossible at present to put in many-extra features.” He explained that once the center starts to grow, “it will be possible to put in a darkroom, a record room, and maybe the facilities of the Huddle; however, these will have to be future plans.”
Annual Red Cross X-ray Drive Gets Underway Here Monday
The five days from Oct. 5 to Oct. 9 have been set as the dates during which the American Red Cross will have their mobile chest X-ray unit on campus in its yearly effort to discover “dormant” cases of tuberculosis and other chest maladies.
The lobby of the Engineering Building will serve as the office for this year’s examinations.
Monday’s appointment periods will begin at 3 p. m. and will end at 4:30 Tuesday through Thursday. The Red Cross will be on duty from 9 a. m. to 5 p. m. with an hour out for lunch, 11:30 to 12:30. The drive will end after Friday’s 9 a. m. to 12 p. m. session.
“The Inside Story,” a film dealing with the spread and prevention of tuberculosis, will be presented along with the regular movies in Washington Hall tomorrow.
Registration and appointment cards will be handled by the Office of Student Affairs.
Only $4.50?
Fantastic!
Speakers Introduce Frosh To Bureau Monday Evening
The initial meeting of the Speakers’ Bureau will be held at 7:30 Monday in Room 351 of the Main Building.
This will be a special meeting to further introduce some 50 interested freshmen, who expressed interest in the Bureau at the recent freshmen orientation mixer.
The officers for the 1953-54 year, John Mahoney, president; Pete Caruso, vice-president; Jim Gibbons, treasurer; and Charlie Conway, secretary, will be in charge of the session.
Both old and new members are invited to attend. Tentative plans for the year’s activities will be revealed at this meeting.
October 2, 1953
A^Vilking away from the ruins of his flying saucer, the tiny creature opened his emergency kit. Peering into it with his middle eye, he beheld a stack of
greenbacks, packs of chewing gum, and a sheet of instructions which read: “In this kit you will find everything you need to live as a college student. All college men wear clothes and chew gum. Buy clothes, chew gum constantly...and good luck!”
Scratching his left antenna with his lower left hand, he tore off half of a five dollar bill, popped it into his mouth, and scuttled into a nearby college shop. “Let’s see your finest shirt,” he squeaked.
The trembling clerk handed him a Van Heusen Oxfordian. “Gleeps, that’s really a mimsy!”, screeched the little fellow, feeling the luxurious Oxford fabric. “How much is it?”
“Only §4.50,” quavered the clerk. “I have them in the smartest new colors... and white to boot. Plus roll collars, button-downs and new short collars.”
“Only §4.50? Fantastic!”, piped the creature. “I'll take one of each!”
Carefully he counted out twenty sticks of gum and laid them on the counter. “Keep the change,” he chortled, putting the shirts under his middle arm. And munching merrily on a crisp ten dollar bill, he waddled out.
35
by Gordon Bergquist
Too Busy to Think
Like I’ve said before, we’ve got a pretty quiet little town; not much ever’ happens down there along the Missouri. We’ve got a sheriff but he’s just around for looks. Makes a town look real fancy to have a sheriff. About all he ever does is collect a few bills and give a few traffic tickets out to some of the tourists that tear through the place.
Yessir, it’s a pretty quiet town—and a pretty nice one, too. Everybody there’s kind of friendly and nice; course we do have a few arguments, but they aren’t too big and don’t amount to much. I guess that’s pretty much a sign of our town. We don’t really go for things in too much of a big way; just sort of stick in the middle and take things slow and easy.
That is, that’s the way things usually go. I remember once, though, things kind of got riled up for once. Seems as how some young fellow came around there during election, running for something or other. He got up in front of the courthouse and started his speech. Now this wasn’t too common a sight, so he drew a pretty big crowd. Right off the bat, he starts yelling and screaming about what an awful horse-thief his opponent was. Well, -when all the folks heard this, they sort of pricked up their ears and let their mouths drop down. Being a horse-thief was about the worst thing that you could call a fellow, and so this was pretty serious.
How Did He Know?
He went on yelling and screaming louder and louder and calling his opponent a horse-thief arid a pony-nabber and a stallion-stealer. And then he did some yelling about all the facts that he had to prove that this fellow was what he had said he was. Finally the sheriff, who was a pretty smart fellow, made himself heard and asked how did this fellow know his opponent was a horsethief. “What?” screamed the man. “My opponent is the lowest blackest kind of horse thief, that’s why.”
The sheriff scratched his head and agreed as how the man was probably right. By this time all the people were whooping and hollering and promising to vote for the fellow. Any fellow that could yell so loud and so long and call anybody so many different names must be pretty good.
Well, this fellow got himself elected by a whopping big majority and got his picture all over the newspapers and magazines. It seems as though he had some big, fancy idea about being God’s gift to the public and had come to save them in their hour of most need. Least that’s what he said.
The papers were really pleased with this fellow—he talked an awful lot and helped fill up the columns on a dull day.
It was a couple of years later that he came back to our little town. Seems that now he was head of a mighty important asking committee. Least, that’s what most of the people called it. He went around asking all sorts of people all sorts of questions. His favorite question, though, was, “Have you ever been or are you now a horse-thief?” Now he did find two or three horse-thieves but most of the people were just folks who were big names or who this fellow just didn’t like.
Editor on the Hot Spot
He got the editor of our little paper up on the stand in the old court house and just tore him up and down and swore that he had lists and ■witnesses and papers that proved this editor was a spy for a big horse-stealing ring. Funny thing was, the louder he yelled, the more the folks applauded him. Seems they must have thought he knew something with all that noise’. ‘Course he never did come out with all those facts he’d been so loud about but folks didn’t seem to notice.
The poor editor was done for, though. Nobody wanted to buy the papers of a fellow everybody thought was a horsethief.
Things just kept on like that for quite a spell. It got so bad this fellow was waiting to dig into all the files and old papers of every person in town. Whenever anybody asked him why, he just yelled “horse-thief!” and all the papers quick went to press.
He got to be an awful big man in the state. There was even a lot of talk about his running for governor but it didn’t quite pan out. Guess it was because he hadn’t yelled loud enough yet. So he started to yell louder and louder. A couple of newspapers even went bankrupt keeping up with him. He even went so far as to throw people out of
court rooms, claiming they were the spies of a big-horse-stealing ring under the very dome of the state capitol.
Things went along this way for a spell and then a bunch of pretty smart fellows got together and did a little bit of yelling on their own. The only trouble with this was that every time they stopped for breath, he just started yelling again.
They put their heads together again and finally decided to ask him a few questions. Things quieted down an awful lot after that because the fellow was so busy answering questions and calling names that he didn’t have time to yell. Soon as he stopped yelling, people' forgot about him. Maybe that was the trouble all along. People were so busy listening that they couldn’t bother to think.
MASS SCHEDULE
MONDAY, Oct. 5—Feast of Sts. Placid and Companions, Martyrs.
TUESDAY, Oct. 6—Feast of St. Bruno, Confessor.
WEDNESDAY, Oct, 7—Feast of the Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
THURSDAY, Oct. 8—Feast of St. Bridget.
FRIDAY, Oct. 9—Feast of St. John Leonard.
SATURDAY, Oct. 10—Feast of St. Francis Borgia.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND FOR OVER 50 YEARS.
Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
34
The Scholastic
1
Technical Se^eant Robert S. .Kennemore, USMC
Medal of Honor
Under His Foot, the Live Grenade
The MACHINE GUN belonged to E Company, Second Battalion. Seventh Marines. It was un
der the command of Technical Sergeant Robert Sidney Kennemore.
It was busy. For on this November night fanatical Red masses were swamping Marine defense positions north of Yudam-ni.
Fighting was close and desperate. Fifteen yards in front of the gun, a Red soldier raised his body briefly and sent a grenade into the air. It landed squarely among the crew. In a split second. Sergeant Kennemore had covered it with his foot.
There was a violent, muffled explosion, but not a man was hurt. Not a man except Sergeant Kennemore. He had given both his legs to save
his comrades’ lives.
“When I was on active duty,” says Sergeant Kennemore, “I sometimes wondered if people back home cared as much about stopping Reds as we did. Now that I’m a civilian, I know they do. And one proof is that so many of my neighbors are investing in E Bonds for our country’s defense. Believe me, I know how important that -defense is. So I’m investing, too, just as I hope you are!”
Now E Bonds pay 3% I Now, improved Series E Bonds start paying interest after 6 months. And average 3% interest, compounded semiannually when held to maturity. Also, all maturing E Bonds automatically go on earning—at the new rate—for 10 more years. Today, start investing in U. S. Series E Defense Bonds through the Payroll Savings Plan: you can sign up to save as little as §2.00 a payday if you wish.
Peace is for the strong! For peace and prosperity save ivith U. S. Defense Bonds!
The U*S* Government does not pay for this adtertisement- It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America-

CHOICE OF
YOUNG AMERICA
AND i BEST FOR YOU
Copyright 1955, Liggett &. Myers Tobacco Co.
::
■
& ol:
J L Chesterfield Quality Highest 15% higher than its nearest competitor and 31% higher than the average of the five other leading brands...based on recent chemical analyses giving an index of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest.
2« No adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. From the report of a medical specialist who has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two months for well over a year.
3> First with premium quality in both regular and king-size.
Much Milder with an extraordinarily good taste.

Don’t you want to try a cigarette with a record like this?
CHESTERFIELD B Bcsmurou