5otre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras mori turns.
Vol. XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 13, 1882.	No. 36.
Life.
TRANSLATED FOR THE SCHOLASTIC FROM THE SPANISH OF MELCHIOR DIAZ DE TOLEDO, ’ (BY MARION MUIR.)
.	Where, Spring, have all thy flowers flown?
Where, Summer, now thy wealth of sheaves? And who from Autumn’s hoary crown
Hath torn the withered leaves?
Alas! the seasons change and fall,
• Lost in the gulf of nothingness;
The year’s bright offspring perish all Ere he hath time to bless.
The tender bud that graced the morn, • f	And blushed a rose by middle day,
At evenfall, a thing forlorn, In dust forgotten lay.
. Such, youth, oh, such are beauty’s charms: As brief, as sweet the time of flowers,— But even as swiftly pass the storms That cross our living hours.
An Hour in the Sistine Chapel.
When, some years ago,—it now seems but the other day,—we found ourselves happily arrived in Rome with the prospect of many weeks’ undisturbed enjoyment before us, we sketched out a sort of rough plan, by following which we hoped to turn our opportunities to the best account, and to carry back from the Eternal City clearly outlined pictures of what we saw, instead of a mere mass of confused recollections. However, the ,	’ most carefully matured designs have sometimes to
give way to circumstances, to the no small advantage, as it turns out, of the diligent and discomfited planners. . Before we had been many days in Rome, steadily following the pre-arranged course, we had visited St. Peter’s several times; had explored the adjacent Borgo; and had constantly been seen, as one of our friends used to say, “prowling” about the bridge and castle of S. . Angelo. But though we had cast many alonging glance towards the Vatican, we had studiously refrained from entering the palace. We had deter* mined not to. seek admission until, the first rush of excitement and curiosity having subsided, we should be better prepare^ to understand and enjoy - what we saw. In fact we meant to leave the gal-
laries of painting and sculpture, Raphael’s frescoes, the Pauline and the Sistine Chapels, to be visited during Holy Week.
But one morning, long before Lent was drawing to a close, as our party came straggling into the great breakfast room of the Minerva—some from the church in the piazza, others from the Gesu, and one from a ramble among the ruins—each was greeted with the unexpected intelligence that two days later, namely on the 19th of March, the Feast of St. Joseph, the Holy Father would say Mass at seven o’clock in the Sistine Chapel. We had only to go to the Vatican at the appointed time; the Swiss Guards would allow the ladies to pass to the upper part of the chapel; and the gentlemen could remain below the balustrade and assist at the Holy Sacrifice. The news seemed almost too good to be true. All were delighted to think they should first see Pius IX, not on one of the great days when crowds of sightseers rather than of worshippers fill the basilica of St. Peter, but in a chapel of his own palace, saying his daily Mass in the silent morning hour. On further inquiry it was ascertained that the news was quite as true as it was good. A friend had been at the Irish College the previous day, and the rector, Monsignor Kirby, gave his visitor the information he might otherwise never have obtained.
When St. Joseph’s day dawmed all were astir. And when the carriage rolled into the court of the hotel, every one was ready: dressed as people always must be when appearing in the Pope’s presence, the ladies in black, with a long lace veil or shawl replacing the customary bonnet, and the gentlemen in ordinary full dress-suit. Early as the hour was, strangers were hurrying from the different hotels; carriages were dashing across the bridge of S. Angelo; and as we ascended the magnificent staircase, well called the Scala Regia, and entered the no less regal vestibule from which open the Pauline and Sistine Chapels and the corridor leading to the Pope’s apartments, we came up with various groups concerning whose nationality there could be no doubt.
The Sistine Chapel, which, as most people know from pictures or descriptions, is a lofty, oblong hall, without pillars, arches, or architectural features, but painted in fresco over every inch of roof and wall, except where arras tapestry, wrought from Raphael’s cartoons, was designed to have hung, was already well filled. The veiled black figures occupied the place where, at solemn functions, the
THE HotEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Cardinals are seated, with the attendant priests at their feet. The rest of the privileged congregation remained, as directed, in the space between the balustrade and the door, or rather curtanij which screens the entrance.
Whichever way the eye turned, whether to the right or to the left, upward or straight on, the attention was caught and fascinated by some majestic form, some scene in the history of the old or hew dispensation, some awe-inspiring revelation of the future. The prophets and the sibyls looked down majestically from the ' vaulted roof. The history of Moses appeared in visionary procession in one long line. Christ’s earthly life passed in review upon the opposite side: the type and the fulfilment thus brought face to face. While from the wall at the upper end, covered literally from the altar to the roof with Michael Angelo’s Last Judgment, loomed out awful forms—the offended Judge, the shrinking, supplicating Mother, the angels holding the books of life and death, and the trumpets that have waked the dead.
Presently His Holiness entered the chapel by a side door, with one or two Monsignori and a few attendants, ascended the altar, and began the Mass. It was a low Mass, without music. Absolute stillness prevailed, except when the silence was broken by the marvellously full and musical intonation of the Holy Father’s voice lifted in supplication- or benediction. At the Communion the attendants held a white cloth extended in front of the upper step of the altar, the privileged congregation went up in order, and, having kissed the Pontiff’s ring, received the Life-giving Sacrament from the hand of the Lord’s vicegerent.
Certainly it was an hour of thrilling emotion, of multitudinous thoughts that yet were not distractions. Many times afterwards we had the happiness of seeing the venerable and benign face of Pius IX, and hearing his mighty voice in benediction of assembled multitudes, or in paternal address to strangers received in audience: but to no scene does the mind revert with so reverently cherished a recollection as to that which took place in the early March morning, when the Supreme Pastor offered to God the Spotless Lamb, and fed . with the Bread of Life the little flock that had gathered to his feet from the ends of the earth.
Magnets, their Properties and Uses.
The name magnetism is derived from Magnesia, a city of Asia Minor, where the peculiar properties of the magnet were first discovered. The most common magnet is the loadstone, which is no more than a black oxide of iron. It occurs native, and is frequently found in well-formed crystals of the cubical system. It is called loadstone, or leading stone, because it causes small particles of iron to follow it when placed near them. Its discovery is attributed to a shepherd, who noticed the attraction which it had for his crook, which was made of iron, while tending his flock on Mount Ida.
Magnets are classified into natural and artificial magnets. The natural magnet is the ordinary loadstone, while the artificial magnet consists of a piece of hard steel which has been permanently endowed with magnetism. The properties of the magnet are easily studied: taking an ordinary bar magnet and plunging it into a quantity of iron filings, it will be noticed that the filings will cling in large quantities, in proportion to the intensity of the magnet, to the ends of the bar, and gradually diminish in amount as the centre is approached, at which place they will refuse to adhere. The terminal portions of the magnet are called its poles, and the place which remains bare is called its neutral point. The pol.es are distinguished as north and south poles. Now the question which will naturally follow is, “ Why do the filings adhere to the poles and not to the neutral point?” This is explained by stating that the attractive properties of the magnet reside solely at or near the poles, and being opposite, although similar in nature, they entirely neutralize each other when the centre is. reached; thence it follows that, as there is no attractive power in this part, no filings will adhere.
What magnetism really is, we cannot say. The old theory was, that the two opposite forces were fluids; all bodies were supposed to contain them, and in their quiescent state there was simply a combination of the two fluids. When combined, these fluids neutralize each other, and therefore no magnetic phenomena are exhibited; but when the fluids are separated, each has its power of attraction, and a body in this state is said to be magnetized. If these forces are fluids, they must have weight, "and consequently the weight of a bar of steel, after being magnetized, should exceed its former weight. But such is not the case; for, with the most accurate instruments, no excess of weight has ever been detected; whence it follows that the forces are not material substances.
If we place upon a magnet a thin card, and upon it sift some iron filings, we will, on gently tapping the card, notice filings arranged in a series of curved lines; these lines show to the eye the places at which the magnetic intensity is the greatest, and also the direction of the lines of force. On presenting the ends of a magnet to a magnetic needle suspended by a thread from a point of support, it will be noticed that the needle will be either attracted or repelled, according to the end of the magnet which is presented. From this phenomenon we deduce the law that like poles repel and unlike poles attract. If before magnetizing a needle we suspend it as above, we may place it in any desired position, and it will remain in equilibrium in any of them. If it be magnetized, it will no longer remain in equilibrium as before, but will assume a direction varying according to the latitude of the locality at which the experiment is made; it will not remain horizontal, as would be supposed, but will be inclined at a certain angle to the horizon. This angle is termed the inclination, or dip of the needle, and varies at different times and at different latitudes. If the needle, suspended as above explained, be slowly carried from
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
one end of a magnet to the other, it will, in course of its movements, assume different positions; at the poles its position will be vertical, and as we approach the centre, it will deviate from the perpendicular till at the centre it will assume a position parallel to the bar. The earth is an enormous magnet, and possesses all the properties of an ordinary bar magnet. If a needle be carried around the earth, its positions will vary, as when carried around a magnet. This explains the dip of the needle, which, as might be expected, increases as we approach the poles. The north magnetic pole of the earth is situated at a point 7o°5' north latitude, and	west longitude, being only a
short distance off the west coast of Boothia. The I south magnetic pole is found to be about 730 south latitude, and 1300 east longitude. On the east coast of Brazil, i6°5' latitude, the needle assumes a horizontal position. If from this point we travel eastward around the earth, keeping such a direction that the needle will remain horizontal, we shall describe the magnetic equator of the earth. The magnetic poles and equator of the earth do not correspond with the geographical poles and equator, as is the prevailing idea. From this we can see why the magnetic needle does not point due north and south. The difference between the direction of the needle and true north is called declination, and may be determined at any given place by the angle included between the terrestrial and magnetic meridians. This angle not only changes year after year, but even varies daily, producing what is called diurnal variation.
If a magnet be broken into any number of pieces, each part, no matter how small, will continue to remain a magnet having poles of its own; and each pole will possess the same attractive properties as the whole possessed. When a bar of soft iron is brought near a magnet, it will be found to possess properties in all respects similar to those of the magnet itself. On removing the magnet, the soft iron will be at once deprived of its magnetic properties. If in place of the soft iron bar, we substitute a piece of steel, it will acquire similar properties to those possessed by the soft iron bar; but on removing the magnet, the steel will be found to have retained these properties. A steel bar once magnetized remains so permanently; but an iron bar cannot thus be endowed with magnetism. This property by which a magnet influences a bar of iron, as above described, is called induction.
Artificial magnets are prepared in four different ways, viz., by induction, by the sun’s rays, by contact with a magnet, and lastly by means of an electric current. One process by induction has already been explained; the other is by the inductive influence of our earth, and is performed in the following manner. Take a bar of steel and hold it in the direction of the dipping needle; and by striking it a few times with a hammer, causing the bar to vibrate, it will be magnetized. The second process is exceedingly simple and consists in concentrating the violet rays of the sunlight upon a needle. The third method is more efficient, and was. the manner in.which all magnets were made
until the electric current became known. It consists in bringing a magnet in contact with the bar to be magnetized. If the article to be magnetized is a needle, it may be endowed with magnetic properties by simply touching the magnet; but if it is a bar of considerable size, it may be magnetized by one or by two magnets. If one is used, apply either pole to the middle portion of the bar and repeatedly rub it towards the end. The remaining half is treated likewise, but with the opposite pole. By repeating this process several timse, the bar will be magnetized. If two magnets are employed, the work is greatly facilitated. Instead of rubbing each half in turn, we apply the positive pole of one magnet, and the negative pole of the other to the bar, placing them within an inch of each other, and continue as above. The last and simplest process is by means of the electric current. A current is passed through a coil of wire surrounding the bar, which is thereby at once endowed with magnetism.
To preserve the power of a magnet, a bar of soft iron, called the armature, is kept in contact with the poles. The weight which a magnet can support may be daily increased by adding each day a small weight to the armature. Great care should-be taken in so doing, for if we overload the armature so as to cause it to be roughly tom from the magnet, it will be greatly impaired. Rough treatment such as subjecting it to blows, nibbing it violently or even overheating it will deprive it of its properties. A more striking manner of demagnetization is to bring like poles in contact, when both are deprived of their attractive properties. •
The surface of a magnet is the locality in which all of its force is concentrated. If, for instance, we have two globes of the same diameter, one being a thin shell and the other a solid sphere, we will find an equal amount of magnetism distributed in each. To show that the force resides in the surface, introduce into the shell, by means of an aperture, a magnetic needle, and it will in no way be affected.
The magnet is used in various machines and for a variety of purposes. The most important instrament in which it is used is the compass, on which the navigator relies entirely for guidance over the trackless ocean. The Chinese were the first to avail themselves of its use, many centuries before the Christian era, and from them the various other nations learned its value. By its use the navigator is not obliged to keep his bark in sight of land, not compelled to rely upon the sun and stars, which may at times be entirely hidden by clouds; but ventures fearlessly into the remotest regions of the earth. Other uses of the magnet are in the magneto-electrical machines, which rely entirely upon it for their efficiency. So much has the magnet added to the progress of magnetic and electrical experiments of late years, that it is-im-possible to predict the extent of its use in the future.
I have not attempted to give any explanation of magnetism, as this is impossible. All that we know-of it is the different phenomena which it exhibits.
..... F. E, Kuhnt N,.D, S. A.rof ’84.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—John G. Saxe, the poet, contemplates going to Milwaukee this summer for his health.
—The Danish authorities have forbidden the circulation of Zola’s works in that country.
—George Grove, the author of « Grove’s Musical Dictionary,” has been appointed Director of the Royal College of Music, London.
—A movement, under the auspices of the Lord Mayor, is on foot in Dublin for a public memorial to the late Dennis Florence McCarthy.
—The Duc de Broglie is preparing a new edition of his well-known work on the History of the Church and the Roman Empire in the fourth century.
—The first instalment of an edition of Shak-speare, to be issued in twelve monthly pails, has just appeared in England. There are to be no notes or comments. The work is published in the style of the “ Parchment ’ Library,” by Messrs. Kegan Paul, Trench & Co.
—An impressario offered Rubinstein $80,000 for one hundred concerts to be given in the United States. Rubinstein replied: “ When my bankers fail I may consider it, but not otherwise. I do not care to play the piano at all, now. When I did care to play, few showed any desire to listen. Now that I do not want to play, everybody seems anxious to hear me.”
—One cold winter’s day, a poor blind man was trying to earn a crust in one of the London streets, by playing on the violin, but somehow his tunes lacked the power to bring him a penny. There stood the blind man, cold and hungry, alone in misery. Two gentlemen were passing, and stopped opposite the player, conversing a few minutes. One of them approached' the player, gently patted his back, and said: “Won’t the people give you any money?” “No,” was the reply; “they won’t open their windows: it is too cold.” “ Well, lend me your fiddle and I will see if they will open for me.” The speaker took the violin and played a tune, the like of which was never before heard and likely never to be heard again in a street. The windows opened as if by magic, and money was thrown out plentifully enough. The charmer having accomplished his purpose gathered up the money and handing it to the blind player, said: “There, you can go home now; you have got sufficient to keep you for one day at least.” It was Paganini.
—As to Pope Boniface VIII, of whom Gower says:
“ Thou Boniface, thou proude clerke,
„	Misleder of the papacie,”
and of whom Dante wrote in a spirit of bitter Ghibelline partisanship, terming him “ the Prince of the new Pharisees” (Inf., XXVII, 85,) and again, making St. Peter charge him with being a usurper and guilty of bloodshed and crime,
“ He who usurps upon the earth my place,
My place, my place, which vacant has become.
Now in the presence of the Son of God,	.
Has of my cemetery made a sewer
Of blood and fetor, whereat the Perverse
Who fell from here, below there is appeased,” this Pope was, as Cardinal Wiseman says, probably the most maligned of all the Popes. Italian and other historians have accused him of usurpation, avarice and pride, whereas the contrary of all these were the facts. Even Dante convicts himself of misstatement in placing the term “ usurper ” in the mouth of St. Peter, for in another place he calls him the “ own Vicar ” of Christ, showing clearly that he was blinded by partisan feeling when applying the contrary epithet. Speaking of the seizure of the same Boniface VIII by the troops of Philip the Fair, at Alagna or Anagni, in 1303, Dante writes as follows:	.
“ I see the flower-de-luce Alagna enter,
And Christ in His own Vicar captive made.
I see Him yet another time derided;
I see renewed the vinegar and gall,
And between living thieves I see Him slain.” Giotto, a friend of Dante’s, painted the splendid picture of Pope Boniface in the Lateran Basilica, from seeing which, the learned Cardinal Wiseman was led to examine the popular assertions made against that great and holy Pontiff. The result of the Cardinal’s investigations concerning him were published in the Dublin Review, and afterwards reproduced in the collections of Cardinal Wiseman’s Essays (Vol. Ill), published in London, in 1858. —The “Ave Maria''
Books and Periodicals.
—The American Short-Hand Writer for April has an interesting article, “ Concerning the Study of Phonography,” by C. A. Neff, of Newport, R. I., containing good advice for students, two pages of a “ Learner’s Department,” five of “ The Reporter’s Department,” including two pages of fac-simile reporting notes, etc. The stenographic notes are engraved in a superior style, on plate paper. The Shorthand Writer has always been well conducted—eminently practical—and the late improvements add greatly to its value. .
—Church's Musical Visitor for May contains the usual amount of excellent music and readingmatter. There are 8 pages of music—namely, “ Flower Greeting ” ^Blumengrusz) by D. Krug; ' “The Bonnie Bells of Lynn,” words by Weatherly, music by E. S. Kimball; “Wake Out” (piano and violin), Emmett. Eben C. Rexford contributes a poem, “ The Last Song,” H. Rau an affecting account of Mozart’s “ Requiem ^Rternam"; Prof. Alex. Graham Bell an article on “ Musical Telegraphy for Concert Purposes”; Paul Pastndr, Walters, and others, touch upon a variety of subjects pertaining to music and musicians.
—Browne's Phonographic Monthly for April has a great deal of attractive matter for both students and professional stenographers, prominent among which is a continuation of the “ Discussion on Systems,” in which the hitherto much-abused Munson writers come, into favorable notice* The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
539
“ Two Descriptions of Our Title-page ” are timely. “A Biographical Sketch [with portrait] of the Late Lieut. Jas. R. McAuliffe,” of Buffalo, pays a merited tribute to one who was an honor to both the Navy and the stenographic profession. There are 8 pages of stenographic reading-matter in the Isaac PitmAn, Benn Pitman, and Munson methods, lessons for beginners, items of news, etc., etc. National School for the PiAno-Forte ; by
W. F. Sudds. Price, $3.25. W. F. Sudds: 710 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Among the large number of different Piano methods published in this country for the last twenty years, Richardson’s New Method has held its place as superior in every respect for pupils who are thoroughly in earnest about the study of piano-forte playing. The National School for the Piano-Forte, by that well-known composer W. F. Sudds, lately issued, will no doubt prove a formidable rival to Richardson’s Method, as it contains several new and useful departments of great value. Anyone who will follow this method resolutely cannot fail to become a first-class pianist, and to acquire refined taste for all that is best and highest in music. Essays on Various Subjects, Chiefly Roman; by Monsignor Seton, D. D. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1882. The republication of these Essays, which originally appeared in TheCatholic World, will confer pleasure on many who desire a valuable addition to their libraries. The style of the author is peculiar, and is not obtrusively argumentative. He produces Iris effects by the skilful selection and grouping together of authentic facts, some of which, perhaps, would be insignificant enough, taken singly; but under his system of collocation, they remind one of those rich mosaics, composed of innumerable colored fragments, which present to the eye the effect of a skilfully painted picture in never-fading hues. Monsignor Seton is a true artist in feeling and expression. His love for the Eternal City does not blind him. There is no at-• tempt to palliate crime, or to gloss over what is vicious. The spirit of inquiry has animated his researches, and the spirit of fair dealing his expositions. The Essay on Scanderbeg is interesting, as giving us a fuller view of a little-known and less appreciated character. But that on the Jews in Rome is to us the one which affords most food for thought. Different tastes, however, will not find any difficulty in obtaining varied illustrations of life in the pages of this little book. It comes to us neatly bound and printed, in the usual style of the publications of the Society.
College Gossip.
—Professors at Harvard begin their lectures to the students with, “Gentlemen and fellow-students.”—News.
—A Yale tutor is said to be collecting statistics from the Freshman class to discover why they chose Yale in preference to other colleges.
—Prof. W. D. Whitney, of Yale, has received from the Emperor of Prussia the position in the Order of Merit, made vacant by Thomas Carlyle. —Res Academicce.
—Commencement orations at the University of Wisconsin have been limited to five minutes for this year.— Sun.
It would be better to drop them altogether than give such a “ squib.”	'
—A celebrated composer wrote to a friend, requesting the pleasure of his company “ at luncheon, key of G.” His friend, a thorough musician, interpreted the composer rightly and came at one sharp. —High-School Bulletin.
—A writer in the Heidelberg Monthly says: “ There are now about 60,000 young men in our North American colleges: 25,000 are Christians, and 35,000 are not Christians.” An alarming statement, if it be true. Is it possible there are 35,000 pagan college-men in North America ! Whither are we drifting?
—The Baltimore Medical and Surgical Society has rejected as a member Dr. Whitfield Winsey, a colored practitioner, and graduate of Harvard. Though his character and standing professionally are excellent, and he was highly recommended.by leading physicians of northern cities, he was rejected by seven black balls.
—A congress of French schoolboys has just been held, “ in spite of all opposition from parents, guardians, and schoolmasters,” at Albi, a town near Toulouse. The number of delegates who assembled was twenty, and after two days’ del iber-atidns they decided on suggesting to the Minister of Public Instruction the substitution of two modem languages for the Latin and Greek hitherto included in the Lycee curriculum, the appointment of a committee of scholars to .mediate with the masters, improvement of the food, suppression of the monopoly hitherto enjoyed by the concierges of supplying small luxuries at exorbitant prices, and, finally, the amnesty of some scholars recently expelled from Toulouse and Montpellier.
—My pony, ’tis of thee,	'
Emblem of Liberty, To thee I sing:
Book of my freshman days, Worthy of fondest praise, Worthy of poets’ lays, I’d tribute bring.
My gallant pony, thee, Help to the wearied be, When “Ex” is nigh.
I love thy well-worn look, Thou gentle little book, I)own in some hidden nook
’	Silently lie.
Harpers and Bohn! to thee, Authors of liberty, To thee we sing.
Horace, Demosthenes, Tacitus, Sophocles, Livy and Homer, these, The horse is king! •	—-Campus.
540	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JVotre Dame, May 13, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day-, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those •who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
• Old Students should take it.
Terms-, $z. 50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early applicatibn should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—The eighth Annual Convention of the Catholic Young Men’s National Union was held in Boston, on Wednesday and Thursday last. The different societies of the University of Notre Dame were affiliated to the Union last year at the time of the Convention in Chicago, in which distinguished assembly Messrs. Bloom, Sugg, Clarke and Arnold held the responsible position of delegates. For obvious reasons the delegation this year was not so large. Mr. Geo. E. Clarke was the only student in attendance, but credentials were forwarded to Mr. D. A. Harrington, of ’81, who, besides the qualification of having been a student in excellent standing last year, had the additional recommendation of residing in the “ Hub.” Mr. Clarke left for Boston last Sunday evening.
—By a slip of the pen, or rather a thoughtless slip of the writer, the name “ Louis ” was written last week when speaking of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew. Instead of « Louis IX,” who lived and died a saint, and is canonized, the name obviously intended was “ Charles IX.” This is so evident as to make an erratum hardly necessary, but it has been thought best to mention it. In a college paper printed weekly, like the Scholastic, errors will sometimes be unnoticed by writers and
proof-readers, and, we hope, will be condoned by thoughtful readers. In this connection it may no.t be amiss to call attention to a mistake made in Mr. W. H. Arnold’s essay on “ Galileo,” in which . Tycho Brahe is spoken of as teaching in the P ope’s College. It was Kepler who taught there; we believe Tycho Brahe made no sojourn in Italy, but taught for the Jesuits when compelled to flee from his own country. Mr. Arnold made the correction, drawing his pen across the name, but neglected the “ dele ” mark in the margin, and the printer, according to rule, paid no heed to the mark in the body of the print. The names of Kepler and Tycho Brahe being mentioned together, we presumed that those who were conversant with their lives would at once see the mistake, and attribute it to its rightful cause.
—On Wednesday evening, at eight o’clock, the Columbians gave an enjoyable literary and musical entertainment in the College Rotunda. As is usual on such occasions, a large audience was in attendance, and, evidently, all were pleased with the manner in which the affair was conducted,— with both the speakers and the music. The entertainment was opened with an address by Mr. W. Grout—a very creditable piece of composition; Mr. Grout did passably well in the delivery; - he would have done himself and his composition greater credit had he paid more attention to clearness of enunciation,—the great drawback, we might add, with those who are not accustomed to the ordeal of being the target for three or four hundred pairs of eyes. Mr. J. Marlett’s declamation—11 Green and Gold ”—was almost without a flaw; Prof. Lyons need not be ashamed of him as a member of the Elocution Class; unless we greatly mistake him he will reflect credit on both the class and the teacher. TAe affair of the evening was the debate, “ Should the Chinese be Granted the Rights of Citizenship?”—argued for the affirmative by Mr. E. Fenlon, for the negative by Mr. T. Fenlon. Space does not permit a recapitulation of the arguments. The contest was a close one. The Fenlon family record is illustrious with names honored in Congressional halls and on the battle-field, and the rising generation bids fair to do it credit, both in ability and energy. After the debate, a very enjoyable piano solo was given by Mr. W. Connor. Mr. Connor has some reputation as a “ short-hand ” man, but from his ability at the piano we should judge that the “ shorthand ” was counterbalanced by long, agile and well-disciplined fingers. Mr. H. Steis’s declamation, “Henry Clay” and Mr. J. Farrell’s “Civil Service Reform ” were very good, and Mr. R. Becerra’s Spanish address was happily chosen as the jinale of this pleasant entertainment.
—The following poetic address was recently forwarded to Rome to be presented to Pope Leo XIII, by Very Rev. Father Sorin, C.p. C., in the name of the Faculty and students off the University of Notre Dame.. The sentiments to which it gives ex
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	541
pression, not less than its elegant latinity, will, we feel certain, commend it to favorable notice. It is an acrostic—the first letters of the different verses forming the words, Leoni Decimo Tertio, Summo Pontijici;—and it is written in that most flowing and harmonious of all the Horatian metres, Sapphic:
Beatissime Pater:
' I^aude Te summa, venerande Pastor, Efferunt nati; cupit et juventus O ptimum sacris precibus Parentis JV umen adire. .
I nferi Petro minitantur: ille
De suo saxo domitat procellas;	I
E t pii nunquam poterunt Leonis
C orda movere.
Impii contra Vaticanum ubique jH ugiunt, Papse cineres profanant, O pudor Romie! pia ne sepulcra T uta quiescant!
E t quidem, te armis alii feroces, Koma, conturbant; alii silent, quum T ot mali insultant homines vomendo Impia verba.
O mnium motus superat Leonis Summa majestas; patiens benignis U titur verbis, solidseque carpit	I
M unera pacrs.
M ulta te quando veteris pericla
O rbis affligent, novus hie amorem I* referens mundus requiem Leoni Offerat almdm.
IV unc Sacram Crucem Domini sequentes Tecolunt: Nostrae Dominie studentes I nvocant Christum, properet Parenti
E erre salutem!
I nsit ut nostris sapiens Aquinas
C drdibus, simplex animos clientum
I mbuat Joseph, benedicat oro
LEO, rex:
■ The mechanical and artistic execution of the address was superb. It was printed on the finest moire antique silk. On the outside sheet the Papal arms, with the tiara, supported by angels, had been painted by Prof. Gregori. On a second sheet was the following dedication in beautifully ' illuminated characters
J.M.J.
HOC
.Su.-e. Sanctitati.
.LEONI. XIII.
.P. M.
.GLORIOSE. REGNANTI.
.SS. CRUCIS. CONGREGATIONIS. .
.Patres. Fratresque.
.	-NEC. NON.
.NOSTRAE. DOMINIE.
.in.
.INDIANA.
.Universitatis.
.PROFESSORES. ET. ALUMNI.
.B. PETRO. AC. SS. PONTIFICI.
’ Devotissimi. Obedientissimique.
.ADMIRATIONIS. AMORIS. ET. GRATITUDINIS.
.PIGNUS.
.OBTULERUNT.	'
•A. D. 1882.	.
Finally, on the inner sheets came the address proper, also illuminated. The Professor of Latin who composed the address and superintended the execution of it, is to be congratulated on having produced an elegant piece of work in every respect.
Exchanges.
-—The Chaddock College Monthly says:
“The Notre Dame Scholastic is a regular and most welcome visitor. Its contents are always interesting to us, and it is plain that it is the result of much labor and considerable skill. Nevertheless it does not strike us as being a good college paper.”	’	.
The Monthly thinks the Scholastic does not sufficiently reflect the spirit of the students here. If it doesn’t that is presumably the fault of the students, and not of the Scholastic. In so far as it does reflect student spirit and talent, however, it seems to redound greatly to their credit, judging from the value set upon their articles. The essays—the compositions of students—in the Scholastic during the past semester have been extensively quoted. What is that but a reflection of the spirit of the students? Eh, Chaddock? »
—The University of Toronto has produced the “ Antigone,” and The 1 Varsity rejoices at the success with which the play was attended. The editors say thattc Oxford did it with less success, and Edinburgh with less still.” Bravo I But Harvard is not brought into the comparison; why? (We wonder how the Notre Dame boys will handle “CEdipus” and “The Captives”?) The ’ Varsity adds that a faithful representation of the play, and universal approval of their efforts, have rewarded the labors of Profs. Hutton, Pike and Wright, and Mr. Vines, who had the matter in hand. “Never before,” it continues, “had any project elicited such general sympathy from, or developed so much public spirit in, the undergraduates. Their lady friends, even, imbibed the general enthusiasm-, and assisted in getting up the costumes. The account of the play in The ’ Varsity is a very elaborate one. The exchange editor, or “Patriarch Student,” very justly holds up to censure the “ local ” badinage of one of the girl-college papers, The Index and Chronicle, and does it in the quietest and most pointed manner’too, by simply reproducing the items. The girls of Howard College—we beg pardon, the local itemizer; the Clio-nean has taught us a lesson—talk loudly of “ chew-insr-giim” and that Sandwich-Island barbarism, the “bangs.” If the following is a fair sample of the locals, we wish to see no more of them:
“ Had we been a graduate of Central instead of Howard we could have offered this director, when we saw him dive into his overalls pockets (on the outside, just above the knee) a nice plug of ‘star,’ and could have taken a social ‘ chaw,’ with him. But we were not, and as, unfortunately, we had given all our gum away the day we gradu- . ated, his majesty had to chew alone.” ....
Oh, dear! what a pity!	'	.
—By the same mail come The Berkeleyan and The Portfolio,—the one from California, the other from Canada,—and most interesting numbers
542	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
they are. The Exchange department is, of course, one of the chief attractions for outsiders, and this department in the papers named is in this issue a most readable one. The Berkeleyan Ex.-editor gives a page and a half; she of The Portfolio a page and three-quarters. We could wish that both were twice as long. The Berkeleyan Ex.-editor opens by saying:
“ An exchange should not be judged by its literary character but by the manner in which this character is sustained. It should not be judged by its kind, but by its excellency of its kind. The men of Eastern colleges take naturally to writing light articles, and polish and repolish their jokes. The Acta Columbiana and the Harvard Advocate bear witness to the truth of this. In the West the tendency is toward serious wTiting. The minds of the students are crude, and original wit is, as a general thing, lacking. So it is that the Western journals have come to confine themselves almost exclusively to heavy matter and to leave the wit to their Eastern brethren. If we keep up our end as well as they do theirs, we may rightly be satisfied.”
After paying his compliments to The Archangel, Minden Collegian, and William Jewell Student (what a jewel of a name!) he continues:
“ In view of the fact that we have received several new exchanges this month we feel it our duty to give them all the information in our power as to how they should conduct themselves. We naturally have a desire to see new publications have some worth some day. In the first place as to general appearance. This is important. If you get a. good cover for your publication, the average exchange editor will put you ‘ in the front rank of college publications.’ But don’t get an extra good one or he will wax sarcastic and want to know if you sent it all at once. (We speak from experience in this matter.) It does not make so much difference about the contents. As to the miscellany, there are several courses to be pursued. You may publish heavy matters exclusively and be told by the Harvard Advocate that they use you for a paper weight (the printers of that sheet keep that joke setup to save time;) but do not do so if you live west of the Rocky Mountains, or you may be accused of trying to rival the Archangel. Again, you may publish excruciatingly funny stories; in this case it is a good plan to label them so as to give the exchange editors a chance to avoid them. . . . The editorials must not be interesting. If they were they would not be dignified. The motto of the chief Ed. should be ‘ Principal (le) and not Interest’ Some of our exchanges have already adopted this. The locals must be very personal. This makes things lively for the business manager. If you insert a column called ‘ The Critic ’ be sure to get a man with the dyspepsia to run it. If you do not, it might contain something besides abuse. Lastly, but not leastly, the exchange column: all you have to do is to sit still and wait, and if the Nassau Lit. don’t know your duty better than you do, some other exchange will. Patience is all that is necessary.” *
The Berkeleyan says that the Chinese question, having compelled Pixley, of the Argonaut, to drop the University for the present, the folk within the classic shades can breathe more freely for awhile. They should pickle Pixley and be done with him.
Personal.
—Joseph Buchanan (Commercial), of ’79, has been visiting the College this week.
—August Gerlach, of ’78, is in business at Columbus, Ohio, and doing well, we hear. There is a brother of Mr. Gerlach’s studying here now— a good boy of the Junior Department.
—Among the visitors this week was the amiable
and gifted mother of Prof. Stace, whom it is always a pleasure to see. Mrs. Stace is enjoying excellent health and is far from having the appearance of one looking towards sunset.
—P. J. Miles (Commercial), of ’66, is living at Oelwein, Iowa. The Lansing Journal informs us that he has recently been married to a most worthy and intelligent young lady of Oelwein. The same paper says of the groom:
“ He is a gentleman of steady habits, good address, quite well-to-do and prosperously circumstanced, we understand, and no doubt merits the prize he has drawn in the lottery of life.”
—H. C. Bouton, of ’69, is proprietor of The Farmer and Fruit- Grower, published at Anna, Union Co., Ill. We clip the following from a recent issue of this interesting paper—which, by the way, we regret not to receive more regularly:
“That always ably edited school journal, the Notre Dame (Ind.) Scholastic, which reaches our table regularly every week, has recently put on a ‘ new dress ’ of type, and is now a typographic beauty. We read the Scholastic with pleasant memories of ’69.”
Local Items.
—Thanks to Prof. Lyons for personals this week.
—Be prepared for a surprise after a few weeks. Honor quibus, etc.
—The boat crews are practising for the regatta at Commencement.
—A large number of new trees have been planted in the Senior campus.
—There ought to be enough “ Local” this week to satisfy the most exacting.
—The “Red Sox” are now fully organized, and will soon enter for the championship.
—Workmen are busily engaged in clearing up the grounds around the College.
—The singing by the novices, last week, was refreshing—an oasis of harmony in a desert of discord.
—The fountains have been repaired, and their crystal jets add much to the beauty of the College grounds.
—The Juniors, accompanied by B. Leander, enjoyed a pleasant walk around St. Joseph’s Lake, last Sunday evening.
—Complimentary notices of the Scholastic Annual were received recently from London, Dublin, Rome, and Paris.
—They were not put in detention, but in “ retirement.” Let detention be called henceforth “ the bosom of retirement.”
—Master M. Foote, deserves praise for his care to provide fresh flowers for the statue of the Blessed Virgin in the Junior study-hall.
—Our friend John, who has been keeping very quiet of late, says that he is looking forward to Commencement with feelings of unmingled satisfaction.
—The May instruction, on Wednesday evening,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
543
was given by the Rev. chaplain of St. Mary’s, who spoke very impressively and was listened to with unusual interest.
—The Junior campus has been greatly improved during the last two weeks; all superannuated trees have been replaced by beautiful evergreens and maples.
—The Freemans Journal copied last week, r under the title “The Friend of the Deaf and Dumb,” an essay which lately appeared in the Scholastic, “ Abbe de I’Ep^e.”
—J. Heffernan, C. Echlin and C. Porter were awarded perfect bulletins for the month of April; for second best, Ed Fishel, and N. Ewing; for third best, W. H. Johnston and H. Porter.
—The Juniors are under obligations to B. William, of the Senior department, for some valuable plants. If all their friends were like him, the Preps, say, there would be no cause to envy their | big brothers, the Seniors.
'	—Rev. President Walsh has translated from
the French the beautiful drama, “ Le Posterity It will be brought out next month by the St. Cecilians, who are very grateful for the kind favor of their Rev. director.
—We are informed that the Ordo for 1883 is p already being prepared. The compiler is bound to make it an opus perfeetzim this time. The rubrics for Sabbato Sancto, we hear, will not occupy more than two pages.
—At the 28th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association, held May 4th, a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to B. Leander and Prof. J. F. Edwards for favors at their 10th annual entertainment.	.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic renewed its youth recently in new type. The little tome was so pleasantly chatty that we were not aware that it needed a new dress. Would we were a boy again 1—North- Western Chronicle.
—A Senior nine, headed by W. Bolton, won a hard-earned victory over the Junior nine, led by R. French, on the 6th inst. Had the Juniors been more familiar with the Senior grounds, the victory would probably have been on their side.
—An interesting baseball game came off last ’ Saturday, during the afternoon “ rec,” between the Athlets, under the leadership of Fred Ryan, and - the Red Sox, commanded by Arthur Colyar. Score 6 to 4 in favor of the latter nine. Master Drendel acted as umpire.
—Master Fishel, who obligingly distributes our exchanges among the Preps, twice a week, tells us that the papers most sought for are the SouthBend Tribune, the Catholic Universe and another periodical. This is a sure indication of the general interest and popularity of each.
—If anyone will show how more than twenty-four columns of matter can be put into twelve pages, we shall be glad to stop cutting down reports of societies and other local items. The changes that are made in “copy” may not al
ways be improvements, but there is always a good reason for them. We try to do justice to all.
—The new dress donned by the Notre Dame Scholastic adds materially to its looks, and it is almost as sprightly, yet dignified in appearance, as it always has been in the matter and quality of its contents. The Scholastic is undoubtedly one of the best college papers in the country, and we are pleased to note its new phase of improvement. — Valparaiso Herald.
—Our estimable and excellent colleague, the Scholastic, of Notre Dame, Indiana, has appeared printed from new type. It presents a handsome appearance typographically, and in all other respects it is a most excellent publication. We wish our colleagues the prosperity merited by such publication's as theirs, ad multos annos I—O Jornal de Noticias (Portuguese), Erie, Pa.
—The 8th regular meeting of the N. D. S. A. was held May yth. M. Donahue read an essay on Darwin, which was followed by one from R. Anderson on Photography. The members asked many questions of Mr. Anderson, who showed a thorough knowledge of his subject. A special meeting of the Association was held on the 2d inst., at which Mr. O’Neill read an essay on Corals, and M. Healy another on Implements of War and their Development. Both were well discussed.
—Prof. Ackerman is busily engaged decorating the Juniors’ dining-hall, which will be one of the handsomest halls on the premises when completed. The part already finished exhibits a more elaborate design than that displayed in the Seniors’ refectory. The Professor has selected several views of ancient Athens, Rome, etc., for the mural panels; as he excels in architectural painting, we may expect some beautiful representations of the magnificent buildings which were the masterpieces of the ancient architects. -
’ —The 32d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Saturday, May 6th. Master C. Porter read an essay on “ Washington Irving”; M. Foote, “The Evacuation of New York”; C. Echlin, “Benedict Arnold”; W. Mahon, “ Cicero.” Recitations and readings were given by A. Coghlin, C. Rose, E. Fishel, G. Cas-tanedo, C. Porter, L. Florman, D. Taylor, and G. Rhodius. The following public readers were then appointed for the coming week: J. Courtney, C. Kolars, M. Foote, W. Coghlin, C. Echlin, L. Florman, F. Johnson, and J. M. Kelly.
—We are under obligations to the graduates and members of the 1st Senior Class, at St. Mary’s Academy, for a specimen of their cooking in die shape of a delicious frosted cake. It was enjoyed by proxy, and has been pronounced a “ boss affair.” Probably the young ladies have not this qualifying term in their vocabularies; but we can assure them it expresses something highly complimentary to their culinary skill. It is gratifying to notice that the domestic arts are cultivated with such assiduity at the Academy, which has already earned enviable fame for its patronage of the arts called beautiful. .	.	_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—We are permitted to make the following extract from a letter received this week from Very Rev. Father General, written on board the City of Rome, and dated April 28th. It will doubtless be read with great interest:
“ I hope everything at Notre Dame is prospering more and more every day. Your noble band of students are so exceptionally good this year that they seem to have formed a strong and unanimous resolve to place yourself, in your first year of office, and the Faculty, under personal obligations to themselves. Let each one continue to the last moment to show himself a gentleman, a true student, and a Christian. My unfeigned compliments to all.”	-
—The following is the programme of the entertainment given by the Columbian Literary Club, on Wednesday evening, in honor of the venerable Father Shortis, C. S. C., formerly Vice-President of the University, and director of the Senior literary societies:
Piano Solo...............................A.	Schiml
Address..................................W. Grout
Declamation—Green and	Gold..............J. Marlett
Essay—Education..........................J. Conway
Should the Chinese k Aft"	-J E. Fenlon
be Granted the Rights I	I .
of Citizenship? }-	Neg. 4 T. Fenlon
Piano Solo...............................W. Connor
Declamation—Henry Clay....................H. Steis
Civil Service Reform......................J. Farrell
Longfellow................................C. Tinley
* Spanish Address........................R. Becerra
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association gratefully acknowledge the receipt of the following contributions: from Very Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., Stratford, Ontario, Rev. Father Kearney, of St. Bridget’s Church, Pittsburgh, Pa., and Major Edmond Mallet, of Washington, D. C., several numbers of Brownson's Review; from W. J. Onahan, LL. D., Chicago, a copy of his St. Patrick’s Day Oration; from Byron West, Esq., Chicago, $5.00 to purchase books; from Rev. A. Granger, Longfellow’s Poetical and Prose Works, Cambridge Edition, 6 Vols. The Association has lately purchased the Edinburgh Monthly Magazine, 103 Vols.; the Penny Cyclopcedia of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, with Supplement, 30 Vols.; The Cyclopaedia or Universal Dictionary of Arts, Science and Literature, by Abraham Rees, D. D., F. R. S., 45 Vols. Presented by the University, Appleton’s American Cyclopaedia, Annual Cyclopaedia and Index, 38 Vols.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Arnold, Armijo, J. Berry, W. Berry, Bailey, Barron, Browne, Becerra, Cullin, Clements, Christian, Conway, G. Clarke, Connor, Cleary, Jas. Delaney, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, Donohue, Eager, F. Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgerrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, Flynn, M; Falvey, J. Falvey, Fishburne, Garrett, Gal-.lagher, Golonski, Gray, Grever, M. Healy, Jones, Johnson, Kinsella, Kuhn, Kuntsman, Kerndt, Livingston, Lipmann, Murphy, McErlain, Minnis, Meyer, McCarthy, McGinnis, Millett, McDermott, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, W. Mc-Gorrisk, Mason, Nash,. H. Noble, O’Reilly, O’Neill, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Paquette, Pier
son, Quinn, Ryan, Rettig, Ruger, Saviers, Steiger, W. Schofield, Solon, E. Smith, Schiml, Steis, Sturla, Tinley, Wheatly, White, Yrisarri, Zettler, Zahm, Kavanaugh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Barron, Brewster, Boone, Bowers, Castenado, Campau, J. A. Courtney, J. Ml Courtney, W. Coghlin, Devine, Dolan, Devitt, Danielson, Droste, Echlin, N. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Fen-drick, French, Florman, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Guthrie, Graham, Gerlach, E. Gall, Gallagher, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Hurley, Howard, Halligan, Johnston, Kelly, Kolars, Kengel, Kitz, Livingston, Lund, Laumann, Lewis, J. McGordon, Metz, J. McGrath, McPhillips, C. Murdock, Neeson, Orchard, Osborn, J. P. O’Donnell, J. O’Donnell, Powell, Peery, Quill, Ryon, Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, V. Rivaud, Roper, Snee, Schaefer, Tappan, Taggart, Williams, Warner, Warren, Whelan, Wilbur, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Brandom, Beall, Berthelet, E. Campau, P. Campau, Chaves, Coad, Cummings, Chir-hart, Curran, Devitt, R. Devereux, J. Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Dwenger, Dirksmeyer, Davison, Frain, Fehr, Graham, G. Gibson, P. Gibson, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Hynes, Hopkins, Hewitt, Johnson, Kellner, A. Kelly, J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McCawley, McGordon, Metz, Masi, Miller, Nash, J. Nester, F. Nester, Norfolk, O’Connor, F. Otis, A. Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Piatt, G. Price, E. Price, Papin, Powell, Peters, Pick, Quinlin, Roper, Rebori, Roberts, Rose, Schmitz, Sommer, Studebaker, Stange, Tong, Thomas, Vosburgh, Winsor, Welch, Walsh, Whitney, L. Young, C. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Archer, Barron, Jas. Courtney, J. Courtney, W. Coghlin, Deschamp, Dolan, Echlin, M. Foote, French, E. Gall, Hess, Hoffman, Jeannot, Katz, Murdock, Mahon, Orchard, Snee, Sells, Schaefer, Taylor; Zeigler, Christian, Donegan, Garrett, Kerndt, Lippman, McDevitt, O’Rourke, Peery, Paquette, Treon, Zettler, Vander Haden, Steis, Sturla, Saviers, W. Smith, Rettig, Rasche, Ryan, Pierson, Nash, McGinnis, McErlain, Millett, Grever, Heffernan, Hurley, Kolars.
List of Excellence.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Jeannot, Dolan, Williams, Devine, Hess, Kolars, Sells, Hurley, Lund, Barron, Zeigler, Peery, W. Smith, Fishburne; Grammar— Messrs. Minnis, Concannon, Barron, Jos. Courtney, Dolan; Geography—Messrs. Fishburne, Peery, Kerndt, Minnis, Garrett, Archer, Dolan, Kahman, Barron, Kolars, Halligan; History—Messrs. Fishburne, Conway, Sturla, F. Barron, Chelini, Garrett, W. Barron, Kolars; Arithmetic— Messrs. Murphy, C. Porter, C. Smith, Kerndt, McGinnis, Marlett, Millett, M. Falvey, Fishburne; Penmanship— Messrs. Kerndt, Fendrick, W. Coghlin, Laumann, Gibert, Hoffman; Book-keeping—Messrs. McDevitt, Peery, Donegan, O’Rourke, Kerndt, Armijo, E. Smith, Treon, Ball, M. Foote, Paquette, Lipmann, Deschamps, Katz, W. Smith, Sturla, Henoch, Drury, Jones, Sells, Blackmann, Eager, Saviers, McErlain, Bryant, Nash, Steis, Zettler, Millett, Chelini, Grever, Dorsey, Murdock, Lannan, Coghlin, Vander Haden, Rettig, M. Falvey, Fishburne, Pierson, Cullin, Mahon, Zeigler, Hess, Echlin; Christian Doctrine (from last week)—H. Kitz.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Quinlin, G. Price, Berthelet, Piatt, Dwenger, O’Connor, Walsh, E. Nester, Welch, Papin, Norfolk, R. Devereux, G. Gibson. F. Otis, Powell, Rose, Rebori, J. Kelly, F. Garrity, E. Price.
*8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
545
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Benediction of the true Cross was given by the Rev. chaplain, on the 3d inst., Feast of the Finding of the Holy Cross. The ceremony was preceded by an interesting account of the visit made by St. Helena to the Holy Land.
—The reading at the regular academic reunion was varied and pleasing: “ The Chemist’s Dream” from the Knickerbocker- Magazine, by Miss Wall; a selection from the French, read by Miss Galen; one from the German, read by Miss Reutlinger; and Longfellow’s “ King Robert of Sicily,” by Miss Cavenor, completed the programme. 'The Rev. Father Zahm, who kindly accepted the invitation of the Rev. Chaplain to be present, made some very entertaining remarks.
—An esteemed friend, on the eve of her departure for Europe, presented to the Academy Library the following valuable works: “ The Writ-. ings of Tertullian,” in three Volumes; “The Knowledge and Love of Our Lord Jesus Christ,” by Father Saint-Jure, S. J., three Volumes; Two Volumes of “Sermons on Ecclesiastical Subjects,” by Cardinal Manning; and “Points of Controversy,” by Father Smarius, S. J. The kind donor will be gratefully remembered at St. Mary’s. May her journey be pleasant, and prosperity attend her!
—The opening of the month of May was conducted by Rev. Father Shortis, who delivered a clear and beautiful instruction on the object of the devotion. The altars were adorned with the most precious treasures the hot-house could afford, and amid the glow of the numberless tapers, and the sweet incense from the thurible, and the gentle, fragrant flowers, the rich tones of the organ and the Convent choir in Mrs. Hemans’s “ Ave Sanc-tissima^ rose gloriously upon the air. Stolid must be the heart, obtuse the mind, degraded the soul not moved on such an occasion to high and holy aspirations.
Spring Rains.
Patter, patter falls the rain On the fields of springing grain I Patter, patter on the trees, Lightly bending to the breeze; Patter, patter on the flowers, Ever grateful for the showers.
Whisper, whisper to the rose, As the soft wind gently blows! Dimple, dimple on the rill, Flowing down the pebbly hill, Sinking mutely in .the ground, Breathing life and freshness round.
But for thee, thou sweet Spring rain,
Sun-warmth would be worse than vain To the parched and thirsting flowers, Drooping, suppliant, to the showers, But, with thee, it calleth forth All the fairy-gifts of earth.
First, ye rouse the tender grass, Waking, as the south winds pass. Now appears May’s wild-wood train, Brought to life by sun and rain.
On the trees where frost-work clung Scarlet tassels now are hung.
Budding orchards soon display Blossoms, fragrant, fresh and gay, Sunset hues of peach-trees vie With the fairest summer sky;
Then come forth the leaves so green, Mellowing all the brilliant scene.
Now, the garden, rich in beauty, Opes its treasures, true to duty;
June then spreads a couch of roses Where, at last, bright Spring reposes. Patter, patter on, sweet showers, Ushers of rich fruits and flowers.
E. G-
Home, the Heart’s Resting-Place.
Rest, on the storm-girt way of life, is the divine guerdon. Weary of play, the sportive child asks for rest. The youth, in the more pretending en- . gagements of after years, with steadfast will and daring thought, Blunges into the interests of what-ever avocation may command his choice, but, at the flood-tide of human vigor and ardent hopes, all promising to be realized, when
“ The full, self-complacent heart, elate, Well satisfied with joys of mortal birth Sighs for an immortality on earth.” he must succumb to mortality, and he must welcome rest.
Sweet is the repose of youth and health; light the heart and sound the slumber of one who knows no fear because he has not yet launched upon the stormy ocean of experience, and to him, rest is more than rest; it is joy. Life’s prime, with less impetuous tread, with steadier and more cautious glance into the future, goes forth to great achievements. Vigils, labors, world-wide schemes, are trifles in his estimation.. “ Give him a lever, and he will move the world!” Mountains melt away before his dexterous ingenuity, and valleys kiss their summits. Seas are spanned by magic cables, and distance is annihilated. The treasures hidden in the bosom of the earth are brought to light, and the distant fields of stellar space are measured and examined with minute and astonishing precision. Research goes on, but human powers will falter, and even the master intellect seeks rest, ennobling rest; strength is renewed, the spirit vivified, and the vast reach of the undaunted will overwhelms us with a sense of awe. Here, rest is more than joy; it is transforming energy. The insecure step, the flagging sensibilities of life’s declining years
546	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
call for rest, as the hart seeks the cool spring on the hill-side. The aspirations, the affections cast long, graceful shadows toward life’s morning-land. Memory is more busy than hope, yet the call of “ Eternal rest ” wakes an unceasing echo in the calm, autumnal shades of the soul.
Rest to old age is more than energy, it is divine conformity: the “ harvest home ” of our earthly existence. When life is over, and the world fades from the vision,	'
“ When hushed is death’s last wild commotion,” iaith, affection carves the soothing word upon the tombstone, Requiescat.
O, what is more winning than rest! more like the tangible action of heavenly gentleness, of Godlike mercy? Nothing; for infallible wisdom finds no more significant and holy boon to ask for the departed than “ eternal rest.”
Home is the heart’s resting place upon earth, as heaven is the harbor of never-ending repose. As “perpetual light shines on that fair abode,” so never-failing confidence smiles on the inviting haunts and sacred resorts of our birthplace, of our home. ' Home is a heaven on earth. -
But. as even heaven itself would lose its alluring glory were the perpetuity of its repose destroyed, so home no longer deserves the name when confidence and trust are gone. The key-note of human happiness, into which all discords of life are resolved, is the affection which confidence and trust inspires, the affection natural to every innocent heart. .
This fundamental tone, upon which is built the harmony of Christian influence, is of such exquisite sweetnes that no one can for a moment doubt its heavenly origin, and it is a matter of no surprise that indifference to home and its claims marks the deflection from Christian principles and customs.
The sweet amenities of life are stifled and poisoned to death in the hot breath of display and love of public notice. The voice so bland and pleasing to the. passing acquaintance,- becomes cold and forbidding to those who have claims upon our love; the smile is given to stranger eyes, and withheld from the “ loved ones at home.” -
Reverse the conditions, and how sublime, a radiance beams upon the home-circle! how deep and abiding the beauty it imparts!
“ A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there, Which, seek through the world, is not met with elsewhere.”	■
Unselfishness, industry, faithful devotion and selfabnegation blend in the very air we breathe. The seven Sacraments, like the seven primal sounds, combine to make one perfect harmony of life.
Home and rest! Twin angels on life’s pathway! twin treasures from its mine of mystic, hidden wealth! Here we shall not know your mission in the fulness of its beauty, buf moored at last in the eternal harbor of rest, if we can look back without regret upon the influence we have exerted in our earthly homes, happy indeed will be our lot. If then we are conscious of never having caused a •discord in its Christian harmony our joy will be -complete.	M. S.
.	Roll of Honor..
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claftey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Wiley, Bland, M. Campbell, R. Fishburne, Heneberry, L. Lancaster, Maude Price, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, Rasche, Simms, Shickey, Barlow, H.'Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, Hackett, Keenan, A. Leydon, Owens, Margaret Price, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rulison, Smith, Thompson, Chirhart, Sawyer, K. Fenlon, Fleming, Behler, L. English, Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, M. Newton, Metzger, B. English, Gavan, Green, H. Hicks, Mulvey, Northrop, Ives, Eldridge, Parker, Watson. 2d Tablet—Misses Beal, E. Chrischellis, Fendrick,- McKenna, Vander Haden, A. Nash, H. Nash, Wall, Black, Coryell, Edie Call, Legnard, McCoy, McGor-don, Mary Price, Rosing, Todd, Wright, Thomann, Mowry, Wallace, Williams, Castanedo, N. Hicks, Harrigan. *
; JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Robertson, Hibbin, McGrath, Welch, Sullivan, Coyne, Mattes, C. Richmond, M. Schmidt, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—Misses A Clarice, M. Dillon, Heneberry, O’Neill, Wright, Mosher, Krick, Condron; Chaves, Best.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Brown, Campeau, H. Castanedo, Rigney, Sawyer, Burtis, McGrath, J. English, A. English, Martha Otis, J. McKennon.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING, AND SCULPTURE.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
ist Class—Misses M. English, L. Fox, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
2D Class, 2d Div.—Misses Donnelly, V. Reilly, H.JNash, A. Nash, Owens.	*
3d Class—Misses A. English, Fehr, Morgan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses Harrigan, M. Fishburne, B. English, M. Clarke, M. Dillon, M. Casey, O’Neill, A. Clarke, Krick, Richmond, Pease, M. Watson.	-
PORCELAIN PAINTING.
Misses M. English, C. Lancaster, Wall, McGordon, J. Spangler, Davenport.	•
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class, 2D Div.—Misses M. English, Fox, Papin, Rasche, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster.
2D Class—Misses H. Van Patten, A. Waters, L'egnard, Fendrick.
2D Div.—Misses Rulison, Hackett, Wiley, Donnelly, A. Price, Margaret Price, V. Reilly, N. Hicks, Galen, N. McGordon, L. English, McKenna, Hanbury, A. Nash, H. Nash, Owens, Martin,.
3D Class—Misses M. H. Ryan, Coryell, L. Van Patten, M. A. Ryan, Otero, M. Richardson, Barlow.
SCULPTURE.
MODELLING IN CLAY.
Miss Fendrick.
. GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR department.
Misses Simms, Edith Call, Shickey, A. Richardson, R. Fishburne, Smith, Eldridge, Ives.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Chirhart, Mary Otis, Considine, Chaves, L. Heneberry, Mosher, Hibbins, Schmidt, Brown, Paquette, Coyne, A. Watrous, F. Castanedo, Condron.