


I
*
A ■'

?^:
VV
*?!8S<1
t
3.
Si.
S#sK?.:

The Notre dame
}
s
SCHOLASTIC
PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
s

w
AcAe
jbame Centewual
■«
W'

s7
A
$
G:

Vol. 77


,53»
viaimio »ta-SMS
SEPTEMBER 18.
1942
No
L

$
ii
.11

?s
iSjjMtaP*
A
p.
■ sA
B
Ot L
Wf-
S3 M
SB
§a
■I
II
II
111
SB
II
■I




PRAYER AT THE GROTTO
2
f.1
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
i ' COOPERATION
j “The first issue will feature pictures 1 of all new women on the campus along : with their phone numbers and other ; important data.” This has nothing to do
with the pc jV pigeons in the near-by roost, but concerns the co-eds at De-Pauw, just a few miles down-state at Greencastle. The Boulder, DePauw campus magazine finds it pays to advertise A* such features as this.
' Subscriptions are now being filled through this office. A road map with each subscription.
IT SAYS HERE
Last September 8 at least two college papers carried articles the likes of which* shall never be seen again.
“With a quota of 448 students the Colorado School of Mines will this year offer its students a chance to enlist in the reserve corps of the army or navy and thereby ensure them an opportunity to continue their college education without being drafted.”
The Oredigger.
v . “No change as yet has been made by the War Department in the original plan announced for the Army Tnlisted Reserve Corps. This plan allows University students who are accepted to continue their schooling until graduation if they maintain fair grades.”
v	Indiana Daily.
. SIGNS OF THE TIMES
“The modern miss is week in the * nays.”
Louie of LaPorte.
POME *
* I think that I shall, never see
A “D” as lovely as a “B”—
( A “B” whose rounded form is pressed
Upon the records of the blessed.
k A “D” comes easily—and yet,
It isn’t easy to forget,
“D’s” are made by fools like me, :	But only God can make a “B”.
PHLUG *
To the freshmen we owe the following fillers.
Prof: What’s the formula for water?
Zahmite:H20.
Prof: Right. Now tell me the formula for sea water.
Zahmite: CH2O.
y
Dean: Are you in A. B.?
Lost Frosh: No. I’m staying at the LaSalle.
Industry personified: Does your history give you any trouble?
Disinterested roomie: No. I don’t think anyone around here has found cut about it yet.
THIS IS WAR
We’re going to borrow another item from Pvt. Bill Scanlan, ’42, who writes for the Fort Sheridan Toicer. Bill, by the way, has two columns in the Toicer now, as well as being assistant sports editor.
The Daily Telegraph of Sidney, Australia, carried the following ('letter from an Iowa miss: “Please do all you can to prevent marriages between United States soldiers and Australian girls. . . . Already thousands of American girls face spinsterhood and lives of loneliness because of a shortage of marriageable men occasioned by the war.”
HILLTOP HOUSING
The housing project in Washington nearly got out of hand when buildings started to rise on the Visitation golf course. The Georgetown boys next door were banking on the rumor that Navy Department secretaries would occupy the buildings, while the Visitation girls were hoping for no such competition. The buildings, however, are for defense workers and their families, and the Georgetown Country Club will still have restricted dating with the girls of Vizzy.
Add Fairest Flower
A couple of weeks back we listed what we thought were all the fine tributes possible to womenkind. Since then the following have also come our way.
Heaven might have spared one torment when we fell,
Not left us women, or not threatened hell.
—Granville
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi ' Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Dox Heltzel, Editor
Robert D. l^LsySE.....Managing Editor Daniel Downey...........Campus Editor Bill Reynolds...........—..........Sports Editor Robert Dunne............Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan_______________Promotion
Ted Weber..................Photo	Editor
George Thompson..............Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis..Sfa/f photographer Gail Fitch, Jr..............Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor. 151 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame. Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Senior Ball Tonight__________ 5
Sophs Sign Howard____________ 7
Cheerleaders Turn Tumblers... 8
ADMINISTRATION	-
3,200 Register ..........—.....I I
Faculty Changes __________   II
Inter-American Seminar ____ .12
SPORTS
Wisconsin Game .........  ...15
Sports Movies Program _______23
Meet the Coaches __________  20
FEATURES
College Parade ______________— 3
The Week ____________________ 4
The Navy ______________________ 14
Pressbox Splinters _________ 22
Telescope____________________ 9
3
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Top hats, white ties, and the “Rock” opens again!
HAPPY DAY
Well here we are again, just one big happy family. Just Molly and me and baby makes for a nice deferment. The gentlemen of leisure who weren’t with us for the summer think it’s great to be back. The gentlemen who were here for the summer think they shouldn’t have been here for the summer. It was nice going home for a vacation, the kids from South Bend tell us. Most of the vacation was spent on the train figuring out the best train to catch ‘ back to school. It really was nice and roomy on all the trains though wasn’t it? Why we had the baggage rack all to ourselves.
The girls on our train were all so lovely, especially that one sitting in the next seat. The conductor thought she looked like a suit case, at least that’s what we thought he meant when he asked us to get that old bag out of the seat. The E.R.C. boys were flashing their cards all over the train telling the passengers that they were members of the Intelligence Dept. Passengers would always answer with, “But I thought you said you went to Notre Dame.” It was nice getting back to the campus again though wasn’t it? The most popular greeting was the professor greeting better known as the exam greeting: “Whaddya know?”
It’s easy, to spot the fellas who were , not here for the summer. They lay down a 15 cent check and ask for a milk shake. Ha! The sailors are still here though. One of them was heard to exclaim as the students began arriving, “Jeepers, more competition!” Maybe if we’re nice the V7s will introduce us to some pretty South Bend girls. Ha!	. .
- ' 1 ❖ . .
SWING AND SWOOP
The Ball is here, so get out the top hat and half empty bottle of tomato juice. The rhythm beater tonight is Al Donahue. Al changed his slogan for the Ball to, “Low Down Rhythm In- a Cap.” The decorations being Latin American, all the former freshman and sophomore
Spanish students are oiling up their best “Carambas.” Many treats are in store
for the guests however. Commissioner Commissa is staging a water ballet Saturday night. Badin Bog is to be the scene of some mighty fancy toe twirling by Commissa and his Water Nymphs. Said the commissioner, “We are looking forward with excruciating anticipation to twittering our big boats in Badin’s briney bog.”
Lucretia Candeebah, when interviewed last week at the Bronx Zoo, had the following to say about the coming event:
“The Notre Dame Senior Ball will be my coming out party if I can just bust a few of these bars.” St. Mary’s girls are all rushing back to be on time for the Ball. We owe them a big debt of thanks for volunteering to be hat check girls. “The Week“ has been given permission to divulge what the favors will be. Each lucky guest will receive absolutely free of charge a genuine (it can only happen here) gold plated lamb chop. When asked why the “Cavaliers” weren’t playing for
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“I’m safe, I’m in the E.R.C.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
To be an underclassman!
Senior Ball, A. D. 1942.

the Ball, Veet Capello was heard to mutter, “So Donahue did cut the price!”
LA DE DA	]
One of the football players lost three I teeth so far this season. All he needs is a fourth for (a) bridge.... Definition
of ambition in the dining hall. “To be promoted from butter dispenser to chief
With this first and
gravy pourer.
second shift system we’re beginning to feel like a bunch of coal miners... Since ’ that notice in the Tribune last week a
' lot of the boys think it would have been safer to join the C.S.C. instead of the . E.R.C. From the looks of things a lot j of us instead of receiving a B.A. degree^ : will receive a P. A. (Private in the I
Army).... With the Rock so close it 'g could be punningly said that we are a J stone’s throw from heaven. With a few I minor rule changes of course, and a few Q major face changes most certainly....

ST. MARYS
4
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77
-SEPTEMBER 18, 1942
No. I
’ Centennial Ball To-Night For Seniors And Guests
MISS MARY CAREY, OF CHICAGO, IS QUEEN
George Kelly
A century-old pulse will quicken at ten o’clock this evening when 300 Seniors and their guests christen the first and only Centennial Ball. This time the Seniors are .double-lucky: they dance in the three-decade tradition of Senior Balls and at the same time pay prominent tribute to the sturdy career of Notre Dame.
Less than a skeleton two months ago, the Ball has come vigorously to life.-Al Donahue, engaged by the Committee in the late summer, is here with his orchestra to prove that Senior Balls at Notre Dame can be even more successful in September . than in May. Donahue’s “Low Down Rhythm in a Top Hat” has drawn applause over a wide range of the Americas. Supplementing his first appearance at Notre Dame are the featured performers, Patti Farnsworth and Snooky Lansori. They, together with the
Miss Patricia Travis
All those interested in working on the Scholastic are invited to hand in their names at 151 or 267 Alumni Hall as soon as possible. Any men interested in reporting, re-writing, proofreading or any other phase of the magazine work are urged to indicate their special talent or interest when handing'in their applications.
bandleader who was almost a lawyer, will shuffle words and music between orchestra and dancers.
The Donahue rhythm is scheduled to sound off at 10:00 p.m. and never to falter till two in the morning. At that time the couples will begin to disperse
Tallet and Moritz
so that Seniors can be safely back in Sorin and Alumni by the requested hour of three. One other request, evidently anonymous, is that all couples be in the Rockne Memorial not later than 10:00 p.m. Lots west of the Dining Halls and east of Officer Bill will keep the cars.
The Memorial, closed to undergraduate Class Dances other than the Ball, is dressed beyond recognition. The ballroom is fashioned in Latin American style to represent the patio of a lazy hacienda, with flowered balconies on either flank and bandstand facing inward through an open gate. A wine-cloud of drapes above apd a sea-view developing behind the gate touch off the scenes1.
Miss Mary Carey of Chicago, guest of General Chairman Peter Moritz, will reign as Queen, and Miss Patricia Travis of Oklahoma City, Okla., is Class President Jack Tallett’s guest and the Ball’s
official Guest of Honor. St. Mary’s of the Lake has fractured tradition by producing both ladies.
But the Ball is not all. Springing from it is a Saturday afternoon two-to-five Tea Dance at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club, a one o’clock pel-mission for Seniors Saturday night and a group attendance at ten o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church where the center-aisle pews will be reserved for Ball-goers. Chicago’s Gay Claridge and his orchestra, now entertaining at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, will play at the Tea Dance; the route to the Chain o’ Lakes appears on next page. For those who prefer to miss nothing, there is time for a one-quarter inspection of the annual Varsity-Freshman football game in the stadium tomorrow afternoon.
The Committee has proudly announced a representative list of patrons, headed by Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., officer in charge of the Notre Dame Naval Training Station, and Mrs. Burnett, and Mr. and Mrs. Frank Leahy, South Bend, Ind. Also Mr. and Mrs. William M. Carroll, Woodstock, HL; Mr. and Mrs. John L. Cummings, Springfield,
Miss Mary Carey
Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Gibson, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Jeakle, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. William Johnson, Valley Stream, N. Y.; Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Jones, Anderson, Ind.; Dr. and Mrs. F. R. Kelly, Richmond, Va. : Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Melton, Paducah, Ky.: Mr. and Mrs. Frank Moritz, Mansfield, Ohio.
Dr. and Mrs. P. H. Owens, Kansas City, Mo.; Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Pappas, South Bend ,Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. D. H. Potter. • Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Leo F. Raymond, Oak Park, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. John W. Schindler, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Sweeney, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Harold Tallett, North Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. J. Kelly, Terre Haute, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Davis, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Al Donahue insured fresh luster for the Ball when he selected the song, “I Dream of This Night,” written by John Boyle, Alumni Hall, from among student entries to be this evening's musical theme. “I Dream of this Night” will be aired over WSBT during a broadcast from the Ball Room, 11:05 to 11:30 p.m.
In the face of pressure from time and the draft, the Ball Committee has functioned fast and considerately. The man who wore most of the responsibility was Peter Moritz, general chairman. Peopling the various committees were the following:
Music—Lee Raymond, Chairman; John Battaile, James McElroy, John Solon, Robert Browning, William Frye, and Wiliam Meyer. Arrangements -— Donald Potter, Chairman; Ray Lennertz, Dick Milliman, Tom Finucane, Charles Stelt-man, Wayne Shri wise, Joseph Kuesch and Charles Lewis. Decorations— Herbert Melton, Chairman; James Madigan, Jack Barry, James Allen, Gene Fehlig,
Tom Cooney, William Strycker and Ed
berg and Larry Sullivan. Patrons—John
Rockne would have smiled at such sport.
Holland. Tea Dance—John Jeakle, Chairman; William Ungashich, Harry MacKnight, John Dunne, Bob Rensberger, Robert Muellman, Dan Stewart and Ed Ryan. Favors—Thomas Sweeney, Chairman; Jim Fagan, Jerry Kamm, Dick Kelly, Robert Madden, George Carberry, Jack Dunlavy, Frank Fitzpatrick and Ken Gempel.	.
Invitations — William Carroll, Chairman; Frank Herbert, Harry Florence, Jack Harrigan, Hal Hunter, Joseph Callihan, Gail Fitch and James Downey. Programs — Edward Cummings, Chairman; Lou Spagnola, Robert Walsh, Robert Corrigan, Fred Gore, George Murphy, Harmon Spina and Fred Englehart. Publicity — George Kelly, Chairman; Leo K e a t i n g, Charles Kralovec, Harry O’Mealia, Robert Fischer, Robert Kas-
Finnigan and Robert Owen, Co-Chairmen; William Binet, Jack Ries, Tom Vol-berding, John Walsh, William Brady and Jack Duggan. Tickets — William Johnson, Chairman; Richard Gulling, Stephen Ensner, Robert Baker, Fred Christman, Howie Marlowe and Don Miller.
N. D. Graduate of '39
On MacArthur's Staff
First Lieut. Phil North, who received an A.B. degree from the University in 1939, is on the press staff in the headquarters of General Douglas MacArthur in Australia.
Lieut. North entered the Army in 1940 and became assistant public relations officer in San Antonio, Texas. .
FOR TEA DANCE
Directions: Go out Lincolnway past Bendix Airport and turn left on Mayflower Road. Proceed one mile, then turn right on Edison Road. Proceed for one mile to Country Club Road and six-tenths of a mile to the Country Club.	*
Drive slowly and carefully because of the bad roads and traffic. We don’t want any accidents to mar the week-end.
Girls with high heels are to stay off the golf course and especially the greens.
Arrows indicate signs directing you to the Country Club.
6
SOPHS SIGN EDDY HOWARD'S BAND;
BIG STANFORD WEEK-END PLANS MADE
FRANK SIERAWSKI
“The Surprise Band of ’42.” That is Eddy Howard’s billing, and when the evening of Oct. 9 rolls around at the Palais Royale, approximately 450 sophomores and guests will be on hand to partake of Mr. Howard’s favoritism to "sweet music.”
The Cotillion this year is under the direction of general chairman, Jack Leahy, and the class president, Frank Cusick. As assistants they have Byrne O’Neil, Dick Murphy, and Tom Reyburn on the music committee; Jack Herlihy; Al Bohn, and Jim Reagen on the ticket committee; Dick Drier, Bill Griffin, Frank Crowley, and Joe Long in charge of decorations; Jack Conway, Bill Har-
The Sophomores will Shine
EDDY HOWARD
rington, and Paul Cartwright to secure patrons; Tony Earley, Jim Monahan, and Joe O’Keefe to handle publicity; Bill Cuddigan, Joe Shea, and Bill Mahoney to oversee the favors; and Jim Crowley, Jack Welsh, Bill Dwyer, and Jack Kilian to act as the reception committee.
According to the music committee, Eddy Howard will be one of the biggest bands ever to swing out for a Cotillion. Eddy is the former pre-med student who turned to singing and playing a guitar with Dick Jurgens’ band in 1935 rather than continue studying medicine. Shortly afterwards, surprising popularity led Eddy to leave Mr. Jurgens and become first a soloist and later a leader- of his own orchestra. He has just concluded a lengthy stay at Chicago’s Aragon Ballroom and is currently playing at the Chicago Theater. The orchestra boasts of Roy Bast vocalist, Howie Kern on the drums, a two piano team, and the four Swing - Sirs, a sensational new vocal quartet. Besides this, Eddy promises to sing his four best compositions: “If I
Knew Then,” “Careless,” “My Last Goodby,” and “A Million Dreams Ago.”
Tickets will go on sale Oct. 5 and 6 and the price will be five dollars. The theme of the event has been chosen, but the decoration committee is shrouding it in secrecy. There will also be favors, but their selection has not been made as yet.
Regretfully, yet out of necessity, Jack Leahy announced that there would be no Tea Dance on Saturday afternoon due to the Stanford football game here that day. Every Cotillion couple will sit in one specially reserved end-zone of the stadium at an express price rating. That evening the Student Council will sponsor a Victory Dance down town, and of course the Cotillionites are invited to attend.
Senior Krawiec Sketches -Famous Stars, Animals
Walter Krawiec, husky senior residing in the Sorin sub, is not wasting any time worrying about a trip to New York on Nov. 7. Walt has a hobby by which he expects to earn traveling expenses to the Army game. Ever since he was knee-high to the proverbial grasshopper, Walt has been interested in art. Now that he is capable of making life-like pencil sketches of photographs, his hobby is expected to pay off.
Although he is no professional, Walt is far from being a “greenhorn” in this art. He attended the Frederick -Mizen Art School in Chicago and learned much of the technique employed by great artists. Both his mother and father have' done art work and have aided him greatly, as has his uncle who is a commercial artist.
Sorinite Krawiec is a son of the Windy City and received his previous education at Loyola Academy in Chicago. He has enlisted in the Marines and upon graduation in December will receive hrs basic training.
At present Walt is confining his activities to making pencil sketches of photographs of students or their girl friends. Some examples of his work can be seen on bulletin boards on campus. However, Walt’s favorite drawing subjects are animals. He has drawn countless numbers of colorful creatures and has achieved some interesting results.
Comic cartoons are next in line for Mr. Krawiec. He has attempted a few and has submitted them to the Scholastic for publication.
7
Joe Tracy Leads Tumbling Cheerleaders;
Small Megaphones to Aid Student Cheers
“Something new has been added” at Notre Dame: a new cafeteria system, Coach Leahy’s renovated shift, and Joe Tracy’s tumbling, cheerleading squad.
JOE TRACY
for the first
When Georgia Tech invades the stadium on Oct. 3, football fans will have a chance to see the results of an entire summer of intense practice by eight eager cheerleaders.
This year’s squad, time in many seasons, is
going to lead the cheers through the -medium of tumbling. The famous “spell-it-out” yell, formerly led by the hands, will now be produced by a series of high and low back-flips. Among other gymnastics are included handsprings, both front and back, handstands, cartwheels and forward rolls.
Head cheerleader Joe Tracy is confident that these feats coupled with the student’s individual use of small megaphones to be supplied by the Student Council will add greatly to the cheering voice of Notre Dame.
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, spent many hours with the cheerleaders, showing them the fundamentals of tumbling and the more advanced feats especially the back-flip. According to Joe Tracy, without the aid of Mr. Scannell it would have been impossible to turn out the gymnastic squad.
Besides the head cheerleader, who is a philosophy major from New York City, Paul Toland and Bill Herzog are also senior members of the squad, each having two years of experience. Paul, current president of the Philadelphia Club, is majoring in criminology, having an eye on the Federal Bureau of Investigation. For the duration, however, his aspiration as a lawyer in the F.B.I. will remain iii the dormant stage, since the . Army awaits Paul upon graduation in
December. Bill Herzog, from Baltimore, recently , elected vice-president of his Md., has spent his time in the presidency - ' class, is expected to develop into one of of the Servers’. Club and participating the better cheerleaders. Evo, also, in in interhall soccer and hockey. A me- ' spite of his inexperience, is giving all chanical engineer, Bill hopes to enter the a race for top honors. .	.
Navy as an ensign upon graduation.
Three juniors comprise an important the football season, but a call will be an-part of the squad. Griff Allen, Ravenna, nounced later for new men. to gain exOhio, is the smallest in stature of the perience at basketball games.
octet. He is slated to do more flips on the gridiron this season than he will ever do piloting a P-47 for the Army Air Corps, of which he is a reserve member. Griff is vice-president of the Cleveland Club, and shoots a game of golf in the low 80’s. Another junior is Dave Curtin, of Rochester, N. Y., who shows a close affinity foi- things dramatic. Dave’s experience with the Blackfriar Theatre Group before coming to Notre Dame served him well as- is apparent from his performances in “Pinafore,” “Trial by Jury,” and “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” all campus productions. He was master of ceremonies at the recent K. of C. Vaudeville Show, and is a member of the Glee Club and Press Club. The third member
BUD DUDLEY
JOHN ROESER
Looks good—but how did he land?
it very much. It saves time and is more convenient.”
of the junior triumvirate is Frank Finn, better known as “Mickey,”, of Bengal Bout fame. Although this is Frank’s first year on the squad, the New Jersey product threatens to win a berth on the first squad.
Tony Earley and Evo Fatigati, both sophoniores, complete the squad. Tony is an Arts and Letters student from Forest
food in front of you at once instead of
Hills, N. Y., while Evo is a Commerce . in shifts.” ' / V. - .
man from Cuddy, Pa. Tony, a member
of the squad in.his freshman year and-
-The squad .will not be increased for
Students Favor New	.
Dining System Over Old
The speed and convenience that goes with the new cafeteria system evidently appeals to the student body, according to the poll conducted among the upper- ' classmen. In the opinion of the ten students questioned, the informality and casualness noticeable under the present system makes for a more enjoyable and pleasant meal. Unlike the old set-up, where an arm or a finger was endangered whenever a student reached for • that last piece of steak, the students , claim that the peace and security of the present meals are worth the change.
Vince Scully, 219 Walsh: “I think it x
is a much better system than 'the you get all your food at one time, it is usually hot.”
Dick Reedy, 123 Cavanaugh: “I
old; : and ..
like
Dick Grant, 218 Cavanaugh: “It has its advantages and disadvantages. You ~ can get your entire meal at one time, and you can eat with your friends.”
Bob Dunne, 126 Walsh: “There is only one good thing about it: you can get through your meal quicker and the food is usually warm.”
Bud Dudley, 111 Sorin: “I think the cafeteria system has worked out very nicely. It will no doubt be further im- -proved during the coming year.”
Larry Tierney, 127 Alumni: “I like ir. You can take your time eating, and you can eat if and when you want to.”
Dick Whiting, 105 Dillon: “I like it a lot better. It’s nice to have all your
. John Rpeser, 353 Sorin: “It would suit
me fine, if they just wouldn’t guard the . milk so closely.” .	- .
Ed Ghigliotti, 278 Dillon : “I-like it. You can take your time and it’s a lot more convenient.” :
:. Anthony Buono. 349 "Alumni: “Under the present'conditions it is O.K. I like the.speed and-convenience.”	.
' ’	.	—Henry Pyne
8
"THE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME"
By ENSIGN E. C. DOLLARD
k (The following article is reprinted from the Sept. 5 issue of the South Bend *- Tribune. Because it represents the ob-t serrations of an “outsider” whose close daily contact with life at Notre Dame has enabled him to realize keenly the aspects of such a life, SCHOLASTIC ► reprints it here.—Ed.)
Dear BOB:
x Instead of sending you the Log this week I’ll try and answer your question, | and if a few other people see this letter, I’m sure you won’t mind.
I’ve told you about the navy here, but ■L,xyour question “What is the spirit of ' Notre Dame?” has me a bit stumped.
- But here is a try....
Notre Dame is truly a way of life. To '* describe it is to challenge the power of descriptive words, at least mine. You see, Notre Dame is the mist rising from k ^the lagoons at dawn as the spirit awakens and pushes the mists skyward. It’s - the whispering “amens” from the trees as the priests, young and old, say their morning prayers and give thanks for the things we’re fighting to retain.
Or maybe Notre Dame is the nuns, who have dedicated themselves and their lives to a cause within our cause, Christianity in a democracy. It might be the shadows, as they drift lazily into the v corners in rooms of men whose names are now legend. They’re all gone now, " ibut the shadows and fading rays of light I are the sparks of time that keep their spirits aglow in the rooms they left long
K SORINITES STAND IN LINE AT STUDENT CAP;
MID-MORNING COFFEE SNACKS A MEMORY NOW
JAMES DOWNEY
There is something absent from the t campus this semester, and its absence । has caused much depression in the tra-ditional “campus-roost.” The boys from | Sorin no longer have that touch of color, f- that exalted air which those little green ।	cafe books once gave them. Yes, life at
i	the “U” is now a far cry from the sum-
mer session—especially for those mag-i nates who enjoyed coffee and toast at •< ten, the “Special” at 12, and a sizzling 1 steak at six. Standing in a line inter-spaced with Freshmen, a Sophomore here and there, and even a cad or two from Alumni isn’t exactly the tradition that the boys from the “Roost” enjoy. / Two men from Zahm Hall, standing patiently before the front entrance (their position in the line was immedi-- ately in front of Brother Meinrad’s Book Store) were overjoyed at the fact of eating in a cafeteria that is what the dining hall card called it. “Just think Al,” said qne of them, “we’ll be able to
ago.
Or perhaps the spirit of Notre Dame is the grin on the face of the junior, who delights in telling the navy why he joined the marines.
It might be the thrill of the Angelus at eventide, or the face of the statue in the grotto. Perhaps it’s the kind, old Brother in Washington hall, whose eyes have a way of shaking hands when he says good morning. Maybe the spirit of Notre Dame is the ancient Irish gardener, who always has his wife awaken him when it rains at night so he can hear God’s gift to his “children,” the lawns and shrubs.
Some folks would say the spirit of Notre Dame embodies the unwritten words to the hymns the priest plays on the organ in the church on quiet summer afternoons, when the breeze is gone. You have a feeling it, too, stopped to listen. Maybe it’s the majestic dignity of the painted windows as they wait patiently for the setting sun to get behind them, each in turn, so that they may daily tell their part in the story of the Creator of all things.
Those things belong to you and to me, Bob. You’ll receive those gifts when you come here and carry them always under that spot on your tunic, reserved for medals. And you’ll leave this school and this earth, knowing and believing that
Notre Dame is truly a way of life.
Sincerely,
BUD
Take your pick.
choose what we want. If you don’t like the drum stick, you can have a breast (little did he know our chickens are centipedes). Yesterday one of the Law Stu-
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
FRIDAY, Sept. 18: That long-awaited moment: Al Donahue and the boys swing out for the Senior Ball; Rockne Memorial: 10 to 3 (a.m.)
SATURDAY, Sept. 19: Fighting Irish vs. Fighting Irish as Frosh battle the Varsity. Seniors and dates attend Tea Dance: Erskine Country Club. Students keep vigil “All Through the Night” at Washington Hall; curtain at 6:40 and 9 p.m.
SUNDAY, Sept. 20: ND (minus the Seniors) storms “The Rock” for first St. Mary’s Tea Dance. Casualties: 79 broken hearts, 44 bruised shins. Upperclassmen Mission begins.
MONDAY, Sept. 21: Freshmen convocation, Washington Hall, 8 pan. Father O’Donnell, Father Cavanaugh, et al. Football movies.
3-0567 (Myrtle).
TUESDAY, Sept. 22: Movies, Chicago Bears football pictures, 8 pan. For Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors. 3-0684 (Hortense).
WEDNESDAY, Sept. 23: The Economists; a round-table; a. meeting. 3-0481 (Tessie).
THURSDAY, Sept. 24: After three trying days Joe realizes a penny postcard is the only means of communication with St. Mary’s.
FRIDAY, Sept. 25: Pep Rally for Wis-consin game; cheers, songs, speeches ( ?). At the Circle to see the team off.
Wl* 1	1K»J
dents who lives in Sorin, being used to several bottles of milk, was extremely surprised when upon taking two bottles during the noon meal one was shot right out of'his hand by Mr. Lovely’s sharpshooter perched in one of the upper windows of’ the dining hall. The same day an up and coming Sophomore, as yet not recovered from the excitement of living in Dillon Hall, reached for three pads of butter. As his fingers closed around the third pad, in its dainty white paper, he heard a voice (that was not within him) thunder from behind that big coffee vat: “Don’t you know there is a war on, bud?” What a shock, remembering, Dillon or no, that he was still a Sophomore!
In general everyone likes the new setup. After all no one minds not eating with his friends, and the waiting isn’t bad until it gets into the third hour. Once in the dining hall you can sit anywhere you please as long as .it is the chair pointed out to you by the “traffic director.”
Q
BARBER SHOP ADDS NEW ENTRANCE; TWO CHAIRS
Since April, when the first contingent of Naval trainees arrived at Notre Dame, the local barber shop, run by good-natured "Bill,” as he is known to everyone, has been on a full-time war basis, competing with any concern for records in mass production.
Seldom before did a Notre Dame student have to line-up for a haircut, but now with 1500 trainees and double as many students all periodically looking for a little trim, a fellow has to plan his visit like a New York shopper who wants to avoid the rush hour. For both barbers and students, however, every hour has been a rush hour for these last few months.
To meet this problem of over population, “Bill” has had constructed a new entrance into the barber shop on the opposite side of Badin Hall, and an adjoining room equipped for tonsorial operations. In this room a new chair has been erected, and, according to “Bill,” another is on the way. These two together with the regular six chairs in the main part of the shop should be sufficient to take care of Notre Dame’s needs.
For production like this, a Navy "E."
On the new speed scale of war time it is estimated that the average cut takes about fifteen minutes. According to this, the octet of barbers can turn out at least thirty haircuts an hour, and with their lengthy ten hour day, stretching from 7:30 to 5:30, their daily grand total should approach three hundred. With production such as this, it would not be surprising should “Bill” and his barbers be awarded the Navy “E” for- excellence.
Compared with prices found outside, the local barbers’ charges are extremely reasonable. For an ordinary, every-day, American cut, the men with the scissors will settle for fifty-cents. But for the popular “crew cut,” “brush cut,” “pompadour,” or just plain “butch” (call it what you will), the charge becomes sixty-five cents. This latter is necessary because of the extra time involved in this type of tonsure, not to mention the trouble and confusion created in sweeping up the shorn wool. No price is quoted for the job of shaving, for the tonsorial artists claim it is very seldom that a student turns that aristocratic.
Residence Halls Are Filled;
Freshmen Occupy Five
Without a doubt, the architects of the j many student residence halls are wishing that they had added a few more -« stories during the building process. Filled to capacity “plus,” the many rectors are still contemplating where to put the deluge of students who will be rushing upon them from the downtown hotels , and boarding houses. So far, the number of residents in each hall, as expected, is as follows:
Alumni, 350; Sorin, 150; Cavanaugh, ' 300; Walsh, 165; Zahm, 300; St. Edward’s, 175; Breen-Phillips, 240; Carroll, 125; Brownson, 135; Dillon, 520.
The Seniors are occupying Alumni and Sorin; the Juniors, Walsh and Cavanaugh; the Sophomores, Dillon; and, the e Freshmen, Carroll, Brownson, Zahm, St. Edward’s, and Breen-Phillips.
Those Juniors who are now enjoying the privileges of Alumni Hall can expect ’“ to be moved in the near future. Also, those Sophomores who are begrudging the fact that they must live in St. Ed- M ward’s with the Freshmen, and abide by the Frosh ten o’clock lights, will have happy faces this week. They, too, will be moved to their proper halls.	"*
—Frank English
Freshman Convocation	,
To Be Held Monday
The Student Council has begun its fall program for aiding the students of -■ the University by organizing and sponsoring a freshman “get acquainted” meeting to be held in Washington Hall, Monday, Sept. 21, at 8:15 p.m. The pur- ’ pose of this meeting is to familiarize the newcomers with the authorities of the University who will influence their activities while they are attending Notre Dame. Present will be President of the 4 University, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Pre- 1 feet of Discipline, and Mr. R. H. McAuliffe, Assistant Prefect of Discipline, who will all give short talks, as well as '< Coach Leahy and the captains of the several varsity sports. _	’’’
A movie showing the highlights of last $ ’ year’s football season will furnish entertainment for the evening. The convocation will be brought to a close by a lesson in cheering Notre Dame style given ti by the coming season’s cheerleaders. This | will prepare the freshmen for the first pep rally tentatively scheduled for the J Circle on the day. the team leaves for Wisconsin. The Student Council invites all Freshmen to attend.
.	—Mark De Mots..
10

56V
Many Faculty Changes—3,200 Enroll for Semester
-	16 NEW MEMBERSTAKE
-	POSITIONS ON FACULTY
5	---------
With a heavy demand of the armed forces taking a constant toll, many changes in faculty mark the beginning of rhe University’s Fall semester.
Henry B. Froning, dean of the college of science, has been granted a semesterleave of absence for reasons of health. Professor Froning, a member of the faculty since 1920, as head of the department of chemistry, succeeded the late
Prof. Stephen Ronay
Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., as dean. Professor Lawrence Baldinger wll serve as acting dean of science during the semester, and Professor Andrew Boyle will be acting head of the department of chemistry.
Lost lately to the service were John J. Fitzgerald, Ph.D., assistant professor of philosophy, now a lieutenant in the Navy; Stephen Ronay, professor of English, now an officer in the Army Air Corps; Daniel C. O’Grady, professor of philosophy, now in officers’, training in the Army Air Corps, and Thomas J. Stritch, associate professor of English, now an ensign at Great Lakes, Ill.
Faculty members that went into the service earlier were: Major Robert B. Riordan, registrar; Major Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., dean of engineering, and Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin Dubois, professor of French.
Dr. Joseph Caton, assistant University physician, is in the service. Lt. Commander M. T. Farrar, U.S.N., associate professor of naval science and executive
of the Notre Dame R.O.T.C., was called to sea duty during the year.
William J. Cerney, former football coach, is a lieutenant in the Navy at Glenview, Ill. William P. Mahoney, track coach, is also an officer in the Navy, as
are former football coaches John Druze and Joseph McArdle.
Taken by selective service were instructor William Arbuckle and George M. Reichle, of the music and speech departments, respectively.
• Government research projects, particularly in science and engineering, have taken a number of men from the campus. George B. Collins, Ph.D., associate professor of physics and a pioneer in Notre Dame’s work with the electrostatic generator; Edward A. Coomes, Ph. D., also a distinguished young physicist, and Alexander Petrauskas, a third Notre Dame physicist of note, are among those absent in research.
Vincent Fagan, professor of architecture; P. A. Guarino, instructor in electrical engineering; John L. Kelley, assistant professor of mathematics, who is doing army research at the Aberdeen, Md., proving grounds, and Charles Robinson, instructor in mathematics, are among those absent as the semester opens.
The Congregation of the Holy Cross, also, has sent 14 priests into the war as chaplains, among them are three former members of the faculty:
Rev. George J. Welsh, C.S.C., history; Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, C.S.C., religion, and Rev. Robert M. Woodward, C.S.C., philosophy.
New members of the faculty from the (Continued on page 28)
MILITARY LAW COURSE AMONG WAR CHANGES
“Notre Dame, during the 100 years of her existence, has never left the solid ground of her basic education and consequently we have not had to revise our curriculum much to meet the standard requirements of the war period. . . .”
The above statement was made by the Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., assistant director of studies, as 3,200 students, including religious and graduate students, enrolled for Notre Dame’s centennial term.
Of this number, 5G0 will be graduated in December, with the May graduation class likely to be much smaller, according to Registrar Father James E. Connerton, C.S.C.
In the five colleges of the University, the quotas are about normal with the commerce and arts and letters schools leading in numbers. The engineering college, however, is operating to the capacity of its facilities. Heavily affected by present conditions was the law school which is suffering because of the advanced age group found there.
The beginning of this fifteen-week semester finds Notre Dame taking a prominent position in the nation’s war effort. Over 1,300 South Bend laborers in the defense area are using Notre Dame class rooms and laboratories. A new feature now being offered to law students is military law. Radio engineering is at present being taught in the engineering college, while the physical education program has been speeded up in cooperation with the several branches of military reserve.	.
The University’s alumni association is establishing a record with 1,500 alumni now in service. • Faculty members serving in the military forces total twenty-five, and this number includes one dean and a University administrator. Fourteen priests are now chaplains, which doubles the list of Notre Dame chaplains in the World War I.
II
HEMISPHERE SOLIDARITY STRESSED AS INTER-AMERICAN SEMINAR MEETS HERE
With nine Latin American nations represented, the Notre Dame session of the Inter - American Seminal- on social studies met Monday, August 31, in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial. Hemisphere solidarity through social, political and economic programs among Catholic universities of the United States and the Latin American republics was the keynote of the meeting.
Opening the first part of the discussion, the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of the faculty here, declared: “Man is at war with himself. Dante’s three beasts are on the rampage again—the leopard of licentiousness, the wolf of avarice, and the lion of domination; in Cardinal Newman’s phrase, ‘the passions and the pride of men’.”
Delivering the address of welcome, the Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., pointed out: “We know that almost a century before we could boast of a single college in this country there had been established in Mexico the colleges of Santa Cruz and San Juan de Letran, with a curriculum that included Latin, philosophy, music and. medicine; and that more than 80 years before the chartering of our oldest university, that of Harvard in 1636, there had been established the Royal Pontifical University in Mexico, the University of San Marcos in Peru, and the University of Sao Paulo in Brazil.”
Sponsored by the National Catholic Welfare Conference, the seminar stressed the importance of religious education towards unity between nations. Exchanges of students and professors, more emphasis, on mutual understanding of Spanish and American languages, literature, and history were advanced. Student study clubs were suggested.
Notre Dame speakers at the session included:
Mr. Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work and member of the board of trustees at the Indiana state prison; Dr. Ferdinand A. Herm-ens, professor of politics and author of numerous books on poltical science; Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics and editor of the Revietu of Politics, a national political quarterly; Sen or Eduardo Alcayaga, graduate student from Santiago, Chile, who talked on the educational problem as it affects American Catholic universities; Mr. Walter C. Langford, associate professor, of Spanish.	•
Other Notre Dame officials present were:
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Rev. J. W. Connerton, C.S.C., Mr. J. C. Corona, the Rev. E. Keller, C.S.C., Mr. C. E. Manion, Mr. J. E. McCarthy, Mr. F. E. McMahon, the Rev. J. A. O’Brien, Mr. Y. R. Simon, and the Rev. L. R. Ward, C.S.C. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president was also present.
The 15 prominent Latin Americans participating were accompanied to Notre Dame by Mr. Richard Patte, assistant chief of cultural relations in the United States department of state, who acted as interpreter. The visiting group included two bishops, the rectors of two Catholic universities, four priests and several outstanding laymen.
Concluding the program a note of constructive effort among Catholic universities of the Americas was issued as the one common denominator in a program of Inter-American friendship and understanding.
Notre Dame has long been active in relations with Latin America, and the late Father John A. Zahm, C.S.C., once accompanied Theodore Roosevelt on one of his trips through South America.
Father Lahey Addresses First Fall War Class
Addressing 123 graduates, Thursday, Sept. 3, at the University’s first fall commencement under the wai- program, the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., declared that “post-war leadership will be
Inter-Americans: They advocate mutual understanding.
in the hands of men who are making the best of scholastic records in college now and that such leadership .vill be most widely and consistently exercised by those who, in addition to scholarship, have the proper qualifications of .character to live up to the responsibilities of high office.”
The veteran associate editor of The Ave Maria, weekly magazine published at Notre Dame, stated that “for the first time in history men and women of the " world—not merely one nation or conti-nent—but of the entire world are looking for that type of leadership which will give peace and satisfaction to their weary souls. They are eager with the eagerness of disillusionment to give their allegiance to those whom they can read- ' A ily trust. And in that trust, I believe, you will have the most glorious opportunity that any young men in history , have ever had.”
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president, awarded the 48 baccalaureate and 75 graduate degrees ' at the special exercises which took place in Washington Hall. The class includes representatives from 23 states and one < foreign country with 27 graduates from the College of Arts and Letters, 12 from the College of Commerce, one from the College of Science, 10 from the College of Engineering, and three from the College of Law. From the graduate school group, 68 received masters’ degrees and * seven were given doctors’ degrees.
An innovation in cooperation with the nation’s wartime program, the commencement climaxed Notre Dame’s first full - time summer semester. It was * staged primarily for the benefit of those
graduates who are enlisting in various branches of the services which require a college degree.
12
& Paris Artist Finishes Second Murals Series
M. Augustine Pall, artist from Paris, last week completed the second in a series of murals on the walls of the University cafeteria which portray the hist tory of Notre Dame (see cover).
The Parisian painter arrived in the spring of 1941 to begin the series that
Place: 3rd floor Law Building
. commemorate the centennial year. The first picture on the left of the new mural in the west wall, depicts hunters and trappers, including the pioneer Coquil-lard family, constructing the famous log chapel. The new murals’ scenes show— at one end—founder Father Sorin and six Indians erecting the original building, while at the other end men are depicted erecting a modern steel edifice. Centering the two scenes is a graduation portrait.
Three Books Published
By Notre Dame Professors
Notre Dame’s “Authors of the Month” are the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Mr. Richard T. Sullivan, English professor, and Dr. Yves Simon, associate professor of philosophy. '
Dr. Simon’s book, The Road to Vichy, treats of the fall of France, and was released by publishers Sheed and Ward early in September. A successoi’ to his Nature and Function of Authority, the new work of Dr. Simon deals with the manner in which France was destroyed from within before the actual warfare began. The work is an observation in the body politic of France and the manner in which Germany took advantage of the situation.
Nova Scotia, Land of Co - Operatives is the title of Father Ward’s volume, and will be published Sept. 23, also by Sheed and Ward. Other works by the local English professor are Holding Up
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
the Hills, an Iowa folk story, and God in an Irish Kitchen.
Professor Sullivan’s work is Slimmer After Summer, his first novel, which is being published by Doubleday, Doran and Company and will be released Sept. 25. A prominent short story writer, Mr. Sullivan will appear on the Columbia network book review hour conducted by Professor John T. Frederick, a fellow member of Notre Dame’s department of English.
Buildings Are Added As Navy Awaits Middies
When the sixth group of officer' candidates arrive at Notre Dame early in October they will formally initiate the third midshipmen’s school in the country. The indoctrination school at Notre Dame has had two disadvantages. One has been the added expense of transportation from here to other centers of training, and the other has been the faulty break in training while travelling from here to some other station.
Two new buildings will be used by the school. One, now under construction behind the Rockne Memorial Building, will have classrooms and office space for the commanding officer and his staff. The other will be started soon. It will lie directly east of the gymnasium, extending across the concrete driveway into Cartier field. This building, somewhat larger than the first and measuring 100 by 276 feet, will be used for indoor drilling and -exercising. It is not certain when the construction of this building will be completed. The first one, however, will have its two-storied sides of asbestos shingles raised by Oct. 15.
University's President
Dedicates War Plaque
Sponsored by the Notre Dame student commission, a . war memorial plaque was dedicated Saturday, August 29, in. Sacred Heart church by the Rev. Hugh
O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.	.
Inscribed in honor of the 16 Notre Dame men who have been killed in the second World war, the memorial was designed and executed by Mr. Francis J. Hanley, art professor at Notre Dame.
The following former students and alumni are among those now listed on the plaque:
Lieut. Milton E. Connelly, Chicago, student in 1939-40, killed in plane crash; Lieut. James T. Connell, Newport, R. I., ’40, killed in Africa; Ensign Francis X. Clarke, Chicago, ’39, killed on supply ship Pollux which went aground off Newfoundland; Lieut. Howard K. Pet-schel, St. Paul, Minn., student in 193840, killed in the south Pacific; Cadet Eugene A. Poietto, Clinton, Ind., ’40, killed in plane crash; Cadet John T. Von Harz, Crystal Lake, Ill., ’40, killed in plane crash.
George W. Weber, Cleveland, O., student in 1940 killed in plane crash; George A. Wolf, Hollidaysburg, Pa., student in 1939, killed in the Pacific; Major Hugh F. McCaffery, Hempstead, N. Y., ’27, lost in plane crash; John P. French, Astoria, N. Y., ’34, killed in plane crash; John V. L. Flynn, Washington, D. C., ’36, killed with Royal Air Force; Joseph C Fo.ley, Dallas, Texas, ’37, killed in plane crash; Robert E. Fordyce, Gilman, Ill., student in 1938-39, killed in action; Capt. Richard S. Freeman, Winamac, Ind., student in 1925-26, killed in plane crash, and Olliver P. Helland, Wisconsin Dells, Wis., ’39, killed in plane crash.
All But V-7 Closed,
Orders For College Grads
Captain H. P. Burnett, commandant of the local naval training station, disclosed today that the. chance of an undergraduate to obtain a commission in the Navy has been considerably curtailed upon enactment of recent orders sent him from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Randall Jacobs. According to the orders, undergraduates will obtain commissions in the future only through enlistment under the V-7 program. '
Following is a text of the orders:
“1. The Bureau of Naval Personnel will no longer commission college undergraduates in probationary classification, after those which are now in process in the procurement offices and the Bureau are acted upon. Furthermore, those in process in the procurement offices must be mailed to the Bureau before Sept. 20, 1942, to be considered for probationary classifications for college undergraduates.
“2. Officer candidates who are college undergraduates will qualify for commissions through enlistment in Class V-7 (G) or V-7 (S), as provided in reference (a).”
13
««	—	— ■- -    ■' ' =   	=	■.	----1^
.	Mawf at Motte ^basne. >
vm	"	"'— ■" -	" '	'	. —	—le*s>
NOTES TO YOU
Raymond E. Aldrich, Jr., of Poughkeepsie, N. Y. is getting his fill of his hobby at the Navy School. His hobby is exercising.__Kenneth S. Bean, of Cato, N. Y., has a hobby that nobody is interested in seeing him practice unless it’s in an open field. His hobby—throwing knives.... Robert C. Bitzan of Milwaukee, Wis., collects stamps, cigar bands and butterflies. — George A. Brehme, of East Rutherford, N. J., collects old guns, which he repairs and puts in working order.... so far Frederick M. Coates, of St. Paul, Minn., tops the record here for the number of relatives in the armed forces of this country, as far as we know, with nine.
% %
Francis D. Dishinger, of Mundelein, Ill., who collects data on outstanding athletes’ lives might find some good material in the archives of Notre Dame.
* * *
Marion E. Everhart’s hobby of collecting grass we believe is one of the most unique so far listed by V-7 men. Everhart is from Brownell, Kans.
¥ # *
Alvis L. Fine of Tulsa, Okla., is the son of Luther M. Fine, who is also in the Navy.
* * *
Winston Churchill and John Paul Jones are now undergoing training at Great Lakes. No relatives of Britain’s famed statesman, Churchill, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Clint Churchill,, of Chariton, la. He is an apprentice seaman. Jones, a cook second class, hails from Milwaukee, Wis.
* * *
Mearl Green in the Third Company was an athlete of no little ability at Alfred University. He played football and was on the mythical All-Western New York State Football Team; was on the wrestling, track, and basketball teams, and won the Interstate Wrestling title in the heavyweight class, and was Middle Atlantic States champion in the shot put and discus, throw.
* * *
To John E. Grosboll, of Petersburg, HL, Third Company, if you want a worthy opponent at pitching horse shoes take a walk over near the Notre Dame infirmary where you’ll probably find Johnny Mangan, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell’s driver. He’s one of the best in these here parts. .
14
J.
Navy Daze
Ensign Harold B. (I’ll concede me that putt) Miller was warned to replace the fairways on the Notre Dame golf course that he dug up this week.
* # #
The Public Relations Office extends its thanks to David D. Chapin, aviation machinist’s mate 3/c, for the amusing sketches depicting some important phases in a V-7 man’s life at the Navy School. Chapin, who attended Cornell University, is in ship’s company until Oct. 5 when he will become a V-7.
Arthur L. Collins, in the V-7 service battalion, is a veteran sailor at the age of 24. He has been in the U. S. Naval Reserve since 1936 and has had two years’ active duty aboard the U. S. S. Dubuque.
* si: *
Being a . V-7 trainee is old stuff to James E. (Speed) Gilboy. A graduate of the University of Wisconsin, Gilboy was in the first V-7 class last April but was not graduated. He was assigned to ship’s company until his orders arrived sending him to the present class. Ship’s company to a man is hoping that Jim makes it this time.
* * *
Joseph Mallone, one-time chief athletic specialist at the Navy School, has been commissioned an ensign, he has informed his friends here. He is now stationed at the Navy School at the University of Indiana.
- ' * * *
Here are a few of the occupations represented in this V-7 class: banking, selling, steel, bricklayers, investigators, reporters, accountants, clerks, farmers, students, dispatchers, librarians, coaches, actors, radio announcers, postmen,
miners, a professional football player, geologists, attorneys, credit managers, , etc.
* * *
Robert W. McDonough, of West Orange, played three years varsity football with the Duke University Blue Devils. He was on the all-state and allsouthern mythical football teams.
* * *
William P. Van Evera, of Crosby, Minn., if successful in obtaning a commission, will be the third Van Evera to hold a commission in the Navy. One of-his brothers is Lieut. Commander J. R. Van Evera, and the other is Ensign R. W. Van Evera. Before enlisting William was practicing law. He is a graduate of Harvard.
* * *
Oliver J. Schnieders, of Los Angeles, Calif., is the fourth member of his family to join the armed forces. He has three brothers, Walter, George and Francis in the Army Air Corps.
# ' * * -
Ernest B. Slade, of Newark, N. J., didn’t list any hobbies in his questionnaire, explaining:
“My Ford took any idle time.” k . *
Most of the V-7’s are familiar with small arms, according to their questionnaires, with shotguns and .22 caliber - rifles being the most popular weapons.
* *
----Philip -W. Moore, of Port Washington, N.Y., can speak French and Italian and has a working knowledge of Spanish. He was captain of the tennis team at Princeton. His team won the Eastern Intercollegiate championship two years.
(Continued on page 21)
»«l '	*~*'	— -	.. ...... -	——
> > > > z Motte 2bame SpMti , , , , ,
-	।	।	.	^——	ii	———kv
, FOOTBALL SEASON OPENS AT WISCONSIN SEPT. 26; ELEVEN OPPONENTS POINTING FOR FIGHTING IRISH
BILL BOSS
- Notre Dame’s untested line and renovated backfield will be tried before a
5 capacity crowd in Madison, Wis. next week. Notre Dame’s coach Frank Leahy whose pessimism is well founded these days, will be able to say whether 1 or not he thinks his untried Model-T all , out offensive will live up to expectations.
Notre Dame’s firmly supported grid squad will soon know if the optimistic reports from the Dairyland camp of the Wisconsin Badgers are based upon facts or the wishful thinking of Wisconsin ’ publicity promoters.
All of these things will come to light in the next week but many more things will be made known in the following weeks. Trudging up the ramps with an undefeated season shadowed in the background, Notre Dame will face the most dangerous program in Irish grid history.
Sept. 26—Wisconsin at Madison
ter-back, Davey Eldredge, will make “Wreck” followers forget the vacant cleats of Johnny Bosch. Eddie Prokop, brother of Notre Dame’s Joe, will often push his flying feet across the stadium green. Up from Baylor Prep, Prokop is one of the speediest backs in the South.
Oct. IO—Stanford at N. D.
Twenty-foui" lettermen and a pack of outstanding sophomores will perform under the first year tutelage of March-mont Schwartz at Stanford. Schwartz will find it a difficult day when he tries to carryover the “T” party that Clark Shaughnessy started when the Indians meet the Irish here, Oct. 10.
Nothing would please the former Notre Darner more than an Indian victory over his , Alma - Mater. Many former Irish stars have led their charges into the Irish stronghold before but few of
them have been able to carry their victory plans through.
Although the Palo Alto ensemble is hampered by the loss of Frankie Albert and Pete Kmetovich, the Indians will be able to find able replacements in the ranks. Al Cole, who substituted remarkably well for the supercharged Albert will line up in the essential quarterback post. Bill Sheller will pound from the right half and hard - running Don Zappettini will balance the secondary. The shifting of Buck Fawcett from right half to full back will give the Indians one of the finest backfields on the Pacific Coast.
Oct. 17—Iowa Seahawks at N. D.
Reinforced by a wealth of coaches it is Colonel Bernie Bierman’s assignment to raise a competent eleven from the ranks of the Iowa Navy Pre-Flight cadets into condition to fill out a 12 game card this fall. What famed college players he will have under his tutelage when he leads the flyers into Notre Dame, Oct. 17, is uncertain. The shifty blue arm of the Navy has pulled many prospective football men from the Iowa City
The planks of Randall Stadium will ~ shake with lusty cheers on Sept. - 26 when the Irish meet the University of Wisconsin in the opening encounter of the season. Wisconsin, shamed by unsuccessful campaigns, has molded one of the finest elevens ever to represent the Cardinal and White.
The Badgers are paced by an unheralded sophomore sensation, Elroy Hirsch, who is ousting the veteran Bud . Seelinger from the left half slot. A strong power attack has Pat Harder, All-Conference plunging back, ready to splinter every opposing front wall from the Notre Dame box. Harry Stuhldreher has Dave Schreiner, another durable ’ All-American wingman, to rely on, with red-headed Pat Lyons balancing the line.
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at N. D.
Georgia Tech, guided by affable Bill Alexander, will stamp on welcoming Notre Dame sod once again, Oct. 3. The Yellow Jackets have pocketed several fleet ball packers together and their secondary will be the best in a decade. Still boasting remnants of the rugged line that clamped the Irish solidly many times last year the Southerners should reach the pinnacle this season. The skit-
The Irish march against the background of an undefeated season.
parade grounds. But one thing is definite. With a backfield nucleus of George Paskvan, Wisconsin and Green Bay standout, and Michigan’s human scythe, Forest Evashevski, all the grey genius need reflect on is a suitable line. Phil Bengstrom, former line director at Stanford, is on the spot to see that the forward bank is well constructed and from reports his material is plentiful.
Matt Bolger, an Irish flankman last year, who promised to be one of the greatest ends in Notre Dame history, will be playing in the bigger game this semester with the Seahawks. The grid associates of Matt will be happy to see him once again but knowing him like they do they will not care to see him blocking the opposite offense.
Oct. 24—Illinois at Champaign
Old “88” will probably blurt through the arena air when the Irish clash with the Fighting Illini at Champaign on Oct. 4. Ray Eliot, last year’s line coach, has plugged the head coach opening since Bob Zuppke retired from the Orange and Blue campus. And Eliot’s hair is growing thinner daily.
The draft is seriously worrying the new mentor and the security of his team depends on the bugle- call. Ken Cheeley, one of the finest centers in the MidWest, will be in the pivot position if Uncle Sam doesn’t intervene. Captain Jimmy Smith will lead a fine running backfield aided by Don Griffin, Butkevich, and Difelmeier. Smith is a dangerous sprint man and can wriggle through many a tough spot safely while Don Griffin is an accurate passing back. Line prospects are weak.
Oct. 31—Navy at Cleveland
Navy—that’s a pernicious football word .any year and this year is no exception. The Middies, now directed by Commander John Welchel, are crammed with weighty linemen and driving backs. Their line is paced by the monstrous crusher, Schnurr, at tackle, with Wilcox, end, and Knox, guard, returning lettermen. They will offer the Irish fierce mid-season competition in Cleveland’s Municipal stadium on Oct. 31.
Alex Cameron, the bomber, will be back at fullback but the rest of the great Navy secondary of last year is lost. Bill Busick and Sammy Boothe are on the loose somewhere in the Pacific but there is a phalanx of good backs in the offing. ’	.
Nov. 7—Army at New York
Notre Dame has a score to settle. Notre Dame has a game to win in Yankee Stadium, Nov. 7. Down the Hudson will .
16
come the bulky Army squad commanded by Earl “Red” Blaik. With Mazur, Hill, and Jarrell returning to the Kaydet backfield it looks like Army’s year to sweep the Eastern seaboard’s football glory.	.
Graduates from the plebe corps stack up exceptionally well and last year’s 0-0 tie will be inspiring the West Pointers to do better this fall.	-
The spirit of this great game was superbly expressed by Coach Leahy last year when he said: “Army is always keyed for this game, and so are we. No one knows, unless he has played in an Army-Notre Dame game just how much victory is sought after. We’ll face a great running attack, a fine passing game, and a world of spirit. I only hope we’re equal to it.” Mr. Leahy will not have to reword his pre-game statement this year.
Nov. 14—Michigan at N. D.
Custer never spurred much more enthusiasm in the cry: “Ride you Wolverines,” at Gettysburg than Coach “Fritz” Crisler of Michigan will sound when he brings the Yellow and Black south to Notre Dame, Nov. 14.
Back in 1909 the Irish defeated the Wolverines, 11-3. Scandal was running rampant in those years about MidWestern football but things were cleared up in short order after that contest. Notre Dame adherents branded that year “successful” for they had ridden over their strongest rival, the team that had taught them to play football. Michigan, this year, will feel that their campaign is a crowned success if they can down the Irish.
Captain George Ceithaml, a greater blocking back than Forest Evashevski, will sing the signals at the quarter slot. Tommy Kuzma, Harmon’s successor, and Paul White will lean at the half positions with Don Boor, the southpaw passing genius, in for Bullet Bob Westfall at fullback.
Nov. 2L—Northwestern at N. D.
Minus All-American Alf Bauman and massive Don Clawson Northwestern will face Notre Dame here, Nov. 21.
The Wildcats still have Ominous Otto Graham running, casting, and kicking for them and 17 other returning lettermen. The crew led by Captain Nick Burke has as its standouts: Ed “Buckets” Hirsch (how well Notre Dame knows him), Bob Motl, and Bud Hasse.
Last year’s 7 to 6 Irish victory looks mighty weak at the moment.
Nov. 28—U. S. C. at Los Angeles	=
Out Southern California way they’re lauding a great passing back, Paul Tay
lor, and waiting to have him throw his long looping casts against the Irish, Nov. 28.
The left-handed ace almost upset the Irish victory cart last year as the Notre Dame eleven skipped through with a one point victory and this year the Pacific boys are set to down the Irish. Ralph Heywood, the sticky-fingered end, will x be waiting for the tosses with Don Miller and Earl Audet, two giants, at the tackle posts. Ron Thomas and Norm Verry are back at guards.
x
Dec. 5—Great Lakes at Chicago
Little can be said about the Great * Lakes Naval team which will meet Notre Dame in Soldiers Field on Dec. 5. But with fellows like Bruce Smith, Urban Odson, and a brigade of other former collegiate and pro ball players hanging around Coach Tony Hinkle has little need for worry.	’
Bruce Smith, the energetic Minnesota earthquake, will be shredding more Western Conference lines this fall. The . • eel-hipped Smith, last year’s number one back, will have Pitchin’ Paul Christman, a Missouri extract, as a running mate. Other information on the squad is a ' military secret but the way the Sailors will bomb enemy teams this fall will soon be a reality.--	’ M
And that’s the way the Irish opposition lines up. Powerful, sly, and determined, each Notre Dame opponent will point to the legions of Leahy this fall. If Notre Dame doesn’t succumb to sev- •_ eral of these devastating offensive at. tacks this fall Frank Leahy will have the greatest football team America ever saw. It can be done but it’s like the high school orator’s “tempestuous sea of life.”	*
‘	4
Former Managing Editor
Broadcasts from London
The voice of a former Scholastic editor spoke from England early this month as Sergeant John W. Patterson, Jr., !41, appeared on .the Mutual net- -< work program, “Stars and Stripes Abroad.” Each Sunday evening Ben Lyons selects an. American soldier to read a Tetter he has written home to his father and mother; Patterson was chosen for the first September broadcast of the series. .	-
After graduation Patterson went to work on the Pittsburgh Press as a mem-her of the Sunday staff. A few months ago he entered the Army Intelligence Service and was transferred to London1, ■ and subsequently was promoted from private first cla.ss to sergeant. While at ~ -Notre Dame Patterson was managing editor of the Scholastic and secretary of the class, of 1941.
<V
L,_ Symphony Orchestra
Issues Call for Musicians
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Prof. Fredric H.
* Ingersoll, held its initial meeting for the semester on Sept. 13. Tryouts revealed that viola, cello, bass, bassoon and French horn players are still needed. Students playing these instruments are urged to see Prof. Ingersoll or Prof. Daniel
BART RAMSOUR H pedtkej head of the Music Department, in Music Hall immediately.
The Symphony’s first program of the - year will be presented about the middle of October and will include among its selections “Overture to the Magic Flute” by Mozart and “Suite” by Remau. Soloists for this first concert will be Rocco , Germano, violinist, concert master of the orchestra. Other concerts in the near future are scheduled for St. Mary’s and South Bend. »■
Officers of the Symphony Orchestra for this semester are: Bart Ramsour, president; Felix Abaldo, vice-president; Patrick McShane, secretary; and Brother Leonard, C.S.C., librarian.
_ Coach Handy Calls Out Cross-Country Harriers
•Track Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy issued first call to the cross country r squad last Monday, Sept. 14. The team built around four old timers, has begun reeling off the miles while Coach Handy makes the present tentative schedule definite. The Notre Dame harriers will probably compete with Loyola and Illinois, and in the state and national meets.
Among the veterans there ■will be Ollie Hunter and Frank Conforti, who finished second and fourth respectively in the Nationals last year. Also returning are Tony Maloney, a two year monogram man, and Don Currie, one of the new eligibles. Some of the other good prospects that will round out the team are such notables as Waldeck, Schwinn, *' Welch and Lauck.,
Frank Ebner will again display his managerial skill trying to aid the team to another successful season. Added experience and no losses due to graduation should indicate a team somewhat better than last year’s.
Coach Handy, who has long been asso-' ciated with the department of physical J education, has now taken over the coach
ing duties of the cross country, indoor and outdoor track squads since the departure of Bill Mahoney, who left Notre Dame to enter the Navy. The new coach feels that all three of his squads will be up to Notre Dame standards even though he might have to count on smaller squads and younger fellows.
—Vince Scully
Cheer-Write Contest Prizes
Still Open to Students
Held over from the summer semester, the cheer-writing contest sponsored by the Student Council has been opened to the student body again. The S15 first prize award for the best original cheer, rally song, or idea considered best for enactment this fall should be an incentive for all students. And the $5 second prize and five prizes of SI each should keep things rolling.
Entries, which are limited to three per student, should be submitted to the Contest Committee, 252 Alumni Hall not later than Thursday, Sept. 24. The committee will be composed of members of the Student Council which group will supply the money under the direct sponsorship of Father Burke, prefect of discipline.
Putt-Putt Has Flat Tire;
Pete Scorns New Rival
“X5664” sounds like, and might easily be, the number of some secret Gestapo agent, but actually it only designates Pete’s prized “putt-putt.”
That vehicle tagged “X5664” suffered a war-time calamity in the form of a flat tire last week. Like any other motorist who fails to have a spare at the crucial moment, Pete’s heart sank when he beheld his deflated front Firestone. Not many minutes later the runabout was under the supervision of the corner service station agent, who, after a hurried inspection announced that the miniature tire contained no inner tube: But Pete was sure he had been riding for a year on more than a few pounds of inner oxygen and outer rubber, and so a
’’Dome" Announcement
Kelly Cook, editor of Dome, this week invited freshmen who are interested in working on the December Dome to attend a meeting at 7 p.m. today in the old Ave Maria building . (second floor), which is back of Carroll Hall.
closer investigation found the missing tube right where it should have been. The leak was then plugged, the tire inflated, and Pete was on his way home again.'
The next morning to the owner’s chagrin the tire was as flat as the day before. Said Pete as he rolled up his sleeves and went to work, “If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.” So Pete put a patch in the right place, and now the tire is back to normal.
This curious cart which Pete possesses was given him by contributors to a fund set up by the Religious Bulletin. For an entire year, Pete enjoyed exclusive right of way on the various University paths, and you can imagine his surprise when, upon returning to school this semester, he discovered a rival between the library and dining hall. So now Pete has to share the realm of three wheeled velocipedes with a bright new emerald green motor-car.
Pete looked over the other car. “Certainly does look good all burnished in green,” he said, “but I think mine will take her in a race.”
Kress is New Drum Major;
Hails From Detroit
When the Notre Dame Band took to the Chemistry Building Field last Monday afternoon, the figure of Stan Liti-zette, familiar to Irish fans for four years as drum major, was missing. In his place and carrying on in the Litiz-zette tradition was a St. Ed’s freshman from Detroit, Jim Kress.
Kress, like Litizette, takes over the Notre Dame job in his freshman year* after four years of twirling experience in high school. He was a drum major at De La Salle in Detroit and led that band for four seasons of high school games and on two occasions took his band into University of Detroit stadium to repre- , sent Manhattan College in the Manhattan-Detroit football rivalry.
Although campus rumors have already made Kress a subject of. their activities with stories that he is a state or national champion twirler, he maintains that the only state championship he won was not in baton twirling but in fly-casting. At 16 he entered the Michigan state casting championships, fought his way to a tie in the preliminary, and defeated his teacher for the title. He repeated this performance in the 1942 championships.
But Kress, a . major in Commercial Art, is putting his casting in the background and concentrating on being drum major for what he considers just about the best college band in the country.
17
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
Whiting Wins Final
Summer Golf Meets
Dick Whiting, Detroit sophomore, captured the final two golf meets of the summer semester, the Harrigan trophy
Early last December the football monogram winners on the 1941 undefeated, once tied, Notre Dame squad chose serious and slender right wingman George Edward Murphy to succeed Paul Lillis as gridiron leader of the “Fighting Irish.” Their selection has proved timely —for it should squelch some of the jeering and jiving comments as: “Well, your name has to end in a ‘ski’ before the Irish will place you on their football unit.” George is the first captain to come out of South Bend to guide a Notre Dame grid eleven since Howard (Pop) Edwards led the Irish football team in 1909.
Captain George Murphy
Young George first blinked his eyes on Nov. 26, 1920, in South Bend. After eight years at St. Joe’s grammar school, George enrolled at South Bend Central High school. Here the head football mentor utilized Murphy’s lean form in right end slot. Murphy teamed with Gene White, last year’s captain of Indiana University to form the nucleus of Central’s great lines of ’36 and ’37. During these years Murphy met several of his future college teammates on the gridiron, among them: Owen “Dippy” Evans, Johnny Kovatch, Joe Labier, and Steve Bagarus, who all played in the Northern Indiana High School League.
During spare time in his senior high school year, Murphy worked in the N.D. “Huddle.” Tliis further convinced him that Notre Dame was to be his home for the next four years.
Under Coach Ebner Layden as well as under the tutorage of Frank Leahy, George’s all-around natural ability soon won him a station on the varsity football squad. Last year George Edward stationed his 6 ft., 175 lbs. under 13 of
18
Angelo (Accuracy) Bertelli’s tosses to net 130 yards, an average of 10 yards per catch. He started in 6 of the 9 games and ran his playing time to 277 minutes, more than enough to merit his first N.D. monogram.
George rates the backfield quartet of Billy Hillebrand, Indiana; Bobby Robertson, So. California; Howie Clarke, Navy; and Hank Mazur, Army, as the toughest ball luggers that he has faced. Huge Gene Flathmann, Navy’s massive 250 lb. left tackle, wins the Murph’s unanimous vote as the “chargingest” tackle he has bumped shoulders with in college football.
Bashful George stammers, “the touchdown pass I nabbed from Bertelli against Georgia Tech last season was my greatest thrill so far from football. I hate to predict anything about the outcome of this fall’s card,” he continued, “but if the breaks come our way we’ll have a successful season—but, of course, there’s that injury jinx.”
Murphy would like to enter the coaching field after graduation this December with a B.S. degree in Physical Education, but as Murphy offers: “The war must be won first.” He has enlisted in the Marine Corps and probably will not be called to service until after graduation.
Under the glittering rays of the golden Dome, George Murphy’s leadership has shone in brilliant fashion as a member of the Monogram Club; as an officer in the Villagers Club; as a softball and volleyball stalwart—having been chosen a member of the All-Star squads in volleyball and softball, representing Alumni Il’s powerhouse last semester. And now with his election to the captaincy of Frank Leahy’s second edition of the blue and gold football outfit, George Murphy will continue his leadership abilities.
George rates his brother John, an Irish wingman in 1937-38, as his idol, however his roommate, pudgy Bill Stewart, insists that the name Mary Miles enters the scene somewhere under the idol class. Charlie Spivak might also be listed in this category. For his hobbies George lists golf and any other outdoor sport activity.
Notre Dame faces a long hard schedule this fall but there is one assurance— , the Irish will be fighting every minute following their very capable leader, George Murphy.
and University open matches. The former was open only to members of the 1942 varsity golf team.
The Harrigan Trophy was given by Mr. John J. Harrigan, Los Angeles, Calif., father of Jack Harrigan, redheaded ace of last spring’s undefeated golf squad.
The meet was a round robin affair in which each of the seven eligibles played six matches. On a basis of three points for each match, Whiting scored 14 of a possible 18 points. The blond king of the Irish fairways received permanent pos- 1 session of one trophy, his name is to be engraved on a larger trophy which is the permanent possession of the University. The winner of the Harrigan meet each year will have his name engraved on the University Trophy.
In winning the University Open tournament Whiting had a 72-hole score of 290. Jack Harrigan, runner-up to Whiting- in the meet, shot the best single round score of the meet and of the year. His 67 tied the course record set by Horton Smith in 1936.
Thus Notre Dame’s most successful golf season has been brought to a close. The climax of the varsity’s undefeated season was the National Intercollegiate tournament held at the South Bend Country Club in June. Nothing definite can be said about next spring’s team, however the Irish linksmen should be able to give a good account of themselves. The team will be built up around, captain-elect Gene Fehlig and Whiting, the only returning squadmen.
—George Blackmore
Faculty Buys War Bonds
On Pay Allotment Plan
Approximately 50 per cent of the 1,082 persons employed by the University are participating in a pay allotment plan to buy war bonds, Chief Accountant William J. Broderick revealed this week.
Of the 503 employees who donate a portion of their salaries, 62 are members of the “10 per cent club.” The program was begun only a month ago and Mr. Broderick anticipates an even greater participation , for this and ensuing months.
V-7 MEN
You can order your complete uniforms now in South Bend and have them fitted and delivered in Chicago while you are at Abbott Hall.
Our Chicago shop at 646 North Michigan Avenue gives complete tailoring, fitting and altering service on Naval Officers' uniforms.
FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE, OUR SOUTH BEND SHOP WILL BE OPEN SUNDAYS FOR THE NEXT TWO WEEKS
*
J. B. SIMPSON, Inc.
ftawd	0^ Cluvuictei
205 North Main - South Bend, Ind.
JACK BURKE. Manager
'Phone 2-3668
19
MEET THE REVISED NOTRE DAME COACHING STAFF: COACHES LEAHY. McKEEVER, KRAUSE AND MILLNER
BILL BOSS
Notre Dame is annually represented in the nation’s grid circuits by one of the finest football teams in America. There is more behind the story of great Irish football squads than just the excellent conditioned and spirited players who lug the ball or crush out opposing linemen. Besides competent performers it is necessary to have competent tutors to produce a winning football squad. The principles of football are deeply inlaid in the frosh yearly by proficient coaches and when men finally make the drive to the varsity realm a new group of experts are ready to school them in the principles of the Notre Dame system that will make Notre Dame, as always, a winner and a respected football power. -
Installed in the coaching services on Cartier Field this year are several new coaches working diligently under the leadership of the master strategist, Frank Leahy. Wayne Millner and Ed Krause, former Irish grid greats, will sit at a coaching angle on the varsity bench for the first time this fall. Bob Snyder, a great name around Athens and Ohio University, will assist Ed McKeever in guiding the backfield men in the correct steps of the T-formation but his chief duties will be to work along with Coach Jake Kline and mold future varsity men from the scattered ranks of the current frosh squad.
Head Coach Frank Leahy
Head Coach Frank Leahy can easily understand the pain and worry of the current throng of injured Irish gridders that daily tread the sidelines watching their enthused teammates pound against each other striving to grab a berth on the varsity squad. Leahy gathered his football knowledge under the master of them all, Knute Rockne. And he saw a varsity tackle assignment slip from him during his playing days because of an injured knee.
Frank Leahy entered Notre Dame in 1927. His first coach here was the current Rockne Memorial director, Tommy . Mills. Mr. Mills watched with delight the determined progress the aggressive Irishman from O’Neill, Nebr., made daily in scrimmages against the varsity. Tommy felt he had another varsity prospect for “Rock” in the frosh ranks and he wasn’t far from wrong. \	.
Coach Leahy learned his football at Winner, S. D., grammar school and Winner high school. He earned his mono
gram for three years in football, basketball, and baseball at Winner high before his family moved to Omaha, Nebr., where he attended Central High school. At Central he was moved from his regular halfback post to tackle by Coach George Schmidt, a former Nebraska standout.
Coach Frank Leahy
We all know the story of Frank Leahy’s first coaching assignment. It has been told and retold how he went with Rockne to Mayo’s for an operation on his knee and to keep the coach company. We all know how Coach Rockne occupying an adjoining bed offered the injured Leahy his choice of any number of coaching jobs. Mr. Leahy accepted the chance to go to Washington and help his old coach, Tommy Mills, at Georgetown. Under the fine coaching of Leahy, Georgetown came through with a solid line. The following year Jimmy Crowley, the . noted Horseman, hired Leahy to coach - the forward wall at Michigan
State. Crowley was overwhelmingly im- tl pressed by the fine work Leahy did at ’ Georgetown and hoped he would carry over at the Spartan school. Crowley wasn’t disappointed and when he moved ■’r to Fordham, Leahy moved along with him. It was at Fordham that he attained v national prominence when he constructed > the “Seven Blocks of Granite” of Fordham grid lore.
Assigned to coach Boston College in A 1939 Leahy had a difficult task lined up for him. “Gloomy Gil” Dobie hadn’t K been too successful at the Eastern institution and was ready to leave. Leahy V went to work and the rest is “Hub” history. His B.C. squads tallied 20 victories in 22 starts in his two years in the Bay State and went on to defeat Tennessee in * the waning minutes of the Sugar Bowl classic, 19-13. It was then that Leahy signed a long-term contract with Boston d College. They didn’t want him to leave but when his Alma-Mater called Frank Leahy answered and a greater answer was the undefeated squad he produced * on Blue and Gold grounds last year. v
Backfield Coach Ed McKeever u
The handsome fellow with the wavy . hair and spirited southern drawl who developed casting ace, Charley O’Rourke, at Boston College and now Angelo Ber-telli at Notre Dame, is Edward Clark Timothy McKeever whose football ac- S complishments are even longer than his , name.
Coach McKeever enrolled at Noire Dame in 1930 and won frosh numerals < in football and basketball. Returning in * the fall of 1931 his stay was short and he left for his home state of Texas to play ball for Rice Institute under Jack Meagher, a Notre Darner whom McKeever had played under at St. Edward’s University prep. Too late to matriculate he went to Texas Tech and made quite a name for himself under the -t coaching protection of Pete Cawthorn. McKeever played right half and called 4 .signals from the spot his junior and senior. years. McKeever’s passing ability enabled the Raiders to win 30 out of 35	*
games in his stay on the Southwestern campus.	,
Backfield coach at Boston College with . Frank Leahy was . McKeever’s next stride and it was only, natural that the southerner should join Leahy at NotreDame and continue his fine work.
• a r	• -	.
Line Coach "Moose" Krause
. The . man who never has to back up any varsity candidate in contact work on the practice field is line coach, Ed
; (Continued on page 27)	.
20
(Continued from page 14)
. Commander J. D. Shaw will leave shortly for duty elsewhere and his du-/"i ties as executive officer will be assumed by Lieut. Commander Richard Wagner, ^U.S.N.R.
i Fellow officers attached to the Navy r-7- School tendered Commander Shaw a farewell dinner. He was presented with a letter signed by every officer aboard.
•A	*	*	*
Word was received here last week of the marriage of Ensign Raymond Wig’ gins on Saturday to Miss Dorothy Avis Wilson in the United States Naval Academy Chapel at Annapolis, Md. Ensign Wiggins was formerly stationed -<>here.
' ‘ * * *
Raymond J. Noonan, of Chicago, Ill., -is probably the only V-7 in this class * who owned and operated a turkey ranch.
He is a • graduate of St. Ambrose College.
* * *
v Raymond G. O’Donnell, of Attleboro, ♦ Mass., Boston College graduate, is another V-7 who has three brothers in the
* armed forces. Two are in the Navy and one in the Army.
* * * ,
Louis W. Quaal, University of Mich: igan graduate, was the youngest announcer on the staff of station WGN in Chicago. He speaks French, Spanish, Swedish and Norwegian.	.
In a few more weeks this activity will . be known as the U. S. Naval Reserve : Midshipmen’s School instead of the Naval Training School (V-7 Indoctrination).	.	.
The Navy Department officially announced the impending change last Saturday night.
; At the same time Capt. H. P. Burnett, commanding officer, announced that two new buildings would be erected on the campus to meet requirements of the »- midshipmen’s school. A larger staff of officers will be required to train the k future ensigns.
। One of the new buildings is a large drill hall and the other is a combination
# classroom and office building. The drill hall will be erected alongside the Uni* versity’s field house and the other will be built on the parking lot adjacent to
■f)' Rockne Memorial.
The class of apprentice seamen scheduled to arrive Oct. 5 will receive one month’s indoctrination followed by three , months of midshipman training, Capt.
Burnett said.
“The Navy Department has placed great confidence in the officers of the " school, the University and the citizens j of South Bend,” the Captain declared. *i-,“All will be watching your progress.”
Salute to the Flag
During the ceremony of hoisting or lowering the flag or when the flag- is passing in a parade or in a review, all persons 'present should face the flag, stand at attention, and salute. Those present in uniform should render the right-hand salute. When not in uniform, men should remove the headdress with the right, hand and hold it at the left shoulder, the hand being over the heart.
The successful trainees will. be commissioned at the school and will go down to the sea in ships and to stations throughout the country.
. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University hailed the announcement as an honor for Notre Dame.
“The designation’of Notre Dame as a midshipmen’s school will find a continuing and intensifying of the fine relations that have existed between Notre Dame and the Navy since the inauguration of the NavalR.O.T.C. unit on the campus last September, and the introduction of the V-7 course last April,” Father O’Donnell declared.
“The change in status, and the number of midshipmen contemplated, will not necessitate any change in the present concurrent program of the academic side of the University,” he added. “Housing, dining room facilities, and courses in the five colleges will continue on the same basis as in the spring and summer semesters.”
Did You Know
That the term “Hugh Williams”. is British slang for sole survivor of a sea tragedy. The term is based on the fact that over a period of some 200 year's, nearly 40 sole survivors have borne the name “Hugh Williams.”
That the modern term “bootlegger” is of old origin. Bootleggers got their
Salute to National Anthem
When the National Anthem is played and the flag is not displayed, all present should stand and face toward the music. Those in uniform should salute at the first note of the Anthem, retaining this position until the last note. All others shoud stand at attention, men removing the headdress.
name from smugglers’ custom of hiding packages of valuables in their huge boots when dodging His Majesty’s coast guardsmen.
That sailors don’t like to be called “gobs.” The term was coined by a group of civilians and was never approved or used by Navy men. .
That a man-o’-war is never called a “boat.” Call it a ship or a vessel? No matter what the dictionary says, the Navy uses the word only as applied to -- small boats carried on board sea-going ships.
That no one on ship is allowed to throw overboard anything that floats. It helps the enemy to locate, trail and identify the ship- from which the litter comes.
That a sailor never calls another sailor, whom he doesn’t know intimately, “mate.” The accepted salutation in the U. S. Navy is “mack,” when one sailoi-greets another sailor who is a stranger.
That yards were once “cockbilled” and rigging was slacked off as a sign of mourning. The half-masting of colors is in reality a survival of the days when a slovenly appearance characterized mourning.
Two Leagues Are Formed For Interhall Football
“There will definitely be interhall football this fall.” These are the words of Mr. John A. Scannell, director of Notre Dame intramural sports.
Mr. John A. Scannell
Mr. Scannell says further that there will be two classes of ball played. One will be the league for 150 pounds and under, and the other will be open to all students over that weight.
• This lightweight football should prove very interesting and have a lot of class. Many boys who are not big enough to make the varsity squad but were marvelous high school gridmen are to be found on the campus. These small, fast men should really turn on the old razzle-dazzle and the results should be very interesting. All in all it will be a worthy addition to the interhall sports program.
The coaches for the various halls will (Continued on page 29)
21
~4
“RED” LONERGAN
Let's Get in the "Groove"
Thi s opening paragraph is directed largely to the incoming freshmen whom we want to get behind the Co-operation movement, sponsored by the Student Council. The Council are putting on programs which will make it easy for you to get acquainted with the school facilities and activities. So when you see a bulletin announcing some program put on by this organization be sure to participate in it if at all possible. It will be through these programs that you’ll be able to get into the swing of things and pick up that true Notre Dame spirit.... The boys from Walsh and Sorin are sneaking in a little pre-season practice for the coming season of interhall football, and both halls look like they’ll have fairly formidable outfits._ Even the eastern seaboard realizes the importance of the Wisconsin-Notre Dame football game as they are sending their crack announcer, Bill Stern, out to Madison to narrate the game.
History Repeats Itself
Marty Brutz, a sophomore guard and the brother of Jim, last year’s most valuable player, will wear Jim’s number 73 in the Notre Dame games this fall. We also noticed in the Chicago papers that Bill Scanlan, the ex-promoter and writer of this column, has been awarded the lead role in Fort Sheridan’s play “The Family Upstairs,” which is being put on for U. S. 0. “Scoop” is also one of the top reporters on the camp’s newspaper, Fort Sheridan Toiver. You just can’t keep a good man down. George Sobek, a guest of your columnist last week, is stationed at the Great Lakes Naval Station, where he is in charge, of the “boot camps” and where he plans to play some classy basketball. He will be among friends however, as ‘Buster’ Hiller, another of last year’s hard court greats will be up there swishing them in for the sailors also.
„ Distinguished Guest
Roy Cochran, former Indiana University track star, and riyal of the Notre Dame middle distance runners,-is here on campus as a member of the V-7 indoctrination group. He holds the World record in the 400 meter hurdle and. is
not a lecture given in Washington Hall
for the benefit of all students interested voldis,- the Carideos, the Schwartz’s they . nn -sports.	r say; are n0|.	ancj so are n0£
.	He's Back in Form	’
.	not ‘Bulldogs,’ or Northwestern ‘Wild-
.	- Dan Hanley, caretaker of “Clashmore cats.’. Our name is. merely an identify-
the former holder of the World indoor Mike,” our mascot, tells us that he will ing one which has been glorified on
record in the 440 yard dash. The Notre Dame coaches shuddered when they heard that Frank McCarthy, Michigan’s
senior track star, was reporting for football this fall. For they remember that when Notre Dame’s favored track team was upset by Michigan last February it was Frank who produced 14 points, winning the broad jump, high hurdles, and tying for first in the -high jump. It would be tragic if he ever got that effective during their gridiron clash against us....George Murphy, captain of this year’s squad is the first homegrown product to be elected a captain since 1909 when Cap Edwards led the team to an undefeated season, and its only victory of all time over the University of Michigan, rather symbolic, eh? The first home game of the season, with
Georgia Tech, will memories to George, of three touchdowns Jackets with a one
bring back happy He scored the first, against the Yellow handed sensational
catch of one of Bertelli’s specials on the very back edge of the end zone. Jack Creevy, according to Frank Leahy, should be playing fullback but due to the fact that Jack plans a later career of professional baseball, Frank has him playing quarterback so that his chances of injury are cut down to a minimum.
Mob Psychology
It is interesting, to note the great deal of interest that has been aroused over the probable use of the T formation by the Fighting Irish this year. The essence
of the Notre Dame system, the man to man blocking has been discarded by practically all of Rockne’s pupils at times due to the necessity of changing defenses and changing times. Furthermore the Notre Dame system has always been an outgrowth of the so-called T-formation. The thing that made Rockne’s teams practically invincible was the fact that the Great One always was one step ahead of the average mentor. So it is today; the teams that are going to town are those that are always looking for ‘something new to be .added.’ The students in a local class were treated to a very fine lecture by Jim Costin, the worthy Sports Editor of the local Trib
une. Our only regrets were that it was
have “Mike” all primed up for the com. ing season. He claims his hurdling-wilb
represent us that we are unwilling to be only one. in < his repertoire of tricks . -part with it. . . .”	.
this season. Since the students quit feeding him cigarettes, pop and candy bars he has showen a marked improvement. That ought to be an endorsement for some dog food company. If Hollywood is ' loking for another King Kong they can stop looking right now as we have two ' good substitutes or facsimiles in John Pehar of Cathedral High in Los Angeles who towers 6 ft. 6% in. and weighs 270 pounds; and Jim Tharp of Jesuit High school, New Orleans, who stands 6 ft 5 <
in. and weighs only 260 pounds. These two freshmen ought to make good playmates for John (Tree) Adams, our sophomore tackle who is 6 ft. 7 in. and weighs 255 pounds.
.V
THE FIGHTING IRISH
(Reprinted from Oct. 29, 1929)
“The term ‘Fighting Irish’ has been " applied to Notre Dame teams for years. It first attached itself years ago when the school, comparatively unknown, sent . its athletic teams away to play in another city.... At that time ‘Fighting ? Irish’ held no glory or prestige....
“The years passed swiftly and the little school began to take a. place in the sport world.... ‘Fighting Irish’ took a new meaning. The unknown of a few years past had boldly taken a place among the leaders. The unkind appela-tion became symbolic of the struggle 'for , supremacy on the field....
“The term, while given in irony, has ' '
become our heritage. The implications . of ‘Fighting Irish’ are’too much like our own struggles for recognition to be easily ignored. We are criticized on every side for using the term, but the critics gave us the name. They, too, see that it has more than one application. Too late they seek to retract what they gave in irony a few years ago. Realizing that the name ‘Fighting Irish’. has taken on a significance they never dreamed of, they now seek to disparage us with other


terms. ‘Wandering Nomads’ we are
called; ‘Ramblers,’ and ‘Galloping Gaels,’ and ‘Fighting Irish-Italians’ are made use. of to describe us. None of the terms sticks. We hope they will not. One by one
• the sports writers will come back grudgingly to the old name.
The ethnologists object to the name-on the grounds that the Irish are in the ^minority on the football field. The Sa-
T
ing one which has been glorified on many a' field of battle. So truly does it

^SCHOLASTIC TO SHOW SPORT MOVIES;
1 PLAN FOR 1942 NOTRE DAME GAMES
As promised last fall, the promotion ^department of the Scholastic will pre-Ijsent a series of sports movies, opening rSwith the pictures of the Chicago Bears ^“Highlights of the Season” on Sept. 21 ’for the Freshmen and Sept. 22 for the Upperclassmen.
The following Wednesday, Sept. 30, with the consent of the Athletic department, tentative plans have been made to r- show the movies of the past week’s No-^cre Dame football game. Also with the co-operation of the Athletic department, at each show some of the outstanding players on this year’s squad will be introduced.
This is being done in an attempt to ,^-bring about a closer relationship be-| tween the players and the students they represent on the gridiron. It has been the hue and cry of the student body that . the football team in the past few years ; has been a foreign element on the campus. To break down this feeling these “Meet the Players” programs have been planned.
St In the event that Notre Dame is unable to release some of the game pic-
ri FRESHMEN PLAY VARSITY IN STADIUM TOMORROW
The soft green turf of massive Notre Dame Stadium will provide the setting V for the annual fall football game between the Irish varsity and the green: clad freshmen tomorrow afternoon.
:	Followers of Notre Dame’s football
fortunes are looking forward to the 1942 . opener with an eager expectancy which can not be solely attributed to the advent of another season. For 1942 will go down in the annals of Notre Dame as the year in which Coach Frank Leahy , introduced the T-formation, a radical * departure from • the familiar Rockne shift. And from the famed Chicago ** Bears, chief exponents of the T, comes Bob Snyder to assist Coach Leahy in T- impressing the intricacies of this formation on the squad of Freshman hopefuls.
Upon interviewing Coach Snyder the other day, it was found that, although not a graduate of Notre Dame, he possesses all those qualities which have be-► come associated with the gentlemen of Our Lady. Soft-spoken, yet firm, Snyder is fully capable of converting the green, inexperienced freshmen into men well < "'qualified to carry the banner of Notre
tures, Commissioner Elmer Layden has promised several interesting movies of the outstanding games of the professional teams during the past years. It is hoped, however, that the former can be arranged.
This is another attempt on the part of the Scholastic and the Athletic department to promote a closer relationship between the players and the students here at Notre Dame.
The tentative program will be of this nature:	.	-
1.	Notre Dame “Victory March.”
2.	Cheerleaders.
3.	Introduce four players of each week, running a two minute skit on each of these squad members.
4.	Five minute sketch on the coach, who would be the guest narrator for the evening.
•5. The movie itself.
6.	Another cheer.
7.	Wind up the evening’s program with the “Hike” song.
Dame on the gridirons of the future.
Born in Freemont, Ohio, Bob’s family soon moved to Toledo, which has since been his permanent residence. He attended Libbey High school, where he received the distinction of being named to the All-State team for two successive years, no mean feat, as any one familiar with the Ohio brand of high school ball will readily admit. Bob played three years at Libbey. The team was undefeated in 1930, his junior year, and only one defeat marred the team’s perfect record the following year.
Snyder entered Ohio. University where he played on the varsity in 1933, ’34 and ’35, during this period missing only 31 minutes of actual playing time. He then entered the ranks of the play-for-pay boys, playing for seven years in one of ' the toughest .most gruelling games of them all. He. played successively with Pittsburgh in the American league, Cleveland and. Chicago, both members of the National Pro league.. It was while with Chicago that Bob enjoyed the greatest thrill of his career, kicking three field goals in the first half of a playoff game with the New York Giants.
This feat equalled the world’s record for number of goals kicked in one half. At the half the score stood nine-six, by virtue of a touchdown by the Giants, so Coach George Halas must have had a warm spot in his heart for the educated toe of one Bob Snyder.
About the freshmen Coach Snyder could only say that the fellows were fair, lacking the necessary experience. However he did express the hope that, some of "them would develop into real ball players in the not-too-distant future. With regard to his adopted Alma
Jack Warner
Mater Bob was much more enthusiastic, “Here at Notre Dame they teach boys the importance of physical fitness and mental alertness so necessary to the National Defense Program. The spirit here is probably the greatest in the country. These boys may be outscored, but they will never be outfought.”	.
Oh yes, Bob’s other main interests are ping-pong and motion pictures. And his pet peeve, quite characteristically, is a lazy football player.	.
Notre Dame men everywhere, join in . wishing Bob Snyder all possible success at his new job. If past performance is - . . any yardstick of value, there can be lit- . tie doubt of his ability to attain that success. .
Assisting Snyder each afternoon are . three men familiar, to the campus, Jake . Kline, Jack Warner and Bob Walsh. Kline is well known to all in his capacity as head coach of baseball. For sev- . eral years he served as chief mentor of the freshmen football outfit. Thus he is well equipped for his present job.. Jack . Warner was a stellar member of Coach Leahy’s 1941 varsity, but an injured leg is giving him quite a bit of difficulty this year, and he may not see action. Walsh, is also , a veteran of the varsity,' and his experience should prove an. invaluable aid to the new coach;
—Myles Kelly
23
NOTRE DAME MEN!
Gilbert's has South Bends Largest Stock of Men's Clothing
BOB DOVE
BOB DOVE, All-American Football Player, is our campus representative
FREE CAB
Whether you need —
Suits
Shirts
Shoes
Jackets
Sport Coats
Topcoats Overcoats Hats Socks Gioves Pants
— or whether you just want to look around, hop a cab and say "Gilbert's" and the driver will take you to the door Free.
THE MODERN GILBERT'S (hamate 7Ms
Home of Florsheim Shoes, Dobbs Hats, Hickey Freeman and Society Brand Clothes!
24
IbuMuJt bi ^otel . . .
Interhall Sports Prove
Success During Summer
During the past semester Notre Dame staged its first summer interhall program with marked success. At first interhall officials, John Scannell, Dominic Napolitano, Vincent Commisa, and Andy Chlebeck, were dubious as to the success-of such an undertaking. By mid-semester their doubts turned to surprise, as over 1,300 of the 1,700 students enrolled in the summer school were engaged in some interhall activity.
It would be impossible to single out rhe one sport which fared better than any other, but it will be enough to merely cite that the the sports—boxing, soft-ball, volleyball, tennis, and baseball— received a hundred bulletin in the success column.
Bi-weekly during the semester Coach Dominic Napolitano presented colorful boxing cards. Undoubtedly some of the finest scraps ever staged in the fieldhouse were fought this summer. Cavanaugh Hall’s hard-hitting mitt tossers sped away with top place in the interhall boxing circuit. Father Muckenthaler’s boys amassed 59 points, while their nearest rival, Dillon Hall, collected but 28 counters. The weight champions follow: 120—Paul Malloy, Sorin; 127—Joe Farrell, Cavanaugh; 135 — Sam Atwater, Dillon; 145—Walt Romito, Cavanaugh; 155—Tommy O’Connor, Cavanaugh; 165 —Farrell Quinlan, Cavanaugh; 175— Harry Florence, Alumni; Heavy-weight ,—Bill Huber, Dillon. Atwater and Florence went undefeated during the course of the summer.
In the softball set-up the final standings found Alunmi I, with athletic director Bob Walsh leading the play, on the top perch in League I. Alumni II, with Bob Neff fronting the attack, finished ahead of Zahm’s priests and Brothers to win honors in League H.
Cavanaugh I came from far behind to steal the volleyball flag from Alumni H’s vaunted stars. Bob Purcell and Joe Rigney provided the championship punch that carried the juniors in. The volleyball race was close all the way, and many exciting games were fought during the season. Walsh Hall and disappointing St. Edward’s Hall finished within striking-distance when league play stopped.
The University baseball champion, is Dillon Hall. John Creevey, Bucky O’Conner and Gene Dwyer rallied fellow Dil-lonites behind them,. and! after a poor . start, spurted in the second round to win the-croviTf. with but two losses checked against them. Coach “Bud” Ahern deserves a nod for his masterly coaching job with the winners. .
26	'	■	. ■
Jim Whelan captained Dillon I to the tennis crown. Dillon I’s hardest test came in mid-August when the “gold-coasters” met a group of their hall mates, Dillon II. Ray O’Connell, Jack McAndrews and Jack Greene led the number one Dillon outfit to the title.
In one day interhall sports affairs, Dillon, with Dave Sullivan, Joe Moore and John Schleck crashing terrific shots, coasted to the interhall golf championship. Dillon added to its laurels by copping the trophy at the co-operation day swim meet. Father Beutler’s men finished far in front of their nearest competitors, thanks to coach PauT McKee, and diver Jack Zilly.
As for the future, worldly things look very dark, and more than ever we need to be physically fit. With this idea in mind interhall activities will continue at full speed this fall with football, volleyball, swimming, basketball, and boxing holding the spotlight.—Jack Denniston
Notre Dame Instructors
Present Paper at Meet
Three Notre Dame instructors in the department of physics took a major part at the 104th meeting of the American Chemical society in Buffalo, N. Y.,

Before your best girl falls for a uniform...
Arrow's latest stripes give civil-ians the dash of a modern major general! Tapering “Mitoga” fig-sure fit. Sanforized shrunk. - Harmonizing ties, hankies, shorts!
Shirts .Ties... . Shorts
...2.25 to 3.00
1.00 and 1.50
J.___75c
Convenient Entrance Opposite ToVm Club
Thursday evening, Sept. 10. They were. Messrs. L. E. Peterson, R. L. Anthony,^ and Eugene Guth who presented a paper on the shortcomings of synthetics.
The Notre Dame physicists stated'
i this per
; mol for
that extreme sensitiveness to tempera-^ vrub ture limits the use of most synthetics m hav
replacement of rubber. In part, the pa-^< per declared:
“One of the most prevalent questions asked today is, ‘Why aren’t synthetic^; rubbers good enough to replace natural,, rubber in more of its uses?’ The answer ’ to that is very complicated and it require much more research by many
i^effe exp der
; mg sibl erti
scientists before a complete answer is
obtained.
“Other troublesome properties of most | of the synthetics thus far developed ar^i plastic flow and permanent set. This may be illustrated by extending samples * of natural and synthetic rubber to three i or four times their original length. ' Gradually the force necessary to main-^ j tain this extension will grow smaller. ; When the force is released the twoV 1 samples will contract to a shorter • length. The rubber will return to its * , original length, whereas the final length of the synthetic may be as great as twice its original length.
-A- :
^“M( und and
A Kra /^basl foot *the tear
I-
A Coa of £ ^The
“Some initial experiments on hycar
Dan
«<
3
4
stuc
A ,Mar mov the Not:
ere. ny^ ser
ted' | ra-J
m I
I and neoprene have been performed at ! ‘r Notre Dame and were reported on at I this .meeting. The results of these experiments indicate that the same type of ; molecular action which is responsible for the high reversible extensibility of v rubber also accounts for the similar behavior of synthetics, particularly if the effects of flow are suppressed. Further
ms itic-^ ral J ver' * rill < my
is

JA
experiments must be performed to understand the phenomena of flow.
“It is hoped that a better understanding of these problems will make it possible to eliminate the undesirable properties of synthetics.”
When Joe McArdle departed for service work last spring Frank Leahy, knowing the merits of the “Moose,” immediately signed him to distribute football knowledge to the current Irish line. The loss of many veteran, linemen is now bothering- Coach Krause but you can be assured Notre Dame .will have one of the best lines in the nation up Madison way next week.
COACHES
(Continued from page 20)
ost | ar^i his >les * ree i th. ' in—i' ler.
WG*’’ ter its -’th ice
^“Moose” Krause, who played his football I under the Golden Dome in 1931, 1932, > and 1933.
An all-around athlete on Irish sod Krause distinguished himself in football, : /{-basketball, and track. He started his football game with the shock troops but i *the following week he was in the first-

team line playing against Northwestern.
Another superman on the gridiron Coach Krause played 521 minutes out of a possible 540 for the Irish in 1933.
ear
The giant tackle was the only Notre Dame athlete ever voted a trophy by the student body.
After coaching for five years at St. .Mary’s college of Winona, Minn., Krause moved to Holy Cross in 1939 to coach the line for Joe Sheeketski, his former1 Notre Dame teammate.
End Coach Wayne Millner
Wayne Millner’s football deeds.glow brightly in Notre Dame grid lore. The wiry Massachusetts boy came to Notre Dame in 1923. During his sophomore year he played alongside Ed Krause.
His outstanding football actions at Notre Dame stack up like the line of questions on a final exam. Army remembers him, Northwestern fails to forget his brilliant play, and down at Columbus they blocked off the space in the end zone and charged ten cents-for months after for patrons to see the spot where Wayne Millner sprung high into the air between two Ohio State men to bring in the pass from Bill Shakespeare that gave Notre Dame its 18-13 victory in the last seconds of the 1935 tussle with the Scarlet and Grey.
Millner had no previous coaching experience until he came to Notre Dame. He was well equipped for the end coaching post he took over last spring through continued football performances in the pro league with the Washington Redskins. As ends go, and Bob Snyder can vouch for this, there was no better end in professional service than Wayne Millner during his day.
Adler-Rochester Tailored
1
J
NEW FALL ARRIVALS
of
SHETLANDS, TWEEDS AND FLANNELS
by
- kocJtedie^
Custom made or ready to wear Suits, Sport Coats and Topcoats
FULL DRESS AND TUXEDOS FOR RENT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
I IBVs - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver
Captain George Murphy, 130 Alumni
Bob Kuipers, 114 Alumni
Tennis Tournament Opens;
Evert, Faught Favorites
Studded with varsity aces of last spring’s all-winning squad and the cream of the interhall competition of this summer, the annual fall tennis tournament set out this week to exhibit to the campus the result of a season of hard-:prac-tice and innumerable thrills.
Seeded first is jumpin’ Jim Evert of-whom all tennis followers have certainly heard plenty. Jim gave another example of the brand of tennis he plays when he advanced to the quarter-finals of the national championships at Forest Hills. Jim extended Ted Schroeder, who went on to capture the national title, 9-7, 9-11, 6-4, 6-4.
Bob Faught, high scoring sophomore center of last year’s basketball squad, is seeded second. Bob compiled a brilliant record in the number three' position on the undefeated tennis squad of this spring. Back to school after a long summer of tennis, Bob is a cinch to be one of the top-notchers of the tournament.
George Biittner, in the number three spot, can never be regarded lightly. His cross-courts are bound to cause plenty of trouble for his opponents. George, in addition to playing number five on the spring squad, took up the number one position during this summer’s schedule and chalked up an impressive record. There is little doubt that he is one of the most improved courtmen on the campus.
Lefty John Troup of Alumni completes the big four of the tournament. Troup is capable of some sparkling tennis and is expected to outdrive many good men.
South Bender Ed Caparo could be regarded as a “dark horse” since he has not competed in any tournaments here at Notre Dame. However, Ed’s ability is far from an unknown factor. He recently won the South Bend city championship against the best in the city. His appearance in this present tournament is going to be observed with much interest.
At this writing, with the early round matches being played, there is little chance that any of these favorites will be upset. The quarter-finals, semi-finals, and finals will undoubtedly be the occasion for these racqueteers to hit .the peak . of their game.—Phil Keen
Orientation Program
Provides Frosh Smokers
Last Friday evening as a part of the freshman orientation program, hall, smokers were staged for the benefit of . the new men entering the University this semester. The purpose of the hall parties which were a part of the Cooperation Program, was to help the
27
AT RODINS!
LARGEST RECORD ~ DEPARTMENT IN
INDIANA
★ Victor	* Columbia
★ Decca	★Bluebird
★ Okeh	★Vocation
Both Popular and Classic
Complete line of Radios, Radio Phonographs, and Accessories.
EXPERT RADIO SERVICE
Study Lamps from 49c
HODIIIS 'it ho'TT* .
freshmen get acquainted with each other and generally to make their first few weeks of adjustment easier. The first intensive program began last fall and this year, the freshmen, more than ever, have been most enthusiastic about their receptions.
Each of the three freshmen groups, Breen-Phillips, Zahm, and Brownson and Carroll, held a “get-together” smoker in their recreation rooms. Entertainment was provided for the most part by upper-classmen who volunteeered with theii’ piano playing, dialogues and skits, horn blowing and other antics. Refreshments, including ice cream and drinks, were served during the evening. To add a little pep to the meeting and to acquaint the incoming men with the spirit of Notre Dame, Bob Dove and Harry Wright gave brief pep talks in each of the halls, answering questions and mixing with the boys. In charge of the program in Zahm hall was a freshman from Breen-Phillips, Johnny Mack, while Dave Curtin acted as master of ceremonies for the evening. John Sweeny was in charge of arrangements for Brownson - Carroll while Kevin O’Toole was on the entertainment end. In Breen-Phillips hall Paul Carr was in charge, with Dan Downey as master of ceremonies.
Beginning this semester as new members of the faculty:	V
Lee Hope, professor of music and bandmaster; William H. Bennett, Ph. D. assistant professor of speech; Arthur J. Quigley, electrical engineering instructor; Eric Peterson,; physics instructor;^ Carl C. Stevason, professor in engineering drawing, and Francis R. Maxwell, of the physical education department.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
In each of the three smokers, since the attendance was almost 100%, the programs were considered a success. The freshmen participated in ping-pong, pool, and songs. As part of the Cooperation Program other smokers and hall, parties are planned. for the freshmen as well as for the rest of the students in their own halls this fall.
' —James Clark
NEW FACULTY MEMBERS (Continued from page 11)
Congregation of Holy Cross include Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., who re-, turns to teaching English after a number of-years on the Aw Maria; Rev. William P. Lennartz, C.S.C., and Rev. Paul Doherty, C.S.C., who will teach religion. The Rev. William Robinson, former head of the Novitiate at Rolling Prairie, Ind., will teach philosophy. Other religion
. teachers are Rev. Cletus Bachofer, C.S.C. Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., Rev. Wil-. liani U. McAuliffe, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Mahoney, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Sheedy, ' , C.S.C., and Rev. Alfred Send, C.S.C. _
Mr. Joseph J. Casasanta, professor of / music, bandmaster, and former director of the University Glee Club, retired to private business. Not teaching this year, also, are Professor Homer Q. Earl, member of the faculty of the college of law, and Professor James J. Kearney, assistant professor of law.
“The MEN’S Corner”
te See the Smafd ^-aU cwul Witdeto AppaJiel By KUPPENHEIMER VARSITY TOWN CLIPPERCRAFT
ALLIGATOR RAIN COATS
ARROW SHIRTS
LEE and STETSON HATS
FLORSHEIM and FREEMAN SHOES
4
28
Successful Season Set
For Popular Glee Club
With a club of 50 experienced men, the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direc-s tion of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, began practice 3 > * last Monday in • anticipation of a busy semester.
For the Glee Club, the summer months J consisted mainly of intensive rehearsal, - with four informal concerts given in the vicinity of South Bend. Starting , the . semester with 50 experienced men who remained here during the summer, Mr. Pedtke feels that the club has an excellent margin in forming a repertoire of I -^'selections for this season.
I	•	.
fcj Try-outs were held last week for in-■ coming freshmen and upperclassmen.
Forty new men were taken and will, comprise a group of their own, since . noon, classes make it impossible for fresh; men to attend the traditional 12:30 re-’^hearsals of the club. The old group will > *; continue to meet at the usual time, while the new outfit will meet at 4:30.
■	K*; *	*	- 1
1’ . Currently, the club is preparing for the centennial broadcast to take place in November in conjunction with the -•*- Moreau Seminary Choir. Other concerts, however, will be given before that. Among the varied selections of the club v are several new patriotic numbers, including, “The Army Air Corps,” “This 'y_-Is My Country,” and George Gershwin’s famous “Strike Up the Band.” ‘
Breen-Phillip's Man
In Printing Business
“All kinds of printing done. Reasonable rates. See Chase Black in Breen-Phillips Hall.” That’s how a very neat and professional looking sign read on a bulletin board. With such work as that and the “reasonable rate” phrase thrown in, it looked as if Chase Black and his well organized printing business would soon bankrupt and usurp the Ave Riaria, Scholastic, and Scrip.
An investigation into 127 Breen-Phillips for the purpose of prying into Black’s’ printing presses, disclosed the printer’s entire business to be contained in a little box one' foot long and three inches high. A few simple tools, including a series of moulded letters and a tracing pen, comprised Chase’s working material.
With his small but impressive kit, Chase turns out, for a nominal fee,
WYMAN’S
103 N. MICHIGAN will help you fix up your room for the Football Season .
name cards, signs, and other printed work on a modified scale. Coming from Battle Creek, Mich., he has been puttering around with printing for a couple of years. “It’s easy,” he said. “Anyone can do it—if he’s got the capital to invest in a lettering set.”
DESTINY'S TOTS
The freshmen this term are an especially intelligent lot. One of them walked into the dining hall and immediately began complaining about the dents in his tray. Another bright apple was having trouble filling out his census card for registration. One of the professors offered to help and was filling in the blanks as he asked the student the questions. Said the professor, “Are you in A.B., Science, —?” The bewildered one thought for a few seconds then replied, “No I’m off campus, I’m living in the Oliver.” Welcome though freshmen. Do not take any wooden radiators.
Reggie Flynn, of Youngstown, Ohio, !> is president of the Glee Club this year. | Other officers are: Kevin O’Toole, vice-•	president; Bill Scully, Secretary-Treas-
I urer; Jim Treacy, Business Manager; ’h and Bill Murrin, Publicity Director.
Bates Flight Patrol Bed Spreads..
Matching Drapes
...__....£4.98
___£4.98
Bates Cattle Brands Bed Spread-------------------------------------£5.50
Matching . Drapes (illustrated).........£5.50.
I>	INTERHALL FOOTBALL
Il	(Continued from page 21)
. ■ - -
■	be named within the next few days, and ». immediately after the call for candidates will be issued.	.
There will be at least one -team in I each of the light and heavyweight classes ' from each hall on the campus. There is , also a strong possibility, that some of the more heavily populated halls such as Dillon and Alumni will have more i than one entry in either or both of the ’ leagues. This of course will depend on the turnout of the boys from these halls.
v 'l -	.
There is rumor rife that Commissar t Vince Commisa, who did such a fine job ►4 in directing the summer softball program, will be at the helm of the interhall football program.—Frank Ralph
*
£1.00 and up
Throw Rugs
double
decker.
10c per foot .......45c pair
Drape Rods..................
N. D. Approved Fittings.
* * *
Brighten up your room with colorful spreads on the
Buy with Confidence
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
FRESHMAN GYM EQUIPMENT
"T" Shirts Gym Pants Gym Shoes Sweat Shirts Sweat Pants Supporters Socks
Notre Dame Jackets Crew Hats
Pennants Pillows
N. D. Footballs
SONNEBORN'S
121 West Colfax
/ .
Fr. Badin Letter In
University Archives
Among some manuscripts recently given to the University Archives by Mother Vincentia of St. Mary’s College were found two first drafts of a nine page letter written to the President of the Association of the Propagation of Faith in Lyons, France, dated Nov. 5, 184-5, and apparently dictated by the Rev. Stephen T. Badin to the Rev. Edward Sorin, founder of the University. Father Badin, who came to this country in 1792, was the first priest to be ordained in America and was the owner of the original grant of land at Notre Dame.
In the letter, which is written in French and corrected in Father Badin’s own handwriting, he commends the prog-• ress that Father Sorin had made during
With your civilian clothes, you wore Douglas Shoes because they had what you wanted—looks and comfort— at a fair price. Now you’re in the Navy, you’ll find that Douglas is still the best buy. See our precision-styled Navytype shoes today, they’re built for long wearing comfort.
PALAIS ROYALE presents
JAN GARBER and HIS ORCHESTRA
Saturday, September 19th
Adm. $1.10 per person (tax inc.) .. 9-1-
210 South Michigan Street
NEW FALL STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS SHOES - $4.45 - $5.45
his first 30 months at Notre Dame by comparing what little he (Father Badin) v had when he came in 1830 “with what is now here in 184-5.”	,
Father Badin speaks of this place, founded by the Father of “Sainte Croix Du Mans,” as being very dear to religion. He referred to it as the only “Catholic institution within a circumference of -5-5	;
or 100 leagues.”	=
“Today I find,” Father Badin goes on to say, “a well-organized college, a novi- -tiate of Brothers, houses well-construct- ; ed, 300 acres of land under cultivation, a *• community consisting of six priests, three seminarians, 40 Brothers, novices v* and postulants. There are five professors of language, theology, scripture, etc.”
Father Badin also tells of the great I spirit of religion under the superior, I Father Sorin. “All students are Catholic, . although their parents are so poor that
-5-’
4
4'
*

30
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading BARBER SHOP
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS: 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
only about a dozen families are able to pay their bills.”
The main purpose of the letter, which has been translated by the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history, is, it seems, to make an appeal for monetary aid to secure the land between Father Badin’s original grant and what is now St. Mary’s College.
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M„ and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
Band Practices Marching;
To Feature Flag Throwing
This year, as in the past the University band will be entertaining before and between the halves. The band this Fall is under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope of Hillsboro, Ill. Mr. Hope directed the department of music in the Hillsboro city schools and then went to Murray State College in Murray, Ky., to be assistant band master. He is a graduate of the James Miliken Conservatory of Music where he received his bachelor’s degree and then went on to receive his master’s at the University of Michigan. It might well be that Mr. Hope will be leading the Notre Dame band against that of his alma-mater when Notre Dame and Michigan meet on November 14.
There will be a few new innovations in the band this Fall. The band uniforms have been re-styled to be more in harmony
WELCOME, Navy Men!
Ask about special furlough rates
with the times. Mr. Hope disclosed that the band membership will total about 101 men. There will be 96 players, 4 flag swingers, and the drum major. The flag swingers will be a novel feature in as much as no other Notre Dame band has ever used them before. The drum major this year is Jim Kress of Detroit, Mich. Jim was national champion in high school competition and is a specialist in high throwing.
Mr. Hope promises that there will be a new show every game and that the marching will reflect military precision. While on the field the band will be directed by Ralph Thorsen upon whose shoulders will fall the responsibility of timing. Signals will be given by firing a blank pistol. This trick has been very effective with the crack Indiana University band.
“The band has been working very hard for the past week rehearsing the fundamentals of close order drill,” said Mr. Hope. “I am pleased to see that we have already attained a certain amount of military precision. We’re going to try hard to give Notre Dame a fine marching and playing band that is thoroughly representative of her name.” —Jack Woelfle.
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
fl. flewebuf
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY	-
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth, and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation ■
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, MJ).
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S. Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.	-
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
•	Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
31
THE U.NIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMMONIER LIBRARY-
NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
TODAYS MILDER BETTER-TASTING CIGARETTE
Copyright 1942. Liggett & Mters Tobacco Co.
’em likes ’em.
they let

KEEP ’EM SMOKIN’
Our fighting men rate the best. . . .
See that they get plenty of milder cooler-smoking Chesterfields.
Everybody who smokes
THEY TREAT YOU RIGHT
They keep
you happy because they re Milder
you know how good a cigarette can be because
they Taste Better. You 11 like them these hot
days because Chesterfields smoke Cooler