Dot re Dame Scholastic
• DI5CE• QUASI • SEMPER-VICTURVS- VIVE- QUASI • CRAS • MORITVRVS•
Vol. XLI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 30, 1908.	No. 32.
The Witnesses.*
Rev. John Talbot Smith, LL. D.
f HE motive which has brought together in solemn celebration to-day the children of this household finds a keen and stirring expression in the golden words of Ecclesiasticus (xliv): “Let us now praise men of renown, and our fathers in their generation.
“The Lord hath wrought great glory through his magnificence from the beginning.
“Such as have borne rule in their dominions, men of great power, and endued with their wisdom, showing forth in the prophets the dignity of prophets.
“And ruling over the present people, and by the strength of wisdom, instructing the people in most holy words.
“Such as by their skill sought out musical tunes, and published canticles of the Scriptures.
“Rich men in virtue, studying beautiful-ness: living at peace in their houses.
• •• •••••
“Their bodies are buried in peace, and their name liveth unto generation and generation.
“Let the people show forth their wisdom, and the Church declare their praise.”
It is just a quarter of a century since the University of Notre Dame, for grave and honorable reasons, founded the Laetare Medal. With an instinct peculiar to youth
* Sermon preached in the University church for the ^Silver Jubilee of the Laetare Medal.
arrayed in the service of God and man, with a judgment far beyond its years, 'with a most tender and fruitful sympathy for the hard-pressed fighters in the American field of battle, the University discovered a means of calling attention to the faithful but unknown and often neglected warriors. How full of significance this honor has become, anyone who looks about him may learn: for when the hour of its going forth and the name of its recipient, are made known, the Catholics of the English-speaking ' world look up from the daily task, with sparkling eyes and beating hearts, to thank God for the thought, the honor, the hero; and to learn again, what men are so apt to forget, that the workers in the vineyard have not failed, that merit -is often recognized, and that the leaders of the people do not always forget.. Among the noble things which the University has done, I place the foundation of the Laetare honor second to none.
I knew personally many of the persons thus honored in the past twenty-five years, and I knew all of them through the work which they had done and the reputation which they had acquired. It wrould take a volume to describe the noble beauty of their lives, speaking only of those who have gone home to the Father. John Gilmary Shea, the first historian of the Catholic people of this country, lived and died amid many tribulations, faithful to the last to the task’ which he had assumed—the secure keeping of the old records; Patrick V. Hickey founded the Catholic Review in New York, and for two decades carried on the painful struggle to establish Catholic American jour-
• nalism; I saw and heard Patrick Donahoe,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3°5
the builder of three fortunes, founder of the Boston Pilot, in his eightieth year singing the Star-Spangled Banner, before the members of the Catholic Club, with great spirit amid much enthusiasm; I heard Daniel Dougherty in one of his stirring orations; I knew General Newton, the convert, notable as.a military engineer; we have all read the books of Mrs. Dorsey, Mrs. James Sadlier and Eliza Allen Starr, charming books illumined with the light of the true faith; the beautiful temples erected by Keeley, the architect, in Boston, Providence, Hartford, New York and Chicago, will long keep his genius in the memory of men; General Rosecrans has his - secure place in the annals of patriotic service; Count Creighton shall live forever in the history of the noble university which he founded in Omaha; I knew. Augustin Daly in his prime, in his triumph as a manager, in his grief when death took -all his children, in his last days wh^n unsettled conditions tested and finally crushed him in the moment, of his last and most telling triumph. Alas, for human achievement! it requires but a sentence to sum up the work of a lifetime.
As to the living we all know them in their present activities, and the world knows them too and has passed judgment upon them in its own way: William J. Onahan ■ of Chicago, whose mere name is with thousands a synonym for the great city of the West; Henry E. Brownson who has won the. gratitude and thanks of all Catholics by editing and publishing the writings of 4 his great father, Orestes Brownson; Dr. Thomas Emmett, the successful physician whose fame is international; Dp Francis Quinlan, specialist surgeon in New York, one time president of its Catholic Club; Bourke Cockran, Charles Bonaparte, Richard Kerens, and Thomas Fitzpatrick, national figures of heroic size in the. business and political world; Hon. Timothy E. Howard, a jurist of international fame, and Dr. John Benjamin Murphy, a distinguished surgeon of Chicago; finally, Katherine E. Conway, the editor of the Pilot, the friend and disciple of John Boyle O’Reilly, the capable and patient journalist, who has kept the standard of her cause flying in the face of grinding difficultiesand the honored recipient of this .year’s medal, Dr. James
C. Monaghan, whose praise shall fill this University to-day.
Living and dead, these men and women, chosen as the representatives of their time and their people, during the last twenty-five years, stand before the world in such a light that I can find no better name for them, none more significant of their office, none more honorable than that of The Witnesses. It is a fateful name, borne by those only who have given testimony to the truth. And to what have these 'witnesses borne testimony? I answer, they have borne testimony to many things; but in- particular to the reality and power of the life eternal, for which every man must prepare himself in this world; to the tremendous struggle which goes on over the truth of the life eternal; and to the faithful fighters, obscure but faithful, upon whose fidelity and courage the issue of the struggle depends. These witnesses bear testimony not only in their own time, but also to that later time when they and we shall have vanished from this earth, and when our character and our labor shall be known to other generations only by the records of such self-sacrificing workers.
The human soul is immortal. Alen stand to-day at the foot of Calvary ‘looking at the vacant cross above and the vacant tomb below. The journey of every life finds, its road winding about Calvary and passing the vacant tomb; and every pilgrim must stop, for a moment at least, to realize the meaning of. the world’s greatest tragedy, and to ask the inevitable questions: was Christ the Son of God ? is the soul of man immortal? is the life eternal anything more than a sublime dream ? did Christ rise from death as He foretold, and. is His resurrection the prophecy of man’s everlasting glory in the life beyond the grave ? As each soul answers these questions, so shall its destiny be. The Catholic multitude answers every /question with an. affirmative that has resounded in every age, vibrant with the power.of God; sometimes the cry came from the arena, where torture and death tried in vain to smother it;..sometimes, it came from the wilderness, where religion fought with savagery ; again from the bloody battlefield; often from the forum of the philosophers, where sophistry thought to conquer; but .wherever it came from,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
it has remained the dominant note in the | , history of the world.	•
Yet there are other millions who answer in the negative. The pretension—for it can , never reach the dignity of a belief—that ?	man is only an animal, has a place of
;	power and importance at present, after the
p struggle.of the past nineteen centuries. It l	has a philosophy, a literature, a statecraft,
'	an educational system, and some control of
the press. In not a few countries it is I much easier to rise to fortune and fame f as the promoter of this pretension than L	cas a believer in the life eternal. It has
j contributed to the., confusion of the time i	one element whose last expression no one
?	can. foretell, anarchy; and anarchy has two
j forms, both digging at the foundations of [, society. There is the anarchy of the rich t	animals, whose methods are aimed at the
?	freedom of the human race, and whose
I success means for the multitude robbery and enslavement. There is the anarchy of t the poor animals, who lust for the monies I . of the rich, whose single method is the i, bomb, and whose success means robbery and | murder. This deadly materialism, no matter how benign its speech, has a tremendous t influence, which is increasing every moment.
It calls itself the party of progress and Catholics the party of decadence. It finds a |	strange ally in that section of Protestantism
|	which regards and treats the Catholic faith
| as a degrading superstition; and these two | allies, materialism and -bigotry, have'no I other acquaintance with us than comes I ” through our witnesses. Against the influ-s	0	0
i	ence of both, our orators, writers, generals,
I	artists, teachers, merchants, have been
|	compelled to fight with the patience, the
I	devotion, the courage, the desperation of
i	the martyrs in the arena.. They have had
I	to prove by their virtues, their success, and
I	their victories, that belief in the life eternal
I	does not lessen the natural powers, does
I	not dull the finer faculties, but rather
I -	strengthens them. By whatever power and
I	labor the average non-Catholic rises to
I	success, the Catholic .must work twice as
I	hard, run more swiftly, plan more shrewdly,
and. suffer more acutely, in order to win the.same success; and when.his footing is secured he must watch more anxiously to . maintain his position. In brief speech, to
be a good Catholic means suffering; to be an eminent Catholic in the world of this, hour means heroism.	.	■
Between the believer and the unbeliever the battle is always going on, and- men must take sides and fight, almost in. spite of themselves. Yet this struggle has , been complicated and embittered by the introduction of another element, which has quietly striven to annihilate the Christian and the materialist. The Catholic, looks into the vacant tomb of Christ and asserts the resurrection of the Lord .and the race; the . materialist, after the same look, announces' the extinction of Christ and the human race; but the third parly, the- agnostic, announces that, no one knows, or can know, what comes after death; and he undertakes to silence the. affirmative, and the negative, urging the adoption of his policy by all parties for the sake of peace in the world. He asserts that there is, or at least should be, no struggle over what can not be a true and vital .question for . the human race. And in the United States -he has won out over the old parties, and is shaping the public life to suit his colorless principles and practical methods. His position is certainly ingenious. You may be right, he says to Christian and materialist, but there is no means of ever proving . your contentions. There may be an eternal life,- but it has not been made certain by any testimony from reason of revelation. Man * may be an animal, destined to extinction, but there are too many signs of life after death to permit acceptance of the theory. In other words, my dear Christian and my dear materialst, there is nothing to fight about; so turn your attention to this life, and leave the grave to take care of its own.
This Donothing party owns the press of the country, the educational system,. the State and Federal governments, the literary -circles, and all the social gods. It has imposed on our witnesses the task of fighting- three foes at once: the bitter Protestant, the materialist, and the agnostic. Ask our witnesses their experience in their patient upward climb to eminence. It will reveal that at almost every step they were hindered, hampered, turned back, entrapped, cheated, tricked into delay, now by the bigot, then by the. materialist, surely by the
I
532	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
agnostic influence. Why ? because they con. tinued to affirm by word and act their belief in the life eternal, in the Catholic faith, as the true expression of it, and in the necessity of fighting for this great truth. They are therefore the witnesses not only of the life eternal against the direct enemy, and of the Church against the heretics, but also of the fateful struggle which must be made in behalf of the truth against the specious and powerfill agnostic, who would reduce all truths concerning man’s destiny to mere words, about which it is not worth while to do more than discuss and argue.
Finally, they are the witnesses to the brave fighters of all conditions, who are doing battle in all parts of the world. , History tells us only of the generals and the dashing heroes of events; but we know that their genius would have been useless without the obscure soldier who did the fighting and the dying, and whose name lies buried in his own grave. In the fight for life eternal every human being is a soldier on one side or the other. The Catholic host has stood for their cause many centuries, . and never more manfully than at the present time, when the forces of evil have grown so powerful. That they are fighting in every rank, in. every condition of life, with resolute courage and fidelity, these men and women are the witnesses. And not only in this age, but for ages to come, are they the witnesses. When future historians seek the records of our day in order to describe it for their generation, these men and women - again shall be our witnesses'; their labors, their character, their achievement, shall tell to wondering posterity, of what temper was our faith. We.-know to-day .what the Catholic faith and the Catholic peoples owe to that glorious poet, Dante, the light and the savior of the Middle Ages, whom he has vindicated forever against the malign ignorance of bigotry. He is ours. We'know too what we owe to the glory of Thomas Aquinas and the sublimity of Francis of Assisi, whose names are conjuring back to the fold the children of the- heretics. But ■what we do not always know is, that behind these suns of human power a myriad of smaller stars shed the same beneficent ~ light in their smaller orbits; and the microscopic eye of modem investigation now
seeks these small lights—the poets, teachers,	■
orators, merchants, doctors—to prove that	I
the age of- Dante and Aquinas and Francis	|
was not a desert with three oases, or a	I
barren sky -w ith three planets, but a glorious	|
solar system of faith and knowledge per-	|
fected by the power of God. And they shall	|
find it so. Thus shall our witnesses bear	|
testimony of us in the far-off days of time.	|
They may vanish in the hurly-burly of the	1
world, like clear springs that sometimes	1
vanish from their accustomed ways; but	<
later on, under the touch of an earnest	1
prospector, they will well • up again, illus-	J
trating in their crystal beauty the people	I
among whom they once sang, and whose	'
weariness they soothed with their coolness
' and refreshment.	■	■
What an inspiration it was to call witnesses like these from the frightful labors of the field, to the halls of this great ' University, and in the presence of their brethren to give striking testimony to their character and achievement; and that no one should ever forget to fix the incident in the walls of time by the striking of the . Lmtare Medal. What an honor to the faithful workers, after their long struggle, what a consolation after so many hours of sadness to be thus recognized, to be told in plain language, amid ceremonies of sublime meaning, that a whole people thanks them for faithful work and will never forget them. What a rebuke to that stiff-neckedness so often found among our high leaders, who take heroism as a matter of course, not worth a kind word, obscurity as a light ' cross, needing no consolation, fidelity as a common virtue, requiring no comment, and labor, of the kind which draws the blood-sweat, as its own reward. In fact1 it has become clear to us all that part of the duty of great leaders is the encouragement of their aids in every department. No political, no military leader, it is well kuown, ' can succeed without that intimacy with . j his aids, that affection from them, which	|
the leader can always command, but must	;
steadily reward with acknowledgment by smile, word, favor, costing nothing in them- j selves, natural to a great mind and heart, but utterly repugnant to leaders of scant intellect and no hearts.	.
All honor to the men that founded'the-. - - ■ . • ■ . ■
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Las tare Medal, and to the institution which has made it so significant and so beautiful. It has remained to this day as singular and surprising as on the day of its foundation. It has had no imitators. Like a star it rises in the heavens, in the clear heavens far above the murk of earth; a million eyes turn to it with mingled emo'tions of curiosity, astonishment, delight and satisfaction; they follow its glorious orbit, which avoids the courts of kings and passes through some humble spot, where little or
533
no glory was thought by the crowd to live; the stud}- of a scholar, the tent of a general, the office of a merchant, the den of a journalist—it leaves its radiance there; and the wise men of the nation bow their heads in reverence to the spot and the person which it has hallowed. God’s rest to the faithful souls of the Laetare band, who have gone into eternity; God’s.peace arid man’s honor to them that remain; God’s grace, and power to the University and the community of Notre Dame.
The Laetare Medal.*
Hon. Timothy- E. Howard, LL. D.
i	There is a tradition handed down at
?	Notre Dame, that once upon a time, during
f	an hour of recreation, several members of
J, the faculty took up the question:
|	“Why do not laymen take a more active
| part in promoting the interests of religion I and education ? ”
t	It was claimed by some that the hierarchy
|	' did not sufficiently encourage and direct
the work of the laity along these lines.
I ’ Others	contended that	a cause of deeper'
|	source	must be sought;	that laymen them-
|	selves	are primarily at	fault for whatever
f	laxity	there may be in	the matter.
|	Attention, however, was" called to the
I - thousands and hundreds of thousands of ■
| practical and zealous laymen—devoted men and .women—who labor in all the walks of s I life for the advancement of the interests
of education, morality and religion. EarI riestly and unobtrusively, and often at great | personal sacrifices, these heroic men and I women continue uncomplainingly,, nay, even |	joyously, in. the discharge of the duties
I	devolving upon them. They bear their bur-
| dens, with Christian fortitude, and in their !S	daily lives furnish edifying examples of what
all Catholics should strive to be. In short, their conduct completely harmonizes with
I' the teachings of the Church. They sympa-|	thize with the afflicted; are charitable to
§	those in need; are industrious, temperate,
i upright and honorable. The most eminent of
|	• Paper read in Washington Hall, May 17.
such men and women might well be singled out for honor and encouragement; not merely for their own sakes but even more for the good of others, who' would be stimulated to higher and better life by the noble models thus shown forth as patterns after which they might fashion their own lives.
The opinion was thereupon expressed that this University could fittingly inaugurate some such action,—take the initiative, ■-as it were, in appreciative acknowledgment of what has thus been done by distinguished representatives of the laity for faith, morals, education and good citizenship. The suggestion was added that a medal of honor, awarded at stated intervals, might' suitably serve as tangible evidence of such, appreciation. Suggestion followed suggestion, until the annual bestowal of the Laetare Medal, as we have it, with its accompanying address, was adopted by the University.
It need hardly be said that the ancient custom of sending a Golden Rose, a gift from the hands of the Holy Father, to eminent Catholics throughout the world, has in many respects furnished the' model for giving system and unity to the plan followed in awarding the Laetare Medal. It may likewise be noted that the relation thus established with the Golden Rose'has lent a historic touch to the giving of this Medal.	'	.	-
The Century Dictionary.uses the following
534	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
language, in defining and describing the O O ’	o	o
Golden Rose:
“Golden Rose, a rose made of pure gold, blessed by the Pope on Lmtare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent, used by him in blessing the people, and occasionally sent as a mark of especial honor to Catholic sovereigns and other notable persons, to churches,' cities,' etc. Originally, it consisted of a single rose of wrought gold; the form finally adopted is a thorny branch with flowers and leaves, surmounted bv one principal rose.”
In conformity with the custom followed • - in the blessing of the Golden Rose, it was determined that the Medal to be given by the University of Notre Dame should be conferred on Lastare Sunday, and hence the name. While, however, the recipient is named and the medal awarded, on Leetare Sunday, the formal presentation, with the address of congratulation, is postponed to a subsequent day, chosen with reference to the convenience of the parties. The personages present and the attendant circumstance vary from year to year, but are always such as to add to the dignity and honor of the occasion.
There is no question, as the writer has had occasion to observe in another connection, that the University of Notre Dame has itself won credit by its selection for this honor of men and women who by their talents have added lustre to the American Catholic name. Such recognition, too, has in many cases been peculiarly fitting from the circumstances that the recipients, through native modesty, have been content to labor on in doing good, thinking, little of any honor or appreciation that might be bestowed upon them, provided only they - were conscious to themselves of the performance of- the duty that God had set before them. While such persons do not look for honors, it is. nevertheless pleasant to? all.-who appreciate talent and devotion to duty, to see these single-hearted men and women of genius selected for. deserved if unexpected recognition. The good which has been wrought by the giving of the Lsetare Medal is not simply in the honor done to the worthy, but, even much more, in the emulation aroused in generous hearts, and in the respect inspired in all good
people for unobtrusive worth. Honors thus bestowed upon talent and virtue tend to make us all better by inspiring in us a love and admiration for what is good and great.
The custom of giving the Hectare Medal was inaugurated in 1SS3, during the presidency of the lamented Father Thomas E. Walsh, himself one of the most gifted of the men who have made Notre Dame a. great university. The medal for that year was bestowed upon the accomplished and devoted historian, John Gilmary Shea, after Orestes A. Brownson, undoubtedly the most eminent Catholic layman who has given his genius to the service of the Church in America. That the Hectare Medal was first given to so great a man has added lustre to the gift, upon whomsoever it may at any time hereafter be bestowed.
In 18S4, the medal was given to Mr. Patrick J. Keeley, the most noted architect of church edifices in the United States;
In 1885, it was conferred on Miss Eliza Allen Starr, the sweet poet and writer on religious art, who' did so much to. popularize the work of the great Christian artists.	.	.	.	.
In 1S86, General John Newton, a most distinguished civil engineer, received the honor.	.
In 1887, the medal was offered to a noted German convert to the Church, but whose modesty was such- that he could not be persuaded to accept it. ,
In 1888, the honor was bestowed upon Patrick V. Hickey, the Catholic editor, who wrought so earnestly and so effectively in the cause of religion and Catholic education.
In 1889, another woman was remembered: Mrs. Anna Hanson Dorsey, vjiose writings entitle her to a high place in the domain of Catholic literature. •	.	- .
In 1890, the medal was bestowed upon William J. Onahan, distinguished as a publicist and as an organizer of great Catholic movements, a true leader of Catholic thought and action.	.	..
In 1891, it was given to Daniel Dougherty, famous for his oratory.
In 1892, to Henry F. Brownson, noted in literature and arms, and particularly as the editor and biographer of his distinguished father, Orestes A. Brownson.	;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. In 1893, to Patrick Donahoe, the veteran editor and publisher, who for so many years upheld the cause of Catholicity in the Boston Pilot, at a time, too, when there was scarcely another exponent of Catholic thought in the United States.
In 1894, to Augustin Daly, who deserved well of the American people on account of his conscientious efforts to elevate and purify the drama.	.	,
In 1S95, the distinction went to Mrs. James Sadlier, for meritorious services to American Catholic literature.	-
. In 1896, the Lmtare Medal was itself honored by its bestowal upon one of the bravest and most deserving of American military commanders, William S. Rosecrans.
In 1897, to Thomas Addis Emmett, in whose veins surged the blood of the ideal Irish hero, and who was himself noted both as a patriot and as a physician.
Why, in 1898, the writer of this sketch was taken up and placed in the company of this galaxv of greatness is hard for us to understand, unless we conclude that the faculty of that year, in their effort for contrast, were, influenced by that principle said to have guided the old Romans in giving to the grove into which the sunlight never enters the name of lucus a non lucendo.	•
In 1899, the medal was given to Alary Gwendolin Caldwell, a benefactor of the Catholic University of America.
In 1900, Notre Dame paid its tribute of homage to a munificent supporter of charity and Christian education in the person of the philanthropist, John A. Creighton. .
In 1901, the medal was bestowed upon W. Bourke Cockran, great as a lawyer, an orator and a statesman.
. In 1902, John B.-Murphy, the distinguished surgeon, was selected.-
In 1903, the University honored itself by the selection for this honor of an. American statesman, Charles J. Bonapart, whose own achievements are worthy the fame of the great historical character whose, name he bears and whose blood flows in his veins.
In 1904, the honor went to Richard C. Kerens, who has shown in his busy life how one may be an active and influential force in politics and yet : maintain unswerving loyalty to Catholic truth.
535
In 1905, Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, the great merchant who has used his wealth for the good of mankind, was honored as.a pattern to those who would be diligent, honest and yet successful in the business world.
In 1906, the good physician was again remembered in the person of Francis Quinlan, whose charity to those in need of his services is not less than his skill as a healer of the ills of humahitv. .
In 1907, eminence in literature was again recognized; the editor of a great Catholic newspaper was again distinguished, and again was a learned woman, as in days of old, highly honored by a great Catholic university,—all in the person of Katherine Eleanor Conway.	.
Finally, in this year of'grace, 1908, ..the L<etare Medal is to adorn the breast of James C. Monaghan, ■ -who. has won distinction in diplomacy, social ethics, statesmanship and literature, but whose presence on this occasion, to receive his high honors precludes further reference to his worth. ’	’	-	- '
It is the Silver Jubilee of the beautiful Latare Medal, now happily celebrated under the inspiration of the present distinguished President of the University. Twenty-five times has the fair disk graced the breast of some distinguished American Catholic, man or woman, who has done good service for -Church and country, in some walk" of active life,—as physician,.lawyer, merchant, statesman, politician, soldier, author, editor, publicist, poet, dramatist, architect, educator, orator, philanthropist,—all workers in the sacred cause of religion, humanity and good citizenship. .	•	■	--
As the years go on, and the number of those who wear this little circlet of gold is increased,—as attention, on each MidLent Sunday, is called to this distinction,— admiration for the noble and the good in life, as represented by these eminent men* and women, will, more, and more, awake emulation in the minds and hearts of their fellow-citizens, particularly the youth of the land. Thus the ennobling, influence, like waves from a centre, will reach out further and further, until, ultimately, all the people will feel, and know and do, the good that has its primary impulse in the Lietare Medal of Notre Dame. -	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
536
Stigmata.
To Dr. Monaghan.
^^F old, Assisi walked the Umbrian road, Barefoot was he, and nothing in his hand;
Only the birds with fearless wings that fanned His hair, and Povertj- with him abode.
One hope companied him as lone he strode
By cool, persuading glen or welcoming strand—
Oh, God, to make men feel and understand God’s love for men; this was the sharp, sweet goad.
Think it not bold, 0 son of other days,
If I should name, not equal thee with him;
' With his high mission thine has kindred part. Through all thy works, half-hid from dread’of praise, The love of man gleams out, reflecting dim
God’s love impressed, a stigma, on thy heart.
Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C.
The University of Notre Dame to
James Charles Monaghan Greeting.
Sir:—Five and twenty years ago our venerable predecessors in this University founded the Leetafe Medal to honor merit and to signalize to the youth of America the men who by distinguished service to religion, art, science or humanity, had set a noble example. During these years the Medal has - been bestowed upon John Gilmary Shea, historian ;* Patrick J. Keeley,, architect; Eliza Allen Starr, author and critic; John Newton, soldier arid scientist; Patrick V., Hickey, editor; Anna Hanson Dorsey, author; William J. Onahan, publicist; Daniel Dougherty, orator; Henry F. Brownson, soldier and author; Patrick Donahoe, publisher and philanthropist; Augustin Daly, dramatic artist; William S. Rosecrans, soldier; Mrs. James Sadlier, author; Dr. Thomas Addis Emmett, author and scientist; Timothy E. Howard, jurist; John Creighton, philanthropist; William Bourke
Cockran, orator; JohnB. Murphy, surgeon; Charles J. Bonaparte, jurist; Richard C. Kerens, philanthropist; Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, philanthropist; Francis J. Quinlan, surgeon, and Katherine E. Conway, author and editor.
A long line of illustrious recipients have thus worn the Lahare Medal, and each has brought honor to the wearing of it; so that it may be said truly that to receive the Medal to-day is not only to be acclaimed by Notre Dame and by Catholic America, but it is to be admitted into this great company and to share in the glorious achievement of them all.	.
To-day, Sir, the University of Notre Dame turns to you as one worthy to be honored with this historic trophy. Your long and distinguished service in public life entitles you to the unfailing gratitude of your couritrymen. Your conscientious and untiring labors as an educator in great schools will perpetuate, not alone your memory but your influence in the lives of those whom you have inspired and uplifted. Your gift of eloquent speech, so freely bestowed on every worthy cause, has made you a power for good in your country, and your constant and persuasive enunciation of the principles underlying right economic relations has made the whole people your debtor. The sanctuary of a man’s soul may hardly be entered by another without profanation; but of you, Sir, it may be said without indelicacy that if your public action has shown a noble devotion to the loftiest precepts of religious and civic duty, your private life has illustrated in practice the finest ideals of personal honor and moral integrity.
Because of-these eminent services and this signal worth the University of Notre Dame bestows on you the Lsetare Medal in the year of its Silver Jubilee, and prays God that you may live many years to serve humanity with your talent and to ornament, the Church with your virtue.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dr. Monaghan’s Reply.
i	When the . greatest master of English,
Shakespeare, wanted words with which to ,	express gratitude he was able to find none
!i	better than those put into the mouth of
. Malvolio in Twelfth Night: “Thanks, thanks, and even thanks.” My little boy when he [	made his first Communion noticed that I
■	was silent, that I said little or nothing.
;	“But he feels, mamma, I know he feels it,”
?	said he to my wife; “he is glad, almost
i	as happy as I am.” “Yes,” said my wife,
.	“that is papa’s way.” So, to-day, I am
f	unable to find words with which to express
r	my feelings. I am happy, glad, very glad,
grateful, very grateful. When I read and i	heard of what Notre Dame was; when I
;	saw the name of Sorin exalted, and Corby
■	honored; when I learned of the work of Our
'	Lady’s legions of loyal workers—Fathers
■-	Zahm, Morrissey, Cavanaugh, Hudson,
'	. Burns, Crumley, Kirsch, Scheier, Maher
; Quinlan, Maguire and others,—when I heard ; of Colonel Hoynes’ work in law, of Professor :	Edwards’ work in history, of Professor
i McCue’s work in mathematics, of Professor ; Green in the sciences, and of all the other splendid men of Notre Dame, I longed to ? be enrolled. I often wondered: “Will I ever be admitted toCthat fine and faithful band, •	that consecrated fellowship that	is doing
i	so much for Notre Dame?” When	the word
i ’ came to me to teach, the blood in	my heart
I	bounded, the lungs lifted me up,	for I felt
। as one called to rejoice—Lsetare—I felt i	as the bearers of the batons of Marshall
!	of France must have felt when the word
| went forth from imperial lips announcing ! advancement. I like to think of Dr. Brown-i son’s splendid phrase when some one said ; he was bringing a priceless treasure to ■ Rome. He said: “I bring to Rome nothing but the burden of my sins.”
To-day I turn into the treasure-house of this great University—nothing. I take in exchange a letter of credit good as gold, payable in all parts of the world. When the word came ! to me, over the wire, that I had been chosen, ; , I was painfully surprised. I had hoped to ’	> / .hear that the honor had been bestowed upon
! ii;;;Dr. J. J. Walsh, the distinguished writer,
537
brilliant lecturer, indefatigable worker and splendid citizen of New York. I felt sure that Senator Gearin in the West, a loyal son of Notre Dame, was worthy of it. Charles P. Neill of Washington, D. C., one of our boys; Wade, in Iowa City, Iowa; Healy in Fort Dodge, another Notre Dame alumnus; Fitzpatrick in Dubuque, came -into my mind as possible choices. When aware of the decision I bowed in obedience, not to what I believed to be better judgment but to a decree based upon a better foundation than any I was able to formulate. “ It is well,” I said; “Dr. Walsh does not need it. I do. He may not want it any more than I do, but he will not miss it. It will be worth far less to him than it is to me. He has written his name deep in all our hearts, high in the halls of fame; and so -my sadness was turned into gladness; my disappointment into rejoicing, for T found my new Alma Mater, dear old Notre Dame, had made me famous, if not meritorious; for I found few ’ lines in . my life to merit her choice. A pretty Oriental tale is told' of one Dara, advanced by the king to the position of provincial governor. Jealous men urged the emperor to examine a casket carried by the governor wherever he went and most carefully guarded. The sultan did so only to find a shepherd’s rough and shaggy sheepskin coat—a reminder to Dara of what he once was. I shall never forget what I was and what Notre Dame has done for me and mine. I shall bear about with .me always the wretched rags that I wore when I came, lest I lose them or need them. I must not neglect to tell the world of the wonderful way in which the entire Faculty -has helped me to secure results, to do better work. I believe it is the Notre Dame spirit; .at least I like to think so. It is the spirit that was planted by Father Sorin and .exemplified .by . the Order, Priests and Brothers,-and all the lay teachers from the log cabin and the wilderness to the castellated edifices of to-day and the culture that has made the University famous. The text of-Dr. Smith’s sermon shall be taken as the text of much that I shall say. A religion, like a race, is measured by its results, by what it has done, by its contributions to the world’s progress and prosperity. In the varied fields of what we call human
538	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
activity, the Church holds a high place, the highest place.
I want to bear witness to this. It is thus that the layman is able to aid the cause of justice, of fair play. What are the forces and factors in the life of a race or a religion ?
. Its contributions to the literature, sciences, institutions; arts and moral makeup of mankind. Measured by any or all of these standards the Church is in the lead. It gave the world the classic literature of Greece and Rome, enriched by the writings of its own children in the Renaissance, in the great works of the Troubadours, Trou veres, the Minnesingers, St. Francis of-Assisi’s writings, the Imitation of Christ and by all the great masterpieces of the Middle Ages. It gave us Dante and Aquinas. I am not sure that Shakespeare is to be denied her. I believe he belongs to us. In the sciences she has ever been the ready rewarder of the earnest and the honest. If at times, in her fold, a few have been seen to hesitate or hold back, the .Church, as such, has ever been the faithful, fostering friend of all true science. A list of the names she gave to science from the- days of the apostles .down to * our day - is the list of many of the greatest names in scientific lines. If we turn to her institutional history, it is as hallowed and. as. interesting as any ever recorded; neither Latin nor Anglo-Saxon was beyond her influence. The democratic form of her own foundations has inspired the progressive in all parts of the world, in all ages. We can trace Magna Charta, the Bill of Rights, our Declaration of Independence, and our Constitution to her councils and counsels, to her democratic ways in dealing .with all peoples, princes and peasants, poor ’.and rich. The humblest on the world’s hillsides might aspire to the tiara; the keys of the kingdom were confined to no class; the ring of the- Fisherman was offered to all. In art she has never been equalled. Here her glory is great. '
In architecture, painting, poetry, sculpture, music, mankind owes her a debt he . can never repay. In the domain of morals the world would have been a desert without -her. < On all the shores of all the seas of every clime, in heat and cold, in .defeat, in danger, in darkness, in the hopelessness that often leads to despair, she has held
aloft the flaming torch of faith, of hope, of love. She has taught Jew and Gentile, Pharisees and Sadducees, to look to the
• good, beautiful and true, to God as to the only thing on earth worth while. In bearing v itness to all this I am only bearing witness to what a watching world might easily see and read. But the world is a busy world. It has no time to wait till one tells it the tale of its past. Young America, the youth’ of the world to-day, has its eyes on the future. In the past it has little that it cares for. “That is an old story, a tale that has been told,” is the answer that greets one if he dares to turn the pages of the past. “Onward,” “Upward,” “Anywhere you will,” but not “Backward,” is the watchword of the New World. But because I believe it to be best in the end for the world and for us, I open the pages of its past and I point to the Church’s wonderful work in all the ways of that work and to those who have worked for the uplift of mankind. In the letters sent to Notre Dame from all parts ■ of the Republic, the dominant, thought is for a high-grade Catholic citizenship; a citizenship that is to keep for our country the best that has been bequeathed to us by the past. That past, as far as we Catholics are concerned, is full of encouragement. Only7 a week or so ago, in New York, 40,000 Catholics marched to celebrate the centenary of the establishment of our Church in New York City. Of the 40,000 not one was an anarchist, not one -was a socialist in the Marxian sense. No flag was seen save the flag of our country. No man wore badge or color of any kind beyond a red' white and blue boutonniere. To' build up the Republic, to make true and real all the flag stood for, Catholics fought in every war from Bunker Hill to San Juan Hill. In peace we helped to build all that is best in the-Republic’s most priceless possessions. We stood then as we stand-now for the home, for the integrity of the nation, .its oneness. , We stand for liberty, not license under the law. We stand /for. the flag in -peace as well as .in war. We wall work to .make ..it;, a symbol of .liberty and law, justice and: love, prosperity and progress. We . are for the home, hence for the sanctity of marriage,/for the exaltation and uplift

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of women—witness our devotion to Notre Dame, Our Lady. We are for the careful bringing up of the child, hence our great efforts in education.	.
Because of what we were in the past, because of what we did in the past, the foundations of the future are firm. Like Rome’s, they rest on a rock—the bed-rock of our belief in God. Because of this belief, I see a hundred years hence a country, our ■ country, the real handmaid of religion. I see again a happy people. I see the miner secure in his life, well rewarded for his labor ;
- I see the forests filled again with birds, no wild beasts except the wild deer; the farm lands filled as the Acadia of our dreams, or as some Vale of Thessaly, or Vale of Cashmere was filled. I hear the hum of the factories, but as I hear it and gaze on them I gaze on places echoing with songs sung to the whirring wheels, it is true, but tended by happy, well-paid and contented toilers—-for toilers we are all to be. Nobodv, no wise, no good man or woman, wants to escape work. All are to be happy in bearing a part in building up the great republic of our dreams. A hundred years hence I see the arts—all the arts—again the helpers in religious life. I see an architecture as truly American as the work of St. Gaudens is American, erect-* ing churches that are to. rival Rome’s, the Parthenon, or the Gothic glories of France, Germany or England. I see a literature, led -by the Church,-lending to Dante and Shakespeare lights as glorious, or more glorious, than their own. Besides the Bible and A Kempis, we are to have a lay. literature more nearly perfect in- the drama than was Eschylus or Sophocles, Shakespeare or Goethe. I see painters surpassing perfection by surpassing Raphael, Angelo and Murillo. I see music, instrumental and vocal, in the glorious churches of the new.day far superior to Bach’s, Mozart’s or Beethoven’s. I see figures in marble-far beyond anything that Phidias, Praxiteles, Angelo, Thorwaldsen or Canova carved. I see the drama made again as the Greeks made it, as St. Francis of Assisi made it—the handmaid of religion. Lsee it lifted up into the light out of the position it occupies now. I look to a time when lights will be on all :the' hills, as the twelve stars on the dome of Main Hall, a
. light to all upon land and sea, a proof
539
that the kingdom of God has. come, or has nearly come, among men; and: all'because of our Church and our country. .
As Boyle O’Reilly said, and said well, so say I and all of us: “One help’s Ireland and Mother Church in many ways, but in .no way better than by being good American citizens.” Wear, then, if you will wear a flag, the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame on Lady Day, the Green and Orange of Old Ireland on St. Patrick’s Day, but on all days, oh Our Lady’s day, on the 17th of March wear! wear! wear! I say, the colors of our country’s flag, the Red, White and Blue. .Astronomers tell us that the light we see in the world when all the stars are shining brightly, no sun,-no moon, comes nine-tenths of it from stars so far awav that no human eye, no telescope, however, powerful, is able to reach their abode. In life it is thus. The simple servant girls, priests and bishops tell us, are bringing faith to the households in which they serve. The pennies.of the poor built the great cathedrals of the world. It is the simple, beautiful, dutiful life of a Catholic laity more than the shining light of cardinals and cures, bishops and archbishops that must shine, that is shining in. hut and hovel, mansion and palace, on hillside and valley.	.	'
By each living his own life as Mother Church would have him live it, we can build a way not only, to save society but to bring in the Republic to God’s kingdom. How ? By living the lives of. practical Catholics. And what is a practical Catholic? One who goes to the altar once a* year, at Easter? No! no! no! He only is a practical Catholic who goes worthily to the altar as often as his father confessor finds it good for his soul. Such a Catholic, besides being a blessing to his Church, will prove a benediction to his. family, and. a help to the Republic. The better Catholic, the better Christian believer a man is, the better citizen is he sure to become. I have tried to witness to the truth. It is great and will prevail. I have worked to. do a little, in a humble way. I have worked hard to do a little in building up the Republic to be worthy of its past, to make sure that its destiny is to be one of peace, justice, progress and prosperity, to lead labor to the light, to curb capital. .	*
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
540
In the decades since Notre Dame was first founded in: the wilderness of Northern Indiana this great University has grown in .power and glorjr, it has builded itself into the nation. To be as good as our fathers we must be better. The task before us is a bigger task than felling trees, reclaiming swamps or converting Indians; it is the task of bringing back the wilfully wayward and the wilfully ignorant erring. No day in all the past was darker to the despondent, pessimistic and despairing than is this our day; no day in all the past was so bright to the optimistic. To be worthy of its past is our best wish for Notre Dame. That it may go on in the old way, the good way, showing forth God’s love, holding aloft the torch of learning, is our sincere desire. To it from the bottom of our hearts, new and old medalists, we say, Vivat, Crescat, Ploreat! May it live on and on and on, increase, flourish and rejoice, till the last Te Deum tells of her glorious triumphs. Amen.
Letters and Telegrams.
Baltimore, May 12, 1908.
Very Rev. and Dear Father:
I am in receipt of your very kind letter by which you inform me that Sunday, the 17th instant, is the date set for the formal bestowal of the Lzetare Medal this year, and that this year is the Silver Jubilee of the conferring of the Medal. I beg you to have the kindness to present my sincerest congratulations not only to the gentleman who is to receive the Medal this year, bub also to all those who in the past have had this honor conferred upon them. The fact that they have been chosen for this great honor is proof that they have been faithful workers for the Catholic .cause in our beloved country, and so merit our encouragement and blessing. Your University in conferring this medal each year on some distinguished . Catholic, not only confers a great honor upon them, but also honors itself by encouraging and rewarding those who have won distinction in Catholic works.-
My sincerest congratulations and blessings to all the Laetare Medalists who have gathered together for the occasion of the Silver Jubilee.
' With sentiments of the highest esteem, I beg to remain, Most faithfully yours in Xto.,
-	. & J Card. Gibbons,
-	Abp. of Baltimore.
.	Washington, D. G., May .12, 1908.
. Rev. Dear Sir:—I learn with pleasure that on Sunday next you , will, celebrate the. twenty-fifth -anniversary of the establishment by the Faculty of your University of the custom ‘ of awarding the “Laetare”
Medal to some of the most distinguished members of the Catholic laity	.	.	.	■	।
This practice of acknowledging in such a public and	]
solemn manner the merits of those whose services to	j
religion or humanity are such as to be deemed worthy	I
of recognition, is praiseworthy and deserves our	(
encouragement and best commendation. •	!
I am glad to observe that since the custom of award-	]
ing the said medal was inaugurated at Notre Dame	,
in 1883 already the names of a good number of Catholics who distinguished themselves in their respective callings adorn the annals of your Institution. May such inspiring exemplars of learning, truth and civic morality be to our women and men an encouragement to the attainment of the best possible perfection in the prosecution of their respective callings in life and an incentive to every virtue.	’	.
While I offer to the ladies and gentlemen who have been honored with the Laetare Medal and who are ' taking part in this reunion my congratulations and sincerest best wishes, as the representative of our . Holy Father, Pius X., I bestow upon them all a special blessing.
Sincerely yours in Xt., .	ijt D. Falconio,
Apostolic Delegate.
' New> York, May 12, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—I have learned with much pleasure that the recipients, of the Laetare ’ Medal are to meet at Notre Dame on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the founding of the Medal. 1 can not let the event pass without a word of warmest congratulation to your great University for the happy thought that gave birth to the Laetare Medal. I feel it has proved a fruitful inspiration to many a Catholic litterateur and savant to strive for still higher things and to maintain the best standard in their work. The list of those on whom the honor has fallen, and most of whom I have the pleasure of -knowing, is one that any country may be proud of. God bless them, and may every good and perfect gift from the Father of lights descend upon them and upon the University of‘Notre Dame.
Very faithfully yours in Christ, ip John Farley, '
Abp. of New York.'
[Telegram.]
San Francisco, California, May 5, 1908.
Rev. John Cavanaugh:
Heartfelt congratulations to distinguished Medalist.
Blessings for them and Notre Dame.
Archbishop Riordan.
.	[Telegram.] .
St. Paul, Minn., May 16, 1908.
Rev. John Cavanaugh:—I-regret very much I can not attend your interesting services. It were a great pleasure to meet - Medalist, American Catholics, and to salute Notre Dame, the first of American Catholic colleges. '	...	_	'
€E< John Ireland, L.
.	; '	- -	'	. Apb. St. Paul^-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Boston, May 13, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—Since you are to have a meeting of the Lastare Medalists at Notre i	Dame next Sunday, naturally Boston, thrice honored
' ■	by your choice, feels an interest in the event.
1 i	We all wish to Notre Dame the great prosperity it
j	deserves. She certainly merits well of the Church in
$ •	America in many varied fields, and I am happy to
‘;	add that in you she has a fitting representative,
whose influence will make her interests and merits better and more widely known.
I hope I shall see you in Boston before long where ;	you are always welcome. I remain,
Very cordially yours,
;	W. H. O’Connell,
■	Abp. Boston.
-	.	•	Cincinnati, May 15, 1908.
1	Very Rev. Dear Father—I regret that I can not
be with you next Sunday on the occasion of the ■	reunion of the recipients of the Lietare Medal. I have
three appointments for Confirmation next Sunday. It '	would indeed afford me much pleasure to meet those
who have distinguished themselves by their work for _ the Catholic cause. I send them my sincere congratulations, and pray that God may bless them abundantly for all that they have done to promote Catholic interests. May their zeal in this worthy cause never wane.
With sentiments of the highest regard and with best wishes for the University, I remain,
Very sincerely yours in Xto. ip Henry Moeller,
•	Abp. of Cincinnati.
St. Louis, April 8, 1908.
Very Reverend Dear Father:—I received your letter, and wired an answer to-day stating that it was not possible for me to be with you owing to other engagements, and in making this statement I am reallj- honest. I have engagements that keep me here for that Sunday, and if I wanted to transfer them to some other date I have no other date to transfer them to; thej* are links in a chain and the chain is binding me from the middle of May to the first of July.
I would like very much to be with you on that day, and while I do not fancy talking to so distinguished a group as your “coronati” I would take great pleasure in greeting them by the way and uniting with yourself and venerable confreres in the celebration. I am sure the occasion will be a very brilliant one, but it can not be more brilliant than I would wish it to be. I am sure under your magic wand this coming together i	at your invitation of so many representatives of the
j	highest Catholic thought and activity in the land will
i	be inspiring to those who are privileged to attend, and
1.	will leave those who are unfortunately obliged to stay • away nothing but regret.	.
With best wishes,- I am, sincerely yours, John J. Glennon,
Abp. of St. Louis. .
■	. New Orleans, May 13, 1908.
*	Very Rev. Dear Father:—I should esteem it a great
’	privilege if it lay in my power to respond to your
5+1
courteous invitation to celebrate with your noble institution and with the distinguished recipients of the Lastare Medal, the Silver Jubilee of its founding.
On May 17 I am to deliver a sermon at'the celebration of St. Alphonsus’ parish in New Orleans, on May IS, I am to say the prayer at the inauguration of our incoming Governor of La., the Hon. Jared Y Sanders, and on May 19 begins an extended tour of visitation and Confirmation.
With such obstacles in the waj-, I can only span the distance separating me from a high honor and a long coveted pleasure, with a message of sincerest congratulations to the University and of gladdest tribute, .of homage to the first men and women of the land whom Notre Dame University and the applauding nation have adjudged eminently worthy of the supremacy of merit of which the Lie tare Medal is the public recognition and the solemn crowning.	.	,
With every best wish for an ideal day for the celebration of a perfect feast, I am,
Yours faithfully in Christ,
" James H. Blenk,
Abp. of New Orleans.
Dubuque, May 15, 1908.
Rev. Dear Father Cavanaugh:—I offer mv hearty congratulations to Notre Dame for the assembly of Catholic notables who will come to offer her their' grateful homage on Maj- 17. God bless them for having so well deserved the honor she has paid them. And God bless her for having so nobly appreciated and rewarded true merit.
Cordiallj- yours in Christ,
■	5* John J. Keane,
Abp. of Dubuque.
Fort Wayne, Ind., May 11, 190S.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:
Confirmation appointments will not permit my presence on that most interesting occasion of the 17th inst. , I trust it will be all you could wish it to be. My itinerary has the University on it for Ascension Day.
With sentiments of esteem, I am, ’
Devotedlj- yours in Dno.,
•	H. J. Alerding,
Bp. of Fort Wayne.
■ [Telegram.]
Peoria, III., May 15, 1508.. Rev. J. Cavanaugh :
Please present my heartiest greetings to Mr. Mon-. aghan and the other Laetare Medalists. It is a high and excellent thing to be able to recognize true worth.
 >FJ.L._Spalding.
St. Cloud, Minn., Maj- 11, 1908.
Very Rev. President:—I heartilj1- congratulate the assembled gentlemen who distinguished themselves so as to deserve the Lietare Medal. Thej- are well known to all who read, are respected by all fair-minded citizens and considered as an honor to the Church and the glorious Republic.
Yours sincerely,
. James Trobec, .	.	-	. Bp. of St. Cloud.
542	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
-	•	Chicago, III., Mat- .15, 190S.
hly Dear leather C? a^ anau^h. Indeed it would be a great plearure and honor to meet the wearers of the Lecture Medal on Sunday next, but my list of appointments forbids. What an interesting meeting that will be! What a beautiful photograph, were it possible to group the various talents and accomplishments of the Afedalists. It was a happy thought to assemble them together, and I am sure that it will be a source of much pleasure.
We all look to these favored children of Notre Dame for .encouragement and assistance in forming a truly Catho’ic spirit in the United States May the blessing
of God With
be with you all. .	.
sentiments, of deep respect and devotion,
I am very sincerely,	•
. P. J. Muldoon, .
■ . .	.lux Bp. of Chicago.
Dear
Pittsburg, Pa., May 12, 1908.
Father:—It gives me great pleasure to con-
gratulate the University of Notre Dame and the men and women who wear its Laetare Medal on the Silver ’ Jubilee which is being celebrated ■ by the surviving Medalists. The Catholics, of the United States have all been made greater and stronger by the noble characters and conduct of those who have been found worthy to wear the Lcetare Medal, and feel grateful to them for the public testimony which they have given of their Catholic faith, especially by their edifying Christian lives in an age and country which need the purifying leaven of Christ in the daify lives of men and women.
Wishing Notre Dame and the Medalists every blessing, Yours sincerely,
. ’	Regis Canevin,
.	Bp. of Pittsburg.
,	Harrisburg, Pa., May 14, 190S.,
Dear Father Cavanaugh :	.	.
A letter fit to be read at the meeting of the Medalists should be written with the utmost care? Though brief, ’ it should be a choice literary performance, worthy'of such an occasion and able to stand the inspection of such .an assembly. It should glisten and sparkle like the -sheen on a fine piece of Irish poplin. I have no genius for the production of an-, exquisite masterpiece of this character; at my age I have no temper for writing sonnets;' occupied as I am “sawing wood,” I
have no time for artistic work;. I do riot cafe to pose as a horrible example of the “ old learning.”. These* are a few? of the reasons I have. for . not caring to.rush . in'“where angelsfear to tread.” God bless the Medalists!
Thanking you for your very kind letter, I remain, . '	' ’ Very sincerely in Drip, L-1 ' <
JB’J. . W. Shanahan,	_
.	-< Bp. 'ofiHarrisbtirg.
f	Denver-, Col., May; 12,1908..
my heartfelt congratulations and best wishes to the noble men and women who have done so much for . the promotion'of Catholic education.
May the G.od of knowledge bless, them and their work is the ardent wish of \	.
Yours sincerely in Christ, -
-	,	N. C. Matz -
Bp. of Denver.
y
s i
i'
&
Buffalo, N. Y., May 12, 1908, Very Reverend and Dear Father Cavanaugh:
As you are to celebrate the Silver Jubilee of the conferring of ’ the Laetare Medal on Sunday, May 17, by having as many as can be with you of the honored Medalists, I wish to send you and the .other members' of the faculty, of Notre Dame University my congratulations on the event, and what it oommemorates. It wras a wise mind which conceived so- beautiful an idea as the Laetare Medal; and the success that has attended the carrying out of it has, I am sure, more than surpassed your expectations. To confer honors upon our Catholic authors, scholars and public-spirited citizens is a noble recognition. and a fitting reward, and sheds back lustre upon those bestowing it. It is an incentive for. others to. strive to win great success in their particular- lines of talent. I congratulate the noble men and women who .have received the Laetare Medal. They are a glorious band worthy all the praise Holy Church can bestow' on them.
With best wishes to all, I am,	.
.	Yours in Christ,
.	Chas. H. Colton,
-	. Bp. of Buffalo.
i

S %

§
5
f
.	Erie, Pa., May 11, 190S.
Rev. Dear Father:—I send a cordial greeting to the Laetare Medalists who are to celebrate their Jubilee at Notre Dame on the 17th inst. It is pleasant to feel that merit is not always forgotten, and that those who deserve well of their fellow Catholics .are justly and. warmly remembered. I consider the Laetare .Medal of Notre Dame. one. of the most distinguished, honors in the land, because I know that no one has received it who has not deserved it by his talents and his virtues. I congratulate, therefore, the distinguished men and women who assemble to-day to celebrate their Silver Jubilee, and trust, that no one will ever wear the Laetare Medal who is not as worthy of it as they are.
'	.1 am yours very sincerely,	.
: f. : Ip JOHN E. FlTZ MAURICE, ...
.,	.	•'??.. -	, : ? Bp. of Erie. ■
I

•Wheeling, W. Va., May 14, 1908.
Very' Rev.- Dear . President:—It affords me-genuine . pleasure to send 'my greetings and heartfelt felicitations to the distinguished ladies - and gentlemen who are assembled within Mhe- walls of your; great?institution	•
of learning bn the occasion.pf the twenty-fifths anniver- ? sary of the: awarding of the Lietare Medal. T recognize ‘ in the illustrious': foil, thoseJwho ;have. achieved name.. ? and fame in the various departments'of effort—scholars, .
. histofians,'? philanthropists, 'scientists,? statesmen—one	?
Reverend and Dear Father s-I. am in receiptoLyour letter of .May the. 9th ^apprizing ?-me of the? meeting at: the University-of; NotreTDame of 'the' Medalists;:on	...	..	..	..	....... .	.
■ ' the occasion .of- the* Silver Jubilee of the Estare.Medal. and; all true andi4pyal.?chiidfeii-;,of; our-jHply.: Mother . . I gladly avail 'myself of this circumstance to .offer ' zChurch.; ;r.'. ,. - ■ :	.. .
'	NOTRE DAME
'	The Lietare Medal has been ard is conferred, not like ."
the Victoria Cross, for some wild dash of bra ven-, nor like the-Carnegie all wance for a deed of heroism wlfch ofttirnes dwindles to the everyday commonplace under j	the searching light o' investgatior—it is awarded, as
I	I understand, in ;ecognition of the noble and. unselfish
J tenor of a whole career not necessarily . lived out i in the fierce white I'ght of pitiless publicity,-but in L . the seclusion of the home, the studv, and amid scenes j. of suffering and sorrow. In the selection, loyalty to ' ; r ' the Holy See and unswerving devotion to Catholic | Faith are largely considered, while the .whole record of , f	the life is carefully weighed in	the scale of	merit So
t	considered and so bestowed. I	regard it as	one of the
£ highest earthly distinctions, and my congratulations ।	are, accordmgly, tendered to	ihe worthy	recipients
I	without stint and without reserve. May	they long
continue to’ show f nth jn their lives the white flower | of a Christian life, ever increasing in fragrance and J	sweetness!	■	■	.
£	I heartily wish you all a Happy Jubilee,’ and beg
t	.
g	to remain,
|	Yours fraternally in Xto., *
|	'	fl? P. J. Donahue.
■ .	Bp-of Wheeling.
’ ■
Helena, Montana, May 12, 1.908.
|	My Dear Father. Cavanaugh:—It was a happy
|	thought of Notre Dame to confer each year upon
|	some distinguished Cathoi:c man 'or woman its medal
|	of joyful appreciation, and, aside from the good the
| custom itself has done, it must be most gratifying to the great. University to be said on all hands that for twenty-five years its medal has never been unworthily |	conferred. While I congratulate all the living Medalists
who on May 17 will be gathered around your'festive I board, I wish to extend most special and most hearty fl	felicitations- to the last of the twentv-five honored
Il	ones, my friend, Prof. J. C. Monaghan, whose good
I1. -	. fortune it is to receive the medal in the vear of its
)	-	w	-
I .Silver Jubilee. For the deceased Medalists’ 1 will in !	next. Sundav's Mass breathe a most fervent prayer.
To each living Medalist say for me: Lietare! And.to Notre Dame: Lietare!	.
Very sincerely yours,
John P. Carroll,
[ .	, Bp. of Helena.
I	•	Columbus, 0., May 11, 190S.
Very Rev. and Dear Father:— In responding to
•	. your recent.letter regarding the Silver Jubilee of the
’ Lietare .Medal,' I think it eminently proper to' coni	gratulate Notre Dame University upon .the-generous -
[., • . . spirit which has moved it during twenty-five years, to I ■	- give public recognition to our distinguished Catholic
scholars-and professional, men and women for-their’
- .worthy service and generous devotion to the Church A. ’ ? in the United ,States. The distinction and.honor con-
. ! ferjed. with this .Medal every- year is not only an ' j1	appreciation of faiihlul service, but also an encourage-.
- ' ' mentto those whose,, labors.in all'that ..pertain to ,the; J	. welfare of the Church-in, public life are sometimes very,;
J- .. ; poorly repaid. It certainly ought to be a consolation
SCHOLASTIC	543
to them to-know that they are not forgotten; and Notre Dame University deserves a llj praise for giving,-through the Lietare Medal, public expression- to the ... good will and app eciation entertained for them on... .. all sides.	.	■	■
With best wishes for a joyful, ard happy celebration, Yours. sit cerely in Christ, -- ... -	.
fl? James J. Hartley, .
.	.	Bp. ^f Columbus-^	.
St. Augustine, Fla., May 11,1908. ;
Very Rev. and Dear-Father Cavanaugh :—I very much regret not to be able to attend the Silver ' Jubilee of the ednfening of the Laetare Medal at your'' University. Since this Medal was . first conferred in 1SS3 on Dr. John Gilmary Shea, many men and-women d stinguished by noble works in ihe cause of religion in this country, have received it, and while -' some of these have been called to their eternal reward, ' others still remain -with us and continue an honor and a help to Mother Church. To these, I extend cordial congratulations on this anniversary and beg God’s blessing on their lives and. labors......	.
. Yours faithfully, . .	-	.
fl? William. J. Kenny, •- V ■	. .	. Bp. o f St. Augustine. .
Great Falls, Mont., May 11, 1908. ‘ •	■
Dear Father:—I congratulate you and the faculty of your renowned institution as well as the. assembled Medalists on the Silver Jubilee of. the Lietare Medal. . I have fo’lowed with the deepest interest for a quarter of a century the unique ceremony of. conferring -this ... honored trophy, and have considered . each recipient as most deserving of such a distinguished honor.
There is no American Catholic—by which I mean no Roman Catholic in our glorious country—that is more -deserving of the Lietare Medal than the last recipient-4 Professor Monaghan. .	.	: - .	;
Yours sincerely in Christ, .	=
Matthias C. Lenihan,	:
Bp. of Great Falls! ■
"	Savannah, Ga., May 11, 1908.	’
My Dear Father Cavanaugh: „	' .	.	.
Permit me, in response to your kind invitation, to ,, say ‘ ditto” to all . the complimentary things which the Lietare Silver Jubilee will .evoke from your guests. I look on the Lietare Medal as a public recognition of lay activity,' and I sincerely congratulate Nqtre Dame for inaugurating this movement. Our people are apt to think that the Communion- rail marks the almost -divimfy ordained line which separates, the teachers and taught, and -vet the influence of a devoted, intelligent and active-layman is far more potent for good in calling - attention to' the work... and effort of the ’ . Church than the most eloquent sermon from the pulpit. The sermon .is heard once: the daily life and example are always evident..	....... .	. ...
You have, covered nearly eyery field of= knowledge in .
. bestowingThe Lietare Medal, and what better answer ca.h -. we make - to the slanderous charge that the Church is opposed to; science , than to point to. Notre ; .-
544
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dame’s crowning the Catholicity and paying public tribute to the mental activity and success of the men, in the various fields of literature, art and science, who have merited the La?tare Medal.
We have always known, but you are striving to make the world know that genius may go down the paths of life linked .with unswerving loj’alty to God and unquestioning submission to God’s Church. In no land is there so fair a prospect for the future as lies before the Church in our free country. Catholic laj’men have magnificent opportunities and clear duties in showing that the wellbeing, aye the veiy existence, of our country, depends on the adoption of the Catholic principles of respect for authority, submission to law, the safety and integrity of the family and obedience for God’s sake. I think the Lietarc Medal is helping the good cause wonderfully.
Most sincerely
5 Benj. J. .Keiley,
Bishop of Savannah.
Concordia, Kansas, May 11. 1908.
Very Rev. Dear Father:
I have learned with genuine pleasure that on the 17th. of May, all the living Medalists will assemble at Notre Dame on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the La;tare Medal. I am pleased to state that this institution called into existence by the enlightened .zeal of the Fathers of the Hoh* Cross, has done much for the promotion of religion in America. I wish I could be with you and take an active part in the celebration, but as imperative duties demand mjr presence in the diocese now, I send mj- greeting and cordial congratulations to those noble men and women ■whom you have honored with this mark of distinction and who have so well deserved of the Catholic cause. May God bless them, and may they continue to shed lustre on that Church whose members they honor themselves to be.
I remain, Very Rev. Dear Father, yours sincerely, £< J. F. Cunningham,
Bp. of Concordia.
South Orange, N. J. May 12, 1908.
Dear Father Cavanaugh:	.
The University of Notre Dame holds a deservedly high place in the esteem of all Catholics throughout the country; and indeed in the good opinion of all who admire earnest effort and conspicuous success in the pursuit of educational excellence. Not the least of the services rendered to the Church by your institution of learning has been its singling out each year one of our foremost Catholic scholars among the laity for the fitting recognition of their merits implied in the conferring of the Laetare Medal. Whatever tends to foster and promote the apostolate of the laity deserves the hearty encouragement of all who have at heart the best interests of both Church and state in this country. -To make a worthy selection among the .many zealous men and women of ability who have devoted their time and talent to the furtherance of truth, justice, religion and. charity among men was doubtless a difficult arid delicate task; But no. one will gainsay the fact .that you have been successful and fortunate in your
choice. The list of those who have been awarded the Lzetare Medal is a veritable roll of honor. There may have been many others equally deserving, but these, were at least not unworthy to be ranked among the best.
It gives me great pleasure to congratulate all who have received this honor, and I hope that their example will be an incentive to many others to follow in their footsteps and to rival, if not surpass, their achievements in the sacred cause of true religion, sincere patriotism and Christian education.
With kindest personal regards and best wishes, 1 am, dear Father Cavanaugh,
Very sincerely yours in Xt.,
5* John J. O’Connor,
■	Bp. of Newark.
Ogdensburg, New York, May 12, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:
It was a happy inspiration to the University of Notre Dame to honor every year some lay person of the country who - had distinguished himself or herself in the service of the Catholic Church by sending them the emblem of recognition of their labors which it so felicitously called the Lzetare Medal. This imitation of the Pontifical Golden Rose can not fail to stimulate the recipients to renewed exertions in behalf of Truth and Right, and to call the attention of their Christian fellow-citizens to the value of lay co-operation with the Catholic priesthood. In accord with many others, I beg to extend through you to the Medalists gathered at Notre Dame, heartfelt thanks for the past and sincerest wishes for the prolongation of their useful lives.
Your faithful servant in J. C.,
H. Gabriels,
Bp. of Ogdensburg.
Chicago, III., May 12, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh :
Kindly present to the distinguished recipients of the Leetare Medal, assembled at Notre Dame, my cordial greetings and sincere congratulations. I greet them as among the brightest ornaments of the Church in America, and I congratulate them on the success they have achieved in their varied fields of labor. Their lives are a testimony that we can be true to God and Holy Church while true to ourselves and the work we have in hand. More than that, their lives show that the high ideals of our Faith are firm to honorable ambition and a stimulus to noble efforts. The Church is proud of such beautiful and successful lives. They are her jewels. May God give them health and happiness and length, of days.
With sincere good wishes, I am, Very truly yours,
A. J. McGavick, .
. .	Aux. . Bishop of Chicago.
. .' Hartford, Conn., May 11, 1908.
Mr Dear Father Cavanaugh : .
I am grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to send a word of heartiest greeting and sincere congratulation to the distinguished inen and women who
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTTC
545
have received the honor of the Laetare Medal during the past twenty-five years. On this occasion of the Silver Jubilee it is most fitting that they should assemble to receive renewed expression of the esteem in which they are held for the notable service which they have rendered our country’ in their various professions and thus reflected honor on Mother Church. It is my earnest wish that they now living may be long spared to lend their talents to every noble cause and inspire others with a worthy spirit of emulation to receive like honor from the hands of Notre Dame.
Very sincerely yours in Christ, Michael Tierney, Bp. of Hartford.
Burlington, Vt., May 14, 1908.
Very Reverend Father:
I wish to congratulate the renowned University of Notre Dame on its efforts and success during the last quarter of a century in signalizing and honoring true excellence; and at the same time, I desire to extend my sincere felicitations to the select few upon whom the Ixetare Medal has been conferred in testimony of genuine merit. The world at large does not do homage to noble minds, men of high aims and unsullied character. More generally, the world habitually smiles upon success, especialty material success, no matter how it has been attained.
Permit’ me to express my earnest hope that both the University of Notre Dame and its distinguished Medalists may in the future do even greater things for the glory of God -and the welfare of our fellowbeings than in 'the past; that they who may have the honor and privilege of taking part in the Golden Jubilee celebration of the Laetare Medal may look upon a nation highly benefited by and deeply indebted to the University and those whom she has honored.
May God bless the work of true education! Respectfully yours in Xto,.
5* John S. Michaud,
Bishop of Burlington.
Sioux Falls, South Dakota, May’ 15, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh, C. S. C.: — I am in receipt this day of your letter, May 9. 1 sincerely wish I could be with you May 17. I think the Lietarc Medal movement has been one of the happiest and most eventful incidents in the growth of the Church in the Middle and Northwest states. I present my personal respects to two recipients of the medal, Hon. W. J. Onahan, a friend I respect and love, and Prof. Monaghan, a graduate of the University to which I owe more than I can tell.
. Very sincerely yours,
Thomas O’Gorman.
Covington, Ky-, May 15, 190S.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—! would consider it a privilege to be at Notre Dame next Sunday and meet the recipients of the Lietare Medal who have happily survived the honors bestowed during the first quarter of a century. Duty keeps me at work in my diocese, and I regret my'inability to greet them and thank them for their labors on behalf of Mother Church.
Founded with -the very same laudable purpose as the ancient Catholic Orders of Chivalry, viz., the public recognition of talents well employed for the glory of God and the benefit of His own true Church, the “Academia of Laetare Medalists’’—let me call it by that name—has been singularly faithful to its name. In every' instance it has bestowed its distinctions upon a worthy Catholic. Its palms are- plucked high; a single harvest brightens each year, and the wearers of its laurels may feel conscious that they have received, unsolicited, the very highest recognition of their labors that can be secured in the lower courts of earth. That the supreme Court of .Heaven may in every case confirm our verdict is the most sincere hope and wish of
Your devoted servant in Ch. J., Camillus P. Maes, Bp. of Covington.
St. Joseph,»Mo., May 15, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—Since my return from the great centenary celebration in New York and the consecration of Mgr. O’Connell in Baltimore, I have scarcely had a moment of time to myself. I realty have never been so busy since I came to St. Joseph! I sincerely regret this, for inasmuch as it has been impossible for me to pay you a visit on the memorable occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the Lsetare Medal, I would, at least, had I the time, send suitable greetings and congratulations to the assembled Medalists, as I should esteem this a duty on account of my being one of the old students of the University'—an institution of learning now illustrious through the United States and beyond the seas, and for which I have had for the past forty-two years the greatest appreciation and affectionate esteem. I have only time to say* that I have the highest regard and the most profound sentiments of admiration for the illustrious scholars and citizens of the United States who have been honored with the Laetare Medal, and who are honoring the great University of Notre Dame by their presence to-day. Some of them I know personalty, and all of them by their distinguished services to their Church and their country. While I was in New York I had the pleasure of meeting some of them and hearing them speak on the significance of the great Centenary- Celebration, and I could have embraced them with all the affection of my heart for the noble words—the Catholic and patriotic sentiments,—to which they- gave the most powerful and eloquent expression. I am with you, therefore, in spirit to-day at Notre Dame, and join with you in greetings and most hearty congratulations to your distinguished and illustrious guests.
Your grateful and devoted friend,
'	M. F. Burke,
Bp. of St. Joseph.
Pass Christian, Miss., May 18, 1908.
Very Rev. Dear Father:—Your letter of the 8th inst. asking me for a few words of greeting and congratulation on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Laetare Medal, reached me here only yesterday, the day of the celebration. So I am unable to send my greeting to the meeting of the Medalists.
Although late—better late than never—I hereby Join their many friends and admirers in heartily congratu-
546
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■ lating the living MedaFsts for their, devotedne’s to and achievements .for the interests of religion and t ducation;.and wish- them main’ mo’e years of usefulness for this noble cause and to ga:n great merits for themselves to receive that of which the medal may be only a reminder, at most a slight figure, i. e , a crown of glory in Heaven.	’
. ? ■ "	.	.	T. Heslin
- Bp. of Natchez. .
’ Trenton, N. J., AI ay’ 3 6, 190S.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:
Your letter should have been answered before. It happened, however, that I was absent on retreat. Hence, this delay.	.	-
Let me .assure y-u that it gives me the utmost pleasure to greet the.noble ga’axy of La?tare Medalists who have- been signally rewaidid and distinguished by so excellent a patroness of the arts and sciences as Notre Dame Uniwrsi'y. Vivant ad multos annos!
. Veiy sincerely, yours in Xt.
.	5* James A. McFaul, .
.	. Bishop of Trenton.
Mobile, Ala., May 15, 190S.
Very Rev. Dear Pi esident:—It is a good idea to assemble the living Medalists on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the La tare Medal. Please extend to these devoted men and women my greetings and sincere congratulations. ' May God spare all of them for many years to come to continue their zealous labors in the position God’has placed them. I am, Rev. and dear President, '	.	'
.	. , Sincerely your friend in Xt.,
.	4* Edw. P. Allen,
•	, .	.	Bp. of Mobile.
.	..	.	Wichita, Kansas, May 15, 1908.
Dear - Father Cavanaugh:—When I consider the splendid and su-cessful work which your celebrated University has accomplished in the domain of literature, arts and sc:ence, 1 feel constrained to comply with your request for a sympathetic expression from myself on the occasion of the meeting of the Las tare Medalists this vear.	-	-
The University of Notre Dame, begun under the most hum’de and unauspi ions circs, instances by’ that saintly pio eer, the venerable Father Sorin, lias become in bur .day, when educational endeavors have almost reached their apogee, one of the'most noted in the United States. Th egreat.West especially’ has. every’reason to be proud of Notre Dame, for it is the product of the West and western people, for the most.patt, have been, its beneficiaries. But it has become too important and too successf.1 in its various departments of learning to be , re;tr:cted to any local.ty or section, hence truth-seekers from every part of the great Continent make pilgrimage
- to Notre . Dame, to light their, torches . at its - never- • failing sou ce of light . It speaks will for their Alma Mater when-'her offspring proudly; can _ everywhere recall' their/.educational. obligations .to Notre Dame.;. The.honors bestowed, upon, them for,-their proficiency in the various .- branches of, polite , education,~ are . treasured by the great army ofgraduates that._have
- issue i f pm .its,portals for.more;than .a half century.-_
In every’ walk of life well-equipped sons of Notre Dame are reflecting honor upon her, and well may’ she appreciate the beneficent influence she exercises through . them, upon the working world abroad. She sees also in that busy world some w ho are specially distinguished for their zeal and effort in behalf of religion, some who have wrought conspicuous honor and. prestige upon the Church of which they’ are consistent members.
These Notre Dame would honor, and the La?tare Medal—the most coveted of her gifts—she places upon their breasts to single out the wearers for special commendation. These are now assembled at the call of the great University and I have much pleasure in joining with the faculty in congratulating them in a body’ for the distinction which their meritorious 1 ves have brought them, and in wishing them success in the various avocations th y have so singularly honored.
With sentiments of sincere regard for yourself, and wishing your institution continuous prosperity,
I am, very truly
. John J. Hennessy,
Bp. of Wichita
Little Rock, Arkansas, .May’ 15, 1908. ' .My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—It gives me great pleasure to send greeting and congratulation to the distinguished winners of the Laetare Medal on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the founding of this noted prize.	'
- The winners have proven themselves worthy of the high honor conferred upon them by’ the University’ of Notre Daire, and I hope the splendid work they have - done for Church and country- will be an inspiration to the winners of the future.
• Yours sincerely,
'	tF John B. Morris. ’
.’	Bishop of Bittie Rock.
- Duluth, Minn., May 12, 1908.
■ Aly Dear Father Cavanaugh:—What a pleasure it . would be to me to see altogether the Notre Dame Ltetare Medalists 1 They- are an honor tp our Church in ' America and a noble example to our rising generation.
I wish them length of days and our dear Lord's choicest blessings that’ they may continue their good . work for. God and country.
I. am yours sincerely, , . ,	5* James McGolrick, .
.	. -	.	. Bp. of Dal nth.
Davenport, Iowa, May 15, 190S.
. To the esteemed Laetare Medalists:—Permit me, an humble servant ' of oiir Holy’ Mother the Churc'1, . to join in unison with your many-friends and extend to you my sincerest congratulations. ,.	’
. By. your excellent efforts in the cause of-education, ' ■ science and tie arts,, by your unparalleled strides in commerc'al industries, you have endowed the Catholic ' name with fame..; The ivonls ;Go, teach all nations,” were addressed .by .Christ .not to. His apostles alone;.
. all the disciples and all •Christians,yVere and are to. be	;.
the ministers pt .His Gospel, each .one in his .separate sphere. / <-■	...V-.. -	' .
.Like the apostlesy’buyhave.goiK forth and the sound. .- -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
; of your voices and the attractive power of your noble actions have , reached the ends of our great and grand . country, uprooting prejudice, dispelling ignorance and J silencing forever those slanderous tongues, who would proclaim the Catholic Church the mother of ignorance.
;	The spread and defence of Christianity is dependent
-•	• not only on the clergy but also on the laity, who ought
to assist in sho wing’forth to the world the reasonableness and beauty of our holy religion. The laity constitutes the lay-apostolate. By counselling the ignorant, f	by strengthening the wavering, by comforting the
i.	sorrowing, by extending, the hand ' of true and sincere
i	charity, by bringing sunshine to cheerless homes by
living lives of,industry, by making a name in their respective professions, to which not only their co-relig-p— ionists, but the unbiased world must refer with pride r and respect, is the duty of a lay-apostole fulfilled.
To bring out the best that is -in him is the duty |	■ that each man owes to himself, to society and to
God. During this life no one can enumerate the num-| ber of faltering brethren who have been enkindled and h	sustained in the faith; no.one can recount the number
g	of conversions that have been wrought by the perusal
|	' of the lives of such characters as Columbus, Thomas a
g Becket, St. Louis of France, St. Elizabeth of, Hungary, | St. Francis of Assisi, Archbishop Neuman, Archbishop f‘ Carroll, Leo XIII., etc., etc.	.
|	Yet too often these noble souls are looked upon, as
b	statues to be admired rather than as examples to be
|	copied. The. living, the -weighty, the irresistible influence
I	is met -with only in those with whom we associate.
|	The Catholic Church will ever be judged not by the men
(	she has produced, but by the men.she is producing. In
S	this material age the lives of the saints appear .vision-
5	ary; but'the erudition, the scientific achievements, the
t commercial fame of such as you, worthy Medalists, i must bring home to all that the Catholic Church is the I handmaid of the sciences, the protectress of Christian I morals, •
1	Not only does Notre Dame University—that bulwark
!	of the Catholic learning and piety so dear to us all—
t '	look upon you to-day with a righteous pride, no,
i	the entire Catholic Church .of America sees in you,
!	-	esteemed Medalists, the Davids and the Judiths, who
,	have won the battle in the cause of Catholicity before
'	the bar of the American public. All Catholics extend
to you to-day their best wishes., Maj' God bless you
1	and your labors. May He. grant that your example,
. your lives, which Lave shed such lustre upon our holy ' religion, 1 may. be the fountain whence others may ' draw forth courage and inspirations to assist you in . your good work and to continue it.,
-Asking God to shower upon you, esteemed Medalists, "	. His richest benedictions, I remain, .	.
'	Your very humble servant in Our Lord,
,	. James Davis,
*	-	Bishop of Davenport, Iowa:
Sacramento, May .14, 1908. .
. .My Dear Father'Cavanaugh:—Very sincerely, do I congratulate you on the coming meeting of the-Silver : Jubilee .of the living members of tire Laetare Medal.
______	________ ____ the Conferring of the Laetare Medal. The recipients are. It. needs but little observation to see. the important. . an honor to the University, to the Catholic Church, to part the laity are taking, and are called upon to take ourcommon country. . In honoring them the University
547
in the growth of -Holy Church. To encourage and accentuate this providential movement by conferring a medal on those who singularly distinguish themselves by loyal devotion to the Vicar of Christ, to the. spiritual works of the Church, and to spreading the Catholic princip’es of a solid patriotism, is worthy of all commendation.	' .
Wishing. you greater and greater increase, with every blessing from
Yours truly in Xto., Thomas Grace, .Bp. of Sacramento.
Los Angeles, Cal., May 18, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:—Your letter of May 9 was awaiting me when I returned from the North. I much regret that I came too late to forward to you the word of congratulation to the Medalist of yester-daj', as well as to the distinguished men and women who.in the past have received the Laetare Medal. I . would have been exceedingly pleased to send a word of special congratulation to my esteemed friend, Mr. Monaghan, who certainlj' has won the right to be considered one of our prominent and distinguished Catholics.	■
With best wishes, I am _	.
Yours very sincerely, ’ ,	® Thomas J. Conaty. •.
!	. Scranton, Pa., May 12,190S.
Very Reverend Dear Sir:—Although I am hurrying to take a train, I must snatch a moment to offer'my congratulations to the distinguished Medalists, .whom not only the University of Notre Dame honors, but -whom the whole United States delights to honor. May God bless them and reward them for what they have already done, and spare them for many years to continue the g* od work bj’ which they have not only brought honor to themselves but also glory to His Church in this country.	.
Faithfully yours in Wf., ’	'
M. J. Hoban,
'	Bishop of Scranton.
' Kansas City, Kansas, May 14, 1908.,
■ Very Rev. and Dear Father:—It w’ould be a real pleasure for me to be at Notre Dame next Sunday to say a -word of congratulation to those who have been honored with the Laetare Medal, but as I can not be there in. person, be good'enough to extend for me most cordial greetings to the assembled Medalists. They have done much for the. cause of religion, and the Church delights to recognize them. Their friends . and the friends of Notre Dame rejoice because of the Silver Jubilee of the Laetare .Medal. -
With sentiments of esteem I remain,
, . Sincerely your friend, .	:
. -	- Thos. F.- Lillis.
' Belmont, N. C., May 12,1908.
Very Rev. Dear Father:—Notre Dame Universify has every reason to celebrate joyfully the Silver Jubilee of
548
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
honors itself. No one can more fully appreciate the great influence of such men and women on society than those, who, like myself, are w orking among people who know little that is true or good in the Catholic Church. Names such as those who adorn your roll of honor give prestige to the religion which they profess. May the future Medalists be worthy succecsors of those who grace your festal board today!
Tendering my best wishes and congratulations,
I am very sincerely, Leo Haid, O.S. B., Abbot,
- Vic. Apost. ofN. C.
Detroit. Mich., March 18. 1908.
Dear Sir:—I have the honor to acknowledge your courteous invitation to visit the University of Notre Dame, the 17th of next May, in company with the other holders of the Laetare Medal, to celebrate the 25th year of the institution of that medal.
In ordinarj- circumstances, it would give me great pleasure to do so, and to renew my friendly relations with so many at Notre Dame; but I feel that mj-age and infirmities forbid it, and force me to remain in my present sobtude.	•
Wishing you and your visitors much pleasure and profit from the meeting, I remain,
Your friend and servant,
Henry F. Brownson,
’ New York City, N. Y.. March 19, 1908.
■ Dear Father Cavanaugh:—Your esteemed favor of the 14th inst, forwarded from St Louis, is received. I thank you for the kind invitation to the contemplated assembly of the Lsetare Medalists, which you have arranged to take place on May the 17th of this year.
I am sure this meeting of the gentlemen who have been honored as the recipients will be a most happy occasion, and I can not imagine anything that would be more pleasing to me than to be fortunate enough to be able to attend such a reunion. At present, my dear Father Cavanaugh. I can not say certainly that I will be able to come, but of one thing I can assure you, and that is that I have every desire to be present for that occasion and will do my best towards1 shaping matters in such manner as will enable me to do so. I certainly know that I would be greatly the loser if I am denied by circumstances that great pleasure and desire; especially meeting with His Graee of St. Paul, whom, it is always a pleasure to see.
This letter is to assure you that it is my full intention to try and be with you; yet there is’ nothing certain in this world,1 and while it is mj7 hope, I would not now state for certain that I can-be with you, but that the effort and ” the determination shall govern my movements in the meantime. .
With all good wishes, I beg to remain, . • . ‘	. Sincerely yours,
’	. _	■	- R. C. Kerens.
’	■ ■ Washington, b. C., May 11, 1908.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:	;	,
; I have-delayed writing in-the hope. that after all I might be able to join the Lmtare Medalists oh Sunday next. Unfortunately, the apprehension expressed in my ifdegram has been realized, and. L must deny.myself
participation in that reunion. I am sure it is unnecessary to add that my disappointment is exceedingly keen. Indeed it is probably the most unpleasant of all the disagreeable consequences entailed upon me by this illness in my family.
Pray present my cordial good wishes to the gathering, and believe me always,
Very' sincerely yours,
W. Bourke Cockran.
[Telegram].
’ Washington, D. C., May 6, 1908.
Rev. John Cavanaugh:—Regret sincerely many engagements render it absolutely impossible for me to come to Notre Dame Maj717. Please express mj7 best wishes to gathering and regrets that I can not be in attendance.
Charles J. Bonaparte. .
Boston, Maj714, 1908.’
Rev. Dear. Father Cavanaugh : —Confirming telegram which I have just forwarded to j7ou, I regret exceedinglj7 that on account of the sudden and verj7 serious illness of my son, I shall be unable to attend the meeting of the Laetare Medalists on next Sunday. I looked forward to that occasion with the happiest thought, and it is a sore disappointment to me to be unable to be with you. I have persuaded Miss Katherine E. Conwaj7 to sacrifice some other considerations so as to attend, and I feel sure that my place will be far better filled by her presence. She will leave Boston to-morrow and arrive Saturday afternoon. I will thank you to express to the ladies and gentlemen attending my best wishes and my sincere regret at being unable to join them at this time.
With best regards, I remain,	'
-	Respectfully yours,
T. B. Fitzpatrick.
- New York, May 16. 190S.
[Telegram]
President John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Uni versitj' of Notre Dame.
Greatlj7 regret being absent, but am with you in spirit. Present mj7 congratulations to the recipient.
. . '	.	T. A. Emmet.
[Telegram]
New York, May 16, 190S.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, University of Notre Dame. •
The genial spirit of the Catholic Club send greetings to you ai.d are proud of j7our choice of Francis J. Quinlan, 1906 Laetare Medalist. Hope you and Doctor enjoy smoke of peace now in session.
Terence Farley, Joseph T. Brady, Louis L. Schwartz, Henry Lilly, John D. Connolly, A. F. Dalton, Harrj7 T. Arnold, James P. Cahill, G M. McCabe, H. A. McCabe, J. M. O’Brien, C. E. Kennedy, Joseph T. Ryan, Charles . Murray, Thomas Mother, Edward J. McGuire, William R. King, W. B. McMillan, J. H. Howell, John Jerome Rooney, J. M. Fitzpatrick,’ Clarence J. Ramsey, Sarre-field A. Lavelle, William H. R. Killion, William F.-Harrington, John A. Lee, H. J. Meehan, William J Moran,. P. J. Conway, M. E. Courtney, Joseph H. Carr, . F. E. Fonseca.	-	-	.	-	\
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
549
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame. Indiana
Notre Dame, Indiana, May 30, 1908,
-	Board of	Editors. •
ROBERT	L. BRACKEN, ’08	WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’08
FRANCIS	T. MAHER, '08	VARNUM A. PARISH, ’08
IGNATIUS	E. MCNAMEE. ’09	JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’08
JOSEPH	BOYLE, ’08	JAMES J. FLAHERTY, ’08
EDWAR1	M. KENNEDY, ’08	ROBERT L. SALEY, ’08
FRANCI	S X. CULL, ’OS	OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09
GEORGE	J. FINNIGAN, ’10	COE A. MCKENNA, ’10
RICHARD	COLLENTINE, ’09	EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09
HARRY A	. LEDWIDGE, ’09	PETER E. HEBERT, ’10
THOMAS	A. LAHEY, ’ 11	JOHN B. KANALEY,. ’09
Jubilee of the Laetare. Medal.
The celebration of the Silver Jubilee of the Laetare Medal took place May 17. It is now twenty-five years since the University of Notre Dame inaugurated the praiseworthy custom of bestowing the honor annually in recognition of the distinguished services rendered to the cause of religion and humanity by men and women who have done the work of the lay. apostolate in America. Death has taken away most of those who were thus honored, and the weight of venerable years is resting upon the shoulders of others, so that only a few could by any possibility be present at the exercises; and this number was still further reduced by the unforeseen difficulties of active life. In spite of these difficulties, the celebration of the historic event was made noteworthy by .the distinguished presence of Katherine Conway, Dr. Francis Quinlan, the Hon. Timothy Howard, Hon. William Onahan, Dr. John Murphy, and James Monaghan.
At eight o’clock in the morning the students, faculty of the University in cap
and gown, and visiting Medalists, marched through the grounds in procession and. took their places in the church. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by the Rev. Father Cavanaugh, assisted by Fathers Crumley and Schumacher as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by the Rev. Dr. John Talbot Smith, a master of choice diction and charming delivery. The choir was unusually excellent, the singing of Master Jennings of St. Edward’s Hall being particularly praiseworthy.	.	.
After the services in the church were . concluded, the faculty and the senior class gave a reception to the Medalists in the University parlor. At noon an elaborate dinner was served in the Brownson hall, refectory, the Medalists and guests being present. Prof. Petersen’s orchestra rendered very fine music . during the course of the dinner.
At half-past two o’clock visitors, students . -and faculty assembled in the Church of the Sacred Heart where Vespers were sung, followed by Benediction of the most Blessed Sacrament. The Te Deum was sung. After the Vesper exercises a visit to St. Mary’s Academy concluded the afternoon program. At 6:30 the University band, under the direction of Prof. Petersen, gave a concert.
At 7:30 the formal conferring exercises were held in Washington Hall. The stagesetting was unusually charming. The program was opened with an overture by the university orchestra.
Following this, Dr. Francis Quinlan of New York delivered an address filled with charming sentiment and glowing with admiration for, the University for the great thing it did when it founded the Laetare Medal. Dr. Quinlan was chairman of the meeting, and announced the various numbers on the program.	.
President Cavanaugh then read telegrams and letters of congratulation received from many dignitaries throughout the country, among them being His Eminence Cardinal , Gibbons . and Monsignor Falconio, papal delegate to the United States.
Hon. Timothy E. Howard, of South Bend, spoke upon the Laetare Medal, telling of its origin and history and commenting upon each of the twenty-five Laetare Medalists chronologically. A Notre Dame song was
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sung by the audience, following which the formal conferring of the Lmtare 'Medal on Dr. Monaghan took place. President Cavanaugh read a brief address setting forth the reasons for which the high award was merited, after which he pinned the medal upon Dr. Monaghan’s coat.^
If Dr. Monaghan’s reply was characterized bj: one thing more than by another, that thing was gratitude. There was a ring of sincerity in what he said, and as a matter of fact, this may be said of him whenever he speaks. We have the pleasure of reproducing the address together with Dr. Smith’s o	o
sermon, Father Cavanaugh’s of speech presentation and Judge Howard’s historical sketch.
When the program was ended in Washington Hall and the audience had tendered to Dr. Monaghan their personal congratulations, the distinguished Medalists repaired to the dining-room where the remainder of the evening was spent in pleasant enjoyment in the company of the officers of the University and a few invited guests.
Everything considered, the celebration was a most notable affair, bringing together so many prominent Catholic laymen from all parts of the country, and focusing upon the University the attention of the hierarchy . of the United States.
Entertainment at St. Joseph Hall.
East Thursday evening the St. Joseph Debating Society entertained the members of the interhall debating teams on the occasion of the formal presentation of the Max Adler banner to the winning team. W. Zink, J. Fruechtl and A. Hilkert, the inter-hall champions, were, also victorious in their debate at New Carlisle. The following is The program of the evening’s exercises:
Address, J; V. Diener;. athletics at Notre
Dame, E. A. .Funk;> violin solo, F. Doorley; presentation of banner, Prof. W. E; Farrell, Director of Inter-Hall Debating; acceptance, J. Fruechtl ; piano solo, V. McGillis.y ’ . . Immediately after the piano solo there .was ; an address : by : Father Quinlan, another by. Mr. Wilbur and one by. Professor Farabaugh. . .	? . -	.
Ascension Thursday.
Last Thursday was First Communion Day at Notre Dame, Father Cavanaugh singing Solemn High Mass Coram Episcopo at eight o’clock in the morning, and Bishop Alerding officiating at Confirmation in the afternoon. An overcrowding of the space in this issue makes it impossible to publish a detailed account of the ceremonies of the day, beyond giving the names of those on whose account the day was observed with such solemnity.
Sponsors :
Joseph Tor ok, Gallitzen Farabaugh, Michael Shea. .
’	First Communion :	’
Ramon Collazo, Herminio Yturria, Fernando Caso, Julio 'Alarcon, Fausto Yturria.
First ComiMunion and Confirmation:
Gustavo Adolfo Ros, Pedro Barrenquy, George Maurice. Lucas, Gerald Mercellus Daily, William Roland Oliver, William Joseph Richardson, Edward Anton Sippel, Joseph Theurer, Raymond Brennan, Francis Arthur Barclay, Walter Bentley, George Alfred Beane, Millard Marsh Burtt, John Albert Cagney, Robert Emmett Cantwell, Louis Michael Fritch, Judson George Follett, Francis Thomas Keefe, Jesse A. Madarasz, Walter Joseph McBride, Charles Whitty O’Farrell, Fred William Powers, Cornelius Harrington Paule, Andrew Rokop, Charles Milton Richmond, Michael Bella. ’
Baptism, First Communion, Confirmation:
.William P pin telle Downing, Clarence Alonzo Jennings, Robert. Benjamin Gotfredsdn. .
Confirmation :
.. Herbert Dwyer, Stephen Czywski, Stanislaus Sielava, Francis Fergus McIver, William .Francis Cody^ .Edward Listecki, Theodore Susen, Clarence' Peter. Schickler, Stanislaus Henry Klarkowski,. Francis Burns, Stephen Janecki, Ladislaus Rosczynialski, Harold -Hinderschied, Nicholas .Engler, Eric: Von Zelewski, Adolplf Prawdsik, ’William; Boyle.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. The Flight of Time.
To the Her. .1. J. Fnwh, C. A. C.. May 24th, IUDs'.
rT'HE mystery of Time’s unequal flight— Slow-dragging in life’s keen, impatient May,
Then swifter growing with each later day— We rarely try to solve or read aright
Till startled by some date, outstanding bright, Which speaks of years, nay decades, ebbed away, And warns that Age full soon will wield a sway* . Resistless as the fall of darkening night. •
Yet need no tears o’er vanished lustres flow, Nor doth young manhood gone exact a sigh
When all one’s past, as trusty records show, Has been a service true to God on high:
No tinge of grief to-day* befitteth thee;
]oy rules, supreme, thy Silver Jubilee.
Arthur Barry O’Neill, C. S. C.
---------
Father French’s Silver Jubilee.

May the 24th was a memorable day at the Seminary, for it was the twenty-fifth anniversary of the ordination of the Rev. Rector. In commemoration of the event Father French himself celebrated Solemn High Mass in the Seminary chapel at six o’clock in the morning. He was assisted by the Rev. W. R. Connor as deacon and the Rev. G. I. O’Connor as subdeacon. Mr. J. J. Boyle was master of ceremonies. At twelve o’clock dinner was served. Several invited guests were "present; music was discoursed by the seminary orchestra and speeches were made, Air. J. Corbett delivering the formal address of greeting to the Jubilarian. •
In the evening “ Coom-na^Goppel,” a play by John L. Carleton, was presented by the members of the Holy Cross dramatic society. The following is the cast of characters:
Sir Christopher Parese of Crowlogue, Stanislaus P. Szamecki; Ranklyn Parese, his first born, Michael A. Mathis; Donal O’Sullivan Parese, inheritor of the Spirit of Dunboy, George Finnigan; Brian O’Hara, better known as Brian-oge, John A.’ Devers; Skeleton McClutchy, an I. L. P. U. Solicitor, William Carey; Darby Darrell,.useless, still ' ; useful, Sylvester A. Hosinski; Paudeen Devine, a miser under the ban of . the boycott, : Charles A. Marshall; Ralph Remington, .Criminal Investigation Department, Francis
T. Maher; Solomon Cheathim, the usual 100 p. c., Charles A. Marshall; Maurice Burke, General Secretary of the League, William J. O’Shea; Phelim, w*ho supplies penny* news, William J. Burke; Mortimer, Superintendent of • Constabulary*, Timothy P. Hagerty; and Johnny, who gives you a lift, John P. Butler. ’	’
To -give special praise to those who. did so well as to deserve the applause of all would be to say gracious things about each of the actors.	’
The Corby Reception.
The Corby Literary* Society of Notre Dame University gave a farewell. reception to the President of the University, the faculty and the Varsity athletes in the Corby. Hall reading-room last-Wednesday ey*ening. The function from every point of view was the most elaborate and .most, successful ever held in Corby Hall. - The. decorations .were artistically arranged. Crepe paper was hung from the ceiling. On- the walls were pennants of various . colleges, cushions and various other draperies. Subdued . electric light bulbs lent an enchanting air to. the scene. Air. Hutchins in ‘ particular, is to be • complimented for the success achiey*ed. .
The program, which was very interesting and cleverly arranged, was as follows:
Overture, “The.Time, the Place and the Girl/’ University orchestra; address, . “Greeting and Farewell,” W. A. Hutchins; overture, “Tropical Moon,”, 'orchestra; “Exhibit D,” James E._Deery; vocal solo, . “To the Evening Star,” J. Trinidad Lopez; address, .“The .Athletes,” F., J. Roan; “A . Knight for a-Day,” orchestra. This was • followed by the. ‘.‘ Dizzy. Whirl,” music being rendered by the University orchestra...	'
After the programme Bishop. Alerding . spoke a few words of congratulation.* He-was followed by Rey*. John Talbot Smith; of. New York city, who gave a very viyid . description of the exci ting. ball. game, ofthe	•
afternoon, and was very .funny throughout. • A number 'of * stories used to illustrate ■ points, were, amusing and were happily' selected. President Cavanaughi gaveone of; his characteristic* talks.T Refreshments yvere - . servedp after which dancing was enj'oyed. ' ' .
552
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Our Eastern Trip.
Notre Dame, 2; Syracuse, 1.
The Varsity inaugurated its march through the East at Syracuse Friday, and a cold, drizzling'ram, coupled with a few cloudy decisions by the umpire, came near making the new stadium the first Waterloo of the season. The game was a heart-breaker from start to finish, and it took nine full innings to annex our first eastern victory.
“Dreams” Scanlon was on the‘firing line for the Varsity, and although somewhat wild, owing to the wet condition of the ball, he was invincible in the tight places, and pulled himself out of many a hole. Gardiner, the star slabman of the Orange, sprung a surprise by holding Curtis’ men to three hits and striking out ten men.
Bonham opened the session by driving one at Gardiner which he juggled, and Brogan sent him down to second with a neatly placed bunt, beating out the throw. Daniels filled the sacks a moment later when Brown failed to handle his bunt, and with Gutshaw up things looked bright. “Cut” found the first offering much to his liking, and a line drive over second sent Bonham and Brogan across the rubber for the only tallies of the game. Cutshaw stole second, Dubuc popped one to Gardiner and Ruell walked, but Centlivre and Scanlon lailed to connect safely, and the half was over.
Syracuse started things off with a rush. Morrissey with two nothing on him slamming a high ball into right for two bases. The- next man walked and both advanced a station on a passed ball. Power skied to right, Morrissey beating the throw-in and recording the only run for the Orange. The next two men were easy outs to Centlivre and Cutshaw. .
The succeeding rounds produced no results in the tally line, although Syracuse had men on second and third five times with, only one out, but the needed hit or fly was not forthcoming. The worst score came in the eighth. Truax singled and Sullivan bunted, “Dreams,” failing to cut Truax off at second. Brown lived on Brogan’s error, but hope revived when “Dreams” threw Truax out at .the plate on Mack’s bunt. Gardiner eased the tension by striking out.
Morrissey grounded to Ruell who threw to Brogan for the third out. C. Morrissey, first up in the ninth, reached first on Cutshaw’s error, went to second on a pass ball, and it began to look like extra innings. “Dreams” braced, however, and struck Power out. The next two were easy infield outs, and Notre Dame had won its first eastern victory.	'
Notre Dame.........................B	r h p a	e
Bonham, If.........................5	1 0 0 0	0
Brogan, 3b.........................3	1112	0
Daniels, lb........................3	0	0 10	1	0
Cutshaw, 2b........................4	0	1 .1	2	1
DuBuc, cf..........................4	0	0 1	0	0
Ruell, ss..........................2	0	1 2	4	0
Centlivre, rf......................4	0	0 2	0	0
R. Scanlon, c......................4	0	0 10	0	1
F. Scanlon, p......................4	0	0 0	4	0
Totals.......L..................33	2 3 2713 2
Syracuse..’........................b	r	h p	a	e
J. Morrissey, If...................3	12 10 0
C. Morrissey, lb..............~....2	0 1 11 0 0
Power, 2b..........................5	0	0	0	1	1
Raaflaub, ss.......................5	0	0	1	1	0
Truax, cf..........................5	‘ 0 10 0 0
Sullivan, c......................  3	0	0	11	0	0
Brown, 3b..........................3	0	0	1	1	1
Van Armon, rf.........;...’........3	0 0 1 0 0
Gardiner, p......................  3	0 116 1
Mack, rf..........................1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals.......................  33	1 5 27 9 3
Notre Dame...........2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0=2
Syracuse..........1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0=1
Two base hits—J. Morrissey. Struck out—By Scanlon, 7; by Gardiner, 10. Base on balls—off Scanlon, 7; off Gardiner, 3. Hit by pitcher—Daniels, Brown. Stolen bases—Daniels Cutshaw, Ruell. Sacrifice hits— Power. Left on bases—Notre Dame, 8; Syracuse’, 13. Passed balls—Scanlon, 2. Umpire—Robertson, Cornell. Attendance—3000.	'
♦ • • . • * *
Notre Dame, 8; Williams, 1.
Dubuc pitched and every man played the game—that tells the story of the 8-1 victory over Williams May 16. The eastern school was completely outclassed and was not in the running at any stage of the game. The weather was ideal, and the Varsity played with the old-time dash and spirit which was so wofully lacking in the Syracuse game the day previous.
To Dubuc must be accorded the highest credit for the victory. His line of offerings was working to perfection, and two singles in the fifth and eighth rounds were all that
' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
553
Williams could corral in the hit column. Cutshaw also stepped into the limelight with three singles, two stolen bases, and a sensational running catch back of second.
The Varsity had their hitting togs on and rounded up eleven wallops during the struggle. They scored a tally in the fifth, and recorded in every round thereafter except the seventh. To clinch matters Phillips, Brogan and Daniels clouted out three safeties in the ninth, netting two runs. Williams tallied their lone score in the fifth on a hit, an error, and a base on balls. The score:
Notre Dame......................ab	r	h	p	a	e
Bonham If........................3	0	1	0	0	0
Brogan, 3b.......................3 110 0 0
Daniels, lb......................4	2	210	1	1
Cutshaw, 2b......................5	2	3	1	4	0
Dubuc, p.......................  5	113 4 0
Ruell. ss..................■.....4 0 0 0 0 0
Centlivre, rf.......i............4	12 10 0
McDonough, c.....................3	0	0 10	0	1'
Phillips, cf..................--.3	112 0 0
Totals..........................34	S	11 27	9	2
Williams......................  ab	r	h p	a	n
Hamilton, cf.....................4	0	0 1	0	0
Kelly, If..................'.....3	0 0 1 0 0
Mills, 3b.............i..........3	0 0 2 2 0
Wadsworth, 2b....................4	0	0	3	2	0
Osterhout, rf....................4	0	1	0	0	0
Young, ss........................4	1	0	4	3	0
Harman, lb.......................3	0 011 10
Lewis, c.........................2	0	0	5	0	1
Templeton, p.....................3	0	1	0	5	1
Totals..........................30	1	2	27 13	2
Notre Dame..........0	0 0	0 1	2 0	3 2=8
Williams............0	0 0	0 1	0 0	0 0=1
Two base hits—Dubuc. Double plays—Wadsworth to Young to Harman. Struck out—By Dubuc, 9; by Templeton, 4. Base on balls—Off Dubuc, 2; off Templeton, 2. Hit by pitcher—Daniels, Brogan, Mills. Stolen bases—Brogan, Cutshaw, 2; Hamilton. Sacrifice hit— Brogan, McDonough, Bonham. Umpire—Howells.
Notre Dame, 8; Dartmouth, 3.
Despite the fact that it was the thirteenth game of the season the Varsity triumphed over Dartmouth Monday, 8-3. A bad sky bothered our men considerably and was in great measure the cause of the large total in the error column. Daniels was to the fore every minute and his steal home in the first inning after he had clouted out a three-bagger was easily the star feature of the game. Dubuc was there with the big stick,
getting four bingles out of five times up.
Dartmouth scored their only runs in the eighth when they reached “Dreams” for hits which with a couple of errors yielded them three tallies. Brogan was dazed by a collision with a base runner in this inning, and his injury was responsible for three' of his errors.
Scanlon was in good form, giving but one pass and striking out eight men. The Varsity’s hits were bunched and these, coupled with heady base running, gave us the game. Following is the score:
Notre Dame.......................ab	r	h	p	a	e
Bonham, If.......................4	0	0	0	1	2
Brogan, 3b.......................2	3	1	3	2	4
Daniels, lb......................3	2.	1	9	0	0
Cutshaw, 2b......................5	2	2 1.3	0
Dubuc, cf........................5	0	4	0	0	0
Ruell, ss........................4	112	2	1
Centlivre, rf....................5	0	13	10
R. Scanlon, c....................4'0	0 9	0	1
Scanlon, p......;................4 0 1 0 3 0
Totals....'.....'................36 8112712 8
Dartmouth.........................AB	R	H p	a	E
Schildmiller. rf....1....'........’5 0 2 1 0 0	-
Glaze, cf..........................5	1	0.2	0	0	•
Leonard C..........................5	1	111	2	0
Hobart, ss.........................4	0	0	1	1	0
Eaton, 2b..........................4	0	2	3	3	0
Brady, lb..........................4	0	17	10
Kelly, If.....................  ...3	0	0	0	1	1
Conroy, 3b.......................  4	0	1	2	0	0
Severance, p.’...................4 110 10
Totals.......................38 3 8 27 9 1
Notre Dame.........2	0 0 2 0 0. 2 0 2=8
Dartsmouth......... 00000003 0=3
Two base hit, Dubuc, Leonard; three base hit, Daniels; double plays, Centlivre to Cutshaw: struck out, by Scanlon 8, by Severance 8; base on balls, off Scanlon, L off Severance 4; hit by pitcher—Brogan, 2; Ruell. Stolen Baces—Brogan, Daniels. Sacrifice hits—Bonham.
Notre Dame, 3; Vermont, 6.
The Varsity had many things to contend with Tuesday at Vermont, the principal one of which, outside Collins, was the umpire, whose work was the rankest that the team has yet encountered. Many Vermont rooters left the stands in disgust and declared it the most disgraceful exhibition of umpiring ever seen on the Vermont field. He began the day?s proceedings by warming. up the Vermont pitcher and his loyalty to the locals never wavered from then on.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
With a fair deal the Varsity would undoubtedly have won,' as the “umps” put Dubuc in a hole repeatedly bjr refusing to call strikes and a • couple of raw decisions on the bases crippled our chances of scoring.
Dubuc was in grand form, but his control was hampered in the early innings by a strong breeze which swept across the field. However, he showed’up strong in the final rounds and was: invincible when hits meant runs.- His two-baggers were responsible for two of our run$.
Collins opposed him on the mound and pitched a masterful game, striking out thirteen men and giving no free passes. He also recorded in the hit column with two singles and a two bagger. ’
Vermont started scoring in the first. Collison walked, Gardner lived on error by Dubuc, and Burrington .was an easy out to Daniels. Collins scored Collison with a sharp single;- Haynes went out Ruell to Daniels, but Paquet with two nothing on him connected with a waste ball for a single, scoring Gardner. Collins registered on hit by McConnell.' Watkins struck, out.
In the fourth McConnell, first up, walked, and Watkins was fairly struck out, but “umps” refused to call them, and the next ball, a straight one over the middle, he slammed for two bags, both scoring later on infield hits. The work of the umpire in this inning was such that it even brought groans from the Vermont rooters.
The work of the “umps” kept the Varsity from scoring in the fifth. McDonough, first up, singled and went to third on Phillip’s safety. Phillips went to second on the throw to third which was returned to second, but although Phillips'was clearly safe as the second baseman failed to touch him, the “umps.” called him out. At this juncture Curtis asked for a new umpire threatening to leave the field; and although a West Point- man, one of the best umpires in the East, w ho. has been regular umpire at .Vermont, was. on the field,-, the request was refused. It looked as though Vermont meant to win by any * * *• means. Another storm . was raiseda' second later when he made McDonough return to third -after scoring on the throw to second to head off Phillips. This action, was wholly unaccountable. McDonough 'was thrown out at home on
a grounder to the pitcher. Bonham went out third to first and the round was over. A double plav, McDonough to Ruell, in the third was the star feature of the game. The o
Score:
Notre Dame.......................ab	r h	p	a	e
Bonham, If........................4	0 1	0	0	0'
Brogan, 3b........................4	112	0	0
Daniels, lb.......................3	1	2	7	1	0
Cutshaw, 2b.......................4	0	1	2	4	0
Dubuc, p..........................4	12	0	11
Ruell, ss.........................4	0	0	1	1	1
Centlivre, rf.....................4	0	0	2	0	0
McDonough, c......................4	0	1	10	1	0
Phillips, cf........:.............4	0 1 0 0 0
Totals.........................35	3 9 24 8 2“
Vermont................'..:......ab	r h p a e
C<>lli=on, 2b.....................3	10	12	0
Gardner, ss.......................4	10	12	0
Burrington, c.....................4	0 0	15 1	0
O '
Collins,- p.......................4	-1 3	0 2	0
Haynes, cf........................4	110 10
Paquet, 3b......................  4	0	2 1	3	0
McConnell, If.....................3	1	1.0	0	0
Watkins, lb.....................  4	118	0	1
Smith, rf.......................  2	0	0 1	0	0
Totals............................32- 6 S27.ll 1
Two base hits—Dubuc, 2; Cutshaw, Collins. Double plays—McDonough to Ruell. Struck out—By Collins, 13; by Dubuc. 9. Base on balls—Off Dubuc 3. Hit by pitcher—-Daniels. Stolen bases—Daniels, Centlivre, Paquet. .Passed balls—McDonough, 1. Wild pitches— Dubuc, 1. Umpire—Thomas of Brown. Attendance— 3000.
*
*• *
Notre Dame, 2; Fordham, 0.
Dubuc pitched, every man played ball, Ruell slarnmed out a homer,—look over these facts and you have a summary of the 2-0 victory over Fordham, May 21. It was probably the headiest exhibition of baseball that the Varsity has offered on the trip. From “Bonnie,” with his two hits and two stolen bases, down to Dubuc, every man was there with the “pepper,” and every man is to .be accorded a big'share of the laurels.
Of course Dubuc was the main obstacle to Fordham m the sebrm^ line as he gave them _but three hits and two passes, but McDonough’s hurling to second was also a‘ cause of regret to them. He nabbed the four men • who attempted to steal, and accepted eleven chances without an error. His throwing was superior to any seen on the Fordham grounds this year. McKee was back in the line-up; for; the first time on the. trip, and played his usual fielding game, but hit Tn hard luck;	‘ /
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC '
555;

Ruell pocketed the batting honors of the day by his home-run crash in the fourth, scoring Brogan who had connected with a double a moment previous. The long drive in right was responsible for the only runs of the day, and when Ruell completed the circuit the Notre Dame contingent, who occupied the West Stand, went wild. Two men were out, and had it not been for Ruell’s stunt, the session would have gone extra innings.
Fordham started off like winners; Hartman slamming the second ball pitched into left for three sacks, but he got no farther. Dubfac plugged Eagan in the ribs, btit McDonough eased the situation by nipping him at second. Hartman did not even attempt the journey- home on the throw. Mahoney struck out and Coffey ended the round by grounding to Daniels. It was the only time that a Fordham man reached third and' only one saw second during the fray. Dubuc got revenge on Hartman by striking him out the next two times up. Captain Brogan dotted twice in the hit coluihn and played a superb game.
■ The Varsity all but scored in the ninth. Daniels first up was hit; Cutshaw hit to second and Daniels was thrown out. Brogan then came along with his second hit of the day, advancing Cutshaw to third. Brogan stole second, and with but one out, things looked promising in the score line; but Cutshaw was nabbed at home on a grounder to to the first baseman. Ruell failed to connect, but the game was safe, as the first two Fordham men went out, Cutshaw to Daniels, and Mahony skied to Centlivre. *
Tn passing, it might be remarked that it was the first defeat Fordham has suffered bn their home grounds in. two years, and' it'was the second defeat of the season.
The New York Alumni attended the game in a body and gave encouragement by many a lusty U. N. D. The score:	. _	_
Notre Dame...............:.....ab r- h p a e -
’ Bonham, If.........................4	0	2	0	0	0
McKee, cf.........................4	0	0	3	0	0
Daniels, lb....................  3	0	0	4	0	0
Cutshaw, 2b.....*..:............ 4	O'	0	7	4	0
Brogan, 3b.........  .'....'..4 1 2 -K0 0.
Ruell, ss....-...,.."......... -4.	-KI 1 1 1
Centlivre, rf................... 3	0	0 3 0.	0
.McDonough, c................... -3	0.	0'7 4	0
Dubuc, jC....;...;......................  3	0"	1 1'1	0
' Totals ........................32	2	6 27 10	1 -
Fordham...............  .ab	r h p a.; e
Hartman, If.... Eagan, cf..... Mahoney, p.... Coffey, ss.... McDonald; c... Baldwin, lb... A. Schiess, rf.... E. Schiess, 3b. McCaffrey, 2 b. Total..........
.4 .3 .4
3 .3
3 .1 .3
3
0 0
0 0
0
1 0
0
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
6
0 '
0 0
2 0
112
0 012
0 0
0
0 0
0 0
1 0
0 0
0 0 4
0
0
0 .
0
0 -
27 0 3 2713 0
Two-base hits—Brogan. Three-base hits—Hartman. Home runs—Ruell. Struck out—By Mahoney, 10; by Dubuc, 7. Base on balls—off Dubuc, 2. Hit by pitcher— Daniels, Eagan. Stolen bases—Bonham, 2; Brogan and Dubuc. Passed balls—McDonough.	:
' • * * '
Notre .Dame, 9; Boston College, 0.
Boston College was played May 20 and proved the easiest proposition of the entire trip, the Varsity disposing of them 9-0. The game was of the listless variety, and at ho time did the Varsity have to exert them-, selves. “Dreams” did slab duty, and had? the B. C. boys at his mercy every minute. Daniels and Centlivre attracted attention by their all-around work. The score:
Notre Dame..........................ab	r	h	p a e -
Bonham, If..........................3	1	0	1 0'0
Brogan, 3b........................  3	2	1	2	0	0 ■
Daniels, lb..........................4	3	1	7	1-	01
Cutshaw, 2b.......................  5	0	0	4	2	2.
Dnbuc cf..........................  5	0	0	2	0	0"
Ruell, ss.........................  5	2	2	0’2 0-
Centlivre, rf........................4	r	2	0	0	0:
Scanlon, c........................  3	0	P11	0	0
Scanlon, p.....................;....3	0 1 0 3 0
Totals.....:.....................  35	9	7 27	8	2
Boston College......................ab	r	h p	a	e
Ryan, If............:...............4	0 14 10...
Hopknis, lb..........................4	0	010	0	2-
Low, 2b.....................;.......4	0 1 2 5 0*
O’Kane,	cf....:................„..„.3	0	2	2	0	1
-Walsh, 3b...........................4	0	10	1	6 .
Doyle, c.............................4	0	0	7	0	0
Maloney, rf..........................3	0-	0-	1	0	0-
Cox, ss.....................  ......3	01 1	2	1’
Finn, p..... .......................3	0	0	0	2	2
Totals..............................32	0	6 2611	6
Notre Dame.„....,.,....2	2 2 1 0 2 0 .0 0=9
Boston...............-.0 0 0 0 0 0 -0' 0 0=0 - -
Two base hits—Daniels, Ruell, O’Kane. Struck out— By Scanlon, 11; by. Finn. 1. Base on balls—Off Finn,	.
4. Hit by pitcher—Brogan. Stolen bases—Daniels, 2; . Centlivre.. Sacrifice hits—Daniels, Centliyre, Scanlon, F. Scanlon. Passed balls—Doyle, 2.	- .	„ „ .
' ■ - • .* • ' . ' . . ' ’ ' _ » ♦ ’ ’ ' _ ' ' - - ■ ' -Notre Dame, 11; Georgetown, 2. .
Georgetown proved a walk away for: the

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
a
Varsity. The easterners were outclassed from start to finish and never had a look-in. Aside from the Boston College game it was ~the most one-sided and uninteresting exhibition of the entire trip.
The Varsity pocketed the game in the first inning when they registered seven tallies and the, easterners were never dangerous thereafter. Bonham lived on an error of the second baseman, McKee drew a pass, and. the sacks were crowded when Daniels arrived safe on McDonald’s error. Cutshaw was walked, forcing in Bonham. Brogan failed to connect, and then the real slaughter began. Ruell singled scoring AIcKee, but Daniels collided with Smith and was declared but for interference. Centlivre. and Mc-
Three base hits—Duffy. Home run—Dubuc. Double Plays—Courtney to Mayock. Struck, out—By Dubuc, .1; by Scanlon, 6; 15y Devine,-4; by Diamond, 1. Base on balls—Off Dubuc, 1; off Devine, 3; off Diamond, 2. Hit by pitcher—Bonham, McKee, Centlivre, Brogan. Stolen bases—Daniels, 2; Cutshaw, 2; Centlivre, 1; Dubuc. Sacrifice hits—McDonough. 2; Mess. Innings pitched—By Dubuc, 3; by Devine, 5. Hits—Off Dubuc, 2; off Scanlon, 4; off Devine, 7. Passed balls—Duffy, 2.
* batted for Devine in 5th.
t Daniels out for interference.
3
Donough helped things along with slashing singles, and then Dubuc clinched matters by a home-run drive in centre emptying the bases. Bonham was hit and McKee ended the round by grounding to McDonald.
Georgetown tallied one in the second on a base on balls, two singles and a fly to McKee. - Three singles and a fly to McKee yielded their other run . in .the fight.
Dubuc was indisposed before the game, but started the session, retiring in the fourth
One. of the most enjoyable features of the Eastern trip was the cordial hospitality extended the team by the alumni and Knights of Columbus of the various cities. Lack of space forbids a 'detailed account of the social feature of the trip, but the many receptions were marked with a spirit of friendship and genuine cordiality which the

as
. after driving in five funs by ..his timely hitting. Scanlon succeeded him and. gave : but four hits. ' Aside from -the work of Dnbuc, Ruell and Cutshaw were conspicuous in the feature line; The csore:
members of the team will not soon forget.
LeMoyne Council K. of C. of Syracuse entertained the squad with a delightful musical program, and banquet and manifested their friendly interest by attending the game next day in a body. The Council of Burlington, Vt., proved themselves royal hosts by arranging an informal dancing party which forms one of the most pleasant recollections of the trip.
The alumni were out strong in Boston, New York and Washington, and their “U. N. D’s,” given with the old-time spirit,
Si
Notre Dame......
Bonham, If......;
- McKee, cf......
Daniels ib;.......
Cutshaw, 2b......
Brogan, 3b.......
Ruell, ss........
Centlivre, rf.—
McDonough, c.
■ Dubuc, .p.......
Scanlon, p...;....
Total........}!.......
Georgetown.......
. Mess, 3b...;.....!.
Schlafly, rf........ : Simon, cf..;...... ; McDonald,lb... .Courtney, :lf......
Mayock, 2b....;.
- Duffy, c..;.........
H,Smith, ss.....
Devine, p.'......
Diamond, p...;..
Montgomery
Total................
Notre Dame.;...;
"‘ : - Georgetown..};!
... AB RHP ;-„4	i	o. i
....2	2	O 3
....5	I	O II
o o
I

3
4
o
h l 3
O 0 2
5 2 2; 4.
3 . 2 .2
3
2
I O O
o o o o o .
.0 o
11- 7.10 I 2 O I o o 6 -0 1 o
.33 ii 7 27 12.0
. AB R H P A E
-3 o o.
..4 o I
..•4 6 o-
I : 6 .O
2 o IQ
,4 O-O-12
4-rl
39
3; o
30
I .1 I
o o' o;
I p ;i~ :2 6
O I
il
2 4 3 0 o o
J I 2 I I 2
I O
1
Q
I '
Q 2 2
O ’
O
O
31..’ ,2 ; 626715 -7
7 5 o' • 1 o. 1 . p ; 6 2o=n .6 1 ■ o 6 1 .■ 6	6 - 0= 2
were a source of much encouragement to the team. Banquets were tendered the team in each city, and many speeches, filled with loyalty and devotion to Alma Mater, rendered the occasions most enjoyable. It was a source of much pleasure to the team to meet the old “grads;” and the alumni of the East bj- their kindness and cordiality established a lasting claim to be numbered among the truest and most loyal sons of Notre Dame.
The phenomenal success of the baseball 'team is due in no small measure to the skill with which Coach Curtis directed the plays during the progress of each game.
Last Monday the Inter-hall Athletic Association entertained the fans with a program of novelty games at Cartier Field, the first of the kind witnessed at Notre ■ Dame. For the success of the affair great credit is tobe given to Fay F. Wood. Prizes
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC ■
.557
i
were donated by the merchants of ’South Bend. They have the- thanks of all.. The following is the summary:	.
220-yard dash. Open—O’Leary, B., 1st;
Allen, C. 2d; Schmitt. St. J., 3d.. Time, 22 sec.
Distance throw. Open — Wood, S. 1st;
Murphy, C. 2d; Sours, C. 3d. Distance, 358 feet.	.
Accurate throw—McNally, St.J., 1st; Allen,
C., 2d.; Sinnott, C., 3d.	-
100-yard dash. Handicap—Murphy, C., 1st; Allen, C., 2d; Pick, 3d. Time, 10 4-5.
Circuit of bases—Roach, S., 1st: Maloney,
B., and McDonough, C., tied for 2d. Time, 14 3-5.
Three-legged race—McDonald, Moriarty, S., 1st; Wood and Attley, S., 2d; .Funk and Hebenstreit, St. J., 3d.
Running backward, 40 yards—Attley, S., 1st; Murphy, C., 2d; Moriarty, S., 3d..
. Bear Race—Maloney, B., 1st; Sours, C., 2d; Schmitt, St. J., 3d.
Hop, step and jump — McNally, St. J., 1st; ' Schmitt, St. J., 2d.; Wood,3d. Distance, -27 feet 10 inches. ;	L ‘
Standing broad jump—Wood; S.,. 1st; Didon, B., 2d; Murphy, C., 3d. Distance, 9 feet 3 inches.	.	.
Standing high jump—McNally, St.J., 1st;
Wood, S. 2d; Dillon, B., and Moriarty, S., tied for second. Height, 4 feet 3^ inches.
Sack race—Foley, B., 1st; Heyl, C., 2d;
Moriarty, S., 3d.	*
High dive—Foley, B., 1st; Wood, S., 2d.
Fungo hitting—Burke, S., 1st*; Murphy, C., 2dj Dugan, B., 3d. Distance, 443 feet.

The Game of the Season.
By D. E. Lytide.
THIS isn’t any cooked-up yarn; ’tis plain, unvarnished fact; ~	.
Twelve hundred witnesses can swear the narrative's exact.
* Moreover, there’s the score-card for that now historic date .	’
Of May the twenty-seventh, in the season Nineteen Eight.	'
You see there are' occasions when e’en Fancy is outdone, ■	-
When fiction isn’t in it with the truth—and this is 5one;	•
For poet, ne’er imagined such a wild ecstatic roar	’ /	.
As upward pealed from Cartier Field, when	, .	.	.
.	.	Cutshaw
■ ■ • ' ‘ Tied ';"
• .	.	:	•	The Score.
The game'had been_ an uphill fight ’gainst “Indiana State;’;’ -	\ ,
The Gold and Blue had somehow failed to strike their normal gait.
. Just, back from conquering the East, with victory full flushed, .
■ It surely looked as‘if their hopes of triumph would be crushed!
A rally in the seventh filled our rooters’ souls with glee, . ~	.........
But till the very last our foes rejoiced, in “4 to 3.”	\	.
.. Our ninth. Two out. A man on third. . Came Cutshaw to the Tore.;	.
Two strikes were called—then Bedlam -bawled, for ,	'	*	'
.	.	Cutshaw . .	.
’	- '	’ ‘	‘	.	Tied '	‘ \
,	’	.	'	:	,	. The Score-
The end came quick. Another hit; the hero cantered home, . . .
And blasts of vocal dynamite just rocked the Golden Dome. -
- - Well might the rootersplit his throat and fling on - high his hat;
He’ll older grow before he sees another game like that.
- -The moral of the day’s so clear that, .they may read who run: -.Enduring pluck means oft in.life.as here, a lost game won.	’
Play out your game for all you’re worth, though h’ope: seems nigh death’s door, ’ . For, just observe, ’twas steadfast nerve helped- ' “ '	•• ..	* -r '5
'	-	'	? ’	’	'	' Cutshaw 'f;?;	:>-
-	:	..	• A	. The Score;
558	‘ NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Our Victory at DePauw.
In the Interstate Oratorical Contest held at DePauw University, Friday evening, May 15, Mr. W. P. Lennartz, Notre Danie’s representative, won second place. Besides Notre Dame, the colleges represented were: Northwestern University, University of Michigan; Denison University and Juniato College.
Mr. Lennartz opened the contest, — a position not most advantageous for a winner when as many as five are competing. When he arose from his seat, cheer after cheer filled the hall, and from introduction to peroration Air. Lennartz held the keenest attention of his audience; His soft, melodious voice blended with the ease and appropriateness of’ his gestures, left an impression too deep to be lost sight of even after the masterpieces that followed. To be ranked second in a contest such as the one held at DePauw is a credit to any institution.
Air. G. P. Wishard of Northwestern ~ University won first place. His oration was developed much along the same lines as that of our representative, but his experience of former years, having won the Northern Oratorical League Contest as a representative of the University of Wisconsin in 1907 and having won the State Contest of Illinois, placed him first in the fight; naught else but words of praise can be said of the other competitors. Each- did very creditable work, both to himself and to his institution. Air. Wishard was awarded a prize of seventy-five dollars, and Air.
, Lennartz, one of fifty.
This interstate contest on the subject of International Peace is to be an annual affair, and the various colleges of the states are invited to take active part, for the highest standard of excellence is. expected . in the final contest.
New Oratorical Association.
On May the 13 th representatives of a number of Indiana colleges met at the State House in Indianapolis to form an honorary national oratorical fraternity. Tau Kappa Alpha is the name of the society formed.
Membership in the organization- will be limited to college men who have represented their institution at intercollegiate contests in debate or oratory. The organization will be similar to Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi, which are honorary, literary and engineering fraternities.
The organization will be national in its scope, and is intended eventually to become to oratory what Sigma Xi and Tau Beta Pi were to engineering. National officers were elected at the meeting. H. T. Aliller, Lieutenant Governor, was chosen grand president. The other officers follow: vice-president,; Joseph J. Boyle, Notre Dame University; treasurer, Walter H. Linn, Wabash College; secretary, Oswald Ryan, Butler College.
Brownson Inter •'Hall Debating Record.
1905-6—Brownson-St. Joseph (Freshman) won two to one.
Debaters: Alessrs. R. Blum, G. Sprenger, T. Young.	•
Brownson-St. Joseph (Preparatory) -won unanimously.-
Debaters: Messrs. C. Rowlands, E. Clear, D. AIcDonald.
1906-7—Brownson-St. Joseph (Freshman) won unanimously.
Alessrs. D. AIcDonald, R. Dougherty, H. Boyle.
Brownson-Holy Cross (Freshman) won unanimously.
Debaters: Alessrs. D. McDonald, H. Boyle, R. Dougherty.
Brownson—St. Joseph (Freshman) lost two to one. •
Debaters: Alessrs. J. Condon, F. Hollearn, S. Graham. ’	.
1907—’98—Brownson-St. Joseph (Preparatory) lost unanimously.
Debaters: Messrs. H. Burdick, G. McCarthy, F. Madden.
Brownson—Corby (Freshman) won two to one.	.	-	•
Debaters: Messrs. P. Donovan, J. Sullivan, G. Sands.
Brownson-Holy Cross (Freshman) lost two to one.
Debaters: Alessrs. P. Donovan, J. Sullivan, G. Sands.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
559
Track Meet.
Personals.
N. D., 6V/2; M. A. C., 64y2.
. Coach Maris and his track team suffered . the first defeat of the season, May 16th, *	at the hands of the Michigan “Aeries.”
j	The score was close and the. meet was an
\ exciting affair from start to finish.
Capt. Keach, O’Leary and Dana were the •	star performers for Notre Dame, and the
;	time made by each man in his event—the
;	100-yard dash, 220-yard dash and mile—
' ■'	was exceptionally good. Murphy and Wood
: ,	each picked off a first in the hammer and
:	the shot; and had “Woody” been able to
J	duplicate his form with the hammer that
; . • he showed in the tryout before the meet, ! •	the Varsity might have won. The same
:	Wood made a good heave in the shot put,
-;	but was by no means up to form in the
; ’	hammer throw. Cripe won the broad jump
' :	and Moriarty tied for first honors in the
i ;	pole vault, but our inability to land seconds
and thirds lost us the meet.
Scales and Moriartv had to content i	themselves with second and third in the
;	high hurdles, but neither man wTas in good
; shape. “Bill” Schmitt .showed class over ;J the low sticks, and Shea ran a good race s ? in the two mile. Following is the summarv:
120-jrard high hurdles—Small, M. A. C., 1st; Scali s, j I N. D., 2d; Moriarty, N. D., 3d. Time, 16 1-5.
; |	Mile run—Dana, N. D., 1st; Carr, M. A. C., 2d; White,
u M.A. C., 3d. Time, 4:41.
!I-Iigh jump—Allen, M. A. C., 1st; McDonough and .-Scales, N. D., tied for second. Height, 5 inches 316 ft.
440-yard dash—Oviatt, M. A. C., 1st; O’Leary, N. D., 1'"	2d; Bignell, M. A. C., 3d. Time, 51 4-5.
Broad jump—Cripe, N. D., 1st; Small, M. A d., 2d; McDonough, N. D., 3d. Distance, 20 feet S inches.
100-yard dash—Keach, N. D. 1st; O'Leary, N. D, 2d; t	Allen, N. D., Miller, M. A. C., tied for 3d. Time, 10 1-5.
j	Shot put—Wood, N. D. 1st; Campbell, M. A. C., 2d;
I White, M. A. C., 3d. Distance, 3S feet 16 inch.
220-yard low hurdles—Cartright, M. A. C., 1st; ! Schmitt, N. D., 2d; Scales, N. D., 3d. Time, 27’ 1-5. ]	Hammer throw—Murphy, N. D , 1st; White, M. A. C.,.	2d; Wheller, M. A .C. 2d. Distance, 100 feet 10 inches.
220-yard dash—O’Leary, N. D., 1st; Keach, N. D , . 2d; Miller, M. A. C., 3d. Time, 23 1-5.
।	Discus throw—Carleton; M. A, C., 1st Campbell,
M. A. C., 2d; Clark, M. A. C., 3d. Distance, 106 feet 2 inches.	"
V	Two mile run—Carr, M. A. C., 1st; Shea, N. D., 2d;
I Tillotson, M. A. C., 3d. Time, 10:IS. -
' Pole vault—Barker, Gilbert, M. A. C., and Moriarty, N. D., tied. Height, 10 feet.	•
Half-mile run—Oviatt, M. A. C., 1st; Dana, N. D., 2d; - Allen, M. A. C., 3d. Time, 2:04.	.
—M. E. Louisell, wrho was a. student in the preparatory department from ’87 to ’90, is now delegate of the 27th senatorial district to the. Michigan Constitutional Convention at Lansing. Mr. Louisell resides at Frankfort, Michigan. He is grateful , to the University, and realizes how much good it is doing in many ways. St. Joseph Hall has reason to be proud of his success. _
—W. A. Austin, who attended the University tw’enty-two years ago, is at present interested in the development of one ofthe largest copper mines' in the world, the “ Copper King,” owned by the Pacific Copper Co., with headquarters in Mexico City. Mr. Austin is the principal shareholder. As a student he specialized in geology, chemistry and mineralogy, and fitted himself for the kind of work in which he’ has been interested for years. *
—Lawrence N. McNerney, Law, ’06 was married to Miss Marie. Murphy at Elgin, Ill., May 7th. The bride and groom visited the University on their honeymoon trip and received the congratulations of students and faculty. Lawrence will be remembered as one of our star baseball players. His success in athletics was, how’ever, merely an earnest of the success he is achieving in his profession and politics as well. He is in line for the office of clerk of the circuit court and has a good chance o£ getting the position. The . bride is a person of charming personality and rare accomplishments. Success and happiness be the share of both in abundant measure.
—John D. O’Hara (student 69’-’71 and ’74—’75) was a recent visitor at the University. The folio-wing account , of the noted actor is taken from the Catholic Columbian :
- “an actor of ability.
“John D. O’Hara, who played the part of the Scot in the lamented O’Sullivan’s play, ‘Peggy Machree,’is now with Lillian Russell, where he takes the character of an old race-track reformer. That he will make the part worth while goes without saying, for. he is gifted with histrionic ability, and gives to his characters an artistic finish
%
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC .
fe
pf
which makes them stand out with peculiar distinctness.
“ Mr. O’Hara, who is a native of Chicago, received his early education at Notre Dame University. Later he was sent to Montreal to college and also to Paris; and the culture thus acquired has stood him in good stead in his stage career, which has been marked with success. He is an enthusiastic Knight of Columbus, and always keeps in touch with the members of the order wherever he goes. Mr.' O’Hara’s wife, who was formerly an actress, travels with her husband. The company was in Columbus Friday night.	.
Obituary.
The sincere condolence of faculty and students goes out to Mr. Raymond Dougherty in the terrible affliction which has recently befallen him. Within a few brief days Raymond has been deprived by death of both his Lather and mother. Mr. Martin A. Dougherty passed away May 5th and twelve days later Mrs. Dougherty also went to her eternal reward. The bond of affection was extremely strong in this family and Mrs. Dougherty never rallied after the loss of her husband. It is needless to assure Raymond that the beloved departed will not be forgotten in prayer and sacrifice.— R. I. P.
Mr. Edward J. Callahan died in Omaha
last week.
in his day.—J?. L.P.
He was a prominent student return from the East last Tuesday evening was memorable in many, respects. The cheering was done _ splendidly, and the speeches were .of the right sort, particularly
Local Items.
—This afternoon the new flag tower will. be dedicated to the service of athletics. '
—During the early . part of. the coming week the prize oratorical contests will be held.	.
. —Lost—A gold cuff-button with the initials J. Mcl. Finder please return to Bro.
Just in Carroll Hall.	«
att j	Ji. j v i n deserves a lengthy write-up, but space can’t
-Wanted-a second-hand bicycle. Person , be bad w^kJfor loTe opmoneyF Brother having the same for sale should report at Cyprian has. merited a hundredfold the room 22, Main Building.	. thanks of all the members of Carroll Hall.
—Last Sunday the Reverend President of the University spoke at the laying of the corner stone for the new hospital at Logansport.
—The readers of the Scholastic have reason to thank Mr. J. Kanaley for the excellent reports of the games played by our baseball team on its Eastern trip.
—Max Adler has donated two banners to the winning teams in inter-hall debating; next week he will banquet the Varsity baseball team at the Oliver Hotel.
—On Thursday, May 21, the Corby baseball team defeated the New Carlisle athletic team at New7 Carlisle, the score being 6 to 0. Heyl and Summers did the pitching. Skahan was behind the bat. -	.
—Elaborate preparations are being made for the forthcoming function in Corby. Nothing of local hall character has received such special attention as the Farewell Programme announced for the evening of May the 27th.	. .
—There was no issue of the Scholastic last Saturday, owing to the fact that the addresses, letters and telegrams relating to the Silver Jubilee of the Laftare Medal required additional space beyond that which is used in the weekly edition. In spite of the fact that we are using sixty-four columns in this number it will be impossible to find space for complete accounts of many of the local happenings of the last two weeks.	. .
—The reception tendered the team on its
§





those of Brogan, Kanaley and McKenna. There was another celebration on the campus Wednesday evening after the victory over Indiana, 5—4, of which there will be a full report next week.
—Thursday, May 21, was a great day ' for Carroll Hall. The Philopatrians had their annual picnic, and not only enjoyed the fun themselves But also extended an invitation to the other members of the hall. Delicious things were served on the rustic tables, and games were indulged in. The .picnic was such a splendid affair that it