The Notre dame
SCHOLASTIC
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X- RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
What kind
Why not telephone home often? Long Distance rates to most points are lowest any night after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday. .
of Math do you call this?
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d. s.
Cyril F. Rose. d. d.s. Peter J. Rose. d. d. s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
It sounds crazy—but let’s see how it would be perfectly possible in the telephone business.
Suppose an improved method is devised that clips just one second from the time required to handle one toll ticket in the accounting department. Apply this-method throughout the Bell System—handling an average of some 55,000,000toll tickets each month—and it would effect a monthly saving of nearly 1% years!
A second saved here, an unnecessary step cut out there—on such close attention to "little” things rests the Bell System’s ability to provide the finest, fastest, cheapest telephone service in the world.
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
_	ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	-	- -3
COLLEGE PARADE
— RAYMOND J. KELLY	—
Brooklyn Philosophy
Probably as the fruit of a subway expedition to the haunts of Gerra, Hogan, Concannon and others of oui' non-Eng-lish speaking minority, the Fordham Ram states—
Renounce the devil, the flesh, The world—
And all the rest of life
Is sperled.
Tradition Triumphs
Though this ephemeral thing called tradition has been taking a kicking of late, it did come through when the Navy won last Saturday. Each Thanksgiving Day, a football game is played at West Point, between the “Goats,” a squad composed of the 35 lowest men in the second class, academically speaking, and the “Engineers,” who are the brightest cadets. It is time-honored tradition that a victory for the “Goats” foretells an Army win in the ensuing battle with the midshipmen. So, when the “Engineers” beat the “Goats” this year a Navy victory was inevitable.
For the trophy room
Besides the old oaken buckets, battered oil cans, a little brown, blue, gold, and vari-colored jugs that are permanent trophies for football games in different parts of the country, many schools have strange awards for non-athletic endeavors. At Drake, the members of the dramatic group present a large wooden bone as a symbol of membership in the “Boners” club to any member of the stage crew who commits a particularly grievous error during the course of an all-university production. At the University of Detroit, the members of the ASME and the AIEE have an annual quiz contest, to the winner of which is awarded a self-adjusting, bell-ringing, flourescent-lighted slide-rule.
Politically speaking
At Indiana U. recently another movement was started to arouse the interest of college men and women in municipal affairs. A Good Government, league was organized and efforts are being made to establish branches of it in various other colleges. The Parade would like to see such a movement prosper and grow because, after all, we do expect that the college students of today will be the lead-
ers of tomorrow and it is well that they know practical, municipal politics now. However, like most movements this will be only moderately successful and that for only a short while because most students don’t care about politics and those who are interested are too busy settling the problems of the world. There are many groups like our own Wranglers, Economic Round Table, and Academy of Politics which devote their time to talking over the great affairs involving nations and whole races yet ignore the fundamental unit in any government, the city or town. It seems a waste of time to bring the experience and judgment of the average undergraduate to problems that baffle the best minds of the country. After all, they have had no contact with these affairs; at best, their opinions are only those of their favorite experts. Then, too, only a few of them will ever be in a position to deal with national affairs. On the other hand, nearly all of us have had something to do with politics in our home town or- in our county, either in working at a political job during vacations or working during election time for one of the political parties or at the polls. Most of us,
at some time or other, will have something to do with the political set-up in our community. Yet, we never seem interested in municipal affairs. While we prepare our papers on totalitarianism or interregional trade, we never pause to consider why that ignorant unscrupulous incompetent always manages to be elected in our home town, why our city hall cost so much more than the larger and more luxurious building the insurance company put up across the street. After all, if our states and city are run intelligently and honestly the country won’t go to the damnation bow-wows even if “that man” has a fourth term.
Concerning Hulnks
“Herbie,” an effervescent, inane lad, dashes off a column every week for the University of Detroit’s Varsity News. Much of his space is devoted to the meandefings and activities of the fabulous Hulnk who thwarps his lonely way through life in the jungles of . Detroit.
From the War Front
If you see a group of bewildered intellectuals, wandering about, looking lost and homeless, don’t immediately conclude that a boatload of refugees has been suddenly dumped on the campus. They are only English majors who have read Mortimer Adler’s latest speech outlawing them and calling for the abolition of their specialized courses.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF^—
Top of the Week
The Trojans—it took the Greeks ten years.
Gilding the Lily
' Recently ‘ the rock” held a Charity Ball.... a name that should be given to more of their dances.... Two seniors decided to brave tradition and have a little fun for the evening.... so they went over without dates, of course.... They equipped themselves with a camera and a dozen flash bulbs and told the hostess that they were from the Dome, a yearbook at Notre Dame... this was the “sesame” and they were admitted.... they took pictures of the most beautiful girls, heh-heh, draped around fireplaces and their dates.... the atmosphere was one of social ecstasy.... as is customary the names of these two worthies will not be divulged and they will have to be known merely as Duke Murphy and Howie Essick.... the fact that they had no film in their camera is incidental.
❖
Blackbirds of 1940
Murder mysteries are good for the conscience.... you’ve got to be good to read them.... Jim Byrne, bouncing Dillon prefect, was Sherlocking through a thriller when he noticed a scratching noise on his door.... the scratching persisted and Jim put down the book to answer the door.... no one was there at the door or along the corridor.... the scratching continued after Jim resumed his reading.... angrily he threw open the door and almost stepped on a big black crow, the very same crow that was grounded indefinitely by “the big wind”.... unhospitably Jim slammed the door and returned to reading “The Raven”. ... this is regrettable because it isn’t often that a principal character makes a personal appearance with each reading of a book.... John Maloney does not tell it quite this way.... but he’s too soft-hearted.
Rumors and bored
Everyone is worried about the beginning and end of Christmas vacation.... we would like to put a stop to that.... vacation began yesterday and anyone that is staying around now is just pure zany.... and if you didn’t leave with the
smart people you can extend your parole until the 34th or 35th of January.___ this is the first year that the Camel people have not offered to sponsor a student caravan to the Southern Cal game.... they generally offer to send the student body in a fleet of air liners flying in a block N.D. formation.... Major Bowes has decided not to accept the role of . m.c. for the K.C. vaudeville show.... reason given is that things being as they generally are, the biggest gong available is in the church.... and that would involve technical difficulties.... and a previous commitment.
❖
The frosh
A fairly sober lot.... Already they have mastered the correct form for saving seats in Washington Hall.... some freshmen have made the mistake of thinking that this applied also to Pullman cars named Washington.... they have also learned to twist spoons and forks in the dining hall and the vast number of other things that one learns to do and think in the dining hall.... they have learned to make a"noise like a fog-horn as they dash across the campus on returning from midnights.... they have learned to make a noise like have learned to read the Scholastic. ... which may or may not have something to do with the general intelligence level .... they have all made the test pilgrimage to “the rock”.... no fatalities.... they have learned that the leaves turn fastest around exam time.
♦
Rambling
The Sorinites are going to cash in the advantages of tradition and throw a hall party.... for all practical purposes they are serving punch.... for all practical purposes.... however, those boys have taken the initiative in a move that other halls would do well to emulate.__the thespians of “Outward Bound” are laboring this week under the illusion, or delusion, that their pictures will be in a Chicago Sunday paper.... we hope the aforesaid team of Murphy and Essick did not take the pictures... or do we... Interhall basketball practice games began this week.... Breen-Philips had 35 baby bruisers.... the opening of the league signifies legalized manslaughter .... the rules include a free throw for every knocked out tooth presented to the referee.... broken fingers are not redeemable.
OPINION
Army life is getting a build-up these days, but the only smack of it most college students get is in the Reserve Officers Training Corps. Whether or not Notre Dame should introduce an R. 0. T. C. unit once again is a much discussed question.
Badin Hall, Richard Cotter says yes, in order that upon graduation the members of the student body may have some training to back them up in case they are later called upon to fight. Substituted for physical education, it would give the fellows a certain amount of exercise, too.
Lyons Hall: Dick Smith says no. “In general you can get only one type of training, whether it is infantry, heavy artillery, or cavalry. Maybe you’d be better at or more interested in another type and would be put in that other division once you were actually in the army. You’d then have no chance to use what you had already spent four hours a week to learn.”
Alumni Hall: Frank B. Kennedy thinks R.O.T.C. would work in pretty well here because the fellows are regimented quite a. bit as it is. He believes that “most of them would like it, and since they’ll have to face conscription soon, the basic training for the army would come in handy.”
Carroll Hall, Andy Barbiere: “I’m in favor of having R.O.T.C. here, principally because of the discipline involved in drills and in keeping uniforms in trim. In four years you get commissioned as a second lieutenant, and are thus more
• liable for promotion in time of war.”
St. Edward’s Hall: Joe Rorick feels that students, at least those taking engineering and those with jobs, wouldn’t have time for both studies and military training. The fact that lights go out at a specified hour every night wouldn’t allow enough leeway.
Off-campus, Dick Kilmer: “I think we should have R.O.T.C.; but if the college put it in, the present juniors and seniors shouldn’t have to take it in order to be eligible for graduation, because they’ve already taken physical education and hygiene.”
Brownson Hall: Elmer Silha votes for R.O.T.C. on the campus, and suggests you can follow the battles in Europe better when you’ve been taught various forms of attack and can better size up the actions of army officials.
—Carl Rohrer
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailtag at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorised June 96. 1918.
Volume 74
DECEMBER 6, 1940
Number 10
"Outward Bound" Opens Theatre Season
In Washington Hall, December 12 and 13
Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., Director of Play
When the curtain of Washington Hall’s theatre rises next Thursday evening at 8 o’clock, it will reveal the smoking lounge of a boat filled with ghostly passengers, the eerie setting of Sutton Vane’s unusual play, “Outward Bound.” This production, also to be presented on the following evening, Dec. 13, marks the year’s opening night for the University Theatre group under the patronage of the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The University Theatre is supervised by the Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C.
“Outward Bound” is essentially a ghost play, but it is quite an unusual ghost play in that there are no clanking chains, blackouts or secret panels. The entire action takes place in the smoking room of a liner, and it concerns a group of passengers upon whom the realization eventually dawns that they are all dead. The boat finally pulls into port — after better than two acts of comic treatment of sea travel — and is boarded by the “Examiner.” He is the person whom all have secretly dreaded meeting, and now he appears in the form of a sort of customs inspector who examines the spiritual baggage of the passengers. This examination ®f the spirits is the meatiest scene of the play, for all the good and the bad in these people are exposed to the audience, and each of the offenders is assigned the task of remaking his life.
Death and judgment comprise the subject matter of this play; the method used to make the mysterious atmosphere seem a little more natural is the nonchalant, matter-of-fact way in which this boatload of spirits and their examiner make things appear. The characters, from the mild-mannered charwoman, Mrs. Midgit, to tense and excitable Mr. Prior, the drunkard, are strong, individualistic persons. For her portrayal of Mrs. Midgit in the 1939 Broadway revival of this 15-
year-old play, actress Laurette Taylor won the Barter Theatre award “for the' outstanding performance given by an American actor during the 1938-1939 New York season.”
In next week’s local production of Vane’s play, the part of Mrs. Midgit will be taken by Miss Helene Cryan, assistant director of dramatics at St. Mary’s College. John Kelley will be Scrubby, the only official attendant on the mysterious boat; Ann and Henry, the youthful lovers, will be played by Miss Jeanne Campbell of South Bend, and Jim McDonough. Prior, the dissipated youth in whom there is still a possibility of redemption, is Jack White. Miss Dorothy Taaffe, director of dramatics at St. Mary’s, plays the snooty, society-conscious Mrs. Clivenden-Banks. Vern Witkowski takes the part of the Rev. William Duke; the other clergyman and also much-feared “Examiner,” the Rev.
(Continued on Page 6)
Vaudeville Performers
In Limelight Tomorrow
Preliminaries of the Knights of Columbus “old-time” vaudeville will be held Saturday, and the six acts judged best will go on the stage of Washington Hall in Tuesday night’s finals at 8 p.m., according to Tom Tearney, chairman of the event.
Among those trying for a chance at the $30, $20, and $10 prizes are: Albert Plotkin, a tap dancer; a vocal quartet made up of Glee club members — Jack White, 2nd tenor; Jim Purcell, bass; Bob Bischoff, baritone; and Tony Donadio, tenor; and the “Mystery Four,” an instrumental swing quartet. Tony Donadio will also vie as a soloist, singing “The Donkey Serenade,” and Gounod’s “Ave Maria.”
Hill-Billy Musician*
Other contestants include: hill-billy musicians Tom Delia, Modernaires’ guitar player and French harpist Joe Kal-tenbach, who will combine their talents to bring the Kentucky hills right into Washington hall; Bill Scully, Glee club baritone, who competed last year; tram
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
pet trio John Sheedy, Jo Hruby and Art Starr who plan to blow their way to fame with sweet and swing; and Ed Dunigan, playing a cornet solo.
Also among the present entries are: the all-sophomore swing quartet led by Reggie Flynn; and black-face comedians Jack Kinnare and Jim McDonough.
Only six best acts will be finally shown in order to accelerate the usually snappy tempo of the show. Even with careful streamlining, the vaudeville will last two hours.
Whelan Returns
Added pep and color will come from Jack Whelan, last year’s first prize winner, who is acting as master of ceremonies. He is well known for his breezy line of chatter and amazing sleight-of-hand tricks.
This traditional show, which turned out many performers who went on to win fame as professionals, was revived last year after a lapse of several years.
The K. of C., sponsor of the affair, has long been one of Notre Dame’s largest organizations. It is headed this year by Grank Knight Robert Sullivan, who along with Cecil E. Birder, new head of the Speech Department, will act as judges in tomorrow’s preliminary contest.—James V. Cunningham
"Outward Bound"
(Continued from Page 5) Frank Thomson, is John Coppinger. Mr. Lingley, a disgustingly efficient and successful businessman, will be played by Bill Mulvey.
“Outward Bound” was first published in 1924, and was produced on the Broadway stage that same year. During the winter of 1938-39, it was successfully revived in New York. At that time, Alexander Woollcott, writing in the New York Herald, said: “The nicked and stained little critical yardsticks which we all carry to the theatre with us are of pitifully little use when it comes to measuring the impalpable things which make ‘Outward Bound’ so stirring and so quickening an adventure. It is packed with wonder and it wrings the heart.” Heywood Broun in the New York World said of the play: “Touched with a most extraordinary imagination. Among the most interesting and moving things which have happened in the theatre while we were present.” In the New York Times, critic John Corbin wrote of it: “Something rather extraordinary happened last night. A play about death caught the attention of a New York audience, enlisted its sympathy, amused it, and ended by stirring it to very considerable depths of human pity and mortal terror.”—John Casey
Conduct Final Tryouts For Varsity Debaters
William J. Coyne, director of debate, will hold the final tryouts for varsity debate this afternoon at 4 p.m. and tonight at 7:40 p.m. in the Law auditorium. Anyone interested is invited to attend, particularly younger students who may aspire debate in future years or those who were eliminated this year.
Eleven men sur-
William J. Coyne vived the Prelim-i n a r y rounds. They will have their final tryouts as follows: Friday afternoon: affirmative — Edward Meagher, a freshman; Charles Murphy, sophomore; Charles McFarland, junior; and John Walsh, senior; negative — Mark Lies, sophomore; and Fred Holl, senior. At night, affirmative—John Burke, senior, and William Meier, junior; negative— John O’Loughlin, senior, Thomas Grady, senior; and Milton Williams, senior. The men will be limited to eight minutes for their constructive speeches and four minutes for rebuttals. The question is, “Resolved: That the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.”
Preliminary rounds were conducted last week. Mr. Coyne was assisted in the antecedent selection of the debaters by Professors Buckley, Fagan, Moran, Sheehan, and Smithberger. The final varsity squad will be composed of eight members.
The men selected for the varsity squad will go to work immediately after the final tryouts in preparation for the first debate, which will be in the Manchester tournament conducted by Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind., during the last week in February. The rest of the schedule is not yet complete.
—Robert LeMense
European War Causes
New Need For Spanish
This fall because of the large number of prospective Spanish students, three new sections were opened in addition to the regular classes. According to Mr. Walter Langford, professor of Spanish, there are many reasons justifying the expansion.
Notre Dame in recent years has been
listed among the first 15 universities representing the largest number of Spanish students enrolled. This year, primarily as a result of the European conflict, more students have taken up Spanish in preference to other continental lan-languages. This is found to be true in the majority of schools teaching languages throughout the country. German and French have declined sharply in their appeal.
Five Immediate Stimuli
Professor Langford states that the increase of commercial and general Spanish courses are due to these five immediate stimuli. Since the recent PanAmerican Pact between 21 countries of the two Americas, and the present administration’s neutrality policy, United States business is being swung .more and more into South American markets. This naturally calls for a knowledge of the South American language and culture.
As a result of our mutual proximity and the association of defense, economic and political programs, such things as the history, standard of living, and general temperament of the people should be understood, just as it is demanded of our own citizens to know such things about the United States.
Because of the increase in college enrollments, there is being created a greater demand for more Spanish teachers. Many students will probably find this field of teaching an interesting one.
Must Understand Them
Cordell Hull, secretary of state, in his recent articles stresses the necessity for a greater study of Portuguese and Spanish. Mr. Hull pleads that since the European markets are now indefinitely closed to American industry and trade, we should make a united effort to cement our relations with Latin-America by the Christian treatment of respect, cooperation and understanding.—Dick May
Hiker's Club Planned
For Draft Enrolee's
A Draftee Hiker’s club, designed to acquaint Notre Dame men xtfho are registered under the Selective Service Act, with the art of hiking, has been proposed.
When it is pointed out that students called for draft duty will be required to hike as much as 20 miles a day, the benefits of being trained for hiking beforehand, is obvious.
All interested students are invited to see John Ryan, C.S.C., rector of Walsh hall, who guarantees to produce good walkers by June.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Preliminaries Scheduled
For Oratorical Contest
The Rev. John R. O’Neill, C.S.C., director of the Breen Oratorical Contest, has announced that the preliminaries of the contest will be held Dec. 9, 10, 11 at 4:15 p.m. in the Law building auditorium. The speakers will be divided into three groups, one group speaking each afternoon. Two speakers from each group will be chosen to appear in the finals on Dec. 16.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was founded by the Hon. William Patrick Breen, ’77, and is awarded annually to any University student excelling in oratory. The award is made after decision by three judges selected by the faculty. The winner represents the University in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest, held each year on the third Friday of February. No student may win the Breen Medal more than once, but the winner of the medal may compete several times for the honor of representing the University in the State contest.
The schedule of speakers is as follows: on Dec. 9—Paul Bailey, Edward W. Boss, John Donovan, William Evans, Clifford Foskett, John Hennessy, Raymond Kelly.
On Dec. 10—Frank King, Henry Malone, Richard May, James McDonough, Edward F. Meagher, William Meier, Robert Meyer.
On Dec. 11 — Charles Murphy, T. O’Donnell, Richard Perry, James Poin-satte, John Utz, John E. Walsh.
—Mark G. McGrath
Monogram Ball Scheduled For Second Semester
The Monogram club set the date for its annual dance, a semi-formal affair, as Friday, Feb. 7. President Bob Saggau announces that Al Perrine is general chairman. Arrangements for the Palais Royale have been completed. Definite plans for a well-known orchestra will be completed within the next week. The committee announced that freshmen are to be invited.
President Saggau also announces that the initiation of 20 football monogram winners will be held immediately after the holidays. Plans are also in the making for a banquet sometime next semester.—Jack Shine
Cronin in Washington
John J. Cronin, of the department of social work, is representing the University at the American Public Welfare Conference in Washington, D. C., this weekend. The theme of the conference is the "Role of the Public Welfare in the National Defense Program.”
A CLEVER CARROLLITE DRAWS HIS RECTOR
Luis Cintron, Carroll Hall, Paints Pictures of Teachers, Students as Novel Hobby
Luis Cintron, of Carroll Hall, has distinguished himself as one of the foremost portrait painters on the Notre Dame campus. After graduating from high school in his home town of Ponce in Puerto Rico, he spent five years working as a bank teller and as a WPA timekeeper before he entered Notre Dame.
Artistic ability has run in the family for many years. His uncle, Miguel Pou, is considered one of South America’s foremost artists. The only teaching Luis has received has been an occasional instruction from his uncle. When questioned as to how long he has been drawing, he replied: “When I started to draw I do not know. I was born with the talent.” His typical Spanish accent is emphasized by his pencil-like mustache and suave South American manners.
A student in the department of architecture here, he has ambitions of becoming an architect before returning to his home country. However, he prefers to do work in portrait painting, and decided to specialize in architecture only after
Chicago Club
Music by Harvey Clyde “in the Hal Kemp style,” will be featured at the annual Christmas formal of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, to be held Saturday, Dec. 28, in the Terrace Casino of the Morrison Hotel.
According to Pete Kelly, chairman of the dance committee, bids are to be sold for $2.50 on the campus and $3.00 in the
carefully mapping out his future. With a Spaniard’s realistic outlook he decided that the field of art was overcrowded and success would come only after years of non-recognition. With this in mind he will draw building plans as a livelihood and draw portraits as a sideline. Eventually he hopes to achieve success as a painter.
Luis’ works have adorned the walls of exhibits both in South America and the United States. He has won prizes and honorable mentions in all of these contests.
While at Notre Dame he has become well known for his drawings of various students and teachers, as a hobby he draws pictures of the girl friends of his classmates, copying them from photographs. Among his most popular and best portraits is the life sized portrait that he drew of Brother Justin Dwyer, C.S.C., rector of Carroll Hall. At the present time Luis is doing caricatures for the coming issue of the Dome.
—Elmer Silha
city. As it is to be a table affair all guests should call the hotel the day of the dance for reservations. They may be made in any number from 2 to 20.
This year’s officers of the organization are: “Gus” Ryan, president; Eddie Ris-ka, first vice president; Bob Fox, freshman vice president; Emmett Necas, treasurer; and Don Hogan, secretary.
—James V. Cunningham
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Release First Issue Of
Notre Dame “Lawyer”
The schoolyear’s first issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, a quarterly law review by law students of the University, has just been released. Three main articles compose the major part of the publication: “The Scholastic Concept of International Law,” by Richard R. Baker, A.M., instructor in philosophy; “Valuation in Corporate Reorganization” by Francis J. Calkins, A.M., instructor in finance and business administration; and “The Historical Background of Administrative Law: The Inquest Procedure” by Charles Sumner Lobingier who is lecturer on law at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.
Mr. Baker’s article is timely and is most likely to interest the ordinary layman, since it sheds the light of scholastic philosophy upon the chaos of the present international situation, which, the author says, “.... comes very close to resembling the Hobbesian hypothetical 'state of nature’ wherein there was neither law nor right....” For the scholastic philosopher International Law is truly a law, even if it has been flung aside by world rulers, and its real existence can not be destroyed. The author discusses the fundamental concepts of law in general, the eternal law, the natural law and its precepts and properties, and finally international law and the principles of right of existence and self-preservation; also the right of property, the right of free action and the Christian concept of charity as it applies to nations. Mr. Baker received his degree at Notre Dame in 1934 and is now assistant professor of philosophy, at Nazareth College, Nazareth, Mich. At present he is here as a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
The interpretations of the revised bankruptcy act by the Securities and Exchange Commission, are discussed by Mr. Calkins who was formerly trade analyst with Standard Statistics Co., and is a member of the American Economic Association. An interesting historical background of the inquest procedure is presented by Mr. Lobingier, showing how the inquest developed from early Roman courts through the times of the Holy Roman Empire, its survival and growth in Spain and France, and finally the development of modern tribunal procedure in England.
The rest of the issue contains a section of Notes, Recent Decisions, and a Book Review department, articles which have been contributed by members of the Student Editorial Board. These include two book reviews by James H. Graham, Jr., editor-in-chief, as well as numerous other contributions by John E.
Savord, business editor; Ronald P. Re-jent, note editor; and by associate editors, Robert K. Rodibaugh and William J. Syring, also present legal articles. A group of faculty advisors help the students in publishing the quarterly.
—Richard Powers
By James J. Meaney
Life began for Erwin J. (The Moon) Mooney in the little southern town of
Clarksdale, Miss. He soon outgrew grade
Erwin Mooney
school, and found himself in high school, where he met girls and swing music. He took up saxophone. “The Moon” made a success of it, and played in several local swing bands. Yes, professionally —u n i o n s hadn’t penetrated
the Deep South. He learned the elements
of jungle rhythm, and even now, after four years, it breaks out of him in a boogy-woogy solo whenever he picks up two pencils at -the same time.
Another of “The Moon’s” interests was flying. He barnstormed around Mississippi with several pilots, and worked in an airport. He had heroic visions of wearing wings on his chest, and flying the clouds. He picked Boeing Aviation School in California for his training grounds. But his parents didn’t agree, so he finally decided on Notre Dame—he wished to go to a Catholic University.
Mooney arrived at Notre Dame with a very Southern accent, and with great fears of the danger of fllunking out. He’s gotten over his fears of flunking. Profs probably objected to the way he sprawled in his seat, but they liked the way he spoke up and asked questions. If Mooney doesn’t see a prof’s point, he says so, and they like it.
Mooney discovered another interest at Notre Dame—writing. He found that he liked to write short stories and sketches. It was fun. After several years of contribution, he is now an assistant editor of Scrip. He often writes dialect stories of the Deep South. One of his stories won Honorable Mention and an engraved plaque from Harper’s nation-wide shortstory contest. The placque hangs in his room in Alumni.
“Moon” has been a Third Order man for some years, and is head of the Notre Dame Chapter now. Also he is active in the Catholic Action Cells on the campus. He is especially interested in the Liturgy, the Mass, and the Missal. He’s a promoter of the Little Office. His pet gripe are those who have a dollars and cents outlook on life. The glad-hand “on the make” chaps. A rebel in many ways, he is a conformist in dress. He hates outlandish costumes on the campus— cowboy boots and five-to-ten gallon hats, lumbermen’s clothes, jockey shirts and caps. But inconsistently, he has a floppy yellow straw hat, “Brother Orchid” style, in his room. It makes him look like a plantation owner.
Mooney decided to hitch-hike home at the end of his freshman year. He got as far as Bowling Green, Ry., where he found himself on a garbage truck with a couple of bums. He used his last dime on a bus ticket the rest of the way home.
Last Easter, Mooney spent his vacation in a Trappist monastery. He returned with an enthusiasm for all things contemplative, and a new appreciation of the blessings of articulate speech.
Last summer, he made another venture, this time into an active field—he joined the Catholic Worker in New York. He sold papers on 14th Street, and hobnobbed with Bowery bums, and argued with Communists. He lived at the House of Hospitality, and worked in the soup kitchen. After a month there, he went to the Communal Farm of the Catholic Worker in Easton, Pa. The rest of the summer he jerked sodas in Mississippi. Several weeks ago he was one of the hosts of Dorothy Day when she visited the campus.
Mooney’s ambition is to teach English in a Catholic University. When he begins to elaborate to his friends, they cut him short with an epithet—“Goodbye, Mr. Chips.”
Father Matthew Coyle
Named Official Chronicler
The Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., instructor in the department of English, has been appointed official chronicler of the University for the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Duties of this position are to record and file all ecclesiastical, social, academic and other significant occurrences vital to Notre Dame life.
Father Coyle received this appointment from the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. An official chronicler is a traditional and required office wherever the Holy Cross Congregation is in charge of an institution or parish.—John Casey
$ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
20 C.A.A. Students Reach Half Mark in Course
The Civil Aeronautics Authority has been keeping 20 Notre Dame students busy for some time now with its secondary flying course. They have more than half finished a three months program devoted to 145 hours of faculty-administered ground school, under Professor Frank Brown of the department of aeronautical engineering, and 41 hours of a well organized flight course, supervised by the Stockert Flying Service, at Bendix field.
Ground school courses include the rules and regulations of flying, meteorology, navigation, and instruments. The flight course begins with five hours’ introduction to the various types of airplanes; ten hours review of airwork and twelve of strenuous acrobatics follow; finally another review and 14 hours of night and cross-country flying precede the final test which is conducted personally by Mr. Stockert.
Of those graduated the top half are recommended for entrance into the Army and Navy basic training schools. The following students are on the home stretch: Graham McGowan, Dan F. Bradley, Robert E. Malone, Bernard F. Longo, Joseph Judith, James J. Jodon, Charles M. Duke, Thomas C. Delker, James Graham, Charles Edward Sullivan, Francis T. Farrell, John T. Bat-taile, Joseph Pawlowski, Patrick Brennan, David F. Farabough, Patrick J. Finneran, Roger H. Henry, Ralph Martini, Frederick Murphy, and Patrick Bannon.—Mark G. McGrath
Notre Dame Man Named General Manager Of Cubs
In his recent shake-up of the management of the Chicago Cubs, owner P. K. Wrigley appointed James T. Gallagher, former Notre Dame student of ’25 and ’26 as general manager of the National League club.
Gallagher, at 36, becomes the youngest baseball executive in the majors. It is believed that he will replace Wrigley as president of the Chicago club should the present owner decide to retire. According to current reports Wrigley has been contemplating retirement for some time.
After attending Notre Dame in the early 20’s, Gallagher was on the staff of the South Bend News-Times. Since 1933 he has been associated with the Chicago Herald-American.
From Gallagher’s office recently came the announcement that Jimmy Wilson, who starred as catcher for the Cincinnati Reds in the 1940 World Series, had signed a contract to pilot the Cubs next year.
BY GEORGE MILES
The annual Christmas rumor has come to our ears. For the fourth time in four years we are informed in positive terms and with confident voices that the University will shut down for the winter vacation earlier than the scheduled date. What makes this year’s rumor attractive is its claim that “some official in the Main Building is betting four to.one that the students are allowed out on the fourteenth.” Now why the betting should be four to one rather than forty to one, or eight to five we don’t know. Four is a nice enough number, but we can think of many other combinations which would look far better in the rumor text. If the “official” were betting eleven to five on the nose, or a fifty-to-one parley on both the Christmas and Easter vacations, we would be more confident in rumors. As. things stand, we plan to take the train on the nineteenth of December.
* * *
Ever since the last edition of the Scholastic, and introduction of a new freshman column by Elmer D. Silha we have been disturbed. There was a paragraph in the column which was not quite clear, and we are puzzled. Elmer wrote, “I had a pleasant visit with Bernard and his parents, and learned that while he had been in the hospital some one had broken into his locker and had stolen everything of value. However, he is able to attend his classes.” Do you mean, Elmer, that the thieves left him a pair of trousers?
♦ * *
During the past weeks we have noted the appearance and the increasing popularity of a new word. When we stood in the main office waiting to pre-register we heard some tired fellow sigh that the place was a “bottle-neck”; when the snow turned to slush the other day. a fellow claimed that it was a “bottleneck” ; when our waiter failed to appear last week, he was called a “bottle-neck.” We like the word, and we think that it deserves a place beside “boon-doggling” and “technocracy.” But we think that it lacks the vividness and imaginativeness of a phrase we heard several weeks ago. A football visitor from Cincinnati told how he once had to “pick a bug” — which meant that he started a fight.
♦ ♦ *
Those new sections of fence around Cartier Field are still unpainted. With Christmas approaching, it would be a
fine thing if the University decided to color the new portion a cheery red. The painters might throw in a few poinsettia here and there, and top off the whole thing with small figures of Santa Claus. A fence of that sort would certainly help to brighten the campus these dark days, and it would give solace to those younger students who have begun to doubt the existence of Santa.
* * *
The state of our educational system has descended to the darkest depths we are afraid. A professor has offered a prize of one dollar to the member in his class who is most successful in completing a recent assignment. Practices like these are helping to hasten the degeneration of our youth, and are the cause of much of the utilitarian spirit which marks our age. Until such habits are halted we shall find on zeal for study among our college men. We call upon the students who have been tempted by the undignified bait to hold out. If that professor can afford one dollar, he can afford five. Look at “Information Please.”
* * *
The coating of ice which covers the steps of the Library is a distinct menace. Not long ago we started down and in a few seconds we were all the way down. Something happened which helped ease our pain, however. Just as we flopped to the ground, the reference librarian passed and consoled us in this way: “They ought to do something about that ice.” He was very helpful.
* * * 1
Over in the Biology Building there is a new machine which counts bacteria. We understand that the completion of this gadget is a long step towards bacteria counting perfection. And every one knows how in need of a bacteria counter the world has been. There remains, however, a need for other counting machines. Why doesn’t some one turn out a mechanism to measure knowledge. It could be used instead of examinations, and would prevent a lot of inconvenience to students. The professor could apply electrodes to either side of the student’s head and grade him according to the mark made on a metered scale. The professors would be forced to do a little work around examination time, and the students could relax and just be themselves.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC «
STUDENT FORUM
Architects Are Different!
By John W. McHugh
Architects are different — all twenty-six of us. Not only do we like you to think so, but we really are. We eat at strange times, work at strange hours, and like to wear our hats with the brim down all the way around.
Our course leads us into three colleges: We philosophically sit through engineering classes, where we are considered impractical dreamers; we patiently undergo hours of lecturing from well-meaning Arts and Letters profs; and we humbly work beside the pain-teurs of the art school—who consider us dullards. For us all of this is interesting but not too serious, and furnishes subject for pleasant chatter as we walk comfortably up to the mellowed campus home of the Mother of the Arts.
Classes are flexible. Just after the beginning of a problem you’re likely to find an architect or two sneaking back from the Huddle at about three in the afternoon; and, if you have very fast eyes indeed, you might catch a glimpse of twenty-six blue streaks dashing out of the building at 4:15. As the problem advances the whole atmosphere changes. Economics professors begin to find incomprehensible sketches in their notebooks; perplexed doctors of philosophy can’t understand the architects’ apparent sudden lack of interest in the theories of Freud or the Epicurean school; fellows begin to need shaves; in the drafting rooms is heard only the scrunch of pencils and an occasional outburst from someone who has just found that the second floor doesn’t work out right.
“How’s your facade ?”
“Facade! — I can’t even get the plan to work!”
(Another to himself aloud): “How’m I gonna get military character into this plan?”
Things now move rapidly toward the climax — we’re on the home stretch, or “en charette” as we call it. Extra-departmental profs have, of course, aggravated the situation by assigning quizzes and papers. The problem is due Monday. Freshmen are pressed into service doing petty work.
The quiet now is gone. Fellows whistle; freshmen dash around borrowing a ruling pen, cleaning out a brush, or going over to the caf to bring back sandwiches and malts for the bunch. We work through mealtimes; we work at night. On Saturday and Sunday we work while the
radio screams “Tannhauser” and the professor hums the “Volga Boatman.”
By Monday fellows quit hunting rags and now wipe pens on the inside of pants pockets. The room begins to look like Dunkirk. As the excitement increases, the atmosphere becomes gayer. The sheets are beginning to take shape. The decisions have been made, and the problem from now on is merely one of presentation. It’s fun to slap on the bright torquoise for fountains and pools, and to put on the highlights and snappy touches with white. Every now and then someone stands up his board to take a look at it. Criticisms are offered; changes are suggested; and back to the table it goes. Midnight is the deadline. A little more mad work — be sure to look it over well to see that you haven’t forgotten anything. A quarter to twelve. The prof looks over the sheet. Breaths are held. “Cut her off,” he says, “she’s finished.” Must be careful at this point — a slip and the whole sheet may tear. This is the most fun of all. The knife cuts cleanly through, and the sheet comes off looking much better. It’s twelve o’clock.
We pile out of the building and over to our halls to enjoy that comfortable weariness that comes after honest hard work.
The next day we shave, and begin all over again. Is there any wonder architects are different?
Organize New Clearing
House For Campus Clubs
A new bureau has been formed to operate as a clearing house for approving activities of all campus clubs and societies. These clubs will, in the future, notify the newly formed office of all planned activities and obtain the necessary permissions that have been handled through the office of the prefect of discipline. Bob Jehring of the Student Council will be in charge of this new office, its location is in the Alumni Office, first floor of the Main Building.
One of the purposes of this bureau is to act as a medium for unification of the clubs and societies, and the establishment of a future-events calendar to help eliminate conflicts of activities. The newly created bureau will serve as a meeting place for the presidents of clubs, who will be given information about the Placement Bureau to pass on to members of their respective clubs.
Duties of the various clubs in connection with the coming University Centennial celebration will be assigned through this organization. At that time the clubs will be divided into regional, cultural and professional divisions, each having a different function to perform.
Office hours of the organization are as follows: 11 to 12 o’clock on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday mornings; 12:30 to 2 o’clock on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons; 10 to 11 o’clock on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings.—John Casey
Campus Quiz Scheduled
As Next Radio Broadcast
During the next few weeks the campus Radio Club will bring back to the Notre Dame air-lanes a. show known as Campus Quiz. This show was one of the most popular to come out of the campus studios during the season 1938-39. At that
Radio-man Kelly
time quiz-master Walt Johnson conducted a series of contests between various halls.
It is the intention of the present con- • tingent of radio quiz-masters to continue this interhall rivalry. However, they are considering an enlargement of the scope by extending contesting groups to include city and state clubs. It is rumored that the girls from St. Mary’s might be allowed on the show, perhaps against one of the freshman halls.
The first of the current series of Campus Quiz shows is scheduled to pit the city slickers of the, campus against each other, for the Met club will meet the Chicago club in radio combat.
As the quiz-masters for the series are both New Yorkers a special attempt wjll be made to present an even contest, by having Raymond Kelly, last year’s president of the Radio Club, act as interlocutor for this first broadcast.
—Thomas F. Carty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Bill Zerbe, Well-Known Campus Policeman, Worked In Mines And Danced On The Stage
OUR DAILY BREAD
From “breaker boy” in a Pennsylvania coal mine to campus policeman at Notre Dame, is the story of Bill Zerbe. Bill has been a familiar figure at the police booth on the circle for the last six years but prior to that time Bill had pursued various occupations.
Bill’s first job was that of apprentice to his father, a. blacksmith in the town of Likens, Pa. On this job Bill got his first introduction to coal mining when he accompanied his father into the mines to shoe mules. In those days the mules were shod in the mine instead of being brought to the surface as they are now, and thus they spent all their lives underground.
After working in the mines for a while Bill got the urge to travel and drifted to Steelton, Pa., where he became a truck driver in a steel mill there. A few years later he started railroading on the Pennsylvania around Harrisburg and Altoona.
Saved In Flood
Then he quit railroading, drifted into Indiana where he was employed as a cable splicer by a power company in Indianapolis. From this job he went to another with a traction company where he did overhead work on trolley lines. While working at this an accident resulting from the flash of a short circuit caused Bill to lose his sight for a while. During this same period Bill was trapped on a house roof by the Indianapolis flood and with his companions was rescued seconds before the house collapsed.
Bill was, for a time, a follower of the sawdust trail, serving as boss hostler and assistant animal trainer with Gentry Brothers Dog and Pony show. Following this experience he went to work as Boss hostler and trainer at the county fair grounds in Cass county.
Cass County Sheriff
He worked around Logansport for a time and in 1918 was appointed patrolman on the police force there. He was advanced to sergeant two years later on the motorcycle traffic squad. In 1924 he quit the force and opened a gas station. While operating the station he got the idea of running for sheriff, and claims to have done all his campaigning at the station. He was twice elected sheriff of Cass county.
The depression hit Bill and so he moved to South Bend and set up in business. But again bad luck struck and Bill’s enterprise was “blown into the lap of Hook’s drug store” when an explosion occurred in the Palais Royale building where it was located.
Bill had to start from scratch again
and it was at this time he got the job which he holds at the present. Aside from his police and business activities Bill was a member of the theatrical profession, doing black-face song and dance routines for eight years.
Directs Traffic
In his years at Notre Dame Bill has made many friends among students and visitors. Many famous people have been
Campus Policeman Bill Zerbe
stopped by Bill’s whistle and cajoled into parking their cars and walking, instead of driving around the campus. His personality and chatter seem to have a magical effect on these people and seldom, if ever do they take offense at Bill’s “You can’t take your car down there.”
Bill holds a high opinion of the present student body at Notre Dame, which he says is the best all-around bunch of boys he’s had contact with.
Football week-ends, Junior Prom week-end, Senior ball week-end and Commencement are Bill’s busiest time but even then Bill’s good humor never leaves him. Incidentally, as a result of the heavy traffic on football week-ends, Bill has yet to see a Notre Dame team in action on the gridiron. —Joe Stephen
LITURGY
Christmas means the assurance of Christ’s presence on earth at a definite point in history.... It also means the possibility of an abiding union with God.... Each Christian is by adoption what Christ is by nature, a son of God .... Faith is the seal of sonship._____ “._____________________________________ he gave them the power to be made the sons of God, to them that believe in his name.” (John 1, 12)
Each of these truths has its own special value.... At every turn they affect man’s life.__They alone give meaning to life.... Without them there is no meaning to eternity.___“God hath sent his only begotten Son into the world that we may live by him.” (I John 4,9)
The text of the masses for Advent is an insistent repetition of these truths— The text is drawn from the Old Testament and the New, the promise and the fulfillment.... Across the bleak desolation wrought by sin, shine the twin lights of Faith and Hope that lead to “the true light which enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world.” (John 1, 9)-
The mood of the text suggests deep tension.___It reveals a reverent peremptoriness, a vast audacity.... Its modem likeness is Thompson’s “Hound of Heaven.”.... One thinks- of a child leaping joyously towards the object of its desire while holding confidently to its father’s hand.
The Collects, Secrets' and Post-Communions draw their inspiration from the other variable parts of the masses.____ The labor and the reward are their recurrent theme.... They do not just entreat, they command.___________________“Excita poten-tiam tuam; excita corda nostra,” suggest a probing to the depths, not merely a surface agitation.
Each one must surrender himself to the text as he reads.... His own needs will discover meanings that suit him.__ Nor need he fear going astray for the words are the words of the Holy Spirit .. .“The kingdom of God is not in speech but in power.” (1 Corinthians, 4,20)
(Mass Calendar on Page 27)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
WILLIAM 0. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND.
Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
FOUNDED 18 6 7
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. _ Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria-Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
1940 Renaissance
A change is taking place in the local population, a quiet, subtle type of transformation that is not yet very evident but which will gain momentum before the close of this schoolyear. It consists of a reawakening by the student body to the benefits of cultural agencies so convenient here; a new interest the individual is displaying in such intangible things as manners and tradition. Our renaissance is not spectacular, but rather is a trend that can be detected only by recounting some local events of the past four or five months.
During the summer session a University Theatre group produced—despite the fact that critic John O’Hara is bored by the Bard of Avon—the Shakespearean comedy that opened so recently on Broadway, “Twelfth Night.” The actors were students, the costumes were designed by a student, and students were in the audiences the two nights the play was staged. Reports have it that these students, unlike critic O’Hara, were not bored, and that they actually enjoyed the play!
In the early part of October, the campus had occasion to act as host to thousands of visitors here for the world premier of a motion picture. The event offered an excellent opportunity for the ego-centric, or the just plain bad mannered individual to create a spectacle— a little, personalized premier of subculture that would gain him the attention of the visitors. Yet in the week following the movie premier, the Religious Bulletin distributed a few posies for the manner in which the student body behaved itself.
Even the musical taste of the resident undergraduates seems to be undergoing a slow but definite change. A few weeks
ago the von Trapp Family, a touring group of fine Austrian singers, gave a concert in Washington Hall. The von Trapps sang a wonderful program of classical and folk music, a group of selections that could not possibly appeal to a swing-mad audience of college boys. Yet the hall was packed, and the large audience sincerely enjoyed the entire program! Compare this with the reception given some of the good musical programs presented in Washington Hall last year. Even a concert by the University Symphony last week played to a noticeably larger audience than characterized last year’s response to this worthy organization. And during a walk through some of the residence halls, one may now hear Wagner, Verdi and even Beethoven along with the popular choruses by Shaw, Miller or Crosby.
Recently the Student Council was bold enough to suggest that Notre Dame men observe one of the old traditions of not smoking on the main quadrangle. Thus a tradition that has been violated by freshman and senior alike may now be in the early stages of revival. The success of this type of mission would be the climax of our renaissance; the mere fact that the Council feels strong enough to start such a movement indicates a commendable shift in the general campus attitude toward some of our dormant traditions.
There are other quiet evidences showing the slow shift of the culture and etiquette level of the campus. The screechings and whistling at Washington Hall movies have faded appreciably this year. A new custom was initiated in the form of glee club serenades on nights before home football games. Even the library seems to be unusually active this year.
All of these examples have been given to demonstrate what seems to be a trend toward better things.—John Casey
Thumbs Up!
It seems that crowds don’t change much in the course of years. Certainly the counterpart of the fans who attended Nero’s fests in the Circus Maximus of Roman times are apparent today, and one need not look too carefully to find them. When a burly Roman gladiator, with his heavy armor and assorted weapons, finally pinned down his opponent, he would plant his foot on the chest of the piteous victim and face the emperor’s box to await the verdict. The emperor’s thumbs up meant mercy for the victim; thumbs down meant death. Thumbs up never got the same response as thumbs down. When thumbs were down the vast crowd watching the spectacle joined in eagerly. They turned thumbs down, too, and clamored wildly for the blood of the man on his back. Crowds have been doing the same thing ever since.
Every one in high place knows this trait of crowds and fears it. It doesn’t take much — just a hint of unsuccess from one sector will perhaps tumble the whole country down on a statesman. When the Yankee baseball team began to slip last spring, and slipped further during the summer, the president, the manager, and the players of the club received all kinds of abuse from fans and sportswriters. By the end of the season the Yankee bandwagon was empty of all but the men who were paid for being there.
Now, the Notre Dame football team is being deserted by many of its former well-wishers. Sportswriters who early in the season predicted great things •— a National Championship, especially — have forgotten their prophecies and have only blame for the players and coach. Many fans who formerly wrote long letters of praise to sports editors about the team, now have nothing but abuse to tell, and most of it is for the coach. Even the students on this campus are not graceful losers, and in some corners there are mutterings of dissension.
What is forgotten is that all sports contests are made up of wins and losses, and that no one can win all the time. Blaming Elmer Layden is merely the easiest thing to do, and seems to give the blamers a feeling of importance. The coach is always the scapegoat. Even Rockne knew the bitter truth of that. When he lost four games in 1928 he knew the same desertion by sportswriters and fans, and the accusations of many of the students. The crowd must have its blood and the coach’s is handiest, so let him beware. But this eagerness to pounce on a victim is not an admirable one, and there are better pastimes — for Notre Dame men, especially.
—William C. McGowan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Death on the Wing
by Edward Cotter
Once upon a time there were two brother robins. This is the story of those two little birds. Now, as I have said, the robins were brothers, but one would never suspect it because they were quite unlike in every respect. Even in their infancy they revealed opposite characteristics. When the mother robin brought food to them Billy would gulp his quickly, flutter his wings wildly and shout for more, but Philly would turn his head away, or, if he was very hungry, just nibble at his worm. Billy was a plump, strong fellow, and he made many attempts to fly before his wings were strong enough to carry him, but Philly was a thin, sad robin who liked to sit by himself and warble.
When they were a little older, it was the same thing. Billy would shout “Come on Philly, I’ll race you down to the big oak tree,” and then shoot off with strong, healthy strokes of his wings, but his brother would shake his head and go to his secret branch where he would practise his singing. In bird school Billy was one of the leading athletes, Philly was just a student. Billy was always playing tricks and cutting classes and tearing the sparrows, Philly was always quiet and bashful.
When the two brothers had finished school they chose different occupations. Billy had a head for money and he set out to make his fortune. He organized his own company and began supplying wealthy and invalid birds with canned worms. Billy didn’t do any of the actual labor; he merely supervised. He was a great organizer and his success was immediate and grand. He became known as the smartest business bird in the community. Everything he touched turned to gold.
Philly, on the other hand, hated all kinds of business. He managed to obtain a job in the local school, and there he worked long hours for a small salary. But he didn’t mind the pay and he was happy with his students and his work. All day he instructed his pupils, but when the evening came he went off by himself and composed little songs. The people who knew Philly liked him, but they didn’t really understand him. “He’s all right,” they said, “but he’s a little crazy.” Some others went further than that: “He’s a communist,” they said. Philly, however, was never bothered by what they said. He went on teaching the things he thought should be known by
young birds, and he continually refused to accept help from his wealthy brother.
So Billy and Philly drew more and more apart. Billy became knwn as the “young tycoon,” and as each day passed he grew wealthier and more powerful. Philly came to be known only as a failure. But one day something happened that caused the two brothers to be drawn together. A new girl robin came to the school where Philly was stationed to take her place on the faculty. This young lady was called Milly, and she was very beautiful. In fact, she was the most beautiful thing Philly had ever seen. He managed to introduce himself the first day, and from that time on Milly and Philly became good friends. He used to see her home from the school each evening and sometimes he would sit and talk to her and tell her about the ideas he had or the beautiful places he had been all by himself. And Milly seemed to understand him: and this made him very happy, for she was the only one who did.
Now Milly was such a beautiful robin that her name was spoken in all parts of the bird community, and it was not long before Billy heard of her. He had always had a reputation where the ladies were concerned and he had always courted the prettiest robins in the neighborhood. When he heard of the beautiful Milly he determined to call on her. “It shouldn’t be very hard to push out that seedy brother of mine,” he said with a sly wink. He began sending presents to Milly: worm delicacies, rare feed and expensive twigs for her nest, and soon it was observed that Milly spent a good deal of her time in the company of Billy.
Philly continued to see her at school and he still accompanied her home after class, but he never mentioned Billy. But soon Milly’s work fell off, and she began to show signs of her continous irregular hours. She became very nervous and irritable, and her position at the bird school was in danger. Philly saw all this and he decided to speak to her. For he knew that he was in love with the beautiful Milly, and it grieved him to see her ruin her life by associating with a bourgeois bird like his brother. So one day he took Milly aside and spoke his mind.
“Milly,” he said, “it would give me great sorrow if you were to suffer pain. And I know that you will be hurt if you continue to accept the soft talk and the false happiness which my brother offers
you. I have not much money, but I love you and I think that we can be happy together.”
“Oh Philly,” cried Milly, “I never knew that you felt this way about me. And I’m so glad, because I have always admired you, and I thought that you disliked me. You never seemed to enjoy my company and you were always so bashful.”
Philly blushed and twitched his wings. “Is that the reason you went out with Billy?” he asked.
“You should understand that a young girl must have some diversion,” Milly murmured.
Philly clasped her to his breast and kissed her tenderly. It was the happiest moment of his life.
The two little birds derided that they would need quite a bit of money in order to marry, and for a while it seemed as if it was impossible for them to save any on their small salaries. Then Philly decided to put his singing to use. He applied to a radio station which employed a choir of canaries to accompany the music of a daily morning exercise program, and, although the radio .officials laughed at the sight of a robin trying to compete with the dulcet tones of canaries, they were forced to hire him after they had heard his beautiful voice. Philly knew then that those long hours of practice had not been for naught.
He was a happy little bird as he left the radio station and set out for home. “Oh,” he said, “everything is wonderful, everything is grand. Now I can marry my beloved Milly, and we shall be ever so happy in our little nest.” He repeated those words over and over again, and he made plans for the future. He chirped and he whistled and he sang'as onward he sailed to his dear Milly who was waiting for him to come home with the news of his tryout.
Just when Philly was ten wing sweeps from home, dark and bitter tragedy fell. He was soaring past a white farm house and the little boy of the house spied him. Now this boy (who was to become a great baseball pitcher as a result of hurling stones in his youth) aimed a rock at Philly, and let fly. The poor, unsuspecting robin was hit on the head as he tried to reach a high note. “Awk,” he said, “awk.” And fell to the ground with a dull plump. As he expired he gasped, “Tell Milly we can get married tomorrow.”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH HOPE TO STOP TROJANS TOMORROW — LIKE THIS
Senior Gridders Don Blue and Gold
For Last Time Against S. Cal. Trojans
Irish Have Won Seven In The 14 Game Series
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame varsity football squad will take the field in the Los Angeles Coliseum to meet Southern California’s Trojans. After two hours of activity the members of that squad, which has been traditionally called the “Fighting Irish,” will trot off the field, doff their gleaming blue and gold uniforms, and last entry in the 1940 football record will be made. Into the record for the last time will go the names of: Captain “Moose” Piepul, Bob Saggau, Tom Gallagher, Pete Kelly, Bob Osterman, Johnny O’Brien, Phil Sheridan, Al Lee, Johnny Gubanich, Henry Schrenker. Into the books will go the score of the 15th consecutive game between the football squads of the University of Notre Dame and the University of Southern California and a notation will be added to the present standings in the rivalry: “Notre Dame won, 8, lost 6; and tied 1.
For the first time in many years these two schools clash with both teams defeated in previous seasonal play. The Trojans have won three, lost three and tied two. Notre Dame has its two defeats by Iowa and Northwestern plus six wins. The game tomorrow will mark the first
time that Notre Dame has entered a Southern California game with two straight defeats in immediate retrospect. The contest also has an element of jinx included in its history. Notre Dame has not won a game in Los Angeles since 1934.
Coach Layden, slightly thinner after the developments of the past two weeks, adds weight to the monitions of these pre-game statistical disadvantages when he speaks of tomorrow’s game: “According to the reports of our scouts, Southern California has a great team which has become more powerful in the past two or three weeks. (Los Angeles papers reported that Southern California was at full strength for the first time in a month for the U.C.L.A. game last week.) They’ve been slow getting under way but this is the time of the year when they really get going. We look for a tough ball game. Peoples, Robertson, and Banta are back again this year in the backfield and Dempsey, Krueger, Phillips, de Lauer and Sohn in the line. These men have been individually responsible for defeating Notre Dame during the two past encounters.” In 1937 when Notre Dame was upset 13-0 after a string of eight wins, a sophomore end named Al Krueger and a sophomore right halfback, Jack Banta, caught two passes and ran them for touchdowns.
They will be playing-their last game for Southern California tomorrbw too.
The traveling squad of 36 players will arrive in Pomona tomorrow morning where the team will attend Mass. At 11:50 they will leave for the game at Los Angeles which is scheduled to begin at 4:00 o’clock Central Standard time. Yesterday the Irish had their first field practice under somewhat favorable conditions since the Northwestern game. Inclement weather has forced practice inside the field house, with the exception of one slight workout at Cartier field a week ago, possibly only after the snow plow had leveled some of the icy bunkers.
Workouts were held on the University of Arizona field at Tucson. Notre Dame opens its schedule against Arizona next year. No doubt the Wildcat’s scouts had an economical afternoon.
Ticket sales for the game have not suffered because of the seasonal losses of both squads. Notre Dame has had the largest advance sale in its history for a game at Los Angeles.
—Tom Powers
Irish Scoring Record Set
As Cagers Win Twin Bill
Notre Dame’s cagers opened their season last Saturday night, before 3,000 cheering fans in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, with a sparkling display of aggressive basketball as they swamped two small college teams under a deluge of field goals, drubbing Monmouth 81-34 and then crushing Kalamazoo 73-39.
In beating Monmouth the Irish recorded the highest score in their history, topping the previous mark, a 78-8 triumph over Kalamazoo Y.M.C.A. in 1908, and likewise their highest combined effort in a two game sequence. Coach George Keogan’s comment upon his team’s work was:
“The team did fairly well and it looks like we will have a pretty good • team, although it won’t be a great one.”
George Sobek, stellar forward of the Irish, reinjured his ailing knee in the second contest, but examination revealed that it had received nothing more than a slight twist, and that he probably would not miss more than two days of practice. Captain Eddie Riska displayed the same superb ball-handling in which he excelled last season as he chalked up 13 points against Monmouth and 20 against their successors to lead the individual scoring for the evening. Other high scorers for the Irish were Smith with 18, Quinn with 16 and Singer with 13. Huber of Monmouth pierced the home defense for 11 points and Gilman of Kalamazoo for 12 as they led their teams in that department.
—Mark G. McGrath
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Irish Seek Fifth Victory In III. Wesleyan Series
Coach George Keogan will endeavor to tack a fifth chapter on to his treatise, “How to Beat Illinois Wesleyan in Four Easy Lessons,” tomorrow evening, when the Wesleyan basketball team invades the local field house. Notre Dame has won all four games played with Wesleyan in the past, but the Irish have experienced stubborn opposition on each occasion. Notre Dame won, 32-25 in 1922-23; 40-23 in 1927-28; 24-17 in 1930-31;
Two ballhawks reach for the sky
and 24-12 in 1932-33, for a grand total of 120 points to 77.
The Illinois Wesleyan eagers, under the tutelage of Fred Voigt and Don Heep, former Northwestern athletes, swept to the championship of the Illinois Conference last year. It was knowledge of their championship calibre that prompted Keogan to remark that Wesleyan would provide a stiff early season test.
Captain Eddie Riska will start at one forward with George Sobek, Jim Carnes and Art Pope battling for the other assignment. At center, Cy Singer and Frank Quinn are setting the pace. In helping beat Monmouth and Kalamazoo, last week, both worked well under the rival basket and their rebound work on defense was better than average. Larry Ryan and Bob Smith, veteran guards, will be supplemented by Al Del Zoppo and Jim Engel.
Gunnar Elliot and Forrest Wood will officiate the game which will start promptly at 8 o’clock. '
—Frank L. Kunkel
The Sacred Heart Church is a Gothic structure, 275 feet long and 120 feet wide, with a large crypt, numerous chapels, a set of chimes, and a six-ton bell.
Splinters From the Press Box - JAMES NEWLAND—
Dusk and gray in the sky. Southern California had just presented Notre Dame with a 20 to 12 defeat and as the overflow crowd pushed its maddening way towards all available exits like waves of roaring water toward holes in a dike, Coach Elmer Lyden arose from the players bench, walked to the middle of the turf and shook hands with Howard Jones, coach of the then mighty Trojans.
“Congratulations,” Layden spoke as the two clasped hands. “You have a truly great team — one of the best.”
“Thanks, Elmer,” the Troy gentleman replied, “you have the strongest team we have faced this year. I was plenty worried when some of your backs got away.”
In the Trojan dressing room that day, Southern Cal players had high praise for the Notre Dame team. Said Grenny Lansdell: “Your team was dangerous all the way through.” Doyle Nave had this to say: “Those Notre Dame boys were playing for keeps. We played a great team.”
These remarks by the best team Notre Dame played last year are interesting — and significant. They represent, in part at least, the spirited relationship that has always existed between the two schools. Tonight, as a Los Angeles football throng of some 90,000 weighs evidence in the case of Notre Dame vs. Southern California, the Fighting Irish are speeding westward from Tucson, Ariz., thinking about shooting the works once for all — thinking about giving a defeat instead of taking one.
There is no question in our minds but that the Irish can come through tomorrow. And they will — assuming, of course, the entire local student body is behind them and that nobody will “sleep in” tomorrow, an unfortunate situation that has consistently occurred throughout this season. We regret to have to make this statement, but several of our boys will be carrying the mail for the last time tomorrow — for Notre Dame. They deserve the support of every student on this campus, regardless of what you personally think of their present record. And, dear reader, we can’t even sympathize with you if you are foolish enough to think that moral support is not a big item in determining the outcome of a ball game. The Irish were forced to take the sour lemon once,
twice. So what? Those games are past. Now is the time to act -— not talk.
Now that winter is definitely here, it has been brought to our attention by several interested individuals that Notre Dame should have facilities for a so-called Interclub Hockey tournament. They point out that campus clubs, particularly from the New England states, New York, and Minnesota are in a position to back the idea to inaugurate an ice tourney between the clubs, similar to Interhall football contests. The lake, they say, is too rough for regular tournament competition. One gallant engineer states that Brownson field last year was not frozen correctly. “Give me three engineers,” he proudly asserted, “and I can freeze Cartier field (the part surrounded by flood lights) as smooth as silk!” Members of these clubs also intimate they could have access to the lights for night competition.
Splinters thinks the idea is good — if enough club teams could be formed, assuring the success of such a movement. It would appear that there should be enough interested persons here who could successfully manage such a proposition. One never knows — until one tries.
On Sept. 21, Francis Wallace, former Notre Dame student and author of several football stories, predicted the nation’s greatest football elevens to finish the season as follows:
Notre Dame Texas A & M. Washington Nebraska Fordham Ohio State Cornell
Tennessee Tulane Duke Southern Methodist Santa Clara Minnesota Northwestern Southern California
POTPOURRI: Mickey Anderson and Bob Peoples, Southern California quarterbacks, are both track stars . . . Anderson is an ace sprinter, Peoples has won distinction as a javelin tosser . . . Mel Bleeker, sophomore fullback, is a 24-foot broad-jumper . . . Last year Coach Howard Jones had speed and power . . . This year he has speed, so he says. Floyd Phillips, who took AllAmerican Harry Smith’s place in the line, is 40 pounds lighter than the bruiser who took the part of two men.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
■ -DY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO- —
Up in New England there is a city called Stamford, Connecticut — a city that has done more to keep Notre Dame in the spotlight than any other city in the East with the exception of New York. During the football season, when other New England papers are headlining the Ivy League games, the Stamford press is spreading Notre Dame’s fame across its sports pages. And not without just cause. For Stamford athletes have long played a prominent part in Notre Dame gridiron history:
Probably Stamford’s best contribution to N.D.’s athletics was Paul Cast-ner, great fullback who played along-side George Gipp in the days of Rockne. But its most recent contribution is George Rassas, 6 ft. 3 in., 192 pound left end on the present varsity squad.
“Lucky” Rassas is what some of his teammates have been calling him. “Lucky” because the 1940 football season is coming to a close and George is still all in one piece. Ever since his sophomore year, injuries have been administered to Rassas in large doses. First it was a hand injury. Last year, three days before the opening game, it was a fractured cheek-bone, an injury which benched him for
the entire season. And this year it was a double dose of misery — an infected cut above his left eye, and a kick in the face which knocked out three front teeth. Despite these set-backs George has been able to see enough action in the early games to assure himself of a monogram.
Like many other N.D. athletes, Rassas was a four-sport man in high school. Besides football, in which he won. AllState recognition in 1935 and 1936, he starred in basketball, baseball, and track, acquiring some skill in the latter sport through the coaching of his father, a track great in his own right.
As a football player George came to Notre Dame with the reputation of being one of the best high school pass
snatchers in the East. It was his brilliant catch of a long forward pass thrown by Walt O’Meara that led to Stamford’s dethronement of New Britain High as Connecticut champions. In. his freshman year here, George enhanced this reputation by winning the Hering medal which is awarded to the boy who shows the best pass-catching ability in spring practice.
George has never quite measured up to his freshman form this year, but the
trouble can be traced to injuries, and to over-anxiousness — that evil which often crops up when one tries too hard.
Besides sports, Rassas has a passion for good clothes, especially cheviot suits and sport sweaters. That perhaps accounts for his job as campus representative at Gilbert’s. When not working at Gilbert’s, not playing football, and not studying, George is to be found in Bob Saggau’s room listening there, then you are sure to find him in Here Bereolos’ room brushing up on his Greek.
A major in the Economics department of the A.B. school, Rassas is pointing towards a government position when he graduates this June.
Fencing Coach Langford
Discusses Foil and Epee
This article, entitled “Foil and Epee Fighting,” is the second in a series 'of three written by fencing coach, Walter Langford. The series has been prepared so readers may watch fencing matches with greater interest and appreciation.
—Ray Donovan
The foil is the basic and the lightest weapon in fencing. It has a small bellshaped guard for the hand and uses a flexible four-sided blade about 35 inches in length. Valid touches are scored when the point of the blad lands cleanly upon the valid target, which includes only the trunk of the body from the top of the collar to the groin lines. The winner of a foil bout is the first contestant to score five valid touches. Three men comprise the foil team and each fences the three men of the opposing team.
In foil the fencer who makes an attack has the right of way, generally speaking, and the opponent must parry before launching a return attack or “riposte.” But to gain the right of way an attack has to be properly executed with the arm extended and the point threatening the target, and the riposte must be effected without delay following the parry.
The epee or duelling sword, uses a rather rigid three-sided blade and has a large bell guard for the protection of the hand. In epee fighting the target includes the entire body and no right of way is recognized touches being awarded solely on the basis of priority in time, in case of “double touches.” If both contestants are judged to have been hit simultaneously a touch is scored against each. The nature of the target breeds cautious fighting in epee, and the action here is not so great as in foil and sabre. The number of touches required to win is fixed by prearrangement at one, two, or three, usually the latter. Epee bouts are the most difficult to judge, and certain aids have been developed to help in the judging. One is the “pointe d’arret,” a small three-pronged tip affixed to the end of the blade to keep the point from slipping on the target. Also, a drop of red coloring is placed oh the tip to help indicate where a touch has landed.
Next week: Sabre fighting and concluding remarks.—Walter M. Langford
Mahoney Calls Trackmen As Indoor Work Starts
Once again the indoor track season got under way at Notre Dame as Coach Bill Mahoney sent his boys through their paces in pre-season conditioning work Tuesday. There will be no intense training until after Christmas, only light
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
practice. According to Mahoney, “We have a predominantly sophomore team. Our material is promising but thoroughly untried.”
The first intercollegiate competition for the Blue and Gold trackmen will be a dual meet here about Feb. 1. The entire schedule, as released by Coach Mahoney, will appear in the next issue of the Scholastic.
Returning veterans from last year’s varsity include: Bob Saggau, Bill Buen-ger, and Frank Sheets in the sprints; Ray Roy, the only quarter-miler; Capt. Joe Olbreys in the half; Bill Bogan and John Paul Scully, distance men; Joe Prokop, George Schiewe, hurdlers; weights, Cliff Brosey, Eddie Sullivan and Herk Bereolos.
These veterans will be supplemented by several promising sophomore runners: Francis Gibson and Bill Wood, sprinters; Hank Priester and Dick Tupta, quarter-milers; Ollie Hunter, Tony Maloney, Frank Conforti, Will Riordan, Chuck Crimmins, distance men; Bill Nicholson and Bill Dillon, hurdlers; Keith O’Rourke, high jump; Bob Garvey, broad jump; Smith and Wiethoff, pole-vaulters.
Coach Mahoney expressed a desire for more quarter-milers, pole-vaulters and javelin throwers, and urges all track men, varsity and freshman, to report for practice.—J. Francis Carver
N. D. Surrenders Shillalah
To Their Wildcat Victors
The bark of the timekeeper’s gun ending this year’s Notre Dame-Northwestern game not only signified the end of the game and a bitter defeat for the Irish, but also the surrendering of a prized possession—the traditional shillalah—to the trophy case of Patten Gym in Evanston.
This trophy, which is a blackthorne Irish walking stick about three feet in length, was presented to the Irish Council of Chicago in 1931 by William T. Cosgrove, president of the Irish Free State at that time. The Council, in turn, offered it as a symbolic football trophy in the Notre Dame-Northwestern series, to remain in the hands of the winning school until its team was defeated by the other. Notre Dame took possession of the stick in 1931, and until this year relinquished it only in 1935, when the Wildcats won, 14-7.
Elmer Layden made a formal presentation last Monday of the symbol of victory to K. L. (Tug) Wilson, Northwestern athletic director, at a meeting of the “Wailing Wall,” weekly gathering of Chicago coaches and fans to discuss the gridiron events of the past week-end. at the Sherman Hotel, Chicago.
—Ray Donovan
ATTENTION SWIMMERS
All men interested in trying out for a varsity swimming team are requested to attend a meeting Monday night, Dec. 9, in the northeast class room of the Rockne Memorial, Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, has sanctioned and encouraged the program.
Let’s see all you former high school swimmers out there; we need your support. Robert Russell is director of the team.
Further developments on the swimming team will be published in current issues of the Scholastic.
Irish To Open 1941 Grid Schedule Against Arizona
Another campus rumor vanished into nothingness as word came from the office of Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics last week that the football schedule of 1942, Notre Dame’s centennial year, provides for only four home games rather than the rumored nine.
At the same time came the announcement of the complete 1941 schedule. First Irish opponents will be the team fielded by the University of Arizona. The Wildcats have been selected partly in appreciation of the hospitable treatment accorded by them to the Notre Dame squad on its bi-annual trips to Los An-
NECKWEAR
SCARFS
JEWELERY
SHIRTS
Adler-Rochester SUITS and OVERCOATS $35.00
FORMAL WEAR
Rentals $6, full Dress Suits or Tuxedos, all accessories included.
Tailors — PARKER-WINTERROWD — Clothiers 115|^-1171^ N. Main - Upstairs	Phone 3-6318
JOHN SIEVERT	CAPT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	107 Alumni	337 Walsh
geles for the Southern California games. The Irish always stop for two days at Tucson and work out on the Wildcat field.
In ’41 Notre Dame renews competition with Indiana which replaces Iowa, and carries on traditional rivalries with Georgia Tech, Carnegie, Illinois, Army, Navy, Northwestern and Southern California.
The complete 1941 schedule follows:
Sept. 27 Arizona at Notre Dame
Oct. 4_____________._____Indiana at Notre Dame
Oct. 11____________:___Georgia Tech at Atlanta
Oct. 18____________Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh
Oct. 25__________________Illinois at Notre Dame
Nov. 1_______________________Army at New York
Nov. 8_______________________Navy at Baltimore
Nov. 15_______________Northwestern at Evanston
Nov. 22______Southern California at Notre Dame
—Jack Dinges
Memorial Sports Under Way;
Swimming Meet Dec. 11-12
The Rockne Memorial has become the proverbial beehive of activity as basketball, swimming, volleyball, and squash take over where King Football left off.
On December 11 and 12 there will be an open swimming meet for all Notre Dame students. Eliminations will be held on the 11th, and the ,nals the following night. Events will be: 50 yd. free style, 100 yd. free style, 50 yd. backstroke, 50 yd. breast stroke, 150 yd. free style, and 75 yd. medley. There will be both high and low board diving competition.
To give the students something to shoot at, here are a few records from

BELTS
SUSPENDERS
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
last year. Bill Cotter, 50 yd. breast stroke, :31.9; Bud Russel, 220 yd. free style, 2:40.4; 50 yd. free style, Lee Hastings, :25.3; 100 yd. free style, Lee Hastings, :57.1; 50 yd. back stroke, Bob Levernier, :40.4. In the diving, Bill Cotter came through with victories in both the high and low boards events.
Entry blanks for any event should be placed in the official entry box in the Memorial; entries will close Dec. 10.
Ladder tournaments in squash and
handball are in progress. Eliminations •will be held sometime next week.
After the Christmas holidays there will be an inter-hall volleyball tournament. Mr. Burdick, a volleyball expert, will instruct players in the finer points of the game. Contrary to the popular belief that volleyball is a sissy game, investigation ■will prove that it offers competition and a need for skill to satisfy the most exacting.—Joe Lafferty
Dillon Leading Walsh In Campus Pin League
The annual K. of C. bowling league is now in the fourth week of its 12 week schedule. It is sponsored by Cy Tlusty and is conducted on the K. of C. alleys every Tuesday afternoon. Eight teams of bowlers from various halls have entered into competition. Dillon leads the league with five victories and one defeat; Walsh
MEN! Let WYMAN'S make your
Want help with Shopping? Ask for . .
Christmas Shopping Easyl
If you want to be a big success as Santa Claus this Christmas — and still not spend much time nor money at it — Wyman’s is your store. We have hundreds of lovely presents for everyone — Mother, Dad, Brother, Sister, Girl Friend. And if you want help in picking out your gifts, just ask for any one of the people listed at the left. Perhaps you know some of them — they know many of you — and they’ll be glad to help you out.
Miss “Lil” Manion—first floor Mr. Jim O’Neill
— men’s shop, first floor Mrs. Jane Stevens — first floor Mrs. Doris Mclnerny
— second floor-Mr. “Wallie” Stahl—third, floor Mrs. Richard Baker
— office, fourth floor Miss Ruth Michels—lower floor
Mr. John Cushman
— (Notre Dame, class of ’29) Home Appliance Dept., 219 N. Michigan
Joan Navarre
— Wyman’s Personal Shopper
CHECKS THESE GIFT IDEAS
For Mother, Sister, Girl Friend —
Smart leather purses............... $1.98	to $4.98
Her favorite perfumes............... 50c	to $37.50
Quilted rayon satin bed jackets............  „.$4
Scarfs — white and colors______________59c and $1
Westinghouse Waffle Irons.................  $4.95
For Dad, Brother, Friend —
Plaid cotton flannel sports shirts............$1.65
Live Glass bill folds by Hickock.........$1 to $2.50
Leather jackets..................    $6.95	to $17.95
Gifts Wrapped!
Gifts $1.95 up — wrapped in gay Christmas papers without charge. (Other gifts wrapped for cost of wrappings alone).
VISIT TOYLAND — filled with exciting gifts for small brothers and sisters.
GEORGE WYMAN and CO.
The Store of a Thousand Useful Gifts
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	19
THE
is second with four wins and two losses. Pacing Dillon on to the title is Joe Vollmer with a personal average of 192. Blackie Blackhurst, Lyons, is second in individual honors with 178.
The team leading the league at the end of the season will receive medals. Those in second place are eligible for cash prizes. Representatives from this league will be sent to the annual District K. of C. Bowling tournament at LaPorte, Ind. by the local K. of C. council.
—John P. Shine
Saggau to Honor O'Brien
With Monogram Trophy
Tomorrow afternoon in California, Bob Saggau, Notre Dame left halfback and president of the Monogram Club, will present to Pat O’Brien, movie star, a trophy emblematic of the club’s appreciation of O’Brien’s excellent characterization of Knute Rockne, in the picture “Knute Rockne—All American.”
The presentation will be made immediately preceding Notre Dame’s final grid battle of the year, with Southern California, before the football crowd packed in the Los Angeles football stadium. The trophy is a full-sized, gold-plated football balanced upon a mahogany colored bakelite base, in position for an opening kickoff.—Mark G. McGrath
AMERICAN MADE
The Very Popular
KAYWOODIE PIPES
The finest examples of the art of American Pipe makers. Every Pipe is a masterpiece! An almost endless selection of shapes to meet every Pipe smokers preference.
$5 to $10
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LA SALLE
Dunham Wins Frosh Meet
Ed Dunham, speedy Carroll hall freshman, romped home ahead of a pack of classmates on a two and a half mile course recently with a time of 12:23. Barry placed second; Brehmer, third; Quinn, fourth; Ahern, fifth; and Healy, sixth. The meet was run in a driving snow storm. Those men who placed will receive numerals and medals.
—Francis Carver
Joseph Stephen Claims Wide Variety of Pipes
“I have nearly 100 pipes in my collection, although I only have 12 here at Notre Dame,” said Joseph Stephen, a senior of Sorin Hall, who has been collecting pipes for the past seven or eight years. When asked how he started his rather unique hobby, Joe recalled: “One day I saw a pipe I liked and bought it, and that’s the way it has been ever since: when a pipe strikes my fancy, I buy it,” although he did confess that at times his hobby is a little expensive.
Joe estimates that 20 per cent of his pipes are English-made. His cheapest pipe cost 50 cents, which he says “is the best tasting of the lot.” However, a Meerschaum pipe is Joe’s favorite. This particular pipe is an heirloom in the Stephen family; it was bought in Ireland and believed to have been imported from Germany. The estimated value of this one pipe is between two and three hundred dollars.
For ordinary smoking, Joe likes the “bulldog’ ’type of pipe, which has a large bowl. However, while studying, he likes to smoke a pipe with a curved stem so that the smoke will not get into his eyes. Joe next pointed to the fact that the most interesting pipe to him is the “Sasieni,” which is a modified “bulldog,” and is made entirely of briar.
“You should have at least two or three pipes and smoke them alternately. Always give a pipe a day’s rest; if you smoke it today, don’t smoke it tomorrow,” Joe added in an advisory mood. He also added that the choice in tobacco is important: “Find a tobacco that suits your taste, and never change your brand of tobacco while breaking in a pipe.”
—James P. O'Laughlin
New "No Smut" Pamphlet
The second pamphlet of the Notre Dame student committee for decent literature has been delayed and its publication date now is uncertain, according to Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., though it will be completed as soon as possible.
The committee had decided to publish a second pamphlet, rather than to revise the first one, which was called No Smut and which was so successful.
—John Aselage
■SMSi****^^
GIFTS
CHRISTMAS
For Merrymakers
ALBUMS . . .
M-640 — Symphony No. 5 in C Minor —Beethoven — NBC Symphony orches-— $4.50.
M633 — Stars of the Metropolitan — tra with Arturo Toscanini conducting including Tibbet, Melchior, John Charles Thomas singing — from Wagner, Verdi, Puccini — $5.50.
C-21
The Sorcerer — Gilbert and
Sullivan with orginal D’Oyly Carte Company — $5.00.
M-325 — Bolero — Ravel — Kousse-vitsky conducting the Boston Symphony orchestra — $2.50.
SINGLE RECORDS . . .
7363 — Cara Nome and Tutte le Fest — from “Rigoletto” — Lily Pons singing — $1.00.
2018 — “One Kiss” and “Lover Come Back To Me” — Jeannette McDonald singing — 75 cents.
15425
'Blue Danube Waltz*' and
“Tales of Vienna Woods’’ — the Philadelphia Symphony with Leopold Stokowski conducting — $1.00.
6723 — “Stille Nacht, Heilege Nacht” and “The Lorely” with Madame Schu-mann-Heink singing in German — $1.00.
VICTOR Popular Records . . . 50c each
26542 — Frenesi and Adios, Marquita Linda — Artie Shaw and orchestra.
19932 — Victory March and Hike Song —, Notre Dame Band with Glee Club vocal.
26798 — Isn’t That Just Like Love and Do You Know Why? — T. Dorsey and band.
24567 — The Very Thought of You and I’ll Be Good Because of Yon — Ray Noble and his orchestra. -
25016
Goodnight Sweetheart and
Time On My Hands — Ray Noble and his orchestra.
BLUEBIRD Popular Records ... 35c
B10931 — Nightingale Sung in Berkeley Square and Goodbye Little Dartin’, Goodbye — Glenn Miller and his orchestra.
luiiiins
/ I I	*4	Ji *
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings


20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LOVELY GIFTS for the lovely women on your Christmas list
Perfumes, Colognes by Ritz, Arden, Rubinstein....!.00 up
Gold Stripe Hose, her favorite brand.---79c, 1.00 up Jewelry, stunning costume pieces--------1.00 to 5.00
Handbags, smart pouches, tailored styles 2.00 to 5.00 Leather Gloves with famous labels—....2.00 to 5.50 pair Lingerie, slips, gowns, housecoats------2.00 to 16.50
Handsome Belts, leather and metaL—...........1.00 up
SEE OUR STREET FLOOR GIFT SHOP FOR IDEAS
J11 5 hi n r t If ’ 5
the Merrie Christmas store
Dr. McMeel Suggests Ways to Avoid Colds
Dr. James McMeel, University physician, believes that the medical tests being given to all freshmen and new students will be completed before Christmas. This is the first step in a four-year plan which, when completed, will have reached every student at Notre Dame. The tests being given at the present include: the Dick test for scarlet fever, typhoid fever inoculations, small pox vaccinations, the Schick test for diphtheria, and the tuberculin skin test.
Dr. McMeel urges those who have received part of the typhoid fever inoculations to try and complete them as soon as possible. He also wishes to remind those who still owe for their tests, of their obligation.
During the recent cold weather there has been an increase in colds among the student body, so Dr. McMeel has made a list of suggestions for cold prevention:
1.	Avoid overheated rooms.
2.	Protect head and feet in inclement weather with proper dress.
3.	Avoid over-crowded rooms.
4.	Report to infirmary at first suggestion of a cold.
5.	Refrain from smoking when you feel a cold beginning.
—Bob Fitzpatrick
VACATION ECONOMY: iend your Luggage home and bath by bandy....
RAILWAY EXPRESS!
Right from college direct to your own front door and vice versa, without extra charge, in all cities and principal towns.
And all you do is phone Railway Express. We’ll call for your trunks, bags and bundles. Away they’ll go at passenger train speed, and be delivered straight to the street address. The rates are low, and you can send "collect,” you know, by Railway Express, same as college laundry goes. Yes, it is a . very popular service. So when you’re packed, strapped and locked, just phone us and take your train with peace of mind.
railway express agency
506 W. South St., So. Bend, Ind. Phone 3-6121
Railwa^express
agency Inc.
= NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIK SERVICE =	-
•jjw	»
Gift Suggestions
HANDBAGS GLOVES BILLFOLD SETS MANICURE SETS TOILET SETS FOLDING UMBRELLAS'
DESK SETS " TRAVEL CLOCKS SEWING KITS LUGGAGE
HANS-RINTZSCH LUGGAGE SHOP MichiKun at Colfax
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
So. Cal. Trip Extra Special
For Kovatch and Maddock
When the Notre Dame Football Special left South Bend Tuesday for the West Coast and Notre Dame’s annual game with Southern California, two boys on Coach Layden’s squad were inwardly elated at the thought of what this trip meant to them personally.
When the Irish stop over at the University of Arizona in Tucson, Johnny Kovatch, junior right end, will have a chance to see his brother Charley, who is a freshman at that institution. Like his older brother, Charley played football for Washington High of South Bend, where he starred at tackle for three years, making the all Northern Indiana High School Conference eleven in ’39. He made the first string Freshmen team at Arizona, and has fond hopes of playing against his brother next year, when the Wildcats invade Notre Dame Stadium for the opening game of the ’41 campaign. When asked how he would like playing against his “kid” brother next year, Johnny said, “I wouldn’t like to play against him,” and then added with a smile, “I like him too much.”
When the Irish hit Los Angeles, the ultimate goal of their westward trip, Bob Maddock, junior left guard, will be only 35 miles from his home in Santa Ana, Calif. Bob’s folks will be at the game, as well as a goodly portion of his home town friends and neighbors, so naturally Bob is anxious to turn in his best performance of the season. His only complaint is, that after he finishes his travels, he will be too tired to enjoy his Christmas vacation, for after the team returns to Notre Dame, hardly a week will pass before he’ll hit the road again, and Bob’s destination will be the same as that which he left just a week previous.—Jim Clemens
Economic Round Table
The members of the Notre Dame Economic Round Table and the International Relations Club of St. Mary’s were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Downey at their Niles home last Tuesday night. After a'delicious dinner had been served, George York of the Round Table presented a paper on “The Problem Child of the Western Hemisphere, South America.” Then followed a lively discussion which was enriched at frequent intervals by the comments of Father Keller and Mr. Downey, both of the Notre Dame Economics Department. After a very successful and interesting meeting the group adjourned. Several other joint meetings of the two clubs have been tentatively planned for this year.
MAX AD1ER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
College men prefer ARROWS, if for no other reason than downright good looks. Arrow Shirts cost no more. Come in tomorrow for your Arrow selections.
ft's Adler’s for Arrows!
Why students squirm in classrooms:
1.	Because the lecture is dull.	•
2.	Because they’re going to be called on.
3.	Because they’re wearing uncomfortable underwear.
We can only cure the third case! We suggest that you stock up on the world’s most comfortable shorts: Arrow Shorts. They have the patented seamless crotch, they have roomy seats, they never shrink out of perfect fit because they’re Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). What’s more,they have grippers instead of buttons—nothing to sew back on! See your Arrow dealer today!
Arrow Shorts, 65c	Arrow Tops, 50c
ARROW UNDERWEAR
I
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Camacho a Man of High
Ideals — Prof. Corona
Last summer Mexico had a presidential election, one which was conducted with surprising quietness, in unique contrast to previous elections held south of the Rio Grande. As has been the case in the past, killings and riots are not unusual at election time. And this year,
Add Zest to Your Daily Life Chew Delicious
DOUBLEMINT GUM
■ Xe pent-up , digestion, too, and helps
!	And keep your teeth attractive.
!	Treat*yourself to healthful, refreshing
DOUBLEMINT GUM every day.
BuysweralpackagesofDOUBLEMINTGUMtoday
because of vigorous campaign by all parties and the disquieting news of the present world crises, the United States again expected to hear of trouble in Mexico.
During the Mexican campaign, there were two opposing candidates: Avila Camacho, who represented the Revolutionists; and Gen. Juan Almazan, well known Mexican statesman who led the Popular party.
i
1
While talking with Professor Jose Corona of the University Spanish department, it was revealed that the two candidates for the Mexican presidency purposely kept this year’s campaign on a high political level.
Professor Corona has a brother who is a Mexican Bishop, the Most Rev. Nicholas Corona, D.D., of Tezuitlan, Puebla. Bishop Corona was born and reared in the same town, Tezuitlan, as was the president-elect, Camacho. The two men are close friends, and Camacho often discusses important issues with Bishop Corona.
In the letters received by Professor Corona, his brother tells him that Avila Camacho is a man of good intentions. The most popularly admitted reasons he defeated the other candidate were his widely accepted policies, especially that one which stresses absolute friendliness and cooperation with the United States and a final settlement of the oil dispute. Camacho firmly believes in the Pan-American Neutrality Treaty, and in vigorous attacks on fifth columnists and other foreign secret organizations within his country. His main objective is to unite the various struggling political factions of Mexico into a stronger, more consolidated government. He is cognizant of the fact that in order to have a strong and efficient government, one must first have unity within.
If Avila Camacho, as a Catholic and as a man of sound ideals, upholds his promises and fulfills his hopes, Mexico will benefit by his leadership and by his ambition for new friendship and better understanding with the United States.
—Dick May
Since this story ivas written, Gen. Almazan, on Nov. 26, formally relinquished all claims to the office of president to which, he said “the people were good enough to elect me last July 7th.”
—Editor's note.
Washington Hall has a seating capacity of 900 persons. o
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS. O.D. E C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Successful Contest is Held By Philip Morris
Cleverest and most enjoyable promotion scheme to hit the Notre Dame campus in recent years has been the Philip Morris football scorecast contest, which this fall has extended from Oct. 5 to Dec. 7. An average of six to seven thousand ballots have been received every week according to Cecil Jordan, off-campus student, who is a representative for Philip Morris. These ballots are expressed to Indianapolis each Friday night.	.
The number of winners was largest the week of the Illinois game, when 143 students won “flat fifties” for correctly forecasting the score of one of three games designated for that week and three students each won 200 cigarettes for correctly forecasting the score of two games. At no time in the contest has anyone here won the 1,000 cigarettes offered for picking the exact scores of all three games.
As grand prizes, six RCA personal radio sets will be awarded to the six students who have entered the greatest number of ballots through the entire contest. To date, Bill Nagengast, of Walsh Hall, is in the lead, having submitted 1,500 wrappers a week on the average and a total of approximately 12,000 wrappers. Said Bill, “To take care of all the possibilities, you’d have to enter a good many more than 1,500 ballots in a particular week.” .	—Carl Rohrer
Chrysler Corp. Presents
Dodge Chassis To School
The Chrysler Corporation has given the College of Engineering a 1940 Dodge show chassis. The chassis was'- used throughout the last year for advertising purposes in various parts of the country. The red, white, and nickled skeleton has appeared in many auto showrooms, perhaps your own neighborhood dealer’s.
The Ben Medow Corporation of Sotifh Bend has received permission to release the chassis to the College of Engineering. It will be kept in the lobby of Cushing Hall of Engineering, until the HeatPower laboratory, now under construction, is completed. At that time it will be installed in the building as part of the new equipment.
The chassis will be used for class demonstration of characteristics of modern automotive design and for experimentalpurposes. At present some of the internal parts of the engine are missing, but when they are replaced the motor will be in running order. The moving parts were removed to stop wear on the motor.—Bill Herzog
Headquarters for COCA - COLA
“The Huddle”
PIPE TOBACCO and CANDY
*4USE THAT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
It’s by Johnny Long, who produced something new when he turned out his ensemble-featured “Shanty in Old Shantytown.” This time he works in Helen Young and Paul Harmon, two very, very mellow voices, with the rest of the boys in a wonderful arrangement of “(Love Is a Lovely Thing) Don’t Let It Get You Down.” Here’s a band with fresh talent and new ideas. They really come to the party on this disc. A few more arrangements like this, well recorded by Decca, and T. D. (far ahead in Down Beat’s latest poll) will have to push over. The flipover is “I Want to Live,” an ordinary musical well sung by Paul Hannon. Long released another record also this week: “I Give You My Word,” vocalized by Helen Young, backed up by “The Same Old Story,” with Jack Edmondson on the lyrics. Also good. (Decca, of course).
The Button-Down
Is on the Up-and-Up!
The nature of Oxford shirting is soft and rugged; the button-down collar, as styled by Manhattan, makes it "sit pretty,” provides a cozy nest for the tie-knot, and keeps up an all day well-groomed appearance. No wonder the accent’s on Manhattan Oxfords.. .whether striped or plain... around all the big American campuses. Mighty smart shirts... and mighty smart buys at a store near you. $2 up.
SIZE-FIXT
Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less MAN-FORMED shaped to masculine contours COLLAR-PERFECT styled to stay set just-so
By and For Musicians. . .
Phil Napoleon, New Orleans cornetist, Frank Signorelli, hot jazz pianist, and Eddie DeLange chorded to write Tommy Dorsey’s latest offering, “Anything.” Simple and extremely effective, it opens with Tommy’s trombone soloing in the middle register against subtained chords in the sax section. Frank Sinatra voices the second chorus and Dorsey solos out. The reverse, “Another One of Them Things” is a Cy Oliver arrangement punched out in medium swing time. Ziggy Elman with his powerhouse trumpet is the feature performer. (Victor)
Swing Classic by Victor. . .
. Sidney Bechet offers “One O’clock Jump” and “Blues in Thirds,” playing clarinet in front of two different outfits. The first is a fast tempo affair; the latter is a double melody developed in a parallel line a musical third apart. An excellent job.
Jazz Masterwork by Columbia. . .
“Wholly Cats” and “Royal Garden Blues” by Benny Goodman and his Sextet, featuring Count Basie. This is what you’ve been waiting for: B.G.’s first release since his recent illness. With Benny making headlines these days with his appearances with the nation’s long-hairs and with the signing of contracts for his new band, this record should be of interest to all lovers of jazz.
Krupa Holds It Down. . .
Another coupling of popular ballads by Gene Krupa: “High on a Windy Hill” and “It All Comes Back to Me Now.”
| Done in his best ballad style. (Okeh)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
National Defense Group Holds Initial Meeting
The conscription of men and corporations is now a thing accomplished. Notre Dame belongs somewhere in between the two extremes, so the outlining of the preliminary plans for coordinating use of University facilities and personnel in the National Defense Program took place last evening at an initial meeting of the Notre Dame Committee for National Defense.
A civil aeronautics program of pilot instruction, inaugurated last summer and continued through the current school year, has been a prominent topic of campus conversation lately, as well as numerous curriculum changes, arranged to aid students in preparation for future military and naval activity. University facilities have also been offered to the government for the training of industrial workers in specialized fields, such as tool-making, machine design, etc.
During the second semester, courses in ballistics, trigonometry and allied fields will be offered by the Department of Mathematics to those who include army and navy commissions in their plans for the next few years. Now offered for nonengineering students are aeronautical
BOB SAGGAU and GEO. RASSAS
(both in Alumni Hall)
. . . offer to help you make your selection from a large, well-chosen stock of clothing and accessories
at
HIS
Christmas Gift
STORE
Any man on your list . . . father, brother ... or even your room-mate . . . will be glad to receive a gift from GILBERT'S.
THS MOOSRH GILBERT'S 'AmsAm ZUKf
813 S. Michigan
courses catering to general interest in aviation, rather than one confined to flying alone.
The University Committee for National Defense, organized at the direction of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president, is headed by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., and Deans Henry B. Froning and Dugald C. Jackson, Jr.
Honor Doctor Troiano
Dr. Alexander R. Troiano, assistant professor of metallurgy at Notre Dame, has been given the 1940 Robert W. Hunt award, highest honor conferred by the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers. Dr. Troiano shared
HnnDKERCHIEF TEST PROVES mi ZOHE MIRVS SPOTIESS^fy;^
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Challenging higher-priced pipes in briar ouali-.^-■ ty and value. P^ J,
WM. DEMUTH ft CO., NEW YORK
MR PASS IESSH HUB
G0n
HSIIDI SEILEI
CAVE MANEV WHEN Y0U Return SAVE IvIUNEI AFTER CHRISTMAS
TRAVEL	MORE TIME
BY	AT
TRAIN	HOME
Take advantage of the "College Spend"
V ’REDUCED fares
These special school and coRega tickets, with their liberal extended return limits, are a great saving to students and teachers. When you’re ready to come back after Christmas* buy one and save money. There ' are also reduced round trip Pullman rates in connection with these "College Special** tickets. When Spring Holidays come you can use the return coupon to travel home again or use it at dose of school. Consult your home town ticket agent or any RAILROAD representative for cost of tickets, return limits and stop-over privSeges.
Ba Ihifty and Safe—Travel by Trail
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
the award with Dr. A. B. Greninger of Harvard University. Doctors Troiano and Greninger received the award for their joint paper, “Crystallography of Austenite Decomposition,” presented at the New York City meeting of the Institute in February, 1939.
The best paper read before the Insti-tue and published under its auspices receives the Hunt award. Formal presentation to Dr. Troiano and Dr. Greningier will be in New York City at the February meeting of the Institute.
Dr. Troiano was assistant instructor in X-ray metallography at Harvard University before coming to Notre Dame last year. He received a master’s degree in physical metallurgy and a doctor of science degree from Harvard and did graduate work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
—Robert LeMense
TOO GUARD miLflno
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
One of the most pernicious tricks, which can have nothing but self glorification as its end, is the rather recent universal fashion of conducting entire symphonic programs without the aid of a printed score. The practice is, of course, by no means a present-day phenomenon. Mahler, Nikisch and von Bulow all conducted works that were familiar to them and their audiences without resorting to a score. This was rather the exception, however, and it rarely failed to create a sensational musical evening. Today, the conductor’s ears turn red with shame if he is forced to the disgraceful business of conducting a program with a score. There is the story of a manager who refuses to engage any guest conductors for his orchestra unless they can first show their ability to direct without printed notes.
The truth is that too many of our conductors, who appear week after week with the customary bare music stand placed before them, are only vaguely familiar with the music they conduct. I do
STUDENTS!
WHEN IN TOWN
Brush-Up on Dancing
AT SPECIAL HOLIDAY RATES
DURING the holidays, as soon as you reach home, plan to visit the Arthur Murray Studios and arrange for a few lessons. You’ll enjoy learning the latest Rumba and Fox Trot steps. In just a few hours you’ll surprise your partners with the thrilling new steps. Gain poise and confidence. Special low rates are offered to all students! Enroll as soon as possible and be a good dancer in time for your next party. All lessons are transferable to any one of our studios from coast-to-coast at no extra cost. Lessons may also be used at resorts. Don’t wait until the last minute.
ARTHUR^MURRAY
Dance Studios from Coast-to-Coast
ATLANTIC CITY Chalfonte-Haddon Hall BALTIMORE.............Hotel Belvedere
BOSTOX............................Hotel	Statler
BRIDGEPORT............Stratfield	Hotel
BUFFALO...........................Hotel	Statler
CHARLOTTE . . . 1516 Hardins Place CHICAGO . Hotel Drake & 57 E. Jackson CINCINNATI . . Netherland Plaza Hotel CLEVELAND...............Hotel Statler
DALLAS..................Baker Hotel
DETROIT.................Hotel Statler
EAST ORANGE .... Hotel Suburban HARTFORD.................Bond Hotel
HOUSTON............... 1945 West Gray
KANSAS CITY. MO. . . 4722 Broadtvay LOS ANGELES . Forman Bldg, at 7th & Hill
(Beverly mils) . . 357 N. Beverly Drive
not see that anything can be said in favor of the scoreless conductor. The sloppiness and inaccuracies of this sort of man make it sufficiently evident that conducting without a score has degenerated into a stupid and futile gesture of pure showmanship. It is possible for very few men to memorize every one of the numerous marks to be found on the pages of an ordinary symphonic score. Since the majority of conductors cannot do it, they have often been satisfied to remember only the most important features of a score. The result is a persistent disregard of the subtle indications in the music for slight, but all-important accentuations, nuances and other designated effects.
A brief mention must be made of Toscanini, for example, whose extraordinary memory makes it possible for him to direct a work w’ithout the support of a score. He dispenses with music, however, probably not because he approves this kind of thing, and surely not because he burns to impress the public with his magnificent feats of memory. It is told that he must memorize his programs, because his sight is so poor that he cannot read a score until it is rubbing his nose. Even Toscanini’s memory has been known to prove false, at least once. It happened during the perform-
MEMPHIS...............Hotel Peabody
MILWAUKEE...............Hotel	Astor
MINNEAPOLIS...........Hotel Nicollet
NEW HAVEN............. 1056 Chapel St.
NEW ORLEANS .... Roosevelt Hotel NEW YORK...........7 East 43rd Street
OMAILA.............Hotel Fontanelle
PHILADELPHIA . Bellevue Stratford Hotel PITTSBURGH . . . Hotel William Penn PROVIDENCE . . . Prov. Biltmore Hotel ST. LOUIS .... 7742 Forsythe Blvd. ST. PAUL..............St. Paul Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO ... St. Francis Hotel SEATTLE...............Olympic	Hotel
SIOUX FALLS...........Fiske Bldg.
TOLEDO .... Commodore Perry Hotel WASHINGTON. D.C.. 1101 Conn. Ave. N.W.
ance of a composition by Vincent D’lndy. The work had a particularly complex series of changes in rhythm, and the maestro forgot one of these, according to the story. A few moments of chaos followed until Toscanini could drag the orchestra back to the proper tempo. After the concert, he refused to acknowledge the applause with a bow. Instead, he rushed to his room, bleating painfully and holding his head. He had spoiled some great music, and that approached an unpardonable sin.
GOING HOME TO
California Washington Texas
. Any point in the U. S. A, or Canada
See the South Shore agent. He can help you plan your complete itinerary to and from home.
Ask about routing, fares, stopovers, travel time . . . Arrange every detail in an unhurried conversation.
Get all the facts. No obligation, of course. Inquire of
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Pack up your Christmas GIFTS from the N. D. Bookstore
More time to select your Gifts at leisure now . and more time to relax when you get home.
All Gifts wrapped FREE!
5
c
For Any CHRISTMAS CARD in the store — some scenes of the Campus included.
Suggestions:
N. D. LAPROBES N. D. PILLOWS PEN and PENCIL SETS STATUES PRAYER BOOKS ROSARIES
and many other items
| Mass Calendar, Dec. 8-14
1 Sunday, 8—Second of Advent. Feast of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 2d prayer, the Sunday. (Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin repeated each day of the Octave).
Monday, 9—2d day within Octave. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer, the Feria (from Sunday), 3d, of the Holy Ghost, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Alternate Mass, of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, the Octave, 3d and 4th, as above. No Credo. Preface Common.
Tuesday, 10—3d day within Octave. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer, the Feria (from Sunday) 3d, St. Melchiades, Pope, Martyr, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, 11—St. Damasus, Pope, Confessor. Second prayer, the Octave, 3d, the Feria (From Sunday), 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 12—5th day within Octave. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer, the Feria (from Sunday), 3d, the Holy Ghost, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Friday, 13—St. Lucy, Virgin, Martyr. 2d prayer, the Octave, 3d, the Feria (from Sunday) 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 14—7th day within Octave. Everything as on Thursday. Votive or Requiem.
Saturday Movie
Tomorrow night at Washington Hall the motion picture program includes a “March of Time” and the highly publi-cied scientific drama, “Dr. Ehrlich’s Magic Bullet,” starring Edward G. Robinson.—Mark G. McGrath
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251

TAKE A TIP FROM THE OLD MAESTRO
"Unfinished” Symphony — Schubert — London Philharmonic Orchestra with Sir Thomas Beecham conducting . . . . M-AM-MM350 — $3.50.
“Prague” Symphony — Mozart — Chicago Symphony Orchestra with Frederick Stock conducting, M-AM-MM410 — $3.50.
“Peer .Gynt” Suite No. 1 — Grieg — London Philharmonic Orchestra with Sir Thomas Beecham conducting, X-180 — $2.50.
EDDIE DUCHIN — special selection with Duchin at the piano — $2.50.
JEROME KERN MELODIES— special selection wth Al Goodman and his orchestra — $2.50.
HOT JAZZ CLASSICS . . . for collectors . . .
$2.50 each album
FLETCHER HENDERSON — "Sugar Foot Stomp,” “Money Blues,” “Hop Off,” “New King Porter Stomp,” “Can You Take It?,” etc. — C-30.
BIX BEIDERBECKE — "Royal Garden Blues," “Thou Swell," “Wa-Da-Da,” “OF Man River.” “For No Reason At AU in C,” etc. — C-29.
LOUIS ARMSTRONG — "Potato Head Blues," “No One Else But You,” “Knockin’ A Jug,” "Twelfth Street Rag,” etc. — C-28.
FRANKIE CARLE — special selection wth Carle at the piano — C-23 — $2.50.
COLUMBIA Christmas Selections . . . $1.00
9097-M — “Noel” and Agnus Dei” — Georges Thill — tenor — with orchestra and grand organ.
35805 —
L (Joy to the World
2.	(Silent Night, Holy Night
1.	(Hark! The Herald Angels Sing
2.	(It Came Upon the Midnight Clear
— Carol Noel with Chimes
COLUMBIA Popular Records . . . 50c
Pretty Little Petticoat and Nice Day in the Country — Raymond Scott and orchestra.
Benny Goodman Sextette — includes bits by the six highest salaried swing band artists — Count Basie at the Piano — Cootie William on the trumpet — Georgie Auld — Charlie Christian — Arthur Bernstein and Harry Jaeger — including such numbers as “Wholly Cats," “Royal Garden Blues," etc.
Largest Record Dept, tn Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric -Victrolas Well-Informed Clerks
RORIRS
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
ST) T> J its rfe
"	... for cooler milder better taste.
Chesterfield is the smoker’s cigarette
Hunt the world over and you can’t find
the equal of Chesterfield’s right combination of Turkish and American tobaccos...the best tobaccos that grow in all of Tobaccoland. z
Do you smoke the cigarette that Satisfies
GRANTLAND RICE, dean ol American sports writers, has a friendly visit with his charming daughter Florence —of the stage and movies.
hesterfien
Copyright 1940. Liccett & Myebs Tobacco Co.

FIRST STEP IN MAKINO CHESTERFIELDS... the
purchase by highest bid of mild ripe tobaccos.
Chesterfield buyers attend everyleading tobacco
market in this country and in Turkey and Greece. (Asseen in the new fi/m"TOBACCOlAND. U.S.A.")