---.-;;;::~,~i:,__\· s~-~-•-· 
'>:\ 
'. ft..E';(: E_,~:'.:~·,,,E R,.. •·= \~);. 
\. \ -~ i,\ 


·. . ' . . ...-•._: .· . . ·. 
.,\BrUno~s.•·... 'i:~~·J. ·HP.izza,c ..... 


._--. ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS · _ --_ -__·: FOR$12~00 EVERY DAV ­
. . . .•· ,~ . .. ' .. . . . : . .--... 
119 U.S. 31 {it~t'~orth ~f ~;~pus) ·: ·, . 

Open for carryout, delivery-& dine-in • ' · -> --._ <tf·00'to· 1 ~ao Lunch ------• : -· ' -.4:00 to 1·O:OCfS11~day to I11~rsday --_--:--__ -. 
4:00 t9 11 :00 Friday and·St1turday _-·. 
.. ' -: ,• __ _;, . ," ·,_­

. -_ < ::27:3-3890"' ...----::>;--­
.· 
. . . . "All Hom~ITlad~-~ 100% RealChe;se'' . 


··.· 
W.e···otferJ3.REE DELIVE·RY.to ·Notre_ Damets and -_ ' ·. • S~infMaty·~ car11plJ$~§.. < 


Check out those issues you missed last year 
www.nd.edu/
· ·_ -_--. ·delivery drivers 
~scholast
~full ,menu on in$ide back cover) 



M A G A Z I N E 
One of·the Twelve 


. _-. After Florida State and Penn State joined conferen_ces, Notre 
-~---~ Dame was the only big independent school left. Now, after more than a century of -playing on their own, Notre Dame has exchanged information with the Big Ten. This may be the first 
step-toward Notre Dame's membership. by Corey Spinelli 
Justifying Art 
Q: What's ridiculed more than a Jackson Pollock fan at a meeting of Renaissance painters? A: The sculptures that pepper the landscape outside of Riley and DeBartolo. The -statues are vastly unpopular, but some art students and faculty defend their value. byJoe Gallagher 
Looking East 9 
Scholastic picks the best -and worst -of Big East men's basketball. Once again it looks like the rebuilding Irish are at the bottom of the barrel. byChris Hamilton 
Behind the Flashing Lights by Jake Mooney 8 Trouble's Advocate by Allison Fashek • 10 An Irish Christmas Carol by Eric Yuva 14 -An Asian Allure by Katie Cleary 25 On The Air by Kelly McGann 26 Adventures in Filmmaking by Kara Zuaro 27 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 
Editorial 4 
ND Notebook 5 
Man on the Street 7 
Campus Watch 20 
Splinters from the Pressbox 24 
Out of Bounds 28 
On Other Campuses 29 
Week in Distortion 30 
Comic Strip 30 
Calendar 31 
Final Word 32 
U N I V E R S I TY O F N OT R E DAM E • D E C E M B E R-3 , l 9 9 8 

~ 
0 
1-­
0 
LLl 
LLl 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
~ 
Ll.. 
Big No No 
We were wealthy, we were Catho­lic and we were despised. But at 
least we were independent. 
My high school football team never had a conference championship to shoot for. We never had an all-conference team to make, and no conference records to break. Sure, we had nearby rivals and personal goals, but we were always focused on the big picture :_ the state championship. 
In a lot of ways we were in the same situation that Notre Dame is in now (except wedidn'thaveany6'8"300pounders). The Irish are always focused on the national championship, with no small-time confer­ence goals to cloud their sight. 
But Notre Dame may not be in that situa­tion for long. Some speculation, and indeed some conversation between bigwigs at Notre Dame and at the Big Ten, may lead us to that conference in the near future. The pros and cons are many, as are the opinions on the matter. Check out Corey Spinelli's story about Notre Dame's possible move to the Big Ten on page 16. 
Also Inside 
Intrigued by the, um, art decorating south quad? Then take a look at Joe Gallagher's story about Notr~ Dame's contemporary sculpture scene on page 12. On page 14, Eric Yuva puts a South Bend spin on some Christmas classics, and on page 21, Chris Hamilton previews the upcoming Big East basketball season. Enjoy the magazine. 
Corrections 
In the November 12, 1998, issue, a cam­
pus life article entitled "Serving a Purpose" 
stated that the Center for Social Concerns 
sends appx:oximately 40 to 60 students per 
year to do post-graduate service work. The 
actual figure is approximately 180 to 190 
students. 
Also, "Looking Over Her Shoulder," a 
news article in the last issue, identified a 
stalking victim as Lisa Nosa. The correct 
spelling of her name is Lisa Naso. 
A photo poll respondent on page 7 of the 
same issue was named Jill Orlikowski. Her 
name is actually Jill Witkowski. 
Finally, a photograph on page 17 was 
incorrectly credited to Katie Cleary. Christy 
Duval was the photographer. Scholastic re­
grets the errors. 
Hello 
Scholastic welcomes its newest staffer, Paul Sladek, who will be assisting Jenny Stachowiak in the business and advertising department. Paul is a sophomore and a prob­able finance major. 
And Goodbye 

This will be the last issue of the semester . for Scholastic and the last issue of the year 
for campus life staffers Kate Jacques and 
Zac Kulsrud. Kate, the campus life editor, 
will be spending the spring in Toledo, Spain, 
and Zac, who has been the assistant campus 
life editor, will study abroad in London. 

Also leaving is ijrian Johnsen, Scholastic's 
systems manager, who will be graduating 
this month. Kate, Zac and Brian have been 
great friends and we will miss them all. 
On a related note, Kate, Zac and Brian's positions have not yet been filled. Anyone interested in the positions of campus life editor, assistant campus life editor, systems manager or assistant photography editor can pick up an application at the Scholastic 
office in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall or call the office at 1-7569. In the meantime have a Merry Christmas. 
We'll see you again on January 21 with our 
58th annual football review. 


Editor in Chief 
46 Years Ago: 
Bookstore 
IntheNovember21, 1952issueofScho­lastic, the editorial staff wrote and edito­·rial advocating the creation of an on­
campus bookstore: 
A plan for founding a bookstore on campus was introducedat a past Sen­ate meeting .Besides being convenient, itwouldbe able to serve college needs better than most South Bend stores. 
Today, we only wish we could buy our books in South Bend stores. . 


2 

SCHOLASTIC .DECEMBER 3, 1998 
MAGAZINE 



r­
m 
-f 
-f 
m 
,c 
(/'J 
Something got your goat?· You're not as dumb as an ox. Don't let the cat get your tongue ( or pen). You're sly like a fox. Show us. Don't wait 'til pigs fly. 


Letters to the Editor: 
SCHOLAST~C ·· 
MAGAZDNIE 
LaFortune Student Center · Notre Dame, IN 46556 


DECEMBER 3, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


--' 
<{ 
°' 
l­
o 
w 
Join the Big Ten? Not So Fast 
This year, we added preseason top-10 team Arizona State to the football schedule. Next year, we travelto Knox­ville to take on this year's BCS leader Ten­nessee. Then in 2000, perennial football giants Texas A&M and Nebraska round out our home lineup. Two years later, Bobby Bowden and his Florida State Seminoles join the schedule. Reading Notre Dame's schedule is kind of like reading a Who's Who of college football. Every year, Mike Wadsworth and his athletic department can pick the best and most far-flung football programs in the na­tion to fill our schedule. Unfortunately, these circumstances may soon change. If Notre Dame joins the Big Ten -officials at the school and at the conference have already traded information -Notre Dame will lose much of its scheduling freedom. And scheduling freedom isn't the only thing we would lose. Playing Big Ten schools -all ofthem in the Midwest-would limit our travel to eight states for a majority ofour sporting events. Not only that, by joining the Big Ten we'd also lose guaranteed na­tional TV coverage. Currently, the NBC contract assures that every home game will be televised nationally. The Big Ten has a contract with ABC, and it is unlikely that that network will air our games nationally. 
This loss of national exposure -from limited travel and TV coverage -might eventually cost Notre Dame its unique na­tional following. This foilowing makes us admired and envied, loved and despised, but it's a position that should be zealously guarded. It is an essential piece ofthe Notre Dame mystique. By remaining independent staying out of the Big Ten, we preserve this national stature. 
Of course, there are some benefits to joining the Big Ten. Overall, the athletic department would probably be better off financially if we joined. The Big Ten re­quires that all bowl teams must share the profits from the game with the other teams in the conference. And the Big Ten has tie­ins with six bowls. Also, Notre Dame's entry into the Big Ten would lead to a conference championship game, meaning more revenue for everyone involved. 
Some non-revenue sports would also ben­efit from better competition in the Big Ten -basebaII and voileyball, in particular. Even so, other teams are betteroff in the Big East, The number one men's and women's basketbal1 teams both reside in the Big East, as does one of the nation's most prominent women's soccer programs in Connecticut. 
In the end, the decision shouldn't be made for financial reasons. Notre Dame has too rich a tradition to trade for what might amount to a couple of million doIIars per year. Also, the switch shquldn't be made to benefit some teams at the expense ofothers. The choice is clear. To preserve its national prominence, Notre Dame should remain independent. ·. D 

looking for aJob! 
Scholastic Magazine is now hiring a campus life editor, an assistant campus life editor, an assistant photography editor and a systems manager. Pick up an application in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 

M A G A Z I ·N E 
fax: 1-4464 • Scholastic.scholast. l@nd.edu DECEMBER 3, 1998 
B004 South Dining Hall • phone: 1-7569 • 
4 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


NOT SO SILENT NIGHT 

Romancing the Phone 
Singing students anonymously share their talents with a little help from the phonebook 
If you hear sweet sounds coming from beneath the Dome on a Thursday night, don't think a rebel group of construc­
tion workers has gathered to sing canticles on a cold winter night. It's probably just the / Troubadors, a group of "musically inclined" young Notre Dame men who perform occasional informal concerts, says_ aTroubador who asked that Scholastic not use his name so that the se­crecy of his organiza­tion could be main­tained. 
The Trnubador says the group performs two or three times a month. "We 're not on a time­table," he says. "Wejust sing whenever we have the time and inclina­tion." 
When they decide to give a concert, "we get together on a Thursday night in spmebody's room," the 'Troubador says. "For an hour and a half or two hours, we give different girls a call. We pick somebody V:,ho's got the deeper, more se­ductive voice. We, sing for 35 to 45 sec­
onds. We'll sing them a love song over the 
phone, and tell them if they like the sound of 
that, there's a concert at the Dome at mid­
night." The concert includes a va­riety of love songs and folk songs, as well as some spiri­tuals. "It's mostly lighter fare," the Troubador says. Concerts last about 30 min­utes. Despite the invitation-only setup, the concerts aren't ex­clusive. "Often times we have people walking home from computer labs, and we welcome them to join us, too," the Troubador says. The group sing for fun, says the Troubador. "It's a blowing-off-steam type of thing that gives us an oppor­1 tunity to do an informal con­cert for our friends," he says. And if you missed the last concert, don't worry. The Troubadors' tradition is a long one, certain to continue. "It's old," the Troubador says: "To be honest, I don't know how long it's been 
going on. As long as I have been at Notre 
Dame, it's been a tradition." -Annie Ralph 

DECEMBER 3, 1998 
Q&A 
1Questions with 

-0 
~ 
:D 
0 
;,; 
0 
~ 
z 
m 
(JJ 
Adam Rzepniewski 
The Lethal Weapon 

Ever look at Chan, Segal or Van Damme and wonder· what it's like to be able to defend yourself so well? Well, so did Adam Rzepniewski, current president of Notre Dame's chapter ofthe Martial Arts Institute. Adam has had a fun and profitable eJ..perience learning Tae Kwon Do and JuJitsu. And yes, he can break three wooden boards at once. 
How and why did you get started in martial arts? 
I've always had an interest in martial arts, thanks in part to those poorly dubbed Chinese movies. I found the Martial Arts Institute and decided to try my hand at it. 
What is your present status? 
Currently, I am a shodan, a first-degree black belt. 
Do you think martial arts will prove to be a life-long activity for you? 
Most definitely: martial arts helps me stay flexible and in shape. Hopefully when I'm 80 I'll still be able to kick someone in the head. 
What do you feel is the single most impor­tant benefit that martial arts gives you? 
Confidence ... knowing that you can take care of yourself in virtually any situation is very comforting. 
What three adjectives describe the ideal martial arts fighter? 
Intelligent, controlled and fun-loving. Ifsome­one possesses these three qualities, there is no limit to what that person can achieve. 
Do you think the average Notre Dame student would benefit from joining your club? 
Yes! ... ND Martial Arts Institute helps to continued on next page ­
-SCHOLASTIC 5 
· MAGAZINE 

z 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m CJJ 
0 0 
7\ 
I
i 



~ 
0 0 
co 
w 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 

continued from previous page 
teach control and balance that are important in everyone's life. Plus, the ability to defeat an attacker with a single kick never hurt anyone. ... Well, except the attacker. 
Have you ever used your skills in a real-life situation? 
Well, one day I'm rocking back in my desk chair when it slips out from underneath me and I fall to the ground. Thanks to knowing the back-fall, I avoided a concussion. 
What move is your favorite? 

The roundhouse kick is my favorite. Since it's so fast and powerful, you can disable your opponent before they really.know what hap­pened. 
In overall martial arts skills ... Van Damme or Jackie Chan? 
Jackie Chan, hands down. 
Why do you think that violence is so rampant in modern society? Using a gun allows one a certain amount of anonymity from one's victim, so it is easier to kill. In martial arts, you learn a lot of moves that can easily injure or kill an opponent, but you also gain an understanding ofthe respon­sibility that comes with such power. 
-Mark Styczynski 

HOME AGAIN 
Reclaiming their Turf 
Opponents have come to fear the fight in the 
House that Rockne built 
0ne of the most difficult feats in sports is going through a college foot­ball season undefeated. Notre Dame has not accomplished this in more than 10 years. Although this season will not go down as a perfect one for the Irish, what they've achieved at Notre Dame Stadium in 1998 is something that teams with such Notre Dame greats as Jerome Bettis, Aaron Taylor and Derrick Mayes were not able to do -go undefeated at home. This has not happened since 1989. As talented as some of the Notre Dame squads have been in the '90s, none was able to keep a blemish off the home record. The Irish entered the '98 campaign 36-11-1 at home in the decade, and were just 17-7 since '94. Irish supporters and foes alike chal­lenged the notion of a "home field advan­tage." Who can forget the 1991 loss at home to Tennessee? Notre Dame held a 31-3 lead at one point in that game, scored only three. points in the second half and ended up losing 35-34. The first home game for this year's seniors was the 1995 Northwestern debacle. 
Twice the Irish have allowed game-win­ning field goals in the waning moments to lose their number-one ranking at home. In the final home contest of 1990, Penn State upset the Irish, and in 1993, David Gordon and Boston College did the honors. 
In 1994, a preseason top-five Irish squad rallied to take the lead with under two minutes to play, only to lose their home opener to Michigan on Remy Hamilton's last-second field goal. A loss to the Air Force Academy, thrashings by both Michi­gan State and Ohio State, and a bad loss to Southern Cal last season added to the list of recent home defeats. 
"You must create a hostile environment for visiting t~ams to enter," says Irish head coach Bob Davie of his latest success at home. "The first step to building a champi­onship team is winning your home games. We took a positive step in that direction this season." 
-Joe Malichio 


. •M··... ·.. ·. 

0~. th~{ the Starr' 'repbit. on \iii:. . /\iisitors t6the sitehl11t6~n~c:ftoi~teie~f-< '.,'EdBr~it~n6act1~r,'''.whos~tafe,mayJceep\ ·_..·.·.·.•·•... '-.·.·..:.•.•·..·•..· ·•···Trim,...at.ey< ..-e·..n.·· ..·.•.·e~...,·.·.··.,.:.·.·.~."s.u.•1:.·.•trfi·:·.··e·.· ...·•.••.••:······.·· 4igftode_s?imp6ssi_bl~gam~s,fcdfu~cstr,ip'; youfronftheclormiihowers.n;;::•.··. ·•,;•··...•
..... .. ..[··•·'r:·•.b··.e.':···e_.·.r.·.1m:.•_$.·:·..···.·.on)e·.·~...·.···d...•.•....·.~.o:,··w.··f•:.:.·.•.·~--.:.·•··a·.;.·.·.•·.w.n .. ·•.wb ...·.•··:·e······tr.:oi .• 

. tha(\VHl· eV(!Iltuallf havemultiple. eridings·\·.c.~The•.egitfi-S·. s·ay.the maga~.inewill'.im7L OU t\.Bunk m)tgazine at: v/ww.burik-.; ticle.namec! "Yo,urig Spinster'; }or~thi~ 0f;st.·. :· ~illf~atµr;'photbgi~pi1ic edsays _ana e~bri 
mag com Bunk n)ag~eis~••~;oWi~e jssnr. Tfiena~tocisa~offianwhtbeon ~"7:' ?se;fi :g~en A<cO'dmg' 
•,:.c· ~ .... 
6 

SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER 3, 1998 
MAGAZINE 
•.... 
at,. ory()U,1S:it .•
firstsign'' . ; ' . ~ . . 

Ho-Ho-Holu Night? 
When was the baby in the manger replaced 
by a chihuahua? 

BY LIBBY RECTOR twas the beginning of November when I 
saw my first Christmas advertisement. 

Somehow I must have missed Thanks­giving. I admit that I have noticed over the past decade or so that holiday fare usually arrives around Halloween. It wasn't so much the early arrival that bothered me, but the commercial's message that forced me to Teevaluate the season and the ways we cel­ebrate it. 
Everyone knows that in typical house­holds, even mice do not stir on the night before Christmas. But in this ad, a mouse was stirring, attached to a PC logged onto the Internet. A father was busy ordering Christmas presents for his children, paying a fortune for them and having them hand-· delivered in the morning. So much for wait­ing up for Santa. This image of late-night Internet Christmas shopping bothered me at first, but then, considering the current tradi­tions of gift-giving and overall seasonal madness, maybe this shopping method is an attractive alternative. 
The tradition ofexchanging gifts at Christ­mas supposedly started at Macy's. I would consider their holiday "buy everyone you know a present" campaign a success, as the main place of holiday worship has moved from the church to ihe mall. It's a plain fact that people spend a lot more time searching for gifts than they spend with the people they are shopping for. This pursuit of the perfect gift leaves people exhausted and broke. And it steers focus away from the true reason to celebrate the holidays. 
The commercialization of Christ's birth 

has turned the entire holiday into a com­
modity. All aspects of the season can now 
be purchased, It is easier to buy Christmas 
than to actually celebrate it. 
Americans spend $80 billion on Christ­mas paraphernalia each year, and this figure will continue to grow as marketeers begin their holiday campaigns earlier each year. 
I 
They also sell products that have nothing to do with Christmas. We will undoubtedly see the Taco Bell chihuahua decking the halls because, really, what is more festive than a Gordita? Sorry to make everyone face reality here, but Jesus never ate Taco Bell, and their gift certificates are not at the top of anyone's Christmas wish list. 
All right, the dog is funny, we all love to receive gifts and the mall can actually be pretty when it is decorated. Few can deny the fact that gifts under a tree were a major part of their childhood Christmas memo­ries. 
If we are able to enjoy these parts of the holiday and keep the true meaning ofChrist­mas in sight, what's the problem? Unfortu­nately, the meaning of Christmas seems to have been lost. 
Remember the disappointment you felt when you found out that Santa and Rudolph weren't all they were cracked upto be, when you noticed that mom's handwriting looked a lot like Santa's? Maybe this wasn't such a bad realization after all. For a minute, it might have taken your mind off of the hype. 
It's still not too late to refocus your atten­tion and ditch the glitter and Gordita-mania this holiday season. 
Boycotting the malls is not as hard as it may seem, and chances are that any gift you make will be appreciated a lot more than something you spotted in a Target ad. Giv­ing a little of your time during the holidays is never a bad idea. 
Not only will you be acting in the true spirit of the season, but you will also be confronting the commercial Christmas movement head on. 
And if you really must put plastic statues in your yard, maybe you could make it a nativity scene instead of reindeer. 0 
The opinions v.pressed in this commentary are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial staff of 
Scholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC 7 
MAGAZINE 

s 
)> 
z 
0 
z 
-I 
I 
m 
(./) 
-I 
;;,;::, 
m 
m 
-I 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 

BEHIND THE FLASHING 
(/) 
s LIGHTS 
LU 
z 
Scholastic examines the most important part ofthe crackdown 
on underage drinking -the days before and after the raid 
BY JAKE MOONEY
Thursda.y, November. 12, started ou.t like any other night for the patrons of Corby's Irish Pub and The Irish Connection. Both bars were filled with stu­dents and other South Bend residents out to begin the weekend a day early, bliss­fully unaware that the wheels were already in motion in a process that • would lead to tickets for 95 of them -94 in The Irish Connection -for being minors in a tavern or possess­ing false identification. Those present for the raids, which temporarily shut down both bars, got a closer look at the Stop Under­age Drinking and Sales task force, known as SUDS, which is reassert­ing its presence as local law enforcement's strongest weapon against underage alcohol consump­tion. Like the raid on Bridget McGuire's Filling Station almost a year ago, which netted 165 underage patrons, the raids on Corby's and The Irish Connection were high-profile ex­amples oflocal police cracking down on the source of what they consider a serious problem. The raids, though, were just the · climax of an ongoing effort, and they were preceded by hours of preparation and be­hind-the-scenes work, of which none of the students now facing criminal proceedings could have been aware. While the raids themselves were the most visible elements of the effort, the moments most significant to the fates ofthose caught in the middle were in the days leading up to November 12, and in the weeks to follow, in which Student Affairs officials and local 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

prosecutors will begin disciplinary proceed­ings. 
The Tip-off 

For any SUDS investigation to get under­way, someone must first alert the authori­ties of a problem. Lt. Charles Feirrell, a 
mem­ber of the St. Joseph County police force and a member ofSUDS since its founding in 1985, says that the task force's efforts are carefully planned. "We don't pick these things randomly," he says. "We pick them with some criteria." 
Feirrell explains that the impetus for an investigation can come from a variety of sources. In the case ofThe Irish Connection, he says, there were numerous complaints from residents ofthe surrounding neighbor­hood and from people who had driven by and seen young people who seemed to be minors entering the bar. Feirrell also points out, "We're not blind. Our police officers drive by those places and see them." 
"Historically the bars around campus have 

been what we know as student bars," he says. "Generally that means underage drink­ing." 
Another source of information about stu­dents' off-campus drinking habits -and one that many students regard with suspi­cion -is the Notre Dame administration. 
Assistant Vice President for Residence Life William Kirk says that there is contact between the university and local police. 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 

"I've had conversations with the folks at the South Bend Police Department for some time, primarily information sharing back and forth," he says. "Students at times will get into some difficulty because ofintoxica­tion ... and when they do that frequently it will come to our information where they have been served underage or served too much. When the names of those establish­ments start repeating themselves with great frequency, that's information that we think that local police would want to know." 
Kirk denies, however, that Notre Dame directly influences SUDS' decisions to in­vestigate bars. "We don't control in any way, shape or form how local police depart­ments go about their business," he says. 
South Bend Police Uniform Division ChiefBrentHemmerlein, the member ofthe SUDS task force who directed the raids, agrees. "Iknow that there have been rumors that Notre Dame called the shot to hit the bars, but that couldn't be further from the truth.... They dido 'tdo that, and they really don't have that au­thority." 
Hemmerlein says BEFORE WE'RE GOING TO RAID YOUR TA VERN 
that the university 
can call in a com­WE'RE GOING TO SEE IF THATCOMPLAINTJS VAL!D IF 
plaint "just like a 
WE SEE JUSTIF!CATION WELL GO IN.,,
person calls from his neighborhood and 
-LT CHARLESFEIRRELLST JOSEPH COUNTYPOLICE 
says we've got a crime problem;" 
To Feirrell, contact between Notre Dame and local police "should not be viewed as an indictment." He says that the university "has always expressed a legitimate concern about the health and safety ofthe students." 
' Undercover 

Once SUDS has received information about a particular establishment, the next step is an investigation to determine whether the force will pursue the charges further. Plainclot11es officers visit the bar weeks before any possible raid and try to deter­mine if minors are being served. Feirrell expiains, "Before we're going to raid your tavernwe'regoing to see ifthat complaint is valid. If we see some justification we'll go in." 
Hemmerlein says that the investigators try to determine if the bat attracts a young crowd and look atwhether its management does everything it can to prevent the serving of minors. If, in the officers' judgment, it does not, SUDS has probable cause to con­duct a raid. 
This surveillance is routine, and is in-

DECEMBER 3, 1998 
tended to take place without the knowledge of the bar's management and customers. Feirrell explains, "We send in undercover police officers to all bars whenever there are complaints, and [bars] are spot-checked sometimes without complaints~" 
These investigations, along with the bar's proximity to The Irish Connection, the ma­jor target of the last raid, were the main reasons for the raid on Corby's. Although only one minor was ticketed at Corby's that night, both Feirrell and Hemmerlein say that investigations led SUDS to believe that the bar was serving minors. 
Ifofficers decide to go ahead with a raid, they also decide beforehand what charges violators will face. Surveillance plays a part in this decision as well. In raids in which SUDS officers expect to catch a large num­ber ofviolators, those apprehended are usu­ally charged with being a minor in a tavern, because that charge does not require the police to prove that the suspect is intoxi­cated. This eliminates the need to spend 
Hemmerlein supports Barnes' decision. "I think it's a wake-up call and a message being sent to the students that this is seri­ous," he says. "Last year's lesson didn't sink in with pretrial diversion .... Something is going to have to get the message across to the students that they have a responsibility in this." 
Feirrell agrees that students often do not realize the seriousness oftheiroffense. "This is not a traffic ticket," he says. "It is a misdemeanor violation of the law." 
Besides the charges in local courts result­ing from those violations, Notre Dame stu­dents also face disciplinary action from Residence Life. Kirk says that, contrary to some students' objections, this is not a case ofdouble jeopardy. "Violation ofthe law is also a violation of university regulations," he says: "It really doesn't matter too much to us what the local sanction is." 
All· of this, Kirk maintains, is for stu­dents' own good. He says that students "look at it as intrusive, but it all has to do 
extra time and effort bringing along un­wieldy equipment to test blood-alcohol lev­els, and it helps officers deal with the bar's customers more quickly. Ofcourse, anyone behaving violently, falsely identifying them­selves or otherwise interfering with the in­vestigation can face additional charges. 
The Aftermath 

After the Corby's and Irish Connection raids, underage students caught at the bars were left wondering how the university and local authorities would respond. With Pros­ecutor Michael Barnes' announcement Fri­day that pretrial diversion will not be an option, the picture is beginning to look bleak. 
With the pretrial diversion program, which was offered to many of those caught in last year's Bridget's raid, violators can have their charges dismissed if they pay a fine, perform community service and refrain from breaking the law again. 
People charged in connection with the most recent raids, on the other hand, wifl have to plead guilty and pay a fine as well as court costs, or go to trial. 
with the sense of community that we try to form, the sense of caring about each other. We are our brother's keeper, and we do look after each other's behavior." 
What's Next 

When the fallout from the raids on Corby' i­and The Irish Connection is over, one thing will be certain: students will be more aware ofSUDS' existence, and ofthe dangers they face when they drink underage. For its part, SUDS does not seem to be going anywhere. If anything, the task force could become more prominent. . 
"Students need to be aware that we're going to be back out," Hemmerlein says. "[Underage drinking] is not going to be ignored." 
Feirrf?ll is equally confident, and believes that after several low-profile years, SUDS is poised to assert its presence once again. "These things go in trends," he says. "When we see problems developing from a certain activity we try to stop that activity or slow it so that it is controllable. ... If it moves somewhere else we'll find that and raid it 
there, too."  D  
SCHOLASTIC  9  
MAGAZINE  

Trouble's Advocate 
(/) 
With more students on their way to Residence Life for underage drinking, 
w 
the Peer Advocacy Program wants to help
z 
sults and counsels the students," Meihaus dents who face hearings actually use the BY ALLISON FASHEK says. "We prepare them for the hearings and program, a figure which has remained steady since the group was formed 10 years ago.
The night ended abruptly when the what's to come." Stop Underage Drinking and Sales Once contacted, Meihaus delegates cases According to Meihaus this low percentage team, a task force of local, state and to the advocates, who are all trained in is partly due to the fact that many students Residence Life procedures and know how don't realize the group exists or understand 
excise police, raided The Irish Connection its intentions. "When people are faced with 
Bar and Corby's Irish Pub last month. But the administration will approach the stu­
for Notre Dame students cited as minors in dents' problems. Assistant Director ofResi­the prospect of a hearing they are nervous a tavern, the consequences of that night are dence Life Lori Maurer works closely with and scared about what's going to happen," just beginning to take place. Following the the advocates, acting as a liaison between he says. "They may not want to share their 
Residence Life and the Judicial Committee. story even though we keep [all information] 
precedent of the Bridget McGuire's Filling Station raid in January, students are already "We train the advocates ... so they can give completely confidential." receiving the expected letters from Resi­students realistic expectations about what's Maurer also stresses this point. "The de­dence Life. going to happen," Maurer says. "Likewise velopment of confidentiality begins when 
What they might not expect is a notice in the advocates can then tell us what the each advocate is chosen. We look for stu­that same letter informing them about the students are talking about, confused about. dents who are responsible and trustworthy, Peer Advocacy Program. "It's important They really help bridge the gap between the who other students would feel comfortable 
that Residence Life lets us put an ad in that two groups." with," she says. initial letter, an informational card, so stu­Meihaus estimates that a quarter of stu-Despite the advocates' good intentions, 
we're the team that con-nection and Corby's Irish Pub. The Peer Advocates are eager to help any students involved. 
l O SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER t 1998 
MAGAZINE 


students' opinions of the program remain varied. An off-campus student who was cited with a noise violation earlier this se­mester chose not to use the program because he did not feel that having a peer advocate would make a difference in the process. 
"I felt like Student Affairs had already decided how they weregoingtohandle r ·•:\ ·.··.·· >.·.. 
gram, but not about Student Affairs." 
Another student who had a hearing after an incident involving alcohol in his dorm also feels the program is effective. 
"During the hearing, my advocate was sitting there right next to me to answer any questions I had," he says. "[The advocate] 
·· .. ··•· .· ·;-· \ ·.··•.· ····.· ... ·• .. ·.•, ...·. •­
According to sophomore advocate Tony Wagner, the group does not influence the mindset of the Residence Life officials. "We're not lawyers," he says. "We answer questions, make sure [students] know how the process works, and support them when they want us." 
M a u r e r 

.. -~ .---···-_-,· .· ; states that 
~:~~~~~~:y:~.~:; rJ'l;\lffr~.·:rtOt~~1£~~~~-·iyl\~~~1y..er:q11esttOf!S,. make J :::~:nr:~~i: 
already kne"". how [sure[stud~n~s] know,hoy;..t~r: prpcess..works j neutral about 
~e~s:::~ ~~~~!gt~ \and,$upph¥:ithem:whehthey:.wa:n.tus.'~:•,:-·I :!:::~:o:~~~ 
~:::~~:~~::::0:0~~ r •.: ...•.. ·.. . . 
-.-· , ,•·-'-~· -------·... .: ,'•·-·.·

mality." 
Another off-campus student cited for the same reason feels differently about the pro­gram. "[The advocate] advised us to tell the truth about everything, but she said if we didn 't, she wouldn't say anything to the administration. It was all kept confiden­tial," she says. The student felt that talking to someone who knew all of the rules. was helpful. "Student Affairs doesn't tell you anything. You just get this letter that says this is your hearing: show up. I have good things to say about the Peer Advocate Pro­
.· . . ···-.-..-.. Tony Wagner ~::m~he 
pro­

.... ·----. ----·-·--·-·--··-· . ------.. 
couldn't argue my case, but he told me what not to say and what points to stress. I think it helped the outcome of my hearing." 
As for whether students who use the pro­gram fare better when facing Residence qfe, Meihaus has no statistics. But he ex­plains that "advocates are not there to get students off the hook. As it is, we usually get the students who are in deeper trouble as opposed to people who got caught with beer in the hallway, just because of the nature of the system." 
..... ___,____ 

"We're al­ways happy if students tum to counseling," she says. "But some students already have a strong support system in their friends and rectors." 
After two years as an advocate, Meihaus has seen a number of cases, but he still feels students lack an awareness of the group and its purpose. 
"Students usually come to us wanting a prediction of what will happen," he says. "We can't give them that, but we can make it easier on the student." 0 
WE WANT You SCHOLASTIC 
IS  LOOKING  FOR  MAGAZ CREATIVE  N E MINDS.  
IS  LOOKING  FOR  
IS  LOOKING  FOR  YOU.  


DECEMBER 3, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

LI.J 
u.. 
--' (/) :) 
0.. 
~ 
<( 
u 

Justifyi 

Contemporary sculptures provoke discussion, but do they really belong on campus? 
BY JOE GALLAGHERThey're big. They're eye-catching. They endure quizzical stares from passersby. Just as students started getting used to their positions, they began moving around campus. What gives with those crazy modem art sculptures, anyway? First off, the sculptures are for the most part contemporary, not modem. The term "modem" can cover everything from Picasso to present day; "contemporary" refers only to the most current styles of art. Though statues of saints and Gothic architecture have always been a staple at Notre Dame, contemporary art didn't enter the campus until August of 1995. In that year the Public Sculpture Project, headed by Associate Pro­fessor of Art Father Austin Collins, dis­played a number of contemporary sculp­tures around campus. Dean Porter, director of the Snite Mu­seum, acted as chairperson for the Campus Sculpture Committee that selected the sculp­tures. Porter says that the project expanded the possibilities of art at Notre Dame. "In a large sense that was Austin's vision," he says. "Most of the art on campus was mod­em or done by Ivan Mestrovic. Austin has brought a much more contemporary view." Collins agrees that the project had a posi­tive effect on Notre Dame. "I think the sculptures brought up a lot of discussion on contemporary art. I've been invited to spe1l,k at a number ofuniversity seminars on the art on campus. I truly believe the whole cam­pus should be a sculpture garden. Yale, Harvard and other schools we consider our 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


-a 
~ 
m 
:n 
:n 
0 
J: 
.
:n 
0 

en 
0 
z 
contemporaries have much more extensive sculpture programs." 
Though the Public Sculpture Project ended in July 1997, the Campus Sculpture Com­mittee continues to bring new art to campus. Today several "pads" around campus, which include three spaces in front of Riley and several around DeBartolo, have been desig­nated as spaces for temporary displays. "Here [the contemporary sculptures] are primarily loans," Porter says. "The intent was to show younger, emerging artists on a temporary basis. Most other universities have major mature artists on display indefi­nitely." With a constantly changing exhibit, Porter says, "You can rotate [the art] and hopefully get the best pieces." 

Still, some believe that the best place for the sculptures is in a museum. "They don't · match the decor of the rest of South Quad," senior Dan Sullivan says. "If we had some sort of postmodemistic architecture I could understand, but they just don't fit." 
Some are baffled as to why Notre Dame would bring contemporary art to campus at all. "Some people enjoy them," senior Laurence Galli says. "I myself don't under­stand them." 
Collins believes that people are right to have aesthetic concerns. "I believe Notre Dame is a sacred place and people should be concerned about the way it looks and the sculptures put on it," he says. 
But Porter feels that contemporary art adds to the campus rather than detracting from its beauty. "It probably works better by DeBartolo than the main campus, but I'm not against mixing style," he says. 
Associate Professor ofArt Derek Chalfant thinks that contemporary art should involve the viewer in its interpretation. "Hopefully people can formulate their own questions," · Chalfant says. "Most people on campus can do that. In today's society we're literally 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 


ccwe should be challenged by things at a university. It)s exciting to see what is happening in the art world today being brought to our campus.)) 
spoon-fed information. I think people need to slow down and think. Things around a campus are meant to challenge you." 
Chalfant says that understanding and in­terpreting most of the new campus sculp­tures does take some research on the part of the viewer. As an example of how to appre­ciate contemporary art, Chalfant offers in­sight on his own sculpture, "Mother's Helper." 
According to Chalfant, the sculpture ( dis­played near the eastern comer ofRiley Hall) relies on "visual language" rather than obvi­ous symbolism to communicate with its audience. "First you have to define or ques­tion, what is a 'Mother's Helper?'" he says. "You have recognizable objects used to help mothers nurture the young. You put a Latin cross on something at Notre Dame, what does it make you think of?" 
Though the sculpture incorporates a thick Latin cross, a bronze infant and a "rocking high chair," it is a mistake for the viewer to try to get a single meaning from the piece. 
"The piece references the environment I'm in, and I'm making things people can identify with. I'm trying to make people thinkof things in a different way," Chalfant says. "Hopefully I can give people a jump­ing-off point for discussion. If you just 
-Dean Porter 

spend a little time and think about it ... you can get something out of it." 
This statement applies to more than "Mother's Helper," since every sculpture on campus is designed to provoke discus­sion. The contemporary art on campus does challenge its audience, but Porter says, "We should be challenged by things at a univer'­sity. It's exciting to see what is happening in the art world today being brought to our campus."Though the sculptures may some­times seem out of place, it's possible that they fit in better than most people suspect. After all, what's a huge golden dome doing in the middle of a flat Indiana landscape? D 

i 
I 
::1 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 


,~,l,e 



:) 
a.. 
~ 
<( U BYErucYuvA 

t's not beginning to look a lot like Christ­mas just yet, but it 
soon will. As the wind blows colder and class days melt away, it's the perfect time to usher in the spirit ofthe season.As Christ­mas has its traditions, so does Notre Dame~ and what better way to bring them together than through the power of song? See your favorite carols altered in a way you never imagined as col­lege life at Notre Dame is blended with the annual celebra­tion. Sit back, sing along and share these songs with all your friends. 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

here's nothing like the first sno':"­,,.., fall at Notre Dame. _The_ special / way the freezing air_ bites mto you d won't let go brings a tmgle to every :~udent. For freshmen who have_ never ~~p:~ rienced a South Bend winter, times wi e 
h There is a reason that Notre Dam ~~~;ts.only spring and autumn pict~res ofth~ campus in the guidebooks. My advice to ro:. 
grin and bear i~ until_the ~now ~elts an sun shines agam -m mid-Apnl. 
Deck the Quads 
( sung to the tune of Deck the Halls) 
Deck the Quads with snow a-plenty 
Fa la la la la, la la la la Once so full, they now lie empty Fa la la la la, la la la la 
Don we now our warm apparel 
Fa la la la la, la la la la Make the trek to class from Carroll Fa la la la la, la la la la 
t e 
Pelt the Zahmbies with our snowballs 

Fa lala la la, la la la la . Break their windows, damage their halls Fa la la la la, la la la la 
Requests for pity go unheard Fa la la la la, la la la la Now I wish I went to Stanford Fa la la la la, la la la la Fast away the blizzard passes 
Fa la la la la, la la la la 
Closing roads and skipping dasses Fa la la la la, la la la la Sing we Domers, all together 
Fa la la la la, la la la la Heedless to the wind and weather Fa la la la la, la la la la 

7 he last week of the semester can be ~rying as the excitement of _Chnstmas converges with the 
stress offmals. The distraction often causes students to perform poorly on their tests or at le~st serves as a good excuse. A special surpnse awaits students when grades come home over break. That small piece ofpaper 
has a funny way of ruining Christmas. 
Flunking Class 
(sung to the !une of Jingle Bells) 
Passing through the year With a 15-credit slate Drinking tons of beer College life is great Books below my bed Work remains undone 
While partying, my grades are dead My parents love their son . 
Chorus: 
Flunking class, flunking class Flunking all the way Oh, it sucks to be this bad I've been sleeping in each day, 0 
(repeat) 
A week or two ago 
I got a little note And soon my mother saw My first progress report The call was short and sweet Misfortune seemed my debt The 30 grand I used to see 
She used to buy a 'vette 
(repeat chorus) 
For now I'm here at home A change in schools I made No longer near the Dome The desert sun does fade Back to a straight-A guy Asl~ep in class all day 
Whtle partying my grades don't die At Arizona State · 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 


&as~y one of the roost popular publi­cations on .campus, Right Reason would like to remind students why 
they are celebrating this holiday with their own blend of slanted reporting and in-your­face fundamentalism. The religious aspect of Christmas is important and no one pro­motes Catholicism quite like Right Reason. 
Mister Right is Coming to Town (sung to. the tune of Santa Claus is Com­
ing to Town) 
You better watch out You better not sin Better repent 
He will tell you when Mister Right is coming to town 
He's checking you out 
Making real sure Gonna find out who's pagan and pure Mister Right is coming to town 

He knows where you've been sleeping 
He stalks when you're awake He decides if you've been bad or good So be bad for freedom's sake 
You better watch out You better not sin Better repent 
He will tell you when Mister Right is coming to town Mister Right is coming to town 
I 
:>· 1.'u 
I 
' 
.,. . 

,4nd finally, Notre Dame would like to send the student body a special message to let you all kn.OW hoW much you mean to the Notre Dame family. Every Domer's contribution is gladly ac­cepted and specially cared for with a loving attitude that onlY Notre Dame can provide. 
We Wi$h You a MetrY Chri$tma$ We Wi$h You a Merry Chri$tma$ We Wi$h You a MetrY Chri$tma$ 
And a Happy New Year 
We want your money quickly We want your mo~ey quicklY We want your money quickly 
Validated checks please 
Can't come backuntil we get them Can't come back until we get them Can't come back untitwe get them 
So send it right here 
We Wi$h You a MetrY Chri$tma$ We Wi$h You a MetrY Chri$tma$ We Wi$h You aMetrY Chri$tma$ 
And a Happy New Year! 

.DECEMBER 3, 199B 


0n November 13, 1993, Notre Dame Stadium played host to the one ofthe most highly anticipated regular sea­
son college football games of the century. The number two, 9-0 Irish welcomed the top-ranked Seminoles ofFlorida State, who were led by '93 Reisman Trophy winner 

but is she a good m·ate? 
do so at the end of the season. 
When word got out this past June that the Notre Dame administration had exchanged information with the Big Ten Conference, many Irish faithful voiced strong opposi­tion. Since the NBC contract runs through 2005 and the Irish schedule is filled through 
By Corey Spinelli 
a national platform. I respect them for want­ing that, but: in our opinion, it doesn't work for us." Translation: Irish fans outside the Notre Dame region willnotseeall 11 games unless they subscribe to the pay-per-view ·plan. On a given Saturday, for example, if the Pac-10 and Big 12 keep their ABC 

"If Notre Dame joins, it absolutely establishes [the Big Ten] as the top conference in the nation." Northwestern head football coach Gary Barnett 
Charlie Ward. Bobby Bowden's squad 
boasted the most talent in the country and 
was a considerable favorite over the home 
team. Notre Dame's thrilling 31-24 victory 
propelled the Irish to the front of the polls 
and, although a loss the following week 
eventually cost Lou Holtz's squad the na­
tional championship, the win is certain to 
rank among the best in Irish gridiron an­
nals. 
Several factors contributed to the elec­
tricity that surrounded this contest. Notre· 
Dame's contract with NBC ensured na­
tional coverage of the game and its inde­
pendent status allowed it not only to sched­

2004 (and is largely booked until 2008), the . Irish would not actually begin conference play for at least seven seasons. Still, the most common concerns mentioned were the future "regionalization and restriction" of the football team that would result in rel­egating the currently independent Irish to one of 12 equals. 
One problem might be the loss ofguaran­teed national TV coverage. The Big Ten has a television contract with ESPN and ABC that runs through 2007. That isn't expected to change in the future. ABC senior vice president Jon Litner says, "We have a re­gional philosophy and that's very different contracts, a UCLA-Oregon game would be shown in the West and. a Texas-Nebraska game would be shown in the South over a Notre Dame-Michigan game from the Mid­west if all three contests began at the same time. This poses an obvious problem for Notre Dame's national following. 
Another problem is scheduling. The last eight battles of the year are conference games, leaving only the first three dates on the calendar open for scheduling. Transla­tion: Say goodbye to memorable Saturdays lateinNovemberagainstnon-BigTenpow­ers such as Florida State. 
In the next nine seasons, upper-echelon 


ule theperennial Southeastern powerbut to from what Notre Dame has today, which is .· · teams from every major conference in the 
16 SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER 3, 1998 
MAGAZINE 

country dot the Notre Dame home schedule. ing and resources and more attractive bowl sense. Notre Dame's only other revenue Arizona State, UCLA, USC and Washing­possibilities. producing team, the men's basketball squad, ton all visit South Bend from the Pac-10, Though Notre Dame Athletic Director now earns around $1.5 million per season, while Nebraska and Texas A&M travel in Michael Wadsworth has stated, "I really while Big Ten men's hoops teams make 
l 
from the Big 12. Tennessee and Alabama come from the SEC and Florida State rolls 
northwest from the ACC. In addition, Air Force, Boston College, Brigham Young,
1 
Michigan, Michigan State, Oklahoma, Purdue, Stanfordand West Virginia will 
play before the Irish . 
capacity crowd of 
80,225. 
Notre Dame's en­try would allow the conference to split intotwo, six-teamdi­visions. The Irish would then face the five teams from their division, play three rotating teams from the other divisionand three non-confer­ence games. Big Ten schools traditionally fill their, first three 
Saturdays with non­
conference oppo­
nents. ~ach team 
takes different ap-. 
proaches to its non­
conference schedul­
ing. For example; 
Michigan challenged 
quality Notre Dame 
and Syracuse teams . 
this year while.Penn ~ 
Stateplayed the likes :!: 
of Bowling Green, ~ 
Pittsburgh and 0 CJ 
Southern Missis-CRASH INTO ME. Though Michigan State frequently appears on the Notre Dame schedule, if the Fighting Irish join 
the Big Ten; the Michigan State game would be a yearly event. 
sippi. The Irish would lik~ly keep USC and Navy; leaving just one day a year to play the Nebraskas or Tennessees of fl?.e coUege football world. Skeptics of the pro­posed move wouldratherwatchNotreDame play an1,ttional schedule againststrong teams than the likes of Illinois, Indiana, Iowa and Minnesota each year. , . 
Ifjoining the·conference would rei;ult in "regionalizing" the Irish and significantly limiting their freedom to schedule nation­ally, then why is the administration seri­ously considering the move? There are nu­merous reasons, including anticipated rev­enue increases, improved academic st~d-
OECEMBER 3, 1998 
don't think the big issue is going to be the money," the financial incentives of accept­ing a possible conference bid are difficult to ignore. The university currently makes up­ward of $9 million per season from NBC, 
while each Big '.fen school receives $5 mil­lion per year from the Big Ten. Bringing the ratings-boosting Irish into the mix would 
. allow the conference to renegotiate their television deal, resulting in extra millions per team. The formation of two divisions also enables the division winners to face off in a lucrative conference title game held the . first weekend in December, like the Big 12 and SEC Championships taking place. this Saturday. This corporately sponsored tilt would also fatten the wallets of conference members. In·other sports, the move makes financial 
almost $4.5 million per year. Additionally, the athletic department will save money in travel costs for the remaining non-revenue teams. Notre Dame's shortest trip to a Big East school is the 350-mile trek to Pitts­
~',<:Lk'A: 
burgh, and 10 of those· 12 teams are 570 .miles or more away. But nine of the 11 Big Ten universities are within 300 miles of South Bend . 
Entering the Big Ten would also widen the range of postseason possibilities in the ever-changing bowl picture. Gone are the days of 1994, when major bowls like the Fiesta were free to select an unranked Notre Dame squad to guarantee high television ratings and ticket sales. For nine consecu­tive seasons from 1987 to 1995, Holtz's teams played in the Cotton, Fiesta, Orange or Sugar Bowl. But times have changed, An 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



8-3 Notre Dame sat home for the holidays in 1996 and a 7-5 Irish unit was invited to only the Motor City Bowl and Poulan/Weed Eater Independence Bowl last season. 
With bowl committees intent on tying conference members into their games, the number of open slots in New Year's Day contests is shrinking rapidly. The newly instituted Bowl Championship Series hasn't helped matters either. Even if the Irish had defeated Southern California last Saturday, both Rose and Sugar Bowl officials stated that they would not choose a top-IO, 10-1 Notre Dame squad even if open spots ex­
isted. After the loss to the Trojans, Bob Davie's troops are headed to the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville to face the Georgia Tech Yell ow Jackets on January 1, but only be-and the Big Ten Conference has prohibited both parties from disclosing any informa­tion that has been exchanged so far, and officials have remained tight-lipped about the situation. Rumors of the Irish accepting an invitation to join the conference in Au­gust were typified by Indiana football coach Cam Cameron's statementthat "Notre Dame is excited about coming into the league, and I'm sure we're as excited as they are." 
Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany, though, has maintained that talks have not progressed past the preliminary stage, say­ing, "No invitation has been tendered and no 
invitation has been asked for. We've had a thorough exchange of informa­tion with Notre Dame and we hope this winter that something comes of it." 
Wadsworth says he has already made his decision, but will merely offer a recommendation to university offi­cials, who will evaluate all gathered information and announce their deci­sion in January. 
Big Ten coaches from Indiana's Bobby Knight and Purdue's Gene Keady to Iowa's Hayden Fry and Northwestern's Gary Barnett have 
_ voiced strong support of the possible move. Knight says the Irish would make "a great addition" to the confer­ence, while Keady says he'd "love it because it would be a win-win situa­tion." The newly retired Hawkeye coach says, "Notre Dame is a class institution, has a very fine academic reputation and traditionally is one of the football powers in the nation." 
Barnettagre~s. "IfNotreDamejoins, it absolutely establishes us as the top conference· in the nation," he says. 
Internally, reaction has not been nearly as positive. Du~ing the Notre Dame-USC radio broadcast,. Wadsworth acknowledged to State Buckeyes are eligible for an alliance bowl. The 10-1 Wisconsin Badgers, cham­pions of the conference, are headed to the Rose Bowl. A Michigan team with three losses, including one to the Irish, is still bound for Orlando and a New Year's Day appearance in the Florida Citrus Bowl against the Florida Gators. The 8-3 Penn State Nittany Lions, who scored a total of 12 points in 12 quarters in losses to the conference's top three teams, can also pack their bags for a January 1 Outback Bowl in Tampa. The December 31st Norwest Sun Bowl in El Paso, the December 29th Build­


ers Square Alamo Bowl in San Antonio and Sunshine Classic in Miami round out the postseason possibilities for qualified Big Ten teams. 

"I really don't think the big issue is going to be money." 
-Athletic Director Michael Wadsworth 
cause the Big East allowed the Irish to use the conference's access to the Gator Bowl. 

On the flip side, the Big Ten is affiliated with six bowl games, none of which is played before December 29. To qualify for a bowl bid, conference members must post a minimum of six wins and have more wins than losses. This season, as a result of their top eight ranking in the polls, the 10-1 Ohio 
18 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
If the independent Irish hadn'_t worked out a deal with the Big East and were not chosen by the Orange Bowl, a 10-1 Notre Dame squad could have been left out of all January contests this season. A Big Ten Irish team, with three conference losses, however, could have celebrated the '99 New Year in Tampa. 
A mutual agreement between Notre Dame longtime Irish broadcaster Tony Roberts that alumni "are overwhelmingly against the move." 

Davie has stated that he is content with the Irish independent status, while current and former athlete opinion is mixed. Tom Reynolds, a linebacker in the 1960s, says, "Joining the conference would squander the equity that they've spent95 years building." 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 

Mike Kovaleski, a linebacker from the 1980s, disagrees. "When you've developed 100 years ofacademic excellence and tradi­tion and athletic prowess, I think that's enough to set you on your way." 
Football captain Mike Rosenthal sees both positives and negatives in the move. "It will establish more traditional rivalries against teams like Michigan, Ohio State and Penn State, and our bowl opportunities will in­crease," Rosenthal says. "Becoming a Big Ten member would hurt recruiting, how­ever, because athletes from around the coun­try come here because ofour national repu­tation and ability to play a national sched­ule. It would definitely hurt the football program in the long run." 
Sophomore Grant Irons, the football rep­resentative on the Athletic Committee, which was set up to examine the issue, agrees. "The ability to play a national schedule against the top teams from every conference greatly influenced my decision to come to Notre Dame," the Texas native says. "Re­cruiting would suffer being a Midwest team, since conference schools like Michigan, Ohio State and Penn State draw heavily from the Midwest, while we count on our national reputation to bring in players from across the country," Irons says. "Also, for players not from the Midwest, it's nice to have most ofour games nationally televised so our families can see us play." 
Lindsay Treadwell, head of the Athletic Commitee, voices other reasons for non­revenue sports maintaining independence. "We have just begun establishing ourselves in the Big East, and we'd have to start all over again,-" ~e volleyball captain says. "Also, recruiting would suffer for partial­scholarship athletes. A half-scholarship at Michigan is much cheaper than one here," Treadwell says. "Also, bigger state schools offer more diverse majors than private scl!ools, whi~h would hurt us when recruits seek a specialized area of study." 
Ultimately, the future ofthe Notre Dame football program lies in the hands of Notre Dame's top officials. The executive vice president of the university, Rev. William Beauchamp, has issued a stateinent saying "Notre Dame is very pleased with our ath­letic positioning, both as an independent in football and as a me~ber of the Big East Conference in most sports." 
Notre Dame students, alumni and fans will have to wait until January to see if, after evaluating the Big Ten's proposal, the ad­ministration still feels the same way. D 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 
Big 1®lnu Big fR®S10)@1nS® 
Ifit were up to the students, Notre Dame would remain independent 
The band was marching, a few strag­"For the most part," Brown says, "people gling marshmallows were flying and are not excited about [switching to the Big 
the ushers were ringing section 28 like Ten]." But Brown adds that many student­a big yellow SWAT team. But senior Paul athletes are not yet informed enough to 
Mullarkey and his friends weren't con­make a decision. cerned with the ongoing battle over air­Some students can see benefits in the 
borne aquatic life -they had a message to 
send. 
Mullarkey's contribution to the strange 

halftime scene during the LSU game con­
sisted.of a series ofposters, which read "No 
Big 10 Conference," with the letters N, B 
and C conveniently highlighted for the cam­
eras. Mullarkey is opposed to moving to the 
Big Ten, and he is just one member of a 
vocal anti-Big Ten contingency. 
Zahmjuniors Bob Cenname and Brenton _Ross are also members of that group. The 
two have chosen to air their opinion on a 
bedsheet hanging on their dorm. The sheet 
reads: "Big Ten, Big Mistake." 
Cenname believes that his opinion is the 

most widely held. "It seems that most stu­
dents, when you ask around, are very much 
opposed to it," he says._ 
Mullarkey', who has also hung a bedsheet 

banner from the front of his dorm, Fisher 
Hall, is even more emphatic. "I haven't 
talked to any students who are in favor of 
[moving to the Big Ten]," he says. 
Both believe that the move would harm 

the university's national image and see this 
as the most compelling reason to avoid the 
Midwestern conference. "Students and 
alumni don't want to see us play IU, Iowa 
ii: 
and Illinois each year. They want to see us play a national schedule," Mullarkey says. "It's a matter of maintaining the indepen­dence of the university and its national image rather than a regional image." 
"It'sexciting to have different teams come in. Welike the factthatthe schedule changes every year. It's nice for people around the country to see us play," Cenname adds. 
Senior Michael Brown, who is a co-cap­tainofthe track squad, represents a group of students who would be particularly affected by the move. Brown is a member of a committee of student-athletes who are try­ing to determine ifmost oftheir peers agree with students like Mullarkey and Cenname. 
move. Sophomore Anthony Derry, for one, likes the potential for entertainipg basket­ball that the Big Ten might offer. "We'dget to see Illinois basketball, Michigan State, 
· Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Purdue ... IU is the only good [home] game this year -that and Georgetown." 
Whether they are in favor of the move or opposed to it, Mullarkey hopes that stu­
. dents and alumni will become as vocal as he has been. "I think it's important that these two groups' feelings be taken into consid­eration when the decision is made," he says. 
-Patrick Downes 
SCHOLASTIC 
19 
MAGAZINE 





! 
I. 
i ! 
Ii 
I I 
Howdy, folks. The Gipp has lots to share with you this week. Without further ado, he'd like to send condo­lences to the senior who was_ ejected from his last home game forthrowing one popped kernel ofpopcorn at his roommate, who was five feet away. It's too bad he's a senior. Otherwise, Coach Davie probably. could have convinced him to be the backup quar­terback next year. He can already throw five feet farther than Eric Chapell orArnazBattle without being intercepted. 
ND ... Where Even the Groupies 
Don't Have Sex 
During his recent visit to campus, Third Eye Blind singer Stephan Jenkins learned in one night what it has taken some male Domers years to get through their skulls: don't even try it. 
After winding up another nightofbubblegum music; the 34-year-old Jenkins spotted a couple offemale fans lingering near the tour bus. He · took one of the young ladies by the hand and asked, with that irresistable, aging-rock-star charm, "Don't I know you?" 
One thing led to another, and Jenkins, who is dating actress Charlize Theron and \ is obviously unaccustomed ­to Notre Dame women, led 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
one of the young fans into the bathroom, where he tried to show her that "Mighty Joe Young" is more than just the title of his girlfriend's movie. 
Have no fear: our pure-hearted groupie rebuffed him, no doubt shocked that the horny rock star was not interested in her for her sparkling personality. Chalk up another victory for Catholic virtue. 
Incidentally, Charlize Theron says in the latest issue of Cosmo (not that the Gipp reads that kind of thing) that she would dump Jenkins if she ever caught him cheat­ing. 
Charlize, if you're reading this, the Gipp wants you to know he feels your pain, and he would be happy to help you through this tough time. And he never chases girls who were in diapers when he was in high school. 

•: ..,.••:;·.;•_.~-.i·i~t~::tJt;J•~t:tp'.·j•.:._..;•. 
. ···D,inJng hall'-'.fo?d ~itfr,extra protein> _· Onetipperwas _aboutto cliqw.do\\ifr Qil a, · dra~~ri~Go;:dhm~e< wh~iii·h~ ,nqti~ef a... •--slimy friend.staring backat him>Appar~ __ ·entlyi:.the,ora,rig~ llad alt:ei;ldy:seryed-as_ • , clinrie{f~r a.t): iµ~b~l6iiii: ~aggoti\vhich : 
was notm1xi6us toleave its citrusy home.: . Thesque11m.i.~h tipperl_eftth~ critter_~one; , cie~pite:ihef~c(tliatiti>r<?1?ablyliad'ib9ri~ _:­.asi:rtuchni.ltritio·nalv·a11:1;e_a~ one ofNDffs 
But Can He Explain Slater's Jheri Curl? 
Speaking ofcreepy, over-the-hill celebri­
ties ... Screech from "Saved By the Bell" 
was spotted at Heartland a couple of weeks 
ago. Apparently Screech, whose real name 
is Dustin Diamond (but whom the Gipp will 
call Screech), was performing a comedy act in town and decided to check out the local nightlife. ­
J 
One female tipper recognized the former 
teen idol, and commented on the bushy 
goatee fie was sporting. Screech responded, 
"Yeah, it looks like I went down and came 
up with something." 
The Gipp does not think he has to tell you 
what "something" is. At least she didn't ask · Screech about his afro. 
Before he goes, The Gipp would like to share with his male readers a helpful hinthe learned from one ofhis tippers. Repeatedly barging in on women while they powder i:heir. noses is not likely to get you much female companionship. Even if they are groupies, and even if it is your tour bus, it won't work. Itdidn'tworkforaThird Eye Blind guitarist, and it won't work for you.. 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 





SLAM DUNK. Troy Murphy had the opportunity to dunk against Yale, but with the growing powers in the Big East, he may not have that opportunity in many future games. 

BY CHRISTOPHER 
HAMILTON ,, 
lhe premier conference in col­
ege basketball little more than 

a decade ago, theBigEasthas fallen upon hard times in recent years. But, the ·conference seems destined for a return to its former greatness. As it celebrates its 20th anniversary, •the Big East could very well claim to be.home to the nation's number-one team, Con­necticut, and player, UConn guard Richard Hamilton. 
The main problem with the con­ference is not ir lack of dominant teams, as it boasts tpp-flight squads Sl:lchasConnecticut, Syra­cuse and St. John's. Rather, the top-heavy Big East must contend with an overall lack ofdepth. The quality of over half ofthe conference's 13 members is not quite where it should be -yet. 
After experiencing unavoidable growing 

D~CEMBER 3, 1998 

ast 

Big East basketball preview 
Notre Dame is one team that fits that description. The Fight­ing Irish, who are without all­everything power forward Pat Garrity, must bounce back from the loss to graduation of one of the most prolific scorers in school history. Head coach Pat MacLeod looks to a solid nucleus ofyoung talent not only to make up for Garrity's loss, but to propel the Irish back into the NCAA Tournament. Un­fortunately for Irish support­ers, it will take some time. 
MacLeod took a big step last year when he landed what is arguably his most successful recruiting haul with the Irish. And so far, MacLeod has noth­ing but praise to offer the fresh­man forward trio of Troy Murphy, David Graves and Harold Swanagan. 
"I like what all three are do­ing," MacLeod says. "They all ' have a sense of how to play, 
i-:, they're hard workers, they're not afraid to shoot the ball, and they take their responsibilities very seriously." 
MacLeod also speaks highly ofthe sophomores onthe team, who with the freshmen make up a solid foundation for Notre Dame's future. "I like what we had last year with Martin Ingels by, Leviticus Williamson and Hans Rasmussen," MacLeod says. "Ithink we have six good players from these last 
two recruiting classes." With current high school 

PHOTOS BY GORDIE BELL standouts, guards Matt Carroll pains this season, the bottom halfofthe Big and Mike Monserez, recently signing letters East, which is full ofyoung, talented teams, ofintent with the Irish, Notre Dame's future promises to bolster the conference's image appears bright. But, the Irish must concen­
(/) 
-0 
0 
;;;o ---l 
(/) 
,i 


The Big 
Dancers 
1. 
Connecticut 

2. 
Syracuse 

3. 
St. John's 

4. 
Miami 



.500 Or Bust 
9. 
Seton Hall 

10. 
Providence 

11. 
Notre Dame 

12. 
West Virginia 

13. 
Boston College 


·,· 
'·

• "'.'_:·:.··; .... '----~ ••-••• ••· •• ;: . < ,:. ·_··-, _ _. .',. :; :, ·.: '-·_:·:._:;· ·--~---< ...... ·.,.,_:;,~ ·---_·: '_,,,. .."•····'. '._.·: :·· _' :_ :_.-.:_._·;·,:·~\ ·, ::·-<·'"'·.-'. :.•·,· .c> ; _,.__-,. ·. -_,_. ..-_; .:_;, ,· ".,.•.· _.· -._-_:·-~ ·,. ~ 
Etan Thomas combining to 

st· ~~~~(j~~~~g~f~~~id,) ~;~~:~££:~!~~:~ 
Paving the be every bit as good as the '97-'98 edition, 

. way for the Big 'which recorded 26 wins. While head coach 
·· East is none Jim Boeheim"will rely on the junior tandem 
other than Jim of Blackwell and Thomas to carry most of 
Calhoun's Con-the offensive load, he will need greater 
necticut Hus-productivity out of guards Jason Hart and 
kies. Consid-Allen Grif­
ered one of the fin before 
top three teams the Orange-

I
in the country by 

every preseason 

~h~:/~~SYRACUSE
poll, the Hus-competing A T H L E T I C S 
kies return all with UConn for the conference crown. 
five starters from a team that finished 32-5 Syracuse will look to freshmen Tony 
(15-3 Big East) a year ago. UConn boasts Bland and Preston Shumpert to play pivotal 
the services of 1998 Big East Player of the backup roles on a team that desperately 
Year Richard Hamilton and talented sopho­needs to strengthen its outside shooting. If 
more point guard Khalid El-Amin, who Bland and Shumpert are able to duplicate 
finished second to Hamilton on the team in their high school success, Syracuse can ex­
scoring. pect an extended stay in NCAA Touma-
Connecticut is also blessed with tremen-· ment. 
dous depth, having a bench that goes at least If there's one 
10 deep. The only question marks surround­thing that's com­
ing this squad are whether Hamilton has forting to the new 
fully recuperated from the foot injury he. head coach of the 
sustained over the summer and whether the St. John's Red 
Huskies can finally break their jinx and Storm, Mike 
make it to the Final Four. Jarvis, it's that he 
With forward Ryan Blackwell and center probably won't 


DECEMBER 3, 1998 
---·-·· ---···-····•·'"' ',_ :___:< ·.:~---:, -~----_-._-_. .-..-.... ~-:. --. __ :_ ...-:-_'·. ~ <.._., i{;,\:>.'· ·:<->.·:· 

how they will fill the gaping hole in the lineup left by Garrity's departure. 
"You hope some of these other players will step up and see this absence at the four­spot as an opportunity," MacLeod says about the loss of Garrity. "Our hope is that instead of having one player come in and shoulder the load.:. that this year we have a more balanced attack." 
Seniors guard Antoni Wyche and center Phil Hickey, both ofwhom have seen exten­sive playing time during their careers with Notre Dame, are leading the attack. Wyche and Hickey will be looked to for increased offensive production to shore up a defense that MacLeod labeled as the team's "big­gest liability." 
After going 13-14 last year (7-11 in the Big East) with Garrity, it is hard to imagine the Irish bettering that mark without him. The Big East, :which ditche.d its two subdi­visions in favor ofa single 13-team configu­ration this season, appears to be neatly di­vided into three distinct categories: teams that are NCAA Tournament-bound, those that are NIT-bound and squads that will struggle for mediocrity. Notre Dame fig­ures to fall somewhere in the third group this season, but the Irish will likely climb into the first two categories over the next few years. 
The following is a look at how the other 12 Big East teams should finish this year. 

22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 




have to worry constantly ( as he did at George Bethune-Cookman and Maryland-Eastern are plagued by a horrendous perimeter game Washington) about getting an invite to the Shore are certain to bolster the team's record, and need junior guard Shaheen Holloway to Big Dance. Jarvis inherits a very talented they will not prepare the Hoyas for contests step his play up a notch for Seton Hall to group, not to mention a hefty $750,000 against the Big East's elite. With budding have a chance at finishing .500. One thing is salary. Sophomore forward Ron Artest re­young talent like the backcourtduo ofKevin certain: miracle-worker/head coach Tommy turns to a more prominent role in the Red Braswell and Anthony Perry, Georgetown Amaker, who shocked many by guiding his Storm offense, and junior college transfer will undoubtedly improve its 6-12confer­team to an NIT appearance last season, will Marvis Thornton attempts to fill the Ron ence record from a year ago. But this team have his work cut out for him again. Powlus-sized shoes of departed Felipe is at least one season away from being a First-year coach Lopez. serious threat in Big East play. Tim Welsh takes St. John's will have to find a way to make 
After an embar­command of the up for its lack of size if the Red Storm want rassing 12-winoutput Providence Friars to overtake Syracuse as the second best last season, the this season after a suc­team in the conference. Villanova Wildcats cessful stint at Iona. 
.J 

Rounding out the can only get better in Welsh will look to get top tier of the Big '98-'99. Head coach the ball in senior East are the Miami Steve Lappas wel­standout Jamel Tho­Hurricanes. Once comes back four starters and has two fresh-mas' hands at every 
again, Miami will men who should see extensive playing time. opportunity. The ver­rely on its swarm-Villanova expects big things from its two tically-challenged
MIAMI. 

ing defense, which senior starters, guard John Celestand and Friars will have to find a way to de-empha­last year was responsible for limiting oppo-forward Howard Brown, who combined for size the fact that not one player in the start­nents to a meager 37.9 field goal percent-26 points per game last season. But 'Nova ing rotation is taller than 6 '6". The develop­age. fans will in no way mistake this team with ment of a fastbreak offense is critical to 
The Hurricanes return four starters from the last Wildcat squad to make the NCAA Providence's success. last year's 18-lOsquad, with senior forward Tourney, the '96-'97 team, which featured How fast some Tim James being the biggest name among TimThomas,Ja­
things change. the group. James and teammates Mario son Lawson and Coming off an im­Bland and Johnny Hemsley must improve Alvin Williams. pressive Sweet­Miami's anemic offensive attack ifthe Hur-The Rutgers 16 run, one would ricanes want to make it past the first week-Scarlet Knights think the West end in the Tournament. · arehopingtoride Virginia Moun­
taineers should 
.·. .. > < .• > . • •· .> : the mo-
have lofty ambi­__~J.~~~1-~..:.:,;_) :~::;;ar's upset run in the Big East tions for this season. That is, if West Vir­
Supporters of Toumament, which saw them score impres-ginia hadn't lost its entire starting lineup and the Pittsburgh sive victories over WVU and Georgetown. more than 80 percent of last year's scoring Panthers need Guards Geoff Billet and Earl Johnson, along to graduation. Yes, the Mountaineers are as only worry about with forwards Rob Hodgson and Jeff Greer depleted as a team can be and should finish one thing this all scored in double figures last year and will second to last in the conference -right season: Vontee­return. Ifthere's a potential Cinderella team in behind Notre Dame and in front of the Bos­go Cummings. the Big East, Rutgers is it. ton College Eagles. 
NThe Panthers'· ('_ : • · > > .· .. . .· _.. -.·.-. ·.. ·.· ..• •• . ..··· ... · •.•..·...·.:") Speaking success will depe11d on how far the senior \ . . -· ~gb,t~g fot...5QQ · . :) of Boston ·-< .-....· -.·..• ..:> .. · c · --:,: ·-. < ..... -· · · _: _. · • · >" College, the
All-Big Eas~ guard can carry them. If Cummings plays up to his capability and The third ...,,..--...~_,,,. Eagles are in for a very . Pittsburgh tightens up defensively, this andfinal seg-long season. Only three young, experienced team might very well ment of the scholarship players re-sneak into the NCAA Tournament as the Big East tum and the top retum-
Big East's fifth representative. Conferencec:=~all~~;=~¦a:; ing scorer, guard Kenny John · Thompson, mastermind of includes five Harley, averaged 4.5 points per game last Georgetown, has an 
teams that year. That pretty much says it all for the all but guaranteed will have to hapless Eagles. .500 finish as the hit the books And Boston College says it all for the Big Hoyas have filled instead of jump shots when the postseason East. Much like many of its teams, the con­their schedule with tournaments roll around. The Seton Hall ference is rebuilding this year, but with a non-conference Pirates carry the banner for this group of number-one squad in Connecticut and young weaklings. While teams, whose main concern this season will stars on several teams, better days lie ahead games against be fighting for respectability. The Pirates for Big East basketball. D 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



(/) I­
0 ~ 
Cl.. 
(/) 
SPLINTERS 
FROM THE PRESSBOX Edited by Christopher Hamilton 
Women's Basketball • 1998-9 Record 5-0 
Streaking: By opening the season with five straight victories, number-six Notre Dame has matched the best start in school history. Prime Time Performer: In the 74-43 win over San Francisco, freshman guard Sherisha Hills led the Irish with 16 points. Did You Know? On Nov. 24, against Illinois, senior guard Sheila McMillen scored her 1,000th career point. McMillen became the 14th Irish female ever to eclipse that mark. On the Horizon: The Irish battle first-ranked Connecticut this Tuesday in the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. 
Women's Volleyball • 1998 Record 17-12 
Streaking: Notre Dame has won four consecutive matches, with the last three in the Big East Tournament. The Irish defeated top-seeded Georgetown in the final to claim the conference title. Prime Time Performer: Freshman Marcie Bomhack had 44 kills and 40 digs during the conference tournament en route to earning the tournament MVP. Did You Know? After capturing its fourth Big East Championship, Notre Dame heads to the NCAA Tournament for the seventh straight season. On the Horizon: The Irish begin play in the NCAA Tournament today. 
Hockey • 1998~9 Record 9-3-2 
Streaking: After dropping only one game in their first 12 contests, the Irish have lost two straight. Prime Time Performer: After the team's first 14 games, junior center Ben Simon leads Notre Dame with 23 points on seven goals and 16 assists. Did You Know? The Irish are in a three-way tie atop the CCHA along with Michigan and Ferris State. On the Horizon: Notre Dame travels to Ohio State for a pair of games on Friday and Saturday night at 7 p.m. 

"O 
:c 
~ 
() 
0 
C 
:JJ --i 
m 
~ 
0 
"Tl 
U) 
"O 
0 
~ 
z 
~ 

F ;: ~ 
~ 

reshman basketball player Sherisha Hills was Co-Big East Rookie of the Week and averaged 12.5 points and 3.5 re­bounds in the wins over number-25 Illinois and San Fran­
cisco; Hills has helped the Irish climb to a number-six ranking. 
Men's Basketball • 1998-9 Record 2-5 
Streaking: Freshman Troy Murphy has scored in double digits all six games for the Irish this season. Prime Time Performer: The freshman trio of Harold Swanagan, Troy Murphy and David Graves led the Irish in scoring in the team's three games in the Great Alaska Shoot Out. Did You Know? Senior Phil Hickey has appeared in 83 games in an Irish uniform. On the Horizon: The Irish host Central Michigan this Saturday at 2 p.m. 

24 SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER 3, 1998 
MAGAZINE 



Artsfrom the Fa·r East offer relaxation 
and rejuvenation. 
BY KATIE CLEARY estem people should not 
be called human beings, 

they should" be called hu­man doers. They never just exist," says Mary Stewart, a Tai Chi instructor currently teach­ing the course at Notre Dame. Perhaps that is why the Eastern disciplines of Yoga and Tai Chi have become so popular on campus. 
In a competitive world ruled by academ­ics and athletics, the laid-back attitude of Yoga and Tai Chi can provide a needed release for students as well as faculty. "Yoga and Tai Chi provide students with a great way to slow down," says Jennie Phillips, Fitness Coordinator at RecSports. "They give students an alternative way to be ac­tive, as well as a way to get back in touch with themselves." 
Gerda Zeller, a professional instructor of Yoga, devotes_ an hour a day to her own personal Yoga routine. But before 
r 
Tai Chi, an ancient martial art form, dif­fers from Yoga in that it imitates the move­ments of nature. Tai Chi involves more dance.motion and overall movement than Yoga, but still pursues the same goal of physical and spiritual union. As Stewart explains, "the only difference between Yoga and Tai Chi is_ that they are two different disciplines from two different Eastern cul­tures with the same exact result." 
Stewart, a former professional dancer, continues, "the kids I teach are from the West, I am simply trying to teach them the mindset ofthe East. No matter what you do, Tai Chi is not competitive. Thatis hard for a lot of Notre Dame students to under­stand." 
"There is a definite relaxing aspect to Tai Chi that I need while I'm busy at Notre Dame," senior Diana Buran says. "How­ever, thespiritualaspectofTaiChiissome­my life." Buran, a student of Tai Chi for nearly a year, started by taking Yoga and then progressed to Tai Chi. According to Stewart, "many students end up taking both classes or coming back for more of the same. I think they need the outlet." 
Yoga classes will be offered again through RecSports next semester with sign ups be­ginning after break. The only prerequisite for the course is a willingness to embrace thecustomsandattitudesofanotherculture. 
Yoga and Tai Chi classes bring to Notre Damenotonlytheunderstandingofanother culture, butthe awareness ofanother way of 
___ life as well. Maybe Yoga and Tai Chi will show students that there is more to life than constantly 'doing' that simply enjoying life is an action in itself. "In Tai Chi," Stewart says, "you are only competing against yourself. There is no grade in Tai Chi, it is a courseyou cannot 

Zeller learned the practice ofYoga, she didn't even know what the word meant. Today, even after 30 years of Yoga experience, she feels that "Yoga is still very difficult to define. It is the rejuvenation from inside out using postures, Pranayana [breath­ing techniques], focus and deep re­laxation." 
"Yoga is very different from any­thing I have ever done," senior An­gela Torma, a fgrmer student of Zeller's, says.· "I remember at one point iny entire class was grunting with our rear ends straight in the air! It was definitely different, but very rewarding as well." According to Torma, Yoga brings about medita­tion th,rough an integration of body and mind. "As funny as the exercises seemed," she says, "Ifelt great when I walked out ofthe classroom. Yoga was very refreshing." 
D~CEMBER 3,--1998 -_ SCHOLASTIC 25 
MAGAZINE 

thing thatl.want to have with me throughout . flunk." O 

m 
z 
m 
iO 
-.
z 
~ 
m 
z 

1­
z 
LU 
~ 
z 
~ 
Q::'. 
LU 
1­
z 
LU 

Student DJs speak up about college radio 
BY KELLY MCGANNFrom stereos blaring down the hall to mix tapes playing on road trips, music plays a role in everyone's life. But for a student disc jockey, music is more than amusement; it's a profession. One thing most disc jockeys love about working for university radio stations across the country is the variety of musical genres college stations play. While commercial radio has set play lists that must be fol­lowed, most college DJs have more free­dom to play what they want. WSND "Folk Hour" DJ Nathaniel Marx has control over what type ofmusic he plays during his hour on air, as do most day programs on WSND. However, Marx notes that "Nocturne," the nightly list of pro­grams offered by WSND, does have a re­quired rotation schedule'. WSND (We Serve Notre Danie -88.9 FM), offers broadcast experience to Notre Dame students through its continuous de­velopment of programming unique to its station. "Ideas & Issues," "Performers of Our Time" and "Celtic Traditions" are only three ofthe programs available to the WNSD listener. Primarily a classical radio station, WSND provides the campus with programs geared specifically to students. "Nocturne" airs every day except Friday, from midnight to 2:00 a.m., and plays the top current stu­dent alternative rock favorites. Campus News airs every Sunday from 5:30 to 6:00 
26 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
p.m. for those students who just can't wait for the next issue of Scholastic or The Ob­server to come out. 
The other campus radio station, WVFI (640 AM), plans to return early next semes­ter with improved sound quality and the capability to reach more students in their dorms. The station has lots of variety ­both in music and of DJs. However, the station DJs are required to play a 50-percent 
rotation of indie-rock music during 
their specialtyshows. This limits the amount of actual specialty music that each DJ is allowed to play. However, "Jazz and Conver­sation" DJ Julie Reising thinks this is a necessary evil. "! like the fact that we are required to playcertainrotation music. Without it there would be no organization," she says. WVFI's chief 

percent required rotation of indie rock cre­ates a lack of fluidity in the shows. ... I would say that only 10 percent of our DJs relate to that type of music," he says. 
Forgash also says that the renovation of the station (which will be reopened by Feb­ruary) "is allowing us to create another media source for students. Now, the only media sources are Scholastic and The Ob­server." 
Though the concert and CD reviews bring some music appreciation to the student body, Forgash believes that music should beheard rather than read about. He has already at­tempted to introduce the newest funk, jam and jazz oriented musicians to the Notre Dame community with his specialty show, "The New Roots of Rock." Along with three other DJs, he provides extensive in­formation about music and showcases the debut albums ofsome ofthe hottest campus bands. 
Curtis Norvett and Julie Reising host "Jazz and Conversation" which brings the best of jazz music to campus. In addition, they encourage listeners to call in to discuss everything from sex to sports. Reising notes, however, that "there are definitely not enough student callers, which isn't really the students' fault, since most of them couldn't tune the station in anyway." 
Forgash hopes that student callers and feedback will increase once the stronger transmitters-are installed at the end ofJ anu­ary. 
As a separate medium, 
somestudentshavefound 

"l li·ke thefiact that thatfreelanceDJingisthe 
way for them. DJs Alfonso Kennard and 

we are required to 
Walker Candelario have found that their best ar­

play certain 
tistic outlet is to bring theirmusictothestudentsrotation mUSiC. -literally. Along with severalotherindependentWithout it there --disc jockeys, they work for local bars. They sup-would be no ply the music for some SYRs and formals, all at 
oroa__n_,ization.'' 
a much lower cost than O commercialdiscjockeys.
lulie Reising 
."Wehavesuchalarge -J 1 · . . variety in our music that wecanplaywhatthestu­
announcer and DJ John Forgash feels other-. dents truly want to hear," _Candelario says. wise. "Also, ·we are much more up to date on 
"College music incorporates all sorts of . current_college favorites than the [commer­genres. The station is considering diversify-· cial] DJs are....:..... especially with dance mu­ing the type of music it plays. The 50-sic."· . . . 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 

.. . -···· ---------···· ---------.. 

n alley behind Finnigan's awaits immortality. The extras • are ready. The cameras are 

set. The lighting is just right. It's time to shoot. But then, out of a nearby building, a disgruntled landlord appears and asks what all the commotion is about. 
A cameraman pipes up, "We're film stu­dents from Notre Dame! I'm Denis Hurley and this_ is Brian Fremeau!" He points a thumb at Fremeau, who greets the landlord with a sleepy wave and an innocent grin. The shoot goes on. 
"Big names, right?" chuckles Andrew Philip, a ·member of the crew and fellow senior film student. He laternotes that it was probably not the names but their confident air that convinced the landlord to let the film shoot continue. 
Fremeau and· Hurley are creating a film for the newly instituted advanced film practicum, an independent project for a team of two students led by Professor Jill Godmilow ofthe Department ofFilm, Tele­vision and Theater. The new independent study class may be one ofthe most challeng­ing courses the university has to offer. "It's the most complicated thing in the world to try to do, to make a film," explains Godmilow. "It takes maturity, [monetary] expense [and],so many different talents." 
"People don't understand how much time goes into one minute of film," Hurley says. He and Fremeau meet Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings to work on pre-pro­duction, which involves contacting actors and securing locations. They have been working on their script since-February and are currently on their 12th and final draft. 
Still, no matter how much planning goes into pre'."production, filmmakers must learn to face· unanticipated obstacles. "In your head it's all a perfect picture," Philip ex­plains, "but ofcourse everything goes wrong in the shoot." 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 
Fremeau did not anticipate difficulty in obtaining a shot ofthe Michigan State Peni­tentiary. The two found a dirt road across the sqeet from the prison and prepared to shoot. But as Hurley was getting ready, a black sport utility vehicle came speeding toward them. A uniformed man emerged from the vehicle and de­manded that Hurley and Fremeau hand over the 
film. ''This is Michigan 
country," the officer barked when they ex­
plained that they were Notre Dame film stu­
dents. He confiscated the 
film and took their stu­dent IDs, a9cording to 
Fremeau. The mishap could have 
been costly. Besides the fact that the film con­u, 
tained previously shot 0 ::; n. 
footage, the 11-minuie c3 roll of film cost $250. ::i 
w "Unless they're very Cl z 
c( 

wealthy," Godmilo'W 
"Four guys get out of prison to save the world. That's in the first four minutes. In the next four minutes, the world crumbles .... We dabble in world peace, world annihila­tion and something in the middle." 
When the film is finished, Fremeau and Hurley plan to send it to as many festivals as 
A FREMLEY PRODUCTION. Denis Hurley prepares a shot in says, "[film students] the dark. Even though the Fremley film will be very short, it must save their pennies will take nearly a year to produce. 
m 
z 
-I 
m 
;;;o 
~ 
z 
$ 
m 
z 
-I 
and not eat or buy clothes 
or have a girlfriend or boyfriend." Fortunately, the officer later returned with 
the film and his superior. Hurley and 
Fremeau hugged the film as it was handed back to them, and they were informed ofthe 
photography rule, which states that the warden's office must grant permission be­
fore film ofthe prison can be shot. Fremeau and Hurley were.soon back on the grounds 
with the media supervisor, who explained, 
"Ineed to be with you while you 're shooting the film, so [the police] don't shoot you." 
The working title ofFremeau andHurley's 
film is Saviors. Fremeau explains the plot: 
they can. Pet W a,fare, the Fremley Produc­tion shown at last year's student film festi­val, was in the Athens International Film Festival and the Tacoma International Film Festival. "We want to send this [film] to those [festivals] and to bigger ones. We aim to send it to Sundance because they accept _shorts and to Cannes because it's the biggest 
festival in the world," Hurley says. 
Fremeau adds, "We don't anticipate it 
being completed in time· for the film festival 
this year, but we will have it completed 
before we leave school, so we'dlike to have 
it shown later in the ~emester." . 
,I
SCHOLASTIC 
27 
MAGAZINE 

I-
z 
lJ.J 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
lJ.J 
I-
z 
lJ.J 
ii i 
.· . WorlfWide ·Wellwishing · 

·..·The. TWelve:i,DaJs./bf·•lllllailx'•;.


·1 caml;~ c~~~~nicati~::d:iii:rhes~ ~1;h~t~ch ?~ltiiayS 
'.;c 
. . . . 'o· th,12thd ifCli :tm .··· ..· biii' :> 'ld ;,,,·, Onthe]ijihdaytJJChristnia{cai-eer&Place~~nte~inailed 
; i/ n~!i,~'!e~tiifif~~]if~ >"tX.~;:tolJ opportunities andinipo/tant mOOtings fua,T 
:tcra couple of fri~nds. ' . '' sh~iii&~tt~ndiflteitlly;r¢ally:wantaconsultingjobinChicago.' ' 
;!?f!~!T~teit~iri1tfiii;;~itl~l~~:w~·.··
:free.AOL·disks; Ifl didn•~ forward it,J would, pe·.hit by' (true~· · -contact'withJhe sen~§r-~fthi~ e-:niai\ iiftersendirig:him'a list of .:and eat~n by 18:fg~ rats. ·N".~edless to say,·:o;.· . i {. .. Incr~dibly Filth)rJokes:> . .:\>,; .L, :... . : there's one-·riiore 'staiving':hoyjri Utah· · · · · \tonight! ' ,:,, . ' -< ', ,,:< ' ' 'Onthethirdday~fChristmii~;~ycousiti 
e~~":(:lil.ed11te: .. :.Y./\· -: :·<.;•·,·. 
. '.<Jn the.: JO;h :'dai ·. of Chfist11uzs, 
'. .. '·TJ::iate.::mail\vliichteHs.youto thipk-of a· ':forwardedto 1ne: . . .. : . :. · Il~mbet between:pq~ and l0;iinuI#plychy'' nfue, do some in.ental gymnastics ~nd end \46~h~uttT~0:1i~t~ati~~~~e_:fit up'with a gray elephant in Denni.ark .· : Jended up :witl?,. ~i: pink: oc~opus ill' the 'Qn 'the niizth:dkyoj Chrysim,4s, some.. ts~~~~--=::::'i •.•Dqnii,nican,R.eptiplic,jtist 
'c;~use.)'.m·so ,, 
1il~J{it~s:,i~:; :;;:·;:~.d~y ofC~a,, my ....
~;::::~~!~~1;;~ 

tilnes, say;rig•ilarPYJ'<•vifea,S.ckat" : ·· · · • .. • · · ~;~~~~r.fO,-majl · 
,;!~i~:r.:it..::,.:d~~:Z.f~llh·:,efe-~&~:G~,iftfu.e-mrlt1'~:;,:c;:~~~:;::1:r~oob,::~~! 
,thoughlnevertalktoher,whenl.gohonie·ientto~ze: ,·. , . odginitf.•rext/ <:;:,·:,/: <:-:c·/'.,,t ., ..,, ,:i/::;·O'·· > /;; The same•lisfof Clean Jokes that Fd rece'rvedJive gayii'.ago. r: ~ ..· ·1was sotouched by'.~¢ care mf:frierid'.~ad put into $is e-mail ',
i1;;[4tillifii~t~:~:'.;.;~+;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;.;:::·. 
Sadly, the sencier ofthis e~mail was· immediately arrested bf·· , her lif~siri:ce sheliad s~n me last/asl<liigihe h()wi:was dofog,' ·N.otre Dam~ security and had his alumni privileges 'revok;ed for . • · ·. and ·con.,clu~ingi'Y-i~lia:·4~irrtl'ek wishJor ¢yhapp111e~s':<;1w:ing .. 

28 SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER 3, 1998 
MAGAZINE 

·&\Omk~Yf<@i)fh~ ~[Jh< . 
.· ·.·...•···••iec;erttlf:Jwo.·.doie11.~6rik~§s' iscap'edi•.frbin.·. Tulail~ .•.•. JJniyersity.'§:.l{e~IqnaLRrimate qenter,Junµing·s?ff iht~ the< 
• near!JY..·.v:oocis\§llffOU,11diilg/the. b:Uilding. A,f(er;i. three-clay··· ·.··•····n10nk,ey. hu11t;·..all.th.e ...harry I-Ioudi11is'..were recaptured; Usini.·. 
•·.·. fr,uit~ladentraps.••• TlJ's Priirtat.e:¢erl.ter.· ho11ses ·over: 4,500.: . -monkeys i~i>rderjo itudy ;ciisea'se·clild treat!IlenLCoinciclen-·.. 
•fally,·anotheI" eightmonkeys.escaped.frombiolo?y.labs a(t~e >.U11iver§ity ofMicljigari;.Vpqn th~µ-escape,it appears tlJ.atihey_ : . .inrplled. ir{~lasse~·•andwfren't req1pJt1red.for.. two n1onths:.·.. ii,L\ccording\f().·.·the'dean;··.1he.morif<eys'. grades. did11't~ouse···.· .·••· suspicion.A.ppatently·.it'fco111mon forchinips__ ·to... makf the i 
·•·bean'~List.. :: ·-:<.' ··•·.. :.:.< .. /> ...... ·..•..•.·. ·.,.·· < < 

Who do you think you are? 
·wesleyan University figured a new slogan was just the ticket to rejuvenate school pride. 
Instead, it only brought anti-slogan protests from much of the campus. For the '98 recruiting year, the university called itself"The Independent Ivy" to the dissatisfaction of many students who feel that WUis not an Ivy League school and should not consider itself one. The school's dean ofadmission, Barbara-Jan Wilson, says the Ivy League connotation made sense because many students who decide to attend WU also applied to Brown, Yale and Columbia. OOC wonders if WU should change its slogan to one that portrays the school in a more appropriate light: "Wesleyan University: Harvard's Bitch." 
.by Jesse Kent 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 

0 
z 
0 
--f 
I 
m 
;;o 
n 
)> 
s 
-0 C 
(/) 
m 
(/) 
Middlebury College received a special treat, care of the admin­istration, in the form of a blazing fire. In order to show the danger of dorm fires, a mock barn was set ablaze in front of a crowd of about 500. The demonstration inside the small barn included a room with real furnishings; a glass wall in order to see the fire spread and a video camera inside the room to show the fire on a TV screen. Administrators wanted to call attention to dorm safety during National Fire Prevention Day, but OOC wonders if they weren't really celebrating National Waste ofMoney Day. Instead ofscorch­ing a room with complete furnishings and a video camera, why not just bum down the computer lab? Sure, it's a few more bucks down the drain, but ifyou're going to bum valuable items, why not do this bad boy up right? 
. ~pII1is,tudeiit/;Lthepnivirsitf9fiedla9ddric~lifoniia. . v:ere,.rec:e#tifcaUed llp<lnto .acf out:aiittle'History: NB,C:i~.. . '·cup:eritlyJHfoing a'miniseries. entided.The '60s and m'adeuse....... . 'of(lJ .6f*:s:.li6.raij-an~L~tude~ts.. to··.sllopt·~re:-e11actI11ent 'of•a •. 
:J9?8YietriainJVarprotes(th~tocctjrred.at Cqluinbia,Uniyer:-> 
··•·••Sity.,A.11 ten.t "Yell ~ w·pt_R/s:li~r,ary "1asan icl,eal.chofoer ·.•.· becaµsejt1()oksjustlik¢the•library.at.C6lum!Ji~,·-a~d t!ie•••I oo·.•.. 
:• J1edla11<:1s:·•~tlldert~<wh9illelped··.with.·.~b.e'.s.~~I1e. e_a1"11ecl$1qo, : ·.. ea¢h. No\V,.if@C·heginsshQotingThi'.90s; rumorhai;ifthat • ·••.•.~6tre Daille ~H.l.IJepaici..a. yistt.It§eems,the'ti-agic Siyro(oaw\•.•· : Pr9te~{of'98; fo \Vltich seyeral stu\jentfandstate'tr1bpers di~cl " 

\aft~r.·days. cjfr_e.sistmice.·... and•,niotji,rulet wiIIibe•.paft9fJhe/ 
SCHOLASTIC 29 
MAGAZINE 

' ' 
~­
~ -.... ' • , ' • ' --~J. r . ... , . . . '. ' 
z 

Dating the Notre Dame Way 
0 
I­
Q:'.'. 
Just when you thought the dating scene was nonexistent, the 
0 
I­
ultimate guide to finding it comes your way 
V) 
0 
z 
give the females a glimpse ofwhat you have You are looking for the right mixture of BY LIAM BRENNAN to offer and will make her more curious virginity and sex, chastity and sensuality,
It's been said before. The world ofdating about what the rest of you looks like. Ifyou holiness and seduction. (Good luck.) is a complex and somewhat nonexistent aren't a stud, you still have a chance. Just As all femme fatales know, the best way 
~ 
one at Notre Dame. But there are a few going to Rolf's or the Rock is a good way to to attract a man is to accentuate the female 
w 
ways to maximize the chances form ore than run into women. (No one said you actually body. Notre Dame men are no different in a kiss under the mistletoe this holiday. If have to work out when you get there.) But if this sense. They just need to believe that advent candles don't exactly light your fire, you do, don't forget, when you are lifting what they are viewing isn't morally am­try igniting some flames oflove by follow­weights be sure to grunt; women love it biguous. To bring about this balance be­ing these simple steps. (Try this at home.) when men make animal sounds -depend­tween sex and piety, all you need is a low­
ing on the animal. cut shirt and a religious pendant. A well­To the eager young man: The combination of beefcake and foot­placed religious article draped over a little 
The young male who wants to find a mate ball is another time-honored tradition. If cleavage is all that the Notre Dame man is in the Bend has his work cut out for him. The you are aware that a young lady is on her looking for. He gets to see some skin but is road to companionship can be a long one way to your room, try to be watching foot­relieved to know that it's holy skin. This with a lot of speed bumps. First things first, ball when she arrives. This is a good way to might sound strange, but the best way to do don't drive drunk. Second, play your trump display your manliness. this is to show up at his dorm Mass. You've card. Two years ago Notre Dame was ranked Of course, everyone, well almost every­heard it oefore, the couple that prays to­number two in Sports Illustrated' s list ofthe one, knows that Notre Dame women are gether, stays together. And everyone knows top jock schools. This is an important image looking formore than just a football-watch­·that in a dimly lit room full of testosterone, to maintain when attempting to find a date. ing, iron-pumping man, so take it easy on there is no better sight than a female. You'll As a man, or close enough, you should the eggnog. Try to put off making beer the · be unique, important and generally make exercise in places where women will be able topic of conversation. the room smell better. Whether you need to to view you. Running around campus is a catch his eye for the first time or you just good tactic. If there is a specific woman To the eager young woman: . :want to let him know you're interested in whom you have your eye on, run around her One ofthe best ways to flatter a man is for spending time with him, nothing says 'hey dorm. Singing Christmas carols at the top of the female to approach him. However, in baby' like attending his dorm Mass. your lungs while you run will also earn you this Midwestern enclave of tradition, where some female attention. After all, nothing men and women have set socializing hours, That's the one-way ticket to finding tops the vision of a young man crooning the direct approach is not always easy. And love, Notre Dame-style. Fol­"Grandma Got Run Over By A Reindeer." beyond that, Notre Dame men have a real low these instructions and maybe 
'! And keep in mind, if you are beefcake, problem thinking that females actually have Santa will leave you a fat piece oflove under you should exercise in minimal attire. To desires. To compensate for this, you are the tree. It should be easy to spot. It'll be hell with Rolf's rules about nudity. This will going to need a creative and bold strategy. right next to the coal in your stocking. 0 
5 w 


Jiff sp~nhowe.r 

M, p't.t~i for­+ne Jo.~ inc.lv<Ae: i)Go +.,, t.linin1 hctll. ~)Eat foocl, 3) G-e+ Jio..rrhe<-... . I  :C Hov~ht­.:C w~s +he. o~l', OJ'\t,  


30 SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER 3, 1998 
MAGAZINE 


() 
)> 
r­
m 
Z· 
)> 
?v 
r 
Ii •Swimll1ing: NJj faen ~ wo~e~,-Nofre Danie •·· r, .fuvitaticirtaI;iO:OOAM~M,Rolf'sAqiiatic ··• 1\c,ertter;. ,:. LI:.-')} :.·, :>'.1 !. . • Lecture: !'Ifovoliitiori an&Couiitertevoluti(m ,
1,:~~;:r:.~~t;~~~;r:;...· 
, Center for Iriternilt10nal..SMhes •'. .. . •.·.
t•}!tdi~gDoor~}~t~~P~fu~mng , . . 
~!iilit~II] 1,~{~i1i~~~K,c:~~:o,:•;1 
[. TUESDAY . ··:1 
MAGAZINE 



by John Infranca 

The Best Years 


hough he had been suffering from brain ancer for nearly seven years, my uncle 
ike' s death this past summer still struck me as sudden. In only 50-something years he led as full and joyous a life as any imaginable. A man of unparalleled generosity and love, he made the people he encountered feel as if they were the most important in the world. And to my uncle Mike, they were. 
That is why it seemed so appropriate that one mourner at his wake declared him "the greatest man who ever lived." In the days following it, I began to realize that my uncle's death meant that my childhood was behind me. There would be no more days spent with him in his house on the North Fork of Long Island, or rounds of golf at the nearby Par 3, or the warm greeting of the secret handshake he first shared with me. As I prepared to embark on my last year of college, I finally sensed the passing of my youth. 
I think of my uncle often, and the memory of his life remains an inspiration to me. The matu­rity with which he faced most challenges in his 
life was tempered . 

Let's not hurry forward to our by a spirited refusal to let the world
offices and gray pinstriped suits. 
wear him down. His 

There's still a little time to be young happiness was al­ways contagious. 
-the rest of your life if you try 
John Infranca is a senior PLS major and a former Scholastic staffer. 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
As I think of my

hard enough. 
uncle's life I begin 

to reflect on my own, much of which lies before me. I particu­larly think ofmy life after graduating from Notre Dame, without the carelessness and innocence of youth-traits we all, in some way, stilicling to. 
Assuming the responsibilities of adulthood is not something to shy away from. We have al­ready had to do so to some extent. This time, however, it will feel somewhat different. 
For the first time most of us will be forced to provide for ourselves. As sad as many may find the mention of it, in just a few months college will be nothing but a memory for my fellow seniors and· me. 
And though we may try to relive these years by coming back to football games in plaid pants with our children in little football jerseys and cheerleading outfits, these years will be forever behind us. Someday we'11 begin stories with, "When I was in college ..." and end them with a bittersweet tinge of nostalgia. Some may even say the best years of their life were in college. 
I would like to think of this imminent transition in a different way. I consistently hear that soon this "real world" will impinge upon the bubble in which we have dwelt for the last four years. Soon time's winged chariot will hurry near, carrying the graduating class to the furthest reaches of the country and even of the world. 
That's where my point comes in. I hope that these years we've spent won't become distant memories, that in some way as we become adults we might hold onto the finest·qualities of our youth. , 
Perhaps if we can maintain some semblance of the idealism forged from books and late-night debates, we might move the real world that much closer to our ideals. Maybe the enthusiasm of our youth will not give way to the cynicism and half-hearted acceptance of the status quo that only leads to stagnation. 
I fear that some who read this have never argued passionately about some foolish ideal, or dreamed of making our world a better place, and for you I hope the next few months might afford you the opportunity to do just that. To be barely 20 and living without ideals or passion is not to be living at all. Let's not hurry forward to our offices and gray pinstriped suits. There's still a little time to be young -the rest of your life, if you try hard enough. 
Uncle Mike's ability to stay young is what compelled me to begin this essay. Even as an adult he lived his life with a sense of humor and enthusiasm that all too many people lose with the passing of years. 
In the real world, working as a stock broker on Wall Street, his honesty, compassion and genuine respect for others won the admiration of all whom he encountered. He faced the real world on its own turf and conquered it by never losing sight of his ideals. 
By refusing to simply conform to the world in which he lived, he left that world a far better place. His youth was p.ever wasted because he never left it behind. 
As we graduate en masse from the floor of a gymna­sium, I hope we will think a bit of both the world that we are leaving and the one we will be entering. To live our lives with the doe-eyed innocence of youth would be foolish, but to live without any sense of innocence and idealism would be heartless. 
DECEMBER 3, 1998 



Fried Rice Fat Free Dishes 
.eJ.n1 ..ru 

Vegetable Fried Rice 3.69 5.69 Vegetable Deluxe 6.66 
Chicken Fried Rice 3.99 5.99 Stir-Fry Broccoli in Brown Sauce 6.66 shrimp Fried Rice 4.99 6.99 Steamed Broccoli 6.66 Beef Fried Rice 3.99 5.99 Steamed Cauliflower 6.66 Ham Fried Rice 3.99 5.99 Steamed Cabbage 3.98 •curry Fried Rice 3.99 5.99 Combination Fried Rice 5.49 7.49 
House Specials 
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable •Szechuan Fried Rice 5.49 7.49 
Noodles with Sauce Pint .Q1,_ Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable 
Vegetable Sauteed Noodles 3.69 5.69 Chicken Sauteed Noodles 3.99 5.99 
N((]) ((]) cdlIle ]HI((])llil§ e 
Beef Sauteed Noodles 4.69 6.69
Soup Shrimp Sauteed Noodles 4.69 6.69 'Hot and Sour Soup 1.49 Combination Sauteed Noodles Wonton Soup 2.49 Chicken-Shrimp-Veg 5.79 7.79 Egg Drop Soup 0.99 *Szechuan Sauteed Noodles 5.79 7.79 
Chinese Cuisine 
Chicken-Shrimp-Veg 
Customer's Choices Delivery Hours: 
(served with steamed rice) 
Appetizers Mon-Sun
'Chicken in Hot Garlic Sauce 6.66 
Egg Roll 0.99
'Kung Pao Chicken 6.66 
Cream Cheese Wanton (6) 2.29 5:00 to MidnightCashew Chicken 6.66 
Pot Slickers (6) 2.49
Almond Chicken 6.66 
• Hot and Spicy • 
'Curry Chicken 6.66 271-0125 Chicken Chop Suey 6.66 sweet & Sour Chicken 6.66 Chicken with Broccoli 6.99 Chicken with Peapods 7.99 Orange-Flavored Chicken 7.99 Empress Chicken 7.99 Sesame Chicken 7.99 'GeneralTso's Chicken 7.99 'Hunan Beef 6.99 
W@
Mongolian Beef 6.99 Pepper Steak 6.99 Fresh Mushroom Beef 6.99 Beef Chop Suey 6.99 Beef with Broccoli 7.99 Beef with Peapods 7.99 
[D)®~~W®~~ 
($8 minimum order) 

Subscribe to: 

Only $35 a year -regular bi­weekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 


• 
what's happening on weekends • off-the-wall humor 


MAGAZ N E r~-------------~----------------------------.-.
I · , I 
I I 
I; Please put me on your subscription list for 199~-1999; '.I 
I I
1' :Name: ____________ '1 
I I I I II -Address: ____....,.,..._____....;..__ 1I 
t ~ 
I,I ---------' ,I 
J_ I 
II' --------~ II 1
1 I
,, 

, Please send this form, with payment, to: I, -Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine --· ~ I LaFortune Student Center I II Notre Dame, IN 46556 aI 
1' '1 
I , I 
1.-----...-------------~l-------------..1...-.c---------------.1 


A Ne~ Studio, Ne~ Equipment & A New Attitude 
If you think its hard for-us to keep this stuff under wraps, think about this poor little til<e. 



• 

L. 
640 am 




