
. . . '. . ,·· . ', ' ...... ' . ' . . ' ' . 
Phone bills too high? Your son Or daughter can't find . the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC· 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of $20 a year­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:-----­Address: ______ 

Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business ·Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN"-46556 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 2 FOUNDED 1867 SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 
A Presidential Report Card 
4Free football tickets? The Grateful Dead playing intheJACC? ScholasticMagazinechecksup on Matt and Dave. 





Scully's Dream 
8An idea struck Fr. Timothy Scully about a year ago: take 40 recent graduates, squeeze a year's education into two summers, then send them to 
needy Catholic schoo!s in the Southeast. 

The Man with the Midas touch
16Hewasnamedanall-Americaninthe1953­54 basketball season. He served25 years as CEO of St. Joseph Bank. He has been 
athletic director since 1987. A closer look at Dick_ Rosenthal and his time at Notre Dame. 
FEATURES 

Teacher/Course Evaluations · Renee Flickenger..................................................................................................... 3 
A New Home for Habitat• l3ridget Brad.burn ..........................~ .....................~ ....~···~·················································7 
Michigan Football Preview· Jake· Schaller ........................................................................;-.·..................'. ..............~10 
Women's Soccer• Warren Junium................................................................ · ......................~ ....................................12 
. .
. 

A New Look at CD Shopping.•.Josef Evans ...............................................................................~ ..........................20 Generation Ecch! •Christopher Blanford....................................~···········································································34 DEPARTMENTS 
From tile Editor ............................................................. 2 On Oilier Cmnpuses ....................................................24 
Cmnpus Watch ··,····························································6 Conri.ng Distractions ...................................................25 Splinters from tile PI-ess Box .......~ ..............................13 Comics .........................................................................26 Sports Commentacy ....................................................14 Week in Distortion ......................................................27 Out of Bounds .............................................................19 Parting Shot ....~ ....................................~ .......................28 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 


When people hear the name Notre Dame, many think sports. When people at Notre Dame hear the word sports, many think Dick Rosenthal. The athletic director since 1987, Rosenthal has been pivotal in landing the NBC football contract, increasing the funding for women's sports teams and setting up Notre Dame's entrance to the Big East. 
But Rosenthal's involvement with Notre Dame sports did not begin on an administrative level. He captained the Irish basketball squad to its first ever appearance in the NCAA tournament in 1953-1954. After retiring from a career in banking, Rosenthal got involved with fundraising and the Alumni Association before beginning his stint in the Athletic Office. 
At 63, Rosenthal has decided it is time for him to leave his post at the JACC. The new director, who takes over ip. 1995, will have big shoes to fill. The cover story on Rosenthal runs on page 16. 
A new look 
You may notice that Scholastic Magazine looks a little different this year. Although the magazine has been a Notre Dame tradition for 128 years, it constantly evolves to keep up with the times. Scholastic Magazine changes its masthead rougly every four years, and this time is no exception -the last masthead change came in 1990. Chris Blanford, our executive editor, worked hard designing many of the new features. We hope you enjoy the changes. 

Some new staffers 
As we welcome new readers to Scholastic Magazine, I'd also like to welcome some newcomers to our staff. Junior Theresa Hennessey has taken over the campus life department. Junior Chris Lenka will be in charge of news while Michelle -Crouch is in London, and senior Josef Evans is doing the same in entertainment for Miranda Sanford. Lastly, sophomore Jake Schaller will be assisting in the sports department. I am confident that all four of them will do a fine job, and I look forward to a successful semester for the magazine with them on board. 


In this issue 
Every class at the beginning of the semester starts the same way -handing out 
syllabi. And every class at the end of the semester finishes the same way ­
handing out the teacher/course evaluations. Did you ever wonder what happened to 
those green and white forms? Check out.the story on page 3. 
Thirty years ago, Father Theodore Hesburgh helped start a small social service 
program in countries around the world. That organization is known as the Peace 
Corps. This year, Father Tim Scully organized a similar program, designed to 
provide teachers for understaffed Catholic schools. Thirty-nine Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's graduates are already teaching in areas that needed them, primarily in 
the south. Theresa Hennessey's story on page 8 details the short history ofthe 
Alliance for Catholic Education. 
Don't forget to check out the new Gipper, On Other Campuses and the new Out 
of Bounds. Enjoy our first issue of the year. 
Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 



more. specific as· io. improving' courses,,, said Sister Kathleen Cannon, 0 .P., associ­
ate provost. Institutional Research creates a list of 



Making the Grade 
the scan-tron responses, which notes the percentage of students marking a given 
circle. A copy of the results is then given 
Every semester, professors' peiformances must 

to each professor, department, and dean. stand the test ofstudent opinions-but does How the departments handle the results 
is central to assuring students ofthe legiti­anyone really listen? macy of the TCE process. "Srudentsdoubt that the department sanctions professors chairman of the Undergraduate Commit-for poor results or commends professors by Renee Flickinger tee on Undergraduate Education, "The for good evalu-ations," commented students' generalperceptionsofTCEscan -Umhofer. According to the provost's of­Usually when a professor asks sru­be summed up in one word: disillusion-flee, the TCEs are taken seriously. "Any­dents to put away their books and ment. Many students believe TCEs do not time a professor is up forrenewal, the TCE take out a yellow No. 2 pencil, the matter." is the weightiest item of teacher evalua­
request is met with a collective groan. Why The reason for their cynicism is prima-tions. The T~Es are evaluated very care­is it, then, that at least twice a year srudents rily a lack of information. Students sim-fully in the departments," said SisterCan­eagerlydescendon theircomputerizedscan­ply do not know and are not told how the non. tron forms with pencils in hand, diligently TCE forms are handled once the lab turns "In the case of a non-tenured professor, filling in miniature ovals with a gusto one them over to Institutional Research. Un-ifthe scores were below average and there would hardly expectfrom the typicalbleary­dergraduates would like to believe that was no improvement, the person would be eyed test-taker? told he or she had to strengthen these 
The answer, some fear, is revenge; · "Ifthe scores were weaknesses before we would consider 
Students having only a year of class tenuring him or her," Sister Cannon noted. 
below average, the 

under their belts are already versed in a · If the professor is already tenured, TCE certain Notre Dame academic tradition­person would be told to results can influence promotion to full the teacher/course evaluation (TCE). professor and salary increases. TCEs are the scan-tron forms distributed strengthen these In addition, the departments often look to all undergraduate.classes at the end of at how a professor fares with a certain
weaknesses before we

each semester. The formality surround­class size. "Some people do much better ing the dispensation and collection of the would consider . in large courses than they do in seminar forms is often a source of wonder for. courses," Sister Cannon said. 
tenuring him or her." 

undergraduates who question the true The professors have the benefit of re­value of their input viewing the written comments. These can 
-Sister Kathleen 

However, TCEs originated in 1984 as a be utilized as the professor pleases, either means of gathering srudent opinions. A Cannon, O.P., as a source of suggestions and construc­group of sixty professors participated in a tive criticism, or as feedback on success~
associate provost 

voluntary evaluation process designed to ful teaching techniques. measure the effectiveness of a professor's constructive criticism of a teacher or a "The university will more likely teaching. Because early concerns arose course will reflect future scheduling and supplement the evaluations with other over the possibility that the surveys might tenure decisions. "When students take a forms of assessment, rather than do away reflect a professor's popularity, the ere-. class with a veteran professor who lacks with TCEs," said Sister Cannon. Addi­ators revtsed several questions. The fin­the ability to communicate concepts and tional evaluative procedures may include ished product is what the university cur­ideas effectively, they get the sense that submission of a portfolio by each instruc­rently uses to evaluate the quality of its the TCEs of past students are riot taken tor and classroom monitoring of a undergraduate instruction. seriously," said Umhofer. professor's teaching by another professor 
Every undergraduate instructor is re­What acrually occurs behind the scenes in the department, according to the quired to distribute TCEs during the last in Institutional Research might put stu­provost's office. week of classes. The instructor may not dents' minds at ease. The lab compiles However, until the provost's office remain in. the room· while students com­students' written responses and hands a ammends the system, the TCE is still the plete the forms, and a student (not a pro­summary of the remarks directly to the most effective way for srudents to commu­fessor) must rerurn the responses to the professor. These comments are not evalu­nicate their sentiments about a course or Laboratory for Social Research, where ated in Institutional Research due to their teacher to the administration. With this in they are processed. sheernumberand volume. "Hand-written mind,SisterCannonsaid, "Generally, teach­
According to senior Matt Umhofer, co-comments rather than tabulated ones are ers treat TCEs very carefully." . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 
3 




The 

DavidHungeling and 
Matthew Orsagh may have changed some oftheir campaign promises, but they
Odd 

stand by their intention to bring Notre Dame students the unexpected

Couple 

DavidHungelingandMatthewOrsaghwereelected · by Chris Lenko on a platform of radical change. While students swept the pair into office in the hopes of generating 

posterinvitingreaders to "HaveaNiceDaze" suchchange, most were curious as to whether the two greets visitors to the student government juniorsfrom Atlantacoulddo whattheypromised, or office on the second floor of LaFortune would even have the desire to effect the promised Student Center. Where one might expect to find changes once the power of student government was 
tasteful art prints and framed campus scenes, tie­in their hands. 
dyed decorations and "Dead Head" licence plates And there is no question that seven months after 
adorn the walls. Like their eclectic taste in decor, talcing office, Hungeling and Orsagh have changed 
NotreDame's studentbodypresidentand vice-presi­both their goals and their opinions on several matters 
dent are hardly conventional. relating to student government and the administra­
tion. In the issue of Scholastic Magazine published on February 3, 1994, then-candidatesHungeling and Orsagh publicly questioned the role of the adminis­tration in helping student governmentaccomplish its goals. Hungeling and Orsagh went on record as saying they felt that student government reports to the board of trustees were a tactic the administration used to "waste their time," and that in bending to the administration's wishes, student government had "been able to accomplish very little." 
Having worked with the administration for several months, however, Hungeling and Orsagh have re­examined their initial impressions ofstudent politics at Notre Dame and concede that their assessment of the administration may have been premature. While they initially planned to eliminate student govern­ment reports to the board of trustees, Hungleing and Orsagh plan to keep board members informed of theirprogress. Characterizingmembers of the board
David Hungellng and Matthew Orsagh enjoy Ice cream while relaxing in 

as among"themostsympatheticandpowerfulpeople"
the hammocks they recently added to the student government office. 

The pair has backed off campaign promises but has brought a marked student goverriment deals with, the president and 
change to the office and operation of student government. vice-president plan to approach the trustees with . 
4 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 


-
students' concerns and needs, including the feasibil­ity of bringing cable television to student dorm rooms. 
While Hungeling and Orsagh may have changed their position on the usefulness ofthe administration, they remain committed to their campaign promise to bring fun to Notre Dame. Already in the works are plans to hold a car smash fundraiser and a spring concert "We have a lot of fun activities planned this year," said Hungeling, emphasizing that many ofthe events, including a clothing drive, will be done for charity. 
As for the ticket's main platform, bringing the Grateful Dead to campus, several factors make it unlikely that the group will perform at Notre Dame this spring. One problem stems from the small size of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Accord­ing to their agent, the Grateful Dead prefer to stage performances at larger fadlities like Soldier Field in Chicago, where they played three sold-outshows this summer. The JACC, with a capacity of 12,000, is simply not an attractive venue for the Grateful Dead. In addition, representatives for thegroup have voiced philosophical disagreements with university offi­cials. These basic problems, compounded by the fact that the Grateful Dead book engagements well in advance, suggest that the Grateful Dead will not come to campus this spring. 
While Hungeling and Orsagh may not be able to bring the Grateful Dead to campus, they are currently working to implement another of their major goals, free football tickets for the student body. Though students have already had to pay $84 for this season's tickets, Hungeling and Orsagh are laying the founda­tion for free student tickets in the future. The presi­dentandvice-president have called other universities to determine how their ticket distribution systems operate, and once they have investigated further they will be in a position to approach university officials with their findings. 
Hungeling and Orsagh have met with success in the area of finances, and have already restructured the budget for 1994-1995. Simply by eliminating unnecessary positions and cutting advertising and telephone expenses, the presidentand vice-president have managed to cutexpenses by $10,000. Contrary to statements made in February, the student govern­ment of the Hungeling and Orsagh administration will continue to produce "The Guide," will continue to fund other projects, but will also fund a major concert in the spring. Representatives from student government have been in contact with agents for John Mellencamp, Arrested Development and Bruce Springsteen, and these discussions havebeen charac­terized as productive by student government spokes­men: Each of theperformers contacted has expressed an interest in playing at Notre Dame this spring, and Hungeling's office has made tentative scheduling arrangements with the JACC management for sev­

eral spring dates. 

In terms of fulfilling their campaign platforms, Hungeling and Orsagh have metwith mixed success. While the president and vice-president have not dissolved student government or cut off all ties with the administration, the pair has admitted to a new­found admiration for student government, and are now working with, rather than against, the adminis­tration to implement their goals for this year. "At first Idid not have an opinion about student government," saidOrsagh. ''Then I found out about the little things, like the clubs and programs, and now I have respect for student government" 
Keeping with the spiritratherthan the letter of their platform, Hungeling and Orsagh are trying not to take themselves too seriously. One thing they do take seriously, however, is studentinput. BothHungeling and Orsagh agree that the offices of president and vice-presidentare to serve the student body, and they encourage students to stop by the student govern­ment office at any time with their questions or concerns. 
Hungeling and Orsagh may have changed some of their campaign platforms, b.ut as student body presi­dent and vice-president, they stand by their pledge to bring Notre Dame students the unexpected. Warns Hungeling,"Do not expect us to be normal." 0 
Reported by Shannon Lennard and Mark Mitchell 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 

)/i 
'..'Ii, 


Gossip, Allegations & Innuendo 
Umberto Eco once said, ''There are SUMMER DAZE· secretsthatkill." Well, the Gipp is It came to the Gipper' s attention through back and the secrets haven't got­a loyal campus-watcher that over the sum­
ten to him yet (and he's up to two packs a mer, as a result of the oppressive South day). Bendheat, theuniversityrunsadailyshuttle LIFE IN A FISHBOWL bus from Stepan parking lot to the steps of· 
If you thought your 9 foot by 12 foot, theMainBuilding. Nowthat'safineuseof three-cornered Morrissey room was push­resources! The Gipp wonders if a forklift is ing the envelope of unlivable conditions, also. provided for transportation of those imagine the joy that came over the 80 who are too lazy to even board the bus. freshmen who discovered that they are liv­ing in the study lounges of Flanner and YOU'VE GOT TO BE KIDDING Grace. It seems that the rocket scientists in Faced with a perennial bad PRproblem, ResidenceLifemustnothavehadthechance the Scammes Notre Dame Bookstore has to advance to Look, Mommy, I Can Count: printed and distributed a mission statement. Volwne II since they didn 'tfigure that clos­No, the phrases "fleecing," "price-goug­ing an entire men's dorm would create ing," "needless mark-up" and "grand theft" (surprise!) fewer rooms for all the in-com­do not appear in the statement, but the Gipp ing freshmen. It's a good thing there was did like this passage from the pamphlet: enough space in the study lounges because "ThepurposeoftheHammesNotreDame those laundry rooms would make great six­Bookstore is to provide for the sale ofbook man set-ups. and supply requirements connected with 
Of course, the residents of Grace really the academic programs of the University couldn't and shouldn't care about losing and the sale of such other goods and ser­their study lounges since they 're just count­vices required to enhance the quality of life ing the months until Monk Malloy and his . on campus." Oh yeah, like the $550 crystal merry band of traveling administrative desk lamp is enhancing any body's quality Gypsies move in (the Gipper wonders if of life. Monk will get one of those nice· corner rooms, orifhe'11 have to settle for abig four­$50 MILLION FOR THIS? man). And the loss of study lounges only The Gipp got a sneak preview of what the means that Flanner residents will have to fancy new stadium expansion project will hold their food fights elsewhere. looklikewhenit'sdone. Andit'srea/ ugly. 
Imagine a large orange brick bow1(present 
P.S. FLANNER stadium) with abig metal funnel stuckin the 
. Don't laugh too hard at your soon~to-be­top (addition). If you hear a rumbling· evicted buddies over in Grace. A high­during construction, it's not heavy machin­placed source tells the Gipp that five years ery, it's Knute Rockne rolling over in his after Grace falls, Flanner will follow the gravelike a spinning jenny. same course. Why the need to make more The Gipp was lucky enough to see an office space? The ever-expanding library architect's rendering of the project, but ev­and dining hall bureaucracies need room to eryone can have a glance at the picture on breed and spread. Maybe the administra­theinsidecoverofthefootball mediaguide/ tors who move into Flanner and Grace can coloring book. Who designed the cover to find the same pleasure as the residents in this book, and didthey use crayons ormagic watching towel-clad· Pasquerilla women markers? The Gipp thinks Ryan Leahy is a walking from their rooms to the showers. handsome man (in truly the most objective 

Glpp's Office: 303 LaFortune, 631-7569, fax 631-9648, E-Mail gipper@nd.edu (If you can read this you have a problem) 
and platonic sense ofthe word handsome), but the cover of the media guide makes him look like Howdy-Doody on steroids. 
FOOD, FREAKS AND FUN 
The Gipp really has to hand it to the dining hall staff for topping itself again. The North Dining Hall map/D-Day inva­sion plan wasn't enough-they came up with Circus Dinner. The Gipp isn't sure which he liked better, the heavily sedated de-clawed lion sitting in his cage praying for his freak-show trainer to shoot him or to succumb to a sudden stroke, or the vats of mayonnaise with gnats stirred into them. Also in therunning fortheGipper's favorite moments from Circus Dinner: the wingless bee which was slowly suffocating in the apple fritter stuff, or the bulk-rate twinkies which were about a. millimeter of yellow cake surrounding • four pounds of greasy filling. Tears of joy stained the Gipp' s face as he walked away from Circus Dinner, knowing that there were plenty more.theme meals coming throughout the year. 
·· That's it, that's all for this week. And as Gennifer Flowers once said to Bill Clinton,. ''The next one's on you." 
6 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 


Building for the Future 
Raising money is only one ofthe objectives that the Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity volunteers anticipate accomplishing this year 


Volunteers team up in a Build-a-Thon last spring. The group is hoping to raise enough money to construct a house on their own. 
zation that just puts a band-aid on a prob­Vosburg and Folk, along with the head 
by Bridget ~radburn lem. They empower people to better their education commissioner of theNotre Dame 
lives." chapter, Erica Quinn, hope to implement 

e've all heard the adage "Give In past years, the South Bend chapter of this program by breaking the campus chap­
man a fish and he'll eat for Habitat for Humanity has raised funds and ter mto small groups that would address the 
day; teach a man to fish and he'11 provided professional workers, while the schools. These volunteers are also hoping eat for a lifetime." But, how many of us Notre Dame group constituted a corps of to visit churches in the South Bend area on actually implement this concept in our volunteers. This year, however, the No.tre a regular basis in order to "develop an lives? TheNotreDameHabitatforHuman­Dame group hopes to raise enough money ongoing relationship between Notre Dame ity campus chapter, in conjunction with the and organize enough volunteers to under­and local churches," Folk replied. South Bend chapter, has made tremendous take their own house-building project. At In order to achieve these goals of educa­strides in thepastfew years iri exemplifying this point, Vosburg said, Habitat's main tion, fundraising, and ultimately, house­this concept and educating the community goal is "to raise money as fast as they can" building, the Notre Dame chapter of Habi­about homelessness. in order to buy a lot for the house and the tat for _Humanity is in need of enthusiastic 
Habitatfor Humanity is a service organi­supplies necessary to break ground this people to volunteer for these tasks, Vosburg zation that works with families that have spring. Thegroup has been soliciting dona­added. However, according to Folk, the some amount of stability, usually in the tions from alumni and area churches, and group is taking its time in accomplishing form of a job, but just need to be pushed they sponsored a Build-a-Thon last spring, these goals so that they may educate them­over the top. 'That's where Habitatsteps in in which volunteers solicited pledges for selves and engage the help and support of and helps tore-establish communities," said their work in building-thefacade of a house. all those interested, including faculty mem­Chris Folk, co-president of the Notre Dame At the same time as they solicit funds, the bers and alumni. chapter. Notre Dame Habitatgroup strives to "make Althoughpreparationsareextensive,once 
Homeless families pay for their houses people aware of the problem of the ground is broken and construction be­and they contribute "sweat hours" in the homelessness and how to address it," said gins, there will be no turning back. But building of their home and the homes of Folk. Last year, the group developed a when it does happen, Notre Dame and the others. According to Notre Dame co-presi­program to offer fun and informative pre­SouthBendcommunitywillnotbebuilding dent Amy Vosburg, "Habitat for Humanity sentations to grammar school and high lives for families, but teaching families to is unique because it is nota service organi-school students in the area. This year, build lives for themselves and others. 




ii¦ 


Peace Corps for the '90s 
ACE makes teachers out ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates whilefilling a gap in Catholic education 
by Theresa M. Hennessey 
Less than a year ago, ACE was just a passing thought in the mind of Fa­ther Timothy Scully, C.S.C. Now, twelve short months later, The Alli_ance for Catholic Education has become a reality. "Participation in this program has been one of the great high points of my pri~st­hood," Father Scully said. "And only'with the collaboration of the Holy Spirit could everythinghavefallenintoplacesoquickly." The Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) is a newly created program at the University of Notre Dame. It is the brain­child of Father Scully, vice president and associate provost of the university, with the assistance of Sean McGraw, who gradu­ated in 1992 . Notre Dame is collaborating with Saint Mary's College, the University of Portland, theUnited States Catholic Con~ ference Department of Education and the National Catholic Educational Association to meet its primary aim of training recent college graduates for teaching positions in the Catholic educational system of the United States. 

"Every time I'm with parents of school-age children or with members of religious communities involved in Catholic educa­tion, thepressing need forcommittedCatho­lie educators comes up in the conversation,"said Father Scully. "At the same time, we have this vast pool of un­tapped teaching resources among our un­dergraduate population, many ofwhom are longingtoservetheChurchinsomesignifi­cant and generous way. With ACE we intend both to provide committed Catholic teachers for beleaguered parochial schools and to provide recent college graduates opportunities for Christian community, personal growth and possibly a lifelong vocation." _ 
Father Scully tapped into these resources ­lastNovember when he called an organiza­tional meeting that approximately 200 se-
Sean McGraw, left, and Father Tim Scully, C.S.C., right. In a year's time, Scully has worked to make his dream of ACE a reality, winning a $289,000 grant from the Corporation of National Service to cover start-up expenses. 
-prayer into the world of acade!}1ics. 
At the end of the summer, the ACE teachers, or interns, were sent to seven participating dioceses in eight different cit­ies in the southeast The interns are pres­entlylocatedinAlabama,Louisiana,Florida, Georgia and Oklahoma, where they have just begun teaching classes on their own at 30 private Catholic schools. 
"These schools are located in underprivi­leged areas which are strongly in need of adequate teaching fr_om committed, young, Catholic educators. 'The program is built around a support framework in which the 
· interns have a spiritual director assigned to them as well a mentor/teacher to aid them in 
.the process," said McGraw.

i Katie Baal, a 1994 graduate of Saint 
~ ~ Mary's with degrees in biology and math, is currently living in Baton Rouge, LA, where she is teaching 10th and 11th grade niorsattended. From there heconductedan application process, and 39 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were selected, as well as one student from Georgetown Uni­versity. Thechosenparticipantscamefrom awiderange ofundergraduatebackgrounds, with over 20 different majors being repre­sented. Only one of the students in the program majored in education as an under­graduate. 
The recent graduates returned to Notre Dame on June 6 to take part ih a seven­week, four-course, teacher training session. In the mornings, they received hands-on field experience as student teachers in vari­ous South Bend area schools. Returning to campus in the afternoons, faculty members of the University of Portland's School of Education as well as selected members of Notre Dame's faculty taught the group. In addition to the observational and super­vised teaching techniques the students learned, the sessions also included the in­corporation of Church, community life and 



geometry. As the search project at the end of her third end of their second week as an ACE year of supervised teacher came to a teaching . .:.This is one close,shewasstill of the requirements nervous. "Louisi-for their masters de­ana is a different gree in education. In culture.and teach-addition to this, the ing is definitely ACE teachers will be hard work. It has meeting with the 50 already given me or 60 new interns and an awareness of passing on words of what my teachers advice and guidance wentthrough,and to them. Ihaveanewsense "I can't believe the of admiration for qualityofpeople\Vho them," she said. werecalledtothisser­
"I love . it vice. We will be re-though," Baal cruiting at other uni-continued. "I versities this year as wanted to do ser-· well as the CSC fair, 
vice work after courtesy of ACE andlamconfidentthat graduation, and Meghan Morrison lends ahand to two South Bend children. Her student teaching the great number of when 1 heard of this summer helped prepare her for her upcoming year In the southeast. applicants will con-
this new program, I thought it would be a from the Corporation for National Service tinue.. I am truly pleased and happy with the great idea. The bonuses that go with it are through a highly competitve application results so far, and I am looking forward to wonderful, but the real reason I decided to process," said McGraw. "One hundred this year," said Father Scully. do it was because of the gains I would thousand dollars ofthe money is used to-"Whetherornot they choose to continue receive from the kids and the community." wards program costs, and the remaining asCatholicelementaryandsecondaryschool 
The bonuses for the teachers include a $189,000 is divided up between the partici-teachers, the interns will have been intro­master of arts degree in teaching at the.end pants as educational awards. They each . duce<l to the Lord in a novel and unique of the intensive two-year committment, as receive $4,725 for their participation in the way," McGraw added. 'They will have well as community housing, a monthly _ program which can be used to pay off undergone an experience that will shape stipend, travel vouchers to their designated student loans or offset future graduate edu-their lives, and the lives of the many young locations, and health insurance. cation. Theyhavesevenyearsafterwardsin people they taught, in ways only God's 
"We were awarded a $289,000 grant which they can use the money," said providence can fully comprehend." . 
McGraw. 
The program is no tan easy one, however, 
and not all the participants are equally con­
"They will have tent. In addition to teaching, some of the 
interns are also helping to establish tutoring 
undergone an services and newspapers in their schools; 
"The pro gram is going fairly well, but teach­
experience that will ing is a lot more work than I thought it 
would be," responded Dave Platt, who is 
shape their lives, and 
also living in Baton Rouge. "I am teaching the lives ofmany young five classes, so I have 135 kids to make up lesson plans for and grade. It is a lot more people they taught, in than I expected. In my opinion, the best part of the program so far has.been the summer 
ways only God's teaching in South Rend." 
After their first year in the classroom, the 
providence can fully 
ACE teachers will return to Notre Dame next summer to build upon their field expe­
comprehend." 
rience and receive training in research tech­niques. These techniques will be used
· -Sean McGraw 
toward the eventual completion of a re-

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE III SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 






·"--T!··_sSaturday'smarqu.eematchupbe­
'~tween Notre Dame and Michigan inarks the last time the Wolverines · willplayin the original stadium, and the last time the archrivals will meet until 1997. Fans have come to expect a classic when the Fighting Irish and Wolverines battle. The 

: I 
'. i confrontation· frequently produces a dra­matic finish, a dominant perfonnance, or the birth of a legend. The game often sets the tone for the year. Ifnot for its early date, this year's match might also have been heralded as the "Game of the Century." 

Recalling the 1988 championship sea-
sealed Michigan's 24-14 win, and launched 
Howard's Reisman Trophy winning sea­
son. 
In 1992, Reggie Brooks' 20-yard touch­
down where he bouncedlike a pinball off of 
eight Wolverine defenders gave him Play 
ofthe Year honors. The game finished in a 
17-17 tie that left Irish fans second-guess­
ing Lou Holtz' s decision to play for a draw. Last year, after a dreadful perfonnance against Northwestern, the Irish used two Kevin McDougal touchdowns and a punt return for a touchdown by Mike Miller to ·upset Michigan 27-23. The game ended 
talk of "the book," and made Irish fans 
concentrate on their Cinderella squad. 

. and Blue, piling up 318 total yards and two 
touchdowns. 
Expected to play in case of Wheatley's 
absence are senior Ed Davis and sopho­
more phenom "Touchdown" Tim 
Biakabutuka, the latter pounding the B.C. 
defense intosubmissionlastweekend. Davis 
rushed for 441 yards last season, while 
Biakbutuka scored five touchdowns. 
Returning at Wolverine quarterback is 
Todd Collins, the all-time Michigan leader 
in completion percentage. Last yearCollins 
completed 189 of 296 passes for 2,509 
yards with 17 touchdowns and 7 intercep­
tions. He threw for251 against the Irish, but 
also tossed three costly interceptions. A 

Champion 
Champion Maker Breaker 
The winner of and the loser· will 
Saturday's game have to wait for 
is headed/or a next year 
national title, 

son, one will remember the yearwas ignited year wiser, Collins is regarded by many as 
by a dramatic 19-17 upset of the Wolver­by Jake Schaller one of the nation's top quarterbacks. 
ines. The game also produced an instant Gone for the Wolverines is Collins' fa­
star: the diminutive Reggie Ho, who with Much of the pregame attention thus far vorite target, All-American Derrick 
his hand squeezing ritual booted a record­hasbeen concentratedonTyrone Wheatley, Alexander, who hauled in 35 receptions for 
tying four field goals, including the game­Michigan's 6' 1" 226-poundHeisman Tro­621 yards and4 touchdowns. Even without 
winner. Thenextyear,Michiganwas treated phy candidate. The key playeron the team, Alexander, the Wolverines will have a po­
to a dose of deja vu, as Raghib "Rocket" however, may not even play on Saturday as tent passing attack. Senior Walter Smith 
Ismail ran back two kick-offs for touch­he sat out last weekend's game against and juniors Mercury Hayes and Amani 
downs to lead the Irish to a 24-19 win. Boston College. In a late August practice, Toomer combined for 90 receptions and 
The beginning of the l 990's brought the the senior tailback separated his left shoul­almost 1,400 yards. Smith has made his 
beginningoftheRickMirerera. Thesopho­der, leaving fans to wonder whether he will wayuptherankstonumberelevenontheall 
more quarterback used his first college start be able to play. Wheatley, who is consid­time reception list. ·. Hayes and Toomer, 
to become the latest Irish "Golden Boy." ered a front-runner for the Doak Walker meanwhile, have shown that they can fly 
His fourth quartertouchdown pass to Adrian award (given to the country's best running · down the field. 
Jarrelbroughttomindshadesofanother#3, back) is undoubtedlythekey to theWolver­Graduation hit the Wolverine defense 
Joe Montana, as the Irish prevailed 28-24. ineattack. TheMVPofbothlastyear'sHall extremelyhard. Michigan lostseven defen-. 
In 1991,NotreDamewastreatedtoa"Magic of Fame Bowl, and in the previous Rose sive starters, including All-Big Ten defen­
show." Desmond Howard scored touch­Bowl, he has been able to "step-up" inbig sjve tackle Buster Stanley. The line will be 
downsonareverseandon adiving,stretched games. Last year against the Irish, he did anchored by 6'5", 271-pound Jason Horn, 
out, fourth and one, miracle grab. The catch nearly everything he could for the Maize who will split time at middleguard with 
10 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 

6'2", 269 Tony Henderson. Michigan Head Coach 
Gary Moeller' s key to de­
fense will be the play of the 
linebackers. The corps was 
rocked by injuries last year, 
but returned ready for1994, 
allowing BostonCollegeonly 
26 points on the day. Matt 
Dyson (OLB) and Steve 
Morrison· (ILB), both 
standouts in 1993, will return · .. 
as the leaders. Last year, 
Dyson set marks for sacks, 
sack yardage and tackles for 
losses. Meanwhile.Morrison 
made 124 tackles during the 
campaign. "Attheendoflast 
season I said I wanted to build one of the top 
defenses in the country, and those two play­
ers will play a big part in helping to achieve 
that," said Moeller. Junior All-America candidate Ty Law, 
Junior outside linebacker Renaldo Wynn lunges for Michigan tailback Tyrone Wheatley. Wheatley may be sidelined Saturday, but the Wolverine offense has proven itself to be just as potent without him. 
who has logged 18 career starts, will lead the secondary with free safety Chuck Win­ters (12 career start§), hoping to contain Notre Dame game breakers Miller andjun­ior wide receiver Derrick Mayes. Law is looking to continue the pace he had in the last three· games of last season (five interceptions in three games). 
The strength of the Wol­verine team poses daunting questions for the Irish: will the game follow the fonn of its predecessors; will sopho­morequarterbackRonPowlus make a Mirer-like splash; will Wheatley spark a Reisman season for himself! We will not know until Saturday, when one team will lose its chance for a national championship. 0 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 



shooting for an open 
A varsity sport since 1988, the 




goal·
women's soccer team is aiming for a ·. ·. 
national championship 

by Warren Junium 
Notre Dame women's soccer has beenavarsity sport for six years, and already a national champioship looms ahead. Chris Petrucelli took over the reigns in 1990 and has helped create a tradition of excellence on a team that was mediocre in its first two seasons. In 1993, • Coach Petrucelli led his team to anumberthreeranking,achievinga19-3recordanditsfirstNCAA tournament berth. "We are more mature this year. We have the speed, athleticism and youth necessary to be competitive," said Petrucelli. "Our players have improved and we also have added some great play­ers." One of the players that Petrucelli is referring to is sophomore forward Arny VanLaecke; VanLaecke is a native of Granger, Indiana and is a transfer to Notre Dame this year from the University of Arkansas. At Arkansas, she led the lady Razorbacks in scoring and set a school assist record. Coach Petrucelli has only words of praise for V anLaecke. "Arny is bigger and stronger than our other forwards, and she will complement Kate [Sobrero] and Holly [Manthei] well." With the loss of eight monogram winners and the plethora of underclasswomen, there is the players on our team," said Petrucelli. "She is a key member of our defense." 

The Irish also have their ranks of all-around strong players with the likes of Cindy Daws and Michelle McCarthy. As a freshman, Daws made a mark_on soccer that will not be soon forgotten. She is arguably the nation's top second-yearplayerafter being the only 
-freshman named to the All-America first team. Daws also scored a goal or an assistin 18 of21 games and tied the Notre Dame single­season scoring record with 16 goals. 
Daws is joined by the athletic McCarthy on offense. Placed on Soccer News sophomore All-America squad, McCarthy was also a member of the all-Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment team. 
Unfortuantely for the Irish, not everything is perfect. They lost · all-time leading scorer Allison Lester and Stephanie Porter (31 career goals). Further, they have been hit with two devastating injuries that could seriously affect the post-season picture. Junior defender Julie Vogel is out for the entire season with an injured vertebrae that will require surgery. Also out, is Ragen Coyne, a two-time All-America choice in the midfield. Coyne is out for a portion of the season with a stress fracture. Daws is also experienc­ing some lingering pain remaining from her broken foot after the 1993 season. "She ·looks really good, but it has been a slow process," said Petrucelli: "She 
question of leadership on the will be back to full speed field. Petrucelli was quick to shortly." dispel this worry, though. 'We The Irish will face a long may have lost eight monogram roadontheirwaytotheNCAA winners, but Tiffany [Thomp­

tournament, with games son] and Jill [Matesic] will be 
againstperennial powerhouses the leaders of this team. Th­William & Mary, North Caro­ompson is a co-captain and she 
lina and Duke, and must stay anchors the defensive midfield 
healthy to stay competitive. withaerialattacksandoutstand­
Evenwith thesefew hurdles, ing technical ability. 
Coach Petrucelli remains cer­Matesic returns to the Irish 
tain of where his team will be after sustaining a broken leg in 
at the end of the season. "We the 1993 Irish victory over Wis­
·will hopefully be peaking and consin. Matesic started all 19 
gelling, unlike lastyear where games in her sophomore cam­
we peaked too early," said paign and the three in her junior 
Petrucelli. ''If this happens I year leading up to the injury. · 
see us in the Final Four with She made her presence know 
the distinct possibility for a 
on the field with her physical and 
national championship. That

Midfielder Michelle McCarthy and the third-ranked Irish will
aggressiveplay. "Jillisprobably 
is the team's goal." .

have to roll over teams like #6 Duke on the road to a title.
one of the strongest and toughest 
12 

SCHOLASTIC MA GAZ IN E ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 1 9 ~ 4 
\ 
\ 
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
\ 
A roundup of the week in· sports August 30 to September 5 
VOLLEYBALL The 13th-ranked MEN'S SOCCER Last season, Fighting Irish will beaiming for theirfourth the Fighting Irish· went to the NCAA tour­consecutive 25-win season. Seven mono-nament for the first time in 5 years, but lost gramwinnersreturn, including All-America to Wisconsin in the first round to finish 20th outside hitter Christy Peters. The results of nationally. Coach MichaelBerticelli'ssquad lastweekend's ShamrockInvitational were has thirteen seniors returning, in addition to more than favorable for Notre Dame, as it thedeadlyduoofjuniorforwardBillLanza wiped out Western Michigan (15-4, 15-4, andseniorforwardTimOates. Also,allthe 15-7), Illinois (15-3, 15-8, 13-15, 15-6), defenders will be playing together for an­andMichigan State(15-8, 15-3,15-7). Notre other year. However, despite this amazing Dame will be on the road for the first time potential, theFightingIrish losttheirseason next weekend when it travels to Louisville opener to the Nittany Lions at Penn State, fortheBigFourClassic. TheFightinglrish 1-0. The soccer team will be looking to will face the Cardinals Friday and play two redeem itself against Ohio State tomorrow matches on Saturday, one against defend-at 7:30 on Alumni Field. ingchampion Kentucky andanotheragainst 
BASEBALL On August 25th, Ath­
Indiana to close out the tournament The 
letic Director Dick Rosenthal announced · 
first home game will be against Purdue on 
that Paul Mainieri would fill the shoes of
September 13. UnderCoachDebbieBrown, 
former Notre Dame Head Baseball Coach
Notre Dame is 34-3 at the JACC. 
Pat Murphy. Murphy accepted the head 
coaching position at Arizona StateUniver­
sity earlier in August But as a ballplayer 
himself, a high school coach, and a 12-year 
veteran collegecoach, Mainieri brings with 
him plenty of success and experience. In 
1983, he took over aprogram at StThomas 
College (in Florida) that never had a win­
ning season. St Thomas achieved a top 10 
.NCAA Division II ranking in each· of 
Mainieri' s six seasons there, averaging 30 
wins a year. He averaged 26 wins a season 
in his six· years at the United States Air 
. Force Academy, and in 1993, the Falcons 
achieved a top-4d ranking for the first time 
in history. Mainieri's Air Force team led 
the nation in hitting in 1994 with a .360 
average. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER After PREDICTIONS opening the seasori with blowout victories Kennedy's Kall: .The unexpected appearence of Wheatley sparks the Notre Dame over Rutgers, 6-0, and LaSalle, 5-0, the defense to come alive; but with Biakabutuka carrying the load in thebackfield and Collins third-ranked women's team will travel to andToomernearly unstoppable, Michigan goes up 18-15atthe half. TheIrishrally behind Virginia this weekend toplaynumberseven Powlus' peppering ofthe Michigan defense, and apunishing running game led by Becton George Mason and number ten William & and Kinder. Final Score: Notre Dame 40, Michigan 33 · Mary. Thelrish willhaveachallengeaway, Schaller's Schot:· After a first quarter standoff, Collins and Michigan's wide receivers butthey have won 13 straighthomematches step up for the limitedplay ofWheatley, and stake theirclaim toa 14-7firsthalflead. Notre dating back to the 1992 season. Notre Dame's rushing attack wears down Michigan's defense in the second half as 2.ellars, Dame possesses a 62-9-1 (.868) record at KinderandBectonscore. Powlusisrocksolidinhisfirstbiggame. The Irish useaspecial · home,a43-4recordunderCoachPetrucelli. teams touchdown and a late defensive stand for a 28-20victory. 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 

a 


-atsofftoRonPowluswholiftedthe
H
world off his shoulders with his 
phenomenal performance against Northwestern. He had not played for two years, and yet he played with the compo­sure and talent of a Reisman trophy candi­date. Yet one problem could not go unno­ticed: itissimply beyond all underststanding why he wasn't pulled for precautionary measures when Notre Dame went up 28-3. 
And on the uglier side of college football, can anyone tell me how many new charges were filed against Florida State players today, and why hasn't the NCAA stripped the school's national championship? The majority of the accused atFSU either gradu­ated or got slaps on the wristwith two game suspensions for rather serious NCAA vio­lations. As a result, the Seminoles will be in a good position to win bact-to-back cham­pionships. · 
Of course, Arizona could be a real chal­lenge (right). The Wildcats rip through Miami 29-0 and Sports Illustrated rolls out the red_carpet for the football team from the desert. Why does SportsIllustrated always have to be different? The championship will be won by Florida, Nebraska, USC or Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame-Southern Cal matchup should re-ignite the dwindling rivalry be­tween the two, especially ifboth teams end up going undefeated into the game with a championship on the line. Contrary to the many who believe USC will upset Notre Dame, Southern Cal still has anotheryearto go before the young players develop. Notre Dame will keep the streak alive. 

. . 
Cleaning Up anU KickmgOff 
Sports fans ought to be changing the channel to World Cup matches and Notre Dame-USC showdowns 
Besides college football, soccer is one of replace class. Embarrassment Part I was the only sports worth watching anymore. I fighting in theNBA;EmbarrassmentPartII went down to Foxborough, Massachusetts was the 1994 NBA playoffs themselves. this summer to check out the World Cup Meanwhile,themedia'sassaultonthebase­madness. The game was a sleeper, but ball strike and the stupidity of the strike perhaps so because it wasn't a slam-dunk-itselfis not nearly up to the annoyance level ing, skull-shattering, trash-talking,in~your~ of the O.J. Simpson case, yet. . face corruption ofa sport that we Ameri-Anyway, a few solutions are in order for cans love to watch.. It was clean, theplayers · the professional sports scene. Sports fans had hearts, not dollar signs and egotism simply have to stop whining about how darting through their eyes. The fresh elec-great it used to be and do something about tricityofthefanswaselevatingandinterest-.. the present. They should threaten to boy­ingwhetheryoulikeditornot. Let'sfac.eit cottallbaseballgamesandbasketballgam~s. , . soccer is a beautifully· strategized art with all sportswear, memorabilia, tickets, any­classy players and fans who are exciting to· ·_.-thing. watch. The fans run sports, not the owners, not 
. Okay,it'snotthatgood. AskMr.Escobar, even the players. It is time for fans to be a and people of small nations who start wars ·littleinorevocal than writing nasty letters to over this stuff. But it's coming to America the editor. I'd just as soon watch a Book­because the younger generation embraces store Basketball showdown than any NBA it, and because many major professional game myself. sports(tennis,baseball,basketball,andeven Next, the fans should demand that the· hockey) are beginning to resemble the maximum salary paid to an athlete in a WWF, full of violence,. temper tantrums · certain sport be $2 million a year, none of and ridiculous antics. · this 12-year $89 million contract garbage. 
The National HockeyLeague just held its The money would be paid to them after they most inspiring playoff series in years, and perform, and hefty bonuses should only be while theNew York Rangers wereblowing atttained through excellent play. athree games to onelead over V ancouverin Furthermore, owners and athletes should the Stanley_Cup finals, coach Mike Keenan eliminatefree agency in the first six years of was playing eeni-meeni-mini-mo with. the contract play. Players' disloyalty to teams teams_ he considered coaching. Nowthe is as much to blameforthelossofsentiment players and the owners cannot reach a col-and true competition in sports as is money. lective bargaining agreement and the stage Finally, someone should pui a muzzle on is set for the second strike in three years:-the proponents of stipends in collegeathlet­
. The National Basketball Association is ics. The presence of money taints every­dealing with salary cap problems and Em-thing it touches. Someone needs to clean barrassment Part III; namely the substan-house, or watch Powlus dazzle the Michi­dard conduct of the second Dream Team _ gan defense, or maybe just watch a few during the summer's World Basketball soccer games. . Championships. A gold medal can never 
14 

S C H O L A.S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ S E P T E M B E R 8 , 1 9 9 4 
Notre Dame's ONLY Singing and Dancing Ensemble IRISH AUDITIONS EX'l'HESS Your Football Weekend OutletSept. 12 and 13 Dooley Room -Lafortune Student Center-631-8128 · 204 O'Shag Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 pmCall the Shenanigans office Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00 pmat 1-5896 or stop-by VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED!214 LaFortune to sign up for a try-out time. . ' WORKOB$, AVAILABLE on caITipus at THE.HUDDLE in LaFortune Student Center .APPLY TODAY !! .. Ask for an a lication at the "Fresh Baked Pizza" area or the Convenience Store  






~--------------------~· 
.. ··--.. -.... ,,........ , .. ·. ,_,, ·•· .. 




From captaining the 



• 
e 

,1, Played 
!J 
Ii 
1: 

aChampion 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
Well, I'll te.11 you, I've seen a lot of coaches run better than that!" hollered the beaming, hulk of a manashestrodeupthestepsoftheJACC's empty basketball arena. Accepting Rosenthal'scommentsgraciously,thecoach chuckled as he jogged through the gate. Richard A. Rosenthal himself used torun a lot better than that, starring as an All~ Americari in high school and on the great Irish basketball teams of the ~ly 1950s. He resembles the typical wise grandfather, always jolly, always talking, unselfisll and honest, but he has not been around quite as long as your grandfather. Having announced his retirement in the middle of the swnmer, Rosenthal will re­main as Notre Dame athletic director until August of 1995. His replacement will be J Michael Wadsworth, Canadian ambassa-~ dor to Ireland, and former football player l 
for Notre Dame. According to Rosenthal, 
Wadsworth possesses "incredible creden­
tials" for Notre Dame athletic director. 
Ironically, this praise comes from a man whose own accomplishments in the last forty years have been nothing short of as­tounding:Rosenthal'sbrilliantsuccessasa banker, his work with the NCAA and his commitment to South Bend community. And his la:;t seven years as Notre Dame's athletic director will someday earn him legendary status. But his story began back in the Irish neighborhoods of St. Louis, Missouri where he grew up. 

! I "My father died when I was young, and 
16 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 
Fighting Irish basketball team to being recognized as one ofthe most poweiful men in sports, Dick Rosenthal steps down after giving the best years ofhis life to Notre Dame 
after that I never contemplated going to collegeuntilmyjunioryearinhighschool," said Rosenthal. Itwas then that the concept of an athletic scholarship became a real opportunity for an education. 
"A fellow in St Louis, once a classmate of Moose Krause at Notre Dame, alerted Moose [who was athletic director at the time] of my basketball potential. I was really impressed with Moose. He,was a monumental personality. He was genuine in his interest in the student-athlete. This wasthemostimportantpartofmydevelop­ment as a player and as a person." 
TheyoungRosenthalcouldhaveattended 

· the varsity basketball team for all but his freshman year, and as a sophomore 
Princeton, Vanderbilt, St Louis, or Mis­souri, but he chose Notre Dame. "I went to a Catholic high school and belonged to an Irish Catholic Parish in the city ofSt. Louis. Notre Dame was a very special place in the minds ofmany youngpeople." Notre Dame also had the tradition of recruiting athletes and not withdrawing scholarships; and its streak of four unbeaten football seasons in the late 1940s appealed to him. 
Rosenthal came to Notre Dame as a freshman in 1950. He started on andjunior, hewas theregularfirst baseman on th~fighting Irish varsity baseball team. In 19531and 1954, under the leadership of captain ~osenthal, the Notre Dame basket­ball team went 22-3 in his senior year and made its first trip everto theNCAA tourna­ment Although there are great moments in every athlete's career, Rosenthal recalls the toughest times as carrying the most impor­tant lessons of life. 
'The most difficult time for me occurred in the NCAA tournament," he said. "Indi­ana University had won the championship in 1952-1953, and they had seven players returning. Well, we beat them in the first round using the same five players all nighL The next night, we lost to Penn State. They came out with. this zone press defense, something we had never seen before. After defeating the number one ·team, we had visions of a Final Four trip." 
Rosenthal's education was fortified by these hard lessons.learned through athlet­ics. "I think there's a crucial lesson for people to learn that deficiencies may be overcome. Things don'talways go exactly as you wanL" 
This was evidentinRosenthal's first year as athletic director in 1987. Notre Dame lostbig to Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. "[Lou} Holtz andI sat there after the game and didn't say anything. He made two or, three sentences ofcomments regretting that welostthegame. Butontheplane, wespent 55 minutes thinking of how we could im­prove the team for next season. Notre Dame won a national championship that next year." 
Suc~ commitment, teamwork and · strategy are invaluable lessons that Rosenthal has picked up in all his 
years at Notre Dame, not to mention learn­ing how to take a defeat graciously. How­ever, to Rosenthal~ who earned a degree in finance, nothing replaces academic perfor­mance; At 28, he was offered the pos~tion of chief executiveofficer of theIndianaand TrustCo. Bankin Fort Wayne,forwhich he worked in the offseason during his playing days with the NBA's Fort Wayne Pistons. 

' 
"I don't think I would have been qualified for that CEO job if it weren't for my com­
"I don't know anyone here who I've been closer with or more confident in than Dick Rosenthal." -Lou Holtz" 
"He brought the athletic program to a new level. .· Youlookat all that's been accomplished under him and it's ama.zing." --Father 
William ­_Beauchamp 
"I'll always be helping out the university, and/will find greatjoy as just a regular Notre Dame 
plete education at Notre Dame," he stated. 
fan." 

Under Rosenthal, the bank grew from $20 million in assets to $550 million, and even­-Dick tuallimoved from Fort Wayne to South The seniors of the 1953-1954 basketball team. (Top to
Rosenthal

Bend (now Society Bank). Bottom) Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, Jack Stephens. 


Retiring from banking after 31 years, he returned to Notre I:lame to participate in a variety of volunteer work, including the alumni association and generalfundraising. In 1986,GeneCorrigan, thenNotreDame's athletic director, accepted a job as the com­missioner of the Atlantic Coast Confer­ence. 
FatherWilliamBeauchamp,C.S.C.,ex­ecutive vice-president, had conducted a search, talking with a number of different people about who would replace Corrigan. "Afewweekslateriwascontacted, with no real knowledge of athletic management or administration," saidRosenthal. "We talked in terms of five years." 
"Dick Rosenthal's experience in busi­ness administration and management was very appealing to us atthe time," said Father Beauchamp. "Most importantly, he was a former Notre Dame athlete and a profes­sional basketball player. He always re­mained involved with Notre Dame and committedtoNotreDame. Heseemedtofit in perfectly with the educational mission of 
·the school," continued Beauchamp. : "He brought the athletic program to a 
·· new level, especially in olympic sports, the coaching staff and facilities. You lookat all that's been accomplished.under him, and it's amazing." · 
Seven years 1.ater, Dick Ros.enthal sits in the same office with the honor of being ranked Sporting News' 37th 
mostinfluential man in sports. When asked how he feels about this, for the first time in the discussion, Rosenthal puts his head down, thinking, blushing, and humbly brushing away credit 
"Well, I believeNotre Dame is the influ­ential part of sports. I don't think success would have been easy without this staff, men like Joe O'Brien and John Heisler. PeopleoftenaskmewhatI'mproudestofin my last few years here. To a small degree, I've been here at a time when this great coaching staff hasbeen assembled,and I've been able to facilitate in gathering that talent Last year was also one of the best years ever in Notre Dame athletics and this yearcould beeven better. I'm very proud of both those things." 
However,LouHoltz,NotreDame'shead football coach, holds Rosenthal mainly re­sponsible for all the recent success and exposure of Notre Dame athletics. "I don't know anyone here who I've been closer with or more confident in than Dick Rosenthal. · I've never seen him do any­thing selfishly. His decisions are always in the best interest of the university. The University· of Notre Dame has become a better place since he's been here." 


Rosenthalistrulyoneofthefewinthe sports world with a heart as big as his head. 'There's never a good time to retire, but now is the most logical. I'll be right at 63, the stadium expansion project wm be finished, and all planning will be complete for alignment into the Big East "Ofcourse, I'll miss it But! am looking forward to spending my life with my fam­ily. I'm retiring from a professional role andresumingone as a volunteer. I'll always be helping out the university, and Iwill find great joy as a Notre Dame fan." 
One of Rosenthal's brighter memories occurred during his 33rd wedding anniver­sary a few years back when he took his wife to dinner. "She would always have to give me a hint that a birthday or anniversary was coming up because I'm forgetful occasion­ally. But it was a time when we get nostal­gic, and I said to her, 'I really do appreciate whatyoudid' inhelpingmebutinlife. And she said, 'I'm here to help you succeed.' I've thought about that often. Why do we· always have to drill each other and com­pete? Instead we should be· helping one another and working as a team.'' D 
18 

SCHOLASTIC Ml:,.GAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 1994' 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 



Tales from the Bargain Bin 
A lighthearted guide to smarter CD shopping 

by Josef Evans 
Pirhaps you're like me. The kind of person who heads straight to the back of the music store, right past the popular CDs you might actually want to listen to,pastthe annoying salesperson who always seems to assume you're illiterate, past the "Nice Price" and "Super Saver" selections, which somehow seem to have been "Nice Price" and "Super Saver" since the beginning of time (Oh, look -"Phil Collins Live" is still only $12.98! Better snap that up quickly), and right back to that hidden bin of cassettes or CDs with the broken and faded plastic sign weakly pro­claiming "Sale! Up to $1.99," which often does more to repel than attract potential customers. Most likely, though, you're not But that doesn'tmean you shy away from a bargain, which has probably led you down the path of musical disappointment more than once after leaving the store with what you origi­nally supposed was a deal for the ages. In addition, avoiding such musical wastelands .is often impossible to do, given the natural human instinct to believe that we suddenly need things simply because they're cheap. ThinkaboutitIfsomeoneputmoldy cheese in plastic packaging and called it a clear­
ance item, people would buy it. Scary. 
Given this inclination, and the disap­
pointment that it usually creates, you might 
want to read on and discover the proven 
methods for effective bargain-binning, 
which only years of painstaking research 
and experience can teach. 
It's often a sad thing to look through the 
bargain bin at the music store. Many is the 
time I have been reduced to tears right there 
in the store thinking about the sorry careers 
of poor untalented slobs with names such as 
WarrenZ,ZG Slam,Barn Shoo Bang, Slam Bang Z, Warren and the Slams, Slam Shoo . Barn, and so on (it's funny how they all start tosoundthesameeventually). Usually their album coversrange from photos of the artist looking airbrushed and charming with a nice suit or dress outfit, to airbrushed and charming with dog collars and gold chains hanging off their shirtless or bikini-topped torsos. Groups, on theotherhand, will often 

Scott Henderson's Dog Party from the front. Always remember: bad cover =bad album. 

hire a J. Crew-type photographer to give them that lovely clean-cut "we're pretend­ing to havefun"look, unless they'reaheavy metal band of some sort, in which case they either put ritual sacrifices on their cover or wear black T-shirts and look at the camera like they want to smash it. These are artists you want to avoid. 
Of course, delving into this haven for those challenged in the realm of musical taste means an expectation that at least 90 percent of the titles you will look at will be artists you have never heard of, and the other 10 percent are artists you wish-you had never heard of. If, in fact, you might actually be willing to take a chance on a part of the 90 percent, tpere are few guidelines which, when followed, virtually assure you won't further expand your already sizeable silver frisbee collection. 
Let's take Scott Henderson 'sDog Party, a CD I got for free in the mail, as an example. Now, normally, getting a CD free in the mail should be enough to let you know it's bad. Assuming, though, that I was picking this up at the store, which in turn requires an assumption that this classic actually made it into stores, I would first want to look at the cover, a previously mentioned tactic. In this case, we have a dog wearing a party hatwith superimposed, odd-colored streamers hanging from trees in what looks like someone's backyard. The back cover is graced a photo of a dog urinating on an electric guitar. This ought to make you wonder. 
However ,just in case you've lost contact with the artistic lobe of your brain, and it doesn't make you wonder, the next step would be to check out the song and album titles. On Dog Party, every song includes something relating to the canine existence (~ couple examples are "Milk Bone" and "Hell Bent Pup"). It's a concept album about dogs. At this point, you should be 
20 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 8, 19?4 

-
seriously considering putting this back where you found it, or, better still, some­place where nobody will ever find it 
This isn't the only thing you can deter­mine through title checking, though, It's often true that the dreadfulness of an album is directly proportional to the number of colloquial spellings in its song titles. Any CD which includes four of these, such as Dog Party , is obviously a hopeless case. Examples of this unfortunate trend in song titling here are "HoleDiggin' ,." "Smelly 01' Dog Blues," "Too Many Gittars," and "FenceClimbin' Blues." You havereached the end of the line. 
Clearly, this cannot be a good album. Promptly return it to the bin and continue on,rightpast the"101 Strings Plays the Hits · of Melissa Manchester" box set. 
Let's take one more example before we move on. "It'll be like walkin' barefoot on hotpavement," reads the press guide for the recently released Milo Z album, appropri­ately titled Basic Need to Howl; and for the first time in two pages of excessive hype andcontrivedstreettalkfromrecordexecu­tives trying to "hit you where you live, homey!," it actually hits the mark. Listen­ing toan album thisbadisindeedsuprisingly similarto walkin' barefoot on hotpavement and plenty of other pain-inducing actions. 
Following the title-checking rule, you know these guys are going to stink, as they 
seem to have fallen under the same delu­sion that so many fre­quenters of the bargain ·bin believe is the true key to musi­cal success. Contrary to unpopular belief, though,add­ing a Z to your band's name does not make youfunkyor good or a 

mi 11 i On -'-------.-.----."-------_--='-"=..:"'-"-Cathrine Wessel s e 1 1 e r . New Mercury Recording Artists (and aspiring J. Crew models) Milo Z acting like they always While it's stand on cold deserted beaches for a good time. 
true "Milo" might be a little too innocuous a title to attract thousands of robotic slaves who will buy your albums on reflex, "Milo Z" makes it sound as if you're a jobless middle-aged trumpet player having an iden­tity crisis who left The Tonight Show at the 
"It'll be like walkin' bare/ oot on hot pavement." 
-Mercury Records press release on new recording artist Milo Z. 
same time as Johnny Carson and is now trying to get a new gig and sound real hip. Or something close to that Put it away regardless. 
One other thing to avoid is movie soundtracks, of which there are plenty in the realm of the cheap and unwanted. When looking at a soundtrack for a popular film (or, more likely in this section,an unpopular 

film), you will often find that many quality 
artists whose regular recordings you al­
ready own, or wish you owned, are on it 
However, it may be confusing, in that none 
of the songs they are singing are frupiliar to 
you. Note: there is a reason why you have 
never heard of these songs. 
Let me frame it in familiar terms. Ifan 

albumisagroup'sfinalexam, thesoundtrack 
song is the pop quiz on the reading they 
didn't do. Keep that in mind before you 
foolishly run off with a copy of The Music 
FromLeprechaun5, or something compa­
rably awful. 
If that doesn't deter you, take another 

look and examine the songs accompanying 
tpose by (your favorite band here), Right 
between the latest smashes from Warren 
andtheSlamsandSlamBangZareloadsof 
gems with titles such as ''The Leprechaun Is 
Running" or "End Credits." These imagi­
natively labeled tunes are the orchestral 
accompaniment to various sections of the 
film, and aren't normally intended to be 
anything you'd ever want to hear again. 
Without its visual counterpart, this kind of 
music provides almost no re-creation of the 
feelings you might have had while at the · 
movie. Asong suchas "Really Scary Part at · the Beginning Where Lots of People Get Brutally Maimed," for example, often in­duces muchless terrorthan,say, the thought 
of another song from Snap Zingy Z. 
Admittedly, CDs do have a certain charm as a wall deco­ration or floor tiling, but clearly, even collecting the cheapest of them will run you quite a bit more than a nice poster or some decent carpeting. Hopefully these few tips will do a world of good for the cleanliness of your room ­and the preser­vation of your sanity. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 8, 1994 


through right from the start. Generation Ecch! at first seems to be a must-read for all Gen X­
ers, twentysomethings and all other members of the MTV genera­tion. The authors attack every bit of insincerity in today's youth culture,. from theberet-wearing, Jack Kerouac imitators of the neo­

Generation 

Beatnik movement, to America's re-infatuation with marijuana, to 
Ecch? 
A new book attempts to tear up the MTV Generation 
by Christopher Blanford 
I:they were in high school, you'd call them posers. They were the people who pretended to be part of a group they thoughtwas cool, like the preppy kids who would hang out with the skaters. 
Generation Ecch!'s authors Jason Cohen and Michael Krugman are the closest thing to a Generation X equivalent They attempt to be above the crowds they describe, but their true nature comes 



22 

the new breed of amateur film critics. Curiously, only Young Republicans and Rush Limbaugh fans are free from the authors' maliciousness. 
Evan Dorkin's illustrations, which preface each chapter with a graphic raspberry for all the members of the AlternativeNati9n, are the best part of the book. His drawings liven up the book and capture the essence of the chapters. The sarcasm with which the authors slice up the popular "counter-culture" seems clever at first but grows old when they cite every detail of society that irks them. Instead of making their points succinctly, they drag out their tirade over more than 200 pages. 
The book is a slow read but it is not entirely rotten. Somewhere in the bitterness the authors make a lot of good points. They even come up with a couple gems like, «It's very hard to ~chieve rock stardom when your lead singer is otherwise occupied being dead." Most of the goodies are piled in the first half of the chapter, however, leaving the rest of their writing about as exciting to read as a term-paper. 
Over and over again, the authors attack the members of Genera­tion X as whiny slackers who have nothing better to do than read 


Coming Distractions 
The Week in Sports 
Football Pep Rally: Fri., Sept. 9, 7:00 p.m., J.A.C.C. Football: Notre Dame vs. Michigan, Sat., Sept. 10, 1 :35 p.m., ND Stadium. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Tues., Sept. 13, 7:00 p.m., J.A.C.C. Pit. Soccer: Notre Dame Men vs. Ohio State, Fri., Sept. 9, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field. 


· Cultural Connection 
Shen~nlgans: Michigan Pre-Game Concert, Sat., Sept. 1o, 11 :oo a.m., North Dome, J.A.C.C. Music: ND Band Concert, Sat., Sept. 10, 11 :00 p.m., Main Bldg. 
Films: ''The Snapper," Fri.-Sat., Sept. 9-10, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2. "The Smiling Madame Beudet," Mon., Sept. 12, 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. ''The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari," Mon., Sept. 12, 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. "Pierre Le Fou," Tues., Sept. 13, 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2 "1860," Tues., Sept. 13, 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2. 
Mass: Formal School Opening, Sun., Sept. 11, 10:00 a.m., Basilica, Fr. Malloy presiding. Acoustic Cafe: Thurs., Sept. 8, 9:00 p.m., Huddle. 




Movies 
LaFortune: "Blues Brothers," Thurs., Sept. 8, 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theatre, $1. Cushing: "Maverick," Fri. &Sat., Sept. 9-10, 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Auditorium, $2. 
University Park West: 277-7336. ''The Lion King," G. "Jurassic Park," PG-13. "Milk Money," PG-13. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Natural Born Killers," R. ''The Mask," PG-13. "Corinna Corinna," PG. ''Trial by Jury," R. ''The Next Karate Kid," PG-13. "In the Army Now," PG-13 
Towne & Country: 277-1522. "Clear and Present Danger," PG-13. "Forrest Gump," PG-13. "True Lies," R. 
Saint Mary~ 


Collegg 

· Bonfir,e & Band: "Global Village," Fri., Sept. 9, 9:00 p.m., LeMans. Sophomore Class Dance: Fri., Sept. 9, 
9:00 p.m., Haggar. Murder Mystery: Wed., Sept. 13, 7:00 p.m., Clubhouse. Folk Dancing: Fri., Sept. 9, 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse. 
Volleyball: SMC vs. Manchester College, Thurs., Sept. 8, 7:00 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility. •1 



Caskets, Books and PC 
News of the Bizarre from Our Nation's Universities 

Test Your Political Correctness 
1. Your date shows up wearing make-up that was tested on lab animals. You: 
A. Find that the thought of helpless animals writhing in pain suddenly makes the evening of miniature golf you had planned seem somehow trite. 
B. Advise her of products which don't harm animals. 
C. Say "What have lab animals ever done for me?" 
2. Your community is considering building a nuclear waste dump. You: 
A. Express your opposition by throwing two-headed baby clothes at expectant mothers. 
B. Demand proof that such facilities are safe. 
C. Do your part for toxic waste by cleaning out the dorm's refrigerator. 
3. You hear a male friend make a rude comment about a woman's legs. You: 
A. Hand him your latest pamphlet: "Men: Testosterone-Fueled Hate Demons." 
B. Encourage him to appreciate more meaningful traits in people, like intelligence and personality. 
C. Were too busy staring at his butt to really evaluate his comment. 
4. You are offered a cheeseburger, which is the meat of a murdered cow. You: 
A. Weep, not only for the cow, but for the wheat savagely tom from Mother Earth to create the bun. 
B. Ask for a veggie burger instead, knowing that red meat isn't good for you anyway. 
C. Remove the cheese as a form of protest against cow-exploitation and eat the burger anyway. 
5. Your professor inadvertently refers to women as "girls." You: 
A. Mount protests until he is referred to as "fired." 
B. Explain to him that you find the term sexist and demeaning. 
C. Start a list of words that you and your friends use that would probably upset him a lot more than "girls." 
6. A special interest group you find offensive is planning a rally this Friday. You: 
A. Fight to keep them from being heard, secure in the knowledge that the First Amendment really doesn't apply to "people like that." 
B. Organize a counter-rally to peaceably protest their views. 
C. Attend the rally to hear their side of the issue; join up if they're giving away free beer. 
-From the Twentieth Century Fox Marketing Department 
Custom Caskets for Die-Hard Domers 

For those of you who are really looking towards the future, do I have a deal for you! According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education, a new company has begun specializing in caskets decorated to match your alma mater's colors. The Chronicle reports that Oak Grove International has decided to capitalize on the casket market. They come in all different colors and even have special engravings. So, if you're a true Notre Dame fan, maybe you can invest in a blue and gold casket with the leprechaun etched on top tl}atplays th~ fight song. Or maybe you can just go to the bookstore and buy a new sweatshirt 
edited ~y Mary Kate Morton 

Even though this is the time we're all swamped with brand-new text-books, if you want to read something for fun, here's a list of the top-selling books on college campuses around the country: 
I.The Client, by John Grisham 
2. Schindler' s List, by Thomas Keneally 

3. 
Jedi Search, by Kevin J. Anderson 

4. 
Disclosure, by Michael Crichton 

5. 
The Book of Virtues, by William J. Bennett 

6. 
The Bridges ofMadison County, by Robert James Waller 


7. 
Magic Eye, by N.E. Thing Enterprises 

8. 
The Te ofPiglet, by Benjamin Hoff 



9. Wouldn'tTakeNothingforMyJourney Now, by Maya Angelou 
10. The Pelican Brief, by John Grisham. -compiled by The Chronicle on 
Higher Education from bookstores serving over 70 colleges and univers­ities. 

Catholics vs. Beach-bums 

It's only the beginning of September and yet the past few days have seemed more like winter, right? Starting to wish that you'd ignored tradition and gone to Miami instead? Well, here's a fact to make you feel a little worse: The Univer­sity ofMiami sent out a summer edition of 
_their newspaper, First Impressions, to all their incoming freshmen. In addition to the regular campus news, it contained one little insert that you will NEVER need in South Bend-' a full-color guide and map to all of South Florida's beaches. But that's okay, you'll learn to love the -80° lake-effect wind-chill. Really. Itjustadds to our mystique ... . 

24 

S C H O L A S TI C M A G A Z IN E ¦ S E P T EM B E R 8 , 19 9 4 
-----------~­
• • > -I -' l •. ' 
. . . 
~ , . ­
¦--------------------·· 
THE BEST JOURNALISTS ON CAMPUS 
WORK FOR SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE. 
Once a week. In-depth stories: News. Campus Life. Sportso Entertainment. Humor. Photography. Graphics. 
If you want to become part of the · ·· 128 year old tradition of Scholastic 
·Magazine, come toan informational 
meeting on Sunday night 7:00 p.m. in 
· Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. 
---. -. •. ­
I'• . ' • • '. • . . • " • ' 
, . .
~ 


Grist for the Mill Rick Gre 

---7 


Hi, I'm ______________ I'm from _____________ l)ive in~._____________ 
I want to major in --------,---­My first SYR is on __________ I already... D love D hate my roommate(s). My dad... . did . did not go here. My dogbook picture isJ'.!~. great D not too good 
. I'm begging~ou, please don't look it up! 

________ .J 

7 



Whatsup:________________ My summer was _____________ 
My football tickets are on the __yard line. For fall break, I'm going to _________ I D have . have not started studying for the LSAT. I'll be at the 'Backer by ___Dam D pm 


-.J 
.NITENTION: Cartoonists, Artists, mustrators Scholastic Magazine Art Department wants you! 
Bring samples ofyour artwork to The Scholastic Magazine Office 303 Lafortune · any weekday between 2 and 5 p.m.. 
C'mon! Get Happy! 
I 
. I 

I 
. 


L 
26 


COMPUTER TAKEOVER 
The Beginning ofthe End 
would not be going as smoothly without 
by Andrew J. Horn them. Butwesometimesmustaskifweare 
I 
using computers forour benefit orifthey are 
j.ust sat down in the. computer lab controlling us. We are and have for some 
to write this article after being briefed time been immersed in a computer age ­
on how to use an IBM. !fl remember our government, industries, economy, sci­correctly, the Macs that were in this lab last entific research and educational system, to year were brand new, or a year old at most, name only a few aspects ofhuman civiliza­and had more funky features than I could . tion, are totally dependent on them. They possibly need or even begin to learn how to have gradually replaced countless physical use, butNOOO!!!! they just weren't good enough and have been replaced with these 
"We sometimes
things which even have CD players in the drives. 
must ask ourselves if 
Computer technology is changing (I hesi­tate to say improving) far too fast for occa­we are using sional users like myself to keep up. And it seems that as far as personal computers are computers for our concerned, these changes have consisted primarily of the addition ofmore and more benefit or ifthey are toys. I am beginning to feel rather embar­
controlling us."
rassed that I am still in the dark with this e­mail and Internet thing. I don't use them. It is not a personal protest; I am simply afraid and mental functions that for centuries we of something that people can only explain had toperformourselves. They haveopened to me by describing a few of its numerous new doors for progress by eliminating te­functions and capabilities. Is it some sortof dious,· time-consuming tasks, not to men­god? Anyway, I am perfectly at home tion billions and billions of file cabinets and interacting directly with people through secretaries with dangerous heels and in­telephone, written letters and other tradi­credible hairdos, and given us the time and tional fonns of communication which I capabilities to pursue higher things. fervently hope will not be lost in a world But think about it Isn't it a bit frightening which is beginning to prefer these retina­to imaginepeoplesomedayreclining inside frying monitors. huge coffin-like structures with every neu­
I must admit that personal computers are ron in their body connected to something, very useful tools and that my college career doing nothing but communicating, enter­taining themselves, thinking moderately profound thoughts, orengaging in an omni­sensory computer-generated Virtual Real­ity experience? Wow. The term "digital sex" takes on a whole new meaning. Hav­ing achieved this lifestyle, we would have no use for anything but our cognitive func­tions, and our soul, ifthere is any left at this point 

Many believe that the human species was destined for this kind of existence from the beginning of history. Calculation devices of one kind or another existed in the most ancient civilizations. Perhaps computers . are an integral part of what we are, an absolute necessity for our survival. 
I wonder ifcomputers are not our creation at all, but a separate entity which has devel­opedalongsidehumanthoughtandachieve­ment,. a force which has coaxed us into giving it a physical form. 
In recent years the world's computer net­work has come so closely to resemble a life form, one with capabilities that far surpass those of the human brain, that it could conceivably develop a will of its own. Per­haps it already has. Who will really be in control when this happens? 
Perhaps I am being extreme, but when one reflects on the technological develop­ments ofthe past twenty years, and the rate at which they have occurred, it seems that this is the direction in which we are inevi­table moving. I just hope we do not lose our humanity along the way. . 
27



T-wo Million Volumes -One Graduation 



I i 

Architecture studentat commenc.ement exercises at the end of the 1993-1994 academic year. 
Phnto by Brent Tad.sen 
28 

... . ' 

• ' .. • -• ' ' ' f • • • ­
. ' 

Campus Bands 
October2 12:00-2:00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
Spiritual Celebration 
October2 2:00-3:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Culture on the Quad 
October 3-7 12:00 -1 :00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
Fireside Chats 
October3-7 12:15 -1:00p.m Notre Dame Room,LaFortune. 
Monday: Fr. Don McNeil, "Unity Through Community" 

Tuesday: Dr. Joe Miller, "The Earth is Your Home: Is Your Room Clean?" 
Wednesday: Dr. Mara Ryan, "Relationships: The Building Blocks Toward a Global Family" 
Thursday: BarbaraMarxHubbard, "How to Create a Global Family" Friday:Dr.JanetKouranyandJimSterba, "The Ideal of a Feminist Family" 
Entertainment on the Quad 
October3-7 4:30-6:00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
Special Event 
October 6 7:00 -9:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom Barbara Marx Hubbard, Conscious Evolution 
Taste of Nations 
October8 8:00-Midnight Stepan Center 


"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
r---------~---------~----~~----------------, ­
After t4e pep rally I I I
tomorrow, come to 
I Stonehenge I 
I I
for some 

Ii111. Russian I 
.I
n tuneso I 

a Russian folk band rO p ·I this Friday night ar-,.-;...> I. 
I 

Have a Hot Date But Nothing to Do? stun 'em with 
Startin& Toni&ht! 

and every Thursday night Showing Friday & Saturday from 9-12 in the LaFun Huddle Cushing Auditorium · music, poetry, coffee,. etc. 7:30 & 10:30 p.m. $2 admission 
S11Jl)INI' VNlOIC IIOAID 
C-4-v-e-
Come one, come all, for an acoustic brawl. 


' ' • • -, • • ,r '­
• , • • ~ • • -• • _. • • • ~ • • ' • • • ' I r-.' 
> • ' 


BRUNO'S 
111f 

Open for carryout and delivery only from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 
273-3890 

-Bruito.JsiSouth 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties and banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 261 O Prairie Ave. 
288-3320 
L---~-------------------------------------~~­














