THE WEEK
WILLIAM TALBOT ano JACK WOELFLE
a certified letter from Morgenthau plus your father’s social security number); , and last but. not least, South Bend, home of the N.I.T. where bus drivers think they are either Earl Sande or Wilbur Shaw. But there is one place in this Garden of Eden that sends chills up and
Top Of The Week
“I’m back in the saddle again....”
Hail and Farewell
.Well, the furlough is over and we’re back to hit the books again. Only 1700 of us returned; but that’s enough to keep the golf links, tennis courts, and St. Joe lake filled for the summer. In our absence the campus bid a gracious goodbye to 900 V7 trainees and with a hearty hello received 1100 commissioned officers who anchored here for further training. Welcome, fellows! Make yourself to home.
And to the Alumni of 1942 we would like to add our high wishes for success. To those who will not return until September we render an envious an revoir.
Born Ten Years Too Soon
Very few of the fellows in school now remember the old trolley line that used to rock and rattle between South Bend and the campus. There are a lot of sentimental stories about the old line; but here is the most interesting and amusing.
It seems that every time the conductor bellowed out the name of a street the students would chant a response. “St. Vincent,” he would yell. And the students would answer, “Ora pro nobis.” When the motorman called out, “St. Angela,” the answer was still the same: “Ora pro nobis.” And so it was with St. Louis and others. Finally turning onto another street, the conductor sang “Notre Dame!” and this time the students chanted, “Libera nos, Domine!” So they put up street signs.
Odds And Ends From Here-Abouts:
“Notre Dame men will be interviewed

Result: 50-75 more yards per-drive. . it looked more like a flying wedge). One "	of the boys asked Stan in which di-
again.” So reads an advertisement of the	❖	. - rection he should march when going into
formation. Stan replied, “Whichever way the wind is blowing.” Clashmore Mike, proudly reviewed the boys (with closed eyes); when interviewed after the ceremony, one of the band members was heard to mutter, “Boy, did the team look sloppy!”
SEP campus styles poll. For a couple of	.	. .	.	. -
years we have wanted to meet some-of. Vacation Land
the lucky sharpies who get interviewed Now that summer vacation (????) is: over, many Notre Danie men. (men in this case is synonymous with “under, draft age”) have returned to the campus anticipating a delightful and carefree stay at one of the garden spots of the nation, South; Bend. Home of Max. Adlers, where you.can get a check cashed if you have your . “Browser’s Pass” (and
-in different polls/ Seems as though we always get passed up, doesn’t it? Even oiir best friends won’t tell us why.
When it comes to an eating contest, . our money-is on Bill Healy. He. keeps in practice for his three big daily meals by visiting the Caf and Huddle five or six times every day. Part payment comes
2	‘	■. V'.?/
from the blood money he extorts from innocent Freshmen on his paper route.
Father Eugene Burke, campus impres-sario, promises some refreshing pictures this summer for Washington Hall first-nighters. Sort of reminds us of what he told us as Freshmen a couple of years ago: “We always get the latest shows here,” quoth Father. “Yes, sir, just as late as we can get them.”
Something New Has Been Added
One hundered and seventy-five Freshmen. For them we have a few extra words. Here at Notre Dame classes are run on the honor system: the prof has the honor and the students have the system. But you’ll catch on soon enough.
Now It Can Be Told Dept.
Song for summer: “Somebody else is taking my place.”
Reminds us of Phil (“filter”) Pott, -
last year of Zahm, who spent some nice folding money (it was close to $3.00) on a couple of long distance calls and got nothing for it but a bang of the receiver and the good ole green banana. They’ll, do it every time! .
Now it can be told, but Bill Boss is still against it. Seems that his Cotillion date last year drew a lot of embarrassing attention by asking him after one spectacular play in the Illinois game: “Was that the famous- ‘Statue of Washington’, play I’ve heard so much about?”
We would still like to be told Adam Quinn’s golf scores.' But since he has been in VI he just brushes off his inquirers with:. “Sorry, military secret.”
A grad of ’42 has the best golf idea'. ..It was a terrifying sight to see the Back in; Louisville he stamps his-balls . ■ famous Notre Dame band marching in with the . imprint of the Mikado’s face. their traditional stagger-step (some say
down the spine, makes the pulse race, • and when you experience it for the first time, sends your heart into your mouth, your stomach into your chest, and your change (and spare teeth) on the floor. Yes, we mean the spot where the bus hits the bump on the east side of the LaSalle street bridge.
So He Found Out Too
Last Tuesday afternoon we had the privilege of interviewing one of the V-7 boys. His name is William Baylor, better known to his lifeboat buddies as “Barnacle Bill the Bailer.” He was wearing one of those chic summer uniforms -with the drape cape and the built in crouch slouch. The interview went as follows:
“Bill, what do you think of the campus?”
“Swell.”
“How about the students, Bill?”
“Swell.”
“How about the town people?”
“Swell ”
“How about the St. Mary’s girls, Bill?”
“Don’t they have the most original ideas?”
Crime Marches On:
Informal band uniforms were displayed for the first time to a startled audience at the annual Old Timers-Varsity football game. This crack (ed) marching outfit proudly and loudly meandered out on the field playing an un-. censored version of Anchors Aweigh.
Stan Litizzette fronted the band as usual . and was probably the first big league drum major ever to sport a Covert Cloth ensemble on the field. The rest of the band appeared in a. “come-as-you-are” outfit of the peg leg, droop stoop variety.
Bottom Of The Week:
. The Indiana weather’s warm reception.
DISTRIBUTION OF HALLS SHATTERS TRADITION;
JUNIORS GRIEVE AS SOPHS CAPTURE GOLD COAST
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
FOUNDED 1867
Entered aS second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
PHIL KEEN
£
Tradition has been broken!. For the first full school year in the history of Notre Dame the residence halls have undergone a drastic change of classes. Of the 14 halls only four remain completely unaffected.
In checking up' on previous hall changes, it was learned that during World War I a Student Activities Training Camp was established here. At this time all students were engaged in military training in addition to their regular, courses. However, the halls, in relation to students, were not. changed.
hall on campus. I think the juniors should have been given the ‘break.’”—. Ed Monahan—Cavanaugh
“I am perfectly satisfied in Cavanaugh as long as they don’t find the bar in my. room.”—Joe Taaffe—Cavanaugh
“Dillon Hall is a much better hall and the juniors should have been given the preference.”—Bill Hussey—Cavanaugh
“The sophomores have the best hall on the campus and it should be ours. We were robbed.—Leo Lardie & Frank Garibaldi—Walsh
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr.......Managing	Editor
Dan Downey...............Campus	Editor
Joseph Reynolds..........Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker.......Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan..............Promotion
Theodore Weber............Photo	Editor
Gail Fitch, Jr.............Advertising
Howard Garrigan............Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre'Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
NEWS
ADMINISTRATION	PAGE
98th Commencement___________ 4
Lay Retreats To Be Held ...  7
CAMPUS
Unprecedented Hall Changes.... 3
Senior Ball in Offing ..—.....10
SPORTS
• N.C.A.A. Goff Meet Here.;...16
Baseball’Review ............17
FEATURES
The’Week-----...7--.-------. 2
College Parade-.-™—-----1---- 9
Splinters ___-----------:---18
Introducing	 l......a20
■: Disc-cussion I..—™——--,———-22
Ever since the navy has taken over three of -the largest residence halls, namely, Morrissey, Howard, and Lyons, it has been apparent that a definite change in the system of housing the reduced number of regular students’ would be necessary.
The obvious problem of fairly distributing the unnatural proportions of students (2000 students — 200 freshmen), while using the finest halls possible, was solved when many halls that had been traditionally for upper-classmen were converted into halls housing lower-classmen. In this way the capacity of the halls and the number of students were taken into consideration in determining where each class would reside.
The following list, which holds good only for the summer, might help us all keep straight on the matter.
Hall '	Formerly	Presently
Alumni -------------Senior ____________Senior
Sorin --------------Senior_____________Senior
Walsh_______________Senior -:__________Junior
Cavanaugh __________Freshman ___________Junior	'
Dillon —------------Junior , _______Sophomore
Badin ______________Sophomore ______—Sophomore
. Breen-Phillips I__Freshman _______—Freshman
Zahm ----------.:___Freshman _________Brothers
Morrissey___________Sophomore _________—.Navy
Lyons —;------------Sophomore____________Navy
Howard _____________Junior ____________  Navy
St. Edward’s .------Junior'____I_________Open
Brownson ___________Freshman _________undecided
Carroll ____________Sophomore --------.undecided
- As. students drifted back to campus after a two-week furlough a mild feel-' ing of displeasure prevailed over the juniors and seniors upon seeing a sophomore class in the rooms , of what had been a junior hall for a number of years. On. the subject of sophomores breaking . into the “gold coast,” a few opinions have been canvassed:	‘
“Dillon hall has a very good location and is more desirable than any other
“It’s the finest hall on campus and it should have the finest class. I guess the administration really knew what they were doing.”—Paul Dehmer—Dillon
“Patience, juniors, we must learn to take things as they come. Furthermore, it is too hot to argue.”—Dick Pedrotty— Dillon
“The sophomore year is recognized as the hardest in college life, so we should be given at least one preference.”— George Strong—Dillon
Greek Drama Possible
During This Semester
The schedule of dramatic productions which are to be put on by the University players this summer is as yet very indefinite but the Scholastic was able to -get a few possibilities to pass on to its many readers.
Last summer the University presented a Greek tragedy called “Aeschylus,” or the story of “Agamemnon.” Paul Lillis payed the part of Agamemnon, the Greek king. The play was such a hit that the University may put on another play of the same nature.
“Agamemnon” is really part one of a three part tragedy. The second of the series is titled “The Libation Bearers” or, to give it its - Greek name, “Cae-phoraie.” .Third and final play in the trilogy is “The Benign Ones” or Eu-menides.”
The ancient ’ Greek versions. of these plays lasted for several hours, sometimes even for days, and the time has necessarily been shortened. Some of the choruses, and other incidental things have been eliminated but the plays still keep their interest, and provide a fine hour’s entertainment, as was shown by the wonderful success of “Agamemnon.”
' - . '	"	3	-
'	— 'Mm
AamituA^uziiM> MeMi
•MWl..	■	■'	■ . JJ	!'■'	- - ■■■.	■■"	""'I 1	..	■"	. '	■■■'■	"■■"■	■	J-ItM
557 GRADS GET DEGREES AT 98th COMMENCEMENT
PATRIOTISM INSEPARABLE FROM RELIGION"—Hoover
Dr. T. K. Just Attends
Indiana Science Meet
Five hundred and fifty-seven University of Notre Danie students received baccalaureate and advanced degrees at the 98th annual commencement exercises on Sunday afternoon, May 10. Forty-three states and five foreign countries were represented in this year’s graduating class, which included 186 from the College of Arts and Letters, 198 from the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, 51 from the College of Science, 70 from the College of Engineering and 23 from the College of Law. Twenty-nine were in the Graduate School.
Commencement ceremonies began with the academic procession to Sacred Heart Church on Sunday morning for the baccalaureate Mass and sermon, followed by the traditional “blessing of the flag” ceremony during which a new flag, presented annually on Washington’s Birthday by the graduating class to the University, was blessed and carried in procession to the campus flag-staff. The commencement climax came at four o’clock on Sunday afternoon, when degrees were presented by the President, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
The commencement address was delivered by the Hon. J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, who emphasized the continuing threats of subversive agents and ideologies. He also expressed confidence thar the challenge would be met by the intellectual and spiritual qualities of the American people.
“.... True defense of a democracy comes from unity of mind, soul and body,” Mr. Hoover said. “American patriotism is inseparable from religion; it is strengthened by fervent religious expressions and devotions, and Americans should be more and more religious— reverently and ardently and sincerely religious — for the purpose of carrying through to victory in this war....”
Mr. Hoover pointed out that the home is the “cornerstone of democracy.” Crime will be rooted out only by beginning at the cradle. It is the right of every child to be brought up in a decent home and atmosphere. .
The F.B.I. director urged his audience to remember that “the fact that we are under attack by alien foes does not mean
4
that all aliens or their offspring are unAmerican. The millions of men and women in these United States who were born abroad or who are children of parents born abroad give structural and virile strength to our nation. Only a few of them lack the qualities essential in a real American.”
Concluding, Mr. Hoover said, “In the affairs of state, a willingness alone to bear arms is not sufficient. There must also be willingness to take an active role in assuming a share of civic responsibility. Should law and order break down, and should there be domestic violence in the future, it will be because citizens have failed in the discharge of their duties.”
The Most Rev. George D. Leech, D.D., J.C.D., Bishop of Harrisburg, Pa., preached the baccalaureate sermon at the Solemn Pontifical Mass. Bishop Leech summarized for the graduates the crisis they face when he said: “Like Saul on his way to Damascus fulminating against Christ, so has our America been on its way, however unknowingly— a way that could never lead to our true destiny under God.
“And as Saul was stricken so has America been stricken. Never mind what agency God has used, only let not the striking be in vain. God simply has to be at the core of the counsels and calculations of men. To you and to me that is an axiom. Yet even now, when earnest and well-meaning patriots are speaking and writing their most forceful arguments to arouse the nation’s spirits, which need arousing, the loudest argument we hear is the familiar ‘Sounding brass and tinkling cymbal’ of the ungodly materialism which has already carried America so far on the road to Damascus.”
The baccalaureate speaker predicted victory. He stressed the fact that the victory would:not come easily, but that it would be won at the cost of all of us. And the peace that will come •will “summon forth from your character those essential Christian and American attributes which she badly wants and in which you are so very rich—faith, vision, principle, constancy—the makings of leaders in the nation who know how America ought to walk before God....”
chairman of the
PROF. T. K. JUST
rounding regions Friday afternoon
Dr. Theodor Karl Just, head of the department of biology here and program Indiana Academy of Science, attended the Academy’s spring meeting held at Mus-catatuck state park, near North Vernon Friday and Saturday, May 22 and 23.
Field trips to places of scientific interest in the park and sur-were scheduled for and Saturday with
Charles Deam, of Bluffton, famous for his work on the plants of Indiana, as one of the leaders. Talks on geology and vegetation of the region were given at the Muscatatuck Inn Friday evening by Prof. C. A. Malott of Indiana University and Prof. R. C. Friesner of Butler University. Prof. Malott described the nature of the limestone outcroppings along the Muscatatuck river, and Prof. Friesner called attention to some of the rare plants peculiar to the area, including the basket oak, the redstem white violet, and the barren strawberry. ‘
The business meeting was presided over by Prof. M. D. Mellon of Purdue University, president of the Academy, and Prof. Winona Welch of DePauw University, Academy secretary. A report on progress of the 50-year index to all scientific articles in the Academy’s proceedings was made by George H. Smith, of Indianapolis.
Preregistration
Because of practical difficulties involved in attempting to preregister students for both the summer and fall semesters at one time, no preregistration was made for the Fall semester.
During the summer, therefore, a preregistration will be made for the Fall semester — on the campus for students attending the summer semester; by mail for students away from the University.
Full instructions will be given at the time of preregistration.
All those interested in writing for the SCHOLASTIC this summer are invited to attend a meeting tonight in the Scholastic office at 8 o'clock.	:
Captain Burnett Gives
Memorial Day Address
The roll call of the 76 Notre Dame men who have lost their lives in World Wars Nos. 1 and 2 was read hy the president of the University, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., at the Memorial Day Service, conducted at the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church, May 30, at 8:30 a.m.
Naval R.O.T.C. cadets, 130 strong, who marched from the Rockne Memorial building, as well as a large group of students, attended the services. Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., a World War No. 1 veteran, celebrated the Memorial Mass. Before the Mass the Moreau choir sang the National Anthem as a highlight of the services. The choir also sang hymns during the Mass. Students were excused from their first period classes to attend.
Capt. H. P. Burnett, commandant of the University’s naval training station, urged in his talk that followed the special Mass the observance of Memorial Day by “self-dedication to the task that lies before every one of us.”
“The priest and the soldier and the sailor have a great deal in common," said Capt Burnett. “Neither can hope for financial reward. Each must do, many thousands of times, because of his vows or his oath of office, tasks which are unpleasant, even abhorrent, to him. Family, friends, wealth, personal ambition—all of these must be laid aside
"For God, Country, and Notre Dame."
when duty calls.' It is this spirit which the early fathers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and their successors for 100 years have breathed into the men of Notre Dame. This spirit America must have if our country and our institutions are to survive.
“The man power of America is today being called upon to make more and more sacrifices in order that the ideals of American democracy may continue. Notre Dame, as always throughout a century, is doing her part. Fifteen of her sons, since last Dec. 7, have given their lives to their country. She is represented today in the armed forces by hundreds of other sons. She is represented by two squadrons of Flying Irish in the Naval air service, with more to come. She is one of.the 27 institutions in the United States which boasts a Naval R. O. T. C. and in all modesty I use the word ‘boasts’ advisedly. Indirectly, through the V-7 training school on the campus, she will furnish the United States Navy with something like 13,000 commissioned officers each year so long as the necessity exists. Many of her own sons will be among the number.
“Let us, therefore, accept this day not merely as a day to honor our heroes of the past but also as one of self-dedication to the task that lies before every one of us—the preservation of the ideals upon which our nation is founded, those ideals which throughout the civilized world are known as the American way of living.”
Retreats To Be Held
For Seven Week-Ends
Seven closed week-end retreats, beginning June 25, will be held here this summer instead of the former annual single laymen’s retreat—largest of its kind in the world—which drew 1,400 men from all the states of the Middle West.
The retreats will be held in Holy Cross Seminary, one of the most beautifully located buildings on the University campus with attendance limited to 120 men for each retreat. The move this year is necessitated by the presence during the entire summer of more than 1,000 U. S. Navy-trainees on the campus under the Navy’s indoctrination program, and the presence of a large enrollment in the University itself under its accelerated program of a new summer semester of 15 weeks.
Rev. Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C., is retreat director.
The date for the first group —from Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, Benton Harbor, Jackson, Lansing, Detroit, and other-cities south of Ottawa County—has been
set for the week-end of June 25-28. The retreat will begin on Thursday evening and conclude on Sunday morning. John P. Koestner, Kalamazoo, -. is regional chairman of this first group.
Rev. Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C.
Men from Hammond, East Chicago, Indiana Harbor, Whiting, Dyer, Highland, and Munster will enjoy the closed retreat July 3-5. This is the only group for which the retreat will start on Friday night instead of Thursday, in recognition of the demands of the industrial program in the Calumet area. Retreatants from Calumet City, III., will join this group. Edmund Klein, Hammond, is regional chairman.
Logansport, Peru, Delphi, Lafayette, Hartford City, Kokomo; Marion, Muncie, Tipton, Wabash, Fowler and Winamac, of which Harold. J. Tuberty, Logansport, is regional chairman, will occupy the. week-end of July 9-12.
Indianapolis,. Fort Wayne, Decatur, Bluffton, Auburn, Anderson, Columbia City, Connersville, Evansville, Huntington, Lawrenceburg, Madison, Richmond, Terre Haute and Vincennes, of which Albert E. Lamb, Indianapolis, is regional chairman, will be here July 16-19. Re-treatants from Kentucky, Tennessee, ana West Virignia will also join this group.
Catholic laymen of Chicago, together with others from Illinois generally, Iowa. Wisconsin, Missouri and Oklahoma are ■
scheduled to have their retreat from July 23-26. W. J. Maloney, 9924 S. Ham--ilton Ave., Chicago, is regional chairman of these states.
Michigan men from Grand Rapids, Cadillac, Muskegon, Petoskey, Traverse City, Holland, Bay City, Saginaw and the territory north of Ottawa County, will hold their retreat July 30-August 2. Edward W. McKnight, Grand Rapids, is regional chairman.
Retreatants from South Bend, Gary, Mishawaka, Plymouth, Elkhart, Valparaiso, Michigan City, Crown Point, Goshen and Laporte, under the regional chairmanship. of Charles J. Kramer, Gary, will make the retreat together. The date has been announced for the week-end of August 6-9. Also included with the men of this area will be a group from Ford City, Pa., and several other Pennsylvania cities.
Easy train and electric transportation is expected to keep attendance at the retreats up to capacity.
Law Dean, Main Speaker
Nazareth Commencement
On Tuesday Mr. Clarence Manion, Dean of the College of Law, gave the commencement address at Nazareth College, Louisville, Ky. Dean Manion praised the students for pursuing a religious education, pointing out the difference between that and a secular one. Said the Dean: “The difference between secular education and a religious education, such as you have received here, is the simple difference between ‘knowledge’ and ‘understanding.’ Knowledge implies a possession of the facts, but understanding puts those facts in their true perspective with reference to the last end of man.”
This made the third affiliation with leading colleges the Dean has had recently. Over the brief holidays, he delivered the commencement address at Man-hattanville College of the Sacred Heart in New York City. Previous to that, the Dean received an honorary degree from Boston University for outstanding work in the field of law.
At the Nazareth ceremonies, Mr. Manion reminded the students that in time of war “our sense of values is deliberately distorted.” And during such a crisis “what is normally good becomes intolerable and, by the same token, much that is in its very nature bad is at first condoned, then encouraged, and finally required of us.” Our country, the Dean pointed out, is in a state of serious illness, due to the war, and is finding it necessary to take sedatives normally outlawed in a state of health. The danger in this, Mr. Manion declared, is continuing the administration of these drugs
6
when peace is established: “What we are being fed today is bitter medicine, but let us be resolved to have done with it when the war is over.”
Dean Clarence Manion
Dean Manion said, “When we emerge from the hospital of war, let it be for the purpose of once more breathing the free air of our traditionally free America. Our purpose in this fight is to destroy dictatorship everywhere, and particularly in the United States of America.”
New Discipline Manual Sanctions More Week-Ends
Ted Weber
Some good news and a little bad—that is the best way to appraise the new student discipline manual soon to make its appearance on the campus.
The good news is that limits on the number of week-ends have been relaxed. The number permitted each student will be more than usual and will depend on the student’s record. However, no weekend starts before the last class of the student has been completed.
The bad news takes the form of new and more explicit rules adopted by the Prefect of Discipline. Because of these new rulings, students will no longer be able to claim a double interpretation of certain regulations in the handbook. For instance, the rule on signing in late no longer reads “the student will be cam-pused” but now stands as “the student is automatically campused.” For certain infractions for which the old book prescribed “suspension,” the new rules define the punishment as “semester suspension.” And the old practice of signing out for a mid-night or week-end by push
ing a slip of paper under the rector’s door has been outlawed by a new regulation.
The coming of summer has raised another problem on which the Prefect of Discipline has taken no action, preferring to place the responsibility of solving it on the students. The lawns and shrubs are now in top shape and have a good chance of weathering the Indiana heat and remaining green in August. But short-cuts across the grass by students threaten to ruin not only the lawns but the entire appearance of the campus. To correct this pending disaster, students are asked to cooperate by staying off the grass.
Community Members to
Attend Summer Sessions
Religious of the Congregation of Holy Cross, most of them teaching in other colleges and in high schools throughout the United States, have had to adapt their summer educational-work to their teaching schedules, and cannot take full advantage of the 15-week summer semester of the University.
Moreau Seminary, campus college seminary for the future priests of the Congregation, opened on June 1 a summer session for 54 students, which will end on July 25.
Dujarie Hall, home of the Brothers of the Congregation, will open a summer session on June 15 for the Brothers of the Middle West. This session, which will close on August 5, will also be attended by 23 seminarians from the Diocese of Toledo, Ohio, studying for the secular priesthood.
On June 22, the Brothers from the East and from the New England states, particularly the staffs of the Monsignor Coyle High School in Taunton, Mass., and the Vincentian Institute in Albany, N. Y., will report for a summer session of similar length, adjourning on August 12.
Classes are taught by the regular faculty of the University, and academic credit will be given in proportion to the time spent. The shorter courses permit the teaching Religious to complete their school years and to return to their posts in the necessary time before re-opening of these high schools in the fall.
The December "Dome”
is now calling for Freshmen and Sophomore Editors. Those interested are requested to attend an important meeting on Tuesday evening at 7:30 in the Dome offices (Old Ave Maria Building). Kelly Cook Editor-in-Chief
DR. MAHIN ACTS AS "M.C." AT CHICAGO "A.S.M." MEET; GENE KLIER IS ON STUDENT BOARD OF EXPERTS
Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy and secretary of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals, acted as master of ceremonies of the “Metallurgical Information Please” program, conducted at the May 14 meeting of the Chicago Chapter of the A.S.M.
The May meeting was a student meeting, to which six students and a professor in charge were invited from each of six colleges. Eugene P. Klier, graduate student in metallurgy, represented Notre
Metallurgy Head Wins Alumni Faculty Award
Dr. Edward G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy, was named winner of the burse of $500, given at the end of each schoolyear by the Notre Dame Alumni Association to a member of the faculty who has rendered distinguished service. Announcement of the award, which was first given in 1928, was made at the Commencement exercises on May 10.
Dr. Mahin has been a member of the faculty since 1925. He received his B.S. and M.S. from Purdue and his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins _University. Prior to his coming to Notre Dame, Dr. Mahin was a professor of analytical chemistry at Purdue. He is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa, the Tau Beta Pi, the Phi
Dame on the “Board of Experts,” which was made up of the six students. The students were pitted against five of the Chicago Chapter members in the “Information Please” program, the specialty of the meeting. Questions were submitted by metallurgy members of the six colleges.
Mr. Klier upheld the reputation of the University in exceptional manner. The other schools represented were: the University of Chicago, Northwestern, the University of Illinois, Purdue, and the Illinois Institute of Technology.
Lambda Upsilon, the Sigmi Xi, the American Chemistry Society, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the Iron and Steel Institute, the American Society for Metals, the Institute of Metals, the American Foundryman’s Association, and fellow of the Indiana Academy of Science.
N. D. Comptroller On Scholastic Committee
Mr. F. W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University, attended a meeting in Chicago, May 12, as one of the four representatives of the 40 Midwest colleges and universities which are participating in the award of scholarships to members of of the Chicago Tribune’s Citizens of Tomorrow High school honor roll. The four representatives are members of a com
mittee which will administer the scholarships, and completed preliminary plans for the bestowal of the cholarships which, are valued at $30,000.
The reports of the school principals oh the honor roll students were found to be excellent and nearly 50 of the 56 students will attend college next fall aided by scholarships granted either through the work of this committee or previously awarded by educational institutions throughout the United States.
The granting of the scholarship aid will be based primarily. upon the students’ choice of schools. The committee consulted with William E. Scott, assistant dean of students at the University of Chicago, on the application of those honor roll students wTho wish to attend either the University of Chicago or Northwestern. Ten choices of schools were given to each student. In many cases the student will receive scholarship aid from the school of his first choice.
The value of the aid ranges from $100 to $600 a year. Many of the schools will renew that aid from year to year if the student meets certain scholastic requirements.
The others who attended the meeting with Mr. Lloyd were: Dean G. Herbert Smith of DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind., chairman; Edward L. Clark, director of admissions at Northwestern; Thomas P. Carpenter, director of admissions at Knox College, Galesburg.
Funeral This Morning
For Loyal N. D. Professor
William Logan Benitz, 69, professor emeritus since 1939 of the College of Engineering of the University of Notre Dame, died June 1 at St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, following several weeks’ illness. Funeral services were conducted this morning at 9:00 o’clock from St. Joseph’s church, South Bend.
Prof. Benitz was boro in Pittsburgh, Pa., in 1872, gradu
ated from Cornell University in 1896, in which year he began teaching at Notre Dame, and for 42 years taught here in the Department of Mechanical Engineering until his retirement in 1939. During that period he received the additional degree of MALE. from Notre Dame in 1911. He was considered a leading authority on college textbooks.
Prof. Benitz was one of the favorite
teachers of the many engineers who were trained under him. A brilliant mind and a rugged demand for hard work were offset by a genuine sense of humor and a personal interest in his students that followed them into their careers.
He is survived by three sons, all of whom were graduated from Notre Dame, . -Howard in ’25, now living in New York; Paul in ’27, now in Tenafly, N. J.; and Timothy in ’32, stationed with the army
Requiescat in Pace
The University has lost one of its most devoted and beloved faculty members in the death of Mr. William L. Benitz, affectionately known as “Professor Billy.” For over forty years he was intimately connected with Notre Dame as teacher, counselor, and friend. The greater part of this time he served as head of the department of mechanical engineering, relinquishing that position at his own request in 1938. Yet he did not disassociate himself from University affairs. He maintained his office here, and, up to the time he was stricken, came almost daily to the campus for a characteristic visit with old friends, while still retaining membership on the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, of which he •was a charter member.
His buoyant spirit, his cheerful outlook on life, and his sympathetic • interest in humanity, endeared him to generations of Notre Dame men, who had come to admire him for his sterling qualities of mind and heart. Peace to his soul!
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
June 2, 1942
Summer Schedule includes Many Excellent Movies -
Now that summer is here and we are all back at our books, a bit of good news is always welcome. Every Saturday night during the summer a movie null be pre-, sented in Washington Hall, just as in normal times. This is welcome news in view of the fact that South Bend is so far away and to be reached such a long, hot bus ride or a longer, hotter walk
Father Eugene Burke, who arranges. to Have the movies shown here, has announced the schedule for the first two months of the.summer:
June 5 — “Affectionately Yours”; Information Please; News.,
June 12 — “All that Money Can Buy”; Disney; News.
-June 19 — “The Maltese Falcon”; Inr formation Please; News. ty '	.
June 26 — “Here Comes Mr. Jordan”; Disney; News.	'
July 4 — “Shepherd of the Hills”; Disney; News. \	:
air corps at Windsor Locks, Conn. A widower, the late Mrs. Benitz was the daughter of a former distinguished teacher at Notre Dame, Judge Timothy Howard, a leader of the Indiana bar.
As marshall of the Commencement processions for years, and a member of the University’s board of athletic control, Prof. Benitz was known to nonengineering students and alumni as well as to his own college.
July 11 — “Look Who’s Laughing”; Information Please; News.
July 18 — “Shut My Big Mouth”; Information Please; News.
July 25 — “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde”; Disney; News.
Aug. 1 — “Keep ’Em Flying”; Infor-mation Please; News.
In. these pictures are presented some of oiir. favorite actors and actresses. We find among them such stars as Spencer Tracy, Ingrid Bergman, Abbott and Costello, Charlie McCarthy, Fibber McGee and Molly, Joe E. Brown, Walter Huston, Humphrey Bogart, and Robert Montgomery. This fine entertainment should help relieve the tedium of the summer’s work.
National Metal Meet
At Cleveland In Fall
According to release by Professor A. R. Troiano, chairman of the Notre Dame, chapter, the War Production edition of the National Metal Exposition will be held in conjunction with the National Metal Congress in Cleveland’s Public Auditorium during the week of Oct.12-16, 1942.	.	-	.	'
“Due to governmental and. war, plant space needs in. Detroit, the scheduled
event “has been moved from that city to Cleveland in order that it might be held this year when so sorely needed,” said Professor Troiano.
The 1942 War Production Edition of the National Metal Exposition 'will be a 100 percent educational demonstration clinic devoted to increased production, planning, engineering, improvement of “materials, job training, conservation, substitution and maintenance. Varied exhibits, catalogues, blue-prints, personal conferences and group discussions will also aid in accomplishing the desired end of greater, speedier production.
W. H. Eisenman, secretary of the national society and managing director of the event has commented that in sponsoring the War Production Edition of the National Metal Exposition, the Board of Trustees of ASM sincerely believes it has an important,. constructive role to continue, and that it would be negligent in its duties in this emergency if it did not accept the responsibility .and oppor-. tunity to aid in securing war production of maximum quantity, maximum quality, maximum progress and with maximum efficiency in the minimum time.
Saint Mary's Dedicates
Centennial Library
Commencement Week at St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, began last Saturday, May 30, with the. pageantry of an out-door memorial ceremony held in Our Lady of Peace Cemetery on the campus.
The outstanding feature of the week’s ceremonies was the dedication which took place this afternoon of the Centennial Library, the ground for which was broken at commencement time in 1941. In the year that has intervened, despite war arid priorities, the.building, designed by Jens Frederic Larson, member of the ?Dartniouth College faculty, has progressed steadily, and Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of the college, has announced that it will be ready for use by students attending the summer session, June 18 to July 30. The building is a . tangible tribute of alumnae and friends io the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who in 1941 celebrated the centennial anniversary of the founding of their Order.
The Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, officiated at the dedication. He will also preside at the. conferring of degrees tomorrow morning, June 6, on which occasion Professor Jerome Kerwin, of the University of Chicago faculty, will give the commencement address. .
The Most Reverend Bernard J. Sheil, ' - (Continued on page 23) . "
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN LYNCH
We hadn’t even found our room last week when Editor LeMense had us on our way to the publicity office in the Main Building, from whence, he explained, the material for this column had to come. Without time even to check, our bags we were rushed through the milling registrants, into the office, and then out, now, however, with an armful of papers and magazines. Our material, we were told.
. So now our room on the sunny side of Walsh looks like an editor’s waste-basket, and we are wondering just what to do with such papers as the Mishawaka Enterprise, the Mexican El National, the Indiana Boys’ School Herald, the Irish World, and The Farmer’s Exchange.
But through it all we did manage to save a few papers that still bore a mark of college calibre.
❖
Ode To Worms On Turning
. Would you turn the tables once;
Be a savior, not a dunce?
Hearken to this ditty.
All you lads who crave success, Cash, promotion, happiness;	-
Cease your sad self-pity.
If improvement you would see,
. . Fellow, you must always be:
Cool, collected, '	.
Calm-infected,	-
Perfectly serene;
Doubt-rejected, Brain-detected Confidently green;	-
Fault-corrected,	’ ■ .
. Hope-injected,	.
' Nerveless as a clam;
Work neglected—
As expected,	.	.
Bilge the ?*)!:?!! exam!
—Navy Log
. ❖ - • ~
Spring Fashions
The Spring edition of Chimes, a quarterly from across the highway, cairried the following notation on our Navy program.	' •
“The Navy took over Notre Dame in April, and now ‘men in uniform’ are really in vogue.” .
Anything to make the little girls happy, you know.	“
Jap Trap
While visiting the University of Detroit on our recent furlough we discovered there a sheet titled Pi-I, which is published annually by the local journalistic society as an outlet for all and sundry grievances. Among the pages this item concerning one of the administration officials was found:
When questioned on a delicate subject, “Are Japanese students going to be admitted to the school?” the good Father is quoted as replying:
“Why in heck not? They have money, haven’t they? We need the tuition.”
Mississippi Mother
Then there’s the fellow with a stern look because his mother was frightened by the rear end of a ferry boat. - ❖
Private Breger
Ex-editor of the Purple Parrot, Northwestern monthly, is Corp. Dave Breger, better known as Private Breger from his position in the last page of the weekly Saturday Evening Post. Corp. Breger • is the army funny man who has drawn his way to national recognition as a cartoonist for the Post and other magazines. His success story begins in ’29 when he was a sophomore at NU and art editor of the Parrot. By ’31 he was editor and a BMOC. As the latter Corp. Breger was a member of the Inter-House. Council, which is in charge of trimming the vines on NU’s North campus once a year, and president of “Hammer and Coffin,” a now-defunct order of college humorists which capsized on the NU campus in the early ’30’s.	-
The Syllabus, NU year-book, failed to recognize his graduation in ’31, but made up for this error in ’32, by which time Corp Breger had been once around the world and had then settled down to business in a sausage factory, where in five years’ time his major contribution to. sausagedom was the slogan, “Our Wurst is the Best.” Caught in the draft last year he is now stationed at Fort Jay, N. J., whence each week comes “Private Breger.”
‘ *
Cannibal Capers
And there’s also the cannibal’s daughter who liked the boys best when they, were stewed.	. -
Indiana Country Club
' Up from Bloomington comes the Indi- -ana Daily Student telling of the innovation of a Coffee Hour each afternoon at 4 o’clock. This daily gathering will feature iced coffee and tea during the summer months for the over-worked students. Drinks are on the house; bring your own sugar.	.
Jeeps
Students at the University of Minnesota have to date bought seven Jeeps through the sale of victory bonds and stamps. In one day S444.60 was taken in at their Jeep Station, and this added to §3,020 previously collected clinched the seventh Jeep.
Ancient Anatomy
“What are the names of those bones you have in your hand?”
“Dice.”
Down East Dope
He always was. a yes-man,	. ,
He never could say nay;	.
A sad man now, no gas is his, . For ration card, cried “A.” .
❖ ? /
Route 31
First dodo: “We must be coming into . a town.”
Second ditto: “What makes you think so?”	’
First dodo: “We’re hitting more peo-pie.” .
Nay, Not N. D.
Teacher: “Willie, conjugate the verb to drink.”	.	.	.
Willie: “Drink, drink, drink, drink— fried to the gills.”	" .
_	—Navy Log
From the "Cornell Widow"
Barber: “Was your tie red when you . came in?”
Customer: “No, it wasn’t.”	.
Barber: “Gosh!”	.
. *
Little Willie seeking fun	..
Sawed his legs off one by one
“No more stockings” said his dad ' “Willie’s such a saving lad.”
■ * . ’
Ditto Pal
“While reading the Carnegie Tech. Tartan, we were surprised to read that the editor-in-chief and the managing ed- . itor of that paper are husband and ■wife.
One thing, is certain: “It Can’t Happen Here.”	-	?
_	—The Tomahawk
'	9
Newi>
STUDENTS IN ATTENDANCE HAIL FROM 48 STATES AS PROSPECTIVE TORRID SUMMER SESSION BEGINS
The first full summer semester in the history of the University of Notre Dame opened on Thursday, May 28.
With an enrollment of more than 2,000 students in the new session, adapted to accelerate the training of young men at the request of the Government for higher education in general, this 15-week period will give to Notre Dame and South Bend an unprecedented summer of activity. Together with 1100 U. S. Navy trainees, who share the campus during this period, the University, numerically, will be operated on the normal peak load.
Indications of curtailed enrollment because of distance and transportation difficulties are not to be found in preliminary study of summer registration.
Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., registrar, reports that some 250 new students registered for the summer, mostly freshmen, who come from 36 of the 48 States, and Donald J. Easley, director of student accounts, states that in the registration for returning upperclassmen there ■was no indication that the 48-State representation would be affected.
Approximately 40 faculty members will not teach during the summer semester, a relatively small group in proportion to the regular faculty of 233 members, and in proportion to the drop of almost 1/3 in enrollment.
The summer enrollment decrease is attributed largely to three factors: call of many undergraduates to military service, the economic demands on family incomes and the economic attraction of jobs, and the fact that high schools in many instances are not out in time to permit graduates to enroll.
All of the departments of the University are functioning during the 15-week semester, in keeping with the University’s announcement that undergraduates can begin in any semester, and miss a semester without (except in the case of advanced professional courses) any sacrifice of academic progress. Indications are that, for 1942, the traditional large freshman class will enter in September. But many high school graduates are realizing the possibilities of receiving their college degrees in less than three years, as this first May enrollment proves.
Faculty members and administrators scattered quickly after the May .10 commencement, knowing, for those who,
10
are teaching this summer that when school would open on May 28, the next stopping date would be Dec. 23. A convocation of the faculty on Sept. 6 will award the degrees at the end of the summer semester which closes on Sept 8. The fall semester opens immediately on Sept. 10.
A few of the teaching sisters who formerly comprised a large part of the summer school have made arrangements to attend t the new summer semester, with the advantage of accelerating their work for their degree. But the absence of housing on the campus for them and the difficulty of fitting a full summer into their teaching year has reduced the number for this first summer to approximately 40, less than 10 percent of the usual number.
Senior Bail in Offing;
Contrary Rumor Denied
“After April 24, 1942, there won’t be any more Senior Balls until a lock of Adolph’s mustache rests in the Smithsonian Institute.... so the present cannon fodder for the oratory of May 10 will have the added honor of being the last of the pre-war Ballites.” With these unsubstantiated words the editor of last year’s Scholastic, as the overzealous-publicity chairman of the Ball, dealt a • crushing blow to Notre Dame student morale. Very , few students thought of inquiring about the matter and simply satisfied themselves by accepting it as the gospel, even though terrible, truth.
But this week the new editors of the-Scholastic took it upon themselves to find out the truth and finally obtained this statement from John Tallet, president of the Senior Class, “Plans are already being formulated for this year’s Senior Ball. The committees, though incomplete as yet, will be named at an early date.’’
All those interested in. writing for the Scholastic this summer are invited to attend a meeting '* 8 o’clock this evening in the Scholastic offices behind . the Main Building.
No doubt the article of last semester influenced many of the class of ’42, who otherwise would not have attended the Ball, into buying tickets, but it also saddened the life of hundreds of underclassmen who look forward each year to their only social function, the class dances.
So far the Scholastic has been unable to obtain any statements from the officers of the Junior and Sophomore classes about the Prom and Cotillion but it understands that preparations are being made for these also.
Chicago Club Officers
Announced For Summer
On May 2, retiring president Matthew Miller announced the officers of the Chicago Club for the coming year.
Pledged to an even greater and more active year, the new officers Bill Sullivan, president, Sorin Hall; Roger Cummings, vice-president, Alumni; Joe Farmer, secretary, Walsh; and Bill McCaughey, treasurer, Alumni, announced their first meeting for the week of June 7. The exact date of the meeting in which plans for the summer dance will be discussed, will be announced later.
Mr. Sullivan, with the aid of his fellow officers has tentatively drawn up a complete set of plans for both the Summer and Fall semesters which should make the club one of the most active organizations on the campus.
N.R.O.T.C. Teams Shoot in National Contests
Two rifle teams of the Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C. Unit competed in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match and the National Naval R.O.T.C. competition. Fifty-eight teams were entered from the 27 N.R.O.T.C. units.
The number one team of the University of Notre Dame stood . 23rd with a team total of 846. The number two team netted a score of 802.
The members of the teams and their total scores follow: Team one:.Otto McNaughton, 169; Robert Babbett, 181; Peter Belmont, 161; John Zwicker, 175; William Anderson, 160. Team two: Paul Rooney, 170; Donald Finelli, 155; Charles Seghers, 160; Joseph Conerty, 153; David Walsh, 164. :.
• The Northwestern N.R.O.T.C. team finished in first place followed by Yale University and Georgia Tech.
C.A.S. Starts Work Early;
Frosh Guests At Mixer
The freshman class that wandered onto the campus last week, having its first collective look at Notre Dame, was not the usual hustling thousand. But small as it was the individuals in it were no less bewildered by their chosen alma mater to be, and so welcomed the sign— information—posted at desks stationed about the campus. Information; bag carrying and other services were offered the new boys until they actually began to feel at home.	.
The service was part of a reception planned for the freshmen by the Catholic Action Students, and aimed at making them immediately an integral and cooperating part of the notably cooperative Notre Dame student body. The method: help the fellows over the bumps. The reception ended Friday night with a freshman mixer party held in Brownson Recreation room. Visits by Father Gene Burke, Captain Murphy and a few of ’the boys of the Fighting Irish, music, refreshments, pool and ping-pong made the party a real mixer where new friends were made.
The Catholic Action Students, or C.A.S. as they are usually called, function throughout the year on the basis of several small groups meeting and planning solutions to certain definite problems of the student environment. This is known as the Jocist method of small group inquiry. It has proved highly successful wherever tried, especially in labor and student groups in France and Belgium, in spreading the work of genuine, not merely noininal Catholic Action.
Notre Dame C.A.S. began in the spring of 1940. During the following year, and during last year, it carried on programs of action which flowed from the inquiries it conducted on the campus. The StudentProfessor informal meetings, the vacation storage and other such programs were conducted last year. Following a successful initiation this year C. A. S. will settle back to study and to the planning of programs now considered and those to come.	•.
Vice-President Named
For Hearing Board
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of. the University, has been named as a hearing officer on the enemy alien hearing board of the northern Indiana United States district court. Aaron H. Huguenard, ’22, of South Bend, is chairman of the four-man board.
Commencement Ceremonies
Draw Noted Citizens
Phil Keen
• Four of the nation’s outstanding citizens visited the campus as commencement guests of the class of 1942 as the first graduates of World War II departed from the shadows of the Golden Dome.
The Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., class of 1911, currently serving as a federal military delegate, was the most distinguished guest. Bishop O’Hara keeps a watchful eye on the thousands of Catholics in the army and navy. .	•
J. Edgar Hoover, whom we all know as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was guest speaker at the commencement day exercises in the gymnasium.	.
Postmaster General Frank C.'Walker, class of 1909, and Charles T. Fisher, of the Fisher Body Corporation, were also present.
In spite of the shortened period for commencement ceremonies, which threatened to keep many away, a very representative number of alumni appeared. Forty members of the class of 1917 were present to commemorate the 25th anniversary of their graduation.
Special Radio Class
Offered To Students
There will be a special course in Practical Radio offered to the students of all colleges starting in the immediate future. This course will be given for three credit hours a semester and will run for two semesters at the conclusion of which the student is eligible for. a radio operator’s license and certain preferment in the armed forces. For details attend the meeting Tuesday night at 7:45 in Washington Hall. To all those who are facing immediate or proximate enlistment this meeting is most important.
Those students who are now enlisted in class V-l or who are contemplating enlisting therein, are urged to start immediately in the proper mathematics classes. Those who-wish to enlist in class V-l or who are seeking information on the same should see Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., in the Main Offices immediately.
The class-V-7 is still open to all seniors and to those juniors who were too old to enter V-l or who became juniors prior to April 15,1942. All those who are interested, in this class should report at once to room 231 of the Engineering Building.
Smokers Dilemma Still
Confronts College Men
Do you smoke? A stranger who consulted a bulletin board during football season and happened to glance at the extensive Phillip Morris returns would conclude that you do. Actually, a vast majority of Notre Dame students do in- . dulge in a “weed” now and then.
As a smoker, perhaps you were a little worried last December upon reading an ■ article entitled “Nicotine Knockout” written by Lieutenant Commander Gene Tunney. The ex-heavyweight champion of the world quoted convincing statistics, and a long line of celebrities who refrained from the practice, including Knute Rockne, William Muldoon and Ty Cobb, as proof that smoking is a dangerous habit. If you were a little shocked and disturbed over this, you can find a rallying point around an article entitled “Smoke If You Want” by Dr. Louis E. Bisch, a famous New York psychiatrist and physician.
In his article Dr. Bisch considers ten common charges against becoming a human chimney and refutes all ten. He charges all slanderers of smoking with bad timing, insufficient evidence and incorrect conclusions. “I believe in smoking; as a doctor I recommend it,” he says. Commander Tunney practically says “I don’t believe in smoking; as a trainer I condemn it.”
In “Nicotine Knockout” the retired heavyweight king urged the nation to -send its sons in the armed forces “instead of cigarettes, a baseball mitt or a set of boxing gloves.” Dr. Bisch replies “We are fighting, not for a world series pennant or a world’s heavyweight championship, but for the American way of life.” “Smoke and you’ll die before 60,” threatens Tunney. “Smoke and you’ll live as long as anyone else,” urges Bisch.
The question is: Just who can a fellow believe nowadays?
Meal Hours Are Changed .
Classes To Be Held Early
Back to the old schedule of classes and meals is the official verdict for the summer semester. Because students use only one of the dining halls, this decision was made early this week. This change means that breakfast will again be at 7 o’clock, . dinner at 12 noon, and supper at six : o’clock. Meal hours for students and Navy men will be the same.	,
The first class will then start at 8 o’clock and follow through accordingly. Night prayers are held at the Grotto after supper each evening.	, .
I1
> > ' > VZse Nawf at Nolte Thorne \	>
Editor's Note: The purpose of these two pages appearing each week in the SCHOLASTIC is to promote and extend the already fine relationship between the men of Notre Dame and the cadet officers and trainees aboard the Naval Indoctrination School on the Notre Dame campus.
DID you KNOW
. The familiar black tie or kerchief worn by bluejackets of Uncle Sam’s Navy originated years ago as a commemoration of Lord Nelson’s death in the battle of Trafalgar.... that the boatswain’s or bosun’s pipe was recorded in use as early as 1248 during the Crusades.... that two men are not required to salute when a senior officer goes aboard ship—the bosun, who is busy blowing his pipe, and the bugler who is busy doing his duty... the expression “pipe down” originated in the Navy.... that the term “the smoking lamp is out” in the U. S. Navy means that no one aboard ship may smoke and when the word comes down “the smoking -lamp is lit” then smoking is permissible ___when a sailor speaks of “the cans” he is referring to destroyers and when he refers to a “wagon” he means a battleship. _that the hammock, the bane of the recruit in training, is seldom used nowadays except on a few of the older ships, that a stairway in nautical language is referred to as a “ladder.”. . . a hospital is known as sick bay.... time in the Navy is as if the clock were numbered up to 24 instead of being divided into two 12 hour periods_.11 pan., to illustrate is 2300 Navy time._ships’ bells are rung every half-hour until eight bells have been struck.__when you hear • eight bells you know it is the end of a four-hour watch.... so if a sailor said it’s two bells of the first watch you’d know it was 1 a.m.
1	„	tw ~r ~
NOTES TO YOU
The present class of 1,028 cadet-officers represents one of the most complete cross sections of the scientific and business world ever assembled.... there are lawyers, mechanical engineers, passenger agents, civil engineers, buyers, petroleum engineers, auditors, teachers and store managers, to mention a few.
12
Some of those large civilian waistlines that the cadet-officers brought here with them are beginning to disappear under the expert handling of Lieut. Frederick Denfeld and Chief Bosun’s Mate Jack Carl. Trainees are put through a series of physical tests when they enter the school to determine in which group they are to be placed. They are given another test later on to determine how they are progressing.
* A *
The class has produced a John L. Sullivan but he didn’t specialize in boxing like the famed old-time fighter of the same name. This Sullivan is 24 and comes from Dallas, Tex. He played three years on the Southern Methodist football team. •	5p *	*
Many of the cadet officers are the second and third members of their family to join the Navy. Two brothers are in the present group of trainees. They are Robert H. Searcy, Jr., 33, and William N. Searcy, of Tulsa, Okla. Robert is an ensign and William a lieutenant, junior grade. Floyd R. Scripture, 24, of Sheridan, Ind., has brother Owen I. Scripture, -a seaman aboard the battleship Pennsylvania; James M. Sturkey, 20, of Alber-male, N. C. has a brother Charles M. Sturkey, who is an ensign stationed at Charleston, N. C. Navy Yard; Everett T. Shahan, 29, of Lipscomb, Tex., is another trainee .with a brother in the Navy. Shahan’s brother, David R. Shahan is a student flyer at the Naval Reserve Aviation Base, Dallas, Texas.	.	-
, • - * *• * ■
A fencer of no mean ability is Cadet Officer John C. Stillwagon, 22, of Arlington, N. J. He was on the fencing team four years at Newark College of Engineering and New York University. He was also captain one year. .
. * * * -
A heart-warming story came out of the U. S. Naval Training Station at Great Lakes recently. Elby Emmett Phil-lips, 30, a fireman first class from Milwaukee, Wis., has donated $100—more than a month and a half of his Navy pay—to the Navy Relief Society. It is ; believed to be the largest contribution . ever made by an enlisted man at the -training station. His monthly pay is $60. .. ' - * * * . ‘
This war is the third for Chief Boatswain’s Mate Thomas W. Gardiner, 69,
who reported for duty at Great Lakes
last week. Chief Gardiner began his military career in May, 1898, when he joined Company L of the Fifth Illinois Volunteers, first company to be called for the Spanish - American War. He joined the Navy in 1902 after being honorably discharged from the Army in 1901.
From 1901 until his retirement in 1929 Chief Gardiner’s service was continuous.
* * *
The regularity with which the 11 Chief Boatswain’s Mates are knocking off the other softball teams on the station is getting to be monotonous. The scores look more like some of the Notre Dame football team’s markers.— the ship’s cmpany men who have to stand up against the bombardment of the chiefs are thinking of drafting some talent from Great Lakes. . * * * -
The Classic story of the month drifted into Notre Dame Navy School this week and it deserves attention. It seems one of the boys was stripped down for. his physical exam, and standing before the doctor.
“Any scars,” the doctor asked.
“Any what” the lad asked. ■ “Scars,” repeated the Doctor, “Scars.” “No I haven’t Doc,” answered the boy, “but I’ve got some cigarettes over in my coat.”
■ ■ * * * .
“Advance and be recognized” shouted the guard at the main gate.
“O.K; brother,” came the voice from the night,” but you probably won’t know me. Just been here two days.”
----——-------- , v
First V-7 Group Leaves;
Officers Start Program
On May 15, the last of 800 apprentice seamen left Notre Dame for the advanced training courses at Abbott Hall in Chi. cago, and Prairie State and Columbia in New York which will bring them en-■ sign’s commissions in the deck and engineering divisions of the United States Navy under the V-7 classification.
The indoctrination course, which opened here for the first time on April 15, included classes in mathematics, naval history, gunnery, and a few specialized fields such as the use of gas
masks, and a large physical training program featuring drill and sports. .
During the 30-day period the young men, graduates of • most of America’s leading colleges and . universities, also
received the “shots,” which make the U. S. armed forces one of the healthiest bodies in the world.
The Navy men came from all 48 states, as does the Notre Dame student body. But whereas the University’s enrollment is more than 90 percent Catholic, the V-7 unit was some 90 percent non-Catholic. The spiritual side of the Navy program was left entirely to the individual initiative with full facilities of the University open to the Catholic boys and the nearby church facilities of South Bend open to those of other faiths.
Chapels in the three residence halls used to house the V-7 men were converted to secular use, one in particular presenting the striking effect of men in gas masks against a background of arched and stained-glass windows.
On May 18, the second unit of the indoctrination program took up residence on the Notre Dame campus. This new group instead of being apprentice seamen, are commissioned officers—ensigns and lieutenants-junior grade—who are enrolled as specialists in the deck, engineering and ordnance divisions. They have come directly from civilian life, either professional, industrial, or college, and are going through the same indoctrination program, intensified during a five and one-half week period so that they can go direct from here to active duty m their respective fields. Some 1,100 men are included in this second unit.
With more than 1,000 defense workers of the neighboring industrial area using faculty and classrooms for night courses and the Navy occupying a substantial percentage of facilities, Notre Dame, like other American schools, is contributing an all-out effort to the various branches of the service. Faculty members are being taken for government research. War has come to the campus and has found it prepared.
But not on St. Mary's Lake
Naval Cadets Back From
First Summer Cruise
When the final exams were over and most students hoisted the gangplank to sail for home shores, the Naval R.O.T.C. cadets were chanting “Anchors Aweigh” for their first summer cruise. A total of 80 future officers donned their dungarees for this six-day outing on Lake Michigan.
' Due to the necessary doubling up with Great Lakes Naval Trainees and the consequent shortage of room on the two ships used for the cruise, the cadets were divided into two groups to leave at different times. -From 15 to 20 were assigned to each ship per trip along with 200 Great Lakes sailors. Since the U.SS. Dover and U.S.S. Wilmette normally accommodate only 100 persons, it is easy to see the’two ships were as crowded as Bronx subways.
The men reported they revelled most in the heritage of the Dover and Wilmette. The former was a gunboat back from service in the China Sea where it had been Admiral Dewey’s flagship, while the latter was a made-over pleasure boat. The crew of the Wilmette testified, however, that there was no longer any pleasure to be found in the staunch vessel.
After the workout they received from superior officers, the cadets reported they really needed a vacation. At 5:30 a.m. they tumbled out of their hammocks for a full day of scrubbing, polishing, and painting. Taps were sounded at 9:30 p.m., though most of the mariners admitted they were so tired from the daily work the sandman had greeted them long before that hour. As a final penance the sailors were subject to call at any hour of the night to stand watch.
One interesting occupation of the cadets was to assist the Great Lakes gunners in target practice. According to our men the trainees will be able to do their part in bringing down enemy craft. The cadets themselves were given experience
in machine gunning, using kites for targets. .	.
. In spite of all the heavy work the reserves agreed that they had a great time. in gaining real nautical experience. What pleases them most is the fact that they have now outgrown the disparaging title of “dry land sailors.”
EDITORIAL
MIDSTREAM
A message from Lieutenant-Commander. -J. D. Shaw, U.S.N., executive officer:
You are now almost half way through your Indoctrination Course, and the time has come for you to ask yourselves some questions.
To begin with; how much are you getting out of this school? Tell me how much effort you are putting in, and I can give you the answer. It’s up to you to chart your own course ahead and make plans to meet all obstacles that -arise. Very soon you will be given more responsibility than you have ever pos- . sessed before. I know many of you have come from responsible positions in civilian life, where your decisions very probably meant the gain or loss of considerable sums. We respect your ability in your own field.
And we want you to realize the extent . of your new responsibilities. You will at times be dealing with the lives of men. Their futures, their fortunes, may at times hang in the balance, and as their superior officer, the success or failure of the task will depend on you. Blind courage alone won’t help you. You must have complete control over a well organized mind.... your mind, the mind you are training here at this school.	_
So if you’ve worked hard these first three weeks, work harder from now on. Remember that everything you do is important in the making of a top-notch officer in the greatest Navy on earth. Consider the hall in which you live as the ship on which you may some day serve, then act accordingly. Help each other . make the. difficult adjustment .between civilian and military life. By doing this you’ll be helping yourself.
You are in Midstream, and so is the great Democracy in which you live. There are going to be tough times ahead. .... times that will try the endurance of us all. Prepare for them.____keep charting your course. Make “soundings” within yourself. Are you doing everything possible to prepare yourself for your responsibilities?
In other words men, if winning the war depended on your efforts, would we ■ win?	...
Think it over.	.	'
•	’	■ ■	.	13
Scholastic Celebrates Diamond Jubilee
First Regular Summer Semester of the University Marks Beginning of Notre Dame News Magazine's 75th Year.
By James E. Armstrong, '25
Today, the Notre Dame Scholastic makes its first appearance in the first summer semester in the University’s history.
This breach of tradition, and its premature bow on its 75th birthday, does not shake the composure of the Scholastic.
September, 1942, will officially mark the diamond jubilee of this mature member of the now large family of college publications. But in a proper sense of history, it is in character that this memorable event should be jolted by a World war.
The first Scholastic—then called the Scholastic Year and appended to the also new Ave Maria—was published under the editorship of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, C.S.C. From the first, despite its faculty editorship, it was a student project. Different issues of that first volume were edited by special student editors. And from the first, independence and selfconfidence appeared in undergraduate flourish, e.g. “The Scholastic Year, with or without the Ave Maria, is S2.50 for ten months.”
Born in the reconstruction period after the Civil War which had taken heavy toll of Notre Dame teachers and stu
New Home Since January, 1941
dents, the Scholastic sought to heal— with the cultural, the intellectual and the spiritual—grave political and social wounds of the era. Somewhat modestly, for the first and last time in its history, the magazine was launched with news items of arrivals of students, honor rolls, essays, poems, and a few furtive faculty contributions.
Advertising in that first issue was limited to summary outlines of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, signed by two of the great figures of Holy Cross who then headed the respective schools, Rev. AV. Corby, C.S.C., recent enough from the Battle of Gettysburg to throw his soul into the work of Christian education for peace, and Mother Angela, C.S.C., founder of St. Mary’s.
Volume II showed the quick grasp of opportunity. Gone was the restraint of youth and novelty. Departments were introduced and strengthened. An article on science was announced for each issue, to give the subscriber his money’s worth of real culture. And the undergraduate mind roamed the earth for essay topics. Japan and China, which to you may De only recent acquaintances, were outlined in detail in the Scholastic of 1869. Godless education was painted in its facts and implications, long before the secu
larization of American education had become so grim a reality. And in spite of the presence of the venerable French founder, future of Notre Dame was reflected in a long treatise on The Irisn Language.
By the time Volume VI appeared, the Scholastic had reached genuine academic proportions and stood a giant among its contemporaries. Even the modern use of advertising was introduced in
Visiting Celebrities
this early issue. Letters from old students marked the impact of the publication on students and alumni alike. Cultural activity of a golden era was reflected in the appearance of original plays, poems, and essays of substantial intellectual achievement. Greek addresses were printed in the Scholastic in Greek, and Latin addresses appeared in Latin. Few visiting celebrities escaped one or the other.
Mirror of History
The Scholastic was of voting age, Vol. XXI, when much that is now regarded as historical took place. Its pages praised the wisdom of the founding of a Catholic University of America. Its sport pages gave a patronizing account of the first football games at Notre Dame, against the University of Michigan, while its editorial pages denounced the dangers of the sport.
Electricity as a danger to human life rivalled in thrilling reader interest the pressing social problems of the period,
14
such as the Causes of Pauperism and Crime, and the Liquor Question in Chicago. Father Matthew and his crusade were the sources of much editorial strength.
Prophet of Progress
Faculty contributions, long mingled with student offerings, had become a strong feature of the Scholastic in the ’90s. And in many of these pronouncements of the scholars of that era appeared words that read today like prophecies.
Writing on the progress of aeronautical science in the Scholastic in 1892, Dr. Albert Zahm, then a professor at Notre Dame, and one of its most outstanding alumni and aeronautical scien-
successfully flashing a wireless message across the English Channel. At Notre Dame, where Marconi was to receive an honorary doctorate 34 years later, his experiments were watched eagerly by a professor, and grasped so thoroughly that it was at Notre Dame, on equipment built in the department of physics, that the first successful wireless message in America was sent that same year. Writing of the experiments, Prof. Jerome Greene, its author, said in the Scholastic: “Many applications have been suggested for this system, mostly for special cases in military or naval operations. . . . Interception, (then a serious handicap) however, may be prevented when the action of the waves is better understood and some means may be invented to secure privacy and increase the working distance.”
The pages of the Scholastic thus unroll a history of the years that is far broader than the campus it has served.
Birthplace of Celebrities
Space and time will relegate many good men to obscurity who began their long climb up the years to success on the steps of the Scholastic office.
Did you read Father Speer Strahan’s glorious account of the recent work of the chaplains in Hawaii? He was a Scholastic editor, serving now under Bishop O’Hara of the Military Ordinar-iate, himself a Scholastic editor.
Stuart Carroll, one of the key men in the Stars and Stripes of World War I, who died in that war, was fresh from the Scholastic staff.
In current writing, Harry Flannery, whose book Assignment to Berlin will ap
pear late this month; Frank Wallace, novelist and moving picture writer of Kid Galddidd and other stories; Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., whose novels on Ireland and Iowa alike have won wide acclaim; Vincent Engels, who charms Commonweal readers at intervals; George Shuster, the writer and president of Hunter College; Walter O’Keefe, the comedian; — these were Scholastic editors.
Two great chaplains of World War I, both now deceased, the late Bishop George Finnigan, C.S.C., of Helena, and the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., poet-president of Notre Dame, were golden minds of earlier Scholastics.
So through 75 of Notre Dame’s first 100 years, the Scholastic has been her mirror, and her history. Young minds bloomed through its pages into the cultural, the spiritual, the intellectual leadership of State and Church. Men and events were reported in the narrow phrases of an immediate critic, later to become the legends and traditions of Notre Dame. The clash of giants on the athletic fields, the cycles of happiness and tragedy that have gone with disaster, and death, and prosperity at Notre. Dame, dot the departments of its volumes.
Record of the steady growth of a University founded on a faith that faced so great adversity at first that later visita-ions were like the return of a familiar if unpopular acquaintance, the Scholastic is the unfailing mine of the wealth of virtues that have combined to create, preserve and perpetuate the progress of Notre Dame.
"Seal" Cover
tists, said of the new discovery of a light steam engine:
“They will soon screw themselves through the air with a velocity far exceeding the flight of eagles. . . . When the solution (for flying) finally comes, it ’will probably appear to the general mass of mankind as a simple invention of a single man, whereas it will have been a steady growth through generations.” In 1893, Dr. Zahm called the first Aeronautical Congress held in this country. It took another decade to produce the Wright brothers, and Kittyhawk.
Pasteur was featured in the pages of the Scholastic. Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., eminent scientist himself, brother of the aeronautical pioneer, said of Pasteur, his personal friend: “Great as Pasteur now is, he is destined to become greater as the years roll by, and as the world awakens to a proper realization of his priceless services to humanity.”
Just before the turn of the century, Guglielmo Marconi startled the world by
Magazine Takes Form Here
15
UNDEFEATED IRISH GOLFERS AT MICHIGAN STATE;
TO PLAY HOST TO NCAA TOURNEY JUNE 22 TO 27
BILL REYNOLDS
Notre Danie’s undefeated golf team will strive to keep its slate clean this afternoon against Michigan State at East Lansing. Capt. Bill Wilson has led his mates to successive victories over Purdue, Detroit, Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Only the Gophers, w h o were .nosed out 14 - 13, offered a real challenge
to the Irish claim for Midwestern links supremacy.
After today’s match with the Spartans the Irish linksmen have but one more dual meet, that with Northwestern on South Bend’s Chain O’ Lakes course.
Following the Wildcat meet Notre Dame plays host to the 45th National Collegiate Athletic Association Golf Championships. The week-long competition will be held on the Chain O’ Lakes course of the South Bend Country club June 22 to 27.
- Charles (Chick) Evans, Jr., is chairman of the N.C.A.A. golf committee, and Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., Irish mentor, is tournament chairman. Rev. ' John Cavanaugh, C.S.C-, Notre Dame vice-president and chairman of the faculty athletic board, is honorary chairman ■of the tournament. W. J. Learmonth, president of the South Bend Country Club heads the executive committee for the tourney. Herbert E. Jones, business manager of Notre Dame athletics is ■chairman of the program and ticket committee. Joseph Petritz, Notre Dame’s athletic publicity director, heads the publicity committee.
Plans are rapidly shaping up to have additional attractions at the tournament —the highlight of collegiate golf. The ■entire proceeds from the tournament will go to the Navy Relief fund.
Opening on Monday, the tournament will get under way with 18 holes of •qualifying medal play. There -will be another 18 holes on Tuesday and pairings will be made among the 64 low. scorers who will go into two days of 18 hole
16
match play. On Friday the 36 hole semifinals will be played with finals set for June 27, at 36 holes.
On Sunday, June 21, two picked teams representing the East and the West will play an 18 hole Best Ball exhibition match. Last year the West team won this event by a one point margin, 6%-5%. At the conclusion of the East-West Match, the Annual Driving Contest will take place.
This tournament will prove a real test for the Irish golfers, who finished ninth as a team last year, and they should ' certainly make their presence felt.
Stanford University, led by Ray Brownell, last year’s individual runner-up will come to Notre Dame to defend her team championship.
Earl (Spec) Stewart of L.S.U., who won the title, the driving contest, and the medal last year will be back trying to lower his N.C.A.A. record of 142 set last year at Columbus. .
The non-qualifiers will meet in a special 18-hole medal play tournament, on the Notre Dame golf course on Wednesday, June 23.	.
Tennis Team Claims
Midwestern Net Title
Rank Ralph
; “Strongest in Notre Dame net history, admittedly the best in the midwest this season.” These are the words used by Coach Langford to describe this year’s fine, undefeated Irish tennis squad.
The power of this 1942 edition of the “Notre Dame Tennis Annual” is shown by the fact that it displays the first unblemished tennis slate seen in these parts since 1927, and the second in the entire i history of the school. -	-
Still another proof of the potency of this outfit is their record against the:
. teams of the Big Ten Conference, which . has long been the big league of midwestern collegiate tennis. The Irish beat six
Big Ten units including the first four in the conference standings, viz., Northwestern, Chicago, Michigan, and Illinois. Other Big Ten victims were Indiana and Wisconsin. In all of these matches the superiority of the Irish team was very decided from beginning to end.
Undoubtedly the cause of this year’s laurels must be attributed chiefly to the play of the “Big Four.” By name these gentlemen are Dan Canale, Olen Parks, Bud Ford, and Bob Faught. The play of these four was no .less than sensational, time and again carrying the Irish squad to victory. Ford, playing in the No. 4 spot, was entirely undefeated this season with a record of 9-0 in singles and 7-0 in doubles. Rangy Bob Faught,, who is remembered for his feats on the hardwood during the past basketball season, did just as well on the clay courts. Bob, playing in the No. 3 slot, has a standing of 9-0 in singles and 6-1 in doubles competition. Captain Dan Canale, playing his last year of Notre Dame tennis in the No. 1 position, also had a fine season. His record of 7-2 in singles and 6-1 in doubles’ while playing the best that college tennis can offer, will stand up anywhere. The last, but surely not the least of the “Big Four,” is the Indiana Intercollegiate champ of the past two seasons, Olen Parks, who hails from nearby Mishawaka. His singles record of 2-7 is not too good, but is more than made up for by his showing of 8-0 in doubles play. Thus upon summing things up we see that these four lads in combined singles and doubles play have a record of 41-10, pr an average of four wins out of every five matches, which is not bad.
.Others deserving of credit are George Bittner, the reliable No. 5 man, whose record for the season was 5-3 and 3-3, and Joe Shaefer, No. 6, who had a slate of 4-0, and 3-0. Joe was discovered late in the spring when the Irish were in dire need of a man in the No. 6 position and he came through undefeated.
These six men, along with Artie Hoffman, were the monogram \vinners of the year. Other members of the squad were . Fred Doutel, Nick' Pappas, and Lyle Joyce, brother of last year’s captain, Jack Joyce.
It is hoped that the “Big Four” may be sent to. the N.C.A.A. Tennis Championships to be held at Tulane University in New . Orleans beginning June 22.
(Continued on page 23)
KLINEMEN CONCLUDE VERY SUCCESSFUL SEASON TALLETT HITS .467; SMULLEN LEADS HURLERS
BILL BOSS
Captain Bernie Crimmins led Jake Kline’s varsity nine through one of the most successful Notre Dame baseball campaigns of the past decade this spring as the blue and gold diamond men whipped through an arduous 11 game schedule with seven victories and four defeats.
Coach Kline
Iowa’s powerful Hawkeyes, co-champions of the Big Ten conference, was the only combine able to sweep a two - game engagement with the Irish nine. The blue and gold shared two game stands with Michigan and Western Michigan and- flattened Purdue and Northwestern twice.	.
The blaring bats of. Irish sluggers rather than brilliant mound work accounted for the parade of Irish victories. The pitching corps managed to balance an unimpressive 3.71 earned run average of 6.5 runs per fracas and a lusty .313 • team average. Twenty-nine errors committed during the season withered the squad fielding average to .936.
Slim Hal Smullen, sophomore port-sider, was the most proficient regular hurler both in games won and ERA; He tacked his opponents down with but three tallies per contest and grabbed three victories while losing one contest for a .750 percentage. Johnny Metzger, ' junior fast bailer, copping two games and dropping one accumulated a 4.50 earned "run percentage. “Bud” Dudley -boasts’ a statistically perf ect season with one win. and no defeats. The hitters ’ failed Bobo Fischer twicer and he was
able to salvage but one of his three games.	.
Elongated John Tallett, initial sacker, belted the ball at a .467 clip to snatch team batting honors. Andy Chlebeck, alert center fielder, pounded out enough line drives to preserve a .457 clouting average.
Disaster seemed inevitable for every Irish opponent as the lads bombarded Purdue in the opening tussle at Lafayette to gain a 12-3 victory. This achievement was, however, short-lived as Coach Vogel’s husky Iowa batters plastered Cartier Field with base knocks on two successive days the next week to win, 10-5 and 4-1.
Northwestern was subdued in easy fashion on Cartier Field. Blessed by several unfortunate fielding dubs . by the Wildcats, Notre Dame blasted the Purple, 13-1.
Purdue came back for revenge on Irish sod April 23 but “Bud” Dudley handily slapped the Boilermakers down to nab a 4-3 shuffle and his lone victory of the season.
“Bo-Bo” Fischer snagged his single victory of the campaign as his mates pounded out ten blows at Evanston to down Northwestern, 6-4. The Irish crowded three runs across the plate in the last of the seventh to squelch the 3-3 tie that had plagued them going into the seventh.
Damp weather didn’t quell the fight of the Irish when they thrashed a determined University of Michigan crew, 3-2, at Ann Arbor on March 29.
Before 4,000 enthused patrons, including 900 V-7 men of Notre Dame, the Irish traded errors with Lt. Commander “Mickey” Cochran’s Great Lakes team and finally won in the dark innings, 8-6. The Sailors, flanked with former major league stars, lacked finished team play and although Notre Dame booted many an easy chance the Navy lads performed equally as poor and the Irish clipped the victory.
Ridden by injuries the squad went to Kalamazoo to meet an underrated Western Michigan aggregation and were flattened by the Broncos, 12-7.
Michigan was able to vie with Iowa and annex the Big Ten co-championship award with the Hawkeyes this year but the Wolverines' faltered and couldn’t
claw the Irish in their second entangle- . ment. A barrage of base knocks by the Irish sluggers sent the Wolverines back to Ann Arbor with an 11-7 stinging.
The Commencement week-end brought forth one of the most sterling pitching -performances in Notre Dame annals as Hal Smullen pinned back the Western Michigan nine that had trounced, the . Irish earlier in the campaign. Smullen hurled three hit ball-and won the contest, 2-0.
Smullen’s shutout performance climaxed a great Notre Dame baseball year. Summer baseball activities have been curtailed but the varsity under student guidance will play several impromptu games with. South Bend teams at intervals during the summer.
Former Irish Grid Star
Now Starring In Minors -
George Blackmore
A recent star and monogram winner . on the Fighting Irish football squad of 1940, John McHale is continuing a fine career in the minor leagues of baseball. John is headed eventually for the major leagues.
McHale left Notre Dame in February 1941 to begin a baseball career when offered an attractive contract by the Detroit Tigers. He was signed by the Beau- . _ mont Exporters of the Texas League, a Tiger farm. Optioned out, he played excellent ball in the Michigan State League . with the Muskegon Club- which finished second. Here he made a fine record for: _ himself by hitting 14 heme runs and maintaining a batting average of class .	-
to .300.	.	'
This spring McHale was recalled by -(Continued on page 19)
John McHale
>17-..
/<<<!•* ri i iMi i f
FRCA4 THE PREET EOX ----------------- “RED" LONERGAN
In taking the place of Scoop Scanlan I feel like the summer substitute for a big columnist, glad to get the chance, but not sure of being able to do the job. By special edict soon to be issued by the editor of this magazine the hunting season for the writer of this column will not start for at least four issues.
Netters Fare Well
While most of us were watching the rain our muscle men were again doing their respective bits to keep Notre Dame foremost in the minds of national sport writers. Most of us knew that the tennis team was going great guns but who expected an undefeated season? Coach Langford’s boys knocked off Michigan,
9m Ike,
Dining Room
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
★
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Adler-Rochester Tailored
Tweeds, coverts and Shetlands — in suits or topcoats . . . . distinction in quality and style — at a' price that will surprise you.
PARKER-WIN TERRO WD
115% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs)
PATIL LILLIS '. CAPTAIN GEORGE MURPHY . LARRY KELLEY -
Law Building	, - 130 Alumni	.Oliver Hotel .
Michigan State, Kentucky, the . extra powerful Northwestern, Illinois, Western Michigan, Chicago (they have a tennis team), Indiana, and Wisconsin. This is the first time since 1927 that the tennis team plowed through so successful a season. Bob Faught and Joe Schaefer won all their single matches and Captain Dan Canale lost only two single matches and one double.
One of the Best Baseball Seasons
The baseball team did right well for itself by winning seven out of 11 starts. The boys balanced a .313 batting average against a .936 fielding average and used a kind of pitching that ran from hot to cold. Jack Tallett has a batting average of .467 which we like very much. Andy Chlebeck tried to catch up and got up to .457 and no one has any complaints about that either. Fred Gore’s stood at .366 at last counting. -Hal Smullen pitched three wins in four starts and averaged three runs, a game. Bernie Crimmins made only two errors in 78 chances and had a fielding average of .974. We beat Purdue, and Northwestern twice, and split with Michigan, the West-, ern Conference co-titlist. We lost two to Iowa but we were one of the few to defeat Great Lakes. Budd Dudley allowed only five hits in the last seven innings when we beat Michigan. He walked four and fanned three.
Nine Trackmen at Central Collegiate
A squad of only nine men will repre- . sent Notre Dame in the annual Central Collegiate Conference outdoor track meet at Milwaukee today and tomorrow. It’s
.You know good cloth and cut when you see it —' and you will see it in ADLER-ROCHESTER made-to-measure clothes.
a small squad'but it includes five men who won six titles in the state two weeks ago at LaFayette. Heading the list is Jim Delaney, captain-elect of the 1943 squad, who took state championships in both shot put and discus. Ollie Hunter pushed Earl Mitchell of Indiana in the two-mile so hard that he had to set a record to beat him. Ollie faces him in Milwaukee again and hopes to be the winner this time. Bob Vicars, who made his best competitive throw of 184' 7" at LaFayette a javelin, Jay Gibson, the 220 champ, and Jack Wietoff, who pole-vaulted to 13' 2", are the other champs. Incidentally, Jack is going to Cal Tech in a short time at the request of the Navy. Other Notre Dame men going to Milwaukee are Roland Hogue (broad jump), George Schiewe (440), Bill Nicholson (hurdles), and Frank Conforti (miler). In that , meet which Army won George Schiewe pulled a muscle and it was feared that serious damage might have been done. Late, reports say that he will be. in trim for the centrals. Bill Nicholson is the latest trackman to enlist in V-7. Keith O’Rourke, holder of the Notre Dame all-time record for the * outdoor high jump at-6' 7", is out of competition
. for a while with a twisted ankle. Chuck Murphy will be our lead man (his record is.6' 4").
Golfers Not Beaten
The golf team wound up the first half of its season in a blaze of glory after downing Purdue, Detroit, Illinois, Chanute Field, Minnesota (Big Ten funner- . ups). Following their match with Michigan State on Saturday they will work . but against Northwestern at Chain o’
Lakes on the 15th. These two matches are definitely going to be valuable warmups for the National Inter-Collegiate tournament to be played over the sporty South Bend course. -The date for the tournament is June 22-27, proceeds to be turned over to the Navy Relief Fund. The matches will be well worth the money, so try to get. over for some of them and help Uncle Sam. This is the big athletic event which, opens the celebration of the centennial.
Marines Get First Diploma
Those who attended the commencement exercises received an extra thrill, when five students were presented their diplomas before all the rest so that they could leave immediately for the Marine Corps. Among the five were Mike Hines, reserve tackle for the 1941 football team, Nick Peplinjak, former reserve halfback/and, Bruce Hebenstreit, Bengal fighter^
Now at Annapolis are Frank Gaul, ’35 quarterback, Joe Ruetz,. ’37 guard, Ed Kosky, ’29 end, Marty Peters, ’35 end, Bill Mahoney, ’38 track captain, and Bill
(Continued on page 20)
18 ~
Thinlies at Milwaukee Delaney Captairi-Elect
Francis Carver
A nine man squad will represent Notre Dame in the annual Central Collegiate . conference outdoor track meet at Milwaukee tomorrow. It will be the smallest Irish squad in years, but it will include five men who won six Indiana state individual titles at Lafayette on May 23.
Captain Jim Delaney
At the head of the roster is California Jim Delaney, powerful shot put artist' who was recently elected captain of the 1943 squad. Bob Vicars whose best competitive throw of 184 feet 7 inches took the state javelin title; Jay Gibson, the 220 yard dash champion, Jack Wiet-off who set a record at Lafayette with 13 feet 2 inches in the pole vault, make up the Irish list of state champions.
Others on the squad are: George Schiewe, quartermiler; Roland. Hogue, broad jumper; Bill Nicholson, hurdler; Frank Conforti and Ollie Hunter, distance men.
Three men, Captain - elect Delaney, Hunter and Conforti, have received invitations to the National Collegiate meet to be held in Lincoln, Neb., June 12 and 13. Delaney ranks second to Al Blosis of Georgetown as the nation’s outstanding shot putter. Hunter’s record includes outstanding performances in the Sugar Bowl, Chicago Relays, Butler Relays and Central Collegiates. Conforti’s performance of under 4:16 in the Indiana State meet certainly warranted an invitation to the Nationals.
Though Notre Dame trackmen collected eight first places, seven being new meet records, it was not enough to win the third outdoor track meet of the season as Army’s flying Cadets of the cinder paths came from behind to sweep three of the last four events and wipe out what had appeared to be a comfortable margin.
Jim Delaney scored ten points for Notre Dame with hew records in the shot and discus and Ollie Hunter’s new meet record of 9:34 in the two-mile and 4:20.7 tie with Frankie Conforti in the mile run were good for nine points.
The meet was the last under Coach Bill Mahoney, who has reported to Annapolis for the indoctrination course in the V-5 program of the Naval-Reserve. Mahoney’s two year record as Notre Dame’s head track coach is one of the most brilliant in the history of the school. Last winter he led his men to the Butler Relay championships to give Notre Dame her first crown in 12 years of competition. Bill’s team twice won the Indoor Central Collegiate championships, as well as winning the majority of their other meets. Mr. Al Handy of the department of physical education has been appointed head track coach. Mr. .Handy served as Mahoney’s assistant the past two years.
Other Irish victories between semesters were the Michigan State meet in which the Spartans were swamped by over 40 points and the. Indiana State meet in which Indiana and Purdue were firmly brushed aside to trail Notre Dame by nearly 30.points. Bill Dillon, called by Coach Handy some time ago the “most improved man on the squad,” was the iron man of the day scoring 15 points for the Irish with firsts in. the high and low hurdles and the 100-yard dash. Jim Delaney, took the state championships-in the shot put and the discus. Ollie Hunter and Frank Conforti turned in excellent performances in the two-mile and mile runs. Hunter was nosed out by a stride by Indiana’s Mitchell as the Hoosier ace turned in a fine 9:13.1 performance erasing four seconds from Don Lash’s record and Conforti, misjudging the pace in the third quarter after pacing a 2:04 first half, finished second to Kane of Indiana.
IRISH STAR IN MINORS (Continued from page 17) Beaumont and recently has been farmed out to the Winston-Salem Twins of the Piedmont League. It might be emphasized that the play of the Twins, the perennial last place club of the Tobacco . Circuit, has improved considerably since this big blond first baseman joined the club.	-
McHale has been doing a fine job of holding the initial sack for the Twins and is one of the best first basemen in the League which is noted for turning out high-caliber first sackers. Frank McCormick, Johnny Mize, Buddy Has-. sett, Hank Greenberg, and “Babe” Young are former first base stars from this league.
in the Classroom and on the Golf Course
Wear a
Slack Suit
only $3.95
Comfortable, cotton poplin material with a tu-way collar.. Comes in blue, green, rust, ' arid tan.
All white "T" Shirts___„.65c
WYMAN'S
19
“The MEN’S Corner”
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
THE CLOTHES FOR REAL SUMMER COMFORT ARE HERE
SPORT SHIRTS $1.50 up
The New ARROW DOUBLER SHIRT $2.50
Smart Summer
SLACKS $5.95
Naval Officers' Equipment
Freeman and Fiorsheim Black Regulation Shoes
White Shirts
Collars
Hose Ties
MAIN AT COLFAX
INTRODUCING
AL. CLARK ano RICHARD KISGEN
Number one pitcher of last season’s successful baseball club is senior John Bernard Metzger of Louisville, Ohio.
A Commerce major, John will find his collegiate baseball cut short a season by receiving a B.S. degree next semester. After graduating he plans to. join some branch of the service and clean up the war so that he will be able to return to his home in Louisville and aid his father in the hardware business, and maybe settle down with that certain girl.
“Metz” started his early baseball career as a catcher, but after getting a couple in the stomach he decided to give pitching a try. His first taste of organized ball was in high school in Louisville where he pitched his team to victory for four years, captaining it as a senior.
It was during his last season in the State High School District baseball tourney that John received what he labels his biggest thrill in baseball. Against a fast high school team from Medina, he not only pitched scoreless ball but was . the hitting star of the game by driving in all three of Louisville’s runs, belting a home run and a single.
During high school vacations “Metz” played for his home town junior legion team and accompanied them to the State Legion tournament each of three years he pitched for them. This same club has amassed the outstanding record of com-" peting in the state finals nine consecutive years.
In his first year at Notre Dame Johnny established himself as an outstanding pitcher in the eyes of .Coach Jake Kline. In the short freshman baseball -season he faced the- successful varsity three times, and came out on top twice.
As a sophomore last year he was assigned the role of a starting pitcher and fulfilled the faith Coach Kline put in' him by winning his first start and continuing to cop two-thirds of his games for the season. His most outstanding victory was defeating in a 12-inning battle the University of California, who through their previous victories were considered one of the finest teams in the nation.
With this season’s schedule cut by a short semester, John was able to pitch in only three full games but came out victorious in two and turned in such outstanding performances as to attract major league scouts.
During his college summer months of ’39 and ’40, he played with a clown semi-pro team called the Kanton Klowns whose main purpose was entertaining the fans by - their antics. Sixteen wins against a single defeat was “Metz” ’ record with the fast Placentia semi-pro club last summer who enjoyed his shutout victory over the Akron Goodrich. Ohio State’s ace pitcher, Art Maley, was a teammate with John on this ball club.
“Mets” has two sisters, one, ask a certain outfielder, attending St. Mary’s across the road, and one brother, Art, who as captain and catcher of this year’s Louisville high school baseball team, collected a .410 batting average. Art plans to enter Notre Dame this Fall.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from page 18)
Cerney, ’24 fullback. They are all in a V-5 indoctrination course.
Get In Shape Now
This summer we are going to have one of the most extensive inter-mural pro-' grams the school has ever attempted. Mr. - Scannell, the man in charge, announces that the program will include track, tennis, and baseball. There’s room for everybody in at least one sport, so don’t sit around and read the thermometer. Get some of that exercise you put off all winter.
The Notre Dame baseball was confronted with an unexpected hazard in its game with Western Michigan at Kala-• mazoo (May 2) which the Broncos won, 12 to 7. Both teams and the capacity crowd at the Red Cross benefit game were surprised to learn that the Western Michigan athletic field had been designated that days objective of a group of Army pursuit ships and light bombers which kept roaring out of nowhere at . 300 m.p.h. and skimming over the heads of the players. It was as hard on the . Broncos as on the Irish, of course. It was very nerve racking to all the to-be pilots on both sides. That was the first time a Notre Dame team ever became a part of a double feature; they are usually show enough in themselves.
Buy Defense Stamps today. Turn them in on bonds tomorrow.
20
N. D. Men Save For Victory Here
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
WASHINGTON
May 4, 1942
Dear Father O’Donnell:
Your letter of April 18th has given me great encouragement and pleasure. The University of Notre Dame has such a reputation throughout the country that its active support for the War Savings program will, I know, be an example to many other colleges.
I am particularly glad to hear about the splendid work of your campus post office, and I wish you would tell those responsible for this effort of u\y deep appreciation for all they are doing.
FRESHMEN NAYY MEN
Get Your Required Gym Equipment at
"RECO"
SHOES - SHIRTS SHORTS
SHOWER KLAKS
RECO
SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main Tel. 4-6731 “LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT”
Sincerely,
Rev. Hugh.O’Donnell, C. S. C., President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SCHEDULES
Bookstore — Monday through Friday: 7:30 a.m to 4:15 p.m.’; Saturday: 7:30 to 1:00 p.m.
Post Office — Mail dispatches daily except Sunday: 6:30 aan.,'10:30 aan., 3:30 p.m. Sunday only 6:30 a.m. Mail distributions are ready at: 7:30 a.m., 12:30 pan., 4:30 p.m. Window service Monday through Friday: 7:30 aan., to 5:30 pan. • Saturday service: 7:30 a-m. to 2:00 pan. ’
21
Spalding & Goldsmith
GOLF AND TENNIS EQUIPMENT
Notre Dame "T" Shirts
BATHING SUITS $1.95 - $2.95
Gym Equipment
SONNEBORN'S
121 West Colfax
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
OFFICIAL
NAVY STATIONERY
AND
NAVY JEWELRY
★
Toilet Articles Supplies
The Navy Log came through with a very good imitation of Esquire. The Log effort satisfied even the most sophisticated. Articles and cartoons were faithfully styled after the real thing. Only big difference was the price: “Fifteen cents; Tokyo Price 1,000,000 Yen.”
99
DISC-CUSSION
Ed Roney
Like everyone else, I didn’t have time to think about records during oui’ gone-but-not-forgotten vacation. So I decided that it would be a good idea if I named what I considered to be the 25 best records that were released since last September. This of course, is a very controversial subject insomuch as everyone’s tastes are different. But these are the records that those men who played or bought records around me last year and I considered the best.
Necessarily they are of several different kinds; varying from the sentimental numbers through blues and onward to the best in the jump tunes. Some of the records are new arrangements of hit tunes of past years but all are excellent and all were best sellers. The 25 follow in no particular order:
Autumn Nocturne, Claude Thornhill; Blues In The Night, Woody Herman; A String of Pearls, Benny Goodman; What Is This Thing Called Love, Tommy Dorsey; Chattanooga Choo Choo, Glenn Miller; I Remember You, Jimmy Dorsey; Deep In The Heart of Texas, Alvino. Rey.
I Don’t Wanta Walk Without You, Harry James; Where Or When, Benny Goodman; The Song Is You, Frank Sinatra; This Time The Dream’s On Me, Woody Herman; Poor You, Tommy Dorsey; Jim, Dinah Shore; A Sinner Kissed An Angel, Tommy Dorsey.
Who Wouldn’t Love. You, Kay Kyser; Dear Mom, Sammy Kaye; 1A In The Army and Al In My Heart, Harry James; This Is No Laughing Matter, Dinah Shore; Somebody Else Is Taking My Place, Vaughn Monroe; Embraceable You, Tommy Dorsey; How Long Has This Been Going On, Benny Goodman; Arthur Murray Taught Me Dancing In a Hurry, Jimmy Dorsey.
Easter Parade, Harry James; Captain Curleyhead, Dinah Shore; Concerto In B Flat Minor, Freddy Martin; Tangerine, Jimmy Dorsey; This Is No Laughing Matter, Dinah Shore; I Look At Heaven (Greigs Piano Concerto), Freddy Martin; Who Can I Turn To, Tommy Dorsey; Make Love To Me, Harry James; I Don’t Want To,Set The World On Fire, Horace Heidt; Everything I Love, Glenn Miller. .
Yes, I realize that there are more than 25 but it . seems just about impossible to say with certainty that there, were exactly 25 best records last year. Even
First Class -
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
Lovely Voice Makes Chicago Debut
When you ride the South Shore you can get off at six convenient Chicago stations.
The Randolph and Van Buren Street stations are only a whisper away from Michigan Avenue and the Loop.
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
. Phone 3-3111
now I probably have missed one or two.
But let us turn to the three biggest happenings on the popular music front last year. In my estimation these were:
1.	The comeback of Benny Goodman. Yes, he really made a comeback. For wasn’t he dropped by Victor, and shunted from Columbia to Okeh before he really began selling records again?
2.	The spectacular rise of Hal McIntyre, Vaughn Monroe, and Claude Thornhill.
3.	The influx of the many classical melodies into popular music. These three were the outstanding examples although there were many other happenings of importance during the past nine or ten months.
Next week I hope to be able to bring you some big news on the Notre Dame Music front. But more about this next week.
Feast of Corpus Christi
Celebrated Yesterday
The feast of Corpus Christi was celebrated at the University of Notre Dame Thursday with a solemn high mass in Sacred Heart church at 8 a.m. (CWT), and with a traditional procession to outside altars on the steps of Walsh hall, Science hall, and the Administration building where benediction was given. Priests, brothers, and sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross assisted at the mass and took part in the colorful procession which followed.
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, was celebrant of the mass. He was assisted by Rev. James H. Kenna, as deacon. The Moreau Seminary choir chanted the responses during the mass and at the benedictions.
After the mass the celebrant under a large canopy and carrying the monstrance containing the blessed sacrament, was escorted to the first outside altar on the steps of Walsh hall for the first benediction service. Similar services were held at Science hall and the Administration building and the procession then returned to Sacred Heart church for the final benediction.
Although not a holy day of obligation, the Feast of Corpus Christi is an important day in the Roman Catholic church calendar. It commemorates the institution on Holy Thursday of the sacrament of the Eucharist in the form of bread and wine. It is a solemn feast of thanksgiving. .
South Bend churches will observe the feast on Sunday, many of the churches also holding outdoor processions to altars erected on the church grounds. Since
Corpus Christi ceased to be a holy day of obligation, the festival is chiefly solemnized on the ensuing Sunday, although in the Catholic countries its celebration on Thursday is a major church event. The mass of the solemnity was composed by St. Thomas Aquinas,.one of the greatest of the doctors of the church.
First and second hour classes at the University will be excused so students may attend the ceremony.
DEDICATES LIBRARY (Continued from page 8)
D.D., auxiliary bishop of Chicago, gave the baccalaureate address this morning at the solemn high Mass celebrated in the Chapel of the Holy Ghost by the Reverend David I. Dorsch, of Baltimore, Md. Bishop Sheil is the founder of the Catholic Youth Organization.
This evening the valedictory address will be the outstanding feature of the special convocation at which academic honors, prizes, and awards will be announced.
Senior Mass and formal reception of the Seniors in the Holy Cross Alumnae Association opened Thursday’s program, which also included the Senior Breakfast and closed with the capping of members of next year’s Senior Class by the president of the college in the main quadrangle that evening, followed by benediction in the Chapel of the Holy Ghost, at which Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., chaplain of the college, officiated.
On Sunday, May 31, members of the Senior Class attended High Mass in the Chapel of the Holy Ghost in the morning and in the late afternoon participated in the annual May Procession led by the president of the Children of Mary Sodality, Miss Mary Mayle, of Norwalk, Ohio.
TENNIS TEAM* CHAMPS (Continued from page 16)
However, as yet there is no definite assurance that they will go.
As to intercollegiate competition this summer there will be very little, if any, with .nothing definitely decided. There will, however, be a very definite emphasis on interhall tennis. Plans include an interhall round-robin system running all summer, and two open tournaments, the first of which is scheduled tentatively for June 10-14, and the other to be held toward the end of the semester. All students are eligible for these tournaments, but they must have a medical slip from the infirmary before they may compete.
The prospects for Notre Dame tennis next spring are very uncertain. Just who will be here and who will not hinges very much on the war conditions. Several of the boys, however, are enrolled in various reserve plans which will allow them to finish school arid thus with a few
breaks the Irish may be a very potent-threat at this ball and racquet pastime come the spring of “43.”
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton. M.D.
Phone 3-2805
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination	609 J. M. S. Building
Hours by Appointment South Bend, Indiana
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S. -Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S. Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana-
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574,.
23 .
RITA HAYWORTH Columbia Pictures Star ivith her own Chesterfield vanity-cigarette case
IN MY CASE
In mine too say millions of satisfied smokers... for a Milder and decidedly Better-Tasting cigarette, one that’s Cooler-Smoking, you just naturally pick Chesterfield.
And of course the big thing in Chesterfield that -is giving everybody so much more smoking pleasure is its Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos... for regardless of price there is no better cigarette made today.
MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK CHESTERFIELDS... and enjoy ’em
Copjn&n 1942, Liggett & Mms Tobacco Co.