Volume 73
December 15, 1939
Number 12
METRO - Goldwyn -MGM Scouts See Mayer is now engaged ‘Orchid’ Tonight in a nationwide scouting attempt to dig up fresh and talented material to grace future celluloid. M-G-M scouts will be in the “Brother Orchid” audience tonight.
(See page 5)
❖
HAVE YOU space for Arnold Lunn	one point about this
Pens a Note	war which has, per-
haps, not occurred to ■ all your readers? If the truth of a philosophy can be tested by its prediction ' value, it is clear that the Left Wing philosophy does not emerge with credit from this test.	(See page 6)
♦
. COACH George Keog-. Keoganmen at an’s “Fighting Irish” Wolves’ Door basketball team will get down to the serious business of giving their second Big Ten Conference opponent a taste of Notre Dame court finesse, tomorrow night, when they battle Michigan at Ann Arbor.	(See page 12)
THE ELECTION of Elect Piepul Milt Piepul as. ’captain Grid Captain of the 1940 Fighting
Irish marked the first time in 12 years this honor has been awarded "to a backfield man. It was fitting that when a 12 year old precedent is broken, Piepul should break it.
(See page 12) -
Bishop-ekct John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. — The lights have gone out in the Sorin tower leeni nearest the doors of Sacred Heart Church. [See page 5]	-	'

2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HE WORSHIPED LAND
as if it were a woman
HE BARGAINED FORIOVE
as if it were land
LIKE ANIMALS, the two men fought in the J dirt. One was Gamaliel Ware, young Vermonter come to Arizona's desert with a vision of waving fields of grain, a land richer than anyone ever dreamed of. The other was Cottrell, the man who had said,“This world has shrunk too small to hold both you and me!”... And watching them, Christine, desired by both, yet aloof: “Men fight many times when I am there” ...
A vivid sequel to Mr. Kelland’s novel Arizona begins in this issue of the Post. A romance of men and women who whipped the old Southwest into a civilization.
BUDINGTON
KELLAND
; id
Announcing the New Novel of the Southwest
Valley of the Sun
CLARENCE

IS HITLER MARRIED? Who is this blonde Bavarian who has moved into, his Chancellery on Wilhelmstrasse? From a dependable source inside Germany come details of the unofficial romance of Adolf and Eva. RIDE IN AN ENGINE CAB. You're going for a ride in the cab of 90-44 on a 5-below-zero night with little Ben Cooper, youngest engineer on the line. And the third man along is out to trap Ben into making the one mistake that will cost him his job. Read No Gift of Gob, by Harold Titus.
IT COSTS $1000 TO HAVE LUNCH WITH HARRY CHANDLER. Who lured the movies to Southern California? Who was the practical dreamer behind the Hollywood Bowl; Los Angeles’ man-made harbor? Meet Hany Chandler, publisher of the Los Angeles Times, whose luncheons start with soup and end with a “touch.”
THE MAN WHO WANTED TO BE ARRESTED. John Doowinkle, Assistant D. A., was puzzled. Why does a man claim he
was drunk? Why so anxious to look tipsy in court? John thought he saw a possible due in the crazy behavior of a comet! Doowinkle's Comet, a short story by Harry Klingsberg. AND... Hop off on the second leg of Airline Pilot Leland Jamieson's new novel, High Frontier. A story d flying in the days when there were no rules but Get There... Helen Hayes’first meeting with the man she married ...Short stories by Lillian Day and Robert Murphy; Editorials, poems, Post Scripts and cartoons. AU in this week’s Post.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
College Parade by Jack Willmann
Itinerant Incidentals
In keeping with our policy to give personal information on different colleges, the past week-end found us seeing the Midway campus of Chicago U.—the institution that has Hutchins and a football team, allegedly. No Hutchins was seen, nor were there any C lettermen strolling to the adulation of the coeds. Phi Kappa Sigma was hospitable in providing a night’s lodging. Over studious undergrads are labeled “tools.” There are rumors of a good team next year if the frosh squad is not hit with an academic drought. And, our hat was the victim of some loose-fingered prankster in a pump-room, but it turned up under a nickleodeon. So much for the Madness of the Midway.
Pre-Christmas Platitude
“My son’s home from college.” “How do you know?”
“I haven’t had a letter from him in three weeks.”—Pup.
❖
She Gives the Downbeat
She is Ethel Nagy of Temple U. America’s dancers have Ina Rae Hutton, but this frosh co-ed has the Temple rockin’ in the Quaker City. With ten good men and hep she has the campus carpet cutters doing fancy patterns as she conducts her outfit for terpsichorean frolics. She, too, is addicted to gown changing in order to fit the music with her garb. More than a mere front for her musicians, she sings, arranges, and dances as the mood strikes.
❖
It’s a Campus of a Different Color
To make a girl laugh at your jokes Is really very simple:
Just pick out one with pretty teeth, Or one who has a dimple.
—The Old Maid ❖
i
Flowers for Madame—Yes or No?
To send them or to refrain—that is the argument. Whether it is more noble to use the money for cokes and be content with a gardenia in the hair. Gardenias are lovely. Such is the problem at Ohio State and Northwestern. Corsages are banned for campus proms at Buckeyetown, but sorority coeds were not easily acquiesced to the ruling.
The opinions are reversed at Northwestern where such names as Don Gur-itz, Iggy Mesec, Red Hahnenstein, and
Alf Bauman have publicly declared an intention of sending flowers with the hope that other men will do the same. Could it be that the aforementioned escorts have a corsage concession? Oh, never! On the other side, Purple women have a petition to the effect that they are not particularly anxious to wear corsages to the large formals because it is prohibitive to the wallets of the average student. Topping the signers was “Portia” McClain.
❖
He’s a Man for
Frank Kristufek. He’s a Pitt man in the most vicious panther sense of the word—on the line of gridiron battle and at a cartooning desk in Pitt journalism. Elected chairman of the College Association football dance, Frank threatened to break tradition and feminine hearts by going to the affair without the customary date, but the presence of lovely Virginia Krantz in modeling pose was too much for Kristufek. In commenting on the first dance he will attend in four years, Frank promised to show his fellows a few new steps because “This is my night to howl!”
Biting the Hand . . .
That nourished him, Evarts Ziegler, ’38, denounces the Princeton eating clubs in December issue of Town and Country magazine. “Prospect Street, with its 17 eating clubs, is at once the most persistent thorn in the University authorities’ flesh and the scene of the pleasantest college memories to the Princetonians it has treated kindly.” He points out that Woodrow Wilson, who was also president of the university, declared : “The side show is seeking to run the main tent. I won’t be president of a country club.” The clubs take care of 80% of the upperclassmen’s vitamin problems, but the congen-
iality and charm of the atmosphere is conducive to an intellectual inertia.
Eyes Front!
Then they tell the one on a freshman who saw the New York musical “Too Many Girls.” The next day he went to an oculist to have his eyes treated.
“After I left the show last night," he explained, “my eyes were red, and sore and inflamed.”
“The Doc looked him over, thought a minute and then remarked, “After this try blinking your eyes once or twice during the show—you won’t miss much.”
—Awgwan.
Epilogue to a Prologue
And now Joe and Josie Campus are putting the finishing touches to those term papers that must be in before Christmas vacation. Joe is wondering how his NYA check will, warrant a gift for both girls, and leave money for a cigar for dad. Happy days are those holiday happenings just ahead. No eight o’clock classes—just nine o’clock dates. No note-taking from the profs—but a chance to note the little girls who are growing up during our absence. No bulling with the fellows on your floor—but a chance to explain away a couple of Saturday afternoon let-downs.
“Is that a pillow sticking out of Gilliland’s shirt, daar?”
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
OPINION
Top of the Week
The middle of next week.
Parting advice
When to boo is taboo has been a source of embarrassment to many students. As you may lose that Bronx touch over the holidays it is best to keep in mind a few pointers. Campus customs decree the following occasions as when those who know boo:
New Yorkers, at any mention of Chicago; Chicagoans, at any mention of New York; Everyone, when authorized heroes or villains appear; Everyone, at the final clinch; Everyone must yell “Close the door” when the curtain goes up; Everyone must say “Ah-h” when the heroine enters, or when a Packard enters the scene; Everyone, when a comedian makes a crack like “He thinks evening clothes are pajamas.”
Interhall firMle
Boody Albert worked out a great play for his champion Juniors. The tailback allows his punt to be blocked by the incoming end. The ball then pops over the kicker’s head where it is caught in mid-air by the right end coming around the line. This play is said to outmode the more famous “Statue of Liberty” play. Boody’s fireside chats between the halves highlighted the interhall series. His Juniors looked good in their victory over the frosh and turned up the best defensive player in Don Kralovec at left end.
♦
Once arid for all
To stop the never-ending influx of AllAmerican teams the “caf club” has drawn up a team that will end the question of supremacy forever:
PLAYER	POSITION
Popeye ..X------------------ Fullback
Superman-----------------.Right Half
Tarzan _____________________Left Half
Mandrake-----------------Quarterback
Flash Gordon _______________Left End
Big Stoop ----------------Left	Tackle
Dan Dunn -----------------Left	Guard
Lil’ Abner --------------------Center
Dick Tracy --------------Right	Guard
Snuffy Smith (C) ________Right	Tackle
Prince Valiant______________Right End
This season has produced a wealth ■of fine players and it is with regret that . we are forced to overlook such sterling performers as Jungle Jim, Punjab, Joe Palooka, Fat Stuff, and Pansy Yokum.
Fable
Once upon a time there was a freshman who went home for Christmas wearing a monogrammed belt buckle and didn’t nearly freeze to death by walking about town with his coat open and his hands in his pockets.
Campus Confucius
Many are cold but few are frozen.
Seen and heard
In the Commerce Building: “The prof says my chances of getting through his course are the best in years.... On the wall in the main office: The Cathedral of St. Charles at Vienna and the two women in front of the church sporting beards.... At the K. C. show: And to think we missed Bob Hope.... At the Cincinnati basketball massacre when they turned off the lights in the stands: “Why not turn ’em all off?” . . . Freshmen quad: “There’s not an N.D. player on the all-opponent squad.” ... At the K. C. banquet: “I like your suit; I liked it on your father, too.”
Blows of the Week
Lil’ Orson Witkowski for a swell job on Radio Stage last Friday.... Boody Albert’s pep talk between the halves of the junior-senior potential free-for-all .... to the cartoon at the Colfax on Sunday that satirized man and his silly squabbles.... Mike Keegan’s piano rhythms at the K. C. Vaudeville show that were overlooked in the press of numbers.... to our dads for those come-home-son checks....
❖
Insinuation of the week
At the football banquet — sarcastic Warren Brown’s announcement of his rendezvous with a friend at a hamburger stand after the banquet.
♦
A trimmed Christmas tree
To the man who walked through Carroll Rec and never hurled the cue ball for the end pocket.
♦
Bottom of the Week
; The poor fellow who got pneumonia from the mailman passing his door so fast.
Question of the Week: “What particular quality—for instance, income, service, interest, influence, position—will you most desire to find in your life’s work?”
Alumni — George Karr: “Above all things, when I am looking for work, I will look for a job which will interest me. I would place this even above income, for if a fellow isn’t interested in his work, the income will very shortly cease. Further than that, I will look for security and a good chance for advancement. The thing I am interested in most now, of course, is finding any kind of a job.”
Edward Aubrey: “Income, and plenty of it! That’s what I’ll demand of my life work. After all, if the income isn’t there, the whole purpose of a position is gone. A fellow works in order to keep alive and have a good time doing it. In addition to this, of course, it would be better if I can find a job in which. I am deeply interested.”
Dillon — Joseph Garvey: “Give me the following qualities in my job and I’ll be more than satisfied: first, I want ample opportunity for advancement. I don’t want to stay in the same place all the time, but want to move upward; secondly, I want to be located with a reliable firm. That makes a lot of difference in how far a fellow gets in the business world; finally, I want an income which will satisfy the wants of myself and my family. This income, however, must be ranked secondary.
Howard — Richard Everroad: “In order for a job to completely satisfy, me, I must be intensely interested in it. Any job, however, will be secondary unless it happens to be the one thing I want to do: advertising. It will merely be a means to an end. Naturally, I would like to get as much income as I possibly can while on the way.”
Edward Schreiber: “As far as I’m concerned, if a fellow doesn’t have interest in his work, he might just as well not work at all. Working without having interest is merely going through all the motions. Of course it might be necessary, in the course of things, to work on a job for a while in which I am not particularly interested, but in my final life work, I will demand that it be one in which I am interested.”
—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered aa second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
December 15, 1939
No. 12.
Father O’Hara Named Bishop By His Holiness, Pope Pius XII
Will Resign Presidency To Take New York Post
The lights have gone out in the Sorin tower room nearest the doors of Sacred Heart Church. The appointment of the Reverend President John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as auxiliary bishop of New York and supervisor of Catholic army and navy chaplains, will take a familiar and beloved figure from the campus.
The joy felt by Father O’Hara’s associates at Notre Dame, where he has been stationed since his ordination to the priesthood in 1916, in the honor conferred upon him Monday by His Holiness Pope Pius XII, is tempered by the realization that the appointment will necessitate his resignation from the presidency of the University.
Father O’Hara is expected to enter upon his new duties in late January. Archbishop Francis J. Spellman, of New York city, whose assistant Father O’Hara will be, stated Tuesday, that the new bishop would make his own decision concerning the time of his consecration; and, that he would have to travel extensively, but probably would make his headquarters in New York city.
In making the announcement Archbishop Spellman said he was “happy to be associated with Bishop-elect O’Hara, an American patriot, an exemplary priest and a well known and universally respected leader of men.”
Father O’Hara was bom May 1, 1888, in Ann Arbor, Mich. Before entering Notre Dame as a student - teacher in . 1908, he served as secretary to the United States minister m Montivideo, Uruguay, and was market agent for the department of commerce. He was graduated here in 1911, entered the seminary that summer and was ordained five years later. From 1918 until 1934 he
was prefect of religion here, and during the early years, until 1924, he founded and served as dean of the College of Commerce.
Father O’Hara was named acting president of Notre Dame in 1933, during
• The Congregation of Holy Cross and the University of Notre Dame are honored in the appointment, by His Holiness Pope Pius XII, of its distinguished president, Father John F. O’Hara, as Bishop of the titular See of Milasa and auxiliary to Archbishop Spellman of New York.
• Under Father O’Hara’s leadership, the University has made progress in all departments. Ever mindful of the sacred trust left him by Father Sorin, the founder, and his noble successors in the office of the presidency, he very modestly accepted his responsibility, and by the inspiration of his priestly life sought to carry out a balanced program at Notre Dame.
•	We leave to history an evaluation of his work. But it will be generally accepted, I believe, that he has left the impress of his personality on the religious program of the University.
•	We shall miss his priestly presence on the campus, but shall follow his future endeavors with intense interest and prayer. We know that he will never forget the Notre Dame he loves, and we promise in return that Notre Dame will never forget him.
•	May God continue to bless him in his new field of labor!
—Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Vice President
the last illness of the late Rev. CSarles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., and succeeded to the office after the latter’s death in the summer of 1934.
In 1938, Father O’Hara was appointed by President Roosevelt as a delegate to the Inter-American Congress at Lima, Peru, and last June served as chairman of a social service commission to Venezuela at the invitation of President Lopez Contreras of that country.
Father O’Hara is the fifth member of the American branch of-the Congregation of Holy Cross to -be raised to the episcopacy. Of the previous four only the Most Rev. Timothy Crowley, the present bishop of Dacca, India, is still alive. The others were: the Most Rev. Peter Hurth, late archbishop of Bozra and a former bishop of Dacca; the Most Rev. George Finnegan, late bishop of Helena, Mont., and the Most Rev. Frederick Llinnaborn, also a former bishop of Dacca. Dacca is the seat of the missionary province of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Bengal, India.
MGM Scout On Campus To See ‘Brother Orchid’
Well all rig kt, dig... dig_dig! It looks like Metro - Goldwyn - Mayer has taken that line of a popular song literally for they are now engaged in a nationwide scouting tour attempting to dig up fresh and talented material to grace future celluloids. Concentrating on major colleges, the big motion picture company is trying to unearth discoveries similar to Jimmy Stewart, Johnny Mack Brown, and other former collegiate thespians. At any rate, when the curtain rises on the second performance of “Brother Orchid” tonight, one of M-G-M’s talent scouts will be in the audience appraising the ability of its cast.
Scouting a Notre Dame production is' not a bad idea at that. Actor Nick Lu-kats and Comedians Charlie Butterworth and Walter O’Keefe all trod the boards of Washington Hall, and it might be that another future Hollywood luminary is in our midst now. Of course we don’t want to take too much for granted, but wouldn’t it be funny to see Jerry Flynn’s name in lights?	">•••
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Arnold Lunn Writes a Letter
Itinerant Apologist Jumps from Football To Fascism, To His Own Time Substantiated Opinion, and Back Again.
Prof. Arnold Lunn
I write for information which I badly need. I am spending a day or two at Pallanza before resuming my trade of “W andering Journalist” through the Balkans and Near East. Last night (Saturday) I tried to get the Notre Dame game on the wireless. “What on earth are you giving us,” my hostess remarked as the first reson
ant remarks of the commentator on the Cornell - Ohio game came through. “I want to find out if Notre Dame is winning.” “But what has Our Lady got to do with football?” “Many American Proestants,” I answered, “have only heard of Notre Dame in connection with the ball game.” I am glad Ohio State was beaten, but the game I wanted was not broadcast on short wave. All I heard was the score at the third quarter, Notre Dame leading Carnegie Tech by 7 to 0. Wasn’t it Carnegie Tech, by the way, that tried to exploit a Referee’s mistake to claim five downs last year? (You could get into a jolly good argument on that subject in Pittsburgh, Arnold.-Ed) I should be so grateful if you would send me the results of all the ball games to me care of John Chaplin, The British Embassy, Angora, Turkey. This semester’s issues of the Scholastic would be very welcome. Anyhow I hope you put it across Carnegie Tech.	'
Have you space for one point about this war which has, perhaps, not occurred to all your readers. If the truth of a philosophy can be tested by its prediction value, it is clear that the Left Wing philosophy does not emerge with credit from this test. Almost all the well known commentators on European politics in your country and in mine have been Lettish in their sympathies. They predicted with confidence: (1) that Chamberlain would never fight and that he would, if necessary, urge France to surrender Tunis, Poland the corridor and Switzerland its German cantons rather than fight. This view rested on a •fundamental inability to understand
England or Chamberlain. It is always difficult to understand a country and its people unless one has lived there but I quote with pleasure the shrewd comment of a Swede, a man who knows Europe better than most people. “There is nobody so dangerous as an Englishman who feels that his confidence has been betrayed! Chamberlain will see this thing through. In England the Left Wing intellectuals who clamored for a firm stand against dictators are already beginning to intrigue for surrender.
Our Leftists also predicted: (1) that Franco would lose; (2) that if he won the Italians would never withdraw from Majorca or the Germans from the Atlantic seaboard; (3) that Spain would fight against us in a European war; (4) that Italy would fight with Germany; (5) that Russia would be either a benevolent neutral or an active ally of the democracies. On all these points they were wrong.
On the other hand a small group of Catholic writers, of whom the present writer was one, were confident that neither Spain nor Italy would fight for Germany, that no effective help could be expected from Russia, and that no German or Italian troops would remain in Spain. And we committed ourselves to these views by published statements which are on record.
I think it was Hilaire Belloc who said that the Catholic alone can interpret history successfully. A tall claim perhaps, but the facts mentioned above seem to substantiate them.
Certainly nobody who understands the historic background of Catholic Spain imagined that this fiercely independent people would ever become the tool of foreign powers. I lunched with the Duke of Alba in London in the Spring and asked him what line Spain would take. “Franco” he answered, “declared his neutrality last September when he had everything to gain by backing Germany and Italy. I do not think that even a British - Russian pact would bring him into the war.”	.
I was criticised by Catholics last summer for defending our negotiations in
—See page 23—
Debate Finals Tonight
Morrissey vs. Howard
Morrissey will attempt to retain the interhall debate trophy for another year when it meets Howard in the interhall debate finals tonight at 7:45 in the library basement. Morrissey drew the affirmative side of the isolation question, and Howard will defend the negative. Morrissey team members, coached by Jack Hennessey are: Bob Coleman, Roger Young, and Neil Carty; Howard members, coached by Tom Grady are: Jack Burke, Fred Walsh, and Fred Holl. The last two named were members of Morrissey’s championship team last year.
The interhall tournament is sponsored each year by the Wranglers Club. The trophy is donated by them. The halls divided into a junior and senior division and the finals are between the winning teams in each division. The final debate is open to the students, as were all the debates.—Robert LeMense
Alex, Fogarty Steal
Show At Grid Banquet
As they have done for the past 19 years, 1,000 or so self-styled football experts sat down to the annual Civic Testimonial Football Banquet last Monday evening, and reluctantly closed another Notre Dame football season. And after they had argued the relative merits of Kimbrough and Piepul, of Anderson and Layden, across filet mignon and iceberg lettuce, they turned in their chairs to hear what the gentlemen at the head table had to offer.
Mr. Bill Corum, sports writer deluxe from New York, via Booneville, Ark., and toastmaster for the evening, called signals for the all-star lineup of speakers, but had to yield ball carrying honors to Coach Bill Alexander, of Georgia Tech, and Paul Fogarty, ’17, Chicago radio artist and rhymster of no mean ability. There was no mistaking the hit old Alex made with his sly southern wit, while Fogarty drew the loudest applause of the evening for his clever impersonations of Rock.
Twenty-nine varsity football monogram winners, three football managers, and one cheer leader answered Head Coach Elmer Layden’s summons to the head table and walked away the happier with a monogram sweater.
Gus Dorais, University of Detroit football coach, has been elected a member of Detroit’s city council.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
800 Honor Matthews
At K. of C. Banquet
Nearly 800 Knights of Columbus and guests from four states filled the east wing of the dining halls last Sunday evening to honor the Supreme Knight of the order, Hon. Francis P. Matthews, K.S.G., and 126 newly initiated members into the Notre Dame council.
Mr. Eli M. Abraham, state chairman of Columbian Squires in Indiana, acted as toastmaster. The meal was followed by addresses of welcome offered by the Rev. Vice President J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Mayor Jesse Pavey of South Bend, Indiana State Deputy Gilbert E. Powell and Supreme Director in India-ana Timothy P. Galvin.
Supreme Knight Matthews, after expressing his gratification for the fine reception, reviewed the founding of the order by Father McGivney, and pointed out the accomplishments of the organization in fulfillment of the late priest’s purpose.
The order’s significant factor of universality of charity work was noted by Mr. Matthews: “The Knights of Columbus always have extended and always will extend charitable hands to those in need, regardless of race, color or creed.”
Hon Michael L. Fansler, chief justice of the Indiana Supreme Court, congratulated the organization on its accomplishments and stressed the need for a continuance of its efforts.
At an informal gathering in the Notre Dame council chambers Monday, Toastmaster Abraham expressed his deep gratitude over the recognition Council 1477 had received:
“I have watched the growth of this council through many of its formative years, and I do believe this is the culmination of my fondest dreams. Your council has garnered praiseworthy recognition through the visit of our Supreme Knight. All of you should be proud of the work that your grand knight, Tim King, and banquet chairman, Joe Gerwe have done in making the week-end such a success.”
Notre Dame Vaudeville
A Smash Hit Revival
They should have called it “A Night At Tony Pastor’s.” When the campus vaudevillians trucked their stuff in Washington Hall last week the only things absent were the eggs and the hook. But it was all in fun. Few student shows ever played to a more appreciative audience than this reborn vaudeville revue.
The revival of the “ham opera”
brought forward a conglomerous cross
section of the theatrically ambitious. Magicians, tap - dancers, singers, instrumentalists and even a swing band competed for fun and prizes.
From beginning to end the show was delivered in the informal spirit of grandpa’s entertainment. Vaudeville chairman, Vinnie Doyle casually dragged on his discoveries and left them to the mercy of the mob. Backstage, the yet untried aspirants got their last laughs. The stagehands were all for cutting a few capers themselves and even Father Burke attempted a jig in the wing.
Jack Whelan stole the show with his bag of tricks but mystified no one when he caused the first prize of $30 to disappear into his side pocket. The tickling tempos of the jump and jive made Johnny Kelley’s band $20 richer. Besides snatching this second prize the appearance of the band served as their initial introduction to a Notre Dame audience. Kei says that the boys will have new bandstands after the holidays. The third prize of ten dollars was awarded to Phil McFarland and Johnny Coppinger for their novel dramatic and tap-dancing act.
Three theatrical men from South Bend served as judges. Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., directed the show and Vincent Doyle acted as chairman of the affair.—Edmund Bzttler
Oratorical Contest
The “Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Contest” will be held sometime during February. The prizes for this contest are money awards of $100, $35, and $15 to the winners of first, second and third place respectively.
Maestro Johnny Kelly (at drums) and His Band
Only undergraduate students of the University are eligibile to compete. Orations must be original and must deal with the fundamentals of American government, and particularly with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.
Professors Frank Kelly and Albert Doyle of the department of speech are in charge of the contest. All those desiring to enter should submit their names to some member of the department of speech as soon as possible.
Further details will be announced after the Christmas holidays.
Local Sociology Staff
To Speak in Chicago
Various members of the University faculty will take prominent parts in the activities of the second annual' convention of The American Catholic Sociological Society when it begins its three-day discussion at the Morrison Hotel in Chicago, Dec. 27.
Mr. Frank T. Flynn will act as chairman of the social work discussion on the opening day. The following day Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., will speak to the assembly on “Trends and Attitudes in Hygienic Marriage Legislation.” Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., will lead discussions on both the second and final day of the convention.
A student session will be held on the opening day to enable sociology students in the vicinity of Chicago to avail themselves of the privilege of sitting in on some of these discussions. Students are invited to “listen in” on any of the meetings held throughout the convention. •
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Student Forum
Social Effects Of A Declining Population By Edward G. Huff
Life insurance statistics and general
surveys of population trends indicate
indubitably that the United States is
Edward Huff
approaching a stationary and even a declining population, and that the country is tending toward an “older” population. That is, the rate in the numbers of adults is increasing over the rate in the numbers of children, and in the not too distant future the nation will start to decline in its numbers.
A pathetic phase of the situation is
that practically all of our non-Catholic sociologists have missed this trend until recently. It was not many years back that nearly every sociology text in collegiate use not only was advocating birth control, but was justifying this practice on “scientific” grounds because the authors really feared that the limited states would grow too rapidly and thus exceed the food supply.
In 1927 such “population experts” as Professors Edward A. Ross, of the University of Wisconsin and E. M. East, of Harvard, were lecturing to women’s clubs and writing books and magazine articles about the danger of overpopulation in the United States. Yet in 1937 we find a genuine population expert, Dr. Louis Dublin, of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, predicting that we shall reach our population peak by 1950 and then start to decline in numbers. And Professor Ross now admits that he was wrong ten years ago, and that our problem in the future is to be “population shrinkage.”
What then, promise to be the effects of this population shrinkage? We may group the lot of these effects—and they are generally regarded as deleterious— under five headings: economic welfare, education, civilization, moral and social waste, and the political life.
1.	Economic Welfare Imperiled
Since the American economic philosophy is constructed on a “bigger and bet
ter” standard, American manufacturers and industries have always planned on increased production for expanding markets. Hence, with a serious shift in population trends, our economic system must undergo serious revamping; overequipped plants will be forced to curtail production plans. Abandoned farms, idle factories, and vacant homes promise to accompany a falling population. The industrial future threatens to become dark as tariff barriers are set up abroad to prevent the expansion of our foreign trade.
2.	Reconstruction of Education a Necessity
Elementary schools already have begun to be affected by the fact that there were fewer children under five years enrolled in 1930 than there were in 1920. More children were graduated from the elementary schools' in 1935 than ever are expected to be again. The number of pupils under five years was less than the number between the ages five and nine; and each year this reduced group will be promoted upwards toward high school and college. School building programs, especially in the elementary grades, already are being reconstructed with an eye toward meeting the new trend. Other things being equal we soon shall need fewer schools and fewer colleges but many more homes for the aged.
3.	Civilization Faces Danger
Although the leaders of the . birth con--‘ trol movement attempt to laugh it off as being absurd, many believe that American liberties may yet be jeopardized because of the approaching decline in the number of American people. Whether or not the United States undertakes to police the world, it is widely believed that a nation must have numbers in order to maintain military equality among the top ranking nations, unless one is convinced that the days of war are gone. But present situations belie this conviction.
True, we do not rear our children to become cannon fodder, but tragedy threatens to befall us if we permit our hopes and ideals to blind us to the blunt facts of even recent history. After all, there are nations that regard “force”
i —See page 19—
Four Veterans Debate
With New Varsity Team
The latter part of February and the month of March will be full of action for the members of the Notre Dame Debating team, chosen last week by Professor William J. Coyne, head of the Speech Department, assisted by other members of the faculty. Four veterans, Albert Funk, Milton Williams, William Meier, and Thomas Grady, and an equal number of newcomers, Daniel Sullivan, John Burke, Bernard Lienhard, and John 0‘Loughlin, compose this year’s team.
The schedule for the team is as yet incomplete, but it is expected the debaters will open the season at the tournament in North Manchester, Ind., on Feb. 23 and 24, after which they will enter the tournament at Iowa City on Feb. 29, March 1 and 2. Then comes the annual series with Michigan State College in March. It has been customary in the past for the teams to attend the tournament at Madison, Wis., late in March, but plans are being made to send the team East instead.
The following assisted Mr. Coyne in selecting the team: Professors Louis F. Buckley, John H. Sheehan, Vincent F. Fagan, James A. Corbett, and Francis E. Moran; and Instructors Louis A. Radelet, William R. Duggan, and Philip V. Daugherty.
McVay Hits Propaganda
Before Wrangler Group
A pertinent analysis of war propaganda circulating in the United States was given to the Wranglers recently by William P. McVay, senior law student from Bradford, Pa.
Mr. McVeigh made mention of a Gallup survey whose results indicate that a majority of Americans evidence a skeptical attitude toward most reports released by belligerent nations. He contended that this appeared to be a result of the enlightening information this country received about the absurd statements issued during the first world war.
The speaker emphasized the conscious effort of all Americans who are sincerely interested in seeing this country stay out of war and who are in a position to exert their influence to debunk the flow of propaganda.
The surest road to peace, he said, is to learn what reports are most acceptable, read the story from both sides, and remember above all that the United States will become more and more the
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
target of European propaganda machines as the war continues.
A sharp rebuttal was given by the Wranglers to Mr. McVay’s views and opinions, but the speaker met fire with fire in his rejoinder.
A membership committee headed by Jerry O’Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind., has been interviewing prospective candidates who have had experience in public speaking activity. Any student who has fulfilled this requisite and desires to become a Wrangler is asked to contact Mr. O’Dowd immediately.
Harvard Offers Grads
Ten $300 Scholarships
Notice has been received this past week that ten scholarships of $300 each will be awarded to students entering the Graduate School of Business Administration of Harvard University in the mid-year session beginning January 29, 1940.
Four of the scholarships will be granted upon recommendations of Harvard Alumni Clubs in principal cities of the country. The remaining six are to be granted as Service Scholarships. All successful applicants will be eligible for an additional $300 from the School Loan Fund provided their grades at the end of the first half-year are satisfactory.
Nine Notre Dame graduates are now enrolled in this course at Harvard. In the first year group are E. J. Carroll, F. X. Clarke, F. E. Cunningham, R. H. Diecklman, and J. C. Starkie. In the second year group, D. R. Finn, F. H. May, C. L. Reynolds, and L. F. Welch are enrolled.
Publish Rollison Text
The Law of Wills, one of the most recent law texts on the subject, by Professor William D. Rollison of the University, was released this week from the publishers, Callaghan and Company, Chicago, Illinois. The book which covers 823 pages, is written from an historical viewpoint and stresses particularly the historical background of the law of wills and descent and distribution.
Chiefly with the student’s point of view in mind, the author has divided this text into three principle subjects: (1) Wills (2) Descent and Distribution and (3) Probate and Administration proceedings. The common and statutory law subjects are traced from the Norman conquest in England down to the present time. This enables the reader to gain a better understanding of the terminology used in the decisions of modern statutes. To clarify any possible
misconceptions in the reader’s mind, Professor Rollison cites many illustrations from actual cases, along with two tables which explain the various degrees of collateral relatives.
The author, William D. Rollison received his A.B. and LL.B, degrees from Indiana University; and LL.M, from Harvard in 1930. He was a member of the law faculty of the University of Alabama from 1922-30, member of the University of Notre Dame faculty since 1930. He is privileged to practice law in Alabama and Indiana, member of the American Bai* Association, and is listed in Who’s Who in Law and Who’s Who in America.—Thomas C. Femeding
Bureau Advises Seniors
To Start Job Hunt Now
In a letter sent to the graduating class by the Placement Bureau all seniors were urged to cooperate with Wil-
William R. Dooley
liam R. Dooley, director of the bureau, in locating jobs. It was stated in the letter that business men would visit the campus during the course of the second semester to interview applicants, and that the placement committees of Notre Dame alumni clubs in the largest cities were organizing to assist.
The letter urged seniors to get their job-finding campaign under way at once —to investigate, think, plan, and organize—and for individuals to decide what they want to do and what they can do best.
It is possible that some members of the graduating class have been overlooked unavoidably and, if so, Mr. Dooley urges them to see him in the Alumni
offices in the Main building. If any postgraduate students desire help from the bureau they are also invited to visit the offices.—Don Heltzel
Editor Carty Has $35
He Can’t Get Rid Of
When asked about the “annual complaint” that only friends of the editor get their pictures in The Dome, Editor Thomas F. Carty said, “We offered $35 in prize money for pictures of campus life. Yet no entries have been submitted. I just can’t get rid of the. money.”
The 1940 issue of The Dome is taking form after months of work by the editorial staff. The cover contract was signed last week and a sample has already been received. Except for a change in color the new cover will follow the same design as last year’s. The staff has been organized with a view to covering every campus activity in order to present the best possible view of local life.
A meeting of the art staff recently decided that four-page divisions would replace the two-page used last year. Pertinent drawings will indicate each new section in the book.
Editor Carty came back from the meeting of the Associated Collegiate Press, in Des Moines, with several new ideas for this year’s Dome. As a result one new feature will be a section for Freshman lawyers, who have been ignored in the past.
A special issue of “The Juggler” will constitute the humor section.
Marine Corps Advances
N. D. Student Reserves
Major Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University of Notre Dame, received notice from Marine Corps headquarters in Washington, D. C., of the advancement of several Notre Dame students who attended the Platoon Leader’s class held during the past summer.
Robert W. Blake and George G. Haggerty have completed the senior course, and are eligible upon graduation for commissions as second class lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve. Blake was also named honor graduate of the class, and is therefore eligible for consideration for a commission in the U. S. Marine Corps upon graduation from Notre Dame.
Edmund J. Quinn and John E. Reith have completed the first period of training and are eligible to return for the senior course during the summer of 1940.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, Neivs Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Kelleher, Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Dear Santa Claus
NFORTUNATELY, we have urgent business in Pittsburgh, this Christ
mas eve, so we’re asking you to take care of a few things for us. Should Mr. Barry forget, drop a box of cigars into the press room. You know, there is the popular opinion—nay, we might even say accusation—that the editors really put out this Scholastic. As a matter of fact, we carry the copy to the composing room, where “Red” Early and Brother Anselm set the type, while Joe Guentert and the militant Brother Mark throw it onto the forms. We also serve who merely stand and heckle.
That is the Monday program. Usually, by Tuesday noon, we have the editorial pages filled; then we work on the Ave Maria, or play checkers until Thursday, while Collins struggles with our ever - increasing advertisements. Speaking of ads, could you bring Mr. C a brand new dummy to work with? But the cigars are important.
■Mr. Foskett just walked by the typewriter, and he suggests that you drop something into Father Trahey’s stocking, too. (No regulations, please.) You see, Father Trahey recently placed Brother Foskett on the caf-book list, and Brother Foskett — formerly a 97 pound physical weakling if ever you saw one — has been gaining daily in wisdom, and in age, and in weight.
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
In fact, he is muscling in on your racket. Already one of the enterprising merchants of East Weymouth, Mass., has signed him to an ironclad contract to appear, Dec. 20 to 24 inclusive, as an auxiliary Claus in the chintz curtain department. Thanks to Father Trahey, and a thrilling drive to make the weight, Brother Foskett is now in shape to enact his difficult role without benefit of pillow. Also, for the last few mornings, Donald’s rector has been showing him some of the finer points of bell-ringing; so, you need not worry. Donald will deliver a finished performance.
By the way, Mr. McGowan could use three or four newsmen with some literary ooomph, and while you’re at it, you might drop a Henry McLemore down Mr. Newland’s chimney. From Mr. Wemhoff comes the report that the Juggler Vein has a weak pulse. Unless you supply him with a few contributors, the column will be ready for the coroner by late January.
A shame, too, because they have been asking for a Juggler column since we were freshmen. Perhaps you would know what has happened to the campus literary spirit the past ten years. Offhand, wouldn’t you think the Chemists and the Engineers—even the Commerce men, to name an extreme case—might find something in their work, occasionally, that could be written up into an interesting contribution. You may even
recall the days when English majors wrote English.
But we’re being selfish. We mustn’t ask all for ourselves. Mr. Layden will be needing a left half now that Ben and Stevie are gone, and Mr. McAllister will be needing a new supply of t-shirts and towels now that the football players are gone.
Oh, yes, our night watchman has his heart set on a new sign-in pad. You might add a wristwatch that always runs 15 minutes slow . . . and Mr. Connelly wants a new cook and at least one new menu—you’ve disappointed him so often . . . and could you smuggle a barber into the barber shop . . . and, let’s see— how about giving us one of Father Burke’s vaudeville shows at least once a month? His leadoff was the best entertainment we have seen in Washington Hall in four years. The audience reaction proved that, and also demonstrated that students know the difference between quality and Jitney players . . . and bring Katarzyna in the laundry another 10,000 yards of black thread.
Did you read in Jack Ledden’s column the other day about Southern Cal’s fine gesture in sending a wreath to Rockne’s grave the morning of the game? There were no press releases—a chance visitor discovered the flowers. Which makes the gesture all the finer, to our mind, and we will save for another time the metaphysics of their junior-college system .for developing Lansdell’s.
One last thing. We’re getting on in years now, and we’re not quite certain we can survive another tennis campaign —especially if we have to play many matches on that prairie clearing behind the Engineering Building. You probably don’t get around these parts much in the springtime, so you wouldn’t know the maximum velocity of Indiana wind. The car windshields in the parking lot reflect the sunlight very nicely, too. Didn’t we mention last Christmas that canvas backstops would solve the problem — even quick growing vines planted along the fence would improve conditions to a point where they would approximate somewhat the facilities the tennis team finds whenever it plays at Chicago, or Northwestern, or Michigan, or Earlham, or DePauw, or Kentucky.
Get to work on this, otherwise we will' have you confused with the-little-man-who-wasn’t-there.
Sincerely,
William C. Fay.
P.S. Merry Christmas.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Merry Christmas, Johnny
by John Patterson
“What’cha gettin’ for Christmas, Johnny?” asked Joe Waterson.
Johnny Munson hesitated. He scratched his head, squinted, and replied, “Do you believe in Santa Claus, Joe?”
“Nah, only babies do that.”
Johnny was disturbed by this remark. He turned away from Joe and lumbered sulkily up the walk toward his home. Joe, Johnny’s best friend, and a mighty power in the neighborhood, didn’t believe in Santa Claus. Johnny’s disturbance turned to disgust. Joe must have been pretty dumb. Why, all the fellows believed in Santa. Every Christmas, Santa came down the chimney, and left presents for them. Why should they think Santa wasn’t real? Like the other boys, Johnny thought of Joe Waterson as quite a hero. If Joe didn’t believe in Santa Claus, someone ought to tell him. Joe thought it was smart not to believe, but he should know the truth.
Then Johnny stopped, peeked back at Joe, and walked toward him. Joe was wrong. Why not tell him?
“Gee Joe, you oughta believe in Santa Claus. He’s real. I saw him last year.”
“Aw Johnny, that was probably your dad dressed up like Santa.”
“It was not my dad! He told me so himself. I guess I oughta believe my own father.”
“Awright for you, Johnny, if you wanta be a baby all your life—. Holy Smokes, Johnny, I can’t argue with a guy like you. What’cha gettin’ for Christmas, Johnny?”
“I don’t know yet, Joe. I wrote to Santa Claus—.”
“You wrote a letter to Santa Claus! Gosh Johnny, you' must be crazy. I tell you there isn’t any Santa Claus.”
“Well, I just wanted to tell you what I was gettin’ for Christmas. I won’t now. You’d think I wouldn’t get them anyway because I asked Santa Claus. Gee Joe, how can you have any fun on Christmas?”
Johnny turned abruptly as he heard his mother’s voice calling, “Dinner, Johnny.”
“Well Joe, Merly Christmas. I’ll see you tomorrow.”
“Merry Christmas, Johnny. I bet you’ll say I’m right before long.”
Johnny wondered if Joe was right. The Santa Claus he saw last year didn’t look like most of Santa’s pictures. But it might have been one of Santa’s helpers.
Gosh, didn’t his father tell him all about Santa and the helpers, all the little dwarfs and the other ones who look almost like Santa. Once he wanted to run up and tug at one of those store Santa’s beards, but when the time came Johnny had lost his nerve. He would have known for sure if he hadn’t been such a sissy.
Almost a sinister look came into Johnny’s eyes. He was going to find out for sure. He wouldn’t go to sleep. He’d just pretend he was sleeping. Sometime during the night he would see Santa come in. Unless—Johnny shuddered.
* * *
Johnny sat quietly at the table during dinner. No one noticed his silence at first. Finally Mr. Munson, aware that Johnny was shrinking from all conversation, wondered at this strange bashfulness, especially on Christmas eve.
“Son!”
“Huh.”
“It seems to me you aren’t nearly so peppy as you were last Christmas. Is there something on your mind?”
“Nothing I guess, Daddy—. But Joe Waterson says there isn’t any Santa Claus, and sometimes I get worried about it.”
“Well, you listen to me, young man. Joe is a little boy with big ideas. You pay more attention to me and you’ll be better off.”
Mrs. Munson interrupted modestly.
“Now John, there is no reason for
you becoming angry with Johnny. Johnny, you mustn’t let Joe upset you so. No matter what he says you saw Santa last year, so you know he’s real.”-
That was all there was to it. For the rest of the meal the usual before-Christ-mas conversation was in progress. All were careful to let no hint of Santa Claus’ unreality seep forth. Johnny’s older sister, Carolyn, was especially careful in choosing her words. After., a usual argument, Johnny submitted to going to bed, and was rushed upstairs by his mother.
* * * *
Lying in the darkness, Johnny thought. He dreamed hopefully of the presents he was expecting: the sled, the two-wheeler, the football helmet, and all the little things besides. Periodically, he found himself slipping off to sleep; but, no, he couldn’t do that. He just had to stay awake! This time he would see Santa Claus; he would fix Joe! Johnny rolled around in his bed; he held his eyes open with his hands. Sometimes he sat up and looked through the window at the dark sky. No reindeers, no sleigh, no Santa Claus—and it was getting late. He could tell.
Suppose Joe was right. But he just couldn’t be. Gee whiz, daddy wouldn’t say there was a Santa Claus if there wasn’t one. This year if Santa came, Johnny would make sure Santa came down the chimney; he .would watch Santa fill the stockings, no chance of anyone fooling Johnny this time. . . . Joe said that it was daddy last year, but this time Johnny would make sure.
It was awfully hard staying awake. Bells were ringing somewhere. Johnny counted the sounds; the bells rang twelve times, twelve o’clock—that was late for Johnny. But Santa Claus would be along soon now. He’d bring lots of presents; he’d be a big, round, jolly fellow. Or maybe me wouldn’t be at all; maybe he just isn’t.
A cold draft of air blew in the window. Johnny crawled deeper into his shell of blankets. He saw himself riding down the street on the two-wheeler; he saw his football helmet, the sled, the little things. He was warm, comfortable, happy. But he was forgetting his
—Turn to page 22—
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Piepul For Kelly—Gridders Fled “Moose” 1940 Captain
Irish in the Notre Dame gymnasium. Illinois, a team which defeated Wabash 61-20, faces the Irish in Champaign. And then the dangerous Wildcats from Northwestern meet the Irish to close the holiday basketball festivities.
First Back To Lead
Irish In 12 Years
first time in 12
Capt. Piepul strins fullback has
The election of Milt Piepul as captain of the 1940 Fighting Irish marked the rs that this honor has been awarded to a backfield man. It is fitting that when a 12 year old precedent is broken that “Moose” Piepul, “the people’s choice,” could do it.
Breaking precedents seems to be a habit with the giant, scholarly captain - elect. It has been many years since a Notre Dame second cored a half dozen
touchdowns in a single season. And it’s been a long time, too, since the Irish have had a fullback they could hand the ball to on the five yard line and say, “Let’s put this one over.” But that’s what the human battering ram, Milton John Piepul did all season. Aside from booming several 60 yard kicks over the opposing safety man’s head, backing the line like a stone wall, and clearing the path for teammates with vicious, hard blocks, the “Moose" made himself as unobtrusive as possible on Saturday afternoons, teaming with Joe Thesing to form one of the finest fullback combinations in Notre Dame’s history.
Milt has won two monograms at Notre Dame, having played a prominent part in the team’s success in his sophomore year. Next year should be his greatest, and many predict an All-American berth for him. But Milt modestly disclaims any possibility of this.
Thompsonville, Conn., claims Piepul as a native son but it was at Cathedral High, Springfield, Mass., that he captained his first football team. This team went undefeated until the last game of the year, but “Moose” says if Notre Dame gets that close to an undefeated season next year it will take more than a football team to beat the Irish in the last game.
The captain-elect is 6 feet 3 inches tall, weighs 210 pounds and is 21 years old. His popularity lies not only among the members of the team, but also with the students, as anyone who has attended a pep rally and heard the student body chant in unison “Moose, Moose,” will attest. He is in the department of physical education and he hopes someday to coach, after first taking up graduate work here at the University.
—Chuck Farrell
Keogan Doubtful Of Win
Over Michigan Tomorrow
Coach George Keogan’s Fighting Irish basketball team will get down to the business of giving their second Big Ten Conference opponent a taste of Notre Dame court finesse tomorrow night when they battle mighty Michigan’s Wolverines at Ann Arbor.
Rea, Sofiak, Fink, Fitzgerald, and Brogan, all starters for Michigan last season are back in harness. These are the same five men who played a major part last year in Michigan’s victory over the Irish, 40-30. Concerning the possibility of victory for the Irish, Coach George Keogan is doubtful. His viewpoint seems to be that the inexperience of the Irish will be a handicap in the face of such game-proven men as Michigan has to offer.
“In the opening ‘breathers’,” Keogan said, “the team was hot and cold. Flashes of steady, winning basketball were shown, but there is too much wild passing, a lack of finesse, and little leadership.
“The boys are coming along slowly, but from now on there are no soft touches on our schedule and we must have a balanced attack soon. Otherwise, Notre Dame is for some disappointing evenings on the basketball court.”
Scout reports say that Michigan is a gem technically. Against Michigan State the Wolverines showed a brilliant passing attack as well as a fast breaking combination. Smooth ball handling is an added asset to the Michigan squad’s sound attack.
During Christmas vacation the Irish will face three strong quintets. The Trojans of Southern California will stop off on their eastern trip to meet the
We need only to look at the past games between Notre Dame and Northwestern to realize that pre-game dope means little. Some of the strongest Irish teams have been beaten by mediocre Wildcat fives. And great Northwestern teams have met defeat at the hands of fair to middlin’ Irish squads. In each of these Wildcat-Irish encounters, the outcome has been doubtful right up to the sounding of the final gun.
Many of the Trojans will be at home, or rather, “Back Home in Indiana.” U; S. C. is renowned for the number of Indiana natives playing on its basketball teams. This fact is another reason why the Trojans are sure to bring a strong team East. Indiana is famous the country over for its outstanding players and teams.
The schedule has started in earnest. Illinois, Michigan, U.S.C., Northwestern, and the other games to come, are all extra high hurdles. Marquette will be strong: Butler is always a stiff test. But if Captain Mark Ertel, Eddie Riska, Gene Klier, and the rest of the Keogan crew don’t forget the superb basketball they played in walloping Wisconsin Tuesday night, we won’t worry too much over the holidays.—John Patterson.
Vets—Riska, Capt. Ertel
Juniors Down Seniors,
Frosh, To Capture Crown
At last Notre Dame’s official gridiron battles are over for the season; the mighty mites of the 150 pound division have met and the Juniors emerged campus champions as a result of their 13-0 victory over the Freshmen last
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
Sunday. Twenty-five keys were awarded to the winning squad; 24 to the players and one to their coach, Frank “Boody” Albert, whose untiring efforts in the interests of his boys led them to successive victories over the Senior team, coached by Alan Mooney and Bob Sullivan, and the Freshmen, who had access to the services of such veterans as Joe DeFranco, Joe Thesing and Thad Harvey. Wally Borer and Mike Corgan did their best for the Sophomores but were not able to stave off a 6-0 defeat at the hands of the Freshmen. Previously • the Freshmen had played the Sophs to a 0-0 tie. The Juniors similarly deadlocked the Seniors.
The championship game was officiated by Johnny Kelleher and Augie Bossu. Bossu and ex-captain Jim McGoldrick were head coaches. No serious injuries were reported in any of the games.
Due to delay caused by the late arrival of the equipment, play was started later than intended this year but it has enabled the Student Council, sponsors of the Interhall football movement, to get ready for a quick start next fall. The 1940 schedule will be played in two divisions, arranged by halls. The freshman and sophomore teams will play for the title in their division and the winner will meet the winner of the junior-senior schedule. A game between these two champions will decide which hall houses the best lightweight football men of the University. Plans for spring practice in this branch of Notre Dame grid talent are still indefinite.
The Student Council wishes to express its thanks to Athletic Director Elmer Layden, the varsity men who coached the squads and to James Mac Allister for his assistance in equipping the players.
—Jack Dinges
Monahan Takes Campus
Handball Championship
Defeating Bob Schorsch in the finals, Tom Monahan of Walsh Hall last Monday won the all-campus handball championship— an affair that aroused unusual interest.
Monahan beat David Fitch of Zahm, Jack Lucas of St. Ed’s, Bud Kotte of Alumni, Ed Cleary of Breen-Phillips, Paul Borgman of Alumni, and Schorsch. The runner-up defeated Robert Metzger of Alumni, William Meyer of Walsh, J. E. Foley and Sam Bozick, both of Alumni.
Monahan took the first game of the finals, 21 to 17, but dropped the second, 12 to 21. He came back strong in the third, winning 21 to 11. One of the
Splinters From The Pressbox by Frank Aubrey
A week ago the campus got its first look at 150 pound football and judging from its reception we want more of it. The question is—on what basis do we want to play, as intramural or as intercollegiate? Before any official objections can blanket proceedings let’s take a look at what has been done with lightweight football in the East where intercollegiate schedules are maintained to the satisfaction of all concerned.
Dating from the first 150 pound game played between Yale and Harvard in 1930, lightweight football has grown into the status of league play. At present Lafayette, Penn, Rutgers, Princeton, Villanova, and Yale are members of a lightweight football league formed in 1934 by Malcolm Farmer, the Yale director of athletics. Most of these schools had intramural football in their athletic program, but at Princeton this sport died a quick death from lack of interest, whereas first call for 150 pound football brought out 100 candidates. Harvard and Yale cling to both 150 pound and intramural football, but the bantams are far ahead in popularity.
The 150 pound game is informal, that is, it is sport for sport’s sake. The players play to win and have good coaching, but the pressure and coldblooded drive to win which are a part of keying the varsity squad just don’t exist for the light weights. The league rules have protected the amateur spirit. Practice is limited to the academic year. Training tables are taboo. Each school must schedule a majority of games within the league. Weights are taken 48 hours before the games and only those less than 151 pounds are eligible. Men who have daily averages of more than 155 pounds after two weeks of practice are dropped from the squad.
The type of football played by 150 pound men leads to a fast and spectacular game with the element of speed more important than that of weight. As a result, well-coached brainy squads usually emerge the victors over those with the poorer strategy. Another good point is that 150 pound teams from small schools are not only equal among themselves but also are on a par with teams from bigger schools. As evidence we have Rutgers whose team dominated play from ’32 to ’36, winning every game, except one tie, until Yale beat them with a last minute rally in 1936.
Lightweight football offers an opportunity to those men whose football ca
reer terminated with their graduation from prep or high school. -Many haven’t played college ball because they realize that weight is against them, and it would be useless, if not harmful, to go onto a field with men 30 to 50 pounds heavier. Yet eastern 150 pound history will show that injuries to light weights beyond a few sprains and bruises, are practically nil.
Unlike big-time football there are no prima donnas among the bantams—because it is too easy to find a sub when all the men weigh the same. The real worth of the sport lies in the players’ desire to play for the fun they get out of equalized competition. At Rutgers some of the juniors and seniors filled out and got heavier so that Coach Harry Rockefeller advised them to go out for the varsity. The pay-off came when one said, “But that isn’t what I want. I want to play where it’s fun and not business.”
The 150 pound football, if inaugurated at Notre Dame on an intercollegiate basis, would undoubtedly appeal to a majority of the student body, if Rutgers is any criterion. There, it was found that 60% of the boys in each class are 150 pounds or less. A third of the bantams never played football before. Taking their weight into consideration it is easy to see why. Yet, pound for pound, these lightweights have produced some real stars. If you will look in Parke Davis’s football guide you will see that the longest punt is credited to Doug Northrup of Yale who kicked 84J/2 yards in a 150 pound game with Penn.
Expense always pops its unwanted face into the discussion, but in this instance we welcome it, because here’s where it gets sown up. 150 pound football is carried on in the East very economically. The teams travel by bus and make no over-night stops. They wear discarded varsity equipment which is patched up and shrunk from cleaning. They do not travel far and usually play Friday games so as not to draw the crowd away from the varsity show. In return, the players get no concessions or awards, but are rewarded with minor sports letters, and, if champions, with a banquet. This is the brand of football which avoids over-emphasis, disgruntled subs, and serious injuries. As such we welcome it and will work to see whether such a sport cannot be encouraged by the formation of an Indiana or midwest 150 pound intercollegiate league by the fall of 1940. How about it, Ebner?
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Pete Sheehan
Mark Ertel, captain of Coach Keo-gan’s basketball team, spends his summer vacations in the employ of his father who operates a soft drink plant. Yes, Mark works for his Pop! His defensive play against high scoring pivot men last year* indicates that the younger Ertel already is a master at bottling.
Since Mark was old enough to hoist a basketball over his head he had his heart set on a career as a collegiate bas-keteer. This is not unusual because Mark comes from Tipton, Indiana, and Hoosier kids are playing basketball when their contemporaries in other states are still fooling around with electric trains.
Big Mark didn’t win a basketball letter as a sophomore in high school, but played first string center during his junior and senior years. In the latter season he won all-regional honors and led the Northern Indiana Central Conference in scoring that year.
Tipton High won nineteen consecutive games during the ’35-’36 season and captured the first six rounds of the regional tournament before being eliminated in the final round. Steve Sit-ko, Lou Wagner and Ralph Vaughn participated in this tourney. Vaughn, who will appear here with Southern California’s Trojans, won allAmerica honors at forward last year and is expected to repeat. He prepped at Frankfort High—Indiana State champs in ’36. Frankfort lost but one game during the regular season, and the Tiptonites are still talking about Mark Ertel’s part in the downfall of the champions.
Ertel held down the first base position for three years in baseball, and his heavy hitting spelled success for the Tipton nine. He won five letters at Tipton and he still gets a letter from there every day.
Mark came to Notre Dame in ’36 and immediately attracted the attention of the Irish coaches and fans. He was pitted against All-American Paul Nowak several times each week, and Paul had more trouble with this pesky freshman than he had with most of his big time opponents.
An injured leg kept him on the bench during the early part of his sophomore
year. After the leg had healed he substituted for Nowak and missed a monogram by a small margin.
Last year history repeated itself. As in high school, Mark stepped into the regular pivot position and remained there despite the strong competition furnished by his pal, Rex Ellis. Every game saw a marked improvement in the big Hoosier’s play, and from the brand of basketball he has displayed this sea
son Mark Ertel will be remembered as one of Coach Keogan’s great centers.
Mark lives in Sorin Sub with Curt Hester, Track Coach Nicholson’s 880 man. Most of their time is spent listening to dance music, and both these athletes give Kay Kyser their vote as America’s best.
A very quiet fellow, Mark seldom leaves the campus. Although he was president of his senior class back at Tipton, he has managed to keep clear of campus politics.
Statistics: Full name—Mark Anthony Ertel. Born in Tipton, Indiana, on Feb. 26, 1919. Height, 6 ft. 4% in.; weight, 198 pounds. A brother, Jim, is now starring for Tipton High and intends to follow his brother to Notre Dame in ’42.
Mark will be graduated from the College of Commerce this June.
closest matches of the tourney was the semi-finals battle between Monahan and Borgman. With games one-all Borgman secured an 18 to 14 lead when service changed. Monahan then took the next seven points to win the final berth and the ultimate championship.
Inter-Hall Basketball
Practice games are being played this week prior to the opening of the InterHall Basketball tournament the first week after Christmas vacation.
The schedule of the first week’s play follows: Heavy division, Monday, Jan. 8th, Howard vs. Carroll, and Zahm vs. Sorin, 7:45; Walsh vs. Dillon, and St. Ed’s vs. Cavanaugh, 8:45; Tuesday, Jan. 9th, Lyons vs. Breen - Phillips, and Brownson vs. Off-Campus, 7:45; Alumni vs. Morrissey, and Badin vs. Freshman, 8:45.
Light Division, Thursday, Jan. 11, Dillon vs. Walsh, and Lyons vs. Alumni, 7:45; Sorin vs. Zahm, and Breen-Phillips vs. Morrissey.—John Lezvis
Basketball Too Fast
For Players—Keogan
“Recent rule changes have speeded up basketball so that it is now impossible to play an entire game with five men.”
The speaker was Coach Keogan whose Notre Dame teams of the past have piled up an impressive .774 victory percentage. Coach Keogan is of the opinion that rule officials, in their desire to speed up the game, have made it so strenuous that it would be harmful for an individual to go the full route. Because of this it is now mandatory that coaches carry twelve men on all trips.
Two new rules have been added this year, one of which is the regulation changing the boundary line from two, to four" feet behind the basket. Players may now circle around behind the basket without going out of bounds. The other new rule provides that when a player is fouled he has an option of either taking the free throw or receiving the ball out of bounds. The purpose of this is to prevent a losing team in the waning minutes of a game from capturing the ball by purposely fouling. According to Keogan, this rule, as did the rule eliminating the center jump, tends toward mediocrity in basketball rather than greatness.
Last year Coach Keogan was opposed to the elimination of the center jump, but those in favor of it claimed it would prevent the tall man from monopolizing the game. According to the Irish mentor it has had no such effect, as there
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
are more big men now than ever. Likewise he disapproves of the option rule which would be a hindrance in the event of a last minute rally, thus slowing down a finishing spurt.
When questioned as to his views on some of the existing regulations Coach Keogan approved of all except the ten second rule adopted a few years ago.
“The court should not be divided into two sections of play, as this eliminates one of the finest features of the game— fast play.” Keogan stated that the limited playing space after the lapse of ten seconds made the game far less exciting than it could be otherwise.
Coach Keogan thinks present rules should be simplified. “At present there are too many rules being added and too few abolished,” he said. “Once a rule is put in the books, it is very difficult to have it withdrawn, and this, coupled with the addition of new ones, complicates affairs greatly. The rules committee should simplify this.”
—C. Farrell
VINCENTIANS
Two weeks ago this column described part of the visit of a Vincentian from an Eastern city to the Conference office here. In his description of our work, Executive Secretary Jack Reddy mentioned a case report form.
Jack showed the visitor the form used in family reports. There is another for children’s cases. The volunteer who is to visit the home does not see the form before his report is written up; then he checks it against the original.
A report made by a member probably would be general in nature. Going into a shack or unpainted hut with its rough bed nailed up in one comer, and tin cans and tin plates for the food, the usual impression is: “The home conditions were very bad.”
But the form is amazingly thorough. In his description of the neighborhood, the worker is asked many questions: e.g., the “nationality of population,” the “general standards of living,” the “distance to school (private, public, parochial), library, church.” For a description of the home he must tell about the “type of house and state of repair,” the “cleanliness and evidence of comfort,” the “cultural and spiritual values,” and many other things.
Hearing this, the Vincentian visitor was impressed, and he was thankful for the attention he received:
Scrip Deadline
Editor John Meaney announces that the deadline for the January 19 issue of Scrip has been set for January 5. Contributions should be mailed to or left at 126 Alumni Hall.
“If only the parish conferences could see the way young men can apply themselves. This is charitable work done with the zeal for which they ask.”
Attention was aroused last week by the announcement that four new men had been added to the advisory board of the Notre Dame Conference. The men are Mr. Willis Nutting of the department of history, Mr. John Cronin of the department of sociology (graduate social work), Mr. John Sheehan of the department of economics, and Mr. Raymond Hoyer of the department of sociology and social work field.
Christmas bells could certainly boom for a story told by a certain Vincentian in a group that was discussing experiences in investigating cases. It seems that when a Vincentian was near the home he intended to visit, he stopped to ask for directions. An old fellow across the street waved. The Vincentian recognized him as an old character in the town and after seeing the house up the street, asked him whether he would like to go along on the visit. The man did go. After having been away from the
CLOTHIER
May the Peace and Joy of the ■ Yuletide be yours in abundance this Holiday Season.
Parker-Winterrowd wishes you the best of fortune during the coming year. Resolve to be well-dressed in 1940 . . . clothes from our shop assure you -of keeping this resolution.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115^,-11756 North Main (upstairs)
Ready-to-wear suits and coats . . . Custom tailored and made-to-measure clothes.

Church for five years, he was soon back and did great work in the Society.
The sincere thanks of all Vincentians to those who helped to make the dance the success that it was.
We urge you to make your bus and airline reservations at No. 23 Lyons Hall; the Vincentian office is your agency. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to you all.—Richard Leo Fallon, jr.
$ »
Give a Book —
A Gift sure to please and one ■ that will give pleasure for a long time to come.
You will find in our selection a book to please each one on your Christmas list —
And from the Campus:
TEB
Collection of Chicago Tribune verse (Father Tom Burke), 25c
"Lessons in Liberty" by Clarence "Pat" Manion........$ 1.50
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
&	m
TAILOR
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The Liturgy is the extension of the Incarnation in time and space. The Incarnation is the mystery of God made man for our salvation. It is the manifestation of the goodness, wisdom, justice and power of God. Christ, the Incarnate God, instituted the sacraments to continue the work of salvation in every age. He made the Church the custodian and administrator of them. “.___teach ye all nations._to observe whatsoever I have commanded you.” (Matthew 28, 19-20)
Breathtaking as this thought is, nonetheless “my words are spirit and life.” (John 6, 64) The Liturgy views man in the light of the past, the present and the future. The text of the masses proper for Advent admirably unites these elements of man’s history in relation to God. Pity it is that layfolk are not familiar with the Divine Office. There the symphony of the Expectation rises to the divine climax of the coming of the “true Light which enlighteneth every man that cometh into the world.” (John 1, 9) At least, anyone may read the Book of Isaias. He is called the Evangelist of the Incarnation because he relates in prophetic vision all the details of the divine story.
Christmas, the feast of the Incarnation, is the feast of the heart and the home. When the spirit of the home is the spirit of the Liturgy the hearts therein are attuned to the angelic hymn, “Glory to God in the highest; and on earth peace to men of good will.” (Luke 2, 14).
Mass Calendar: December 17-21
Sunday, 17 — Third in Advent. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin (1st in Common) 3d, the Church or the Pope.
Monday, 18—Ferial Day. Sunday Mass. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin (1st in Common) 3d, Faithful Departed. 4th, the Church or the Pope.
Tuesday, 19—Ferial Day. Everything as on Sunday. 4th prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 20—Vigil of St. Thomas, Apostle. Ember Day. Mass proper. 2d prayer, the Vigil, 3d, Bl. Virgin (1st in Common), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Last Gospel of the Vigil.
Thursday, 21—St. Thomas, Apostle. 4thMass proper.- 2d prayer, the Feria. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Five Good Men And True
Drafted By Wranglers
A decisive majority vote through secret ballot gave five men the honor of joining the Wranglers Tuesday evening. Nineteen candidates delivered brief talks before the society. Behind closed doors the Wranglers verbally eliminated 14 and gave the token of acceptance to:
Stanley Litizzette, Helper, Utah; John O’Loughlin, Bangor, Maine; Daniel Sullivan, New York City; John MacCauley, New York City; and John Burke, Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
These men will be inducted formally at the January Wranglers banquet by President Al Funk of LaCrosse, Wis.
Religious Bulletin
A year ago, 15 Notre Dame students organized a committee since expanded into the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature. The committee’s purpose was to combat the indecent pulp magazines overrunning our newsstands. Under the patronage of the Very Rev. Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne, Ind., this commission has sold over 100,000 copies of No Smut. This year, under the chairmanship of Tom Kenedy, an even greater sale is anticipated.
Last week, two of the Religious Bulletins were withheld from “outside” circulation, and in their place was sent, with the compliments of the commission for decent literature, 9,000 copies of No Smut. This was done, obviously for advertising purposes. As a result, orders are now coming in very satisfactorily— several for 500 pamphlets, a number for 250.
RADIO
It’s that super-snooper from the Sooner State! Yes, every Tuesday afternoon at four, your loudspeaker snaps and crackles as Eddy Corey, the kid from Skiatook, Okla, swings into his 15 minutes of news about the people on our campus and across the road.
Eddy has been handling Periscope programs since the beginning of the year and has attracted a good deal of attention as his three fan letters will attest. He keeps them on his desk close at hand all the time, probably as a source of inspiration. One of them, however, shouldn’t really be counted as it is just a very friendly “thank-you” note
1
T
i
1
Two-Legs, Inc.
wishes you — one and all —
A Very Merry Christmas
and a
Glorious Holiday Season
and
we hope to see you often in 1940
■I
4
IE
118 S. Michigan Street
1
For Sale at Hickey Brothers, located in the Hotel Oliver, Hotel LaSalle, and Hotel Hoffmann
The Dies committee will soon begin an investigation of communistic influences in U. S. colleges and universities.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
from a young woman, mentioned as one of the most charming at the Rock.
All the campus business men have been buttonholing Eddy as he rushes through the Caf in quest of news for recently he began to devote a few minutes at the end of each show to plugging various products peddled around the school. Eddy is proud of his scoops. He came out with the location of the Senior Ball this year the day that it was officially decided. He also had the first correct price for the Soph Cotillion tickets and thereby made life easier for at least a few lads who had visions of bankruptcy when the first notice was published.
All in all, the Periscope is an interesting bit of Notre Dame life. It gives the boys at Michigan and Colfax their blow; it makes the girls at St. Mary’s happy, sometimes; and is always a lot of fun.—Ray Kelly
DISC - CUSSION
Time Magazine calls it musician’s music; the New Yorker says it’s destined for the Hit Parade. One way or another, “All The Things You Are” is one of the best songs to reach my ears in some time. Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein should be well satisfied with Tommy Dorsey’s version of both it, and “That Lucky Fellow,” both from their “Very Warm for May.” “Words and music by Hammerstein and Kern” speaks for itself. The lamented Jack Leonard does one of his best jobs—and that, too, speaks for itself. You may find, Mr. Dorsey, that one Leonard is worth several De Witts.
Dick Jurgens has paired two more numbers from the same show: “All In Fun” and “Heaven in My Arms.” Eddy Howard again proves his seldom questioned ability, on both sides. “All In Fun” won’t, I think, get popular but it is a big reason for the critics acclaiming this show as comparable with Kern’s “Roberta” and even his “Show Boat.” By now you must all have Jurgen’s “Careless.” If not, why not?
Two good, orthodox “pops”—“A Little Street In Singapore” and “Who Told I Cared” have been done unusually well by Harry James. Another of our better vocalists, Frank Sinatra, does the lyrics. James restrains himself admirably. I think you’ll like this one.
Despite the fact that Johnny Mercer seemed to get into a rut in writing the lyrics, “Blue Rain” is another good song. Kay Kyser and Harry Babbit run it- off as planned, which means that if you like dance music and good vocals—here ’tis. “You’re The Greatest Discovery,”
with Sully Mason, won’t appeal to your soul but you may like it.
That band that didn’t play the Cotillion—Bob Chester—has recorded “Stars Over the Campus” and “My Silent Mood.” The first is a reincarnation of “Observatory Hill” and the second based on “Recollections of Music” by Chopin. I’m not as familiar with Chopin as with Observatory Hill, but I like both. Chester, with a little more Miller and a little Dorsey, tries hard but vocals by Dolores O’Neil don’t help. His brass is too harsh; his saxes too rare. When he polishes off a bit and develops a style of his own, he should be good.
Say, fellows, let’s all break our records of “Oh Johnny.”—Bill Geddes
With the Money You’ll Save Traveling Home at
GREYHOUNDS Reduced HOLIDAY FARES
To Hundreds of Cities—Effective December 15th
Sampfa Roaad-Trip Fara*
IMPROVE your standing as a first-class Santa Claus this year. Chances are you can check off a large part of your Christmas list with the money you save at Greyhound’s reduced fares for your trip home. Super-Coaches are warm and comfortable in any weather—and the crowd’s always congenial . . . Get into the holiday spirit—get aboard a Grey-
Are you in a
HURRY?
That dress shirt can be made ready for the dance in a few hours if necessary.
COMPLETE LAUNDRY
SERVICE at
REASONABLE PRICES
4 Hour Laundry
Colfax near Main
NEW YORK CITY_____________$19.80
BOSTON, MASS 21.70 BALTIMORE, MD_ 19.80 BRIDGEPORT, CONN„ 21.70 CHICAGO, ILL____ 2.65
CLEVELAND, OHIO__ 8.20 SCRANTON, PA_____19.80
BUFFALO, N. Y___14.40
PHILADELPHIA, PA_ 19.80 TOLEDO, OHIO____ 4.95
hound Super-Coach—get going! Merry Christmas I
UNION BUS DEPOT
. 133 S. Lafayette, So. Bend Phone 3-8283 Campus Agent: Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., St. Vincent de Paul Society.
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Shaffer Talks Gland
Secretion to Scientists
Dr. Robert Shaffer, of Detroit, Mich., associate of the late Dr. Engelbach, father of modern endocrinology, was guest speaker at the December meeting of the Academy of Science, Tuesday.
Dr. Shaffer received his pre-medical instruction at Notre Dame, before studying under Dr. Engelbach at the St. Louis University College of Medicine.
His lecture explained the functions of the glands, internal secretion and their effect upon the' human constitution.
Maryland District Club
Notre Dame’s version of Darryl F. Zanuck, Father Michael Mathis, showed a few of his better football films to the members of the Old Dominion and Maryland District Clubs last Thursday evening. The two clubs held a joint meeting that evening in Badin Rec.
Father Mathis, who has received technical training in movie production at Hollywood, showed talking pictures of the Ohio State game of 1935 as recorded by Joe Boland, University line coach; illustrative football shorts that were made by the late Knute Rockne, and a short on the art of kicking.
Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, associate
ARROW SHIRT HEADQUARTERS
New patterns. New collar styles. Arrow shirts make swell Christmas presents. We’ll monogram and box them for gift giving without charge.
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
professor of history and faculty advisor of the Old Dominion Club, presided at the meeting. At the conclusion of the meeting, refreshments were served.
MUSIC NOTES
This week the Metropolitan Opera Company presents “Tannhauser,” a famous music-drama written by Richard Wagner.
This opera has a semi-historical basis in the ancient contests between Germanic singers. The Minnesingers of this opera were noblemen who sang poems and music of their own in praise of pure love. They flourished in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.
What am I bid?
RUCTION off your die hard Arrows and get a load of new ones. We'll admit Arrow shirts last too long . . . but after 78 years of experience making shirts and collars, what can you expect? We're in the groove so to speak, and turn out a beauty at every tick of the clock. Each one comes up gleaming with that inimitable Arrow collar, anchored buttons, Mitoga fit, beautiful patterns, sturdy woven fabric, Sanforized-shrunk (shrinkage less than 1%), and the price to you gentlemen is only $2 . • . some higher . . . none less.
See your dealer today — he's got the new ones in!
ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS ... TIES ... HANDKERCHIEFS ... UNDERWEAR
Act One. The opera opens in a subterranean palace of Venus. Tannhauser is homesick for the life he has given up in order to be with Venus. At her insistence he sings in her praise, but begs for his freedom. At first resentful, she then tries to charm his restlessness away, but grows furious again and tells him that his Christian God will never forgive him. In the second scene Tannhauser sees a group of elderly Pilgrims wandering toward Rome. He asks their blessing and joins them in the famous “Pilgrim’s Chorus.” As they disappear Wolfram enters and tells him that Elizabeth has been pining for him. Tannhauser at the memory of her sets off for the Castle of The Wartburg.
Act Two. The hall of Apollo in the castle. Elizabeth enters and sings with

The Notre Dame Scholastic
joy because Tannhauser’s voice is to glorify the castle again. Wolfram ushers in Tannhauser and he and Elizabeth are fervently reunited. Elizabeth is made queen of the great singing contest. The court gathers with much pomp. The Minnesingers enter. Love is announced to be the subject of the prize song. Wolfram, chosen first, sings of the fountain of clean-hearted love, to much applause. Tannhauser interrupts with a praise of passion, but is received in chill silence. He is contradicted by all, and is angrily rebuked. Tannhauser madly declares that Venus alone can teach of love. The women leave the Hall hastily and Tannhauser stands eternally condemned for his unholy life in the Venusberg. He is protected by Elizabeth who begs that he may have a chance to repent. Tannhauser is now overcome with shame and prays God to accept him. He joins a band of young Pilgrims who seek absolution at Rome.
Act Three. Elizabeth is praying before a shrine. Wolfram muses on her incessant prayer that Tannhauser may return forgiven. A band of elderly Pilgrims approaches, but Tannhauser is not with them. Crushed with grief, Elizabeth dies. Later that night Tannhauser staggers by in tattered Pilgrim garb, and he declares wildly that he is on his way to Venusberg again. He tells of how the Pope had absolved all the other pilgrims, but had refused him forgiveness. The excommunicated Tannhauser can find shelter nowhere but with Venus. She now appears to him in a cloud, but Wolfram struggles to restrain the maniacal Tannhauser and finally breathes Elizabeth’s name. Tannhauser cries her name wildly, and a funeral procession enters bearing the dead Elizabeth. At the sight of her, Tannhauser, imploring her to pray for him in Heaven, dies of grief. Young Pilgrims now enter singing of Heaven’s forgiveness of Tannhauser.—William Mooney
The Studtent Forum
(Continued from page 8)
as a large factor in international affairs. Can we always command the respect of such nations?
When the advocates of artificial birth control insist that “We favor a small family,” they are really saying, “We favor a small nation.” Were a group of peace fanatics to suggest that we sink our naval resources and scrap West Point and Annapolis without similar actions taking place in other countries, they would be labelled as being ridiculous. But isn’t it just as foolhardy to
advocate shrinking our potential man power in a world such as we live in today? Force may not be the best line of defense, but it invites mention of a better defender if there be another.
4.	Morality and Society Decadent
Monsignor John A. Ryan, Catholic University, points out an early social effect of a declining population as being the weakening of the moral fiber of a nation, a moral decadence that grows into “.... a devastating amount of softness, luxury and materialism and a fatal decrease of mental and moral discipline, of endurance and of the power of achievement.” This point might be worth considering also in these times as
When downtown, try us for a real
HAIR CUT
Go where N. D. Men Go!
Hotel Hoffman Barber Shop
120 West LaSalle St.
GOING HOME?
SEND THAT LUGGAGE
by fast RAILWAY EXPRESS!
Just phone the Railway Express agent when your trunk or bags are packed and off they will speed, direct to your home, in all cities and principal towns. You
can send "collect” too, same as your laundry goes. Use this complete, low-cost service both coming and going, and enjoy your train trip full of the proper Holiday spirit. When you phone, by the way, be sun to tell our agent when to call.
RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY
50S W. South St., So. Bend, Ind. Phone 3-6121
Railway
NATION-WIDE NAIL-AIM SEBVICE
we talk of strengthening our army and navy so as to be able to continue to command the respect of nations that place a large value on “force.” Courage and endurance are as important as gunpowder in most wars.
The birth controllers tell us that only by having smaller families may we raise the wage scales and abolish unemployment. Thus, birth control propaganda attempts to establish a direct cause-and-
For Delicious . . .
Sea Foods
Fried Chicken
Spaghetti Dinners
HOWELL'S CAFE
211-213 N. Main Street
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE HUDDLE
"Pipe Headquarters" $ for the Campus g
- -isaS^
I HERE AND NOW Right on the Campus
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS
SHOPPING
▼
Complete selection of religious articles.
N. D. Laprobes
Books:
“Lessons in Liberty” by Clarence Manion
“God in An Irish Kitchen,” by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
Christmas Cards
— in enough variety to please every taste.
Free! Christmas Wrapping!

N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall'
effect connection between poverty, slum conditions, low wages, unemployment, and population.
Are we forced to admit that reduced families, whether by moral or immoral means, is the solution which we must offer to the low-salaried worker? This is an admission of defeat that no Catholic, pledged by his religion to the promotion of social justice, will even momentarily, concede.
“Justice first,” the remedy for heartless laissez-faire industrialism and unjust distribution, was pointed out by Pope Leo XIII in his Rerum Novarum nearly half a century ago. Since then Catholic economists and sociologists have demonstrated time and again that injustice and not too many people is the wrench in the machinery. One cannot but wonder if the wealthy advocates of birth control have not thrown up a “smoke screen” deliberately, so as to divert the attention of the underpaid from their chief enemy, social injustice.
5.	United States a “second class” Country?
America, a nation of young people, traditionally has been characterized by its energy, optimism, and initiative. But a new drift in population standards is likely to turn the United States into a conservative and even a “second class” nation, altogether apart from a change in its size.
A country composed largely of middle-aged and elderly people will probably move at a different tempo from one that has a majority of young people. National life will become more sober and conservative, with the younger people surrendering the driver’s reins. The ambitious schemes that young Americans have been wont to put through in the past will be discouraged. It is not impossible that the needed economic and social legislation advocated by younger men today will be abandoned in favor of a return to the laissez-faire policy of the older economic royalists, with conditions ultimately drifting into economic chaos. All of this because a greater percentage of reactionary older people will be in the control of business and government.
Ten years from now we shall know much more about the effects of population shrinkage than it is possible for us to guess at today. By 1950, if Dr. Dublin is right, we shall start to go down the population skids. Maybe there will be some advantages, but from our angle, and populations experts like Professor Warren S. Thompson view it as we do, the future prospect is anything but consoling.
The products of the famous Manhattan Shirt Company
are exclusive in South Bend at
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.!
Shirt and Pajama prices start at $2
Formal Shirts, $2.50
Mansco Shirts or Shorts, 50c
Handkerchiefs, 35c
THERE'S ADVENTURE RHEHD "KRIGHT IR C^tan/udtaiT


Night brings adventure and romance for . the man who is dressed to court it. Com? fori, inn ic nrnviderl bv ihn nynriinn rni a
I
■i
¥

shirts so easy to wear that your every . thought is of the occasion ... without.
even an occasional thought for the shirt.
. Which is as it should be.
* Manhattan is the shirtfor the self-assured \ ... and for the man who wants to be sure, it's still Manhattan,




22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Merry Christmas, Johnny
(Continued from page 11)
worries for the moment. Snug and warm, deep in these thoughts of his toys; careful, or Johnny will fall asleep. But, no, Johnny had to stay awake. That was the only way to find out.
* * *
Downstairs, Mr. and Mrs. Munson were carefully arranging the presents around the sparkling Christmas tree.
“Well dear,” said Mrs. Munson, “soon Johnny will be too old to believe in Santa Claus. You know, John, Christmas just isn’t Christmas when the youngsters lose that tender innocence. I wish we wyere all simple and unsophisticated. Look at Johnny—he is in his glory now. It seems so futile when one thinks that as we grow older and learn more, troubles pile upon troubles and doubts upon doubts.
Mr. Munson was staring at space. He turned slowly and answered his wife.
“One thing we can be certain of, Evelyn, is that, without doubt, there is a Santa Claus. He isn’t material; he is a spirit. You’ve heard him called the ‘Spirit of Christmas.’ We, you and I, and all the parents with some means,
SKATE FOR HEALTH AND ENJOYMENT . . .
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK (Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS
Every Night Except Monday Matinee Sunday and Thursday
Students always 25c
“A Cood Way to Ma^e Money for Your Club"
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School
We have the United States Civil Aeronautical Authority's approval.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated) .	Bendix Field
can make Santa Claus an eternal being. When there is peace, cheerfulness, happiness in a home, then the spirit of Christmas is really present. That goes for every day, not simply the twenty-fifthof December. When I said ‘means,’ I didn’t mean money. Everyone has the opportunity to spread good-will. That opportunity is the ‘means’ I spoke of.”
Then, as if eager to change the conversation, Mr. Munson quickly said, “I better look in on Johnny. The little tyke may be playing ’possum. You know, Joe Waterson has been filling Johnny with ideas on Santa Claus.
Mr. Munson glided into Johnny’s room. The bells struck one; one o’clock now.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terns of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
He breathed, “Johnny—.’*
No reply; no movement.
He moved to Johnny’s bedside, looked down on the sleeping child, touched him. Johnny was asleep.
Again downstairs, Mr. Munson assured his wife.
“Well Evelyn, the young man is sleeping. You needn’t worry this year at least. He’ll still have his Santa Claus tomorrow morning. Joe Waterson hasn’t succeeded yet.”
ASK US TO
PLAN YOUR
HOLIDAY
TRIP
• The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Our agent can handle your every travel detail to and from home.
Inquire about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time, to any section of the United States or Canada.
Many students have already arranged their holiday trips. Plan yours now without further delay. The South Shore ticket office is open daily until midnight.
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
For Good
HAMBURGERS
317 N. Michigan St.
216 W. Colfax 109 E. Wayne
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists and Opticians 314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Show appreciation of our advertisers by your patronage.
Arnold Lunn Writes A Letter
(Continued from Page 6)
Moscow. I could not and cannot see why we were wrong to do what we could to prevent Catholic Poland being crucified between two thieves, but two months before the German-Russian pact became known I predicted in print the probability of a partition of Poland and affirmed my own belief that there would be no pact between Britain and Russia. Russia’s actions were predictable. Stalin dare not face the risk of being involved in a major war. He therefore played up the British to get the best terms out of Germany. He dared not risk a German invasion after Poland had been beaten. What of the future? I believe Stalin to be a genuine Marxist firmly persuaded that out of World War will develop World Revolution. I hazard the guess that he will try to keep the war, which he desired and which he precipitated, going long enough for Germany to go Bolshevist but if he had to choose between a decisive German and a decisive British victory he would choose the latter for he knows that we shall never attack him, whereas he is no less convinced that a triumphant Germany will invade the Ukraine and turn him out of the Baltic States. He detests Britain but I do not expect him to do very much for Germany.
I remember reading, I think in The Scholastic, the remark that Fascism is as dangerous as Communism. A Rumanian diplomatist remarked to a friend of mine, “We have had the Germans through our country and they destroyed a lot, but they left something—but if the Russians come they leave nothing. Communism is the ultimate evil.” I have heard heart-rending stories from Polish friends of Poles, whom I know, ruthlessly shot in what is now Russian Poland.
But to return to my main thesis. The Catholic who knows his Europe does not make the silly mistake of equating Italian Fascism with German Nazism. The former has its roots in the old culture of Catholic Europe, which incidentally was as authoritarian as modem Italy, whereas the latter, like Communism, is bitterly hostile not only to Catholicism but to the Catholic culture. I have lived in Italy for two years and though there are many things in the regime which I could’ criticise, I love the country and am happy here, but I could not endure the climate of the “Swastika” for more hours than was necessary to cross Germany to happier countries.
Greetings to all the many friends I made at Notre Dame.
—Arnold Lunn
Pallanza, Italy, Oct. 28, 1939.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. 9. BUILDINB
{Dr. 0. Qrundy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND .BUILDING
PHONE 4*0989 SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
QaaaaiaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaataaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaMaaaaetaaaMaQI
OFFICE 4-5661	RES. 3-4080
{Dr.	^ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG	SOUTH BEND
QMaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaataaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeanaMaaanQ
{Drs. Drobsi and SinyUr DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
1------------------------------♦
?	SOUTH BEND	I
1 X-RAY LABORATORY ' 1
1	825 SHERLAND BUILDING I
1 L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. a
I M.O.	M.O.	|
*■---------------------------—♦
ose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATE* BLOC.. SOUTH BENO
ft
Ann Sheridan
STARRED IN "YEARS WITHOUT DAYS' A Warner Bros. Picture does her Christmas v shopping early.
One of the most attractive Christmas packages—see it in the stores and order your Christmas Chesterfields now. Chesterfields, with their real mildness, better taste and delicious aroma, give real pleasure to anyone who smokes.
You cant buy a better cigarette.
Copyright 1939, Iiggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
mad I	G II
VJiestertields
: attractive Clot cattona