.J*-.	w
Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCeQVASI-SfcmPCR-VlCTVRVS- VIve^VASIvCRASIMORITVRM^^
Vol. XXXV. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Commencement Number, 1902. No. 37.
. Glass Poem—1902.
{An Acrostic.)
HENRY EWING BROWN, LITT. B. IQO2.
EVER shall the battle’s roar
Or the countless friends that pour Through the camp to bring good cheer
Round the soldier, dull his ear, Ever- tuned to one low sigh.
Down through all the’years gone by And through endless future time, Memory in fondest chime
Echoes that last sigh until
Universal sound is still.
Not a sigh alone of pain,— In its notes there lurks a strain Verging upon joy and pride, . Ever mocking her who sighed.
Round its sound fond memories cling, Soft and low love’s echoes ring In its every tone, as though Telling of the mother’s woe, Yearning,- pride and joy; and then Calling into life again Long remembered hopes and fears. All her work of bygone years Sought to fit her son to be Such as now he is; and she, Picturing the future fame Of her son, breathes round his name Earnest prayer, and one fond sigh Murmurs low at his good-bye. •
Let us know that honour’s In. the doing, not the deed, . • Takes its rise; and let us heed Till the end this final prayer: ■Be thy fortune foul or fair, Nought imports; be ever true To the trust imposed , on you.
Here to-day our partings lie. Each of us lists to the sigh , Now low whispering through the air; Restless heart-calls everywhere Yield their burden of farewell; Endless echoes fondly tell Deep regrets; yet all seem still. We rejoice in-that glad thrill Answering the joyous call, Ringing through and over all Dominant of hope and pride. Earnest hope that dares confide -Wondrous future gifts and deeds In its children;, pride that reads Nought but joy in this last day. Going forth we bear away Brightest prospects of success, Rich in hopes of usefulness. O’er whatever path we wend, Well remembering the end, Never swerving from the course,.
source
6o2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Individual Responsibility.*
The very rev. edward j. mclaughlin, b. ’75. a. m. ’95.
I, therefore, a prisoner in the Lord, beseech you that you walk Worthy of the vocation in which you are called. Ephes., iv, i.
N the world of nature as well as in the spiritual world, all created beings have certain duties to perform in the faithful execution of which ( they co-operate with the
divine will, and are contributors, each in a separate sphere, to the accomplishment of the infinite and beneficent plans of the allwise Creator. Look abroad upon nature, view it in its various aspects, from its sublimest moods to its - lowliest and most peaceful setting, and you have clearly manifested the power, the wisdom, and the glory of God, the Creator. The sweet songsters of the forest, the lightnings from the heavens, the awful crash of thunder, the gentle sighing of winds through summer woods, the peaceful murmur of purling streams gliding amid woodland glades, the sad moaning of the great, restless sea,—all, all unite in doing homage to their God. Blending in one grand and swelling chorus, each contributes its share in portraying the sublimity and wonderful harmony of the universe. Man, the crowning work of God in nature, “the flower and perfection of creation,” made to serve and worship his Creator, is the intelligent interpreter and teacher marvellous work in the economy and in the economy of grace. “
Man is peculiarly fitted to give
of his high origin, God, and to attain the end of his creation. Coming into this world, stamped with the divine seal, possessed of an immortal spark, enlightened by divine revelation and the teachings of Christianity promulgated by Christ the Redeemer through His divinely established Church, man is superbly adapted to be a living witness to offer testimony of God’s truths by his daily life, and to become an apostle in maintaining and perpetuating, in-his own sphere, the kingdom of God upon earth. The great: apostle had clearly in mind the particular station in life of each one, with its corresponding offices, burdens and obligations, when ■ he exhorts all to stand firm in the faith, to work
* Baccalaureate Sermon in University Chapel, June 15.
of God s of nature
1 .m
testimony
in unity and harmony, to be faithful to his various callings: “I, therefore, a prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation to which you are called.” That we may humbly and reverently draw inspiration for our individual souls from the book of life outspread before us, I invite you this morning to spend a few moments in taking a brief glance at human life, not in the aggregate, in its widest sphere, in its limitless extension, for that would be impracticable in a limited discourse of this kind, but rather human life in the individual, in the unit, and its relations and duties to those about it.
'St.- Paul in his epistle to the Romans after setting forth the principles of the universal government of God and His Church, and His purposes towards mankind, passes in the opening words of the twelfth chapter to an appeal to personal conscience and to the details of individual duty, and bids each one’of us unreservedly consecrate to God that distinct, special life, which, although separate, is yet part of a great whole, is identical in its interests, its hopes, its destinies, with the ends, hopes and fortunes of the entire race of man over whom God has thrown the shield of His love and of His providence. Human life, as seen in the mass, in nations, in races, with its various religions, its social organizations and prevailing customs, its laws written and unwritten, its infinite variety of development, is a marvellous and most absorbing study; but it takes on a deeper meaning, a greater personal significance, when each one realizes that he is a unit in that mass, a part of that nation, that race. Out of the mass, out of the innumerable throng of beings, there comes forth the individual soul, the individual life— single, solitary, separate. A small thing, an atom, when compared with the great mass of mankind; but none the less true, none the less real. Its interests are as important, its hopes and fortunes as vital. Once called into existence that individual soul is bound to tread its solitary way amid the varied and shifting scenes of the busy world. Through all the vicissitudes of time and the changing fortunes of the mass around, that single thread of life goes on, spans the number of its allotted days here, and then draws out an endless existence hereafter.
One of the world’s great throng, that single soul, in a certain sense, is alone,—alone in the world; alone in the multitude; alone with Him, who made. it. Mingling of necessity
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	602 '
with the world c.t large, in daily contact with society, still it has its secret thoughts, its own will, its hopes and fears, its joys and sorrows, its trials and ambitions, which are like to no other. It is alone in coming into the world; it is alone going out into the • unfathomable' deep. Amidst the busiest scenes of life, in the greatest press of men, that individual soul can withdraw into its innermost recesses and feel as if it alone were upon the earth. To quote from the great Cardinal Newman: “Every being in the vast concourse is its own centre, and all things about him are but shades........ He is everything to himself, and no one else is really anything. No one outside of him can really touch him, can touch his soul, his immortality; he must live with himself forever. He has a depth within him unfathomable, an infinite abyss of existence; andThe scene in which he bears part for the moment is but like a gleam of sunshine upon its surface.”
My dear friends, it is a solemn and serious thought to know and to feel that a life has been given into our possession, and that life our very own; that life, with its awful responsibilities, its manifold duties, God the Master, the Creator, has given into our keeping to use as we will. It is true, “we are in His hands,” but to each one, He has given power over the hours, the days and the years of his individual life. Through the saving grace that flows from the Word, we can attain the noble destiny to which we have been called, or wander away from it through our own fault; we must choose and act for ourselves, as none other can choose or act for us. It is ours to.use that time nobly or ignobly, to seek after the higher things of life, or be satisfied with the baser offerings of the world. But since life has been given to each one in such fulness, with such freedom, by the Father, so each one must stand alone in the judgment; no one can answer for him. We must rendei' an account of life’s right use or abuse. All must live their individual lives, and all must undergo trial for their individual responsibilities.	.
Now since life is a matter of such grave moment, of so serious import, it is only natural that every earnest and intelligent man should have his own views, his own ideas, his own plans, concerning it. How shall we live? What use shall we make of the years that God has given us? What shall be our relations to our fellowmen ? These are questions that must
some time enter into the life of every thinking man; they are particularly grave and pertinent questions for you, young gentlemen, who are about to go forth into the world, and take upon yourselves for the first time, I may say, the duties and responsibilities of the man. With your moral training, your Christian education, your spiritual' culture, imbued as you have been these many years with the highest ideals of purity, of goodness, of all that is noblest in human character, it should not be necessary to speak of that lower, baser life,- . that grovelling existence which is sought only by the ignoble, the depraved of mankind, who never halt in their downward career until they have effaced, as far as they may, the very image of Divinity stamped upon their souls. Of such a life we shall say nothing, it is sufficient for us to know that it exists to avoid and abhor it. ’
But there are some who may elect to pass through life as elegant idlers, as dreamers, as speculative critics;'whilst their refined and sensitive natures never descend to the vicious and coarser vices of humanity, wrapped in their own sweet selfishness, they are content to view life as one vast stage upon which .. they have no part to play. The shifting scenes . of human life, with their lights and shades, their varied tone and color, the pageantry of the world, its tragedies and triumphs— all pass before them as if they were mere spectators. They lift no hand to lighten the shadows, they give no thought to stay the tragedies. They cull the flowers; the nettles they leave to be plucked up by stronger and more virile hands.
My dear young friends, there is no place in this great world of ours for the idler, the dreamer, the observer. “In the sweat of thy , face shalt thou eat bread,” is the positive command of God to all mankind. All must labor: some with their hands, others with their intellects; each one according to that peculiar talent which Gpd has given him. As St. Paul expresses it, he that hath the gift of prophecy let him prophesy, or of ministry, let him minister; let the teacher use his talent in doctrine, and so - on through the various grades and stations in life. Somewhere, out in the vast world, the life-work of each one is awaiting him. It would be unmanly, unchristian, to shrink, to falter, to seek to throw.the burden upon the shoulders of another. \
Where shall be your place, what shall-be the measure or your success, will depend
6o4	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
largely upon yourselves and the Almighty Father of all. The cry of humanity, voicing its needs, its sufferings, its perils, its dire distress, both moral and physical, goes . forth in this and other lands, calling- for aid and succor. It is an appeal that has inspired noble, unselfish souls in every age to give up hope of worldly fame, ambition, the dreams of early youth, the pleasant and soft things of life to consecrate themselves to this special work. Oh, there is need of such devoted, - unworldly souls! Misery and sin and wretchedness and crime abound everywhere; they are to be found in every walk of life; they-contaminate the marble palaces of the rich as well as the miserable hovels of the poor. There are wrongs to be righted,; there is justice to be obtained and administered; there is the tear of sickness and poverty to be wiped away. In every great city of the land there are unhappy homes where a gleam of sunshine never penetrates; beneath their roofs there are broken, perhaps sinful hearts and outstretched hands waiting through the long hours for the saving word, the kindly touch, that will restore peace and happiness and purity to their starving souls; there are discords and tragedies even beneath the gilded upper crust of society to be sought and averted.
Here we have a rough, unpromising field, from a worldly . point of view; but may we not hope that some may find their life-work therein? There are other walks of life, some wide and straight, others narrow and crooked, but all converging toward one great centre, the vast arena in which is fought the daily battle of life. Here men meet and jostle one another in eager strife; here men come with armor buckled on, with visor down and lance in rest, ready and eager to cope7with and overthrow their adversaries; here men gather, some to build up and others to tear down. In this field, on this stage, are discussed and solved the great , problems of the world, of government, of trade, of public weal or woe, of the rights and wrongs of the human race; and on this stage every man must do his part. It is true that each individual soul moves along in its own particular groove, . alone, as it is in its innermost thoughts, in its will, in its distinctness from any other life, and : yet it is; so inextricably bound up with the ' - great• mass of humanity and persons around it, that it can not forego the ties and. duties .'^imperative upon all, which unite and bind so closely the separate individuals of the
human race’into the great brotherhood of meh.
Every man, then, must consider himself an active, intelligent, responsible worker in the strife of life. Everyone can be a potent factor in his own sphere: in doing good; in uplifting humanity; in spreading abroad the principles of honour, of righteousness, of charity; in shaping the ends and destinies of his fellow creatures. But to do these things, men themselves must be fearless, must be large hearted, must be unselfish, must "be honest, must be just, must be God-fearing and God-loving. For no one can be a light unto others, a righteous leader of men, until he has garnished his own soul with all virtues, until he has conquered and overcome self; hence the great apostle cries out to each one to • consecrate himself in order that he may be better able to do the work that will be given him to do: “I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, pleasing to God.
The world is calling for such men to-day; it needs courageous, conscientious men; men of highest character, of rare tact and splendid judgment to confront and grapple with questions and problems of such magnitude as have never been equalled in the history of nations since the dawn of time. And each can do his part, be it ever so humble, in the great cause of humanity, in carrying out the wise designs of the omnipotent Creator, in furthering the development and solution of the mighty interests which face our times, and upon which depend the physical, temporal and spiritual welfare of millions of our fellow-beings. All can not be leaders in the warfare of life; some must be content to dig in the trenches, while others climb the heights. The vast majority indeed must work with patience in, obscurity, even as common soldiers are content to be maimed or to give up their lives on the battlefield for the common good. Remember it is not. the deeds that are . done by each one that make the difference between man and man, but it is the end, the purpose, the moral color, the consecration of the work which give it significance, value, in the eyes of God. Let each one, go forth,, then, resolved to do the work that is given into his hands-as faithfully, nobly, grandly, as he mayf. satisfied that , when life’s fitful dream is over he shall hear the words of the Master: “Well done, thou, good and faithful servant; . because thou hast been faithful oyer a few things, ! will set thee over many things: enter thou into the joy of the Lord.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I.—The Monroe Doctrine.*
GEORGE AV. BURKITT, A. B. IQO2.
HE Federal Constitution marked out the course of the American Union. The great forces that guide our destiny and policy along that course are the Declaration of Independence, Washington’s Fare-
well Address and the Seventh Annual Message of President Monroe. None of these, the greatest instruments in the history of the United States, is a constitution, a charter, or . a law; but in the heart of every American they • bind by a force stronger than positive law; they bind us by our natural love of the nation’s life. The Declaration of Independence sent 'the message of American liberty resounding throughout the world. Washington’s Farewell Address and the Monroe Doctrine, many years later, were echoes of that Declaration in the hearts of Americans. The . Declaration of Independence proclaimed: “We are a free people!”
Washington’s address said: “Foreign nations, ! hands off; and we shall not meddle in your affairs!” The Monroe Doctrine declared: / “Our safety is threatened! European powers, take notice! We shall suffer no injury.” That ;	is the substance of the' Doctrine that has
j	exerted so paramount an influence over the
’ policy of the United States from the day of j ' its enunciation down to the present time. As I	a rule, the misconceptions of it have been
$.	proportionate to its influence. There have
been republican doctrines, there have been J	democratic doctrines, there was an “Olney
I	Doctrine,” there have been other doctrines,—
।	all called “ Monroe Doctrines,”—but there is
one genuine Monroe Doctrine. These various forms were either revivals of the original doctrine or misconceptions of it.
Contention- has arisen in regard to its author. I shall not attempt: to trace the i Doctrine to its origin, and cite the successive i stages in its growth. ' Whether Governor ■	. Pownall, Monroe, Jefferson, Washington, Mad-
ison, Adams or Channing is the author is immaterial in this discussion; - the doctrine was' a formal announcement of American sentiment with regard to foreign interference.
* Orations appear in the order of delivery. -
605
Interpretations of President Monroe’s message have been many and various. It seems to me that it should be interpreted after the man. ner of a law, and the most reasonable method of interpreting a law is to consider the will of the • legislator, and to.ascertain his .intentions at the time the law was made. I shall, therefore, state briefly the original Monroe Doctrine and the reasons for its promulgation.
In 1823, Great Britain, Russia and the United States were disputing about their interests on the Northwest coast of. this continent. “In the discussions to which this interest has given rise,” said President Monroe, in his Annual Message of December 2, 1823, “and in the arrangements by which they may terminate, the occasion has been judged proper for asserting as a principle in which the rights and interests of the United States are involved, that the American continents by the free and independent condition which ’ they have assumed and maintained, are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European powers.... In the wars of the European powers, in matters’ relating,to themselves, we have never taken any part, nor does it comport with our policy so to do. It is only when our rights are invaded or seriously menaced that we resent injuries or make preparation for our defence. ' With the movements in this hemisphere we are of necessity more immediately connected, and by courses which must be obvious to all enlightened and impartial observers....
“We owe it to candour and to the amicable relations existing between the United States and those powers (The Holy Alliance), to declare that we should consider any attempt on , their part to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere as dangerous to . our peace and safety. With • the existing colonies or dependencies of any European powers we have not interfered, and shall not interfere.. But with the governments who have declared their independence and maintained it and .whose independence we have, on great consideration and on just principles, acknowledged, we could not view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling in any . other manner their destiny, by any European power, in any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition toward. the. United States.” ;	‘	.
President Monroe enunciated a doctrine .. that applied to;certain existing cases; namely,. the dispute about the northwest coast; the;. :
6o6
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLAR! 1C.
increasing strength and steady growth of the Holy Alliance, and the retaking of the Spanish-American- states; but his will and intention went farther. The very foundation. of his doctrine is self-defense.
Are there conditions existing to-day that require an application of the Monroe Doctrine? No; our boundary disputes have long been settled, objectionable colonization is not contemplated, the Holy Alliance has long since been dissolved, our rights are neither invaded nor menaced; no power is attempting to extend its system of government to any portion of this hemisphere, or to control the destiny of any independent government on these continents. However, the Monroe Doctrine exists, and conditions may arise to justify its enforcement.. .
Are there any limitations to its application? When the doctrine was promulgated, President Monroe saw fit to say that the “American Continents” were “not to be considered as. subjects for future colonization,” and that any attempt on the part of the allied powers “to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere” should be considered as “dangerous to our peace and safety.” We should not, however, construe President Monroe’s message literally or without, considering the condition of affairs at the time of its enunciation; because, as Mr. Calhoun said, “it would have involved the absurdity of asserting that the attempt of any European state to extend its system of government to this continent, the smallest as well as the greatest, would endanger the peace and safety of our country.”
The dangers imminent during President £3	O
Monroe’s administration no longer exist, and as self-defense and self-preservation are the only conditions that can justify the enforcement of his doctrine, hence, I say that its application should be limited. Surely, as Mr. Howard said, “every settlement upon any sand-bank oh this continent is not an offence which is to result in war.” “It is only when our rights are invaded that we resent injuries or make preparation for our defense.”
It is plain then that if the Monroe Doctrine is still in force, it applies to any considerable
country, near the United States: as Cuba, Porto • has been regarded as one of the keys to the Rico, Santo Domingo and Jamaica. But to extend its application at the present, day to
the whole Western Hemisphere is to disregard’ its fundamental principles. Where then shall we set the southern limit? : At. the islands of the Caribbean Sea. Why? Because the chief
considerations in this question are those aids to self-preservation and self-defense;, namely, commerce and proximity; and neither of these demands the application of the Monroe Doctrine in South America.
The United States gets but fifteen per centum of the total South American trade. Does this small amount justify the application of a doctrine that may lead us into disputes, even into war? But our trade with South America is increasing.. Is that due to the Monroe Doctrine? Suppose a new colony were established in South America. That would mean an increase of inhabitants; it would mean an increase of commerce; it would mean an increase of South American commerce with, the United States. With many English colonies, England’s trade is
less than trade with than that concerned,
that of the United States; our many French colonies is greater of France. As far as we are is any part of South ’America
the key to the great commerce of any country? Are we then willing to hazard war to preserve a comparatively insignificant commerce with republics thousands of miles away.	'
The more important consideration, however, is the proximity of colonies under foreign control. How, then, would the occupation of South America by foreign powers affect the military and naval strength of the United States? Is South America , near enough to alarm us? Caracas, Venezuela, the nearest South American port, is two thousand miles from New Orleans or Jacksonville. A hostile
fleet, could not reach us in less
than five
days. At the present day, Europe is practically as near as is South America; in fact, the greater part of South America is farther from the United States than either Europe or Africa. Santo Domingo commands the entrance to the Caribbean Sea; Cuba, Porto Rico and Jamaica would be advantageous military positions for the enemy on our very coast; the. Bermudas would be a station for almost, all vessels crossing .the Atlantic from our southern states; the Sandwich Islands are the Bermudas of the.Pacific ; Central America
commerce of the. world. Can this be said of any part of South America? Does any part of
South America offer a military surveillance over .the United States? If so, then so do Europe, Asia and Africa; and the Monroe.. Doctrine should apply, to .the whole world.
9
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
607
President Adams, in 1826, and Presidents Polk, Buchanan and Grant, in 1845 to I8/7, thought that the United States was not bound to resist colonization in South America. A few years after the enunciation of the Monroe Doctrine, the South Americans asked for its application, but the United States kept out of. their troubles and refused them anj^ material assistance. Because the Falkland Isles were so distant, President Jackson did not apply the doctrine, nor was its application deemed necessary in the dispute about Uruguay in 1835, nor the case °f San Juan in 1842; in fact, it was never thought that the United States should offer material aid whenever South America so desired.
If the Monroe Doctrine is to apply to South America, we must be prepared to accept one of two alternatives: we must enforce it by arms when necessary, or we must look fearfully on while nations defy our declared policy and take possession of South America. Perhaps there- is no man that takes so much pride in his country as the American does. Is he then going to stand idle when other nations trample upon his flag? If not, then he must resist by force any violation of the Monroe Doctrine in South America. But since self-defense and self-preservation, the fundamental principles of that doctrine, do not require its application farther south than the Caribbean Sea, what would this resistance mean? It would mean the interference of the United States in the affairs^ of other powers. Yes; we are a mighty nation. But does might ’ make right? We may defy other powers, we may intermeddle in the affairs of South America, we may appropriate or forcibly annex islands, we may march from Alaska on the north, to Terra del Fuego on the south; but what will be the result? The historian of the future will tell of the progress of the United States in industrial and commercial lines, he will describe our inventions and discoveries, and he will tell of the young republic that in the first century of her existence rose to a place among the foremost nations of the world,— a republic not the object of almost universal enmity, but a repository of universal friendship and respect. Then before telling of avarice,and ambition, of injustice and of conquest, and of ultimate ruin, the historian will pause and raise a warning voice to. all young nations, saying: “This was the United States.”
H.—The Ship-Subsidy Bill.
ALBERT L. KRUG, LITT. B. I902.
HE United States was first settled along the thin strip of land that borders the Atlantic. At that time railroads had not become the important factor in the commerce of the world that they now are. The speed: means of communication was
’ by water. The country was new; there was a great abundance of timber and all material necessary for the construction of' the old wooden ships. It cost almost nothing, and vessels of every variety—sloops, brigs and schooners—were built, for the coasting trade. Not content with that alone, the American mariners crossed the broad Atlantic and penetrated into every port in the Old World It has been said with the greatest truth that in those days our vessels whitened every harbour in the Mediterranean.
Those old wooden ships were staunch and swift; the material was excellent, abundant and cheap. While such conditions lasted we had a sufficient share in the carrying trade of the world, and the American clipper had not its equal in the world for speed and safety. But the time came when wooden ships were replaced by iron ones, and with that new departure came the decline of our merchant marines. The inhabitants of the new country were unaware of its great resources. They as yet knew nothing of the vast deposits of iron that lay but a short distance to the west. On the other hand, England, the infant nation’s greatest rival in the field of commerce, was not slow to take advantage of the weakness of her opponent. Her iron and steel industries were well developed, and with the advent of the new ships came the supremacy of her merchant marine. So great was the decay of our commercial fleet that where one -hundred years ago only eight and one-half per centum of our exports and imports were carried by foreign vessels; now not only most of our mail but over ninety per centum of our exports and imports are carried by ships that fly the flags of other nations.	.
Now, the United States is trying to regain her prestige on the sea, and as a means to that . end, the Ship-Subsidy,Bill was introduced into Congress by Senator Frye of Maine. The bill
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• 608
is an act to provide for ocean mail service between the United States and foreign ports, and for the defence of the country to promote commerce and encourage deep-sea fisheries. It therefore has three distinct aims in view. By the first title it provides that out-going mail be carried in American vessels of registered types, and that they be paid according to tonnage and speed. A fixed per centum of the crew must be American, and in time of war these vessels are to be at the disposal of the government as an auxiliary fleet.
The second part is a general subsidy. By this section the secretary of the treasury is empowered to pay a fixed sum to all vessels built in America or under American registry that are engaged in foreign trade. The compensation shall be according to the gross tonnage of the ship and, the mileage covered.
The last title in the bill provides for the encouragement of our deep-sea fisheries. All vessels engaged in deep-sea fishing for at least three months during any fiscal year, provided at least one-third of the crew .be American, shall receive a fixed compensation for every gross ton.
Let us now take each title of the bill separately and give it a brief examination. To take first the question of carrying oui' mails. The amount of mail sent to and from the United States every year is growing larger and larger. Our merchants and manufacturers have pushed their way into every corner of the world and will necessarily increase the amount of mail matter. Furthermore, the government has assumed a new position among the powers of the world by taking under .its protection .Hawaii and the Philippines. Then at once began an influx of colonists into all those lands. But men will not willingly go to a place whence commu-' nication with the mother-country is difficult or cut off altogether. True, we have mail routes to all quarters of the globe; but are they regular and speedy? By what manner of ships is our postal matter carried? .	'
• The postmaster-general is. empowered to. make contracts with the lowest responsible bidder and it is. a well-known though sad fact that the majority of our mails is carried by foreign vessels.. England pays a fixed sum for her foreign postal service every year, and requires that all out-going mails be carried
; in English ships. Would it not .be a thousand times better for American, shipping in particular and the country at large, if our
government were to adopt the same policy? One of the characteristics of American manhood is self-reliance, and yet here are millions of Americans relying upon foreign ships for the carrying of their mail. Here are eighty millions of people whose hearts throb with patriotism at the mere mention of the names like Washington, Franklin and Grant—here I say, are all these people allowing letters bearing the portraits of these men to be carried about under foreign flags.
Those who are opposed to the measure claim that our present postal service is efficient enough, that the measure if passed would involve the unnecessary expenditure of a large sum of money to insure a doubtful end. We admit that the present service is good, that the new system will mean an increased expenditure, but the measure is something more than the mere carrying of letter-bags. There is more for the United States in the proposition than dollars and cents, and never till now were our citizens able more fully to understand the transportation question. The value of a postal service is dependent entirely on its regularity and its expedition. American people have grown to want things done quickly and regularly. The business man is just as disappointed without his morning paper as he is without his breakfast. The people want their business dispatched with speed. It is no mere question of money or postage; otherwise why is the telegraph used in preference to the mail, or the telephone in preference to either?. What Americans are striving for are better general results, and they wish to get those results as quickly and as cheaply as possible. What Americans are demanding to-day with regard to this great transportation question is that they shall have results that will place us alongside any other nations, if not in advance of them.
It is the second title, regarding the general subsidy, that has provoked the warmest debates. The United States is as rich in deposits of iron as any country in the world. The great steel mills of Pittsburg are equal at least to those of England if not in advance of them. The American labourer is more efficient than any other, and yet we can not compete successfully with - the ship-builders of the Clyde., Why does this state of affairs exist?. First arid chiefly because of the higher wages paid to Arrierican labour.	.
. The American labourer has a standard of living much higher than that of any other
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
workman; and below that • standard he can not and will not fall. If he can not maintain it by one employment he will seek another that will enable him to do so. It is justjthis that makes the cost of production in the United States higher than in Europe. Begin with the ore in the ground, and following it through all the ramifications of the manufacture, you will find labour the important factor in the cost of production. From ore to pig-iron, from pig-iron to billet, and from that to the steel plate, all is labour, and it may be safely said that ninety-five per centum of the cost of a ship is labour.
But we may go still further and take the actual cost of operating a ship. The foes of the subsidy .have carefully prepared statistics, and shown that on the average the wages paid to officers—I mean all above the common seamen—are the same the world over. That is true. They will say also that the wages of a seaman depend not upon the flag under which he sails, but upon the port from which he is shipped. We can admit that also. But there is one thing absolutely certain, namely . that a seaman will seek a berth in an American vessel in preference to any other. The men are better treated; the food and the sanitary conditions of the ship are far better than in ships of any other nationality. Since then it costs more to construct and operate American vessels, are we supposed to be able to compete successfully with foreign shipping without aid from other sources?
It has .been objected to the measure that it is an instance of class legislation that it will in fact benefit only the ship-builders. This statement is also erroneous. For . a time the,United States ranked first-in agricultural products. The out-put.increased: steadily, and soon an immense quantity remained over and above the amount needed for home consumption. Our grain, cloth and steel found . markets throughout .the world. But those conditions , have ceased to exist. Russia Roumania and British India are forging to the front and with the. present high freight rates it will be impossible for American.producers to.compete. The.American producer cannot stop foreign .industry, which is ever forcing the value of his product downward. There are . but:three remedies left him: First, increase ;the demand^for.home consumption by such legislation as will increase the manufacturing and commercial population-of the country. Second, secure new fields ; for consumption;
609
and the answer to this ever beckons us on to the Orient. Third, lower freight rates on agricultural exports. .	.
And; here.we are brought face to face with another question. Will the effect of the bill be to lower, freight rates generally? We answer, yes; by bringing more competitors into the field it will have that effect. However,-the rule of competition must play .as important’a part in the matter of freight rates as . in any other business. It must be less liable to be overcome by combinations when the competition is not between citizens of the same country but between people, of nations foreign to each other and whose natural competitive policies necessitate application of the rule. Of course, freight rates should not be expected to cease to be profitable to those engaged in carrying; but we have a right to expect a reduction compatible with the higher, wages paid for American, ship-building, the higher prices paid for American ships, the higher salaries paid to American seamen, and the higher expenses of operating American vessels.	.
At present the mercantile nations of the world are in a state of peace. The great powers, though still keeping close watch on one another in the Orient, refrain from open violence. But how long will this harmony last? .Who knows but that at any day the terrible tidings may reach us that the dogs of war have been let slip on. the European continent? May that time never come, for when it does it, will prove a hard blow to American commerce. If England should ever become involved in a war articles .found in a vessel flying , the Union Jack will be. contraband of war. American merchants- and American , producers would.not expose.their commodities to such a risk; and.what would . be the result? Large quantities of grain, food .and. other . products will lie rotting on the wharves or spoiling in the elevators and storehouses; factories will be obliged to close down in part if not entirely for want of a market for their goods;, the clanking of ..hammers and the pounding of drills will cease, and thousands of men . will be thrown out of employment.	.	■
But the United., States has had still , another . experience which the people should eyer bear . in mind. Everyone-knows the fear and anxiety , >that,prevailed :along the Atlantic .coast,.espe-. cially, in r Florida, during thelate. war,, when the.report came that the Spaniards,were plan
6io	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ning a descent on the coast. Everyone knows also the sigh of relief that went up from that part of the country when the two ocean liners went into commission as scout ships. England at present owes much to her merchant marine for the readiness with which transports were placed at her disposal to carry men to South Africa. Why may not the same thing happen to us? At any time our country may become involved in trouble, and then it will be absolutely necessary to have close at hand an auxiliary fleet to be used as transports, colliers and scout-boats. God forbid that such a necessity should ever arise, but if it does, in what way could it be better met than by having within easy call a merchant fleet, staunch and swift, manned by well-trained American seamen ready at any moment to defend the honor of their country and the peace and security of their homes?
There remains still a last title regarding our deep-sea fisheries. That the country will be benefited by this clause is almost beyond question. The United States spends annually an immense sum of money to promote agriculture and enable the staple products to be produced to better advantage. Moreover, the government’ appropriates certain sums yearly to fish-hatcheries throughout the country. Why then can she not help the men who are engaged in taking salt-water fish; men who risk their lives daily to supply the citizens of the United States with food?
Moreover, it is well known that in the early wars of our country, the men who manned our infant fleet and helped to humble England’s pride on the sea were the fishermen from New England.. True, our battle-ships are now propelled by steam, but most heavy freight is still carried in sailing-vessels; and if there were some inducement given to men to take up fishery, what an excellent trainingschool would be established for sailors. Our ships would be manned by that good old type of manhood, the stout-hearted, brave, honest, fisherman who, in the early days, made -our merchant marine and our war vessels the best in the whole world. ?
This, with all its wealth and influence, with all its power and all its strength, ought to . have again a merchant marine of which every one will be proud. We can not have it to-day ■ because' American labour will not accept, and - . .: nobody ought to want American labourers to . accept the wages that would enable them successfully to compete. We have established.
in this country the highest standard of wages known to the world, and we have done so under the policy we are pursuing. We intend to maintain that standard. We do not want to lower it; but if we maintain that standard and at the same time tryto carry op the building of ships we must overcome the disadvantage to which we are subjected on account of cheaper wages elsewhere. This is a- bill the purpose of which is to overcome that disadvantage. It proposes to pay out of the treasury of the United States to the ships carrying our mails to the freight-bearing vessels and to those engaged in deep-sea fishing, a portion of our revenue, limited, reasonable, and enough to overcome the disadvantage to which our ships have been and are yet subjected. It proposes to aid agriculture by reduction of freight rates; it aims at saving our commerce, should the European powers ever engage in war, and it purports to supply our own country with an . auxiliary fleet should the necessity ever arise.	■
It has been well said that it is humiliating to Americans who travel, abroad, that scarcely anywhere do they find the flag of the United States in the commerce of the world. We read in the reports of consuls in Asia and Africa that they have not seen an American flag among the crowded shipping of the places to which they were accredited. Our minister to Siam says that for four years in going up and down the whole coast of the Orient, he never once saw an American flag on a merchant vessel among all the vast fleet that carries the interchanges of that coast. It is no wonder that Americans feel humiliated to see only foreign flags flying everywhere. It is our duty to remedy this condition. If the expectations of this bill are realized this reproach will be removed from American enterprise and American progress. It will enable us in our own ship-yards, employing our own mechanics, the best and most intelligent, the brainiest and most capable workmen in the world, to build our own ships. Laden with American products and manned by American seamen, they can then sail the seas and go into every port in the world. With the American flag and the American skipper will come the American commercial agent and the American financial exchanges, and we can have the methods for that competition in which we believe we should be more successful than any other nation, but which- is as yet only a dream and a hope.	,
. NGTRH DAMh SCHOLASTIC
6ii
Governmental Control of Trusts.
FRANCIS C. SCHWAB, A. B. I902.
Y thesis can best be made clear by an illustration. Suppose the case of a man who had been . experimenting on a new chemical combination, which when diffused in the
atmosphere was .to drive disease from a plague-stricken district. If, before all was ; ready for the test, others who lacked this or that essential ingredient, ignorantly or with an eye to . self gain, performed an ex-
■periment; similar-, to what his was to be, ,and the result was ’an addition to the afflictions of the • people, what a wail of indignation •would arise! How.hard it would be ever to try the experiment again! And if it was done'secretly and people got well and knew not why, could .the experimenter , convince them that he was their benefactor? Would he not rather be looked upon as a dangerous person? And if, here and there, owing to the ignorance or malice of an operator, his discovery had*, failed, how.,.-the suspicion against him .would be heightened and what protests would, be . made to put a .stop to all-similar attempts. ...
. Yet such- is the history of the. so-called .“■trusts.” .The idea of combination of industry . developed naturally under the eye of progress to counteract the. abnormal conditions . that ; were already manifesting. themselves in. the industrial world. . But before .this idea was . perfectly-realized, unscrupulous men, who saw the necessity of combination, accomplished it in an artificial manner; monopolies, were formed,, prices raised, wages lowered, the people, consequently; burdened,- and. a just ind.ignation was aroused , against the . originators ' of-, such a scheme. Such, in .fact, was the trust of a few years ago; - and its power for harm did..not cease . when . it was . made illegal;- for the prejudice .aroused against it lingered, to: vent - itself upon- the so-called “■ trust ”: of our • day, the combination,
is a perfectly legitimate organization. People will not make the distinction, because the majority o£ them do not know it,, between .the combination of our day and the trust of a few years ago; yet there is-here all the difference, between a health-giving industrial remedy and an injurious medicine. There
was lacking in the trust elements that are the essentials of the combination, .namely, economy and efficiency; but we can show . this best by. examples.	. .	,
A few years ago,, before combinations were the rule, we might have found in one state, ten small railroad companies, operating- in different, sections of the state. Each had its full quota of officials, who received large salaries. Travelling on these roads any distance meant . frequent changes and long delays. Under the trust system the stocks of the . different companies were trusted into the hands of a few men, who had power to do what they saw fit. The operation of the individual roads went on the
same as before; the old officials remained; there was no new efficiency in the schedule. One road might be shut down, men thrown out of employment;. but the. officials and the stockholders still received their salaries and their dividends. The system was manifestly a scheme to do away with the competition that was ruining them, but the only advantage such a system, gave was to raise prices and lower wages. This was almost invariably done in an excessive degree; the result was-a burden to the people. The Trust was a greedy tyrant, who forced tribute from the people of a nation. It developed in the . atmosphere of conspiracy : and as such was justly made illegal. The recent meat affair was.a survival of the.trust scheme, and its fate shows that no more legislation is needed for trusts.	...
Nowadays, however, when we speak off the “trust,” we usually. mean. the co.mbination, and in order to see just what would, be the best legislation for combinations, let us examine.; the principles, underlying them and the practical working of these principles.
. The principle of combination has run through the whole history of man. ‘ Combination of interests results from, a division of labor.. Suppose a primitive community.. Each .man fished for himself; each man hunted.for himself.. Suppose that one . acquired a great ability in fishing, another in hunting. Soon
which each would realize the advantage to both in
combination. In partnership they could get more fish and more game because each could devote himself exclusively to the occupation .in which he excelled. Time would be saved for traversing from the woods to the coast; there would be economy; in. various ways, and a greater efficiency .the.,.result. rIt makes no
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
9
6l2
difference in the case if you substitute for the two rude inhabitants the modern industries; for each has special advantages and disadvantages, and the same good in combination accrues to them.
Let us see further how economy and efficiency is brought about in the formation of a combination. We saw how a railroad trust worked; let us see how a railroad combination works. The ten companies we used as examples would actually under the new system be combined into one company. Nine sets of officials would be dispensed with; economy right away. Everything would be done more cheaply because on a larger scale. Efficiency would be enhanced. Better service would be the result. The roads would be more prosperous; more men given employment, wages raised, rates lowered, the whole scheme an advantage to the community.
Everybody, however, admits this for the railroads, but strange to say they look askance at a big formation like the steel corporation. Yet this was simply a combination of different companies like the Carnegie Company. Before in turn the Carnegie Company had reached its development, the ore was controlled by one company, the coal by another, coke was made in different places, mills and furnaces were separately owned. So from the getting of the ore till the finished steel was produced, think of the hands the raw material must have gone through and the transportation necessary before it was finished. The Carnegie Company combined these different companies; for it was a combination just as truly as the U. S. Steel Company is, but on a smaller scale, and it had not received the odious name of trust. What was the result? Economy and efficiency in the whole system, and when it in turn combined with other companies, it was on the same principle of mutual advantage.
To go somewhat into detail, there was economy in management. Useless officers were dropped in every department; middlemen were done away with. There was economy in selling. Instead of having a . set of salesmen to represent each company in each district, each traversing the same ground, one set would sell for ‘all, and the expenses of offices and telegraph lines greatly ■ diminished. There was economy in dis-tfibuting. The mill nearest-the'place of sale could fill a particular order, warehouses eoulcPbe established over the country, - and
the seasons of cheap freight-rates taken advantage of. Economy in buying; for the purchases were made in large quantities and, consequently, at lower rates; or, what was better, the sources of supply were controlled and their own railroads carried the goods. There was economy in production, for the larger the output the less the cost. It costs twice as much per ton to make a hundred tons of steel as it does to make a thousand. There was economy in .saving bad. debts; for the powerful organizations could establish a system of credits that greatly reduces losses on debts. In one industry alone the losses of $100,000 before consolidation were reduced to $1000 -after consolidation. There was economy in having the power to run the best mills always on full time; for running the mills on full instead of half time saves from four to eight per centum. Finally, there was economy in controlling the several operations to which materials must be subjected; because smaller profits are needed on each-operation.
Nor is this economy at. the expense of efficiency. The contrary is the case. It is the experience of every observing man that when combinations are formed into those industries that are most under the public eye, efficiency is immediately heightened. In railroads, for example, no sooner do small companies combine, than there is a more fixed scheduled, better service. The reason for this is that the economy I pointed out, is the economy that results from eliminating waste energy. First, there is the efficiency in management. Officials whose principal function is to draw salaries, who are responsible to no one, are replaced by a few officials of high ability, who can do the work better, who are responsible to a large number of stockholders, and who direct for the general good and not for the individual industry. Then there is the efficiency that the increased wealth gives to use always the most highly developed machinery; More than this, latent resources can be developed. Sources * of raw ^material that private organizations could : never develop, can be opened up by the combinations; and this only means thats more men will be given employment. Then there are a host of special advantages in combination “to different industry. In the steel industry; for example, there is a chemical advantageAthat can be obtained by mixing ores. This greatly enhances the value of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the product; but it could be obtained only with great expense and difficulty, when the different ores were owned separately. In short, there is economy and efficiency in the whole system, because combinations are run on precise business methods, not by the irresponsible, slipshod ways of individual owners. •
There are, however, persons that admit the advantages of combination, but they look at the large proportions of the organizations and they fear that these advantages will go to the combinations and not to the people. Some really believe that coriibinations raise prices and lower wages. Others that do not, fear the danger of over-capitalization, concentration of wealth and abolition,, as they think of competition. Let us examine these objections.
In regard to wages, the bulletin of the U. S. Department of Labor, July, 1900, shows that in nine so-called “trusts,” the average annual wages had risen 13.71 per centum, and 19.39 per centum in the case of skilled and unskilled labourers, while the number employed had increased 23.34 per centum and 20.06 per centum respectively. In regard to prices, the history of “trusts” has been one of low prices. The railroads were the first combinations, and they, as. everyone knows, lowered rates. Next, the Standard Oil Company which has reduced the price of oil from 45 cents to 7 or 8 cents a gallon. Then the Sugar Trust which has reduced the price of sugar from 1800 to March, 1901, from 9.8 cents to 5.04 cents. The Steel Trust has reduced the price of steel almost steadily since its existence, except when prices were high in England also. So it has. been with every combination-The trusts had to raise prices, but the combination could easily afford to lower prices and raise wages on account of the increased economy.
Combinations do not abolish competition. ’.The largest combination, the Steel Company, is not a monopoly. There are steel industries capitalized at as much as $20,000,000 in competition with it, and competition is not necessarily sharpest where there are the greatest number of competitors. Besides competition when unintelligent is ruinous. It forces business men to . sell for less than they can afford. This will benefit the people only for a time; for soon there will have to be an agreement to raise prices high enough to make up the deficit, or one or both the
613
firms may go under. The country-is strewn with debris, the result, of unintelligent competition.
In regard to over-capitalization, we may bring forth but one conclusive fact. Mr; Flint shows that in forty-seven combinations the average earning capacity on the total capitalization at par is 7.44 per centum, far above the percentage of a good investment. Hence the only objection left is the concentration of wealth. Phrases that sound very patriotic are formed to express the danger to the country of the reign of plutocracy. But we must remember that, our population is increasing at the rate of two millions a year, that it has doubled in thirty-five years. We must remember that only wealth •concentrated can. develop the vast new fields of production that are to give employment to that increasing population and supply their needs. And if some make fortunes, it is only by causing the whole scale of workmen, from the lowest to the highest share in the prosperity. Besides the managers of fortunes in America have no inherited prejudices against the working class. Most of them have risen from that class, for the combination is a democratic institution. Its manager is not born to the office, but must rise to his position by the sheer force of ability. The result is that the managers' of fortunes in America lavish their wealth upon the people in charitable gifts. The land is dotted with Carnegie Libraries and other generous contributions, and there is no reason why this state of affairs should not last. As soon as combinations depart from their spirit of democracy, their death knell is sounded. Their very.existence depends upon the ability of their managers, from the highest to the lowest. Hence the best men,—men that have risen by stages, must be the directive force. ’	.
In the combination, capital, labour and direction go hand, in hand. The workingmen can. be identified with the combination for which he works. He may be a stockholder and share in its profits. The workingmen of America have $2,400,000,000 in the United States Savings Banks. Even now the stockholders of some combinations run into the thousands. Capital is powerless without the co-operation of labour,,for. labour has the'vote in his hand and can control capital at the polls. The President of a combination, is not an arbitrary ruler; but is responsible to
614
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a large number of stockholders. ; Thus, hand in hand go capital, labor and direction. And combinations have made America the envied one.among the nations; for. America supplies countries whose wages are forty pe.r centum lower, and eighty-per centum of her exports are made by the so-called “trusts.” .	-
. We all know the internal prosperity the country enjoys. In every department of industrial activity, more men are employed than ever before. The combinations have effected what promiscuous competition could never have effected. Our land gleams with shining rails that span the country. Ships laden with the products of our mills are leaving our ports. Workingmen are contented; strikes are rare, and all this because large combinations have stepped in to do what' private owners could not do, what business partnerships could not do, what joint stock companies could not do, because the time had come for another step in advance.
The old trust, the conspiracy against prices and for the restriction of trade is now illegal. The law merely has to crush any such attempt. But shall we legislate against the combination? Shall unintelligent prejudice cause us to fetter this movement for good, which terrifies the people only on account of its proportions? Let us hope not, for' combinations in themselves are a great .good. Is it not better to : protect both them and the people from the power they might give
to unscrupulous leaders? by throwing light upon dark designs may thrive ‘ The Chicago Conference
mended publicity. The
This can be done them, so that ho under their shelter.' on Trusts recomcombinations were
education, has the discipline, discernment, and strength for the contests whose. prizes are the promotions of life. Education, in. this, day of progress, so admirably fits a man for. . business life, for professional life, for every, walk of life, including even religious life, . ‘ that it is the indispensable requisite for station and place. We are living in.an. age of culture., .	- —	...	.	. By culture I meari “ the knowledge of the,best
- . of the people. The trust could not rise in that has been thought ;br said in the world/.’ this light of publicity. The combination The object of education is culture, the highest would/flburish; sustained, by the good-will and; the loftiest worldly aim Jhafw^ of the people. •• - / , T - •/•	This is the supreme purpose to which; are.
. /	.....	,	‘ dedicated and consecrated all rightly bottomed
Mokai education is the development ,of ^^‘in this Heaven-kissed land 'including: ; individuality.and mdmduality can not be this grca, school under whose auspiiies we developed
.. processes; it is the work of the master who The college, man should see'the good in .brings to his task {a genuine and loving, interest	r	‘ .
.	. irr the -irid^^^^	h	~ * ^Address to tEe Graduate^	i8.-
to publish annually a report for governmental inspection. Hence they would be controlled as banks are controlled. Such publicity would be an. advantage both to the public and to the combination. The people and investors
would cease to fear deception^ The combination would enjoy the increased confidence
- The College Man in Life.*
BY THE HON. WILLIAM P. BREEN, LL. D.
02.
QUARTER of a century ago, as valedictorian, I stood, upon the stage of this University to give utterance to the feel-. ings which every college man has experienced at leaving
Mater. Then, without any experience, I conjecturally thought that there was, in the battle of life, an advanced .place.which the college man should fill.. The, abstract thought of twenty-five years, ago has been supplanted , by concrete knowledge, and, with all the emphasis which a busy life can impart, I beg leave to say to-night a word on what is expected of the college man in life. . s Few, if any, are the people, particularly in this, great land of ours, who believe to-day that in the race of life the uneducated is as well conditioned as the educated man. The spirit of the age makes so vigorously for education,.— for higher education,—that the only deterrent to-day which constrains the father to keep his sons from college is the absolute lack of means. No sensible, broad-, guaged American contents himself with any • other excuse. ..	.	...
Centuries ago Dionysius gave expression, to the never-to-be-forgotten truth, that “the foundation of ev.ery state, is the education of its youth.”- The man who .enters .the .arena of active life armed, and mailed with an
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	615
provide scope for every talent which he . possesses. In the pulpit, the greatest rostrum, . in the world, he will be noted because he .will bring cultured manners, profound learning ' and trained intelligence to the interpretation of. the divine mandates and the exposition of the canons of theology. He will diffuse an air of learning and urbanity in his. ministrations in life, contact with which will make?the world better and brighter’.. ,	.	\ ?	/
The man who steps beyond the confines, of	,
the college, walks not uncharged with respon-	'
sibility,—the responsibility of doing his best with the gifts with which nature and education have endowed him and of doing that for which, he finds himself fit with all the strength which: - , God has given him. Work, is for the. college, man an imperative duty. It is the touchstone of success. Without work of the brain, or work of the heart, or work of the hand, you can . not have true manhood, true nobility of soul. In the economy of successful life this proposition is fundamental, unchangeable, indisputable. By the Alma. Mater, which fondly nurtured: * him, and by the God who created him,-is this tribute of work imperiously demanded of the man with collegiate training. Neither wealth, nor genius can dispense with the performance of this bounden duty. The genius, the history/ the traditions, and the memories of this pur-magnificent republic, this golden, land of limit- . less opportunity, prescribe- that no man shall, climb the heights of success unaided by work..
I know, of no more practical illustration, of the truth of this proposition than the present President of the Republic, Theodore Roosevelt, . Since he stepped.from the threshold of college, he has been an earnest, strenuous worker^ Although not compelled by necessity, he has worked in the avenues of literature, and made, profound studies in history, in philosophy, in: political economy and in statesmanship. : No . man can deny his versatility. And when within, a few days past, Governor Taft, in his name, presented to Leo XIII. a set of his works, the: venerable Pontiff must have thought that the executive of the best and greatest government f on earth was a conspicuous illustration of the *	<
principle that work is in sooth the duty of the : college man, and that devotion to that duty; leads to the summit of successful, honorable,	..
ambition—the headship of this august republic, -
Why has the college man given his time and exercised his mind in the acquisition of. . the knowledge taught in the school?, Was< > it: solely for the pleasure afforded by the :
everything. The acquisition of money and the commercialization of. mental gifts should not. be his aim. . Life’s highest ideals and best examples should at all times be the objects of his emulation. His gaze should ever be fixed upward. In business, in. social life, he should never swerve from morality, and his inclinations and aspirations should be always permeated with loftiness of purpose. Therefore the place of the college man should, be in the forefront of all the callings of life. If he enters the profession of medicine, he will have a deep appreciation of the stu- -pendous responsibility which rests upon the follower of /Esculapius. His. education will enable him to put himself in thorough touch with the great principles of medicine and surgery, so as to grasp their newest applications and their most modern refinements. He will bring, to his work that sensibility of conscience and that cool, penetrating judgment which should be found in the high-minded practice of that exalted profession to whose keeping is committed the preservation of health, the most precious gift of the Creator to His creatures.	.
If he enters the profession of law, he will learn intelligently, accurately, and fully .the basic principles of civil conduct upon which the family, society, and. the State depend, and his practice of that greatest of all professions will be marked by ability, probity, integrity, and a high sense of honor. He will realize that he must rise above mediocrity, that his place is in-the higher circle.where the educated, working, successful, honorable, and best members of the profession are found.
If he casts his fortune in business lines, he will be known. as the intelligent, modern man of affairs. He will be enabled to think clearly, and to. discuss, perspicuously the problems with which the business atmosphere is filled. To political questions, in which he will always be interested, he will bring a consideration matured. by experience and common sense, and to his employees and those about him he will ;prove an exemplar of intelligence and. polished manners, eliciting the respect, esteem, and admiration of all who know or meet him. In. the other li.nes of secular life to which the. college man may address himself, he can and will take , place in the front rank, where the. impress of his character and intelligence will be felt and appreciated. .
If his. inclinations are for the Church, that high mission will enlist all his energies and
6i6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
reception of a collegiate course of learning? Was there no ulterior object which gave birth to ennobling aspirations in his soul? Aye, in his reading, in his study, in his every work in college, he must have builded an ambition to emulate the lives of the great and the good with whom he was in daily converse, who have proclaimed along the corridors of the centuries the great truth so tersely and beautifully set forth by Ovid, that “It is the mind that makes the man, and our vigor is in our immortal soul.” The University ot .Notre Dame has to-night given forceful . exemplification of this truth in the bestowal of her highest and greatest honor—the Laetare Medal,—upon one who believes in work, who is a devotee of culture, and who has wrought for himself an international name and fame in the list of the world’s greatest surgeons.
Dr. John B. Murphy is the honoured and distinguished guest of to-night, because heart makes the gentleman and brains make the man.
He alone is the true, genuine college man who never forgets the primal necessity of work, who heartfeltly appreciates the benefits of education and the great future which devotion to culture insures, not alone for himself but for all the world about him. Of him is expected that he will infuse staunch character into civic life; that he will uplift the moral plane of social life; that he will • broaden the intellectuality of those about him; that he will elevate our educational methods-; that he will energize the spirit of culture until it shall have mantled in its folds every citizen of this republic, which we pray God may grow in intellectuality, in glory, in morality, and in splendor until the end of time.
Valedictory.
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, A. B. ’02.
ANY indications would go to show that the world outside our campus has felt little inconvenience at its long wait for this 1^^ class of Nineteen Hundred and Two. Very likely the sun and seasons would of necessity continue their movement were none of us much-bachelored young men let out to take his place in the ranks. Probably no world-disturbing genius is contained within our well-brushed mortar-boards, and no great amount of erudition yet oppresses this smooth - cheeked young class. However, if years of application amid Christian example and Christian teaching count for aught/there should be graduated this year from Notre Dame some sincere, Christian-hearted young men! '	' ’
To-day, the gown and the tassel shall be laid aside;;hereafter, the companionable frankness of the student; to an extent, shall' be restrained; but from civilianor clerical dress the same - moral strength of mind and heart shall find - its expression. For our lessons at Notre Dame cut'deep. Stored in our sometime overworked' brains may be- that? fortitude sufficient- to build a home, save a soul, or aid ■ a nation. ■ Still, all that* lies in the future, and when; if! ever, such opportunities come they will be in\ the present; since there is neither past nor future to the; tireless worker.
We trust that we have made good use of our time, for the future is close on the present now.
Consideration- for personal feelings shall scarcely hold in the world as it has held in the University. When our outside neighbor . refuses to respect our furrowed forehead and classical quotation, let us endeavor to suppress the furrow in our forehead and to forget the self-conscious quotation; for very likely our neighbor will in many ways prove wiser than we. But then, at its worst, the world is not such an awful place. It is the best place we can find to live in while possessed of our present combination of soul and body. A.hd if sound principles of right living and a broad education—one embracing . God and the best in the human intellect— have failed: to sink sufficiently into our impressible minds, ours is the pity. We do not take this change wholly undeceived; we do not take it at all self-satisfiedly; we mean, though^ from our hearts to take it manfully. ;	-	■	>
They say that at one time in: the Lapland reindeer’s life his. master can not, restrain him. This is when the i reindeer ..first sniffs the salt - breath; blown from the North Sea. Somewhat like that animal, is the, young graduate, too anxiously contemplating . the / world ; from . his college elm. \ And \ like the . • reindeer. when his. unruly herd takes its	J
NOTRE DaMF SCHOLASTIC.

stampede to drink of that salt, sharp sea, is the killing hurry of the over-ambitious and unscrupulous man. The taste of. the sea is as strong an. impulse as life is to the reindeer; while concern in marts and trades may become stronger, than life to the man. But deeper than that which is merely human is our desire to do our very best; and as selfish as our impulse toward happiness and success is our resolve not to forget our home and our training.
We shall find that there is not only room at the top, but plenty of room at the bottom, of that old, metaphorical ladder called success. If we are halted for a long time at the bottom rung, patience,,with other virtues learned in our collegiate course, should sustain our courage. Not one of us shall. leave the bottom rung until he has learned to make the best of its nearness to the ground; and should ’ he climb high, experience will have taught him how uncomfortable it might prove if. he should fall. Much must be done in the living of our lives, and we sincerely hope that this Class, collectively and individually, may meet its responsibilities.
To the Faculty, we now say thanks from our hearts. The Christian-like and unselfish example of the Gentlemen of the Faculty has proved to us that there is something in this world besides a money success and a . mere survival of the fittest; and that the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. Results from the sacrifice and teaching of . the Gentlemen of the Faculty shall be found in the most.out-of-the-vyay places and come to light when least expected. However, since deeds and not words, should best prove the permanence of your teachings, we pledge ourselves for the deeds. We here give public testimony of our obligation to the Gentlemen of the Faculty and add to that a heartfelt farewell.
Gentlemen of the Class, we, are about to disband...Our. Latin and Greek, our Philosophy and Science, and our . wrestlings , with: the Law have' at! last brought, us. to. the day set Tor graduation. From now on: our walks, in life will be: widely, separate. But we can truthfully say that; at whatever, point on God’s earth\! the scattered! members of this Class, may take lodging, there, youewill. meet with the same good fellowship. for the old classmate, the; same reverence- for. our common starting-ground, the same love for Notre Dame. Gentlemen of the Glass—farewell!
Address of Dr. John B. Murphy.*
I desire to express my great appreciation of the honor which you have conferred on me, and to thank you ‘ sincerely for this coveted but unexpected recognition. To be honored by the University of Notre Dame is to be honored indeed; an educational institution of the first magnitude, which sprang from a humble beginningin 1842 in the middle West and has always kept abreast, if not in the lead, in every line of educational development, scientific, literary and ecclesiastic, its student body has now reached a thousand. In that position, what an influence this University has exerted in the development of this nation! In science its alumni have been equipped with and trained in the use of educational tools, from the simplest mathematics to the depths of paleontology; indeed a . professor of this institution has given the most scientific elucidation of the mosaic hexameron.
This University has taught that social advancement is completely controlled by natural laws; that intellectual growth is not sporadic or spontaneous, but evolutionary, on definite and well-recognized physiologic principles; it has taught that the immediate purpose of education is . the accumulation of facts or the development of some faculty; it has taught that the -acquirements in the University are means and not ends of education; they are means to greater individual and collective productiveness in later life. The principle has been inculcated that education is. not for the purpose of avoiding labor, but to encourage it and make it rather an act of love than of compulsion. The best are happy at their work, and have no time to estimate the probable reward. The reward of honest labor is inevitable. No more striking example can be brought to the attention of the young men occupying the gallery than that of Mr. Schwab, sitting in the audience, who, from a humble -beginning, aided by naught but honest labour, attained the Presidency of the mightiest corporation in the world’s history, the United States Steel Company. Labor in intellectual pursuits is equally certain ot its reward.. Bishop Spalding says:. “He who has painted one divine picture or written one true poem, may enter unbidden the company of the immortals. They ask not how much he has done, but what height he has attained,’ though but for once and for a Itttle while.”
The alumni of this University appreciate what a delight it is to have been pupils under great intellectual masters. The individual admiration of their Alma Mater increases in geometrical proportion as time advances. This University has received loyal support, continued encouragement and flattering patronage from the commonwealth. In return, you have given to the community, through your alumni, in eveiy field of human endeavor, men of high ideals, of sterling integrity, of indefatigable energy and of inestimable value in elevating the commonweal.	.	.
One of the highest manifestations of intellectual attainment is the recognition and respect of the pre- ' rogatives and rights of others. The individual is the miniature archetype of the family; the family the miniature of the nation; therefore, if the individual has impressed on him the value of the love of truth and honesty, he can be depended upon for integrity of thought, integrity of action and integrity of duty.-
While the alumni have been taught their obligations to their fellowman and to the State, and urged to delve into the secrets of nature in original research they; have also been taught the deepest admiration, respect and love for nature’s. God. With these ' principles instilled into the hearts of the alumni, their. .. future position in the community, social and political,4 is assured. They will always be conspicuous forces for . good government, for protection of property and. personal - rights —: law - abiding citizens, an honor to themselves, and reflecting honor on their Alma Mater.
* Delivered in .Washington Hall, June iS, on occasion of the . formal presentation of . the Ljetare Medal. ■
5
6i8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, June 28, 1902.
Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University.
Entered a second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
.'Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame,Indiana.
The Board, of Editors.
JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, IOOI
FRANCIS DUKETTE, IQ02 H. EWING BROWN, lg02 JOHN P. O’HARA, IQ02 P. J. MACDONOUGH, I903 LEO J. HEISER, I902 VITUS G. JONES, I902 JOSEPH L. TOOHEY, I902 JOSEPH KELLEHER, I902
JOHN L. CORLEY, I902 GEORGE BURKITT, I902 FRANCIS SCHWAB, I902 ALBERT L. KRUG, I902 JOHN J. HENNESSY, I902 WILLIAM A. SHEA, I902 JOHN P. CURRY, I90I FRANCIS J. BARRY, I903
Reporters
ROBERT E. L^NCH	J. PATRICK O’REILLY
P. P. MCELLIGOTT	JOHN HARTE
I.	DOHAN.
The Fifty-Eighth Annual Commencement.
JHE Commencement exercises of the year began on Sunday morning, June 15, with the celebration of Solemn High Mass by Father Morrissey, Father French and Father Regan acting as ministers. The examinations of the candidates for degrees had taken place on Friday and Saturday, and the naturally elated, newly-made graduates assembled in cap and gown o	to
. to listen to the
BACCALAUREATE SERMON
by the Very Rev. Edward J. McLaughlin, A. B., ’75, A. M., ’95, of Clinton, Iowa. Father McLaughlin’s reputation as a speaker was known to us, and there was rapt attention while his clear, ringing, metallic voice filled every corner of the church. He held that this life essentially was a life of action; that “there is no room in this world of ours for the idler, the dreamer, the observer,” but only for him who will work. He said: “It is not the deeds that are done by each one that make the difference between man and man; but it is the end, the purpose, the consecra
tion of the work that gives it worth in the eyes of God.” Father McLaughlin’s sermon made a profound impression on his listeners.
Immediately after the morning services, the senior collegians assembled in the parlour of the main’building where they had the dignity of alumnus conferred upon them. The same honour was reserved for the lawyers until they had finished their three days’ examination on Monday afternoon.
Sunday evening, Father Morrissey, Father French, with other members of the Faculty, visitors and students, assembled in Saint Edward’s ’ Hall to witness the- giving of medals' to the individual members of the seven successful baseball teams that go to represent the Minim department. The evening was a rare one. Father French read a letter from the President of the University to the little men, and when each' successful baseball player came to carry away his honours, Father Morrissey’s greeting to him made him feel very happy. With the serving of ice-cream and cakes and many all around speeches, the medal exercises came to a close.
The final examinations for the year took place on Monday and Tuesday, closing on Wednesday morning at-g^o. Meanwhile large delegations of distinguished visitors, including many eminent clergymen from Chicago, ke.pt coming in. Then came
..THE REGATTA
which had been planned with that exactness which has ever characterized all similar events on the lake. By 10:30'= a. m., large crowds filled the shores, and among them was Mr. Charles 'Schwab, President of the United States Steel Company, who had come with his party on a special train from Cresson, Pennsylvania, to be present at the graduation of his cousin, Francis C. Schwab, of Holy Cross Hall. At 10:30 a. m., Joe Kinney fired the shot that opened up the regatta and started the -freshman race. The ■ start was even, but the Montmorency made the turn first and was -three lengths ahead when the Yosemite swung into her course. She seemed to gain. At the second turn, Capt. Rush lost his seat twice in quick succession, and the Yosemite forged ahead. He recovered himself, however, and his crew settled down, winning by one-half a length. Here it is well to say that- .owing to circumstances the Yosemite crew had notythe training necessary to show their best results.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Montmorency	Yosemite
C. E. Rush (C.)......No. i.........D. J. O’Connor
J.	T. McGowan........No. 2.........W. A. Draper
J. J. Cullinan.......No. 3...........T. A. Toner
A. S. Funk...........No. 4.....J. I. O’Phelan (C.)
R. R. Clark........Coxswain........W. H. Halloran
The Sophomore race came next. This race bore the earmarks of an international contest. Mexicans for the greater part under E. O. Canedo manned one shell, and Cubans, with R. A. Trevino as captain, made up the other crew. The struggle for first place was a
D5H. Madero............No. 4..........M.r.LJ Portillo
W. N.Eangknecht...../No. 5..................F. Cano
E. O. Canedo (C.)......No. 6..........F. Gallastequi
G. F. Ziegler.......:	Coxswain...........V.	Rayneri
The greatest interest centred in the Senior race. For the past three years the two captains, Shea and Krost, have rowed together. This year each captained a crevv, each at his favorite position—Shea as stroke and Krost as coxswain. Interest was also added to the race from the fact that Fortin, this year’s football captain, rowed in one crew, and
severe one. The shells took the first turn almost together.- At the second both swung into the stretch at the same .instant, but Mexico proved too powerful for her younger sister republic, and half-way down the stretch the Minnehaha forged ahead, winning by half a length.	,
Minnehaha •	Evangeline-
I. L. Canedo...........No.	1..........E. P- Rayneri
B. Madero..............No.	2.....R. A. Trevino (C.)
E.	C.' Ruiz............No.	3...............C.	Borja
Salmon, the captain-elect for next year, rowed in a similar position with Shea. Great spirit was shown among the spectators at this race, and those who looked for a hard-fought contest were not disappointed. The two crews were almost even in weight and their strokes were much alike. Shea’s possibly being a little longer finish. Shea’s men won their race on the first stretch. When a quarter of a length behind, a spurt brought them into the turn ahead, and they came
620
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
out of it a little in the lead. This was held from then till the last stretch, when the men settled for a second spurt, and came in winners by a third of a length. This was the prettiest race seen in years, and entitles Shea to the reputation he has earned in never having set stroke for a losing crew. The Misses Henrietta O’Brien and Elinor Tong pinned prizes to the persons of the
winners.
Silver Jubilee	Golden Jubilee
F.	J. Lonergan........No. i..........H.’ J. McGlew
H. II. Hoover.........No. 2............D. C. Dillon
W. P. Wood............No. 3..........P. W. O’Grady
D. K. O’Malley.........No. 4.........M. L. Fansler
L. J. Salmon..........No. 5...........A. C. Fortin
W. A. Shea (C.).......No. 6...........F. J. Kasper
G. H. Kelley........Coxswain.......R. A. Krost (C )
Judges—Messrs. Ewing, Powers and McCullough; Starter, J. C. Kinney.
st. Edward’s hall exercises in
WASHINGTON HALL
In the afternoon, St. Edward’s Hall staged in Washington Hall, “The Bell in the Forest,” a two act operetta. This operetta had been given some time before in welcoming our Reverend President after his return from
the West, where he was convalescing on account of. illness. Then the rendition of it was so clever that there was immediately a demand for a repetition of it during the Commencement,. and in the opera house The little fellows certainl}^ came up to expectations. There was cleverness in the execution of every line. It is hard to pick out any one in particular that shone much above the others, for relatively all were exceptionally good. G. Freese as the Bluster, t one of the finest, furnished a great deal of amusement to the audience in his true interpretation of this character. In: fact, in . keeping with the character—to use -a line from the. synopsis—he ever as “ the Bluster came in. like a lioit and went out like, a lobster.” ; E. Rousseau as Waxem, the shoemaker, and T. Smith wick as Karl Krag, a notorious poacher, read their lines very well.
The dancing of the minuet between the acts was artistically. done: andi reflects great credit on Professor Roche and- the others that trained the. dancers. The. costumes were beautiful,, things,and when ther.little. men went through the artistic turns and - graceful gyrations characteristic of the minuet, the-houses came down with great applause/ so much so, that the dancers could, do: nought' but-respond to the /encore. The programme:
“THE BELL IN THE FOREST.”
A Romantic Operetta in Two Acts by A. Schindler.
Cast of Characters.
Prince Percival, Regent of the Province... . G. Shannon Count Ruprecht, 1 Attendants to the Princ C. Kelley Count Leopold, J	’ R. Farrell
Alexis Forster, the Gamekeeper’s Son.....E- O’Bryan
Karl Kraer, a Notorious Poacher..........T.	Smithwick
Blust er, One of the Finest.................G.	Freese
Screech, Town Crier....................B.	Mulligan
Franz Staub, a Wanderer.................. D.	Randle
Stitchem, Tailor, Chopem, Butcher, Waxem, Shoemaker, Kneadem, Baker,
...................J. McBride
-Village Tradesmen’ ...................John Young
At the close of these exercises, medals and honours were conferred by the President on the different members of this hall. Then Father Morrissey made a few. felicitous remarks in which he referred to the progress made in St. Edward’s Hall during the year, progress which entitled it to a separate commencement in Washington Hall.
WEDNESDAY EVENING EXERCISES.
Wednesday evening, Washington Hall was
taxed to. its utmost capacity to seat- the large and distinguished audience, leaders in theology, law, medicine and. finance, who had assembled to do honour to Notre- Dfime and to wish her graduates Godspeed.
Half an hour before the exercises began, the auditors began to file into the theatre. The stage was simply decorated, In the forepart, supported by an easel, was an elaborately carved frariie, containing a square of silk beautifully lettered. This was the presentation address that accompanied, the Lsetare medal. Hanging.by a ribbon from the frame was a gold, disc that shone brightly. This was the Laetare medal; But few times has Washington Hall been honoured by such . an address . and medal; and its ; appearance there on that night added a heightened charm to the Commencement exercises; . ' When the large audience was seated, President Mbrrissey and Bishop Alerding, closely followed .by Dr. John B. Murphy of Chicago, Hon.- William P. Breen of- Fort Wayne, Mr. Charles -Schwab, President of- the United States-Steel? Company, Father Zahm; Provincial of: the Order of; the Holy Cross-and a number of distinguished Chicagoans^ came .through the. northwest entranced into Washington Hall. Then began the programme of the evening. ; .	..	.
NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC.
621
PROGRAMME).	.
March—American Cadet.........................Hall
University Orchestra. bachelors’ orations.
I.	Oration....’............... The Monroe Doctrine
Mr. George W. Burkitt (Texas.)
Chorus— / f'	.......Chimes of Normandy
I b. Silent Heroes •	J	J
II.	Oration....................The Ship Subsidy Bill
Mr. Albert h. Krug (Ohio.)
Chorus—Servants...............Chimes of Normandy
III.	Oration.........Governmental Control of Trusts
Mr. Francis C. Schwab (Pennsylvania.) Quintet—Cold Sweat on My Brow—Chimes of Normandy Formal Presentation of the Lietare Medal to John B.
Murphy, A. M., M. D., Chicago.
Oration of the Day by the Hon. William P. Breen, A. B., *77, A. M., ’80, Fort Wayne.
The University Orchestra, under the leadership of Prof. Roche, played the “American Cadet” The orchestra was exceptionally good during the entire Commencement. Then came the bachelor orations. These dealt with subjects that are filling the American political stage to-day. “The Monroe Doctrine,” “The Ship Subsidy Bill” and “Governmental Control of Trusts.”
• Mr. George Burkitt of Texas in his exposition of the Monroe Doctrine gave its history, its various interpretations, and the reasons for its being brought into being. He held that by no manner or means could we justify its enforcement farther south than the Caribbean Sea. If the application were to go to South America this would be a misapplication of the principles of the Monroe Doctrine and ultimately a great injury to the United States, commercially and politically. Mr. Burkitt’s gestures were graceful, his -delivery forcible, and he was attentively listened to.
The university chorus sang a sprightly lyric from the “Chimes of Normandy.” After that came the second bachelor’s discourse by Mr. Albert Krug of Ohio. He traced the general decline of our merchant marine to a-want of subsidy; and went on to show .that it was necessary for our ..postal service, or naval defense in warfare, our commerce and our fisheries. Mr. Krug’s arguments were economic, cleverly reasoned out, and he was interrupted during his discourse with applause.
A song from the “Chimes of Normandy” preceded the last of the bachelor discourses, “The Governmental Control of Trusts.” Here Mr. Francis Schwab of Pennsylvania held that trusts are the logical outgrowth of the economic laws of to-day; that their evils are purely accidental,.their good innate, and that
they can be regulated by publicity. He traced -the development of the trust to the economic f necessity of combination of capital arid concentration of efforts, and then went bn : to show the practical benefits to'man as an economic being. At the close of his discourse he was greeted with prolonged applause.	\ '
PRESENTATION OF THE L^ETARE MEDAL. ..	;
After a song-by the University quartette, President Morrissey, Bishop Alerding. Mr.	",
Breen and Dr. John B. Murphy took the stage.	.
Then occurred the formal presentation of the Lretare Medal to Dr. Murphy who is perhaps ’ . the most widely known surgeon in the United States and whose fame is world wide. The . • Reverend President’s presentation speech was. simple and earnest. After tracing the history - , of the medal he said in part:
“This year the medal is given to a man . who has gained a world-wide reputation as. a . surgeon. He has followed his profession with an eye especially fixed on the benefits , he may give his species. His hand has been guided by the accumulated wisdom of generations of \ renowned surgeons, and his heart has been . intimately concerned with the welfare of those under his care.”	. .
Dr. Murphy appeared to be visibly affected, but quickly controlling his emotions he gave utterance to thoughts that gave his hearersan : insight into his character not only as a surgeon . . but as a speaker and a man. Dr. Murphy was frequently and heartily applauded.
,	MR. BREEN’S ADDRESS.	.	=
This was the treat of the evening, and was . ;	>
delivered by Mr. Breen in that eloquent ; manner which ever lends a-charm to alLhis utterances. Time and again was he interrupted . with great i bursts of applause. He took for his theme “ What is expected of the college ’ rnan.” He quoted with Dionysius “The never-to-be-forgotten truth that the ‘foundation of every state is in the education of its youth;-’” : and then went on to show in his eloquent . manner that in every walk of life—in the ’• Church, law, politics, letters and commerce— . it is the college man that comes to the front. < N
Mr. 'Breen’s eloquence was one half ‘His X ; speech, and no printed page, can do justice '
• to his thoughts. This ended the exercises oE ’ the evening.	<•.'r'tyx--
On Thursday morning Washington Hall was again filled with students and relatives to listen to the programme arid to join'?the;; ;N
622	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
demonstrations over , the awarding of degrees, honors and medals. First came an excellently rendered overture by ’ the orchestra. After the quartette sang “ Home, Sweet Home,” Mr. Henry E. Brown of Ohio read the class poem which was built after the fashion of an acrostic necessarily placing many limitations on the author. Mr. Francis F. Dukette of Michigan followed with the Valedictory.
Mr. Dukette spoke in a subdued voice, one in harmony with the occasion; and the perfection of the Valedictory can easily be seen by reference to it in another part of the Scholastic.
Thursday evening the graduates gave a “Senior Prom ” in the gymnasium to honour the visitors and to add to their pleasure. The gym was handsomely decorated with gold and blue bunting and the “Prom” a strong success. This ended the programme. By Friday morning the walks and campus and halls of the University were deserted save for a few that lingered behind. Many had gone out to begin the battle of life. But in the memory of all of them there was engraved a picture of dear old Notre- Dame that can never fade, and which will ever be with us in our saddest and our happiest hours; for this picture is in our souls since we love her.
The work on the beautifully illuminated address read by President Morrissey at the presentation of the Laetare medal, was done by the art department of St. Mary’s Academy. A cut of the address is in .another part of the Scholastic. .	’	. •
This is a partial list of the distinguished clergymen present at the Commencement Exercises. From Indiana: Bishop Alerding, Fort Wayne, Revs. J. F. De .Groot, D. Duehmig, D. J. McLaughlin; George M. Schramm, L. A. Moench, J. M. Schmitz, J. Gallagher, W. J. Houlihan, E. Houlihan, C. Guendling, T. H. Corbett, Thos. Vagnier, J. H; Guendling, L. J. L’Etourneau, J. B. Scheier, P. F. Roach, Jos. F. Delaney, Fathers Dinnen, Oechtering, J. Oechtering; from Illinois:- P. A. Clancy, B. P. Murray, Hugh O'Gara’McShane, LL. D., E; M. Griffin, P. AL Schott, O. PP. S.f T. F. O’Gara, N. J. Whalen, J. J. 5Dennison, J. J.
Byrnes, F. Purcell, J. Durham, T.-O’Sullivan, Geo. Blatter, J. Fortin; from Wisconsin: H. Wilnies, Fathers Condon, Harlan and Collins; from Pennsylvania: Fathers . Ward: and P. Sheedy; from Michigan: R.W. Grace and A.R. Dooling; A. Neville, New York; P.7 M; Saettele, O.S. B.,Arkansas/A. Kreidt, Ontario.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Hon.’William P. Breen, A: B. ’77, A. M. ’80, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on George W. Burkitt, Jr., Houston, Texas.
Timothy J. Crowley, Kilmalloch, County Limerick, Ireland.
Francis Flanders Dukette, Mendon, Michigan. Marcellinus Charles Gorski, Chicago, Ill.
Leo J. Heiser, South Bend, Indiana.
John Joseph Hennessy, Kilmalloch, County Limerick,Ireland.
Joseph P. S. Kelleher, Newburyport, Mass.
Thomas F. McKeon, New Haven, Conn. ■ Francis Charles Schwab, Altoona, Penn.
. Joseph Lawrence Toohey, St. Martins, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on	'
Henry Ewing Brown, Lancaster, Ohio.
Vitus George Jones, Dowagiac, Michigan.
Albert Louis Krug, Day ton, Ohio. ’
William Albert Shea, Ashland, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was . conferred on	.
. Edward Dubs Gilbert, Chicago, Illinois.
Francis B. O’Brien, South Bend, Indiana. John Patrick O’Hara, Lanesboro, Minnesota.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Jose Maria Falomir, Chihuahua, Mexico. Francisco J. Gaston, Havana, Cuba. -Ralph Maher Wilson, Blairsville, Penn.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on .
Enrique Luis Guerra, Sauces Jalisco, Mexico. . Thomas Francis Dwyer, Worcester, Mass.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering was conferred on‘
. -Rodolfo Maria Garza, Saltillo, Mexico.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on	“
Orrin Augustine White, Hanover, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was conferred on
Robert A. Krost, Crown Point, Indiana
The Degree of Master of’Laws was conferred on . John P. Curry, Hartford, Connecticut.
. Albert C. Fortin, Chicago, Illinois.
Phillip Bernard O’Neill, Anderson, Indiana.
The Degree °f Bachelor of Laws was .con.	■ ferred on /
/ William H. Cameron; Benton Harbor, Mich.
NOTkE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. Timothy Crimmins, Aurora, Illinois.
John Louis Corley, St. Paul, Missouri. William Fleming Dinnen, Fort Wayne, Ind. Francis Earle Hering,. South Bend, Indiana. Charles Victor Hilding, South Bend, Ind. Joseph C. Kinney, Rock Springs, Wyoming. George Henry Kelly, Menasha, Wisconsin. Oscar Lippman, South Bend, Indiana.
• Frederick William Meyer, Petersburg, Ill. Clement C. Mitchell, Lapeer, Michigan.
. Peter Patrick McElligott, New York City. 'John B. F. -Pick, West Bend, Wisconsin. Joseph John Sullivan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on .	.
George Justus Lins, Wilmington, Illinois. Harry H. Hoover, Pontiac, Illinois. .
. Rafael Urbano Gali, Sancto Espiritu, Cuba.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on
John Robert Kelly, Muncie, Indiana.
Certificate, for Telegraphy was awarded to Frederico L. Gallastequi, Nombre de Dios, Durango, Mexico. .
7	O'
Certificates in Short Course of Electrical Engi,	neering were awarded to .
Ritchie J. Emerson, Dallas, Texas.
James ,L. Doar, Cumberland, Wisconsin.
Commercial Diplomas.
\	Commercial Diplomas ’ were awarded to
Edward L. Breen, Glens Falls, New York.
>	• Francis. T. Greene, Wapella, Illinois.
"	Harry H. Hurley, Newell, Iowa.
;	■ Francis J. Kehl, Sheboygan Falls, Wisconsin.
• William E. Maloney, Lenox, Iowa.
i	Matthew J. Kenefick, Michigan City. -
j ' George T. Moxley, Chicago, Illinois.
I	Robert D. Murphy, Rock Springs, Wyoming.
[	Marion J. Parker, Frankfort, Indiana.
i	Arthur G._ Strassheim, Chicago, Illinois.
B. Theodore,. Notre Dame, Indiana.
j.	Burt W. Thorp, Greene, Iowa.
Prize Medals.
j	The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry
J	, Quan of Chicago,, for the student having
■	. the best record in .the Classical Course,
ir ■	. senior year, was. awarded .to
'	Francis Flanders . Dukette,' Mendon, Mich.
62'3
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason of Chicago for the stu. dent of Carroll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year was awarded to
James, R. Record, Paris, Texas.
•The Meehan Gold Medal, for English Essays, presented, by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky, was awarded to Francis C. Schwab, Altoona, Pennsylvania.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon. Wm. P. Breen, ’77, of Fort Wayne, was awarded to '
John L. Corley, St. Paul,. Missouri.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine- in Sorin Hall, was awarded to
Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr. A. S. Hughes, Denver, for the best record in Mathematics (Civil Engin. Course) was awarded to Jose Maria Falomir, Chihuahua, Mexico.
The O’Malley Gold Medal for Gaelic, presented by Prof. Austin O’Malley, was awarded to John Joseph Hennessy, Limerick, Ireland.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course B,.ist Division, was awarded to William J. Manier, Versailles, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course A was awarded to
Edward H. Schwab, Loretto, Pennsylvania.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course B, 2d Division, presented by the Very Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, Vicar-General of the. Archdiocese of Chicago, was awarded to Arthur S. Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in M oral Course B, 3d Division, was awarded to Joseph P. O’Reilly, Toledo, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course B, 1st Division, was awarded to John W. O’Neill, Mineral Point, Wisconsin.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, First Course, presented by Rev. Nathan J. Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columbkille’s Church, Chicago, was awarded to
Albert A. Kotte, Cincinnati, Ohio. .
The Commercial Gold Medal ! for the best record; in Senior. Class, Commercial: Course, was awarded to
! Francis J. Kehl, Sheboygan Falls, Wis.
624	MO'lJvIA DAME
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall Second Course, presented by Rev. F. J. Barry, Chancellor of. the Archdiocese of Chicago, was awarded to Harry N. Roberts, Wilmington, Ill.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold, presented by the late Hon. Clem Studebaker, South Bend, Indiana, for debating work, was awarded as follows:	'
Forty Dollars to Byron V. Kanaley, Weedsport, New York.
Twenty Dollars to John L. Corley, St. Paul, Mo.
Fifteen Dollars to John P. O’Hara, Lanesboro, Minnesota.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall, donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to	*
William M. Wimberg, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in Preparatory Course was awarded to
Anthony J. Burger, Brooklyn, New York.
.	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to Francis J. Baude'
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to Charles Thurston McDermont.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Bernard J. Mulligan. ‘	.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing awarded to Edward L. Rousseau.
The GoM Medal for Improvement, in Piano was awarded to
Herbert A. Spengler.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Composition was awarded to
Charles H. Kelley.	.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship awarded to Thomas J. Smithwick. ■
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing awarded to Edward H. Johnston.
First Honor Awards.
SORIN HALL. ,
[First Honors are awarded to students of-Sorin, Corby and .Brownson Halls who have attained an average of at least. 90 per. cent for scholarship and deportment during the. scholastic; year. The first honor, awarded for the first year takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This medal .may be renewed- from year to year.] .	_
First Hondr Gold’Medals were -awarded to
; r Henry E. Brown, Lancaster, Ohio. ..
George W. Burkitt, Houston, Texas. /
< Francis F. Dukettej Mendon, Michigan.
SCHOLASTIC.	,
Walter M. Daly, Madison, South Dakota. Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Penn. John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. John P. O’Hara, Lanesboro, Minnesota. Albert L. Krug, Dayton, Ohio (renewal). Phillip B. O’Neill, Anderson, Ind. (renewal). Francis J. Petritz, Rockford, Ill. (renewal). Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan.
Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois, (renewal).
Orrin A. White,' Hanover, Illinois (renewal). ' Edward C. Wolfe, Germantown, Ohio.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Louis A. De Lone, Harrisburg, Penn. Lawrence H. Luken, Richmond, Indiana.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Lawrence M. Antoine, Somonauk, Illinois (renewal).
John D. Quinn, Scranton, Pennsylvania. Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois.
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Francis P. Burke, Richwood, - Wisconsin. Thomas R. Donnelly, Bay City, Michigan. Benjamin R. Enriques, Chihuahua, Mexico. Joseph A. Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
Jose M. Falomir, Chihuahua, Mexico. Omer D. Green, Lagro, Indiana.
Enrique L. Guerra, Sauces Jalisco, Mexico. Vitus G. Jones, Dowagiac, Michigan.
Frederick J. Kasper, Evanston, Illinois. Byron V. Kanaley, Weedsport, New York. Charles P. Kahler, Baltimore, Maryland. Joseph C. Kinney, Rock Springs, Wyoming. Patrick W. O’Grady, Glens Falls, New York. Michael J. Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts. Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan. Ralph M. Wilson, Blairsville, Pennsylvania. Harry W. Zolper, Mendota, Illinois.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Diploma was awarded to . Miguel Losoya, Durango, ■ Mexico.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Clement C. Mitchell, Lapeer, Mich. Daniel L..Murphy, Odell, Illinois. Peter P. McElligott, New York City. Peter J. McNamara, Worcester, Mass.
. : Washington J. McCormick, Missoula, Mont.
- Clement/J. Sibila, Columbus,: Ohio.:
< . Francis J. Shaughnessy, Amboy,*Illinois. < Robert <E. Scott, Havre, Montana. ; •, -
NOTRE DAME
Deportment Prize Medals.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupds of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable;]
CARROLL HALL.	•
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Thomas W, Graham, August J. Hackman, Robert D. Murphy, Jose Antonio Villanueva, Aloysius J. Dwan, Jose E. Rosado, Joaquin H. Medrano; Leport R. Van Sant, Joseph T. Lantry (renewal), Bryan M. Taylor (renewal).
ST. EDWARD’S HALL. ,	-
John W. Young, John F. Berteling, William F. Gasman, Leo C. Robinson, Grover F. Casey, Huntington St. Clair Conover, William H. Kasper, Clarence J., McFarland. .
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre Dame and whose deportment has given general satisfaction].
\ CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medal for Deportment was awarded to Albert A. Kotte.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Carol Von Phul, Franklin E. Sabin, Leon E. Knight, Everett C. Van Zandt, William A. McBride, Louis E. Hoffman, James A. Woods, George A. Rempe, Claire E. Schohlau.
' Deportment Certificates.
;	[Certificates are awarded- to those pupils of Carroll
f	and St. Edward’s Hall who have followed the courses
[	of the University at least two terms, and whose deport]	ment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
i ’	CARROLL HALL.
!	Richard R. Benson, Charles E. Brown,
J Maurice J. Brown, Fred J. Berkley, John B. I . Cogan, James' Callico, William . M. Duffy, i	Lawrence V. Dougherty, Joseph M. DeLone,
f Francis T. Farrell, John J. Fitzgibbon, Francis | A. Gilmuray, Francis T. Greene, John D. A • . Harrington, Ormond L. Houze, Leo Keiler, [	Matthew J. Kenefick, Daniel T. Kelly, James'
. L. Markey, Edward Malia, Nestor Mambourg, ' Marion J. McAuley, Luke L. Norris, Francisco
. G.. Nieto, Leo C. Rumbaugh, James A. Ryan, J. Hugh Rapier, Maurice J. Riley, J. Record,
'	Clarence A. Reitz, Manuel G‘ Rubio, Walter J. .
r ,	Spengler, Fred H. A. Strauss, Francisco Toba,
. Raymond Thompson, George C. Ziebold, Luis B. G. Portugal, Manuel G. Portugal.
*	x
SCHOLASTIC.	625
. ST. EDWARD’S HALL.	'
Walter F. Upman, Francis J. Flook, Emil Frossard, Francis E. Spengler, Edwin C. Stout, Gerald K. Shannon, George B. Cornelius, Lester W. Rempe, Shorb C. Floyd-Jones, Edward O’Bryan, Walker S. Browne, Joseph A. Quinlan, Ramond A. Farrell, Howard F. Farrell, Charles Thurston McDermont, Thomas J. McFadden, John B. Stoner, McKeen Boyce, Roger J. Houze, Howard F. Smith, Enrique Castillo, Earl H. Wilson, John A. Maginn, Porter W. Munson.
Premiums.
.	'	SORIN HALL.
Arana, Victor—2d Premium in Physics IV., Shop Work, Kinematic Drawing, Kinematics and Machine Design.
Brown, Henry—1st Premium in Political Economy I.; 2d Premium in Dogma; Mention in Ethics and Belles Lettres.	.
Barry, Francis—1st Premium in Dogma and Criticism; 2d Premium in 2d Latin and Political Economy I.; Mention in Elocution.	.
Burkitt, George—1st Premium in Ethics, Latin and 1st
Greek; 3d Premium in Oratory and Belles J^ettres; 2d Premium in Vocal Music.	'
Burke, Francis—Mention in 2d Greek and Literature; 2d Premium in Moral; 3d Premium in English History.
Carey, Louis,—2d Premium in Parliamentary Law; 1st Premium in Orchestra.
Davitt, Harold—2d Premium in Literature.
Dwyer, Thomas—2d Premium m Thermodynamics, Steam Engine Design and Experimental Engineering.
Dinnen, J. Francis—3d Premium in Composition.
Daly, Walter—Mention in 2d French and Literature;
3d Premium in Psychology; 2d Premium in Dogma.
Dubs, John—Mention in Literature; 1st Premium in Music.	.
Dukette, Francis—2d Premium , in Ethics, Tst Latin 1st Greek. and Parliamentary Law; 1st Premium in Oratory and Orchestra; 3d Premium in Belles Lettres
Donnelly, Thomas'—Mention in Calculus; 2d Premium in Physics II. and Mechanical Drawing; 3d Premium in Choir.	-	.
Enriquez, Benjamin—3d Premium in RR. Engineering and Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Advanced Surveying and,Calculus; 2d Premium in, Descriptive Geometry and Mechanical Drawing. \	.
Farabaugh, Gallitzen—1st Premium in 3d Latin, 3d Greek, Mediaeval History, 3d French, 3d German and Parliamentary Law; 3d Premium in Psychology and Dogma; 2d Premium in Literature.-	;
Fahy, Joseph—2d Premium in Astronomy, Geology and Mechanical Drawing; 3d Premium in Theoretical Mechanics; 1st Premium in Geodesy, Mineralogy and Mechanics of .Materials.	'
Fink, ;Hehry—Mention in Spanish.
Falomir, Jose—2d Premium in Civil Engineering and Mechanical Drawing; 1st Premium in. Mechanics of -Materials, Graphic Statics, Roofs and Bridges, Sanitary Engineering and Hvdraulics.
00^	.	-
626
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Gaston,I Francisco—Mention in. Civil Engineering, Graphic Statics and Roofs and Bridges; 3d. Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Garza, Rodolfo — 1st Premium in Electricity A7., Dynamo Machine and Electrical Drawing; 2d Premium in Thermodynamics and Experimental Engineering.
Gorman, Charles—2d Premium in Philosophy; Mention in 2d Latin and Dogma; 1st Premium in 2d Greek, Political Economy I. and Psychology.
Guerra, Enrique—1st Premium in Thermodynamics, Elementary Surveying, Steam Engine Design and Experimental Engineering.
Gilbert, Edward—Mention in Oratory; 1st Premium in Music.
Gali, Rafael—1st Premium in Qualitative Analysis, Materia Medica and Pharmacognosy; 2d Premium in Pharmacy.
Gaffney, Joseph—1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Green, Omer—3d Premium in Rhetoric and Parliamentary Law; Mention in Moral.
Hanley, Robert—Mention in 3d German and Political Science V.; 2d Premium in Criticism; Premium in Modern History.
Hoover, Henry—2d Premium in Organic Chemistry and Pharmacognosy; 1st Premium in Qualitative Analysis and Pharmacy.
Higgins, William—1st Premium in Elocution.
Jones, Vitus—Mention in Dogma and Oratory.
Krost, Robert—1st Premium in Food Analysis, Bacteriology and Advanced Botany; 2d Premium in Dogma.
Kahler, Charles—3d Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Theoretical Mechanics and Dogma; 2d Premium in Geodesy; 1st Premium in Mechanics of Materials and Mechanical Drawing.
Kasper, Fred -3d Premium in Spanish; 2d Premium in Music; 1st Premium in English History.
Kelly, George—Mention in Moral.
• Kelly, John—2d Premium in Food Analysis.
Kanaley, Byron—1st Premium in Parliamentary Law 3d Premium in 3d Greek; Mention in 3d Latin and Literature.
Krug, Albert—isfj Premium in Ethics; Dogma, 1st Latin, Music, Belles Lettres and Constitutional History; 2d Premium in Political Economy L; Mention in Oratory.
Lynch, Robert—3d Premium in Vocal Music.
Lins, George—3d Premium in Organic Chemistry; 2d - Premium in Qualitative Analysis-and Materia Medica.
Meyer, Fred—3d Premium in English History.
Manier, William—Mention in Spanish; 2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry and Roman History; 1st Premium in Moral.
Madero, Benjamin—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine and Analytic Geometry.
Murphy, Francis—1 st Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d.Premium in Vocal. Music.
McKeever, Francis -1st Premium in Constitutional
History. '	1 .
MacDoriough, Patrick—1st Premium in Spanish; 3d Premium in Parliamentary Law and Criticism; Mention in Political Economy; III. and English History.
Neeson, John—1st -Premium -in- Astronomy, Geodesy, • Geology and Mechanical Drawing; 2d Premium in Railroad Engineering; Mention in Advanced Surveying; 3d Premium in Dogma. '
O’Malley, Dominick—2d Premium in Elocution.'
O’Hara,; John—2d . Premium in Dogma and Belles
Lettres; 1st Premium in Parliamentary Law; Premium in American History, Political Economy HI. and Political Science AC
O'Grady, Patrick—3d Premium in Geology.
Petritz, Francis—tst Premium in Theoretical Mechanics, Physics IV., Qualitative Analysis, Mechanics of Materials, Shop Work and Kinematic Drawing; Mention in Dogma.
Quigley, Edward—2d Premium in Literature.
Rincon, Francisco—3d Premium in Mineralogy and Mechanical Drawing.
Rebillot, Paul—Mention in Mineralogy; 2d Premium in Mechanics of Materials; 3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Rayneri, Eugenio—Mention in Calculus; 1st Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Sweeney, Robert—1st Premium in Philosophy; Mention in 2d Latin and 2d Greek.
Shirk, John—2d Premium in Composition.
Shea, William—Mention in Political Economy I.
Shea, John—1st Premium in 2d French; 3d Premium in Rhetoric.
Shea, Michael—2d Premium m 3d Latin and Elocution; Mention in 3d Greek; 3d Premium in Psychology.
Steiner, Arthur—1st Premium in Railroad Engineering and Choir; 2d Premium in Advanced Surveying; Mention in Descriptive Geometry; 3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Stephan, Anton—3d Premium in Railroad Engineering and Dogma; 2d Premium in Advanced Surveying and Calculus; 1st Premium in Descriptive Geometry, Advanced Chemistry' and Mechanical Drawing.
Stephan, Raymond—1st Premium in Dogma.
Stanford, Gratton—3d Premium in Moral.
Trevino, Richard—1st Premium in Analytic Geometry;
2d Premium in 1st Algebra and Christian Doctrine.
Toohey, Joseph—Mention in Ethics^
Voigt, John R.— 1st Premium in Rhetoric, Human Histology, Physiological Laboratory and Elementary Physiology; 3d premium in Advanced Chemistry.
Wilson; Ralph—3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing; 1st Premium in Civil Engineering; 2d Premium in Mechanics of Materials, Graphic Statics, Roofs and Bridges, Sanitary Engineering and Hydraulics.
Whaley, Earle—3d Premium in Literature.
White, Orrin — 1st. Premium in Philosophy, Food Analysis and Psychology; 3d Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Wolfe, Edward—3d Premium in 4th Latin and Parliamentary Law; Mention in 3d French; 1st Premium in 2d' German arid Music.
.Wolfe, Harry—3d Premium in 3d Latin and Psychology; 2d Premium in 2d French; 1st Premium in Parliamentary Law.
Wurzer, Edward—3d Premium in Astronomy and Mechanical Drawing; 2d. Premium in Theoretical Mechanics, Geodesy and Mineralogy; Mention in Geology; 1st Premium in. Mechanics of Materials.
Zolper, Harry—3d Premium in Calculus and'Mechanical Drawing; 2d Premium in Elementary Surveying and Moral.	‘ •
--- ; = CORBY HALL.
Aguirre, Enrique—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine;
. 1st Premium in Special Orthography.
-Bauman,= Walter—Mention in. 4th Algebra.
; Browne, ,Paul—Mention in 3d Algebra.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Barker, Fred—2d Premium in 2d Geometry.
Corbett, Vincent—Mention in Shop Work. !	De Lone, Louis—ist Premium in Spanish and Music;
3d Premium in Moral and Roman History.
Dempsey, Neal 3d Premium in Moral.
Dunne, James—3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Dohan, Joseph—ist Premium in Phonography^ Feeney, Joseph—2d Premium in Special Orthography.
Gaukler, Francis—2d Premium in Composition and Mandolin; ist Premium in Vocal Music.
Geringer, John—Mention in Moral; 2d Premium in English History.
. Guerra, Samuel — Mention in Trigonometry and Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Composition; ist Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
Goodall, Harry—2d Premium in Composition.
Hurst, Noble—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Grammar and Special Orthography.
Hernandez, Rafael—3d Premium in ist Grammar.
Kasper, Robert—1st Premium 7th Latin; 2d Premium’ in Music.
Kinsella, William—Mention in Moral.
Kasper, George—Mention in Sth Latin; 3d Premium' in Composition.
Luken, Laurence - ist Premium in Pharmacy and Materia Medica; 2d Premium in Pharmacognosy; 3d Premium in Elementary Botany. .
Losoya, Miguel—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine, Mandolin, Spanish-English and Special. English; 2d >	Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
;	Losoya, Juan—2d. Premium in Spanish-English; 3d
Premium in Special English; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
• ‘	Moran, Charles—2d Premium in Rhetoric and 3d
German; ist Premium in Drawing; Mention in i.	Advanced Chemistry.
Muriel, Jose — 2d Premium in 2d Algebra and ;■	Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Music and, ist
Grammar.
Muriel, Ignacio—3d Premium in Composition; Mention '	in Christian Doctrine.
Meyers, Joseph—2d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d Premium in Moral.
;	McNeil, William—2d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Oliver, James—3d Premium in 2d Algebra.
1	Reed, Gail—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in
,	5th Greek; ist Premium in Composition; Mention in
3d Algebra.
!	Sherlock, Charles—3d Premium in Composition; 2d
i	Premium in Moral.
}	. Schaab, Alfred—3d Premium in	ist Geometry, Ele-
]	mentary Physics and Mechanical	Drawing; Mention
in Moral; 2d Premium in Shop Work.
Stopper, Anthony—3d Premium in Rhetoric and 1	'	Trigonometry; ist Premium in	Zoology.and Elementary
I	Botany.
$	‘ Schwab, Edward—2d Premium in Trigonometry;
{’	ist Premium in Moral.
•	Steinle, Arthur—ist Premium in 3d Grammar. -
Thompson, Walter—2d Premium in Composition. Wertin, John—2d Premium in Composition and Music. Welty, Louis—2d Premium in Applied Electricity;
. .	• Mention in 2d Geometry.	-
■
h	'	-	•• BROWNSON’HALL.
Antoine, Laurence—Mention in Descriptive Geometry; . - 3d Premium in Physics] II. and] Qualitative Analysis;
627	;	<
ist Premium in ist German and Shop Work; 2d Pre- -mium in Moral and Drawing.	'	■
Beacom, Patrick—Mention in Sth Latin; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar.	.	:
Borja, Camilo—2d Premium in Music.	-
Breen, Edward—1st Premium in Composition and ist
Bookkeeping; 3d Premium in Moral. -	-	".
Bfauchler, William—ist Premium in Applied Elec- ;	7
tricity L; 2d Premium in Shop Work.'	. /
Bailey, Francis—2d Premium in 2d Grammar." - -Beechinor, Herbert—Mention in Advanced Chemistry..
Celis, F. Javier—Mention in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
'Cano, Florencio—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine. " Carton, James—3d Premium in Composition.
Campbell, Matthew—Mention in Analytic Geometry. Corley, John—ist Premium in Parliamentary .Law, Cullinan, Charles—2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Castillo, Manuel — ist Premium in Music and 3d Arithmetic.
Carroll, Charles—Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in .
Moral. 1	- .
Clarke, Robert—ist Premium in 2d Geometry.
Dwan, Leo - ist Premium in Rhetoric and Artistic
Drawing; 2d Premium in Advanced Chemistry and General Biology; 3d Premium in Human Histology;
Mention in ist Geometry.	-
Davey, Frank—Mention in ist Algebra.	' '
Dumanois, Arthur—ist Premium in Music. s .
Duttle, George—2d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping;' ist
Premium in ist Arithmetic.	.
Daly, Bernard—3d Premium in 5th Greek; ist Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in Moral.
Deasey, James—ist Premium in Composition.
Dunnington, Rex — ist Premium in Band and. 2d.
Reading. .	-	-
Erdelen, G. Joseph—Mention in Moral.
Flynn, Bernard—ist Premium in Composition; Mention	.'
in 2d Geometry.	-
Fernandez, Bernardo—Mention in ist Grammar., Fetherston, Louis—2d Premium in 6th Latin.
Fansler, Michael—Mention in ist Geometry; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra.	‘
Funk, Arthur—ist Premium in Geometry; 1st.Pre- . mium m Elementary Chemistry; ist Premium in Moral; 2d Premium in Composition; 4th Premium in Elemen- -tary Physics.	- .
Fisher, Robert—ist Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Pre- .
mium in 4th Algebra.	' -	.	.
Gavigan, Edward—2d Premium in Pharmacy; Mention. . .
in Elementary Botany.	■	-	-
Georg, Oscar—3d Premium in Pharmaceutical Chern-istry; ist Premium in Materia Medica.	,	.
Gormley, George—Mention in Mediaeval History. - . r J 7 . Gerraughty, Thomas—2d Premium in Zoological . 7 ,7 ? Laboratory and Zoology.	/	"
Gerraughty, .William—3d Premium in Zoological <.’ ?7 Laboratory; ist Premium in Composition.	; 7
Gallastequi, Frederico —ist Premium, in Telegraphy. .7,-7.7 Gillen, Charles —ist Premium in Composition; Mention 7.7, ? 777 in 3d Algebra.	,
*	_ *	>*: 7
Glenn,.Edward—ist Premium in Composition; Men-G7 7777 tion in Moral; 2d Premium in Music.,	.. ■"■■777777
Gage, Roy—ist Premium in Trigonometry, ist Algebra 7-^ 7> 77 and ist Geometry.	"• V-"■< 7777
628
NOTRE DAME . SCHOLASTIC.
Huffman, William—1st Premium in 7th Latin; '2d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Huffman, Charles—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Special Orthography.
Hurley, Harry—2d Premium in Composition and Music; 3d Premium m Moral.
Hogan, Joseph—1st Premium in 2d Grammar.
Hatfield, W. Everett—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic. Reading and Orthography, 3d Grammar and' J st Geography and History.
Ill,	Alphonse—2d Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Kehl, Frank—1st Premium in Composition and Advanced Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Music; 3d Premium in 1st Bookkeeping
■ Kennedy, Clarence—Mention in Human Histology; 1st Premium in Microscopy; 2d Premium in Elementary ' Chemistry and Artistic Drawing.
Krieger, John—Mention in 2d German; 1st Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra.
Litzelmann, Joseph—2d Premium in 1st Grammar.
Lonergan, Frank—3d Premium in Rhetoric.
Lippman, Oscar—2d Premium in English History.
Lomelin, Ignacio—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine;
3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Mulligan, Edward—3d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping; Al ention in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in Special Orthography.
Mohan, Joseph—1st Premium in Composition.
■ Alunsch, Albert—2d Premium in Physiological Laboratory and Elementary Physiology; 3d Premium in 2d Geometry and Elementary Botany; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra and Ancient History.
Merson, Edward—3d Premium 1st Grammar.
Afitchell, Clement—2d Premium in Parliamentary Law.
Alolumphy, David—Alention in 3d Algebra and Moral.
Alaloney, William—1st Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in 1st Bookkeeping and Advanced Arithmetic.
Murphy, Daniel—3d Premium in Rhetoric and 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in 7th Latin; Alention in A'loral.
Alurphy, AI. Leo—3d Premium in Special Orthography.
Montes, de Oca, Juan—3d Premium in 4th Algebra and .
Christian Doctrine; Mention in 2d Arithmetic, Spanish-English and Special English. x
AIcGIew, Henry—2d Premium in Composition. AIcElligott, Peter—Alention in English History. McDermott, Edward—3d Premium in Composition.
McNamara, Peter—3d Premium in Moral; Alention in English History.
AlcCormick, Washington—Alention in 4th Greek;
1st Premium in Rhetoric and Parliamentary Law; 2d Premium in 3d French and. Moral. .	'
McAuley, John—1st Premium in Composition; 2d ' Premium in Ancient History and Special Orthography.
AlcAuley/Alilo—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
AIcAuley, J. Robert—1st Premium in - Elefnentary Physiology.	'	.
.O’Neill, John—Alention in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d German; 3d Premium in Physiological Laboratory; 1st Premium in Moral.	■
Opfergelt, Edward—3d Premium in Composition.
. O’Reilly, Joseph—1st Premium in Moral. *	..
Padden, Dominic—3d Premium in Sth Latin;; ist Premium in Composition.	'
Quinn, John-^Mention in Advanced .Surveying and Descriptive Geometry; ist: Premium , in Physics IL; ’2d Premium in-2d German; 3d •Premium in Drawing.
Ruiz, Enrique-AAlention in ist Grammar. . J
Rush, Charles—1st Premium in Alusic..
Sibila, Clement—1st Premium in Composition 4th Algebra and Elementary Physics; 2d Premium in German, 7th Latin and Elementary Botany; Mention in Ancient History and Moral; 3d Premium in A'lusjc.
Smith, Robert—2d Premium in Composition.
Simms, Thomas—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Sheekey, Charles—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Shaughnessy, Francis—1st Premium in Pharmaceutical Chemistry; 2d Premium in Elementary Botany.
Schmidt, Henry—3d Premium in Drawing.
Scott, Alarc—3d Premium in Rhetoric and Elementary Chemistry; 2d Premium in Pharmaceutical Chemistry; 1st Premium in Pharmacognosy, Elementary Botany and Music; Mention in Elementary Physics.
Stevens, Walter—3d Premium in Analytic Geometry and 1st Algebra; Mention in Moral.
Salmon, Louis — Alention in Analytic Geometry and 1st Algebra; 3d Premium in Elementary Surveying.
Sullivan, David—2d Premium in Special Orthography.
Thorp, Burt—1st Premium in Composition; 2d Premium in 1st Bookkeeping.
Talcott, Harrison—Alention in 3d French, and 5th
Latin;' 1st Premium in Music.	'
Uffendell William—1st Premium in Architectural and Artistic Drawing.
Villanueva, Luis—Alention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Villanueva, Jose—Mention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.	'
Villanueva, Santiago—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium' in 2d Bookkeeping.
Wagner, Frederick—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 1st
Premium in 4th Algebra.	-	•
Wagner, Lucius—3d Premium in Shop Work.
Willard, John—1st Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Wagner, Louis—3d Premium in 7th Latin and Composition; Alention in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in Elocution. .	'	■
CARROLL HALL.	■
• Brand, Harry-—Alention in 4th Algebra.
Benson, Richard—3d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping ;
Alention in 1st Arithmetic.	.	-	'
Brown, Charles—Alention in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in Analytic Geometry and Aloral; 1st Premium in Elementary Surveying.	:	- .	.
Berggren, Henry—Alention in 2d Grammar.
Burger, Anthony—1st Premium in Elocution; 3d
Premium in 2d Arithmetic.	’
Brown, Alaurice—1st premium in Christian Doctrine and 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st -Geography; 2d Premium in 1st History.	I
Berkley, Charles — 2d .Premium in 2d Grammar; i J
Alention in-Phonography. .	I
Berkley, Fred—Alention in 2d Grammar and Penmanship.- -	' .	■	’
Baker, Clarence —1st Premium in 2d Reading and .
Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.	.
Cuesta, Bonaventura — Alention in Spanish - English	•
and Special English. ’ . .
Cuesta,- Ramon—Mention in Spanish-English, Special
English and'Typewriting. • ’ _	'
Cahill, Thomas—Premium, in Penmanship; 1st Pre- / mium in 2d Bookkeeping. -- • .	(	«	<
Campbell’, ' John—1st Premium 'in 6th Latin; Mention in .2d Algebra and-Christian. Doctrine. ,	< .	■
NOTRE DAME
Carr, Carlyle — Mention in Music and Special Orthography.
Cary, Clarence—Mention in 2d Grammar.
Cogan, John—Mention in 7th Latin and 1st Arithmetic;
3d Premium in Moral.
Casparis, Kenneth — Mention in 4th Algebra and 2d German.
Castillo, Fernando — Mention in Christian Doctrine and Special English.
Duffy, William—Mention in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Geography.
Dougherty, Lawrence — 3d Premium in Christian ‘Doctrine and ist Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Dierssen, Paul—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in 1st Arithmetic and 2d German.
,	Dierssen,, Walter — Mention in 1st Arithmetic and
. 4th German.
• Dwan, Aloysius—2d Premium in Composition ; 3d Premium in 2d Geometry.
De Lone, Joseph—3d Premium in 7th Latin and 2d •Geometry; ist Premium in 3d. Algebra; Mention in .Moral. •
Dunham, Charles—Mention in Ancient History and
Penmanship.	.	•
Eimer, John—2d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping; ist Premium in Special Orthography.
Eaton, William— ist Premium in 2d Algebra;'Mention in Botany, Drawing and Elementary Chemistry.
Ehrke, Frederick — Mention in Drawing and Special Orthography.
Fleming, Shirley—Mention - in 3d German- and 2d Geometry. .
Farrell, Francis—Mention in Special Orthography and Christian Doctrine '	-
Fitzgibbon, John — 3d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in Composition; ist Premium in Mandolin.
Foley, Frank—Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Gilmurray, Francis — Mention in 2d Grammar and ist Reading. '
Greene, Edward—Mention in Penmanship and 2d Reading.
Greene, Francis—3d Premium in ist Bookkeeping.
Graham,-Thomas—ist Premium in 2d Geography and History.
Gray, Richard—Mention in 2d Reading and Instrumental Music.
Gallart, Jose—3d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium ■ in 2d Geometry and .Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 3d Algebra, Music and .Orchestra; Mention in Elementary Botany.	.
1 Hernandez, Rafael—Mention in Special English and Christian Doctrine. "	.	.
Hurtado, Angel—Mention in Typewriting and Special
English.	'	'
o	-	*
Harrington, John—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine;
Mention in-2d-Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Reading.
Hart, Lawrence—Mention in 7th Latin.
Hall, William — Mention in ist Arithmetic and
Drawing.	•
Hanford, George—Mention in Phonography. .	.
•	Hoff, Arthur—2d Premium in Composition and Artistic
Drawing. ,	’	.
Houze, Ormond—Mention, in United States History, • Christian Doctrine and Music.	.	‘
‘	Hackman, August—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine;
SCHOLASTIC.	629
ist Premium in Special Orthography.	.
Keiler, Leo—Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Keegan, William—3d Premium in 2d History; Mention in Orthography.	,
Kenefick, Matthew—ist Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in ist Bookkeeping.	. . \
Kasper, Francis—ist Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in Vocal Music. v
Kotte, Albert—ist Premium in ist Geometry and Moral; 3d Premium in Advanced Chemistry.
Kelly, Daniel—2d Premium in 7th Latin and Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in ist Grammar.
Kennedy, Edward—Mention in Ancient History and Christian Doctrine.	.
Lantry, Joseph—Mention in ist Geometry, Christian Doctrine and Elementary Chemistry.
Lawton, Jasper—Mention in 4th German and Music.
Lyman, Paul—Mention. in ist Arithmetic and Composition.	;	•
Medrano, Joaquin—Mention in 7th Latin and Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 2d Grammar and Special Orthography.
Mills, John—Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Grammar.
Markey, James—Mention in ist Arithmetic, Ancient History, Drawing and Zoology.
Malia, Edward—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; Mention -in 2d Reading. •	.
Mooney, -Charles—2d Premium in Elocution; ’ist .
Premium in 3d Grammar.
Mambourg, Nestor—Mention in Christian Doctrine, 2d Reading, Penmanship and Music. .
- Murphy, Robert—Mention in Christian Doctrine;* 2d Premium in Phonography and Advanced Arithmetic; ist Premium in 1st Bookkeeping.
Menagh, Harry—Mention in Penmanship and 2d
Reading.	‘
Morrison, Jos.—ist Premium in Special Orthography;
Mention in 4th Algebra and Ancient History.
Morrison, Denis—3d Premium in Sth Latin; Mention in Ancient History and Special Orthography. .	.
McCarty, J. Gerald—Mention in 4th Algebra. .
McLean, William—2d Premium in Trigonometry and ist Geometry; ist Premium in Composition.
McMahon, John—2d Premium in Ancient History and
7th Latin.	r
McBride, Paul—Mention in Instrumental Music and
4th Algebra.	•
McFarland, Alex.—ist Premium in 6th Latin, Ancient History and Mandolin; 3d Premium in Zoology.	„
McCauley, Marion—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in ist Reading and Orthography.
Norris, Luke—3d Premium in Moral; Mention in ’ Roman History and Greek.
Nieto, Francisco—Mention in Special English-and Drawing; .	-	-	*
O’Sullivan, Timothy—Mention in 3d French; 2d Pre- , • mium in 7th Latin; ist Premium in 2d Geometry. •
O’Donnell, James—4th Premium in 2d Bookkeeping;
Mention in ist Arithmetic. .	. ‘	-
Pryor, F rank—Mention in Phonography and Elocution.
. Pollitz, William—Mention in Penmanship, Geography ‘ and U. S. History.	.	.
Peery, Francis—Mention in ist Arithmetic, Music and .
Composition. ■	;	;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ Portugal, Manuel—Mention in Special English and Christian Doctrine.
' Portugal, Louis—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine and 3d Arithmetic; Mention in Special English.
Ouinlevin, Venins—2d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping . and Music; Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Ouertinmont, George—Mention in Christian Doctrine and 1st Grammar.
. Quertinmont, Edgar—Mention in Christian Doctrine and ist Reading and Orthography.	*
J Rosado, Jose—ist Premium in Spanish-English; 2d Premium in Special-English.	-
Roberts, Harry—2d Premium in 2d Geometry, Elementary Botany and ist Grammar; Mention * in 3d Algebra; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine and ist Reading.
Ryan, James—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist United States History. .
Rapier, J. Hugh—3d Premium in 8th Latin; Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in ist Grammar.
Rumbaugh, Leo—2d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History.
Record, James—3d Premium in 4th Latin and Rhetoric; ist Premium in 4th Greek and Roman History; 2d Premium in Moral.	..
Rothwell, Hany—Mention in 3d German, Composition and 2d Algebra.	.
Reiley, John—Mention in Penmanship.
Reitz, Clarence—3d Premiurii in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d History; Mention in ist Reading and Orthography.
Rubio, Marcellino—Mention in Special English, Drawing and Penmanship. -
.Rubio, Manuel — Mention in Spanish-English, Penmanship and Christian Doctrine.
Rennolds, William—ist Premium in Mandolin; 2d ' Premium in 2d Arithmetic and ist History; 3d Premiurii in ist Geography.
. Rocheford, Ector—4th Premium in 2d Arithrnetic; ist . Premium in ist Geography and History.
Riley, Maurice—Mention in ist Arithmetic, 4th Algebra and Ancient History. .	.	-	'
Spengler, Walter—Mention -in, ist Arithmetic;. 2d ' Premium in Special Orthography.
.	Schaus, Herbert—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Men-
. tion in Penmanship and 2d Grammar.
Sweeny, Francis—Mention in Elocution and in 2d
■ Geometry.	.	.
. Swan, Albert—2d Premium in Elocution; Mention in Penmanship and ist Reading. •_	*
' Schmidt, Harry—Mention in Ancient History, Music and Drawing.	G ?	. ■
- .. Sheble; Ernest—2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium 3d Algebra; .Mentiom in Elementary Botany.
’	Scott,_ Robert—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention
in 1st Arithmetic. .	\ l
.	Strauss,. Frederic—Mention .in. German, Penmanship/
and 2d Grammar. .	. \	'	.. •.
Swan. Edward—-Mention in ist Reading. Orthography
. . and Penmanship.? *G	: ^Ari&meticG.''-^	'	~ -
Tansey, Loms-2d Premium m Composition; 3d.., . Conolly, G.^-lhemium in Reading and Arithmetic. ? ■
. _ Premium-in Phonography. >?=<G.-/y	. •	. . .Conover,H.SLClair—Premium inReading, Grammar.,
. Thompson, Raymond—2d Pi emium in 7th; Latin, 3d .Creveling,- H.-GPremium in Grammar and -Arithriietic.
. -Premium m Christianity	. ^i^^erhi^i^cal Music arid Arithmetic. ;
. -	' -v	* ? 7.	? ?"???/.'	Dean, j.^Prennuiri-iri,Orthography and Penmanship.
' fXrTMcottERodney^i^P^	Mention in .. Doriahbe^/a^P^miuniyiii rAlgebray Grammar and;
' Ancienr History. ,	:	G? ?'=>?	- Piah6^-Gm;GGJGt/??G?.-?G	- y /
Taylor, Bryan—2d Premium in ist Geometry and Elocution; Mention in 2d Algebra and Moral.
Toba, Francisco — Mention in Christian Doctrine, Special English and Music.
Usera, Julio—3d Premium in Music and Composition.
-Villanueva, Jose—Mention in Christian Doctrine and
Special English. .	'	’
Van Sant, Leport—ist Premium in 2d Algebra and
Elocution.	-
■ Wenter, Henry—ist Premium in Music, 2d Bookkeeping and ist'Arithmetic.
White, Mark—Mention in ist Arithmetic and Penmanship.
Winter, William—Premium in German; Mention in' ist Arithmetic and Christian Doctrine. '
Winter, Charles—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic;
Mention in 4th German and Violin.
Winter, August—Premium in ist German; 2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
White, Benjamin—2d Premium in 7th Latin; Mention in Ancient History, ist Grammar, ist Arithmetic and
Drawing.	<	,	•	'
Williams, Robert — 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
Mention in Reading and Penmanship.	.
Ziebold, George—ist Premium in Zoological Laboratory, Composition and Zoology; 2d Premium in’ 6th
Latin; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.	,
Ziebold, Gottlieb—Mention in 2d Grammar, Piano, Penmanship and 3d German. ’
■	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Burke, C.—Premium in .Reading and Arithmetic.
Bassett, R.—Premium in Piano and Arithmetic. ' -Baude, F.—Premium in Arithmetic, Piano and Reading.
Berteling, J".—Premium in Algebra, Arithmetic, Vocal
Music and Graminar.	-
Beers, H.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and
Geography. ’	-
Brennan, F.—Premium in Reading, United States History .and Arithmetic.	■	■	.
Brennan, J.—Premium in Reading and Arithmetic.
Boyce, M.—Premium in Reading, Graminar and Arithmetic. - .	.	.	.
Bonns, R.—Premium in Reading.
Browne, W.—Premium in Mandolin,. United States History and Grammar.	.	.
Butler, j.—Premium in Arithmetic and Geography. *
Connolly, E.—Premium in Reading, Geography and
Orthography.	*
. Cotter, W. — Premium in Orthography and Penmanship.
.	Cartier,-A.—Premium in Arithmetic and Orthography.
Casey, , G.—Premium - in * Mandolin, Arithmetic and
■ Penmanship?.’ -	.? /	. ,	- z
Castillo,'R.—Premium in Mandolin and Penmanship.
■ <
Cast.llo, H.'—Premium in Arithmetic and Spanish-
English. G ‘ . '-y \ ‘	:
. Coleman,* E.—Premium in. Arithmetic, Geography and .
Christian Doctrine. ?G	.
Cornelius, G -^Premiums inr Grammar, Reading arid
RGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	631,
_	'	•	'	kJ
• Downer, H.-—Premium in Grammar, Mandolin and Penmanship.	'
Ewart, D.—Premium in Piano and Reading.	-
Earrell. R.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and . Reading..	■	.
Farrell, H.—Premium in Arithmetic, Penmanship and Grammar.-	’ .
Flook, F.—Premium in Orthography and Reading. . ‘ Frossard, E- —Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and Grammar. ,
Floyd-Jones, S.—Premium in Grammar, Geography and Reading,	-
. Freese, G.—Premium in Christian Doctrine, Grammar . and United States History.	‘
Gasman, W.—Premium in Grammar, Orthography and
Reading. -	'	-
Gelder, J.—Premium in Arithmetic and United States
. History.
Graham, —Premium in Mandolin and Arithmetic.
.	Green, C.—Premium in Arithmetic arid Geography. •
Green, H.—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading.
. -'	Huffman, C-.—Premium in Piano and Orthography. .
Hennessy, W.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Reading.	•	‘
■ ■ Hall, R.—Premium in Christian Doctrine, Arithmetic and Orthography.
. • , Healy, W.—Premium in Algebra, Grammar and Piano. .	Houze, R.—Premium in Vocal Music and Orthography.
Houser, B.—Premium in Penmanship and Vocal Music.
Hoffman, L.—Premium in Piano, Reading, Geography. t Johnston, E.—Premium in Grammar and Penmanship.
Jones, W.—Premium in Reading and Orthography.
Kasper, W.'—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Piano.	•	•
Kelley, C.—Premium in Arithmetic, United States History and Reading. '
Knight, D.—Premium in Piano and Arithmetic.
Kelly, E.—Premium in Reading, Arithmetic and Vocal Music.	■	.
Lavari, T.—Premium in Grammar and Reading. " ‘	' Lavan, H.—Premium in Reading.	’
Lynch, J.:—Premium in Arithmetic and Vocal Music.
Lowther, G.—Premium in Arithmetic.
■ Lowther, A.—Premium in Reading. ‘ s
Miles, C.—Premium in Geography and Orthography. • . Mooney. L.—Premium in Arithmetic, Graminar and
Geography.	■	' .	.
Mulligan, B.—Premium in Algebra, Arithmetic-and , Grammar.	•.
Muriso’n, —Premium in Arithmetic,. Grammar and Penmanship. '	■
Maginn, F.—Premium in Penmanship and Grammar.
‘	( .	Maginn, J.—Premium in Reading and Arithmetic.
McBride, J.—Premium in Algebra, Grammar, Piano and
\ Elocution..	-	,
1 .	' McBride, AV. — Premium in Piano, .Christian Doctrine
and Reading.
.	McDermont, .T.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar
. . . arid Elocution. -	-
:	' . . McDermont, C.—Preminin in Penmanship, Arithmetic.
. .	. McFadden, T.—Premium in Piano and Geography.
:	. 'McFarland, C.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar
' and Reading.	-	-	.
। ;	. McGill, R.—Premium in Geography, Orthography and
. Christian Doctrine. .	.	.
. O’Bryan, E.—Premium in Algebra, Arithmetic and Grammar.	.	.	\
Prada, J.—Premium in Penmanship, Spanish-English and Reading.	■ .	’
Purdy, W.—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Geography.	. .
Quinlan, J.—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Orthography.	..
Randle, D.—Premium in Algebra, Grammar, Reading.
Ravencroft, G.—Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and Geography. -•
• .Rempe, G. —Premium in Arithmetic, United . States
History and Reading.	.
Rempe, L-—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading. ? .
R illy, C.—Premium in Algebra. Orthography and
Grammar.	•	. ,
Rousseau, E.—= Premium in Arithmetic, Algebra and' " Grammar. ’	-
Robinson, L.—Premium' in Piano, Geography and .
Grammar.	..	\
Rudolph, AV.—Premium in Orthography.
Rudolph, M.—Premium in Vocal Music.	.
Sabin, F.—Premium in Arithmetic, Elocution and .
Grammar. .	.	•	\
Sawyer, H.—Premium in Penmanship and Grammar. Schonla’u, C.—Premium in Arithmetic and Geography. Shannon, G.— Premium in Algebra, Orthography and
Reading.	'
o	_
Smith, B.—Premium in Piano and Arithmetic. .	'
Smith, H.—Premium in Arithmetic and Orthography.
Small, E.—Premium in Orthography.	'
Stoner, B.—Premium in Arithmetic and Grammar.
Stout, E.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and Reading.
Stout, M.—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography and -
Reading. -	-
Spengler, H.—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic and
Algebra:	-
Spengler, F.—Premium in Piano and Arithmetic.
Smithwick, T.—Premium in Algebra, Grammar and
Piano.	,
Tillett, G.—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography and Orthography.	" '
Taprell, G.—Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Taprell. S.—Premium in Orthography.	V	'
Upman, W.—Premium in Piano, United States History and Reading.	?	:
Van Zandt, E-:—Premium in Geography and Arithmetic.
Villanueva, A.—Premirim in Piano, Penmanship and '
Spanish-English. -	.	, '
Von Phul, C.—Premium in Graminar, Arithmetic and
Christian Doctrine.	. '
Wiest, L.—Preinium in Piano and Grammar.	_
U ilson, R.—Premium in Arithmetic and Orthography.
Wilson, E.—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading. •
Wilson, C.—Premium in Orthography.	’	:
Woods, J.—Premium in Orthography and Penmanship. AVeisskopf, L.—Premium in Arithmetic.	?
Young, J.—Premium in Algebra, -Arithmetic and. .
Piano.	.	'	.
,	HOLY'CROSS HALL. >	; .4?--'
Boyle, Joseph—Mention in Elementary Physiology. ;	44
Burke. Joseph—Mention in 3d Greek and Mediaeval, f . ;4‘4
■History „ -	\ ‘	. -V •	. jJV' y
Burke, Eugene—2d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d Premium ^4’44'
in Parliamentary Law. <	•	.4 4 4A4-4v
Crowley, Timothy—Mention.in isLLatin; 1st Premium 4 . ;4444
-	‘	--^4-44
NOTRE DAM/. SCHOLASTIC.
in ist Greek; 2d Premium in Oratory.
Collins, Harry—ist Premium 7th Latin, 5th Greek and Ancient History; Mention in 3d Algebra.
Corbett, James—ist Premium in Composition.
Cunningham, William—3d Premium in ist Geometry;
Mention in 5th Latin. ’
Davis, Ernest—Mention in 3d Latin and Literature;
2d Premium Devereux, German; 2d Rhetoric.
in 3d Greek.
Arthur—Mention in 4th Latin and 3d
Premium in 4th Greek; 3d Premium in
De Wulf, Emiel—1st Premium in 2d Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Greek.
Durcan, Patrick—2d Premium in 5th Latin.
Finnegan, Edward—Mention in Foik, Paul—2d Premium in 1st in 5th Latin. .
Forrestal, Peter—2d Premium
Elocution.
Geometry; Mention
3d Arithmetic and
2d Grammar; ist Premium in 1st Reading and Orthog-Gorka, Stanislaus—2d Premium in 5th Greek anil 2d Algebra; ist Premium in 5th Latin.
. Gorski, Marcellinus—2d Premium in Oratory.
Griffin, John—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Hagerty. Cornelius—2d Premium in 4th Latin and 4th Greek; 3d Premium in Parliamentary Law.
Hanyz, Martin—ist Premium in 5th Greek; 2d Pre-, mium in 4th Algebra and 5th Latin. .	»
~ Heiser, Leo—Mention in Ethics; 3d Premium in Oratory.
Hock, Fred—2d Premium in 3d Algebra,
Isaacs, William—2d Premium in 8th Latin; Mention
in ist Grammar.	K
Irvine William—3d Premium in 7th Latin; Mention in. ist Grammar.
Irving, Thomas—Mention in 3d Greek and Mediaeval History; 3d Premium in 3d French.	.
Kelleher, Joseph—2d Premium in Ethics; Mention in
ist Latin and ist Greek; 3d Premium in Parliamentary Law.	-	'
Kelly, Louis—3d Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in Elementary Physics.
•Kennedy, Leo—2d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Mathis, Michael—2d Premium in 7th Latin.	•
Mannion, Thomas—ist Premium in Sth Latin. . Miller, Desire—Mention in Rhetoric and Elocution.
Moloney, William—2d Premium in 5th Greek; ist .
■ Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in 5th Latin. ■
Mulcare, Michael—3d Premium in Sth Latin; 1st
Premium in Composition. - ;	-	’
McAuley, Hugh—Mention in 4th Latin and 4th Greek.
McGinn, John—3d Premium in 3d French.
.. / McNamara, George—2d Premium in Psychology; -3d
Premium in Elocution. -	. *
O’Donnell, Charles—Mention in. 4th Greek; 1st Pre-
mium. in Rhetoric.- -	.	■
. O’Donneil, Walter—3d Premium, in 31
Mention in.3d Spanish. .	.	,
O’Neill, Thomas—2d Premium in 2d\German:
J
Pula, Joseph— ist Premium in; 2d Grammar; Premium in rst Reading and Orthography.
, Quinn, William—3d Premium in Elocution.
Ryan, John—3d Premium .in 2d German. .
- > Rafter, Gerald—2d Premium in ,3d German.
. Schwab/Frahcis—Mention in.Oratory.	-
Sypniewski, Stanislaus—Mention in 5th Greek.
. . J; Walsh, Leo—ist'.Premium .in 2d French. : , . ,	_	.	....... - . . .. -	.
/ . Wimberg,.\^illiam—Mention in 3d Latin and 3d Greek; discipline have made-thee good,—Spaldin.
2d Premium in Mediaeval History; 1st Premium in Oratory.
Zerhusen, Francis—2d Premium in Elocution. * *
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.	-
Bolger, William—3d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in 3d French; ist Premium in 5th Greek and 5th .Latin.	.	-
Brown, Edward—2d Premium in Ancient'History.
Casey, Daniel—2d Premium in Composition and ist Arithmetic.
■ Casey, Charles—ist Premium in Composition. Callicrate, Dominic—3d Premium in 3d Algebra. Crotty, Robert—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic. Feeley, .William—2d Premium in 2d Algebra. Gormley, John — ist Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in Elementary Physiology.
Garland, Harry—3d Premium in Composition and Artistic Drawing.	.
Goff, John—3d Premium in Sth Latin.
Herbert, Peter—2d Premium in 8th Latin; ist Premium in 2d Grammar.	'
Hannigan, James—3d Premium in -2d Grammar.
Jenkins, Joseph—1st Premium in Gen'eral Biology and 6th Latin; 2d Premium in Human Histology.
Jones, Harry—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic and 2d Grammar.
Kane, Michael—Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in Special Orthography.
Kurowski, Francis—Mention in 2d Grammar.
Leppert, Charles—2d Premium in Composition; ist Premium in Ancient History. •
Lyons, Thomas—1st Premium in 3d Latin and Literature; 3d Premium in Mediaeval History; 2d Premium in 2d French.
Murphy, John—2d Premium in 7th Latin.
Murphy, Wni.—ist Premium in Special Orthography.
O’Connor, Daniel—ist Premium in 3d German; Mention in Zoology.
O’Neill, James—2d Premium in Composition.
O’Keefe, Don Paul—i.st Premium in Composition.
Piel, Edward—2d Premium in Composition; 3d Premium in Elocution. •
Robert, Hubert—Premium in ist French; ist Premium in Zoological Laboratory.
' Robinson,-.William— 2d Premium in 7th Latin.
Swantz, Thomas—ist Premium in Organic Chemistry and General Biology; 2d Premium in Qualitative Analysis; Premium, in ist French.
Toner, Thomas—3d Premium in 7th Latin; ist Premium' in Elementary Chemistry; 2d Premium in
Elementary Physics. . .	,	-
Trester, Anthony—Mention in Rhetoric and Analytic
;d German; Geometry; isf Premium-in Advanced Chemistry.
Worden, John—2d. Premium in General Biology,
Human Histology, Microscopy and Artistic Drawing; 3d 2d Premium in. Elementary Chemistry; ist Premium in . Painting. . .	- -	.	.
. Zeiger, Harry—-3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing,
Understand that there can be no great good-, for thee unless years of effort and