MP MORRIS
tSTUUMu

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!

PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.

CALI FOR
TRY A PACK...TODAY
LETTERS
GERMAN GI's
Dear Editor:
•* Mr. Wilcox was unthinking in his criticism of the Scholastic editorial urging that German and Japanese sol-, diers be used by us to police Germany and Japan.
It is an excellent idea and instead of discarding it, as Mr. Wilcox urges, it ► should be extended. All over the nation we are wasting man-power that we need not waste if we apply the idea of the Scholastic editorial.
So I propose that police forces be manned by gangsters, that wardens and guards in prisons be replaced by con-> victs, that mad men be given charge of insane asylums, that seeing-eye dogs be replaced by blind men.
How big can a hole in the head get?
Dale Francis
Off Campus
You should know!—Editor.
THIS IS THE END
[ Dear Editor:
I agree with Mr. Boute in his letter of April 16 that I am an incompetent judge of boxing (for I seemed to agree with the judge who was frequently on the short end of the split decision) — however, my point was, and is, that the judges too were incompetent.
| Mr. Boute states that he speaks “for the majority of the Bengal Bout fans” — who, I wonder, designated him to be the oracle of the student body?
Charles Scott
TO EACH HIS OWN
Dear Editor:
Rose Murphy hasn’t tried to be a Chopin or a Tschaikowski, she’s just Rose Murphy. If the public didn’t want (t to hear Rosie give out with that monotone “Chi Chi” she wouldn’t be around. They said the same thing about Frankie but if we had his money we would throw ours away. Miss Murphy was making $32.50 a week selling sheet music; now she’s pulling in four figures a month. She is the mother of seven little “Murphs” and we wouldn’t begrudge her the chance of sending her children to college. Just think, we might have an Irish name in the lineup after all. One only hears Rose “sing” about once a week anyway, and the smile that she draws is welcomed in this hard world of seven-cent cups of coffee, departmentals, and April showers.
We’ll agree they won’t be bringing
The Headquarters for ARROW
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
PAISLEYS...
See your favorite Arrow dealer today for the top tie value of Spring, ’48.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES ---------------------------------------- UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS |
Our skillful tie chef has whipped up a brand new exclusive foulard material and made it into a fine assortment of English patterned paisleys.
3
ob t*
. Ad h-"'**
... and thousands of them are working at top speed for YOU Wires ... wires.;. wires by the hundreds of thousands! Imagine picking out each pair... leading it to its proper terminals in a telephone central office... soldering it there!
That must be done on each new switchboard or dial switching installation before it can handle your calls.
Bell telephone central office equipment is installed by Western Electric and this job today requires a mobile force of more than 31,000 installers. They are installing more central office equipment now than ever before.
For sixty-six years, Western Electric has been a part of your Bell telephone service—helping to make it the world’s best at the lowest possible cost.
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL	SYSTEM SINCE 1882
back songs like “Open the Door Richard,” or “I’m My Own Grandpa,” but we think they will bring back tunes like “To Each His Own” or “If I Loved * You.” We’ll just have to wait 20 years and see. Who knows, the next generation might be crazier than we are and not like opera music at all.
Mike Piarulli, Jim Pellegrin, Al Abbey, Ray O’Connor, Bob Hensler, Frank O’Toole.	v
• Farley Hall
DOUBLE BOGEY
Dear Editor:
What’s the idea? I thought the primary duty of a journalist was to print j, the truth. You and youi- staff certainly picked one out of a hat when you stated that last year’s eighth flight champ in the Vet’s tourney qualified with 120 (April 16 issue, page 16).
I know this may put a damper on your promotion of the tournament, but the winner of the eighth flight last year, John Murphy, qualified with 108; and he did not shoot more than two or three strokes higher than that throughout the rest of the tourney.
Bill Keyes
Zahm Hall
Legitimate gripe, Mr. Keyes; figure ’’ was an approximation since the records of Vet’s club tourney were also purged. Incidentally, Murphy was in flight 7.— All tourney champs are invited back this year.—Editor.
FOR CHEMISTS ONLY
Dear Editor:
Since when does Lucite (Senior Ball favors, Scholastic, April 23) have the A composition KAI (Si O3)2? The substance is essentially a polymer of methyl methacrylate.
Vincent A. Sullivan, Jr. „ r	r
Dear Editor:
As a Senior, a student-chemist, and a purchaser of a Senior Ball bid, may I register my surprise at the supposed enlightenment of Scholastic readers as to the nature of the Senior Ball favor (April 23).
Judging from the photograph, it appears that the jewel box is really made of lucite, as the nearby article states. '' But the chemical formula offered to the readers is obviously the result of a failure to take a high school chemistry course. Not wishing to be pedantic, but ’ thinking.it only fair to clear up the insult to all chemists, I shall attempt to clear up the error.
Lucite is the trade, name for methyl methacrylate polymer, a thermoplastic resin produced by, the polymerization of the unsaturated ester methyl methacry- -r
. (Continued on Page 33)
A
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
tiiiiiiimmitiaiiMtmatimniiiaitiiitiitHiiiiiHmatuiniiMuimiitiitiiaiiiaimitiaiitiiaiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiimii
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors
EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX  Features PETER BROWN  Sports SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK ________________________ Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL  Photography
Editorial Associates HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian
JOHN CLARK  Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL ___________________________________Circulation
B. T. KYSER  Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN ____________________________ Faculty Moderator
tiiiiitiitiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiitiitiintntiiiiiitiaiiiuiiaaiiiiiiiiliiniiliHiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaitii
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
iiHaiiiiiaimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimaaiaiiiiiiiitiiaaiiiiaaiaiaaiiiiiiiaaaiiaiiiaiiiiiiamiiiiiiiiaaiaiiniiiiaiimii..
Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
CONVENTION—Crowds Flock to Republican Show.- 9
K. C. BALL—Myron Walz at the Progress Club 11
R. O. DANCE—Anchors Aweigh at Vetville Rec Hall— 23
FEATURES DINING HALL—Food a la Ford Since 1943  17 RINGS—Notre Dame Men Buy Sentimental Tokens -- 22
DERBY—Scholastic Makes Its Pick for Classic  30
SPORTS BASEBALL—Klinemen Play Home Opener Tomorrow — 25 GOLF TOURNEY—Dubbers Tee OH Monday  25 TENNIS—No Love in Wolverine Matches 28
COVER
Chef thinks the Dining Hall soup tastes delicious — well, anyway, it's hot. Photo by Gene Reynolds.
CALENDAR
APRIL 30
GROTTO, At 7 p.m. tonight the traditional May Day serv-- ices will be held at the Grotto. Notre Dame men will inaug- urate a month of prayer for the conversion of Russia. During the month, hymns will be sung each night at 6:30.
MAY 1
PRAY FOR RUSSIA DAY, American Catholics join in the crusade for Russia and the Communist-dominated countries.
MAY 2
STATE, Black Cat, with Bela Lugosi, Basil-Rathbone-and Alan Ladd, and a jet feline. Lugosi outmuggs Emil Jan-nings every time the cat crosses his path, which is once too often for the cat as the poor creature winds up as a veterinarian’s basket-case. Companion feature, Black Friday, with Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi. This is so chilly it will turn your blood to cottage-cheese.	.
GRANADA, If Winter Comes. It will, right after next year’s Southern Cal game, and won’t leave till May. Companion feature, Gene Autry in Trail to San Antone. It’s about time he hits it.
MAY 3
GRADUATE RECORD Examinations begin for graduating seniors interested in doing graduate work.
MAY 4
PALACE, For You I Die, with Cathy Downs and Mischa Auer, who is still in this country. Companion feature, Secret Beyond the Door. It is not about Father Lange’s gymnasium.
,	MAY 6
COLFAX, The Bishop’s Wife, with Loretta Young, Oscar-winning actress of 1947, David Niven, and Cary Grant, who, of all things, is a grounded angel.
ASCENSION THURSDAY, Holyday of Obligation. Academic holiday. Freshman picnic at Potawatomi Park.
MAY 7
PALAIS ROYALE, Senior Ball, the climax of the social season for several hundred graduating ND men. Sonny Dunham provides the sound effects.
PALACE, Alias a Gentleman, with Wally Beery and Tom Drake.	.:
STATE, Prison Without Bars and City Without Men. Sounds like a documentary on a girls’ college.
DRILL HALL, Helen Traubel, Met soprano, soloist for the evening with the South Bend Symphony orchestra, Edwyn Hames conducting. Admission free to the student body. Program is all Wagnerian, and starts at 8:15 p.m. Steeds will not be admitted unless accompanied by Valkyries in horned helmets. Please refrain from indulging in schnapps before concert as heroic theme of the music may have sedi- i tious consequences. We want no putsches here.
5-
SCORNER'S SEAT
'Time' Heaps Coals on Damned, But Proclaims Own Divinity
By Joe Wilcox
SELF-APPRAISAL
Bumptious, rambunctious Time magazine, reportorial-editorial weekly news magazine whose circulation is something
more than two m i 11 i o n, recently ran a serious appraisal of itself after 25 years of reporting the activities of balding tycoons, cinemop-pets, and peop’e for whom death, as it inevitably must, had come. Conveniently forgetting all the fun
it poked at nemesis Robert R. McCormick’s aged Chitrib last summer when it
gave itself a whopping birthday party on its centennial, Time seems to come up with the conclusion—after pages and pages—that it has outgrown its shortpants and its early mistakes and was getting down to business as the creme de la creme of journalism.
But Time’s acid pen, which etches inky adjectives into the skin of its enemies, is still not above a grudge or two here and there, nor is it completely immune to public likes and dislikes. Once Time decides that somebody is persona non grata its trigger-quick editors will pursue him over hill and dale until the quarry begs in Time’s letter column for a respite. John L. Lewis and Jimmy Petrillo are two public-whipping boys who periodically get their bottoms tanned some more by Time's caustic comment.
As it finally admitted in its big biographical confession, Time is no impartial chroniclei' of goings on. Observers who bear it no ill will do not yet regard it as come into its majority, for the reason that it is impressed with a sense of its own divinity and immunity from mistakes, while at the same time it heaps coals of fire on the heads of those the public has already damned. This, say the observers, helps its circulation but hurts its objectivity and integrity.
THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES
I
Yesterday
during the meeting of contracts
I was reminded of this:
Third party beneficiaries may sometimes recover on a contract made for their benefit by two other parties.
the third party beneficiaries cannot recover sometimes.
II
Somewhere in Bonga Bonga Bula Bula
Somewhere somewhere else Are there third party beneficiaries?
Perhaps somewhere a starving old man may be saved from starving because he is a third party beneficiary.
Somewhere a little child may have new shoes because its father is a third party beneficiary.
On the other hand a poor widow may have to live in the street because she is only an incidental beneficiary.
111
In the law offices in the drab classrooms dusty, stale and sterile tomes setting down the doctrine of third party beneficiaries.
Alas, the dull books do not record nor chronicle the lives, the deaths, joys and sorrows of third party beneficiaries.
IV
Now everywhere in the bathtub in the theater in church in my sleep absolutely everywhere
I am reminded of third party beneficiaries.
I shall consider the doctrine further' because third party beneficiaries are human.
For the inspiration of the above, I am
everlastingly indebted to the Notre Dame Juggler.
APPEAL	'
The National Multiple Sclerosis So- J ciety, which is trying to raise funds for the discovery of the cause and the treatment of the multiple sclerosis, the disease which killed Lou Gehrig, former Yankee slugger, is trying to influence Procter and Gamble, sponsors of Ralph ' Edwards’ Truth or Consequences radio program, to donate funds for the society’s benefit. Although thousands of people are afflicted with multiple sclerosis, nobody knows the cause and the treatment is usually only palliative. The £ Society is asking all interested in find- rj ing a cure for the disease to write to Mr. Edwards and ask him to include the Society in the benefit funds which ' he raises through his program. Notre Dame men have relatives afflicted with this disease. All of you should writ? to Mr. Edwards and ask his help in its defeat. The address is Ralph Edwards, Producer, Truth or Consequences radio program, Hollywood, Cal. The address of the Society is 2 E. 103rd St., N. Y. 29, N. Y.
CAMPUS CLUBS
ASME ATTEND PURDUE MEETING
Twenty students and four instructors recently made a trip to Purdue to attend a joint meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. The group left the campus at noon and returned that same evening. Professors Nickols and Dean Potter of Purdue gave talks after the students attended a banquet. The main speaker of the meeting was Doctor Edward G. Bailey, national president of ASME, who discussed the “Opportuni- ( ties for Young Engineers.”
KENTUCKIANS ELECT OFFICERS
The blue grass boys from Kentucky held their elections at a recent meeting. Bob Jones won the top executive post with Bob Lanz capturing the vice presi-dent slot. Jim Carey was chosen treasurer. MacHardesty will take over the office of recording secretary while Bob Willen- -« brink will serve as the corresponding secretary.
A club banquet is being planned for May 12 at the Ramble Inn. The new *-officers will be installed at this social function.
CANTON CLUB REACTIVATED
After ten years of inactivity, the Canton Club of. Notre Dame has been reinstated among the city and state clubs of ’ r the campus.
Officers elected to serve the short term
6
l'i	of the remaining semester are Jack
;	Kennedy, Howard Hall junior, presi-
dent;; Bob Snee, Alumni Hall senior, vice-president; Joe Vignos, Alumni Hall junior, treasurer; and Bud Zink, Dillon Hall senior, secretary.
1 _ At present the club is working on some plans with the Akron Club for f j joint events to be held both here on the campus before June and next summer in the Akron-Canton vicinity.
Anyone from Canton or its immediate vicinity wishing to become a member of the club please contact one of the officers.
TOLEDO SUMMER DANCE
Plans for the annual summer semi-formal dance have been started by the Toledo Club. Dick Tillman was appointed as chairman and assisting him will be i 5. Chuck Comes and Harry Hoffman, tickets; John Celusta, Ray Lammers, Jim ’	Tillman and Tom Comes, patrons;
j	George Korhumel, programs; and Ray
Martin, publicity.
1	This year’s dance will be held in the
grand ballroom of the Commodore Perry
1 Hotel on June 28 with Jimmy Rohr and , t his orchestra supplying the music. The Toledo men have extended a cordial invi-$ f-, tation to all Notre Dame students, alumni and friends.
THE WRANGLERS
The Wranglers, distinguished campus organization, invites applications for membership. The organization is open to students who have not completed eight semesters of regular undergraduate studies, and who are maintaining an honor average.
Weekly meetings, at which a paper is delivered and discussed, are held by the Wranglers.
AU applications for membership interviews should be submitted by letter not later than May 10 to: Chairman, Membership Committee, 233 Walsh Hall.
Once-in-a-Lifetime Opportunity!
STUDY... TRAVEL...
SPAIN
68-DAY Tour—$798 ALL Expenses
Via S. S. Ciudad de Sevilla, July 2 Sponsored by the
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
For descriptive folder, write: DEPT. "C”
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
TOP OF THE WEEK
The campus Republican convention came off smoothly. Good deal—another indication that students can accomplish things when: a) they’re given the opportunity, and b) they get up off their pants.
HISTORY; FROM 11 TO 22
The corrected midsemester history departmentals came back to the anxious, nail-chewing freshmen and sophomores this week. As has become customary, one series of test questions was much more impossible than the other, which at least tends to heighten interest in the thing. Again following established custom, one set of correctors didn’t seem to know what was going on (evidently they were recruited at the last minute from the metallurgy department) ; while the others wanted answers memorized precisely from the Almighty Text, down to Teddy Roosevelt’s last burp on page 209.
One nice thing about departmentals —if you can squeeze through two years of history at Notre Dame, you will have memorized a total of twenty books. If you’re at a party some night and somebody brings up the French Revolution, you’ll be able to recite Thompson’s clever, punchy The French Revolution all the way through without stopping. People will gasp, yawn, stick a towel down your throat. Yessir, come to Notre Dame and be a walloping social success.
As a special inducement to bigger and better departmentals, The Week is offering a cash prize of 25 cents to any history prof who can identify Tom Watson (a question on one of the tests) without looking in a book. The decision of the judges will be about as silly as the question. The judges will he Ferdinand Schevill and Luke Appling.
HUMOR MEETS FUMER
Art Linkletter, the “People Are Funny” man, met Frank Leahy, the “Things Are Miserable” man, last week. According to one report, Linkletter was later found in a far corner of Cartier
Field, quietly weeping and muttering, “Purdue will kill us!”
ODDS AND ENDS
The Senior Ball committee has announced that at an appropriate moment a heavier-than-air gas will be released at the gavot. Either the windows will be kept open or the entire senior class will graduate post-humously.
Student Council is trying to get lower rates from the Northern Indiana Transit Co. for campus service. Cheaper rides would net exactly bankrupt the bus boys. They’ve long since realized the lucrative possibilities offered by Notre Dame. Because so many students don’t bother to buy tokens when journeying downtown for an evening’s entertainment, the University is better serviced than most of the districts in town. Unfortunately, lower fares would probably lead to second-rate service. Doesn’t look like much of a choice.
The Dining Hall’s 1948 austerity program has lately been socking the student’s stomach with unprecedented effectiveness. Weekday dinners have been particularly upsetting. For dinner you usually get either a slab of bluish stuff which looks and tastes like warmed-over tire patch, or a large hunk of gray material which has apparently been carved out of the side of Sorin Hall.
Cavanaugh Hall’s coke machine cracked up last week. A serious nervous maladjustment was noticed early in the week when the machine ran out of paper cups before it ran out of coke. This led to wasted nickels and bitter words. Saturday, the big contraption was carted away to the Home for Tired Coke Machines or someplace. . . . The Communists will rejoice; capitalism has failed.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
The Washington Hall Penance Theater presented Bulldog Drummond Strikes Back last Saturday. How low can we get?
7
tyuMn the jbeAh . . .
May Day Is Pray Day
While all over the world Soviet-nurtured cells within the ranks of labor tonight are making preparations for tomorrow’s rousing May Day parades, Notre Dame men will join with millions of Catholics in offering special prayers for the conversion of Russia. Coming on the eve of the first of May the twilight rosary and benediction will inaugurate this year’s program of May devotions.
Statesmen and militarists, even college professors, have been only too cooperative in enlightening the American public on how to contain Soviet power, how to stop the bolshevist advance. Notre Dame men have always listened with eager anticipation to any proffered plans of operation. The answer to the question, “What Can I Do?” is neatly packaged and ready for delivery — every Notre Dame man can join in the “Pray for Russia” services. The efficacy of prayer is still the marvel of the masterminds.
Following up the special prayers for Russia with regular attendance at the evening Grotto devotions is one sure way to wind up the semester in the chips. With daylight saving time here the evenings are long — plenty long for study, walks downtown and shooting the breeze. A few minutes’ stop at the Grotto is not a big hunk out of the evening, especially when one considers the benefits received.
Departmentals — From Inside Corby
Like the new look, departmental exams seem here to stay. No controversy since Leahy discarded the Rockne shift has caused so much argumentation among both faculty and students. Whenever departmentals come around, the coffee-cup conversation in the caf and the cigar-gab in Corby kicks the subject around both pro and con. As far as most students are concerned the whole set-up has a bitter taste. But let’s look at the administration point of view.
Always keeping in mind that the University has the best interests of the student at heart, departmentals must be viewed as a protective measure. University heads feel that they have an obligation in justice—students come here from all over the land to receive the best Catholic education possible, and they have the right to expect to walk out of here at the end of four years with more than a diploma and a pleasant memory of a visit at Notre Dame. In other words, every student has a right to expect his money’s worth in the way of an education. Sometimes this has to come in spite of the student, instead of with his cooperation.
The way administration heads see it, departmentals serve as a guarantee of the material covered in sequence courses. Professors in the upper division naturally expect incoming students to have surveyed a certain amount of assigned material. Cases have been known to arise where students are shuttled through a course without sufficient emphasis being placed on the most important facts, not to mention courses that for one reason or another are not completed. The one cure-all for such shenanigans on the way is a recheck on material covered.
Biggest opposition to departmentals seemingly comes
from that bulk of the student body which finds the academic side of college life bothersome. Preferring to knock off for a cool one in the afternoon rather than knuckle down to books for the recommended two hours of outside study on each subject, this type of student naturally raises a squawk at the idea of having to relearn material covered several weeks back. Were this type of student to follow administration counsel he would keep abreast of his assignments and devour his outside reading assignments with relish — then cheerily walk into the exam room and knock it out of the park.
Actually departmentals are good business. Notre Dame is no longer a country school. It’s a big university, and growing bigger. The only good way to keep the profs on the ball and insist on the student taking advantage of the educational opportunities offered him is to supervise the survey courses closely and to monitor the results.
That’s the way the administration sees it.
A Boost for Democracy
Notre Dame’s rousing GOP mock convention was a hoarse and happy success. Hundreds of enthusiastic delegates, students to whom political issues mean restrained classroom banter or raucous, over-the-coffee bull-sessions, jammed the Drill Hall to see if out of a welter of wit and oratory they could produce an ordered decision. They did.
The convention was a student effort. For all the advice and direction given by administrators and mature observers, the conduct of the congress was left to the students themselves, and they performed admirably. A convention without thick nicotine fumes, rolling coke bottles and campaign catcalls could hardly be called part of the American pattern. The big thing is that underneath the sham battle, the spellbinding oratory, and the campaign whoopla, democracy was at work. The convention was not a closed deal. Every candidate had his chance, every delegate his opportunity to sound off. No conclave passed down an absolute decision dictate. Political argumentation was wide open, and every huddled gabfest brought both sides of the issue to the surface without fear of displeasure or iron-fisted retaliation. A bunch of Americans got together and shot off their mouths about admittedly touchy political, racial, economic issues and the variety of personalities who will bring them before the public at the official GOP convention in Philadelphia next June.
Some very good political orators took their turn at the convention podium. Some very clever political maneuvers were conducted by cagey minority groups. It was good to see Notre Dame men actively engaged in the work that keeps this nation alert and free — politics.
Recognition should be tended those few men who organized and directed the convention. They did a swell job. Every Notre Dame man who participated in the session should consider himself just a bit proud for having joined in the experiment which made real use of those principles pounded home in political science and on rugged Cartier — the primary laws of “Watch” and “Fight.”
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 24	APRIL 30, 1948	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Vandenberg Wins on 6th Ballot
* Warren of California Nominated Vice-Pres.
Vandenberg’s the name and the V is for VICTORY!!
,A “West Virginia casts 19 votes for Arthur H. Vandenberg!” Shouted through a floor mike in a smoke-filled and noisy Drill Hall at 12:28 Thursday morning ‘ these words officially nominated the director of America’s foreign policy and Republican policy maker as Notre Dame’s Republican candidate for the ' ' Presidency of the United States.
*’ California’s smiling Governor Earl Warren swept the Vice-Presidential nomination on the second ballot as the 1948 Mock Republican Convention came to a close at 1:28 a.m. in the Navy Drill Hall.
u Although on the first ballot, Warren was closely pushed by the Speaker of the House Joe Martin, he ran away with almost every state delegation in the sec-“ ond ballot as delegates wearily made for the doors.
Thus was climaxed the most tumultu-!>> ous, excitable and successful mock political convention that has ever rocked the Notre Dame campus. It was fea-( tured by a tremendous amount and variety of speech, noise, cigar smoking, band playing, parading and guided with a high degree of efficiency and patience ► < by Frank Keenan, John R. O’Connor, Curt Kiesling and committees.
Convention Pictures,
Highlights — Pages 12-15
Vandenberg’s nomination came on the sixth ballot.as the senior senator from Michigan edged out Minnesota’s (Ralph Thorson’s fair-haired boy, Harold Stassen. The swing of split Ohio, California and Texas onto the Vandenberg (Continued on Page 12)
SCENE DURING MAY SERVICES AT GROTTO The Reds will need your prayers
Noire Dame Men Join Crusade of Prayer Seeking Conversion of Communist Russia
While the shadow of Communism continues to menace the small countries of Europe, Notre Dame men will inaugurate a month of prayer and devotion this evening as part of a nationwide Catholic crusade for the conversion of Russia. Services, consisting of hymns, recitation of the Rosary and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament at the Grotto, will start at 7 o’clock.
Tomorrow Catholics throughout the United States will join in a national plea to Our Blessed Mother for the conversion of Communist Russia and for aid and succor for the Soviet dominated peoples of Western Europe. This crusade will be an impressive manifestation of the faith of the Catholic people of the United States in the promises proclaimed to the world in the miracle at Fatima, Portugal, in 1917. The Rosary, as was Our Lady’s wish, will be the
central devotion of “Pray for Russia” Day.
The “Pray for Russia” devotions will be included in the complete program of the annual May ceremonies on the Notre Dame campus. There will be Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament daily during the month in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. Devotions will be held at 5 o’clock every evening, which will include recitation of the Rosary. Th.e traditional practice of singing hymns at the Grotto following the evening meal will be held every day at 6:30 during the month of May.
In addition to the large student participation in the services at the Grotto this evening, members of the campus religious houses will also join in this campuswide devotion to the Mother of God. The bells of Sacred Heart Church will sound at 6:50 to summon the devotees to the Grotto.
r
9
'Hay' Musical in May For Washington Hall
Although Rodgers and Hammerstein need not have any immediate qualms in regard to their top rating as American musical comedy craftsmen, they might well keep an eye peeled on Verne Kelley and Joe Herrington, the local authors of this spring’s musical, “It Ain’t Hay.” The production is to be staged in Washington Hall on May 16, 17, 20 and 21.
Kelley and Herrington dreamed up the plot of the show, which is described as a musical melodrama, and then proceeded to put it on paper for posterity to judge. The story has a western setting and is concerned with the finding of gold. Both of the authors are sophomores and are active members of the Scholastic and several student organizations. Kelley hails from Oak Park, Illinois, while Herrington claims Indianapolis as his home burg.
Once the script had been completed, the co-authors passed it on to Ed Cashman who adorned the musical comedy with its necessary amount of tuneful ditties. Those who remember last year’s “Meet the Missus” and 1943’s “Let’s Get Going” will know how snappy and topical Cashman’s popular songs can be. There are approximately ten songs in this year’s production.
Jim Beymer has taken over the directorial reins for the entire show. The loads were cast this past week with Roy O’Neil capturing the top spot, known as Smoky Carver. Bob Ruetz will undertake the romantic lead, Jesse Simpson. The well-known and inimitable Ralph Thorsen will essay the role of Jake Hicks.
Bill Mills is to play J. B. Cartwright while Gerry Hekker will round out the main leads with his interpretation of Carlyle Stoneham. The four female leads are to be selected during the coming week.—Ken Thoren
Former Illinois Librarian Heads ND Acquisition Dept.
. Mr. Louis A. Kenny, former assistant librarian at the University of Illinois, has been appointed head of the newly created Acquisition Department and as-sitant librarian of the Notre Dame University Library.
Recent additions to the library, exceeding more than 1,000 volumes per month, have necessitated the establishment of the department. In addition, the library is now engaged in searching out duplicate books to send to Louvain University in Belgium and to colleges and
10
universities in the Philippines and India which are trying to build up libraries destroyed or depleted during the war.
Speakers Named for Coming Foreign Trade Conference
Selection of the principal speakers for the first Notre Dame Foreign Trade Conference on May 13 was announced last week by Mr. Wesley C. Bender, head of the department of marketing which is sponsoring the conference.
The conference will begin with a luncheon in the Notre Dame dining hall at which Mr. Herebrt V. Procknow, vice president of the First National Bank of Chicago and foreign trade finance expert, will be the principal speaker.
At the afternoon session in the Engineering Auditorium, a group discussion in which the students may take part will take place and will cover all phases of foreign trade.
A panel of speakers will be ready to answer questions on the various elements in this trade. It will consist of Mr. Martin Plotnick of Plotnick Marine Insurance Co., who will answer all insurance queries; Mr. E. L. Davidson, Chief World Trade Section, Chicago Regional Office of U. S. Department of Commerce, government in foreign trade; Mr. Alfred Kelley, treasurer of D. C. Andrews Freight Forwarding Co., transportation; and Mr. Clarence Reuthling, assistant cashier of First National Bank of Chicago, finance.
The conference will close in the evening with a dinner at the Oliver Hotel.
IT AIN'T HAY' WRITERS—JOE HERRINGTON AND VERNE KELLEY Rodgers and Hammerstein were not worried
Commerce Men Tour South Bend Factories
In order that the students of his Industrial Organization and Management class might view concrete illustrations of the different types of production control in manufacturing plants, Mr. A. E. Davis, head of the department of Business Administration in the College of Commere, has arranged tours through three local plants this semester.
The first of these tours took place several weeks ago at Wilson Bros., local manufacturers of textiles and men’s furnishings—an example of a semi-processing industry where block control is largely employed. Yesterday Studebaker played host to the students in its assembly-line type plant. The third trip, in several weeks, is tentatively planned through Dodge Manufacturing Co., producers of engine parts in Mishawaka, and an illustration of the combined special order and standardized type of production.
At the Wilson Bros, plant, Mr. R. A. “Cap” Smith, vice-president of the company, surprised the students with a luncheon. Following the luncheon, Mr. Smith outlined the special production problems that confront establishments having such a wide variety of products. The class was then divided into small groups and was escorted through the plant, each group accompanied by a representative of the production department and a representative of the Industrial Relations department. The other tours are expected to follow the general lines of this one.—Pat Stanton
MISS MARGARET MURPHY K. of C. Dance Queen
Walz on Bandstand At K.C. Formal Derby
Sentimental shufflers, those people who are spring-fevered out of reality by one or two notes from “That’s My Desire,” will get another crack at reverie tonight at the Progress Club downtown. This week’s package has been wrapped under the title of the 20th Annual K. of C. Spring Formal. Its main ingredient: Myron Walz’ noisemakers.
Anyone who had a hunch about going and purchased a ticket (which by now should be scarcer than MacArthur buttons) should enjoy a pleasant evening. Sometimes, the local dance-goers hang off until the last minute; they wait to see if there’ll be some special feature on the program, like those trick cornet-ists who blow bubbles out of their horns while playing “Blue Champagne.” There’ll be none of that stuff on the bandstand tonight, not even one of those drummers who wins a nomination to the Indiana State Corrective Institution every time he takes a ride on “Jungle Boogie.”
More than academic interest will be centered upon the items that will decorate the dance floor, particularly the female ones. Most interesting among these will be Miss Margaret Cecelia Murphy, who will be escorted by Robert Luther, who’s responsible for the whole affair. Miss Murphy is up from Fort Wayne; Mr. Luther is up from Sorin Hall.
Dancing will progress at the Progress from 9 ’til 1. There will be no tea dance
Saturday (You can tune in the Kentucky Derby, with Arcaro up on Citation, over NBC at 3).	•
Credit for what happens tonight goes to the following gentlemen, all members of the local K. of C. council: Robert Luther, chairman; William Soos, programs; John Noonen, tickets; Robert Vierhile and Patrick Weishapl, publicity; Robert McCoy and Paul Corey, welcoming.—Bob Vierhile
Indiana English Profs, Architects Meet
Notre Dame is playing host today and tomorrow to two groups of visiting conferees—English profs and Indiana architects. The English profs, from the width and breadth of Indiana, are holding the thirteenth annual conference of the Indiana College English Association. The other meeting has attracted 100 architects, also from all parts of the state, to attend the annual meeting of the Indiana Society of Architects.
The English confab started this afternoon with registration and a reception. The first meeting followed with talks by Professor Martin Schokley, of Evansville College, and Professor W. A. Sutton, of Ball State Teachers College. At a banquet tonight, Dr. Harlan H. Hatcher, of Ohio State University, will deliver an address on “Toward American Cultural Maturity.”
Tomorrow morning’s session will feature a symposium on “The Case for Grammar in College Elementary English Composition.” Professor Raymond W. Pence, of DePauw University, is chairman of the symposium. Professor Andrew T. Smithberger, of Notre Dame, who was president of the Association in 1946-47, is in charge of arrangements for the conference.
The Indiana Society of Architects, affiliated with the American Institute of Architects, are meeting here on the occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the establishment of our Department of Architecture. Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the ND Architecture department, is in charge of arrangements.	,	1
A dinner and business meeting will be held today. Tomorrow’s session will be highlighted by a talk by Professor Michel Aime. Aladar and Viktor 01-gyay, twin brother architects from Budapest, Hungary, will also appear on the same program. The conference will close at a luncheon Saturday noon. Fathei- Cavanaugh, speaking on behalf of Notre Dame, will greet the visiting architects at this luncheon.
Dunham to Feature Smooth Music at Ball
Seniors attending the Ball next Friday night will witness a change in music that might well be said to parallel the “new look” in women’s clothes. In this case, it’s a return to the pre-swing era in dance music. Sonny Dunham, yesteryear’s foremost swing stylist, will entertain the dancers with an orchestra that features smooth, danceable music.
“Swing is dead,” says Mr. Dunham. He should know: he’s been around the country recently and found that people are eager to hear the old ballads, and stand-bys of the past. Outside of a few requests for some of his older, famemaking swing numbers (remember Scheherazade?), music fans want to hear songs like “Memories of You”-^ Dunham’s theme song.
The versatile leader has quite a reputation in popular music circles as the greatest double instrumentalist in the world. He has a trick lip (called a double embouchre), which enables him to play the trumpet and trombone with equal ease. To give you an idea of the value he places on his lips, he has insured them for $100,000.
Dunham began his musical career at the age of six—he played in his family orchestra. His first real job was with Paul Tremaine’s orchestra. It was with this organization that he learned the technique of the trumpet. Previous to that time he had relied solely on his trombone work. Glen Gray heard the double-instrumentalist and signed him with his famed Casa Loma band. In December, 1940, Dunham left that outfit to form his own orchestra. Since that time he has been featured in most of the name ballrooms in the country.
—Lawrence Connor
SONNY DUNHAM The music would be smooth
11
PERMANENT Chairman John R. O'Connor delivers his opening remarks to Tuesday's gathering.
Finn Wins Nafl Prize For 3rd Straight Year
It’s getting to be a habit. Frank Finn, junior from Denison, Texas, last week received for the third consecutive year the Wachtel Plaque, symbol of national discussion and Congressional speaking supremacy. Dr. Lionel Crocker, secretary of the Tau Kappa Alpha Honor Society, presented the award at a formal banquet following the Eighth Annual TKA Speaking -Tournament in Bloomington, Indiana.
Despite the fact that he received five “superior” and one “excellent” ratings in six phases of discussion, the phenomenal Texan was forced to yield top individual honors in discussion alone to contestants from Randolph-Macon and Purdue. So impressive was his showing in the mock Congressional session that followed the discussion rounds, however, that he skyrocketed from his initial third place standing to that of “best speaker in the tournament.”
Halfway through the three-day meet, Finn was among five college representatives interviewed over WTAN in Bloomington. In the mock Congress, he was elected temporary, then permanent chairman of the committee on military affairs; and later he was accorded the position of speaker of the majority.
Of even greater interest to Coach Sommer than Finn’s fabulous exploits was the showing of freshman Bill Carey. Even though in only his first year of college competition, Carey was awarded fcur “superior” and two “excellent” judgments, and merited a creditable fifteenth position among the 208 competing speakers.
Sleepy, Cigar-Puffing Politicos Pull Master Strokes, Shenanigans
(Continued from Page 9)
bandwagon touched off the spark needed to ignite his nomination.
Vandenberg’s campaign chairman, ace organizer Dan Norander from Cavanaugh Hall summed it up this way: “It was a very tough fight. I had supreme confidence in my man all the way. We won it by sticking by our candidate and not thinking of compromises.”
Political experts viewing the convention might take a different view on Nor-ander’s success story. They would point out the clever manipulating of the New England and New York vote as the keys to the Vandenberg victory. The masterful stroke of grabbing off the New York vote after Governor Dewey had made such a poor showing on the first ballot must go down as the master* move in the convention.
As early as the second and third ballots it became evident that the convention hinged on which way the huge southern block, lead by Bill Slavick, would go. However, it was the reaction to the Southern movement away from George Marshall and behind Harold Stassen that solidified the Eastern factions behind Vandenberg and swept him to victory.
The convention opened Monday night in relative peace and quiet. The politicians were still pretty much in the
PUBLICITY stunts were the order of the day during the convention. Here a "stand in" General MacArthur wades in from St. Mary's Lake, muttering “I have returned" in behalf of the Wisconsin delegation.
SCHOLASTIC Columnist Joe Wilcox, representing Utah, nominates Senator George Aiken of Vermont.
back rooms and the floor of the Drill Hall was unscarred (except for cigar butts) when the convention adjourned at 9 p.m. True to form the first rap of Chairman Frank Keenan’s gavel wasn’t heard until 8:14 which started things off traditionally late. After- an invocation by the Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.s.C., in which he called God’s blessing on this expression of democratic action, Keenan led a pledge of allegiance followed by a booming rendition of the National Anthem by Roy O’Neil of the Notre Dame Glee Club.
As the highlight of the evening the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., addressed the delegates. He congratulated the Political Science Department, faculty and students and reminded all that this was a “mock” convention but was not to be turned into a mockery.
The president was followed to the platform by the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, c.s.c., editor of the Ave Mana, who asked the delegates to pick a man of integrity and leadership. Father Carroll’s was the first name placed in nomination at the ’48 convention a few minutes later- when Henry J. Taylor opened his well received speech with the nomination. He followed this up with a plea for “party men” in politics. “The foundations of this Republic rest on a government of strong, competing parties,” he said. Mr. Taylor came to the Drill Hall from Washington Hall where he had broadcast his “Your Land and Mine” program.
The rest of Monday evening was taken up with committee appointments and the appointment of Leonard Boykin, of South Carolina, as temporary chairman. Boykin delivered an impressive keynote address in which he laid down the firm moral basis necessary for good
12
GLASSES at half mast and with cigarette drooping, Ralph Thorson, Stassen's campaign manager, manages a round of applause after the nominating speech of an opposing politico. Long hours of oratory and demonstrations wearied the delegates as testified by the various expressions in the above picture.
government and good leadership.
Tuesday night found the atmosphere in the Drill Hall getting tense and the smoke thicker. After the surprise nomination of John R. O’Connor as temporary chairman ovei- Bob Uhl who had been predicted to take the post, the Convention settled down to the noisy business of placing in nomination 19 candidates for the Republican presidential candidacy.
The first nominee placed before the convention was Caroll Reece of Tennessee who was put before the delegates by Ray Hymal representing Louisiana. There followed the first demonstration of the convention in which the solid South proudly displayed its strength in a grand march behind a six-man band. With Arizona yielding to New York, the name of Thomas Dewey quickly became the second in nomination. Tom Walsh of the New York delegation did the honor with a long and serious consideration of Governor Tom’s qualifications. Nominations followed thick and fast, most of them accompanied by bands, snake dances and even automobiles and sirens.
Virginia spoke up for their favorite
son, General George C. Marshall; California nominated their Governor Earl Warren; Tom Francis spoke for Ohio and Taft; Michigan opened the way for Statesman Arthur Vandenberg; Massachusetts state chairman Ray Chamberlain cried out the biography of Joe Martin and placed him in nomination; Georgia seconded Marshall and Minnesota put forth their fair-haired boy, Harold Stassen; Joe Wilcox made a much booed nomination of George Aiken; Indiana stuck up for native Charles Halleck; Iowa seconded Stassen; cigar-tossing Mike Hines roared out the nomination of General “Ike” Eisenhower; “the nation’s first daughter,” Clare Booth Luce, was nominated by Mississippi; Maine spoke for Ralph Brewster; Pennsylvania — Edward Martin; Montana shouted for free silver and Burton K. Wheeler; Wisconsin went for the “brass” and General MacArthur. Then the nominations ended on the surprising and musical note of Bing Crosby’s nomination by the state of Washington. The convention wearily adjourned at 10:32 for another night.
The convention was off to an impressive start Wednesday night with a sober-
LOBUND Perfects Plastic Diving Suit
By JOHN C. KRUEGER
The Laboratories of Bacteriology of the University of Notre Dame, under the directorship of Professor J. A. Reyniers, are perfecting a new plastic diving suit to be used in connection with the raising of germ free animals in large quantities.
A tank, 13 feet long and 8 feet in diameter, for housing these animals, will be installed at the University. The tank will be kept sterilized by steam under pressure, but precaution does not end there. The man who enters the tank to work with the animals must not be able in any way to contaminate these specimens. That’s where the diving suit comes in.
Before entering the tank, the laboratory assistant, garbed in his diving outfit, goes through another tank filled with a germicidal solution. This sterilizes the outside of his plastic uniform.
Once inside the main tank, the diver goes about feeding and tending the animals, reporting his progress over an amplifier by means of a microphone installed in the suit helmet. At the control board, an assistant, regulating the air intake, notes the reports.
Navy diving suits were tested for this work and found unsatisfactory. The many seams and detachable sections made sterilizing difficult. The lighter, streamlined plastic suit will have two pieces, parting only in the middle, and no seams. Its occupants can work freely inside and outside water.
Just as dress designers use dummies on which to fashion their latest creation, so will these aquatic designers. In this case, industrial sculptor Donald H. Birren’s model stands seven feet high and weighs 300 pounds.
Professor Reyniers and his assistants have been working on the project for the last two years. Birren was called in five months ago to begin design on the models. He and his co-workers tried one small scale model after another before they found the right design. From this the final clay cast was patterned. The next and final step will be fashioning a suit to fit this form.
ing speech on the aspects of peace and war by Dr. Arthur Compton, Nobel prize winner and chancellor of Washington University, St. Louis. Dr. Compton’s graphic description of the first chain reaction was followed by a stern warning that the world cannot afford another war but can have peace through technological advancement and education. Dr. Compton was introduced by University President Father Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
13
BANNER WAVING DELEGATES
STORM PLATFORM AT THE CLOSE OF THE CONVENTION'S
OPENING NIGHT CEREMONIES
CONVENTION SIDELIGHTS
By Balph B. Wright
The Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria, really got the convention rolling with his fiery remarks. . . . Dewey delegates distributed propaganda at the doorway. Obviously the sheets were printed before the big Stassen victories in Wisconsin and Nebraska. The headline reads: “Tom Dewey Leads In National Polls”. . . . One energetic Dewey man tried to force his literature on Ralph Thorson, chief of the Stassen delegation. Said Ralph: “Thanks, I have one. ...”
When Len Boykin referred to Rodger Young in his address, he wasn’t just mentioning a name made popular by a song. Len served in the same company with the famed infantry hero. ... As usual, Blue Circle members helped out. Tom Klug, Bernie Powers, Phil Jensen, Bob Luther, Art Owens, Terry Armstrong, and Don Barlow headed the groups that distributed S.N.R.C. news. They also conducted the UMT poll;
14
many delegates found the results useful for campaigning.
Beyond a doubt, the greatest share for the convention’s success belonged to Frank Keenan. Amiable Frank—a political science grad and ex-editor of the Scholastic—started making convention plans last fall and began actual work for the affair in February. . . . Some California men refused to nominate their “favorite son,” Governor Warren. The west coast Democrats tried to throw a monkey wrench in the Republican convention. . . . Keenan’s worries over the organ proved well founded. It didn’t show the first night; the second night the organist didn’t show.
The Maryland and Ohio signs were the first to go upside down. . . . Vandenberg’s Dan Norander gave pep talks to the Michigan boys. Cigar-smoking Dan said something about “. . . we can’t lose
Coke drinking was heavy; the
machine was empty long before opening ceremonies. . . . The convention was so realistic it began late (8:14, to be exact). । . . . Father- Hesburgh kept the tradition by giving a non-sectarian invocation.
. . . The Illinois gang, led by Jack Jacobs, stood for all the speakers. . . .
Tuesday night many of the boys i. switched from cigars to clay pipes. . . . Applause greeted the recommendation that John R. O’Connor be made permanent chairman. The movement for O’Connor started Tuesday afternoon on Sorin’s third floor. . . . The boos and cheers for Bill Slavick signified the power held by < the leader of the Rebels. . . .
Louisiana’s nomination, the first of the convention, started the fireworks. The Rebels paraded for ten minutes, flashing signs such as “Peace with Reece,” “Send Dewey Back to Manila,” , and “Stash Away With Stassen.” ...	'
The band, of course, played “Dixie.” . . .
WELCOME address is delivered by the President. Father John Cavanaugh
NATIONAL Chairman Frank Keenan calls the convention to order
AVE MARIA Editor. Father CanolL speaks to the delegates
Charley Helmuth, speaking for General Marshall, boasted that his man was no diplomat. . . . No one seemed impressed by the remark that General Pershing said Marshall was his best soldier. . . .
Michigan’s delegation turned the convention notices into confetti. . . . When Tom Francis said they would elect a Eepublican to the presidency, the Democratic element booed. ... In lieu of a band, Taft supporters relied on the voice of Frank Fahey. . . . Ebullious Bill Stockman led the Vandenberg parade. . . . The same delegation refused the first request that they be seated. . . .
There were numerous “professional” paraders; the same men took part in all the demonstrations. . . . The huge gen
tleman leading the Martin boosters carried an appropriate sign. It said, “Big things with Martin.” . . . Minnesota boys came out with some sharp pictures of Candidate Stassen. They had a siren too. . . . Dan Norander publicly apologized for the Vandy men who hurled the Texas flag to the floor. . . .
Fans of Joe Wilcox responded to his speech for Aiken; they hissed. . . . Several delegations rode in on cars, but Chairman O’Connor asked them to take the cars back out. . . . Big Mike Hines tossed cigars to the crowd as he stood proudly behind a huge Ike button. . . . The Rebels carried on secret meetings throughout the convention. . . . Hines introduced a phony General MacArthur as
Ike’s best friend. . . . Things were really dragging Tuesday night. Any politician would have found himself at home, however, for the boys had the real convention spirit.
CLASS ELECTIONS
Students are reminded that officers will be elected for the various classes this spring. Nominations for class offices must be filed with the Election Committee. Room 345. Morrissey Hall before May 1. The elections will be held on Thursday. May 13. Student Council representatives from the five colleges will also be nominated.
MUTUAL'S Henry J. Taylor speaks to WND radio audience prior to Convention opening. At left: Announcer George Murphy. Earlier Taylor broadcast from Washington Hall.
TEMPORARY Chairman Len Boykin (S.C.). second from left is escorted to the platform by Delegates Bill Vangen (CaL). Ray Chamberland (Mass.) and Ralph Thorson (Minn.)
15
SMILES FROM THE CITY OF BROTHERLY LOVE
Mary Ann Fellinger (St. Mary's), Joe Conerty, Lou Bums, Jack Murphy (all of Notre Dame), and Mary Bishop (Nazareth) beam approval after the opening session of the National NFCCS Convention held last week end in Philadelphia. Burns was named National Relief Chairman of the organization.
NFCCS Recommends Selective Service Act
Although opposed to Universal Military Training, the National Federation of Catholic College Students came out in favor of selective service at their fifth annual congress last Saturday. The Notre Dame delegation that went to Philadelphia for the occasion included Lou Burns, Joe Conerty and Jack Murphy.
Along with their approval of the draft, the congress made various resolutions to go with it. They favored the extension of the GI Bill, urged a revision of the court-martial system, and asked that all men be given the chance for officers’ training.
The statement of the congress regarding UMT differed from the recent poll taken here on campus. The result of that query was: 418 for UMT, 316 for selective service but against UMT, and 341 against all conscription. This poll did not include all students, but it was representative since it took a good section of the campus into consideration. Of the number that voted, 683 were vets, while 392 had not been in service.
Lou Burns ^was nominated for first vice-president at the congress, but lost by four votes. However, he was; recommended by theexecutive committee to be the National Chairman of the Foreign Students Relief Drive.
The Notre Dame delegation sponsored a resolution asking the National Catholic Education Association to set up a com
mittee, which would include students, to investigate student government in Catholic colleges. This proposal was passed by the congress.
Notre Dame was commended by NFCCS for $32,600 contributed for the benefit of European students. This was the largest total contributed by any school iff the federation.
POLITICS HITS THE AIRWAYS
Leo Blaber and Bob Surkamp present the case for Taft during last week's series of political talks over Station WND
Council to Seek End Of 11 p.m. Blackouts
• The Student Council decided Monday night that it would contact school authorities in its annual attempt to have midnight lights in all residence halls. Acting upon student requests on the suggestion sheets, the members unanimously approved the motion that they seek to have later lights permanently, and not only for the week previous td exams.	' ' '
Other business was made brief because of the mock, convention the same evening. Members recommended students from their halls for next year’s Blue Circle, tabled the NSA.i discussion, and agreed to inform campus clubs of the part each is to play in the fall freshman orientation “program. ~ Lou" "Burns told of the success of the NFCCS convention, but did not have full details at hand.
Permission was granted for the Bengal Bout banquet to be held at the Mayfair Room, Mishawaka Hotel, May 3. Father Craddick asked that the Council consider a memorial to the war dead at the Grotto. Such a project would cost $58, an amount which the Council does not have in its treasury.
MAY DEVOTIONS
There will be daily adoration from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. during the month of May. Benediction will be held at 5, and hymns to Our Lady will be sung at the Grotto at 6:30.
FOUR MAIN OPINIONS OF N.D.'s CUISINE: UNTOUCHABLE. DELICIOUS. UNPALATABLE. UNSIGHTLY
CHOW A LA N. D.
Ever since Coquillard students have been griping
BY JOHN P. WALKER
“I don’t knozv what it is, but I smelled it outside.”
—Archie McBitters
Such commentary as the above could be applied to only one institution at Notre Dame, a building from whence wafts many uncatalogued essences—the Notre Dame Dining Halls. Three times a day the occupants of the residence halls wend their devious ways toward the trim brick building hard by the golf course-They go there collectively in search of one commodity — food, food and more food. As a general rule they view the dining halls much in the same manner that a business man views his taxes:
“There’s not much a guy can do about -it.” The average student spends a good part of his time griping about the food and about those unknown and obviously demented personages left over from the Dark Ages,- the cooks. But the student is consistent in his griping. He gripes through good meals and bad, through lobster Newburg and. stew. His appearance, however, doesn’t give rise to the
Editor’s Note: During the winter Scholastic commissioned John P. Walker, editor of last year’s Dome, to do a story on the food situation. Upon investigation Walker found dining hall personnel more than willing to cooperate. He also discovered numerous facts heretofore unknown or erroneously held by most students. The above article is the first of a two article series.
rumor that he is starving to death, and so a good portion of his yelping can be charged off to tradition. When he ceases howling, then the people who operate the beanery better jack up and leave for the .hot dog stand circuit, because there will lie big trouble then, big trouble. I
The trouble-all began, as far as food goes, ;about 10$ years ago when Father Sorin signed up young Alexis Coquillard as his first student. Vicious rumor has it that.Coquillard’s reaction-to it all was summed up in these alleged words, “what lousy chow!” It is not beyond the realm
of possibility that some day, when leaning over a balustrade of heaven and looking down on some future Notre Dame students, we will again hear the clarion call, “What lousy chow!” ’Twas ever thus.	’	:
Back in the days when N.D. consisted of the Main Building plus Sorin Hall, students ate in the refectory in the Main Building. Came the 1920’s, and Notre Dame needed more dining hall space. Came famed Architect Crani to the campus with plans for a super-colossal dining hall. Architect Cram was exuberant about the idea. It was to be a tremendous gothic structure containing one vast dining room, rather than the two which later developed. Mr, Cram was all for dedicating it with a masked hall and having all South Bend in for tea and crumpets. It was to b? truly the Taj Mahal of St. Joseph County—a magnificent structure. And it was going to ^ost a magnificent amount of money. For this reason the Provincial Council sent Mr. Cram back to his drawing boards and the present structure
17
1.—The food rolls into the kitchen.
2.—The donut machine kicks out sinkers.
evolved. Architect Cram joined forces with local architects Kervick and Fagan and soon the functional, commodious and graceful dining halls rose in their red brick and Indiana limestone that is best classed architecturally as Dining Hall Gothic. The year was 1927. Then Father Walsh, the president of N.D., got the bill—one million dollars for building and equipment. At the time of its construction and until the recent war the dining halls served meals family style. Each student was assigned
his special seat in the halls and the entire student body ate at one time. More than two thousand could be accommodated at once when this style was in force. With the war and the bulging Navy population, the halls switched to the cafeteria style and they will most likely continue thus for many years to come.
Running a food mill such as the dining halls is no small time task. The halls maintain a full time payroll of 280 and
a part-time student payroll of 140 requiring a total of 420 persons to keep the big red beanery going. Universities have a habit of collecting characters on their payrolls and the dining halls are no exception to this habit. Some of them have been working since the building went up in ’27. They are all loyal, efficient workers, but set slightly apart from the general run of men. That the dining halls function in such quiet efficiency is a tribute to the present managing director, Mr. D. C. Ford, who came
3.—Bakers dust huge pies with butter.
4.—Butchers carve off thick steaks.
18
5.—Cooks fry steaks in sizzling butter.
6.—Student gets his dinner — wieners.
to N.D in 1943 from Swift and Company. Aiding Mr. Ford are Mr. William Kesl, assistant manager; Mr. Koehler, the manager of the Caf; Ziggy, captain courageous of the kitchen; Mr. Hirou, the chef; Mr. Chacho, the chief store keeper. Mr. Ford and company put out food in quantities that stagger the imagination. The twin halls and the Caf serve between 9,000 and 10,000 meals per day. Students wolf down 760 loaves
of bread, 450 dozen of assorted rolls, 6,700 glasses of milk, 6,000 cups of Joe and on turkey Sunday about a ton and a half of bird. To get all this food from hand to mouth requires the use of around 27,000 separate pieces of service: knives, forks, spoons, plates and trays and the like. But the bird in the bush is a pretty tough customer to get on the plate. How does he get that way?
About ten to twelve days ahead of
turkey Sunday, the chef gets out his little pencil and says, “What’ll we give ’em this week? He usually makes out the entire menu for one week and hands copies over to the manager, the storekeeper and all others interested in the operation. Before the menu is finally approved it makes the rounds of department heads for additions and betterments and is changed if necessary. About seven years ago the halls hired
7.—The hungry throng awaits its turn.
8.—The K. P. brigade does dishes.
19
THE NOTRE DAME
DINING HALL. WHERE THE THUNDERING HERD IS
FED THREE TIMES DAILY
a dietician to make the menu. She proved unpopular with the students, since she fed them items which they did not approve of, and after this brief experimentation the present system of menumaking came about. Since most dining hall recipes start out with, ". . . now take a half a cow and shake well . . .” it is necessary that the storekeeper check over his stock and requisition all needed items. All buying for the halls is done by Mr. Ford who journeys to Chicago each Monday to keep tab on the gyrating food market and make his purchases. Truck loads of supplies begin pouring in on the succeeding Wednesday or Saturday. After they are checked into the storeroom, all is in readiness to put the chef’s new menu on the production line. That turkey dinner we’ve been talking. about starts on its road to your plate bn Friday afternoon. The butchers then start preparing the 120 birds, that are languishing around in the cooler, for the roaster. On Saturday morning sufficient bread for the dressing is sliced and-dried in a warming oven. By two o’clock Saturday afternoon the vegetable people have peeled the spuds, a
20
whole half ton of them. Many of you should have first hand info about this operation. The spuds are dunked in pots of water for the night. Between two and three o’clock the bakers start working on the 700 loaves of bread and the 275 dozen sinkers. At or about 2 a. m. Sunday morning the estimable Mr. Strepon-kus, the breakfast cook, bursts out of the cook’s house over by Farley and charges across campus to start his daily grind. Upon his arrival bombastic Bill begins preparations for breakfast and starts putting the heat on the hapless turkeys. By 6 a. m. the morning cooks arrive and start messing in the dressing. By 9 a. m. the carving of the turkeys begin. About ten o’clock the vegetables are in good shape, the salad has been made, Swift’s arrive with 200 gallons of ice cream. By eleven, the first complete dinner is as- • sembled and at 11:30—enter the thun- . dering herd, hungry as usual. After ■ lunch Ziggy’s crew commences breaking . up what few dishes Mr. Ford has left" and by 1:45 all 27,000 pieces of service are cleaned and put away. While N.D. men are languishing in their sacks, or taking in a show in the village, the din
ing hall is thinking about supper. If it happens to be barbecues, the preparation must start directly after the turkeys come out of the ovens. Comes 5:30 and they’re in again and by 7.-15 all the dishes are washed, the floors mopped, the halls swept out and by that time the bakers are at it again and the whole cycle starts all over again. No rest for the wicked.
Besides the main halls and the caf, a faculty dining room, and a trustees’ room on the second floor are operated. All of these rooms can and do operate simultaneously without any ruffle in the efficiency of the force. The halls also maintain, various and sundry canines who become quite nasty if they are not fed regularly. These canines, contrary to popular opinion, do not have an aversion to dining hall cooking.
We have touched briefly on the operational set-up within ' the dining halls themselves and next week we will direct our efforts to the financial side of the picture; comparative costs, operating expenses and all the other monetary gymnastics necessary to mass buying for mass feeding.
MARY LOUISE McMULLEN The critics were raving
Remarkable Soprano Will Sing Wednesday
"... Amazing talent and amazing range and power	charmingly
petite and singing with delicacy and taste	we predict a great
career ...” These are the raving notices which have greeted the year-old career of Mary Louise McMullen, the young and remarkable lyric-coloratura soprano. And on Wednesday evening, May 5, at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall, Notre Dame men will echo the thousands of “bravos” already in her possession.
The appearance on Wednesday of Miss McMullen marks an important milestone in the cultural highway traveled by the University this season. Critics are unanimously agreed that this lovely young lady is, at nineteen, on the threshold of a great future in music.
Born in Buffalo, New York, Miss McMullen was fortunate in being able to combine her natural musical gifts with diligent study under one of America’s foremost vocal teachers. This young singer made her debut in recital before the city’s leading musical group, and she was immediately welcomed to membership through the agency of her remarkable talent and her captivating personal charm. She later appeared as soloist with the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra, and so won her audiences that, she was engaged by the orchestra as. fea- . tured soloist on its 1947 summer concert tour.	- .	.
Miss McMullen has rejected stage and radio offers to perfect her craft during one season in concert before going to
New York City next winter to begin concert and opera appearances.
The position of Notre Dame on her concert schedule is one of special significance for Mary Louise McMullen; Not only has she long desired to sing for Notre Dame men, but the fact that her brother, Rev. William McMullen, is at the University has lent immediacy to that ambition. Father McMullen, a former Army Air Forces chaplain, is currently studying here and resides in Howard Hall.
Institute Lectures End In Hagiography Talk
Hagiography, the study of the lives of the saints and the honors paid them, was discussed in a series of public lectures by the Rev. Vincent L. Kennedy, C.S.B., at Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute last week.
Father Kennedy, professor of the history of Christian worship at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, outlined some of the problems which confront the student of hagiography, such as determining the historical validity of the early legends of the saints and the value of the martyrologies as source material.
The lecture series was the second delivered by Father Kennedy at Notre Dame and the final series on the Mediaeval Institute’s program for this semester. Other speakers brought here this semester by the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Institute, were Dr. Anton C. Pegis, president of the Pontifical Institute, and the Rev. A. J. Denomy, also of the Pontifical Institute.
FATHER KENNEDY
Problem in hagiography . . .
FATHER PHELAN . . . Closes the series
The public lecture series were made possible by a gift to the Mediaeval Institute from the Michael P. Grace II trust fund. The Institute, the only one of its kind in the United states, was established by Father Phelan in 1946 to study the history and culture of the middle ages.
Grad Students Association^ Inaugurates Activity Series
“To promote solidarity and community spirit among graduate students” Notre Dame Graduate Students Association has lately inaugurated a new series of socials, discussions, and meetings where the postgrad scholar can meet and talk with his fellow scholars and members of the faculty.
In line with this program the grads will sponsor a forum on “War and Peace” next Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. The speakers will be Drs. Waldemar Gurian (political sicence), Yves Simon (philosophy), and William Shanahan (history). The three are authorities on militarism in France, Germany, and Russia.
Among other activities recently undertaken by the association were a party in the Vetville Rec Hall and a talk by French YCS leader Claude Julien on Communism in France. Plans for the future, according to. secretary Gene Moore, include a Missa Cantata, election of officers, and possibly a banquet.
GOLF TOURNEY
Entries for the Student Golf Tourney must be made before Monday. AU ata-dents and faculty; excepting member* of the varsity golf, sqvad. are eligible. See story on page 25.	- -	■
21
HENRY L. LOGAN
From the Garden of Eden . . .
Good Lighting Expert To Lecture on May 12
Henry L. Logan, often called the “apostle of good lighting to Canada, the U. S. A., and Mexico,” will speak in the Law Auditorium on Wednesday, May 12, at 8 p. m. The lecture, will be jointly sponsored by the student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Architects Club, and the Pre-Med group.
Mr. Logan’s talk is entitled “What Man is Made to See.” He will start with the Garden of Eden and relate the broad steps by which man has conquered his indoor climate and the part that light plays as one of the features of this indoor climate. He will also speak of the way in which our eyes control our muscles without our conscious knowledge, and continually protect us from innumerable accidents and possible death.
Mr. Logan, who is the manager of applied research at the Helophane Company in New York City, will end his lecture by emphasizing the role that light plays in stores, offices, broadcasting studios, in schools and some industrial application of general interest.
Registrar Tightens Noose On Late Fall Registration
When fall registration rolls around (Sept. 13, 14, and 15) and you’re tempted to enjoy another day at the beach or a few more home cooked meals and dates with your best gal, don’t do it. The reason: there will be no more late registration.
The Registrar’s office announced this week that no student will be permitted to register after the final day, which this fall will be Sept. 15.
Sentimentalists Find Aid for Ailing Loves —Miniature ND Rings
So you want to give your girl a miniature ring? Beware, brother, beware! She may interpret it as anything from wedding bells to a criticism of her jewelry.
Miniature rings, in case you’re wondering, are exact replicas of the official Notre Dame ring. They are two-thirds the size of the big ring but are identical down to the marginal notes of the open book on the side.
Gold sets are the more popular, but sterling silver is still available. The faceted stone used to be the height of style, but a smooth oval stone is more in demand today. Practically the same choice of stones offered for the official ring can be had in the “sweetheart” size. The most popular at the moment is the ruby, with spinel a close second.
These rings are meant to be given to “sweetheart or wife” according to the catalogue of the L. G. Balfour Company. Judging from the stack of orders in the Bookstore, many Notre Dame men are reading the catalogue.
You wouldn’t think a little thing like ordering a ring would faze a man, would you? Yet you can see them standing hesitatingly in the Bookstore pretending to read the fine print on the Lifebuoy box. Then, with a sigh of determination, they enter the back office. Once inside they’re met by a charming young lady referred to as Rosie, who informs them that Johnny Johnson will take their order.
PORTRAIT OF A MINIATURE . ... to the Bookstore . . .
RING BUYER . . . and 'Always. Al'
Ring size, set, stone, all these are entered neatly on an order blank by Mr. Johnson. Then comes the acid test, the question they’ve been dreading: “Any inscription?”
This is what separates the men from the boys, the wolves from the lambs, the initiated from the uninitiated. The most common specie of buyer is the sentimental type who thinks of the night of the Sophomore Cotillion and wishes that all the words to “our” song could be engraved. Oi- he tries to think how Gregory Peck said it in The Paradine Case. About this time it dawns on him that the complete office staff of the Bookstore, including Rosie, has been watching him on his memory cruise. He immediately drops his notebook, looks very red and confused, and mumbles something about, “Just make it ‘Love, Al’.”
Then there’s the foxy kind that wonders if “Always, Joe” will do for Mary or Betty just in case he changes his mind.
Or the type that is determined and has his mind made up before. He’s sure of himself and confidently asks for, “H. J. to B. G.”
After these preliminaries are taken care of, the prospective ring buyer sweats out the time required to order the ring and hopes his love life doesn’t change in the interval. According to all reliable reports however, it’s worth it. The ring is popular and seems to be just what the doctor ordered for ailing romances. So if your mail hasn’t been heavy lately, try the miniature ring. It hasn’t failed yet.—Dick Rosengarten
22
WND Takes Mike to Irish Home Opener Tomorrow
WND's parade of sporting events turns to Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon for the Indiana-Notre Dame double-header at 1 p.m. The station’s broadcasting booth will be set up behind home plate where George Engler and Frank Venner will play-by-play the opening home game of the 1948 season.
WND began its sports-event series from the local gym on February 9 with the broadcast of the St. Louis-Notre Dame basketball game. Since then the station has blanketed every home sporting event for those students unable to attend. Next stop is the Old Timers-Varsity football game from the stadium.
Friday night’s news discussion program will present a new approach to the housing situation. George Engler will interview local realtors and professors in a “what to do about the housing situation” discussion. Howard Moore, secretary-treasurer, and Lee Ditchey, assistant secretary of Whitcomb-Keller Realty Company will crowd the mike in a roundtable confab with Walter L. Shilts, head of the Civil Enginering Department of Notre Dame. The broadcast begins at 7:30 p. m.
PROGRAM SCHEDULE
For Week Beginning May 3
Monday Evening 6:00 Jumptime 6:15 Blue Champagne 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Summer Theater 7:45 Uninterrupted Music 8:00 Sign Off
Tuesday Evening 6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Yesterday's Hits 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Summer Theater 7:45 Music 8:00 Sign Off
Wednesday Evening 6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Blue Champagne 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Sports Parade 7:30 Summer Theater 8:00 Sign Off
Thursday Evening 6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Blue Champagne 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Scholastic Concert 7:45 Uninterrupted Music 8:00 Sign Off
Friday Evening 6:00 Jumptime 6:15 Blue Champagne 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Classical Music 7:30 News Discussion 8:00 Sign Off
Saturday Evening 9:30 Uninterrupted Music 10:00 Palais Royale
Program 10:30 Sign Off
—Paul A. Theis
Credit Union Still in Diapers, May Start Service Next Fall
The proposed credit union for Notre Dame students is still in the planning stage according to Bob Reynolds, editor oi Concord, the national YCS publication which originates here. The credit union, to be sponsored by YCS, will be patterned somewhat after the present system available to faculty members.
There is good reason to expect that this credit service will be available by next semester if certain difficulties can be ironed out. The main difficulty as seen by Reynolds may be student reluctance to deposit money needed for working capital in the Union.
MISS JOANNE McCABE NROTC Dance Queen
Dance Ahoy! RO’s Sail Tomorrow Night
Coronation of Miss Joanne McCabe, Saint Mary’s sophomore from Rockford, Illinois, as dance queen will highlight the Naval Ball to be held tomorrow night by the Notre Dame NROTC unit in the Vetville Rec Hall. The ceremonies attendant to the crowning of Queen Joanne I will include a somewhat modified Grand March and the formation of a Royal Court for Her Saline Maj'esty. The Queen’s retinue will be made up of the Midshipmen on the Naval Ball committee and their dates. Jack Donahoe, chairman of the committee, will be Miss McCabe’s escort at the dance.
Special invitations have been extended to several distinguished guests of honor, among whom will be University President, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; Captain and Mrs. A. L. Danis, commanding officer of the unit; Commander and Mrs. B. F. McMahon, executive officer of the unit; Colonel L. Palmer, commanding officer of the Air ROTC unit on the campus, and his staff; Lieutenant-Commander Roy Aaron, USNR, officer in charge of Naval Reserve activities in the South Bend area; and Maj'or R. Scott, commanding officer of the South Bend Marine Reserve unit.
Midshipmen arriving at the Recreation Hall with their “drags” will be made to feel at home in the “salty” atmosphere created by the committee with the generous use of signal flags and the setting aside of the west alcove as “Officers’ Country.”
Busses will provide the future ensigns whose dates are across the highway with transportation to and from the dance.
—Bill Bradley
Alumni Sons on Campus . Plan Student Organization
A committee of Notre Dame men whose fathers, or grandfathers, attended the University is working on plans for a permanent organization of the more than 150 eligible men in this category on the campus.
Plans include a survey of membership, a reception by the University administration, a meeting of fathers and sons during a football weekend in the fall, holding of regional or metropolitan meetings of fathers and sons during the holidays, a newsletter to fathers, and other programs to emphasize the tradition embodied in the presence on the campus of so many second and third, generation students.
The committee, a temporary group appointed by the Alumni Office to make the preliminary plans, consists of George-Witteried, Lyons Hall, chairman; Leo Vogel, Sorin; Ray Miller, Breen-Phil-’ lips; Eric Rey de Castro, Dillon; George Patterson, Cavanaugh; Harold Plamondon, Dillon, and Ed McCarthy, Off-Campus.
All students whose fathers or grandfathers attended Notre Dame are invited to make themselves known to one of the Committee or to the Alumni Office so that the new organization will be 100 per cent representative.
Party-Wise Frosh Throw Potawatomi Picnic May 6
Besides the coming dance the Freshmen now have another class party coming. According to Ward McCabe, Chairman of the Social Committee of the class, there will be a picnic.held on Ascension Thursday, May 6. Food will be supplied by the dining hall and there ,; will be no admission charge.
Also invited to the picnic, which is to be held at Potawatomi Park, will be girls from St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s Academy, and St. Joseph’s Academy. Bob Clemency of Breen-Phillips will be in charge of arrangements.
Proceedings will start at 3 p. m. with games of all shapes and forms to be played until chow time. Later in the evening there will be a large bonfire and no doubt an old song or so will be sung by those around the roaring blaze. The bonfire will ba set to die down about 10 p. m. when everyone starts back home. This picnic promises to be even better than the one held last fall, which was highly successful.
There will be enough food and enough girls to keep everyone happy, something that was lacking last September.
—Bob Edmondson -
SCHOLASTIC SLCKTT
No Joy on Cartier; I. U. Bats Next
Weak Hitting Mars Irish Diamond Play
By VIC DORR
Ending their second week of competition, Coach Jake Kline’s Irish base-ballers meet Indiana in their first home game tomorrow dragging a none too impressive record behind them. Over the past weekend the Klinemen dropped two more games, one each to Bradley and Iowa, while salvaging only one. This leaves them with an anemic record of two wins and five losses when they face the Hoosiers in a double-header on Car-tier Field Saturday afternoon.
Although hard to beat on their Car-tier Field diamond, the Irish are sure to be even tougher tomorrow in the effort to regain some of their lost prestige. The Notre Dame moundsmen have been effective in most of the games so far, and if they are backed up with any sort of a batting attack, Coach Ernie Andre’s Indiana boys are in for a rough afternoon. The Hoosiers, currently holding the cellar spot in Big Nine competition, will snap at any chance to win and can be counted on for stubborn opposition in the Irish quest for victory.
Coach Kline, while pointing for the big opening double-header with the Hoosiers tomorrow, still bemoans the fact that he has not been able to uncover" a hitting combination capable of bringing in the runs. So far all of the Irish losses have been by a single tally. A consistent set of long ball hitters could easily remedy that situation just as the lack of them has been the cause of it. In the one ND victory over the weekend Jake used eighteen men in an
----------------------------
Picture of the Week
SCHOLASTIC Photographer Paul Jack-son captured this colorful shot during a rollicking, boisterous demonstration after the nomination of Harold Stassen at Tuesday night's session of the Mock Republican National Convention. Many similar outbursts took place as delegations keyed themselves up to a fever pitch while throwing the hats of their favorite sons into the ring.
attempt to bring some power to the plate. Infielders and catchers were shifted to the outfield, but still he discovered no potent punch.
Hitting the ball most consistently for the Klinemen, however, have been the veteran Irish infielders, Pete Koblosh, Benny Kozlik, and Ray Petrzelka.
Famished for power hitting in all three games, the Notre Dame squad dropped a close 2-1 decision to Bradley last Thursday, wrenched an 8-7 win from Iowa in the first game Friday afternoon, and then, to show no hard feelings, they bowed to the Hawkeyes in a 4-3 defeat Saturday.
In the Bradley tilt Notre Dame’s big John Creevy hurled masterful ball while relinquishing only five hits to the
RAY PETRZELKA
In seven games only two wins
Braves, but one of them, a four-base clout by centerfielder Don Ashley with a mate aboard in the eighth was the blow that scored Bradley’s only two runs and the victory. The Irish managed to touch the Braves’ starting pitcher, Manker, for but five hits—all of them singles—and none of them accounted for the lone Irish tally. Kozlik scored after a series of errors in the third inning.
Although outhit by the Hawkeyes in the first game, Notre Dame combined a big five-run second inning spree and a timely ninth inning single by Petrzelka to win 8-7. The lanky Irish first-sacker circled the bases after- his hit rolled past the Iowa center-fielder. Dick Kluck, the third Irish pitcher, received credit for the win.
In the final contest with the Hawkeyes it was another case of not hitting when the hits were needed most. Iowa’s lefty Jack Bruner rates credit for that performance. He held the Irish to seven hits while sending 10 men down on strikes. Little Tom Martin’s double in the first inning drove in two Irish runs. The third came in the seventh as the result of an Iowa error. Southpaw Dick Smullen was charged with the loss after Jack Campbell was blasted from the box in the sixth inning.
On Tuesday, May 4, the Wildcats of Northwestern University will invade the campus for a single game. After undergoing two sound drubbings at the hands of Ohio State’s rampaging Buckeyes last week-end, the Wildcats too will be out for blood. ’Bolstei-ing a capable pitching staff are such power hitters as shortstop Don Burson, who gave the Irish gridders plenty of trouble in Evanston last fall, first baseman Ray Wietecha, and leftfielder Fatso Day. The mound corps headed by the Wildcats’ two veteran southpaw hurlerg, Bill Stretton and Jack Ogle, could possibly handcuff the Irish batsmen once again. But not if Jake Kline has anything to say about it.
Golfers to Start Play; More Entries Wanted
The Student Golf Tourney gets under way Monday after a week’s postponement. Entries will be accepted until Sunday night, and all those who plan on entering should let some member of the committee know.
Only about 40 paid entries had been received by last Monday, the scheduled starting date. Since the tourney would not be successful unless four or five flights were entered, it was decided to leave the entries open another week.
Many more entries were made during the week and a field of nearly 100 golfers will probably tee off come Monday. Trophies were put on display at the Golf Shop yesterday. The large 16-inch trophy was donated by Sonneborn’s Sport Shop and flight trophies will be purchased with entry fees.
Bill Breen of Howard Hall turned in the low card of 72 this week; 20 golfers had 82 or better; 11 qualified at 110 plus. Everyone has a chance to win, so get your entries in right away.
25
Ve+ville Near Title In Blue Bowling Loop
Chuck Perrin’s Vetville crew took three games from the Monogram Club last week at the Bowl-Mor Alleys to all but cinch first place honors in the Blue League. There is only one more week of competition left. Second place Toledo will have to do the impossible to pick up three games on the Vets. Fox River Valley is in third, spot three games behind Toledo, and have an equally gargantuan task to better their position.
Fox River Valley set a single game Blue League team record with a 1003. Tom Simon’s 609 (199-181-229) vaulted the Syrian-Lebanese camel riders from eighth to sixth place.
In the Gold League the Villagers took two games from ASME and are still three games ahead of Inter-American and the Italian Club, who are tied for second place. If the Villagers are to be headed they will have to drop all of their remaining games while one of the second place teams wins all of theirs. It’s possible but not probable. We’ll take the Villagers and flip a coin for second place. The Romans and the Inter-American Affairs club for second and third place either way you want to put them. Rochester and Buffalo should fight it out for fourth and fifth spot. Ray Rusek’s 203 game paced the Buffs to a new Gold League single game team record, 1008.
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts Vetville ____________________   35	13	47
Toledo ______________________  31	17	43
Fox River Valley ............  29	19	40
Pittsburgh ..................   27	21	34
Chemists --------------------- 25	23	34
Svrian-Lebanese .............  24	24	32
Met Club  23	25	29
Monogram ____________________  21	27	28
Texas  20	28	24
Aero  20	28	24
Columbus ___________________     17	31	23
Milwaukee ___________________  16	32	23
Schedule for May 2
Fox River Valley vs. Chemists
Met Club vs. Vetville
Monogram x'S. Syrian-Lebanese
Toledo vs. Milwaukee
Pittsburgh vs. Aero Texas vs. Columbus
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts
Villagers .......................   31	17	42
Inter-American Affairs ____________ 29	19	39
Italian Club ______________________ 27	21	39
Rochester  27	21	37
Buffalo  28	20	36
Boston  26	22	35
Detroit  25	23	34
Rockford  22	26	28
St. Louis  21	27	28
ASME ------------------------------ 17	31	21
Youngstown 14	34	18
Schedule for May 2
Buffalo vs. Boston
St. Louis vs. Youngstown Inter-American Affairs vs. Rochester Jet Propulsion vs. Villagers
ASME vs. Rockford Detroit vs. Italian Club
TROPHIES TO BE AWARDED CHAMPION KAMPUS KEGLERS Vetville's horizon was bright
Badgers, Titans Challenge Irish Golfers Next Week
The weekend stretches long, but not lazy, before the golfers as they prepare for two away-from-home matches in the coming week. Monday will find Father Holderith’s charges at Madison for a set-to with Wisconsin, and on Thursday they will square off with Detroit in the Motor City.
Wisconsin should prove a rugged foe for the Irish. Nothing much is known about them, but they will be anxious to square things for the 20-7 pasting they absorbed here last year. The alltime series with the Badgers stands at 8-2 in favor of Notre Dame with one match ending in a deadlock.
The Detroit affair should not prove too strenuous. In 16 tries, the Titans have managed to dump the Irish but once. Last year’s margin here at Notre Dame was 31-5 in favor of the home lads.
Last Saturday at Lafayette the Purdues spotted the Irish record with the season’s first loss, a 14^-12% engagement. The match was featured by the most brilliant competitive shooting ever seen on the Boilermaker course, mostly by Purdue.
Fred Wampler put together a two-under par 69 in the morning and a 70 in the afternoon for low honors. John Cleary of Purdue fired a 70 in the morning and a 74 in singles competition for second low honors among the Boilermakers.	’
The Irish were paced by George Stuhr. The slim slammer from Garden City, L. I., equalled par with a 71 in bestball play and added a 72 in the afternoon. Tom Dore’s 75-76 was next in line for Notre Dame.—Jim Butz.
GRID TICKET SALE OPENS AUG. 1
Next week, for the convenience of the student body, the Athletic Department will distribute mailing list cards to all students, on and off the campus. By filling in his name and SUMMER address, the student will be assured of receiving application forms during the month of July upon which he may order available tickets for the 1948 games. These applications will be mailed to the address furnished by the student during the month of July, prior to the opening of the ticket sale August 1. Students are thus urged to order tickets as soon as possible after August 1 to protect themselves against sellouts occurring before the opening of school in September. If you desire a set of such application forms, fill in the mailing list card and mail or bring it to the ticket office in Breen-Phillips Hall by May 15.
1948 graduates will be added automatically to the Alumni Association mailing list and therefore need not make use of the mailing list cards.
’	—Ticket Manager
26
SPLINTERS
Spring Drills Reach Stalemate as Swistowicz Joins Hughie Burns' Adhesive Tape Squad
from the Pressbox
By HARRY MONAHAN
By JIM BUTZ
After watching our tennis team breeze through the Wisconsin match, I wonder if they aren’t just as good as last year’s unbeaten squad. Of course, it might have been that the calibre of the opposition was not too tough, but rhe manner in which all six of the singles men waltzed t h r o u g h theii* matches without droppinga single set was certainly impressive.
Jim Evert showed why he has
been collecting singles and doubles trophies by the car load. His smooth, mechanical game was beautiful to watch. After dropping the first game of the first set to his foe, he settled down to take the next twelve games in succession in racking up a 6-1, 6-0 victory.
He lacks the power that his brother Jerry has, but he invariably is able to get his opponent’s shot back across the net.
Jim was a bit rusty on some of his pet shots—notably his drop shot—but he looks as though he will give the rest of the collegiate field a run for their money in the National Collegiates at Los Angeles this summer.
Art Linkletter, quiz show m.c. in town a week ago, dropped out to see Notre Dame in football practice and make the rounds on the campus. He is an unusually well-informed person, athletically speaking, having broken into radio as a sports announcer.
He was tremendously impressed with Notre Dame in general and with Coach Frank Leahy in particular. Aftei* a few days here soaking up the Notre Dame spirit, he even talked like a Notre Dame man. “I think Notre Dame’s first team would have taken Michigan’s first eleven. And that dipsy-doo ball-handling in the Wolverine backfield would not have worked against that Irish line.”
Linkletter is an excellent handball player also. He asked for a match against someone here at ND. Father Brennan not being available, the radio star was matched with Jim Martin of the football team. Linkletter had no trouble in winning, but Martin later ad-
“BLOCKERS ! ! Get down and help the ball carrier. Block!! Block! Block!” And the ball carriers needed help when Coach Leahy matched his first team against a stubborn second string line and backfield last Saturday. To add to the Irish grid mentor’s worries, Mike Swistowicz injured his right knee and joined the adhesive tape squad of Hughie Burns’ training room eleven. The current weakness at tackle was emphasized by the appearance of George Connor among the Cartier athletes to begin training for the Old Timers’ Game.
Spring drills have finally reached that stalemate which raises doubts concerning the power of the Irish eleven. When the first team has trouble scoring against the second team, the coaching staff goes into spasms of grief, and tear-jerking press releases sob about the “poor” showing the Notre Dame grid machine is making in practice. No one gets wise, even when Coach Leahy fields two or three teams of almost equal ability.
Spectators at the Cartier scrimmage sessions, however, have had ample op-
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS May 1—BASEBALL: Indiana here (double header).
TRACK: Notre Dame and Drake at Bradley Tech.
TENNIS: Michigan here. May 3—GOLF: at Wisconsin.
May 4—BASEBALL: Northwestern here.
May 5—TENNIS: at Marquette May 6—GOLF: at Detroit.
May 7—BASEBALL: at Wisconsin.
May 8—BASEBALL: at Wisconsin.
TRACK: at Marquette. GOLF: Minnesota here. TENNIS: DePauw here.
mitted that he had played three games of handball that same morning and scrimmaged football that afternoon.
George Ratterman will not appear in the Old Timer’s lineup on May 15 as previously announced. The Buffalo Bills, Rattermans’ fall employers, deem him too valuable a property to be risked in such a game. The same thing applies to Jim Mello, John Yonakor, and Elmer Angsman. Playing football might be risky under* any circumstances, but exposing a star to Notre Dame’s thundering herd is inviting trouble.
portunity to see the Notre Dame “representative” team shape up just that way. Watching the defensive play of such men as Jerry Groom, Bob Lally, Alex Lesko and Frank Gaul it is easy to see why the first team has had some trouble. Groom’s performance thus far assures the Irish of smashing linebacking material when Bill Walsh turns in his moleskins at the end of next season. The capable frosh center sparked the second team which bottled up the first team’s ground attack in last Saturday’s scrimmage.
Switching in and out of the line between the defensive guard and linebacker spots, Bob Lally has attracted no small amount of attention by his aggressive defensive play. Teamed with Groom he has made the center.of the line an unhealthy territory for Irish backs. Alex Lesko and Frank Gaul form another tough team to guard the right flank of the Irish defense.
Injuries have moved in to thin out the fullback candidates. Mike Swistowicz and Pep Panelli were staging such a close race for that fullback starting berth that a flip of a coin would have been the safest way to make a choice at this stage in the game. But Mike twisted his right knee last Saturday, which may slow him down during the remaining weeks of spring practice. Frank Spaniel continued to give the defense 182 pounds of driving fullback to shoot at. Frank has also been putting in time at halfback.
“Jungle Jim” Martin moved out of obscurity last week to take over leather packing duties instead of just brushing the opponents out of the way for the backs. In Saturday’s drill he carried on the end-around play which had the Irish opposition baffled last season. The defense had to swarm all over him to, stop him.
With Saturday’s drill definite improvements in the line situation could be seen. Gus Cifelli and Ralph McGehee are working smoothly with the first string while Ted Budynkiewicz, Frank Gaul, Ed Hudak and Jim Mahoney have been looking good in the critical spot. The even play of the two lines should be signs of improvement instead of producing the gloomy predictions that it has. It is a pretty good sign that we have two fairly equal lines, which means good reserve strength. Any line that can stand up to and fight back against a line which includes Wendell, Fischer, Walsh, Martin and Hart is far from a liability.
27
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Vari-Types Tell Painful Story Of Poor Spring Sport Showing
By Pete Brown
The spring sport situation at Notre Dame grows more painful every time another score is turned in by one of the varsity teams. There does not seem to be any means to ease the suffering unless it might possibly be the tennis team. It is also hard to figure out what lethargy has overtaken the track and baseball teams. The unique method of scheduling for the two teams has prevented any closehand observation. The baseball team makes its first appearance tomorrow against Indiana, and the track team performs only once on their home cinders, May 15.
From the information that can be obtained from the vari-type reports in the Chicago papers, Jake Kline’s outfit belongs in the same league—if it can be called a league—with the Chicago White Sox. Before such a rash judgment can be made, some closehand observation is necessary. There must be some reasonable excuse for their miserable showing, because an out-and-out bad ball club does not lose so many games by one run. We must also remember that a man is innocent until proved otherwise. So we anxiously wait the team’s initial appearance to see if they are worthy of the early vari-type reports.
In their last competitive appearance on the campus, the track team looked good losing to Penn State. From the printed results of their outdoor relay competition, they have yet to look good. Last week they hit their nadir when they scored three points in the Drake Relays. What’s wrong? Harrison Dillard? Hardly. It is too difficult to tell. And it will probably be more difficult after watching them in their only campus visit May 15.
Now we get to the tennis team. There is an outfit. Last week they slammed Wisconsin to start after their second consecutive undefeated season. The brothers Evert, Bob David, Gene Biitt-ner, Joe Brown and Phil Lyons carry the victory wreath lightly on their shoulders, but they balance it well. Some refer to tennis as a minor sport, but the above mentioned men compete like the only major leaguers in the spring sport picture.
If you are a person who likes consoling thoughts, here is one about this victoryless spring. The teams partici
pating in spring sports can equalize our heavy hanging inter-collegiate balance by offsetting the victories of the football team at a rate of about two to one.
May 15 must be the feast of the patron saint of confusion. On said date three of the four spring teams will be operating on campus and the fourth will be visiting East Lansing, Michigan. In addition, the Varsity-Old Timers game will be played in the Stadium. The golf team are the travelers, so forget about them. Here is Saturday’s pattern: Track on Cartier Field; baseball, same place; tennis on Notre Dame Avenue courts; football in the Stadium.
ND Meets Michigan;
Expect No 'Love' Sets
Michigan comes to Notre Dame tomorrow for the battle of the season—but a tennis match and not a football championship is at stake. Coach Walter Langford is expecting the toughest tilt of the season from the Wolverines and with good reason. Paton, Otto, Hersch, Mi-kulich and Gordon Naugle are all back plus two newcomers and Notre Dame lacks the depth which it needed last year to win, 6-3.
Rivalry is sharp between the opponents, for Michigan is the only team which has beaten a Langford-coached squad more than two times since 1940. They’ve turned the trick four times including a 9-0 indoor trouncing in 1945. the record reads as follows:
1940 Michigan, 5-4
1941 Notre Dame, 6-3
1942 Notre Dame, 6-3
1943 Michigan, 5-4
1944 Notre Dame, 5-4
1945 Michigan, 9-0
1946 Michigan, 5-4
1947 Notre Dame, 6-3
Mikulich, in particular, has thrived on Notre Dame opposition. Last year he defeated Bob David, 6-1, 4-6, 5-7 for David’s only collegiate defeat and in 1946 he outlasted George Ratterman in the decisive ninth match. Despite Mr. Mikulich, Langford looks for a 3-3 split in the singles which will leave the outcome squarely up to the three doubles combinations.
Notre Dame will be trying to play the same brand of tennis they used last Saturday in pasting Wisconsin 9 to 0. During the entire afternoon Wisconsin
garnered only one set and was almost blasted off the court at times. Jim Evert looked particularly impressive as he bested Hentzen of Wisconsin, 6-1, 6-0 in less than a half hour. Brother Gerry had slightly more trouble and Joe Brown had to work hard before subduing Kaufman, 7-5, 6-4, but David and Gene Biitt-ner and Phil Lyons romped home easily. Jim Evert and David and Gerry Evert and Biittner comprised the first two doubles teams and Frank Nagel and Jim Rodgers teamed to win the last match.
Crack RO Riflemen Aim for Good Season
Led by Don Murphy, a Breen-Phillips freshman, the NROTC rifle team has so far enjoyed a successful year of class competition. The Reservists, with Murphy at the No. 1 position, have won well over half of their matches, outshooting college reserve units at Duke, Nebraska, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin and several other leading schools.
Murphy, a member of the crack Xavier rifle team in ’47 which shot its way to victory in the Hearst finals, is repeating in college circles. Easily the best man on the six man squad, Don fired a hot 186 out of 200 in the Nationals last month, just two points below the high scorer. But the rest of the squad just wasn’t “on”; Notre Dame’s unit placed a mediocre 46 out of 70.
Major Bruce Hillam, USMCR, lists a six man team of Murphy. Theodore Gon-dert, James Hartman, Andrew Walsh, Gene Corcoran and Donald Sickels, from which the top five scores are chosen for competition. So far all the unit’s action has been confined to postal matches, but a shoulder-to-shoulder event may be staged here in May.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
Larus & Brother Company Richmond, Virginia
28
Double Trouble Faces Trackmen Tomorrow; Compete Against Drake, Bradley at Peoria
By UM HOWARD
Notre Dame’s trackmen will face their first real test of the outdoor season tomorrow when they battle Drake and Bradley Universities in a triangular meet in Peoria. After a good showing in the Kansas relays, the Irish captured only three points in last week’s Drake relays. Fortunately, Drake captured but one point, and Bradley competed in the college division, making it impossible to gauge their strength against better rivals.
Considering all the aspects of tomorrow’s contest, the Notre Dame thinclads should win on the basis of their usual strength in the distances and middle distances, plus the added hope that the field event performers will be in good shape for their initial competition of the outdoor season. Drake has some top performers in the dashes, and their depth in those events will probably give them the favorable balance of points for that portion of the meet. Bradley is purported to have some crack quarter milers, and the Irish stars, Capt. Ernie McCullough, Steve Provost, and Ray Sobota will be required to turn in top performances for that event to gain points for the Irish cause.
The triangular affair in the Illinois Beer city will give many of the Irish performers long inactive an opportunity to demonstrate their value to the squad. The mile run will again be a feature with Bill Leonard, John Lyons, and pos-, sibly Jim Kittell the Irish hopes in the event. The half-mile will also be a top event, and Coach Elvin R. Handy is relying on Larry Keenan, Sobota, and possibly Kittell or Gerry Johnson for strength in this crucial run. The two-mile will be one of the ND strong points with reliable Jim Murphy and Corny Styers carrying the Irish colors.
John Smith, Bill Fleming and Bob McDavid will run in the hurdles events, and if Smith has recovered from his injurious spill at Kansas, he is expected to lead the Irish scoring in the barrier races. John (Babe) Murphy is slowly recovering from his ankle injury sustained in the Purdue relays, but it is not known whether he will be able to take part in the clash at Peoria. The other Irish sprinter, Bob Smith, is favored to show well in the 220-yard dash, his particular specialty.
The deciding factor in the meet will be the field event performances. Coach (Doc) Handy is sure of victory if the men in this category can loosen the chains of inactivity which they have been forced to carry through the various
relays. John Johnson is the Notre Dame strong man in the discus. In the javelin, Floyd Simmons will be the Irish mainstay, and George Sullivan is the man favored to take honors in the shot put. A question of great importance is whether Ray Espenan will compete in the broad jump. If he does, the cinder kickers have a chance in this event, if not, it will mean a nice gift of points to the opposition. Ray is a member of the football squad.
The high jump and pole vault are two other events of supreme importance to the Notre Dame victory hope. Fleming is the only Irish jumper favored to stack up well against the competition the meet will offer. In the pole vault, Jim Miller and Ray Struble will be striving to attain the form of indoor season where they both were hitting twelve feet six inches consistently.
Notre Dame’s mile relay of McCullough, Provost, Sobota, and Pat Kenny, or Paul Schwetschenau will be the final hope of the Handymen for points in this crucial meet. The mile quartet managed a 3:19.7 time at Kansas which is expected to be better than anything the Drake or Bradley squads can muster.
Oblate Missionaries Found Notre Dame in Philippines
Thousands of miles from here there is a growing frontier school that bears our name—Notre Dame of Lagao High School. It provides two years of instruction, while a third and fourth year are being planned. Several hundred students attend this humble school, which is located in Cabato Province in the southernmost part of the Philippine Islands.
Rev. Joseph M. Milford, a member of the Oblate order who formerly lived in Newton Centre, Mass., is principal of the school. In a recent letter home he wrote: “In such a school, the building is for the future. These children whom we have every day are the ones who will be the heads of families in years to come.
“In naming the school after the American Academy we tell them that they are like Notre Dame in the States. Incidentally, anything you come across about Notre Dame please send to me. Stories about the football team, old game programs, banners, pins and the like would be greatly appreciated. Pictures of the university would be particularly welcome.”
A subscription to the SCHOLASTIC is already winging its way towards Father Milford and his group of Philippine Notre Dame men. Anyone interested in answering the missionary’s plea can send his contribution to Rev. Father Joseph Milford, O.M.I., Catholic Cavento, Lagao Cabato Province, Philippine Islands.
LOBUND Increases Labs and Experiments
Sailing over the hurdles like a track star, the Laboratories of Biology of the University of Notre Dame (LOBUND) are making rapid and spectacular advances in a field that had long been considered closed to advancement. LOBUND has recently received widespread publicity in many of the nation’s leading magazines and newspapers for its revolutionary germ-free technique.
By next fall three new buildings will be in operation. They are the LOBUND machine shop, the germ-free life production laboratory, and the animal building. The machine shop, already in operation, enables LOBUND to produce most of its own equipment. In about two months the animal building will be completed and opened for work. The ordinary stock colony- of animals will be housed here. Every experiment on a germ-free animal requires a similar experiment on an ordinary, contaminated one.
The expanded building program will not do away with the labs which are now located in the basement of the biology building. The new germ-free life production laboratory will feature special observation facilities for everyone who is interested in this type of work to watch the experiments from behind a large, glass observation window. The cramped quarters that now prevail at LOBUND prevent any large group of visitors from watching and learning more about this field of experimentation.
Germ-free work, such as is done in the LOBUND laboratories, has proved to be extremely important in providing a new scientific tool for the men of science. A great number of biological and medicinal problems which have been unapproachable up to this time can now be tackled. Increasing requests from other institutions to make LOBUND facilities available for research, and the desire to work more extensively on certain disease problems, necessitate the current expansion program.
LOST!
Ronson Cigarette Lighter C. A. R.
Reward—	132 St. Ed’s,
i__________________________
29
SRO Crowd Hears Glenn Drake Speak
A “standing - room - only” audience packed the law auditorium last Friday to hear Mr. Glenn Drake speak on “Personality in Business.” Mr. Drake, popular club and business firm speaker and head of the Glenn Drake Personality Development School, was sponsored by the Commerce Forum, the honor society of the Commerce School.
It was the contention of Mr. Drake that every person has personality but that by their attitudes many people never allow others to know of the existence of this personality. In getting a job or selling anything, including oneself, the most important item is attitude. Too often the impression an executive receives in the first few seconds loses for the salesman so Mr. Drake pointed out the importance of the right beginning. To the great amusement of the students, he intimates the various entrances to avoid and then, with the able assistance of Miss Janie Deutsch, the vivacious secretary of the Dean of Commerce, he demonstrated the different handshakes erroneously used nowadays.
Mr. Edmund A. Smith, assistant Dean of the College of Commerce, thanked Mr. Drake for his kindness in coming to Notre Dame and expressed the hope that the Commerce Forum would obtain other speakers of Mr. Drake’s caliber in the near future.
'Lawyer,' 'Review of Politics' Feature Statesmen, Educator
“The Special Balkan Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations,” an article by the Honorable Warren R. Austin, former United States Senator from Vermont and currently representative of this country in the United Nations is the featured story in the spring issue of the Notre Dame Laiv-yer.
In the same issue, the Honorable Pat MCarren, United States Senator from Nevada writes on “Insurance as Commerce—After Four Years.”
And in the April issue of Notre Dame’s Review of Politics, Dr. Jerome K. Kerwin, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago writes that the 1948 presidential election campaign will be “a supreme test of our electoral system.” In his article Dr. Kerwin stresses that each presidential candidate this year will be “an educator.” As such each candidate will have to “reduce to understandable terms the complex economics of the world situation—a task neither easy nor capable of cheap drama.”
“THEY’RE OFF!”
If Ears Win Derbies, Our Choice Is Tops
“And they’re off and running in the annual renewal of turfdom’s classic — the Kentucky Derby!”
Tomorrow afternoon as these words stream across the airways with the rapid-fire delivery of a raspy-throated announcer, millions of ears will be glued to the radio, including many pairs of Notre Dame ears. Down in Louisville, where historic Churchill Downs will bulge .with an overflow crowd, thousands of eyes will focus on the oval as the cream of the country’s three-year-old crop sprints out of the chute and starts the mile and a sixteenth sprint for fame and fortune.
Then as now the paramount question will be: Who will win?
Always ready to serve its readers, Scholastic this week went out in search of the answer. From undercover sources it learned that the Rev. Henry G. Glueckert, c.s.c., professor of Latin and rector of Alumni Hall, might have the answer. Rumors claimed that he had picked the winner of the past two Derbies.
When asked who would win tomorrow’s classic, Father Glueckert replied: “No comment.”
Other prophets proved to be equally silent. Joe Cheney, former sports columnist and highly-regarded equine equator, was unavailable for comment. (Last year his choice was scratched.)
Refusing to be stymied, Scholastic placed its best stable sleuths on the case. But after a day-long perusal of the rac-
FATHER GLUECKERT EYES THE MORNING LINE From 'no comment* . . .
SCHOLASTIC’S DERBY CHOICE ... to a ’sure shot'
ing form, the sleuths were completely J baffled.
Finally a break came. Through devious means a secret rendezvous under Leahy’s tower at Cartier Field was arranged. As the clock struck eleven an unidentified, slouching fellow crept up to the Scholastic agent, thrust a picture in his hand and hustled off. But there was no name with the picture.
Thus Scholastic presents the picture of its choice in tomorrow’s Derby with this comment: If big ears mean anything, this baby is a sure shot!
30
Names Make News
Old Friends
In an address before members of the South Bend Hoosier Art Patrons’ Association last week FRANCIS J. HANLEY of the Art Department charged that unless the artist can think for himself instead of carrying out a superior’s orders there can be little hope for renaissance in art. In his talk on the role of the artist in the 20th century, Professor Hanley further asserted that in order to do something concrete the modern artist has been harnessed to industry by becoming a commercial artist and designer, which in most cases destroys his opportunities of becoming a fine artist. . . .
Dean JAMES E. McCARTHY of. the College of Commerce has been named chairman of the Jury of Awards for a national high school essay contest sponsored by the Advertising Federation of America. Dean McCarthy and other members of the jury will select national winners in the contest on “How Advertising Helps to Raise Our Standards of Living.” . . .
On May 2 in Indianapolis’ Claypool Hotel the sixth Conference of Midwestern Political Scientists will get under way. Notre Dame’s professor of Political Science, Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, will chairman group meeting No. 4 on “Recent Developments in American Constitutional Law.” The organization, which is part of the American Political Science Association, includes all of the outstanding political scientists in the midwest region. . . .
Professor AARON I. ABELL of the department of history labels the second decade of the 20th century as “the most significant 10-year span in the history of Catholic social action in the United States.” Speaking at the meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association in Rock Island, Ill., last week Dr. Abell further pointed out that during that period the Catholic church redefined, expanded and co-ordinated its urban social policy. . . .
Travelers
While attending a blaze in South Bend last week Notre Dame’s on-the-spot fire department had an accident. The local fire wagon was damaged slightly making a turn on a crowded
road leading to the fire. The chief of the campus fire department, BROTHER BORROMEO, C.S.C., indignantly pointed out that curious spectators who block the roads at a fire endanger other lives besides their own. . . .
J. R. GORMAN, Jr., Washington, D. C., attorney and graduate of Notre Dame was appointed recently as the national adjutant general of the Catholic War Veterans of America. . . .
Last week six faculty members left for Washington, D. C., to attend the meeting of the American Physical society which will last through May 1.
PROFESSOR HANLEY Opportunity is destroyed
‘ They are EUGENE GUTH, BERNARD WALDMAN, GIAN C. WICK, JAMES G. BUCK, WALTER C. MILLER, and EDWARD A. COOMES, all of whom are physics instructors at Notre Dame.
Last week BERT G. MARIS, 70, former athletic director of the University of Notre Dame died in St. Petersburg, Fla. He took over the direction of sports activities here in 1907 and while he was track coach he developed the late KNUTE ROCKNE into a pole vaulter. His death followed a prolonged illness while on a winter visit to St. Petersburg. . . .
—❖—
A former Irish first baseman, TOM
CLEMENTE, is playing the outfield now with the’ Springfield, Mass., team, a member of the Chicago Cub farm chain in- the New England League. Clemente, whose home is in New York, was a student here in 1947. . . .
Daredevils
Engaged to DONALD E. NUNER, of South Bend: Miss Betty Marie Ullery, Lindenwood College grad, who is also from South Bend. The marriage will be June 26. . . .
Engaged to RUSSELL G. ASHBAUGH, of Youngstown, Ohio, February grad and defensive back on last year’s championship Irish football squad: Miss Jean Coppes Hansen, of Elkhart, Indiana. The wedding will take place in June. ...
Engaged to HUGH SULLIVAN, January grad from Indianapolis, Ind.: Miss Betty Smith of the same town. The wedding will take place June 5. . . .
Engaged to PATRICK J. WEIS-HAPL, architecture student from Norfolk, Nebraska: Miss Marian Helen Graffenberger, of South Bend. The ceremony will be held in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, on May 8. . . .
YOU'LL LOOK
YOUR BEST
In a Parker-Winterrowd ready made suit tailored to your measurements or in a custom made suit, sport coat or top-coat.
In the limited field of- finer clothing it is what a suit is made of, how it is made and how it is fitted that counts.
Parker-Winterrowd clothes have a social register, the kind that college men who require hand tailoring, individuality of styling plus the exclusiveness of fine woolens, desire—all can be had at moderate prices.
We have a complete line of Tuxedos for vour Senior Ball.
J
Notre Dame men may use their credit.
Parker-Winterrowd
115J/2-117J/2 N. Main, upstairs (North of Oliver Hotel)
31
JOHN MANGAN
Galesburg — 30 years late
Niles Stop-off Proves Decisive in Future
Of Irish Chauffeur
In 1910 a young Irishman on his way from New York to Galesburg, Illinois, stopped off in Niles to see a friend. He had heard of a small Catholic university not far away in Indiana and decided to visit it before moving on to Galesburg. The visit to Notre Dame was a memorable one, for one hour after he arrived on the campus he had a job. Thirty years later John Mangan finally got to Galesburg. What had happened during this prolonged stopover? A small university had grown and John Mangan had become a part of it.
John Mangan has worked at an assortment of jobs in his years here. He has enjoyed his work, made many friends and was instrumental in sending his ■younger brother to the university. This brother later became a Holy Cross priest and eventually a missionary in India. On a part-time basis John Mangan assumed the role of University chauffeur. He recalls driving visiting dignitaries around in fancy horse and buggy rigs. In 1928, with the horseless carriage firmly entrenched, his chauffeur duties became permanent.
One September, years ago he happened to give a new student a lift from the N.Y.C. station to the university. The student’s name was Frank Leahy. When Frank Leahy returned as head football coach in 1941 he was assigned to pick him up at the same station. He has driven the present Pope, John McCor
32
mack, Al Smith, Admiral Nimitz, and G. K. Chesterton when they visited here.
He ranks G. K. Chesterton as the outstanding personality he has met on his job. He used to carry on some interesting conversations with G. K., many of them in Gaelic. He tossed horseshoes with Admiral Nimitz, and has known every football great at Notre Dame in the last thirty-eight years.
As Notre Dame grew, John noticed he came in less contact with the students.
EASIER—QUICKER—NEATER...when you use
EBERHARD FABER
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
IF YOUR friends have been slipping you hunks of cheese, maybe your hair looks mousey. So better take the bait, brother rat, and scurry out for some Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’s the popular non-alcoholic hair tonic containing soothing Lanolin.
Wildroot Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger Nail Test! Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil today at any drug or toilet goods counter. And always ask your barber for a professional application. Warning: Your roommate will probably ferret away your Wildroot Cream-Oil. Buy the rodent some of his own!
* of327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
aoaacnaaMR
WILOwOOT
Oik
Once he knew literally every student. John has amazed his many friends by remaining an eligible bachelor for so long. Although he is slowed down a bit by a trick knee, leap year and the traditional threat it brings to bachelors doesn’t worry him at all.
John Mangan is not the type to worry. He is happy and has many real friends. Most of all, he is happy about that chance stopover he made in Niles, Michigan, thirty-eight years ago.

Faculty Members to Speak At 'War and Peace' Forum
Three members of the Notre Dame faculty, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. Yves Simon and Prof. William Shanahan, will be guest speakers at an open forum for students and faculty •entitled “War and Peace” to be held Tuesday night, May 4, in the Engineering Auditorium. The forum is being sponsored by the Graduate Students Association.
Dr. Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics, is a recognized authority on Marxism and Bolshevism who has recently urged bold, spectacular action as a means to halt Russian aggression.
Dr. Simon, author of a recent book, “Community of the Free” and a recognized Thomistic philosopher, was quoted as outlining his role in the forum as such: “I intend to discuss some conditions that must be satisfied in order for our thinking about war and peace to be lucid.”
Professor Shanahan plans to discuss the widening scope of war. He is an authority on German Militarism, Prus-sianism and military strategy.
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) late. . . . Thumbing through my freshman chemistry book, I find the following: “Leucite (K Al Sio O6) is a disilicate.” . . . Now really, does the Scholastic not have at least one staff member, copyreader or otherwise, who has weathered a General Chemistry course-here or elsewhere? If not, then please let us have no further attempts at enlightenment on matters chemical.
I am not so naive as to expect a decent, respectable, unsarcastic, civil answer to this letter should it be printed. I have read entirely too many angry replies by the Editor. But don’t be too hard on me, eh? I just couldn’t swallow “K Al (Si 03)o with a Notre Dame shield.”
Joseph L. O’Brien
(Scholastic is wrong; the formula applies to leucite, not hicite. Sorry, but I have forgotten a little of my high school chemistry (Shullsburg, Wis. High School—1937). The Arts and Letters school should add a course, Chemistry 11% for Scholastic copyreaders. — Chief Copyreader).
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
It’s Adlers
FOR
VAN HEUSEN
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
Van Heusen stripes
You’re the man most likely to succeed in
an exclusive
fraternity!
On no other shirts will you find patterns exactly like these exclusive Van Heusen stripes. TheS'i are truly fine fabrics, laundry-tested, Sanforized. A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! In this season’s smartest shades, on white and colored backgrounds. They feature the new low-setting "Comfort Contour” collar styling that’s won its varsity letter on every campus in the country. Join the smart crowd today... in Van Heusen stripes. 33.95 and $4.95. Philups-Jones Corp., New York 1, New York.
0 Van Heusen Shirts
TIES . SPORT SHIRTS . PAJAMAS
33
<<l I l < t PARADE
INFLATION OR DEPRESSION?
It seems Texas A. & M. is now the
JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
By
FOREIGN PEN PALS AVAILABLE
Students interested in writing foreign students or groups are being offered a selection of opportunities as the result of the establishment of a correspondence file of foreign addresses by the International Affairs Club. Those interested should contact either Don Luech at 231 Walsh or Dave Yerex at 454 Farley.
BIG BUSINESS
The Michigan State News recently carried a story on the tutoring business at Harvard, which seems to be picking up again since the war. These particular tutors are willing to work you over at the reasonable rate of $5 per hour, and they guarantee you at least a “gentleman’s C” on your work. The average outlay of the student comes to about $18 for required services. The report also states that the same fellow who ran the business before the war is right back in there with more initiative than ever. Business must be good . .. and profitable.
EMISSARIES OF GOOD WILL
The Aquin, St. Thomas College publication recently sported a snap of George Connor and Ziggy Czarobski on their front page. The pair spoke at the St. Thomas College Football banquet in February.
FROM THE LOG ’
A monkey looks like a man who is worried. A monkey looks like a man who is worried because he has made a monkey of himself. And a monkey looks worried because he is unaware that he looks like a man who is worried because he has made a monkey out of himself.
A POEM
There was an old soak from Moline Who filled up on raw gasoline.
He smoked down too far On a Cuban cigar;
Now just fragments of him can be seen.
NOTE TO HISTORY PROFS
The Auburn Plainsman relays the report to us of the history professor at LSU who ended one of his classes with this statement: “Will Aaron Burr succeed in wresting the West from the United States? Will the American people sanction the Louisiana Purchase? Come to class Thursday at this same time and find out!”
EUROPEAN HIT PARADE
The Purdue Exponent says that Arthur Godfrey’s “Too Fat Polka” is currently the big hit of the “Midnight in
Munich” disc program over in Germany. Could it be that German frauleins aren’t as emaciated as propaganda photographs picture them?
The Rockefeller Foundation of New York recently granted $175,000 to the University of Cincinnati to be used to further develop the science of psychiatry. This is all fine and dandy, but we’re wondering why the SMU Campus wrote the story up under the heading, “Nut Doctors Get Funds.”
SPALDING
AMERICAS MOST DEFINITE CONTRIBUTION TO TENNIS IS -jhe"twist servic&//...th& hirdhit, twisting, high-bouncing ball allows THE SERVERTIMETOTAKETHENET
SERVICE
THE TWINS OF
^CDALDINC^ championship championship tennis
• 'S'-	vW The Spaidinc and the Spalding.
^CHAM	madeWRiCHTiDiTSONTennisBalls
lead the field in official adoptions for Major Tournaments, including the U. S. Davis Cup and National Championships.
se# tn sfQ^
proud possessor of St. Peter’s Cathedral in Rome, according to the SMU Campus. A roving correspondent in Rome was stopped by a young urchin on the streets who offered to sell the structure for one carton of cigarettes. Being a judge of values, the correspondent immediately turned one carton of cigarettes over to the young businessman, although the reporter wrote that one would never guess the boy to be the possessor of such a valuable piece of property. However, one small problem remains to be solved. The authorities have not yet figured out how to move the massive structure to America.
34
Moral. Responsible Leadership
America’s need for a leadership which possesses responsibility based on a proper concept of moral principles is a point on which all of us here at Notre Dame arc agreed.
We should be in equal agreement on the point that Notre Dame’s efforts to secure the necessary facilities to train Notre Dame’s students to meet this need should receive the full cooperation essential to success.
When Father Sorin was young and might have exercised his priestly vocation in the comparative comforts of his native land, he chose instead the rigors of wilderness and poverty to plant a dream.
And with the most prodigious effort and sacrifice, his dream was just achieving a satisfying substance when death took him in the Golden Jubilee Year of Notre Dame.
Perhaps more important than the great faith of Father Sorin in the future of Notre Dame was the faith of the Brothers and the early laymen who shared his sacrifices without any hope of the honors or the satisfaction that might conceivably reward the founder and the head.
So for every Washington who prayed for the success of his leadership, and for every Lincoln who studied in a log cabin to lead in a capital, there must be men who pray and study for the same understanding; of the indissoluble nature of leadership, responsibility, and moral principles. These are the followers, these are the doers, upon whom rests the success of the leader, and upon whom frequently rests the succession. This potential leadership is as vital and as real as the actual, insofar as institutions like Notre Dame who train such leaders arc concerned.
The University of Notre Dame Foundation is not, therefore, as an end, engaged in the installation of flourescent lighting in Carroll Hall, or the creation of luxuries, or comforts even, for either the faculty or the students of Notre Dame.
It is rather engaged in providing the channels of training, of living, and of influences through which young men will pass from the rich formative stages of secondary education into the maturity of minds and of talents necessary to the making of a living, but with the equally vital maturity of spiritual concepts which will make that living conform to standards of life. These standards must be rooted in religion and reflect its essential on-richmcnt as the only true meaning of life.
This is the reason for Notre Dame’s existence. It is the reason for every student in attendance.
Life is just as vital in other schools.
Liberty is a concept that finds more superficial violence among its adherents in other schools.
And the pursuit of happiness is frequently less inhibited on other campuses.
At Notre Dame, the administration and the faculty, the parent and the student, have made the additional implicit profession of faith that all of these American traditions are significant and safe only so long as they are identified as endowments of a Creator.
Because over the years there has been the unity of faith, and the strength of unity, Notre Dame has become possessed of some very material assets.
Because much sacrifice has been poured into the progress of the University, there is much progress in evidence.
Because the sound training of responsible leaders has been constant, Notre Dame men are rising; rapidly in many fields of leadership which are but lately recognizing that leadership and responsibility are integral.
And because the spirit of Notre Dame has been derived from an older and greater, but very familiar, spirit, Notre Dame has developed the tradition of success.
Progress in the future, because the scale of operation has expanded, demands that the scale of sacrifice be expanded. Fundamentally, there is no change in this principle of the forward movement.
The need for the leadership which Notre Dame has evidenced the capacity to produce makes the obligation to produce that leadership one which the University cannot choose to refuse.
And the tradition of winning, unless it is to be surrendered or denied, demands that the University accept confidently the challenge of sacrifice and the burden of obligation.
It is to keep this faith with the past, with the present, and with the future, that the University of Notre Dame Foundation has been organized.
Administration, faculty, students, alumni, friends —this is the Notre Dame team, all-time, .allAmerican.
James E. Armstrong, ’25 Executive Vice-Chairman
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
Notre Dame, Indiana
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Director	Mr. Harry G. Hogan, Chairman of the Board
President of the University	of Governors
wbhahy, ’
«°TB£ DASS,
Valuable Addition to
Nour Notre Dame Library
The 1948 Dome
A Picture Story of the Past Vears
Academic, Social and Athletic Activities
at the
University of Notre Dame
A portrayal of the contemporary life of 4,500 young Americans based on the historical background of their famous Alma Mater. To be published in the early summer. Price $8.00 the copy.
Publications Office
Box 185
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please enter my order for The 1948 DOME:
Name.............................................
Street...........................................
City...-..........................................
Enclosed find $8.00 Check or Money' Order.