THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LITERARY—NEWS WEEKLY
PUBLISHED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ILLUSTRATED
(Quasi temper PitturuS : Pitot (Quasi (Eras illorituruS
VOL. LVIII.	MAY 7, 1926.	No. 27
INDEX	PAGE
Frontispiece ________________________________________________ 836
To Mary in May (A Poem)___________________Francis C. Miller, ’27 836
The Week_________________________________________J. A. Withey 837
Campus Opinion_______________________________________________ 840
Musical and Theatrical Notes_____________________A. L. Meyers 843
The College Parade ______________________________J. T. Cullinan 844
Editorial ___________________________________________j.------ 845
To Be Like Mussolini__________________________Jack Mullen, ’28 846
My Song (A Poem) _______________:___________Cornelius Shea, ’28 850
One Cause For Divorce_____________________.Haul J. Fleming, ’26 851
Rhodes Scholarships_______________________Ward H. Leahy, ’26 852
A Song (A Poem)___________________________Arnold Williams, ’29 852
My Radiator____________________________Brother Marius, C. S. C. 853
King Lear ________________________________Joseph A. Breig, ’28 854
Sport News___________________________________________________ 856
The Safety Valve_____________________________________________ 857
Advertisers in Notre Dame publications deserve the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
836
<

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
837
•	The official winner of the magnolia con-
test has been decided. Town has triumphed over campus, thus evening the score. In front of the South Bend High School are two magnolia trees; in front of the Main Building of the University are also two
•	magnolia trees. Annually there is a close
race to determine which pair will blossom first. The S. D. Duo, as the sporting writers would have it, won by a day. But for us there remains the consolation that our own particular entrants ought to last a full
•	twenty-four hours longer than their village
rivals. And that’s something.
It’s always Senior Ball time when the flowers begin to come out at Notre Dame. Preparations have been stealthily carried forward and the Great Result is almost *	ready. Seniors are implored to. “Pay Up,”
begged to give the names of their guests, and commanded to call for their tickets and invitations. Various chairmen grow more and more intent-looking as the fourteenth approaches, and various members of the class take surreptitious looks at their bank balances. Much pleasure has been expressed over the announcement of two tea-dances to fill the dull afternoons.
The how-about-ya boys have been in their glory all through the week. Elections bring them out in their best colors, especially S. A. C. elections. Representatives from the several colleges of the University were designated in an atmosphere of intense whispers. The Library balloting-basements echo ,	the sounds of many a glorious nominating
speech, and the election committees have led a harrassed existence. Campus politics remains the great undergraduate sport because no one takes it too seriously.
Club -meetings have been few but worthy. .	The Knights of Columbus extended a hearty
welcome, with refreshments, to the large class recently initiated. The Scribblers
roused themselves to action, and went swiftly about the business of dissecting papers, planning picnics, and wondering why things happen as they do. La.-Miss., G. R., and N. Y. State Clubs announced meetings.
Constant handling has worn athletic books to a thin and emaciated shred of their former selves. Baseball, tennis, golf, track, even football,—they jostle for places on the bulletin boards. Teams come and go; likewise victories, defeats, scores, and records. On Saturday and Sunday the street-cars groaned under the load of golf enthusiasts with battered bags and soaring promises. The Corby Hall course is a maze of legs, shouts, clubs, bats, and balls. Hatless students flock along the Niles road, disdaining (sometimes) offers of a lift. Off-campus residents terrify the landlady and her neighbors by exuberant demonstrations of returning spirits.
Lost and found during the week was a . watch. This little drama was a salient feature of the bulletin boards. Every place you looked you saw at least three notices of the loss, and two of the finding. They rested side by side for days and days. We wonder if the owner and the finder ever got together long enough to do business. Immense relief has settled down on the Seniors. The dreaded thesis is the thing of the past and time is comparatively unoccupied once more. One may turn to The Doctor’s Wooing and find out how it feels to pick grammatical flaws in the work of an English professor. Besides, there’s five dollars reward.
“Hold that car I” will soon pass out of the Notre Dame vocabulary. The campus landscaper has planted an infant hedge across the south front of the grounds, and in a few years there will- be no more cutting straight for the car-line while weird voices bellow “Hold it!”—J. A. w.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
838
DEDICATE SONG TO BALL
“Twilight Love Song,” the latest waltz to be written by Norb Engels and Vic Labedz, prominent Notre Dame composers, has been dedicated to the Senior Ball of ’26 and will be featured by Jean Goldkette’s Victor Recording Orchestra and Harry Denny’s Collegians next Friday night, May 14.
Mr. Engels and Mr. Labedz are both Seniors, and with “Lindy Lou,” “My Prom Girl” and other successes to their credit, have become well known in popular music circles.
The final payment on Ball tickets must be made by next Monday, according to the information posted by John 0. Touhy, chairman of the Tickets Committee, this week. Such a ruling is necessary in order that an exact list of Seniors attending the Ball may be in the hands of the University authorities by Wednesday.
A special meeting of all those Seniors who expect to go to the Ball will be held in the north room of the Library next Wednesday at 12:30. It is imperative that every such Senior be there; final and important information as regards the week-end program ■will be given.
K. OF C. CONFER DEGREES
Fifty-seven new members received the first degree of the Knights of Columbus at a meeting held in the chambers of the Notre Dame Council, Walsh Hall, last Thursday evening. The second and third degrees were conferred Sunday afternoon in the South Bend K. of C. Home and a banquet in the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle, followed.
Dr. John M. Cooney, Director of the School of Journalism, was toastmaster at the banquet. The speakers whom he introduced were Senator “Bob” Proctor of Elkhart, Professor Charles Phillips, and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., Prefect of Discipline of the University.
Rev. James Gallagan, C. S. C., rector of Sophomore Hall; Art Bidwill, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council, and Michael Murray joined in welcoming the
new members recently initiated into the K. of C., each of them delivering a short address at the meeting held in the Walsh Hall chambers Tuesday evening.
In addition to the welcoming of new members, plans for a golf tourney and a picnic were discussed. It was decided that a picnic of the Notre Dame Council will be held at Christiana Lake on May 20.
NEW ALUMNUS IS OUT
What is probably the finest issue, both in point of mechanical perfection and written content, of the Notre Dame Alumnus to appear on the Campus in some time, was given to the public late this week. Of especial interest are the reports printed of the coast-to-coast-and-beyond celebration of Universal Notre Dame night.
A short review of Professor Charles Phillips’ novel, “The Doctor’s Wooing,” vies in interest with a letter from the author urging that Universal Notre Dame night be made truly universal by having some sort of celebration take place on the campus of the University.
Two editorials of unusual worth are contained in the publication: “A House Divided,” and “What Price Sacrifice?” Both deal with vital problems in the betterment of Notre Dame, and deal with them straightforwardly and constructively.
EDITORS VISIT CAMPUS
Eighty-five editors of leading newspapers in the Latin-American countries spent sev-earl hours at Notre Dame Thursday morning viewing the grounds and buildings and making a closer acquaintance with American Catholic education.
The party of editors traveled to America under the auspices of the Pan-American Union, headed by Frank B. Kellogg, secretary of state. Rev. Mathew J. Walsh, C. S. C., President of Notre Dame, was one of the reception committee which welcomed the party to South Bend and Notre Dame.
After viewing Notre Dame, the party traveled in busses to Culver Military Academy, where they reviewed America’s embryo officers in parade.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
839
SCRIBBLERS HEAR TWO PAPERS
The reading of papers by Clarence Ruddy and Alfred Meyers occupied a large part of the time at a meeting of the Scribblers held in the Scholastic office Monday night.
In addition to the reading of papers, plans were discussed for the annual Scribbler picnic, which will be held soon. A baseball game between the adherents of twb campus publications will be the feature of this affair. It was decided also that new members will be elected to the club this month.
“James Fenimore Cooper and His Critics,” was the title of the paper presented by Mr. Ruddy. He revealed the fact that a considerable part of the great American author’s life was spent in law courts, fighting libel suits instituted by himself against American newspapers. The paper provoked a spirited discussion of present and past methods of literary criticism.
“Poor Lark,” a short story containing excellent character study, was the contribution made to the evening by Mr. Meyers. Criticism and discussion of this paper were unfortunately cut short by the unanimous desire among the Scribblers for cafeteria sustenance.
TO PRESENT LYRIC DRAMA
“Lord Byron,” a lyric drama in one act and three scenes, written by Jack Graham and Norb Engels, Notre Dame students, will be presented in Washington Hall during the latter part of May. No definite date has been set as yet.
The book and orchestrations for this musical drama were written by Engels, and Were set to music by Graham. The story of the drama resolves itself into an idealized conception of the nature of Lord Byron, the great poet.
The two men who have created this work are members of Dr. John Becker’s class in composition, and they acknowledge their indebtedness to their mentor for aid and encouragement.
Three characters appear in the drama. The parts are being filled by Alfred Meyers, baritone; Doris McKowan, soprano, and Horace Wells, tenor. An orchestra of about
twenty pieces will play for the presentation.
Engels and Graham have attracted attention in the past with their work in the field of musical art, and the presentation of this, the first student lyric production of its kind at Notre Dame, will be awaited with interest.-
TO BUILD NEW HALL
Because of the great number of students who have not been able to obtain campus accommodations this year, two additions to present campus facilities are planned: one, an addition to Lyons Hall; the other, a large new hall similar to Morrissey. The addition to Lyons will probably be ready for occupancy in September. This new construction should furnish enough room to accommodate students who would otherwise have to live off-campus.
Rev. Patrick McBride, C. S. C., the Registrar, announced Monday that all students who have reserved rooms for next year and have not as yet made a deposit of twenty-five dollars in the Secretary’s office must do so by May 15. That is also the last date on which students who have reserved double rooms may turn in the names of their roommates, who must make deposits of the same amount. If these regulations are not complied with, those next on the waiting list will be put into the rooms for which deposits have not been made.
STRANGE PROCESS NOTED
A subtle, but none the less actual, exodus of Notre Dame men was markedly evident Friday morning. There was no waiving of flags or groping for new and brighter stickers, as when the exodus is homeward. Instead, the men just “sorta oozed” away, without saying much about it. Rumors of a Senior Ball and dates at St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods may explain the strange process.
May 5 was selected by the S. A. 0. as the date on which tryouts for cheerleader for 1926-27 would be held on Cartier field.
840
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Campus Opinion
Question : Do you think that the present “cut system” should be revised?
Where Asked : Hill Street car.
Thomas L. Hogan, ’27, Day.
No, I do not favor its abolition. I believe that some system of regulating class absences is necessary and I can imagine no system more liberal and fair than our present one. It is not as strict as that employed in most state universities.
Ray Sterck,’29, Brownson.
I.don’t like the system as it is at present. I cannot see why absences after vacations should count more than those at any other time.
Ralph R. DeLeo,’29, Day.
The cut system has but one defect, that being in the case of a student’s being confined to his room on account of illness. We are all human and allowance should be made for difficulties like this which may arise. I am in favor of the present cut system, but it would be more favorable if a revision was made in the case of ah absence due to illness.
Victor Bertrand, ’29, Brownson.
The present system is all right with the exception of double cuts before and after vacations. This is the only time that some men want to take any cuts, at all and double cuts detract from their credit standing too unfairly in this case.
D. L. McAloon, ’29, Freshman.
Why should we have this cut system? If the student is able to keep up in his class work and pass in the semester tests, then why should he be forced to drop the course on account of cuts? In a democratic school is that giving a fellow a break?
Resident students desiring campus employment may obtain application forms at the office of the Registrar. Application will close on May 17.
THE KING SPEAKS
In the hushed rotunda of Notre Dame’s Library, through the drab medium of carved and hardened clay, muffled by the intricacies of a tongue grown strange in the sweep of forty centuries, a sonorous voice speaks today—the voice of a king, saying: “May the wise men after me read of all my works which I have written upon a tablet.”
When Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., was President of Notre Dame, Edgar J. Banks, noted archaeologist and research worker of the University of Chicago, presented to him a collection of genuine cuneiform tablets, taken from excavations made by Mr. Banks on the site of ancient Babylonia. This collection is now on display in the University Library, and assumes an unusual interest and significance in view of the recent visit of Count Byron Kuhn de Prorok, famed searcher of lost worlds, to the University.
From a strange-appearing cylinder, cuneiform inscribed, one of the collection on display, comes out of the past the voice of the king: “I am Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, the great, the mighty, the favorite of Marduk, the great lord.... the first-born son of Nabopolassar, King of Babylon.” The cylinder bearing these words was inscribed about 625 B. C.
Included in the collection open to the public are many records from the city of Jokha, which flourished about 2400-2200 B. C. These records were found by wandering Arabs and were given to the research party of Mr. Banks. There are temple records, receipts for merchandise, and a messenger tablet containing the finest writing ever found upon one of these pads. The tablets were made by inscribing messages in cuneiform writing upon soft clay pads, and. sealing them by superimposing the figure of a god and the name of the scribe. The tablets were then baked until they became like brick.
The records of Senkereh, a city of about 2400 B. C., called Elassar in the Book of Genesis, occupy another group of tablets contained in the display. These tablets were placed in envelopes by encasing them in soft clay and baking the exterior until book
O'
I
Cl

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE coverings were formed. When the tablets were received by those to whom they were sent in that day, the outer cases were broken and the enclosed tablets taken out and read.
A votive tablet is also included in the collection: it is a small baked-clay cone bearing inscriptions written by the priests of the Babylonian temples. These tablets were sold to pilgrims, who placed them in crevices in the temple walls, this practice being a religious observance. Later these cones were collected from the crevices by the priests and placed on sale again.
Several tablets found at the site of Dre-ham are on display. Dreham was an ancient city which grew up because it was the receiving station for animals brought to be offered as sacrifices in the Temple of Bel at Nippar. The tablets found in excavations of this ancient city consist for the most part of receipts issued for sheep and goats.—F. J. P.	.
ASSISTANTSHIPS OFFERED
The Director of Studies announces that there are a number of graduate assistantships open to Seniors who wish to earn their Master’s degree next year and who are qualified to do a limited amount of teaching while working for the higher degree. The appointments carry a stipend of $700 and free tuition.
A graduate assistant is expected to teach ■ nine hours the week, and to carry another nine hours of graduate work, either in regular classes or in the form of directed reading and conferences with his professors. He has also to do his research for his dissertation. By carrying an additional six hours of work in the summer session, either of 1926 or of 1927, he should be able to complete his work for the Master’s degree by either June or August of 1927. The teaching work is so arranged that one preparation will usually suffice for three hours of actual teaching.
Men who have done some teaching will be given a preference in filling the assistantships, and in every case the quality of
841
the applicant’s work as a candidate for the bachelor’s degree will be carefully investigated.
The number of assistantships at present available are: In the Department of English, three; in the Department of History, one; in the Department of Economics, two. Application should be made in person at the office of the Director of Studies as soon as possible.
PRE-REGISTRATION URGED
Registration of next year’s students was begun last week. A number of men have registered already, but as yet not so many have taken advantage of the opportunity, as were expected to do so. The period for pre-registration ends June 1; apparently many of the students are letting it go until the last few days. Such action will cause great inconvenience, not only to the Deans, who are anxious to get the schedules made out as early as possible, but to the students themselves.
Pre-registration is not optional. All of this year’s students who intend to return in the Fall must register for next year’s course of studies before the first of June. Those who fail to do so will either be given schedules by the Dean, without any opportunity of choosing themselves, or 'will have to pay the five-dollar fee required for late registration.
In view of the time that will be saved in September by students registering now, preregistration is obviously a great advantage. Furthermore, it will prevent facilities for registration from being so greatly strained when the annual influx of Freshmen comes in the Fall. Many students have probably delayed in pre-registration because they are undecided on what course they will follow for next year. These will probably be no less doubtful in September. If possible, they should register now, and changes may be made in the courses later, should they prove necessary.	*
Unusual interest in the Indiana primaries was evidenced here Tuesday when more than 600 votes were cast at the local poll.
c
THE NOT.RE DAME SCHOLASTIC
842
REFERENCE ROOM ECHOES .
“Got anything on Daniel Webster?” “Bring over that book by Groat, will you?” “How about something on Luther?” “Say, give me . . . ” If you have ever been in the Reference Room of the Library at about 7:30 in the evening, you know the rest of the lines.
There are two classes of students who patronize the Reference Room: those who get the material for their duties long before the duties are due; and those who expect to find the material waiting for them the night before the duties are due. Nearly everyone recognizes the importance of being at the Library when the lights are turned on. There are some, however, who are convinced that if a book is in the Reference Room at 7:30 it vail be there at 9:25.
The Notre Dame man desires brevity in material. “Something short for Education A.,” he says. And he loves to sign the cards. Usually a book which has only four or five pages of required reading is accompanied by a guard of four or five eager students on its return to the desk. “I’ve read it; let me sign the card,” each one says in his turn.
Some appear with metaphysical wants and transcendent requests. Witness this dialogue:	.
“Got any dope on a five minute speech?”
“Yeah,” from behind the desk. “Enough for two or three. (The Reference Room is crammed with books.)
“Give me some.”
“On what subject?”
“Oh, something interesting.”
• “What are you interested in?” ' ‘ “Oh, I don’t know,” rather languidly.
“Well, what do you want to talk about?” • “About five minutes.” No one understood what the assistant next said.
It is common for underclassmen to work in groups. One gets a book and five or six gather around a table; and the happy family proceed to write the duty. How the duty becomes written is a mattter for speculation. The upperclassmen have cast aside the idea of mass writing and seem to find solitariness something to be desired.
All things are asked of him behind the desk. “Where can I find a magazine article on quicksand?” “Who said, ‘Thou art all fair my beloved’?” “Where are the pictures of the presidents of the United States?” “Where’s the Catholic Encyclopedia ?” “I had a good book on Economics this afternoon. Do you know where it is? I think it was black.” “Say, I’ve got to summarize a novel. Got any good summaries in here?” “What time does this place close?” “Can’t take it out 1 .... Well, how does he expect a guy to get this duty?”
A bell at the circulation desk is sounded. The assistant at the reference desk is putting books on the shelves. He turns and says, “Closing up, fellows!” Some frown, others sigh relief and others walk out. By 9:30 the Library is dark.—J. F. o’d.
S. A. C. NOTES
The Students Activities Cuncil met in regular meeting Sunday, May 2, and took action on the candidates for the business managership and the editorship of the Dome, as provided for in the Plan for Dome Control.
Kirwin Williams was recommended to the Faculty Board of Publications for appointment as Business Manager of the Dome of ’27.	■
Due to the fact that Walter Layne' and Richard Novak seemed to be equally qualified for the position of Editor-in-Chief both were recommended by the S. A. C. to the Board, to act as joint editors.	.
Further election work of the S. A. C. resulted in the setting of May 7 as the date for Juggler elections. At these elections,, an Editor-in-Chief, a Business Manager, and an Art Editor will be selected. The voting will be done by the members of the present classes of ’26 and ’27.
A committee was appointed by President Tuohy to take charge of the primaries and final elections which commenced Tuesday, May 4.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
843
. THE POSTER CONTEST
Seven posters, made by students of the School of Fine Arts for “The Doctor’s Wooing” contest, were shipped to New York last Sunday and are now in the hands of the Devin-Adair Co., publishers of the Phillips’ novel. According to the original plan awards were to have been announced May 7, but it has been found necessary to postpone announcement of the prize winner until next week. The posters are to be put on exhibition in New York City and will then be returned to the Notre Dame exhibition here and in South Bend.
On account of the unexpected number of advance orders filed by ’26 men for the autograph edition of “The Doctor’s Wooing” and on account of the special demand made by Seniors for copies of the book to be delivered in time for their guests at the Ball, the local distribution ■will be at first confined to Seniors. The original allotment of three hundred copies has already been sold out through advance orders. According to the latest advices from New York, books ■will be ready for delivery May 14.
JOINT EDITORSHIP OF DOME
For the first time in its history, the Dome of Notre Dame will be edited by two men, if the recommendation of the S. A. C., made recently, is approved by the Faculty Board of Publications. Walter Layne and Richard Novak, both of Sophomore Hall, who so nearly tied in votes cast by the Sophomore and Junior classes at the recent nomination, were recommended.
The closeness of the vote, the equality of ability, and the deserving work done on the 1926 Dome by these men guided the S. A. C. to its decision. At first glance a fair choice between them appeared impossible; further investigation only strengthened this impossibility. But the investigation led to a realization upon the part of the S. A. C. that both men possessed exceptionally desirable qualities which when combined would form «the near-perfect editor. The decision was then made to recommend a joint editorship.
Kerwin Williams was recommended by the S. A. C. for the position of Business Manager of the Dome.
MUSICAL AND THEATRICAL NOTES
The University Orchestra will take a week-end trip through southern Indiana in two weeks. The full personnel of the organization will be carried on the tour, which will include St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Peru, and Indianapolis. The concert at St. Mary’s will be in conjunction with the annual May Festival, for which the Orchestra will play.
“What Price Glory” played at the Oliver on April 30 for one performance. Without William Boyd and Louis Wolheim as the hard-boiled Captain and the Sergeant, much of the real artistry of the play was lost. As for the company which appeared in South Bend, the acting gave way before the cussing, which seemed to have been the main attraction anyway.
W. Somerset Maugham’s comedy “Caroline” was given at the Oliver for matinee and evening performances last Wednesday, May 5. Miss Margaret Anglin was delightful, as she always is, and her company was well chosen. What an occasion it is when Miss Anglin plays in something other than “The Woman of Bronze”.
The Barrere Little Symphony will hold forth in Washington Hall on next Wednesday, May 12. The concert given then will be one of the finest of the year, and deserves a packed house. The organization is acknowledged to be the finest small orchestra in the world.
Bernard Shaw will hold the boards at the Oliver on Wednesday, May 12, through his great play, “Saint Joan”. Miss Julia Arthur will play the leading part, the role taken by Miss Winifred Lenihan when the play was given by the Theater Guild in New York. Miss Arthur played the part for some time in Chicago last year.
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra will give its second concert of the year in South Bend on Sunday afternoon, May 16. The program will be given in the Palais Royaie.
A. L. M.
844
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE COLLEGE PARADE
It is me! Anyone having anything to say about that not being correct? Ask your English Prof. Latest canvasses of instructors in English show that most of them, even though not entirely approving of the usage, believed it to be rapidly becoming a part of the language and refuse to correct students who use it instead of the Bostonian, “It is I.” All of the instructors questioned admitted it to be the more natural expression to use and believed it would sooner or later be recognized everywhere. In several other languages including the French and the Danish, the nominative case is no longer used after the verb “to be”.
College men—undergraduates and alumni alike—have been enthusiastic in their endorsement of the plans just announced for the erection of a suitable national memorial to the late Walter Camp, whose fame as the “Father of American Football” is secure on every campus in the United States. According to plans drawn up by the Collegiate Athletic Association, working in close cooperation with Yale University, the Walter Camp tribute is to be a tribute not from Yale alumni alone, but from every university, college, and preparatory school where football is now played. The memorial is to take the form of a monumental gateway at the entrance to the Yale Athletic Fields in New Haven, which are to be named Walter Camp Fields in his honor by the Yale Corporation. Upon bronze tablets set into the walls flanking the gateway will appear, grouped by states, the names of all universities, colleges, and schools which have contributed to the memorial.
That college students will sign anything as long as they think they will gain something by such action is the belief of Kenneth Priestley, editor of the Daily Californian, official publication of the University of California. So firm was Priestley in his conviction that he made a friendly wager with a fellow student that he could obtain at least a hundred signatures to a petition that the . signers be “quartered and drawn”.
“We drew up a petition,” Priestley said, “asking that the day before Charter Day be declared an official holiday for the university. In the second paragraph was a clause which plainly stated Tf we fail to obtain this, we hereby agree to be quartered and drawn’. We obtained six hundred signatures to the petition which proves that students will sign anything as long as they are under the impression that they will be granted an extra holiday.”
c
Paul Blanshard, free speech crusader, Was announced as a speaker at Washburn College, Topeka, Kansas. Business men of the city were enraged. Attacks were published in a Topeka newspaper. There was agitation against the proposed address. But the Y. M. C. A. insisted. The president, the faculty, and over ninety percent of the students furnished moral support. The meeting was crowded. Said President Womer, “As long as this college exists, it will stand for freedom of speech.” Great applause and cheering.
Persons who write illegibly will find comfort in the words of William T. Root of the University of Pittsburgh, who declares that usually those with the poorest handwriting are the brightest. Dr. Root explained this by saying, “Intelligent people think twenty times faster than they write, and therefore muscular movement is so far behind the activity of the brain that the scrawl is an inevitable result. A person of low mentality has nothing else to think of except shaping letters.” However, Dr. Root also states that poor penmanship is not the only requirement of brilliance, nor does the brilliant man need to think that he has to scrawl to maintain his reputation of brilliance.—J. T. c.
A new edition of Edmund Spenser’s “Epi-thalamion” has just been printed, with an introduction and notes by Professor Cort-landt Van Winkle of the University of Minnesota. Mr. Van Winkle has been an instructor in English at the summer sessions here and will return again for the coming session.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	845
Uint Gras writarus
J. A. Breig - ■ W. H. Layne -J. P. McNamara
W. R. Dooley,- -A. J. Diebold, Jr.,
■ - - News Editor - - Literary Editor - - Sports Editor
STAFF
- Editor-in-Chief - Business Mgr.
J. A. WlTHEY - - - - - The Week J. T. Culunan - The College Parade A. L. Meyers - Music and Theater
F. A.
J. F.
Klein -O’Donnell
H. A. Bowlus W. A. Biser
D. M.
J. A.
NEWS
J. A. Mullen - F. E. Doan
W. J. Coyne -F. J. Pendergast
C. J. Cash W. F. Craig
ADVERTISING AND CIRCULATION
J. F. Cownie H. J. Kelly
Meinert, Jr. - - . WlTHEY -----
G. J. Smith
H. J. Noon
Local Advertising Manager Foreign Advertising Manager
D. M. Meinert, Jr. - Local Circulation Mgr.
J. P. Hilgt.r - - Foreign Circulation Mgr.
J. G. O'Bryan
BABSON ON COLLEGE TRAINING
Roger W. Babson, the business expert, recently sent a circular letter to the representative business men of the country. In this letter Babson voices his dissatisfaction with the “conventional college course” as an aid in business training. He believes “that a shorter and much more intensive course [than the average four-year college program], operated on business hours, would accomplish the result much better”.
Mr. Babson evidently has not a high opinion of American colleges as constituted today. He apparently thinks that everyone who attends a college does so for the prime purpose of securing a fortune after graduation by means of such education. Further, he seems to think that the bulk of the students use the college as a background for social pleasures and athletic superiority, with. academic activity a very poor third, if, indeed, it is in the running at all. He does not blame the colleges themselves so much for this, as he does the parents who “send their sons to college, not to be trained, but because it is the proper thing to send them”. He wonders, finally, if a college run strictly as a business, with business its sole end, would not be better.
Active as Mr. Babson is in the business world, and much, as he deserves great credit because he is self-made, his letter stamps
him as being excessively narrow-minded and prejudiced, with a singleness of viewpoint appalling in one whose contact with large affairs has been so constant. He does not understand the modern college, nor the modern undergraduate. He makes Business and Money the only rewards of education, the only things worth striving for, the only things for which a man should spend four years in college.
While it may be admitted that there is a proneness on the part of modern collegians' to cultivate the social graces and to excel in athletics, it must not be forgotten that the foundations of any college go much deeper than that, and are laid, without exception, on that earnest group of students Who have a serious purpose in attending college at all. These are in the majority. Were they not, no college could exist longer than its success in athletics. .
And were it not for this earnest group, too, the world today would be a sorry place in which to live. What would our boasted scientific progress amount to, if our educational institutions did not turn out men who placed devotion to profession vastly above the dollar? Or our arts? Or any of our intellectual pursuits? No; business is nec-essary^business is legitimate, and business is remunerative; but it is not all. Mr. Babson, think again.
c
846	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
To Be Like Mussolini
JACK MULLEN, ’28.
DURING the Prohibition era, there lived in the great city of Chicago a bootlegger and bandit chieftain named Benito Bonetti. He was a very able man, was Bonetti, and a vain man. He was shrewd, unscrupulous, domineering, capable; in fact, he had all the attributes which would obtain for him the respect and admiration of his fellows of the underworld. By murder, and blackmail, and political influence, Bonetti worked his way upward from a position as driver of a bootlegger’s truck to a place at the head of the Italian ring that secretly ruled the city. First he shot his boss, the bootlegger, and succeeded as head of the business and owner of the truck. Then he shot several of his rivals; Bonetti was quick and sure with his gun, you see. After that he did not shoot any more people. It was unnecessary. He now had money, and there were many men in Chicago who would take life for money. Sometimes his men were shot, but not often; when they were, there were others to take their places.
Gang warfare was rife in Chicago in those days; for there were millions to be made by the lawless, and when there are millions to be made by the lawless, some are bound to die. The Italians of the city controlled most of the currents of liquor that flowed to and from Chicago, and the Italians were themselves controlled by a series of despotic leaders, whose reigns were usually glorious, but short.
At last Bonetti came to the perilous throne of the old Nineteenth Ward. And Bonetti was wise. He did not publish in the newspapers that Little Italy had a new king; people knew that someone had succeeded Scorio, but they did not know that it was Bonetti. Bonetti was wise, and he chose wise lieutenants. When Guglielmo Scorio died in the odor of gun-powder one week before Bonetti’s unofficial coronation,
not even he knew who was his mortal enemy.
Thereafter, Bonetti ruled the city from his lavishly furnished apartment on Sheridan Road, near Wilson Avenue. He did not go abroad often at night; never by day. The newspapers even announced his disappearance. He was wise. It was not that he feared that someone had learned that he was the king; but he had learned the tragic experience of his predecessors. If one was to live, one could not take chances. Darkfaced, dark-haired young men, four in number, came and went often from his apartment. They were his lieutenants, his satraps. He had prepared them for their places before he succeeded Scorio, and now they helped him to rule. The people held elections, and Bonetti laughed. A kindly, grayhaired man tapped the gavel at City Council meetings, and Bonetti laughed. The Council proposed to build a Subway, and Bonetti laughed — not loudly, you understand, but quietly, without a smile. That was like Bonetti. He was wise, except for one thing—he thought that he looked like Mussolini.
When Scorio died, Bonetti was only twenty-eight. He was a somewhat short man, heavy-set, with jet black hair, and small black eyes. His jaw was heavy and aggressive. He did resemble Mussolini, somewhat, but not enough to satisfy himself. For II Duce was his ideal; Il Duce, who could rule a nation while it thought it ruled itself. Il Duce, who wanted to be Napoleon, while Bonetti wanted only to be II Duce.
He spent the days in his apartment, working, planning, replacing men here; promoting others there; reading, without emotion, the profits that his fleets of motortrucks made for him; reading, without emotion, of men blinded, maddened, killed by the stuff he made, that his trucks transported, that his agents sold. Gradually, his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
847
organization became perfected. It worked like a machine, and he kept it well-oiled. He knew which judges could be bribed; those that could not be Were not reelected. He saw that the right man had charge of the police station in the right district—lawful men for lawful districts, and lawless men for lawless districts. He knew the minds of the people. Certain places were expected to be lawless; certain others were expected to be lawful. He kept them so. The people must never suspect that they no longer governed themselves; even the newspapers were fooled. Bonetti had money, and the city was his toy. He was a wise man.
As his organization ran more smoothly, it required less of his time, and the long daylight hours sometimes hung heavily on his hands. Still, he would not go out by day. It would be dangerous. He spent much time in day-dreaming. Mussolini — there was a great man. A man whose name would go down in gold on the pages of history, or perhaps in blood, thought Bonetti. He would inflame the world some day, would Mussolini; inflame the world, and when the fire was quenched, Italy would be restored to her ancient grandeur; Rome would again rule Europe. And Chicago?— but perhaps that was dreaming too golden a dream. Then Bonetti would walk into his bed-chamber where hung a full length mirror. Why he did resemble the Dictator! He even walked like him! A little too much hair, of course, but II Duce was years older. Some day the resemblance would be more striking.
By the end of his second year of virtual dictatorship, Bonetti’s lieutenants no longer needed much of his advice. His leisure hours were long and often tedious. In the evening, he had his amusements, of course, but his active mind needed more to occupy it during the day. In his well-stocked library (the books had been chosen by one of his educated lieutenants), he had long ago read everything about Alexander, Ctesar,, Napoleon, and his other predecessors in greatness. For the other books, he had no time. He had tried once to read the words
of Dante’s immortal heart crying cut to Beatrice (for after all, Dante was an Italian). Bah! Such sickening rubbish. But Garibaldi, Mussolini, there were great men. Garibaldi had made one mistake; he had fought for the people, and Bonetti knew well that the people were not worth the lifting of a finger. He was a wise man.
One day in June he looked into the mirror and saw that his skin was very white. It had not been exposed to the sun for a long time. He looked out the open window. The sun was shining brightly; the air was clear and w’arm; the people who walked about on the side-walks were smiling; some of them were dressed in bath-robes, and he knew that meant they were going swimming-. Automobiles, driven by richly dressed women, whirred past. He felt the pent-up desire for the out-doors on a sunny day of one who has been imprisoned for two long-years.
He decided to go out into the sun-light; after all, no one would know him. The companions of his evening pleasures alone knew him at all, and they thought he was a rich commission merchant. His old friends thought he was dead; so did his enemies. He had given up everything, for what? He wondered. Oh, yes; to be like Mussolini.
He dressed in a light tweed suit that he had never worn before. Now that he had it on, he remembered that his tailor had insisted that he have at least one such suit.
“Everybody wears them,” the tailor had said, not knowing, of course, that he could hardly have chosen a poorer argument for Bonetti.
. For a few minutes after he came out on the street, he could hardly see, but he could see that people were looking- at the palefaced man who squinted so horribly. He did not mind that; in fact, he rather enjoyed being looked at. The genial warmth of the sun sent new energies into his body, new and daring dreams into his brain. He was the master of all these people; they did what he wanted without knowing- it. It was funny. He wondered if he could openly become their ruler. Perhaps he could; Mussolini had done almost the same thing.
848
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A great man, Mussolini, a very great man, with a domed forehead.
Bonetti took off his hat as if to cool his head, and looked into the windows as he passed. He did not see the gorgeous displays that the little Jewish men and women had put into the windows of their shops: he saw only his own reflection. Yes, his hair was too long in front. He would have it shaved.
He walked hurriedly homeward, and immediately after his arrival in his apartment, called up the barber shop.
“Send a man up to 841, the Wilsher. please.”
“All right, sir. Fifteen minutes.” Click!
In his bed-room, he looked closely at a large photograph of Mussolini that hung there, in order that he might tell the barber exactly what he wanted. Then he sat down to await the man’s coming.
In a few minutes, a young Italian was ushered in.
“How do you do, sir?”
“What’s the matter with my regular barber? Is he sick? Must I be shaved by a different man every time?”
“No, sir, he ain’t sick. He quit. I guess he went into the bootleg business—”
Bonetti settled back into a chair, and looked up at the thin, handsome face. The eyes were small, he thought; probably the conscience was not too bothersome. “Shave the hair off the front of my head so that it looks as though my hair had fallen out.”
“So that it looks—?” asked the youngbarber, perplexed.
“So that it looks as though my hair had fallen out,” barked Bonetti. His regular barber would have known hoiv to do it, and here they had sent to him, Bonetti, an inexperienced boy.
“I got you.” The boy went to work. He lathered the forehead, and began to shave carefully. Bonetti was restless. He resented this person’s silence. Finally he burst out in a single word:
“Talk!”
The boy did not hesitate. He began a conversation as though it were the continuation of another.
“I been reading about this guy, Mussolini. There’s a man, ain’t he? Greatest man in the world. Italy’s going to be the bigshow over in Europe, now. Nothing’s going to stop that guy. They can’t even shoot him.”
Bonetti was silent.
“That guy’s got brains and determination. You can see it in his face. You can usually tell by a guy’s face, can’t you?”
“What’s your name?”
“Mancinelli.”
“What do you think of the bootleg business ?”
“Good money. Course a guy’s always liable to get bumped off, but it’s worth the chance. I believe in taking chances, mister. A guy don’t get no place the other way. . . . There, that’s done. Take a look at yourself. . . . Say, I didn’t notice it before, but you look something like Mussolini yourself.”
Bonetti held the hand glass in front of him, and smiled.
“Do you really think so?” he asked.
“I sure do. You got the eyes, the mouth, the chin, even the hair—now.”
“And you’d like to become a rum-runner?”
“Say, what are you, a prohibitionist?”
“No, not exactly. I can give you a job in the biggest rum-running organization in the city.”
“Gee! . . . Say, that’s great! I’ll be getting in with my old gang again. When do I start?”
“As soon as possible. Come back to see me after you’ve quit the shop.”
“I’ll be back, all right.”
From that day on, Bonetti had a new lieutenant, one who learned quickly, and who was soon the chief’s personal assistant. He was brave, too, and quite conscienceless. In a short time he was treating Bonetti as an equal, instead of as a superior. None of the others had done that, and Bonetti did not like it. Discipline was necessary. This fellow was. getting too much power. He would send for Mancinelli, who would come in smiling.
“Hello, Boss,” he would say, jokingly. “You’re getting more like Mussolini every
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
849
day. You say come; we come. You say go; we go. ■ And you look more like him, too. Benito I, Dictator of Chicago.”
Bonetti, who was a wise man, but vain, would choke on his own harsh words, would look confused (he who could fight out a gun battle without a quiver), would force back a smile, and say:	*	.
“I sent for you to talk over those plans for getting McMahon. He’s been shooting up the West Side joints. Sit down.”
And the younger man would answer, as he walked to the door:
“Oh, that’s all right, Boss. I got that all taken care of. McMahon’s going on his last ride tonight.”
And McMahon would go on his last ride that night while Bonetti, who was 32, but had long been inactive, felt like an old man. And gradually other stories came to his ears. Mancinelli was becoming bolder, was taking virtual command. Things did not go so well. Mancinelli did not know the judges; he did not know the minds of the people. Sometimes he shot the wrong men; once a policeman. That was bad, very bad. The people did not care when Italian bootleggers killed only Italian bootleggers, but when they killed Irish policemen who had, the reporters said, “pretty young wives, and wistful-eyed children,” then it was time for one of the recurrent “drives on crime.” Bonetti had, in the past, always manipulated his toys so that a “drive on crime” would take place after a policeman was shot. Newspapers printed headlines about hundreds of criminals being put into jail; pictures of the murdered patrolman, his pretty young wife, and his wistful-eyed children would be printed on the back pages; the public would be “aroused to indignation by the city’s lawless element”; there would be, in fact, a great deal of excitement for a few days. But only for a few days. At the end of that time some woman would have shot her husband; or some philosophical fakir would have come to town; or somebody would be fighting for a dead man’s millions, and the public’s indignation would suffer a relapse into its habitual state of coma as a consequence. Bonetti knew how
to handle those things. Afterwards, he would laugh — it was really funny, you know; very funny. No one remembered to ask what had happened to the “hundreds of criminals” who had been imprisoned. If anyone had investigated he would have found them returned to their old haunts. Yes, it was funny.
With Mancinelli, it was different. He did not understand the psychology of the public as did Bonetti. He could see no reason for all the elaborate mummay that must be gone through to appease “the public indignation.” Like his chief, he laughed at the city, but he took no pains to prevent it from hearing his laughter. Bonetti saw that Mancinelli was toppling carefully erected pillars; that soon the roof would fall.
He talked to Mancinelli. It was of no use. The young fellow told him that he looked like Mussolini, and the reprimand was ended. What can you do with a man who will not take you seriously?
Bonetti began to brood, when he sat at home in the day-time. If it were anyone else, one little ride for him to the suburbs would solve the problem easily. But somehow, Bonetti did not like to think of Mancinelli—handsome young Mancinelli dead. For a time even Mussolini was forgotten. One day, though, Bonetti looked at his picture with the old adoration. What would he have done? There could be but one answer, for there was but one thing to do. At last, Bonetti decided to do it.
He telephoned to Rocco, his former righthand man, a man who had no love for Mancinelli.
“Tell Mancinelli that I want him to take you and two others out to the ‘Garden of Paradise,’ tonight.”
“The ‘Garden of Paradise?’ You mean Fiorito’s joint this side of Wheeling?”
“No, the other one. Understand?”
“Yeh, boss,” and Bonetti detected a tone of elation.
During the remainder of the day he walked nervously back and forth through his apartment. Two or three times he was on the point of recalling his order. Mancinelli was a good worker; he made mistakes,
c
850
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
but everyone does. He admired the great man who ruled Italy. Perhaps he should not die. Still, he was usurping Bonetti’s power. Worse still, he was ruining a great machine. He was refusing to obey. There was only one way out; Bonetti felt sure that Mussolini would have approved.
That night, he went to bed early, but he could not sleep. At last he lit the light impatiently, and looked up at the picture on the opposite wall. There was a man whose heart had never interfered with his brain; a man who knew that greatness can be achieved only at the price of colossal selfishness. A man who had, consequently, attained the heights. Bonetti would follow in his footsteps—
The door creaked. There stood Manci-nelli, pale as death, with blood streaming from a long gash above his temple. Nervously, he Wiped the red stuff from his cheek with a handkerchief. In his other hand he held an automatic. Mancinelli— alive! Bonetti could hardly believe his eyes.
Mancinelli was talking in a weak, unnatural voice:
“I’ve come to get you, Boss. I coulda . got you long ago, but I didn’t want to. You gave me the job. But it’s you or me. Rocco is dead, and the other guys. They tried to get me, but I got ’em first. I guess maybe they did get me.” He paused.
Slowly Bonetti realized that he was about
to die. A few minutes ago he had begun a new life; now he had to die. There was an automatic under his pillow. If he could but grasp it in his hand he could at least die fighting but no, Mancinelli would shoot at his first move. If he had to die, he would die as he should, calmly; not like an imprisoned animal trying vainly to escape while some marksman shot at him. He would try to die as Mussolini w'ould have died. He would make no futile effort at self-defense.
Mancinelli was walking toward the bed, aiming his gun at his chief. Bonetti awaited the shot with perfect composure. He looked at the picture on the wall. It had such perfect self-possession; such a resolute, commanding mouth. Fiery black eyes, too, the eyes of a great man. It was taking Mancinelli a long time to shoot, he thought.
The next morning, they found two dead men in Bonetti’s room. One was in bed, his back against his pillow, his skull fractured by a heavy blow. The other lay beside the bed on the floor; apparently, he had bled to death. In his hand, he tightly grasped the muzzle of the empty automatic pistol with the butt of which he had killed the other. The reporters have not yet decided why the murdered man made no effort at self-defense; a gun with which he might easily have killed the other was found beneath his pillow.
MY SONG
I sing of you
Across the golden dawn
A little song
That whispers and is gone.
It lingers, soft
Against your window pane
And filters through (
And then is born again.
It flutters low
In sweet simplicity
Then falls to death, -
A wren into the sea.
.	CORNELIUS SHEA, ’28.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	851
One Cause For Divorce
PAUL J. FLEMING, ’26.
ONCE upon a time a young- man and a young woman got married for no reason other than that they thought they loved each other. They were so foolish as to go through with the ceremony without first analyzing each other’s emotions and without searching out the insidious complexes that each may have possessed. As a result their married state was founded on an unknown basis. The poor unfortunates didn’t realize at the outset that their respective temperaments were incompatible. Indeed their temperaments were positively divorced. And so the proximate result was unhappiness, absolute wretchedness, while the ultimate result was a nice friendly divorce given by a sympathetic judge—“a darling old man” to use the words of the liberated wife.
The first inkling that a mistake had been made came when one day Dot discovered, to her utmost horror, that Eugene, her Eugene, mind you, was addicted to that terrible malady known as “Cometia Dementia.” The subsequent scene will always be remembered by Eugene, especially that part where Dot, with a baleful look in her eye, and with wickedness written all over her countenance, snatched the beautifully polished cornet and with a sudden deliberateness hurled it into the brick fireplace.
“But dear,” remonstrated Eugene, “that cornet was a present from the Stillwater Band. You see I used to play in the band there.”
“You beast,” countered Dot, “you never told me before we were married that you played a cornet. 0, I never would have married you had I known it. I think you’re horrid.” At this point, since it was absolutely essential and fitting, she fell to hearty weeping in true womanly fashion. Thus ended the cornet incident. I might add that, although Eugene never played the cornet thereafter, he was often seen looking into
music store show-windows whenever comets were displayed.
Things went along amicably enough for a time. That is Eugene and Dot were on speaking terms. True, the old warmth and affection that had existed between them in the early days of their marriage seemed to have been supplanted by a certain cool provincial regard. They were polite,—ever so polite,—to each other. For example, Eugene always held his wife’s chair at the table and Dot never neglected to add “if it is convenient for you,” whenever she asked Eugene to perform an errand for her. They seemed to be fearful of each other. I have seen the same attitude existing between room-mates after they have lived together for a -year or so.
Things went along well enough for a time, as I have said. But one day an additional piece of evidence that they were never meant for one another was disclosed. Eugene had been harboring the suspicion in his mind for some time—ever since the day when Dot, on his entering the room, had hurriedly and not without embarrassment, shoved a periodical under some newspapers which were scattered over the top of the library table. Of course he could have calmly walked over to the table, lifted the papers and thereby satisfied his curiosity then and there. That never would have done, however. Much too crude. Moreover, it might possibly have proved dangerous. Now, however, he was certain. Dot, in one of her careless moments, had left the shameful evidence on the divan. It was here that Eugene had picked up the magazine.
“ ‘How She Finally Won The Man She Loved.’ To think my wife has an intellect so pygmean as to enjoy such trash as this.”
By the time Dot entered the room, rage had so far consumed Eugene that he would have strangled her, had he not remembered
852
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
that the penalty for murder is death. To Eugene’s inquiring anger his wife answered that what she read was none of his affair. She could read whatever she pleased.
As we already know, they were given a divorce by a judge who was of the opinion that their temperaments were incompatible
to the point that made living together impossible. And just think, this case of great unhappiness could have been avoided, if Eugene and Dot had only known how to go about things. Education would have prevented the disaster. Truly education is a panacea for most ills.
Rhodes Scholarships
WARD H. LEAHY, ’26.
Cecil J. Rhodes, an English idealist, and resident of South Africa, founded a series of scholarships at Oxford University, England, for the supposed purpose of bringing about a complete unity of the English speaking races and eventually a world peace. These scholarships, founded shortly after his death, are limited in number and are confined to citizens of Great Britain and her possessions, Germany and her possessions, the United States and its possessions. Cecil Rhodes selected these three world powers because he believed that a sound understanding between the major nations would bring about his desired end and because he also believed that educational relations formed the strongest ties.
To those who accept the offer on its face value it appears as a highly commendable one; but, to those who investigate the causes that prompted the founding of these scholarships the true motive of the founder is readily apparent. Cecil Rhodes was an untiring exponent for English supremacy politically, commercially and economically. The ulterior cloak given as the reason for the founding of the scholarships was indeed a clever subterfuge and one that would make the unwary individual unsuspicious.
In reality, however, the Rhodes Scholai-
ships are a subtly planned scheme to establish English ideals, customs and views in the minds and hearts of non-English persons. The foreign student at Oxford is encompassed in an English environment and by degrees begins to think as do the English and he eventually assimilates their outlook and modes of life to such an extent that he becomes one of them. On his return to his native land he views those questions that have either a direct or an indirect relation to England through English spectacles; he in turn influences his fellowmen and unconsciously a strong English fraternity takes root. In time the ramifications of this group will be so far reaching that they will be a powerful factor in the determination of our political and commercial policies. .
The student who is seeking a genuine education will not strive for a Rhodes’ scholarship, because in the educating process his mind will be so moulded that his future judgments will be biased; his reasoning will be tainted and an English point of view will dominate his speech and action. England, it is universally acknowledged, is striving for commercial supremacy and what better means could she employ than educating foreigners in England?
A SONG
I loved a woman once And put that love in song.
Why died the love so soon While the melody lives so long?
. ARNOLD WILLIAMS, ’29.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
853
My Radiator
BROTHER MARIUS, C. S. C.
A MODERN up-to-date room would not be complete in its snug comfort without a radiator. Many of us are so familiar with this skeleton-like creature, whose bare ribs repel us‘ but whose fervency entices us, that we lose the sense of its importance to a room. It is important not only because of the attractive neatness of its appearance and its vital heating capacity, but also because of its very genealogy.
My radiator is a lean, elegant descendant of the clumsy parlor stoves. It may be that the very iron composing its numerous sides was once the body of the parlor heater in Washington’s home, or in Webster’s or in Lincoln’s. Perhaps my radiator’s progenitors warmed the hearts and the finger tips of children at school, or cheered the home of some poor widow, sailor, or lover. 0! what romance or grief, oratory or statesmanship may have been dramatized before the roaring ancestors of my flameless fire-container. What varied pictures of life they may have witnessed. What hardy lives they must have led, before they were cast on the junk pile and taken back to the smouldering foundry where this, my study radiator, was born and moulded from his molten infancy to his full-vigorous manhood.
It stands three and half feet in height— a little over the average height of radiators, —and has an unusual, massive breadth, nearly four feet from the valve to the return pipe. I feel safe with it on guard against the south-western blizzards. It is good to be conscious of its warm protection when the cold, icy wind, which nothing can keep out, is stealing through every crack and creyice in the window. I know that the radiator will defeat it in a moment, and keep me in comfortable security.
A radiator is seldom quiet. It is constantly humming some sizzling tune that varies in pitch with the way it feels. The sections of it resembles in appearance the sweetsounding, solo organ pipes; nevertheless,
they are so closely united in their temperament that they produce together only a single tone, which is softly musical, especially when I heai- it on a hoary frigid morning.
There are many people who consider a radiator merely as an uncertain heating apparatus, and for that reason lose the appreciation of its vital forces. They scowl and grumble when it fails to melt the icicles in their bones, or pat it gently with their finger tips, in a forgiving manner, when it brings roses to their cheeks and spreads smiles on their faces. They forget that the poor radiator, in spite of its massive appearance, is not a giant capable of enormous activity, but a mere babe, a suckling constantly feasting on the life-warming air that comes from the depths below. If the supply of the milky steam is discontinued, the radiator dies and grows stiffly cold,— if it is to live and to function, it must be fed. Consequently, the fester parent of the radiator, the monster furnace, must be regaled from time to time with divers shovels of delightful coal, so that its .fiery entrails may become refreshed, and streams of steam may be discharged into its nostrils to feed the famished infant radiator, which will bubble and hiss with life, and radiate heat in its excitement.
When one employs a good janitor the radiators quickly recognize him as their benefactor, and, through the influence of his friendship, become even-tempered and affectionate, glowing with genuine warmth towards all who approach them. People at times, however, hire anyone for a steamman,. and consequently have endless trouble with radiators. Whenever my radiator becomes angry and overheated on account of imbibing too much of the unprohibited vaporous water, I punish it by cutting eff the supply of its irritating steam, until it cools down, regains self-control, and stops to spit and sputter from the mouth of its valve.
D
854	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
King Lear
JOSEPH A. BRE1G, ’28.
IF WE would learn the true character of any man, we must study both the man and his children. By the fruit we judge the tree; and through the children We gain an insight into the father’s soul that is denied us through other channels.
The three daughters of King Lear play a vital, integral part in the life of the monarch. They are of his flesh and blood; their characters are, to some extent at least, derivatives of his character; they furnish three channels through which the soul of Lear flows unhidden, exposed for all to see. Cordelia is so intensely fine, so much the true daughter, that in her are laid open for inspection all the good traits that Lear may have contributed. Conversely, Goneril and Regan, the other daughters, are so thoroughly and enthusiastically wicked that in them is revealed Lear at his worst.
To us who study Shakespeare’s tragedy for what it can reveal of the human element, the real tragedy lies in the fact that the mother of Lear’s children does not, dramatically speaking, exist. Never in the entire play are we allowed even a glimpse of Lear’s wife; only once is she.even mentioned by the king. For us who would study the play closely this is an inestimable loss. Did we know the mother, we could judge if Cordelia was Cordelia because of or in spite of her mother. And the same applies to Goneril and Regan.
Certainly we cannot believe that Cordelia’s beauty of soul was inherited entirely from, her father; neither can we conceive of the rottenness of Goneril and Regan issuing in its entirety from Lear. It must have been a conflict of spiritual forces in the parents that gave rise to children so opposite in morality.
The character of Lear as revealed in his actions and speech is clear enough. He must have been proud and haughty even beyond, his kingly prerogative; surely his susceptibility to shallow flattery indicates a shallow mind. His action in. banishing Cordelia and threatening her life because she would not
become a bootlicker for material gain indicates one of two things: either Lear was an insufferable ass, egotistical and overbearing to suffocation, or he did not know his own children.
Granting that kings are not as well acquainted with their offspring as beggars, it is still impossible to assume that in so many years Lear had not gained the slightest insight into the characters of his children. The fact appears, then, that Lear was cursed with the disposition to torture and hurt the creature that loved him. Such men exist. They are heaven’s most stinging shame.
This much we must grant Lear: he was enough the man to retain his pride throughout, and to refuse to allow any misfortune to daunt him. Not for a moment does his kingly spirit bow; not once does his spirit bend. We admire him for his battle with the storm and for his contempt of adversity, but we give him not a whit of sympathy in his misfortune. He is getting what he asked for, and while we applaud his manner of taking it, we are not drawn to him because he is taking it.
Somehow, it seems as though Lear were directly to blame for every tragedy throughout the play. When we see the depths to which Goneril and Regan descend, we are horrified; but nevertheless we blame Lear for it all. We are edified at the beauty of Cordelia’s self-sacrifice and resignation, but we attribute them to a high sense of duty, and not to any qualities received from Lear, nor to anything in him which would command Cordelia’s respect and love. When Lear curses Goneril, we are glad, for she deserves it; nevertheless we feel an abiding contempt for the railing of the king at something which is entirely the result of his own folly.
There is little room for charity in any estimate of Lear; his pride will allow no charity. One redeeming trait he has: courage to carry on after his crazily constructed castles have tumbled about his ears.
When you and spring are thrilling to the opening game of the year—and your favorite player drives out a homer—as the stands
rock ‘with cheering
—have a Camel!
Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos. The most skilful blending. The most scientific package. No other cigarette made is like Camels. No better cigarette can be made. Camels are the overwhelming choice of experienced smokers.
©1926
WHEN the first ball game is here. And the heavy hitter cracks the ball shrieking into deep center for a home run — have a Camel!
For Camel adds the magic of its own fragrance to life’s most festive days. Camels are of such choice tobaccos that they never tire the taste or leave a cigaretty aftertaste. You’ll get more contentment, more pleasure out of Camels than any other cigarette.
So this fair spring day as a redoubtable batter lofts out one that it seems will never stop flying— oh, then, taste the smoke that means completed enchantment.
Have a Camel!
Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We inrite you to compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Winston-Salem, N. C.

856	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ei



SPORT NEWS
I I K fe
jS
Illinois Wins Meet Easily
YOUNG
A mighty track team from the University of Illinois led by the ace of college hurdlers, “Chick” Werner, invaded Cartier Field Saturday afternoon and, after assaulting three field records, left the Notre Dame and Ohio Wesleyan track squads in their wake. The victory was complete for the Orange and Blue were supreme in nearly every event on the card and by their great supply of strength piled up commanding leads in a majority of track and field events. The final score was: Illinois, 89 2-3; Notre Dame, 54 2-3; Ohio Wesleyan, 13 2-3.
a broiling May sun which
brought the best performances to the front, the Ulini fairly waded through their double opposition and except for a short time at the beginning of the meet, when Notre Dame annexed two first places for a lead, the stalwart athletes of Harry Gill were never in the rear.
Billed as a triangular meet, the contest soon developed into a dual affair, for Ohio Wesleyan, although fairly strong in most of the events, found itself battling two superior foes and it was early seen that the Ohio Conference team could not stand the pace.
Ability to score consistently in the running events and evident weakness in the field and hurdle events were the features of the Notre Dame squad’s showing. The Rockmen managed to keep their Western Conference foes well at bay in the track program but the able reserve forces of the Gillmen in the field and hurdle events were too much of an obstacle to overcome.
Some three thousand cinder enthusiasts,
happy that they could finally take in something -without the burden of a sheepskin, sat in shirt sleeves under a tanning sun and gustily watched some well-anchored records fall before the ambitious Irish and II-lini. •
The record-smaching began early when long-limbed “Chick” Werner galloped down the high hurdle stretch, ten yards ahead of the pack, to finish the barriers in 14 4-5 seconds. After the other contestants had struggled through Werner’s wake it was discovered that the Illini leader had knocked over four hurdles and was accordingly disqualified. Ellis of Wesleyan then got the first in :16.
Not to be outdone by the rival captain, Paul Harrington, the blonde Irish skypilot, climbed through the ozone to a height of 12 feet 11 1-2 inches and then descended nimbly into the pit with his 12 feet 7 1-2 inch record, set in 1924 at the Indiana State Meet. Wallace, of Illinois, bested Johnson’s broad jump when he leaped 23 feet 1 1-2 inches.
“Tiny” Philbrook, giant Notre Dame shotputter of 1912, held the record for 14 years but it remained for Lyons, Illinois Hercules, to heave the iron ball 46 feet 8 3-4 inches for a new mark. He beat the- old record by one foot 8 3-4 inches. Lyons’ teammate, Shock, turned the quarter mile in 49 2-5 seconds to crack by a fifth of a second the mark made by L. Walsh in 1924.
Off to an auspicious start, the Irish forces thrilled their fans by signs of apparent victory but the ruthless Illinois strength in the field caused the bubble to burst early. Joe Della Maria raced the century in :10 1-5 although Illinois placed three men. Charley Judge paced a great mile against H. R. White and after fighting him shoulder to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	857
shoulder for three laps stepped out to a brilliant last quarter and finished in 4:26. Masterson and Judge finished one-two in the half mile, leading the field by some thirty yards to clock in at 2:01 flat.
The final event of the day, the one mile relay, provided a dramatic thrill when Jimmy Stack, nervy cleanup man of the Irish crew, raced down the stretch under the shoulder of Shock, Illini quarter miler, who had nosed him out in the quarter mile run, and finished a scant foot ahead. Illinois had gotten off to a commanding lead in the first three legs of the race and Lahey passed the stick to Stack some 10 yards in the rear of the Illinois runner. Stack went full steam from the start and sprinted up the back stretch, gradually gaining on his.opponent. He passed him at the turn and took a two yard lead which he could not quite hold in the gruelling drive down the stretch, although he flashed under the wire a winner.
Lyons, Wallace, Ellis and Judge were the high point men of the meet. Lyons got two firsts, Wallace a first and two seconds and Judge a first and a second. Ellis who made 11 1-3 of Wesleyan’s total had a first, a tie for a first, and a second. The summary:
100-yard dash—Della Maria, Notre Dame; Hale, ■Greathouse and Sullivan, Illinois. Time :10 1-5.
Mile Bun—Judge, Notre Dame; White and Mc-Elwee, Illinois; Hill, Ohio Wesleyan. Time 4:26.
220-yard dash—Hale, Illinois; Della Maria, Notre Dame; Greathouse, Illinois; Slavosky, Ohio Wesleyan. Tiime :22 4-5.
High hurdles—Ellis, Ohio Wesleyan; Wallace, Illinois; Fell, Illinois; Barron, Notre Dame. Time :16.	'
440-yard dash—Shock, Illinois; Stack, Notre Dame; Sitting and Runkle, Illinois. Time :49 2-5.
Two-Mile Run—Dickinson, Illinois; Dolmage and Young, Notre Dame; Stellner, Illinois. Time 10:09.
220-yard low hurdles—Weimer, Illinois; Ellis, Ohio Wesleyan; Wallace, Illinois; Stace, Notre Dame.
Half Mile—Masterson and Judge, Notre Dame; Duncan and Rue, Illinois.
Pole Vault—Harrington, Notre Dame; Barnes, Illinois; White, Illinois; BuriiT, Ohio Wesleyan; Hamill and Bov, Notre Dame, tied for fourth. Height: 12 feet 11 1-2 inches.
Shot put—Lyons, Illinois; Boland, Notre Dame; Shively, Illinois; Mayer, Notre Dame. Distance 46 Teet 8 3-4 inches.
High Jump—Meislahn and Trimble, Illinois, and Ellis, Ohio Wesleyan, tied for first; Carey, Notre Dame, fourth. Height 6 feet.
Discus Throw—Lyons, Illinois; McSwiney, Notre Dame; Shively and Bales, Illinois. Distance 123 feet 10 inches.
Broad Jump—Wallace, Sibbit and Fell, Illinois; Prestien, Ohio Wesleyan. 23 feet 1 1-2 inches.
Javelin Throw—Moes, Notre Dame; Stuttle, Shively and Hart, Illinois. Distance 175 feet 4 inches.	•
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame; Illinois, second; Wesleyan, third. Time 3:26 2-5.
INTERHALL BALL BEGINS
Interhall baseball got away to a good start last Sunday when three contests marked the opening of the season. All of them were tighter than is usual at the opening of the year.
The traditional Brownson-Carroll scrap which never fails to arouse considerable interest resulted in a well played tie, 2-2. Jacymn and Dunn, the Brownsonite battery, were chiefly responsible for the showing of their team. For Carroll, Father Devers had a good pair in Murphy and Vaughan.
The Day Dogs were able to secure a decisive victory over the lads from Badin, the final score being 8-3. Klein, the mounds-man for the men-about-town was in fine form. He allowed the lads from over the cafeteria but three hits. Bonini completed the Day Dog battery, While Size and Roberts performed for the Badinites.
The Wise Fools of Sophomore started off a great season (promising we should have said) by taking the representatives of Walsh down the pavement 9-4. “Bull” Polis-ky displayed his versatility by being the stellar hitter of the game. Crowe did commendable work both on the mound and at bat. Morrissey caught for Sophomore. Hughes pitched a good game for Walsh but lacked the support to insure victory.
Harry Stuhldreher, All-American quarterback of 1924, and the field general of-the famous “Four Horsemen,” the backfield that trampled all opposition in its rush to gain the National Championship for Notre Dame, spent a few days on the campus this week. Harry is head coach at Villanova.
858
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PURDUE PLASTERS IRISH, 8-5
Five markers in the extreme column of the box scores accounted for the lacing administered Coach Keogan’s nine by the Purdue horsehide aggregation Wednesday. The Boilermakers were playing the nearest to a perfect game that one can imagine throughout the nine frames and offensively were able to count on boots contributed by the Celts.
They were away out in front as far as defense went, were the sturdy batsmen from Lafayette and it was only the ability to bunch hits at the proper times that gave the Irish the five tallies they amassed. Wilcox for the visitors was the headliner and the manner in which he stopped some tough balls brought rounds of applause from the galleries. The entire opposing infield was wide awake and played the greatest brand of ball seen here this season.
Elmer Besten took over the turret for Notre Dame in the opening frames but after making the batsmen twist themselves for two clear strikes usually had his third ball wafted toward the outfield. Besten was most emphatically off and the Purdue pastimers siezed their opportunity to count. Ronay went into the game in the sixth and finished the contest.
Both teams got off to an early start and counted twice in the initial inning. The second saw three more chalked up to the credit of the Gold and Black. These were produced by an assembly of walks, two-base hits and errors.
The individual star for the home pastimers was “Red” Smith, who seemed to be doing everything that could be done to win a ball game. It was “Red” who evened the score in the second half of the first with a homerun, on which Farrell also scored. Later in the game “Red” pounded out a triple and a single. Parisien was hitting the ball, contributing a three-bagger to the cause. Purdue was great and easily deserved their victory. Notre Dame plays Wisconsin at Madison to-morrow.
Score by innings:
Purdue...........2 3 0 0 2 0 1 0 0—8
Notre Dame.......2 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1—5
FOUR CONTESTS TOMORROW
Four spring athletic events will interest Notre Dame fans tomorrow when the track, spring football, baseball and golf teams go into action. Three of these will play at Notre Dame. The track squad meets one of the strongest teams ever sent from the University of Iowa. The annual football game between the oldtimers vs. the newcomers will take the stage on Cartier field. The golf team will match shots with Loyola at Chain O’ Lakes, while the baseball team will meet Wisconsin at Madison.
Old friends li^e old wines are best
Read The SOUTH BEND NEWS-TIMES
JOAN TEA ROOM
ENDORSED BY THE METROPOLITAN CLUB
Special Club Dinners
428 NORTH MAIN STREET
LINCOLN 6250
860
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HERING GIVES MEDALS
Notre Dame, one of the first schools to adopt the spring football training season, again came to the front last Saturday and innovated something that will probably become a part of the regular spring practice here and elsewhere. Frank E. Hering, former captain and coach of Notre Dame football teams, had offered gold medals as awards to the football men showing the greatest amount of ability in their respective departments and contests were held to determine the winners.
The affair was held as a preliminary to the triangle meet on Cartier field last Sat
urday. It gave Coach Rockne a definite idea of what to expect in the Way of punting, passing, receiving, blocking and goal kicking next fall.
In center passing, “Bud” Boeringer was awarded first with 141 points; Plummer, second with 126; Nash, 123, and Moynihan and McCarty with 121 each. The tackles on defense were chosen in the order named: McManmon, Miller, Hogan and Ransavage. John Smith won “the guard pulls out”.contest.
Tom Byrne and Ruckleshaus finished first and second in the ends “boxing in tackles” division. Elmer Wynne took the fullback

❖
❖
Here’s Your Shoe!
THE SERVUS RUBBER COMPANY-ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS
And you can do it better with the Ralph Jones Professional! It fits with the precision of a high-priced leather shoe. But it has special features that make it athletically perfect. Moulded suction sole—real vacuum cups—extra heavy scuffer toe—narrow well-cushioned heel— non-heat insole—full double foxing reinforcement—scientific last for extra support to instep—made to keep foot from slipping forward. For every game and sport that requires ease, quickness and accuracy of footwork, the Ralph Jones Professional wins the approval of athletes and sportsmen. Ask your dealer first. If you have to order direct we will deliver shoes of your sice through the dealer you mention. Athletic coaches, camp directors and dealers will be interested in our proposition. Write for information.
Whatever ^bu Do
CERVUQ
W SPORT SHOES

blocking, and Captain Tom Hearden, the halfback blocking. The punting of Niemiec was sensational. His best punt was 65 yards, and out of five tries he averaged 58 3-5 yards. Wanek was second with an average of 52, and Captain Edwards third with an average of 50.. Niemiec and McGrath tied on points in forward passing, with Chris Flanagan third. In forwiard pass receiving McKinney, Flanagan and Ruckelshaus finished in order named.
GOLF TOURNAMENT
Notre Dame’s golfers will be given an opportunity to display their marble-chasing' abilities in the university tournament to be held soon. Entries should be handed at once to “Ty” Bulger, 342 Corby Hall, and accompanied by a fee of one dollar.
The tourney will be conducted in five flights. Two prizes will be offered in each of these five.
The proceeds from the tourney will be used to defer the expenses of the school golf squad.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
861

Customized Clothe*
The Grey stone Trim, stylish, dignified, the Greystone suit is being worn more and more by business men who make it a part of their business to be well dressed.
This style with a two-button coat is called the Newstone.
There is nothing finer for your new Spring Suit, for both are by HickeyFreeman.
MAX ADLER COMPANY ON THE CORNER : : : MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
862	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TENNIS SQUAD DROPS OPENER
Notre Dame went a-courting last Saturday afternoon, but, because they could not raise a good racket, they were unable to find a match that would be anything but a net loss. They had plenty of opposition too, but the opposition was not a villain; and a fair maiden was not the object of game. Far from that. It was the agile tennis outfit of Ohio State University that put the Blue and Gold Courtiers for a loss, 7 to 0. It was the first meet of the Irish aggregation this season and it is believed that the outfit will be showing good form as soon as the effects of their initial contest are hidden in the clay. The Notre Dame team showed up well considering that they had only two day’s practice before the meet. Michigan State will meet the local racket wielders at Lansing, Michigan to-day.
' CULVER CAPITULATED, 17-1
Coach Robinson’s Notre Dame golfers won from Culver last Saturday by a 17 to 1 count. The match was played at Culver. Captain Bulger, Adams, Shouse, Hillrich and Totten composed the Irish team.
To-morrow the Erskine course Will be the scene of a Gold and Blue battle with Loyola offering the opposition. The match will be over thirty-six holes. The first eighteen will start about 9:00 a. m., and the second eighteen will get under way at 12:30 p. m.
The visitors are captained by Hark Renier. Other members of the squad are Cro-tin and Jerry O’Neil.
Ed. Hunsinger, end on the National Championship football team which represented Notre Dame in 1924, visited the campus this week.
3handy packs
Look for it on the dealer’s counter
WRIGUYS
RK
More for your money and
the best Peppermint
Chewing Sweet for any money ,
IlliJIIIL-JIIIE ]IIIBIII[-]llTr-3lll[^lll
Of Course You Can Qo to
I EUROPE
30 Splendid Inexpensive Tours under the management of an old-established American company. 59 to 85 days—routes include Scotland, England, Holland, Belgium, France, Ger-
many, Switzerland, Italy, Iceland, eg Norway. June to September. $835 up. B
S STUDENT TOURS | Hof utmost economy—very attractive 9 |0|| to young folks—5-7 wks.—$395 up. S || GATES TOURS | p| 225 5th Avenue. New York City E m	MR. ARTHUR PARISIEN, Agent	E
121 Sophomore Hall	M
h!3|	University of Notre Dame	E!
Mint-ijiitjiiK-illume-in lmiulhi i.
Interested in Selling? » “K — ...................
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
863.
f, —	-	-	-	~	" —A

a
Mothers do like to be remembered—and here are things to give them pleasure on Mother’s Day.
Gay flowers for her shoulder 50c to §2.95.
Bright scarfs, $1.59 to $6.95.
Jordon all silk chiffon Hosiery in a gift box, $2 pair.
Come and See Us
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
LET US FIX YOUR
TUXEDO
FOR
THE BALL
Little Dutch Cleaners
Suits cleaned and pressed, - $1.50
Pressed only, - - - -	.50
Topcoats cleaned and pressed, 1.50
Pressed only, - - : - -	.50
nV.
I
LASALLE HOTEL
CARL D. LOVE, Mgr. CL1ZBE KING LINCOLN 5687 -
Are You Going Into the Bond
Business?
There is a cycle of fashion not only for the hats college men wear but for the line of work into which they go.
But your job has to fit your head as well as your hat, for it has to fit your state of mind.
Like your hat also, your job needs to fit your purse. Therefore, why not choose one that brings not only satisfaction in service but in financial return.
Selling life insurance is one of the few modem businesses that does just this.
It takes:
Intelligence, Zest and Ability
It gives:
Liberty of action, the philosophic satisfaction of selling future security and present serenity to living people, and a response, immediate and tangible, in monetary as well as mental reward.
Complete and confidential information,withoutany obligation on your part, can be obtained by writing to the Inquiry Bureau, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, ig? Clarendon Street, Boston, Massachusetts.
ar Boston. Massachusetts
AStronc Compant, Over Sixty Years in Business. Liberal as to Contract. Safe and Secure in Every Way.
864	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Miller-Mueller
Oliver Hotel Shop
103 North Main St.
New Neckwear White backgrounds in foulards, crepes and repps, $1.00
Solid colors in Rajah crepes, silk lined, $1.50
Imported and Domestic Mens Wear
Y	~	~	?
Two good places to eat—at home and at
Smith’s Cafeteria
The House of Quality
11 i EAST JEFFERSON BLVD.
Breakfast, lunch or dinner—come any mealtime and you will find foods cooked and served in such a manner that even the most discriminating taste is satisfied. We buy foods of the finest quality; then get the best available chefs —each one a specialist in some branch of cookery—to bake or broil or prepare salads. That’s why all our foods are good . . . . There’s no tedious waiting here, always a table in congenial surroundings.
No Charge for a Second Cup oj Tea or Coffee
IVe Do AU Our Own Baling
h	—
THE SAFETY VALVE
Dear E. S. B.: Well, that day the Wild Cats were here crossing, as they say, bats with A Lacu we decided, after reading some of the Rookies’ poetry, to relax. And on the way to Cartier Field we met Mr. Carl Wall of Buffalo, N. Y., he having cut down his hair close to the point where it starts to grow. And soon we became great friends, he saying he liked Carroll Hall and read The Week and obeyed the Please signs. And we both said at parting that we hoped to meet again.
Well, always selecting our company we joined the Headmasters of Sorin and Walsh. A Wild Cat just then got to first on an error.
Right Field. Hey there! Pepper up! Pepper up, Gang! [Gang proceeds to pepper up.]
First Base. Stick ’em over, Elmer, we’re all here.
Second Base. Let me ’av him, Elmer. I got him. Short Stop. Lots o’ pepper. Whatsha say, Gang! Sorin. I can’t think of the Northwestern fellow who made the big league lately. [A Lacu now ar bat. Batter hits two fouls].
Walsh. He’s hitting too fast. He’s hitting too fast.
T. D. Why is he hitting too fast? I don’t think he’s hitting too fast.	,
Walsh. Can’t you see that from the slant of the ball?
Sorin. More inside stuff!
[Besten hits ball over left field fence. Tumult of citizens. N. W. pitcher taken out and E. S. B. gives the consolation clap. They also give the welcome signal to the new pitcher, and hope he blows up soon.]
First Citizen. I see they have two empires in this game.
Second Citizen. Yeh. They always have two empires in Conference games. [A Lacu takes field.]
Out Field. More pepper. Lots more pepper, Gang! [Business of giving more pepper.]
Second Base. Cut the ole plate in two, Elmer.
Short Stop. Let me ’av him, Elmer. I got him.
Sorin. I wonder who was the Northwestern player who made the big league lately.
Umps. Stri-ek tuh.
Third Base. ’At a boy, Elmer! Got everything today.
First Citizen. I guess they always got two empires in the Conference.
Second Citizen. The big leagues ’av three empires.
Sorin. Wish I could think of that Northwestern student who made the big league a few years ago.
T. D. Wish you could too. Do before the next game. [Game over. E. S. B. demonstrates for. Besten, and then rush to the caf.]
First Citizen. I expect them empires make big money.
Second Citizen. I expect they do. There’s three empires in the big leagues. Three empires for every game.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	865
of SUK Socks
5 ") Cents
AV/HO darns your socks? Wear W Wyman’s “Real Silk” (substandards) and you won’t have to bother about darning. They wear and wear—and cost only 50c, pair,
Come and See Us
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
$5.50
W3 sQuSiz vQi* «3uc*>
COMMUTATION TICKETS
$5.00
□ □ □
Tickets bought at the Cafeteria are good at any of the downtown locations
O. A. Clark Lunch Rooms
122 W. WASHINGTON AVENUE 104-106 N. MICHIGAN STREET 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 337 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 119-121 W. JEFFERSON BLVD 107 E. WASHINGTON AVENUE 321 WEST SOUTH STREET
IDEAL LAUNDRY
. . . This is Our 10th Year of Service To Notre Dame Students
866
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
We’ve still
to meet
the successful student who does not make a great point of good clothes. It’s a habit among young fellows. The best dressers find in our clothes a perfection of cut, a smartness in design and the choicest woolens to be had. Drop in and see us.
Headquarters for Notre Dame Jewelry and Novelties
ADLER BROTHERS
The Store Beautiful
Apparel for Men, Women and Boys
105-107-109 SOUTH MICHIGAN :	:	108 WEST WASHINGTON
I
*