THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	SEPTEMBER 10, 1943	NO. 9
9m OiAue:
9 Msgr. Sheen Speaks Tonight S Vaudeville Talent Mounts Q Lecture on Symphony • Baseball Season Ends 0 Functional Swimming Meet
S Miller, Ziemba Return
THE LIBRARY WELCOMES AUTUMN
HE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
BY BILL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
TOP OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s Reopens.
NUTS TO TRADITION
On the yellowed pages of past Scholastics there is many an edition of “The Week” which relies for its humor on the not-very-subtle cracks at our friends across the Dixie. The warped mentalities which turned out these masterpieces of ignominious repartee have long since departed from Our Lady’s campus. But behind them is left a tradition that all is not paradise across the four-lane highway. It will be the purpose of this column henceforth to tear away from the Rock’s good name all those hangings of legend that can keep all but the brave and bold from venturing over.
About the only thing past “Week” editors saw of St. Mary girls was the view they got from the fifth row of a Sunday afternoon stag line. Every time a girl would come near one of them he would be overtaken with shyness and beat it before he could even see what she looked like. It is common knowledge that the blank-eyed lobsters that stand around the sides of dance floors can’t judge women any more than a V-12 man can run a ship. Take your lines out of moth balls next week boys and pay the Rock a visit. You’ll find that your hometown Sue isn’t so smooth after all.
AS WE LIKE IT
Three-fourths of the naval V-12 students have subscribed 37.5% of their pay for war bonds. They have much more faith in themselves than a lot of other people.... Those sergeant stripes on the Hoffman waitresses’ uniforms, decides Rebel Stumpf, must be hash marks.___An army travels on its stomach, they tell us. Maybe that’s why the Marines don’t get around much anymore .... The big wolves hereabouts can take notice of the local fox terrier who done went and got himself all hoarsed up from woof-woofing at the squirrels._ Why a physics lab reminds us of a chow line: 45 minutes waiting to do 15 minutes work.
2	.
CALL A DOCTOR
The best way to be physically unfit is to take a physical fitness test. It’s no longer a secret that a lot of fellows did some heaving and cookie-checking after it was all over — especially those who took the test at 8:00 or 1:15, just after breakfast or lunch. A Marine “Happy Hour” would have corporals, sergeants, and chiefs going through the test, just for laughs—and there’d be plenty. The most startling discovery made during the test is that the very greatest majority of those in training lost weight during the first month here. Which all indicates 9?
THE OBSERVATION POST
You can always tell them apart at class on a rainy day: The Marines come with their upper half dry; the Navy comes all wet; and the civilians don’t come at all.
MUSINGS:
September is welcome for a number of reasons: To the Midshipmen, it holds graduation and a commission after a long, tough grind through an Indiana summer; for the rest of us, it marks the half-way mark in the semester pointing to the significant fact that the worst is over.... And now as the first red leaves begin to fall, we turn hopefully to the west for the first faint tinklings from St. Mary’s. Ah, yes, the belles will soon ring out—an occasion that is hoped for annually at this time, and breathlessly anticipated—But we’ll see!!!
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
- Polio, wherever you find it.
❖	. SPECIAL DANCE	❖
•I* There wilL be a dance for V-12, ❖ ❖ Marines, and Civilians at -the Prog- ❖ •I* ress Club, 601 West Colfax, from 8 to ❖ ❖ 11 Saturday night, Sept. 11. Music ❖ •X* will be by the civilian "Cavaliers." ❖ •I* Tickets, thirty-five cents, may be se-♦X* cured from your hall C.A.S. represent- ❖ •X* ative. The price of the ticket will ❖ •X' secure both the hostesses and re- ❖ •X* freshments.	*X«
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191S.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole........Managing	Editor
Bill Carey...............'............Sports Editor Dick Ames...............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer.........Admin.	Editor
John Mattmiller...........Circulation
Charles Renaud....Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey..Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week	jWm. Talbot and
........(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters...Bill Waddington (J. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
.......(D. Schwendeman, J, E. Taylor N.R.O.T.C.....H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina Marines ......Lou	Riepenhoff
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
SEPTEMBER 10, 1943
NO. 9
Msgr Sheen Speaks Tonight:
"Border of Western World
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen will deliver the second of two talks at Notre Danie this evening at 8 in the Navy Drill Hall. The subject of his second address will.be “The Burden on the Western World.” Everyone on the campus has been cordially invited to attend by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, D.D.
Last night before- an enthusiastic and highly interested audience Msgr. Sheen spoke on “Men of Good Will.” It was very evident to those who heard the talk how Msgr. Sheen has gained the tremendous following that he enjoys throughout the country. A magnificent orator, the leading speaker of the Catholic Church in America, he emphasized his points with the force and vigor that has made him famous.
Msgr. Sheen, member of the. Philosophy department at the Catholic University of America, last spoke at Notre Dame on Nov. 16, 1942, when he delivered the Centenary sermon at the Solemn Pontifical Mass marking the 100th anniversary of the University.- This was broadcast on a nation wide radio hook
up. He was awarded an honorary LL.D. at the 1941 commencement exercises, where he delivered the main address.
Lecture on Symphony Ends
Sunday Afternoon Series
The finale in a series of Sunday afternoon entertainment for midshipmen, V-12 students and civilian students will be held Sunday, Sept. 12 in the Rockne Memorial lounge as Edwyn Hames, conductor of the South Bend symphony orchestra, presents a lecture oh “The Development of the Symphony.” His-talk will be demonstrated with phonograph records.
Born in Melbourne, Australia, Mr. Hames was winner of the Australian amateur championship at the age of 14 and was also the winner of the examination board’s scholarship entitling him to free tuition at Melbourne University for three years. A graduate of Hillsdale College, Mich., he won the sole diploma in violin with first class honors while at Melbourne university.
He made five concert tours of the United States from 1924-26 and since 1932 has been owner and director of the LaSalle School of Music in South Bend. Mr. Hames has been director of the department of music at Hillsdale college since 1936 and during the 1941-42 semester was a lecturer in music appreciation for Indiana University extension courses.
Naturalized an American citizen in 1941, Mr. Hames is married and the father of four children.
Fr. Flanagan to Open Bond Drive Sept. 16
Under the auspices of the combined Mishawaka, South Bend and Notre Dame councils of the Knights of Columbus, a war bond drive is being conducted in South Bend. This drive will be highlighted by a talk which -will be given by Father Edward J. Flanagan, of Boys Town, Neb. Fr. Flanagan will speak at John'Adams High school on Sept. -16.
Admission to the lecture will be .by war bond subscriptions only. The -first
1200 seats will be given to those who purchase at least §500, §100, or §50 worth of bonds above their payroll deductions or other pledges. The remaining 2200 seats will be given to those who buy §25 bonds.
Letters are being sent by the Knights to all the professors on campus, asking for their aid and patriotic cooperation in making this drive a success. Representatives will contact each of these men after the letters have been received, to take their pledges.
Father Kehoe Replaces
Fr. Ryan as Walsh Rector
The Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., has
been appointed to replace Rev. John A. Ryan, C.S.C., as rector of Walsh Hall,
' Rev. John A. Ryan
Notre Dame R. O. T. C. stronghold.
Father Kehoe, a former resident of Dillon Hall, is a graduate of Notre Dame, class of ’33-He received his Master of Arts degree from the' University in 1941. He has been a member of the faculty
since September of 1941 as an instructor in economics.'
•Returning to New Orleans as a parish priest and prison chaplain, Father Ryan has served on the Notre Dame-faculty intermittently since 1912. He has also served on the faculty of St. Edward’s University, a Holy Cross school at Austin, Texas,, and at New Orleans. Father Ryan graduated from 'Notre Dame in 1906, received theology degrees from the Catholic’University of America, and his Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1925. During the" years 1917-19 he taught history at St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn. Father Ryan'was a professor of history here.
Father Ryan ranked as one of the most popular campus rectors. Well-liked by all, he was particularly, known for his famous hiking club,- and his- efficient disciplinary methods in Walsh- His -departure is regretted-by-all. -
Campus News
N. D. Well Represented in Anthology of Catholic Stories
By Jim Schaeffer
Vaudeville Talent Mounts
Curtin Is Master of Ceremonies
Marine Dave Curtin, long-time favorite of Washington Hall productions, will once more tread the hoards of that venerable theater when the Knights of Columbus present their All-Campus Vaudeville Show on the night of Sept. 17, immediately after the band concert on the quadrangle. And it is not unlikely that Mr. Curtin has saved his best quips for what most likely will be his last appearance, as he is scheduled to depart for Parris Island before many more weeks. Mr. Curtin, furthermore, has never been found wanting when entertainment of a high caliber was in order.
Judges Selected
While Marine Curtin is scheduled to introduce the acts, the merit of such performances will be judged by three men selected for their ability to detect talent, as well as their sense of humor. Mr. J. Earl Redden, well known in the entertainment world, is constantly engaged in booking acts for Playland Park, South Bend’s amusement center. Mr. Joseph F. Donahue, prominent alumnus of the University, and popular member of the St. Joseph Valley Club is himself an excellent entertainer, and more than qualified to determine the merits of theatrical skill. The third judge will probably be the manager of one of the downtown theatres, or a qualified person selected from the campus.
No Admission Charge
Although original plans called for a small admission charge, the Scholastic is happy to announce that this is no longer considered necessary, due to the kindness and interest of both Father Eugene Burke and Father James Connerton who have made it their business to provide the cash prizes that will be awarded to the winners. Since the show is regarded as campus entertainment, the. University will underwrite the production. Prizes to be awarded are three in number—$25, $15, and $10—to the winners named in that order.
4
Victory Band to Play
Even though John Stehlin has gone off to the wars, his Victory Band remains after him, and will play for the show during the evening. The band’s part in the affair will consist not only in introducing each number, but also in providing two or three selections at the half-way mark in the program. Stehlin has brought the band to a high degree of both excellence and popularity; and his successors are determined to maintain the reputation thus far merited.
Try-Out Dates Set
Try-out dates for all acts have been set for Monday and Tuesday, Sept. 13-14, at 7:30 p.m., in Washington Hall. All acts will be notified by Promoter Hallein of the time they are scheduled to appear. This try-out of each act will be closed to the public. Indeed the nature of the individual acts is being kept a secret, and will come as a pleasant surprise on the night of the finals, Friday, Sept. 17. After Washington Hall, will come one-night stands in neighboring entertainment centers.
Editor's Note: Late entries are still being accepted by Promoter Hallein at the K. of C. office in Walsh Hall basement. -
Four Notre Dame graduates as well as one prominent special lecturer at the University are represented in Pilgrims All, the first anthology of short stories by Catholic authors, recently released by the Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee.
Among the contributors are the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of the department of Eng-
Rev. Leo L. Ward lish; Prof. Richard Sullivan of the department of English; G. K. Chesterton, noted writer and special lecturer at Notre Dame in 1930; John Curran, at present on active duty with the armed forces, who received both his bachelor’s and master’s degree from Notre Dame; and Harry Sylvester, newspaper man and a free lance short story writer.
The stories are not all Catholic in background or theme. The anthology, however, represents only the work of Catholic authors.
Father Ward’s story, “The Threshing Ring,” was chosen for the anthology, along with those of Hilaire Belloc, Paul Claudel, August Derleth, and 28 other American, English, Irish, and Canadian Catholic short story writers. Two of Father Ward’s short stories have received national recognition in O’Brien’s Best Short Stories.
A member of the faculty since 1936, Mr. Sullivan has written numerous short stories which have appeared in Scribner’s, The Atlantic Monthly, The Nezu Republic, and Commonweal. His first novel Summer After Summer was recently published. His next, Dark Continent is forthcoming. He has also written several radio plays and books in the juvenile field.
John Curran has published over 25 short stories, two plays, a novel, and six poems. His short story “Billy,” is included in Pilgrims All.
The author of over 90 short stories which have appeared in various national magazines, chiefly Collier’s and Commonweal, Harry Sylvester has worked as a newspaperman for the Brooklyn Eagle, the Herald Tribune, and the New -York Evening Post. His first novel, Dearly Beloved, was published last year. “Man Going Home” was chosen from his large number of short stories for the anthology.
THE FIGHTING IRISH AT THE FRONTS
By Jim Schaeffer
Notre Dame men are not only helping to win the war but not a few are also capturing all objectives on their return . to the home front.
Such a case is that of ' Marine Captain John :	Maas. He has
s crowded more adven-1	ture, romance and
glory into ten months Ls R than a fiction piulp Capt. Maas writer could have Put in ten of his novels.
Since last October he has become engaged to a beautiful Detroit girl, fought in 25 aerial battles, shot down four enemy planes, and won the Distinguished Flying Cross.	'
He went out in the Pacific as an unknown lieutenant in the Marine Corps. He is now a captain and a leader of the squadron known as the “Wolf Pack” in the Guadalcanal area. Capt. Maas is the flying companion of Joe Foss, America’s chief ace. This is the squadron in which 24 pilots destroyed 86 Jap planes at a loss of only two of their own.
Another one of the Fighting Irish in the South Pacific is Capt Joseph W. Mehring, Jr., ’38. Capt. Mehring was caught in a Jap daylight air raid in an open boat. Only his quick thinking and prompt action saved the party from dis
Seniors
The question, gentlemen, is one of dancing: Shall there be a ball next month or shall there not? The best plan suggested calls for a small dinner dance at the Oliver, for Seniors only, but including Naval, Marine, and Civilian fourth-year men.
If interested paste the coupon on a post card and ship it to Class President Johnny (Bud) Kuhen, Sorin Hall.
I would attend a Senior Ball at the Oliver.
Name.._______________________________________________________________
Address______________________________________________________________
Check preference: □ Informal	-
□ Formal
□ Semi-formal
aster. Three members of the party were injured. Their small boat had hit a hidden reef as the Jap planes came over to strafe the boat. All the crew hugged the bottom as the plane made its first rim over the vessel. Capt. Mehring ordered the party over the side of the boat and all but three dove. Those three were hit by Jap bullets on the repeat attack but the others were uninjured.
Bill Eich of the Merchant Marine has gone through some hair raising experiences in the line of duty. His boat was torpedoed and Third Officer Rich was trapped in a room. As a second torpedo hit the ship he was blown clear. He then spent three days in a lifeboat before being rescued. Another time the convoy he was in was attacked by Stuka dive bombers and later as that same convoy was nearing North Africa it was subject to a second strafing.
Gen. Electric Show Coming;
At Navy Drill Hall Friday
C. Edward Gluesing, who will present the General Electric “House of Magic” science show at 8:15 in the Navy Drill Hall, Friday evening, Sept. 17, is a real magician and a master at sleight-of-hand tricks.
He has not always been a magician, however. During his lifetime he also has taught school, has been a private tutor, and has served as a sailor in Uncle Sam’s Navy. .
A native of Wisconsin, he was graduated from the State Teachers College at LaCrosse. Then after teaching science
and mathematics to high school students for a few years, he decided to further his education. He attended the University of Wisconsin and was awarded a bachelor of philosophy degree. It was during these college years that he took up magic as a hobby.
The teaching urge took hold of him once more, however, and again he taught his favorite subjects to Wisconsin pupils. This vocation he followed for seven years. He then attended the University of Wisconsin a second time to receive his master’s degree in education.
In 1934, when the G-E “House of Magic” show appeared at the Century of Progress exposition in Chicago, Gluesing assisted with the lectures and demonstrations. He thus obtained his first experience with the science show, an experience which was to serve him in good stead later on.
For the last few years Gluesing has toured his native Wisconsin and nearby states, displaying his skill at pulling rabbits out of a hat. Recently he was placed in charge of one of the four “House of Magic” shows which are touring the country. And he is happy at this work, for he combines his school knowledge with that of magic.
It was the late Floyd Gibbons, noted author, lecturer and foreign correspondent, who discovered a world of wonders in the.General Electric Research Laboratory and called it the “House of Magic.” Thousands of persons have visited this “House of Magic” in Schenectady, and many more thousands see it in the science show which is made up of the more startling discoveries of the scientists in the laboratory.
The name “House of Magic” was first applied to the science show at Chicago’s Century of Progress. It proved to be one of the outstanding features of that exposition and since then has entertained more than 10,000,000 persons. At the recent New York World’s Fair alone, more than 3,000,000 persons saw this show.
Keeping pace with the new developments of the G-E Research Laboratory, the science show offers new wonders every year. No more striking means could be found to tell the story of how industrial research is continually widening the horizons of American life. Many of today’s everyday conveniences, such as radio, would have seemed nothing short of. a magician’s dream when the “House of Magic” Research Laboratory was established in 1900. Similarly, the current wonders of the “House of Magic” offer a hint of what new feats of “magic” may become part of tomorrow’s standard of living.
The show is open to all navy and civilian students, and to their friends.
5
Dr. Noecker Translates!
Revises Scientific Work
A notable contribution to the field of science by a member of the staff of Notre Dame is Dr. N. L. Noecker’s translation and revision of a French manuscript written by the internationally famous Swiss biologist, Dr. William H. Schopfer, director of the Botanical Institute at the University of Berne, Switzer-
Dr. N. L. Noecker ]anJ
The complete volume, entitled Plants and Vitamins, represents a critical review of vitamin problems from the viewpoints of general physiology, chemistry and the field of nutrition.
Dr. Noecker’s part in preparing the book is best indicated perhaps, by the acknowledgement appearing in the author’s preface which states, “Acknowledgements go particularly to Dr. N. L. Noecker of the Dept, of Biology,. University of Notre Dame, for his careful translation and invaluable help in editing my manuscript, without which the publication of this volume would hardly have been possible. Dr. Noecker is not only responsible for editing my manuscript. He also made several timely additions and probably not a few corrections.. I am very happy to have had the help of such an understanding collaborator.”	■	.
Dr. Noecker received his A.B. from Iowa State Teachers College, his M.S. from Iowa State College, his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1937. He has also been a member of numerous governmental agencies in the Department of Agriculture. He joined the faculty in. June of 1939.
Twenty-seven Courses Are . Offered to War Workers
Fall sessions of the engineering, science, and management war training program at the University will begin Monday with over 27 courses being offered. These range from engine testing to industrial psychology. ' ’
The training program, sponsored by the War Manpower Commission through the United States Office of Education and Notre Dame, is open to both men and women. All courses are free.
Classes are held in the evening, either one or two nights a week for 15 weeks. A'high school graduation or the equiv
alent in training or experience is required for entrance.
The University, through Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., director of the program at Notre Dame, announced that it would give assistance in making requests for additional gasoline allowance to those attending the war training classes. This program, one of over 79 in colleges and universities over the nation, has trained thousands for better positions in industry vital to the war effort.
Courses include electronics, electrical engineering, alternating current units, industrial control of motors, auditing, industrial accounting, industrial cost accounting, engineering drawing, aircraft drawing, applied descriptive geometry, tool and die design, concrete design, aircraft engines, engine testing, inspection mathematics, physical metallurgy, ferrous alloys and their heat treatment, industrial psychology, ’ industrial management, motion and time study, work simplification, finance problems of war industries, office supervision, job or occupational evaluation, basic engineering design and chemistry.
Over 600 men and women from 40 different corporations in Indiana have participated in the summer session of the training program which closed this past month. The Bendix Corporation led in attendance with 165.
N. D. Men at Camp Croft Guests of Spartanburg Group
Last week the soldiers of Camp Croft, South Carolina, who were former students at Notre Dame were invited to be the honored guests of the N.C.C.S.-USO Club of Spartanburg, the city neighboring their training camp.
A large smoking room" was appropriately decorated with the Irish colors and a buffet dinner was served. Later there was dancing and a merry gabfest took place as the “Old Days at N. D.” were discussed.
Camp Croft boasts a good supply of N.D. talent; the bulk of the E.R.C. from the East was assigned there. Seen around the dance floor were many familiar faces of former students who were called up with the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps late in May.
One of the most prominent men of Notre Dame who is stationed at Camp Croft is Pvt. Jack Woelfle, who, many will remember, authored the “Week” last semester. Other Camp Crofters are Pvt. John A. Reilly, Jr., former track and cross-country team member, and Pvt. Ambie Clancy, as well as a long list of others. There was such a good showing at this first dance, and such spirited
N. D. patriotism, that the Spartanburg Club plans to have more of such gatherings in the future.
Father Trahey Attends Meet
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., admin
istrative assistant at the University, has
been attending in New York City a con
Rev. James D. Trahey
ference sponsored by the Navy Department to foster better understanding among civilian counselors of universities participating in the naval training rogram. The conference will last until Sept. 15.
Father Trahey will stay in New York for the first half of the conference and then will go to Quantico, Va., for the final week of the conference.
Thirty-five universities and colleges are being represented in the eastern section of the conference. Similar meetings will be held in other sections of the country. "
At Chemical Convention
Andrew J. Boyle, Ph.D., head of the department of chemistry, has been representing this department at the fall
Prof. Andrew Boyle
meeting of the American Chemical Society from Sept. 6-13 at Ptitsburgh, Pa.
Accompanying Dr. Boyle to the meeting is Kenneth N. Cam p-b e 11, Ph.D., as
sistant professor' of chemistry at the University.
Prof. Campbell is to present a paper on chemistry at the convention.
Prof. Nims on Radio
John F. Nims, young American poet, was one of the guests on John T. Fredericks “Of Men and Books,” CBS feature on WSBT, last Saturday afternoon.
Mr. Nims, assistant professor of English at the University, where Mr. Frederick has taught until his present leave of absence, discussed contemporary poetry and read some selections of his own, most of which have appeared in the Poetry Magazine, and some of which won for the poet the Harriet Monroe Lyric award last fall.
6
St'druducitUf People
On The Campus
By Pvt. John Conron
With the advent of the V-12 program Notre Dame became the home of many students with interesting and colorful backgrounds among whom is Pvt. Dexter Landeaux of the Marine Corps detachment.
.Student commander of Company C, Pvt. Landeaux is an accomplished artist with the pencil and brush. His specialty is wild animal life studies and at the age of 21 he has established a reputation of note in this field.
He became interested in wild life at an early age and his hobby of collecting interesting specimens became a profitable one as he became affiliated with the Colorado Museum of Natural History in Denver, Colo., his home town. Here he worked as an artist executing several paintings which are on exhibit at the museum.
Prior to enlisting in the Marine Corps he went on a two month’s field trip to Arizona as a member of the museum staff where he painted 25 plates to illustrate an article by his associates for the National Geographic Magazine.
Upon entering the Marines Landeaux received his boot training at San Diego, Calif, and was then assigned to the Fleet
Marines at Camp Elliot, Calif. He was transferred to Notre Dame after entering Officer Candidate school.
Pvt. Landeaux still manages to sandwich in a few hours of his favorite work here at Notre Dame to fulfill his con-
tracts. At present he is doing a series of wild life sketches in water colors and those who have viewed his work attest to his skill with the brush.
Plans for the future are uncertain, Pvt. Landeaux says. He likes the Marine Corps so well that he may elect to continue in this branch of the service after .
the war.	.
ested will be held on Sept. 23, at a place to be settled upon later. Sellers get four cents a program, and it has not been unusual for them to earn ten and 15 dollars a week end in the past.
Assignments to positions which are to be held by each man will be made at the meeting, and so it is absolutely necessary that anyone who desires to sell should attend.
Lt. Gen. Drum, Laetare
Medalist, Wins High Post
Lt. General Hugh A. Drum, 1940 recipient of the Laetare Medal, has been named by the War Department to the
Lieut. General Hugh A. Drum
Lieut.-Comm. Harshman Is
New N.R.O.T.C. Instructor
Lieut. Commander Harry C. Harshman, USNR, reported for duty on Thursday, August 31, the latest officer to be added to the N.R.O.T.C. officerinstructor staff. He replaces Lieut. Commander Thompson Black who was transferred from this station several weeks ago.
Mr. Harshman was a member of the class of 1922 at the Naval Academy, but ,he resigned from the Navy immediately upon graduation. He returned to duty in the Reserve as a lieutenant commander in June, 1943, and his first assignment was that of executive officer at the Naval Section Base in Savannah, Ga.
The Section Base serviced smaller ships that put into the mouth of the Savannah River, and also served as a training base for young officers and for
enlisted men. Fifty-foot, Diesel-powered boats were based there as part of the close inshore patrol against submarines, and a YMS was operated to insure clearance of mines in the channel.
Mr. Harshman’s wife and their three boys are living in Englewood, N. J.; although the oldest son Renville, 17, is now a freshman at Harvard University. The second oldest boy, Don, now 14, will enter Andover later this month; and in October Mrs. Harshman, accompanied by nine year old Warren, will come westward to live in South Bend.
K. C. Calls Volunteers
to Sell Grid Programs
The Notre Dame council of the K. of C. is organizing a squad of men to sell football programs for the coming season, and announce that they need at least 250 men.
A meeting of all those who are inter
post of chairman of the Inter-American Defense Board.	’
The Inter-American Defense Board is a permanently constituted organization of military, naval, .and aviation technical delegates appointed by each of the 21 American republics. It is charged with the important duties of studying and recommending to the governments of the 21 republics the steps necessary for the defense of the hemisphere.	_
The Laetare Medal is awarded annually to some outstanding Catholic layman. General Drum merited the medal not only for his genius in war but also for his brilliant leadership in peace. He has long been associated with the highest standards of religious and civic endeavor.
Besides the Laetare Medal, General Drum has been the recipient of many honorary degrees from universities all over the country. His military decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star, various campaign medals, and decorations from France, Italy, Norway, and Belgium. ; -
CLUBS
Lanigan Considers "Poetry and Belief" Before Bookmen
Joe Lanigan, of Newton Center, Mass., discussed the problem of poetry and belief before the Bookmen Tuesday evening.
He considered this subject especially in relation to the poetry of Gerard Man-ley Hopkins, founding his argument upon the Thomistic propositions that there are three conditions required for beauty, integritas, debita, proportio and clar-itas; and that beauty is that whose apprehension pleases the mind. He endeavored to show that the Catholic poet, knowing and believing profound intelligibilities, can realize greater beauty.
The business portion of the meeting was brief. It was decided that each member should draw up and submit, not later than one week from that time, his list of preferences of books which will be bought by the club and distributed among the members.
The Bookmen will meet again on Tuesday, Sept. 3, in the Law Building.
Boston Club to Show
Irish - Buckeye Movies
On next Tuesday evening, August 14. the Boston Club of Notre Dame will meet in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 o’clock. The program will be featured by the showing of the movies of the 1935 Notre Dame-Ohio State football thriller. This Irish-Buckeye contest is considered by followers of the gridiron game to be one of the greatest contests ever played. Notre Dame came from behind in the final minutes to score three touchdowns and nose out the home team 18 to 13.” The student body is invited to attend. Members of the Boston Club are requested to remain for a few minutes after the pictures for a short business meeting.
At the last meeting held on August 31 over 300 students attended the showing of the films of the Notre Dame-Southern California game of 1941. The individual stars of the game, Angelo Bertelli for Notre Dame and Chief Petty Officer Bob Robertson for Southern Cal, both were present and gave a running commentary on the game. CPO Robertson made an introductory speech before vocally vie-ing with Bertelli in the comments on the pictures.
Knights Open Annual Membership Campaign
The Knights of Columbus of the University have announced that their annual membership drive will be underway soon. The quota set for the chapter is 45 new members, and all civilian and military students are qualified to make application.
The Membership committee is headed by Gene Wahlhorn as chairman, who is assisted by Ed Schmid, Dillon; Pat Rega, St. Edward’s; Jack Doherty, Sorin; John Davis and Felix McParlant, Off-Campus; Charles Powers, and William Clemency, Walsh; Jerry Coleman, Cavanaugh; John C. Fitzpatrick, Alumni; and Brother Meinrad, C.S.C.
The first degree initiations are to be held on Monday evening, Sept. 20, in conjunction with the South Bend Council in its downtown chambers.
The drive will be climaxed on Sept. 14 by a rally which will be held in the chambers of Walsh Hall. All Catholic students are invited to attend, if they are at all interested. Entertainment and refreshments will be provided, and Fr. Eugene Burke will act as master of ceremonies for the occasion.
Engineer Club to Dance on Georgia Tech Week-end
The Engineer’s Club has announced tentative plans for a dance to be held Oct. 1, the weekend of the Georgia Tech-Notre Dame football game, the first home tilt of the season.
. Bill Snyder is chairman of the affair. He and his committees have decided on an informal dance, although they have not yet set the place or engaged the band. Two o’clock permissions have been granted, the first of this semester, but because the dance falls on Friday night, it is feared that many on the campus will be unable to take advantage of this opportunity for night hawking.
It is hoped that this affair will serve in lieu of a class dance, for which prospects are rather bleak thus far. Tickets for the dance and the game will be included in the one price of the bids, which will be put on sale in the near future.
As yet no final details have been settled upon, but they will be ironed out in the next week, and will appear in the Scholastic as soon as possible.
Labor Problems Discussed at Commerce Forum
The problem of labor unrest and control was discussed at a meeting of the Commerce Forum held Tuesday evening.
Paul Friedman was the principal speaker, and undertook in his paper the defense of labor against the popular dissatisfaction it has been receiving as a result of strikes, especially the recent coal strike. He attempted to show that, with this one glaring exception, the government through duly authorized bodies has managed to control 90 per cent of the labor disputes since the beginning of the war, without resorting to conscription of labor, or compromising labor in any way. He also pointed out that labor has cooperated with the efforts of the government in the prosecution of the war, and has not been the communistic or socialistic body which it has been considered by many.
The Forum’s next meeting will be held at a banquet in the Town Club, Wednesday, Sept. 22. John VanBenton will be the speaker.
Lt. Ehrmann Addresses
Economic Round Table
The last - meeting of the Economic Round Table was held on August 30 at Blake Gardens. The speaker for the evening was Lt. H. M. Ehrmann, of the Navy faculty on campus. Lt. Ehrmann is instructor in navigation and other naval subjects for the ROTC. He spoke on the general subject of the war, and especially upon the conditions leading up to the war, the failure of the United States to follow and chart the events that eventually led us into the conflict, and which previously allowed it to break out. He discussed also at great length the problem of Russia, both as an ally and as a factor in the post war settlements and maintenance of peace.
At the previous two meetings, George Hegner spoke on “Game Conservation” and J. C. R. Clark spoke on conditions making for further post-war domestic strikes, the Round Table also drew plans for their last membership meeting of the semester, to be held next Wednesday.
Notre Dame Sports
Irish Nine Closes a Successful Season;
Provide Recreation for Players, Students
climaxed by a visit from the mighty Great Lake Bluejackets- The Michigan City Cubs brilliant pitching and clutch hitting edged out Notre Dame, 3-2, in an arc-light contest. Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame entertained the home folks by walloping the Bunker Hill Naval Air Base 15-2 in the second meeting of the year. Harry Sortal coasted in, and was also the hitting star, getting three singles. After knocking out a dozen and a half hits, the team looked set for the big game.
BY JOE FAHEY
The Notre Dame summer baseball club has laid its flannels in the moth balls for the winter months. The July-August schedule was designed not only to furnish recreation for the boys who comprise the squad, but also to provide relaxation over the weekends for the students and service men unable to leave the campus. As this was the primary object of Coach Kline, the season was completely successful.
The lack of inter-collegiate competition in this sector forced Manager Tom Cody to schedule many service teams studded with former semi-pro and minor league ball players. Confronted by the fact that not one of last season’s pitchers returned and the schedule was made up of high calibre opposition, the coach figured on a losing season. The record of seven victories out of 12 games looks impressive. Four of the team’s five losses were absorbed on the road.
The season opener was played late in July against the Bunker Hill Naval Training Base in southern Indiana. Before thousands of sailors, Andy Phillip turned in the first victory. It was an 8-5 win, featured by the home run bats of Bob Kline and Tommy Sheehan. In the initial home stand the team swept on to two more victories. The first was an 8-3 licking handed to the Camp Custer Military Police nine. Here Phillip registered win number two, allowing but six hits. Once aagin, Bob Kline was leading the attack, blasting a long home-run. The next day the South Bend Knights of Pythias fell victims to the Irish hitting power. Pounding out 16 hits, the Kline-men wound up on the long end of an 11-3 score for their third straight victory. Three of Coach Kline’s pitchers split the nine frames, but the victory was credited to Bill Martin.
On the road the following weekend, the nine suffered their first defeat at the hands of the Michigan City State Penitentiary, 5-3. Bill Martin was the losing pitcher, 5-3. A bad fifth inning spoiled the day for him.
Moving on to Battle Creek, Mich., Joe Zieminski was handed his first starting assignment, and though in hot water in the early frames, turned in a good’job in a 12-8 victory. Marv Kranda's four hits in this game started him on a season-long streak which often had his batting average above .500.
Coach Kline
The second defeat, again on the road, was at the hands of the Calumet AllStars, who were composed of the best northern Indiana - Illinois Industrial League ball players. This was an 11-10 slugfest. The loss was due chiefly to errors and bases on balls. Andy* Phillip suffered his first defeat, though holding the opposition to eight hits.
The following Sunday the Freeman Field Flyers were grounded by an 8-2 count. This was Joe Zieminski’s second victory and he turned in a fine job, limiting the flyers to seven scattered hits while the Irish heavy artillery was again barking.
Thus with five victories and two defeats the Klinemen came to their biggest weekend of the season. The schedule called for three games in 42 hours,
Big league from bow to stern, Great Lakes Navy was next on the schedule. Over 5,000 were on hand to see the stars perform. Andy Phillip was selected as starting pitcher on the basis of the season’s performance. Trouble mounted in the very first inning when the first hit ball was booted, Phillip gave up a walk, and Scarpelli missed a shoe-string catch that went for a triple. Three runs were in. The Irish seemed nervous and did not settle down till the fourth inning, but by that time the game was lost.
Hopelessly behind by six runs, the Klinemen never stopped fighting. Phillip balked the Navy’s big guns for six straight innings, and meanwhile the. Notre Dame infield nearly stole the show, reeling off five double plays in seven innings, and staving off runs time after time. Bight up until the final pitch N. D. showed that they were in the game by slashing out two doubles and a single to net two runs. They solved Tom Fer-rick too late, and the big bats of Mc-Cosky and McQuillen had boomed at the right time. The customers went home satisfied that Great Lakes is a real ball club, and Notre Dame, though outclassed lived up to their monicker of “The Fighting Irish.”
The Great Lakes battle was the final home game of the year. Two games remained to be played, one with the Glenville Naval Air Station, and the second against the powerful Camp Grant outfit. Joe Zieminski twirled and won the Glenville game by a 6-4 score. The finale was our worst defeat of the season. Andy Philip, apparently not at his best, was hit hard. The final score was 13-3.
Throughout the six weeks season, Marv Kranda and Bob Kline were pacing the club’s batting attack. Prior to the last two games, the boys had averages of .489 and .457 respectively. The team itself had the astonishing high average of .333. The pitching staff’s seven victories were accounted for as follows: Phillip 2, Zieminski 3, and Sortal and Martin, one each. The-squad persoimd included nine marines, two civilians, and seven sailors. Coach Kline hopes to have most of these boys back next spring.*’
N. D. Manager System Founded by Rockne;
Bill Boss, Nick Amato, Ed Schramm at Helm
BY ROLAND J. STEINLE
Since that day several years ago when the Notre Dame system of foothall was first conceived by Knute Rockne, its fame and popularity has grown to great proportions, and that system, together with all its variations, forms an important chapter in the history of football. But there is another Notre Dame system, closely, connected with football, which, like the other, is a brainchild of Rockne; but it is less well known to the general public. This is the system of student-managership. Started by Rockne in 1930, and carried through the years by the student managers themselves, the organization is today essentially the same as when it was founded. A very definite procedure has heen laid down and is carefully followed, and its uniqueness and its exclusiveness, as well as its inclusiveness, can be seen in the following sketch.
Every fall 25 to 90 eager freshmen respond to an invitation to become student managers. Throughout their first year they perform every imaginable task in relation to all organized sport played on the campus. The hours are long, the work of a menial nature, the recognition almost non-existant. At the start of the second year the number is reduced to about 20, as a result of the uninterested dropping out, and those showing lack of initiative being cut. Their schedule follows about the same pattern as the previous year. The ranks are thinned even further in the third year, when the number is lowered to eight. It is then that the fellows begin to harvest some fruits from their labor. But the weeding out process still continues, and by the fall of the fourth year, but three men remain out of the two or three score who started.
One of the senior managers is in charge of equipment, and it is his responsibility to see that all necessary equipment is in its proper place at the proper time. This includes all daily practice sessions, the home games, and all games away, the latter providing the most headaches and anxious moments. When the team plays away, equipment must be packed, checked, sent, and must arrive in good order. The equipment manager travels with his trunks, handling them like spoiled children. Needless
to say, an error on his part will result in almost vnremediable disaster.
Another senior is responsible for the stadium personnel. It is his job to contact, instruct, and oversee the large number of attendants required to handle the home crowds. In general he sees to it that the whole organization is geared properly and runs smoothly. Under them are the junior, sophomore, and freshman managers, who carry out the details of their plans. With the completion of the football season in the fourth year of their work, the seniors elect their successors from the junior managers, and their reign is over. Another group carries on throughout the rest of the of three assume the responsibility and year.
To enumerate all the various tasks of a student manager would be practically impossible here, but the list includes such things as meeting and looking after the needs of all opposing teams, officials, sportswriters and announcers, celebrities and the like. They are responsible for hotel. accommodations, meals, checking players, and, in short, most of the details of every trip. They are the men behind the scenes in every practice and every game, and usually bear the brunt of every complaint directed against Notre Dame Sports. They are in constant touch with all the players and all the coaches, and are more or less subject to the whims of both. But throughout the years they have built up a reputation through their system and the manner in which they have carried it out which has resulted in numerous inquiries from other schools, including Harvard and Iowa.. The reward consists in the main in the pleasure of knowing that their responsibility is well warranted, and their job is well done. Though, they are accountable to Herb Jones, the business manager of athletics, and to the coaches, they are to a great degree independent, left free to carry out care-laden jobs.
This season Bill Boss, Nick Amato and Bob Schramm will be at the helm of the system. They look forward to a most successful Fall. Several Freshmen are needed to fill the shoes of those who have stepped up a notch, or who have left school. Those interested in becoming a cog in the second Notre Dame system need only make application to try a hand at one of the toughest yet one of the most interesting jobs on the campus.
will once again
Jin Mello
Mello in Air Corps; to Don Irish Jersey 'Till Called
Jim Mello, one of Notre Dame’s three stellar sophomore fullbacks last season, don a big green jersey this fall. Jim was accepted into the Naval Aviation Program, and is subject to a call to active duty at any time. Just how long he will stay at Notre Dame is up to Uncle Sam.
Mello with Gerry Cowhig and Corwin Clatt comprised the powerful Irish line plunging trio last September. When C o w h i-g was hurt Mello took over the starting spot in the season’s opener with Wisconsin. The play
of the West Warwick, R. I. sophomore was outstanding until an injury to his knee in the Stanford game sidelined him for the rest of the season. Clatt carried on in a superlative manner. Both Cowhig and Clatt were members of the ERC, and are now in the Army.
Dillon I and Alumni Tennis
Teams Fighting for Lead
By Dan Reardon
Campus tennis activity is now well underway. Already leading teams are pointing for a championship crown-
Dillon I, pre-season favorite for the interhall tennis title, had a very close call when the Sorin squad showed up on the courts with a stronger team than was expected. It wasn’t until Bob Faught and Frankie Curran overwhelmed their opponents in the doubles matches that the Dillonites were confident of a victory. The final score for the match was 4-2.
The Alumni racquet-bearers so far have steam rollered their challengers. Cavanaugh was defeated 4-1, while Sorin was beaten 4-0. As it looks now, Alumni has a better than average chance of tie-ing or perhaps beating Dillon I in a bid for the first place honors of league 1.
St. Ed’s split its games by losing to Dillon I, 4-1; and by defeating Cavanaugh.
In league II, the Faculty has gained the top of the list by beating the Main Building to a tune of 5-0, and likewise Dillon II by a score of 4-1;
10
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
It’s only a matter of two weeks till Notre Dame begins its gridiron rampage but the opening date for many other large institutions has been set a week or two earlier. Take for instance, Illinois’ opener with ' Camp Grant tomorrow. Unless Ray Eliot has retried something comparable to last year’s potentialities, it should be “Blue Champaign” on Sat-
Bili Waddington urday night.... The other day, we were glancing through one of the latest football magazines now in the newsracks and read with pride the prediction for the boys from the “golden dome.” ... In pointing out the tough schedule for the Irish this season, it makes mention of the fact that Leahy’s Lads will get a chance to bounce back at Michigan Oct. 9, the day that will probably decide the Midwestern supremacy.
For those of you who want to see a little football before Oct. 2, we can recommend the home opener of South Bend’s Central Bears tomorrow night at School Field.
With most of the college clubs upset and newly reorganized with incoming military trainees, it seems most likely that few, if any, sports scribes will be attempting to predict a national champion. ... It won’t be a very feasible move until late October anyway — by then three-fourths of the teams will have been eliminated through defeat so why should the prognostics cut their own throats now? ... Besides, true claims to national efficiency have moved beyond the realms of college football during scrambled wartime conditions.... If Michigan were to get the title, they ought to give a slice to Wisconsin... After all, they’ve got seven of the Badgers... See what we mean?	,	'
. Tommy Harmon, Michigan’s gridiron great and now a lieutenant in the Army Air Force, has been credited with shooting down his first Jap Zero in combat near Hong Kong in late August.... It wasn’t too long ago that Tommy was feared lost altogether, but he finally turned up safe and sound in South America.... Great Lakes doesn’t possess the individual prestige that they had
with their bone-crushers of last season. Most of the boys have graduated from their respective schools at the station since last season, and likely replacements haven’t been too numerous... Still in all Lt. Paul “Tony” Hinkle will assemble something plenty worth while and you can bet last year’s rain check that it’ll be largely built around a Seaman 2nd Class by the name of Juzwik. A lot of us would rather have him playing for than against us Turkey Day—plenty sound for my dough.
With about 22 or 23 games more for each of the major league clubs, a rapid close is emerging on the major loop.... Pennants? That question was settled long ago as far as the Yanks and Cards were concerned.____Who’s going to take the series is more prominent.... Some say that without a Johnny Beazley hurling, the Cards will have two less potential victories to count on.... National league arguments contend that all-around Yankee talents aren’t up to par and that they won’t be able to meet the Cardinal speed and versatility.... We’ll let the sharpies dope out their own arguments, good or bad.
- Trans-Oceanic Adventure
If everything goes well for the planned tour of army camps in foreign settings by America’s baseball all-stars, it ought to be quite an adventure for most of the diamond stalwarts.... the crossing of hostile and enemy infested waters, the nearness to actual battlefronts, and the monotony of army routine will be but a few of their experiences.... Anyway, baseball when •witnessed by the natives of these other countries will probably take a tremendous rise abroad in the post-war period.... We were lucky when Jim Brieske, Michigan place-kicker, only made two out of a possible five extra points in the Irish-Wolverine battle last fall.... He made 29 of them all told, having had six perfect games.
Big Crowd for Pittsburgh Tilt
The Notre Dame-Pittsburgh gridiron thriller two weeks hence will draw more people through the turnstiles than the Panther eleven attracted all last season in a complete schedule. Ticket sales point to a sellout crowd of over 70,000. Total attendance in 1942 added up to 66,000.
Ziemba Returns as Coach
Wally Ziemba, great Notre Dame center for the past three years has returned to Cartier Field as an assistant line
Assistant Coach Wally Ziemba
coach. He will aid Moose Krause and Hughie Devore.
Wally, a 230 pound varsity pivotman in ’40, ’41 and ’42 won national acclaim in his Junior year. In- that undefeated year his most spectacular feat was to block two placement kicks against Southern California when we edged the Trojans 20 to 18. A knee injury slowed Ziemba down in ’42 and he saw comparatively little action.
Mornings he will aid Herb Jones in the Athletic Association business office.
Official Football Practice
Starts with Movie Cameras
Coach Frank Leahy called official practice on Sept. 3 at Cartier Field. A battery of newsreel and newspaper cameras were trained on Captain Pat Filley as he led the squad through the green fence gate. The rest of the afternoon was devoted to a series of publicity shots, with the boys running through their paces to the tune of whirling film.
The makeup of the squad had a decided Notre Dame tinge. Listed on the roster are less than ten lads from other schools. On the whole the group is in fine physical condition. As for Navy and Marine trainees their daily Phy-Ed program has served to harden them into fine competitive shape. The game with. Pittsburgh is a mere two weeks in the future, however, and Coach Leahy must whip his club into game' polish before that time. The regular lineup will win its spurs in the scrimmages between now and game time.
Creighton Miller is Back
Creighton Miller, of Notre Dame’s football playing Millers, returned to the campus last week as a student. A Senior
Creighton Miller
and eligible for another season of the gridiron sport, his athletic status is uncertain.
Creighton, a member of the ERC, was called to active duty at the end of the May semester. After spending some time in the Army, however, he received an honorable medical discharge. Before Miller will be allowed to put on a Notre Dame uniform he must obtain the consent of his family and his home physician.
A swivel - hipped speed merchant Creightie will be a valuable addition to the squad. His hard, yardage-consuming running has been one of the features of the Notre Dame attack -in. the past two years.
Midshipmen Golf Team
Defeats Notre Dame
A golf team representing the Naval Reserve Midshipmen school defeated a representative team from Notre Dame 5 and 4 Saturday, August 28.
Feature of the card was the match between Midshipman Gene Fehlig, 1943 Notre Dame captain, and. Mel Wilke, Notre Dame captain-elect. Fehlig carded a 74, while Wilke shot a 75.	.
Other scores for Notre Dame, included: Jim Besenfelder, 76; Jim Gallagher, 75; Joe La Fortune, 81; Jim Clynes, 77; Dick Seidel, 77. Navy scores included: Tom Riherd, U. of Florida, 80; Bud Gans, Notre Dame, 8,; Dick Buttermore, Denison University, 76; Bill Patten, N. Carolina U., 80; and Jack Donahoe,
12
Georgetown, who participated in the Tam
O’Shanter open tourney, 72.	.
N.R.O.T.C Softball Title To Be Decided Sunday
By Jack Houghteling
A 9-3 victory for Deck 1 over Deck 3 in the final game of the season left’ the NROTC Deck Softball League in a deadlock for a champion. Deck 3 had held a one game lead as they went into the final game but a 14 hit attack backed up by four hit pitching of Dan Hecht enabled Frank Beaudine’s men to climb back into the top spot in the league.
The championship game between the First Deck and the Fourth Deck will be played Sunday, Sept. 12 on Cartier Field.
With the season finale the four Deck captains announced the league All-Star team and the most valuable player. Dan Hecht, ace pitcher for the First, was the choice of three captains for "most valuable” and the award went to him. Bill Wicks, Deck 3, finished second in the voting.
Dan Hecht shared pitching honors with Ed Caparo, Deck 4, on the All-Star team. Mark Cronin, Deck 4, was the choice for first base and Al Bohn, First Deck, Bill Raese, Second Deck, Frank Beaudine, First Deck, and Al Stello of Fourth Deck, complete the infield.
Don Finelli, Deck 3, was the only unanimous choice on the squad. He is an outfielder. Other outfielders chosen were: Jim Ledwith, Deck 3, Hank Frai-ley, Deck 1, Joe Hickey, Deck 4, and “Buck” Madden, Deck 2.
Dan Long was the outstanding choice at the catcher’s spot.
Deck 4 hitters finished 1-2-3 in the batting column with Al Stello topping the league with a .470 followed by Bud. Seghers, .421, and Joe Hickey with .400. Hank Slamin, Deck 1, trailed this trio with .382 and Don Finelli and Jim Ledwith, both of the Third Deck, came next with .375 and .369 respectively.
John Kramer, Third Deck topped the pitchers with four wins and no losses. Dan Hecht pitched the entire schedule for Deck 1 and finished with nine wins and three losses. Jack Houghteling, Deck 3, finished third with four victories against two defeats.
Deck League Standings (Final)
w	L	PCT.
Deck 3 ............. 9	3	.750
Deck 1  .......  L.™	9	-3	.750
Deck 4	______ 3	8	.272
Deck 2 _____________ 2	9	.181
Chief Specialist Glover to Direct NROTC Footballers
By Jack Houghteling
Forty candidates comprise the squad reporting daily to head coach Chief Specialist Harold C. Glover for positions on the Notre Dame Naval ROTC football team. Chief Glover is being assisted by Chief Specialists Robertson and Jivelick-ian.
At present the coaches haven’t been able to do much mor than “get acquainted” with the players but by the end of the week, several scrimmages will have been held and the mentors will have a better line on their material. Already the team has been running through plays using a single wing and an unbalanced line.
Al Bohn and Tom Mahar look like the top men at the end posts. Bohn tops the scales at 195 pounds and played last season -with the varsity while Mahar gained experience on last year’s freshman squad. Jack Conway and Dick Young will provide the competition at the wing post while Jack Herlihy, Cyril Kelly,-Walt La Berge, Chuck Merrill, and Jack Monaghan complete the list of ends.
At tackle, the line is bolstered by a quartet of 200-pounders. John Kramer at 215 is one of the outstanding linemen and when paired with Bill Wicks will provide a tough twosome at this spot. Hank DiGirolamo and John Zwicker, will move in as soon as either of the top two weaken. Bill Clemency is new at the position, but his 200 pounds should make him a valuable man.
The guard spots are currently being filled by Louis O’Brien and Jack Houghteling. A 200 pounder John Johnson and Ed Singelyn have been showing good at practice as have Bob Maurer and Bob Neff. .
The center of the line is anchored by 195 John Dewey. Jim Kelly follows closely and Bob Clary will put his 200 pounds to good use. -	-
Ed Gighliotti has been directing the squad from the quarterback and blocking back spot. Roy Grumbine and Frank Beaudine will complete the list of quarterbacks and are sure, to see plenty of action. ■	■ -
Left-handed Don' Finelli is one of the
outstanding halfbacks and will probably team with Bill Raese at the first string posts. However, the halfback spot is loaded with talent and Frank “Tex” Crowley, Don “Scooter” Hummer, Coyne Callaghan, or Ed Caparo are likely at any time to take over the number one post.
At fullback, Al Stello and Bill Griffin are waging a hot struggle for the starting post. Both hit the scales at about 185 and are equal in ability.
Practice is held every evening at 5:00 p.m. on Brownson field between the Field House and Chemistry Hall.
Functional Swim Meet
Takes Place Tomorrow
By Bill Waddington
Something new will have been definitely added when the Functional Swim meet takes place at St. Joe’s lake tomorrow at 3:00 p.m.
Ensign S. J. Jablonski announced that neither wind, nor rain, nor snow would prevail against the encounter. He further added that a little ice might help to give the contest a good spirit of competition but he was undoubtedly in a jovial mood in view of the events to be undertaken by the entrants.
The meet itself is something new, as it does not contain the customary speed and backstroke competition as witnessed in most American splash-parties. All the events call for endurance on the part of the swimmer who desires to try his luck at hatching some Johnny Weismuller quality. Entries were still being accepted late this week. Each hall was to enter a team of not more than ten men, each man being limited to two events and a relay. The prizes to be awarded the triumphant will be proverbial Notre Dame interhall medals.
Ample spectator space will be nrovided within the near bounds of the lake. Each and every student, as well as trainee, is invited out to cheer on his favorite entrant. Listed below are a schedule of events:
1.	50 yd swim and rescue (two man): a) Front approach; b) Cross chest carry; c) Fireman carry; d) Resuscitation.
2.	Underwater swim for distance, (clothed).
3.	Elimination support swim. (4 pound weights in each hand).
4.	75 yd speed support swim, (keeping an object balanced on your head).
5.	Shirt tail life-saving, (remove clothes and inflate jumper and trousers).
6.	75 yd. elementary backstroke.
7)	75 yd. shirt two swim (two man).
8)	Elimination pole-tug-of-war.
9)	100 yd. four man jumper relay.
Scoring: Events, 5-3-2-1; Relays, 8-6-4-2.
Wants $1.10 Midfield Seat
The laugh of the week emanates from the ticket offices over in Breen-Phillips Hall. Application was received from a West Virginia writer asking for four $1.10 seats at the Army-Notre Dame game this fall at New York. Added was a note that the seats to be acceptable must be on the 50-yard line.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF
RECEDING HAIRLINE. FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Sl.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
«■
OUTDO YOURSELF
In An Arrow Outfit!
If there's anything better looking than an Arrow Shirt, it's; an Arrow. Ensemble. All styled to blend perfectly and strictly on the beam.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
SHIRTS
$2.24 up
TIES
$1.00 up
HANDKERCHIEFS
35c up
13
St. Ed's Students Attack
Food Problem; Buy Own
By Al Lesmez
Notre Dame comprises a number of types of men. The predominant characteristics of each man grooves him into one of the three main types to be found on the campus. There is the impulsive type, the inhibitive type, and the intelligent type. And then there is the St. Edward’s type._he is just practical!
Not wanting to put the direct blame for the food situation on Mr. Nelson’s 0. P. A., nor on Mr. Connolly’s chefs, but still very much aware that such a food situation does exist, the St. Ed-
TRAVELING?
South Bend's
Leading Store For Luggage Needs
HansA Ri ntzsch tyqaqe Shop
Michigan at Colfax
ward’s man has relied on the purely sensuous dictates of his hungry stomach to spur him to action.
St. Edward’s men have decided they simply must eat, and so they have invaded the downtown stores in search of jellies, peanut butter, bread, relish, Vienna sausages (four red ration points), and anything else that can be kept without souring in Indiana heat.
The bus drivers pulling around the Circle into the University have long been surprised at the brown paper bags filled with bulky canned food, the clinking of jars, and the rustling, waxy brittleness of Kreamo’s Vitaminized.
But it is not as easy as all that. The boys don’t go downtown and buy just anything at all. It is with a nice selectiveness that groups combine, plan what they are going to buy, and stagger the purchases among themselves. In this way, when stomach gremlins begin to tickle the stomach walls (a physical phenomenon encountered only in presence of vacuums) a room is picked, a toaster is started up, the peanut butter-is taken out, the jar of grape jelly is-, recruited from the student across the hall, another donates the sausages, along with the bread, and someone runs down to the Huddle for drinks. Just before the door is locked and barred, one more student rushes in with the relish, and the party of five sit down to a truly democratic cooperative. These groups are common all along the hall, some more progressive and ambitious than the rest; others not as active, satisfied with getting just enough to foil the gremlins until the
next disappointing raid on the dining hall can be made.
These critical supplies pour into St. Ed’s not only through the downtown expeditions and the bus safaris, but also through the channels of the United States mail. They are sent chiefly by kindly parents, and thoughtful girl friends, along with a few sympathetic relief societies.
Little by little the stocks grow, and as more closets’, cabinets, and bureau drawers are converted into pantries and food depots, the impending winter looks definitely “palatable.” One St. Edward’s man is known to have more than 12 cans of Campbell’s soup stored away, along with cans of Spam, boxes of Hitz crackers, jars of pickles, and a’ ready-to-use ration book for buying fresh meat.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTQMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair. . service in our own laboratory..
212 S. Michigan. St. Phone 4-8251
From Down-Town South Bend To Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information. call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N, Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
IT IS NOT TOO LATE—MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under Management . .
■.;	of . . ....
• Josie and'Jim
Sunny Italy Cafe .
■ 601 N.-Niles Avenue
Phone 3-0678
14
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
The service men in Cavanaugh and Zahm must wonder at the odors coming through their windows on nights when St. Ed’s boys are practicing their culinary art, for the aroma of browning toast and cheese, and frying sausage is reminiscent of home. The trainees must get a nostalgic twinge or two when they are exposed to these odors. The munching men of St. Edward’s realize this, and since they have no desire to cause unpleasantness, reveal that they have no patent on their plan. Anyone of the marines who can eat, and afford to buy the grub, and is able to keep the sergeant from smelling what is going on, is urged to join this throng of practical and contented gourmets.	’
Irish Tennis Squad Trims Western Michigan
By Dan Reardon
Notre Dame travelled to Kalamazoo, Mich, to swamp Western Michigan’s tennis squad, 7 to 2. In the singles matches Charlie Samson, acting as Notre Dame’s number one player, was victorious over Soukup by scores of 6-3, 7-5.
Caparo filling the number two slot was defeated by Staake, 6-2 and 7-5. Bob Paddock came back for the Notre Dame squad to defeat Boersma, 6-0, 6-2. Number four man, Bill Griffin, won over Riet-ma to the tune of 6-0, 5-7, and 6-0. Herbert then lost a close match to Wingarden 6-3, 4-6, and 6-4. Guy Perenich held up his end of the contest by out playing Mauzy 6-4, 3-6 and 6-3.
In the doubles Notre Dame succeeded in capturing the spot light for all three matches. Samson and Paddock defeated Soukup and Staake by a score of 7-5, and 6-4. Caparo and Griffin beat Rietma and Wingarden 6-2 and 6-1. To wind up the doubles game, Herbert and Perenich overwhelmed Boersma and Com-mings by a score of 6-2 and 6-3.
Summary
Singles: Notre Dame, 77; Western Michigan, 59.
Doubles: Notre Dame, 37; Western Michigan, 17.
Totals: Notre Dame, 114; Western Michigan, 76.
Future Matches Scheduled
Coach Walter Langford has announced three scheduled matches for his netmen. These are:
Saturday, Sept. 11. N. D. vs. Western Michigan at Notre Dame.
Sunday, Sept. 12. N. D. vs. N. D. Midshipmen at Notre Dame.
Saturday, Set. 18. N. D. vs. Chicago Town and Tennis Club at Chicago. -
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. DJD.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674 -
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation	-
. Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. lad.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building	'
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building ' '	-
L. E. Fisher. M.D. * M. J. Thornton, MJ).
15

GET READY for THE FUN —
THE SCHOLASTIC invites you to enter the K. of C.'s
All-Campus Vaudeville
Washington Hall, Sept. 17
Try-outs will be held Monday and Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Entries will be accepted until that time.
Admission Free
