

· NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gip per! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Cam.pus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus. Remember: Ifyou see n~ws happening ... you're ptobably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every w~ek, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
~---------------------------..------.----­
. 
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 
Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code:_~ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _ ye¥S = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 
CONTENTS 


NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 

2  Editor's Notes  
8  Campus Watch .  
26  On Other Campuses  
27  Week in Distortion  
28  Final Word  

Above: The construction of the Notre Dame stadium in 1930. Will the stadium be expanded? See page 4. 
3 Who's Who: George Wendt 4 To Expand or Not to Expand 7 Sorin Centennial 

9 What ·Lies in Cedar Grove 
. . ' 
10 Destination: Notre Dame· . · 11 Teachers from·the Real"World· 13 Up .~. Up ... and Away! 

14 Another Decade of Dominance 18 Taking One for the Team 

. 22 Out of Bounds 
23 Celebrity News Flash 
24 · .Rudy Reviews 
25 This Break, Entertain Yourself 
Cover photo by Kenneth Osgood 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 

FROM THE MANAGING EDITOR 
Now that I am a senior and am preparing to say good-bye to Notre Dame, the thought o: changing the stadium makes me think seriously about whether the decision is a wise or necessary one. 
What are the advantages of expansion? Twenty thousand more Irish fans will have the opportunity to see a Notre Dame game live. More money from ticket sales will be raised. 
What happens if we don't expand? Nothing changes. 
What happens in either case? The stadium will still sell out. Tickets will be still scapled for too much money. Some fans who want to see a game will still not be able to get in. Tailgaters will still rage. Irish spirit and enthusiasm will still dominate. 
Other questions raised: Can Notre Dame's campus or the city of South Bend handle an extra 20,000 people milling around? Where will off­campus students park? Are Irish fans upset about the size of the stadium, or are people just happy to be here, at Notre Dame, on game weekend? Will the feeling of tradition accentuated by decades of memories be weakened? Will expansion hurt the home field advantage? · 
All this goes to show the complexity of the issue, an issue which Assistant News Editor T. Ryan Kennedy explores in detail in this week's cover story. I encourage anyone who feels strongly about the issue of stadium expansion to share his or her views by writing to Scholastk 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... Cheers' star George Wendt (Norm), who drank beeratNotreDamelong before his career as a professional barfly began, is the subject of this week's "Who's Who" feature. The hundredth anniversary of Fathe.r · · Sorin' s death is the subject of a feature by News Editor Mark Mitchell .. 
In keeping with the coming of Halloween, Campus Life writer Shannon Lennard investigates the Cedar Grove Cemetery. Also in Campus Life this week, a class taught by the homeless, the pilots of the Notre Dame 
flying club, and transfer students. In Sports, Bob Belden reviews USC's · 
· chance of success against the Irish this weekend, and Mary Kate Morton investigates the sacrifices varsity players have to make during break. · 
Entertainment sports the writing of Scholastic's Editor in Chief, · Margaret Kenny, who reports on how critics rate the movie Rudy. Assistant Entertainment Editor Scott Johnson offers comical advice for self­amusement over break, and Entertainment Editor Miranda Sanford keeps Notre Dame informed on the humorous happenings in the world of the rich and famous. 
Have fun over break. Beat USC. Drive safely. Eat well. Enjoy the issue. -Kenneth A. Osgood 
Sclwlastic is publisludwukly throughout tJu sclwoly,arac,pt utters.to Sclwlastic mustbe typed 11ndInclude tJu writer's,...,,.,, 
during ,xaminaticm and vacaticm periods at tlu lllliversity of Addrtss and plwnt number. llllivtrsity st,,dents slwu/4 i,,cl'""' Notre Dam,, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printLd at Tiu Papers, 
tluir year in sclwol and colkgt. FllCMlty ,,..,,.b,rs slwu/4 inclrult Inc, Milford, IN46542. Tiu subscription ratL is SZS.00/y,ar al<d 
tluir d,p11rtmtnt. All letters ,,.,.,t bt slg,,td. Na,,.,s will bt back issu,s are ,wailabl, at $1.25 /copy. Tiu opi11ions ,xprtsstd 
withluld upon rtquest in ctrlllin in,tanct1. 
in Sclwlastic are tlwse of tlu autlwrs and editors and do not SclwlllStic rtsero,s tlu right to rtjtct lttttn that art libtlOII$ or 11,cessarily r,prtstnt tJu opi11ions oftlu entire editorial board of obsctn• by tlu laws oftJu 1111/tLd Stms. Scholastici,lsowill,dit Sclwlastic or oftlu lllliv,rsity ofNotrt Dam,, its admu,istra• for copyfitti11g, gn,mmatici,l or sptlli11g trrors 11nd ScholllStic. 
tio11, faculty or stud,11ts. Editorials signed Sclwlastic r,prtstnt 
styk. Btc1111stofsp11et, Scholastic c11nnotprint 1111 ktttnuuif1td. tlu opi1fio11 of tJu ""'jority of tlu aecutiw tditorii,l board. Manuscripts artwtlcome. All unsolicititd maILrials become tJu property ofSclwlastic. 
Tiu Editor Scholastic 
Copyright1993SclwlasticMagazint. Allrightsrtstrotd, R,pro­lal'ortunt Ct11ttr 
ductio11 in whale orlnpartwitlwutwritttnptrmission isprohib• Notrt D..,,.,, IN16556 ittd, 
SCHOLASTIC 

NEWS 

Who's Who: NO 
A closer look at Notre Dame's favorite almost-alumnus, George Wendt 


by Mark J. Mitchell IV 
I think I'm one of the few people who actually spent his college years concen­trating on what I would be doing for a living -sitting around bars, drinking beer." He is as dedicated as any alumnus and as loyal as a super-fan, and if he did not mention it, the fact that George Wendt only spent three years here could pass without notice. An actor on the big and small screen, Wendt is best known as a veteran of"Second City" in Chicago and Cheers in Boston. As Norm Peterson, Wendt played a faithful Bostonian; buthe was born and grew up in the Windy City. "My dad was an alum ofthe class of '43, so I got to see plenty of games when I was a kid. I went to a Jesuit boarding school in Wisconsin, and when college time came, my dad really wanted me to go to Notr_e Dame; I thought it was a pretty cool idea, too." ButWendt's freshman year experience at the university was much differenJ than what he had found at visits to home football games. "Freshman year was hard right off the bat I had a six hour calculus requirement and everything that they had told me illhigh school about not being spoon fed in college came true. I suppose I wasn'ta very focused young man, but my calculus teacher was a real t9ad, which made iteven harder to pass the class since there was absolutely no teach­ing going on." But as all mothers are wont to do, Mrs. Wendt came to the rescue of her George. "My mom bailed me out She had a lot of friends who were nuns and priests, and over Christmas break a little old nun from Saint Xavier's College [in Chicago] spent every day tutoring me. I got an A on the final and a D in the course." 
Academics aside, Wendt's freshman year had its high points, among them his stay in Breen-Phillips Hall. "I was in room 133. It was tiny, and there were three of us. My roommates were kind of horrified the first night when I came in at 6:30 in the morning after a long night out, and went to sleep while they were getting up and brushing their 

teeth." 
Breen-Phillips suited Wendt just fine since it was one of the most relaxed halls on campus. "We were the only freshman dorm without curfew hours. We had to sign in and outbut itdidn't matter when because we had the coolestrector, Father Harry Eichorn. We had a ball in that dorm. And Father Eichorn was really a great guy-I had a lot ofgood talks with him." 
But as Wendt recalls it, he was always in. 
a little bit of trouble. "I would accept the charges for long distance calls on the dorm phone. I racked up $70 in collect calls on the dorm's tab before they caught me." Disci­pline then was just like discipline now; Wendt took a jobat the North Dining Hall to pay off the bill. 
"I didn't care what I had to do; it was just like, 'Pleeeease, don 'ttell my parents.' The work was sloppy, but I kind ofdug it It felt gpod because I had screwed up and this was redemptive for me." 
Whilehe was working offthe results ofhis 'phone scam,' the Breen-Phillips bank was robbed,justmakingmore trouble for Wendt "Idon't know how much orwhatcould have been in the Breen-Phillips bank, but of course they pointed immediately at me. I was already in trouble and I had a motive for 

· takingthemoney. Butnomatterwhatlsaid, the director of security just would not be­lieve me. He grilled me like I was in a bad 
F.B.I. show: 'Weknow you did it; here's my card, call me at home when you decide to confess."' 
However, phones, dishes and interroga­tions behind him, Wendt managed his way through all of freshman and sophomore year. It was in the first semester of junior year that he ran into some real trouble. "My problem was that I just quit going to class. I mean I didn't go to any classes or tests or anything. I basically dropped out :with.out notifying the university. So when the tele­gram came saying, 'You have a 0.0 grade point average, good-bye,' I took it like a good little soldier. It was totally my fault; I deserved to be thrown out because I was a poor student -I was just clueless." 
Continued on page 6 


OCTOBER21, 1993 
NEWS 


To Expand or Not to Expand 
That is the question as the university studies the proposition ofan addition to the sixty-three year old NotreDame Stadium 
i 
I, 
ii 
I! 
ii by T. Ryan Kennedy 
ii I 
The door was locked and I knew I had shut the lights off in the locker room, but as soon as Igot out to my truck, the lights were back on," staring across the green 

· field, outlined against the blue-gray October sky, Bob Thomas recalls his most memo­rable nigh ton the job. "I 
Father James Rhiele, C.S.C., chaplain to the football team. · 
An historical place indeed, the stadium was built in 1931 and dedicated that same year at the Navy game. Knute Rockne only played one season in Notre Dame Stadium, but his hand was heavy in the design and execution of the stadium project. It is 'the successor to Cartier Field, home ofthe fight-

reset the alarm and I 
The field has been the turned the lights off, but focal point of the sta­when I got outside, they dium action for over came back on. I wasn't 306 games. Butitis the going to go back in mass of humanity sur­there, so I pulled away; rounding the field but as I watched, the which gives a Notre lights went off again. I Dame game its unique guess Rock doesn't like character. "We have it when I shut the lights 59,075 sold seats and out on him before he's no more, and we don't done," Thomas contin­have room for any ex­ued. tras. Sure there's more 
This is the house that press people and side­Rockne built For over line passes issued dur­63 years, Notre Dame ing the big games, but stadium has not only there's really no stand­
been home base for the Fighting Irish, but it ing Irish since the inception of the football ing room or any places to put additional 
has been one of the most revered and tradi­program in 1887. And though the Irish bleachers," said Dale Getz, athletic facilities tion-steeped cites in college athletics. "It's moved from the cite of their first champion­director. a great historical place. It's a place where ship victories to the new stadium, the actual _,_ The stadium has hosted a full 59,075 for hundreds of young men have given every­field went with them. At Rockne's req(!eSt, every game since 1966 (with one Thanks­thing for something they believe in," said the bluegrass of Cartier was transplanted to giving Day exception}; and 59,075 accounts 
4. SCHOLASTIC 
the floor ofthe stadium, the capital ofNotre Dame football ever since. 
"That grass is the most precious part ofthe stadium," notes Thomas, the superintendent of the stadium for the past 12 years. "I like to hear people say the grass looks good. It's my pride and joy, and I do my best to make the grass the best. There's something about our field that we all cherish," Thomas con­
tinued. 
---~ ---,

..,. . . ~ --~­
for every seat that can possibly be sold, anything else needs doing. And if a player "I remember last year after Reggie Brooks "including the folding chairs at the very top, needs a towel, I'dbreak my neck to get it for caught the winning pass, the people came which we call the 63rd row," said Getz. him," Thomas continued. and tore up the grass on the spot where he "Most everyone sits on benches. There are But care for the stadium is no small task. fell," Thomas noted. chairs in the box -seats, and of course the Thomas has a crew of 12 who work every "Everything here from the locker room to students always stand. But these benches · day on every aspect of the stadium. From the score board is pretty much like it was in have held up pretty well," said Getz pointing fertilizing and aerating the turf to straighten­1931 -we even went back to the stripes in to the redwood planks, some of which are ing the goal posts, the stadium team does not the end zone. It's a place that's full of still the original boards installed in 1930. stop until the start ofthe game. "We run into tradition," said Getz. "Every college has a "We replace about 30 each year because of glitches now and then. During one night stadium and every stadium has something breakage; but the redwood is strong and it · game we had so many lights on that we blew special about. But there's so much more to doesn't rot So the.most work we have to do a fuse, knocking out power to the _entire ours-there's so much tradition, so much is in the student section because they usually south side of the stadium, including the history, so much excitement about being jump up aiid-down a lot more than the regular scoreboard," Getz said. "Then there are the there. The fans are close to the field, the folks,'.~.Getz e:ll,plained. big messes when everyone storms the field students are all right there with you and there 
_;From'the trirfto the planks, not much has after we win. Wealmost lost a goal post after is so much enthusiasm," Lou Holtz said. cJianged in Notre Dame stadium in "But there is nothing quite like itS:,63 years. The concept of an 
going down the steps from the arena f<'>r Notre Dame football was locker room to the tunnel and then born inl929 when the Irish success running out onto that field. That's under Rockne pushed Cartier field the most incredible entrance in the beyond its 30,000 person limit. In world," Holtz continued. April of 1930, Osborne Engineer­"You know, I always say there's ing, the nation's leading stadium noghosts here. Butthat night when architects and contractors, began the lights came on, that proved me the four month project of construe-wrong. I tell you, it was an eerie 
. tion-withRockne as a close advi-experience; but it pleases me to sor. know that there's a spirit to this 
Rockne's influence in the archi­place -and you can feel it all tecture ofthe stadium has given the around you," said Thomas. place its unique aspect which sets it apart from other collegiate football facilities. Intending for the stadium to be used exclusively for football, In 1930, the university moved Rockne did not allow the custom­from the cramped quarters of ary track to be installed around the Cartier field to the expansive new field. In tum, this allowed him to stadium because there were so keep the distance between the many who wanted to watch the stands and the field small, so as to Fighting Irish take the field. Sixty­limit the numbers standing on the three years later, the university is sidelines. '.'When you 're there on asking whether or not it is time to the field, the fans are so close that expand again. This time, it is the the crowd noise and the electricity stadium's fate which will be de­of the moment are incredible," cided. said Ara Parseghian, former head The cover of the dedicatory program from the opening The impetus for the expansion football coach. game played In Notre Dame Stadium features the likeness 
considerations came from the na­"When I first came here, all 1 of Knute Rockne who was a major consultant on the 
tional board of directors of the
kn construction project.· Expansion of the stadium would be 
alumni association whicb passed 
'" ewbalwlasthatth1d·s~asjuStthanother · the first major alteration to 'the house that Rockne built.' ~oot team an Just ano er sta-. a resolution calling for the uni­
dium. But when I saw my first game, right . we beat Miami in 1988, and we had to versity to address the growing demand for then and there, I knew this was the place to replace the north post after Penn State last tickets. A cursory study was conducted by a be," said Thomas. "In that week before the year.· We grease them down with WD-40 committee appointed, by Father Edward · game, wedowhatneedsdoing. We mow the before every game, but sometimes that's not Malloy, C.S.C.; the objective of this com­grass at least three times, we clean up the enough," Getz continued. mittee was to determine if expansion of stands and the 19<:kerroom. Then on the big · "Idon't care what,they do, so long as they Notre Dame stadium was feasible, possible 
day I'm down there on my field in case don't touch my grass," Thomas remarked. or desirable. 

OCTOBER 21, 1993 

.! 
j I 

After nine months, the presidential com­mittee reported that there was no apparent reason that stadium expansion could not be studied more closely. Thus, Father Malloy included as part of Colloquy for the Year 2000, a recommendation that the matter of expansion be studied in depth. 
A new committee has been formed, and this committee will officially recommend to the officers of the university whether a project to expand the stadium should be 
· undertaken. If the proper conditions for a positive recommendation are met, then the committee will formulate a plan for expan­sion. This plan willfirstpass the officers and then will be presented to the board of trust­ees for the final decision. 
While the process is quite involved, the com­

mitteewillbemakingits Whether it's in increasing number of final report before the froot Of 60,000 Or alumni that we do not end of the academic have tickets for them, year. Considering that 80,000 pe_ople, we cannot lose sight of the three most recent the effect of such a studies of expansion I'm going to project on the Notre 
have discovered no Daine community." roadblocks, it is most coach as hard as "Whether it's in front likely that the university of 60,000 or 80,000 can look forward to con-ever. people, I'm going to struction beginning in coach as hard as ever. It three years. -Lou Holtz really does not matter to the architectureshouldnotdo violenceto the aesthetic value ofthe university," Rosenthal continued. 
"We are not close to a decision. We must look at the five concerns outlined in the Colloquy report and then consider if the increased demand for tickets is reason enough to undertake such a project," Father Beauchamp said. 
"One major consideration is whether of not this campus and this community of scholars and students is able to digest 80,000 visitors in a weekend. We do not want to upset the balance which we have now," said Rosenthal. ''This is a ·logical process of gathering comprehensive information from a variety of sources. There is no pre-or­dained decision. While it is difficult to tell an 

"Our architecture finn of Elerbee Becket has come up with three designs and options for our initial consideration," said Father E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice-president and chairman ofthe commit­tee studying stadium expansion. According to Father Beauchamp, the three options in-elude the addition of a complete upper deck ·. encircling the stadium above the present height of45 feet; a partial upper deck in the shape of a horseshoe, encircling the upper deck, butnot including the north end; or two upper decks running parallel to each other, down the long sides of the stadium. 
"We have to look at these construction options, we have to look at funding, ex­penses and revenue, and we have to look at the implications of adding 20,000 seats,'' said Father Beauchamp. 
"We are very limited in dealing with this location because there is only so much land left on which to build," saidDick Rosenthal, athletic director and member of the expan­sion committee. "If we do decide to build, me ifwe expand the sta­
dium. · It does not effect thefootballbudget,mysalary,outtelevision coverage, and there couldn't be any more interestgeneratedbyanincreaseinthenum~ her of seats," said Holtz. "Ifwe expand the stadium so that more people can see a game, then it's not worth it. Butifmore seats mean more alumni can bring their kids and friends. to Notre Dame Wld experience this place­the Grotto, Sacred Heart, the whole place­then I think it is a good thing." 
While· the study progresses and the com-· mittee. considers· its options and infonµa-, tion, the fate of the stadium hangs in the balance. Though the issue ofexpansion has been considered in the past, thepresentwork represents the closest the university has come to moving on aJld addition projecL While there is no decision yet, the results of recent related studies indicate that expan~ sion is likeiy. Bob Thomas remarked, "As long as they keep the field and the tunnel and the locker room the same, I don't care what they build around it." ·_ . 

Who's Who: George Wendt 
continuedfrom page 3 
Wendt went on to Rockhurst College in Kansas City, Missouri, and he received a 
B.A. from the Jesuits at Rockhurst in 1971. "A friend once asked me why I dido't go to the administration and grovel to get back in. It just never occurred to me. I loved it while I was there and Iregretted being thrown out, but I moved on." 
After graduation, Wendt was still a bit 
unsure about what he would do with his life. 
"Ididn'tknowwhatI wanted todo, butiwas 
sure I dido't want to do something I hated." 
After two trips to Europe, one ofwhich went 
"from Rome to Morocco the slow way," 
Wendt returned to Chicago and took an 
interest in acting. "It wasn't that acting had 
alway~ interested me, it was more a process 
of elimination: fireman .....,:.; no, cowboy ­
no, teacher -no; doctor -out of the 
question." Wendt started acting workshops 
in 1973 after considering "Second City." "I 
had gone to "Second City'' while I was in 
college. It looked to me like a bunch ofmen 
and women goofing off, and as far as I could 
tell, they were getting paid. So I considered 
thata little more seriously." Needless to ~y, 
George Wendt's career on stage and·bn 
television has been very successful. . · · 
Wendt still makes it to the occasional 
•·football game; he was on the field justweeks ago atStanford.whereCoach Holtz gave h1111 the game ball. "Aside from my family and my work, Notre Dame football is one of the most fun things in my life. We'll probably crush FloridaState,but I'm concernedabout 
U.S.C. There are billboards all over L.A. which say nothing more than 'Beat Notre Dame.' John Robinson even vowed to the board of trustees that he would beat us this year. So we'll be reallucky to get past U.S.C." . . . 
Wendt is presently working with John Candy on a niade for TV film in Toronto, so he might not inake it to any home games this year. Butneitherdistancenor thefact that he never quite crossed the finish line here has dulled George Wendt's love for the univer­sity. "I have tremendous respect for Notre Dame; It's such a coolplace." .· . 
6 

.SCHOLASTIC 

NEWS 

Cel~brating a Sorin Centennial 
On the one-hundredth anniversary ofhis death, the universitty remembers the life and work ofFather Edward Frederick Sorin 
By Mark J. Mitchell IV 
:Notre Dame is plunged in deepest grief and affliction because of the death of her revered founder, the Very Reverend Edward ·Sorin ... On Tuesday of last week, at quarter of ten o'clock in the morning, the noble, gifted soul of the venerable patriarch passed , peacefully from earth, thus closing a life full of years and merits -before God and man." With these words, Scholastic announced the 
death of Father Edward Frederick Sorin, C.S.C., on October 31, ; }993. One hundred years later, Notre Dame celebrates the life ad ;~ork of its founding father. · 
"What he clid was absolutely spectacular. ._With six men and $300 for groceries, this 27 

year old French priest looked at a run down · · log cabin and called it a university -that .. took a lot of guts," said Father Theodore .Hesburgh, C.S .C. "He had a great vision, he ''had an indomitable will, and he had a dream '.)that he never let die." -.. The story of Father Sorin as founder is as . familiar as it is incredible. Riding ih a cargo ·'ship from France to the United States, Father .· $.orin accepted a few hundred acres ofland on . '.The Indiana tundra' and converted an Indian 'j11ission into a university. As he looked ,across the frozen landscape he dedicated the ·J:;1ace to Saint Mary, Our Lady of the Lake, . 'and he dedicated himself and those with him · >o the work of establishing a university. ,. Father Sorin built his Notre Dame from a 


·shack in 1842 to a six story main building and a towering church. Yet, in 1879, the founderreturned to see nearly all of it burned to the :·ground. After witnessing 37 years of his life's work reduced to ; smoldering ruins, Sorin called the members of the university com­"munity together and rallied their spirits, calling for a new and greater ,.,~otre Dame. "Father Sorin, after looking over the destruction of his Jife work, stood on the altar steps of the only building left and spoke :·to the community ... 'Ifit were ALL gone, I should not give up!' were . his words in closing. The effect was electric ... There was never a shadow of a doubt as to the future of Notre Dame," wrote T.E. 
Howard. 

. "You hear so much about him, the stories begin to lose their punch :·~nd significance," said Father Hesburgh. "He did so many great things that you tend to miss some of the most fascinating aspects of his life behind these stories of the great events." 
Indeed, Father Sorin's first work in this country was with the Indians and settlers of the Indiana fromtier. "I was at last a missioner, as I had so earnestly longed to be; and what is still more, half of my mission was composed of Indians and the other half of Catholics. I set to work with all my heart, and day and night were consecrated to my beloved mission," wrote Father Sorin in his chronicles. 
As his university grew from the lake side cabin, Father Sorin's work as a missionary diminished, and he embraced a role of professor in his own school, teaching up to the day he stepped down from the presidency. 
In addition, one of Father Sorin' s greatest loves was his work with the minims -the children of Notre Dame's grade school. Like a grandfather to them all, Father Sorin taught the children games as well as prayers . "And then the great mournful cortege was formed, escorting Father General to the last silent resting place. First in the sorrowful 
_ procession, after the cross bearer and aco­lytes, were Father General's little favorites, the minims," Scholastic wrote of Father Sorin's funeral . 
"Ifhe were with us today, he would say, 'You've done well, but you've got a ways to keep going.' He was a can-do kind of man," 
~Father Hesburgh said. 
~ With the death of Edward Frederick 
f Sorin, Notre Dame lost its father, the man 
"'whose vision and will created the university. 
"There would be no place here without him. He is the patron Saint of the place. He foµnded it, he gave it direction, and he never set out to be second best But I think the best thing he did was to put this place under the patronage of Our Lady-you can't go wrong with that," said Father Hesburgh. 
In considering his life and work, Father Sorin' s own words best characterize his work as founder of Notre Dame: "Ifall men fail ine, there is one treasure that is always full -that of our Most Holy Lady. When this school shall grow a bit, I shall raise her aloft so that, without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that lovely lady raised high on a dome, a golden dome, men may look and find the answer." 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 


NEWS COMMENTA·RY 

I 
631"7569 ... fax 631-%48 


The Gipp, unlike his jealous compatriots, snuck on to the 14th floor of the 'brare and guess what he found ... [An..d, as always, the · 
( 

Gipp must emphasize that he is not making == this up.] · 
.c 
~ 
.. 
~ 

i
I! 
r I 
c) Aprop for the USC mascot.
"Who put valium in the Wheaties?" 

·d) An Adam smasher. 







DO NOT EN1ER •.. NO RIGHT TURN ... DO NOT ENTER;.. STOP ... NO RIGHT TURN ..• "So what you're telling me is ..:•­
8 

SCHOLASTIC 
CAMPUS LIFE 
What Lies in.Cedar Grove? 

by Shannon Lennard 
Although Cedar Grove Cemetery has no tales of ghosts, it does have a very strict admittance policy .. 
Cedar Grove Cemetery has been a part of the Notre Dame campus as long as there has been a campus. .:Yet few people know anything about it. 
The cemetery was built between the late 1840s and the early 1850s almost immedi­ately after the university was created. · 
"Once the university was built, there was a need for a cemetery," said Timothy Mosier, sexton of the cemetery for the last eight years. "People began to die, and they needed some place to put them." 
After Father Sorin opened the cemetery, many people wanted to be buried there. The first settler in the South Bend area, Alexis Coquillard, is buried there as well as the first French settler ,Pierre Frenchet Navarre. In addition, Moose Krause is buried there. 
Another celebrity buried in Cedar Grove Cemetery is Larry Moon Mullens. One of Knute Rockne's assistant coaches, he went on to coach at Aquinas College. "Every time Aquinas College comes to Notre Dame to play a sport, the whole team gathers 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 

around his grave ancl prays," commented Mosier. "Moon Mullens is like our Knute Rockne. He is a legend in himself." 
In-1928, when thccityorSouth Bend was building St. Joseph's High School, a Potawatomi Inclian burial ground was dis­covered. They gave everything they found, 
· including bones, beads and pottery, to the Cedar Grove Cemetery. "Thecemetery took everythirig and put it in a hole," said Mosier. "Then they filled the hole with dirt and made a mound with a rock oh top of it, like the Indians do. Finally, tliey put a plaque on the rock." 
That was not the end of the story, however. Three years ago, Western Michigan Univer­sity found four more skeletons that belonged to the Indians. They decided these skeletons should not be studied or put in a museum, but instead should be put back where they were supposed to be. So they donated them to Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
At that time, Potawatomi Indians from the area came to the cemetery with medicine men and peace pipes and performed a cer­emony for their ancestors. 
"Cedar Grove Cemetery is not stranger than the averi1ge cemetery," said Mosier. · However, itdoes seem to be in demand these days. Every year many people arc turned down for admittance into Cedar Grove be­cause they do not qualify. Because it is owned by Notre Dame, the cemetery has strict policies dealing with admittance: Only people affiliated with the university in some way, such as receiving a university pension, are allowed to be buried within Cedar Grove. On occasion, the cemetery does receive 
· strange requests. "Once someone wanted to know if his ashes could be dropped by heli­copter over the stadium on game day," said Mosier. "I was the one who had to tell him he could not do that." 
A visittoCedarGrovecould benefit Notre 
· Dame students in a number of ways. First, if someone has an interest in his hall's name­sake, then he could probably find the resting place of that person's family. For example, Pop Farley's family is buried there, as is Father Cavanaugh's. The men themselves arc not buried there because they are buried with other priest.<; in a separate cemetery. 
· Cedar Grove is also a good place to run, according to Mosier. "I have seen lots of studcnts come in one entrance, circle around the cemetery a couple of times and then run · out the other entrance," he said. "I've even seen students come in here to study," he added. "If you want a quiet peaceful place, Cedar Grove is it." 0 
9 
CAMPUS LIFE 

Final Destination: 





Notre Dame 
Transfer students make the transition to life at Notre Dame 
by Sue O'Kain 
The thought ofcoming back Lo school as an upperclassmen and knowing the ropes will bring a smile to the face of any freshmen. Yet every year many students apply to transfer into Notre Dame and ex­perience the first year jitters all over again. From a pool of 450 applicants, 150 transfer students were admitted to Notre Dame this fall. The number of transfer students admitted each year is decided by an enrollment projection committee. This committee usually decide to admit about 150 students, but some years the number has been as high as 180.. Although over one fifth of the total number of transfer students came from 


Holy Cross College, transfer coordinator  since she was six years old. However,  tion was the most common reason students  
and assistant director of admissions Susan  Brown did not get in when sheappliedoutof  said they transferred to Notre Dame.  
Joyce stressed that "Notre Dame does not  high school, so she went to Saint M,iry's  But other aspects were mentioned as well!  
give preference to Holy Cross students."  instead.  Finnane "loved the presence ofreligion here!!  
She added that since the school is familiar  "At first I wasn't going to transfer be­ when she visited a friend at Notre Dame prior  
with Noire Dame, the Holy Cross advisors  cause I liked it at Saint Mary's and I was  to her transfer. She had never considered  
can steer their students into the appropriate  happy there," she said. "But I decided to  applying while she was in high school, but  
course if they indicate an interest in trans­ give Notre Dame one more try since it had  now she regrets the year she lost while attend­ 
ferring to Notre Dame. BecauseHolyCross  always been my dream."  ing another college.  
is a junior college, all of its students even­ Brown also said thaL Notre Dame offers  Joyce, who has worked with transfer stu­ 
tually transfer; they therefore try to design .  more opportunities: "Notre Dame is a big­ dents for eight years, categorized them into  
a schedule similar to that of the university  ger school, and it holds a lot of clout," she  two major groups: those not admitted as fresh­ 
they want to eventually attend.  explained. "If you're trying to get a job,  men because of weak high school perfor­ 
A large number of tranfer studenL<; also  graduating from Notre Dame is a big plus  mances and those who went into the military  
came from Saint Mary's, which contrib­ and it might get you in the door."  or Look a few years off after one or two years  
uted 12 out of the 150 new transfer stu­ Junior Colleen Finnane, another transfer  of college.  
dents.  student, added, ''Notre Dame is a lot more  "Many students see the transfer option as a  
Junior Erin Brown, a transfer student  challenging academically. At Saint Mary's,  set'.ond chance," commented] oyce. The Notre  
from Saint Mary's, said that "coming to  I got a 3.8 with very lilllc effort."  Dame transfer admissions policy does not  
Notre Dame had been a goal and a dream"  Indeed, Notre.Dame's academic reputi1­ require a high school record in most cases.  
10  SCHOLASTIC  

Instead, the student's performance in their presentcollege takes theplace of high school record. "The high school record is a sec­ondary requirement," said Joyce. 
In addition, the application contains no essays, and SAT and ACT test scores are not requested. 
Notre Dame's transfer applicants apply to the specific college they are interested in rather than to the university as a whole. Thus, each college has a transfer committee that decides which students to admit. 
This year, for the first time in five years, the College of Arts arid Letters admitted sophomores. They had refrained from 
admittting sophomores in the past because sophomore enrollment in that college was 
too. high and they wanted enrollment to average out into the other colleges 6n cam­pus. 
A large consideration of these transfer admissions committees is the applicant's 
courseload at his present college and its· 
similaritiestoNotreDame'sFreshman Year 
of Studies program. 
Assistant director of transfer admissions Marita Kurst said the committees make their decisions based on whether the "stu­dent can fully come into the sophomore or juniorprogram." They do notadmitseniors into the program because students must complete at least half of, their degree re­quirements at Notre Dame. . 
"The goal is to admit students who will not be _off sequence with non-transfer stu­dents," said Kurst. She added that if the 
freshman year schedules are similar to the 
Freshman Year ofStudies program at Notre Dame, admitted transfer students will blend in -and "not go back to take freshmen classes." . ' 
One of the few drawbacks of .transfer­ring is the lack offinancial aid available to 
transferstudents. AccordingtoJoyce,schol-. arships or aid are not available until afler a student has completed two semesters .at. Notre Dame. After that, Joyce described any chance at financial aid as "limited." 
Anotherdrawback of transferring is that housing is not guaranteed to transfer stu­
dents. Pete Falzarano, ajunior who origi­nally attended Lynchburg College in Vir­ginia, said that he had to live off campus for two weeks and; as a .result, had trouble meeting people. "Once I was in a dorm, I began to meet people and fit i~," he said. 
Falzarano recommended thut anyone con­sidering the transfer option apply early to be 
higher on the waiting list for on campus 
housing. 
Despite this apparent problem,Joyce said that all male transfers who desired on cam­pus housing received it this year. 
Kurst noted the increasing number of 

women undergraduates as the reason why 
some female transfer studenL,; were denied ·on-campus housing. She added that every year the housing situation changes based on 
how many students decide to live offcampus 
and the percentage of men to women on 
campus. Regnrdlcs..,;ofwherethey lived, mosttrans­
f~r studenL<; seemed to agree that they were 
readily accepted by Notre Dame student<;. 
However, several student<; formerly or Saint Mary's College noticed a slight change of attitude towards them socially. Brown, who transferred from Saint Mary's College, no­ticed adifference in Notre Dame women's 
altitudes toward her. When she was a Saint 
Mary's student on the Notre Dame campus, 
she felt that the prevailing attitude was that 
Saint Mary's students "weren't good 
enough." 
Mary Finnegan, also formerly of Saint 

Mary's, made the same observation: 
"Occassionally, I still feel repercussions," 
she said. "Every once in a while I hear a 
negative Saint Mary's comment." 
Brown wishes she could keep in touch with her Saint Mary's friends, but with her busy schedule makes it difficult. For Brown, leaving her friends at Saint Mary's was the "biggest loss" of the transfer. 
In general, many transfer students agreed that they built their strongest friendships with other transfer students. Brown and Finmme, both formerly Saint Mary's stu­dents, have remained roommates after ad­justing to Notre Dame together. They both mentioned the importance of the orientation program designed especially for transfer stu­dents. 
Transfer orientation is not like freshman orientation because these students "have al­ready been to college,just not Notre Dame," according to Finnane. Unlike freshman ori­entmicm, transfer orientation events are not mandatory and very unstructured. 
Almost all of the transfer students inter­viewed agreed that anyone considering trans­rerring s!Jould "go for it." "It was the best decision I ever made," said Brown. 
Senior Kevin Buck, who originally at­tended Mount St. Mary's College in Mary­lantl, said, "It 's harder than the school I transferred from, but it's worth the work." 
The same sentiment is echoed by Brown: "NOLre Dame is competitive for students ~ho aren't used to it, but they shouldn't feel intimidated; they'll soon find that it's a very special place." D 

Brent.Tadsen Transfer student Cassie Aris outside of Pangborn Hall, 
the home of many transfer students. 
. . 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 


CAMPUS LIFE 
j 
! / 
Teachers From the Real World 
A class taught by h.onieless people 


by Bridget Bradburn 
Homeless and formerly homeless people actually become the teachers in a new seminar class on homelessness. This allows students "to see homelessness in a new light," according to Lou Nanni, director of the program and instructor of the class. "What a great experience it is to have someone who has lived through it share their experi­ences!" The seminar is a collabora­tive effort between the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's Peace Studies department and the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. According to Nanni, the ob­ject of the course is "to study the complex dimension of poverty an·d homelessriess," including the elements of "chemical dependency, men­tal illness, domestic violence, literacy, housing and medical care." "After exploring the com­

Studies on campus, and on Thursdays it meets at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. Nanni teaches the class on Tuesdays, and homeless people talk to the class on Thursdays. 
This semester's class is composed or four­teen seniors and one junior, collectively rep­resenting nine majors. Additionally, the class includes five international graduate students in the Peace Studies Program, who come 

. . 

Tammy Oehm, operations Director at the Homeless Center
plexity of the issue, we study does not know if the Peace

discusses employment and job training for the homeless.
the different treatment meth­
ods and their efficacy," Nanni said. Once the class has looked at the many working definitions of poverty and homelessness, it considers contemporary debates on the is~ sue, views the problem from a historical overview and studies various treatment methods, including the Salvation Army, Catholic Workers and service centers, such as the Center'for the Homeless. 
The class meets twice aweek. On Tues­days it meets at the Institute for Peace 

· from places such as Ireland and Jerusalem. "The war and poverty they witnessed in their own countries allow them to offer a very interesting perspective," said Nanni. 
The seminar has received a positive re­sponse from all involved. According to Nanni, the homeless benefit because "having a captive listening audience helps to heal the isolation associated with poverty." In addi­tion, sharing their stories gives the homeless "a vested interest in keeping [thei\ Iivesfon track." 
For the students, it is "a blessing to be ... exposed hands-on to a problem and to build _ relationships of give and take on both sides," according to Nanni. 
SeniorJean Einloth, a student in the semi­nar, has greatly benefi ttcd from the "one-on­one perspective" that the homeless offer and appreciates the chance to be able to "see the problem, notjustread about it" Einloth said 
that the class has opened her 
eyes to the fact that poverty 
"isn't-a life that they've cho­
seri; it can happen to any­
body." 
Additionally, the course has been beneficial to the staff at the Center for the Home­less. People tend to get so overwhelmed with problems · that they rarely have the op­portunity to step back and re­think the paradigms of pov­erty and homelessness, ac­
cording to Nanni. "The class has forced the staff to better overcome these problems." 
The future of the seminar 
is uncertain because Nanni 
Studies Program intends to continue the course. However, he empha­sized that the class is "a great investment" for all involved. 
The seminar on homelessness is certainly a valuable life learning experience for those who have had the opportunity to be a part of it. The greatest lesson that Einloth has learned is that homeless people_ "have so 1nuch that they have to give and wantto give, if only other people will take the time to help them get back on their feet." D 
12 

SCHOLASTIC 
CAMP'US LIFE 
Up.. . Up.. . and AvVay! 
Students who actuallyj1y airplanes 



by Bridget Bradburn 
T.he freedom of being up there, doing what you want to do" is what senior Bill Lane loves about flying. · This desire for freedom and the different perspective gained from flying an airplane solo is what brings students together to participate Notre Dame's flying club. , Started in 1990 by former s~udents Jenni­fer· Martin and Trey Siegfried, the flying club is a resource for pilots and non-pilots alike, helping those interested in flying get information on the hobby or how to learn. According tojunior Fred· Wirinegar, vice president of the club, the organization's goal is to provide members with information about this area, such as which rental places have the best prices or where and how to get certified. Only about half of the members are actu­ally pilots,' but most of the non-pilots arc currently taking advantage of the club's main service, a ground school course taught by Lane, last year's club president. This course is designed to prepare one for a writ~. ten exam that must be passed in order to receive a· flying. license. Usually such a course costs about $300, but the flying club offers it for free. · The class meets every Sunday. According to Winnegar, about tWC)•thirds of the club's pilots have. been certified through this program. 
The club technically is nm allowed by the university to fly as a group clue to'insunmce reasons. However, the club supplies mem­bers with information on pbices to go. These include Michiana Regionul Airport, which is about 20 minutes south of campus, Dwygiac, which is about 30 minutes north or another airport in Niles, Michigan. 
Sophomore Mau Bardo!, the club trea­surer, learned how to fly as a senior in high school at the Michigan City Airport. He 11ies Cherokee and Cessna planes, which arc single engine pla~cs known as "Pipers." Over the summer, he was able to accumulate 

about 10 to 15 hours of flying time. 
"My best flying experience," said Bardol, ·"was buzzing five feet over my brother's head while he was water skiing." Bardo) wants to own his own plane someday so that flying can be his lifelong past time. 
Sophomore and club secretary Dan 
Amend's most memorable experience was 
getting cut off by a C 141 while flying over a 
military base. Amend, who got his license 
through the flying club's ground school pro­
gram, learned to fly last summer in San Jose, 
California. He went up about every other 
day in Cessna and Mooney planes. Since he 
is an aerospace engineering major, he will 
always be tied to the sky in some way, 
whether it will be his job or his hobby. 
The flying club meets about once a month 
or whenever it has a speaker available. This 
year Lt. Leaky of the U.S. Navy, their new 
sponsor, and the manager from the Michiana 
Regional Airport have spoken about flying 
safety and other FAA information. In addi­
tion, the club will try to host the Wings 
program, a continuing education seminar for 
pilots from the area. This program allows 
pit'ots to gain "points" to further their flying 
expertise. • · 
Other club activities include field trips to 
places such as the Michiana Regional 
Airport's tower and radar room, different 
Air Force bases and the Kalamazoo Air Zoo, 
which houses planes used in World War II. 
Th is year, they also hope.to travel to Chicago 
·Lo visit O'Hare International Airport's tower 
and radar room. . 

OCTOBEA :21, 1993 
SPORTS 


Another Decade of Dolllinance? 
With the help ofa new coach, USC will try to beat Notre Dame.for the.first time in more than ten years 
the Trojans' tenth straight de­

by Bob Belden  feat at the hands or the Irish,  
Put yourself in the position of former University of Southern California head  that catchy phrase "Decade of Dominance" was ringing con­stantly in his cars. How many  
coach Larry Smith. Following last year's  times can the head coach of a  
31-23 loss to Notre Dame, which marked  proud football institution suf­ 
fer such indignation? The an­ 
swer came with Coach Smith's  
resignation a few weeks after the historic  
tenth defeat.  
Enter John Robinson, head coach or USC  
from 1976-1982, now regaining his status as  
the winningestactivccoach in Division I-A.  
With a history or sticking it to the Irish, a 6­ 
1 record against Notre Dame and a love for  
smash-mouth football, Robinson was called  
upon Lo soften the sting or the ten years  
wortb or subservience Lo the boys of South  
Bend. Robinson marched back Lo Southern  
Cal with a fervor noticeably lacking during  
the tenures of head coaches Ted Tollner and  
Larry Smith.  
"My energy level is Lhe same now as it  
was when I was named USC's coach the  
first time," Robinson said: "Football docs  
not change, although it certainly docs  
evolve. It's a physical game first. We want  
to establish the run on offense and s·top the  
USC Sports Information  run on defense."  
Junior quarterback Rob Johnson  With quotes like these, Robinson reveals  
was second In passing efficiency  his visions of returning Lo Lhc clays or  
In the PAC-1 O at 123.7 and fourth  "Tailback U.," when Trojans were tJn- 

In total offense with 167. 


leashed to run rampant over opponents. However, the jury is still out on how quickly Robinson can re-establish the old guard at USC. 
Seventeen starters are returning for the Men of Troy, including 6'4", 225 lb.junior quarterback Rob Johnson, who exploited the Notre Dame secondary last year with 302 yards on 27 of 41 passes. So far this year Jcihnson ranks ninth in the NCAA in passing efficiency. 
USC's most electrifying player last sea­son, Curtis Conway, darted to the pro ranks following the 1992 season, thus handing the torch to senior wideout Johnnie Morton. Monon currently ranks third on USC's all Lime reception list and is an All American candidate who is regarded highly for his "velci-o-like hands." Second in the nation this season with an average of7 .8 receptions per game, Morton is the Trojans go-to guy through the air. :_ The backfield for USC is led by senior fullback Deon Strother and freshman 

14 

SCHOLASTIC 
tailback Shawn Walters. Strother was hampered by injuries in 1992 but is battle tested against Notre Dame and provides the glue in USC's running attack. Walters, a Parade All American and USA Today Ali-USA first teamer in high school, snatched tlie tailback position after a strong spring. The ground attack has proven to be less than formidable by normal Trojan stan­dards though. Against Oregon, Walters gained just 67 net yards while the team totaled only 100 yards. 
USC has notable ·standouts anchoring both sides of the line. On the offensive front, 6'8", 295 lb. All-American tackle Tony Boselli opens up the attack. According to Robinson, Boselli is "one of the greatest offensive tackles in USC's history." Defensively the Trojans look to Lombardi Award Candidate Willie McGinest for leadership. With 16 sacks and 23 tackles for losses in his 1992 campaign, McGinest will be the biggest challenge for the Irish offensive line on Saturday. 
Last year's November 28th showdown be­tween Notre Dame and USC in the Coliseum was marked by outstanding individual performances on both sides ofthe ball, with the Irish eventually prevailing. Reggie Brooks shook off the flu to deliver the biggest rushing game of his career with 227 yards and three touchdowns on just 19 

Senior defensive end Willie McGlnest, made six tackles against Notre Dame last year. Three were for losses and two were sacks. 

carries. Meanwhile, USC's Johnson had career highs in pass­ing and completion percentage, and Morton topped his career best with nine catches. The fifth ranked Irish couldn't shake the persistent USC squad and didn't wrap up the victory until Tom Carter intercepted Johnson in the end zone with 25 seconds to play. 
USC finished their 1992 season 6-5-1, ending on a sour note with a 24-7 loss to Fresno State in the Freedom Bowl. The 1993 squad is USC's 101st team, and Robinson is hoping that he can return the Trojans to the glory days of years past 
"We're fighting our way back," 
Robinson said. "We can be very 
competitive in 1993 at the highest 
level." So far this season, USC has 
proven that they warrant respect. 
The Trojans are currently 5-2, with losses to Penn State and the Uni­versity of Arizona. The loss to the Nittany Lions was a hard fought battle in which USC came surprisingly close to pulling off an upset in its first ever . showdown with PSU in Happy Val­ley. The 21-20 loss indicates that Robinson hasn't forgotten his old tricks for firing up the Trojans. Against the swarming and gang tackling Wildcats of Arizona, USC was battered 3~-7. Played in Tucson, the Trojans crumpled under the Cats ferocious defense, one of the best in the nation. USC is conspicuously absent from the Top 25 and is looking for­ward to the next five weeks as an opportunity to get back in the hunt Before any bowl talk, however, the Trojans need to find a way to stop opponents' ground attacks. USC's struggles in this area can be attrib­uted to a weak rushing defense that doesn't even rank in the PAC-lO's top six this season. Johnson has turned in solid per­formances so far this year, but he has yet to exhibit the play necessary to knock off a top ranked squad. Morton is having a stellar season, 


Named a first team All-American last year, junior Tony Boselll ls the 25th use offensive linemen given that honor since 1964. 
leading the nation in receiving yards per . game with a 120.3 average. The hookup between these two individuals has been USC's shining star and will warrant a good deal of attention from the Irish defensive 
backs. 
The Trojans have yet to topple a ranked 
team this season, and a celebratory return 
from South Bend is just what John . Robinson hopes will jump start his club. 
"I hope our expectation level and that of 
our fans is very high," Robinson said. "We 
have to get back to behaving like we always 
have." 
That means forgetting about the ten year 
scar and playing USC football the old fash­
ioned way. 
These attitudes that Robinson expounds 
are setting the tone for this year's USC-ND 
rivalry. With pride on the line for these 
squads, rankings lose much of their mean­
ing after kickoff. The Trojans would love 
nothing more than to steal Notre Dame's 
thunder before the Irish' s showdown with 
Florida State. USC will undoubtedly 
charge into South Bend with the knowledge 
that upsets have marked the history of this 
contest. Watch for The Men of Troy to let 
their emotions run high, spurred along by 
the familiar face of John Robinson, a man 
looking to lead USC "Back to the Future." . 

15
OCTOBER 21, 1993 

I 
,I 
e 

t) 
. 
. 
. 
'
I I 
Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, It·I '.. Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 

I 
I 
·I 
,I 
Thursday 21 
Soccer: Notre Dame vs. Western Illinois, 
7:00 p.m., Alumni Field. Movie: "Guess Who's Coming to Din­na," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theata, Lafortune, S. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., Lafortune. 


,1 
Friday 22 
Tennis: Notre Dame men vs. USC, 
7:00 p.m., Eck PavilioIL Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., SMC Clubhouse, S. 

Saturday 23 
Soccer: SMC vs. College of Wooster, 
10:00 a.m., Soccer Field; SMC. Pre-Game Concert: Shenanigans, 
12:00 p.m., JACC. . Football: Notre Dame vs. USC, 1:35 p.m.,home. ·· 
Mid-Semester Break 

~ 
~ 
p. 
~ 


For More Information Call: 
Sophomore Class: 631-5225 ND News Line: 631-5110 JACC Ticket Information: 631-7354 Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111 Weekep.d Wheels Schedule: . 631-FRED 
\ 









Touch Four 
x 1031 for local weather 
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 67 36 for national weather 
x6050 for news headlines x 6123 for movie reviews 
x6052 for world news x 9463 for thought for the day 
x6121 for top pop albums x 6238 for TV sports events 
x6571 for prime time TV x 6230 for n_ational sports report 
x 6129 for video releases x 6263 for college basketball 


TOUCH
,unday 24 Monday 1 
Classes Resume 


FOUR
occer: SMC vs. Valparaiso, 1:00 Book Fair: Notre Dame and SMC.m., Soccer Field, SMC. · Scholarship Fund, Ironwood Plaza North.
lld~Semester Break 
·wednesday 3 
Fourth· Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­Keenan Chapel. 
Tuesday 2 
Book Fair: Notre Dame and SMC Scholarship Fund, Ironwood Plaza North. Volleyball: SMC vs. Goshen, 7:00 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility, SMC. 

Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. Loyola, 7:30 p.m.,JACC. 

/ 

SPORTS 


Taking One For The TeaITI 
When Notre Danie athletes con1n1.it to a varsity sport they niust he willing to give up vacations that other students get to e11joy 
week because the team has already been The cross-country team will practice by MaryKate Morton traveling so much lately. much like the soccer team: They'll get up "It's not really a sacrifice," said. each morning and practice for about three Right about now October break is on tricapu1in Stephanie Porter. "ffyou look at hours and then, depending on how they everyone'smind. Maybesomeofyour long term results, we'll practice so much look, they might add afternoon workouts as friends have even already left. For most of that it will help our pcrronnance and pay well. With so many hours of practice, the us, fall break means a chance to recuperate off as far as the conference and NCAA runners won't have much free time but after a week ofmid-terms and to catch up on tournaments are concerned." when they do get a moment, they'll prob­some much needed sleep. For freshman, But their days won't be easy or relaxing ably spend it with friends or studying. this may be their first trip home since leav­like the average Domer's. Instead, a typi­If these schedules sound exhausting, then ing in August. Yet no matter what the plans, cal day will include an early breakfast, you've gotten the right idea. The soccerand October break is an escape from the hectic practice, a quick lunch and then back to cross-country teams could spend over thirty days here and everyone looks forward to it. practice until dinner time. After all that, hours practicing during the entire break. But a sizable percentage of the Notre Dame they'll have free time to relax or to catch up Add in all the time they spend mentally community won't be going home or on on class work. preparing, plus the work they have to finish vacation this break. "It docsn't bother me to have to siay for for their classes, .and the athletes are facing Most people don 'trealize theextentof the October break because i L' 11 be good to stay a packed week, even though they won't be sacrifices that varsity athletes make when in one place.· I'll be able to do some work traveling to tourname[!ts. they commit to a Division I sport. Next and get caught up in everything," Porter Although most of the sophomore, junior week athletes will either remain on campus said. and senior athletes don't have any qualms for grueling practice sessions or will travel Like the soccer team, the men's and about slllying at Notre Dame for October to various meets and tournaments. women's cross country teams will stay in break, it's a different story for the freshmen. The cross-country, men's and women's South Bend to practice daily. The teams Many haven't seen their families and soccer, women's swimming and volleyball have their conference championships, the friends in two months and some might feel teams will all remain at Notre Dame this fa! I MCC's, the weekend after break so the a little homesick and wish they were going break, as well as many others that want to runners will focus on that meet. Sarah home rather than practicing in South Bend get a head start on their seasons. Riley, a junior runner, thinks that varsity or road-tripping to tournaments. Some of the teams will take advantage of athletes make a sacrifice by not having a The women's swim team will join the the free days to have extra-long practices or break. soccer and cross-country teams on campus double sessions, such as the women's soc­"But when I commiLLed myself Lo the during fall break. The team has two meets cer team. In the past the soccer t~am has team, I knew that I'd have to make some on Friday and one on Saturday, so they will traveled to tournaments during break, but sacrifices," said Riley. "I would have just _-_ practice about four hours on Wednesday this year head coach Chris Petrucelli de­gone home ifwedidn'thave to stay, but the and Thursday in preparation. But they do . cided to use the break as strictly a practice team is close so we have a good time here." have the option to go home until Tuesday 
18 

SCHOLASTIC 

and then return to Notre Dame. 

Freshman swimm_er Alyssa Peterson de­cided to go home for the brief break because she thinks even a few days is better than none at all. 
"[Not having a fall break] is a sacrifice because it's less time tha·t I could spend at home relaxing from midterms and seeing my family and friends," said Peterson. "A lot of the team is just staying the whole week." 
Although she is only a-freshman, Peterson agrees with the upperclassmen that all the sacrifices are worth it. · 

"These are technically our first home meets so it will be a fun and really exciting weekend," said Peterson. 
Not all the teams will beon campus for the week. The men's soccer team will be enjoy­ing better weather than South Bend has to offer; the players will be competing in the mid-Atlantic. But their travel 

definitely won't be a vaca­tion. The week will be filled with workouts and games with little time for anything else. They have a game with Old Dominion University in Virginia on the 26th arid then Delaware will be their oppo­nent on the 29th. 
The thirteenth ranked Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team packs its bags for Arizona · next weekend where they will face the Uni­versity of Arizona, Arizona State and Northern Arizona. Then it's back to Indiana for conference games. 
Despite the high-powered 

• and busy week, junior
! . 
Christy Peters thinks the ad­vantages outweigh the draw­backs. · 
"We'll get some sun and a lot of the team is from the West coast, so our parents will try and come for the games."· said Peters. "In a way it's a sacrifice because we could use the extra time for studying; and I'd like to go home to San Diego to see my friends. But I think that we're lucky because we only miss one break. Some other teams like basketball give up fall, Christmas and spring breaks. So it could be worse." 
Even though the break is guaranteed to be exhausting for all the teams and many ath­letes would lik9 the chance to sec their families, players agree that whether they stay at Notre Dame or travel, break is also a good time. Many of the teams roadtrip so the players do get a chance to get away. Also, while the athlete may not be able to travel with friends from the dorm, for many their teammates arc their closcsL<; friends so it's not so bad to give-up a vacation. 
"We're all friends on the team so I'm · excited," said Bill Lanza, a sophomore on the men's soccer team. 
Some athletes assert that it is a necessary sacrifice to not be able to go on trips with friends or be at home for the break but it's bearable because of the opportunity to be part of a team. 

"It's just one of the sacrifices you have to make in order to get all the benefits that go along with being on a varsity sport," said Peters. 
Or as Peterson echoes, "It's a choice you make when you accept your spot on the team." 
However distasteful these sacrifices might seem to most students here, varsity ath lctcs sooner or later accept them as part of the tcrri tory. 
"I've never even thought ofitasa sacrifice because for as Jong as I can remember, it's been like this." said Lanza. "Soccer has taken up all my breaks and long weekends since grade school so I'm not really used to having them [breaks]. Soccer is paying for my education so they could take away all my breaks and I wouldn't mind." 0 

OCTOB ER 21, 1993 

19 





MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 


Holyn Lord: Lord, a sophomore from Carmel, IN, lead the Irish to 
Kostanti Koloskov: Koloskov, a freshman from Long Beach, MS, theirsixthstraightwomcn'sMidwestemCollegiateConfcrcncctcnnis scored the goal which proved to be the game winner in last Sunday's championship last weekend. Lord defeated Mcghan Canton ofXavier 
men's soccer game against Bowling Green. "Konstanti has been due for in the number one singles match 6-0, 6-0 in Indianapolis. 
a goal. He's been gelling better and bencr," said coach Mike Berticelli. 


SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 



20 

SCHOLASTIC 
looking for Some RE l 
Ill 


usmness· xperience? 
Become an advertising assistant with Scholastic and learn firsthand business skills like: 
* Negotiating contracts with companies * * Learning necessary Setting pricing and promotion strategies computer software 
This is a paid position and does not require that much time. For more information, contact Pat or Sean at 631-7569. 

PIZZA

·BRUNO'S tt~~'"',;~ 



1,11 
Q1111 
Bruno's North Bruno's South Open for carry out 'lnd delivery only. Accepting reservations on weekends. One· 18 inch 2-item pizza for.$15. Available for private parties and banquets. Or one 14 inch 2-item pizza for $10. Open at I 0:00 a.m. on football Saturdays. 115 N. 31 Gust North of campus) 2610 Prairie Avenue 273-3890 "288-3320_··..·.· 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.· 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 

21 
__j 
REVIEW & PREVIEW 
by Miranda C. Sanford 

NEW BREWS! 

During parents weekend, while everyone thought the good times to be had were here, the truly wise ones went to Denver, Colo­rado. A record 15,000 people literally poured into Denver for the 12th annual Great American Beer Festival. Cheer for the Coloradoans because this is the biggest beer 
I 
1 show in the world and, being a relatively '! ,1 new celebration, may eventually rival Oktoberfest -good incentive for all those who want to go to Austria to remain at home! One ofthe interesting aspects ofthe festi­i val includes determining the ingredients for ' 1, each specific brew. Wynkoop Brewing Company of Denver made an appearance promoting its "Nature Spud" beer. Yes, that's right, beer can be made from potatoes! ; Otheroff-beat beers included, raspberry fla­
1 
vored Wicked Winter Brew and white chocolate tasting Dixie White Moose. Two tidbits for all beerconnoisseurs: The Boston Beer company unveiled a beer which owner · Jim Koch claims has the highest alcoholic content ever, Samuel Adams Triple Bock. At 17.4% alcohol by volume, people should beware of this fine brew and look for it in stores next spring. Also, one of Bulgaria's largest breweries is beginning production of a special beer that, government officials claim, could help against radioactive con­tamination. Lulin Special Light Lager con­
. tains Kanta-tonic, a substance containing some 40 herbs, which helps rid the body of Strontium. 
IVANA TRUMP, A WRITER IS BORN ... This Christmas for $23 anyone can pur­

i. 
. II chaseanextra-specialgiftforlovedoitesand support a lost cause in the process ... Ivana Trump's new novel hit the stores last week. Entitled Free To Love, this book is impos­sible to avoid. Ivanais featured on the cover in a way that makes her look like a cross breedofLorettaSwitand Madonna from the early years. This book's plotfollows-big surprise here -a beautiful woman from Czechoslovakia. This lady is a very good skier, runs hotels in New York and Prague while remaining an exceptional mother. In the end, the heroine, children and new hus­band triumph over the evil old spouse ­somehow I do not think Don really cares. 

JURASSIC PORNO 

In the aftermath ofJurassic Park all ofus have seen the commemorative cups and toys, but pornos? It seems a German film maker thought a spin off pornographic movie complete with "lecherous dinosaurs" would be a fantastic hit. What drew atten­tion to their project was the proposed title: Jurassic F-and the promotional picture of a "slobbering dinosaur grabbing a half-na­ked, sultry blonde." After Spielberg raised protest over the copyrighted "Jurassic" the film makers changed the title. Viewers can find it under Attack ofthe Porno Saurs. 
BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD ARE NOT COOL! 

Every time a new phenomenon comes out and young people enjoy it, people have to complain. Lately the new MTV cartoon has received a great. deal of criticism. One source cites their great influence with small children. Fire officials in Austin, Texas, declared, "Beavis and Butt-head are notcool when it comes to fire safety for children." After seeing the episode in which they pro­claim "Fire is cool," small children began setting fires to their homes. Now parents are very disgruntled about the possible reper­cussions ofviewing the show and have been m~iling in l_etters of complaint. Parents, assert some control, iake away the remotes. 
THEY'RE OUTTA CONTROL! 
Recently artists in New York have been taking their sense of humors to an extreme. Manhattan's street signs and cross walk lights have been transformed. Some mes­sages seen displayed out of the normal "walk" and"don'twalk" lights are "sin" and "repent"or"conform" and "consume." City officials are removing them as quickly as possible because"they might cause an acci­dent if someone is distracted." 

TROJAN CONTEST 
For all of the die-hard football fans who will remain here for the USC game this weekend, I am sponsoring a little contest for pure enjoyment. Try and count how many times the USC band plays their ever-annoy­ing fight song. My speculation is 96 times. 

UP AND COMING 
Fatal Instinct directed by Armand Assante, the spoof film based on Fatal At­traction and Basic Instinct, is due to be released before the end of the month. It looks like a slap-stick humor movie so, if you are in the mood for a Naked Gun type of movie, check it out Also, a movie which refuses to remain buried, Return ofthe Liv­ing Dead IIIarrives in theaters just in time for Halloween ... This weekthe new Pearl Jam and Rush albums were released ... Do not forget that next week Depeche Mode will be at the Rosemont Horizon on the 28­29 ... and INXS's new disc is set to be released on November 2. 
: :1
'ii ------------------~----.:.------------­
i! 22 SCHOLASTIC 
ENTERTAINMENT 



CELEBRITY NEWS 

by Miranda C. Sanford 
A State of Confusion 
Notre Dame and Madonna, the epitomies of Catholicism, both took further steps to strengthen their religious position. Unfortu­nately, where Notre Dame's new support of the Pope is made in decency, Madonna's "positions" are questionable at best. In an effort to promote her strong "religious ties and reverence to the Church," the provoca­tive singer· decided to sleep in Jerusalem during her Israel tour. Her reasoning? "She prefers to be in Jerusalem to be near the sacred places because she is Catholic." The rabbis, up in arms over this dispatch, de­mand she clean up her "girlie show," which includes topless dancers and numerous ref­erences to sex, but she refused, not wanting to let down her viewers ..Well, people must be getting tired ofthis eternal desire to shock anew because no fans met her plane in En­gland and only a handful went up to herin the hotel. Retirement is not always a bad word. 


All too "P.C." 

Wal Mart stores made the decision to not carry Nirvana's new album In Utero. Why? ... they are concerned it might "clash with some of their customer's moral standards." The main concern results from the song "Rape Me," which actually deals with the figurative rape of an artist, not sexual vio­lence. When did it become policy for stores to be so concerned with what was proper in our American society? After extolling the virtues of their .clientele, a spokesperson defended the decision by adding "[custom­ers] tend to lean more heavily towards coun­try-western, like Vince Gill." Everything becomes clearer now, but do not shed tears for Nirvana. They should make a killing on their new tour. Skyrocketing concert ticket prices lately leaves the majority ofthe public out of the fun. However, Nirvana has pledged to keep their admission fee at $20 during this new tour, so they should be able to make a pretty penny with the volume of sales they will see. 

Rosanne Roasted! 
Rosanne Arnold was barraged by compli­ments spiced with X-rated criticism when she was "roasted" by the Friars Club of California. The roast, in which a group honors a person by ripping them to shreds in their presence, had a field day with Rosanne and hernumerous escapades. Called a night of "oral graffiti," speakers postulated that the reason she did not attend theEmmys was "because she heard they were having an all­you-can-eat buffet at Denny's." Other com­ments dealt with the Golden Globes, "she already has two, and one of them even has a tattoo on it." 
Also, recently there was a roast held in honor ofWhoopi Goldberg in New York. It seems that Roastmaster Ted Danson arrived in black face -causing quite a stir -and went on to unleash a stream of jokes con­cerned with his and Whoopi's sex lives. After Danson' s performance, those in atten­dance decided it should be a while before another such roast should be held. 


Hey Vern 

Ifanyone remembers Ernest (Jim Varney) from his string of imbecilic movies, he has finally made a career move. Rather than playing his usual idiot, he stars as Jed Clampett in the upcoming movie "The Beverly Hillbillies." It has been a challenge for him, being thrown it with actors of such caliber as Zsa Zsa Gabor and Dolly Parton. However, the actor stated "it was a pretty scary jump for me ... I knew if I didn't do something different pretty quick, I'd never be thought of anyone but Ernest" So he accepted the role, and the rest shall remain mediocre history. 

Romance in the Air! 
Remember how people wondered what Julia Roberts saw in county-western singer Lyle when they wed? Lovett, still swooning over his newlywed wife, stated that she might sing on his next album and that "she has a good voice." All right Julia! Good career move. She has gone from soliciting her body in a movie to selling it to be on a record Another new duo who should be making headlines soon ... Tammy Faye and Roe Messner. Tammy Faye wed the mil­
. lionaire builder last week in an interesting wedding. Tammy walked down the aisle in a white -yes, I know, hypocrites -lace dress to meet her new man. Her statement about the union, "I intend to support him the way I stood by Jim." 
· 

Battle of the Wills 
MichaelJackson and Madonna's coincid­ing visits to Brazil leaves them not only competing for audience attention, but also who shall be proclaimed champion of out­landish demands. For her single concert, Madonna demands: four golf buggies to chauffeur her around the Maracana stadium, 236 extra long towels in her dressing room, 250 gallons of black paint, a party with "Brazil's best looking men" and all of her meals served to her in neat, recyclable pack­aging. Michael, on the other hand, requested a 50 by 30 foot tent for his cook, a refriger­ated truck with ten helpers for the food, nine refrigerators and fourteen personal phone lines back stage. , D 


OCTOB ER 21, 1993 

23 

ENTERTAINMENT 

"A Pep Rally for Your Soul" 
How Rudy fared with the critics 
compiled by Margaret S. Kenny 
Rudy, premiered at South Bend' s Morrie Ci vie Auditorium on October 6, met with rave reviews on the Notre Dame Campus. Here's what critics from across the country thought about the story of one man's dream to play football at Notre Dame. 
Ken Osgood 
Sean Astin, Rudy Ruettlger and Ara Parseghlan at a dinner celebrating the premiere of Tri-Star's Rudy. 
"We are destined to be the benchwarmers in life, observing the star players from the sidelines. That's why Rudy ... packs so much power. It's the American dream in action .... Director David Anspaugh, left, and writer Angelo Pizzo, who put · together the equally rah-rah Hoosiers, score again..;. Rudy is the perfect pep rally for your soul.." *** (out of four)



"Calling the plot ofRudy durable is like saying that Michael Jordan knows a thing or two about jumping: Sweet-natured and unsurprising, about as hard to resist (and as intellectually demanding) as an affectionate puppy, this is one of those Never Say Die, I Gotta Be Me, Somebody Up There Likes Me sports movies that no amounts of cynicism can make much of a dent in .... Daniel E. (Rudy) Ruettiger's football . story is one of the most unre~l tales ever to be based on real 
1 
events." · 11 i ~ Kenneth Turan, Los Angeles Times · 
1· 
'_'Two thumbs up!" 


-Siskel and Ebert 
-Susan Wloszczyna, USA Today 
,''Rudy is a reasonably convincing study of a young man's obsessive quest for the nearly impossible; ... [It] shamelessly manipulates the heartstrings and pumps the adrenaline. There are many moments in which it seems like nothing.more than a promotional film for Notre Dame .... For all its patness, the movie also has a gritty realism that _is not found in many higher-priced versions of teh same thing, and its happy ending is not the typical Hollywood leap .into fantasy .... It has a tough persuasive performance by Mr. Asti_n ... Although his portrayal is basically sympathetic, the actor doesn't soft­
. petal his character's annoying obstinacy. He is not afraid of inaking Rudy a royal pain." · 
-Stephen Holden, New York Times 
24 

SCHOLASTIC 

ENTERTAINMENT 
"It's less about winning than trying. Its corny, cartoonish finale makes "Rocky" look like "Bullwinkle." Still, you'll have to forgive the_lump in your throat and the tear in your eye. ... To understand Rudy, one need only recognize the importance ofNotre Dame -particularly its football team -to his Catholic family, ,which gathers religiously before the shrine of television to watch each game." 
-Richard Harrington, Washington Post 
Ken Osgood 


The "real" Rudy on the sidelines at 
the Notre Dame football game 
versus the University of Pittsburgh. 
. ... 

[Rudy]-has a freshness and an earnestness that gets us involved, and by the end of the film we accept Rudy's dream as more than simply sports sentiment. It's a small but powerful illustration of ~he human spirit: ... And teh last big sce~e is an emotional powerhouse.just the way it's supposed to be." ­
-Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times 

This break, ENTERTAIN 



YOURSELF! 
by Scott Johnson 
Fall break. A time to eat, sleep and recharge internal batteries after a stress­ful week. A time to release tensions and finally see those hometown honeys again. However, for those of us who are slightly 

· more daring, there is an inveritableplethora, a multitude of really cool activities with which to entertain ourselves. If you have been studying (procrastinating) for those nasty midterms, drinking to the point of illness and frustrated for the last seven weeks, here are a few suggestions on how you can enjoy yourself more fully during your stay at home. 
First of all, go home! Leave. Hasta Luego. Get out of this God forsaken frozen · tundra of the Hellish Midwest. If you plan on being here, the information desk at LaFortune has bus schedules to Chicago · available. Use them and get out ofthese last reminders of the seventies (South Bend). At least do it for sanity purposes. I live in L.A. the "mecca for entertainment," and unfortu­nately, will be three thousand _miles away. Don't laugh. 
If anyone can not get home, go some­where. Just get in a car and go. Don't look back, just look weird. Drive that car over to someone's house that you haven't seen in a .long time. Drive. that car to the movies . Escape. Shower. That alone is entertaining. Watch reruns all day. Watch commercials if you want Watch the Flintstones, the Beav, the Fonz, the Bunch. Be nostalgic. 
Go sky diving. Scuba diving. Bungee jumping. Fly a kite. Write a book. Read a book. Write a letter. Listen to Rush. Howard. Your favorite radio station. Eat at your favorite restaurant. Make fun of people. Be creative. Think. 
Go back to the movies. Find John Cusack's new movie, Money For Nothing. See Sly and Snipes in Demolition Man. Get a date and see Michael J. Fox in Love or Money. Yeah,man,likeanactualdate. Not 
this "social live revolves around SYRs" 
crap. Be sure to open doors. 
Rent a movie. Rent your favorite movies 
of all time. (Again, Cusack flicks are always 
suitable). Rent Ferris (any John Hughes, 
pre-Macaulayofcourse),orJeffSpiccoli,or 
Benjamin Braddock. Start a Dead Poet's 
Society. As far as new video releases, Bill 
Murray's Groundhog Day is most trium­
phant. Trust me. Hilarity at its finest Buy 
Aladdin when you're at home. I'm totally 
and completely serious, so trust me. It 
makes women swoon all over the globe. 
Expand your musical horizons. Watch a 
few horizons and sunsets. Listen to some 
mellow reggae beats. Road trip toNew York 
tq see Simon and Garfunkel. They'll be 

there for a while but maybe never again. 
Miss Saigon is in Chicago for a few more 
weeks. Road trip to New York to see Phan­
tom, or any other Broadway, off-Broadway, 
or off-off Broadway show. Just get in your 
car and drive. 
Go to a concert. Anything that comes to 
town. Getahaircutyourag,you! Spending , -money is entertaining. Buy clothes that 
don't have Notre Dame or nerd on them. 
Get to an ocean. Dive in. Dive into any­
thing. Dive into everything. 
Listen to new music. Listen to old music. 
8-tracks. Records. Listen to the Tempta­
tions and Four Tops. Listen to Mom. Play 
with your old toys. G-I. Joe. Star Wars 
figures. Transformers. Share. Watch car­
toons. Watch any episode of Seinfeld you 

can get your hands on. Watch90210 if you 
are too self-conscious to here. Watch the 
second best show on TV, Mad About You. 
Paul Reiser is my idol. Use your imagina­
tion. 
Drink milk. Drink whatever the hell you 
want. Slow down. Go outside. Play base­

ball. Play anything. Go to the bathroom in 
your own bathroom. That alone is entertain­
ing. Carpe Diem. D 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 

25 
ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
i! 
News ofthe Bizarre from the Nation's Universities 

Raking in the Dough 
For anyone who is interested, here is a follow up on an article that appeared last March in On Other Campuses. AL the Lime, the Stanford Bookstore was embroiled in allegations of improprieties concerning unheard of perquisites alloted Lo iLc; top executives. Executives had access Lo company cars and a vacation home 
. reported to be worth several hundred thousand dollars. Sure enough, the Bookstore has sold this vacation home for a paltry $385,000 to private owners. It turns out that the home was actually owned by a consulting company owned by the Bookstore's Lop two executives. The consulting company allowed other Bookstore executives to use the home. Eventually, the consulting company "gifted" all of its stock to the Bookstore, leaving the Bookstore the vacation home as well. The money acquired from the sale became part of the Bookstore's assets. And everyone thinks that Hammes runs a shady . operation! 
How 'Bout Them Daisy Dukes 
Accusations of sexism recently arose at Penn State University concerning a "Daisy Duke" contest that offered $50 to the female contestant wearing the shortest shorts. The contest, sponsored by Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc., was advertised across campus with party fliers. The fraternity president argues that the contest was not meant to be sexist but only to exploit a fashion fad prevalent at the time. Who's to blame? Aren't we all, ultimately, slave to fashion? 
Edited by Jenny Tate 

A Proposal She Couldn't Refuse 
A University of Kansas graduate student was recently surprised when her business professor announced a guest speaker with only two minutes left in class. The student was more surprised to find that the speaker was the man she had been dating since New Year's Eve. After speaking for several minutes about his business background, the speaker proposed. The new bride-to-be was so excited upon accepting her engagement ring that she did not even notice the applause of her 70 fellow classmates or her mother videotaping the entire event from the back of the room. To further intensify the drama, the class had just finished a section on partnerships. Now isn't that romantic? Yeah, or nauseating. 
Something to Fight About 
The University of Miami football team and its fans had a wild 
. month this September. During Miami's thrashing victory over Virginia Tech, twelve student fans were ejected from the stadium for "disorderly conduct." The sLUdents, ac·tually, were fighting in the student section of the stadium. Apparently the exuberance of the student body rubbed off on the team the very next weekend during a game against the University of Colorado. Twelve players were ejected after a bench0 clcaring brawl. The brawl started innocently enough with a little extra-curricular pushing among players on the field, but eventually the tiff escalated into a situation where "players kicked, stomped, speared and slammed" one another. Doesn't it sound like some people arc taking themselves just a little too seriously here? After all, it is only a game. 
26 

SCHOLASTIC 
WEEK IN DISTORTION 








The Secret Life 
ofthe 
Non-Athlete 
by John Schuring 
I heard it was "National Coming Out Of The _Closet Week," and I decided it was time. It is difficult to admit, but I just can't hide my true self anymore ... I am not athletic. There. It's said. Now I feel like a huge burden has been lifted from my shoulders. I can hold my head high and say, "Ilovesports,andiam terrible at them." I'm one ofa rare breed here at Notre Dame: the 
non-athlete. Everyone here is athletic. Even the people who look like computer-· loving, perpetual-studying machin~s are actually ath­letes in disguise.· It's pretty frightening. 
What do the following things have in common: · Notre Dame alums in 

''Everyone here is athletic. Even the people who look like computer-loving perpetual-studying 
Gentleman's Quarterly, machines are actually
funny jokes in a Jay Leno . 

monologue an9-a non-ath-athletes in disguise." 
. Ietic Domer? Answer: All three are as rare as a day without rain in South Bend. The fact that all alums wear pants that sport 
. either a violentplaidorinterlockingND's, sham­rocks, leprechauns and little portraits of Lou, etc... pretty much puts a kibosh on any chance of making GQ. Leno's jokes, well, that's pretty self­explanatory. And anon-athletic Domer? Well, it justdoesn't happen. The fact is, Notre Dame just doesn't foster a 

conducive atmosphere for us non-athletes. We have to sneak around, disguise ourselves and slip into the Rock at non-peak hours to avoid ridicule and shame. I think it is time the voices of the non­athletic be heard. 
In an effort to bring equal rights to the non­athletic, I believe that each varsity sport should be required to put on their roster at least one person with no athletic ability whatsoever. (It seems that some trailblazing has already been done in these area by institutions suc;h as the University of Pittsburgh. That IS the reason we beat them so 
badly, isn't it?) Think of the joy that this rule would bring to a handful of athletically­inept people like myself ... I could get a monogram jacket! I could get a scholar­ship! I could get hundreds of dollars from alums under the table! (Sorry, for a minute there, I thought I was at the University of Miami.) 
I can picture it now: I get a spot on the famous Notre Dame football team. 

I'll play for one instant against an inconsequential opponent to snatch my moment of glory. Years later, I'll turn the story into a full-length motion picture and make tons of money. Rodney Dangerfield would play my character, and I don't know how I'ddo it, but I'd make sure that the song "KungFuFighting" surfaced on the soundtrack. It would be a blockbuster. 
Hey, I'd go see it . 
OCTOBER 21, 1993 

FINAL WOR.D 
The Welcoming Spirit 
Student Affairs Needs to Re-evaluate the Directive Regarding Initiation Rites 
by John Potter 

John Potter is a sophomore living in Flanner hall. He started the Flanner late-night serenades this year. 
Scholastic is now accepting submissions for the Final Word. Call the office for details. 
At the end of September the Office ofStudent Affairs issued a directive that is intended to end all "initiation-related rites, ceremonies, exer­cises, or activities of any kind (that) jeopardize the self-esteem and safety of students (and) affect the University as a whole." This directive, many believe, received much more attention from stu­dents than was intended by Student Affairs. The initial response by students included articles in both The Observer and Scholastic as well as heated conversation around campus. Many stu­
. dents were upset that the "stealth" directive nearly slipped past them; others were angered by the flexing of Student Affairs' muscles on such a perennial occurrence. It became hard to discern between fact and hearsay in some of the stories. The issue, however, goes deeper than the initial, emotional response. This will be more obvious next fall when the class of 1998 arrives. The · directive itself seems very ambiguous and open­ended. The style, although typical to many Du Lac policies, leaves students wondering if and where the line is drawn. · · In announcing that events which are deemed "unsafe" or "unwelcoming" are subject to being banned, we are forced to make a judgment as to what is and what is not "welcoming." And, to add to the controversy, the sudden appearance of the directive leaves the community with hurried re­ports and assumptions as to the extent ofthe policy, which only clutter our perception of what the directive entails. As the founder of Planner's Late Night Serenade I was surprised to read that our event was catego­rized and banned as a well known initiation rite. Hopefully this is untrue, and Planner's whole­hearted· welcoming of the female freshmen will 
continue. This is a prime example, though, of the confusion that this directive causes in its blanket approach. It is not specific enough to discern between the activities that are good~willed in nature and those that are actually harmful in the eyes of the university. 
Our serenade is similar to the "initiations" of other dorms in the bonding and hall spirit it forms, and the potential loss ofthis spirit that saddens me most. I was proud to lead 100 Flanner freshmen across campus as they sang their hearts out to various female dorms. The trip built Flanner pride, and their courage beamed in this initially foreign place. Bythe end ofthe night, 100 men embodied all that anyone could hope for in a third night as a member of the Notre _Dame community: spirit, pride and integrity. 
To forfeit outright the chance to build these charac­teristics in the freshmen class of any organization is a travesty. In large dorms, such as Flanner and Grace, it takes activities of this size to form relationships. Stu­dent Affairs needs to revise the directive or the proce­dure involved so that those activities that do properly assimilate members to the community are not jeopar­dized or categorized by the seemingly inappropriate ones. 
In the time that exists between now and the reprint­ing of Du Lac next summer, I hope more time will be spent, both by the students and Student Affairs, exam­ining the details and repercussions of such a directive. Every organization carries its own unique traits. It starts as broad as the university itself and funnels down to each dorm to each team to each club and so on. They all orient their new members in their own way. To ban across the board "initiations" without a clearer defini­tion of the guidelines is detrimental to the system as a whole. Perhaps certain activities should be banned, but others, which might be included by interpretation in this dire<!tive, deserve a fairer evaluation. . 
SCHOLASTIC 
Grist For The Mill 
/JO!! 1't-1 Ir G"U 
~ 

~TU!)E),JT/ I' ~ 
1-lDr :wno 
OU~ F\1.£.S 5>\0!u 'IOU OIJT' OF Sl./iOOL1 SO 

TO ~E. 1l 
YOV 1-tU~r BE. 
1-11~r,R£.N, out. OFF(C.E. 1:):)fiStJr /1~ I\IH.+KE.S~ 

••• At-It> .-s soo/J ~ you &E.T OUM!r ul>, you~ 
Ei:>UC.ATION WILL tit'..: COl-\1>LE.~d 'R.E.~Ul-.l't>E.1:>. 
~ 
/ 
Rick Grey 
WE ••• u ...... !>Hur 1T OFf'/ 
E.-••• «ow FA-11­
S11u,-1r OFF! YO u?:E T,\-~/.>b 
1\1,C.j:. /UV/; WE. 
roo Muut! 

KE.i'o S$ c.S.S l:'.'D i. 
.. ,WH.1-D,\-M/r;rc,:.~1_ 

o~. \'EA i; '? / tvEu., n. ~ ,r AGklN ! I 601" tl~A-INS.1 WE 1)\DIJ'r (,E.T \ 
C 0HOl-.l ~E. '(Jr CJ1/C.t,.fl.:i? AN~'fH1/JG. E.VlLlEf.lTL\ 
so~t ~ wE 1/E.P, w-1,r you f\1,V'E. NO 
~\ uP .. ~l>..,c,ATION TO 
KE.l>C> s.s E.SS. 
Tf\l~ GU-/ ,~ 
l 

£Mi>T'/f
'. ~~ 




. ., 
' 
~ \ ,": ,/·t 
.• .·_1, 
r-: ~~ 
. _..'·t 
.,; 





