^DTREWSEHDIASTIC
^ISCEQUASI- SEMPER-yictuRUS *
£
’ YlV£- QUASI • CBflS ’ ^Oil^1	.
Vol. XXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 2, 1889.
No. 22.
The Real Meaning of Esthetics.*
BY PROF. MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN, A. M.
I.	’
The word “aesthetics” is from the Greek. It describes that science which discovers the beauty ' in art, in literature, in nature, and in life.
Noword has been more misused and degraded. When Oscar Wilde came hither, he took advantage of the American tendency to imitate the English by carrying false aestheticism to • its utmost length. He donned knee-breeches . and long hair. He told the ladies what they should wear with the solemnity of a prophet. He made the sunflower and peacock feathers fashionable, until the rage for household decoration has become s'o great that the very dust-pans blossom in sunflowers, and only lately . one walked over, sat in, and looked at peacocks’ feathers until they-produced the effect of seasickness. They became as common as the imposing horsehair-covered furniture of older times, from which one slid off with more ease than grace.- Just before and just after Oscar Wilde’s advent everybody talked of “mstheti-cism” without really knowing what it meant. And to-day the word is used by the newspapers ■ and by people in ordinary conversation as if it meant something eccentric, strained, affected.
Now it means nothing of the kind. It has a sane and good meaning, and one which we ought to understand thoroughly before, we begin to study literature, art, music. To be an “aesthete” is generally understood to be a long, lank creature,—if it be a.woman,—with a straightly flow
* Lecture delivered at St. Mary’s Academy, - Notre Dame, Ind.
ing gown, of the color of faded oak leaves, with a weird, “ intense,” look and a habit of fallinginto “stained glass attitudes.” Bunthorne, in the opera of “ Patience,” is the type of the male “aesthete,”—the man with hanging locks, who wears a sunflower in his button-hole, who worships the lily, and who tries to live up to a Japanese teapot.
This kind of aesthetics is very easily acquired. It is the vulgar kind. It is well exemplified in one of De Maurier’s pictures in the London Punch. “Who are those queer-looking girls?” asks Mrs. Jones of her children. “They are the de Cimabue Browns,” responded Ethel Jones, “they are very aesthetic.” “So I thought,” answers the mother; “are you acquainted with them ? ” “ Oh, no! ” cry the little Jones in chorus, “ they are intensely aesthetic, and they stick out their tongues if we only look at them!” One of the first laws of modern sham culture is that the tongue shall be stuck out in an aesthetic manner! After that the rest is easy.
To be cultured,—Lam speaking of the sham culture which is fashionable among superficial. and hollow-hearted people,—you must have a cult, an intense worship of something or somebody. The neophyte of culture may select Donizetti, or Dante Cavalcante, or the piper that played before Moses. He may take his choice, and must find in his cult intense spiritual meanings, poetic insights, grand-possibilities of passion and color, infinite perspective and chiaro-oscurQ. • It is the mission of culture to see the unseeable and to knowr the unknowable. The more of the unseeable you see, and.the more of the unknowable you know, the more cultured you will be.
“ Culture ” ignores morality. To talk of morals in connection with art is to place oneself at once among the rabble according to the cultured. To the cultured the Scriptures are a beauti-
358	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ful poem, but nothing more; and the religion of Christ a mosaic of color. The pretense that drives the moral principles from art in its widest sense is destructive of art. Prometheus suffering is devoid of all his grandeur if we forget the higher suffering that surpasses even the pangs of his vulture-torn heart; and what becomes of the inspiration of Raffaelo if we see in his masterpieces’ only the portraits of certain Italian women. It is very well for the cultured to talk of the sublime “nuances of expressiveness that intensify the works of Fra Angelico.” But the pictures of Fra Angelico are nothing if not religious. No artist would call him an anatomist, or say that he painted human faces; and it is certainly not very consistent with that eternal fitness of things, of which the cultured continually prate, to put Fra Angelico and Phidias on the same plane. Bric-a-brac is the basis of this new movement which is dying out already. If the end of life-is to be decora. tion, life is a very poor thing; and this is the philosophy of culture.
Men of the highest modern culture look back to paganism with longing. The highest com: .pliment that could be paid to men of this kind ..is to tell them they are pagans.
... The pretender to the highest aesthetics finds .hidden meanings and new beauties in bits of prose . and .verse, which to the uninitiated seem with. out either meaning or beauty. Sometimes the .. thing chosen by the “aesthete” for admiration
.is. only the mud of literature. To discover ani-malculae in mud may be a laudable and interesting work to a man with a microscope; but to .go into spasms of admiration over the hidden
• beauties of mud and to bespatter the roses of other people is the task of a scavenger smitten
, with the monomania of his trade.
The world must worship something, and when it-has Tost the true God, it makes gods of its own, and changes its gods every year. Since .morality is nothing and beauty is everything, according to the decree of culture, and to be beautiful is to be true to oneself, it is fortunate . that the principles of culture have not yet . reached the “ masses.” The washerwoman, who . knows alt the points of Carlo Dolce, and .thinks Murillo a charlatan in color, will hardly endear herself to the “ cultured,” if she forget the difference between mine and thine; and the clerk who , .has his., “cult” may deem that the necessities - of the. beautiful—that is the development of all .. the capacities of his nature—requires the appropriation of a certain portion of his employer’s money. In cases like these, the advice of Polo-nius should be taken with a grain of salt, for the
cultured may be “true” to themselves without being true to any other man.
Culture did not save the world, At the height of the culture of the olden time, Christa came down to save mankind. Civilization, like an over-ripe pear, had become rotten. We are asked to accept the body for the spirit; we may grow ecstatic over the carving of a crucifix, but we may not think of the anguish of Him typified; we may cry aloud at the “effects” in a picture by Guido, but we must forget the diviner beauty of the Immaculate Mother; we may admire the “pose” and the “lights and shades” in the hair of St. Mary Magdalen, but we may not remember the Infinite Mercy that forgave her! Can anything be more false, more degrading than this gospel ? Can anything be more hollow, more worthless than the “sincerity” of which the cultured talk?
And yet how many seemingly thoughtful people have adopted the superficialities of this modern teaching. There are to-day men who hold that education and culture will reform the world. That a thorough knowledge of grammar and the study of Shakspeare would thin out the dangerous classes—that if to these requisitions could be added a satisfactory knowledge of the maxims of Emerson and Confucius, the world would become a Paradise,-in which everybody would “intelligently” revel in combinations of peacock blue and green, and understand the shades of workmanship that divides cloissonne from champ leve. This is the end of culture. After that the—“unknowable!”
II.
A friend writes a description of an “aesthete” of a lately fashionable type. He says:
I once knew a young person full of “aesthetic” .feeling of the fashionable kind who worshipped simplicity. ;He declared that the melodies of Mother Goose were replete with higher meaning. “Oh,” he had a habit of saying,—the “aesthetic” movement was then young,—“Oh, if you could only learn to draw into yourself the precious soulfulness of simplicity!” And then he read in his most soulful and intense manner:	.	.
“Old Mother Hubbard, she.went to the cupboard, To get her poor dog a bone.”
He often asked me if I saw the symbolical and magnificent appropriateness of. this. I was obliged to confess that I did not.' “Ah,” he said, “do you not see that old Mother. Hubbard, —ph, sweetly simple cognomen!—typifies the hope of the heart seeking for refreshment in an arid world? She went to the cupboard in tlie
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
expectation of finding nothing for her own selfish pleasure. No,—she wanted only the inexpressible delight of giving nourishment to a soul, typified by her dog,—that hungered. Oh, exquisite story! in it I read much that the world cannot see. Surely the genius of him that composed such a poem was stronger and simpler than Shakspeare’s.” - He found joyous and in-, effable meaning in “Little Boy Blue,” and he said that “Old King Cole” was a blast from the silver trumpet of the centuries. I never quite understood him. He thought he was inspired; but most of his friends said that he was crazy. He felt this very much, and I think that it was to show them they were wrong that he stopped being an “aesthete” and went to help his uncle in a soap factory.
But before that, he had some strange ways. We lived in the same house. He had a picture of Dante, before which he kept a candle burning day and night. And one night when his lamp was lit beyond midnight, the landlady knocked and found him with a lily in his hand by his open window. He told her that the supremest moment of life was when one could see, the; argent glances of the orb of night through the ambient perfume of stately lily-flower. The landlady frequently said-after this that he ought to have a keeper. But, as I said, he went into the soap’ business. He does not write to me, because he always considered me a Philistine— he called.everybody who did not rave, about the true, the beautiful, and the simple, Philistines. He once quoted a line from a sonnet, beginning:
“ There were no roses till the first child died,”
and he said: “Oh, essence of poetry! there you have expressed a preciousness of exquisite meaning as if a silver streak of dawn had darted into murk from the empyrean.” When I said I meant just what I said, he gave me up,
III.
In cultivating a taste for good books, you are cultivating true aesthetics. In cultivating a taste for good pictures, you are likewise doing so. .In preferring Mendelssohn’s “Songs Without Words” to the “Carlotta Waltzes,” you are doing it too. /Esthetics really means the calm and reasonable seeking after the greatest things in art, literature and music. It does not mean straining after effect; it does not mean attitudinizing and posing and wearing strange clothes just to appear unusual. All that is vulgar, for affectation and pretension, is always vulgar.
There ^re Philistines in the world,—people who find no good in anything that is not absolutely useful, —who in the sunset-tinged clouds
see only banks of vapor,—who value heavy and rich furniture and surroundings only by. the show they make. The female Philistine values diamonds and sealskin sacks more than a good book, a great picture, of the power to interpret the meaning of a Mozart or a Schubert. The male Philistine laughs at music and poetry and art and refinement. He sneers at everything he does not understand. If he buys a picture, be sure it is because he wants to boast of its price to his friends. And even then he thinks more of the triple-gilding on the frame than of the genius of the artist. He buys a diamond because it is big and dear. He despises everything that does not represent money. There are some poor Philistines, but they would be three times as vulgar if they were rich. ' Philistines, rich and poor, male and female, are thoroughly despicable. You see them in large American cities in the winter and at wateringplaces in the summer,—the men with immense diamonds, the women in the latest fashionable attire. They are like nothing so much as savages to whom a traveller has given a string of glass beads. They are less to be respected than the savage, because they live, among shapes of beauty, yet they will see them not. Education with .them means accomplishments that will “show off.” A simple song well sung1 is nothing, to them. But a bit from an opera, full of cadenzas and trills and fiorituri is everything, because it seems to mean the expenditure of so much money.
A poem or a chapter from -a great book, read with true ieeling and expression, is -nothing, though it be the. perfection of the art that conceals art. No; they must have passion torn to tatters. Elocution, in its worst sense, is the only kind of delivery they can admire. -.And then there must be sobs, claspings of the hands, and dramatic attitudes suitable enough perhaps on the stage of a third-rate theatre, but impossible to people of nice taste in a drawing-room. To the Philistine,	•	.
“A primrose by the river’s brim Only a primrose is to him	‘
And it is nothing more.”
To be what they call an ."aesthete” is bad; to be what they call a Philistine is even worse. The “aesthete." after all, can be made to feel so dissatisfied with himself that he will drop his affectations; but the incorrigible Vice of the Philistine is self-conceit.	’
Let us hope that we stand between the two. And if we do not, let us hope that we shall cultivate such a noble dissatisfaction with ourselves that we shall be neither aesthetes nor Philistines.
360
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
If the sham aesthetic movement, which has now spent its force,’ did no other good, it at least taught Americans, apt to be very thorough Philistines, that there is a beauty in'common things. It made the field daisy and the sunflower fashionable,—too fashionable for our comfort. But, nevertheless, it taught us that the things that were so plenty that they could be had for nothing, had a beauty of their own. If the morning glorv were a hothouse flower, it would seem as precious as the orchids about which the fashionable world is raving, o
•	(conclusion next week.)
The Yellowstone Park.
BY PROF. A. F. ZAHM.
(Conclusion.)
VII.—General Features.
I may be overstating the orthodox theory of geysers in assigning to them caverns in addition to the necessary tube. Most geologists of the day insist that geysers can operate with tube alone, unsupplemented by an}’ subterraneous cavern, and therefore that no such caverns exist. Many, indeed, present Mackenzie’s theory, but only to repudiate it as “antiquated,” “ingenious,” “untena-o
ble.” But the phenomena of the National Park seem to demand a greater reservoir than we usually make an allowance for. It is certainly remarkable that so many writers should describe the immense flow of a Yellowstone geyser without stop p i ng to consider how such floods of water could be contained in a little tube. “The Giant,” says Le Conte, “ throws a column five feet in .diameter. one hundred and forty feet high, and plays continuously for three hours.”
Another noted writer
describes the same as a “river-volume, with a steady up rush, two hundred feet high, for the space of three hours and a half.” But where does all this water come from?
The diameter of a stream, flowing from the
interior of an extinct fissure geyser.
i end of a uniform tube, cannot be less than that of the tube itself. The length, therefore, of the tube must equal the product of the time into the velocity of flow at the orifice. The initial velocity of a fountain one hundred and forty feet high is fully ninety-five feet per second, which in three hours would come from a depth of one hundred and ninety-four miles, or i more than one million feet! And what assurance have we that the tube is not of this depth? Firstly, it discords with Bunsen’s theory which is a favorite with all geologists and is regarded as conclusively established; secondly, the phenomena of eruption are not such as a tube of that depth would occasion.
The pressure of water at this extraordinary depth would be more than four hundred thousand pounds per square inch, or greater than that of active dynamite, and the temperature at a far less depth would be beyond the critical point of water. Below a depth of five miles the density of steam would be greater than that of water, and at the bottom of our fancied tube, greater than that of lead, for aught we know. We should thus have imprisoned a magazine of power such as is rarely seen outside of volcanoes. The eruption would begin peaceably enough like the ordinary display, but presently become half steam, half water, then all steam, then superheated under the enormous pressure, shooting up in a gigantic column to the sky andoutroaring the blast of a thousand converters or of an infuriated cyclone. Then would come gravel, stones, hot rocks, like an up shower of bombs and bullets beating the skv, and finally with a force to rip up the foundations of the earth, dense smoke and black seething lava filling the air with all the pomp and thunder of volcanic fury.
True, this estimation assumes the water to be compact as it issues from the earth; but the
jfact has never been properly examined. The. column cannot be solid from top to bottom of the tube because then there should, be no surplus pressure to impart such great velocity to the current; it must, therefore, be inflated with
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
steam to an extent at least equal to the exterior column or fountain. But it is conceivable that the current may be part water, part steam, till it approaches the surface where, by contraction of the tube, it is condensed to a more compact mass as occurs when a nozzle is added to the artificial geyser, or as would appear at the narrow places if Champaigne were run through a tube of varying thickness. The flow of the less tempestuous geysers certainly appears to be of compact water, from which steam bursts forth high above ground, and this evidence is confirmed by the flood' which runs off on every side, sometimes doubling the Firehole River, notwithstanding that a large portion is absorbed
to cause an eruption
YELLOWSTONE LAKE.
by the air and never falls to the earth. We need not, however, assume that the density of the flow at the orifice is more than one-tenth that of water to show that it could not proceed from anything like a uniform vertical tube as supposed by Bunsen, Tyndall, Hochstetter, Le Conte, and others, who discard Mackenzie’s theory.
Whence then comes so much water, if not from caverns? Or shall we suppose these uniform tubes to curl about snakewise nestling among the strata ? If so, we must be careful they do not penetrate each other or they may become synchronous; nor to enter the earth above a rod or two-lower than the deposit, for then the
silicious tube should be unnecessary, and Bunsen’s beautiful theory damaged. The only rational way out of the difficulty seems to be to allow the tube a sufficient reservoir supply. Nor is this hypothesis so very “peculiar” “ingenious” or unnatural. On the contrary, I believe if the matter were examined, more caverns could be found ready formed than would supply all the active geysers.
Though we visited the springs with careless curiosity, rather than scientific interest, every one was frequently struck with their immense underground capacity. In some cases nothing seemed wanting but an increase of temperature
Indeed but for the sign-board we could not always distinguish spring from geyser, and those the great geysers, too. The Giantess, for example, was quietly overflowing like an ordinary spring, with walls somewhat resembling the picture, and yet this is one of the greatest en-gines of the world. Who knows but its present quiet demeanor is a preparation for more magnificent future action. A few years more and it may have a solid, well-formed orifice which will enable it to throw up a smooth, steady column. A fewyards to the northwest is another huge cis-tern, so deep and cavernous as to resemble an underground lake which is now almost crusted over. It is at present called a spring; but who shall say that it is not an incipient geyser which
may some day have a tube with this cavern to Mackenzie’s liking that shall support a glorious column. In the light of these facts nothing seems more natural than that the deposit should be honey-combed with subterranean caves, and that • every geyser tube of voluminous flow should connect with one or more of them. This conjecture is partly justified by the hollow, rumbling sound heard beneath the solid crust in places and the placards put here and there cautioning tourists to avoid certain localities which to the eye alone appear perfectly safe.
Moreover, it is more than probable’that the original springs, before growing into geysers, were very large and violent, so that before they
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
could be arched over to a narrow tube an immense reservoir had to be enclosed. One more remark, and we may dismiss the theory. Most writers assert that a geyser in building up its tube is thereby necessarily preparing its own grave, because, when the tube grows too long to permit of the water reaching its boiling point, the eruptions can no longer occur. But how can a tube be too long to admit of boiling within a reasonable distance of the top? Or are we to suppose the superheated steam coming from the “hot rocks” incapable of penetrating one or two hundred feet of water, and when the same thing is taking place on all sides near by? Is it not more reasonable to suppose that the death of a geyser is caused by the diminution or withdrawal of the necessary heat? Nay, can we be certain that a geyser is dead so long as water and tube remain? May not many of the “ tranquil laugs” or old man geysers, described by Tyndall, be vigorous young ones asleep or resting soon to begin again with increased vigor? o	o
This is not improbable. Some years ago, it is said a traveller approached Hayden’s“ Great Caldron ” and “most formidable hot spring of the Firehole River.” Seeing on all sides a vast array of loose stones of silicious crust he began to grow alarmed, conjecturing that they were cast up by an eruption. Not long afterwards the bosom of the caldron began to heave, and a tremendous gevser sprang forth to a height of 300 feet. It was the Excelsior waking up from a long slumber. Near it is another still greater caldron known as Prismatic Lake. Who shall say whether this is a “tranquil laug” or infant geyser, or tremendous lion in repose?
I have now told a small fraction of what the tourist sees in our great national park. It is certainly something to be proud of; a land of such wonders as can be seen in no other three like regions anywhere in the world. To a person visiting the West for the first time, and unaccustomed to mountain scenery, it must be overwhelming and bewildering in its immensity of beauty j sublimity and marvellous phenomena. Nor have we seen all; not for many years may we hope to see roads through this labyrinth of canons, waters and mountains and forests. The entire park, situated in the northwest corner of Wyoming, measures 5 5 .miles by
65. The chief places of interest, besides the ones already described, are the “Petrified Forests” and the Yellowstone Lake: the one noted forthe magnitude and variety of its petrifactions,-the other for the grandeur and beauty of its scenery and the excellence of its fishing—qualities in which it is said to be pre-eminent. The mountain scenery is wonderful too, but not more so than that of neighboring countries. The i general elevation of the park is 7000 feet, and | its waters flow in every direction, entering three ! great rivers—the Missouri, the Columbia and the I Colorado. It is on the backbone of the continent, j and contains one or two “two ocean” streams, that is, streams whose currents flowing along the divide are split, so that one part flows down to the Pacific, the other to the Atlantic. These are pointed out to the tourist as rare curiosities.
HOTEL, YELLOWSTONE PARK.
Another still more wonderful thing I came near forgetting: In some places hot springs are found beside good trout streams where men frequently pitch- tent, and if they want fish for dinner the cook throws in fly, draws out fine two pound trout, and without moving a step swings him over to boil in the spring.
The entire park is under the supervision of United States officers, and a petition is afoot, signed by representatives from every state in the Union for an appropriation of one hundred thousand dollars annually to be expended in desirable improvements. The game and fish are carefully protected, and thus the park becomes a. refuge and breeding ground, without which some of our choicest game, such as buffalo, bear and other large animals, would soon become extinct. Fishing and shooting are, however, allowed to a moderate extent, which of course
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
363
enhance the park as a summer resort. The accommodations too are very satisfactory, particularly at the Mammoth Hot Springs which is renowned for its medicinal baths, as well as for its superb climate and rare scenery. The number of visitors is annually increasing, and the park has already a world-wide reputation for its marvellous natural phenomena. It is called Wonderland. ’
Musings on the Mississippi.
by j. j. B.
“ Down to the gulf this water steers; how merrily it goes! 'Twill murmur on a thousand years and flow as now it flows.”
Few scenes are more beautiful, more impressive, and more suggestive of thought than a view of the great Father of Waters from some commanding position. Taking his stand on one of the many majestic bluffs or bold and picturesque cliffs for which the upper Mississippi is noted, withdrawn from the noise and turmoil of the world, the lover of nature may enjoy
“ Her wild, her tuneful tribute to the sky.
The water’s gush, the long, responding shore, The zephyr’s whisper, and the torrents roar.”
Enjoying these beauties he sees Divinity stamped upon them. The water that is now foaming and rushing to the sea, he has seen in the clouds. He has seen it in the beautiful snow that carpeted these hills. He has seen it, too, entering deep ravines, rushing headlong over precipices, bursting into foam in its descent, and sending up clouds of spray that fills the air with light. Thus he sees God in His works. He follows “Nature up to Nature’s God.” Heis impressed with the certainty of God’s presence and providence, and his thoughts are lifted up from the grovelling things of earth. Gradually his thoughts return to earth, and he muses upon the past trials, the present triumphs, and the future glories of Christian civilization upon its banks.
I.
“ The dust of the past some hearts higher prize
Than the stars that flash out from the future’s bright skies.”
Sitting on the bluff, overlooking the Great River, with a view extending for miles on every side,' one’s thoughts revert to the past. The - imagination is carried back 400 years to the time when as yet no white man’s voice had broken the monotony of these solitudes. He beholds the redman’s wigwam. He sees the smoke curling up from his council-fire, while he
is in possession of his own country, his undisputed hunting-ground. The Miche- Sepe from its source to its mouth is his. Unmolested, he can launch his fragile bark, and glide majestically for 3000 miles down its stream, fish in its waters, and hunt the wild turkey, deer, or buffalo on its banks.	.
Passing down the stream of time, The muser sees in the distance, loomingup above the world’s horizon, the majestic form of the great De Soto. His noble band consists of 600 devoted men and 12 apostolic priests, when, in 1541, he discovers the Mississippi. They'- come to convert the Aborigines as well as to make new discoveries. Succumbing in a short time to fatigue and disappointment, the great leader dies on the banks of the stream he discovers for future generations; is buried in its depths; and his band is scattered, without fully attaining the proposed end.
After the lapse of a century or more, the glorious Jesuit, Father Marquette, enters the scene of action. He and, in succeeding years, a host of other Catholic missionaries, after leaving everything which life holds most dear, after battling the stormy'- ocean, crossing pathless deserts, climbing rough and rugged mountains, and undergoing trials, privations and difficulties of a thousand different kinds, penetrate, at last, the solitudes of the Mississippi and meander through its limpid waters, stopping at intervals to teach the benighted savages the way to heaven.	~
It is the spring of 1673. Behold, the great Marquette with his companion Joliet, coming down the stream! They pull to the shore at this very spot. Soon after landing, this wonderful missionary'- is surrounded by a motley'- band of the children of nature eagerly’- listening to the truths of salvation. After his work of-civil-izing and Christianizing the savage, instructing the ignorant and sowing the seeds of love, peace and harmony is ended here, he quickly prepares to embark for a new scene of labor. What a noble example of a life spent for his fellow-man!
“ Never soldier more fearless,	'
Fought in a nobler strife,
Than he, who, loving his Master, • Gave for His flock His life.”	’
Finally, his life-work ended, he peacefully lies down to rest in the Lord on the shore of Lake Michigan. Yes, he •
“ Entered into rest from labor, where all toils and.tempests cease.
Every sail outspread and swelling so he finds the port of peace.”	•	•
(to be continued.)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
]3uhlt0f)d) rbcrg Saturtag during Emn JTimc at N. D. JHnibtrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, February 2, 1889.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has entered upon the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a-candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication,as,usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—The semi-annual examinations closed on Wednesday last. They were, as usual, thorough and searching in each of the various classes of the University, and calculated to test the proficiency and progress of the student. The result will be seen from the general averages which are published elsewhere in this paper. Suffice it to say that as a whole the examinations have given satisfaction to the authorities, and indi-cate the existence of a spirit of application and earnestness throughout the whole student body that promises the happiest results, not only for the close of the scholastic year, but also for each one’s work in the life before him. This thought should serve-as an encouragement and incentive to further exertion that all bright hopes and expectations maybe happily realized. Those who have passed through the ordeal of the last few days have learned at least wherein they are deficient and the duty incumbent upon them of making a good use of the time remaining if they wish to attain the end for . which they entered college. If they act accordingly, they will have no cause for regret when June’s . bright commencement dawns upon them:
Our Nation’s Need.
Dark and ominous war clouds are hovering over Europe. France is thirsting for revenge; Germany is on the alert for her old enemy; Russia needs but little urging to enter the fray on the side of France, while Austria, Italy, and England do not seem averse to assist Germany, and get their portion of the spoils. Never, perhaps, since the time of the first Napoleon, was Europe in such a disturbed condition.
Now, the cause briefly stated is this: Civil society in Europe is endeavoring to divorce itself from religion. It is departing in its laws and in the instruction of its youth from the laws and teachings of God. Hence the people are beginning to disregard the authority of their civil rulers, the obedience due to law, and justice toward their fellow-man. It is a question whether three-fourths of the Germans believe in Christianity; and France, Italy and Russia are hotbeds of infidelity, socialism and nihilism.
Discarding religion and God, it necessarily follows that they become immoral. Immorality was the cause of the downfall of the Roman Empire; so, too, at the present time it is threatening the downfall of the nations of Europe. Let us see to it, that we do not perish on the rock upon which others split.
We have outstripped all other nations in our onward march. Our nation is remarkable for its material increase. Scarcely a hundred years old, it has grown from a struggling population-of three millions, occupying a narrow strip of land lying along the Atlantic, to a prosperous nation of over sixty millions of the most intelligent people in the world, occupying all the land from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from the Lakes to the Gulf—a territory nearly as large, as all Europe. It has become the leading nation of the world. To us other nations are beginning to look for guidance in political matters.	-
But if our mechanical inventions surpass those of all other nations; if we have taught the Mississippi to grind our grain, to weave our cloth; if our growth has been phenomenal, we must not presume too much upon these facts; for our present high standing among the nations of the earth cannot be maintained unless our people are taught to be moral as well as intelligent.
When we see our nation turned into an army of office-seekers; when we see the spirit of our politics corrupt, low and. degrading; when we
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
-see capital combining against labor to such an . extent as to make the rich richer, the poor poorer, we are brought face to face with our needs, and are ’ forcibly reminded of the fact that “there is something rotten in Denmark.”
It has been said that the office ought to seek the man. However true this may have been in other times and climes, certain it is that in our time and country the man invariably seeks the office.
Whether public office is sought for notoriety or for influence, there seems to be a glitter, a glare about it that is very attractive. We notice this particularly when there is a change of parties in administering our public affairs. We saw it when Cleveland was elected four years . ago; we see it now. Scarcely was Harrison’s election known ere he was surrounded by a number of office-seekers. Ever since the middle of November Indianapolis has daily witnessed an expectant throng eager for a share of the loaves and fishes of office. For months after his inauguration the hotels of Washington will, doubtless, be filled, the streets thronged, and the White-House crowded with eager, nervous men who hurry thither to impress upon the mind of the President the fact that they are the proper men for the offices, not only on account of their unceasing labors in the canvass, but also on account of their lengthy testimonials.
The most deplorable feature of this almost universal office-seeking is the corruption attendant upon it. In a race for the assembly or Congress between an honorable and an unprincipled man, in nine cases out of ten, the latten is elected. The best wire-puller, demagogue, flatterer is . nominated and elected; while the able, honorable, upright man stays at home. Politician has become synonymous with demagogue Things have come to such a pass, that the party with the big barrel, or the best distributor at its head, is certain of victory. Such is the domination of money in our campaigns that the political issues are but little considered by a great number of voters. Feeling but little interest in the affairs of the government, these persons . are ready to sell their votes to the highest bidder, or follow the lead of the most polished. demagogue, be he Democrat or Republican. This corruption in our elections is becoming general. It is beginning to be felt everywhere. Our legislative bodies are deteriorating. Few are the politicians of to-day who have the courage to say with Henry Clay: “I would rather be right than President.”	.
This predominance of worldly interests has almost taken possession of our government
365:
which it wields to its special advantage. For these wealthy legislators make laws that favor themselves. The great burden, consequently, . lies upon the poor. Oiir wealthy legislators are interested more or less in trusts, combinations # and monopolies of various kinds. The evils arising from these sources are enormous.
Every trust, every monopoly, contains within itself the seed of vice and national destruction. A trust is a combination of the rich to' make themselves richer, and the poor poorer. 'It is an institution which increases the separation between the rich and the poor. It is a machine which distributes wealth unequally; which in-creases the misery, distress and trouble of millions, and which causes poverty and hunger to increase in the land. It is an aggregation of large amounts of money for the purpose of committing legal robbery. A miller sells his flour ata reasonable price on account of the competition of other millers. The millers combine, form the “Millers’ Trust ” in order to raise the price of flour, make more money and oppress the poor. To take from the poor man that much more than a reasonable price for the flour is as much an -infringement of the Decalogue, as it would be to take it from him in a lonely spot, at the point of a revolver, with the threat, “your money or your life.” This is but an isolated case of how capital formed into trusts and combinations is used to rob and corrupt.
Our legislators, knowing theseevils, heed them not. They spend days and weeks quarrelling over some insignificant measure, and do not seem to notice things of vital importance.
What our Nation needs is some power to prevent these evils; to point out to the people their true interests; to teach them that money is not the greatest good;—thesummum bonum,— and to show them the necessity of voting for men of honor, not for millionaires, demagogues and political tricksters. Our people are becoming indifferent to religious teachings. They worship the “ golden <. calf” instead of God. Whatever will enhance their ambitious designs or material interests, they must have, regardless of the means by which it is attained. They' need moral instruction—instruction on the duty of charity. Without it, wealth will increase its hold more and more until it finally destroys the nation; for,
“ Ill fares the land, to hastening- ills a prey,	.	-
Where wealth accumulates, and men decay.”
The only power capable of restraining men’s passions and teaching them their true interests is religions In religion’s eternal .principles lies
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
our only hope of successfully dealing with'all the'-evils that afflict or threaten us. Religion is the purifier and corrector of the morals of individuals. Correcting the immorality of individuals, it, in consequence, purifies the morals of the nation. This it has done in the past. It elevated every Christian nation from barbarism to civilization; and while the people were obedient to the teachings of the Christian religion, they were good citizens. Those following its teachings o	o	o
do not become anarchists or socialists. A good Christian cannot be a bad citizen. For he is taught from his youth that, as St. Paul says, “There is no power but from God.... Therefore he that-resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God.” He is taught, too, that he must “render unto Cassar,”—z.r.,to every legitimate government—“.the things that are Caesar’s, and unto God the things that are God’s;” that he must give everyone his due; that he must do •unto others as he would wish others to do unto him; that he must love God above all things and his neighbor as himself; that he is composed of a double element, a body and soul; and that the soul is destined to live forever—happy or miserable, according to his works.
7	o
These teachings, to be efficacious, must be instilled into the minds of the youth. They form part of an education; for, to educate means to develop the moral as well as the intellectual faculties of the soul. A system of education that neglects the moral, the religious faculties is, then, a defective system. An education which includes religious training, forms men who will be an honor to their country. One that excludes it forms a race of intellectual so-called philosophers, absconding bank-cashiers, and political tricksters.
In the training of our youth Christianity is being more and more excluded every day. Frequently the teachers are unbelievers. It is no wonder, then, that many grow up without God; that Christianity is beginning to be scoffed at; that infidelity is on the increase; and that immorality, vice and crime are flooding our fair land and threatening it with destruction.
Form the child in our schools upon the maxims of the Gospel, and he should and will grow up a pattern of all virtues. He will be truthful in his discourse, sincere in his sentiments, upright in his conduct, honest and honorable in all his dealings with his fellow-man. A follower of Christ, he will endeavor to imitate his Master.
Our Nation’s need is a. system of education that will form the whole man—intellect, heart, will and character. Instruction is not education. The youth of to-day have a right to a Christian
education. It is the duty of Christian parents to see that their children receive such instruction; for, as heaven is above earth, as the things of eternity are superior to those of time, as the soul is more precious than the body, so is a religious training better, higher, more precious than secular instruction. It is likewise the Na' tion’s interest to have its youth receive moral training. For men form the nation. And such as is the children’s education such will be the men of the future. It is to be hoped that our nation, which in the past has been dominated to a certain extent, by a religious element, will recognize its need and continue for centuries to be the grandest, freest, most progressive, most glorious nation in the world.
•	J-J-B.
--------------------
Examination Averages.
{No Average under 60 is published.) SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
A. Aldrichs, 91; W. Akin, 88; J. Brennan, 81; D. Brewer, 97; I. Bunker, 87; J. Bretz, 74; J. Burns, 83; C. Burger, 91; E. Blessington, 92; F. Brown, 64; J. Becker, 70; H. Brannick, 87; P. Burke, 86; A. Beckman, 71; H. Brelsford, 95; | C. Brown, 67; D. Barrett, 79; R. Bronson, 77;
L. Chute, 89; E. Coady, 70; P. Coady, 68; F. Carney, 72; C. Cavanagh, 86; D. Cartier, 60; W. Cartier, 68; H. Carroll, 68; H. Crabb, 83; M. Cassidy, 80; J. Crooker, 90; J. Cooney, 69; S. Campbell, 82; E. Chacon, 98; W. Campbell, 63; I. Casey, 76; C. Dacy, 87; H. Draper, 80; M. Dore, 89; J. Dougherty, 90; J. Darroch, 60; J. Delaney, 75; G. Eyanson, 67; R. Fitzgerald, 62; J. Foster, 73; D. Fisk, 83; J. Fleming, 84; A. Finckh, 80; F. Fehr, 76; W. Ford, 80; B. Freeman, 84; E. Goke, 60; T. Goebel, 95; Jno. Giblin, 81; J. Gallardo, 71; F. Galen, 61; J. Galen, 72; M. Garfias, 69; P. Hempier, 82; W. Hill, 65; J. Hepburn, 71; W. Healy, 78; W. Hayes, 72; W. Hackett, 70; L. Herman, 96; M. Howard, 74; E. Hoover, 79; S. Hummer, 99; B. Inks, 77; F. Jewett, 78; H. Jewett, 87; A. Karasynski, 90; G. Kimball, 80; N. Knight, 75; J. Kenney, 68; F. Kohlmann, 74; F. Kelly, 79; J. Kelly, 72; G. Knoblauch, 72; F. Lane, 96; W. Lahey, 73; J Lesner, 88; J. Lozana, 90; A. Leonard, 83; L. Long, 77; E. Larkin, 81; W. Larkin, 86; M. Landgraff, 62; Geo. Long, 60; F. Long, 88; M. Luisell, 80; R. McNally, 77; H. Murphy, 73; H. McAllister, 88; G. McAllister, 78; E. Morton, 78; J. Mackey, 88; T. McKeon, 75; T. McCune, 63; V. Morrison, 90; W. Morrison, . 92; J. Meagher, 95; Jno. Mithen, 64; H. Murphy, 90; Jno. McCarthy, 64; F. Mattes, 77; Jas. McCarthy, 80; L. Meagher,80; W. Meagher, 85; R. Newton, 88; A. O’Flaherty, 85; J. D. O’Shea, 96; Jas. O’Connor, 60; L. Ohlwine, 82; R. O’Hara, 84; W. O’Brien, 75; C. Paquette, 84; H. Prichard, 82; E. Prudhomme, 72; B; Patter-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
son, 65; L. Pim, 79; H. Robinson, 84; M. Reynolds, 87; H. Roberts, 61; 0. Rothert, 87; D. Reedy, 62; E. Stewart, 73; J. Schmitz, 70; R. Sullivan, 64; H. Steiger, 72; J. Sullivan, 81; E. Stephenson, Si; H. Smith, 81; C. Soden, 66; J; Toner, 80; W. Tiernan, 92; D. Tewksbury, 63; R. Velasco, 82; H. Wise, 80; H. Woods, 87; J. Welsh, 60; T. Wynn, 60; C. Youngermann, 79; F. Youngermann, 71; R.Zeller, 68; L. Zinn, 65; R. Zeitler, 67; D. Dwyer, 90.	.
Note.—Messrs. G. Cooke, J. Cusack and J. Gallagher, were not examined.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Adelsperger, 89; J. Allen, 69; W. Allen, 70; H. Aarons, 72; J. Ayer, 78; E. Adams, 77; U. Beaudry, 73; W. Bates, 79; J. Bradley, 91; W. Bailey, 68; R. Boyd, 79; C. Blumenthal, 74; J. . Brady, 94; W. Bearinger, 68; P. Bryan, 77; E. Berry, 89; W. Brown, 77;’ E. Baltes, 81; H. Bronson, 70; T. Cleary, 67; S. Cleary, 69; J. Cunningham, 87; E. Crandall, 88; S. Ciarchschi, 78; W. Covert, 76; R. Case, 75; F. Chute, Si; G. Connelly, 60; L. Chacon, 70; E. Campbell, 76; H. Cauthorn, 73; R. Clendenin, 78; F. Crotty, 83; S. Collins, 91; F. Connors, 70; J. Connors, 88; E.-Connors, 81; A.Campbell, 72; L. Davis, 71; N. Davis, 78; A. Devine, 76; L. Dunning, 84; H. Des Garennes, 76; N. Darcy, 75; N. Dinkel, 73; H. Darroch, 73; E. Du Brul, 80; O. Du Brul, 83; L. Dempsey, 74; F. Duffield, 78; J. Ernest, 78; C. Erwin, 78; G. Elder, 84; J. Flanigan, 79; T. Falvey, 64; P. Fleming, 78; S. Fleming, 87; C. Fleming, 86; G. Frei, 84; C. Fitzgerald, 85; J. Fitzgerald, 93; J. Green, Si; J. Girsch, 80; W. Galland, 75; R. Healy, 81; P. Healy, 68; L. Hoerr, 66; W. Hartman, 60; W. Hannin, 72; P. Hague, 63; P. Houlihan, 75; L. Hoffmann, 70; C. Heard, 95; E. Hammond, 66; E. Hughes, 81; A. Heller, 78; B. Hesse, 82; C. Hinkley, 74; J. Healy, 67; W. Hennessey, 76; W. Halthusen,-70; F. Hanrahan, 70; O. Ibold, 83; W. Johnson, 72; G. Jackson, 72; E. Jewett, 74; T. Johns, 76; F. Krembs, 85; J. King, 89; A. Kutsche, 67; W. Kutsche, 65; F. Kellner, 74; L. Kehoe, 74; G. Lamon, 71; J.Lenhoff, 80; J. Moncada, 60; T. Mahon, 79; W. Maher, 80; E. Maurus, 96; F. Mainzer, 75; J. Malone, 68; J. McCartney, 80; J. McIvers, 65; R. Jno. McIntosh, 80; Jas. McIntosh, 74; W. McPhee, 93; W. McDonnell, 72; J. McGrath, 79; J..McMahon, Si; A. Mayer,61; C. Merz, 86; E. Morrison, 66; J. Mooney, 95; C. Mooney, 62; J.-McNulty, 88; L. Monarch, 85; F. Neef, '92; J. Nockles, 87; A. Nester, 85; W. 1 O’Neill, 92; G. O’Brian, 86; W. O’Brian, 89; J. O’Mara, 87; J. O’Donnell, 74; P. Populorum, 78; H. Pecheux, 83; F. Prichard, 70; F. Peck, 81; J. Feck, 75; R. Palmer, 76; C. Priestly, 83; M. Quinlan, 92; I. Rose, 85; E. Roth, 64; A. Roth, 67; R. Riedinger, 83; C. Ramsey, 72; J. Reinhard, 84; W. Rowsey, 76; C. Schillo, 75; F. . Schillo, 81; F. Sheehan, 88; C. Sullivan, 82; W. Stanton, 62; R. Spalding, 63; C. Scherrer, 80: L. Scherrer, 90; M. Smith, 70; E. Schultze, 81; L. Sutter, 83; H. Silver, 79; W. Willien, 74; A. Towne, 71; -J. Talbot, SiF.- Toolen, 68; W.
Tetard, 78; J. Wright, 77; J. Walsh, 68; A. . Welsh, 88; G. Weitzel, 97; F. Wile, 95; T. Wilbanks, 68; W. Williamson, 79; W. Young, 77.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. Ackerman, 85; B. Bates, 96; S. Blake, 86;’ S.Bruel, 8o;T.Burns, 79; J.Burns, 75; E.Bryan,82; J. Barbour, 83; F. Bearinger, 90; O. Brown, 76; H. Connelly, 89; F. Cornell, 90; W. Creedon*.; W.Crawford*; A. Crawford, 92; A. Cohn, 85; C. Connor, 87; W. Connor, 85; W. Crandall, 88; J.Crane, 89; J.Cudahy, 92; L. Downing, 80; Jas. • Dungan, 89; J. Dungan, 88; H. Durand, 90; E. Dorsey, 86; J. Doherty, 74; J. Dempsey, 90; F. Dempsey*; H. Dench, 80; M. Elkin, 92;. E. Elkin, 96; F.Evers, 95; G.Evers,89; J.Elder, 76; C. Eckler, 70; T. Finnerty,86; E. Falvey, 92; W. Foster, 89; E. Fanning, 87; Chas. Grant, 90; A.. Greene, 87; D. Goodwillie, 88; F. Goodman, 87;
I. Gregg*; W. Girardin, 76; H. Hendry, 77; J. -Hagus, 76; W. Hamilton, 88; R. Hinds, 89; F. Hill, 70; J. Henn eberry, 75; H. Johns,80; E.Jon-quet*; J.Kane, 82; C. Kroolman, 88; S. Keeler, 70; C. Kaye, 85; C. Koester, 99; V. Kehoe, 95; R. Kirk, 85; E. Lansing, 92; M. Levi, 80; G. Livingston, 86; H. Londoner, 89; A. Lonergan, 70; -J. Marre, 92; A. Marre, 89; J. Maternes, 82; H. Marx, 85; L. Minor, 87; C. McPhee, 86; A.Mattas, 89; F. McDonnell, 82; E. McDaneld, 76; S. McGuire, So; H. Mooney, 90; H. Montague, 79; C. McCarthy, 85; J. McCarthy*; A. Miller*; W. Marr, 85; G. Mayer, 90; W. Nichols, 86; C. Nichols, 80: T. Neenan, 85; J. O’Neill, 96; H. Oppenheimer, 88; H. Plautz, 80; F. Parker, 90; L. Paul, 89; C. Paul, 85: R. Powell*; D. Quill*;
D. Ricksecker, 94; F. Roberts, 89; L. Rea*; J. Seery, 90; J. Snyder, 87; A. Seidensticker, 82; L. Stone, 83; G. Steineman*; F. Toolen, 98; P. Trujillo, 85; W. Taylor, 86; S. Witkowsky, 85; F.Webb, 89; JCWebb, 90; F. Wever, 89; V.Wash-burne, 82; D. Wilcox,‘85; W. Wilson. 76.
* Not examined.
Local Items.
—Examinations are over.
—To work again for June.
—Now for the second session. .	‘
—Our friend John was barb er cans.
—That “Dakota snowstorm ” arrived on Thursday.
—What has become of the United Scientific Association?
—Notwithstanding the examinations, there were very few students in the Infirmary during the last ten days.
—Let every one begin the coming session with the firm determination of excelling, not in one class only, but in every class.	.
—The lecture committee are endeavoring to secure Bill Nye and Whitcomb Riley in one of their inimitable entertainments.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notice.—Please to remember that the Scholastic box in the office is not intended for the reception of mail matter.
—A grand stereopticon exhibition will soon be given. It is rumored that some delightful o	e	o
surprises will be perpetrated. Cave canem!
•—Ice-harvesting has begun on St. Joseph’s Lake. The late spell of cold weather has materially enhanced the prospects of a good crop.
—Prof. Whitmore, a weary traveller on the public highways, entertained the Total Separation Society with feats of legedermain during the week.
—The numerous friends of Bro. Paulinus, the genial director of the Farm, are glad to see him around again, and recovering rapidly from the serious effects of the accident which he recently met with. '
—To-day (Saturday) is the feast of the Purification, or Candlemas Day. Solemn High Mass, preceded by the ceremony of the Blessing of the candles, was celebrated this morning by the Rev. S. Fitte, C.S. C.
—Prof. O’Dea has placed in the telegraph room a very interesting collection of pictures of the distinguished electricians of the country-. A visit to this apartment will prove both entertaining and instructive.
—There remains not a single hair on an upper lip in Sorin Hall. The crusade against moustaches was inaugurated the first of the week, and those who did not peacefully submit were by force relieved of their cherished appendages.
—We are informed that arrangements are being made with a view to the introduction of petroleum as fuel for the use of the boiler house. It is proposed to erect a large tank near the Michigan Central track from which the oil will be pumed through pipes.
—Rev. Father Corby, of Notre Dame, Ind., is passing a few days in the city this week and receives a hearty welcome from all who meet him. He is here on business connected with the improvements to be made at the Sacred Heart College.—Watertown (Wis.) Gazette.
—Heard on third floor: Mingling of angry voices, no scuffling, then above the din and
3	O'
Clamor rang out clear and strong the word,!i ’tis false, ’tis false! it cannot be true!” A prompt . investigation revealed the fact that it was merely an argument in which both the disputants were in doubt.
' —The removal of some ten or fifteen feet from the front portion of the sanctuary in the church has greatly improved its appearance. By this change, made during the past week, the pulpit has been brought close to the Communion railing and more space provided for movements within the transept.
—Improvements are in progress on our local post office. The structure will be enlarged, and the interior completely renovated and decorated. The requirements of the mail sendee at Notre
Dame have long demanded these improvements which, when completed, will greatly facilitate the work of our genial Postmaster.
—Signor Gregori is at work on the grand frescos to adorn the interior of the dome. The subjects are the seven liberal arts, representing the trivium and quadrivium of ancient scholastic studies. The figures will be of colossal size, and will present an imposing sight when viewed from the rotunda after the dome is opened.
—Rev. Hugh McGuire, Rector of St. James’ Church, Chicago, and his assistant, Rev. D. Croke, paid a very pleasant visit to Notre Dame on Monday last. Father McGuire is the worthy successor in his parish to Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan, and is highly esteemed and beloved by all his parishioners. The visit of the Rev. gentlemen was the source of great pleasure, and we hope it will be soon repeated.
—On Wednesday next, the 6th inst., the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, Very Rev. Father General Sorin, will celebrate his seventysixth birthday. The happy recurrence of this anniversary, associated as it is with the Jubilee year of the venerable Superior, will be an occasion that will call forth the sincere prayers of all, that health and strength may be given him for many a year to come.
—Prof. Liscombe is drilling his vocal classes in the parts of a grand opera which he hopes to be able to produce on the 22d inst., Washington’s birthday. This will be something novel in the way of entertainments at Notre Dame; but we have no doubt, judging from the evidences already given of the good dramatic and vocal material among the students, that this new departure will prove a delightful success.
—The office of our esteemed contemporary, the Ave Maria, has been furnished with a complete stereotyping outfit. This improvement will greatly facilitate the printing of the immense edition which the Ave Maria publishes each' week, and is another evidence of the extraordinary and well-merited prosperity attending this excellent magazine which is fast attaining a world-wide circulation.
—Two weeks from next Friday will be Wash ington’s birthday. We hope that all who are to take part in the public celebration of the day, will begin at once and earnestly the work of preparation. This exhibition, should be the greatest of the year. It can be made so. Let . patriotism and class pride be permitted to do their work, and the entertainment on this national holiday will be the best ever given at Notre Dame.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week was the Rev. J.’R. Slattery, Rector of St. Joseph’s Seminary, Baltimore, Md. The institution . ovei' which Father Slattery presides is devoted to the training of priests for the colored missions of the United States—a noble work, and one that commends itself to the ac
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	369
tive and generous co-operation of Catholics everywhere. Father Slattery was well pleased with his visit to Notre Dame. He honored the students with an entertaining and instructive address before his departure.
—The following important communication was lately received:
“ Mr. Editor:
“ We are in consultation whether * swallowing a cigar spittle is injurious to the health or not.’ Please give us your decision in the Scholastic.
“ Sincerely yours,
“J. J., H. F., M. W.”
’ We regret very much that our little acquaintance with the habits of the festive cigar prevents us from giving a luminous answer to this rather smoky question. 1st, We were not aware that a cigar had a spittle; 2d, We should judge it better to swallow the spittle than to swallow the cigar; 3d, Eschew the vile weed.
—A very agreeable entertainment was given in Washington Hall on Tuesday evening by Mr. A. A. Williams, the distinguished elocutionist of New York. He-recited from memory the first three acts of Shakspeare’s “Julius Csesar,” portraying the various characters of the drama with the appropriate change of voice required. Mr. Williams, though somewhat deficient in action, displayed a good command of voice and facial expression; and, considering the great variety of personages represented, succeeded in giving a very effective portrayal of the great play, and one satisfactory to his audience. A , scene from Howell’s farce, “The Sleeping Car,” ’ closed the entertainment, displaying Mr. Williams’ great versatility and sending the audience away in the best possible humor.
. —We are pleased to announce that a new course of elocution will be inaugurated.to-mor-row (Saturday) evening by Prof. Walter Lyman, of Chicago, who will have charge of the course during this second term. It is hoped that all who can do so will profit by this opportunity to acquire a thorough training in a most important branch, of study. There are very few who cannot realize what an aid to success in the pursuit of any profession is afforded by facility, correctness and grace in the expression of thoughts and ideas which are called forth by social intercourse. All who have taken part in or witnessed college exhibitions, or society speeches and debates, must have felt or noticed how the possession of good elocutionary training has contributed, most powerfully to individual success, and not unfrequently has brought victory out of defeat. The reputation of Mr. Lyman is too well known to need any commendation. He is one of the foremost elocutionists of the country, and his courses of instruction are thorough and attended with success.
—A large portrait' in oil of the Rev. Patrick Dillon, second President of the University of Notre .Dame, has been placed in the college parlor. Father Dillon was identified with the early years of Notre Dame, and by his energy
and zeal contributed materially towards her progress. From 1862 to 1865 he held the position of Vice-President under Very Rev. Father Sorin, who was then President. In 1865 he succeeded to the Presidency, Father Sorin having been elected Provincial of the Congregation. The administration of Father Dillon was characterized by great ability, while his genial disposition endeared him to both professors and students. He died in November 1868, greatly mourned by the hosts of friends he had made during life. It is a source of great gratification to all to see this splendid painting enshrined within the college walls to remain- a lasting monument to the memory of this worthy priest. * The portrait, is about five feet in length by four in width, and is enclosed in a massive gilt frame. For this addition to the . paintings of Notre Dame’s Presidents, the College is indebted to Mr; and Mrs. P. Cavanagh, of Chicago, brotherin-law and sister of the Rev. Father Dillon.
—From the Ypsilanti. Senitncl we take the fol-. lowing translation of
THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET:
iSic gic^ct co bod) mid) bcr Ainbc^cit Digen, Sn forger grinncrung Ijcutc mid) fort!
SSic nad) SBicfcn unb ISdlbcrn bic 5rdumc mid) tragcn Unb jcbcm mir nimmcr Dcrgcglidjcn Drt!
§icr pi'd)rcid)c 5cid)c non SRiiblcn umgcbcn, Sci 23vucfe unb $clb bort bcr SSaffcrfall biinft, Dao §ano mcincr Gltcrn, bio Scnnc bancbcn. Dor Gimcr fogar bcr im SJnmncn bort i)dngt!
Dor cid)cuc, cifcnbcfd)lagcnc (simcr. Dor Gimcr bcr moofig im ijrunncn bort t)dngt.
Stic mcrb’ id) ben moofigcn (simcr nergeffen, Denn oft, menu am SRittag oom ^clbc id) him, Scrnt’ fcincn iinfdja^barcn iScrtt) id) crmcncn, iScnn b’rauo id) bao foftlidjc Sabfal entnabm. 2Sjc |d)iicll id) il)n fa^te mit gliibcnbcn Danbcn, ... SBie rafd) 311 bcm ficfrcid)cn Sniiibc cr fanf, - Unb benn, mir bao Sinnbilb bcr iSal)rt)eit 311 fpenben, (sr aufmarfs fid) bob mit bcm fnftlcnbcn Sranf.
Dcr cid)cnc, ci|‘cnbcfd)liigrnc. Simcr, Dcr Simcr bcr aufmartg fid) l)ob mit bcm Sratif. .
SBcid)’ foihidje SBonnc, ben Simcr 311 fallen! iSic rat'd) fid) bariibcr bcr 2cd)cnbc mirft! _ D nimmcr batt’ id) fur ben Acid) il)ii gclaifcn, Scfultt mit bcm ilcctar ten Jupiter fd)lurft!
Dod) nuu langft entrurft fd)on ben fcligen Sagcn ■ Die Sbrdue bcr SBcbmutl) jur SSimpcr fid) brangt, SBcnn bin bcr Srinncning Srauinc mid) tragcn 3um Simcr bcr moofig im SJnnincn bort bangt.
3um cid)cncn cifcnbcfdjlagciicn Simcr, 3um Simcr bcr moofig im Srunncn bort bangt
—Lecture at Kalamazoo, Mich.—The Kalamazoo Daily Telegraph, of the 24th inst., contains a report of the lecture delivered in that city on the previous evening by the Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. S. C., who spoke on “ Poets and Poetry.” The Telegraph says: “At the hour for beginning the address, a goodly crowd had filled the spacious circuit-court room, and none were disappointed in the lecture or the lecturer. At eight o’clock Father Hudson entered the 'room and was escorted to the platform by the President of the Young Men’s Sodality, who briefly introduced the speaker. Father Hudson is a man rather - below the medium height, slight built, wears a
37°	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
beard, and has a general appearance of intelligence,and that he is a scholar was clearly shown by his lecture. He appeared dressed in the clerical black, and on his head the cap of the priesthood. The lecture was one of which no adequate idea can be given without reproducing the whole, but the following are a few of the striking points:	.
“As a people, the Americans are inclined to be utilitarians. I wish that we might be utilitarians in a higher sense. Instead of asking the question of how much wealth is to be obtained by a given course, or how much mere passing enjoyment, rather ask whether a thing said or done will tend to elevate mankind. You ask what is the use of poetry? It would be attempting the impossible to try to tell all her virtue in one short hour. Of course you are all good enough Christians to know that the saving of our immortal souls is the only necessary work we have to perform. Poetry is often the means of arousing noble feelings and aspirations, and poetry’s tender language soothes our sorrows and lightens our afflictions.
“Who has not felt poetry’s ennobling and elevating influence, forgetting life’s sorrows? Who has not been touched by the poet’s gentle words and made solemn vows to do better and live purer lives in the future? Many such vows may be broken, but some also are kept. The potent and pure influence of poetry, raises up and elevates the mind. All poetry does not have such effect, but what do not men abuse that it is possible to misuse ? ' “The power to feel the beauty of poetry is proof of the immortality of the soul.' Many of the lower animals excel man in some single physical attribute, as fleetness of foot, clear sight or keen scent. But man alone is endowed with the power of speech, and man alone can appreciate poetry’s beauties.
“ But perhaps I should tell what poetry really is. Many definitions have been given, but all are in a measure unsatisfactory. The poetry7 of anything is what is in it of the good, beautiful and true. Not always is poetry in verse and rhyme. Its power lifts up men above themselves and tlieir present surroundings. Don’t be among those who have no use for poetry, as in them there is no good. The appreciation or the noble and true is a test of their character.
“ In poetry, the individuality of man shows forth. And this individuality is the most heavenly attribute of the . soul: and civilization without it is slavish. Is not one poet more precious than a millionaire, a philosopher, than a congressman? Looking on the shadows beyond, we believe in reality. The soul is barren when confined within finite bounds. It has hopes beyond and longings for the infinite.
“Many appreciate poetry unconsciously. No heart that is not hardened can resist its power. The Scriptures are full of poetry, and the psalms are read and admired throughout the God-knowing world. Poetry steels the hearts of meh for war, and prepares them for the blessings of peace.”
Then the lecturer gave the story of that grand poem of Longfellow’s, “Evangeline,” which he considers perhaps the greatest work of modern poetry. Partly in his own language, and with many quotations from the poem he told the ; familiar story which, though old to all his hearers, is ever new and pleasant to hear. In closing the lecture, he said: .
“ What power and pathos there is in that story! It is indeed the greatest work of Longfellow, and 1 Evangeline ’ is the. sweetest and noblest character in modern poetry. It could only have been written by just such an earnest, benevolent, pure-hearted man as I know Longfellow to have been. And right here I think I may
' fitly close. A lecture, like a sermon, had better be short.. If good, it need .not be long, and if bad, it ought not to be. I only trust that^my words may arouse a keener appreciation of poetry’s beauty arid virtue in your souls.”
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.] '
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ahlrichs. Amador, Adams, Alvarez, Akin, Albright, Brennan, Blackman, Brewer, Bunker, Bretz, Burger, Burns, Blessington, Bruggemann, Barnes, H. Brannick, Burke, Beckman, Barret, E. Brannick, Chute, E. Coady, T. Coady, P. Coady, Carney, Cavanagh, Conway, Crabb, Cassidy, Cooney, Chacon, Cusack, W. Campbell, G.Cooke, Draper, Dore, Dougherty, Dwyer, Darroch, Delaney, Eyanson, Foster, Fisk, J. Fleming, Finckh, Fehr, Ford, Franklin, Grange, Goke, Goebel, Giblin, Gallardo, F. Galen, Garfias, J. J. Gallagher, J. J. D. Gallagher, Goben, Hill, Healy, Hacket, Hughes, Herman, M. J. Howard, Hummer, E. Howard, F. Jewett, Karasynski, Kinsella, Kenny, Kohlmann, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Knoblauch, Lane, Lahey, Lesner, Lozana, Leonard, L. Long, E. Larkin, W. Larkin, Landgraff, G. Long, F. Long, Melady, McNally, H. Murphy, H. McAlister, G. McAlister, Mackey, McAuliff, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Jno. Meagher, McLeod, H. Murphy, Mahorney, Major, Mc-Erlaine, Madden, j. McCarthy, Mattes, J. T. McCarthy, L. Meagher, W. Meagher, R. Newton, Nations, K. Newton, O’Flaherty, O’Shea, O’Connor, O’Donnell, Ohlwine, O’Hara, W. O’Brien, C. Paquette, L. Paquette, Prichard, Prudhomme, Patterson, Robinson. Reynolds, Roberts, Rothert, Schmitz, R. Sullivan, J. B. Sullivan, Springer, Steiger, Stephenson, D. Sullivan, G. Soden, C. Soden; Toner, Tiernan, V elasco, Woods, Wynn, Webb, C. Young-erman, F. Youngerman, Zeller, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, J. Allen, W. Allen, A’arons, Adler, Bates, Beaudry, Bradley, Boyd, Blumenthal, Brady, Bearinger, Bryan, Berry, Baltes, Bronson, T. Cleary, S. Cleary, Cunningham, Crandall, Ciarcoschi, Case, Connelly, Clendenin, Cauthorn, Cass, Collins, F. Connors, F. Chute, N. Davis, Des Garennes, Darcy, Daniels, Darroch, -O. Du Brul, Dempsey, Devine,* Erwin, Elder, Flannigan, T. Falvey, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, S. Fleming,* Frei, C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald, Greene, Galland, P. Healy, R. Healy, Hoerr, Hannin, Hague, Hammond, Hughes, Heller, Hess, Hanrahan, Ibold, Johnson, Jackson, Jewett, Joslyn, Krembs, King, A. Kutsche, W. Kutsche, Kearns, Kehoe, Lamon, Mahon, Maher, Maurus, McCartney, McIvers, Malone, J. McIntosh, L. McIntosh, Mayer, McCartney, McPhee, McDonnell, Merz, McGrath, Morrison, Mackey, J. Mooney, McMahon, McNulty, Monarch, A. Neef, F. Neef, Nester, Noe, Neal, O’Neill, G. O’Brien, O’Donnell, Populorum, Pecheux, Prichard, F. Peck, J. Peck, Palmer, Powers, Quinlan, A. Roth, E. Roth, S. Rose, I. Rose, Ramsey, Reinhard, Rowsey, Sheehan, Sullivan, Stanton, Spalding.-.L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Smith, Schultze, Sutter, Silver, Towne, Talbot, Tetard, Thorn, Willien, Williamson, Walsh, Weitzel, Welch, B. Wile, Wilbanks, Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bates, Blake, Ball, Bruel, T. Burns, J. Burns, E. Bryan, Bearinger, Brown, Connelly, Cornell, Creedon, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Cohn, C. Connor, W. Connor, Crandall, Crane, Cudahy, Downing, Durand, Doherty, Jas. Dungan, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, E. Elkin, M. Elkin, G. Evers, F. Evers, Eckler, Elder, Finnerty, E. Falvey, Foster, Fanning, Greene, Grant, Goodwillie, Gregg, Goodman, Girardin, Hendry, Hagus, Hinds,’Hill, Henneberry, Johns, Jonquet, Kane, Kroolman, Kirk, Keeler, Kaye, Koester, Kehoe, Levi, .Londoner,Lonergan, J. Marre, A. Marre, Maternes, Marx, Mattas,. McDonnell, McDaneld, McGuire, Mooney, G. Mayer,' C. McCarthy, J. McCarthy, Miller, Marr, Morr risen, C. Nichols, Neenan, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, Parker, L. Paul, C. Paul, .Powell, Quill, Ricksecker, Roberts, Seerey, Snyder, Seidensticker, Stone, Steineman. Toolen, Thornton, Taylor, Trujillo, Witkowsky, F. Webb; R. Webb, Wever, Washburne, Wilcox,
* Omitted last week by mistake.	-	~ .
THE NOtkb daMe sciioLAsfiC,
37*
Sfe. Mapa’S flaademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The semi-annual examinations in the English branches closed on Thursday last. All the classes showed marked improvement.
—At the Sunday reunion Miss G. Clarke recited “The Bridge of Tay,” and Miss B. Arnold read an essay on “Grumblers” by Miss K. Morse. Both were commended by Very Rev. Father General and by Rev. Father Zahm.
—The event of last week was a visit from Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger. A. warm welcome was accorded him by one and all; he very kindly addressed a few words to the pupils, telling of his visit to Rome. He then gave the blessing of the Holy Father, followed by his own hearty “God bless you, children,” that carried with it evidence of the great heart of our loved Bishop.
Examinations.
“Coming events cast their shadows before,” is a remark that carries with it the power to awaken many and varied emotions, according to the circumstances that call it forth. The beautiful sentiments with which the approach of Christmas inspired us are still fresh in our memory; for weeks prior to its coming it was the day on which all other days depended. It came to fulfil its promises, and while enjoying the after-glow of the great festival, another event casts its shadow over us—a shadow that-is ever portentous of evil to the schoobgirl, and that spreads itself over the horizon of schoollife regularly twice a year. The testimony of parties concerned in a question is not according to law, so we will define the term examination, as given by Webster—“A process prescribed or assigned for testing qualifications.” .Examinations constitute an important part of the educator’s work, for it is by them that he tests the result of his labors; sees what has been accomplished, and incites his pupils to additional efforts. It is true, the measure of a person’s knowledge can be only imperfectly tested by examinations, yet, there is no other ready and definite method of ascertaining the result of the teacher’s work, and the proficiency of the student.	.
In turning over the pages of history we find instances recorded which, show the antiquity of examinations. The Spartan boys, while at table, were asked divers questions and obliged to give prompt and appropriate answers, conveying in a few words the reason and proof of
their opinion. That such practices were considered valuable may be inferred from the, fact that even amid the warlike exercises of the ancients they were carried on, which, surely, would not have been the case were they useless.
Examinations are, indeed, of great value if rightly conducted. The judicious examiner, while ascertaining what the student has learned, shows him also that which he has failed to learn through waste of time, or lack of attention, and therefore teaches him how to make his future efforts more successful; for this reason we can safely say examinations and recitations-go hand in hand, the student showing what he has learned, and the teacher, by a skilful examination, showing him his ignorance on certain*, points. Examinations of this kind form an indispensable part of school training; and those occurring at certain periods have no other aim than that of testing the progress of the pupil, and comparing his merits with a certain standard to be attained. Many condemn examinations, saying they are not a test of knowledge; but by others they have been considered necessary to check idleness and to insure attention; it is true, a timid though excellent pupil may fail, while the confident one may pass the examination triumphantly; such cases we see at all examinationSibut they are so few that to abolish this system, unless one manifestly better were offered, would be absurd.
There is a process known among students as “cramming,” and it consists in trying to accomplish in a few hours that to which a session is devoted. Such a course is certainly not to be encouraged; for those who study thus, study only for the day, and when the day goes the knowledge generally accompanies it.
In many educational institutions, both written and oral examinations are held, while others have simply tRe oral. Professors differ in their views as to which are best. .In oral examinations the student often becomes excited, thus failing to do justice to himself; while in a written test he does not become so excited, and a cool judgment is brought to bear on the.work at hand; but many things are considered in written examinations that form no part in oral ones;
■ spelling, the structure of sentences, the penmanship, etc., are taken into account, and as the student must be careful to have every one of these perfect, much time will be exhausted before all. the questions are answered. Both systems, we see, are accompanied with difficulties. The chief difficulty, however, is in the very thought of having to undergo questioning, and indeed, school-girls, are not the only ones, who dread
*tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
these semi-annual ordeals. Ruskin gives a vivid _	o
account of the terror that seized him when the “collections,” as examinations were called at Oxford, drew near.
Various pretexts are brought forward to secure dispensations, and serious cases of indisposition are prevalent about such times; but, after all, these tests are but a review of the session’s work; and if we had studied diligently, there need be no cause for fear. It is a consoling thought that “the end crowns the work”; so if one succeeds and passes a good examination, fears are forgotten amid the plaudits of friends, and the - consciousness that parents and teachers are pleased. • Margaret F. Smith,
.	(Class ’8g).
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses' Arnold, Ansbach, Ash, E. Balch, Bub, Bates, T. Balch, Burton, Beschameng, Bogner, Butler, Brewer, Barron, Bush, M. Beck, C. Beck, M. B. Clifford, Coll, Campeau, Cleaveland, Currier, Caren, Compagne, Clarke, M. Coll, Connell, Crabbe, Donnelly, Ducey, Dempsey, Dority, Dorsey, M. De Montcourt, English, Flannery, Fursman, J. Fox, Flitner, L. Fox, Griffith, Geer, Grace, M. Gibson, N. Gibson, Hertzog, Hammond, Harlen, M. Homer, I. Horner, Hurff, Healy, K. Hurley, Hamilton, Hepburn, Hagus, M. Harmes, Haight, Haney, Hubbard, Irwm, Johnson, Kingsbury, C. Keeney, Koepplinger, A. Keeney, Koopman, Lawrence, Linneen, Ledwith, Lewis, Meehan, McNamara, Moran, N. Morse, Moore, Marley, C. Morse, McCarthy, Nester, Nacey, Nelson, Nicholas, Papin, Prudhomme, Piper, Parker, Quealey, Reidinger, Robinson, Regan, Roberts, Renfrow, M. Smith, Slesinger, Spurgeon, Schrock, H. Studebaker, Schiltz, Taylor, Van Horn, Wehr, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Bums, A. Cooper, Campbell, M. Davis, Daly, C. Dempsey, Dolan, Dreyer, Erpelding, Ernest, Goke, Graves, Kahn, Kloth, Kelso, Lauth, Levy, M. McHugh, Miller, O’Mara, Patrick, Patier, Reeves,’Regan, Rose, Rowley, Rinehart, M. Smyth, J. Smith,. M. Scherrer, Sweeney, M. Schoellkopf, I. Schoellkopf, I. Stapleton, Soper, A. Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
Misses E. Burns, Crandall, B. Davis, Moore, N. Smyth.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
REORGANIZED CLASSES AND PROMOTIONS.
Advanced Course—Miss H. Guise.
Passed for Graduation in June—Misses M. Rend, L. Van Horn. "	'
' Promoted to ist Class—Miss A. Reidinger.
Promoted to ist Class, 2d Div.—Misses E. Flannery, O. O’Brien, J. Dority.
. Promoted to 2D Class—Misses M. Homer, K. Gavan, M. Barry. ,	-
’ 3b Class—Misses H. Coll* L. Ducey* Promoted to this Class—Misses M. Smith, A. Donnelly, C. Moran, M. Davis.	’	\
Promoted to 3D Class, 2d Diy—Misses J. Currier, - C. Hurley, M. Piper.	...
4th Class—Misses L. Dolan,* N. Morse,* LStapleton,* M. Ansbach, J. English,* J. Daube.* Promoted to this Class—Misses E. Healy, E. Quealey, M. Gibson.
2D Div.—Misses E. Linneen, M.Yungblut,*E.Wright,* I. Bub,* M. Clifford. Promoted to this division—Misses F. Hertzog, M. McPhee, A. Regan, M. Hull, L. Meehan.
5TH Class—Misses M. Bates, E. Dempsey,* G.Wehr,* N. Gibson, M. Beck* E. Balch, M.’ Fitzpatrick* - Promoted .to this Class—Misses N. Wurzburg, E. Lewis, A. Caren, L. Nelson. _	.	.
2D Div.—Misses E. Nester, H. Nester, R. Slesinger, M. Papin,* T. Balch,* C. Prudhomme,* M. Churchill, A. Koopman, M. Rinehart,* R. Van Mourick,* F. Marley.* Promoted to this division—Misses M. Smyth, A. Pen-burthy, M. McHugh, M. Schoellkopf, J. Fox, B. Wagner, M. Flitner.	•
6th Class—Misses C. Keeney, F. Kahn, M. Burton, G. Roberts, A. Grace, H. Pugsley, M. Campbell, M. Northam, L. Waixel, M. Coll, A. Hammond, M. McCune, I. Schoellkopf, L. Reeves, L.Taylor, K. Sweeney. Classed —Misses B. Quinn, L. Sauter. Promoted to this Class-Misses A. Keeney, U. Bush, E. Burns, L. Dreyer, G. Rentfrow, C. Ernest, M. Geer, L. Koepplinger, J. Zahm.
6th Class, 2d Div.—Misses N. Johnson, P. Harmes, A. Thirds, S. Hamilton, C. Beck, M. Patier, E. Nicholas,* "K. McCarthy,* I. Cooke, E. Davis,* I. De Montcourt, C. Daly, M. De Montcourt, M. Burns.* Classed—E. Barber, S. Campeau, F. Francis, L. Levy, L. Parker. Promoted to this Class—Misses Kelso, M. Haight, M. Hepburn, B. Kingsbury, D. Spurgeon, J. Connell, M. Harriman, S. Brewer, J. Ledwith, B. Smith. .
7TH Class—Misses M. Ash, M. Hagus, .M. Miller, R. Campbell, S. Goke, L. Canepa, C. Dorsey, C. Quealey. Classed— M. Thayer, F. Soper, A. Graves, V. Erpelding. Promoted to this Class—Misses E. Kaspar, L. Johns, J. Patrick, F. Burdick, A. Cooper, C. Kloth. '	-
2D Div.—Promoted to this division—Misses L. McHugh, E. Regan, K. Barry, M. Davis, F. Palmer, M. Dexter.	’
8th Class—Misses M. Rose,* N. Smith, J. Smith, A. Rowley. Promoted to this Class—Misses M. McHugh, B. Davis, V. Kelly,
qth Class—Misses E. Cooper, M. Scherrer. Pro- . moted to this Class—Misses K. Moore, P. Griffith.
ioth Class—Misses E. Burns, C. Griffith.
•' harp.
Promoted to jth Class — Misses E. Nester, F. Waterbury.	, .
violin.
Misses M. Fursman, H. Studebaker. H. Nester, L. Johns. Classed—Miss M. Northam. ..
GUITAR.
Promoted to 3D Class—Miss M. Burton.
5TH Class—Miss L. Griffith. Promoted to this Class
—Miss F. Marley. Classed—Miss M. Haight.
'	CORNET.
Miss J. Dority.
MANDOLINE. -
Classed—Miss S. Smith.	.
. Pupils with names marked * were promoted in September.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT. .
ist Class—Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran.
2D Class—Misses C. Dempsey, M. Barry.
2D Div—Miss L. Meehan.	.
3D Class—Misses B. Hellmann, E. Balch, F. Marley.
2D Div.—Misses J. Dority, O. O’Brien, I. Horner, M. Horner, M-.- Fitzpatrick, M. Linneen, T. Balch, L. Dolan, I. Bub. .	,	.	.	; ■
4TH Class—Misses F. Hertzog, U. Bush, G. Rentfrow, E. Hamilton, J. English, M. Schiltz, K. Johnson, M. Piper, C. Beck, C. Prudhomme. '
5TH Class—Misses A. Grace, E. Healy, G. Wehr, M. Anson, C. Haight, H. Nester, L. Nester, I. Webb.