. yl>
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive cptiasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 4, 1882.
Number 21.
Friendship.
A GEM FROM COWPER.
Oh. friendship ! cordial of the human breast! So little felt, so fervently profess’d 1 Thy blossoms deck our unsuspecting years; The promise of delicious fruit appears: We hug the hopes of constancy and truth, Such is the folly of our dreaming youth; But soon, alas! detect the rash mistake That sanguine inexperience loves to make; And view with tears the expected harvest lost Decayed by time, or wither’d by a frost. Whoever undertakes a friend’s great part Should be renew’d in nature, pure in heart, Prepared for martyrdom, and strong to prove A thousand ways the force of genuine love. He may be call’d to give up health and gain, To exchange content for trouble, ease for pain, To echo sigh for sigh, and groan for groan, And wet his cheeks with sorrows not his own. The heart of man, for such a task too frail, When most relied on is most sure to fail; And, summon’d to partake its fellow’s woe, Starts from its office like a broken bow.
Votaries of business and of pleasure prove Faithless alike in friendship and in love.
Retired from all the circles of the gay, And all the crowds that bustle life away. To scenes where competition, envy, strife, Beget no thunder-clouds to trouble life, Let me, the charge of some good angel, find One who has known, and has escaped mankind; Polite, yet virtuous, who has brought away The manners, not the morals, of the day: With him, perhaps with her (for men have known No firmer friendships than the fair have shown) Let me enjoy, in some unthought-of spot, ’ All former friends forgiven and forgot,’ Down to the close of life’s fast fading scene, Union of hearts without a flaw between. ’Tis grace, ’tis bounty, and it calls for praise, If God give health, that sunshine of our days! And if He add a blessing shared by few, Content of heart, more praises still are due— But if He grant a friend, that boon possess’d Indeed is treasure, and crowns all the rest; And giving one, whose heart is in the skies, Born from above and made divinely wise, He gives, what bankrupt nature never can, Whose noblest coin is light and brittle man, Gold, purer far than Ophir ever knew, A soul, an image of Himself, and therefore true.
The Duties of the Bieh. Towards the Poor.
In the social as in the physical world, all things are admirably arranged by the hand of Providence; with the difference, however, that the physical world composed of materials, deprived of reason, and consequently without liberty, is obedient to certain laws, is subject to inflexible necessity; while in the. social world, where man is endowed with free will, nothing is opposed to his faculty which may choose between good and evil, 'life and death. The universe not being given up to chance, but controlled by this omnipotent hand, “ which reaches without effort from one extreme to the other, and which disposes of all with power and ease,” it is evident that society must be subject to set laws established by the Creator, independent of the reason and the will of man. These laws may be violated beyond doubt, since in imposing them upon us God has not deprived us of our liberty, and has left us the choice of our own way; but He has reserved to Himself the right of restoring the equilibrium destroyed by any infraction of those laws, which He does by punishing the infraction, whether the guilty party be an individual, a class, or society at large.
Just as an individual begins already in this life to experience the fatal consequences of misconduct, by loss of health, honor or fortune, or yet more by the mental torture which inwardly corrodes him; just so society, in departing from the way laid down for it by the infinite wisdom and inexhaustible bounty of the Creator, never fails to feel the'chastisement of its fault; at first it experiences’a vague sense of disquietude, then follow disorders, more or less fatal, more or less prolonged.
Among the laws imposed by the Creator upon society, is one which can neither be misunderstood, overlooked, nor contested: it- is that which imposes upon the higher classes the necessity of aiding and assisting the humbler classes of society. This law is engraven upon nature, dictated by reason, formally taught by Christianity, purified, sanctioned, made divine, by that sublime religion which teaches that the law and the prophets means to lose God above all things, and our neighbor as ourselves. A law expressed by a sublime word, that the world in its blindness and pride disdains to employ, the profound sense of which it in vain attempts to convey by the words humanity and philantropy. This mysterious word cannot be limited to the present life, extending as it does into the regions of eternity; a sweet and gentle sound when whispered -near the cradle, full of consolation and hope when uttered by the dying bed; a word which traverses like a ray of light even beyond the dark shadows of the tomb, which unites the living and the dead, present generations with the past and future; a divine word which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
charity. She says to those who are afflicted with misfortune and want: Suffer without murmuring; to those who live in the midst of riches: Give in proportion to your means. If the man of means obeys not this command, religion will not embitter the poor man against him, nor encourage usurpation and vengeance. A Judge sits over him, whose ear is attentive to the wants of the poor, to the cry of the unfortunate, of the indigent, of the sick: an omnipotent God receives with love, mingled with indignation the groans of the afflicted.
The struggle between the rich and the poor is not an affair confined to our day; it is of all times and of all countries—but more especially of England. It only breaks out more conspicuously at the present day, because everyone is at liberty to cry aloud against oppression and injustice, and to comp’ain openly of his real or imaginary wrongs. It is also mare conspicuous from the fact that in these times there is abroad a general sense of equality, so that there is a great aversion to anything that appears to recall former social distinctions. Hence it is that the poor are not content to see among the rich, inherited titles, prerogatives from position, acquired privileges, nor any particular customs. The poor man nowadays can see between himself and his rich neighbor no other difference than that of wealth; he cannot perceive that th® gradation of rank can have any other foundation than that of fortune; he lives in the conviction that if on the morrow fate-should endow him with riches, he would at once, without other condition of any kind, pass from the most humble to the most elevated class. Such an opinion perpetually lives in the minds of the necessitous classes, an excessive desire for wealth, with something of envy towards him who has it; and as sentiments of respect and submission have been removed from the hearts of the people, they readily pass from envy to contempt, bitterness and hatred.
When the upper classes find themselves sustained in their position by the spirit of the age, by social organization, by the form of government, they may for a time, perhaps, neglect their obligations towards the humbler classes without being therefore menaced with immediate ruin. The numerous points of support they have may supply for *a time the want of the intrinsic force which they have lost by culpable negligence; but when all these points fail, and the classes find themselves face to face, without any intermediate power to restrain them, without any barrier of separation, without any other possible bond than that of their respective interests, then they are obliged to close upon these interests, to make mutual alliances, and to restore the spirit of fraternity by virtue of reciprocal benefits.	■
It belongs especially to the powers of government (whether of states or communities) to watch over the public happiness, or at least over the tranquillity of her people. A wise government not only provides for the wants of those who need assistance,'but it also encourages and protects private bounty and the works of beneficence which result from it. Force of arms is not what is wanted; the minds of men must be ruled by happier influences, by enlightening their understandings, by winning their hearts by justice and kindness, by imposing upon them gratitude and love rather than fear and respect.
But if it is honorable in governments to give the greatest attention to an object so important, to provide by every means possible for great necessities, it is not less so for the higher classes, so profoundly interested in the results, to
tends to give to the whole human race one heart and one soul: this word is charity.
Scan the pages of history, sum up the lesson of experience, and it will be found that the classes which have acquired riches, comforts, honors, influence and prerogative, in society, have acquired these advantages as a recompense for services rendered; it will be found also, that so soon as they have forgotten the cause and the end of their elevation they have commenced to decline, and have ended in complete decay.
Here, as in many other conditions of the civilized world, the power and the ascendancy of the popular element, when no longer restrained by benefits or by examples of superior virtue, have erected themselves against all social elevations, and have sometimes brought all down to the same level. Thus it happens that among certain nations we find but rare vestiges of their ancient aristocracy, something like the scattered pieces of an old suit of armor, objects of interest to the collector of curiosities, but useless to the modern soldier. Still there does exist a real aristocracy, which dates not, it is true, from any remote period, but which claims its superiority upon titles very different, from those of the ancient aristocracies. It will be readily understood that we speak of that touchstone of commerce and industry, the aristocracy of gold. Its blazon indicates the greater or less amount of capital • its titles of nobility are bank notes; it points out to us not an antique hall, covered with arms and standards suspended there as testimonials of the valor and prowess of ancestors long departed, but an iron chest laden with specie, as an unequiv ocal title of nobility and distinction.
It results from the very nature of things, and the actual organization of society, that the existence of this moneyed aristocracy has become, as it were, a public necessity; it is a fact which the upheavings of no class whatever can overthrow, much less the declamations of journalists and demagogues. Apply the most unjust principles, proceed in the name of the most absurd theories, try the most insane systems, and bring, consequently, the fortunes of all citizens to the same level, let them all have an equal share in the wealth previously accumulated in the hands of the rich, let the most absolute equality prevail; when, by the impossible, this criminal dream should be realized so as to give it a momentary existence the very next day, or rather the next instant, this equality will completely disappear. Prodigality on the one hand, avarice on the other, ignorance and sagacity, negligence and industry, disorder and prudence, gaming and the basest passions, will soon re-establish the reign of distinctions and of inequality. All measures adopted to prevent this disorder, not being able to reach the hu man heart whence it springs, would be perfectly futile —riches would immediately change hards, many of the rich would sink into extreme poverty; others would rise to their former condition and perhaps surpass it, but in all cases, notwithstanding individual exceptions, things would come back to the starting point, and we should still have the rich and the poor.
Christianity preceded philosophy by centuries in all that affects love towards our brethren, and in the proclamation of universal fraternity. She declares now, and always will declare against any attempt made upon the sacred right of justice; but, at the same time, she inculcates upon the wealthy, the obligation that rests upon them of sharing their abundance with the poor in the spirit or
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
313
enter with equal ardor and generosity the way which would be opened before them, or rather to undertake of their own accord the work of the common safety. If the impetus come only from the Government, it is to be feared that it would suffer from the inconveniences attending that which is done by order and without liberty, and moreover, that a design most salutary in itself would be carried out in an incomplete manner, and consequently would be transient and sterile. We all know so well what course affairs take which promise relief and amelioration, that no one can be dazzled any longer by the fairest promises or the most pompous phrases. • The decree of amelioration being promulgated, we know in advance, without having read it, the tone of its articles informing us of the nomination of a commission invariably composed of enlightened, judicious, practical men, entirely devoted to the public good; while in another article it is urged upon these same men to devote themselves with zeal to the object of their commission; we also know that this body will assemble, will begin to collect information, and all sorts of papers more or less necessary; but we know with equal certainty that some difficulty great or small will soon arise, sufficient to render illusory the best projects, to overturn the best concerted plans, to paralyze the* most perfect intentions, to render useless, all previous labors, and all investigations although sometimes most conscientiously and diligently made. It is then most desirable that the rich should accustom themselves to trust to their own resources, without looking elsewhere for assistance, to adopt and put into execution the measures that prudence and humanity make a duty, and that their situation urges upon them. The duty and the interests of the rich in regard to the poor, consist in making them better by promoting their welfare.	D. B. F.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—A life has just appeared in Paris of the late Monseigneur de Segur.	.
—Every seat has been engaged for the first performance of Wagner’s “ Parsifal ” next July.
—Vanderbilt's art collection, the largest and finest in New York, includes nothing, it is said, by an American hand.
—The queen has commissioned M. Gounod to compose a nuptial march for orchestra and organ for the marriage of the Duke of Albany.
—Waltner is now engraving M.unkacsy’s great picture of “Christ Before Pilate,” which is still on exhibition in Paris. Proofs will cost 2,000 francs each.
—Charles Sprague Pearce’s “ Decapitulation of St. John the Baptist ” has received the reward of $300 offered by the Philadelphia Academy for the best work containing not less than two figures included in the exhibition.
—The widow of Honore de Balzac, the great French novelist, has just sold an enormous collection of bronzes, paintings by leading French painters, and rare books which belonged to her husband. His pictures will probably form a Balzac collection.
—Although an official declaration and a commemorative medal announce that- the Cologne Cathedral is practically complete, a certain amount of decoration—considerable in the aggregate, though insignificant in comparison with the whole va=t work—still remains to be applied. The London Echo thinks that another generation may pass away before the structure with all its world of detail, will be declared perfect.
—A correspondent of the Nonconformist recently sent to that paper a number of extracts from the “Life of
Bishop Bonner,” written during the Tractarian controversy, and attributed to Cardinal Newman, then a member of the Anglican Church, justifying in coarse terms religious persecution, and any means of “unprotestantizing the Church of England.” The Cardinal’s attention having been called to the subject, he has sent the following characteristic reply: “Sir: You will be glad to know that I have nothing whatever to do with the ‘Life of Bishop Bonner ’ or its dedication, that I never read the book, and that I do not know who wrote it. From the specimens which your correspondent gives of it, I believe it to be a ponderous and stupid squib against Tractarians, embodying in its composition several sentences and phrases apart from their context, from various of their works, such as ‘unprotestantizing the Church of England’—sentences and phrases which they certainly did adopt, and which they never have been ashamed of. However, about the origin, author, and composition of the book I know nothing and care nothing; only I am sure that no one who knows me or my writings ever so little will impute to me such vulgar stuff. I am your faithful servant, John H. Card. Newman.”
—Mr. Eugene Thayer has given in the Youth's Companion some interesting particulars of the great organs of the world. We give his description of that which he considers the most curious organ, and give it in his own words, although the flare of prejudice underlying them does not do Mr. Thayer any credit, but detracts from the interest he would excite. He says:
“ The most curious organ in Europe is the great one at Weingarten, near Switzerland. It was built by a monk, the celebrated Abbe Vol ger, who was an organ-player as well as a priest. It has 6,666 pipes, he having been paid a florin for each pipe, large and small. He was evidently not unmindful of earthlv things, for the sly old dominie filled the organ full of very small pipes called mixtures. Ordinary organs have from five to eight ranks, or rows, of mixtures; this one has over a hundred/ One would naturally suppose that the tone of the organ would consequently be very shrill. This was not the case, however. The priest was musical enough to have them all -voiced so delicately that the effect, although it cannot be called legitimate, was altogether charming. It was as if the air was full of snow-flakes of sound. Besides this feature, the organ has’ drums, bells, great and small, angels with drums, and all sorts of queer things; and Its case is ornamented and colored in the most brilliant manner possible. Large as it looks, it is useless for real organ music, as it has only an octave and a half of the clumsiest kind of pedals.”
Exchanges.
— Some of the college papers have been teasing the young lady editors of The Sunbeam about their personal department, saying that the items there are chiefly marriage notices taken from the daily and weekly papers, and therefore rather uninteresting reading. The editors of The Sunbeam retort that, unlike the young men, girls, when they leave college, remain quietly at home, and nothing can therefore be said of a young lady except that she lives at her father’s house in------.
—The following^clipped from the exchange department of The Oberlin Remew, is bard bn the Vidette-Reporter's exchange editor, and until he mends his manners we think he richly deserves all he gets. By the way, we might as well remark that the exchange editor of the Review could not have been aware, when he wrote the note in question, that we intended to show up the ignorance und crooked ways of the exchange editor of the Vidette-Reporter. ’
The Vidette-Reporter suggests that the Review desires to enter into its quarrel with the Scholastie. Not at all, gentlemen. The Review has a quarrel with no one, and does not wish to enter any. But when an Exchange which pretends to be respectable begins to heap abuse upon College editors, as a whole, in language fit only for a prize ring, it feels as if it had a right to express an opinion. If the Reporter’s knowledge of American Colleges in general is to be inferred from what he says about Oberlin alone, it is not very great. The most natural conclusion is, that he has never looked beyond the “little limits ” of his own neighborhood.
—The Paper World for January continues its interesting sketches of “Modern American Journalism,” illustrated this month by Charles A. Dana in the conduct of the New
314
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
York Sun. The sketch covers five of the broad, handsome pages of The Paper World, and is accompanied by a portrait of Mr. Dana. A good portrait of the Hon. Lewis J. Powers is also given in the Paper-makers’ Department. An editorial on Prang’s Christmas Cards says “ the four prize cards will naturally receive most attention, and while no one will claim that they could ’not be in any respect improved, their very high merit will be, we think, generally recognized. Mr. Elihu Vedder’s first-prize card has been severely criticized, chiefly .by those to whom Christmas is no Christmas without some touch of ecclesi-asticism. Mr. Vedder explains that the more appropriate ecclesiastically a design is, the less appropriate it is as a token of affection”—which we think is not true, and in this regard we agree with the sentiments expressed in one of the Scholastic editorials this week.
—The holidav issue of Browne's Phonographic Monthly (published by D. L. Scott-Browne, 23 Clinton Place, New York,) is a superb affair of 64 pages, with portraits and sketch of 40 male celebrities in the phonographic art in this country and Europe, including Isaac Pitman, Thos. Allen Reed, of England; Dennis F. and Edward V. Murphy, Theodore F. Shuey, and H. G. Gensler, of the U. S. Senate corps; John J. McElhone, J. K. Edwards, Andrew Devine, J. H. White, and others in the House of Representatives; Dr. Julius W. Zeibig, of Saxony; J. G. Peitrie, of Scotland; Charles T. Brown, of Chicago, etc. There are also portraits of ten lady “ stars ” in the art, one of whom, Miss Alice C. Nute, of Chicago, feeling keenly the injustice of doing equally as good work as gentlemen telegraphers, and not being allowed the same wages for it, turned to the phonographic art, where distinctions in wages on account of sex are ignored, and after eight months’ study of phonography secured a salary of §1,200 a year. Since 1877 Miss Nute has been earning several thousand dollars a year by phonographic work. It is no wonder Mr. Browne has had orders ahead for 2,000 copies of his Monthly; it deserves a wide patronage. Besides a mass of excellent reading-matter for stenographers of all schools, there are fac-simile pages of reporting notes in the Isaac and Benn Pitman methods, lessons for beginners, etc. The price of the number is 20 holiday cents.
—The young gentlemen connected with The Williams Athenaeum may well feel proud of their paper. It is a credit to themselves and to the College. The exchange editor of the Athenaeum knows how to criticize severely and to do it in a gentlemanly manner. In a late issue of the Athenaeum the exchange editor says:
Everybody has praised the Scholastic, and we like it ourselves, in many respects. We like the intelligent and manly tone of its editorials, and the high order of ability displayed in its literary contributions. But there are some features about it which are decidedly distasteful to us, and quite unlike what we find in other first-class papers. For instance, why does the Scholastic occupy three or four columns of every issue with Scientific, and Art, Music and Literature notes? To any student who has access to the daily papers and current periodicals, these are wholly superfluous and out of place. It seems to us, moreover, to devote too much space to church affairs. It is, of course, commendable that students should be interested in such things; but are there not publications available to Notre Dame boys, which treat exclusively of these topics? It would certainly kill the organ of any Protestant institution to discuss such matters so fieely, and we know of no reason why it is any more appropriate for our Catholic brothers to do so. It is only as a college journal confines itself to its own peculiar field that it makes itself valuable to its subscribers.
In answer to the above we may say that but few students here take the daily papers—very few,—and that even in colleges located in towns or cities - Harvard and Cornell, for instance—the college papers have lately added art and musical and literary notes to the usual matter. This is notably the case in The Harvard Daily Herald and The Cornell Sun, and if dailies find an advantage in such notes surely a weekly will find still greater advantage. Besides, our friend of the Athenaeum may not be aware that we have many art and musical students here, in the schools devoted to these branches, to whom our art and music notes may be of interest At all events, the department is an old one in the Scholastic, antedating our editorial connection with it by many years, and, so far as we know, has been well received. Our “Art and Music and Literature ” notes are selected, compiled, or written with much
care, and even if students did take a daily paper, and one or two or three art papers, there are many of our notes that they would not find in them. If, however, our friend of the Athenaeum, or anybody else, chooses to question our judgment in the selection of the notes—ah, then we will remain silent.
New Publications.	.
—The American Catholic Quarterly Bevieio—the handsomest review in the English language—has come to hand, but for want of space we are compelled to postpone a suitable notice of it till next week. The Centurg Magazine	>*
is also received, and lies over for the same reason.
—St. Nicholas for February has the usual amount of good things in the way of stories and pictures for the young folks. Hon. Jeremiah Curtin’s “The Round Stone” is handsomely illustrated, as is also “ Men and Animal Shows,” by William O. Stoddard. Edward Eggleston, in “ The Hoosier School-boy,” will be, as usual, a great favorite. Mr. Eggleston knows what will please boys best, and always has plenty of amusement for them.
—The Catholic World for Feb. opens with an article on “The Frequency of Suicide,” from the pen of Rt. Rev. Bishop Chatard, of Vincennes, in which the learned Prelate seeks to fathom the meaning of the frightful increase of suicide from the beginning of the present century,— this, too, notwithstanding the advancement in culture and enlightenment. Bishop Chatard explains it very satisfactorily, we think. S. Hubert Burke gives a finely-written sketch of one of England’s noblest men and holiest Bishops, John Fisher, of Rochester, who was beheaded by	.
King Henry VIII. The Rev. A. F. Hewit continues his instructive article on the “Tradition of the Church of Jerusalem Concerning Sacrament and Sacrifice.” “ Holydays and Holidays in England,” by Arthur Featherstone Marshall, is a readable sketch; so also is that of “ The Brave Lally,” by Douglas Carlisle. “ Allegoria Maritima,” by Commodore Gibson, U. S. N., is one of the best poetical contributions we have seen in any magazine for a long time past, and adds materially to the interest of the current number of The Catholic World. We miss sadly the racy sketches of last.year, such as “My Raid Into Mexico,” etc., and we must confess that the late tendency to • short articles in The Catholic World is not at all to our liking.
The Household Library of Catholic Poets, from Chaucer to the Present Day (1350-1881). Edited by Eliot Ryder. Joseph A. Lyons: The University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. 1881.
Elevating and strengthening as is the influence which true faith exerts upon al! the faculties of the soul, it could not be otherwise than that Catholics should enrich every department of literature with their contributions. Yet very few persons are aware of the greatness and value of these contributions. This is particularly the case with regard to poetry. Comparatively few persons can mention the names of a dozen Catholic poets. They may be familiar with their works, but they do not know them as Catholics. The cause of this is not difficult to find. The Reformation followed close upon the invention of printing, and all things pertaining to Catholic faith have been care-	*
fully withheld from the people. The various dictionaries and cyclopaedias of literature, edited almost entirely by Protestants, and compiled for the non-Catholic market, have carefully concealed the religious faith of nearly all Catholic writers of eminence whom they mentioned, and have omitted mention of many others of equal or approximate eminence. Those who were not exceedingly well known to fame have been ignored altogether. Very few persons think of Chaucer, Spenser, or Dryden as Catholics, and if Pope’s Catholicity is referred to it is probably with an assumption of surprise that “a papist” could have written so well. ’
It is important that this ignorance of what Catholics have done and are doing in the field of literature should be dispelled; that Catholics, at least, should know what the children of the true faith have accomplished in this re
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
315
spect; and that those who assume them to be lacking in either the power to produce or the capacity to appreciate should be shown their egregious error. Yet this is no easy task, owing to the extent and manner in which, as has already been remarked, the religious belief of Catholic writers, particularly of Catholic poets, has been almost universally ignored, even where it has not been designedly concealed, in the most widely-known and popular cyclopaedias, and manuals, and dictionaries of literature. The compiler and editor of the work before us, as was to be expected under the circumstances.'met with this difficulty. Referring to it, he says: “ It may be truly said that the re searches required to ascertain who were and who were not Catholics has constituted the chief labor in preparing this volume.”
The editor has not included selections from all Catholics who have written poetry. Several of the earlier English poets have been omitted, because their productions figure but slightly in literature at the present day, and also because their language, long since obsolete, would be unintelligible to the average reader. Obvious reasons have led to other omissions. The necessity of preventing the volume assuming too large proportions has required him to confine his selections almost entirely to the lyrical productions of the poets represented in his work, and to select the briefest of their poems. In making these selections the editor has taken them from'standard sources. The chro-ological method of arrangement has been adopted, as far as was possible, both for the sake of convenience and because it best afforded a general survey of the progress of Catholic contributions to poetic literature in connection with history.
We have thus dwelt in extenso upon the design of the work, its plan and scope, and upon the ideas which guided and controlled its editor in preparing it, because we desire to impress our readers with a sense of its merits. It is a valuable as well as an exceedingly attractive book. It comprises many of the finest productions of Catholic poetic genius, and, within the compass of a convenient volume, furnishes a fair and comprehensive view of what Catholics have done in the field of English poetry.
It would do the work injustice to dismiss it without referring to its external appearance and general typographical make-up. It is a' truly beautiful volume, forming a fitting casket for the rich and brilliant gems of thought it contains. Its binding, presswork, and paper are all that good taste and an appreciation of the beautiful could desire.—Ajnerican Catholic Quarterly Review {January).
College Gossip.
—The question as to compulsory morning prayers at Harvard is still unsettled. The circular sent to parents of students, asking if morning prayers were held by them, received G41 answers of which five sevenths were negative. —Oberlin Review.
—Cornell is about to adopt a new system for heating the recitation rooms by steam which will involve an expense of §26,000-—Harvard Herald.
In this respect Notre Dame is twenty years ahead of both Cornell and Harvard.
—In an article in the February number of Vho,North-American Review, President White makes the surprising statement that the tendency amony college students is towards pessimism and cynicism.—Cornell Sun.
Judging from some of the college papers he should have said it was. towards Nothingarianism.
—Miss Atalanta X. came home for Christmas from Whitby College with the astounding information that there are fourteen stones in a barrel of flour. Old X. says he never heard of such a thing. When he lived at Cobourg there certainly used to be one stone in a tub of butter, and several in a load of hay." And purchasers used to find fault even about that.—’ Varsity.
—Rowdyism among the Princeton students has recently taken on a reprehensible shape. A short time ago, in’ad-dition to cutting up other criminal pranks those promising candidates for collegiate honors greased the rails of the . nearest railroads, causing much annoyance to the author
ities. The next thing we expect to hear of the young men is that they have taken to train wrecking for sport. Ordinary methods of amusement are becoming too tame, it seems, at Princeton.—Ex.
—The whole college [Dartmouth] is in mourning on account of the accidental shooting of Howe, a member of the Sophomore Class, by Flint, his classmate, on Saturday afternoon. It seems that Flint was intending to go hunting that afternoon, and while standing on the main street put a cap on his gun, which, as he supposed, was unloaded. By some unexplained means, the gun was discharged in his hands and the whole charge lodged in the back of Howe, who was walking by at less than a rod’s distance. The injuries inflicted were so severe that he died in about three hours. Howe was a fine scholar, a true Christian, and an only son, and his death will be keenly felt by everyone who knew him.—Harvard Daily Herald.
—We gather from our exchanges that many people have an idea that, to a certain degree, co-education exists at Harvard. All fail to express just how far this degree extends, but it seems to be the general impression that Harvard possesses a department devoted to the instruction of women, and that that department is termed the Annex. It is difficult to see what should give rise to this thought; from the reports of the authorities certainly nothing can be construed, even by the liveliest imagination, to justify it, and it is well known that even the personal taste and desire of those in power is thoroughly opposed to the introduction of co education at Harvard. It is decidedly not our purpose to discuss here the merits or demerits of the much-argued question, but we think that we but express the opinion of the majority of the university when we declare the wish that the day is far, far distant when real co-education will be countenanced by the authorities of the university. We can assure our exchanges that the Annex is not the “female part of the college,” as one paper puts it, but merely an institution of women who receive instruction from certain professors who are connected with the university.—Harvard Daily Herald.
—It was discovered lately that thirty-eight or forty students of the medical college in Keokuk, Iowa, were sick with an eruptive disease which the President of the State Board of Health pronounced small-pox of the most malignant type. The members of the Faculty claimed that the disease was French measles. But other physicians pronounced it small-pox. The disease, no doubt, originated in the college, as there are no cases other than of students. Not long ago a subject was received from Chicago in a barrel, and while being dissected the class at work on the body discovered that it was a small-pox corpse.. Every man engaged in the work of dissecting that body is down with the disease, and those residing in the same houses with them are being attacked. Many wild rumors are afloat and the greatest excitement and consternation prevail. The students are virtually quarantined, none being allowed to enter the post-office, and many of them are leaving the city. The sick are closely watched by special policemen.
—A seologian went to sup Upon a new mince pie;
He swore that all this nightmare talk Was but within his eye.
That niaht he tumbled into bed, Amid his household gods, When, lo! across the counterpane Crept fourteen decapods.
Crustacean crawlers!” cried the sage, “ Have I been taking rods ?” But as he spoke, his pillow swarmed
With tetradecapods!
Poor man! the perspiration pours (The kind one never fans), .
For now the headboard’s hideous with Nine entomostracans!
He leaps, that geologian, He strides the cold bare floor;
Ris dream is gone, his mind restored, He eats mince pie no more.
- —Southern Collegian.
316
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 4, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AU the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 per ^Aihivlih. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usuallyt but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the SCHOLASTIC always will be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—If the capacity for hard work is not genius, it is undoubtedly the best possible substitute for it. No one ought to worry about genius, for few persons are gifted with it. The secret of success is not so much talent as application. Stability of purpose is what makes eminent men. Of two students, one brilliant but indolent, the other dull but possessing great industry, the chances are ten to one, that only the latter will leave “ footprints on the sands of time.”
—The semi-annual examinations are over. The ordeal was a long and trying one, but the great majority passed through it with credit to themselves, their instructors, and the University, as the averages published in another column will clearly show. The classes have been reorganized for the second session, and are already in excellent working order. Now is the proper time for good resolu-ions. The record of the past session has been good, and we trust, and confidently expect, that the record of the next five months will be even better. Those who hope to reap an abundant harvest of honors on Commencement Day must begin to sow the seed before the present session is a week old. And if the good work which we count on is performed, all may rest assured that the satisfaction they will feel next June, at the consciousness of having done their duty, will more than repay them for the effort which the doing of it may have required.
—The teachers in a certain town in the East claim to have effected a great reform among their pupils in the matter of reading, by calling attention as often as possible to standard works in the various departments of literature to be had on application at the public library. This is certainly a capital idea, but with our Faculty we can say it is nothing new. We have often been told by the librarian that there was always a demand, even a rush sometimes, at the library for works designedly referred to in public lectures, and by the different professors in their classes. In reply to a question as to why he had not spoken at greater length of an eminent writer to whom he alluded in his admirable oration at commencement, we heard Judge Dunne say that his object was to excite interest in the author’s writings, and that he refrained from dwelling longer on his example, fearing to repeat some incident with which his hearers were already familiar, and thus, perhaps, defeat his purpose. Our interest in what is, or seems, new to us is naturally greater than in what we are, or think ourselves, familiar with. The wisdom of Judge Dunne’s remark is apparent. We propose to follow the suggestion in the Scholastic as far as may be, by reprinting now and again choice selections from our standard English writers. We begin with a beautiful poem by Cowper, a writer little read nowadays.
—Perhaps the committee who sat in judgment on the designs for the last holiday cards did not know the names of the competitors for the prizes; perhaps they only judged by the relative merits of each design, perhaps— but it seems to us that if the design that won the $1000 prize had been the work of a beginner unknown to fame, it would have been tossed aside without one word. As a study of color, it shows the relation between sky blue and olive green which, after all, aside from fashion, do not> even when helped by bronzed gold, make such a very pleasing combination. The New Year is looking in upon us, a buxom lass with arms akimbo without much soul, but the picture of health and mere animal life, perhaps signifying a wish that the coming year may be a healthful one. The multitudinous ribbons which bind her hair are blown about by the night breeze into fantastic shapes which show plainly that the curve is not always the line of beauty. It is also a Christmas Card, therefore Christmas is not utterly ignored, though put to one side—literally, for on one side a shield, is placed in or over the sky inscribed with the Christmas cipher, but the New Year turns her head away from it, which has a significance unintentional, let us hope on the part of the artist.
Why not say New Year’s cards? it is so painful to see Christmas with Bethlehem left out; in fact it is a misnomer. If American art will not, or dare not, be Christian, why need it insult Christianity by blotting out the Manger from Christmas ideals? In 1879 the Christmas card that won the third prize was one in full accordance with the spirit of the season, thoroughly ideal, truly poetic. In the star of the Magi lay the crib of Bethlehem, the Saviour of -the world on a pallet of straw. As a study of light it was an exquisite bit. Cherubs’ faces formed a border to the card, and the light radiating from the Divine Infant reflected on their adoring features. Had the centre-piece been some mythological make and the border admitting cupids or fauns and satyrs it would without' a doubt have won the highest prize—but religion mars poetry, and so, of course, it spoils art;

THE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
317
There was no room for Him in the inns of Bethlehem, yet He was the Desired of Nations; no room for Him in the world, thirty three years later, when life was wrenched from Him, yet He was the life and light of the world. There never was any room for Him during all His mortal life, and American poetry and American art echo the cry— No room. There is no room for Him in poetry, for certain critics say poesy vanishes when religion enters. There is a Christmas poem whose echoes still resound though centuries have rolled away since angels first sang its sublime numbers and shepherds understood its simple import—would allusions to it really destroy the poetry of a New Year’s Ode ? If religion injures poetry, of course it spoils art:—one proposition is a natural sequence of the other. What is poetry but painting in words ? and painting, but poetry made visible? Yet the ancients did not hold religion to be detrimental to either. Then art and poetry found the highest development when brought to bear upon the deeds of the gods—and no one dares impugn . the perfection of our classic models. A miserable caricature of religion was theirs, and its gods a band of rascals, yet it preserved some precious truths which prepared the world somewhat for Christianity. Even the vile deeds of its deities prepared the mind of its votaries for the idea of the Virgin who would bring forth a Son; it kept alive the nation of divinity, and art out of its filth the Sibyls evolved their sublime oracles which taught the learned to expect a Divine Redeemer. The caricature, or at best, the mere shadow of true religion, ennobled poetry and art in Greece and in Rome; but in America, true religion must be banished from them! Are we rising above classic art, or are we falling below it?
It used to be said that true art was known by its producing in the beholder a certain elevation of mind or soul; but what elevation of mind is produced by the light of our giantess in an attitude usually associated with billingsgate? Is she really an embodiment of the spirit of the New Year? We trust not. Let us hope that the spirit of materialism—for this is what this coarse figure truly represents—will not have full sway over men’s hearts. Yet withal, there is a sunrise glow in the sky; there is a light flashing across the whole of the apparently meaningless -design. So, perhaps, a voice will ring through the coming year, calling aloud: Arise, and be enlightened.
County Attorney. Mr. Spalding, like a true son of Notre Dame, subscribes for the Scholastic, and in this respect we commend his example for imitation to all the old students.
—We are in receipt of a pleasant letter from Rev. Father Corby, formerly President of the University, now rector of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis. He desires to be kindly remembered to all friends and acquaintances at Notre Dame. All are reported to be in good health and spirits at Watertown. Our genial friend on the hill thinks he won’t need that bird-cage till next Spring.
—Among the visitors to the College this week were Mrs. Devereux, of St. Louis, who has a son in the Minim department (Mrs. Devereux is a sister of the eloquent Bishop Ryan of St. Louis); Mr. and Mrs. Davison, of Harrisonville, Mich.: Miss Cartis Davison; Mr. Robert Taggart, of Circleville, Ohio; Mr. M. Henock and Sol Henock, of Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. A. Garrett, cf Wapallo, Iowa, and Mrs. J. Norfolk, of Charlestown, Ill.
—From Lincoln, Ill., we learn that Theodore Peifer, of ’76, is teaching; that Albert S. Rock, of ’79, is in the Loan and Trust Bank; that E L. Spitley, of '73, has sold his interest in the dry-goods’ business, and intends going to California. Mr. Spitley was lately married. Frank Scheild, of ’79, is in business with the paterfamilias. Matthew V. Blackburn, of ’76, who spent four years in teaching, is now in business at 131 Sangamon st.
—A clever and well-known writer—a young lady—writing to Prof. Lyons to acknowledge the receipt of a copy of the Scholastic Annual, says it is a pretty pamphlet, and that she considers the poe ical selections excellent, much better than is usual in publications of the kind. She would like to know the author of the ballad gn “ The Ferocious Ute,” “ the humor of which is so quaint and fine.” We warn the young gentleman to look out for himself. He succeeded in escaping from the Utes by shamming smallpox, but such barbarous devices will not always succeed.
—We find the following in the Washington correspondence of the Gatholie Mirror for last Saturday .-
“Among the Washingtonians at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana, are Messrs. Eugene F. and Wm. H. Arnold, sons of the late William H. Arnold, and grandsons of Thomas Bayne, Esq., one of the most sterling Catholics of this city, and both show proof of excellent education and careful training. Late numbers of the “ Notre Dame Scholastic,” a journal published under the auspices of that institution, contain articles extremely creditable to both these young gentlemen. That contributed by Eusrene F. is an account of some of his travels abroad, comprising interesting notes of a trip on the Rhine, and beautifully descriptive of the many points of interest along its historic shores; while William H. furnishes a lensrthy and exhaustive argument in the defense of “ Free Trade vs. Protection,” in which the subject is handled in a manner worthy one who has studied the subject in the light of a more experienced and maturer years.”
Personal.
—Thomas J. Wendle, ’76, is farming in the State of Illinois.
—Timothy McGraw, ’76, is principal of Mt. Pulaski School, at Williamsville, Ill.
—Henry A. Hoffman (Commercial), ’75, is to be married on the 9th inst., in St. Joseph’s Church, Chicago, to Miss Angeline Brugger. We wish you much happiness, Henry.
—Willard D. Smith, of Adrian, Mich., (Class of ’76), spent a few hours here the past week, while on his wedding tour. He has a brother in the Junior department, “ Major.”
—We had a visit this week from Mr. W. L. Dewey, of New York, agent of the C. B. Cottrell & Co., Printing-Press Co., of that city. Mr. Dewey spent a week here last year, putting a new press into The “Ave Maria" office, and made a number of friends at the College.
—We learn from The Lebanon (Ky.) Standard and Times that our amiable friend Samuel T. Spalding (Law, ’80,) has been nominated by a large majority for the position of
Local Items.
—“ Gutoo! ”
—What is your average ?
—No “ gags,” if you please.
—Be sparing of vulgo dicitur “ taffy.”
—“ I’ll see you------, in the morning.”
—Did you hear the name of the new society ?
—The recreation day this week was a glorious one.
—A Junior says the Senior skating rink is a failure.
—O. W. Holmes has completed his poem on the “ Mug-gletonians.”
—“The motto of some important youths is: Big I and little you.”
—“ That treasurer from Iowa has an ear for music and a mouth for pie.”
—Thanks to Master McPhlllips, of the Junior department, for favors.
—It was “ a bad mistake ” about that umbrella. Mistakes will happen, you know.
318	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Our poet of last year has been very ill, but we rejoice to hear that he is now convalescing.
—A. German (not high German, of course,) table has been started in the Minims’ refectory.
—The present attendance of students is 75 in excess of this time last year, and still they come.
—Contrary to bis usual custom, Prof. Lyons went to Chicago last Thursday by the 8 o’clock train.
—Doctors say that gout may be inherited. If any one were to leave it to us, we should certainly contest the will.
—The old printing office looks desolate enough. We should not be surprised to hear a rumor of its being haunted.
—The plants in the Junior study-hall are in a flourishing condition, owing to the assiduous care of Brother Lawrence.
—Our box has a spacious receptacle, and seems to say: “ The smallest favors thankfully.received, larger ones in proportion.”
—The three Harrys, Harry Kitz, Harry Snee and Harry Sells, wore the best costumes displayed at the Mignon Club Carnival.
—The examinations are over, to the deep regret, we learn, of the Juniors. But then there’ll be others just like them in June.
—The teacher of phonography returns thanks to Mr. Geo. E. Clarke for his valuable assistance in the examination of the classes.
—On dit that work will be commenced on the wings of the College early in the spring. Brick and stone are being hauled for that purpose.
—We were favored with a pleasant call this week from Mr. E. F. Grether, the gentlemanly agent at South Bend of the Singer Manufacturing Co.
—That treat of peanuts was gratefully appreciated. None to remember, “0 how detestable!” Thanks to the donor.
—Rev. Father Cooney has made an addition to his library of a number of the latest English publications. Call round and take—a look at them.
—See the table of contents of the Scholastic Annual in our advertising pages. Copies of the Annual may be had at the student’s office. Price 25 cents.
—Mas’er Lawrence Graham, of the Minim department, who has been ill for some time with a cold, is quite well. His little confreres are glad to see him round again.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger of Fort Wayne is visiting the College this week. On the morning of the Feast of the Purification he celebrated Mass in the College chapel.
—The Juniors possess the finest statue in the College, but as yet have no lamp to burn before it, while other statues, far less beautiful, are adorned with handsome flowers and lamps.
—We venture to say that it would contribute very much towards harmony in the singing on Sundays if all were to sing in their proper choir. There can’t but be discord when so many sing on their own hook.
—We hoped to have a poem from Prof. Stace for this issue of the Scholastic; but to our invitation, “Strike the lyre,” he laconically responded, “Show me the liar! ” Let us hope he may “ show up” early and often.
—Interesting item from a New York paper: “ A Boston youth had his watch stolen at a French ball, on Monday night. The police arrested the thief, but the owner of the watch has not come to time. O temporal 0 mores!— 0 Boston beans! ”
—The Scholastic “ copy ” box has been removed to the printing office. It will be found behind the door. Judging from the contents of this box, when first opened, we were forced to believe that numerous persons had altogether mistaken its use.
—Those persons who have at any time borrowed books, or other things, from a certain room are requested to return them at their earliest convenience. Don’t all come at once, though. The owner says he would prefer to be “ at home ” when people come to borrow of him.	.
—We extend a cordial invitation to every one to become a contributor to the Scholastic. The more the merrier— and the better. The editors will insist only on seeing everything that is to appear, and in being free to consign to the domain of the rejected what may seem to them objectionable.
—The usual High Mass, with solemn benediction of candles, was celebrated on the Feast of the Purification by the Rev. chaplain of the College. Rev. Fathers Francis-cus and Steihl were respectively deacon and subdeacon. An interesting ten-minute sermon, explanatory of the service, was delivered by the Rev. Prefect of Discipline.
—The New York Freeman's Journal says of the Scholastic Annual : “ Prof. Lyons’s Scholastic Almanac for this year is an improvement on the issue of all previous years. It is carefully printed and tastefully arranged. It is filled with charming literary selections which will prove a source of continual delight to families during the winter.”
—We hope to be favored next week with a visit from Mr. Charles Carlisle, secretary of the Detroit Training School in Elocution and English literature and instructor in literature,' dialect, calisthenics and oral expression. A little entertainment may be looked for anent Mr. Carlisle’s visit, and we can promise that it will be most enjoy- ‘ able.	■
—All of the paragraphes are now hard at work on Oscar Wilde. The end man of a down-East paper who conjured up the following has since committed suicide: “Oscar Wilde may, perhaps, he interested in a little family conundrum lately put by a snarling Diogenes. “Who was the first esthete?” asked the cynic ; and answers in the next breadth. “ Balaam’s ass, because he was made to(o) utter.”—South-Bend Tribune.}
This is rather too-too than too utter.
—The numerous friends of Mr. A. Coquillard, of South Bend, are offering their congratulations on the advent of a son. Mr. Coquillard was the first student of Notre Dame, and we learn that A. C. Jr. No. 2 is to enter the Minim department as soon as he has attained the proper age. Our hope for the young gentleman is that he will become as good a man as his father, who is esteemed by all that know him.
—We have occasionally seen accounts of large bells in different parts of the world. With the exception of the large bell in the parish Church of Montreal, Canada, which weighs 29,500 lbs, Notre Dame possesses the largest. in America. It has been heard on a clear day as far as 27 miles to the west and 24 to the east; it has a rich tone, and as a work of its kind is unsurpassed. Its weight without yoke or hangings is 13,000 lbs.
—The 13th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held on Thursday, Jan. 26tb. The following are the officers for the 2d session. James F. Edwards, LL. B., President; James M. Falvey, Vice-President; J. B. Zettler, Recording Secretary,- J. H. Browne, Corresponding Secretary; W. E. Grout, Treasurer; Editor, Chas. A. Tinley; 1st Censor, E. Eager; 2d Censor, F. J. Baker; Marshal, J. White; Sergeant, H. A. Steis.	’
—An electric light machine drew many visitors at Louisville, and they intruded upon the workmen in an exasperating way, wholly disregarding the “no admission ” placard. By hitching wires to the metal door-knob, and turning on a powerful current, the men secured the desired seclusion and the intruders were dreadfully shocked. We hope it will not become necessary to have a similar machine in our printing office, still we warn persons against looking at proofs. Our proof-reader, as every one knows, is a dangerous fellow when he gets “ on the war-path.’’
—The Minims’ Board of Examiners consisted of Rev. President Walsh, Very Rev. Father General, and Rev. Fathers Granger, Coonev, and Johannes; Bros. Francis Regis, Emmanuel, and Leander; Messrs. G. E. Clarke, W. B. McGorrisk, W. H. Arnold, and M. Donohue, were also in attendance. The Minims delighted the examiners by their quick, intelligent answers which elicited the remark that the time since last Sept, must have been well employed. The examination in arithmetic was so creditable that the Minims deserved to be called “Lightning Calculators.” -
—The 14lh regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
319
Dramatic Association was held in Washington Hall, on the 29th ult. Master F. J. Garrity delivered a declamation, and compositions were read by Masters Donn Piatt, C. Metz and J. H. D wenger. Masters D. A. O’Connor and Ryan Devereux favored the company with songs. An appropriate speech was made by Mr. J. Marlett, of the Columbian Association, and the Orchestra discoursed some excellent music. The meeting, which was one of the pleasantest held during the session, closed with a well-timed address from the President.
—There has been an unusual demand on the initial number of our present volume, containing the admirable Pastoral of the eminent Bishop of Angers on the subject of the recent canonizations, which we took the liberty to entitle “The Glorification of virtue.” It is gratifying to learn that so many of our readers were highly pleased with it. We agree that it is one of the best things that has ever appeared in Ths Ave Maria. For the excellent translation we are indebted to our accomplished and obliging confrere, Rev. Father Toohey, C. S. C., Vice-President of he University of Notre Dame.—Ths Ave Maria.
—Some changes have lately taken place in the Univer-sity Cornet Band. The following are now the members and their instruments: Lyre, Prof. Paul; E flat Cornet, J. R. Marlett and W. Arnold; Solo, B flat, F. Quinn; 1st B flat, G. Tracy; 2d B flat, J. Barry and J. Armijo; E flat Clarionet, Mr. Rumley; Solo Alto, F. Grever; 1st Alto, J. McIntyre; 2d Alto, R. Fleming; Solo Tenor, F. Bell; 1st Tenor, Mr. McCue; 2d Tenor, C. Van Dusen; Baritone, Mr. Devoto; B flit, Euphonion, W. Grout; E flit Bombardon, F. Kuhn; Tympanum, H. Noble; Imus Tym-phanotribia, W. Thompson; Cymbals, M. Healy.
—The 19th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Jan. 30th, during which an election of officers for the coming session took place, with the following result: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., was unanimously elected Director; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Promoter, Bro. Leander, C. S. C.; 1st Vice-President, L. Gibert; 2d Vice-President, D. C. Smith; Recording Secretary, G. B. Buchanan; Treasurer,F. Fishel; Corresponding Secretary, A. -L. Richmond; Librarian, G. Tourtillotte; 1st Censor, H. G. Foote; 2d Censor, E. Bailey; 3d Censor, G. Dechamp; Sergeant-at-Arms, A. J. Campau; Marshal, F. Lund; Prompter, M. E. Murphy; Charges d'affaires, W. Hannavin, C. Devoto, H. Snee.
—The 11th regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held January 30th. An election of officers for the em suing session took place, and resulted as follows: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Dramatic Instructor and Critic, Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., C. E.: 1st Vice President, G. E. Clarke; 2d Vice-President, W. B. McGorrisk; Treasurer, A. J. Zahm; Recording Secretary, T. F. Clarke; Corresponding Secretary, J. A. McIntyre; 1st Censor, E. W. McGorrisk; 2d Censor, Warren Schofield; Librarian, M. T. Burns; Marshal, J. Solon; Sergeant-at-Arms, F. Gallagher; Charges d'affaires, F. H. Grever, F. M. Bell, W. H. Bailey. The following -were then named as the general Executive Committee: W. H. Arnold, W. McCarthy, R. E. Fleming, M. T. Healy, E. C. Orrick, J. P. O’Neill, F. A. Quinn, W. S. Cleary, J. E. Walsh, and W. J. O’Connor. G. E. Clarke, W. B. McGorrisk and M. T. Healy then delivered addresses, after which the meeting adjourned to begin preparations for an entertainment to be given on Washington’s birthday.
—The jolliest time that has been had since the holidays was spent at the Mignon Club Carnival last Monday night. The Junior members of the Club appeared in fantastic costumes especially designed for the occasion by Messrs. Armijo and Gibert. Marshal O’Neill, the maitre d'hotel, conducted the complicated movements of the marches and quadrillsin a manner which called forth the applause of all present, while the music by the Mignon Club Orchestra, assisted by Prof. Paul at the piano, was excellent. An elegant banquet was served on the upper floor of Washington Hall, under the direction of Mr. Raphael Becerra. Among those who found time to drop in to see the fun and merriment were the President and Vice-President of the University, the Professor of Philosophy, Rev. J. A. O’Connell, and Bros. Leopold, Leander, William, and Aquinas. The members of the Club are always delighted to see the Faculty
and Community represented at their receptions. No special invitations are sent out, but all are invited to attend. We understand that a phantom party will be given by the Mignons at an early date.
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held January 28th. At this meeting an election of officers for the 2d session took place and resulted as follows: Honorary Director, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Superior General; Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; General Critic, Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C.; President, Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Honorary President, Prof. J. F. Edward, LL. B.; Promoter, Bro. Leander, C. S. C.; Dramatic Critic, Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M. C. E.; First Vice-President, A. M. Coghlin; Second Vice-President, C. F. Rose; Historian, E. F. Fishel; Treasurer, J. L. Heffernan; Recording Secretary. W. P. Mahon; Corresponding Secretary, N. H. Ewing; Librarian, J. A. Ruppe; First Censor, J- W. Gu'hrie; Second Censor, C. M. Murdock; First Monitor, J. A. Grever; Second Monitor, W. Johnston; Sergeant-at-Arms, W. L. Coghlin; Charges d’affaires, J. Fendrick, G. Schaefer, A. Browne; Marshal, J. M. Kelly; Prompter, T. A- Hurley. Those who will preside during the session of the Moot Court are, G. J. Rhodius, G. Casta-nedo, H. P. and C. F. Porter, S. Murdock, C. Echlin, and T. Hurley.
—Rev. Father Verdan, C. S. C., until a short time ago a Professor at Notre Dame, is now Vice President of St. Isidore’s College, New Orleans, La., and writes a very favorable report of things at the sunny South. He tells us of a literary and debating society lately organized there under the title of the Si. Isidore’s Society, with the following officers: Director, Rev. Father Molloy, C. S. C.; President, Rev. Father Verdin, C S. C.; Vice-President, Bro. Ignatius, C. S. C.; Treasurer, Bro. Romanus, C. S. C.; Recording Secretary, F. Cclomb. The following are the names of the members: L. Adams, F. Bonis, J. Baurens, C. Bouch-oux, J. Brennan, G. Broussard, J. Brulatous, G. Cassard, J. Cazaubon, R. Cucullu, A. De Blanc, H. Ecuyer, F. Ferrer, R. Fuselier, M. Foute, L. Gueriniere, Aug. Gutierrez, Ale. Gutierrez, E Haydel, P. H. Le Blanc, A. Jacob, E. Krebs, A. Lauga, T. Labbe, E. Lamarie, C. Mairaist, R. Maitland, F. Menard, G. Menard, G. Michel, L. Pareti, J. Powell, E. Rogues, J. Ruppel, M. Rabe, H. Recurt, J. Richard, J. Schweitzer. A. Web re, O. Webre, E. Webre, M.. Nunez, L. Carrant, F. Roy, J. Waguespack,L. Waguespack, E Le Roy, J. Falgoust, J. Ledoux, J. Poueck, J. Romel, N. Frepagnier, E. Villeminot, L. Vinceneau, W. Wood, J. Fuselier. At nearly every meeting new members are admitted. The Society is grateful to Bro. Julian, C. S. C, for the care he takes in training the new members. The Faculty of the College acknowledge a marked improvement in the students’ speaking, etc., since the organization of the St. Isidore’s Society.
Examination Averages.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, 96; H. Akin, 78; J. C. Armijo, 80; W. H. Arnold, 95; W. Bailey, 96; F. Baker, 72; F. Barron, 74; J. Barry, 85; F. Bell, 93; W. Berry, 61; E. Blackman, 84; W. Bolton, 84; F. Browne, 75; E. Bryant, 92; M. Burns, 76; M. Carroll, 67; E. V. Chelini, 74; G. E. Clarke, 84; T. F. Clarke, 84; W. S. Cleary, 90; G. Clements, 82; N. J. Com-merford, 89; J. C. Concannon, 85; W. A. Connor, 89; C. . Coughanour, 71; J. Conway, 91; D. Corry, 93; F. Cullen, 88; F. Dever, 96; A. Dehner, 71; J. Donegan, 83; A. D. Dorsey, 72; J. Drury, 85; E. J. Eager, 88; B. Eaton, 92; F. Ewing, 75; J. Faivey, 91; M.Falvey, 91; J.Farrell, 66; E. G. Fenlon, 80; T. P. Fenlon, 71; W. Flannery, 77; R.E. Fleming, 99; C. L. Fishburne, 96; T.F. Flynn, 92; J. J. Flynn, 91; F. W. Gallagher, 86; A. J. Golonski, 86; F. Godfry, 81; A. Graves, 82; H. A. Gramling, 77; W. W. Gray. 94; F. H. Grever, 86; W. E. Grout, 84; N. Hal-thusen, 69; M. F. Healy, 96; T. D. Healy, 97; M. Henoch, 83; A. Jackson, 87; A. Jones, 80; W. Johnson, 93; Jos. Kindel, 89; F. Kinsella, 82; F. E. Kuhn, 99’7; A Kunts-man, 75; H. M. Lannon, 80, J. C. Larkin, 83; H. Letter-hos, 80; Max. Livingston, 78; J. R. Marlett, 80; Jno, Mil
3-20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lett, 90; Geo. Metz, 80; F. Monaghan, 71; A. Meyer, 77; H. W. Morse, 87; F. X. Murphy, 88; J. M. Murphy, 80; W. McCarthy, 93; G. E. McErlain, 97. W. McEniry, 94; J. A. McIntyre, 98; P. McGinnis, 89; W. McGorrisk, 94; E. McGorrisk, 91; Jno. Nash, 76; H. Noble, 81; B. M. Noble, 70; E. Orrick, 99 3; J. N. Osher, 98; E. A. Olis, 99 3; W. J. O’Connor, 88; J. P. O’Neill, 81; J. B. O’Reilly, 81; T. O’Rourke, 83; F. Paquette, 75; J. P. Peifer, 87; C. Pierson, 91; S. Pillars, 66; F. Qtiun, 90; P. Rasche, 79; F. Rettig, 84; W. E. Ruger, 89; E. Ryan, 90; A. Schiml, 82; W. Schofield, 87; B. Schofield, 67; P. Shickey, 69; W. E. Smith, 77; E. E. Smith, 80; C. A. Smith, 71; J. Solon, 98; H. Steis, 83; E. J. Taggart, 85; W. Thompson. 87; C. A Tinley, 90; G. S. Tracy, 81; I. Treon, 84; C. B. Van Duzen, 90; W. Vander Hayden, 87; J. E. Walsh, 90; F. S. Weber, 92; A. R. West, 73; F. Wheatly, 70; J. A. White, 78; E. Yrisarri, 90; A. F. Zahm, 99 4; J. B. Zettler, 92.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, 91; W. Bacon, 87; E. F. Bailey, 82; W. Barron, 94; B. B. Baca, 92; H. S. Brewster, 92; A. A. Browne, 89; G. Buchanan, 91; A. J. Campau, 67; G. Cas-tanedo, 80; W. J. Cavanaugh, 90; J. L. Castillo, 90; A. M. Chirhart, 88; A. M. Coghlin, 68; W. L. Coghlin, 77; A. S. Colyar, 74; J. M. Courtney, 85; Jos. S. Courtney, 93; F. M. Danielson, S3; G. L. Deschamp, 91; J. A. Devine, 86; H. F. Devitt, 81; O. Devoto, 88; J. E. Drendle, 92; M. Dolan, 93; C. C. Echlin, 98; W. A. Ellis, 84; N.H. Ewing, 100; J. H. Fendrick, 83; Ed Fishel, 96; Fred Fishel, 92; W. E. Freyermulh, 84; H. Fisher, 73; F. B. Farrelly, 82; L. F. Fiorman, 92; M. L. Foote, 90; H. G. Foote, 95; R. French, 92; J. Friedman, 83; J. Flynn, 85; E. Gall, 81; A. Gall, 87; J. Gallagher, 73; E. Gerlach, 96; L. Gibert, 98; H. Gilbert, 81; M. Gooley, 77; W. Graham, 88; J. Grever, 83; J. W. Guthrie, 88; W. Hannavin, 85; J. Halligan, 94; H. N. Hess, 90; H. Hibbeler, 94; P. Hoffmann, 88; J. Heffernan, 94; E. A. Howard, 87; T. J. Hurley, 92; W. Jeannot, 94; J. Jones, 77; F. Johnson, 87; W. Johnston, 93; J. Kahman, 93; S. Katz, 93; F. Kengel, 88 ; Oscar Kempf, 90; J. Kelly, 80; H. Kitz, 81; C. Kolars, 95; S. Lippman, 94; J. Livingston, 79; F. C. Lund, 87; W. Mahon, 90; W. Muhlke, 74; M. Murphy, 81; C. Murdock, 93; S. Murdock, 90; J. Meyer, 72; H. Metz, 81; W. H. McCarthy, 87; T. E. McGrath; 87; J. McGrath, 88; F. McPhillips, 94; J. T. McGordon, 72; J. T. Neeson, 83; J. E. Orchard, 91; F. Grainger, 76; B. Osborne, 84; J. P. O’Donnell, 85; J. V. O’Donnell, 90; H. P. Porter, 96; C. F. Porter, 90; J. Powell, 76 ; A. Richmond, 91; V. Rivaud, 89; L. Rivaud, 84; G. J. Rhodius, 72; L Rogers, 81; C. F. Rose, 90 ; S.' Rosenheim, 80; J. C. Ruppe, 70; W. Ruprecht, 79; T. Ryan, 76; Fred Ryan, 74; Jno. Ruppe, 75; D. C. Smith, 90; E. J. Schmitt, 91; H. G. Sells, 82; G. Schaefer, 86; D. Saviers, 95; H. Snee, 86; E. Tappan, 79; A. Taggart, 77; D. Taylor, 90; G. Tourtillotte, 93; A. J. Vernier, 86; J. E. Warner, 85; C. C. Warner, 87; T. Williams, 92; W. Warren, 91; J. Whelan, 80; A. Wendell, 79; M. J. Wilbur,'86; P. Yrisarri, 88; J. E. Zaehnle, 88; Chas. Zeigler, 92; B. A. Zekind, 87; E. J. Wile, 85; F. Barnard, 61.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Joe Kelly, 90; Donn Piatt, 89; M. Devitt, 79; T. Norfolk, 98; J. D wenger, 94; W. Berthelet, 92; R. Devereux, 93; J. Frain, 95; J. J. McGrath, 91; L. Young, 70; W. Miller, 90; D. O’Connor, 92; W. Welch, 90; A. Kelly, 89; J. Nester, 88, J. Chaves, 85; W. Prindiville, 90; W. Walsh, 92; G. Nash, 85; C. McGordon, 90; P. Johnson, 89; G. Gibson, 96; R. Papin, 86; W. Devine, 84; C. Metz, 82; F. Otis, 90; T. Eilis, 87; F. Nester, 90; D. McCawley, 80; P. Campau, 95; B. Powell, 90; H. Ackerman, 80; J. Beall, 85; E. Thomas, 80; C. Brandom, 75; F. Whitney, 80; J. Rose, 80; E. Chirhart, 75; W. Stange, 80; J. Kelly, 85; V. Rebori, 90; H. Dirksmeyer, 75; C. Campau, 80; F. Coad, 75; J. McGrath. 80; A. Roberts, 75; G. Price, 70; D. Prindiville, 65; L. Graham, 75; C. Young, 60; H. Hynes, 72; W. Masi, 80; E. McGrath, 70; A. Otis, 75; A. Hewitt, 65; E. Adams, 50; C. Quinlan, 60; A. Devine, 60; T. Curran, 68.
He who has not worked in his youth, knows nothing, is nothing, and can do nothing.—Lacordaire.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, W. H. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, H. Akin, W. H. Bailey, E. C. Bryant, W. B. Berry, F. M Bell, R. Becerra, T. Cullen, D. Corry, 8. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, E. V. Chelini. J. J. Conway, G. E. Clarke, W. 8. Cleary, N. Commerford, J. Donegan, T. Dever, J. Drury, A. Dehner, M. E. Donohue, B. Eaton, E. Eager, F. Ewing, R. E. Flannery. E. J. Fenlon, T. P. Fenlon, J. Farrell, R. E. Fleming, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, W. E. Grout, F. W. Gallagher. W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, F. H. Grever, M. F. Healy, M. Henoch, A. A. Jones, A. Jackson, W. Johnson, J. J. Kelly, F. Kinsella, J. Kindel, A. Kuntsmann, G. M. Kerndt, J. C. Larkin, J. M. Murphy, G. Metz, J. Marlett, G. McErlain, F. Murphy, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, W. B. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, T. H. Maloney, J. Nash, H. Noble, W. McDevitt, J. B. O’Reilly. J. P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, T. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, 8.’ 8. Perley, J. P. Piefer, F. A. Quinn, E. J. Ryan, F. Rettig, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon, J. J. Sturla, C. A. Smith, H. Steis, E. G. Taggart, G. 8. Tracy, I. Treon, C. B. Van Duzen, W. Vander Hevden, F. Wheatly, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, E. D. Yrisarri, J. B. Zettler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer. A. A. Browne, W. F. Bacon, W. H. Barron, B. B. Baca, F. Barnard, A. J. Campau. J. S. Courtney, W. L. Coghlin, J. A. Devine, M. Dolan. J. A. Drendel, W. Dare, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, W. E. Freyer-mnth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, H. Fisher, L. L. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, L. G. Gibert. W. M. Graham, J. Friedman, M. 8. Gooley, J. G. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, E. A. Howard, W. T. Hannavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, F. R. Johnson, J. P. Jones, C. C. Kolars, J. F. Kahman, F. H. Kengel, H. A. Kitz, J. Livingston, F. C. Lund, J. T. McGordon, H. M. Metz, W. J. Muhlke, J. J. McGrath, T. E: McGrath, F. M. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock S. T. Murdock, W. H McCarthy, M. E. Murphy, J. H. Meyer, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, F. Orsinger, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, H. C. Snee, G. H. Schaefer, E. J. Schmitt, G. S. Smeeth, E. G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tourtillotte, A. T. Taggart, T. Williams, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, P. J. Yrisarri, E. J. Wile, J. E. Zaehnle, C. Zeigler, A. A. Zekind, B. Miller.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. I. Otis J. J. McGrath, W. T. Berthelet, P. P. Johnson, C. Metz, J. H. Dwenger, M. E. Devitt, Ryan Devereux, W. J. Miller, J. F. Nester, W. P. Devine. J. A. Frain, J. A. Kelly, A. J. Kelly, D. L. McCawley, C. H. McGordon, R. V. Papin, D. A. O’Connor. T. Norfolk, J. 8. Chaves, P. E. Campau, C. Campau, D. A. Piatt, E. P. Nash, F. P. Nester, W. Walsh, W. Welch, W. J. Stange, J. L. Rose, J. Hopkins, F. S. Whitney, T. E. Curran, W. Prindiville, L. J. Young, E. 8. Chirhart, E. A. Thomas, G. G. Gibson, C. D. Brandom, V. A. Rebori, W. M. Masi, J.’Tong, L. P. Graham, A. P. Roberts, A. J. Otis, H. C. Dirksmeyer, J. Garrity, F. I. Garrity, F. J. Coad, J. J. McGrath, E. McGrath, B. B. Powell, H. Hynes, G. Price, A. Devine. H. J. Ackerman, E. A. Adams, C. Quinlan, J. T. Kelly, D. Prindiville, T. Ellis.
M2
Class Honors.

[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
Ryan Devereux, J. H. Dwenger, D. A. O’Connor, W. J. Miller, D. A. Piatt, T. Norfolk, J. 8. Chaves, W. Welch, E. P. Nash, M. E. Devitt, C. Metz, W. T. Berthelet, J. F. Nester, F. P. Nester, J. J. McGrath, C. H. McGordon, D. L. McCawley, J. A. Frain, A. J. Kelly W. Walsh, W. P. Devine, R. V. Papin, P. P. Johnson, W. Prindiville, J. A. Kelly, T. Ellis, J. Garrity, L. J. Young, G. G. Gibson, J. Hopkins, P. Campau, C. Campau, B. B. Powell, F. 8. Whitney, J. L. Rose, J. 8. Beall, E. A. Thomas, W, J. Stange, H. C. Dirksmeyer, F. J. Coad, V. A. Rebori, A. J. Otis, L. P. Graham, E. 8. Chirhart, C. D. Brandom, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, W. M. Masi, J. T. Kelly, D. Prindiville, C. Quinlan, J. Tong, A. Devine, A. P. Roberts, T. E. Curran, A. B. Hewitt.
i
I
ME kOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	321
OneJftle West of Notre Dame University.
—Dr. P. Van Patten, of Wittsburg, Ark., visited his daughter on Saturday, and placed her younger sister in the Academy.
—The first issue of Rosa Mystica—or The Mystical Rose, as it was then called—was Feb. 1,1839, just twenty-three years ago. The volumes now number from the time when the name was given in Latin.
' —The examinations in the Academic department have proved very satisfactory. Bulletins will be forwarded to parents and guardians next week, presenting a clear statement of the progress and standing of each pupil.
Look not Backward.
Look not backward! ’Tis before thee
That the glorious goal is set!
Onward rides the bright sun o’er thee, Forward rolls the ocean yet.
All great souls, all true and earnest, See their beacon star ahead;
And the strength for which thou yearnest, Lieth not among the dead.
Look not backward! Radiant shining, Faith’s bright sun adown thy path
Warms the heart that, ne’er repining, • Fears not aught the future hath!
God, who guides the little sparrow As it falleth to the sod,
Joy will give thee for to-morrow, If thy life be true to God.
Look not backward! Earnest labor Forward leads, while all regret
Blocks the pathway of thy neighbor, Runs thy free soul into debt;
Takes the strength thou mayest not barter— Strength the wretched world demands—
Makes the strong-winged soul a martyr At the weak heart’s faithless hands.
Look not backward! ’Tis before thee
That the glorious goal is set!
Onward rides the bright sun o’er thee, Forward rolls the ocean yet.
Look not backward! Sweetly shedding ' Joy, like incense on thy road,
Thy true heart to virtue wedding, Bear thy strength and light abroad.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
Forms and Substances.
Americans, as a rule, are averse to forms and ceremonies. Those common in older- countries do not always meet with favor'here. One man is considered, in many circles, “ just as good as another, and a little better,” which con
sideration dispenses with the courtesies, formalities, and alas! we may add, the sweet amenities of life.
There is a marked difference between the stately manners of society in Washington’s time, and the free and easy deportment of the present day.
There are people who cannot draw fine distinctions. They cannot be friendly with all, and intimate with few To them one is worthy of their entire, unbounded confidence, or he is to be treated with complete indifference, slighted, or mistrusted.
A beautiful way of showing respect in olden times was to kiss the hand of a parent, superior, or dignitary. The substance of this form was a noble esteem for authority. Now, in pious families, the child kneels at night to receive the blessing of a parent before retiring. This action is one of the most charmingly significant proofs of filial affection, and constitutes one of the most sacred pictures of “ Home, sweet Home.”	■
Again, among the faithful, it is the custom lo kiss the Bishop’s ring as a token of reverence. There is an unmistakable craving in the human heart for religious ceremonies. The skeptic may laugh at them, but he cannot disprove their utility.
Few understand the importance of the Sign of the Cross. It is a symbol which has for its substance no less a truth than the Redemption of a fallen race. To the Christian it brings to mind the true Cross, and our Saviour dying thereon. It is the mark of Christianity, full of tender, sublime and holy significance. By virtue of this saving Sign demons of darkness are put to flight, and worthy actions become meritorious. The early Christians realized the virtue and efficacy of the Sign of the Cross, as the record of their daily conduct testifies.
The ceremonies of the Mass are full of deep and most important meaning. Every step, every action of the celebrant is in remembrance and imitation of its divine and most loving Founder. His Passion is vividly represented; aye, more—it is a continuation of the Sacrifice on Calvary. All the Sacraments of the Church—outward signs of inward grace—are clothed in forms which convey to the mind their hidden power.
Roll of Honor.
FOK POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Claffey, A. Cavenor, E. Galen, S. Hanbury, 8. Walsh, M. Clarke, A. Dillon, M. Feehan, C. Bland, M. Bea), M. Campbell, Edie Call, French, R. Fishburne, Glennon, Heneberry, Lancaster, A. Price, Rasche, Simms, Shickey, Vander Hayden, Van Patten, Barlow, Black, Etta Call, M. Call, L. Coryell, M. Fishburne, N. Hackett, N. Keenan, Leydon, McCoy, Owens, Margaret Price, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, Rosing, M. Richardson, A. Richardson, A. Rulison, Thompson, Harrigan, Fenlon, Fleming Metzger, Mulligan, Newton, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, A. Watson, Adderly, Behler, Green, Hicks, Mulvey, Pampell, I. Smith, Eldridge, Ives, M. Watson. 2d Tablet —Misses Fox, Wiley, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Fendriek, Wall, Casey, Legnard, A. McGordon, N. McGordon, Mowry, Papin, E. Wright, Garrity, Williams, Gavan.
■IUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, J. Spangler, 8. Semmes, M. Dncey, A Eagar, A. Clarke. M. Chir-hart, E. Considine, M. Coogan, MJDillon, M. Fisk, L. Heneberry, M. Morgan, A. Martin, J. O’Neil], M. Paquette, F. Robertson, W. Mosher, J. Krick, J. McGrath, E. Papin, M. Coyne, C. Richmond, F. Robertson, M. Schmitt, D. Best. M. Otis. 2d Tablet— Misses M. Thomann, C. Patterson, A. Wright, M. Rogers, P. Ewing, F .Hibbins, I. Hackett, M. Wilkins, A. Welch, M. Chaves, E. Mattis, M. Otero.	-
322
ME NOTRE DAMS SCHOiMSTid.
■ MINIM DEPARTMENT.	,
Par excellence—Misses S. Campau. E. Rigney, Martha Otis, A. Sawyer, M. Barry, E. Burtis, J. McGrath.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
St. Mart’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Examination in Vocal and Instrumental Music thus far has exhibited a marked improvement in the pupils of last year, and good talent shows itself in many who entered in September. This promises well for the future. The Examination was deliberate and thorough, being carefully scanned by skilled and conscientious judges. Below, we present the average points of standing in the various Classes:
MUSIC CLASSES.
Average and Promotions.
SPECIAL COURSE.
Miss Galen.
Promoted to Graduating Class—Miss Fendrlck.
Promoted to 1st Class—Miss Campbell.
2d Div. of 1st Class—Miss Wiley. Average 100.
Promoted to this Division—Miss Hackett.
Promoted to 2d Class—Misses J. Reilly, and M. Beal.
2d Div. of 2d Class, Average 99—Misses Bland and Donnelly.
Promoted to this Division—Misses Coryell and Heneberry.
Promoted to 3d Class—Misses Barlow, Chrischellis, M. Ryan, and M. English.
2d Div. of 3d Class, Average 98—Misses Fenlon, French, Fox, M. Casey, Keenan and Leydon.	-
Promoted to this Division—Misses Ave Price, C. Claffey, and A. McGordon.
4th Class, Average 96—Misses Dillon, Garrity, Shickey, and Rosing.
Promoted to 4th Class—Misses Van Patten and M. Call. •
2d Div. of 4th Class, Average 95—Misses Fishburne, Casey. Morgan, Simms, Fleming, Todd, Rulison, Gavan, L. English.
Promoted to this Division—Misses Margaret Price, Behler, C Lancaster, M. Ducey, C. Ginz, H. McGordon, Feehan, E. Vander Hayden.
5th Class, Average 98—Misses M. Reutlinger, L. Lancaster, Ramsey, McKenna, Thompson, Rasche, Adduley, A. Nash, Robertson, M. H. Ryan, Waters.
Promoted to 5th Class—Misses M. Dillon, E. Call, K. Ducey.
2d Div. of 5th Class, Average 96—Misses Papin, Metzger, V. Reilly, Chirhart, Patterson, A. Clarke, Legnard,. M. Clarke, Castanedo.
Promoted to this Division—Misses H. Hicks, Williams, Newton, Glennon.
6th Class, Average 95—Misses I. Hackett, Butts, Watson, Thomann, McCoy, Spangler, Wilkins, Owens, Coogan, B. English.
Promoted to 6th Class—Misses Fisk, O’Neill, Smith, Mulvey, Hibbins, Black.
2d Div. of 6th Claes, Average 95—Mieses H. Nash, Wright, Krick, Davenport.
Promoted to this Division—Misses Martin, Otero, Chaves, Richmond, M. Richardson, Hanbury, Mattes, A. Richardon, R. Fishburne.	'
7th Class, Average 95—Misses Mulligan, Rodgers, A. Wright, Green, Harrigan, Parker, M. Watson.
Promoted to 7th Class—Misses Schmidt, Coyne, Eager, M. Otis.
8th Class, Average 90—Misses Brown, Sawyer, Barry.
9th Class, Average 80—Misses Ives and Welch.
Promoted to this Class—Miss Best.
harp. ■
1st Class—Miss Galen.	-
Promoted to 4th Class—Miss Garrity.	’
Promoted to 5th Class—Misses M. Dillon, Keenan, French, AL Price.	.
Promoted to 2d Div., 5th Class—Misses M. Otero, E. Hicks.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Miss C. Hackett.
2d Dry.—Promoted to this Class—Misses L. French, and J. Reilly.
3d Class—Miss H. Hackett, M. Reutlinger.
Promoted to this Class—Miss L. Coryell.
4th Class—Misses Vander Hayden, Rasehe, Fenlon, Campbell.
• Promoted to this Class—Misses K. Wall, Maude Casey, M. Ducey, K. Ducey, Mary Casey. F. Robertson.
5th Class—Aliases Dillon, A.[Nash, H. Van Patten, A. Gavan.
The Scholastic Annual
For 1882,
COJSTTEISTTS.
Astronomical Calculations—Astrological Predictions— A Man (Poetry), T. E. Howard, A.M.—Abstinence Days —A Revision (Poetry), Mrs. Alargaret F. Sullivan—Ballad of the Ute and the Crafty Cook (Poetry), A. J. S.—Calendars—The Church and Science, J. A. Z.—Eclipses,—Evidences of the Stability of the Church, Right Rev. Bishop Ryan—Fasting Days—A Tribute to President Garfield, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.—Holy Days of Obligation— “The Lion of the Fold of Juda,”—Castel Rock—Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, The Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. S. C.—Movable Feasts—Nuevo Mejico (Sonnet), Eliot Ryder—Notre Dame as Seen from the St. Joseph River (Poetry), Eliza Allen Starr—The Patron of Popular Education, William J. Onahan, LL. D.—Rates of Postage— The Spire of Candibec, Minot Ledge—The Strawberry Festival (Poetry), Arthur J. Stace, A. M.—St. Cecilia’s Bridal, (Sonnet), Ethel Tane—Winged Words.
Price, 35 cents, post free.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano-free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C., . Notre Dame, Ind.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly,
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New •University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars. •
Price, -	-	-	-. gilt, $1.25; plain, $1M*
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
.	. Notre Dame,.Indiana,-