
THE NOTRE DAME
NEWS:
Commencement Plans Set . . . Mitchell, Hellmuth, Digby to Head Publications . . . Campus Elections Held . . . Plan Memorial Day Services . . . The Week . . . College Parade.
SPORTS:
California to Meet Klinemen Tomorrow... Simon *39 Tennis Captain ... Tracksters Defeat Michigan State . . . Arboit Receives Athletic Award... Splinters . . . Introducing. .
MOST REV. AMLETO GIOVANNI CICOGNANI, D.D.
Delivers Baccalaureate Sermon
May 27.1938
2
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
Want to Get Away from it All?
• The fastest, cheapest way to get “from here to there” is via South Shore Line, whether you’re going for a week-end or a summer vacation. There are so many South Shore Line trains that one is sure to be leaving at exactly the right time for your plans — and every one of them “gets you there” in quick time.
Call C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, phone 3-3111. or stop in at 301 N. Michigan Street, South Bend, for information about fares, rates and schedules to any destination. We can sell you through railroad tickets, arrange pullman reservations, and take care of all the other details.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SOumnoRE
The New Palm Beach Suits
Men are talking about "soft tailoring” ...but Palm Beach deserves credit for inventing comfortable, unlined, unpadded clothes. The new lounge models are masterpieces of the British Drape school...with broader shoulders, slimmer waists, a trimmer look, a smarter air than ever before. You can choose from plain or sport back models...in whites, Airtones or deep shades of blue, gray and brown. All easily cleaned or washed, wrinkle-resisting—and the answer to "what’ll I wear”—now, and all next summer. See them today at your favorite clothier.
And be sure to look over the new Palm
Beach slacks at..................05.50
TAILORID BY BOOBALL
IF IT BEARS THIS LABEL— ITS GENUINE PALM BEACH
GOODALL COMPANY, CINCINNATI
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188 
Vol. 71	,	May 27, 1938	No. 26
SENIORS PREPARE FOR 94TH COMMENCEMENT
Five hundred and twenty - nine graduates will receive their degrees from the University of Notre Dame at the 94th annual commencement exercises next Sunday afternoon at 4:00 p.m., in the University gymnasium. Forty of the United States and three foreign countries, Canada, South America, and Puerto Rico are represented in this year’s class.
Terence B. Cosgrove, Notre Dame alumnus and Los Angeles attorney, will deliver the commencement address immediately after the awarding of the degrees.
His Excellency, the Most Rev. Am-leto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate to the United States, will preach the baccalaureate sermon at the Solemn Pontifical Mass to be celebrated next Sunday morning June 5th. His Excellency will also pontificate at a special Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9 a.m. Saturday morning in Sacred Heart Church commemorating the centennial of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
A graduate of the Notre Dame Law School in 1906, Mr. Cosgrove the following year was awarded his LL.M, degree at the Yale University Law School. After serving for three years on the faculty at the University of Illinois Law School he went to San Diego and opened up a law office, where he remained until 1919.
Since 1919 Mr. Cosgrove has been practicing in Los Angeles. He has considerable experience in representing municipalities and political subdivisions and has specialized in municipal and private corporation law.
Because of the Centennial Mass the annual Mass for the deceased Alumni on Saturday morning has been eliminated this year. Substituting for it is an official pilgrimage, under the leadership of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association to the Community cemetery at 5 o’clock Saturday afternoon.
The triple dedication of the University’s alumni to “God, Country, and Notre Dame” will be observed in the order of the exercises.
Immediately following the Pontifical Mass on Sunday a new American flag, presented by the senior class to the University on Washington’s
Birthday will be blessed, and at 11 a.m. the seniors will carry the flag in solemn procession from the church
for the annual flag-raising exercises.
The complete program of the three-day activities follows:
PROGRAM of the NINETY-FOURTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT University of Notre Dame June 3, 4 and 5, 1938
(AH events are scheduled on Central Standaid Time)
I
Friday, June 3	j
!
Registration of Alumni—Alumni Office (Rooms available Friday).	!
Opening of the Alumni Golf Tournament—University Course.	!
Reunion Classes Meet—1888-93-98-1903-08-13-18-23-28-33.	!
2:00 1*. M. Baseball, Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
7:00 P. M. Concert, Main Quadrangle, University Band.
T :00 i*. M. Golden Jubilee Dinner, Class of 1888.
7:00 p. M. Silver Jubilee Dinner. Class of 1913.
8:00 p. m. Washington Hall, the University Theatre.
8:00 P. M. Five-Year Reunion Smoker and Buffet, Class of 1933, Columbia Athletic Club. South Bend.
8:00 p.m. Special Reunion, Class of 1931, German Village, South Bend.
Saturday, June 4
Registration of Alumni—Alumni Office.
Alumni and Class Golf Tournaments—University Course.
9:00 a. si. In Sacred Heart Church the Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D.. Titular Archbishop of Laodicea and Apostolic Delegate to the United States, will pontificate at a special Solemn Pontifical Mass to commemorate the 100th Anniversary of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
10:30 A. si. Class Day Exercises and Award of Prizes, Washington Hall.
11:00 A. si. Softball game. Class of 1928 vs. Class of 1933 teams.
1:00 p. si. Ninth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs, Court Room of the Law Building.
2:00 P. si. Baseball, Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
5:00 P. at. Prayers for Deceased Alumni and Faculty, Community Cemetery. (Saered Heart Church if weather is bad). This ceremony is arranged by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley.
6:00 p. al. Alumni Banquet. East Hall University Dining Halls.
7:00 P. at. Concert, University Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:00 p. at. Musical organizations, Washington Hall.
9:00 p. ar. Old-Fashioned Carroll Hall Smoker, Class of 1928, Carroll Hall Rec Room, Washington Hall.
N. B. The Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, No. 1477, will hold open house in the newly decorated Council Chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall, on Saturday, June 4, for alumni members, from 9 a. m. to 5 p. m. A committee of the Council will serve as reception hosts.
Sunday, June 5
8:30 A. m. Academic Procession, Main Building to the University Gymnasium.
9:00 A. 3i. Solemn Pontifical Mass, University Gymnasium.
Baccalaureate Sermon, Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani. D-D.. Titular Archbishop of Laodicea and Apostolic Delegate to the United States.
Celebrant, Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil. DJ)., Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago. Music, the University Choir of Moreau Seminary.
The American Flag, presented by the Class of 1938, will be blessed im- mediately following the Mass.
11:00 A. m. Raising the Flag. Main Quadrangle.
12:00 m. Monogram Luncheon. University Dining Halls.	.
1:00 P. M. Luncheon for Alumni District Governors, University Dining Halls.
4:00 p. M. Awarding of Degrees to the Class of 1938, University Gymnasium.
Commencement Address, Mr. Terence Byrne Cosgrove, LL.B., 1906, Los Angeles California.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MITCHELL. DIGBY. HELLMUTH. NAMED EDITORS FOR 1938-'39 CAMPUS PUBLICATIONS
By William C. Fay
Editorial appointments for the 1938-39 sehoolyear were announced by Rev. Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, at the annual Publications banquet held in the Lay Faculty dining hall last
Tuesday night. Succeeding Gene Vaslett as editor of the Scholastic will be
Mark J. Mitchell, of Chicago, Ill.; Fred Digby, of New Orleans, La., will be the new head of Scrip; and Paul Helmuth, Springfield, Ohio, will lead the Dome staff.
Mitchell .and DeCoursey ’38-39 Scholasticmen
Vincent DeCoursey, junior from Kansas City, Kansas, present newseditor of the Scholastic, will take over the duties of managing editor. Other appointments raised sopho- ’ mores Donald A. Foskett, of East Weymouth, Mass., and William C. Fay, of Pittsburgh, Pa., to the positions of sports and news editors for 1938-39. They succeed Mark Mitchell and Vincent DeCoursey.
Mark J. Mitchell, sports editor of the present Scholastic, and editor-in-chief-to-be, has been an active member of the paper for the past three years. This year his column “Introducing” presented entertaining, intimate sketches of Notre Dame athletes. Mark was also one of the wellsprings of this year’s successful Ben-gar Bouts which broke all attendance and receipts records.
Paul Helmuth, sophomore arts and letters student, will draw a long bow at a distant target when he sets about to make the ’39 Dome of higher standard than the ’38 issue. Paul was an invaluable assistant to Frank Rep-penhagen in the compiling of this year’s Dome. His fine work in indexing the entire book and assisting in the organization work made him outstanding among this year’s sophomores and gave him technical knowledge which will prove invaluable next year.
Fred Digby,-new Scrip head, brings unusual ability to a difficult task. Digby succeeds Charles Nelson whose excellent fiction and facile editing have brought Scrip to a higher posi-
( Continued on Page 21)
Press Banquet Honors Dr. J. M. Cooney
•
The appointment of editors, the speeches, the congratulations, all the traditional details of the Annual Publications Banquet were overshadowed last Tuesday night as members of the Faculty Board of Publications and the staffs of the campus literary organs gathered to honor Dr. John M. Cooney. The banquet celebrated Dr. Cooney’s quarter century of work as head of the Department of Journalism.
Toastmaster William R. Dooley introduced Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, who congratulated Dr. - Cooney in behalf of the University. Father Miltner then spoke to the staff members of the various publications, reminding them that the place they should some day fill in interpreting and reporting the events of their day is an important one. He urged an intelligent, informed Apos-tolate of the Press, an apostolate to interpret the muddled economic and political whirl of our time which is the outward manifestation of the strife between Isms and Christianity.
25 years more . . . .?
TOWN BOYS TO TRUCK TO RODGERS1 TUNES
•
Robert Rodibaugh, newly elected president of the Villagers, announces that the club’s annual Spring Formal dinner-dance will be held Monday, June 6, at the Hotel Elkhart. Jack Hynes, general chairman, has secured the music of Charles Rodgers and his orchestra for the dance.
In keeping with a 12 year tradition the retiring president of the Villagers, Paul W. Howard, will be presented with a gift from the club. Edwin Sommerer, retiring sergeant-at-arms, will make the presentation.
Newly elected Villager officers for the coming yeaar will be installed. They include: Richard Alberts, vice president; Joseph Hartzer, secretary; William Prekowitz, treasurer; and Benedict Murdock, sergeant-at-arms.
Bids for the dinner and dance are $3.10, for the dance alone, $1.10. Committee chairman have voted that corsages be banned.
Dr. Goldblatt Lectures
Dr. Maurice Goldblatt (LL.D., Notre Dame, 1934), director of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at the University library, and internationally known art and music critic, delivered an illustrated lecture on “da Vinci and His Works” in Washington hall, Monday evening, May 16.
Da Vinci’s oil paintings, drawings and charcoal sketches were shown on the screen as Dr. Goldblatt commented on “Mona Lisa,” “The Virgin of the Rocks,” and the “Last Supper,” the artist’s most famous paintings. Two or three paintings falsely attributed to da Vinci were shown by the critic to be excellent copies. He arrived at this conclusion by scientifically analyzing all their qualities and comparing them with those of the master.
Scott Reardon, president of the S.A.C., told Dr. Cooney what a high place his sincere years of service have won him among the students and alumni of Notre Dame. Mr. ‘ Dooley then introduced Dr. Cooney.
Striking a note of sincere appreciation for the excellent cooperation tendered him by the University administration and faculty during his past 25 years as head of the Journalism department, Dr. Cooney expressed his gratitude for the honor paid to him on this occasion. He remarked that the majority of his former students who have made good in the literary world received their fundamental training on the campus publications by always upholding the high standards which the profession demands.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
BENGALEERS TOASTED AT BANQUET
O'MELIA, SULLIVAN, AND MULLIGAN SELECTED BY STUDENTS TO HEAD 1939 CLASSES
By Graham Starr
A banquet for the participants in the Bengal Bouts and the members of the Scholastic staff who were in
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Tells of Bengal hardships.
charge of the bouts, was held Sunday morning May 15, in the Sorin Dining Hall. The banquet, in the form of a Communion breakfast, was a token of appreciation from the University faculty for the most successful bouts ever held at Notre Dame.
The feature of the banquet was a talk by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., in which he gave a vivid description of the geographical conditions, natural resources, and animal life of the Bengal province in India. The courageous fight of the missionaries in Bengal to spread the Faith to others in the adverse circumstances, and to survive on the scantiest of necessities, was depicted by Father Cavanaugh.
The money raised from this year’s Bengal Bouts is expected to support nine Bengalese catechists for one year.
Eugene Vaslett, editor of the Scholastic, thanked the combined group for their efforts to make the affair a financial success. Dominick J. Napolitano, University boxing instructor, said that in all his experience he had never seen finer college boxing material as his 1938 pupils.
Charles Callahan, director of the Bengal Bouts and member of the Scholastic staff, acted as master of ceremonies.
Class elections on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week were characterized by a break-up of party lines, and except for the Joe Mulligan (sophomore) faction, parties emerged from the finals rather badly tom and mutilated. Richard “Red” O’Melia, Rhinelander, Wis., became president of next year’s
Schemmer, Skoglund, Soleta Honored
•
John Karl Schemmer, senior in Arts and Letters from Colby, Wis. has been named Valedictorian of the 1938 class, according to an announcement this week by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. Leonard Howard Skoglund, senior in Commerce from Chicago, Ill., was named class orator, and Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., senior in Arts and Letters, class poet.
Schemmer leads his class with an average of 96.48 per cent. He has also led his class in the three previous years. Skoglund, in addition to being varsity end on last year’s team, has maintained an average of 93.68 per cent. The theme of his oration will be what is expected of the Notre Dame graduate.
Besides ranking second in his class with an average of 95:78 per cent, Soleta was class poet at the annual Washington Day exercises this year. He has also over a period of years written several poems for Scrip.
Two other high ranking seniors are Henry E. Wrape and Michael G. O’Brien. Wrape, a graduate of the College of Arts and Letters, has an average of 95.55 per cent.
Philologists Have Meet
The Philological Society of Notre Dame held its final meeting of the year Tuesday afternoon. On the program was the vice-president, Professor George Wack, lately arrived from a conference of Germanic studies. He spoke of the findings, discussions and exchange of opinions regarding language instruction that were there reported and set forth, which was eminently apropos. Among other purposes, the Philological Society is founded to create a clearing-house for opinions and to further the solution of problems connected with the teaching of languages.
Professor Henry Staunton who was made the president of the English teachers of Indiana at North Manchester, gave his impressions of the meeting held in that city two weeks ago.
The program committee will meet to draw up the schedule of papers to be read next year.
senior class when he polled 292 votes as against 207 for his opponent, Jim Rocap. Carl Fricke and Tom Schrin-er, Rocap men, broke through to win the positions of vice-president and treasurer, respectively. Robert Ortale followed his party leader to become secretary.
Senior S.A.C. members elected to hold office next year are:
Dan Murphy, science; Fred Digby, arts and letters; “Pat” Gorman, commerce; Bob Huether, engineering; and “Dick” Garab, off-campus delegate.
Bob Sullivan, Binghamton, N. Y., gained the office of junior president over Joe Cummings by the narrow margin of two votes. The count was 236 to 234.
Benny Sheridan was named vice-president, and Johnnie Flannigan was given the secretaryship. Phil Sandmaier will be treasurer. S. A. C. men elected were Tom Donahue, and Jerry Donovan, for two years, and Bill Coleman, the first independent candidate to go places, for one year.
Joe Mulligan, Cleveland Heights, O., carrying on in the traditions of brother Tom who held the same office two years ago, defeated Ray Quinn for presidency of the sophomore class by the tally of 297 to 280. His whole party, namely George Rassas for vice-president, Andy Pinckney for secretary, Bill Wilson for treasurer, and Bob Odenbach for S.A.C., was swept into office.
Balloting was heavy this year, but the torrid swing labels and campaign crys of last year were missing. Getting off to a slow start, the elections finally claimed the campus spotlight on election days.
One party sent out a poetic statement about the opposition, then a few hours later rescinded it by sending out an apology. Another tried to run in the Brothers on the polling line. All in all with its crossword puzzles, clever cartoons, “press releases,” and rebuttals, the campaign was an interesting one.
Seniors—those who still remain on campus — are reflecting, half sadly, that there are only a few more days they can use the golf course.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FATHER FINNEGAN TO CELEBRATE MEMORIAL DAY FIELD MASS; PAYTON TO SPEAK
By John Kohn
PLAY, BOOK REVIEWS FEATURE "SCRIP"
By Graham Starr
Notre Dame will observe Memorial Day in the manner established by long custom. A memorial field Mass will be celebrated at 8:00 a.m. (9:00 daylight saving time) by the Reverend Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C., at the Notre Dame War Memorial at the east entrance of the church. Moreau Choir, under the
Prof. Eugene J. Payton Speaker.
direction of Reverend James Young, C.S.C., will sing the Mass. Father Finnegan, during the late war, was chaplain of the 139th Machine Gun Battalion and later of the 61st Infantry, A.E.F.
Following the Mass, an address will be delivered by Professor Eugene J. Payton. Professor Payton was a first lieutenant overseas with the 318th Machine Gun Battalion which served on the front with both the 82nd and 3rd Divisions. He was later commissioned a captain in the Pennsylvania National Guard.
The military ceremonies will be in charge of Major Robert B. Riordan, F.A. Res., Registrar of the University. Major Riordan went to France as a corporal in Battery B, 7th Trench Mortar Battalion, C. A. C., A.E.F. The committee on general arrangements is headed by Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., assisted by three students of the graduating class, Lieut. Joseph Callahan, Inf. Res., Charles Beasley, and Stanley Party-ka. Mr. Beasley and Mr. Partyka are members of the Marine Corps Reserve and will receive their commissions upon graduation.
The parade to the community cemetery on the campus will be led by the University Band under Director Joseph J. Casasanta, followed in order by the color guard and escort detailed from Company D, 113th Engineers, I. N. G., Captain Ernest Schleuder, commanding; the Notre Dame Military Club, George G. Haggerty, U.S.M.C.R., commandant; Notre Dame Council No. 1477, K. of C.,
Commerce Forum Has Last Meeting
•
“The fact that a man makes or loses a tremendous sum of money is not important; it is how he feels after the event that is important.” This was the theme of the talk delivered by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, before the members of the Commerce Forum at their annual banquet, May 17, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver hotel.
Elaborating on this statement Father O’Hara gave his views on the proper attitude of man toward wealth and urged members of the club to keep in mind the instructions in business morality that were being given them at Notre Dame. Father O’Hara spoke out of experience, having been the first head of the College of Commerce after its start in 1921.
Toastmaster for the occasion was John Zerbst, retiring chairman of the board of the Forum. He introduced the incoming officers who had gone into office unanimously and unopposed: Dave Meskill, president, who outlined his plans for the coming year. Ray Schleck, vice-president; Phil Sandmaier, secretary; Harry Boesvert, treasurer; Tom Reardon, chairman of the board. The new members of the board: Greg Rice, George Neumann, and Joe Rizzi, seniors; James Metzler, Phil Donahue, and Herbert Connelly, juniors, were also introduced.
Prof. Daniel O’Grady gave a short talk, as did Prof. LeClair H. Eells, faculty advisor of the club. Charles Brosius, retiring president of the Forum, presented Mr. Eells with a surprise gift.
Also presented at-the banquet were the Commerce Forum awards for outstanding average in each of the four classes of the school: Ralph Gerra, freshman, Phil Sandmaier, sophomore; Joe Rizzi, junior, and Ed Wrape, senior who “combined a low golf score and high average,” an impossible feat according to Dick Scannell, retiring vice-president, who presented Wrape the award as winner of the annual Forum golf tourney.
Scrip, University literary quarterly, in its final bow of the schoolyear last Friday, featured for the first time in volume nine a one-act play and book reviews.
The play, “Eight O’clock Date,” by William Robinson, is the story of the first date of a 16-year old girl along with the reactions of her family, including her nine-year old brother. The dialogue is quite realistic.
“Hymns to the Church,” is a review by Robert B. Heywood of the book by that name first written in German by Gertrude von Le Fort, and translated into English by Margaret Chandler. Choice bits of the poetic hymns are reprinted and discussed.
Charles B. Nelson, editor of Scrip, reviews the scientific novel, A Prairie Grove, by Donald Culross Peattie, under the title “Peattie Remembers.”
This issue contained no short stories as such, but several character sketches were sprinkled with narration.
“The Wind and the Waves,” by Frederick J. Digby, is the story of a fisherman on the Gulf of Mexico. The description of the effects on a boy of a drowing woman, which is the main point of the piece, is well done.
William A Botzum, in the essay, “The Christian Dostoievsky,” views the Russian novelist as a Christian, and defends his thesis in several good points.
William A. Donnelly’s “The Hollywood Tales,” is a good parady on Chaucer’s “Canterbury Tales.” Several of the phenomena of modem times are well “described” in the couplets.
The story of a poor boy who is apprehensive for fear of being charged an exhorbitant price for an appendectomy by a specialist is told in “The Deal” by William J. Woer-ner. For originality of thought the story ranks as one of the best in the issue.
“Like a Great Rush,” by John W. Meaney, is the study of a group of characters in a house during a severe storm.
“Simple and Complex,” a group of three poems by John Prescott completes the contributions for the last issue.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
THREE SCHOLARSHIPS TO CLASS OF '38
Mulligan, de la Vergne, Brannigan, Reardon Receive Second Annual "Dome” Awards
Three members of the class of 1938 will continue to study in their chosen fields next year with the aid of scholarships. They are Jerome Paul Ledvina, Clark L. Reynolds, Jr., and Richard J. Scannell.
Ledvina is the recipient of a Knights of Columbus Scholarship to Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C. The award was made on the basis of a competitive examination held on March 15, and open to any Catholic layman in the United States or Canada who had completed at least three and one half years of college work. Ledvina will be graduated in June from the College of Arts and Letters. His major has been philosophy.
Reynolds will enter the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration in the fall on a two year scholarship given by the Harvard Business School Club of Indianapolis, Ind. On June 5 he will be graduated from Notre Dame with the degree of Bachelor of Commercial Science, magna cum laude. Upon the completion of his courses at Harvard he will receive the degree of Master of Business Administration.
Scannell as been awarded a service scholarship in retailing at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill. The scholarship carries with it the privilege of working part time at Marshall Field’s in Chicago while studying for the degree of master in business administration in Northwestern’s Graduate School of Commerce. Scannell, one of this year’s ranking seniors in scholastic average, will receive the degree of Bachelor of Commercial Science on June 5 from the University of Notre Dame. In addition to his service scholarship he has been awarded a tuition scholarship for his graduate work at Northwestern.
Reid Offers Awards
Need for constructive criticism of the daily press is being emphasized by the University. Announcement was made in the Religious Bulletin this week of the offering of awards to students sending the best letters of correction or commendation to newspaper editors.
Originator of the idea is Richard Reid, editor of the Bulletin of Augusta, Georgia, who recently completed a series of lectures here on “Newspaper Morality.”
Students are asked to read their newspapers with a critical eye, to be alert in detecting false, misleading or incomplete newspaper items and to be appreciative of editorial excellence.
By Frederick E. Sisk
Selection of the four recipients of the second annual Dome awards, esteemed as one of the highest individual honors to be conferred on a student during his four years at Notre Dame, resulted in Thomas P.
Brannigan, de la Vergne
Mulligan, Reardon
Mulligan, Pierre R. de la Vergne, William A. Brannigan, and Scott B. Reardon being named as the winners of the awards.
Official announcement of the selection was made simultaneously with the distribution of the 1938 Dome last Tuesday, and presentation of the awards was made during the annual Publications Banquet held in the Faculty dining hall last Tuesday evening.
Chosen on the basis of academic rating, participation in extra-curricular activities, personality, and general popularity, the four honored seniors were named by a committee of 18 juniors appointed by the editors of the Dome.
Mulligan, who is in the A.B. school and from Cleveland Heights, Ohio and de la Vergne, who is in the same school and from New Orleans, La., are members of the Wranglers and have been active in interhall debating during the past four years. De la Vergne is president of the Wranglers this year, and during his sophomore and junior years was coach of the teams winning the championship of the interhall debating contests both years. He was also chairman of the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest last year, has served as vice-president, secretary, and president of the Louisiana-Mississippi club, is a member of the Schoolmen, and participated in varsity fencing.
Mulligan’s diversified list of accomplishments includes membership in the Round Table, president of the sophomore class in ’35, member of the S. A. C. in his sophomore year and secertary of that organization last year, and. winner in the Bengal Bouts during his sophomore year.
Last February Mulligan also delivered the Washington day oration at the ceremonies held in Washington Hall.
Brannigan, also in the A.B. school and whose home is in Albany, New
York, was sophomore class treasurer, chairman of the Junior Prom, member of the Dome and Santa Maria staffs, member of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, and active in the Knights of Columbus, having served as deputy grand knight and lecturer.
Reardon is in the Commerce school and comes from Sioux Falls, So. Dak. He was principally outstanding as president of the S.A.C. during the current year and held a similar position with respect to the Junior class last year.
Bookmen in Final Bow
An election of new officers for the ensuing year, and a discourse on “Pastoral Poets in an Age of Doubt” by Prof. Frederick, of the English department, featured the banquet of the Bookmen’s Club on May 19 at the Oldenburg Inn.
The newly elected Bookmen officers are: John Walsh, president; Bob Heywood, secretary; and Bob Cullen, librarian. The new members are: Charles Nelson, Al Funk, Joseph Huber, Vincent Doyle, and Jerry Hogan.
Professor Fredrick’s discussion was chiefly on the eminent American poet, Robert Frost. Frost, who is accepted as one of the leading American contemporary poets, is most successful in his ability to produce a mood of freshness; his images are unique, and his color portrayals in a class by themselves. Frost is concerned with the human being in his contact with the osil, much more than he is concerned with the idealistic existence visualized by Wordsworth and the other Romantic poets.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DONOVAN IS ELECTED HEAD OF S. A. C.
•
A month of some frenzied and some not so frenzied political campaigning for various campus offices came to a close last Sunday. The concluding election, though the most important, was the quietest of them all.
As a result of this election Daniel 0. Donovan, of New Hampton, Iowa, became the president-elect of the Student Activities Council. Donovan, who will succeed to the post now held by Scott Reardon, will be starting his second year as a member of the S.A.C. He was elected last spring to a two-year term on the Council.
Donovan’s first official duty will be to direct in conjunction with Registrar Robert Riordan preparations for the annual Memorial Day services. In the fall it will be his task to welcome the freshmen at the Freshman convocation, to arrange the pep meetings, and to plan the student trip.
Other S.A.C. men whose terms continue through the next year are: Paul J. McArdle, John E. McAuliffe, John E. McMahon, Joseph H. Mulqueen, Thomas G. Judge, Thomas B. Donahoe, and Robert J. Saggau. Balloting for the positions of secretary and treasurer has been postponed until the fall.
Kohn Heads Patricians
The Patricians met last Thursday evening at the home of Professor John P. Turley, faculty adviser of the organization, where they enjoyed a buffet dinner. Professor DeVere T. Plunkett of the Department of Classics also attended.
At the conclusion of the dinner, elections for the ensuing year were held. The officers elected for the next school year are John J. Kohn, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, president; Paul Hellmuth, vicepresident, and Thomas P. Wall, secretary.
At the regular meeting held earlier in the week Paul Hellmuth read a paper on “The Church of Santa Sophia.” “The church as it now exists in Constantinople,” said Hellmuth, “is the same building that was erected during the reign of the emperor Justinian in 538 A.D. The beautiful interior of the church has become enriched by the discovery of priceless mosaics that remained long hidden by plaster.
“The dome of the original church collapsed a few years after its construction. The present dome,” remarked Hellmuth, “is supported by a unique arrangement of columns whereby the stress is more evenly distributed. The church is now used only as a landmark and symbol of a former culture.”
Man About the Campus
John Karl Schemmer comes from deep in the dairy-land — Colby, Wisconsin (of Colby cheese fame). Val-edictorizing is nothing new to him as he came to Notre Dame backed up by high school honors. Gets a tan every
summer working at the loading platform of the Colby Pea Cannery and deepens the tan by golf and swimming when not heaving crates. Social connections range from St. Catherine’s, in St. Paul, Minn., all the way down to the Lake league, but at present are centered somewhere on the North-side of Chicago. Anticipates baldness at thirty, but just now a phy-ed man’s envy. Was one of Joe Casasanta’s first clarinetists — although he shows no promise of becoming another Benny Goodman. As secretary he handled the books for the Bookmen this year. Debated in interhall and varsity for two years and has been a consistent runner-up in four Breen medal campaigns. Amazes fellow - English majors by having assignments finished weeks before time, and is consistently the best student in most of his classes. Once served a nine-course dinner in his room — mixing the salad in the sink. One of the Notre Dame men with an average high enough to let him into Harvard’s charmed legal circle. Though plagued by pseudo-humorists, he deserves the honor of being valedictorian of the Class of ’38, for he is a very real “man about the campus” and a credit to Notre Dame.
GUN COLLECTION ON EXHIBITION HERE
By George Haithcock
An antique pistol of the type used by the “gunmen” of King George III of England and during the American Revolution, and other typical weapons of river boatmen, amblers, Dragoons, and military men of the past one hundred years make up an interesting collection of old firearms now on exhibition in the Art Gallery in the University library.
This collection of rare guns was recently presented to the University by Mrs. Florence Daly McBride, widow of the late Eugene R. McBride, of Hartford, Conn., who was graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1916.
The King George gun is a 70 calibre flintlock Tower pistol. Indicating that it is a British-made gun are the British armory marks: “Tower” and the impress of the king’s crown above the letters, “G.R.” Tower means that the finished product was inspected at the Tower of London by the agents of the English government and declared by that mark to be a serviceable arm. The initials G. R. are abbreviations for George Rex.
Oldest of the prized arms is a 60 calibre Italian flintlock pistol which was in use about 1750. The name of the model, Rivalana Savion, is engraved on the lockplate. Opposite the lock is the Lion of St. Mark. Italian pistols of this sort are seldom found in the United States today.
Famous manufacturers of early U.S. martial weapons are represented in this collection. Samuel Colt, who gave the world the first practical revolving pistol, is included with three distinct models. There is an 1848 “cap and ball” percussion revolver, a 44 calibre Dragoon model, which saw service in the United States heavy cavalry. The Dragoon models are the most prized possession of the Colt collector.
In addition there is an 1860 “cap and bell” percussion revolver known as the “Navy Revolver.” This is a 44 calibre gun enclosed in a black leather holster bearing the imprint of the Rock Island Arsenal. In a tan leather holster stamped with the initials of the United States Marine Corps is a Colt 45 calibre single action revolver. This type was adopted by the U.S. Army in 1875.
The transmission from the flint gun to the percussion cap pistol is marked by a modified flint gun bearing the inscription, “R. Johnson, Middn, Conn., 1844.” This was a (Continued on Page 23)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Music Notes
THE WEEK
By Paul R. Locher
By Harold A. Williams
“Will no one tell me what she sings".’— Perhaps the plaintive numbers flow
For old, unhappy, far-off things.
And battles long ago..........
. I listened, motionless and still; And, as I mounted up the hill, The music in my heart I bore. Long after it was heard no more.”
The incomparable voice of Marian Anderson could not but recall those familiar lines from William Wordsworth. The program was intelligently arranged to display Miss Anderson’s astonishing flexibility of voice. Voice studies by Handel and Scarlatti, songs of varying moods from
Schubert, an
PAUL K. LOCHER
aria, 0 Don Fatale, from Verdi’s “Don Carlos’’ were grouped together with negro spirituals, folk tunes and simple songs of great poignancy. Deep resonant tones, vibrating with the intensity of repressed emotion of the negro spirituals, were matched by perhaps the purest
tones that could masquerade as the human voice in Schubert’s “Ave Maria” and the “Agnus Dei” by Bizet.
* * *
The South Bend Civic Music Association which sponsored Miss Anderson’s concert in South Bend on Tuesday night, is planning another interesting season for next year. The Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra and Miss Kirsten Flagstad, Metropolitan Wagnerian soprano, are among the hoped for attractions. Special arrangements have been made to accommodate Notre Dame students for season tickets at only two dollars, which will admit them to the entire series of events by the Association.
* * *
One of the most important aspects of a college career is the intelligent choice of electives. Courses in the Music Department, which fulfill all the requirements of the National Association of Music Schools, will be recognized for credit up to three semester hours a year for juniors and seniors from any college at the University as electives in their academic program. Perhaps the most attractive course for those who wish to have an appreciation of good music, but who lack the technical background, is that offered in the History of Music and Appreciation. Such a (Continued on Page 23)
Note
It was reported to us that two priests were seen in front of the sentry box at the main entrance thumbing a ride downtown.
Question
Here’s a story that popped up from an unexpected source. We think we heard the story once before, but since our informer swears up and down that it just happened last week we present it without quibbling. Some sisters from a nearby school wanted to see the Notre Dame-Minnesota football pictures so one of the priests took the films over and ran them off. After the films had been shown, the priest politely asked if there were any questions the sisters would like answered. The priest looked around expectantly at the sisters, but not one of them asked a question. After several minutes of rather embarassing silence, the Sister Superior arose and
Hal Williams
This Friday ends his Week.
asked in a not too firm voice, “Was that man in the white pants who ran up and down the field after the teams Elmer Layden?”
Election
An idea of how low interest has been this year in campus politics can be gotten from this news about the Rhode Island Club election. Only four fellows showed up for the election and three of the four were running for president.
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Last Fall our old friend Schlitz achieved the dubious honor of being this year’s first lake party victim. The placid old waters of St. Mary’s lake were not ruffled for another lake party until last week when victims 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, went in unwillingly and unceremoniously. All of the vic
tims were Freshmen — five from Brownson, one from Zahm, and one from Cavanaugh. Why they went in: 2—“referred to a brethren’s girl friend in uncomplimentary terms,” 3—“was unusually swell-headed,” 4— “voted against a Brownson man in the past election,” 5—“offered to jump in the lake with his Sunday clothes on for fifty cents and then backed down after the money was offered,” 6—“said that he could whip all the fellow’s in Brownson at one time with one hand tied behind his back,” 7—“took three extra deserts at a full table,” 8—“refused to take a show’er since Christmas.”
Contributions
Before we forget it we would like to thank all our contributors whose contributions did not make The Week. A great many of these items were good and had unusual possibilities, but, for different reasons, most of them obvious, vre did not make use of them. We w’ere asked to write about the toothpicks on the head tables in the dining hall, the violent red nail polish the girls in the Badin laundry department wear, the consternation Professor DuBos caused the flustered librarians every time he walked through the musty stacks or sat in the reference room smoking his pipe blissfully unaware that smoking is never, never allowed in the library, the third floor Cavanaugh boy who obtained free refreshments the nights before football games by dressing as a prefect and descending on his sleeping comrades with a flashlight and a deep voice, demanding that they hand over their bottles or else, the dazzlers in the library, the prominent Seniors w’ho attend the “Freshmen only” movie on Saturday nights, the poor fellow at the Grotto who, in a moment of calm after the others had yelled out their favorite hymns, called “Oh Lord I Am Not Worthy,” and many many other stories that we wouldn’t even dare hint at.
•
Last Item
We never had any definite ideas on how we were going to end the last paragraph of the last Week; we just had a vague idea of saying something wonderful or original in the last item. But as we sit here desperately trying to think of something wonderful or original to say we realize, somewhat sadly, that we have reached the end of our last column and that even if we could think of something wonderful or original to say we wouldn’t have space for it. That’s all.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade
By John A. Callaghan
Editor’s Note: John Callaghan, possessor of a tricky backhand swish with a pair of scissors, our only contact man with the outside world.
Wanted—A Job
What with summer just around the corner, and graduation for the lucky ones, thoughts just naturally turn to
John A. Callaghan
For him—robins and roses!
jobs and work (not by any choice) and so we give you a few of the potential jobs lined up by the Walrus in the Boston University News. We heartily agree with his selection. Of course we are always willing to work at any job if the boss has a beautiful daughter. But the work is preferably one of the following.
1.	Manufacturing bread toast.
2.	Monthly calendar ripping.
3.	Sorority house chaperon.
4.	Tea taster at a turpentine factory.
5.	Detective: trailing assorted Will o’ Wisps and Women.
6.	Companion at baseball.
•
Da Last Poity Poitry
A poiple boid poiched on a poiple boich bough,
Choip! choip! poiple boid, choip! choip! choip!
•
Shades of P. T. Barnum
We are going a little out of our sphere to give you this one. It really should belong in the- “Week.” Therefore we apologize to our columnist friend.
You have heard of the poor frosh buying Scholastic subscriptions, season tickets to Washington Hall, the original sod from Cartier Field and sundry other things that make the life of the freshman so enjoyable, but now comes one who has paid a registration fee at St. Mary’s.
It seemed that the frosh wanted a
UNIVERSITY THEATRE IN YEAR'S FINALE
A week from tonight, June 3, the University Players, under the direction of Mr. Thomas E. Mills, associate professor of speech, will present their part of the Commencement exercises for the enjoyment of the seniors and their guests. Three sketches will be enacted: “To Kill a Man,” a comedy depicting the life of a supersalesman, “Refund,” also a comedy, and “The Other Side,” a highly dramatical play.
The latter two of these sketches have been presented during the last year, and met with the enthusiastic approval of the student body. The first of these, “Refund,” depicts the character of “water on the brain” Wasserkoph. Wasserkoph is an eccentric individual who discovers, upon entering the business world, that college has failed to educate him. He decides to return to his alma mater to demand a refund on his tuition fees. His antics on this trip prove highly amusing. The more serious play, “The Other Side,” has for its theme the execution of a mountaineer who has been brought to justice by a “revenooer.” The play is enacted in the dismal setting of the death chamber of a state prison.
The third sketch, “To Kill a Man,” has never been presented on the campus before. The University players have been concentrating their efforts on this play, which when added to the others, should comprise a very entertaining program.
date with one of the girls at said college and asked a junior friend to fix him up. His friend was more than willing to comply, but stated that there was a little formality that he had to go through before the date— he had to be registered at the college offices. There was a little matter of five dollars to be paid and then he could have as many dates as he wanted. The junior pal would take care of everything for the five iron men.
The freshman paid—thereby entering the hall of fame.
Add Dictators
Here it is the first of the month and Hitler, like everyone else, wants his Czech (Tatter) . . . The rallying cry of the anti-Russians should be “Quit your Stalin!” . . . Remember way back when there was only one man in Europe who thought that he was Napoleon . . . Thumbnail of Hitler: Ham on Vienna. . . .
Calendar
Friday, May 27
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., devotions and benediction; baseball game, varsity vs. California, Cartier Field.
Saturday, May 28
Adoration, Sacred Heart Church, Lady Chapel 7:30 a.m., to 11:30 a.m.; services and benediction; Movie, Washington hall, first show for freshmen only 6:40, second show, 8:20.
Sunday, May 29
Student Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6, 7, 8:30, 10 a.m.; services 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; meeting, Vincentians, K. of C. Chambers, Walsh hall, 10:00 a.m.
Monday, May 30
Memorial Day services, Field Mass, 8:00 a.m. celebrated at the war memorial at the east entrance of the Sacred Heart church, procession to Community cemetery and services; semester exams.
Tuesday, May 31
Semester exams.
Wednesday, June 1
Semester exams.
Thursday, June 2
Closing day, semester exams.
For program for graduation see P. 1.
Bartholomew Gets Ph.D.
Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Politics, will receive the degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Kentucky, at Lexington, at the graduation exercises of that university to be held June 3. Professor Bartholomew completed his requirements for the doctor’s degree at the conclusion of the 1937 summer session. “Metropolitan problems in South Bend and St. Joseph County” was the subject of Professor Bartholomew’s dissertation and concluded his work in his major subject of Political Science.
Professor Bartholomew received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1929 and his M.A. in 1931. He took graduate studies at Northwestern University during the summers of 1930, ’31, and ’32 and has been a member of the faculty of Notre Dame since 1929.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Metamorphosis
. Tonight at 7:10 that strange sight of seniors in tails and top hats going to take their last exams is the beginning of the end—and what an end it has come to be! After pouring out the last few remnants of learning preserved for this gesture grande the boys will join with the belles from over there to sway out a happy retreat from it all.
But the sight of studded shirts and carnationel lapels against a background of blue books, pens and cautioning professors is not the strangest sight seen these past couple of weeks. Patience is a virtue that pays off in big dividends, we are told, and the proof of this philosophy has come to pass. After years of waiting, that thing has happened that has been the hope arid aim of every N.D. man who has in him the germ of showmanship. Badgering John of the West Hall resulted in nothing. Raising a hue and cry and banging of cups got naught. It took the Alumni Association with its far-reaching power to bring results. On that night of nights, that of the Senior Banquet, the West Dining Hall, yes, the West Dining Hall!, was turned into a night club! Seniors who had loped over to the eatery, lured by the unmistakable whiff of cooking steaks, stopped dead at the sight that confronted them. They saw huge bunches of bright flowers in vases on tables covered by gleaming white tablecloths. Glittering silverware flashed under subdued lights. John of the West Hall was a suave and smooth Oscar of the Waldorf, and instead of leaping back from the door, after unlocking it (as is his custom because of the high mortality rate of dining hall door unlockers) John acted the Maitre de Hotel to perfection. At one end of the hall a baton raised and fell and the “Mod-emaires” swung out with “Don’t Be That Way”—and particularly appropriate it was, too, because how could the boys help be dazzled by it all. They had that Alice-in-Wonderland look on their faces as they groped their way to seats. Of course there were a few things missing that make for a real clubby atmosphere, but the boys all agreed afterwards that the transformation left them stunned and even some of the speeches failed to penetrate. A few pertinent remarks did stick, however. It came to light during the speechmaking that a number of years ago a man with a
degree or two could command a salary of $10.00 per week after graduation and expect a raise of $1.00 after a couple of years’ work if he showed real initiative and willingness to accept responsibility. That was before the Hoover slump and the Roosevelt power dive so a $6.00 or $7.00 weekly envelope is happily looked forward to by this ’38 crop of hopefuls. They will admit ambitions to get up into that $10.00 bracket but, with a halo of modesty, say it’ll be through luck if they do so.
Swan Song
Next Monday the underprivileged Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen will give out for professorial enlightenment. On their way to the rack they’ll be hooted at by lounging seniors, but in that hooting there will be a ring of regret. Until now the boys have kept up a good pretense of straining at the leash to get out and storm the portals of business and the
“Yeah, he’s pretty all right, but ‘Baccalaureus Artium’ doesn’t smmd nearly as sweet as $15 a week.”
professions but with the day of degree-getting drawing near the veneer is beginning to crack through here and there.
The sentimental reminiscing will start tonight and gain headway until its eruption June 5. The clowning that took place in four years will be rehashed to make a week’s Tuning fire of stories. Minor difficulties with professors will be forgotten in a spirit of hail fellowship. Reunion plans will be made, and with it all will come the feeling that it was a great four years despite the mystery balls and string beans.
So with the adieus this department extends best wishes to next year’s personalities dabbler for plenty of copy and a thick skin.
Good name in man or woman, dear my lord, is the immediate jewel of their souls.—Othello.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_______________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT________________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA_____________________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Week
John Callaghan______________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard_____________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller_______________________________Thomas	Marker
Harry Penrose John	Kohn
William C. Fay___________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
Joseph Perkins___________________________Richard Anton
Martin Donovan___________________________Edward Huston
George Neumann______________________________Richard Leahy
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________________.Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto_________________________Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan_________________________Donald Foskett
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore____________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers_______________________________________Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 71	May 27, 1938	No. 26
Curtain
THE FINE gesture of the Alumni Association last week toward the class of ’38 made Seniors realize that here at last was that eventful time when Notre Dame is left behind. It marked a milestone in the lives of every one of them. The Alumni showed by their gracious action that graduation from Notre Dame does not mean disconnection with the institution, but rather there is the possibility that the ties will be made even stronger.
This issue of the Scholastic marks another milestone for some eight or ten Seniors who have seen many a deadline come and go in their years on this paper. It means to Louis DaPra, Hal Williams, Charlie Callahan, Tom Healy, Nick Lamberto, George Elmore, John Clifford, and your writer that Friday night assignments and Wednesday deadlines are to be part of their life no longer. It means the end of a lot of enjoyable work and fun. Four years on college publications may seem like a long time to some, but to the retiring men it resembles a one-hour movie that has come all too quickly to an end.
To the editor it means the end of pleasant associations with fellows who in their years on the staff have exhibited a strange kind of loyalty that almost awes one when one
thinks of it. Week in and week out staff members fulfill assignments without fail. Monotonous as they may seem after the first thrill of reporting for the paper has passed they plug away at it, conscientiously trying to do the best stint of writing they know. Their job is purely voluntary, they are not obligated to report every week, but they do, and though there may be no rewards they do without grumbling. That type of loyalty is stirring, and one thinks that there must be something to this “fourth estate” talk after all. As we close the seventy-first volume of the Scholastic we extend our sincere thanks for a job well done.
This year has been an eventful one for the Scholastic. A new high in the Bengal Bouts was reached; we believe we have presented a fine array of feature writers for your approval; and hope that we have approximated the fine standard set for us in previous years.
On the other side of the ledger we, as usual, have made our mistakes and blunders. We sincerely regret some of them; others will furnish us with laughing memories. The “Producer McHugh” incident, for example. The ’37 graduate whose picture, mistakenly, was printed, will probably be surprised to find out that he directed the closing radio program from the campus this year. The juniors have promised the real Phil McHugh to remember his face for next year’s book. To George Sauter we sheepishly offer our regrets because we continually failed to credit him with his class dance song compositions.
A feature of this year’s book that received much favorable comment, and for which we, on the staff, are not able to take a bow for, is the Literary Page, now in its second year, and Paul Locher’s column “Music Notes.” The high tye of articles on contemporary Catholic problems and the fine short stories that appeared portray more than words the literary possibilities on this campus. To Father Brou^hal our thanks and amazed wonder that he was able, every week to wade through every word of copy that appeared in the paper.
To Tom Healy our appreciation for an arduous task well done in “The Juggler Vein.”
The title “Managing Editor” was a misnomer for Louis DaPra’s position on the Scholastic this year. His title should have been “Co-editor” for, in truth, that is what he was, and invaluably so. Vince DeCoursey and Mark Mitchell, our junior editors, did yeoman’s work in each of the twenty-six issues.
As to next year, number seventy-two, we feel that Mark J. Mitchell and his assistants will profit by our mistakes and turn out an even better Scholastic, for that could easily be done and undoubtedly shall.
So its curtains on the seventy-first Scholastic. The spotlight is dimmed and we bow out, gracefully, we hope, as we step gingerly among the few ripe vegetables that have reached the stage. The juniors are backstage arranging scenery for the seventy-second act. Good luck and good-bye.—Gene Vaslett.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Marriage in the Modern Manner
By WILLIAM P. MAHONEY
Students at a midwestern university are crowding a marriage course taught by a professor of religious education. In an interview appearing a short time ago in a Chicago paper, the professor said her course was completely frank and informal. The subject of sin is left out of the discussions. Such practices as petting and extra marital relationships are not considered from the good-and-bad viewpoint, but from the basis of what happens to the parties and how it affects theii' later marriage. According to the professor, sin is only a Bogeyman that befuddles the students in their “frank” efforts to understand what makes marriage click. Bh-th control is accepted as a physical, economic necessity. So are other questionable practices accepted or rejected on the basis of what happens to the parties involved. The professor herself keynotes the whole program as follows:
“We do not need to take moralistic attitudes because morals are obviously validated by actualities — and are too often based upon codes no longer real. We try to learn what might be the cause of infidelity, or promiscuity and what it does to the persons involved.”
This is marriage in the modem manner. The questionable practices associated with the marriage problem are validated by actualities. They are either good or bad according to their place in actualities. And what are the actualities? The professor told us in so many words that the actualities are the material, temporal welfare of the parties practicing these things. The professor refuses to admit that morality enters into the picture. Yet she is calling things moral and immoral by other terms. Those things are good which don’t tend to break up the later married life of the parties. And those things are bad which do hamper them in later life. If it is shown that intimate relationships prior to marriage
have no troublesome effect upon the later marital bliss of the parties, it is perfectly safe to practice such relationships. And so for petting, birth control, and the rest. They are all right if they don’t muss things up for the future.
What this amounts to is a substitution of standards. This is the standard of materialism. Almost any practice can be justified from the materialistic viewpoint. But an analysis of this theory of marriage reveals two obvious errors, a denial of two fundamental principles: first, these practices, such as petting, extra-marital relationships, and the like, are good or bad in themselves; second, you can’t treat human conduct apart from morality. As to the first principle, it is common knowledge that there is a necessary order among all things: each thing exists for an end. This order is called the Natural Law. Briefly, it is the Creator’s plan. And anything that disturbs that order is wrong in itself. The passions, for example, exist for a certain end. And if those passions are used toward another end, namely lustful satisfaction, the practice which entails such use is wrong in itself. Whether the practice causes the users to break up or not in later married life is immaterial. If it is wrong in itself it is contrary to God’s plan and as such can never be justified in Christian ethics. It is not, as the professor would have it, a mere coincidence of material circumstances which makes these practices acceptable or not. It is God’s will as expressed in the Natural Law.
Secondly, the professor of religious education says that she does not take moralistic attitudes in advising these men and women what to do. But it is impossible to separate morality from human acts. A man about to act, by his rational nature, has a choice between two courses that are presented by his mind: he may elect to do that which conforms to the natural- law—a moral act—or he may
elect to do that which transgresses the natural law—an immoral act. If a man chooses to perform an extramarital act for the obviously illegal purpose of pleasure alone, he necessarily does a bad act, an immoral act. And no matter to what extremes the rationalizing materialist may go to justify that act, it is still an immoral act: it is the product of a moral agent. Hence a discussion of practices involving human acts without at the same time considering their morality can result in no valid conclusions. Though a certain practice has been okayed by these materialistic standards, it still has to pass the test of morality. And if it is immoral it has no place in Christian life. It is, therefore, not only futile but unfair to deal with any of the problems of marriage without considering those problems from the moral viewpoint.
It will be noted that there is one factor left out of this theory of marriage. That factor is God. Without God marriage of any kind can be justified by the standard of physical “actualities.” The Communists have found that by granting divorces as easily as marriages a more perfect mass citizenry can be attained. Perhaps this animal union is justified by that standard. But the point of it all is that the welfare of the state is not the standard to judge by. Nor is it . any more true to say that the temporal, material welfare of the individual is the standard by which to decide these problems. The only standard is God’s law.
God must be given consideration in this matter of marriage. The professor of religious education has denied God that right. He is treated as an indifferent God or wholly left out. The fact remains, however, that as Creator God is our guide in these matters. He has given us special direction in marriage problems. He recognizes, as should we, that marriage is at the basis of the God-man relationship. It is His institution for the preservation of His children.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
EASTBOUND CALIFORNIA NINE HERE TODAY AND TOMORROW TO TACKLE KLINEMEN
By Eddie Huff
Notre Dame will meet its most extraordinary opponent of the baseball year when the University of California Bears from Berkeley stop off at Cartier Field for a two-day series today and tomorrow. Under Coach Clint Evans, ’12, the Bears are hitting and fielding their path to the East on a 21-game jaunt
that will end against Dartmouth at , Hanover, N. H., in mid-June. The *
Irish will form the opposition in the ninth and tenth contests of the Bears’
Captain Borowski
Bows out against Badgers.
trip that sets some sort of record for collegiate baseball.
Before beginning their trek eastward the Golden Bears won 24 games in 28 starts on the Pacific coast, and they annexed the California Intercollegiate Baseball Association title for the fifth time in the last six seasons. US.C., St. Mary’s, U.C.L.A., and Santa Clara finished in that order behind the league leaders.
California’s four defeats resulted from splits with St. Mary’s, U.S.C., and Stanford, and a loss to the Athens independents.
The Bears will find Cartier field to their liking, for their home diamond on the campus in Berkeley is the spacious Edwards’ Field, the shortest foul line of which is in right field, measuring 335 feet. The Bears have won many close games principally because of their unusual speed in the outer gardens and their senational speed on the basepaths.
In the coast schedule of 28 games, Coach Evans’ proteges fielded for a .945 team percentage and registered .316 at the bat.
Spectators at the California postseason games will be disappointed at (Continued on Page 20)
FINISH OF FACULTY TOURNAMENT NEAR
•
For the past few weeks faculty members have been trekking the fairways of the William Burke golf course driving and putting to the best of their respective abilities in an attempt to prove just who among the Notre Dame pedagogues are the best golfers. This annual Faculty golf tournament has seen some mighty fine exhibitions of the fine points of golfiing and competition has always been of the hottest variety. This tournament of 1938 has been by no means an exception. The usual large field entered the tournament, but the end of May is approaching and the field has narrowed down to comparatively few contenders.
In Flight A the finals for the championship will be shot between Mike O’Connor and the winner of the match between Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C. and Freddy Weber. The consolation finals in this flight will be between Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., and Rev. J. Dupuis, C.S.C.
Flight B presents a fight for the championship between two members of the football coaching staff, Joe Benda and Bill Cerney. The consolation matches are still in the semifinals; one of these matches will be between Stanley Sessler and Louis Hasley, while the other will see Wesley Bender opposing the winner of the contest between Rev. A. J. Hope, C.S.C. and B. F. Finan.
The championship in Flight C is still in the semi-finals, as is the consolation of the same flight. George Keogan will play W. J. McDaniels for the right to meet the winner of the match between Rev. W. L. Cunningham, C.S.C. and the winner of the match between Rev. John Ryan, C.S.C., and James Dincolo.
The results of these matches will determine the champion in Flight C.
TENNISTS WIN TITLE; SIMON *39 CAPTAIN
By Frank Aubrey
J. Fred Simon, of Waco, Texas, was elected captain of the 1939 tennis team at the annual banquet in the Sorin Dining Hall, last Monday night. Simon has won two monograms in tennis, and played one of the first four positions most of this year. In addition, the doubles team of Simon and Gregory played the No. 2 doubles spot in many of the important matches. Simon succeeds Eddie Kilrain who is graduating this June.
Notre Dame’s ace duo, Bill Fay and Charlie Rodgers, brought the Indiana state doubles championship back to the University last week-end by beating Ed Lindsay and Johnny Lynn of De Pauw university in the finals held at Richmond. Earlier in the afternoon the same Mr. Fay had been edged out for the singles title by Lindsay, thereby dividing the spoils of the tourney equally between Notre Dame and De Pauw.
The doubles match was a gruelling four-set encounter in which Lindsay (Continued on Page 20)
Captain-Elect Simon Leads ’39 netmen.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
TENNISTS WIN, LOSE CENTRAL COLLEGIATE CARNIVAL, STATE MEET; ON LAST ROAD TRIP	LURE IRISH THINLIES AS SEASON ENDS
By Robert B. Voelker
Taking to the road with hopes of improving their won and lost percentage, the Notre Dame tennis team wound up exactly where it started by losing to a strong Michigan State outfit and winning handily from St. Louis U. Up at Lansing, State’s team under the tutelage of Coach Ball maintained their winning ways over the Irish with a six to three victory. Michigan built up a four to'two lead in the singles with Olson, Folz, and Rawitz turning in clean-cut wins and Penning edging out Charlie Rodgers 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, in three gruelling sets.
In the doubles the Irish had their backs to the wall as they needed all three to take the meet. Bill Fay and his stellar pard Rodgers drove into an early lead with a 7-5 triumph over Struck and Olson in their opening set. But from here on the Irish ran into heavy weather. The Fay - Rodgers team lost out, as did Simon-Gregory in another close one. Capt. Kilrain and Wolf defeated Foltz and Rawitz in the final match of the afternoon.
The team immediately entrained for St. Louis arriving there not in the least downed by the Michigan episode, as the Staters are known to have one of the classiest teams in the mid-west with the possible exception of Chicago (of unhappy memory.)
Notre Dame found the Saints much more to their liking and ground out an easy eight to one win. Flashing a bewildering assortment of shots the Irish chased their opponents all over the court in the singles—Fay, Gregory, Rodgers, Wolf, and Reppen-hagen smashing out straight-set victories. Rodgers in particular had an easy time of it—scoring over Bates in love sets, 6-0, 6-0. Farver was the lone St. Louis player to win a point, as he out-smarted Simon 2-6, 6-3, and 6-2.
The doubles combinations were hitting on all cylinders and it was three more points on the Irish ledger. The number one team, Fay and Rodgers, exhibited top form in cutting down Mullen and Everle in three sets, 6-4, 3-6, and 6-3. By stroking their way to two more triumphs the teams of Simon and Gregory, and Wolf and Reppenhagen foretold great things for the Irish netters in the state meet at Earlham. The win over St. Louis left the Notre Dame record for the season at four wins and five defeats—a figure which is a considerable improvement over last year, but which still may be greatly embellished when the returns from the state meet are in.
Coach John P. Nicholson’s greatest Notre Dame tracksters have filed entries in two of the best meets in the country, the Indiana State meet at Bloomington, Saturday, May 28, and the Central Collegiate track and field championships to be held at Marquette Stadium in Milwaukee, Friday after-
Captain T-Bone Mahoney Lends moral support.
BADGER NINE IS HERE FOR TWO GAMES
As part of the 1938 Commencement week-end, Notre Dame will meet Wisconsin on the Cartier Field diamond in the closing games of the season, Friday and Saturday, June 3 and 4.
Wisconsin won seven early season games before dropping a pair to Chicago, then the Badgers went out and scored another win streak, this time for six games, before losing one to Iowa. Sandwiched in with the season’s record is a tie game with a nonConference opponent that went to 12 innings without a decision.
Notre Dame and Wisconsin have been duelling in baseball since 1895. “Duelling” is the word, for the series is tied tighter than the tug-line at a fireman’s tug-o’-war. The two clubs have played 53 games within the 43-year rivalry. Both have won 26, and the remaining contest was tied when darkness intervened.
Seldom has either team been able to score two wins over the other in a single season. Wisconsin won both games in ’35 and in ’32, whereas Notre Dame must go back to the ’27 season to display a double victory.
The only sign of superiority in evidence through the long series between the two schools lies in Notre Dame’s 280 runs to Wisconsin’s 257. As is the case more often than not, Wisconsin and Notre Dame split a two-game series in 1937.
noon and night, June 10. The Irish * mentor has been appointed referee of the C.C.C. meet.
At Bloomington, Notre Dame will try to recapture the State title from Indiana, which it won last year at Notre Dame. The Irish are favorites by reason of an indoor dual victory over the Hoosiers, as well as the second place Notre Dame captured in the quadrangular meet that opened the outdoor season.
Although the state meet records are fast approaching the ceiling, seven of them appear to be in danger. Bill Clifford has run the 100 yard dash in 9.6, which equals the state meet mark.
John Francis of Notre Dame, Mel Trutt and Sam Miller of Indiana are at par in the half-mile event. Greg Rice may better the state mark of 9:17.5 set by Don Lash in the two mile last year.
The oldest mark in the books, a 13 foot 5% inch pole vault, will be tested by Dan Gibbs. Bill Faymon-ville will defend his shot put and discus throw titles. Bill threw the discus 150 feet 3 inches last year, and is favored to break this record Saturday.
Coach Tom Jones of Wisconsin University set a new mark for himself when for the fifth straight year he was first to file his entries for the thirteenth annual 3 - C meet. The Badger roster includes Chuck Fenske, greatest collegiate middle - distance runner in the country; Walt Mehl, sensational two miler; and Milt Padway,-Western Conference pole vault champ.
Notre Dame has entered 25 men to try and repeat its one-sided indoor 3-C conquest. Other entries include Earlham College, Butler University, Western State, and the Milwaukee Teachers.
Athletic Director Conrad M. Jennings of Marquette expects the strongest field in the history of the C.C.C meets. This meet precedes by a week the National Collegiate classic at Minneapolis.
John Moir, All-American basketball star will leave for Hollywood immediately after graduation. Since Mr. Moir is very taciturn about his intentions, the Scholastic, up to time of publication, was unable to learn the purpose of the projected excursion.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
I Brushing Up
By Mark J. Mitchell
This is the twenty-sixth time we have attempted to present in this column
some of the lesser known aspects of campus athletes. It is for us a valedictory.
In some ways we are glad it is just about over. The difficulties encountered in
the presentation of this information at times become a trifle annoying. And
while we are grateful for pleasant memories of the personalities we encoun-
tered, the fellows we interviewed, and the stories they had to tell, we are just going to say good-bye and drop quietly out of the picture without any undue emotional strain on anyone.
Before we leave, we should like to present one last glimpse of an Irish athlete and leader as seen through the eyes of your Introducer. This fellow is Irish by heritage as well as adoption, and like the great Gaels of old, is greatest when the going is toughest. He is Thomas Edward Sheehan of Chicago Heights, Illinois, Captain of the 1938 Notre Dame golf team.
Sheehan, a junior in
Arts and Letters, was appointed captain this spring to fill the vacancy occasioned by Gene Milbourne dropping out of school. He is present Indiana Intercollegiate champion, and has been a consistent point winner for Father Holderith’s club swingers ever since early in his sophomore year. He is also University champion, having won the title in the fall tournament of 1937. Thus the reputation he brought to Notre Dame from Bloom Township high school has been bettered considerably.
That reputation was well-earned, as attested by the fact that the Bloom high school golf team won the South Suburban Championship of the Chicago High School League all three times that Sheehan competed for it. In his senior year, he climaxed this victory by capturing the Illinois State individual title.
His summers have been spent for the most part in playing golf. He has competed in numerous tournaments throughout the Middle West, and this year hopes to qualify for the National Amateur. One of the most singular feats he ever accomplished was that of defeating Tommy Armour in an exhibition match at Lincolnshire Country Club. Sheehan had a 69 to Armour’s 71.
It is generally admitted that if any phase of the well-rounded Sheehan game could be called best, it is his wood shots. In that department he compares favorably with most professionals. This superb technical skill comple-'mented by an excellent competitive spirit makes Tommy Sheehan one of the best young golfers in the Middle West.
Since he has another year of competition at Notre Dame, it is a little too early to think about the future. Professional golf is a mighty tough way to make a living. But if Sheehan does turn to this, after he through school, his skill, experience, and ability as a “money player” should place him well up in the ranks of American golfers.
By Nick Lamberto
Dear Boss:
The assignment sheet for this week states that all columns should be in by Friday. Well, frankly, boss, here it is Wednesday and I haven’t thought of anything to write yet. The assignment sheet also emphasized the fact that all columns should be original and should depart from the usual display of senti-m e n t and the letting down of
Roman n. lamberto back hair invariably found in the farewell issue.
After four years of association with me boss, you should know by now that I will never be one of those found guilty of splashing tears in my beer. (It might spoil the taste.) I must say though that it was fun beating the deadlines week after week for four years while people on the outside were bucking the breadlines day after day.
I’m not getting sentimental (it might not look good in print) but I would like to make a few last bequests. Last will and testament: To Frank Fransioli, my title of “the cafeteria’s model Bus-boy”—don’t let it go to your head, Frank; it’s only a title); to Red McCabe, any luncheon companion I entertained during the past year—(r e m e m b e r the rules though); to John Fox, the dateless one, my social contacts in and around town and across the road—(such as they are); to the readers of this tripe, a better columnist next year.
Gee, boss, here I am over half finished and I haven’t said anything about athletes or athletics. And this is supposed to be in the sports section. So to make this a legitimate sport column I’ll mention the fact that Paul Nowak, of All-American basketball and movie fame, scored all the points for Central when they beat Lakeville 10 to 9 in his senior year of school. Also the fact that Chuck O’Reilly never went across the road in his four years here—(Lucky Boy).
One last thing—if there’s any left over from this column you’ll always find room for it in “The Week.” I’ve been furnishing Williams with my left-overs all year and he’s been taking the bows, so I figure I may as well help him out again. Have to leave now—this is where I came in.
Nick.
P.S. Hope the picture turns out good.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
GOLFERS DROP THREE CONSECUTIVE MEETS
By James G. Newland
Minnesota’s golfers paid the Notre Dame linksmen a visit Saturday, May 14, and went home that night sporting a two-point victory over the Irish. The score was 10 to 8 in favor of the Gophers.
The match was very close throughout with the visitors registering 3% to 2 % points over Notre Dame in the doubles and adding 6% to their total in the afternoon singles. Captain Tom Sheehan paced the Irish, scoring 5 of the 8 points. Copper and Getten led the invaders. They were paired in the doubles and each scored three points in the singles.
Notre Dame suffered their third and fourth defeats respectively during the past week, losing to Michigan, 17% to 9%, and then dropping a meet to Michigan State’s golfers, 11 to 7.
The Michigan match was played at Ann Arbor, a squad of six men making the trip. It was the first time in 15 years that the two squads have met on the links. The Wolverine victory was paced by Bill Barclay with a par card of 72, against Captain Tom Sheehan’s 76. Charley Bennett’s 75 was low for Notre Dame.
In the doubles both teams played on comparatively even terms, the score being tied at 4% to 4%. However, in the singles the Wolverines played heads up golf to win easily, scoring 13 points to Notre Dame’s 5.
Last Saturday the Irish were guests of the Michigan State swingers. Although they played better golf as a whole, their losing jinx tagged right along, forcing them to come home on the short end of a 11 to 7 score.
Nelson of Michigan State led his team with a 72 with McCabe of N.D. registering a 75. Following the doubles, which saw both teams score 3 points, Michigan State scored two shut outs to win the singles.
ARBOIT AWARD
(Continued from Page 19)
Second place this year went to Angelo “Hank” Luisetti, the “wonder man” of Stanford’s basketball team. Third place went to Dominic Principe, grid iron and diamond star of Fordham. Last year’s first prize winner was the sensational Kansas miler, Archie San Roman.
Arboit will receive his award at the annual convention of the Italian-American Civic League, held at Kansas City from July 1 to 4.
IRISH THINLIES OVERWHELM MARQUETTE 96-35; CAPTURE TWELVE FIRSTS, SIX RECORDS
By Bill Donnelly
Scrap-iron “Coach-for-a-day” Young, taking the place of Coach John P. Nicholson who had been selected as the honorary referee of the State High School track meet, led the Notre Dame track team up to Milwaukee last Saturday for a clash with Marquette University, and returned with a coaching aver-
4
Dan Gibbs
Vaulted high and far.
NAME GRIDDERS FOR SPRING AWARDS
Announcement was made this week of the Frank E. Hering Medal Awards to football men for proficiency in Spring Practice.
Mario Tonelli was judged the best fullback in taking care of ends. Steve Sitko got the award for quarterbacks in blocking the secondary defense. In forward passing, Sweeney Tuck was declared most proficient.
Joe DeFranco showed the most ability in defensive charging among the linemen. Captain Jim McGoldrick was the fastest at pulling out among the guards. Harry Stevenson was the best punter out there.
Among the centers, John McIntyre stood out in passing. Of the ends, John Kelly was the most proficient at boxing tackles. And Halfback Lou Zontini was the best man in his position at handling ends.
The best forward pass receiver was George Rassas. Paul Kell showed the most stuff defensively of the tackles. The player showing the greatest improvement was John Sullivan.
Object of much favorable comment these days is the new Rockne Memorial, with its spacious swimming pool as old-time alumni return for visits.
age of 1,000 and an overwhelming victory of 96-35. The Notre Dame balance and man power was too much for Marquette,’and the Irish won 12 of the 15 events, tied for first in another, and broke six meet records.
Marquette’s only victories went to Herman “Killer” Carr in the 440, an upset win over Curt Hester and Ed Bernard in the 880, and a tie in the pole vault at 13 feet with Dan Gibbs and John Dean clearing the bar for the Irish at that height. Four Notre Dame athletes scored double victories, —Bill Clifford with new records of :9.8 in the hundred and :21.6 in the 220; Bill Faymonville with a new record of 143 feet in the discus and a victory in the shot put; Ted Leonas with a victory over world-record holder Ed Burke in the high jump and another win in the broad jump; and Dave Reidy who broke Don Elser’s meet record of :23.5 by .2 of a second in the low hurdles and also won the high hurdles.
John Franklin, after tying with Greg Rice to set a new record of 4:22 in the mile, anchored the mile relay team in which his strategy of saving himself for a terrific home stretch sprint left Carr, the favored Marquette anchor man, flat-footed. Gene Gormley ran a 9:43 two-mile to break the meet record in that event by six seconds.
The Irish swept both hurdle races with Don Morgan and John Else second and third respectively in each race, and, with Steve Szumachowski and Greg Rice to help Gormley along, Notre Dame swept the two mile. In four other events, John Francis and Greg Rice in the mile, Hal Langton and Tom Perry in the javelin, Bill Faymonville and Joe Beinor in the shot put, and Ted Leonas and Dan Gibbs in the broad jump, kept Marquette from getting anything better than third places.
FACULTY GOLF
(Continued from Page H)
In the consolation group Herbert Bott will meet in the semi-finals the winner of the Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C. - Ernie Howard match. The other half of the semi-finals will find Chet Grant opposing the victor in the Benjamin DuBois - Bob Cahill match. Then the finals of this consolation group will be run off.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Gifford
THIS COACHING BUSINESS
Outside of operating a pneumatic drill on a WPA paving project, coaching a major college athletic team is the shakiest occupation a man can possibly choose for his life work these days. Granted we knew enough about a certain sport to coach, we would still prefer the WPA shakes; for there is always the much-maligned, but dependable, shovel to lean on. Take the average coach on the other hand: he has nothing but the alumni, synthetic or authentic, whose whims and fancies are about as predictable as Indiana weather, to fall back on for support when things begin to wobble. Then he takes a look at the fan mail—always the pulse to feel under adverse conditions — for repercussions abroad. Football
JOHN F. CLIFFORD
coaches have a select field in alumni correspondence and enjoy more or less of a monopoly along this line. But with the rise of basketball and track teams in national prominence, and baseball on the upgrade, coaches of all species have found that their sports are not altogether forgotten when the student becomes a member of the Alumni. Since the time
is not far distant when we enter into the rights and obligations of an alumnus, we thing it legitimate to indulge in a few pertinent observations.
V
When we matriculated at Notre Dame ’way back in 1934 Elmer Layden was whipping his first Irish football squad into some semblance of a fighting unit; George Keogan was looking for some one besides Marty Peters to fill the immense shoes of All-American Ed “Moose” Krause; John Nicholson has his hands filled trying to make a track team out of Don Elser, Vince Murphy and George Meagher; and Jake Kline, lost in a welter of green jerseys on Cartier Field, was not even thinking about baseball—having all he could do trying to restrain a bunch of Freshman colts, like McCormick, McCarthy, Gleason and Sweeney, from over-running their varsity brethren. After watching these four teams perform in practice and in competition we made a few discoveries.
V
The most apparent revelation was the fact that football and basketball squads are machines that have to be oiled, tuned up and tested in every detail before they run properly. They have no feelings; they can show no fatigue; they must run with piston-like precision always, under all conditions. We further found, paradoxically enough, that the quarterback is supposed to be the martinet who can whip the team to a high pitch and a human sedative who can quiet a team’s nerves when it is pressing. He has to consider the down, distance, time, wind, sun, type of opposing offense and defense, in the space of thirty seconds and call the play with such a tone of finality that his mates are confident that he has called the correct play. And yet he is running a machine.
V
Track and baseball teams, however, are composed of temperamental organisms—humans. These athletes occasionally find themselves in the doldrums— or, to us the vernacular, slumps. When a batter slumps or when a miler finds himself getting no better than an also-ran mention after months of hard, gruelling training, the coach then must be more than a developer of physical condition: he must be a psychologist, a counselor—sometimes even a philosopher. He must analyze the athlete’s temperament as well as his physical condition. One may write volumes on Knute Rockne, Master Strategist and Builder of Men. But Rock’s success can all be boiled down into one thing—his keen knowledge of men, their feelings and their temperaments. No coach has achieved the distinction of being called a second Rockne. And no one will, until he has the Rockne—understanding of men.
V
See you at the Army game. . . .
TRACK TEAM DEFEATS MICHIGAN STATE
By John White
Rain and winds combined, Saturday before last, to do damage to one of the best track meets of the present season here at Notre Dame, between the Spartans from Michigan State and the Nickmen.
For three meet records, an all-time Notre Dame record, and a field record were disallowed, and the pole vault, high jump, and broad jump were forced into the Gymnasium.
But despite the harrowing atmosphere, the Irish Thinlies came through to register an 851-3 to 45 2-3 victory, and maintain an immaculate series of dual encounters. Besides, the hosts attained two new marks in the pole vault and high jump. Dan Gibbs crossed the bar at 13 feet 3 inches to top the former record, held by McAtee and Gibbs; and Sophomore Ted Leonas was the other smasher, flipping over, in the high jump, at 6 feet 2% inches, exactly 1% inches above the old accomplishment of Notre Dame’s Darling back in 1932.
Outdoors, Harvey Woodstra, visiting star, and high-point man for the afternoon, took the high hurdles in 14.4 to shatter an old mark, and the low hurdles in 23.9 to tie another. But the wind was very strong, strong . enough, in fact, to convince the judges that the Spartan would not have done quite as well without its impelling assistance. Other than these two wins, the men from East Lansing captured one more first, the work of Greer in the 100 yard dash.
The remainder of the 15 events went to the Irish. Beinor heaved the shot 45 feet 11 inches, just ahead of Faymonville, who threw the discus 138 feet 9% inches for a first prize. Johnny Francis broke the tape after a mile, that lasted 4 minutes 26.2 seconds. At the head of the 440 dashers was Pete Sheehan, who finished in 52.1 seconds. Hester took the 880 in two minutes 1.4 seconds; Clifford did 21.1 to pace the 220 yard dash. Rice ended before team-mate Szuma-chowski to win the two mile, while Perry led the javelin throws, and Gibbs won the broad jump. In the mile relay, it was Notre Dame in three minutes 28.4 seconds.
SCHROEDER HEAD COACH
Walt Schroeder, member of the 1936 football squad, at present completing his studies here, has been appointed head football coach of a West Virginia high school. Ken Rowe, ’38, is to accompany him and take over the position of basketball coach.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
KLINEMEN SPLIT PAIR WITH WOLVERINES
By Clarence T. Sheehan
Last Friday at Ann Arbor the University of Michigan and the University of Notre Dame met on the diamond for the first time in 14 years. As far as the Irish were concerned there was no cause for rejoicing as they were trimmed, 6-0. Saturday, however, the Klinemen returned to Cartier Field where they pushed across a run in the tenth inning to give them a 3-2 victory.
At Michigan Herman Fishman, ace Wolverine southpaw, wielded the whitewash brush on the Irish, while his mates were scoring eight runs off the combined offerings of Mandjiak and Ellis. In this encounter the Irish, who had been rained out at Northwestern three days previously, showed signs of their forced idleness. They gathered nine hits but could not come through when the bags were occupied.
Saturday’s game was one of the best contests staged here this season. Captain Borowski came to bat in the tenth with Nardone, who had doubled and advanced on Corcoran’s sacrifice, on third. This set-up was identical with that of the eighth inning when Chuck drove the ball to deep center, Nardone scoring after the catch with the tying run. This time Borowski hoisted the apple into deep left and Nardone scored standing up. Thus Norv Hunthausen, soph ace, turned in his third victory in four starts.
The first Irish run was unearned. Borowski, first man up in the Irish half of the fourth, walked; Arboit was safe on an error; Smith then tightened up and fanned Doyle; Braddock was hit by a pitched ball, both runners advancing; Sullivan worked the count down to three and two and walked, Borowski scoring. The Irish tallied again in the eighth when Borowski’s long fly scored Nardone who had singled, advanced to second on an error and reached third on Corcoran’s sacrifice. The winning run was scored in the tenth by Nardone in the same fashion. Smith was not in danger in any other inning except the ninth when Braddock was on third and Kovzelove on second. Hunthausen grounded to Greenberg who threw to Smith at first catching Hunthausen by a step.
The initial Michigan run was also unearned. Braddock threw wild to first and Brewer who was on second romped home. In the fifth Peckin-paugh singled and scored on Kremer’s triple over Borowski’s head. Hunthausen coasted through until the ninth when Peckinpaugh singled to
(Continued on Page 20)
ENNIO ARBOIT HONORED BY CIVIC AWARD FOR OUTSTANDING ITALIAN-AMERICAN ATHLETE
By Donald Foskett
The National Italian-American Civic League has definitely proved that its members have a keen eye for real worth when it comes to judging athletic ability; for that organization, through its executive vice-president, Dr. D. M. Nigro, announced last week the selection of Ennio Arboit, Italian by birth and
WALSH'S GENTLEMEN IN TRACK MEET
The greatest galaxy of athletic stars ever seen on one track competed in the interhall running circus last Saturday afternoon and the greatest of them all were “the Gentlemen of Walsh.”
On that rainy Saturday out of their yellow brick stronghold came the “Gentlemen” determined to do or die for dear old Walsh. Few realized that most of them were to die before they were to do. Over to Cartier Field marched Moir, Nowak, Puplis, McCormick, Brewster, O’Reilly, Vas-lett, Sweeney, McCarty and their portly coach “The Deacon” known to professors as Anton.
In the dashes the four little men, McCormick, O’Reilly, Vaslett, and Puplis tried valiantly but nights at Matt’s and mornings in bed took their toll and McCormick and O’Reilly, the only two of the four to reach the finals were content with last and next to last in a fast race won by Sheils.
In the mile run, Walsh’s pride and joy, John Moir, stepped out with the best of them. Running a bit behind, under instructions from Coach Anton, Moir looked good for the first three laps. On the bell lap the “Deacon” told him to let go and John did for about 100 yards. Then in the backstretch the amazed spectators watched as Moir faltered. He staggered, went on, faltered, then gave up the fight as well as everything else. Another of Walsh’s hopes lay stretched out on the greensward of Cartier Field. Little did spectators know that the same figure was to remain stretched out in the same spot for a good half hour while fellow Walshers did battle against the Freshman ringers. Olbries of Brownson was victor in that historic mile battle, but Moir wasn’t to know that, until someone down in the locker room carried him into a shower.
The meet went on. These freshmen seemed to have something on the ball regardless of reports to the contrary, men of Walsh fell by the wayside one by one. McCormick persevered to garner a third in the broad jump, and Pat McCarty took a medal by
(Continued on Page 21)
Fighting Irish by adoption, as the greatest all-around Italian-American athlete for the year 1937-38. The selection will undoubtedly be the occasion of Arboit’s introduction to a good many sports lovers, but to those
Ennio Arboit Nationally honored.
who know him best, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, both real and synthetic, the announcement comes as a national recognition of what the Irish have been taking for granted . for three years.
Arboit came here in the fall of 1934 from Oglesby, Illinois. His previous athletic experience had been gained, however, chiefly in the neighboring town of Peru, where he starred in football and baseball at St. Bede’s Academy. There he picked up the nickname “Speed,” although all the football he played in those days was played at a guard position; and he was good enough to get allstate mention. He was, incidentally, a three-sport captain, leading the . basketball five, in addition to the football and baseball teams.
Once he arrived _at Notre Dame Arboit wasted no time in getting right to work as a right halfback on the Irish squad, where he averaged four yards on every trip through the line last season. But his football ability, great though it is, has undoubtedly been overshadowed by his baseball prowess. From the very first season here, when he won seven and lost but one as a hurler, “Speed” has starred for Jake Kline. Last year he captained the nine. This year, on account of his ability to get a hit just about when and where he wants to, he has been shifted to right field; the last we heard he was hitting .571 and going strong.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MURPHY WINS POST OF GRAND KNIGHT
After the final tabulation of one of the largest number of votes ever cast in an election of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, the results showed a sweeping victory for John J. Murphy, the newly-elected Grand Knight. The other officers elected were Jas. J. Bernard, deputy grand knight; James J. Eaaf, chancellor; Edward C. Jacobs, recorder; Fred W. Honerkamp, treasurer; Adolph J. Kamm, warden; Thomas J. Hammond, advocate; Ray J. Schnorr, inside guard; and John W. Patterson, outside guard.
The final issue of the Santa Maria for the schoolyear made its appearance on May 19. This number is the first step in the re-establishment of the graduation issue, which has been neglected for several years. The editorial staff deserves praise for the fine work performed in the publishing of this issue. The list of guest contributors contained many notables as Martin Carmody, supreme grand knight; Fred Allen, Stephen Vincent Benet, Hugh A. O’Donnell, Prof. Norbert Engels, Rev. Norbert Hoff, Joseph Petritz, and Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., council chaplain.
However, in this gay issue which typifies the general council spirit in seeking new heights is one sad note. That is the farewell letter of District Deputy Eli M. Abraham, for Eli will not be with the Knights next year. Because of many other duties which he must perform he has been forced to resign as financial secretary of the Council. The Council will miss Eli’s driving force and the members will long remember his pleasing personality that welcomed their dues.
Football Stickers
Advance notice for John Q. Fan that the Irishmen of Notre Dame are girding themselves for the fall wars was served this-week as the athletic ticket office issued the football stickers for the 1938 season. Monday and Tuesday saw a continuous stream of students storming the doors of Herb Jones’ office in search of the much-desired stickers, which will advertise the Fighting Irish from Main to Oregon during the coming summer months.
The design this year is an extremely attractive one, with a blue and gold gridster galloping across the front of a big green shamrock on which is printed the 1938 schedule. Below the player is the usual blue and gold “Notre Dame.”
Handball Champ
Judging from this year’s activities, those much-talked-of handball courts in the new Rockne Memorial will come in for plenty of use as soon as they are finished. As a matter of fact one can momentarily shut his eyes and see before him, some day soon, a riot scene similar to that which the Buffalo Club was anticipating at their first skating party in the local rollerdrome. For come spring or summer, sun or magnolia blossoms, these devotees of the hardwood courts seem not only to forget that the time has come for all young men to wander among the daffodils and wax amorous.
A few issues ago we announced that the winter sports tournament was nearing its end; that end although it has not yet been reached, is coming up fast. For over in the handball courts of the gym there was staged a mighty battle last week that will live for some time to come in the annals of Irish handball. Sal Trentacoste, the Sorin strong boy took over Bill Metrailer, the Howard white hope in a gruelling contest that decided once and for all the singles championship of the University.
CALIFORNIA HERE
(Continued from Page 14)
the absence of co-Captain Sam Chapman, All-American football back, who has been playing Centerfield for Connie Mack’s Philadelphia Athletics during the past week. Chapman, who hit at a .368 rate, drove in 35 runs, and stole 18 bases, has been stamped by the A’s manager as “... my centerfielder to stay.”
The Bears will lineup with Stan McCaffrey at first base, Mel Dueza-bou, the best sophomore on the coast, the second; the light hitting Cliff Perry at third, and veteran Tony Firpo at third base. Duezabou and Firpp clubbed .370 at the plate and drove in nearly 50 runs between them in the coast schedule. Ray Winterbottom and Captain Dave McNeil will round out the outfield with Ernie Devaurs.
Notre Dame batsmen will face a trio of righthanded pitchers who limited the opposition to an earned-run average of 1.3 per nine innings in a 28 game schedule. Bill Priest, hurling mainstay, won ten and lost two while compiling 58 strikeouts in 128 innings. Audie Daugherty and Bill Piper are Priest’s chief partners of effective pitching, although Captain McNeil is capable of serving southpaw slants when Coach Evans demands the services of a lefthander.
Besides giving Chapman to the major leagues, Coach Clint Evans developed Taylor Douthit, who spent canp campaigns as a regular with the St. Louis Cardinals.
STATE TENNIS MEET
(Continued from Page 14)
and Lynn jumped into an early 4-1 lead in the opening set, but were forced to yield to the brilliant play of Rodgers and Fay who rallied to win, 9-7. The strenuous grind of tournament play began to tell on the Irish in the next set and the De Pauw stars eked out a 10-8 win. Then with deadly accuracy at the net and throughout the game Rodgers and Fay stubbornly fought off the tough De Pauw gamesters and annexed the final two sets and the championship. The scores were 917, 8-10, 6-4, and 6-4. The match took nearly three hours to play.
Bill and Charlie, after drawing a bye in the first round, had fought their way through increasingly stiff matches to reach the finals. In the quarter finals they trounced the highly seeded team of Morgan and Gordon of De Pauw in a close and sizzling match. Then the semi-finals brought them across the net from Tudhill and Scott of Indiana whom they proceeded to outplay, outfight, and outshine to gain a ticket to the promised land.
Bill Fay, after brilliant play throughout the early rounds in the singles during which he established himself as the favorite, was out-stroked by Ed Lindsay of De Pauw in the finals and lost 5-7, 6-1, 4-6, 6-8. Altogether, stamina told as Lindsay failed to equal Fay’s brilliance and variety of strokes. During the day Fay was forced to play 12 or 13 sets of tennis—a strain which took its toll on him more than it did on the chunky, sturdily-built Lindsay.
Lindsay’s subrning sideline drives after drawing Fay to the net won several important points for the De Pauw boy, and his baffling, unerring ground game was balking Fay through its sheer monotony rather than its variety. Fay, while serving his usual rattling overhands, and driving with his customary “Wheaties” punch, could not match the steadiness of Lindsay’s game, and he lost the final set with hardly a leg under him aftei’ the two-hour duel.
MICHIGAN GAMES
(Continued from Page 19)
center with first and second occupied. Smith, the hurler, had Borowski’s perfect throw beaten but Kovzelove, Irish backstop, blocked the plate so neatly that he held the runner off until the ball was in his mitt.
Smith and Hunthausen pitched great ball. The latter was very effective in the last five innings when he granted but one hit as compared with seven he allowed before then. Smith gave up but six hits. Peckinpaugh, of the visitors, and Nardone led the hitters with three each.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
"VISITOR" LAUDS N. D. FOR ABELL AWARD
•
The University of Notre Dame has judgment and the high standard of its appreciation in awarding the Lae-tare medal, which it annually bestows upon a member of the Catholic laity on Laetare Sunday. The honored citizen this year is Dr. Irvin Abell, of Louisville, Kentucky, long recognized as the leading surgeon of that city, and nationally known as a physician of great skill.
Panegyrics are usually reserved until the one who is praised has no longer ears to hear. In many cases this is the better way, for not all can bear the delights of applause. But Dr. Abell’s evaluations have been consistently right from early youth. Vain conceits and false pride have not taken hold of him. Steadily he has advanced in the knowledge of the science of medicine, in the skill of modern surgery, and in the consecrated service of his brothers in Christ, touching with the magic of his Christian charity the curative psychology to sick minds and applying actively each day the art of the lay apostle as he inspired souls. With a character structure sustained on moral firmness, his personality has
The John Marshall
LAW SCHOOL FOUNDED 1899
AN ACCREDITED LAW SCHOOL TEXT and CASE METHOD
•
For Catalog, recommended list of pre-lego I subjects, and booklet, "Study of Law and Proper Preparation* * address: Edward T. Lee Dean
COURSES (40 weeks per year) AFTERNOON 3% years. 5 days... 4:30-6:30
EVENING-4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20 ,
POST-GRADUATE 1 year..twice a week Practice courses exclusively .(Evenings)
Two years' college work required for entrance. Courses lead to degrees.
New classes form in Sept, and Feb.
315 Plymouth Ct., Chicago, III.
ENRICHES THE FLAVOR
OF ANY TOBACCO
HONEY IN THE BOWL (Yellow)
Honey in Yello-Bole improves all tobaccos. You spend at least $20 for tobacco in a year—$1 spent on Yello-Bole makes that $20 worth of tobacco taste twice as good 1 Get yours.
YELLO-BOLE
been enriched by a gentleness and an understanding that has won universal respect and the love of thousands of people to whom he has ministered.
To Dr. Irvin Abell, president-elect of the American Medical Association, recipient of the Notre Dame Laetare Medal, distinguished southern gentleman, great surgeon who has for forty years healed his suffering neighbor; to this man of pure and generous heart, who has thought not of the dollar when confronted by the poor, to this loyal husband, devoted father, patriotic citizen, and strong soldier of Jesus Christ, our sincerest congratulations.—Our Sunday Visitor.
WALSH GENTLEMEN
(Continued from Page 19)
virtue of second place in the discus. But the remaining men? Well nights at Matt’s and mornings in bed. . . .
But were the “Gentlemen” out? Not by a long shot. The mile relay came and Walsh decided to enter a team. Three men were found, but the fourth who was supposed to run had succumbed to the fair wiles of a lassie from across the lake and had gone downtown, a little cramped in the legs. The “Deacon,” determined to save Walsh’s fair name, dashed frantically around looking for another man to make a relay team. He
TOBIN says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
spied a familiar figure in street clothes. It was Moir, now fully recovered from his grueling mile run. Sure he’d run, what could he lose, he’d lost it all anyway, or so he thought. So he ran and lost some more but Walsh took third in the relay. What matter that only three teams were entered, Walsh took third.
Back to Walsh Hall trouped the “Gentlemen” a little downhearted, a little stiff, but quite convinced that Nick had lost some good men when he didn’t call them out for his team.
EDITORS ANNOUNCED (Continued from Page i)
tion in campus popularity. However, Digby’s record as a frequent Scrip contributor as well as his experience as assistant sports editor of this year’s Scholastic insure a campus literary quarterly of steadily mounting popularity.
The prizes awarded for the best contributions were given to Chester Soleta, C.S.C., in poetry and William Woerner in prose.
in planning your career
The science of the "new dentistry" is still in its infancy. It is a most promising field tor constructive thought and work. It calls for the best minds interested in health service careers.
Because of advancing standards, enrollment in Dental Schools in the United States has been reduced during the past thirteen years. Today there is one practicing dentist to approximately each 2,400 of population.
Marquette University Dental School is given the highest rating—A—by the Dental Educational Council of America. Its diplomas to graduates are recognized in all states. The close relationship of dental-medical study proves an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, organic chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MEMORIAL DAY SERVICES (Continued from Page 6)
James Quinn, grand knight; the Monogram Club, Paul Nowak, president; and the S.A.C., Dan Donovan, president, heading the student body.
At' the community cemetery, the graves of fourteen priests and brothers, members of the Notre Dame G. A. R. Post, will be decorated by stu-
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our ozvn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. . Phone 4-8211
move: Merely phone our agent to call. No extra charge for delivery in all cities and principal towns. No waiting around, no dickering. And you can send "Collect,” if you’re pressed for cash.
Handy? Rath-er/ And fast as well as convenient. When you return to college, go summering, or travel anywhere, shipby the same dependable, helpful route. Special tags and labels —by far the best to use — yours free for the asking. When you phone, tell our agent the exact time to call and you’ll enjoy your train trip immensely.
506 W. South St., South Bend, Ind. ’Phone 3-6121
RESS
RAILW
AGENCY
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
dents from Holy Cross Seminary. Reverend Alan Heiser, C.S.C., chaplain 489th Field Artillery, will lead the prayers fors the nation’s dead. A squad from Company D will fire a salute over the graves whence the bugler will sound “Taps.”
The Notre Dame band will play the “Star Spangled Banner” at the Administration Building while the colors are being furled and returned. At noon the flag on the main flag pole will be raised from half-mast to the peak to fly the remainder of the day as a symbol that the nation, having honored its dead, still lives.
Engineers Elect Duffy
Engineers, not having the policial finesse of AB’s and Commerce men, had only one party up for election at the meeting last week. The following officers were elected unanimously by a quorum vote: President Don Duffey; Vice-president, Gene Kiefer; Secretary, John Gallagher; Treasurer, Jack Duffy; and Junior Secretary, Jack Wilson.
At the last meeting of the year Mr. G. C. Williams, Consulting Engineer of the American Cutting Alloys, Inc., discussed some of the problems encountered in commercial operations.
SERVERS ELECT KOHN PRESIDENT
•
“John Kohn, junior from New York City, president of the Server’s Club.” Such was the announcement that emanated from the regions of the church sacristy last Monday night. Interest in the elections brought the largest attendance of the year. Approximately 85 members cast their ballot. Close behind Kohn in his race for the presidency was Richard Fallon, a sophomore.
Other officers elected at the meeting were Paul Morrison, vice-president, and Robert Marbach, secretary. These officers will assume in the next semester the positions now held by Larry Hess, president, John Toomey, vice-president, and Julius Kristan, secretary.
Following a short speech of acceptance by Kohn, announcements were made concerning the annual club banquet held last night in the Corby dining hall. The meeting came to a close with the passing around of cigarettes by Brother Boniface, C.S.C.
Presiding over the banquet last night was Larry Hess, president and toastmaster. Speakers introduced by him included Father O’Donnell, honorary president of the club, Father Wenninger, and Father Thomas Burke. The latter stole the spotlight with his comical renditions of passages from “Hamlet” and “Macbeth.” Other guests of the club at the banquet were Father Young, Father McNamara, Dan Hanley, and Art Davidson.
EMPLOYMENT
The Encyclopedia Brittanica announces that they are in search of aggressive college men with forceful personalities. The positions are open only to next year’s seniors or present post-graduate students.
NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL
Established 1891
Registration Now Open for 1938-39
Morning Course Afternoon and Evening Courses Three Years	Four Years
All courses lead to degree of LL.B.
THE DWIGHT METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
Committed to the policy of small classes so that each student may receive adequate personal attention and instruction.
For further information address:
Registrar, NEW YORK LAW School 63 Park Row, New York, N. Y., or telephone, BEekman 3-2552
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
MUSIC NOTES (Continued from Page 9)
course in invaluable in rounding out a cultural education.
* * >:=
The close of the scholastic year concludes this column and the undergraduate career of its conductor. It has been a distinct pleasure to have had this opportunity of pleasant association with the staff of the Music Department at Notre Dame, and with the sponsors of the musical organizations in South Bend, as well as the Faculty Adviser and managing editors of the Scholastic.
To William B. Mooney, a fine pianist, we offer every good wish in his editing of “Music Notes” for the next year. We may express the hope that arrangements will be made to include other critical columns on literature, painting, and the theatre in future years as regular weekly features.
GUN DISPLAY
(Continued from Page 8)
military gun of approximately 56 calibre with a swivel rammer.
Allen and Wheelock, who made pistols used during the Civil War, are represented by a six-shot percussion revolving barrel pistol. This is one of the “pepper box” models used by river boatmen and amblers. The bar hammer is marked, “Patented, April 18, 1845.”
H. S. North, Middletown, Conn., who was one of the most famous of the early American pistol makers, is represented by a six-shot “cap and ball” percussion revolver of approximately 36 calibre. This gun was patented in the 1850’s. Mr. North’s pistols today are considered choice collector’s items and are in great demand.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—♦—
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
LENOHREES
Optometrists
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Another percussion cap pistol has engraved on the lockplate the words, “H. Aston, Middn, Conn., 1850.” It is approximately a 59 calibre gun and has a swivel rammer. Another flint pistol with the imprint, “A. Water, Milbury, MS, 1837,” is a 60 calibre gun and also bears the initials “S.L.-S.P.”
Colonel le Mat of Paris is represented by a percussion cap revolver. This gun has a nine-shot revolving cylinder and was called the “grape shot” revolver because of the under barrel loaded with shot.
An 1856 U.S. Springfield pistolcarbine contains a magazine for paper cap roll. This was used by cavalry or dragoon soldiers.
THE whole college is talking about them
—the low fares, we mean! And no wonder, with the back-home movement almost ready to begin! You can travel the Greyhound way—in Super-Coach comfort at only 1/3 the cost of driving, at far less than by other public transportation. See your Greyhound agent today—or tomorrow anyway—about schedules and savings for your trip home!
UNION BUS DEPOT
133 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone: 3-8283 South Bend, Indiana
Rev. Fr. John Kelley, Campus Agent St. Vincent De Paul Society
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Sample One-Way Fares
New York.____$12.25
Chicago...... 1.25
Boston_______ 13.75 Cleveland____ 4.15 Washington.__11.40
Pittsburgh___ 6.15
Buffalo______ 7.15
Cincinnati... 4.50 St. Louis.... 4.60 Philadelphia.. 11.65
brand
Chesterfield
Grace Moore Andre Kostelanetz Paul Whiteman Deems Taylor Paul Douglas
‘‘Chesterfield’s my brand because they give me more pleasure than any cigarette I ever smoked—bar none.
More smokers every day find a new brand of smoking pleasure in Chesterfield’s refreshing mildness and better taste.
It’s because Chesterfields are made of mild ripe tobaccos and pure cigarette paper—the finest ingredients a cigarette can have.
\feekly Radio Features of the PLEASURE cigarette
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.