r rnis book is not to be lakaa frea the Library
The Notre Dame
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
APRIL 27 Nineteen Thirty-four
Tune in on Ted Fio-Rito’s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every "Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notro Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus
FOUNDED 186 5
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 191". authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns......................Editor-in-Chief
Mitchell C. Tackley...................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors	Departmental Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD..EDWARD	J. O’BRIEN THOMAS J. STRITCH.................... The	Week
RICHARD B. TOBIN.......JOHN	E. CONLEY JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.............  College	Parade
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.MICHAEL	F. WIEDL RICHARD P. PREZEBEL................    stag	Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE ED J. VAN HUISSELING NICHOLAS J. CONNOR....
.........Sports Editors
HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER...............JAMES	A. WALDRON
JOHN L. GLANZNER GERARD SCHAEFER
...........JOSEPH	P. PRENDERGAST
.................JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY................Graduate	Manager
News Staff THOMAS G. PROCTOR JOSEPH A. BUCCI ROY O. SHOLZ.....................  ROBERT	F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.................JOHN	W. WALKER
GEORGE R. LEYES.................... LOUIS	H. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY..-..............    VINCENT	A. GORMAN
CLIFFORD F. BROWN—................IRWIN	L. GOLDMAN
CHARLES A. LANDMESSER................JOHN	J. MORAN
•	J. DICKSON MURPHY
VOLUME LXVII
April 27, 1934
No. 23
NOTES ON THE NEW NOTRE DAME
The genius directing the campus political campaigns of the past two weeks left little undone in the matter of placing party placards. One industrious group sent a member treking over Siberia (apparently) to wire a poster to the top of the Commerce Building globe. Regarded as symbolism, that gesture was not without merit. But the taste involved in the procedure was questionable.
Even more out of line with ordinary good taste and sound judgment was the practice subscribed to by the army of junior class politicians who plastered their political platitudes and the names of their champions on every available vantage point in the University Dining Halls. These tireless vote-seekers crowned their successful efforts at defacement with a brilliant stroke that pasted the cardboard battle flags on the splendid woodwork above the entrances to the East and West Halls.
The most regrettable by-product of the whole series of mistakes is the impression that the student body itself is not alert enough, nor interested enough, nor possessed of a sound enough sense of values to have checked such a puerile outbreak before it reached public light. Surely not all the members of any undergraduate class—even the politics-conscious class of ’35—are so convinced of the importance of school-boy vote-seeking as not to realize that there are limits beyond which the campaign antics should not go. Those limits are dictated by an ordinary sense of decorum and good taste, and it is unbelievable that the campus is universally wanting in those possessions.
That the establishment of a community pride should have to be effected by legislation of some sort is an unfortunate commentary on the attitude and the spirit of the student body. But if it can be accomplished in no other way, certainly definite regulations against the politicians and their advertising had best be enacted. If controlling action of some nature is not taken, the campus will probably wake up one morning to discover that an aspirant to a dance chairmanship has blazoned the name of his chosen figurehead across the dome, or flown it, pennantwise, from the steeple of the church.
It may be objected that this is a tempest in a teapot;
that the placarding of the Dining Halls was only a minor wrong at worst. Considered merely as an action in itself, probably that appraisal would be justifiable. But the recent political foolishness is only one expression of a campus spirit that is more than a minor wrong. The sense of community pride seems to have been lost hereabout. None of the instictive resentment against campus abuses that used to be a mark of the majority of the student body ever flares up any more. The ruining of the campus lawns is taken as a joke, when it isn’t a joke at all. The “Please” signs, erected along the edges of the grass for the benefit of persons who apparently cannot think for themselves, are destroyed, and ever widening paths are tracked across the lawns.
The change in student spirit is a subtle one, and one that leaves observers, including many who have seen times and attitudes here that were more healthy and more consistent with Notre Dame, groping futilely for an explanation. To assign a cause, or to offer an explanation for this change, is to attempt what is at present impossible. But it is not impossible to note results of the change. Disinterest is the order of the day. Membership in the student body apparently means very little now, where formerly it was a source of quiet pride. The generally accepted measuring stick is one of self-interest. The old time generosity that was genuinely inclusive of honesty and sacrifice and a real desire to maintain Notre Dame and her traditions, and that was, of all attributes, probably the most distinguishing possession of the student body, is gone. The great majority of the present campus population are living and thinking and working strictly as individuals, for individual ends only, and on the selfish assumption that they have no duties beyond their own activities.
Nor is it impossible to say that through its changing spirit the student body has hurt Notre Dame. By which is meant, that this is not nearly so good a place to live in as it was a student-generation ago. And until the present current of student spirit is diverted back to the old channel of idealism and pride in Notre Dame, and until a general resumption of responsibility to Notre Dame as a society and an institution is effected, it appears as if the damage will go on.	’•
April 27, 1 9 3 4
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Leoline Lambs
One of our very best scouts has been keeping an eye on Lyons again, and he informs us that there’s a new spirit in the hall. He was making his rounds the other evening when he saw a group engaged in a curious activity. On closer examination he discovered one youth, his head against a tree, counting "One, two,. three, four, five,” etc., while a dozen more scampered off, hiding behind bushes and tilings. Then, to his astonished ears came the cry, "One-two-three for Joe,” and off a couple of sophomores dashed to the mothertree, which was home. They were playing Hide-and-Seek!
Later they went into Red Lantern, and still later a game whose name our man didn’t know, it had been so long since he saw it played. There was a tinge of regret in his voice when he told us that he saw no jack-stones, nor any sign of the O’Leary game.
Not since we engaged in a mild game of hop-scotch in front of Alumni Hall has anything so indicative of unsophisticated youth been seen around here. May the same naive, sweet spirit of Alumni last year be Lyons’ this day! is our fond wish.
•
Concert
Elsewhere in this issue will be a story on the concert of Messrs. Groom and Seidel, of the faculty of the Music School. But lest it be thought that story is only The Scholastic’s perfunctory tribute to anything done on the campus, we, too, would like to shove in a word of praise. We thought that the program was extraordinarily well-chosen and well done; but it was more than that: it was an excellent idea. Why shouldn’t we have more such programs by the people really capable of doing good things? Two years ago we had some delightful chamber music arranged by the same gentlemen; since then, practically nothing. Why?
•
Some Other Time?
This story concerns a senior, whose identity will be furnished on request. The man is smitten by some dame in the city who leads him a merry chase at times. Naturally, he had expected her to go to the Ball with him. It was “understood.” After all, hadn’t they been everywhere together?
So one day he mentioned casually that they’d probably have a swell
Twa
time at the Ball. Whereat the young woman informed him that she was sorry, but she had been promised— oh, years ago—to another senior. She asked him not to make a scene, but she knew he would. He stormed and threatened and cajoled, all to no avail. Then he flounced out to seek refuge elsewhere.
He found his refuge—or at least he thought he had—in the Dining Halls. Still nursing his sorrowful soul with an eye to stabbing his former love, he asked one of the maids if she’d care to go to the Ball with him.
“Who’s playing?” she queried.
“Harry Sosnik,” he offered.
“Positively no,” she told him.
“NOT to Harry Sosnik.”
Election Froth
Naturally the flurry of elections and campaigning leaves us quite dispassionate, since the best we can do is elect people to the Alumni Association. But certain features of the current campaigns are decidedly worthy of interest. For instance, the class of ’35 is—or, rather, was—at it again. Not content with their amazing display of politics last year, when fully one-fifth of the class was running for some kind of office, they have millions striving again. “Every man and officer,” like the Basque army, seems to be the aim of the Juniors.
But the most startling exhibition of all came from the class of ’37. According to custom, a certain ticket had some cards printed up for distribution to the enfranchised. True to form, they presented their candidates, president, vice-president, and so forth down the line. Then, underneath the candidates’ names, there was a notice to the effect that this ticket was sponsored by four other people!
Well, it may be a good thing. Perhaps the time is coming when every man in school will have to declare himself on one side or the other, and candidates will have to announce the Chairman of the dance before the voters go to the polls.
Beer in the Palace
It is, of course, known to you that the University Theatre gave its “Gold in the Hills” to a downtown audience at the palace under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce. Well, as soon as the Silver Edge beer people heard about it they saw a golden op-
All Class Elections To Be Held Tuesday
In the Junior primary, held Monday, April 23, Tom Proctor and Thomas W. Thompson led the candidates for the office of Senior class president. Thompson trailed Proctor by a single vote with Ray Margrett close behind the leaders. As a result, Proctor and Thompson will go on to the finals Tuesday, May 1, as will the two candidates for each of the other class offices who polled the largest number of votes. They were Hart and Schroeder for vice-president, Shay and Jennings for secretary, and Weldon and Argus for treasurer.
S.A.C. Candidates
The Sophomore primary scheduled for the following day was cancelled by the S.A.C. because there were only two tickets in the field. Candidates of both groups will automatically go on to the finals. They include Ed Hammer and Tom Murphy for president, Miller and Rubly for vice-president, Stine and Doyle for secretary, and Bayer and Scafati for treasurer. Candidates for two year representation in the S.A.C. are Stapp, DiGiovanni, DeGarmo, and Cavanaugh. Candidates for one year representation in the S.A.C. are Darcy and Schmuhl.
The Freshman primary held Wednesday, April 25, resulted in the nominations of Harold Miller and Dick Scannell for the presidency of the Sophomore class. Other successful candidates who will run in the finals are Jordan and Fallon for vice-president, Williams and Burns for secretary, Quin and Hurley for treasurer, Seigfried and Loftus for S.A.C.
Cracow Club To Meet
There will be a meeting of the Charles Phillips’ Cracow Club next Monday for the purpose of electing officers and discussing plans for the final banquet. All members are strongly urged to be present.
Staff Notice
The news and sports staffs of The Scholastic will meet this evening at 7:00 o’clock in the editorial offices, Ave Maria Building. The editorial meeting will be held at 6:30 o’clock.
portunity. There’s a barroom scene in the second act, as you well know, and the Silver Edge people, with nice acumen, stepped in and offered the boys the beer free. They stacked a lot of beer kegs on the stage, with ‘ the label facing the audience. “And when you serve the beer,” they told the barkeeper, “be sure it has a nice, full collar on it.”
The S chola.stic
Calendar
Friday, April 27
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, Ave Maria offices; Editorial, 6:30 p.m.; General staff, 7 p.m; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall 6:30 p.m.; Lawyers’ Ball, Palais Royal Ballroom, 9 p.m.
Saturday, April 28
Movie, “Midshipman Jack,” with Bruce Cabot and Betty Furness, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, April 29
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m.; for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m.; Linnet show, “Music’s The Thing,’’ Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Monday, April 30
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Linnet show7, “Music’s The Thing,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.;
Tuesday, May 1
All prize essays must be turned in to Father Molony; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Linnet Show, “Music’s The Thing,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Walsh Hall, 6:45 p.m. Class elections, Lobby of University Dining Halls, all day.
Wednesday, May 2
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, May 3
Ticket Sale for Senior Ball opens in Conference Room, Administration Building.
“Hall of Fame” Contest Open To Local Students
In today’s issue of the Collegiate Digest section is an annonuncement of a “Hall of Fame” contest which is being sponsored by The Scholastic, the Collegiate Digest, and the Parker Pen Company, and which offers valuable prizes and national recognition to the students voted -the most outstanding men on the campus.
Each winner will be awarded one of the revolutionary Parker Vacu-matic fountain pens and will have his picture featured in a special page in the Collegiate Digest. ■
The plans of the contest is simple: in an early issue of the Collegiate Digest there will be printed a ballot which all students must use in voting in the contest. The two receiving the highest number of votes will win. You must use the official ballot in voting.
Msgr. Ryan Addresses Students On Roosevelt Recovery Program
Class Notices----
History Comprehensive
Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., head of the History department announces that a comprehensive history examination will be held Thursday, May 17, from 10 o’clock to 12 o’clock. The examination will take place in room 1 of the Science Building.
This examination is for all history major graduates with an average of less than 90 per cent.
Economics Comprehensive
The Comprehensive Examination for Seniors majoring in Economics will be held at 3:15 p.m. on Thursday May 3, in rooms 219 and 227, Main Building.
Philosophy Comprehensive
Seniors majoring in the department of Philosophy are reminded by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., that the comprehensive examination in Philosophy will be held sometime during the first week in May. The exact date and hour will be posted later.
Thesis Instruction
Because of Father McDonald’s illness, the instruction in the writing of the thesis for the junior English major students had to be postponed. The lectures wall be given soon after preregistration is completed. The time and the place of the instructions wall be announced in the junior English classes.
CONTENTS
News
Chicago Baseball ...............15
Elections ...................... 2
Glee Club ...................... 6
“Lawyer” ....................... 7
Lazoyers Ball .................. 5
Msgr. Ryan ..................... 3
“Music’s The Thing” ............ 5
Old Timers’ Game ...............11
Purdue Golf --------------------12
Senior Ball .................... 4
Shane Leslie ................... 4
Tennis Courts ..................11
F e a t u r e s
College Parade .................10
Introdzidng ....................14
“Man About” .................... 8
“Nezvs of the Week” ............ 6
“On Down The Line” .............16
“Splinters” ....................15
The Week ....................... 2
LECTURE WELL ATTENDED
“The Roosevelt Recovery Program” was the title of an address given in Washington Hall Saturday afternoon by Msgr. John A. Ryan, noted economist and Professor of Economics and Ethics at Catholic University. Father Ryan, who has addressed Notre Dame audiences on previous occasions, is a speaker of national repute.
“The principles of President Roosevelt are much more generally accepted now than they were a year ago,” stated Father Ryan. He continued by summarizing the outstanding views of President Roosevelt, speaking also of the more important congressional legislation and the results of each measure.
Cites Roosevelt on Underproduction
Father Ryan explained that contrary to the opinions of economists in 1928-’29 who believed that overproduction was a safe policy, Roosevelt believes in under - production which creates greater demand. Hence the pending bill governing stock markets which prevents the floating of stocks of new companies, but which permits the trading of the securities of established enterprises which can produce sufficient commodities for the present-day markets.
The President’s banking policies were sanctioned by a message of congratulations sent to the President by a group of banking leaders.
Congress demonstrates its support of President Rcosevelt by placing extensive powers in his hands.
Explains Federal Farm Act
Father Ryan drew a laugh from his attentive audience by telling of a remark made by Mr. Coyle, an intimate of Father Ryan’s. Mr. Coyle, after having spent an evening with Dr. Wirt, stated that he “wouldn’t say that Dr. Wirt talked for five hours. That would be an exaggeration. He talked four hours.”
Father Ryan continued, saying that by the Federal Farm Act, the farmers receive additional prices over and above the current market prices. The consumers are forced to pay a price by which the producer can live comfortably. This does not, however, give the farmer more than he needs at the expense of the consumer.
By means of the Public Service Acts, the administration puts 4,000,000 people to work and kept them working for four months. This type of legislation puts money in the hands of people who will spend it for necessities. By this legislation the
(Continued on Paere 5)
April 27, 193 Ji
Three
Leslie Cites Newman, Manning In Oxford Movement Lecture
TALKS TO FULL AUDIENCE
Shane Leslie, Irish author and editor, spoke to a capacity audience in Wahington Hall Tuesday evening on •'The Oxford Movement.” Mr. Leslie, who served as editor of the Dublin Review from 1906 to 1916, is the author of The Oxford Movement, published last year, a life of Cardinal Manning and other books. He is considered an authority on the period.
The lecturer, who won his audience at the outset with his cultivated presence and wealth of lively anecdotes, disclaimed from the first the academic manner. Assuming in his audience an outline knowledge of the movement, he proceeded at once to deal with its personalities: Newman, Manning, Gladstone and that distinguished company who were galvanized into life when the mystic John Henry Newman began to preach on Sunday evenings in St. Mary’s Church, Oxford, on medievalism.
“I want you to think of Newman as the Plato of the Oxford Movement, of Manning as its Aristotle,” said Mr. Leslie. “Newman was the mind of the Movement, Manning its spearhead.”
Traces Personalities
Carefully Mr. Leslie traced the activities of the leading personalities, and with them the course of the movement. Manning he contrasted with Wilberforce, the distinguished Anglican clergyman, who married Manning’s wife’s sister. The little-known Bishop of Birmingham and Newman’s protector, was fully treated by the lecturer. “Everything Newman set his hand to was a failure,” said Mr. Leslie, “But from that series of failures has come the greatest body of literature and, wonderful to say, of worldly wisdom, of modern England.”
Mr. Leslie dealt with the Oxford Movement in terms of results rather than as a body of doctrine of thought. The first phase, he said, was Manning’s triumph in placing Florence Nightingale and the band of 40 nuns in the battlefields of the Crimea to found modern nursing. Through this means Catholicism was recognized. The second phase came with Manning’s famous triumph as mediator in the great London Dock strike of 1889. The third phase, meaning presumably the great Catholic catecat-ical endeavors of the present day, is not yet ended.
Never intrusive, never didactic, Mr. Leslie managed to combine charming entertainment with interesting information. With admirable
Convention---
“The Philosophy of The New Deal and the Opinions of Economists”— such was the topic of Msgr. John A. Ryan’s address to the Indiana Association of Economists and Sociologists Saturday morning, April 21. In his charmingly informal manner, Msgr. Ryan contrasted the New Deal with the Old, bringing in the comments and criticisms of economists throughout.
Msgr. Ryan’s talk was the most largely attended of the two-day meeting—students of Economics and Sociology of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College together with members of their respective faculties made up a good part of the crowd.
Preceeding Msgr. Ryan’s address, the Association listened to reports on special subjects. Outstanding was “Probation—An Individualized Form of Social Control” delivered by Maurice L. Pettit of Notre Dame. Firsthand experience and thorough knowledge of his subject added much to this paper. Clement T. Malan of Indiana State Teachers College reported on “County Expenditures in Indiana,” and Francis M. Vreeland of DePauw University spoke on “Social Forces in New Harmony.”
Following a combined luncheon and business meeting the afternoon was devoted to a symposium on “Managed Currency” led by C. B. Camp of Butler University.
Joseph L. Apodaca of the Department of Economics of Notre Dame, spoke on the “Managed Currency Program.” Exceptionally well received was this speech.
Critiques included Purdue’s representative R.G. Thomas, “The Theory Involved,” delegate Waldo F. Mitchell, Indiana State Teachers College, “The Economic Controls,” and Dean Long’s “Statistical Questions Involved.” Dean Long, vice-president of the Association, represented Evansville College.
judgment he treated only the less-known characters of the movement, and the little-known things about the famous leaders. In his amiable presupposition of elementary knowledge he did not for example, even mention the Tracts for the Times, for which his audience was devoutly grateful. Rarely does a lecturer show such intelligent selection.
Mr. Leslie was introduced by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president-emeritus of the University.
Plans Complete For Senior Ball Of 1934
Information regarding eligibility, favors, and invitations for the Notre Dame Senior Ball of 1934 has been given out by General Chairman Russ Leonard this week.
Graduate students, candidates for degrees in June, and men to be graduated from any of the Colleges in
__
i
The Faculty Dance Committee at a recent meeting passed a new regulation concerning the sale of tickets to all “class dances.” In the future the ticket sale will be confined to three days and at a specified place. Therefore, the sale of tickets for the Senior Ball of 1934 will be on May 3, 4, and 5, respectively, and the place, the conference room in the central office of the Main Building. The hours of the sale have been announced by the ticket committee of the Senior Ball as follows :
Thursday, May 3, 2:00 to 5:00 o’clock, afternoon.
Friday, May 4, 2:00 to 5:00 o’clock, afternoon.
Saturday, May 5, 9:00 to 12:00 o’clock, morning.
February 1935, are eligible to attend the Ball.
Invitations for the Ball may be secured from Bill Veeneman, chairman of the committee on invitations, any time after Sunday, April 29. Veeneman lives in Room 200, Walsh Hall.
An attractive evening bracelet bag has been chosen by Chairman Leonard as the favor for the Ball. The bag is of a mesh material with a white handle. The favors will not be distributed until a few days prior to the Ball but anyone desiring to see one may do so by calling at Leonard’s room, 307 Walsh Hall.
The sale of tickets, will open next Thursday afternoon and will close Saturday, May 5th. The hours of the ticket sale will be announced on the hall bulletin boards. Tickets can be purchased in the faculty conference room, Main Building, only. The conference room is directly opposite the office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Bookmen Notice
The Bookmen are now receiving applications for membership. Anyone interested in and having knowledge of contemporary literature is requested to leave his name with Ed Murphy, 207 Sorin, Howard Cusack, 415 Lyons, or Ed Kilmurry, 339 Alumni.
Four
The Scholastic
Lawyers Will Dance At Palais Tonight
Premier of “Music’s The Thing” Will Be Held Sunday Evening
Notre Dame Lawyers and their guests will dance to-night at the Palais Royale in South Bend at the annual Lawyers’ Ball. The affair is under the direction of Tom Gately, chairman, and Joseph Laughlin, president of the Law Club.
Invitations in the form of subpoenas is the feature of the Ball. Mark Fisher and his Edgewater Beach Hotel Orchestra, who has been touring the country during the past month, will play foi* the dance tonight. Entertainment and the rendition of special solos will feature the evening.
Tickets for the Ball are $2.50. All those in attendance are granted special 12:30 permissions by Father Dolan, prefect of discipline.
About 200 couples are expected to attend the affair.
MSGR. RYAN’S ADDRESS
(Continued from Pa.cre 3)
government has committed itself to the policy that men deserve an existence even at the expense of the government.
Father Ryan explained that the N.I.R.A. is commonly confused with the N.R.A. The former is the National Industry Recovery Act, and the latter the National Recovery Association. Speaking of the former, Father Ryan said that, although it had increased employment to some extent, it had not reached expectations. In order to remedy that, it should provide for shorter hours with higher hourly wages. Two main defects of the measure are: (1) its failure to include representatives of labor in the drawing up of codes; and (2) dishonesty, chiefly by steel and automotive industries, by violation of codes. The N.I.R.A. in its present status expires July 1, 1935, but President Roosevelt hopes to make it permanent.
Effects Of The Recovery Program
Further legislation is needed to provide for the collective bargaining of labor and capital. Since the employer is not dependent on the individual laborer, unions are economically justified as far as collective bargaining extends.
The effects of ‘The Roosevelt Recovery Program’ are: (1) general hope instead of general despair has pervaded the minds of the people; (2) business activity has increased 40%, and 5,000,000 people have found work.
Sociologists—
Thirty seniors of the Sociology Department visited the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City, Monday, April 23. Under the guidance of Dr. Patrick H. Weeks, M.D., psychiatrist at the prison and lecturer in the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame, the men inspected the entire institution.
As the students made the round of all the cell houses, work shops, chapel, parole and bertillion departments, mail and visiting rooms, and the hospital for the mentally insane, they were deeply impressed by the splendid cleanliness of the prison and the fine efficiency with which it is managed. While the operation of the jail’s electric chair was being described to them, the seniors took turns at sitting in the “hot seat.”
Before eating lunch in the prison hospital, the students were entertained with a concert by the colored band of the institution. Warden Kunkel also gave the visitors a brief address after lunch. Previous to their return to Notre Dame in the evening, the men were shown about the Indiana State Penal Farm.
Symphony Orchestra To Play At St. Mary’s May 4
A program of classics, Irish melodies, and marches will be featured by the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidel, in the annual concert to be presented Friday evening, May 4, foi* the students of St. Mary’s College. The concert will be held in St. Angela’s Hall.
“Rio Grande,” an overture by E. Bergenholtz, will open the program and will be followed by H. Hadley’s, “Suite of the Flowers,” an expressive theme depicting the atmosphere and moods created by various types of flowers. “The Ballet Egyptien,” one of A. Luigini’s most famed works, will complete the first part of the concert. The number is to be played in four movements: the allegro non troppo, allegretto, andante sostenuto, and the andante espressivo-allegro.
The second half of the program consists of “Irish Favorites,” arranged by Trinkaus, and the “Londonderry Air.” The concert will be concluded with the ever popular “March Militaire,” by C. Saint-Saens.
WILL REPEAT MON., TUES.
Preview showings of “Music’s The Thing,” the new opus of the Notre Dame Linnets which will open in Washington Hall Sunday night, indicate that it will be one of the best productions to be staged by any group of local talent. Final rehearsals this week showed a snap and vigor not to be found in many amateur presentations. Tickets are selling rapidly, and the show will be repeated on Monday and Tuesday evenings. Tickets are 25 cents.
Elaborate scenery has been prepared for the revue. “Dutch” Welling of the University Paint Shop has painted two di'ops which will be used. One is a street scene, copied after a section of the Chicago skyline, and the other a colonial scene meant to depict the atmosphere surrounding a Southern plantation home. Mr. Welling has blended the colors into surprisingly acute and realistic paintings. New black drapes will be used to offset the drops.	’
Lewis, Master Of Ceremonies
Bill Lewis, senior, and his two stooges, Jim Hamilton and Frank McGuire, veteran Linnet comedians, will do much to keep the audiences in an uproar. Lewis will act as master of ceremonies for the second part of the show and with the able assistance of his stooges, he will proceed to relate the latest in campus anecdotes, puns, and rimes. Nov^l introductions and comic interludes will feature his performance.
The revue is divided into two parts, a minstrel show and a travelogue. George Belting is in charge of the minstrel show which will feature soloists and end men with special acts. The featured men in part one are Dick Tobin, Dick Burchell, Jim Ford. Charles Clark, Tom Byrne, and Ralph Hruska.
In the travelogue will appear the favorite soloists and singers of the campus. George Menard with his “Old Man River” voice will be heard once again. John Ryan, tenor, Russ Stemper of Glee Club fame, and Jack Henry, who created a sensation as the master of ceremonies in the last Linnet show and scored a hit as Jack Dalton in the University Theatre production last week, are all included in the cast.
The Linnet trio, Tom Flynn, Bill Fromm, and Just Tompkins, Will sing several favorites. The Linnet quartette of Dave Ryan, Gene O’Brien, George Miller, and Dan Bolerjack, will also contribute a few selections.
(Continued on Page 7)
April 2 7, 1934
Five
Fr. Ryan To Publish History Book Soon
News of the Week
By George Leyes
Gleesters Give Three
Concerts In Week
Father John M. Ryan, C.S.C., head of the history department will soon publish his new book entitled, The History of the Church Proves Her Divinity. Father Ryan hopes that this book will aid history students in gaining the true facts concerning the Church of Christ. He also feels that certain advantages of studying history as stated in the book will act act as an incentive to students who are undecided as to their majors to take up the study of history.
Value Of History-
Father Ryan divides the value of the studying of history into three classes, spiritual, real and apologetic. As to real value he states, “It (history) furnishes views of mankind in all ranges of human activity; it serves as a frame into which we can put all our knowledge of human things; it manifests the development of human ideas and human institutions.”
From a spiritual value viewpoint, “Church history will fill us with devotion to God’s established guide, infallible and unfailing for our salvation.” Finally, from an apologetic angle, “Church history confirms our faith, wins converts to it, supplies defense against attacks upon it.”
After giving these three-fold advantages of studying history Father Ryan goes on into the matter of history itself.
The book begins with the explanation of Christianity as it first existed. The progress of the Church is minutely and accurately depicted through the Babylonian Captivity, paganism, persecutions, Jewish rebellions and missions of the Apostles.
Christianity Versus Paganism
The third section of the history deals with Roman and Jewish relations, martyrdom, life and achievements of St. Peter. Referring to j	Christianity versus	Paganism Father
Ryan says, “The	struggle for su-
premacy which began between these II	two forces, is, I	think, without a
parallel in the history of mankind.” I	The book goes on discussing the
unity of language and the unity of law donated to civilization by the Romans. The remainder of, “The History of the Church Proves Her Di-vinity,” deals with the local and national spread of Christianity through the time of Nero, St. Peter, the fall of Jerusalem and the reign of Constantine.
Father Ryan’s history is interestingly written and when published should prove highly vaaluable to history majors and theology students.
Six
Irony and tragedy stalk the efforts to nab Dillinger. With the lives of six persons and the wounding of others accredited to him, directly or indirectly, since March 3, “Dillinger luck” is still holding. The seeming impunity with which the desperado and his gang rob banks, raid police stations, steal firearms, and commandeer roadhouses for a three day rest to give the police a chance to catch up, and the ease with which he shoots his way to escape leads one to wonder whether 100 picked department of justice men will be sufficient to capture Dillinger.
An ominous trend of the times is being shown in the spectacular wave of Fascism which is undermining the very foundations of every state in Europe. Fascism already has over 100 million inhabitants of Europe under its reign of intolerance and absolutism, handed out under the guise of freedom. An enthusiastic crowd of 10,000 has paid admission to hear Sir Oswald Mosley, the Hitler of England, who said that the movement is history, which indicates that the movement is not a fad or joke, but is putting democracy of England on the spot. The Fascist policy in England is extremely nationalistic, and fosters racial prejudice along the lines of Hitler.
Undaunted by non-recognition of Manchukuo, Japan again violates international agreements and challenges Europe and America on the theory that force alone talks. It is evident that Japan does not intend to have China develop into a modern nation, or to allow foreigners to train and equip Chinese armies with modern guns and airplanes which might challenge her imperialistic future.
It is now conceded by the administration that much of its policy was not a planned affair but a “trial and error” method, and that many of the things tried in the past six months have worked out badly. It is now known that a better flow of capital is needed to replace obsolete equipment of industi*y if improvement is to continue. A new bill designed to allow Federal Reserve banks to make five year loans to industries for working and employment purposes is said to be favored by the President.
Irish Club
Father Carroll was the speaker at the meeting of the Irish Club on Wednesday, April 25.
Adding to the popularity and success of then* spring tour, the University Glee Club presented under the leadership of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, concerts in Detroit and Gary, and were featured in a nationwide broadcast during the past ten days.
The Notre Dame Club of ‘ Detroit was host to the Gleesters on the night of April 20 at a formal concert and dance given in their honor. The program presented by the Club was enthusiastically received by the many guests who found the voices and choice of numbers a distinct pleasure.
The concert was described by the Detroit News with glowing praise when it added this compliment to the Club and its director: “The Notre Dame Glee Club works with the unity and perfection of a Rockne football team!”
After a brief stop-off at the campus, the 40 singers toured to Gary last Sunday to participate in the Sil-ver Jubilee of Holy Angels Parish of that city. The elevation of Reverend Francis Thomas Jansen to the title of monsignor was celebrated by this anniversary commemoration. During the testimonial banquet the Glee Club rendered a shoi’t program which was enjoyed by the Most Reverend Bishop Noll and guests in attendance.
The following Tuesday evening from 9:00 to 9:30 the Club, having switched their network affiliations, were head-lined on the Palmer House Program with Ray Perkins and Harold Stoke’s orchestra, broadcasting over a coast-to-coast hook-up of the National Broadcasting Company. Station WENR served as the Chicago outlet.
A complete concert will be presented next Thursday, May 3 in Fort Wayne, under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of that district. The program has been arranged by Professor Casasanta and will be composed mainly of selections rendered at the Washington Hall concert last month.
Faculty Golf Notice
Because of inclement weather the final date for turning in qualifying scores for the Faculty Club Golf Tournament has been ' extended one week. The final date is now May 2. Match play will begin May 3. All first round matches must be played and all first round results turned in by May 12.
Because of this postponement finals will be 18 hole matches instead of 36 holes as previously planned.
The S cho las tic
Association Adopts
New Merit System
At a meeting of the North Central Association in the Stevens Hotel, Chicago, on Friday and Saturday, April 20 and 21 a new set of standards was adopted for the evaluation of the relative merits of the colleges and universities of the association. The assumption of these standards represents a shift from the quantitative method of judging the ratings of these institutions to the qualitative method.
Henceforth such universities and colleges will be rated not according to the size of their libraries, the quality of their laboratory equipment, or any other such bases. Instead, their relative rank will depend upon the type of goal they set for their students to aim at and the quality of the methods employed by them to aid the students in reaching that goal.
This change of policy on the part of the North Central Association is of great importance to Notre Dame, since she, a member of this organization, will be directly affected by the change.
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and the Reverend William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., represented Notre Dame at the Chicago meeting of the association.
Alumni Secretary Returns
Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of Notre Dame’s Alumni Board, made a tour of several eastern cities last week, in order to address the students on the various parochial and public schools of those cities on the value of a Notre Dame education.
Stopping off points foi' Mr. Armstrong were Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Aki-on, Toledo, and Youngstown, Ohio; and Detroit, Michigan. He attended alumni meetings in the first four cities. In Detroit on Friday, April 20, he heard the Notre Dame Glee Club concert which was sponsored by the alumni of Detroit.
Congratulations
Dr. and Mrs. Leo Kuntz are in line for congratulations by the faculty and student body of Notre Dame on the occasion of the birth of a healthy baby boy, 20 minutes after’ six o’clock, Monday, April 23. Dr. Kuntz, who is head of the Department of Education, announced that his latest heir would probably be named James Francis.
French Club
The French Club meeting will not be held this week because the Linnets are holding their rehearsal. The next meeting of the club will be May 4.
April 27, 1 93 4
Engineers Contribute $29 to Local St. Vincent de Paul
At the meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society Tuesday night in the basement of Walsh Hall the report on the old clothes drive was given.
The Engineers’ Club contributed §29, proceeds from their recent dance.
Reverend John Kelley, C.S.C., had Chairman -Kenneth Whipps read the report: 108 pairs of trousers, 28 sweaters, 10 overcoats, 23 coats, 5 vests, 8 hats, 32 shirts, 56 ties, 4 belts, 4 dressing gowns, and 7 bags of shoes.
Father Kelley expressed thanks to Whipps and Thurm, co-chairmen, and the members of the club who worked particularly hard to make this drive a success. The cooperation of the student body, it was pointed out, was most encouraging.
Valdes, Hemming, Holman, Winners in Snapshot Contest
The winners of the Snapshot Contest of the 1934 Dome were announced this week by the Snapshot Editor. The first prize goes to Gonzalo Valdes for his picture of St. Mary’s Lake at dusk. He wins an extra copy of the 1934 Dome and §2.50 in cash. John Hemming took second place with a photo of St. Edward’s Hall chapel. The third prize was won by Ed Holman with a picture taken in one of the rooms on the campus. This picture is remarkable for its completeness and detail. The second and third prizes were §1.50 and §1.00 in addition to extra copies of the Dome.
Work has progressed so far on the Dome that next week announcement of the publication date will be made.
Charitable Society Is Topic At Catholic Action Meeting
The history and activities of the St. Vincent de Paul in general, and its history and activities at Notre Dame in particular, were related to the Catholic Action Club at its regular meeting last Friday night by the Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C., who conducted the meeting. Father Kelley is the director of the St. Vincent de Paul Society here at the University. The subj'ect of credit unions was studied by the club at the preceding meeting, and the morality of war is the subj'ect to come under discussion at meetings during the next few weeks.
Prize Essays
The Rev. William H. Moloney, C.S.C., wishes to announce that all prize essays will be due on May 1.
March “Lawyer” Is
Released By Editor
Recently the third issue, or March number of the Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly- law review published by the Law Students of the University, has come off the press for circulation here and elsewhere. It conforms well, as is usual, to the high standards of the preceding issues.
Edwin W. Hadley, J.D., once Professor of Law at Notre Dame, now Professor at Northeastern University Boston, and a member of the California, Indiana and Massachusetts Bars, contributes a well-handled and informative article on “Fraudulent Conveyance as an Act of Bankruptcy.” The other three outsiders who contribute the remaining lengthy and thoroughly treated features are James T. Connor, Professor of Law at Loyola University of New Orleans; Charles Kinnane, Professor at Loyola University in Chicago; and Max Rapacz of De Paul University. All of these men have written many legal articles and notes for other legal reviews..
Seventeen students of the Law School have supplied many. worthwhile legal notes, accounts of recent decisions, and book reviews for this issue. An article which may influence the j'udicial procedure of Illinois in the future is William Kirby’s treatment of “Grand Juries—Number Summoned—Method of Impanelling.”
“MUSIC’S THE THING”
. (Continued from Page 5)
Jim Marohn and his shiny “Jimmy” accordion, will be there also.
For those who care about music of a slightly heavier nature, John Sharpe and Hugo Melchione will present a piano duet in which the ever favorite modern classic, “Stardust” will be played. This act alone should prove worthy of anyone’s attendance at the show.
Al Stewart and his newly organized Linnet orchestra will play for the entire show. There are fifteen pieces in the group and the selections to be offered by them vary from hot-cha negro songs to sweet ballads. The currently popular “Riptide” will be played and sung in the second part of the show.
With the presentation of “Music’s The Thing,” the season of 1933-34 will be closed for the Linnets. Many seniors will have made their final appearance on the Washington Hall stage. For them, a special farewell number has been planned and will be used in the latter part of the revue. As a grand finale, a parody on the last season hit, “Of Thee I Sing,” has been written, the title having been changed to “For Thee We Sang.”
Seven
Seidel And Groom Please Music Lovers *
A fair test of ensemble musicianship is a Brahms sonata, and both Professors Seidel and Groom came through in the best estate last Monday night. Each had sufficient freedom to achieve continuity and dramatic expression in his individual part.
With the vagaries of the A major sonata behind him, Mr. Groom demonstrated what his clear, brittle touch could do to d’Albert and Miaskowsky. “Reminiscence, No. 5” may have badgered the traditionalists, but most of the Washington Hall audience seemed to like the spray of muddy sevenths. In any case, Mr. Groom deserved the gratitude of all for his stimulating and expert readings.
There can be no question of Mr. Seidel’s technical command or musical mastery of the violin. Nothing on the program was more exciting than his adventure with the closing cadenza of the Mozart-Kreisler rondo, or more swishing than his proclamation of Czerwonky’s “Harlequin.”
McCraley Is Elected ’34-’35 President of Pittsburgh Club
James McCraley was elected president of the Pittsburgh Club last Monday night. McCraley received no opposition and received the office without the usual procedure of voting. This was also true of the other three offices.
William Lord received the vicepresidency, Lawrence O’Donnell, the treasury, and Herman Green, the secretaryship.
Retiring officers for the past year are: William O’Toole, president; Michael Wiedl, treasurer; and Regis Kelly, secretary. McCraley held the vice-presidency throughout the past year. O’Toole and Wiedl are seniors.
I
Noted Author Visits Campus
Louis Adamic, author of the recent Native's Return, the February book of the Month Club selection, visited the campus last Thursday. Mr. Adamic is also author of Dynamite, and Laughing in the Jungle, economic books.
A student delegation consisting of Anthony Anzlovar, Joseph Becek, and Rudy Cmkovic arranged for his visit and conducted him about the campus.
Mr. Adamic is at present on a speaking tour of the East and Middle West. He is a native of Jugo Slavia and is a well known authority on the economic and political situation of that country.
*
‘^~\ibout the comPys
Now you take that guy Buck, for instance. You know, John Buckley over in Corby sub? Tall and loose-jointed he is, with a walk resembling the quotient of a shuffle and a drag. Rather handsome (not a compliment !) too, were it not for a washed-out, blank expression on his face. Like the leaning tower of
Pisa, he could add to his height by the simple procedure of straightening up.
Well, they call him Stooge and Key-hole Johnny because he knows more about everyone else’s business than his own. A flair for gossip, that’s what it is! Knows a little about everything and nothing, in particular, about anything. Do you know how he got the three warts on his chin? By hanging on transoms! Three deep furrows make up his brow. Add a worried look plus a quivering, lower lip for the complete picture. His pants are always baggy too! It all goes to prove that he’s not really a stable person; the one man on the campus who can be read thoroughly. For Buck, it is humany impossible to hide a thought.
This fellow can show you a good time, though. Have you ever been up to his stucco place in Austin? Say, I’ve seen from one to twenty guys squeezed into the front room by the radio and each had a date. Guess he wowed ’em while playing basketball at St. Mel’s. From what I hear, Keogan pulled a “boner.” He should’ve got Buck.
Besides playing ’possum and eating, Buck frequently exercises 'his Palmer Method by borrowing stationery, green stamps, and writing to you know whom. The green stamps might raise the question of, what’s become of the inmates of the gray-stoned school in Oak Park or Michigan City’s Kate Smith? To date, Buck hasn’t attempted an explanation. Maybe Carpenter’s got too much on him!
Seriously, Buck is O. K. He’d give you the shirt off his back only he doesn’t wear one. (You see; Buck is generally broke and, when money does come, he spends it all on telegrams.) Best student in the Commerce School depending upon his getting enough sleep 'and his luck at borrowing books or duties. (His bor-
New Regulations On Night “Pers” Issued
The following official University Bulletin was issued from the Office of the Prefect of Discipline this week:
“On April 29th, daylight saving time goes into effect in South Bend.
“Since the Community is on daylight saving time all year (with 5:00 rising), Notre Dame will continue to operate on standard time.
“All shops and places of amusement in South Bend will operate on the new schedule. This means that after 12:00 o’clock daylight saving time, the only places open in South Bend will be night clubs and dance halls; the only people on the streets will be policemen and (unless restricted) Notre Dame students.
“Experience has shown that the hours between the two midnights constitutes a real peril to academic aspirations and to fond parental hopes. As a measure of protection, therefore, the University has decided that from the day of adoption of daylight saving time, students will be out of the city by 12:00 o’clock South Bend time.
“If you prefer to look at it another way, try this: the University will adopt daylight saving time, but will allow you to sleep an hour later in the morning, and will move the whole day’s schedule back one hour.
“Whichever way you look at it please accept this regulation in the spirit in which it is made—as a safeguard against the sort of foolishness that has sent many a student home before the first of June.
Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline.
Wranglers Hear Talk On “New Deal for the Indian*’
“The New Deal for the Indian” was the subject of a talk given by Thomas G. Proctor, A.B. junior, before the Wranglers Tuesday evening. Proctor traced the history of the Red Man’s fading glory through the constant invasion and trickery of the whites, recounting the numerous instances wherein the Indians were duped out of their lands, estimated at ninety-seven million acres.
rowing hours are from 11 p.m. ’til 1 a.m. depending upon whether or not there is a bridge tournament going on in the shower room.) Could also have a job in June if he’d only talk to his uncle, nice like, and the Dean. I tell you, people, he’s a good egg and lucky. But poor old Buck . . . he just doesn’t realize it.
The Scholastic
Eig ht
Library Replete With Many New Additions
Recent additions to the University library include World Economic Survey. compiled by the League of Nations, a work which should interest students ,of economics. The relations of modern Russia and her neighbors are treated in a new light by Michael T. Florinsky in World Revolution and the U.S.S.R. Lawyers Must Eat is the unique title of Alexander Schlosser’s work, while Mrs. Margaret W. Jackson, popular fiction writer contributes Kindy’s Crossing.
Psychology: Murphy, Edward Francis, S.J., New Psychology and Old Religion.
Sociology: Borsodi, Ralph, Flight from the City; Glueck, Sol Sheldon, One Thousand Juvenile Delinquents.
Education: Carley, Verna Adeline, Student Aid in the Secondary Schools of the United States.
Poetry: MacLeish, Archibald, Poems, 1924-1933.
Two manuals for debaters head the list of new additions to the University library this week. They are: Federal Regulation of Motor Transport, by Helen Marie Muller, and H. E. Johnsen’s Chinese-Japanese War. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., well known Catholic author, contributes Religion and Leadership, while in the field of biography Rev. Henry Tristram’s Newman and His Friends, and William Blundell’s Cavalier are included. The Spanish Armada by Mrs. Lorna Rea is the “inside” story on the most momentous and significant event in naval history. Other additions include :
History and Description: Langsam, Walter Consuelo, The World Since 1914; Shattuck, George Cheever, The j Peninsula of Yucatan.	.
Sociology: MacKane, Keith, A Comparison of the Intelligence of Deaf and Hearing Children.
Education: Kelly, William Anthony, Educational Psychology.
Poetry: Jeffers, Robinson, Give Your Heart to the Hawks and Other Poems.
Soccer Team Wins
The Hibernians local soccer team, defeated the Bluejays aggregation of South Bend last Sunday 3-2.
The game was a see-saw affair until Maxwell scored his second goal near the end of the game to put the Hibernians ahead.
In . Interhall competition, Freshman hall staged a surprise by holding St. Edward’s to a one to one tie. Ducey scored for Freshman on a long shot. Cy Connor counted for St. Ed’s on a pass from Tancredi.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The first degree initiation, for which the candidates have been waiting, will be held in the council chambers in Walsh Hall Monday, April, 30. It will be necessary for all candidates who intend to become full-fledged knights this year to be present.
Definite arrangements will be made for the annual picnic, which is to be held in the near future. The committee, which is locating an adequate spot, will report its findings.
Golf Date Changed
Brothers who are interested in entering the council golf tourney, but who have not turned in qualifying scores, will have further opportunity to do so. The final date has been advanced to Sunday, April 29, at 5:00 p.m. Any members regardless of his ability will have an even chance because of the handicap. The date for the beginning of match play has been definitely set at Monday, April 30. Turn in your cards, brothers.
Soft ball teams are being organized to play on the field behind Alumni Hall. Brother Kennedy, captain of the crew of the worthy Santa Maria, challenges all other teams which can be organized in the council. Brother Bocskei has offered his services to the Santa Maria team. Get your teams together and come out f^y an hour’s clean sport.
t'X
April ‘Catalyzer,’ Edited By
C.J. Schwarz, Out This Week
p -	/	______
; &
George F. Hennion, M.S. ’33, writes the feature article for the April issue of the Catalyzer, organ of the Department of Chemistry. The paper is edited by C. J. Schwartz.
“The Development of Organic Chemical Nomenclature—II” is the topic of Mr. Bennion’s continued article. A page for freshmen, intended to call to the attention of first year men the various news items of chemistry, both pure and applied, is also included in the issue.
The editorial page is devoted to an article, “The Layman’s Chemical Engineer.” An obituary to the late Brother Martin, C.S.C., notes on the N. D. Academy of Science, notes on the Chemists’ Club, freshmen chemists, personals, American Chemical Society, and Pharmacy Club conclude the issue.
Reyniers Speaks At Italian Club Meeting
Professor Reyniers of the College of Science, a campus authority on Leonardo da Vinci, spoke on this subject at the meeting of the Italian Club held April 19 in Carroll Rec.
, Leonardo da Vinci was pictured, naturally, from the viewpoint of science. “He was,” as the professor said, “a scientist interested in art, not an artist interested in science.” In the course of his speech Professor Reyniers read interesting passages from a few selected works which, along with his own anecdotes, analyzed interesting the fascinating character of the gifted Leonardo. The life and work of da Vinci was aptly summed up by the professor when he remarked “he was a Darwin in the age of the Borgias.”
Father Wenninger, dean of the science school, was also present. Unexpectedly called on, the dean gave an amusing, informal talk on past and present freshmen in the science school. The club was commended by him for its large membership and its campus activity.
Banquet Is Planned
The Italian Club will culminate their activities for the school year with the annual club banquet to be held Thursday evening, May 3, in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
Prof. Clarence “Pat” Manion, of the College of Law, will preside as toastmaster for this affair. The list of honored guests and speakers include: Giuseppe Castruccio, Royal Italian Consul General, Chicago, Ill.; Doctors Grillo and Giordano, South Bend; Prof. Pasquale Pirchio, faculty adviser of the club; Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.; Professor Arthur Reyniers, and Emilio J. Gervasio, president of the Italian Club.
Banquet arrangements will be handled by co-Chairmen Rocco and Leonard Cacciatore, and the following committee: Joseph Wade, Liborio Ci-frese, August Petrillo, Anthony Cam-perlengo, Sam Ferrari, and John Bu-sichio.
The banquet is not a private function and is open to all who wish to attend. Tickets are priced at 85 cents.
Frosh Oratory
All freshmen who are interested in oratory are requested to send their names to Mr. Coyne or any other member of the Speech Department not later than May 1. In order to qualify, applicants must write a ten minute speech on any subject of their choice. There will be a cash award for the winner. The date of the contest will be announced later.
April 2 7, 1 934
Nine
N.D. Debate Squad Ends ’33-’34 Season
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
N.D. Summer Session
Will Open June 19
Though there is a possibility of one more debate, a radio contest with Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, Coach W. J. Coyne says that the 1933-’34 Notre Dame regular debating season has come to an end.	'
Twelve regular debates, and four tournament debates, which are to be considered according to the tournament position of the local team, took place during the four and one-half months in which debaters studied and argued the various statements of the question, “Resolved: that an amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1st, 1933, should be adopted.”
Of the twelve regular contests Notre Dame affirmative teams won two and lost two, while the negative team won three and lost none. The remaining five debates were nondecision in nature. At the annual Delta Sigma Rho Tournament held in Iowa City the Notre Dame affirmative and negative teams tied for first, arguing in four contests.
Teams debated this year were Michigan, Northwestern, Minnesota, Chicago Law College, Kent College of Law, New York University, Colo' rado, Wyoming, Kansas, Iowa State Teacher’s College, Dayton University, Michigan State, Western Reserve. Critic judges gave decisions in favor of the locals against Dayton, Michigan State, Kent College, and against the locals in favor of Michigan, and Western Reserve.
The debate squad this year included William Kirby, veteran, Hugh Fitzgerald, Jolin O’Connor, John Locher, Joseph Becek, Thomas Proctor, Eugene Blish, Franklyn Hochreiter, William Miller, Justin Han-nen, Richard Meier, Eugene Malloy.
Washington Hall Bookings Complete For April and May
Following is the list of movies to be shown in Washington Hall during the remainder of April and May:
April 28—“Midshipman Jack,’’ with Bruce Cabot and Betty Furness.
May 5—“Only Yesterday,” starring John Boles and Margaret Sulla-van.
May 9—“Poor Rich,” featuring May Oliver and Edward Everett Horton.
May 12—“I Am Suzanne,” with Lillian Harvey and Gene Raymond.
May 19 — “Carolina,” featuring Janet Gaynor and Lionel Barrymore.
May 26—“Tugboat Annie,” starring Wallace Beery and Marie Dressier.
Ten
“That the American system of education encourages parroting is all poppycock,” says Prof. Roy Davis, head of the C.B.A. English department.
“American students think as deeply as the students in English colleges, and actually have greater interest in nationwide problems.”
Prof. Atlee L. Percy, head of the department of commercial education at C.B.A., believes that American education is better adapted to the needs of American students, and that the English system is adjusted to the needs of English students.
At present both systems are in a state of evolution, and in the processes each is adopting some features of the other. Several American colleges are gradually adopting the tutorial system and colleges in England are trying out our system of requiring units for graduation.
The large enrollment in American universities, make the tutorial system impractical because of the expense. In the English university there is a tutor for every seven students. Our system of directed education is not needed in England, because of family tradition and greater selectivity of students.
Although the training in technical and liberal art schools is overlapping they- do not attempt to prepare for the same fields. The graduates of Oxford and Cambridge usually become public servants; teachers in the secondary and grade schools usually enter the professions.
The Englishman gets a job and receives his technical training afterward. This accounts for the large number of evening schools. The American receives his formal education first.
Present trends in American education are away from memorization, is the opinion of Dean Arthur H. Wilde, of the School of Education. On entering the School of Education students are given a general ability test. Records indicate a very high correlation between this test and future scholastic records. There has been more progress in American education in the last ten years than in the preceding 100, concluded Dean Wilde.—Boston University News.
The first time you heard this you were probably scampering around in a Buster Brown suit, but one more repetition shouldn’t torture:
LOVE LOCKED OUT
They strolled down the lane together, The sky was studded with stars;
Released recently from the Press the Summer School Bulletin announced the program for the 16th summer session at Notre Dame. This session will open on Tuesday, June 19, 1934, and will continue for six weeks until Wednesday, August 1.
The University, as organized at present for summer school, consists of a graduate school offering advanced courses in 15 departments of both arts and letters and of science, and includes an undergraduate school numbering most of the courses taught during the year.
The graduate school which has continually grown since its introduction and is expected to continue its progress this year, will offer many new courses this summer. For summer school graduate students are attracted from all parts, numbering many clergy and Sisters, and it far surpasses the undergraduate school in enrollment.
Bulletins for the regular school year of 1934-35 have not yet been printed, but they are expected to come out about the third week of May.
N. D. Coaches Are Feted At Banquet In Elkhart Sunday
Athletic Director Elmer Layden, Coach George Keogan, Assistant Coach Joe Boland, and others were guests Sunday afternoon at a testimonial banquet given in honor of Coach Layden by St. Vincent’s Catholic Church, Elkhart.
Layden, Keogan, and Boland were on the speaking program presided over by Robert E. Proctor, ’04, Elkhart attorney and candidate for the United States Senatorial nomination. Coach C. C. Boone, of Elkhart High School, also addressed the gathering of four hundred.
This program was sponsored by Fathers Werling and Moscol, pastor and assistant pastor of St. Vincent’s Church. Father Werling spoke at the banquet.
Guests included Mayor Krau of Elkhart, Joseph Preston of Howe, Indiana, former star quarterback of Nebraska University, Matthew Ron-zone, Notre Dame junior, and others.
They reached the gate together, And he lifted for her the bars.
He looked into her dark brown eyes, There was nothing between them now, For he was only the hired man, And she was the Jersey cow!
—The University News.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Campus to Have Ten New Tennis Courts
Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, took a long step toward the fulfillment of his policy of reviving local interest in minor sports when he announced, this week, that ten new tennis courts would be built on the campus. These new courts will fill a long felt need and will make a total of fourteen courts available to students. Work on the construction of the courts started Monday.
Eight of the new courts will be built adjacent to the parking lot in the rear of the Law and Engineering buildings. The other two will be situated behind Lyons Hall.
The courts will be of the regulation American Lawn Tennis Association size and will have a backcourt large enough to provide players with plenty of room to return baseline shots. The best available clay will be used in their construction.
Ready Second.Week In May
Mr. Thomas Hickey, in charge of the project, plans to sink the courts about three inches into the earth. A cement curb will surround the courts and hold the sod in place.	’
A wire netting will encircle each set of courts. There will be a space of from four to five feet between each court.	.
It is hoped that the new courts will be ready for play during the second week in May. This will give tennis enthusiasts two weeks to try them out before summer vacation.
Next year all of Notre Dame’s intercollegiate tennis matches will be played on the courts behind the Law and Engineering buildings.
Rifle Team Defeats Buchanan For Fifth Consecutive Victory
In a return engagement with the Buchanan Rifle Club last Friday, the Notre Dame Rifle team defeated the Michigan shooters 487 to 473. It was the best score the Irish have recorded this year and marked their fifth consecutive win.
Captain Gunner McGrath led the scorers with a perfect mark of 100. May followed closely at his heels with 98. The leading scorers of Buchanan were Hess and Beadle both of whom had 97’s.
The Irish squad will go to Culver soon to meet the championship team there.
Old Timers Grid Team Will Meet ’34 Varsity In Stadium On Sunday
Sport Week ---
Times Given Are Central Standard.
Friday, April 27
Baseball — Notre Dame vs. Purdue, 2:00 p.m., Lafayette, Indiana.
Tennis — Armour Tech vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., University Courts.
Saturday, April 28
Baseball — Notre Dame vs. Purdue, 2:00 p.m., Lafayette, Indiana.
Golf — Purdue vs. Notre Dame, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., University Golf Course.
Track—Notre Dame competes in Drake Relays, Des Moines, Iowa, and in Penn Relays at Philadelphia, 1:30 p.m.
Sunday, April 29
Baseball — Interhall league, 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.
Football—1934 Notre Dame Varsity vs. Old Timers, 2:00 p.m., Notre Dame Stadium.
Golf—Interhall play, 9:00 a.m., University Golf Course.
Tuesday, May 1
Baseball — Interhall league, softball, 3:30 p.m.
Wednesday, May 2
Baseball — Wisconsin vs Notre Dame, 2:00 p.m., Madison, Wisconsin.
Thursday, May 3
Baseball — Interhall league, softball league, 3:30 p.m.
Friday, May 4
Tennis — Albion vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p. m., University Courts.
Track—Ohio State vs. Notre Dame 7:30 p.m., Columbus, Ohio.
Saturday, May 5
Baseball — Ohio State vs. Notre Notre Dame, 2:00 p.m., Columbus, Ohio.
Tennis—Albion vs. Notre Dame, 2:30 p.m., University Courts.
GAME BEGINS AT 2:00 P.M.
By John D. Carbine
. Spring practice will be brought to a colorful climax in the Stadium this Sunday afternoon when the Old Timer’s, made up principally of the graduating members of the 1933 team, meets the 1934 varsity composed of the men whom Coach Elmer Layden is grooming to fill the Old Timers’ places.
Coach Layden will start comparatively inexperienced men at three positions. Henry Pojman, who looked so good against Navy last fall, will get the call for center. Bill Shakespeare, who has seen action with the shock troops, will start at left halfback, and Ken Stilley will start at left tackle. Two veterans, Captain Dom Vairo and Wayne Millner, will take care of the ends. If Johnny Michuta’s knee responds to treatment, he will team up with Stilley to fill the tackle position. Schiralli and Schrenk-er will flank Pojman at the guards.
Steve Banas At Right Half
Rey Bonar will bark the signals from quarterback, Johnny Young will play right half and Fred Carideo will take care of the fullback post.
The Old Timers have an unusually strong team this year. They are generally forced to use centers at fullback and guards at halfback but this year’s co-captains, Hughie Devore and Tom Gorman, have had to shift but one man from his customary position. Their line will be big, powerful, and hard charging. Norb Rascher and Hughie Devore will take care of the ends. Last year’s varsity tackles, Ed Krause and Tom Roach, at the tackles will flank Harry Wunsch and Joe Pivarnik at the guards. Kitty Gorman will snap the ball back from center.
Laurie Vejar, the only veteran of last year’s victorious Old Timers, will call the signals. Frank Laborne will play left halfback and Steve Banas, shifted for the occasion, will take care of the right halfback position. Jim Leonard will take up his old duties as fullback.
The Old Timers have been practicing every night this week and seem to have little trouble in.recalling all the tricks of the game. A few have added an inch or two to their waistline, but baseball and coaching has (Continued on Page 16)
April 2 7, 193 4
Eleven
Golfers Seek 1 Oth Consecutive Win Against Purdue Tomorrow
SEEK TO EVEN ’32 SCORE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Notre Dame meets Purdue in golf Saturday. To the majority this match has no significance other than it is the second on the Irish card this spring, that it will provide Captain Vince Fehlig and mates an opportunity to ring up their tenth consecutive victory and bring the Notre Dame golf record to 28 wins in 29 starts.
All this, and more, is involved. The story begins back in 1932. The Irish swingers had piled up a string of 20 straight wins over a period of two and a half years before they met the Boilermakers that spring. The Lafayette swingers stopped the machinery right where it was by eking out a 10 to 8 victory over Captain Bill Redmond’s team.
This defeat, the only one on the Notre Dame four year record, came during the era when victory strings were looked upon as something that only the Notre Dame football team had accomplished. The Irish golfers were gradually being given recognition as a formidable crew of linkmen and consequently were irritated greatly when Purdue slammed the door in their face with victory twenty-one standing in front of them.
The following spring the Irish tee hounds squared matters with the Boilermakers and made them look rather bad to the tune of 15 to 3. The highest Irish medal score that day was 75. Vince Fehlig hit the little white ball only 70 times for medal honors of the day.
Purdue Is Strong-
Tomorrow Purdue will be on hand with its typically strong team. They have been bolstered considerably this year by two sophomores and a junior. Harold Brewer and Ken Dobelbower are the second year men who •will be making their first appearance here. Brewer was runner-up for the Indiana state junior title in 1933 and semi-finalist in the 1932 state amateur. George Craig, a junior, w-ell known around Detroit for his golf game, will be competing for the first time this year.
The squad is completed by Jack Reitemier and William Skinner, ma- • jor lettermen, and Arthur Rockwood. Coach Jack Bixler’s sextet won its opening match from Detroit two weeks ago. Tomorrow’s duel will be the final non-conference match for Purdue before they begin play for the Big Ten title.
After a week’s rest Notre Dame’s mashie wielders are ready to go. Al-
Hall Golf - - -
The golfers from Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard found it a near impossibility to tee off last Sunday in their scheduled qualifying round for the interhall golf crown. Therefore Director Vince Fehlig has moved the scheduled forward so that the three above mentioned halls ■will tee off on this Sunday with Walsh, Sorin, and Corby.
Captain Vince Fehlig has announced that all of the golfers should deposit their score cards in the box outside the club house after they have completed their match. The contestants are also requested to place their name and hall on the outside of their score card.
The eighteen hole qualifying round for the halls this Sunday is scheduled to get under way during the morning. Bulletins will again be posted in each hall. After all of the halls have completed their qualifying rounds the pairings will also be posted in the halls as well as on the clubhouse bulletin board.
Spring Basketball Squad Works Out Under Keogan
The returning members of last season’s varsity basketball team and the aspiring members of the freshman team may be seen any day going-through their early spring limbering-up exercises under the watchful eye of Coach George Keogan.
Four great members of last year’s court squad will be lost this year by graduation; they are Captain Ed Krause, Joe Voegele, Leo Crowe, and Jim Newbold. Coach Keogan has hopes of being able to rely on the remaining varsity players for next season’s team. In the early workouts so far this spring the freshmen have not been able to cope with the varsity players, however, Coach Keogan believes that there may be a few freshmen that will see action next winter.
though handicapped by the typical Indiana weather, their practice sessions give adequate proof that they are in top form. Win Day tied his own course record of 70 last week Johnny Banks, hard-hitting junior star, bagged a 72. The work of Fehlig, Montedonico, Veeneman, and Green has been equally encouraging. All have whittled their scores down during the recent spell of idleness.
Tennis Team Meets Armour Tech Today
The Irish Tennis team, led by Captain Jack O’Hanlon, meet the Armour Tech netmen on the local courts this afternoon in an effort to continue their treatment of the Armour squad started last year, when Notre Dame humbled their rivals on the latter’s courts. The inconsistent weather so far this spring has somewhat hindered the team’s practice, but the matches with Northwestern and Western State last week should have given the veterans enough conditioning to enable them to defeat this afternoon’s opponents.
Besides Captain O’Hanlon, the squad consists of Dick Kelly, Weldon, Waldron, and McNulty, all of whom are expert with the racquets. Kelly and Weldon, it will be remembered, were among the top players in the discontinued tournament last autumn.
Varsity Tennis Squad Is
Picked By Tournament
The playoffs of the annual spring tennis tournament were held last Friday afternoon and resulted in the choosing of the varsity tennis squad for this season.
The nine ranking players chosen as team members are Dick Kelly, Captain Jack O’Hanlon, E. Seward, Frank Weldon, Joe Waldron, Hav-rick, J. Cannon, Kavanaugh, Mike Layden.
The tournament, handicapped during its various stages, was completed in two week’s time. The present squad is not definite. Anyone who is able to prove his superiority over one of the present squad, by match play, will automatically replace that man on the squad. Challenges should be filed with Coach Pedro de Landero.
Laurie Vejar Signs One Year Contract With St. Edward’s
Laurie Vejar, senior member of the 1932 varsity football squad, and coach of freshman football for 1933, has been signed for one year • as backfield coach at St. Edward’s University, Austin Texas, for the schoolyear 1934-35.
Vejar was signed up on April 14 by Father Hugh O’Donnell. He will teach classes at St. Edward’s as well as assist John O’Brien, former Notre Dame star, in all other sports. Vejar will also be in charge of intermural sports.
Coach Vejar returned to the University this week after a two week’s stay at St. Edward’s where he helped to supervise the spring football training.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Baseball Team Meets
Purdue And Badgers
Irish Trackmen Compete In Drake And Pennsylvania Relays Saturday
By Cy Stroker
Notre Dame’s baseball team, after four unsuccessful starts this season, - travels to Lafayette today to play a two game series with Purdue today and tomorrow. Stinging from their defeats of the last two weeks, the p	Irish are determined to make a come-
back against the Boilermakers, who have won two of the three games ’	they have played this season in the
.	Big Ten Conference.
Craig Is Purdue Threat
Purdue turned defeat into victory in a close battle with Minnesota last Saturday, 8-7, by staging a three run rally in the last half of the ninth inning. The Lafayette team was checked in its victory march Tuesday, • however, by the University of Illinois nine, 15-2. The game was saved from a shutout by Craig’s home run with a man on second. Craig, by the way, seems to be the Boilermaker’s biggest threat. It was he who brought in the tying run for Coach Lambert’s men in the Minnesota game. The Purdue pitching strength is concen-’’	trated in a southpaw, Fisher, who
starred in all three of the team’s games this season. The Lafayette nine has not, except for Craig, shown any remarkable ability with the hickory but usually let their victories depend on holding their opponents to a few hits.
May 2nd the Klinemen travel to '	Madison to meet the Wisconsin Uni-
versity nine in a game which promises to be one of the most difficult for the Irish this season. Despite the recent defeat at the hands of Illinois, the Badgers have one of the smoothest clicking outfits in the Big Ten Conference. They have a trio of hurlers on the mound, Vincek, Trav-ek, and Williams, who expect to hold the local team to low scoring.
Kline To Change Infield
The defeats which the Irish have suffered so far this season are a bit unexpected. Individually, and as a group, the team invariably looks good in practice, but in each game the men seem to have great difficulty in handling the ball. The ninth inning rallies, which have twice put Kline’s men on the threshold of victory, have not quite overbalanced the multitude of errors committed in the earlier stanzas.
Jake intends to make some changes in the infield for the games with Purdue in the hope that the new combi-_	nation will click with better success.
‘	He will probably use Raschei- and
Husking on the mound.
April 2 7, 1 934
Interhall
13 ENTER DRAKE RELAYS
Last Sunday saw the Interhall hardball league enter its second week of play with three well played ball games being run off. The soft ball league was less fortunate in that only one of the many scheduled games was played. The rest were won by forfeits. In many cases neither of the opposing teams showed up. It is hoped that these leagues will take on a more lifelike appearance once spring football ends.
In the hardball division, Carroll topped Alumni by a 12 to 10 score. Wally Fromhart, with a home run and two other hits out of three attempts, starred for the dormitory boys. Mormile with another four base clout also did well for the winners.
Freshman, behind the brilliant six hit pitching of Pupilis, whitewashed Brownson Hall 13 to 0. Pupilis, besides his pitching feat, collected four hits himself to help win his own ball game.
The lads from Morrissey packed too much power for the Dillonites, walloping them 14 to 4. Dunn, the sophomore hall hurler, let the opposition down with four scattered hits. Niggro cluoted the ball hard for Morrissey while Gillespie looked good for the losers.
Lyons Defeats Corby
Timely hitting by Joe Waldron and Tom Vicars, coupled with a splendid three hit pitching performance by Jake Turner and John Hunt, put Lyons on the van over Corby 14 to 4. Two beautiful running catches made by Joe Waldron also featured.
St. Edward’s won by forfeit from Sorin, as did Howard when the Off-Campus nine failed to put in an appearance.
In the softball circuit, one game was played last Saturday, Morrissey beating Badin 5 to 1. None of the othei' scheduled games for this day was run off because the clubs did not appear. Last Tuesday Howard won on a forfeit from Off-Campus and Freshman forfeited to Brownson. The
Baseball, Sunday, April 29:
Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s, Diamond No. 1, 9:00 a.m.
Lyons vs. Badin, Diamond No. 2, 9:00 a.m.
Carroll vs. Walsh, Cartier Field, 9:00 a.m.
Howard vs. Freshman, Freshman Field, 9:00 a.m. .
Brownson vs. Alumni, Brownson Field, 9:00 a.m.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Eighteen men will comprise the travelling unit of the Irish track squad which will seek honors at the Penn and Drake Relays Saturday. Under the guidance of Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, and Ar-thus Haley, Business Manager, five men will compete at Philadelphia in the Penn carnival.
Coach Nicholson is sending his shuttle hurdle relay team composed of George Meagher, Carl Link, Jimmy Fagan, and Mike Layden, to the eastern affair. Vince Murphy will make his second outdoor appearance tomorrow in the Quaker City. Meagher will also vie for points in his specialty, the broad jump.
Nick will conduct 13 men to Des Moines, the scene of the annual Drake Relays. Four relay teams will see action there. The one mile crew composed of Bernard, Rubly, Ducas-sa, and Roberts, will be making its first start of the campaign. U.C.L.A. and Texas appear to be the cream of the crop in this race.
Nick After Two Mile Cup
McGrath, Ducassa, Farrell, and Roberts will team up to run the two mile relay. Nick is eager to win this event Saturday because the Irish have two legs on this trophy. Another victory would give the local spikemen permanent possession of the cup. Purdue and Washington State College look too good to allow the Notre Dame quartet to wnn.
Two other teams, the distance medley arid the four mile crew, will also compete. The former race will be handled by Bowdren, Troy, Roberts, and McFarlane. Captain Joe Young, McFarlane, Duke, and Moran will run the four mile event.
Coach Nicholson was displeased with the performance of his men in the Kansas Relays last Saturday. The shuttle team wound up third to the record breaking Kansas State team. The Irish were clocked in 1:02.6. Vince Murphy failed to reach the top in the high jump, having to be content with a tie for second place at 6 feet, 1% inches. Stanbach of Kansas State won the event.
De Landero is Fencing Captain
Carlos deLandero, a junior in the college of Engineering, was elected captain of the 1934-35 Fencing Team at a banquet held in honr of his father, coach of the team, Professor Pedro A. deLandero.
Thirteen
Wildcats Hand Irish
Fourth Straight Loss
The Notre Dame baseball team lost their fourth consecutive game Monday afternoon to a very aggressive nine from Northwestern, 14 to 13. For a while it seemed that the game would have to be called on account of rain, but ’Ole Sol held out long enough to enable the Purple to go back to Evanston the victor by one run.
Going into the third inning the Purple were out in front 8 to 3, enough to win any ball game, but Smith, who had replaced Pederson, suddenly went wild and the Klinemen tied the score. It was in this third stanza that Palmisani hit for the circuit with Vic Mettler on base.
Northwestern garnered six more runs during the course of the seventh eighth and ninth innings. Errors by Cunha and Mettler were the chief factors in putting the Wildcats in the lead.
The Irish nine seemed to be contented to ride along on the tail end of the score until the last half of the ninth inning. Coach Kline sent Lefty Dunn into pinchhit for Cunha after Bill Powell had connected for a two bagger. On the third ball pitched, Dunn took a mighty cut at the sphere and sent it riding over the center fielder’s head for four bases. Three more runs crossed the plate before Reagan left Mettler and Palmisani stranded on the bases.
The box score:
Northwestern (14)
Ab R H P A Sulliv’n.lf 2 3 0 0 0 M’G’nis.lf 2 10 10 G’sauer.rf 6 0 10 0 K’nedy.lb 5 2 113 2 A’g’st’n.2b 5 4 3 3 4 Armq st.ss 6 13 3 2 Culver.cf 4 12 2 0 Mack.Sb 5 10 0 4 Clayb’m.c 4 0 15 0 P’d’rson.p 2 0 0 0 0 Smith.p 0 0 0 0 0 Harris.p 3 12 0 1 Kimball.p 0 0 0 0 0 Dagger,p 0 0 0 0 0
Notre Dame (13)
AbR Kane,3b 5 1
Cunha,2b 5 0
Mettler.ss 6 1
P’ms’ni.If 3 2
Perry.rf 4 0
Reagan.rf 2 0
Sepe.cf 5 2
OCon’r.lb 3 3
Undk’fl’r.c 4 1 Leonard,p 1 0
H’sking.p 3 0 xO’Neil 1 0 xxPowell 1 0 xxxDunn 1 1 xLabome 0 1 zzDevore 0 1
H P A 10 0 0 4 1 3 2 4 2 10 2 10 0 0 0 10 0 3 6 0 0 12 1 0 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 0 10 0 0 0 00 0 0
Totals 44 14 14 27 13
Totals 43 13 14 27 7
x Batted for Underkofler in ninth, xx Batted for Huisking in ninth, xxx Batted for Cunha in ninth, z Ran for O’Neil, zz Ran for Powell
Errors—Palmisani, Mettler, O’Connor, Mack 2, Cunha 4, Underkofler, Augustan. Two base hits—Mettler 2, Kane, Powell. Home runs — Augustan, Harris, Palmisani, and Dunn. Sacrifice — Clayborn. Stolen bases — Sullivan, Mettler, McGinnis. Hits off Leonard, 6 in 21-3 innings; Pederson 5 in 3 innings; Smith 1 in 2-3 inning; Harris 6 in 5 2-3 innings; off Kimball 1 in 1-3 inning. Struck out—by Leonard 1, Pederson 1, Huisking 7, Harris 2. Bases on balls—off Leonard 2, Smith 2, Huisking 1, Lagger 1. Hit by pitched ball—Sullivan 2. Wild pitch—Leonard. Winning pitcher, Harris; losing pitcher. Leonard.	-
Introducing Vince Fehlig
By John D. Carbine	■
Captain of this year’s Notre Dame golf team is Vincent Fehlig, St. Louis, Missouri, who has been a member of the consistently victorious Irish golf teams for two years.
The highlight of Fehlig’s career came last year when he reached the quarter- finals of the National Intercollegiate Tournament. In the qualifying round, Vince shot a 159 and was forced to enter into a playoff ■with seven other contestants to qualify for the four remaining places in
the championship bracket. Vince shot par fours on each of the three holes of the playoff and remained in the running when three of the other contestants faltered and shot fives or sixes.
In his first match Fehlig shot brilliant golf and sent Neil White of Southern California, one of the pretournament favorites and the California amateur champion, down to a five and four defeat. Dixie Gray, of Yale, was Fehlig’s next opponent and after a tight match, the Irish golfer finally eked out a one up victory on the nineteenth hole. Vince was finally eliminated in the quarter finals by Charlie Yates of Georgia Tech.
When the Beaupre brothers, Louie
O’Shea and Larry Mohler were graduated in 1931, a trio of green sophomores had to fill the places left open by their graduation. One of these green sophomores was Fehlig. When the individual averages were figured out at the close of the season, it was discovered that Fehlig had paced the squad with his average of 77.54 for thirteen rounds of competitive intercollegiate play.
Vince started off his intercollegiate career in grand style. The first
meet in which he played was the Valparaiso match in 1932. Fehlig led the field home that day with a brilliant 76 which included four birdies. He defeated Johnny Nath, five and four, in the singles and teamed up with Montedonico to hand Nath and Christy a 2^-% lacing in the doubles.
The following week Fehlig again paced the field when he shot another 76 in the Loyola meet. He defeated Don Cavanaugh, four and two, in the singles and joined Bill Redmond to sweep a doubles match.
Purdue’s golfers pinned a ten to eight defeat upon the Notre Dame teemen that year, but Fehlig with a 77, gave the Irish three points by his (Continued on Page 20)
				
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Maroons Defeat Irish 14 to 12, In Slugfest
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
Netmen Shut Out by Wildcats, West. State
Last Saturday afternoon that band of ball tossers from Chicago University started right in where they left off last season, with two straight victories to their credit, by once again taking the Irish ball-hawks into camp. This time the score read 14 to 12 in their favor.
Notre Dame was away to a 5 to 2 lead after play had terminated in the opening three innings of the ball game. Heavy hitting by Dunn and by Beach had accounted for these early tallies. In the last half of the fifth frame, the Maroon batters got to Sagartz, the starting pitcher for the Klinemen, driving him off the mound after five runs had been
chalked up in their ledger.
Timely singles by Haarlow and Cochran with the sacks loaded drove these markers across the plate. Jim Leonard, the relieving hurler, received the same fate as his predecessor, Sagartz, when another five run splurge was put across by the Windy City men in the last half of the sixth. Joe Mazelin assumed the
role of twirler only to get in a hole in the eighth when Haarlow singled and stole second while Mazelin was walking the batter. Both Chicago runners scored on hits by Langford and Offill.
The game was characteristic of the locals play this season. Sloppy, erratic fielding with no resemblance of co-ordination w’as in evidence. A late rally netted them seven runs, three in the eighth and four in the ninth but they were a bit belated. Bob Langford, Chicago starting pitcher, was yanked in the ninth inning after an error and four successive hits had sent four Irish batters across the plate with none out. Ed Novak’s rescue pitching turned the tide as he retired the next three men in order.
The box score:
Notre Dame (12)
Chicago (14)
AbRHP
Kane,2b Cunha,3b Mettler ,ss Rasch’r.rf Dunn,lb Beach,cf Powell,If O’Neil,c Sagartz.p Leonard.p Mazelin,p xP’misani
4 2 0 2 3 2 11 4 3 3 3 5 4 2 0 5 0 211
5 0 12 4 0 0 0 4 111 2 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 10
A	Ab R H P A
4 W’hling.lf 5 12 0 0
4 B'rks’n.rf	2	3	0	2	1
1 Levin,cf	4	2	0	1	0
0 H’rlow,3b	3	3	3	2	3
0 C’m’f’d.ss	1	2	0	2	1
0 T’mps’n.lb 4 1 111 0
0 Cochr’n,2b 4 0 2 1 4
1 Offill.c 4 112 0
3 L’gford.p 4 110 5
1 Novak,p	0 0 0 0 0
1 -----------------------
0 Totals 31 14 10 27 14
Totals 38 12 11 24 15
x Palmisani batted for Powell in the eighth.
Errors—Kane 2, Cunha 2, Dunn, Beach, Sagartz 3, Haarlow. Stolen bases — Rascher, Haarlow 3, Levin, Comerford. Hits: off Sagartz 5 in 3 2-3 innings; off Leonard 3 in 2 1-3 innings; off Mazelin 2 in 2 innings; off Langford 11 in 8 innings; off Novak 0 in one inning. Base on balls—off Sagartz 2; off Leonard 1; off Mazelin 1; off Langford 3. Struck out by Sagartz 2 ; by Leonard 3 ; by Mazelin 0; by Langford 5 ; by Novak 1. Two-base hits: Kane, Rascher, Dunn, Levin, Thompson. Three-base hits: Beach. Left on bases: Notre Dame 4 ; Chicago 5.
By James S. Kearns
LAST CHANCE
Tom Roach’s Ancients and Coach Elmer Layden’s Hopefuls will put on the last football performance of this school year in the Stadium next Sunday afternoon. It will be the last chance for the student body to see a gridiron performance by such proven worthies as co-captains Kitty Gorman and Hugh Devore, Moose Krause and Mr. Roach himself, Harry Wunsch, Joe Pivarnik, Jim Leonard, Laurie Vejar, Steve Banas, Pid Labome, and the rest of the veterans.
Likewise it will be the first opportunity to see the prospects for 1934 in action against opposition not made up of their fellow squad members. All in all it should be a good game. Ancient or not, the veterans’ eleven will probably be capable of giving their successors a very interesting afternoon.
Just for Auld Lang Syne and affiliated sentimentalities, we expect to see a big crowd in attendance, this being the last local showing of so many popular favorites. But don’t forget that it will be a pretty good game from the competitive angle, and that you will have a fair chance to learn what is to be expected from the Irish of 1934.
HITTING	'
Notre Dame baseb‘all has taken a peculiar turn this year. During the past several seasons the Irish have suffered from a lamentable lack of batting strength. Now, when they find all the offensive punch that could be desired, the fielding folds up. Possibly they’ll come out of their defensive slump pretty soon. If they do, and still maintain their hitting power, Jake Kline’s boys will be a hard bunch to beat.
SPECTATOR
Mr. Shane Leslie, lecturer, who visited the campus this week, spent considerable time and evinced a great deal of interest in watching spring football practice as directed by Coach Elmer Layden.
Mr. Leslie, a Cambridge man, was especially interested in the football equipment in use in America. He had a look at every detail of a regulation uniform here. After comparing the equipment and the methods of training and practice here with those he knows in England, Mr. Leslie concluded, among other things, that the American athletes are better prepared physically, or at least better appearing physically, than are the English collegians.
The Irish tennis team tasted defeat at the hands of the Northwestern tennis squad here last Saturday in the first contest of the season. The score read 6 to 0.
The Irish players were handicapped by lack of practice and a tendency to be erratic at crucial moments. Only in flashes did they reveal the form.that usually characterizes their play. They were able to win but three sets during the afternoon.
Kelly staged a terrific duel with Laux before weakening in the third set and going down to a 4-6, 6-4, 6-1 defeat. O’Hanlon did not play up to par in the singles and was easily vanquished by Tedding in straight love sets.
After losing the first set to Sink, Weldon staged a rally in the second to win with volleys that Sink was unable to handle. In the third set, Weldon tired and went down to defeat, 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.
Joe Waldron gave Fiske a close battle in the first set until the Wildcat player broke through his service in the ninth game and then won his own to take the set. The second set was easy for Fiske. •
In the doubles Kelly and O’Hanlon managed to win the first set from Laux and Fiske before they were blasted from the courts in the next two by the terrific service of Laux and the brilliant net play of Fiske. Weldon and Waldron fared little better in the doubles and lost in straight sets 6-2, 6-3.
Still showing the effects of no practice, a handicapped Notre Dame tennis team suffered its second successive set-back administered by Western State Teachers last Saturday.
Dick Kelly of Notre Dame was defeated by O’Donnell of the Kazoos, but not before he had forced him to the limit. After losing the first set 6-3, Kelly fought gamely to even it up, but lost out after a bitter battle 8-6.
The other singles matches, although lost by Notre Dame showed promise of finer play from the Irish in future engagements. Glazer of Western State outstroked Frank Weldon of Notre Dame to win 6-2, 6-2. Capt. Jack O’Hanlon, slowly rounding into form, bowed before the excellent play of Ferguson of Kalamazoo, 6-1, 6-2. Gurman of Western State won from Joe Waldron of the Irish, 6-1, 6-0.
The summaries:
NORTHWESTERN MATCH
Laux (N) defeated Kelly (ND) 4-6. 6-4. 6-1.
Fiske (N) defeated Waldron' (ND 6-4. 6-2.
(Continued on Page 17)
.	Fifteen
April 2 7, 193 4
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
PRIMO CARNERA not only is the world’s towering and ponderous pugilistic champion, but he is somewhat of a wrestler. While passing through Greenrille, Maine, after he ate two orders of hamburg steak, three cups of coffee, two pieces of pie, four doughnuts and ginger ale, he ordered a raw onion. He refused to eat the tear-inducing vegetable in slices but picked it up in his hand and ate it like one eats an apple. . . . BATTLING LEVINSKY, one time light heavyweight champion, fought more than 500 times in 20 years and earned a total of $600,000. . . . Washington U. is looking forward with keen anticipation to the time when KERMIT WRIGHT, six foot, eleven inch high school star, will become varsity basketball center. . . . It is estimated that there are about 500,000 BASEBALL PLAYERS engaged in pro, semi-pro, college, and amateur competition in the United States. . . . More than 5000 spectators turned out to witness the bouts between the U. of VIRGINIA and the YALE boxing teams.
The first professional billiard player in America of whom there is any available record, was PROFESSOR WILLIAM LAKE, who was active as early as 1820. . . . The favorite Remark of FRANK SCHMIDT, new Ohio State football mentor, when being told of the tremendous ability of some grid foe, is “remember, all of those fellows put their pants on one leg at a time." . . . TED LEWIS, British boxer who won the welterweight title from Jack Britton 19 years ago, still engages in an occasional bout in London. ... A familiar figure at the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs each year is COL. MATT WINN, who attended the first derby in 1875 and has watched each renewal since then. . . . Fifteen men 86 years of age participated in the exercises at the recent TURNFEST in Germany. . . . When WISHING RING won at Latonia to pay the record odds of $1885.50 for a $2 ticket, her owner, Bo McMillan, didn’t have a dime bet on her. . . .
Some kind of a record is due RALPH HAMMOND of the U. of Texas, who wrestled 20,000 matches during his college career without losing a fall. . . . CARL HUBBELL, Giants’ pitching ace, says he only uses his famous “screw ball” about once or twice during a game. . . . DUKE UNIVERSITY elected three
Sixteen
co-captains for its basketball quintet this season. . . . According to reliable estimates, about 20,000,000 ping pong bats were sold in the United States last year. ... Do you know that KRAENZLEIN, the famous athlete of the University of Pennsylvania, won four first places in the Olympic games of 1900 held in Paris? . . . LES PATRICK, manager of the New York Rangers Hockey club, boasts a record that includes seven Stanley Cup triumphs, eight major league captaincies and 22 seasons as a manager. . . . On three different occasions FRANK BOUCHER, of the New York Rangers, has won the Lady Bing cup for clean play.
In the seventh inning of the recent game with Cincinnati, GOOSE GOS-LIN, Detroit Tigers’ outfielder, took such a cut at a ball that he swung completely around and the bat struck him in the nose. His nose bled so profusely that he had to leave the game. . . . The DETROIT TIGERS baseball club recently took out two insurance policies totaling $100,000 on their new manager, MICKY COCHRANE. ... In order to be a cheer leader at the U. of Kentucky one must have six weeks’ training in the art of tumbling, and none will be accepted until they have completed the
OLD TIMERS’ GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
kept Rascher, Krause, Gorman, Devore Vejar, Laborne, and Leonard in fine shape.
Co-captains Hugh Devore and Tom Gorman on the Old Timers will borrow their substitutions from Coach Layden’s squad, and, when the last of the Old Timers finally leaves the field, the game will revolve itself into an extensive preview of the 1934 Irish grid machine.
The game will start at two o’clock, Central Standard Time. Admission for students presenting A. A. books will be ten cents, and for all others a quarter. The proceeds of the game will go to the Monogram club.
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists & Manufacturing Opticians
Burke’s Eye Service
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
EL...............................................          „„„„.................
course and passed the exams on the art of acrobatics. ... Do you know that COMMISSIONER LANDIS was named Kenesaw Mountain because his father was wounded at Kenesaw Mountain, Ga., while a member of GENERAL WILLIAM SHERMAN’S army? . . . BILL SWIFT, Pittsburgh Pirate pitcher, will not autograph a ball on the day that he is to pitch. He considers it a jinx.	■
Go your own way on your own ships
TO EUROPE
COLLEGE men and women are discovering that there is something new in Tourist Class on America’s new liners, the Manhattan and Washington. You’ll find broad, sunny decks high up in the ship; large and beautiful public rooms; modern, well ventilated cabins; tiled swimming pool; air-conditioned dining salon. The Manhattan and Washington, the world’s fastest cabin liners. With their running mates, the President Harding and President Roosevelt, they offer weekly service to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg.
TOURIST CLASS
*113 (up) One Way
*204 (up) Round Trip
Sailings between June 11 to Jub 9 rates slightly higher.
See your local a^ent. His services are free.
UNITED STATES UNES
Roosevelt Steamship Company, Inc , Gen. Ages.
Co*s. Office, 216 N. Mich. Ave.. Chicago, Ill-
228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
The Scholastic
NETMEN LOSE TWO (Continued from Page 15)
Sink (N) defeated Weldon (ND) 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.
Tedding (N) defeated O’Hanlon (ND) 6-0, 6-0.
Laux and Fiske (N) defeated Kelly and O’Hanlon (ND) 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.
Tedding and Sink (N) defeated Weldon and Waldron (ND) 6-2, 6-3.
Western State
Laivin (W.State) defeated Seward (ND), 6-0, 6-1.
Pepa (W.State) defeated Cannon (ND), 6-3, 6-2.
Gurman (W.State) defeated Waldron, (ND) 6-1, 6-0.
Glazer (W.State) defeated Weldon (ND) 6-2, 6-2.
Ferguson (W.State) defeated O’Hanlon (ND) 6-0, 6-2.
O’Donnell (W.State) defeated Kelly (ND) 6-3, 8-6.
Laivin, Gurman (W.State) defeated Weldon, Waldron (ND) 6-1, 6-2.
Pepa, Glazer (W.State) defeated Cannon Seward (ND) 6-0, 6-0.
Ferguson, O’Donnell W.State) defeated O’Hanlon, Kelly (ND) 8-6, 6-4.
MAY ISSUE
Over 170 pages
ON SALE NOW
Dr. E. J. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street
Phone 4-8251
When one hour’s Math, seems like three...
CHECK UP ON
Vitality
WHEN you miss the gist of lectures, anti can’t seem to concentrate; when even campus life seems blue—look to your health!
Your sluggishness may be due to common constipation—a condition which frequently causes loss of appetite and energy, headaches, sleeplessness. This ailment can usually be corrected by a delicious ready-to-eat cereal.
Tests show Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN provides “bulk,” vitamin B and iron. Two tablespoonfuls daily will help promote regular habits. Ask that ALL-BRAN be served at your fraternity house, eating club or campus restaurant.
April 2 7, 19 3k
Seventeen
THE HEIGHT OF GOOD TASTE
Copyright, 1034, I n« American Tobuccu Coiupuny
always in all-ways kind to your throat. 99
ee Luckies are made of only the clean cen-
ter leaves
&
kA ,
It s toasted
* * Ik b h.
K Ik* &>■
►»k k K a. &

8 k I* ik »* k *■ k Mk k It k > $
is round, firm, fully packed—no loose
— the mildest, best-tasting
ends. That’s why Luckies 'keep in con-
tobaccos. And then, 'It’s toasted’ for
throat protection. Every Lucky Strike
V Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat
Only the Center Leaves —these are the Mildest Leaves
dition’—do not dry out. Luckies are
Creamy/'the Crop
Phone z®®*0* 4-5661 Residence 3-4041
DR. E. S. LUCAS
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building South Bead Opposite Oliver Hotel Indiana
Established 30 Years
lemontrees
OPTOMETRISTS
2221£ South Michigan Street
South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — re-. gardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
©
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
X-RAY
Introducing...
(Continued from Page 14)
victory over Johnny Parker, the Purdue Captain. Vince suffered his first defeat against Iowa when Van Epps of the Hawkeyes captured two out of three points in his match with the Irish star. Fehlig shot an 81, his worst competitive round of the year.
Fehlig was the only Irish golfer to win his singles match in the Pittsburgh match the following week. He shot a 79 which was good enough to send Bob Decker home on the short end of the score. Against Detroit Vince shot a 73, only two over par, on the difficult Detroit course. He was out in 37, two over par, and came home in 35, even par. His 73 gave him a one sided victory over Bud Smith. In the doubles, the
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
DETAILS* 225 doy.^
itino 60 port*, m 34
October 4th,	,934/from
Orleon* Odob'r ' 27th,1934/
returnino to Ne	J,75O/
^’V^Sho'r^on*^// Standard Shor
sophomore team of Montedonico and Fehlig added three more points to the Irish total by whitewashing Smith and Wait.	.
Fehlig’s golf slipped a bit in the final dual meet of the season against Michigan State and as a result, Johnny Gostisha took his place on the Irish team in the Indiana Intercollegiate Tournament. Vince was entered in the individual bracket only. Gostisha shot a pair of 83’s for a total of 166, and Fehlig bagged a 76 and a 73 to place third in the medal play. The Notre Dame team of Redmond, Gostisha, Montedonico, and Veene-man placed fourth. With Fehlig playing his customary position, they would have won the meet with a margin of twelve strokes.
The week after the state tournament Fehlig captured the University Championship by defeating his sophomore teammate, Johnny Montedonico, six and five, in the final round.
Last year Fehlig started out strong, experienced a slight slump during the latter part of May, but snapped back into form in time for the Intercollegi-ates. He handily won his first singles and doubles matches against Loyola. The following week, he shot a brilliant par round of 70 over the difficult Lafayette course to turn back Reitemier of Purdue. His winning streak continued as his long accurate shots mowed down Russ Turill of Michigan State in a dual meet with the Spartans.
Fehlig’s slump started in the Illinois meet when he shot a weak 81 while going down to a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Johnny Baker and continued through the Northwestern meet when he dropped 2% out of 3 points to Hal Reed.
Vince snapped out of his slump in June, however, and placed fifth in the Indiana Intercollegiate Tournament before going on to his sensational success in the National Inter-collegiates.
This year Vince shot a 78 to win his first match of the year from Captain Whiting of the University of Detroit golfers. Tomorrow he will lead his mates, in quest of their tenth consecutive victory against the Purdue teemen. ■
"^FLOATING UNIVERSITY"
Arou nd-fhe-World on the VOLENDAM
Ideal education combines STUDY and TRAVEL Here, at last is The Floating University, a college cruising the world ...offering a full year's course of study.
For details write: Dean James E. Lough, 66 Fifth Ave., New York, or
HOLLAND-AMERICA LINE 40 N. Dearborn St, Chicago
The Scholastic
Twenty
MUSIC!
MUSIC!
MUSIC!
“h^usic’s tt|e Tfhing”
Say 65 Singing Linnets
HEAR THEM! - SEE THEM! - ENJOY THEM!
Sunday, Monday and Tuesday
(Evenings)
WASHINGTON HALL
“You’ll talk of this show for years to come.”—N. D. SCHOLASTIC.
“You can’t afford to miss it.”
—N. D. SCHOLASTIC.
“It is worth a week’s run.”
—N. D. SCHOLASTIC.
“ ‘Music’s the thing’—with plenty get-off.”—Rythm Beat, N. D. Juggler.
Ttib	LlSitAKI
-LEMKONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
count on that!
esterfield
/^/Cigarettes
the cigarette paper on Chesterfields
THIS reel of cigarette paper is sufficient to make 42,000 Chesterfield Cigarettes. It is of the finest manufacture.
In texture, in burning quality, in purity, it is as good as money can buy.
Cut open a Chesterfield cigarette. Remove the tobacco and hold the paper up to the light. If you know about paper, you will at once note the uniform texture— no holes, no light and dark places. Note also its dead white color.
If the paper is made right— that is, uniform—the cigarette will burn more evenly. If the paper is made right—there will be no taste to it and there will be no odor from the burning paper.
Other manufacturers use good cigarette paper; but there is no better paper made than that used on Chesterfields. You can
the cigarette that’s MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
© 1934. Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.