REMEDIES FOR THE AILING BCS SYSTEM A LOOK INTO THE MANY LIVES OF FATHER SCULLY
SCHOLaSTIC 04
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE <	11 OCT2001





A.W
Bl
:?WW ^WiBBE
■ISf' ■
-L
: - v^:,	' ■ ■


SCHOOlfS ARE BANNING
" *	■ ■
ON-GAMPUS DRINKING
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.)
J WHERE DOES' ND FIT IN?b



www.nd.edu/~sch olas t
THE ELEVENTH OF OCTOBER '	'
TABLE OF CONTENTS
FYC: Community Composition by Mike Borgia and Jennifer Osterhage
» Thriving on Challenge by Kimberly Blackwell	7
CBL FYC program allows freshmen to reach out to the community while fulfilling their composition requirement. ■
» A New Reign by Brendan Barker
26
» Defining Beauty by Brigid Sweeney
» A Labor of Love by Kathleen Corte
30
32
From the Editor	2	Out of Bounds
ND Notebook	4	Week in Distortion
Campus Watch	21	Calendar
Splinters	27	Final Word
29
34
35
36
fl Sobering Policies
|1 by Matthew Ziegler
|| COVER: Scholastic takes a look at the
|l attitudes surrounding campus drinking and Il the administrative response.
Structurally Flawed by Gerard Meskill .	.
22
I Commentary: A critical look at the current BCS
I ranking system with suggestions for improvement.	■
FROM THE EDITOR


. ■ RESPOND TO: GRIFFIN.41@ND.EDU: ,j
look for
ISSUE 5 on
NOV 1
Back to Normal
As time ran out on the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game, a roar from above stole my attention from the game. I had been down on the field along the ND sideline taking photos for the magazine. When the sound came, my fingers became clumsy, slipping off the camera’s controls. I looked skyward and saw a commercial plane skirt the north side of the stadium. Admittedly, it was not so close that it was a real danger, but it was a bit too low to leave me at ease. And, for an instant, my nerves tingled with terror.
But then the plane passed the stadium, continuing to its destination. Notre Dame Stadium was intact. But my mind was left imagining a plane plowing through the concrete of the stadium, the press box tumbling on top of crumbled stands. Until last month the thought would have been incomprehensible. Now, who knows? Once an impossibility, such destruction isn’t automatically rejected by my mind as ridiculous. Luckily, this was only an imagined genocide.
But this looming uneasiness has persisted since the second week of September —• and more so, since the first air strikes this past Sunday. Every time I return to my dorm room, I stride toward my computer; as I pass the couch, my backpack slides from my arm. I “wake” my computer from sleep mode, and silently click the blue Internet Explorer “e” on the toolbar. Then the Internet address flows unabatedly from my fingers: www.cnn.com. Each time, my foot repeatedly taps the floor during the few-second interval between my little finger striking the Enter key and the appearance of the familiar logo.
I perform my newly adopted routine stoically and purposefully. For the past few days, it’s been news of the strikes against Afghanistan. All day this past Tuesday, it’s been about the U.N.-affiliated workers who were killed when one of our missiles allegedly missed its target. A report of civilian death was bound to come eventually; it came sooner, rather than later. I wearily await another report: one of revenge against the United States for the destruction caused abroad. With Bush’s prophecy that “it is likely the American campaign against terrorism will be lengthy,” I worry about the inevitability — whether it be sooner or later — of such an attack.
They tell us, though, to live our lives. And in that spirit, this is the first issue of Scholastic this year in which the cover has not been related to tragedy. Despite possible charges of triviality at a time of war, we decided to continue living and to get back to Scholastic's normal style. Matthew Ziegler explores changes to the alcohol policy, particularly in comparison to the national trends of on-campus drinking. Many citations last weekend for student tailgaters speak of the university’s desire to further enforce its regulations. Check out his report on page 14.
And despite uneasiness, let us look upward without being afraid.
/nuvn
Michael P. Griffin, Editor
Vol. 143, No. 04* 11 OCT 2001
SCHOLaSTIC
Editor in Chief
Michael P. Griffin
Managing Editor Matthew Barr
j j Associate Editor
Jessica L. Daues
Executive Editor
Sarah Childress
News	.
Matthew C. Ziegler, editor
! Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Katie Freddoso, assistant
! Campus Life
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant
Sports
Gerard J. Meskill, editor
David Murray, assistant
Entertainment	'
Kathleen Gorte, editor
' Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant
Departments
Cristin E. Fenzel, editor
i Design
[ Crissy Manary, editor
! Katie Browning, assistant
. i Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant
j Nick Dailey
I Eric Doversberger
i Nicole Kenney '
Photography
. Katherine A. Foster, editor
Graphic Arts
’ Michael M. delaRosa, editor
Copy
Adam M. Aroian, editor
Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant
Cecilia Hadley
Soquel Harding Kristin Steckbeck
Distribution
Felisia Johns, manager
Advertising
Jessica B. Potish, manager Kyle Zuaro, assistant
Online
• F. Brian Scofield, manager Jamie L. Moran, assistant
Marketing
„ Kristen D'Arcy, manager
Disce Quasi Semper Vic turns Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
~] Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame ; and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be
5 reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer’s name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Katie Freddoso is the official office belligerent.
Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after < publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate
■ is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per ; copy; please specify volume and number, or date.
Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body.
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR
2001
Ayearsago
FILE PHOTO
THE

' CD REVIEW TEN QUESTIONS . JUDGMENT CALLS < : NEWS LISTENING IN DOMELIGHT
What’s for Dinner?
Campus vegans take action to enhance dining-hall options
ANDREAMANKA
11 isn’t easy being a vegan — a person who I doesn’t eat meat, poultry, fish, egg or dairy products — especially in an avidly carnivorous environment such as Notre Dame, where Burger King, chicken nuggets and beef stir-fry make up the typical student diet. Strict vegetarians outside of the Notre Dame bubble typically have a variety of natural-food stores from which to purchase their daily meals. But the only option besides fast food for a vegan stranded on campus might be the dining halls.
Browsing through the dining hall selection, a vegan finds very few meat-, egg-and dairy-less options. To prevent inadvertent animal-by-product consumption, a vegan is limited to salad (without dressing), pasta (often sauce-less, because many marinaras contain beef stock), vegetables (not including collard greens, which are made with ham hock) and bread. As of now, a vegan can’t be sure whether anything besides these foods
contains animal by-products, and no labeling system is in place to indicate which foods are vegan-friendly and which are not. Ingredient lists for dining-hall offerings are not available on the food services’ Web site, food.nd.edu.
But there is light at the end of the vegan tunnel. A group called ND for Animals has been working with-food services to get a vegan selection at every meal. Junior
them in the test kitchen,” Tampe says. “Then, hopefully, there will be one vegan entree at every meal.” She also said that Kalili will work on labeling all the foods that are suitable for vegan consumption. Hopefully, vegan Domers soon will be able to leave the dining hall with a stomach full of nutritious, vegan vittles. □
Lewis
resident
Carolyn Tampe,
head of
ND for
Animals, has been in contact with Reginald Kalili, the assistant director of food-services administration, to remedy this problem. “We’re going to send him recipes, and he said that they would put

g Ten Questions
1 with your favorite senior citizens, the
| GRAB’N’GO LADIES
Vona Salzar (left) and Barbara Quigg (right)
Who hasn't experienced the satisfaction of knowing that $8 of your meal plan just got you a nice paper bag with five items in it from Grab ’n’ Go? But perhaps you can’t put a price on friendly service, always provided by two of our favorite Grab ’n’ Go workers, Barbara Quigg and Vona Salzar. Since Scholastic is so comfortably ensconced in the basement of South Dining Hall, we thought we ’d see what the Grab ’n ’ Go ladies were up to.
First things first — Do you mind being called a “Grab ’n’ Go Lady”?
Barbara: I like being called a “Grab ’n’ Go
Lady.”
Vona: She really prefers to be called a “Sexy Senior Citizen ” but “Grab ’n’ Go Lady” works,
too.
What’s your favorite Grab ’n’ Go item?
Vona: I like fruit.
Barbara: I like the desserts.
What’s your least favorite?
Barbara: I could do without those veggie sticks.
Vona: I don’t think there’s anything I don’t like. ... Oh, wait, Dolly Bars and brownies — they’re a pain in the butt because they’re really hard to cut.
What do you like about working here?
Both: Oh, the kids!
Barbara: They’re great!
Vona: Everything that comes with them, the

4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK

LISTENING
HEY YOU!
11 -1£ :?J !!<□)-.! !>?K' W -1.^'W,16|a.
SCHOLAST@ND.EDU
-/-Jul:
“Even Helen Keller could see the difference.”
— biology professor, emphasizing that students should be able to see the difference between two figures
“[wouldn’t let Bob Davie coach a video game.”
— student overheard in Morrissey Manor
Tourist: “Is St. Mary’s the girl half of Notre Dame?” Tour Guide: “Ask a Notre Dame girl.”
“I vow to get up and shower tomorrow before class instead of just Febreze-ing my hair.”
— student overheard in a female dorm
“Make poetry into a drinking game? That’s gotta be kinda tough.”
— student overheard outside Riley Hall
I 37 Years Ago
1 A Match Made in Stepan
I n October of 1964, Notre Dame hosted I an “IBM Dance” at Stepan Center. Those in attendance waited nervously to meet their dates, which had been chosen by a computer. The matches were based on questionnaires filled out in advance by Notre Dame students and students from other colleges. Unfortunately, tine computer took much longer than anticipated to produce the matches, so only a fraction of them were ready when the dance started. Columnists in the October 9,1964 issue of Notre Dame Scholastic deemed the event a disaster, proposing it be renamed the “Infinitely Botched-up Machine Dance.”
As it turned out, however, the computer actually got one right. A recent Ann Landers column included a letter from a woman who was a student at Rosary College in Illinois in 1964. She showed up at the dance, but thanks to all the confusion, she never met her match and went to a party instead. A week later, she got a letter from her match asking why she hadn’t waited for him. She wrote back, and a month later they met in person. They’ve been married for over 35 years.	.□
— Cristin Fenzel
hype, the enthusiasm.
Barbara: Every once in awhile you come across a pain in the fanny. ...
Vona: Like that'one yesterday....
Barbara: But we really love you kids.
What don’t you like about working here?
Barbara: I hate the computer; it never works right when you need it to.
Vona: It’s a union computer — it works when it feels like it!
Do you have a theme song down here?
Vona: “Who Let the Dogs Out?”
Last year we saw a pretty friendly SDH Grab ’n’ Go with all the pictures of students on the wall. Can we look forward to seeing
something similar to it this year?
Barbara: We’re not allowed to. They told us we had to take it down because it looked too tacky.
Vona: Lots of kids liked it, and they ask us about it, but we can’t complain. We wish we could do it.
How did you start working here?
Barbara: My husband works here, and he heard they needed help, so I stalled five years ago.	.
Vona: I was looking for part-time work a year ago but couldn’t work at night or on the weekends, and they hired me!
Is this a good place to meet guys?
Vona: I think so!
Barbara: Why?
Vona: She means for young girls, not for us.
Barbara: Oh.... I like to play matchmaker, you know, like, “Boy, have I got a girl for you!”
It must get pretty stressful in here during peak hours. How do you make sure that you don’t crack under pressure?
Barbara: We are such a team! Everyone knows what to do, so things always run smoothly.
Vona: That’s what a team is about. Or like when someone asks her something, I answer for her. She gets so mad at me.
Barbara: My little Sir Echo.... Of course, I usually have to do all the work. □
— Kristin Kramer
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5

I Judgment Calls
H Opinions and observations
■ BOB DAVIE
▼ So long, farewell, auf wiedersehen, goodbye.
THE CD REVIEW_____
WIDESPREAD PANIC
Don’t Tell the Band
LABEL: Widespread Records
RELEASE DATE: 09 JUNE 2001
Story by Joanne Davidson Photo courtesy of Widespread Panic
THE MARCHING BAND
1 A reason to go to home football games even if we are 1 -3.
ICEES IN THE HUDDLE
i Too cool! This particular addition to the Huddle couldn’t be more welcome. Quicker than milkshakes and yummy, too!
4^ FISHER “F”
It’s back, and Fisher is no longer just a nondescript cinder-block building. Now, it’s a nondescript cinder-block building with a big, ugly “F” on it.
BURGER-LOVER BURGERS
® They’re new! They’re improved! They taste the way hamburgers should!
With fans ranging from college kids to Al Gore, Widespread Panic’s music is as diverse as the fans who follow it. Straight from their Southern rock roots in Athens, Ga., Widespread Panic returns with its ninth album, Don't Tell the Band. Replete with Southern hospitality, Don't Tell the Band demonstrates Widespread Panic’s range and versatility, while also capturing some of the spirit typically only seen in its legendary live shows.
The album gets off to a kick-start with the raucous ditty “Little Lily,” which might make the listeners think they have accidentally put in the wrong album. It is an adventurous tune that gives the album an edgy start. The Latin-influenced “Casa de Grillo” is another pleasant surprise on what basically is a rock ’n’ roll album.
With the lyrically oriented song, “Down,” Widespread Panic returns to its Southern rock roots but also incorporates a mellower, folksy sound. Band members invite the listener to “take along a few of your favorite things, because you’re going to need them” on this epic musical
journey. Their new album most likely will become one of these favorite things.
Although it is generally classified as a Southern-influenced jam band, Widespread Panic strives to defy any labels. In pushing these borders on musical categories, however, the band loses some of its original characteristics. Instead of sticking to its trademarks of unmistakable rhythm and inspired vocals, the band attempts to traverse too wide a variety of musical genres.
Their attempt at diversity and experimentation is admirable, but the album seems scattered at times.
The last song of the album proclaims, “Just let the music play,” and that it does, but sometimes it’s in too many directions.
Although Don't Tell the Band might seem as though it was haphazardly thrown together, the majority of the songs are catchy, fun and ultimately enjoyable. Toss it in, smile and count down the days until Widespread Panic’s Halloween show in Chicago.	□
If you like	<
some cheese	r
with your	;
Allman Brothers Band...	f
You'll love
Widespread . | Panic.
Oh, the shame. Here's what dining-hall managers estimate was "borrowed" from each dining hall during the first three weeks of this semester:
DomeLights
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL
Source: Barry Bowles, general manager, North Dining Hall
Dinner plates	North 40	South 192
Bowls (brown salad bowls and blue soup bowls)	776	600 .
Plastic tumblers	714	1296
Knives	.	520	900
Forks	700	1200
Spoons	288	1200
Coffee cups	80	n/a*
Travs	75	n/a
Chairs	2	n/a
Decorative plants		2	n/a
Estimated total cost: $4.144.53
* information not available
Numbers have already been corrected for broken items.
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK
THRIVING ON CHALLENGE
The executive vice president is a teacher, scholar, administrator and priest — and loves every minute of it
KIMBERLYBLACKWELL
B A f dk into the fourth-floor offices of the presi-1 f B f dent and executive vice president of the uni-. If w versity, and one immediately is struck by the soft carpet, the immense reception desk and the polished furnishings. Around the corner to the right, a spacious room features a low-slung coffee table surrounded by comfortable chairs and a couch, framed pictures of the pope and the president on the tables and bookshelves, a huge desk and lots of windows. The
man who occupies the office, however, is refreshingly approachable and down-to-Earth. The Rev. Timothy R. Scully, executive vice president of the university, is a cheerful Irish priest and scholar hailing from Winnetka, Ill.
The youngest of four children, Scully attended Catholic grade school and a Jesuit high school, Loyola Academy. He discerned his calling to the priesthood early. “I remember I told my mom and dad I wanted to be a priest when I was in eighth grade,” he says. “I must have decided sometime before that, though, because as long as
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 7
I can remember that’s what I wanted.” Scully entered the seminary while at Notre Dame. He received a bachelor’s degree in economics in 1976 and master’s of divinity in 1979. He was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1981, and he never has regretted the choice. “I absolutely love being a priest!” he says. “I’m just so grateful for the gift of being a priest — it really is a ball.”
But Scully wasn’t quite as sure about what else he should do with his life. “At first I thought I wanted to be a priest-lawyer,” he says. “But Father [William] Lewers, my mentor, said lawyers were a dime a dozen. He wanted me to go to graduate
r
Worthy of an X-File?
:	Scully has achieved so much personally and on campus, it’s spooky
\	A sampling of activities that Scully has been involved in or done person-
i ally over the years:
Service Initiatives. Scully founded the Alliance for Catholic Education program and the Holy Cross Associates.
Study abroad. Scully oversaw the introduction of the new programs in '	Santiago, Chile and in Monterrey and Puebla, Mexico. He directed the moves
i	into historic Newman House for the Irish Studies program in Dublin, Ireland
and into the beautifully renovated classroom building on Trafalgar Square for the London program. He wants to found a new program in Rome. The J number of students studying abroad doubled under his tenure.
।	Scholarship. Twice a Fulbright scholar, Scully has also received grants
from the Social Science Research Council, the Woodrow Wilson Interna-। tional Center for Scholars and the Ford Foundation. He has authored or i coauthored two books about transitions to democracy in Latin America.
i ■ \ ■
j	International Studies. Scully founded the Institute for Latino Studies. He
elevated the level of scholarship in the Keough program in Irish Studies and Nanovic program in European Studies. He is chair of the advisory council for the Kellogg Institute for International Studies.
■ Teaching. As a professor of government, Scully has won the Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching (1993) and the O’Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award (1994).
Student Assistance. Scully helped establish the Office for Students with Disabilities and the University Writing Center.
(Source: University of Notre Dame)
school.” Not wanting to pursue economics any further, Scully eventually was sent to Chile for a year. The experience proved pivotal. “I was sure I was going to hate it — I didn’t even speak Spanish,” he says. “But I ended up loving it.” In Chile, after briefly attending a language school, Scully did development research for the United Nations. He moved to a poor district and eventually began teaching first grade at a local school, St. George’s. The time he spent here, teaching and observing the unstable political situation facing the country, led to his passion for studying democracies, especially those of Latin America. “I was deeply edified to
see the church taking a leading role in de-	g
fending human rights,” Scully says. “I re-	|
ally became interested in what happens to j human rights when democratic institutions collapse, what happens in emergent democ- -racies.”	!'
Scully reluctantly returned from Chile in	\ s
1983 and went west to the University of ■; California, Berkeley, where he earned his master’s and doctoral degrees in political science. It might seem strange that a product of predominantly conservative Notre Dame and the seminary would feel at home at Berkeley, but Scully says otherwise. “Ac- < tually, you’d be surprised — the graduate school is so square!” he says. “And it was , gorgeous. I love the [San Francisco] Bay area.” So much, in fact, that when he was asked to join the faculty at Notre Dame, he hesitated. “I was a bit ambivalent,” he admits. “I’d spent 10 years away —■ after Chile	j
and California, did I want to come back to	:;
Notre Dame?” In the end he decided he did, ;! and he returned in 1989 as a professor in the government department.
Scully still is teaching and enjoying it (his current class is “Leadership and Social ’ Change”), but he has moved far beyond the confines of the classroom over the past decade. Indeed, it would probably be easier	:
to ask in what he hasn ’t been involved over	j
the last 10 years. He has written two books, j one with fellow government professor Scott j Mainwaring. He oversaw the development i of the University Writing Center, the Office for Students with Disabilities and the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. He created the Holy Cross Associates, which places volunteers with the congregation’s ministries to the poor in the United States and Chile. Succeeding the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, he chairs the advisory council for the Kellogg Institute for	।
International Studies. He helped with the	.
restructuring of the financial-aid process ’ and the undergraduate admissions office. As vice president and senior associate provost j (the job he assumed in 1994), Scully also was responsible for greatly expanding and improving the university’s study-abroad programs.
The program Scully may be most proud of, however, is the Alliance for Catholic Education, which he founded in 1994 with the Rev. Sean McGraw. This service program places 80 graduates in 100 underprivi-leged Catholic schools throughout the South for two years. At the end, students receive master’s degrees in education. “My involve-
8 SCHOLAST1CCAMPUS LIFE
RRHY
“I just roll up my sleeves and get out there ing the steam tunnels and the food-processing . building, going to the dining halls, climbing on .
visit-
; construction sites, you name it.” .
r :	REV TIMOTHY SCULLY
p	EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF NOTRE DAME
ment with the ACE teachers has been the
most meaningful ministry,” Scully says. “They’re among the best people we’ve got at ND. It’s sometimes a mystery to me why so many wonderful people would choose to forego the other careers they could have had to teach. I really believe it is the moving work of the Holy Spirit.”
cully is a visible figure around campus, whether walking through the halls of Fisher (where he chose to live because the Rev. Richard Warner, a friend and mentor, lives there as well) or chatting with deans on the quad. Recently, however, he was spotted in a more unusual place: checking out the view from atop a 45-foot cherry picker near D6. “It was a blustery day, but I really liked the view,” he says with a grin. It turns out that was the point: In his capacity as coordinator of campus construction, Scully has been trying to find the best place on campus to site a new hotel, which is proposed to re
place the Morris Inn. “The first site, by the
new bookstore, is not a very interesting place,” he says, noting that a cemetery would be the main view for one wing of the building. On the other hand, he says that putting the new hotel on the Security Building’s current site is a much more appealing prospect. “From a third-floor perspective there, you can see unfolding in front of you the whole history of the university,” he says enthusiastically. “Besides, I’ve had my eye on that old Security Building for a long time. I think it has to go.” Decision made.
Scully has many other responsibilities as executive vice president, including the oversight of business and human resources for 3,900 employees and the management of the endowment. The $3 billion endowment is the 18th largest in the -country. It might seem like a daunting list, and Scully admits that when the Rev. Edward Malloy, the university’s president, asked him to move up from his former po
sition in March 2000, he wasn’t completely ready for the transition. “Really, very little has prepared me for this,” he says. His characteristic enthusiasm for learning the job was evident from the start, however. “I’m learning a ton,” he says. “I just roll up my sleeves and get out there — visiting the steam tunnels and the food-processing building, going to the dining halls, climbing on construction sites, you name it.”
By all accounts, he has been extremely successful in his endeavors. In fact, with his reputation as a scholar and teacher, his administrative experience and his charismatic personality, Scully is seen by many as a potential future president of the university. Does he want the job? He dismisses the question gracefully. “I wouldn’t look for it,” he says. “What I most enjoy in my life is being a priest, teaching, living in Fisher, going to Latin America. ... I don’t even think about [being president].”
Of course, the job is filled at the moment. But if a vacancy ever arises, Scully might have a unique advantage: The pope likes him. “Ah, yes — that’s a funny story, actually,” he says sheepishly. He doesn’t like to tell it — but obliges when pressed: When then-executive vice president the Rev. William Beauchamp, Malloy and Scully went to Rome several years ago, they discussed how they would greet Pope John Paul II when they met him. Scully said he would kiss the pope’s ring, but the others said that was old fashioned and that
shaking hands would be the most appropriate thing to do. When they held their audience, Malloy and Beauchamp were introduced — “Father Edward Malloy, University of Notre Dame, in America” — and the pope nodded and shook their hands. Then Scully stepped up and asked if he might have permission to kiss the his ring.
“He grabbed my shoulders and gave me that big Polish smile and said, in English, ‘You are good man!’ ” Scully says, laughing. “So I turned to Father Beauchamp after we left and said, ‘You know, the Holy Father says I’m a good man and after all, he’s infallible....’ ”
Whatever the case, Scully is both well-respected and well-liked, and, by all accounts, he is extremely competent at his job. While the papal pronouncement may not be infallible :— Scully would be the first to say so — it seems clear that the university does indeed have second in command “a good man.” □
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9
r
New CBL FYC program brings service into the classroom
M1KEBORGIA & JENNIFEROSTERHAGE
TEACHERS AND MENTORS Not only do freshmen tutor students at the Robinson Community Learning Center but they also are role models.
I n one of Basil Moreau Convent’s tiny, ster-I ile bedrooms sat Sister Mary Duane, em-I bittered by a life of tragedy and withdrawn from the only community that she had. “I hate the baby games that they play,” she said, referring to the typical afternoon activities at the home for retired nuns with Alzheimer’s disease. Originally from Spain, she spent most of her day reading and reflecting, refusing to associate with her peers or even to leave her room when not absolutely necessary. Then, just when she began to accept her daily misery, a ray of light forced its way into her dark and secluded life.
This light entered in the form of Alejandra Fabrega, a Notre Dame freshman who is attending school in the United States for the first time. A fellow Spaniard, Fabrega was assigned to weekly one-on-one sessions with Sister Mary Duane. Though resistant at first, Sister Mary Duane opened up when her ears caught the first words of Spanish that she had heard in years. For the next two hours, she talked about her home and her family, finally able to express the feelings and memories that she had hidden for so long to someone who could understand.
At the end of the session, Sister Mary Duane made the trek to the front of the building with her new-found friend at her side. She looked a bit apprehensive, as she had not faced the
other nuns in months, but she continued on until she had reached the door. She bade Fabrega farewell and even introduced herself to the other freshman volunteers. She would return to her room to read again, but she had made a connection — a little light of hope in a dark and lonely world.
Relationships such as this reinforce the goal that Community-Based Learning First-Year Composition seeks to accomplish: To foster a sense of community between Notre Dame students and the surrounding area. The program began informally in 1999 when professors Rebecca Davis, Ed Kelly, April Lidinsky, Christine Venter and Sean O’Brien integrated service requirements into their composition sections. The professors, along with the University Writing Program Director, Stuart Greene, were looking for a way to share the value of community service with their students.
Kelly, a teacher at Niles High School in Niles, Mich, for 31 years, got involved with community service through the classroom when he began teaching a course called “Service Learning and Literature” 13 years ago. “I have been so richly rewarded through my experience with [the elderly] that it made sense to me to implement such a program there,” he says. “While contemplating retirement and looking for meaningful ways to spend my time, I learned that [Greene] was looking at ways to integrate community service into the curriculum.”
At the program’s inception, these courses were treated as regular FYC sections, meaning that students were placed in them randomly. Problems ensued, as some of the students enrolled felt unfairly burdened by the extra time commitment, while others in standard sections were upset that they were not given the opportunity to participate.
The following year, the professors coordinated their efforts with the Center for Social Concerns, and the program gained official recognition from the university. Since then, students have had the option of enrolling in a CBL
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE
course to satisfy the composition requirement. Five or six sections of the course meet each semester, and students generally can choose from five to seven sites at which to serve. Each student spends two to three hours each week at a chosen site.
Aside from the weekly community-service requirement, the CBL sections differ from their standard counterparts in content and focus. “The course allows students to consider and experience issues they read about and to see how they play out in society,” Venter says. “It’s consistent with the university’s social-justice commitment.”
Although the courses still contain a great deal of reading and analysis, they offer participants unique writing opportunities. “It is undoubtedly my favorite class,” freshman Andy Callan says. “Discussing writing in a class is one thing, but going out and gaining life experiences and being able to relate them through writing is entirely another.”
Former CBL students, like sophomore Keri Oxley, have given the program high praise. “I feel the CBL FYC program is an excellent opportunity for freshmen to get involved in various service initiatives at the beginning of their Notre Dame experience,” he says. “The pro
gram does an incredible job of synthesizing the social issues you see outside the classroom with the academic knowledge and discussions you receive during class time, and it gives freshmen the chance to pop out of the Notre Dame bubble and open their eyes to the local concerns right at our own doorstep.”
For several hours each week, the students cross that doorstep and adopt the troubles of the South Bend community as their own, working to achieve social justice. They are displaced from their typical university surroundings and absorbed into those of the marginalized and the less fortunate. “I feel that the community-based learning aspect of FYC gives us the chance to step outside of our comfort zone,” says freshman Amelia Hoffman, who works at the South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility. “I normally would never have gone inside a prison, but instead [would have] labeled these teens as dysfunctional. But after tutoring and reading with them, I have totally rethought my opinion of people in prison. These are regular kids who happened to make some mistakes. In the classroom we constantly talk about community, but we really learn what a community is by forming one with people outside of the Notre Dame campus.”
Andrea Mechenbier, a coordinator at the
AN AVID AUDIENCE Program participant James Bakes tutors a child at the Robinson Community Learning Center.
a
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11
Robinson Community Learning Center, notes the value of the students’ service within the South Bend community: “It is so important for the children at the [center] to be in one-on-one relationships with ND students who provide not only academic assistance, but, more importantly, good role models and the presence of someone who truly cares about them and their futures.”
But students are not merely ministering to the underprivileged —■ they benefit from these friendships as well. The relationships fostered by CBL FYC demonstrate the idea of community service as a two-way street, a relationship that enhances the lives of both parties involved. Freshman Cara Spicer has experienced this mutually beneficial relationship in her work at Basil Moreau Convent. “I love working with elderly people,” she says. “You can be yourself and not worry about what others are thinking, and listening to the stories and problems that the nuns have gone through is rewarding and intriguing.” Venter has been pleased with the students’ reaction. “They’re getting insight into issues they hadn’t considered before,” she says. “It shows that we’re part of a broader community, that students are willing to interact.”
The service-learning of Notre Dame students not only will touch the lives of the individuals involved, but also will foster community spirit between the university and the city. “Although many students do service off campus, few have the chance to really reflect on those experiences and intellectualize the greater social issues that many citizens of South Bend face,” Mechenbier says. “I believe that FYC will help students understand the social and economic situation of many South Bend community members while building true relationships and friendships between students and residents.”
Kelley agrees. “Community is an important component in our lives,” he says. “The more we can build it, the better our world will be, so we start small and try to spread the wealth by connecting [or] bridging with folks in the South Bend community, and so on. Through this process, and by heightening awareness of socialjustice issues, I hope to establish a consciousness that will lead to the development of a habit of service in my own life and in the lives of my students.”
Each student participating in CBL FYC has the potential to be a light in the life of another human being, just as Fabrega has become for Sister Mary Duane. By starting small and “spreading the wealth,” the community built in these relationships will provide the light of hope in the lives of many.	□
F
SirvicOfiiF
MIKEBORGIA	!
■. - .... < . ■■■-':■ F ■'	" ■■■■■ :	F F ; < ;F- ■-.Fi
Holy Cross Care and Rehabilitation — Notre Dame volunteers assist the elderly through either one-on-one..
. . visits or by helping to’coordinate various activities.
South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility •—Notre ;
Dame CBL FYC participants tutor students in the South ; I • Bend; Juvenile Correctional Facilities Education Program, ; which serves a diverse group of adolescents ranging in age
from 13 to 18 years of age. Many of the students have a history of truancy and have little interest in education.
I ' F ’ ■ .	■ ■ ■ ■
. . /
Charles Martin Youth Center — CBL FYC volunteers tutor for the SUCCESS program, which stands for “Strengthening Urban Communities and Children through Educational and Self-Esteem-building Strategies.” They build, mentoring relationships and participate in cultural and educational activities with .South Bend-area students in a safe, positive . . environment,.emphasizing academic achievement and
cultural enrichment. .
Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County — Volunteers participate in tutoring programs to provide homework help-and.to encourage.the children to become ^self-directed : - learners.
Robinson Community Learning Center — Notre Dame \ : student volunteers are involved with tutoring in the after-• school program and serving as tutors for students in the
ESL programs. The center is an educational-outreach effort ’ of the university to strengthen its interaction with the Northeast Neighborhood..
Center forthe Homeless — Notre Dame volunteers tutor in adult education, assisting with educational goals such as . obtaining a GED or applying to college. They, also mentor f and tutor elementary-age children and teenagers in the"
- Resilience Youth Group.	. '	:
Basil Moreau Convent — Notre Dame students serve
F nuns.diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease through . , j one-on-one visits and by helping to coordinate a variety of I activities. These include service projects, games and p currenbevents presentations.
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE
PAID ADVERTISEMENTS
Spring Break!
$10
Initial Deposit
Offer ends 10/19/2001
Cancun from $999 (based on Quad Occupancy) March 2-9 or 9-16
Puerto Vallarta from $939 (based on Triple Occupancy) March 3-10 or 10-17
Prices Include:
/ Motorcoach from your college to the airport (Groups of 6 or more)
/ Non-stop service out of Chicago
/7 nights at a great hotel right on the beach
/ Airport/Hotel transfers
1-800-643-4604
EB FunJet
tHlVacahons
www.edgertonstravel.com
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS
how the other half loves
•BY ALANAYCKBOURN .
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL	. X./ ... *' ‘J
RESERVED SEATS $10, SENIOR CITIZENS $9, ALL STUDENTS $7
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER’ 10.......;...CC...........>3d'P.M:
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11	..........;?7;30 P.M?
. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12 .........................7:30	RM.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13.... .SUNDAY, OCTOBER 14 ;...     ..-2:30	P.M..
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT -CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 .< .	. ..	.. ?	' .
14 SCHOLASTICNEWS
by Matthew Ziegler
G olden helmets, Quarter Dogs and sobriety. Is this the new Notre Dame? For as long as any students can remember, alcohol has had a near-religious affiliation with our campus culture. Efforts to discourage intoxication always have had a voice, but only recently has it became loud enough to be heard over the noise of dorm parties and tailgates.
The administration, naturally, has a lot to do with this change. Studies emphasizing the destructive nature of “binge drinking” abound, and Notre Dame already has a more liberal drinking policy than most campuses. By tightening the enforcement of du Lac policies and providing funding to alcohol-free groups, it appears that Notre Dame wishes to create a campus culture in which those who do not drink feel as welcome — and have as much fun — as those who do. But will this work? Or will it merely pierce the bubble of on-campus socializing, spilling recreational activities out into the streets of South Bend?
Two sections of the du Lac alcohol policy — those on intoxication and abusive drinking — were modified for the 2001-02 school year. The definition of “abusive drinking” was expanded to include the use of alcohol in conjunction
with “prescription or over-the-counter” medications. This is hardly aimed at limiting the drinking culture, and probably is a response to incidents on other campuses involving cough syrups and prescription painkillers. The amendment to the definition of “intoxication,” however, is a major indicator of the university’s intents. For the first time, the actual symptoms of intoxication have been detailed, and a distinction between moderate inebriation and severe has been demarcated:
Symptoms of intoxication include slurred speech, impaired motor coordination and balance, loss of good judgment and/or nausea. Symptoms of severe intoxication may include the inability to walk or stand, loss of consciousness, or vomiting.
This policy change is being accompanied by a greater adminis
trative effort to enforce du Lac policies, and perhaps this is the element of the evolving alcohol policy that will affect students the most. Rectors have been instructed to report all incidents of “severe intoxication” directly to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, and to do likewise with second offenses of moderate intoxication.
What spawned this change?
Universities across the nation have been responding to a plethora
98 percent of students have never been in trouble with a college administrator because of drinking related behavior problems
— From a nationwide survey of 168 colleges and universities printed in Journal of Alcohol and Drug Education
of studies and surveys released in the late 1990s that focus on the rising amounts and effects of “binge drinking” on college campuses. Henry Wechsler, director of the College Alcohol Study, conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health, and produced the most influential and well-publicized report on American campus drinking cultures. Following the frequently accepted definition that “binge drinking” requires the consumption five consecutive drinks for men and four consecutive drinks for women, Wechsler showed that the number of students bingeing was 15 percent higher in 1999 than in 1993. Quoted in the March 10, 2000 issue of the Harvard Gazette, he said, “It is disturbing that these findings show an increase in the most extreme and high-risk forms of drinking ” His findings alarmed many university administrations, including our own.
SCHOLASTICNEWS 15
J
Similar studies abound, many citing the hazards universities face in allowing underage student drinking. One, publicized by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a nutrition and alcohol-advo-cacy group based in Washington, showed remarkable financial damages caused by underage drinking, much of which happens on college campuses. For instance, the cost of underage alcohol-related violent crime (not including traffic incidents, suicides or poisoning) was estimated at $29.4 billion annually. By their own statistics, this averages out to approximately $2,800 in violent-crime costs
» INCREASING THE RISK
Ava Preacher comments on drinking and sexual assault.
ast February, Dean Ava Preacher was named as the university’s first resource person for victims of sexual as
sault. Scholastic interviewed her about heropinions on the drink- . ing culture at Notre Dame and its correlation to sexual assault. Her first response: “They are hand in hand. There is no question that alcohol is involved in most rapes, particularly at colleges.”
Clearly, Preacher would like to see alcohol treated more responsibly at Notre Dame. But she does not feel that administrative regulation is the answer: Tthink it’s a futile effort ... I don’t think enforcement will stop students from drinking.” If anything, she feels, it will serve only to drive alcohol consumption — and the socializing that accompanies it — off campus. (Although, she asserts, drinking on campus promotes a false sense of security, and probably is no safer than drinking off campus.)
Is there an answer? “Change will have to come out of the student body,” Preacher believes. And she thinks that students are beginning to realize the damaging effects that excessive consumption have on the campus community, particularly as sexual assault becomes increasingly publicized.
Preacher offers some advice in addition to the usual admonitions not to accept drinks from strangers and to carefully guard one’s beverage. “Use the buddy system,” she urges students. Too often, the “I thought they were with you” mentality leads to a missing friend at the end of the night.
Furthermore, she warns those who become intimately engaged while intoxicated, even if consent is implied or assumed. To the males: If the other party is drunk and consent is not absolutely established, “you may think she has consented, but the law says she didn’t ” And she reminds female students that “the ‘no’ can’t come after the fact.” While “getting her drunk” .certainly is not “getting her permission,” females must be very cautious not to give the wrong impression in a potentially sexual situation.	.
Her final word is equally applicable to both genders: “When : alcohol is involved, the lines become so blurred that you may find yourself in a lot of trouble.”
per underage drinker per year. For traffic incidents, the estimate was $1,840 per drinker per year. Even drowning was listed as a financial burden, with $426 million spent annually. The Center for Science in the Public Interest responded to Scholastic’s inquiries about the origin of these statistics that this study was “a Department of Justice sponsored report.”
David J. Hanson, a sociology professor at State University of New York College at Potsdam, suggests that such statistics are questionable and might be falsely coloring administrative attitudes. He has spent the last 30 years attempting to clean up false impressions created by heavy and often skewed media attention to college alcohol studies. In a report printed in the Journal of Alcohol and Drug Education in 1996, Hanson gives his findings from a nationwide survey at 168 colleges and universities:
•	98 percent of students have never been in trouble with a college administrator because of drinking-related behavior problems.
•	93 percent claim never to have received a lower grade because of excessive drinking.	.
•	93 percent have never gone to class under the influence of a bout of excessive drinking.
•	90 percent have never “damaged property, pulled a false alarm, or engaged in similar inappropriate behavior because of drinking.”
In fact, findings that contradict the dismal statistics permeating public opinion are available from a variety of reputable sources. The National Survey Results on Drug Use, 1975-2000, conducted by the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research, in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is one such source. Two promising trends were uncovered: First, the number of college students who choose not to drink is at its highest point in two decades; second, the number of students who binge drink (assessed as the number of students who had “binged” in the two weeks before taking the survey) has remained constant since 1993 at 40 percent.	.
The University of California Los Angeles’s Higher Education Research Institute reported in 1997 that the proportion of first-year students who consume beer was at its lowest level in thirty years. Other alcoholic beverages followed similar trends.
Even the notorious Wechsler report agrees: Between 1993 and 1997 the number of students at American universities who abstain from alcohol leapt by 22 percent. .
What is the problem relating these statistics and public opinion? A major reason, argues Hanson, is the dubious definition of “binge drinking,” a phrase which has been excessively used in the recent commotion over alcohol use on campuses:
- To most people, binge drinking brings to mind a self-destructive and unrestrained drinking bout lasting for at least a couple of days during which time the heavily intoxicated drinker “drops out” by not working, ignoring responsibilities, squandering money, and engaging in other harmful behaviors such as fighting or risky sex.
He claims that this idea is consistent with dictionary and literary definitions; it is also corroborated by Marc Schuckit, editor of The
16 SCHOLASTICNEWS
Journal of Studies on Alcohol, and by clinical definitions.
We are faced with, then, an inconsistent use of the term “binge,” pervading the public’s assessment of collegiate drinking trends. University President Edward Malloy, according to Office of Alcohol and Drug Education literature, “has publicly stated that as many as 50 percent of Notre Dame students have been or are binge drinkers.” The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is careful to point out that “binge drinking,” by its definition and the one that most recent studies have used, “does not necessarily mean intoxication.” But if this is the case, then why does the university study it in such depth? Clearly, the concept of intoxication is what du Lac and the administration wishes to address.	-
According to the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, “Dr. Wechsler consistently found that alcohol-related problems began to increase significantly at this level of drinking [intoxication].” These problems include public misconduct, such as damaged property, pulled fire alarms and driving under the influence. Suicide also is mentioned as a possible side effect, although alcohol abuse
“We always have looked to curb the
abuse of alcohol, [but] this [weekend]
was the first time we’ve made a
concerted effort to cite people.”
>> REX RAKOVy, D
might be more a symptom of suicidal depression than vice-versa. Absence from class is another trend encouraged by “bingeing,” as are memory loss and nausea. Probably the most important problem that is encouraged by this type of behavior, though, is sexual assault. (See sidebar: A Conversation on Alcohol with Dean Preacher.) But again, this type of activity revolves around true intoxication, not a diluted concept of “bingeing”; thus, it is improper to statistically associate these misbehaviors with it.
Notre Dame’s treatment of drinking has, for most of its history, been very tolerant. Why would we have harbored these attitudes for so long if they are as dangerous as we are being told they are?
Ruth Engs is a professor in the department of Applied Health Science at Indiana University who specializes in alcohol research. In the mid-1990s she published a report titled “Protestants and Catholics: Drunken Barbarians and Mellow Romans?” that attempted to explain the historical influences behind the modern rift between Catholics and Protestants in attitudes toward alcohol consumption. The conclusions were surprising: If Notre Dame’s stu
dent body wishes to excuse its drinking culture merely “because we’re Irish,” perhaps we should think again. In fact, according to Engs, acceptance of immoderate alcohol consumption is a broadly Catholic phenomenon. Or, more specifically, what many Catholics consider moderate is, in Protestant eyes, often immoderate. (Hence, what many Notre Dame students consider to be an evening of un-
KATE FOSTER
Bud


winding is billed as a “binge” by the popular definition.) Indeed, it is mostly Protestant northern European countries that have published almost all of Europe’s major studies on alcoholism and alcohol-related social problems in the last few decades; on the contrary, Catholic southern European researchers tend to focus on the therapeutic effects of alcohol and its cultural importance. She notes, “People in [southern Catholic] wine drinking cultures generally do not hold negative views about alcohol, or perceive problems from its use, even though they consume two to four times more pure alcohol than northern cultures.” American society, influenced by a history of powerful Protestant temperance movements, continues to scrutinize this largely Catholic mindset.
This might be reasonable, and it is tempting to excuse the abuse of alcohol by recalling our .cultural heritage. But intoxication leads to serious problems, and our campus has had to deal with them.
SCHOLASTICNEWS 17
s
Gina Firth, director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, admits that rates of alcohol abuse have decreased significantly at Notre Dame, and she says that the notion that binge drinking is rising uncontrollably in campus communities has been “built up by the media, but it simply isn’t true.” But, she points out, “alcohol abuse is a problem regardless of how many people are doing it,” and this is at the heart of Notre Dame’s effort to reduce it. Even though “binge drinking” has decreased, Firth says, 20 percent of students still do it. “This is a serious community problem, because everyone is affected by this in one way or another.” In other words, abusive drinking is not a problem exclusive to those who do it — it has a damaging community effect. The alcohol policy is often misunderstood by those who think that, as long as they are behind closed
>> GINA FIRTH Director of the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education
“Choosing to abuse alcohol and get drunk is everyone’s business.”
doors, they can do whatever they want. “Choosing to abuse alcohol and get drunk is everyone’s business,” she says.
Firth points out, however, that her office is not “the abstinence police,” and that it does not wish to “bring back Prohibition.” But, she says, “Alcohol abuse isn’t consistent with the values and sense of community and health that ND promotes,” and for this reason she wishes to cut down on the sense of expectation that surrounds drinking on campus.
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education has taken many steps in this direction, and Firth believes that it has been quite successful. “We’ve seen that by simply telling the truth, drinking starts decreasing.” The office has launched what Firth calls a “social norming campaign,” which aims to publicize statistics on how much drink-
ing actually goes on at Notre Dame to the student body. She says that freshmen particularly seem relieved to hear these numbers, because it helps them realize that they do not have to drink to make friends or to have a good time.
Unfortunately, Firth also predicts an increase in the number of Res Life referrals this year. Amidst all the positive work done by informational campaigns and increased funding for non-alcoholic activities, the university still is cracking down on abusive drinking. This is a coordinated effort: from one direction, it hopes to relieve those who are unsure of whether or not to drink of the pressure to do so; from the other, it plans to forcibly terminate the reckless ■ behavior that gives such a negative image to campus drinking.
Rex Rakow, director of the Notre Dame Security-Police Department, alludes to a “renewed emphasis this year” on enforcement of the alcohol policy. “We always
18 SCHOLASTICNEWS
□
our apartments — and it cannot be ignored by students.
have looked to curb the abuse of alcohol.” But, he adds, “this [weekend] was the first time we’ve made a concerted effort to cite people.” More than 60 people were ticketed, either by the university or by Indiana law enforcement, at the tailgates before the Pitt game. Time will tell whether this actually suppresses abusive drinking, or if it merely pushes it under the table.
Clearly, the administration is taking alcohol abuse more seriously than it has in recent years. This reaction might be based on misleading statistics, and some of the enforcement that accompanies it might be implemented in a questionable fashion. But it is real — it is in our dorms, at our tailgates, and even in
» BAR CRAWL
An examination of off-campus drinking policies
A ny successful attempt to curb on-campus drinking must be /A accompanied by an equal effort in the surrounding community. Here is a look at some of the reactions of off-campus institutions involved in alcohol consumption and enforcement.
Benchwarmer’s Sports Lounge: According to Steve Mitchell, the owner of Benchwarmer’s, last year’s notorious police raid “didn’t hurt us at all.” In fact, the bar saw an increase in student patronage after the bust. Mitchell says that he prefers to tightly regulate underage drinking in his establishment because “if [students] can’t get in when they’re 20, they’ll come more when they’re 21.” As a result, two forms of ID are required for entry, and in-comers are videotaped. Mitchell says that he has had no problems with violent behavior and that he would not involve the university if he did. ‘Tm not their dad,” he says.
Boat Club: Mary Henderson, a bartender at the Boat Club, also has noted an increase in student customers since last year’s Benchwarmer’s raid. She was quick to add, however, that these students are 21- to 25-year-olds, since she says that minors are unable to get past the front door. “There are always under-agers that try, but they don't get in, because the bouncers don’t let them in if their IDs are fake,” she says. The club requires one form of ID and has stopped using a scanner, but the bouncers typically quiz entrants on the information on their IDs. Henderson justifies this measure by saying that the club desires to curb underage drinking. It denies that it relays disciplinary information to the university.
Belmont Beverages: Mary Beth Lang, the manager of the Edison Road Belmont location, complains that the proliferation of sophisticated fake IDs makes it increasingly difficult “to tell the real from the fake.” She wants the university to provide an ID scanner for the es-

tablishment, “especially when we’re right across the street.” It is Belmont’s policy to confiscate IDs that are clearly forged, but they do not generally contact the police unless the buyer refuses to back down. Lang says that students do not usually make trouble for her store: “They just say, ‘damn,’ and go back to their room and make a new one.”
South Bend Police Department: Corporal Steve Goen is not aware of any formal link between his department and the Notre Dame Security-Police Department. “We go on complaints,” he says. “We don’t go down the street looking for parties.” But if a minor is caught drinking at an off-campus event, "he’s going to be charged with a minor in consumption.” If the student is carrying a fake ID as well, he says that charges will be compounded. The accused can refuse a Breathalyzer test, but the result is an automatic one-year suspension of one's driver’s license. “If you get one [complaint], the guys [officers] will go out and tell them to calm down,” Goen says. “If they are cooperative, chances are that we'll back off. If we get a second call, dhances are we’ll shut it down. We’re not going out there a third time.” South Bend police sometimes call the university to request that campus authorities pick up students who are found extremely drunken. “Sometimes this causes more problems for the students, but it does eliminate paperwork for us,” Goen says.
Turtle Creek Apartments: According to a Turtle Creek administrator who declined to be named, the complex is unaffiliated with the university; thus, it does not look to enforce university rules. Two police officers usually are on duty to respond to complaints, but students “are paying to live here, and if they choose to drink, we’re not going to do anything about it unless it gets out of hand. We’re not their mom.”
SCHOLASTICNEWS 19
a
SUBSCRIBE TODAY
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni
the latest campus news and sports
; in-depW^coveragE of carri'pu^/issues
V
reviews, of campus Entertainment
f, < off-the-.wallJ^umor
2001 Indiana Collegiate Press Association	)|	I II *
News Magazine of the Year	I	I 1^^
understand campus events even when you’re not on campus
ISSUES	DOLLARS
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR'^^^^
NAME: _
ADDRESS:
SEND THIS FORM AND	I
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE	I
315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I NOTRE DAME, IN 46556	-	1

The Gipper was accidentally reading The Observer a few mornings ago (he had not quite woken up yet — he thought it was Common Sense) when he saw a reference to Bill “Officer Willy” Kirk handing out citations at tailgates. First he thought, “Isn’t that sort of like the attorney general giving speeding tickets?” But the thing that really caught the Gipper’s attention was that, unbeknownst to him, he could get a Res Life sentence for “blatant disrespect for uni
versity policy.” Now, the Gipper has made a few enemies on the administration, and he’s getting worried that this catchall could be used against him next time he associates a prominent administrator with unsavory language.
Of course, maybe the administration is justified in this assault on good times. After all, tailgating does seem to cause some riotous behavior on this campus. Consider the Michigan State game. One avid tipster, in an attempt to evade the depressing atmosphere in the student section, was waiting in line at the concession stands. A nearby fellow was schmoozing a young lady, lifting up his shirt to reveal a tattoo. Another guy, obviously stricken with jealousy at all the attention this boy and his ink were getting, barged in on the conversation and started
Last issue, the Gipper promised to send a signed photo to the person who sent in the best tip. Well, the Gipp is going to bend the rules and send it to our old friend Eric (or Erica) of Toledo fame. The photo was taken awhile ago, but it brings out the Gipper’s best side.
harassing the woman. Finally, hoping to outdo the ’too, he dropped his shorts — all of them — and made a pubic statement. The loyal tipster concludes, “Though she was horrified and temporarily blinded by his move, she did say there was definitely no tattoo visible.”
Porno for Cab Drivers
“She’s pretty nice-looking. I got some naked pictures of her.” Thus it was spoken to an
unsuspecting tipster a couple of weeks ago. The young man was taking a taxi back to campus, having enjoyed a nice dinner in our fair town, when the conversation turned to the driver’s girlfriend. He chuckled a nervous response to the cabbie’s remark, and the next thing he knew, a stack of Polaroids was sitting on his lap. Our friend politely flipped through the stack and returned the photos to the proud owner. “She needs to gain about 10 pounds,” the driver concluded.
Some Like It Hot
The Gipp would like to turn your attention to a little morsel from abroad; specifically, Spain. During the first few days across the pond, all the Toledo students are put into dorms together. Apparently one lucky young man by the name of Eric had been mistaken
for an Erica, and was assigned to live amongst a group of the opposite gender. The mistake was cleared up, unfortunately, when his host family saw him for the first time and complained to the local administration. Nice work, Eric. The Gipp is considering changing his name to “Gipperlina” in the hopes of sliding into a quad in Welsh Family.
Some Like It Cold
To his astonishment, the Gipper received not one, but two, separate reports of in-fridge urination during this last round of tips. All he can respond is, What the hell is wrong with you people? Honestly, Bob Davie’s car is not that far of a walk.	-
Speaking of good ol’ Bob, the Gipp would like to commend the Irish for thwarting Davie’s losing tactics at the Pitt game. When he tries to destroy us with poorly planned offensive plays and awkward public statements, our boys respond in ways that poor coaching can’t suppress: interceptions and goal-line strips. The Gipp takes this as sure evidence that there is some real playing talent lying beneath all the on-field embarrassment. But worry not, Gipplings; if the Gipper’s sources have any merit, Davie won’t be gracing us with his presence next year.
Well, tipsters, that’s it for this issue.
Be sure to keep your noses clean,
Don't be publicly obscene.
Stay away from Willy Kirk
(At tailgates he's known to lurk)
Lest he hit you with a fine
And blow your tailgating time.
But if you must shout out your feelings About his underhanded dealings Don't implicate yourself and trip — Hide behind your friend, the Gipp.
In the valiant words ofGippers past, Tell him to kiss the Gipper's ass.
~ The Gipper wants to hear about your most scandalous and questionable experiences with Res Life. As always, your identity will be protected. Send those and all your tips to gipper. 1 @nd.edu.	□
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 21

system, was/devised- by Chris :. ' Hester and Jeff Anderson,:both /
;	/\>:	/ ofwhom areUniversity of.Wash- <■
L	i.	.J	'..V ,ington graduates. In addition,
4k ilf :ik liUA I l-Wf *	I A A V	UCLA, Stanford,.Fresno. State
I IM I i' ll I II O l 1'1/ I	' 19 Uf fl fl	and Washington State all are ...
Ill M M III |l fl I I !y .' I I V vfl	ranked in the top W
: - • . J j. ; ' I 0	1 .	’/.r. . 1	: j .	All of these-schools
■ >> problematic BCS system must go
/ GE.RARDMESKILL -
. W
. ceiyed betterTankings.from the-Tzzne^Wan from eitherpf the twot , :
. major coaches’/polls. /7	\ .■/ < < ?.;</ •.
- • This trend also is foundin several of the .
first preliminary listings, the rankings dif-; fer significantly. Six of the eight computer/ ; . systems released their first rankings for the
week of October 1. The six models ranked
other preliminary, computer rankings. As... . mentioned, Colley’s Joumal-Constitutibn ratings list South Carolina, a southern school, atop its list. David Rothman, who '
Were Wes Colley the sole authority of the \NC A Afootball rankings, this year’s national	five different teams first and five more sec-	is based in Hawthorne, Calif., lists seven	-.
-	championship game would feature South	ond. Oklahoma earned two No. 1 votes,.	Pac-10 schools in his top.25, including four	/
:	Carolina and Fresno State —teams that are	while Florida, Miami, Washington and	in the top 10—- Washington State, Stanford,	j
’	currently ranked No. 9 and8 in theAPpoll, 7 South Carolina each received one first-place	UCLA and Washington./ Richard
Billingsley, based in Hugo, Okla., rates de-
-	respectively. Jt doesn’t take a football ex-
. vote. Nebraska got two second-place votes,
pert. to realize /that something is not quite : and Texas,..South Carolina, Fresno State and .	. right; ’	'	:: -	... .Kansas State each got one second-place
Thankfully, Colley does not dictate which . . vote: Computers ranked Miami, the nation’s teams will compete in the Rose Bowl. Not top-ranked team, in both the AP. and USA by himself, any way. Instead, he sets the pa- Today/ESPN coaches’polls, at No. 1,5,7, Miami rated No. 1 and Virginia Tech at No. rameters by which computers .evaluate 18,19 and 25.	.	5. ' ■	.
teams on behalf of the Atlanta Journal- . Clearly, such inconsistencies among dif- Finding such regional ties in five.of the ' ferent- computer systems threaten the valid-,	six computer systems that released prelimi-
fending-champion Oklahoma as the nation’s top team., Kenneth Massey, who is studying for his Ph.D. in the mathematics depart-
ment at Virginia Tech, has the Big East’s
Constitution, The resulting ranking is one : - pf eight that the Bowl Championship Series uses to determine which teams play in
.-// the nation’s elite bowl games, and more importantly, which teams compete for the national title.
ity of the BCS system as a whole. The case/., ' nary rankings makes it easy to question their : validity and fairness. One might say that ■ models cannot be effective this early in the reason, .but. one can look back to last year
is clear: TheBCS system is flawed: ;/
A deeper look into this year’s example shows that it is-potentially biased as well'. The majority of the computer-based rankings had d' questionable-tendency to
- Unfortunately, though, Colley’s, seven
.colleagues direct the computers to consider choose a' local team to top their lists. The. Slightly, different variables and to weigh
each variable differently, too. The result is j that each computer model can be radically different than the others. In this year’s /
most clear example of this is the Seattle
times' ranking, which lists the Washington
: to, demonstrate the ineffectiveness of the BCS system and its computer-ranking component. The filial result of the 2001 BCS L .
* tt 'i-''	i	, 7 [Continued on/page 24! .
Huskies (10),/as the 'nation’s. best..	k-: ■■ -./< ■ ..
; - team. The Times

X.
$0^6
MIB


IB
a



/

>
Team	ESPN	AP	Avg	Com Avg	Sched.Sth	Rank ;	Los.ses	Total
Oklahoma	•• 3	3 ■'•	/ 3 ■	3.17 •	26	T.04	0 ;	7.21
Florida	2	2	2 ■ .	7.50	108	4.32	O	13;82
Tennessee	■' 7 : 7	6	6.5	7.50	17	0.68	0	14.68
, Miami .	• " 1	1	I	12.50	103	4.12	• - 0	17.62
Texas	5	5 .	— 5	7.83	61	2.44	0	15.27
UCLA	9	9	9	6.83	19 •	0.76	0	16.59
Nebraska	' ■ 4 - '	4	4	9.83	89	3.56	o	17.39
Washington	10	11	10.5	7,50	44	1.76 :	0	19.76
Oregon	8	7	7.5	11.50	30	1.20	b	20;20
South Carolina .	12	13	12.5	7.00	20	0.80	o	20.30
Fresno St	11	10	10.5	10.17	34	1.36	0	22.03
. Virginia Tech	6 . ■	8		13.50	119	4.76	o	25.26
^Washington St			26	14.50	■/ 51	2.04	0	42.54
*Unranked
**AII statistics current of October 1,2000


. ; The BCS system, was founded in 1998 to determine . which two teams should play in a national championship game. It isdivided into, four subcategories: polls, com-; pilfer rankings, schedule strength, and losses. The poll, value is merely the numerical average of the USA Today/. - ESPN coaches’ poll and the AP poll. The computer. ; rankings value is derived by the average of eight independent; computer tabulated rankings. Only the best seven values for each team are counted; the lowest is; discarded. This is a safety measure; to ensure that one unorthodox ranking does not destroy a team’s overall average. Schedule strength is evaliiated by a computer pro1 gram that takes the overall records of a /..T	team’s opponents and of those teams’
TrWOWfe-opponents into account to deter1 mine, whose schedules are



• the most challenging.The ranking is then multi-'' .. plied by 0.04 to
SGHOl^SIlCg
give the schedule strength value. The losses component is the simplest to calculate. Each loss counts as one BCS / index point. The values for polls, computer rankings, schedule strength and losses are then added together. The lower the total BCS index is, the. betterlhe BCS ranking. As an example, examine how Florida State’s:BCS index was tabulated last year. The Seminoles were ranked third in both polls, so-their poll average was 3.0. Their eight computer ranks were 1, T, 1,1,1,2,2 and 3. The 3 was dropped from the equation, and the other seven values were averaged to give a computer-ranking average ■' of 1.29. Florida State’s schedule was' rated the second ■ strongest, solts schedule-rank value was 0.08 (0.04 mul-. tiplied by 2). Florida State also had one regular-season loss. Therefore, their BCS index was 3.0.+ 1.29 + 0.08 + 1 =:5.37. This value narrowly edged Miami’s .5.69 index for the second-best rank in the.nation, placing Florida State ; in the 2001 Grange Bowl ajgainst Oklahoma../ □ ..



Wil



»w-.- ..
\/ selection by the two major : - A team thatTin- .
polls as the 1993 national champi- ishes in the top six of . , ons. During that year, both Florida State and the BCS rankings and . Notre Dame finished the season with one loss. . that wins nine or more games
•
[Continued from page 22]
indices pitted undefeated Oklahoma against Florida State in the national title game. While there is little question that
.. the Sooners earned their place in the. / Orange BqwI, many questions arose:
. concerning Florida State’s berth. Dur-, I ing the regular season, the Seminoles ■ compiled an 11-1 record, falling only to Miami. Miami (10-1) lost to Washington (10-1). However, Oregon (9-2)
\ defeated Washington, but fell to Oregon ;
. State (10-1). Oregon State’s only loss
.. came to Washington.
‘ This series of events made, ranking college football’s elite teams a night- . mare. However, Florida State was the one team in this group that did not have I ;■ a win against any of the others. Despite : ■ Miami’s victory over Florida State, it / was/the Seminoles, not the, Hurricanes, who were, selected to face . Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl. Looking at the BCS in
under the watch of a computer system founded to eliminate that very scenario. The/
:dex, breakdown, most of the two teams’ only real difference is that in 1993, .Florida .
numbers were quite similar: Miami aver-	State’s selection gave it the title, whereas in	highest-rated team in the BCS rankings goes
aged a second-place, ranking in the polls	2001 it merely awarded the Seminples.thed	,	on to win the conference, as this scenario
while Florida State averaged a third-place ; portunity to jplay for it. Clearly, the BCS for-;	: gives the BCS system the greatest possibil-
ranking. Florida State’s schedule strength	mula did not solve any thing — if anything, it	ityofworking.Shouldlowef-rankedteams-
was rated second strongest, while.Miami?s	might have made things worse.	claim their conference titles, there would
was third. B oth teams had one loss. Ho w-	All of these criticisms are aimed at the com- / be an even greater possibility that more than
ever, the Semiholes received five of the puter-rankings category of the BCS formula, two teams earn automatic at-large bids.:
Ho we ver,there is the potential for a major ^f, the ^B^^
glitch in the overall system as well. Accord- . method should the NCAA use to determine
eight first-place votes in the computer . rankings, outdoing even the nation’s only
. . 1 undefeated team, Oklahoma. The apparent bias in the computer portion of the BCS system was enough for Florida State .to edge Miami by a mere 0.32 points.
" - T That Florida State benefitted from this4 - . controversy is ironic: Playing a major role j / in the founding of the BCS system was its
Florida State’s defeat came ,at the hands of .. but that does not win its conference _ ■ / ■ . /the Irish, while Notre Dame/fell to Boston /must automatically^^ of these po-. College. Despite the Seminoles’ loss to Notre / sitions.	/ -	. . .
Dame, Florida State was crowned the cham- , ■ Analysis of this year ’s, preliminary pion, while Notre. Dame finished second, rankings shows, however, that this rule has Seven years later, the same situation happened the potential to be problematic. Assuming .	.	./ that the top-rated BCS
/ team from each confer- .
Only a tournament can reasonably assure that the best team in the nation will have the opportunity to compete for and win the championship.
again with Florida State and Miami, this time
irig to the'BCS.rules, its eight bowl berths are: the nation’s best teams? It seems that col-
reserved for the six major-conference champions (Big 12, Big 10, Big East, SEC, ACC and.Pac-10) and two at-large teams. To be eligible for the at-large spots, a team must finish in the top 12 spots of the BCS rankings.
■ -v ence?goes, on to win its '. — conference title, the first.
six bids would go to No/ .
1 Oklahoma, No. 2;
Florida, No. 4 Miami, No... / ^ Washington, No. 15 / Michigan and No. 16 , Florida State. There then would be three teams remaining in the top six ’/ ; /spots of the. BCS ■ : rankings, and all; of them ; —. / have.the potential to win . :
’/ :	: / \ at least nine games;
Therefore,, all three; would be: guaranteed
BCS at-large berths,-even though only two spots exist.	'
Here I assume.that each conference’s
lege football should take the example of virtually all of the rest of NCAA athletics — and that of all of professional spdrt$F~ and establish aifeightrteam tournament for the: national championship. Only a tournament can reasonably assure that the. best team in ’
. ; the nation will-'have the opportunity to conir
// \ pete for and win the championship. /


...


SB





ideal solutions; we must settle for the best...
that there will finally be assurance each year that the national champion really is the country’s best team.
team can still carry the title of “bowl champions” when they win these.games, even if
11 or 12.games on each bf their schedules. The polls still will be flawed, but at least there will be more of an allowance for er-: ror. Fbr instance, even if the best team in the country is ranked fourth by the polls, it
This does not mean that the , polls should be abolished. Polls * : will be necessary to select and seed the ; eight teams.. There, is ho other way to ac-
complish such a task when there are over 100 Division I-A football teams and only
ment would lengthen schedules/ ' . ' causing physical and aca- •


demic strains.. This-argument is taken out of
•. proportion. It is important to note
still will have an equal chance to win the that of the eight teams in such a tour-, title — it will just have to do so with a No. namerit, four will not play any extra games, 4 seed in thebracket.	. two will play one additional game and the /
. In the past, critics have responded to such finalists will play two additional games, suggestions by saying that the essence of Schools regularly schedule extra games al-bowl games will be lost. .It is; true that the/ ready. Therefore, only two schools each year < traditional sense of a bowl game as a cham- face the possibility of playing one more " pionship unto its own will be lost, but that . game than what is currently scheduled. Con-.does not mean that bowls haveTb be dis- sidering that schools do not usually playut .
carded. Each playoff game could be its own all in December, fitting one more game into bowl game of sorts. Much the way the BCS • two schedules per year would be quite man-•does with its major bowls now, the position ageable. . .
of such bowl games can be rotated annu- A college-football tournament is not an ■ ideal, solution. Some tradition — the bowl
ally./While six of these seven bowl games
will not be a championship on any given system — would be disturbed to a degree. . year, they will take on a new significance; -, . The postseason has the potential to be a little they.will each be necessary steps toward the more grueling for the two teams good
ultimate championship. At the same time, a enough to earn spots in the national title game. However, very few problems have
the meaning is somewhat diluted. Those	possible. For college football, a tournament
is more than worth the sacrifice if it means .
bowl games that are not involved in the tournament have no reason to change at all. .
Therefore, the actual effect ‘a tournament ; j would have on bowl games would be mini- ■/ mal.	. '	. ’	; .
Critics have also claimed that a tourna-

.< .■WSWiOSOW# ..

fBaiSiH





A New Reign
Debby King takes over the newly revamped women’s golf team
BRENDANBARKER
etuming to the green with half of last year’s team cut and a new coach hired in August, the Notre Dame women’s golf team plays this year on
an uncertain course. It is a course, however, that Athletic Director Kevin White says will steer the team to a higher level. “With Debby [King] taking over as our full-time coach, plus the addition of scholarships and our facilities at the Warren Golf Course, we have now put our women’s golf program in the position to compete at the national level.”
With the sudden departure of head coach Ross Smith last spring, much of that new direction will take place under King. She comes to Notre Dame from the University of Memphis, where she spent six years as head coach of the women’s golf team. She guided the Tigers to Conference USA titles in 1997 and 2001, produced 16 all-conference players (including one conference player of the year) and went to the NCAA tournament in four of her last five years. King also received Conference USA’s 1997 Coach of the Year award after she lead the team to its first-ever Conference USA title and NCAA appearance.
Despite her success at Memphis, King was somewhat apprehensive taking over the team on such short notice this summer. She was introduced as the new head coach on August
*
&
‘-■s.
21. just a month before the season was set to little upsetting,” says sophomor




r'
26,.SCHOLASTICSPORTS^?.,.. „.	....
si ¥
., v	...j>
u z,-'T	' -
/ i
LOOKING TO THE
- FUTURE Thelrish hope to
nphisto
ce^USA
' titles#m th§ years.,/
s






begin. “It definitely wasn’t the best timing,” she says, as she was confronted by a multitude of tasks when she arrived in South Bend. And while familiarizing herself with the team, settling into a new community and dealing with various coaching responsibilities, King has learned of the difficulties that accompany such a brief transitional period, particularly with recruiting. “The recruiting period takes place during the summer, and the signing period is in November,” she says, “so it’s been twice as hard as normal.”
It did not take long for King to make a significant impact on the program: She cut nearly half the team upon her arrival. She stresses, however, that the cuts were a result of the challenges of effectively running such a large team. “It was just too many people for one person to handle,” she says. “I have no assistant, so [nine players] is much more manageable. It’s easier to conduct practice and other team affairs.” In tournaments, only six golfers are counted in the team standings, and King believes that this smaller group will allow her to focus her efforts on individuals.
While King is confident that this will make the Irish a more competitive squad and will help bring the program to the next level, there were mixed feelings over this change as the
team members saw several of their friends and _ high/SAT scores, high GPAs and low golf teammates cut. “In addition to beingat^^	that’s a good combination.” □
mates, we’re also all good friends,

Byme, “but it was something that wasn’t under our control.” Nevertheless, she says the team supports King, and that they have full confidence in her ability to take the team to the next level. “We know that she had her reasons for doing what she did,” Byme says. “We trust her to do what’s best for the team.”
Despite the obstacles facing King in her introduction to Notre Dame, she remains extremely optimistic about the team and its chances in the upcoming season. Senior Kristin McMurtrie fronts a talented group of golfers, including fellow senior Lauren Fuchs; juniors Terri Taibi and Shelby Strong; and sophomores Byrne, Jeanne Murphy and Rebecca Rogers. Freshmen Karen Lotta and Casey Rotella also are making an impact on the team. Lotta led the team in its first tournament of the year, the second annual Notre Dame Invitational, finishing ninth with a score of 244 over three rounds of play. Byrne and McMurtrie also cracked the top 20, finishing in ties for 10th and 16th, respectively. The team placed fourth overall and will look to improve upon their debut as the season unfolds.
King believes that there are great things in store for the Irish this fall. “I’m very excited
about this season,” she says. “Our girls have
ristin Kramer contributed to this article.





4 w5


COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION
Sophomore Jayme Szefc rows in the stroke seat for the varsity Irish women’s crew eight boat, which finished No. 16 in the country last year. Szefc is one of 31 rowers returning from last year’s strong squad. In the team’s first race of the year, the Milwaukee Crew Classic, she helped lead the top varsity eight crew to a first-place finish; the Irish placed three boats in the top five.
The most memorable experience of my rowing career was: the varsity eight semifinal race at Central Region Championships last spring at Oak Ridge, Tenn. It was the greatest and fastest row we ever had as a boat, and we qualified for the finals.
I enjoy rowing because: rowing is an amazing sport. The connection that you make on the water is indescribable. ... I love the synergy of eight unified persons working beyond physical capabilities to achieve unbelievable results.
My most memorable Notre Dame experience outside of rowing was: my first football game as a Notre Dame student.
If I wasn’t on the crew team, I would be playing: basketball. I always thought I would go to college to play ball, but then after junior year I dedicated myself to rowing.
I started rowing: when I was 16 years old, at the end of my sophomore year in high school, for the Saugatuck Rowing Club.
My favorite hobbies outside of crew are: climbing and hiking. I’ve also recently become a big paintball fan.
To relax myself before a race: I like to listen to music. I’ll put on my headphones, close my eyes and run our race in my mind, focusing on the strength needed to be victorious.
The goal of our team this year: is to always get faster; every day of training counts towards our success in the spring. We are definitely looking and expecting to improve our national ranking and eam a team bid for the NCAA championships.
If I could be any Disney character, I would be: Peter Pan, because I would be able to fly, and I wouldn’t have to grow up and could play all day. -
— David Murray
Jerry’s Jabber
The Notre Dame football team defeated Pittsburgh on Saturday, 24-7.
Sophomore QB Carlyle Holiday completed 10 of 13 passes for 70 yards while running for 122 yards and a touchdown. Junior TB Julius Jones ran for 69 yards and two touchdowns. Seniors Anthony Weaver and Shane Walton and sophomore Abram Elam each had one interception in the game. The Irish take on West Virginia on Saturday at 1:30 p.m. ... The women’s soccer team split two weekend games in New Jersey. Last Friday, Rutgers became the third Big East team to defeat the Irish since Notre Dame joined the conference in 1995. Freshman Carli Lloyd scored twice in the opening 10 minutes to put the Scarlet Knights ahead en route to a 2-1 victory. The Irish rebounded on Sunday, defeating Seton Hall, 2-1. Freshman F Candace Chapman netted the game-winning goal with eight minutes left. The Irish take on Saint John’s on Alumni Field tomorrow at 7:00 p.m. ... The men’s soccer team defeated Georgetown last Friday, 31. Junior F Erich Braun scored twice to seal the victory, which evened Notre Dame’s record at 44-0. ... The senior tennis doubles tandem of Casey Smith and Javier Taborga advanced to the final of the qualifier for the ITA AllAmerican Championships held at the Lincoln Tennis Center. The six-round event will be held from today untiLSunday. ... The men’s golf team tied for eighth at the Xavier Provident Invitational on Tuesday. Senior captain Steve Ratay finished 4th overall, firing a three-under-par total of 210.	□
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27
THE
RANT
Words of .
wisdom from ;.-V7 Scholastic's own w/y sports expert
Coaches Bob Davie and Kevin Rogers are as predictable in their offensive strategy as the gray skies of a South Bend October. Together, they have led their “most talented team” to a 1-3 start. The evidence is mounting: It’s time for pink slips.
The thing that’s so disappointing to me is how many plays where there’s no chance, just no chance. We look like a poorly coached football team. That’s hard for me to swallow and hard for me to say, but that’s what I see.” .
These words were spoken on September 29 after a 24-3 loss at Texas A&M. After seeing the Irish flattened by the Aggies, both offensively and defensively, it’s easy to imagine the kinds of people who might have uttered those words. It could have been a player
whose frustration of losing had forced him to speak out against the coaching staff. Perhaps it was an alumnus, disappointed that the team has started 0-3 for the first time in its history and looking to lay blame for the team’s woes. Maybe it was Athletic Director Kevin White, regretting a decision to re-sign the head coach to a five-year extension.
However, as is often the case, the truth is far more mind-blowing than any preposterous theory. The speaker of the quote above is none other than Head Coach Bob Davie.
After four sub-par Irish football seasons and a fifth one off to a horrific start, for once it is hard to argue with Davie when he says that the team is poorly coached. In his five years as head coach of the Irish, Davie has compiled some less-than-stellar numbers: the first seven-loss season since 1963, an 05 record against Michigan State, three four-game losing streaks, seven losses by 15 or more points, a 3-9 record against Big Ten opponents, zero top-10 finishes and zero bowl-game victories. In 1999, he also coached the Irish to their first bowl-less season in 13 years, a streak that had dated back to Lou Holtz’s first year as head coach.
Based on these numbers, it is clear that Notre Dame football has taken a mighty fall since Davie took over. However, he cannot be held solely accountable, especially as of late. Since the demoralizing loss against Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl, the Irish offense has been terrible. As head coach, Davie makes the final decision on all plays, and therefore he cannot be exonerated from blame for the offense. However, he has admitted — on several occasions — that he leaves virtually all of the offensive decisions to Kevin Rogers, the offensive coordinator. Since the bane of this year’s football team has been the lack of offense, it is ridiculous to blame Davie for Notre Dame’s performance without portioning off at least an even share for Rogers.
Prior to the Pittsburgh contest last Saturday, the Irish had scored just 23 points in
their first three games this year, an average of just over one touchdown per contest. This lack of offensive production deservedly ranked Notre Dame last among Division I-A schools in points per game. Other offensive numbers weren’ t much better. The Irish ranked third-to-last in total offense, averaging just over 200 yards per game. In fact, the only major offensive category in which the Irish made the top 100 was total rushing yards. These numbers simply are horrible by anyone’s standards, but when they are compared to traditional Notre Dame expectations, they are sufficient even to make the most placid Irish fan scream with rage.
These many raging Irish fans have noticed a general trend in Notre Dame’s offense. Notre Dame always runs the ball up the middle on first down. Death itself is less guaranteed than an Irish rush up the gut on first and 10. Or first and 15, even. Also, Notre Dame never passes to its tight ends, nor does it make big passing plays downfield. The entire Notre Dame offensive strategy boils down to rushes up the middle, pitches, the option and short passes. Such an offensive strategy is too simplistic for even highschool ball. At the elite level of Division I football, such simplistic, predictable patterns make our opponent’s defenses look ' like last year’s Baltimore Ravens’ and leave the Irish with very little chance at victory against high-quality opponents.
Whether looking at the numbers, the facts or watching the games themselves, it is clear that Notre Dame football will not improve as long as Davie is on the sidelines and Rogers is calling the plays from the box. Davie even said himself that this team was the most talented he has coached at Notre Dame. How could his finest squad turn out the worst start in the school’s history? This is not acceptable. Davie and Rogers are good men with good intentions. However,, they are not the right men for the job at hand. If Notre Dame football is to return to glory, these two people must first be dismissed.	□
OUR CALLS	
	
SPORT: FOOTBALL OPPONENT: WEST VIRGINIA WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1:30 PM	
Sparked by the mature play of Carlyle Holiday, Notre Dame’s offense looked -good for the first time all year. Holiday continues to make strides as the signalcaller, leading the Irish to a 28-17 victory over West Virginia on Saturday.
— Gerard Meskill Sports Editor
The Irish offense displayed its potential against Pitt, but it still needs to show more consistency. The defense will turn in another good ’ performance against West Virginia. Notre Dame will take advantage of playing at home again, winning 19-10.
— David Murray Assistant Sports Editor
After being beaten 35-0 by rival Virginia Tech, West Virginia comes to town bloodthirsty. But in this Saturday’s war of the weak, the Irish manage to overcome the Mountaineers in a closely fought battle, 21-20.
— Michael Griffin Editor in Chief
28 SCHOLASTICSPORTS



Cybergriping 101
Want some cheese with your whine?
Recently, I came to a shocking realization: I am a serial complainer, and no one is safe from me. I gripe excessively about homework, professors and lack of sleep. I grumble to my roommates, yammer about dining-hall food and yawp at my parents for calling before noon on Sunday. I even grouse about Ragu including way too much sauce and far too little pasta in its new microwavable Express product. Of course, there are things I appreciate — while writing this paragraph, for example, I delighted seeing that my thesaurus lists more than 15 synonyms for “complain” — but for some reason, I usually fail to acknowledge such small joys.
Perhaps it’s the cold, or a manifestation of mid-semester anxiety. At any rate, if it’s true the more you complain, the longer God lets you live, I’m rapidly approaching immortality of vampire-like proportions. And black capes are so last fall. I realized I needed to work on overcoming my hyper-negativity ... but how?
Luckily, thanks to the Internet, kvetching is no longer confined to the lowly suggestion box. Web sites offer complainers the chance to voice their opinions to virtually any company. At Planetfeedback.com, they’ll help you write up your complaint, compliment or clever idea. Then, if the company you’re writing to is in their database, they’ll send it to them for you. I decided to log on and complain constructively for once: I let Ragu know about the inconvenience inherent in their new convenience food.
Planetfeedback.com also allows you to browse through the letters other users have posted. Interestingly, it was reading these that made my bad attitude begin to fade. I gained perspective on my problems and had a good, long laugh. Check out this sampling of complaints to establishments frequented by ND students reprinted verbatim and see what I mean (my occasional comments are included in parentheses):
To: Meijer
On the morning of Thursday, July 19, 2001, I went to the Meijer on 331, Breman Highway in Mishawaka, Ind. to have breakfast with my husband. We met a friend there who eats there every day. He is almost 80 years old and still works at his insurance office. ... He was upset because on the way to Meijers, where he meets his friends for breakfast, he had run over a deer. It was an unavoidable accident. ... He saw a deer that had been hit in his lane but had nowhere to go but run over it. ... It wasn’t until he was paged over the intercom system that he realized the deer was still under his car. (A common
oversight, no doubt. And oh, if it only ended there. Heated debate over who will remove the deer follows the announcement. Sue’s friend asks for help getting the deer out from under his car, and a Meijer employee goes to call the humane society. The manager accuses the friend of purposefully dumping the deer in Meijer’s lot and threatens to have him arrested. An 80-year-old man! In the meantime, Sue’s tea gets cold. She vows never to shop at Meijer again.)
To: Papa John’s Pizza
I’m writing to bring your attention to a problem with my experience at Papa John’s Pizza. Sometime in the early part of this year, I complainted about the misrepresentation of the $1.00 change. A few days later, I was telephoncalty contacted by [an employee], who advise me that Papa John’s would sending me a coupon for free pizza. ... It never made it to me, so guess what? She lied to me, and Papa John’s company looks to me like a company of lies. (And their dipping sauce, the nectar of blasphemy!)
To: The Gap
I was out today when I noticed a cool breeze. When I glanced down I noticed the whole seam [of my shirt] was unthreading and my shirt was falling off. I was taking a major exam (out in the cool breeze?) and didn’t know what to do. I was not even through with five minutes of the 90 minute essay test. I took the rest of the essay with my left hand holding back my shirt. ... All of a sudden the shirt slipped down, leaving me in my bare skin. I had to go the whole day holding up my shirt. You have no idea what an embarrassment this was.
To: The Gap
Here’s the problem: What’s up with people and pants these days? I sit at home many a day wondering to myself as to why clothing is so overrated. My eyes tear at the very thought of denim, so why doesn’t the Gap make pants un-cool? You have influence in the world. MAKE A DIFFERENCE! ... Here’s how you can help me: Illegalize Pants. (I’m speechless.) □
00B welcomes your complaints about and suggestions for this column! Email them to cfenzel@nd.edu.
O
IT
BMeRISMEENZEll
SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 29
BRIGIDSWEENEY .
anielle Rose possesses the rare and I I enviable ability to hug strangers in a warm, genuine manner. The same joy and enthusiasm that allow her to connect instantly with a stranger also shine through in another ability of Rose’s — a talent for making music — in a way that allows her to connect just as easily and quickly with listeners.
This summer, the 21-year-old senior music and theology double major released her first CD, Defining Beauty. Her simple, folksy style follows the tradition of Joni Mitchell, Sarah McLachlan and David Wilcox yet still encompasses a diverse range of sounds. She nimbly skips from poignant ballads (“God Is”) to more upbeat, pop-inspired tunes (“Lullaby for My Savior”), tossing in the strikingly beautiful a cappella hymn “Shelter Your Name” for good measure.
Through a compilation of 12 songs, the disc recounts the story of Rose’s faith journey. Her insightful lyrics examine, question and ultimately affirm her Catholic faith, all while avoiding the saccharine cliches so often associated with Christian pop.
Underlined by acoustic guitar, her contemplative musings show intelligence, sensitivity and an abiding joy for the beauty of life. “As human beings, we are made in God’s image, and we become instruments of His beauty,” Rose says. “We can reflect beauty and create beautiful things, but it is essentially God.” Even when struggling with fundamental theological questions, as “Black Hole of Truth” does, this joy never ceases to resonate in Rose’s music.
Bom Danielle Rose Skorich in Duluth, Minn., music always has been intertwined
with Rose’s life and faith. “Music has been engrained in me ever since I was little,” she says. “I remember seeing Isaac Perlman on Sesame Street and begging my parents for violin lessons.”
At the age of seven, she finally got her lessons. She began entering fiddle contests with her father at age nine, started playing the guitar at 14 and formed a band with friends in high school. As the lead vocalist who also played guitar and violin, she performed in local coffee shops in her hometown.
The real turning point in both her spiritual and musical life, however, came the summer before her senior year in high school. Then 17, Rose traveled to India for a month to vol-unteer with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity.
Her experience in India gave Rose new inspiration and purpose. “It was then that I recognized music as a gift that I really wanted to use to serve God,” she says. “I so very much wanted to write songs about things bigger than myself.”
The exposure to Mother Teresa, to whom Rose has a special devotion, largely influenced Rose’s faith perspective. Mother Teresa’s talk of spiritual poverty especially inspired Rose. “America is a very, very spiritually poor place,” she says. “ We are a country of broken families, of restless
s human beings, we are made in '—^d’s image, and we become in-ments of His beauty, we can reflect beauty and create beautiful things, but it is essentially God. ” — Danielle Rose
hearts. We lack faith and hope, and choose instead to depend on ourselves. This, though, will ultimately fail.”
These observations, illuminated by her experiences in India, clarified Rose’s vocation. Noting God’s overwhelming presence amid the poverty in India, she came to believe that America’s paucity of faith was at the root of the country’s afflictions. Furthermore, she realized that “God can pour grace through music to heal.”
She then decided to use music to serve the spiritually poor. “Religious vocations are so beautiful,” Rose says. “With the gift of faith, we have the responsibility to make that faith a living reality.
“This is how I feel compelled,” she adds. “I want to give to people what God gave to me.
Though she never actually met Mother Teresa, Rose’s life has been personally and indelibly marked by the nun. On her last birthday, only a few days before her death, Mother Teresa took the frosting rose off of her birthday cake and gave it to a nun with whom Rose had worked, instructing her to pass it along to the girl.
Tears come to Rose’s eyes when she recounts Mother Teresa’s words to the nun: “She told the other sister to give the rose to ‘Danielle, the girl who embraced the poorest of the poor and understood them.’ She said, ‘Give her this rose and tell her to be
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT
like this rose, to be pure and beautiful like each petal.’ ”
This offering had added significance, since Rose also is Danielle’s middle name. Mother Teresa’s gift, an act that Rose calls “miraculous,” influenced her stage name. “When you give a flower, you don’t expect anything in return,” she explains. “I wanted my name and my ministry to be the same way — a very small expression of love, without expectations of anything given back.”
At Notre Dame, Rose finally found a channel for her vocation. A four-year Folk Choir member, she met music producer Gary Daigle when he came to Notre Dame to record a CD for the choir. In gratitude for his work, Rose gave him a rough tape of her music that had been made in a basement during high school.
After touring with the Folk Choir at the beginning of the summer after her sophomore year, Rose returned home to Minnesota. During a family dinner one evening in June, the phone rang. Rose recognized the voice of the caller, but couldn’t quite place it.
It was Daigle, who had come across her tape in a pile in his office and wanted to help her record a professional demo tape.
Months later, when she was back on campus for her junior year, Rose received another call, this time from a small publishing company in Chicago. World Library Publications had heard the demo and wanted to publish her CD.
“It was totally a gift from God, handed to me quietly when I wasn’t expecting anything,” she says.
After meeting with the producers in Chicago during last year’s fall break, Rose continued to work with the company throughout the year. She traveled to Louisiana several times, doing everything from helping to design the CD booklet to meeting with copyright lawyers, in addition to producing the music and carrying 21 university credits.
After months of exhausting work, Defining Beauty came out this past June.
“It was so much a joy that I was hurting
SIMPLE GIFTS Deeply influenced by her faith, Danielle Rose aims to share God with others through music.
from it,” Rose says. “Everything I had been praying for for five years was finally becoming realized.”
In six weeks, 1,500 copies of the CD sold solely through word of mouth. Back on campus, Rose has been selling discs out of her backpack to friends. Defining Beauty also is available through Amazon.com, Hammes Bookstore and the Huddle Mart.
Rose plans to continue her musical ministry as a career. This December, she will perform at the National Catholic Youth Conference in front of4,000 people. After gradu
ation, she hopes to do freelance work, singing for Catholic groups and conferences across the country.
“I want to share music about my faith journey with people in hopes that it will change their lives,” she says. “My greatest prayer and hope is that, with God’s grace, my music will open people’s hearts like flowers to God.”	□
Danielle Rose will hold a concert on Friday, November 2, at 9:30 p.m. in the first-floor lounge of Coleman-Morse,
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31
omething is wrong with this apartment. The walls are alternating segments of shorter brick panels and taller painted panels. Half of the couch is luxurious cream-colored leather, while a drab green blanket, strewn with mismatched throw pillows, drapes the other half.
It’s not that the characters in Alan Ayckbourn’s play, How the Other Half Loves, are the worst decorators in the world. Instead, this half-and-half set mixes the apartments of an upper-class couple and their lower-class counterparts, so that both couples are on stage at the same time and even seem to be sharing the same living spaces.
“That’s one of Ayckbourn’s gimmicks,” says Siiri Scott, the director of the Mainstage Production of the play. Considered by many to be Britain’s greatest living playwright, Ayckbourn is famous for his original and unusual staging techniques. For example, one play performed in London called for a real swimming pool onstage.
First performed in 1971, How the Other Half Loves is one of Ayckbourn’s earlier plays. It tells the story of two couples, the rich Fosters and the working-class Phillipses. Bob Phillips works for Frank Foster and is having an affair with Frank’s wife, Fiona. Bob’s wife Teresa suspects that something is going on, and her curiosity to uncover the truth pulls another couple, the Dettweilers, into the confusion. Bob and Fiona try to hide their affair as their spouses attempt to piece together the pieces of the puzzle. The result is a traditional comedy
CONTRASTS Katie Weil and Brendan P. Geary (the Fosters) among original scenery.
of errors, full of miscommunication.
“The characters don’t know what’s happening till the end, which makes it fun for the audience, because they do know,” says senior theater major Katie Weil, who plays Fiona Foster.
While the show primarily is a comedy, it simultaneously offers a social commentary. The “other half’ of the title refers not only to the love affair between Bob and Fiona, but also, to the different social worlds to which the two couples belong. “The only reason to emphasize differences is to emphasize how similar people are,” Scott says. Having the Foster and the Phillips families occupy the same living space allows the au-
LOVE
Imported comedy storms the mainstage
dience to see the couples side by side and to realize just how closely their seemingly opposite existences mirror one another.
To successfully draw comparison, however, the differences between the two couples must be striking and instantly recognizable. Costumes play a large role in separating the Fosters and the Philllipses, but with the two living spaces jumbled together on stage, the burden of creating distinctions falls mainly on the scenery and set design. The audience needs to know, just from looking at the stage, what belongs to the Fosters and what belongs to the Phillipses.
In his script, Ayckbourn provides a detailed layout of the stage as he envisioned it, but scene designer Chris Sinnott, a senior theater major who has designed scenery for campus productions of Romeo and Juliet dxvMHate Hamlet, completely disregarded it. “Day one, I took my script and I ripped it out and threw it away,” he says. “If you get too involved in looking at that idea, you end up doing somebody else’s design.”
Instead, Sinnott worked with Scott to develop a set that would accommodate Scott’s plans for the play. Scott already had vague ideas for each of the living spaces. For the Fosters’ apartment, Sinnott says, “[Siiri Scott] was looking for something reminiscent of Frasier, that quality of the highlife in New York.” For the less-fancy apartment of the Phillipses, Scott’s first idea came from another TV show, King of Queens. With those two basic ideas in mind, Sinnott got to work, first designing each apartment separately and then melding them together on stage.
The result? Two distinct decorating styles that reflect the varying economic situations of the couples. “Most of the Phillipses’ furniture is ad-hoc stuff they found at garage sales,” Sinnott says. “The Fosters’, however, is a single unit. They definitely had somebody consult with them on the purchase of each and every item in their apartment.”
Sinnott’s unique decision to extend the set design to the extreme edges of the stage also helps create distinctions between the two couples. Productions in Washington
Hall rarely make use of the side pockets on either side of the stage, but Sinnott decided to employ them to “bring the actors closer to the audience.”
On one side of the stage, a small platform holds Bob Phillips’s desk. “This space is intentionally confined to make their house feel cramped,” Sinnott explains. On the other side, however, a larger platform holds the Fosters’ bar. “The two side platforms allow me to make some pretty ready comparisons,” Sinnott says. “For one you see a boxed-in, confined space, whereas on the other side you have this larger space, something grand.”
Sinnott also made another unique decision in electing to carpet the stage floor, a choice that initially presented a dilemma since the floor is shared space. “The carpet had to be appropriate for a high-class townhouse and a lower-class apartment,” Sinnott says. He ultimately selected a blue carpet that could function in either household.
These two worlds collide directly in some furniture arrangements as well. For example, the Phillipses’ folding table and the Fosters’ nice dining-room table fit together to form a T at which both couples can be seen eating separate meals in their separate apartments at the same time. This concept is extended even further in the play’s famous dinner-party scene.
Both Teresa and Fiona invite the Dettweilers to dinner at their houses on different nights. However, both of these dinner scenes occur simultaneously on stage. All three couples are seated around the table at the same time •—■ the Fosters in their chairs and the Phillipses in theirs. At the intersection of the two tables, there are two swivel chairs, one in the style of the Fosters and the other in the style of the Phillipses, in which the Dettweilers sit.
“The Dettweilers swivel back and forth, going in and out of both conversations,” Sinnott explains. “They are taking part in whichever conversation they’re facing.”
Such scenes present unique challenges to the six actors in the play. “The potential to get distracted is very high,” says Brendan Geary, a senior theater major who plays
Frank Foster. “Your mindset has to be totally present on what you’re doing. I’m not thinking about anything but what Frank is doing at that moment.”
But according to Weil, staying focused is not the only challenge. “The harder part is timing,” she says. In this fast-paced play, dialogue is one tool that helps move the plot between the two couples. Weil adds, “As soon as one scene ends, the audience has to know where to look.” “If you skip a beat, then it doesn’t make sense anymore and the audience is lost.”
Timing plays a part not only in delivery of lines, but also in movement. “We’re all on stage at the same time,” Geary says. “When we make movements, we pass literally millimeters from [the Phillipses] and they don’t see us.” Every action, then, has to be calculated and rehearsed to avoid collisions between actors on stage.
But staging and timing are not the only aspects that separate How the Other Half Loves from typical Washington Hall fare. It is the only comedy in this year’s Mainstage lineup and, in general, it is more lighthearted than many of the plays chosen for the Mainstage season. “A lot of people have the idea that our theater department does stodgy, ancient plays that are hard to sit through, or that we do issue plays, and we’re there to shock people,” Sinnott says. “This is none of that.”
Instead, Scott describes the play as the equivalent of a “date movie,” emphasizing the show’s humor. And while the staging technique puts an original twist on the show, Scott is confident that audiences will catch on quickly. “The delineations are pretty clear,” she says. “You have this really fancy furniture for one house and not-so-fancy furniture for the other house.
“It’s kind of like watching a movie that has subtitles,” she adds. “It takes the eye and the ear a minute to catch up.” □
Performances of How the Other Half Loves will be on October 10 to 13 at 7:30 p.m. and. on October 14 at 2:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tickets are on sale for $7 and can be purchased at the box office in LaFortune Student Center or by calling 1-8128.
SCHOLASTICS'

Subject: Hygiene
Thesis: Over-cleanliness is rampant. Proof: forthcoming.
KEVINLAVELLE
There are a lot of people out there who might tell you that ultra-cleanliness is absolutely necessary for any and all people. I am a nay-say er. I’m here to tell you to place that cologne back in the cabinet, microwave that unbreakable comb, ignite that hair spray, put down the balm and drop the soap. And I’m willing to put my money where my un-brushed mouth is.
Being very smart myself, I’ve deduced that for some of you, ultra-cleanliness is quite important. Now, I don’t mean to be sexist, but women are inferior to men. Wait ... (how did my
editor let that through?). Actually, what I meant to say (editor speaking now) is that some people (women) tend to take personal hygiene more seriously than others (right-minded men-folk). Right. So, reader, barring any further lame cracks about the fairer sex, we shall embark on the story of my war against hygiene.
The battle began on a nondescript Tuesday morning. Of course, I cannot claim responsibility for my skirmish with cleanliness: I was forced into it. Forced by the low and cowardly actions of an unknown sicko clean-freak hall-mate. He stole my shampoo! I couldn’t believe it either. What kind of lowlife steals another man’s shampoo?
With a sudden thirst for lemonade, I embarked upon an experiment. Finding myself shampoo-less, and being too lazy to buy another bottle imme
diately, I began my Quest Against the Evil Hygiene. It was about time that someone confronted him! He had gone unchallenged for too long.
My methods of warfare were simple. No more shampoo for me. Zero. The question I posed to myself was, “How bad could it really get?”
Day after day my hair grew more ... beautiful? Perhaps. It certainly felt thicker and more “conditioned.” Some would call it greasy. I preferred “shiny.”
As much as I attempt to trump it up with adjectives, I cannot hide that this was a rather slow and uneventful experiment. The first few days flew by with little change. But by day five, there was a noticeable difference in my hair. Greasier, yes. But oh so manageable. Like a Bonsai, it took shape.
Of course, by this time, my friends started noticing. “Hey, did you. do something to your hair?” Nope. Nothing, actually.
After a week of abstinence, I decided I might share my bold adven
ture with a few close chums. After all, when I looked in the mirror it didn’t appeal’ that my unwashed hair made me any less attractive than usual. I met with mixed reactions: disbelief, wonderment and firm reproach were the most common. But one person in particular forced me to rethink my stance on hygiene. After a beer or four at a local pub, I again was telling some friends about my wonder of wonders. And his reply came: ■
“Oh yeah? Well I heard this story from a doctor who works in the ER, and he said this old smelly woman would come in all the time and complained of an itchy scalp and then one day when they lifted her hair up in back a cockroach came out!”
Yikes. Blinded for over a week by my apathy towards hygiene, I had forgotten an important lesson: Bugs like dirty warm places. And as my premed pals are certain to assure me, the body is very warm. So, lest we want to become antfarmers, we must be certain the body is not dirty as well.
Fearful of bugs and feeling the unbearable weight of society upon my shoulders (quite close to my head really), I set out to wash my hair. In all honesty, it was not that filthy. The smell, like a good wine, was dynamic and complex. The aromas of numerous smoky bars, of chlorinated pool water (which I suspect holds some cleansing value) and of the lawn of South Quad mingled in a capital fashion. All this would soon be washed away.
Stubbornness, however, is not a trait that tends to be present one Tuesday morning and suddenly absent 10 days
later, so I continued my refusal to purchase another bottle of shampoo.
Instead, I scheduled a haircut with a stylist in LaFortune. I did need a haircut anyway •— it had been six weeks. So I marched there at 1:30 on Friday afternoon. The stylist fastened the apron around my neck, picked up his scissors and ran the comb through my hair. He paused. I panicked — was there a cockroach?
“Uh, why don’t we do the shampoo thing?” he suggested. Yeah, why don’t we? Moments later my hair was treated to its first shampoo in a week and a half.
I learned very little about myself from this experience. In retrospect, perhaps an experiment with unwashed feet is the way to go. Jesus sure didn’t go wrong by it. I did leam a lot about others, however. Why was it that when I exposed my dirty secret, some ran their fingers through my hair and others ran from my hair? The answer is clear: Lack of hygiene, besides attracting large bugs, allows you to separate your true friends from the ones who only like you when you’re clean.	□
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION
3
COM I N GDI STR ACTIO. NS
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL
EDITOR’S CHOICE
Roaches Beware
SPORTS
•	Thu 11 Hockey: ND vs. Union College, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center Fieldhouse.
•	Fri 12 Volleyball: ND vs. Villanova, 4:00 PM, Joyce Center.
•	Fri 12: Soccer: ND women vs. St. John’s, 7:00 PM, Alumni Field.
•	Fri 12 Swimming: ND men vs.
- Kalamazoo, 7:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center.
•	Sat 13 Football: ND vs.-West Virginia,
1:30 PM, Stadium.
•	Sun 14 Volleyball: ND vs. Rutgers, 2:00 PM, Joyce Center.
I his weekend, SUB whips out the Raid.
I (Incidentally, the Oakland Raiders play the Indianapolis Colts on October 14. You can watch it at 8:30 p.m. ET on ESPN and carry the theme through to Sunday!) I somehow missed Lara Croft: Tomb Raider this summer, so I called my 13-year-old brother for a review. His verdict? “Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within was way better.” He had more positive things to say about Raiders of the Lost Ark: “The part where they open the Ark and the guy’s eyes melt — that was cool ”
On a more serious note, Professor Felipe Aguero, who was a prisoner in Pinochet’s Chile, will be on campus on Friday, October 12. Professor Aguero currently is fighting his case in court, aided by a team of human-rights lawyers. If you’re free. Friday afternoon, go hear him speak about “Memory and Justice.”
■— Cristin Fenzel
•	Wed 17 Lacrosse: ND women vs. Duquesne, 9:00 AM, Moose Krause Field.
•	Sat 20 Football: ND vs. USC, 1:30 PM, Notre Dame Stadium.
LECTURES
•	Fri 12 Felipe Aguero, “Memory and Justice,” 3:00 PM, C-103 Hesburgh Center.
•	Fri 12 Gary Giddins, “Bing Crosby’s Identities,” 4:15 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium.
•	Mon 15 Barbara Packer, “Signing Off: Religious Indifference in America,” 4:30 PM, 320 Malloy Hall.
■	Wed 17 Alison Wylie, “Who Owns the Past: Ethics Issues in Anthropology,” 4:00 PM, 129 DeBartolo Hall.
CINEMA
•	Thu 11 Latin Film Series: La boda (The Wedding), 7:00 PM, 141 DeBartolo Hall.
•	Thu 11 Dr. Strangelove, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium.
•	Thu 11 Startup.com, 7:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library.
•	Thu 11, Fri 12 and Sat 13 Lara Croft: Tomb Raider and Raiders of the Lost Ark, Thurs 10:00 PM, Fri 7:30 PM and 10:00 PM, Sat 7:30 and 10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo Hall.
•	Tue 16 International Film Series: My Best Friend (Germany), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theater.
•	Tue 16 Latin Film Series: Un Lugar en el Mundo (A Place in the World), 7:00 PM, 129 DeBartolo Hall.
THE ARTS
•	Thu 11-Sat 13 How the Other Half Loves, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall.
•	Sun 14 How the Other Half Loves, 2:30 PM, Washington Hall.
•	Fri 19 20th Century Music Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall.
THE WEEKENDER
What: Niles Haunted House, The Field of Screams, The Realm of Darkness, Dark TERRORtory Haunted Hayride and Nightmare in 3-D.
When: 7 to 11 PM Fridays and Saturdays and 7 to 10 PM Sundays, through October 28.
Where: 855 Mayflower Rd., Niles, Mich. West of U.S. 31. See Web site for directions.
Cost: $5 to $7
More information: Call (616) 687-FEAR or visit www.haunted.org.
Post your event in Scholastic’s Coming Distractions.
Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Cristin Fenzel at cfenzel@nd.edu by Friday, October 19.
All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35
Come Out and Play
by Casey Buckstaff
So, how many drinks do you think the aver age guy consumes on a Friday night?” I pose the question and take a look at the group of freshman women sitting with me. They never answer immediately. No, the first few moments I can see each of them mentally return to their weekend activities. They laugh almost silently, but just enough that a few people might notice. Then come the estimates:
“I’d say around eight.”
“Probably eight to 10.”
“Ten to 15.”
Dorm after dorm, my PILLARS presentations begin with the same question and the same responses. Their faces show some relief when I tell them that their guesses are over twice as much as the true statistic. As freshmen, the last thing these young women want to do is sit through another mandatory meeting, but I’ve noticed that after a few minutes, the information starts to sink in and many of them realize that it will be put to good use.
PILLARS is not a group that preaches abstinence from alcohol. As peer educators, we do not want to lecture fellow students about the evils of drink
We embrace our self-declared “work hard, play hard” motto. But... “play hard” is not equal to “drink a lot.”
ing. We want to inform them of things of which they should be aware in order to be safe in whatever activities they choose. Sure, they have a great time at their parties, but maybe they are wondering if
Casey Buckstaff is a junior from Mount
Prospect, III. She competes on the women "s rowing team and is a peer educator in the Peers Inspiring Learning, Listening and Responsibly Socializing program.
they’ll have a more-relaxing weekend sometime. “For those of you thinking ‘When am I going to catch up on sleep?’ don’t worry,” I tell them, “It’s the beginning of the year and things are crazy, but eventually they settle down.”
Just wait, I think, just wait until it is the middle of February and there are three feet of snow on the ground and it is 20 degrees below zero with the . windchill. When, on a Saturday night, you want to put on an extra sweatshirt and watch your favorite movie, and the last thing you want to do is put on a tiny tank top and battle the slush and ice.
The proverbial “they” tell us that our generation is wilder than our predecessors. Yeah, we are a rowdy group, no denying that, but we’re college students; it is part of our job to be rowdy. Notre Dame is a wild place to be. Entire dorms bleach their hair for football pep rallies; other dorms run through public places wearing nothing but paper
bags on their heads. That’s crazy shmack!
We embrace our self-declared “work hard, play hard” motto. But as is proven by the activities going on here, “play hard” is not equal to “drink a lot.” Of course, we all like to have a good time at parties. Dorm parties blast music across the quads every weekend, and people make their weekly trek over to Turtle Creek. But there is so much more to ND social life than that. Look around campus and it’s clear: We like to play. The paths around the lakes are worn from sunrise to sunset. The basketball courts and sand volleyball courts are full, rain or shine. We have concerts from Flipstock to Handel’s Messiah that are packed with students. The CSC vans always are on the move, shuttling students throughout South Bend to spend time within the greater community. People even run through the fountains and take trays from the dining; hall to sled down small campus hills. We keep busy by doing what we love to do, whatever that may be?.
We all need to let loose once in awhile because of all the things that occupy our weekdays. As my main man, Jimmy Buffett, tells us, “If we weren’t all crazy, we would go insane.” No kidding. I think that many other college students might call us just that: crazy. This campus becomes a ghost town on Sunday morning as we all head to our favorite study spots. For most of the week we pull 18-hour days because of classes, practices and activities. We ride bikes to get to class faster and eat Grab ’n’ Go instead of sitting down for a meal to save time. We try to cram every possible activity into each day, knowing there will be a new batch of activities to consume us the next day. Many of us don’t know what to do with ourselves when we have 15 minutes of free time. At that point, we check our email, which probably reminds us of something else we could be doing. We must be crazy.
So I suppose that we could willingly accept our “wild and crazy” title, but I think that we might want to consider some different aspects of that designation. While “they” might suggest that it stems from raging parties, there is no reason to associate our generation with negative stereotypes. We can think of this title in much brighter ways. As a generation raised to believe that anything is possible, any goal achievable, we have stepped up to the challenge. As students at Notre Dame, we have learned from experience how to mix work and play to best fill our time here. Wow, a bunch of motivated, young, crazy people with plenty of things to do: Watch out, world.	□
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD

>4;
get the Sfchpree!
, A v i
at the roovies lookpor:^
pree giveauags /■ .
w; ^.gour prequent _ Watcher card.
.bug H r>ovies^
FR€€!

Raiders op the Lost Ork.
thursda^lO:OO Friday Saturday
IQL	$3
ISS^eBartolo $3
‘ -.AS*	’ -	’’ - '
^:3O dndiO:OO
'■ .-. ■
<J1’ ’’



"v

thursday
midnight LaFortune Huddle
4:00 pn
stand-up conedim
'bMSz Sutherland
I Friday IO:OOPM LaFortune Ballrodn prap^ii4?' FRG€!

