
Bruno's Pizza ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAV 119 U.S. 31 {just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 4:00 to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 273-3890 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese'' We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's, and Saint Mary's campuses.  


Now hiring delivery drivers . (full menu on inside back cover) 
Che·ck out those issues you missed I last year 
SCHOLASTIC /4? ,

MAG. A.1j)~ 

·... tf3¼,!p, .~
JG?!ff"filY 
\i.i/ ­
> 


www.nd.edu/ ~scholast 

MAGAZINE 
A Tale of Two Trials ~ 
After a summer filled with age-discrimination trials and possible NCAA violations, the Irish couldn't wait to get back to the playing field. It seems the events may have provided more inspiration than distraction, as the Irish whomped fifth-ranked Michigan in their home opener. by Corey Spinelli 
In the Red 0 
Student government and SUB were in for a surprise after returning from summer break: last year's officers spent nearly $70,000 more than they had. Scholastic examines where the money went and who's going to pay the price. by Meredith Salisbury 
Crowdless Pleasers ~ 
There are as many campus bands as there are beef turnovers in the dining hall. Unfortunately, the turnovers might be more popular. by John Huston 
Serving the Full Term? by Jake Mooney 10 Cardio Crush by Meredith Salisbury 13 l 0 Ways to Spend a Football Weekend 14 
by Jesse Kent Holier than Thou by Zoe Kulsrud 20 In Good Hands by Chris Hamilton 22 last Stand by Corey Spinelli 24 


epartments
,.,.\<i:­c::,o'<-~. 
From the Editor 2 
,,-• ,•, •' k> 
~,'.I.I, ' •..•'.-' :··· 
ND Notebook 5 
Man on the Street 12 
Campus Watch 15 
Splinters 25 
Out of Bounds 28 
On Other Campuses 29 
Week in Distortion 30 
Calendar 31 
Final Word 32 
VOLUME l 4 0· NUMBER 2 • SEPTEMBER l 0 1998
I 

Q:'. 
0 
l­
o 
LLI 
LLI 
I 
I­
~ 
0 
Q:'. 
u.. 




Moving On 
My roommates and I were just about finished moving in and unpack­ing. All I had to do was grab a few more things out of storage. That's when I first realized that I was missing stuff, and a lot ofit. I later learned that somehow, in the end of the year chaos, my trusty trunk, full of everything that had no place else to go, never quite made it to storage. In fact, it stayed in Lewis Hall over the summer and was eventually donated to Goodwill. So I lost a fan, a pair of snow boots and a couple of strings of Christmas tree lights. No big deal. A sleeping bag I've had since I was in thefourth grade and my recipe book of mixed drinks were gone too. I'd survive. And then I remembered this brilliant idea I had, to pack all of my photo albums in that trunk, the ones with every picture I had ever taken since I began college four years ago. They were all gone-pictures from my first football weekend of my friends with our face tattoos and sunburns, my first SYR and my date with his brqwn leather pilot jacket, and my first RA, Nora with her sweet boy­friend Pete, who would sometimes watch soap operas with us. It was nobody's fault. (I really mad at Nobody.) And there really isn't anything that can be done. (Apparently Goodwill sorts through donations and throws away all personal items.) I justhave to get over it and move on. 
At this, the start of a long school year, moving on seems like a theme for many people. Another group ofseniors has disap­peared and a new group has taken over, moving into the old apartments and dorm rooms, taking over the old positions of au­thority. The entire campus seems to be mov­ing on, to where I can't exactly tell you, but the dining halls, the quads and even the sidewalks are all changing right in front of us. And even this issue of Scholastic was produced from new facilities in the base­ment of South Dining Hall. (Some might say that's moving backward, but that's an­other story.) And likewise, after a summer­time airing ofthe school's dirty laundry, the football team is trying to move on. Scholastic's coverage of the university's trials and tribulations and their effect on Notre Dame's image begins on page 16. 
Also Inside 
In case you missed the unfriendly banners at the football game, Bill Bradley is in town and he's here to stay-for a few days this semester, at least. So why is he bothering? What's in it for him? Heather Schomann and Jake Mooney take a look at those ques­tions on page 10. 
The fun and games (and the pizza parties) of Matt Griffin's presidency continue to plague student government as the new ad­ministration deals with the worst budget deficit in recent history. Meredith Salisbury· investigates the loss and its aftermath on page 7. 
And if you've been dying to read the latest about the campus band scene, John Huston has your story on page 26. 
Time to move on. 

~di~ 
50 Years Ago: Study Tips for Scholars 
Freshmen are worrying about their first exams, and the rest of the students are still getting back into the swing of studying. In the January 23, 1948, issue of Scholastic, Associate Editor John A. O'Connor offered the following advice for test-taking: 
Scoff at black coffee and benzydrine for wee-hour cramming. Instead go out and get docked. They say the memory retains everything, and all you must do is poke the coats for a spark to be recalled. Ifyou go into the exam slightly crocked you may be able to recall eve,y boring word your profever uttered. Then again you may not. 
Though Intro. to Psych confirms this theory, we're betting that O'Connor would have been less likely to "scoff' at _caffeine if he had been around for the invention of Surge, Jolt and Water Joe. 
-MWS 


SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 10, 1998
MAGAZIN·E 


)•~t1js~t 

Something got your goat? · You're not dumb as an ox. Don't let the cat get your tongue ( or pen). You're sly like a fox. Show us. Don't wait 'til pigs fly . 
.k >· Letters to the Editor: 
· 
~v-SCHOLASTIC · 
MAG AZ ·I N E 
LaFortune Student Center ·Notre·Dame, IN 46556 
SEPTEMBER l0, ,1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAG.AZIN E 



MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE OCTOBER 5 -OCTOBER 9 11 MOVEMENTS THAT MADE HISTORY/HERSTORY" 

CULTURE ON THE QUAD October 5 -9 4:30pm-6pm Fieldhouse Mall 
FIRESIDE CHATS 

October 5 -9 12:00pm -1 :00pm Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune "Environmental Movement" "Women's Movement" "Peace Movement" "Civil Rights" 
ENTERTAINMENT 
ON THE QUAD October 5 -9 4:30pm-6pm Fieldhouse Mall 
S~IN,Ute 
A1~ taectdwe (10UHCil, 
SPECIAL EVENTS . October 7 7:00pm -11pm LaFortune Ballroom 

4 
SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
MAGAZINE 




IN STRIDE 



Saferwalk 
This year, Safewalkers will be doing more than pounding the pavement 
It is a scenario often repeated through­out the school year: you 're faced with a late-night walk across campus, perhaps from the library or a computer cluster. Out­side, the campus seems desolate, dark and a little foreboding. Fortunately, though, you do not have to make the trek back to your dorm alone. Thanks to Notre Dame's Safewalk program, you can be escorted free of charge anywhere on campus. Safewalk, initially founded in response to a series of attacks on campus, plans to expand its activities this year. Coordinator A.J. Boyd describes the expansion as "part of a revitalization of the program." While continuing to focus primarily on escorting students, faculty and staff across campus after dark, the program will incorporate a number of new initiatives to heighten "awareness of safety and security concerns on campus," says Boyd. In order to call attention to the threat of theft on campus, Safewalk teams will be leaving "Gotcha" cards on students' laptops and other unat­tended personal belongings. "They're es­sentially little notes saying, 'Ifl was a thief, Icouldhavewalkedawaywithyour laptop,"' 
explains Boyd. Emphasizing the need for students to exercise more caution when it comes to their personal belongings, Boyd . recalls walking through the library during last spring's finals. "We easily could have 
walked away with eight laptops." 
Other initiatives include an adopt-a-dorm 
program in which each Safewalk member 
would establish a relationship with a par­
ticular residence hall. "It's kind of a com­
munity policing just so that each of the 
dorms has somebody that they get to know 
as arepresentative ofSafewalk and Security · 
-somebody that can talk to them at the 
Hall Government meetings," Boyd says. 
C9nstant patrols and posting of crime pre­
vention fliers by Safewalk teams will also 
increase campus safety. 
In e,ddition to this expanded role in campus 
safety, Safewalk's new duties could include 
ticketing cars which remain on campus be­
yond the time limit oftheir one-hour pass. "It 
seems that we'd be readily available to take 
c_ars that we're walking by anyway and see if 
they've been on campus too long," explains 
Boyd. If all goes according to plan, the new 
initiatives will lead to a safer campus. 
-Jim Pastore 

:~--,~~~},{·!~~t,::~~~~3J!f~~~~~j 
SEPT~MBER 10, 1998 

Q&A 

10uestions with 

Amie Hartley 
Flame Broiler 

The fluddle is the new home for the Home of the Whopper, and students fed up with imitation fast food at the dining halls are flocking to this American icon. Behind ev­ery great burger there is an equally great cook. Amie Hartley is that culinary Mozart, andfor two weeks she has been thanklessly toiling in the inferno that is the BKND kitchen with nothing to showfor herself but a snappy little uniform and a paycheck. 
Why, of all these fine business establish­ments here in the Huddle, did you choose to work at Burger King? My grandma got me into working at Burger King because she used to have a job here at the Huddle. Are there any machines back there that make your job a little dangerous? There's the broiler. You've got to get the hamburgers in the slots and if you get them layered you have to put your fingers in there and move them around and stuff. 
Besides "dangerous", what is the best adjective you could use to describe this particular BK franchise? 
Well, it would have to be "dirty" because you've got germs everywhere. You 'rework­ing with salt and you 're working with grease and you're always working with all these kinds of ingredients for the hamburgers. And the floors are dirty. Dirty generally describes everything. 
Dirty? Are you sure there aren't any health code violations going on? 
Umm, well, you just have to make sure that if you leave from behind BK that you wash your hands before you come back. 
continued on next page-
SCHOLASTIC 
5 
MAGAZINE 
z 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m 
CP 
0 
0:
7'! 
. I 

0 ~ 
0 
dl 
UJ 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 

Speaking of health, BK isn't usually considered a place to come if you're on a strict diet. Do you think ND athletes 
should eat here?· 
Yeah, sure, they can work it off. So why should I eat at BK and not next door at Tomassito's? We have better food, and basically every­one has a real good attitude at Burger King even though they hate [working here]. Do you think that you'll put Tomassito's out of business? No, because I think BK and Tomassito's work together. And if you don't want our food place there's another food place op­tion. Has anyone ever hit on you while on the job? Actually this morning while I was on break. ... This guy just came up and started talking . to me and asked me ifl went to school here, and how I was doing ~ just your basic how's~it-going conversation. 
What's your opinion-of Bill Clinton: Dirty 
Old Man or Victim of Circumstance? He's a dog. Just the way he's handled the whole thing with what's her name. He's trying to cover his butt but he's guilty. What would you do if you were Hillary 
and Bill confessed to you? 
IfI were Hillary?J would kick him out ofthe White House and take over as President. 
~ Zac Kulsrud 

DRAFT CARDS 



Going Pro 
Three underclassmen 
jump to the pros
Almost all Irish•followers know about the professional standing of recent Notre Dame draftees Allen Rossum and Pat Garrity, into the NFL and NBA respectively. But many are unaware-of the exploits of baseball stars Brad Lidge and Allen Greene and hockey standout· Mark Eaton. Lidge leads the list ofthe three llilder­classmen who left Notre Dame to fulfill his childhood dream. Drafted by the Houston Astros With the 17th pick in the first round, Lidge was the highest drafted Notre Dame baseball player in 33 years. The 1998 Big East Conference Pitcher of the Year de­cided to forgo his senior year with the Irish and sign with the Astros. Lidge' s teammate Allen Greene was also an early draft pick who decided to pass up his senior season with Notre Dame. Greene, a. centerfielder, was a ninth-round selection by the New York Yankees. Baseball Head Coach Patil Mainieri doesn't regret the loss of two of his best · players from last season. "Obviously; you 're losing two outstanding players," Mainieri says. "But when you go into the recruiting • process, if you get three good years out of players, you should feel good;" 

TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN; Brad Lidgechose the Astros over the Irish. 
The Irish hockey team also sustained a loss when fophomore-to-be Mark Eaton, last year's CCHARookie ofthe Year, signed a three-year contract with the Philadelphia Flyers over the summer. "It was the tough­est decision I ever had to make in my.life," says_ Eaton, who will begin training for his stint with the Philadelphia Phantoms, the Flyers' AHL affiliate, this Saturday. 
The defenseman was a pivotal part ofthe Irish's defense last year and is-sure to be missed: Eaton hasn't forgotten his Irish team­mates, though. "I wish ND hockey well this year: ... Kick some butt," he says. 
-Christopher Hamilton 



SCHOLASTIC ·SEPTEMBER· l0, 1998
6 
MAGAZINE 

Last year's spending frenzy leaves Student Government and SUB ... 
z 
m




In the 
~ 
(./) 

BY MEREDITH SALISBURYStudent Body TreasurerTJWolfe ex­pected to spend almost a month rec­onciling the expense accounts for all the campus clubs and organizations. He's had enough experience to know it always talces that long. But when Wolfe saw the first balance sheet showing an overall deficit of more than $69,000, he knew his plans would have to change. With his two assistants, Wolfe had the basic numbers together in four days, just in time for the second Student Senate meeting. He distributed copies ofthese fig­ures at the meeting and watched the grow­ing concern among the senators. "I wouldn't label this a crisis situation," he began. It may not be a "crisis situation," but it comes closer to one than any student gov­ernment in recent history has had to deal with. Most student administrations leave behind only a slight debt, or, more fre-.. quently, a surplus to carry over to the next . -year for the "contingency fund," used by organizations needing new equipment be­yond their budget. Both the '94-'95 and '95­'96 administrations left roughly $30,000 to their successors. After the '96-'97 term, that figure dropped to $10,000-still a surplus. Current estimates for the '97-'98 term place the loss ar:ound $66,000. 
·. The Problem . 

Most of the deficit was incurred by the office.of the president ( over $11,000) and the Student Union Board (over $38,000). Ryan Stecz, last year's SUB controller and this year's board manager, explains that 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
much of that debt was caused by "unantici­p~ted bills" that came in over the summer, especially from the company through which SUB obtains its movies. 
Because of the way university accounts work, groups like SUB frequently do not see many of their bills, Stecz says. Bills for things like setup costs are not seen until the .monthly statement, which arrives about six weeks after the charge is incurred, he says. "Itis very hard to budget [given these circumstances],"Stecz adds. 
Student Body President Peter Cesaro had similar sentiments. He, too,noticed a large number of bills that came in over the summer which had not been accounted for in the treasurer's books. These included bills from pizza places, where charges could be added to a direct account that did not have to be pre-approved bythe treasurer. "Weknew that there was something going on" when these bills kept.coming in, Cesaro says. 
Indeed, something had been going on, and for some time. Director ofStudent Ac­tivities Joe Cassidy noticed it last semester. "Student government was spending faster than what their budget would allow," he says. Cassidy met with members of the former administration to point out the prob­lem. But it seemed his advice would not be heeded; Matt Griffin, former student body president, had other things on his mind. "Griffin was too distracted with petition/> circulating for the impeachment vote to focus on the budget," Cassidy recalls. Grif­fin felt no need to go beyond pointing out apparent pr<;>blems. Cassidy says, "We are not responsible for keeping [students] on budget." 
Stecz was not present at the meeting with Cassidy, but he could have used the advice. From the ·beginning, he knew there would be ramifications ofthe charges he did not get receipts for, such as university work orders. "I noticed problems in not seeing where the money was going," he says. 
The experience of SUB's 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 
exemplifies the prob­
lem with the way 
these finances are 

handled. Working with a budget of$14,500, CJF commissioner Lisa Zimmer acknowl­edged to Scholastic in the April 23 issue that one ofher goals was to use all the money for fear that any leftovers would be seen as money that the committee didn'tneed. Stecz agrees that this is a common feeling among organizations. "It's in everyone's best in­terest .. ;," he says, "to spend their money to get as much if .not more the next year." When the bills came in over the summer, the CJF accounts alone showed a deficit ofover 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Cassidy be­
lieves much of 
this results 
from a cru­
cial flaw in 
the system. 
"There is no 
oversight mecha­

nism in place," he says. The Student Senate is supposed to be the force monitoring organizational expen­ditures. But when the constitution was rewritten, so many of the committees.in 
the senate overlapped those in the gov­ernment that no real overseeing could take place. Cesaro and Stecz concur with this diagnosis. "The Student Senate has oversight but no power," Cesaro explains. Even if the senate could see everything that 
went on, they wouldn't be able to do any­
thing about it. 
Because of this problem, Wolfe believes this situation could have been predicted. "It was only a matter of time," he says. In fact, it was more concrete than that. When Grif­fin left office at the end oflast March, it was apparent to Wolfe that continuing the spend­ing rate in student government would lead to a deficit. Though he briefed Cesaro on the situation, neither felt he had the choice to stop spending. "When Pete comes in," Wolfe says, "it'shardforme to send him home and say, 'You can't do anything."' 
According to Cassidy, this problem was exacerbated by the people in charge last year. "It really ends up having to do with how fiscally responsible the student gov­ernment administration is. Obviously, last year's was not." 

The Controversy 

Cassidy's implication of last year's ad­ministrationis to be expected. Even as Wolfe distributed the statistics at the Student Sen­ate meeting, wheels were turning to decide who would acce~t the blame for the situa­tion. 
On SUB' s behalf, Stecz stepped up to shoulder some of that weight. "We should be accountable for a lot of it," he acknowl­edges. However, he refuses to accept all the blame, and facts show that he shouldn't have to. When SUB had its annual budget review last semester, its accounts looked good enough that the Financial Manage­ment Board (FMB) decided to reallocate some of its funds to other clubs and organi­zations that needed more money in their 
SCHOLASTIC

8 
MAGAZINE 

budgets. Stecz believes approximately $1,200 was taken away from SUB during that review, which indicates that its com­mittees were not operating under a deficit at that time. 
If SUB was doing well most of the time, other factors must have been at work. Of course, spending in the office of the president was a large component of therestofthedebt. "We've been 
strapped since the be­ginning," says Cesaro, who felt it necessary to keep spending just to keep the student government doors open and phones connected. He points to last year's administration's habit of catering every meeting as a wasteful practice. "You can't justify buying pizza for an organization's members," Cesaro argues, when that money is supposed to be spent on the students. 
Additionally, each group has its own con­troller or treasurer, who theoretically has the responsibility of budgeting for that group and dealing with financial problems as they arise. From the number of committees in . debt, there are clearly more people who should have been aware of the situation and could be· consid­ered responsible for some of it. 
Stecz feels the situation might not have gotten so out of hand if the university had played a bigger role in financial su­pervision. Re­garding the position of con­troller for SUB, he says, "It's a job that ... needs more guidance from people in Student Activities." 
But the people in Student Activities dis­agree. Cassidy points out that if the pres­ence of his department was felt more by clubs and organizations, students would 
probably complain about the university be­ing heavy-handed. He adds that, in the ex­treme case where it looked like the deficit would grow so large that students wouldn't be able to handle it, Student Activities would have stepped in. "We're not going to start bankrolling student gov­ernment to [enable them to run a defi­cit]," especially if that debt would affect university, Cassidy 
says. 
Aside from that situation, Cassidy says, 
Student Activities tries to steer clear of 
controversies surrounding how stu­
dents. spend their money. "We 
really hesitate to force the 
hand and say, 'You can't 
do this' because it's stu­
dent fees," he says. 
Agreeing that getting past the urge to lay blame is important in dealing with the prob­lem, the key figures are currently trying to resolve another controversial issue: whose pockets to tap for the missing funds. At the initial senate meeting, Keenan Hall Senator Matt Mamak was in favor of delaying such a decision. "There's no point in debating right now where the money should be real­located to," he said. But his wait-and-see attitude has not proven popular. 
"Someone's going to take a hit at some time," Wolfe says. "We don't know exactly where the money's going to come from, but it's got to come from somewhere." 
One idea is for an across-the­
board budget slash. But 
this solution is prob­
ably the least accept­
able to most people. 
"The majority of the 
groups were within 
budget," Cassidy says. 
."It's real tough to justify 
[such a step].'.' 
On the other hand, cutting the 
budgets of just those groups in 
the red isn't an appealing option 
either. Stecz accepts some respon­
sibility._ "We can definitely make 
some cuts and we're going to have 
to," he says. However, he contends 
that severely cutting SUB 's budget will just result in penalizing this year's students for last year's mistakes. Heavy budget cuts will limit SUB programming for the year, and that would "hurt the entire student body," Stecz says. 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 


The Consequences 

For student government's part, Cesaro has already stepped forward with a plan to cut $8,000 from the office of the president -about 20 percent of the office's budget. This will prevent cutting some other groups' budgets, he says, but will result in fewer activities sponsored solely by student gov­ernment. Instead, events will have to be organized through part­nerships with other campus groups. 
In a meeting of the Financial Man­agement Board Monday, several options were considered for the remaining groups. Wolfe says the main factor was "how long we thought we'd want to keep this debt on the books." Most organizations are ex ­pected to opt for a two-year plan to repay their debt. SUB is currently working on statistics for two-and three-year payment proposals. The organizations and FMB will officially decide on the payment plans after further deliberation. 
Despite the bleak appearance of the defi­cit, Cassidy says, "There will be very little fallout." Because of an increase in budget due to unexpectedly high profits from The Shirt last year, the overall student budget is up to $580,000 from last year's $477,000­a difference that easily makes up for the $66,000 lost last year. "They still have more money this year than any other," Cassidy points out. 
Wolfe is currently working with the ac­counting office to determine whether more account shuffling will help. If much of the deficit could be paid off with excess from the Student Business Board, Wolfe explains, the overall deficit may be reduced to a more manageable $12,000 . 
. No matter what the final figure, Cassidy sees this as a potential lemons-to-lemonade situation. The goai ofhaving such organiza­tions at a university,-from the university's standpoint, is to provide more educational experience for those involved. "The stu­dents who are dealing with this right now," Cassidy says, "are getting an incredible learning experience." 
BALANCING ACT. Student Body President Peter Cesaro and Vice President Andrea Selak learned of Student Union's financial problems after they began their term in office. 
They have indeed learned, and a call to action is being issued in every comer of the current admininstration. Cesaro's plans call for cutting food at· meetings and relying more on personal interaction · rather than expensive advertising to keep people in touch with the student government. Also, the government is looking into giving more power to the treasurer to enforce sticking to budgets. This would empower a position that previously had only some oversight capacity, at best. Fm now, Cesaro is deter­mined that "next year's adminis­tration will not inherit this problem," he says. 
Stecz has met with SUB programmers to discuss possible changes to en­courage more accurate bookkeeping strate­gies. For one, he would like to get receipts from the university for all work orders and other charges so the controller does not have to rely on monthly statements for that infor­mation. He also might require programmers to keep ledgers for their own committees listing every expenditure, to be compared with the controller's books on a regular basis. Stecz feels this would lead to better financial decisions by the programmers and promote dialogue with the controller to keep him aware of the economic situation. 
Stecz accepts the loss as a learning expe­

rience. Without a deficit of such magni­
tude, the flaw in the system might not have 
been taken so seriously by so many people. 
As Stecz puts it, "Maybe it takes some-: 
thing like this to say, 'You have a problem 

Jake Mooney contributed to this report. 
SEPTEMBER l0, 1998 


Serving the Full Term? 
V) 
~ Former Senator Bill Bradley's visiting professorship meets with enthusiasm w as well as concerns about time commitment 
z 
interest in a short-term teaching commit­he expresses in lectures from students in BY JAKE MOONEY 
ment and approached him through acquain­every Arts and Letters major, Bradley will IIBill Bradley to join faculty of Notre tances on the Board of Trustees. also learn what the members of his class Dame!" The members of the class ·are required to look for in a president. The final assignment So proclaims the web site offormer attend and critique each lecture and meet for for the class is a four-page paper in which 
U.S. Senator Bill Bradley, regarding his brainstorming sessions with Roos. Roos students will tell Bradley what they expect recent collaboration with the university. will give the students comments on the one­from the presidency and how politicians can Bradley's semester at Notre Dame has long page critiques, which Bradley will read and better communicate with young people. been touted as a coup for the school. use as the basis for a discussion at the In light of speculation that he will run for 
A quotation from Notre Dame provost following class meetings. the Democratic presidential nomination in Nathan Hatch in the accompanying press In an interview last week, Bradley said 2000, some have questioned Bradley's com­release reads, "Sen. Bradley established him­that he is looking forward to the meetings mitment to teaching versus the opportunity self as one of our foremost national leaders with students more than any other aspect of to pick the brains of America's college during his years on Capitol Hill. Our stu­the class and that he is "very interested in students. The class structure and assign­dents can learn much through personal in­getting the reaction ofthe Notre Dame com­ment should help Bradley gauge the politi­teraction with such a leader." munity to what I have to say." He continued, cal opinions of the students, an id~al situa­
Mixed reactions, however, indicate that "It's the richness of this place that is an tion for a politician considering presidential the situation may not be so clear-cut. encouragement for me to be here and to lay candidacy. 
The details of Bradley's class and lecture these thoughts out here." Senior Brandon Roach, a member of the series raise questions about just how much The procedure used to select students for class, is aware that this situation could help personal interaction the former senator will the class will help to ensure that Bradley Bradley's political career. "There is the be available for, · and about where Notre experiences a more deliberately diverse element of teaching, but it is also beneficial Dame students fit into an arrangement that cross-section ofthat richness than most pro­· to him to get the pulse of American college will bring nationwide publicity to both the fessors ever see. A faculty commission di­students," he says. Roach, though, is not university and the potential presidential can­vided the number of· class spaces am9ng concerned about how Bradley may benefit didate. Arts and Letters departments, with the gov-from teaching the class. ''He can also edu­

cate us on the political process and what it takes to work on the highest political level," 

"There is the element ofteaching, but it is also 
he says. Senior Elizabeth Guidi, another member 

beneficial to him to get the pulse ofAmerican 
of the class, agrees that it is advantageouscollege student:' for Bradley to be able to test his views in front of an audience of young potential-Brandon Roach, senior voters. But she says it is good to have a possible candidate reaching out in his own 
As a visiting professor in the Hesburgh ernment department receiving IO of the 34 way to hear what students have to say. Program of Public Affairs, Bradley will co­slots. Each department then used its own Bradley downplays the effect that his teach a one-credit seminar on political lead­selection system to fill its given number of involvement in the class will have on any ership with Government Professor John spaces. PLS majors, for example, were asked potential presidential campaign. "Ulti­Roos. Bradley, who has taught similar to submit an essay about how they would mately, the decision [whether to run for 

courses at Stanford University and the Uni­benefit from the class. Government majors president] would be an internal decision, 
versity of Maryland since retiring from an had to submit an essay as well as a list of and I don't think that it's directly related," 18-year career in the U.S. Senate at the end relevant courses taken. The government he says. "But I find that meeting college of the 1997 term, will come to campus for department chose four students based on students is interesting and helpful and deep­
five public lectures and one workshop. Hes­their essays and filled their other six spaces ens your experience generally." burgh Program Coordinator Peri Arnold by lottery. Bradley also doubts that his connection says that Notre Dame learned of Bradley's In addition to getting reactions to views with Notre Dame would do much to posi­
10 SCHOlASTIC SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
MAGAZINE 


tively influence Catholic voters who may be alienated by his other views, such as his pro­choice stance. "People make their decision [of] who they vote for based on a lot of factors," he says. "I don't see thatthis would relate to [voters' choice of president]. I think that it's an experience that's self­contained." 
Whether or not Bradley and his political future will benefit from his presence at Notre Dame, there is little doubt that Notre Dame hopes to benefit from his presence and that of others like him. The anonymous grant that helped bring Bradley here will provide for more public figures to come to Notre Dame as visiting professors in the future. Arnold lists former Senator George Mitchell as one possible candidate. 
Although Bradley's name will bring Notre Dame more national publicity, he will actu­ally spend less time in South Bend this semester than he will traveling across the country promoting his new book, "Values of the Game." The book tour, beginning in October, will take him to locales such as New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Chicago. 
Some members of the class are not bothc ered by the fact that Bradley will be unavail­

"/'m adding something to the university 
. ' 
community, hopefully, but I'm certainly not a full professor." 
-Former Senator Bill Bradley 
able for contact during most ofthe semester. Senior Tom Kilroy agrees that it will not be a normal professor-student relationship, but is not disappointed. "It won't be the same in terms of availability, but it is a chance to have a class with someone who has been involved in politics at the highest level." 
Roos says that Bradley is looking for an active role with the students. "Senator Bra­dley has been very involved in structuring the seminar and is really taking the class seriously," he says. Guidi agrees. "He seems very interested in meeting with students and getting to know us: We have been asked to give resumes ofinterests and activities so he can be familiar with us," she says. 
One student who is not optimistic about Bradley's ability to lead a successful class is Peter Folan, a junior originally slated to be 
SEPTEMBER l0, 1998 
a member of the class. Folan dropped out after finding out that Bradley would meet with the class in person only five times during the semester. 
"They made it seem like Bill Bradley would be here for the duration of the semes­ter, and that he would be the sole professor," Folan says, noting that Bradley's name, and not Roos', appear in the DART book. 
Folan also points to concerns over the extent of Bradley's involvement in grading papers. 
"If he's going to make a commitment to be the professor, he should be the one to grade the papers in a class this small," Folan says. 
Roos confirms that although Bradley will read students' one-page critiques of his lec­tures, Roos will be the one to write com­ments on them. Of the final four-page pa­pers that class members are required to hand in, Roos says, "He's definitely going to attempt to put comments on the long pa­pers." 
Because students will receive a grade of either "satisfactory" or "unsatisfactory" in the class, neither professor will be respon­sible for giving students letter or number grades. 
Bradley acknowledges that his role will not be the same as that of most professors. "Youcan'tput this in the same category that you put the German professor at Notre Dame who is teaching four courses," he says. "I have tremendous admiration for those people who are full professors .... I'm not in their category. That's why this is a one-credit course. I'm adding some­thing to the university community, hopefully, but I'm certainly not a full professor." 
In spite of the limited extent of Bradley's contact with the class, Roos sees the class as preparation for stu­dents in becoming responsible citizens. "They will be exposed to the senator's thoughts on public policy and learn to en­gage in critical dialogue with a policy maker, which is important to their futures. It is a great addition to anyone's intellectual back­ground." 
Kilroy also believes that the class will be beneficial and adds that he is excited by the chance to give Bradley real feedback and to get an inside look at the political process and how to run a campaign. 
Just how much of that excitement is be­cause ofBradley and how much comes from the chance to get near a national political figure is unclear, however. As Kilroy says, "I don't think it would be different if it was another nationally known public figure, but I don't think the interest would be as strong for someone local." 0 
Heather Schomann contributed to this report. 
BOOKED SOLID. Former Senator Bill Bradley will divide his time this fall between teaching a class and a nationwide book­promoting tour . . 

BY Scarr CULLEN 
ou are an RA 24-7." With this vague 
call to duty, Professor O'Hara sent us 
out with our marching orders. Newly anointed, we were to go forth and walk the uneasy line between police officer and car­ing friend. Implicit in her statement were several expectations about our personal con­duct and decision making; the responsibil­ity assumed in our new positions of author­ity went well beyond our assigned duty hours within the dorm. We are visible lead­ers in a community whose declared empha­sis is the development of the entire person. Our ability to enforce, guide and teach will be undermined if we do not conduct our­selves according to what we preach. As I sat in DeBartolo Hall with the rest of Notre Dame's new RAs, contemplating such ques­tions as what passes for acceptable tailgat­ing, I was struck by one theme which re­curred throughout our orientation. "In many ofthese situations, you will have to use your own good judgment to determine the proper course ofaction," 0 'Hara said. "But you are here because we trust you." 
Unfortunately, this year's defining news story is the tale of how the most powerful man in the world failed to use appropriate judgment in his personal life. In my first few weeks on the job, I have come to realize how vital developing trust is when it comes to leading a section. Ifl go against my word, or the policies I am supposed to uphold, then no one in my section will have any reason to accept what I say. As a nation, we are now dealing with a scandal that has undermined the President's ability to lead in official and informal capacities. Clinton's defenders have argued that it is possible to draw a distinction between public and private con­duct, even in the nation's most highly vis­ible office of public service. Whether any­one actually buys this, the truth remains that the ability of the White House and its occu­pant to lead the nation have suffered since 
Y
the Lewinsky scandal first came to light. The President's attempts to divide leader­ship into "on" time and "off' time has para­lyzed his powers. 
Clinton's defense is silly, and his admin­istration is, for all practical purposes, crippled.But no matter how weak or incon­sistent a position might be, when a charis­matic President of the United States en­dorses it, .aided and abetted by a collection of brilliant ~andlers, the American public will pay close attention. Consciously or unconsciously, the public assigns the Presi­dent the role ofa societal leader, embodying who we are and what we stand for. These days, Clinton is arguing that a leader, be it the president, an RA, or any individual entrusted with a position ofauthority, is two different people. It all depends on whether or not we are on the clock. Sadly, opinion polls show that this idea has taken root in the collective American mind. This could set a detrimental precedent in our society. 
The assumption that all students at Notre Dame are and will continue to be leaders was inherent in the very decision to invite each student into this community in the first place. Whether we find ourselves an elected leader of millions, or the parent of a single child, we will all be called to use our gifts to improve society in some way. And our responsibility as leaders does not end when the doors are closed orwhen the kids go to bed. It is an unfortunate byproduct of the Lewinsky scandal that in some grade schools across the country; children who are caught misbehaving or lying can now plea the "Clinton got away with it" defense. Ifwe are going to be effective leaders, we will use the President's failings as an example of the error offragmenting ofour lives into public and private segments, rather than as a ratio­nalization for it. The opinions expressed in this commen­tary are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofthe editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998

12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 





Cardio Crush 
Students thought the lines for football tickets were long-until they 
tried to sign up for aerobics classes 
BY MEREDITH SALISBURY The juniors who ca.mped out for foot­ball tickets must have chuckled to themselves when they saw a group of people heading toward the Joyce Center at 6:30 that morning. The line for tickets was already a mile long, and it seemed these people would have no chance. But instead of queuing up at Gate 10, the newcomers turned toward the Rolfs Center. What could so many people be doing up at this hour if they weren't getting football tickets? The next best thing: signing up for aerobics classes. In fact, they were trying to beat the rush that would begin at 7:30 that morning. Junior Molly Beeler arrived at 8:30 and found there was still a long line to sign up. "I didn't think I was going to get into my classes," she says. Beeler waited her tum and shelled out $60 to enroll in three step-
FEELING THE BURN. An aerobics student pushes herself through a set of leg lifts. The top three aerobics classes are knockout workout, step and yoga. 
, 
~'~f:f:!~t:i;\:i;;?_-;:?·~;'t:·::\;,;ffj;J;?'t'·•·_-ff~i ;••:'•···r;:-:·~::.;~;'it:f?::'.·~:~{;~~l 
aerobics classes, She believes the. money was well-spent. "I've heard they're really good classes and. a good way to keep in shape," Beeler says. 
RecSports Fitness Coordinator Jennie Phillips explains that the registration fees cover costs such as paying instructors and buying new equipment. "We try to keep it reasonable," Phillips says. 
Freshman Alison Lasseter didn't mind the price. She signed up for abs and funk aerobics with her roommate, in part because it was something they could do together. "I wanted to do something here to stay in shape and prevent that freshman 15," she adds. 
Junior Julie Lynk, who joined the cardio program, sees the classes themselves as motivation to work out. "Ifl have a set time, I'm more likely to go," Lynk says. 
With an average of 700 people taking these classes each semester, it seems that 
RecSports must be doing something right. 
One reason people continue to sign up is the quality ofinstruc­tors, many of whom are students. Junior Kara Uffelman now teaches step, cardio and flex and tone classes, but. she started out as a par­ticipant in similar . programs as a fresh­

.: man. Uffelman liked 
§5 )> the instructors and 
m 
~ decided to get certi­l'5 fied to teach aero­~ bics so she could be­
:l 
~ ·come a RecSports instructor. Phillips prides herself on the quality of her trainers. "I have an experi­enced, very enthusiastic set of instructors," she says. Phillips requires all instructors to audition, and those who pass must take further training workshops to learn more about technique, transitions and choreogra­phy. 
Phillips works continually to upgrade the aerobics program. In an effort to reach vari­ous groups of people, Phillips designs pro­grams to surt not only students but also staff members. She coordinates different types of classes to accommodate different needs, and says her participants range in age from "18 to 80". 
An athletic conditioning class has been added largely to entice men to participate. Traditionally, females far outnumber males in aerobics classes. Phillips speculates that men may prefer to work out on their own. 
"New Beginnings" is another new class on the RecSports roster this fall. "It's for people new to exercise ... or people who haven't been exercising much," Phillips says. In all, the number of classes is up four since last fall. Many of the existing classes are being held at more varied times to give people increased flexibility in scheduling. 
In spite of these changes, the initial en­rollment this year was less than it has been in previous years. However, classes are still filling up. Uffelman says she has noticed that enrollment typically seems to increase in the second semester. Phillips does not believe the apparent drop shows a lack of interest among students or staff, comment­ing that they may be using the new Rolfs facilities as an alternative to the classes. And Phillips believes the classes will re­main as popular as they are now. "It's been such a consistent, good program for such a 

long time," she says.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  13  
MAGAZINE  

r­
"'Tl 
m 
w 
LL .....I 
V) 
::J 
a.. 
~ 
<( 
u 


a Football 
~stand. We suggest drawing caricatures of your sloppy, enough said. This is Goodyear spirit, for God's ~ drunk friends for a dollar each. Make sure you wear a beret sake. They've only got a few of these things, , · · and a shirt that says something about the opposing team to and one is at Notre Dame every football show some real class. Ifthat doesn't work, try to sell those weekend. Try the "I spy the blimp" game with obscene lawn decorations in front of the Snite. your friends. Be sure to reward the first per­son who spots the aircraft with a prize fit for Rile the Opponents: If pesky opposition fans bother you any fan. Perhaps a bag ofmarshmallows would do the trick. 
Start Your Own Concession Stand: Need some extra cash to throw that tailgater this weekend? Start your own concession 
while you work the tailgating grill, roll that ham­burger meat up and chuck it at 'em. Well, don't Hey, I Know You!: Gather up your friends and head over to where actually pelt them because dulac prob-the marching band gets inspected in ranks outside the ably does have something about Dome. Now pick random people and shout, "Sarah!" abuse with raw meat in there some­or "Billy!" at the top of your lungs as if th_ey're your 
where. To liven up the game, make up a long-lost siblings. And for the really brave: when the scoring system with your friends. Add extra points for hits football team comes out of the Basilica yell, "Hey, with ketchup and mustard. who are you? What position do you play? How can I 
join the team?" Pointless, yes, but a great time killer Leprechaun Mania: A week before game time, begin before kick off. growing pencil-thin beards with your friends and rent some leprechaun suits. Now it's your time to shine. Steal Stay Home: Why deal with the crowds, the weather and the some well-deserved attention from that little green pure excitement ofjust being at the game when you could 
egomaniac. You '11 be amazed at the perks of · be in the crowds at the parking lot of the game? Nothing your new identity. Alums will buy you says "alumni" better than eating quiche in your 40-foot beer, children will give you spare change mobile home while watching the game on TV 100 feet 
and other mascots will find your Irish jig from the stadium. Who said fine china and football don't irresistible. mix? 
Make predictions: Here's a tip to freshmen who Harass an Irish Guard Member: Tempt an ever-serious aren't as experienced at tailgating. Always, and guard member into some real fun. Think of ingenious that means always, predict Notre Dame will ways to crack a smile on that grim face, even if you have win by at least 70 points. Do this even if you to humiliate yourself in the process. Check out whether know deep down in your encyclopedic football the Irish myth is true and tryto look up a gmrrdsman' s kilt. 

eekend 
Ladies and Gentlemen, the Blimp: Need some extra cash? Ladies and gentlemen, the blimp -an American icon, 
mind that the Irish have about as much chance of winning by that large a spread as Oingo Boingo has for coming back with a huge hit. 
Paint: As long as the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, fans at Notre Dame will for some reason associate team pride with painting and tattooing their bodies. Here's a reminder for those of 
you who decide to stumble down this path: tan lines, tan lines, tan lines. You wouldn't want to live with "ANew Era" inscribed across your chest for two months as one embarassed fan did last year. 
Be a· Fanatic: All joking aside, game day at 
Notre Dame is a special time. It should not be 
a time when the students sit on their hands or 
fight about peopfo stealing their seats. Ii: is the 
season when insanity rules, even if only for 
four short quarters. At a pep rally during his 

last season, Lou Holtz said, "The definition of fan is short for fanatic." So make that football Saturday fanatical and "you are bound to have a great gameday experience. 
0 

by Jesse Kent 

SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 


Gipper.1@nd.edu. Tipp the Gipp. Gipper.1@nd.edu. Tipp the 
··. BetWe Did Bett~r 'On The SA.Ts One ofthemoi-e caring, sensitive secu­
. rity. guards at, the front 6f thefootball ticket linelet the Gipp inon a little bitof insight.·. dt1ring the rnsh. for the . door: ''Someti.mes I ~ish it was the people from the Logan Center. waning in line 


From the Gipp Cave, deep within the ing a large yellow "M" was allowed to bowels of South Dining Hall, the Gipp remain in place. welcomes you to another year of fun. But have no fear, Gipp fans: last week­After a long, hard summer, the Gipp feels end, just hours after the Irish trouncing of like a completely new man. Come to think the Wolverines, the very same bar suc­of it, the Gipp had such a rough weekend cumbed to a fire. No word yet on whether it that he looks like a new man: Joe Moore. At was caused by a bolt of lightning from least he still has his self-respect, though, above. which is more than he can say for the geri­atric former coach. 
School Spirit 101 

Speaking of football, and of the punishment that comes to enemies ofJesus' favorite team, the Gipp would like to offer freshmen and otherimpression-1.-. able types a few fine role mod­els. bverthesummer, three Iris students were in a local bar when they noticed a particularly of­fensive form ofdecoration: flags hanging from the ceiling, shame­lessly displaying the insignias J of Florida State, USC and Michigan. Someone Should Have Used The 
Needless to say, these loyal sons ofNotre Club Dame were offended, and the more Jim A couple of weeks ago two resourceful Beam they consumed the more offended football ticket campers found a creative they became. They decided to right the way to spice up an otherwise uneventful wrong committed against the Irish by the night of passing out on the pavement. They traitorous South Bend establishment. Stand­took a nearby golf cart for a joyride. ing up for all that is right in the world, our This probably wasn't the first time drunk heroes grabbed the FSY and USC flags in Notre Dame students have stolen some­full view ofthe bouncers, the bartenders and thing (see above), but here's the twist: the the band. They escaped out the door and into · same guys got caught stealing a golf cart last the night, forever ridding South Bend of year. This time, though, they were deter­these symbols of evil. . mined to destroy the evidence of their esca­
Attentive readers will notice at this point pade.They put theirnew toy in the one place that despite our friends' efforts, a flag bear-on campus where nobody will ever see it 
SEPTEMBER · l 0, 1998 
() )> 
s 
7J

c1 
I 
(./) 
() 
0 
s 
s 
m 
z 
~ 
:;;:o 
-< 
• I '-C '-.._ • • • • , ) : 
I>­
''Everybody's going to make mistakes, everybody is going to have
0:::: 
when we start practice, it's not goingto matter. One thing I've learned at
0 
I­
(/) 

0:::: 
w
I >
0 
u e 






ofnvo
• 

s 
I 
The Irish beat their 
: I opponents on the gridiron despite losing in the courtroom 
by Corey Spinelli 
fter a dismal 7-6 first season, Saturday's 36-20 The conversation that provided undeniable evidence and would victory over defending national championMichi­eventually lead to the airing of the football program's dirty laundry gan validates head coach Bob Davie's belief that this summer took place in Davie's office in December 1996. While the program is headed in the right direction on the speaking with Blue & Gold Illustrated editor Tirri Prister, Davie football field. Successful execution of a crafty offered his thoughts concerning his recent firing oflongtime offen­
game plan resulted in the Irish's biggest win thus far under the sive line coach Joe Moore, a move that surprised many considering Davie regime. Finally, the focus ofthe ever-present spotlight on the latter's reputation for churning out NFL linemen. Notre Dame has shifted back to the action on the gridiron, where Believing he was talking o-ff the record, Davie remarked, "God 1 Irish faithful hope it will remain after an off-season ofembarrass­dang, I've known Joe since 1977, Tim, Iknow all about Joe Moore," 
)
ing revelations regarding the events leading up to and following according to a transcript of the taped interview. "It wasn't even a 
former head coach Lou Holtz's resignation. decision to me. It was, that was the easiest decision. Do you know 
After being selected to succeed the man who originally hired he's going to be 65 in February?" he asked Prister. "I mean, let's get him from Texas A&M, Davie prompt! y fired running backs' coach real." Earle Mosley and offensive line coach Joe Moore. Choosing a Things "got real" for Davie, Moore and the university in a coach's assistants is any head coach's prerogative, and such Lafayette, Ind., courthouse where Moore's age0 discrimination suit firings are commonplace. One apparent motive behind Moore's against Notre Dame was heard over a five-day period this July. An termination, however, proved costly for the university, and more eight-person jury awarded the former assistant coach $85,870.56 in 
. importantly for its pristine image. After his firing, Moore sued the damages, and testimonies from dozens· of former players and university, claiming age discrimination on Davie's part. coaches raised serious doubts about the program's squeaky-clean 
16 SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
MAGAZINE 

problems, but I believe our problems are a minimum. The realityis, Notre Dame is everything gets blown out ofproportion." -BobDavie 


image. Some rather bizarre allegations also surfaced f: j'fj~\'.:·':-:·•:.· concerning Holtz, · who had left campus prior to Moore's firing. 
On July 9, the opening day of the proceedings, Moore testified that Davie explicitly told him that he was too old to remain on the staff for the next five years (the length ofDavie's contract). "Iwent outside my house and didn't know what to think," Moore said. "When someone tells you you're too old, you lose your bravado for life. When you're just told you're too old, it's kind of a traumatic thing." 
Moore was also confronted by Notre Dame's law­yers regarding depositions given by former Irish linemen, coaches and a Disney executive who por~ trayedMoore as an abusive coach who defied author­ity. Chris Clevenger, a lineman under Moore during his final four seasons as an assistant, recalled how Moore punched the starting linemen in the face with a closed fist in the locker room during halftime of a 1994 game versus Florida State. "He started to my left and kind of moved arouncl the room, punching people as he went," Clevenger said. 
Disney Sports executive Phil Lengyel, who was on the sidelines for that Florida State game, testified that he saw Moore punch Clevenger in the face "to the 
· point where blood was noticed, yelling and scream­ing at him the whole time. Itw·asjusta violent, violent outburst that got so loud Coach Holtz had to walk over and restrain him." ABC got Moore's sideline assault on tape but chose not to air it. Clevenger also recalled being punched, along with' four other linemen, during halftime ofthe 1995 Blue­Gold game. "I had blood pouring out of my mouth," (;levenger said. Holtz sent Moore a letter when informed of the assault, saying, "I hope you realize that this will not be tolerated by me or Notre Dame." Moore admitted to striking the players, saying, "I thought they weren't giving a 100 percent effort and I wanted to let them know that they had a responsibility to their teammates, for tlleir lack ofeffort could cause the guy with the ball to have a serious problem." Moore went on to testify that he never again hit a player after Holtz's reprimand, and Notre Dame's lawyers never charged that he did. . Davie was the star witness on day two of the trial, and he gave a long list ofhis reasons for firing Moore. "My number one reason for firing him was his abuse of the kids','' the head coach said. "It's unacceptable." Also heavily weighted according to Davie was Moore's defiance of authority, in addition to verbal abuse, missed meetings, taking tht~_e-hour lunches, constant smoking, arguing with Holtz in front ofthe players and driving a dirty automobile. At ·one point, Davie turned to the jury and stated, "Age had nothing to do with it." Moore's attorney, Richard Lieberman, attacked Davie by claim~ ing that he used the same abusive language frequently, citing an instance when he used profanity to yell at a student manager during 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
.,~i ·-~7: 


the 1996 Boston College game. Lieberman also pointed out that Davie had fired Moore only to replace him with Jim Colletto, a coach who was charged with regularly "hitting, punching, kicking and shoving as a method of coaching" by former P~rdue player Ryan Harmon in 1993. That suit was later dropped. 
The jury also had problems with some ofDavie's answers, as one juror who spoke anonymously later revealed. "Davie's testimony was inconsistent and his statements seemed rehearsed," the juror said. "That Moore's car was not clean was not a good reason to fire him. There was a lot ofrepetition in Davie's testimony and I found it ridiculous." The Los Angeles Times described Davie's perfor­mance as convincing as "Kato Kaelin with a better haircut." 
From an image standpoint, the most damaging statements made by Davie did not even involve Moore; but rather his opinions ofhis _ former boss. By introducing a line ofquestioning aimed to show a pattern of disrespect by Davie toward his associates, Lieberman concentrated on Davie's "disrespect" for Holtz. The second-year head coach stated, "There were things about [Holtz] that it would 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE . 



be accurate to say I hated and despised." at a different standard. If everybody says Public reaction to the trial, typified by the Davie added, "At the end ofthe 1996 season, Notre Dame's standard is different from remarks of longtime college football ana­there were some things that happened that everybody else's, then I don't like whatthat lyst Beano Cook, was not nearly as posi­made me concerned about [Holtz having] has to say about intercollegiate athletics." tive. "The biggest thing that came out of mental problems." Wadsworth believes that the combina­this is that [Notre Dame is] no different 
Holtz responded with a faxed statement, a tion of Notre Dame's lofty academic repu­than anybody else," Cook said. "There's portion of which reads: "I am completely tation and storied football program caused nothing wrong with that, but the two schools mystified at the comments attributed to Bob the university to be held to a higher stan­they don't want to be like are Oklahoma Davie. Bob never said anything but positive dard in terms of conduct and success. "It's and Miami. Well, here they are." comments to me personally and frequently a mixed blessing. I'd rather have it than not. Questions regarding the trial were preva­came into my office and complimented me It's what makes us unique, but it also sets us lent as the Irish opened fall camp on Media on the way I handled various situations." up to be knocked down," he says. Day, August 12. The sentiments of seniors 
When the trial resumed on July 14th, the Although Wadsworth concedes that "this Jarious Jackson and Mike Rosenthal were defense presented its case, focusing on is not one of our proudest moments," the echoed by the rest of the squad. "I don't Moore's abusive behavior, with Clevenger athletic director denies that the university's read the newspapers. People on the outside again providing some disarming testimony reputation is now permanently tarnished. knew a lot more than us," Jackson said. with regards to the football pro­
THE RUSH. Notre Dame improved its image and AP ranking with a win over fifth-ranked Michigan. 
gram. Bob Chmiel, now coordina­tor of football operations, was ac­cused ofdrinking alcohol and smok­ing cigars with underage players following the.1997 West Virginia victory. Chmiel denied the charges and was exonerated by Athletic Di­rector Mike Wadsworth. 
After closing arguments the fol­lowing day, the jury decided in fa­vor of Moore. The majority of the four and a half hours of delibera­tions was spent on discussing dam­ages to be awarded. 
Reaction to the trial was mixed, as Notre Dame administrators ac­knowledged that .the university's reputation was tarnished. "Weknew going in that it was not going to be a good experience from a public rela­tions standpoint. That was a given," says Dennis Moore, director ofPub­lic Relations and Information. "Ob­viously, our image has taken some hits.... And I think there's an atti­tude [by some], ofa kind ofsatisfac­tion in saying: They're not different than anybody else." 
Moore, no relation to Joe Moore, also pointed out that the problem has been fixed, since the former line coach no longer roams the Irish side­lines. "Basically, our feeling is that the situation that ex­isted no longer ex­

ists," Moore said. "God Dang I kn all ab t] M D kn h ' 
"Frankly,atthispoint, ••• ow . OU oe oore. 0 you ow e S we regard this as a closed issue. And we have nothing else to "The university's enormous record of 
"None of [the trial] has affected anyone on say." achievement as an academic institution, as the team. What happened was something in University Executive Vice President Wil­an athletic program with integrity, is bigger Coach Davie's personal life." liam Beauchamp says, "Iget concerned when than any one coach, player or team," 
Co-captainRosenthal says "the great thing people hold Notre Dame up as if we operate Wadsworth stated. 
about college is you don't have the time to 


18 SCHOLASTIC SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
MAGAZINE 

Brady for four quarters in his first collegiate start. 
pay attention to the media, so it hasn't affected us. This whole summer has been about building up for the sea-
Davie was also adamant that the events of the summer would not be a distraction to this year's 

• 
going to be 65:in February. I mean, let's get real." 
THE CRUSH. The Irish defense showed no signs of distraction, harassing Michigan quarterback Tom 
One thing I',ve learned at Notre Dame is everything gets blown out of proportion." 
The head coach also does not believe in using the off-season problems as motiva­tion. "Certainly this team and coaching staff has a lot to prove and there's a lot of different reasons.for motivation. One angle of motivation is· putting this team in a position to undo au the wrong that's been done," Davie said. "They can solve all the problems by going out and having a great season. You almost can paint a picture that it's this football team against the world and you may get some short-range motivation, but over the long haul I don't choose to do that. The summer incidents are of zero distractions to this football team." 
While many Notre Dame fans seriously 

team. "Ev-erybody's going to make mis­takes, everybody is going to have problems, but I really believe our problems are a minimum,"Davie said. "The reality is, when we start practice, it's not going to matter. 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
wondered how a trial that raised the shades and provided a sordid look inside the Irish program could not adverse! y affect the team, the Irish quieted any doubters with what was possibly their biggest win since the Florida State victory of 1993. Much like the underdog '93 Irish squad, who overcame summer adversity (Douglas Looney's por­trayal of a tyrannical Holtz who presided over a steroid-enhanced team) the '98 Irish made a statement this Saturday to the college football world. 
Notre Dame seeks to prove that recent incidents, like last season's 7-6 record, are an exception to the rule. "We didn't play very well on the field last year, and that's not characteristic of Notre Dame," Davie said. "We can't control what people say and wrote about us in the past, but we can control what they say and write about in the future." 
But are gridiron victories enough to repair the damage done two months ago off the field? "Winning helps and winning soothes things," remarked sports psycholo­-Bob Davie gist Joel Fish in 
Irish Sports Re­

port. "But in this case, it's not going to solve it completely." After Saturday's win, the problems of the summer are temporarily on the backbumer, but the damage inflicted upon the university 
this July could prove irreparable.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  19  
MAGAZINE  



Ll.J 
_J 


•



01er 
than 
Ort 
National reaction to the recent off-the-field problems hints at a different reason for America's love-hate relationship with Notre Dame 
BY ZAC KULSRUD hat will the consequences 
be for the recent off-the-field 
problems surrounding the Notre Dame football program? The answer re­mains, for now, a highly speculative one, but the debate goes on. Whether in the campus, local or national forum, there are a variety of opinions. Has the Davie era, even in its infant stages, 
W 
already left an indelible 

HND is expected to be some kind of uto~
stain on the university's integrity, or did the con­troversy end with last 

pia ... so (people) rip it apart when things 
weekend's victory over Michigan? 


like this happen.I' ­
Caught in the middle · of this debate is the student who must carry the weight of the Notre Dame image wher­ever he or she goes. The typical Notre Dame student is well aware of the national reputa­tion the university maintains, but the recent controversies surrounding the football team have heightened awareness to the complex history behind that reputation. 
And if nothing else, the Joe Moore and Kimberly Dunbar cases have touched a deep nerve of realization within students that the image they bear is far from pristine. 
The national media reaction to the recent problems highlights what one might call the general public's love-hate relationship with Notre Dame. At the height of the Moore controversy, commentators representing the Notre Dame faithful invoked the names of Rockne, Gipp and Leahy, deeming the law­suit an anomaly of the school's history. 
Elsewhere, reaction was far less than complimentary. In Chicago, sportswriters 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
dubbed South Bend "Sin City," and editori­als filled the Indianapolis Star asserting that it was high time Notre Dame was knocked down from its "elitist pedestal." 
Are these latter opinions justified? Junior Vin Kurian, who woke up to the New Jersey Star Ledger's front sports page headline "Notre Shame," believes "the Moore and Dunbar incidents were minor violations and were just used as something to shoot down 
Notre Dame with." Kurian adds, "We have a tougher time than most schools. ND is expected to be some kind of utopia and people can't handle it so they rip it apart when things like this happen." 
Many students consider the Moore and Dunbar cases minor incidents, both merely indicative ofhow the world ofcollege foot­ball works today. 
"There isn't one football program today that is clean," freshman Stephanie Roth says. "Every NCAA Division I football team is doing something wrong these days." 
Opinions such as Roth's are widely held outside the student body, and for this reason many students believe the long-term effects of the school's recent problems will be minimal. "I care more about [the team] winning a few more games," freshman Brian Malin says about the consequences of the Moore controversy. "This is just another frivolous lawsuit. Anybody is going to sue anyone with money. Why not? ... Who cares about a little discrimination suit?" 
Even ifsuch controversies are common in college :football today, many students think that the candid testimonies given during the Moore trial, and not the lawsuit itself, will have lasting consequences on the school's image. 
Junior Josh Guerra found the incident of football players watching cheerleaders hav-


Junior Vin Kurian 
ing sex shocking. "It was disheartening to see that even at ND things like this happen, but it isn't the general thing to expect from this university," Guerra says. 
So what is expected from this university? 
Most students feel that Notre Dame's image is based on the general public's view that Notre Dame· has historically set the standard for excellence in college football. Stude11ts feel that maintaining this image is important, because the image of the school itself is inevitably linked to the trials and tribulations of the football program. 
"I certainly think ND is made of more than the football team, but the football team is what attracts national opinion," senior Jenny Mashek says. 
So will people now associate the Moore lawsuit with Notre Dame? "This football image we've built up over the years is why people love ND," junior Stacey Smith says. "They think of Knute, the Four Horsemen 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 


"I think we hide behind this Catholic hate relationship with the school. Students For now, the Michigan victory has pushed schoolboy image,'; junior Matt Rolla says. cite many incidents that have aggravated talk about Joe Moore and Kimberly Dunbar "Notre Dame is, historically, what college the break, from the university's decline of far from the minds of• most Notre Dame football is all about. Eleven national cham­an invitation to the 1996 Poulan Weedeater students. Butin the wake ofthe celebration, 
pionships -the NCAA'snot going to tear Independence Bowl to Notre Dame's highly the rest of the university's opponents and that down· with sanctions. Notre Dame is publicized contract with NBC. the resolutions of its off-the-field problems supposedly what is right about college sports. These parHculars have left Notre Dame loom ahead. 0


····i~'?lt•\'.,t@t1!11 
and· the great enthusiasm that people have for the school. That won't be overcome by this lawsuit." 
Most students say, however, that just be­cause the general public holds this view does not mean the football program is as perfectly run as they would like to believe. On the contrary, some students think Notre Dame's legendary football status allows it to get away with more. 

"People have wanted to say something bad about ND for a longtime, and there hasn'tbeenmuchto say. Butnowthere's plenty." 
-Junior Colleen O'Keefe 
Wedo things by the book, wedon'tgiveour · players steroids, we graduate players ... and to tear that image down would do a lot ofbad things for all collegiate sports." 
But some students believe the program's model status has recently taken a d~fferent turn, with Notre Dame straying away from excellence and moving toward elitism. 
These students think this break is the cleavage point ofthe general public's love-
open for attack, and the recent Moore and Dunbar controversies have given critics of the football team's performance and school's administrative decisions the opportunity they have been waiting for to deride the Irish image. "People have wanted to say something bad about ND for a long time, and there hasn't been much to say. But now there's plenty," junior Colleen O 'Keefe says. Other students agree that dislike for the 
Irish football program does not havethenatureofahealthy,com­petitive rivalry. 
· "We've gone out ofour way to be more righteous .than other pro­grams," junior Ben Low says. "Notre Dame has knowingly per­petuated a 'holier than thou' im­age. But it's an image that, sooner orlater, everyone thought would fall. Unfortunately, the football team controls almost completely the reputation of the school." 


V) 
I­
0 ~ 
a.. 
V) 

After three years ofanticipation,· Jarious Jackson finally takes the reigns 
BY CHRISTOPHER HAMILTON In the midst of a tight game, with Notre Dame regaining possession of the ball on its own 33 yard-line, Bob Davie decides to insert then-junior quarterback Jarious Jackson into the line-up to help spark a stagnant Irish offense. Jackson, a third-year backup quietly in search ofplay­ing time, responds emphatically to Davie's invitation to take the reigns of the offense. In just six plays, Jackson picks apart the Mountaineer defense, enroute to an impres­sive 67-yard touchdown scoring drive that knots the game at 14-14. He completes all three of his passes during the possession, most notably hitting Malcolm Johnson with a 45-yard strike. In the 21-14 victory over number 21 West Virginia, not only did ,i Jarious Jackson have arguably his best se­ries in an Irish uniform, but he showed millions ofIrish faithful that he deserved to inherit one ofthe most scrutinized positions in all ofsports, that of starting quarterback at Notre Dame. With the 1998 season underway, Jackson now has that role. After patiently waiting three years for this opportunity, the native ofTupelo, Miss. is enthusiastic. "Basically, I'm excited," Jackson says. "That's the one word that really sums it all up. I've waited behind Ron [Powlus] and Tom [Krug] for a while now." After backing up Powlus for the past three years, Jackson also realizes the significance of his position. "I realize it's something big ... but I try to look at it like I'm just another player on the field." But Jackson can expect to draw more and more attention to himself as long as he keeps leading the Irish to big wins -likethe 36-20 whipping the Irish gave defending co-national champion Michigan last week. A great deal of credit for preparing Jack­son belongs to quarterback coach Mike Sanford. Before the start of this season, 
Jackson had logged only 82:27 minutes of g 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
game experience and had attempted a mere 
39 passes in his entire collegiate career. 
Sanford, a former USC quarterback, owns 
19 years ofexperience as an assistant coach of quarterbacks and receivers. Over the past year and a half, Sanford has 
worked intensively with Jackson, particu­
larly on his passing game. "At first, my 
throwing mechanics were ...I'd almost say terrible," said Jackson. "I was throwing a 
side ball. I've beenworking onmy throwing 
throughout the season and I'm definitely 
throwing the ball better." Sanford agrees 
with Jackson's assessment. "He has im­proved his passing accuracy, as far as put­ting touch on the ball,"Sanfordnoted. "He's 
a very strong guy with a very strong arm, but 
he has a tendency to grip the ball hard and 
throw it real hard ... and he's improved in that area." 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
Last Saturday, Jackson was able to show­
case his passing ability, completing 4-10 
passes for 96 yards. He also threw two 
touchdown passes and one interception. Al­
though Jackson did not put up eye~popping 
numbers, he was still impressive in his de­
but against a top-notch defense. 
Sanford also commented on Jackson's 
development of other crucial skills over the 
cours~ of the past year. "He's become a 
really good leader," Sanford said. "I think 
our players really like and respect him and 
they see him as one of them. He's been 
through the same things they've been 
through. He's been through some rough 
moments in his career to get to this point ... 
so as a result, he's highly respected and very 
• well-liked." 
Fifth-year senior split end Malcolm Johnson is one of many players who be­lieves Jackson is a bona fide leader. "He's vocal and he's someone who leads by ex­ample," remarked Johnson. "He has the ability to come in the huddle, give us the look ... and then drive us down the field for a score." 
Jackson is now putting those leadership qualities to the test as he takes the helm ofan offense that promises to be similar to the '97 version. "The offense is different in some ways, but not totally," explains Jackson. "We're still going to do a lot of the same things we did last year. Butwe're also going option attack more this season to take full· advantage ofnumber seven's running abili­ties. But is it fair to typecast Jackson as simply an option quarterback, who only possesses adequate passing skills, as many have done? 
"I think people do label me as being just an option quarterback," Jackson com­mented. "But it doesn't bother me because I think people are entitled to their opinions . .. To me, it's almost an advantage ifl have that label because a lot of teams might just be preparing for the option, so when we 

"Ijust want to win. It doesn't matter ifl throw nine picks or 40 touchdown passes in a game" 
to use my skills more." 
Jackson's athletic skills were put on dis­play last Saturday as he avoided a couple of sacks with some deft maneuvering and re­covered from a near trip to throw a 35-yard touchdown pass to senior RakiNelson. Jack~ son, who accounted for 62 yards on the ground, also ran the option efficiently in the second half, keeping the Wolverine defend­ers off balance for the final 30 minutes. 
After last week's game it has become apparent that Notre Dame will rely on the 

-Jarious Jackson 
come out throwing the ball, they'll be sur­prised." 
Sanford also views Jackson as a well­rounded quarterback. "Basically, he's a double threat. He's a very good passer and he's also a very good runner. On pass plays, he can pull it down and run it, and on run plays, where he's going to run the football, •. he can make some things happen." 
No matter how he is labeled, Jackson has made it clear that he is not the type to rush out to get the newspaper early in the morn­· ing to ponderover his stats. Jackson has one goal this season. "I just want to win. It doesn't matter if I throw nine picks or 40 touchdown passes in a game." 


Sanford has his own goals for Jackson this season, and they are not much different from the quarterback's. "I would like to see him improve every week ... be secure with the football and also be a winner," Sanford said. Sanford also downplayed statistical goals for Jackson and emphasized a quarterback's most important statistic, which can be found only in the win column. "I think the number one mark of a quarterback is the team winning," he says. 
Jackson and his teammates remain confi­dent in their ability to win despite an intimi­dating schedule. Including last week's Michigan game, this season the Irish square off against five teams that went "bowling" last year. Of those five teams, three squads were in the top 10 of the preseason Associ~ ated Press poll. But Jackson is confident that the Irish will be able to hold their own against every team on their schedule. 
"I think we have enough talent on this team to compete with anyone in the country, as long as we execute," said Jackson. "Of course we're going to have some bad plays every now and then, but we've got to know how to bounce back from them." 
Jackson, who is currently a senior butred­shirted his freshman year, will have one more year ofeligibility after this season ifit is granted by the university. So is Jackson thinking about coming back? "Yes, defi­nitely," he says. 
With the season just underway, Jackson finds himself in a situation in which he is quite unaccustomed. For the first time at Notre Dame, he has stability, in the sense that he is no longer forced to impress coaches in order to earn playing time. But, at the same time he is also facing immense pres­sure. Since he has been at the university for over three years and has seen the program fall on hard times, he realizes Notre Dame fans are impatient and want the Irish to recapture their winning ways immediately. Unfair or not, many people have drawn comparisons between Jackson and former standout quarterback Tony Rice, with the hope that Jackson will be able to duplicate Rice's feat ofleading the Irish to a national 
. championship. If the Michigan game is any indicator, at the least he promises to make i;i ·the next two seasons memorable. 
0 

~ FAKE OUT. Jarious Jackson, who rushed m for 62 yards against Michigan, fakes a hand 
~  off to Jamie Spencer.  
r  
SCHOLASTIC  23  

MAGAZINE 

I 
I,. >­
r: 
~ 

i. 
~ 


! z
i 
! w
i 
' 
~ I'. ~ 
l 
0 
i: u 
;! . 
1: (/)
'I. 
:· I­
0 ~ a.. 
(/) 



Last Stand 
The peiformance against Michigan may prove to be the first 
notch in the class of'99' s belt 
BY COREY SPINELLIThe word "upset" appeared in nearly every headline chroni­cling Notre Dame's victory over Michigan last Saturday. This is justifiable, considering the defending national champion and fifth-ranked team in the nation had lost its opener to a squad that finished just over .500 and barely received enough preseason votes to grasp onto the bottom rungs ofeach ofthe top 25 polls. But what happened in Notre Dame Stadium five days ago was no fluke. You don't just show up to face a team that won all 12 of its battles last year and stumble upon victory. The win on Saturday was not the result ofa completed Hail Mary, a recovered onside kick that led to a last.:minute score or a long field goal splitting the uprights as time·expired. NBC showcased to the country an Irish team in better condition and with a better game plan than their opponent­one that outhit and outexecuted Michigan on the field .. Ifyou listen to the players, Mickey Marotti played a major role in the 36-20 final. The first year strength and conditioning coordinator's off-season workouts had the team pushing large cars and tossing tires in the Indiana heat this summer in hopes of transforming the Irish into a second half unit. It paid off. Notre Dame scored 17 points in the third quarter Saturday against a defense that returned nine starters from last year's number one defense. Last season the Irish scored a total of 27 third-quarter points in 12 games. The Irish also ran the ball 55 times for 280 yards, 
or 5.1 per carry, while the Wolverines ground game was held to just 150 yards on 38 carries, or 3.8 per rush. Notre Dame held the football for 20 of 30 minutes in the second half. 
The other members ofthe coaching staff also deserve a great deal ofcredit for Notre Dame's success last weekend. Bob Davie and his assistants employed a bend-but-don't-breakphilosophy, holding a Maize and Blue offense that controlled the clock for 20:15 of the first half to a mere 13 points. Defensive Coordinator Greg Mattison proved once again why he has consistently been rated one ofthe top assistants in the college game, using his know ledge ofthe Michigan offense-his last job was in AnnArborunder Lloyd Carr-to stuff the Wolverine run for the second year in a row. The typically prolific Michigan offense has scored just 40 points in eight quarters against the Irish defense and seven ofthose points came with 2:09 on the clock and Notre Dame in front by more than three touch­downs. On the other side of the ball Jim Colletto -yes, Jim Colletto-called his best game as an Irish assistant so far. Jarious Jackson's four-yard TD pass to Dan O'Leary and his 35-yard strike to Raki Nelson immediately following a turnover showed that the second-year man from Purdue is finally willing to take some chances at critical moments in a game. 
The most important factor in Satµrday's rout, and the reason why _the '98 Irish can win any game on the schedule, is the element that all the experts and prognosticators overlooked in their preseason rankings. Four years ago, 23 freshman arrived in South Bend labeled as the best recruiting class in Notre Dame's history. They 
have weathered the resignation ofthe man that 
OFF AND RUNNING. Senior Autry Denson and his classmates are looking to add a recruited them, the turmoil of the season that shining final chapter to their careers in South Bend. 
followed and a scandalous off-season. Three
~JI years have brought twelve losses and only one January bowl appearance. Seventeen of them remain, 14 start and two others see plenty of acti0n. This is their team, it is their final shot at redemption and each one of them knows it. 
Ifanyone has doubts about their will to win, just remember how hard Autry Denson ran that football last Saturday afternoon. "Whenyou're up again~t it," Denson said, "you play with a lot of heart and soul." He spoke for all of them. 
There's a lot of pride in this group that has made a commitment to be the best this season. 
· They have 11 games left, and their travels will take them into East Lansing Saturday night, Tempe in a few weeks and Los Angeles in November, with their final stop undetermined. It 1s a long and difficult road ahead, but they have already made an emphatic statement to the naysayers about where they believe it will end. Don't count this bunch out too soon. It might be a memorable ride; 
SEPTEMBER l0, 1998 

·1··.he. junior .forward·was na~~cl Big East Offensive -_ Player oft~e We~kafter two outstand.in~ ~f~ensive -efforts agamst Big East foes West Vrrg1ma and --Pittsburgh. She scored a hat trick againsttheMountaineers . and followed up that effort with two goakagainst the Parithers..­
Football • 1998 Record 1-0 Streaking: The Irish scored 30 consecutive points to open the second half against Michigan. Prime Time Performer: Last Saturday, Autry Denson carried 24 times for a career-best 162 yards and scored two touchdowns. Did You Know? Notre Dame is 12-1 in Spartan Stadium since 1970. Qn the Horizon: The tenth-ranked Irish play at Michigan State Saturday at 8:00 p.m. 
SPLINTERS  
FROM THE PRESSBOX  (J)  
Edited by Christopher Hamilton  -0 0  
Women's Soccer • 1998 Record 3-0 Streaking: In their first three games, the second-ranked Irish outscored their competition 20-1.  7v -1 (J)  
Prime Time Performer: Junior forward Jenny Streiffer  
recorded a hat trick in a 7-0 victory against West Virginia last  
Friday.  
Did You Know? The Irish have captured the last two Big  
East regular season titles and won every conference  
tournament since joining the league three years ago.  
On the Horizon: This weekend the Irish take on Duke and  
archrival North Carolina at Chapel Hill, N.C. Notre Dame  
plays the Tar Heels on Sunday at 2:30 pm.  
Women's Volleyball • 1998 Record 2-1  
Streaking: The 16th-ranked Irish play their next five matches  
away from home.  
Prime Time Performer: Lindsay Treadwell, senior captain  
and Big East Player of the Week, hit .458 and had 37 kills in  
the last three matches.  
Did You Know? Ten players returned from last year's team,  
which ended up 25-9 .  
On the Horizon: The Irish play in the Wisconsin Inntowner  
Invitational this weekend in Madison against Wisconsin and  
Indiana.  
Men's Soccer • 1998 Record 2-0  
Streaking: Head coach Mike Berticelli has led the Irish to six  
winning seasons in his past seven with Notre Dame.  
Prime Time Performer: Freshman Shane Walton has scored  
three goals and recorded two assists in his first two collegiate  
games.  
Did You Know? Greg Velho, a three-year starter, ranks as  
one of the country's top returning goaltenders.  
On the Horizon: The Irish resume playing Sunday, when  
they host Pittsburgh at 1:00 p.m.  


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
w 
1­
z 
w 
Crowd\,e.$s
Pleasers 
A guide-to this year's campus bands and the apathy they fac_e on campus 
BY JOHN HUSTONRobert Frost once said, "Hell is ahalf­filled auditorium." If that's true, then most ofNotre Dame's campus bands haven't seen the light ofday in quite a while. Notre Dame campus bands feel some­what condemned by the student body's lack of support. Though the bands that emerge from the hallowed halls of campus are sur­prisingly diverse, they all seem to face the same problem: a lack of appreciation from the student body. The spring se­mester last year yielded a va­riety of mu­s i C a 1 groups formedby Notre Dame and 
number of well-known groups is small. 

One of the most experienced bands on campus is Umphrey's McGee. They are a Phish-influenced group and have recorded a CD. The band was formed out of two former campus bands: Stomper Bob and Tashi Station. Mike Mirro, McGee's drum­mer, says that the band plans to continue after the members graduate. "This is gonna be my job," says Mirra. "We practice daily -three hours a night." 
Although the band has already played gigs at the State Theater in South Bend, The · Landing in Mishawaka and various local bars, playing at Stonehenge is Mirro's favorite live atmosphere. "It's different than the bar scene," he said, adding that the amount offresh faces that take in the band's live set are a reassuring and 
welcome occurrence. 

Although Mirro believes that Notre . _ Dame's bands make up a relatively diverse music scene, he feels that 
thereis not that much support for them. "[Notre Dame. students] are not music people,"hesays. "They'reherefordifferent reasons." 
Another addition to the music scene is Letter 8, a primarily top-40 cover band. They usually play at bars, Jon Ford, the 
bl\Ild's guitarist says. "We'rebasically a fun band. We play what people want to hear." 
Letter 8, whose female vocals pro­vide a distinction from the other male-dominated campus bands, formed in the fall of1997 under unique circum­
stances. The listed music as an interest in the dogbook. Originally, eight people signed on; hence the name. 
Unlike_ Umphrey's McGee, they don't plan to continue as a band after graduation. "We'11 probably all enter the real world. I'm surewe'11 miss itifthat happens." Although he shares the wish that crowd sizes could be larger here at Notre Dame, Ford is happy with the amount of talent and diversity that the campus scene has displayed. 
The Transoms, one of the newer campus bands, play original music that is described as "a mixture ofgrunge, pop and punk," by bass player Jim Bilek. He adds, "The cam­pus, as a whole, is too close-minded, tbo trendy. I think it relies too heavily on cover 
. bands." Although the Transoms played only three shows last semester, Bilek says the band is eager to play more. · 
The Florida Evans Showband and Revue 
· disappeared last semester, when the two singer/songwriters for the band spent a se­mester abroad in London. Seniors Dan O'Brien and Matt Curreri started the band their sophomore year and were "amazed by the lack of interest" that the student body 
displayed. Curreri chalks u  the lack­ 
luster. crowd  ·  
response  to  .  
the fact th  

ME AND MY SIX STRING. After a semester abroad, Dan O'Brien (left) and Matt Curreri, of The Florida Evans Showband and flevue, are ready to rock South Bend-once again. 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 

''Keep your eye outfor fliers and come to the off-campus shows. Everyone's welcome.'' 
-Doug McEachern 
forms only original music. "Not everyone loves going out and seeing an original band at night." 
"It'd be great if there was more enthusi­asm for campus music," O'Brien says, but overall, they both feel that the mood is right for a prosperous music scene. "There's lots of variety," Curreri said. 
While the bands have faced apathy in the past, many band members have a hopeful view of the future. Geoff Rahie, a singer/ guitar player for Who's Yo Daddy, shares Curreri' s optimistic attitude about audience respect for campus music. "I think it's start~ ing to pick up," he said. "Bars are hungry for bands." Although they started out last se­mester by performing a majority of covers, they've been working on their original mu­sical style. Rahie says, "We play 90 percent originals now." 

Rahi_e describes his band's music as "rock, funk and a little hip-hop. Just kind of any­thing." Who's Yo Daddy has played at Stonehenge, Dalloway's, the Lafortune ballroom and Acoustic Cafe. The band was named "Best Crowd Pleaser" at last year's Nazz Battle of the Bands, a gig which gave Rahie his confident outlook toward student response to campus music. "There were a lot ofpeople jumping up and down ... it was packed." 
The Butterfly Effect does more than par­ticipate in the local music scene. They try to expand the scene's appeal to outsiders. Lead singer/guitarist Doug McEachem described their sound as "Socialist pop growing out of a hardcore background." 
The trio boasts that they are the "only campus band who all have BAs." Only Ron Garcia, the band's bass player, is a graduate electrical engineering student, which makes them a "campus band." All three members are Notre Dame grads, and McEachem gets friends in touring bands to stop in South Bend and play the occasional basement party. 
Even though some bigger-named bands play local shows, the attendance is usually low. "It averages around only 70 people," McEachem says. He strongly encourages anyone and everyone to attend a party, for more than just the obvious reasons. "Keep your eye out for fliers and come to the off­campus shows. Everyone's welcome," McEachem says. 
Whether at off-campus parties or at Stonehenge, campus bands are hoping that Notre Dame students will take more pride in the local scene, and each band is dedi­cated to practicing its music to please the crowds. If George Bernard Shaw's quote that "Hell is full ofmusical amateurs" holds true, then perhaps the new campus band scene will offer a little slice of heaven. D 
Something to fit any size appetite ...and budget 

SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
0::: 

w 
1­
z 
w 
. Tarantino Watch 

What's Up With Pulp fiction? 
Well, we'll tell you what's going on in Pulp Fiction, but first you have to prnmise that you've seen the movie. About 10 times. And after abciut the 10th viewing, it should become pe1fectly clear that Pulp Fiction is really abou_t . . . redemption. Yeah,redemption, that's the ticket! We here at OOB are willing to bet a Big Kahuna Burger that you thought it was about gangsters, or violence, or greasy hair or some other equally silly notion. Yef in our never-ending quest toillumi­nate your movie-watching experience, we thought we'd offermirviewofTarantino' s · masterpiece. We '11 start with the glowing . yellowbriefcase. . . The mostwidely accepted th'eory on the briefcase is that itcontairis Marcellus Wailace's soul. (We got this from the Internet, so It has tobe true!) The. . theory (supposedly explained by Tarantino himself) fa thafthe . . · 
.~~1~1~~bi~. 
of Wallace'.sneck, th~ L .· ·. · "666" combination, · and the . ethereal· golden glow . emanating from theopen brief~·..··.·..· 
. case, This. explains why}ules ·••. . a11d. Vinc:e~t weren 'L .annihilated .. by the fou@ kid's ~'hancl cannon" 

· when he burst out of.the bathroom. They. . thing (much: as w~' dlovetc)qu'ote the' t:se4ue:Jes.\~efi;ie~oesc~~tain;:~; wer~(>n a]iolY111issiori from(]od, bring-. colonel's speech about the gold watch; word . people,but for at least three characters the i11g WaUace'.s sou.I backtohim. . · ... · .·. i... for word).Tlle miraclejnthis sequence oc-· possibility of rydempti6n is offered. . ·.. .. . Tile next sequence deals with Vincent c1irs.when Butch is. tied to the chair.jri ·. Tune iri to OutOfBounds next· time, . Vega ahd Mia.Wallace on a 1ateat Jack· Maynard's basement. and suddenly finds \V~enwe explore ''resurrection''asa hid-. gabbit Slim' s: :pbviously,ther~'sa lot o.f ·•··.·.. that ~is ,bo,nds J~ve betri _untied. (In the .... den •subtext qf S.at~th·.. P~rk' s ..Ken11y .. stuff goi~g ori here·, ·but mostly the se~ . script, Tarantino. writes that. "the padded.... Mcpmnick. Untnihen; t:ryreaJhard to .be <quence sets ~P Mia Walli1ce asa cocaine c~arr, back slide~ 11p: ang ;e>ff as ifdt· ~pre',',.: t~~ sh~pher~:·-. · · · · ·· · C 0 
abuser and (possibly) an adulterer. So where's theredemption, you ask? Well, the first clue is the miracle, when Mia's life is 
· saved by an adrenaline shot through the sternum. Truly, God works in mysterious ways. Afterward there's no real sign that Mia has cllanged her ways, bu tit's obvious that she's been spared for some reason. Both she and Vincent J;iave been given a second chance at life. 
The nextsequence deals with Butch, arid his father's beloved gold watch. Once again, the.re.'s a heck ofa lot going on in this sequence, and once again we're going to skip most bf it to geLto that redemption 
• ..•· .·.· ·.·,·.• i ' ..·. .· · ·. 
never connected by a bolt.") The Gimp see_s this and tries to shout for help, but Butch quickly knocks him 
· · out. Immediately after this miracle Butch has a chance to escape, leaving Wallace in the basement with Zed, and is faced with the ch~ice of escape or saving . Wallace'slife.There'sashotoftlleinner' struggle on his face as he's aboutto leave, just before lie turns and takes the samurai · sword back into the basement; Because of · this redemptive act Butch ncit only es­capes, but also bec:omes "cool" with Wallacesothathe'sriolongerontherun. . Next up is Jules arid Vincent's story, the most obviously redemptive act in the whole movie;Jules recognizes ex­actly what's happened; saying; "I· fel(Gbd's touch, God got in­volved>'He·vows to retire.from. .. his job as a hif man, and "wander . 
..·.~ ,t;;~~i1··;;!~fft;p~h~rn:~ · 
.1,-P:eaches, . sp~ri?g the two ..· thieves;Wh1le this smgle act may f · not be enough tc1redee.mJules from hisJife of murder, it'sa step in the dghtdirection. Though the film's jump­. ing around in time disorients. first-time . viewers,· it' s>interesting. to. note· that the timeliniofthe film is structured around these r~derilpdve acts. Mia;s.. adrenaline shot, Butth's use of the. samurai sword 
.•··.· and }l)les' s<speech on frying to be. the h ph . d th lima to th . res 





...•..·...../.B.,~~~~X:~.;iJts,ith~r:~f?.q~~•:t•{;(.•. )'••··
While'mostcq\lege stu,deritstookthe'·sunimerorfaridl#Ysfressfuhifasses behiridithe; -:,:.· : ' ''·.' Ohi<i Sfate.·)3qck~ye foo¥M(tean1 9isJ>h1yed :true' atadeinibspitlt as tqey pei:severea·\: 
•\:;;t::!~lnrt::t:;ff~t:J!rt~::q1~~!/lr-:1{tf:;t,t:tttt:t~lci;~:tt.!!!~;,i} :. load pf¢.i~sses i~ciuding(3qlfI,'AIDSAwareiiess and Music140: Katzenmoyetfinally .·,, _:_. passe9•..ili,eda.s~~{~o're~.~~-~llgible:;:< -;> :..:.'·.,.:.i ::: .._\_.-'. . .·.: :. \.>: .·,. . ;~ ·. . Sc'hpliistic was:1iJ.Iow~dJ~.viewXatzerimoy~:(~ fallcoiµ-se scheduleanditdoesn)lool(. ·. . ( 1ik¢t~ings are goingto' g~fa:riy easiir (ofthe big.guy:Thariks fo clas~ses like ~ubtraction:.. · · ,;/ Ad~jtion.tsTricl_(§l:;frtle F.~ie1,1d~ History:What'~DorieisDoiie and Film andTelevision:·· 
:t('.fht)#i~f'5ri~fi~(.5'.i~i~}f#tt#.1lfi~g.i{1~r1tJz~;)~?.ir,~1Y}r!11Aayf: rheftf:. .. :~_:.-. .tJ, ij ·._. ,:· 
,.,·:,. acaq.em1c·foad:J9,;woqyJ1.l:l9llt, As,:fortKatz~rtmoyer's,fufur~' academic •. careerLOOC:t,/ · :,-, v-ioiild:likbto ~ish:hillltbe/b~st"c>f!tic~in.thii#t; . .. : . . . . . . ' ,' ....,• ... ' 
·,.:'····.:.····.':,·:'·:.·:·.··,::.:':····:·,.,.:_:···...'.·.•••.·.·•'····:..::..,··...·•·.·..:·:·.·.•.,_:···.'.;:.'·.•~•.·.:..·;_,.·:;.•:·.'.·.•,i:.•;::·.,.:.·.:_:"··:.···,·...•.·..•·.··,_'·.•:.·.·::.:..'.·.·,·.·.,.•:.,._·.•.,:.,--.:.·'..:-.~.~.-.·,..:,t.·.•..,'...'.·.·.·,·.·.·.·.,,:}.; \/:.~:~-:-:·; ::):.:/ ...-/.·.'.~;\_";_: ·.-.. ·.i.}.\:.:,::_ ;,._~,' \·-:. ,:,"-.,
-~ ~ -•-.-~ -~:}/\\.-:-(._':··.~---;· .:,::·~.:·;·:);::~:<. .. , .·":~/.,_ ­
Ticket Takers (Not) Justice for All 
The city ofTempe, Ariz., is captivated by football frenzy as the Two University of Florida students who taunted and attacked 
Arizona State Sun Devils prepare for another exciting and possi­fellow student Raymond Long, calling him a "faggot" in the 
bly successful season despite their home-opening loss to Wash­process, received what has become standard justice for hate crime. 
ington. The demand for tickets has sky~rocketed, due in part to Ali Kalcar, 21, and his brother Bismillah, 20, accepted the punish­Notre Dame's upcoming visit to the Valley of the Sun on October ment ofone year probation and 50 hours ofcommunity service. The 
10. The fans are excited, but many ofASU's 40,000 students are charge was reduced from felony to misdemeanor battery even angry because the Notre Dame game is not included in their season though Florida's hate crime law states that any misdemeanor crime ticket package. It seems that the Sun Angel Foundation, an ASU­committed based upon prejudice, including sexual orientation, will sponsoredfundraising organization, has purchased aconsiderable be treated as a felony; amount of tickets and is dispersing them as they see fit, while a I'm glad to know thatI attend aninstitutionthatproudly acknowl­percentage of the proceeds from the game will be donated to the edges and represents every student equally, regardless of sexual foundation. As qne ASU student puts it, "It's not fair that some orientation. ... Whoops. My mistalce. outside institution can come in and talce away tickets that'right­fully belong to our students and alumni." We have the same problem every game at Notre Dame, only it's Saint Mary's and not 
·the Sun Angel Foundation taking our tickets. · 
·.Burning Down the House 
DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., a school well-known for its Greek system, has decided to shut down fraternity houses during the winter term. In a move that was actually favored by most fraternity house corps presidents, students will vacate their respective homes and seek other dwellings. Steve Ray, house corps presidentfor Delta Chi says, "I think from a health-liability point of view that it will be a positive move, so long as the university will find housing for upperclassmen." 
Notre Dame has found itself in a similar predica­ment and may soon decide to permanently close Keenan and Alumni Halls for the safety and benefit of the Notre Dame community. 
·by Eric Yuva 
1 SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

0 
z 
0 
-I I 
m 
;;c 
() )> 
s 
-0 
C 
(./) 
m 
(./) 

z 
0 
l­
o::: 0 
I­
(/) 
0 
z 


Aw:ord to the wise: Ifyou ever go on 
a job interview where the initial 
nquiry is "Are you Italian?" and your affirmative answer scores you a part­time position with no further questions asked, then you are probably better off looking for another job ... especially ifyou have a creepy feeling on the way out of the interview that your new boss is checking out your butt. 
But I'm not really concerned with being better off. I prefer to live on the edge. 
Actually, that's a lie. I knew the Italian question was trouble from the start, but I ignored my instincts, shrugged my shoul­ders and said fuggetaboutit, since I was already under the delusion that a flower shop would be a kind, gentle place to work. The air would be sweet with the scent of carnations and lilies. Perhaps a few elderly women would come in every now and then, singing along softly to the oldies station. There would be several wholesome deliv­ery boys with bright smiles -former altar boys, maybe. The warm hours of summer would drip leisurely away while I arranged roses, assembled wedding bouquets and took long breaks for raspberry tea, homemade cookies and conversations with my darling co-workers. I thought it would be the ideal summer job. 
But I was wrong. All wrong. 

Never in my wildest dreams -or night­mares -did I have any idea what was in store for me between the candy-pink walls ofFlowers by Vito* or, to use my affection­ate name for the shop, Flowers by Perverts.· 
Sure, we had· plenty of flowers, but the sweetness of the air was soured by the smell of cigarettes. I was supposed to be the sec­retary, so instead of getting noble duties, like making Communion bouquets, I was assigned to such chores as throwing away the cigarette butts that had been left lying on the countertops and wiping off the yellow­brown nicotine stains beneath them. The perverts did not believe in garbage pails, which meant I got to sweep discarded flower parts off the floor and hurl them into the 
*All names have been changed to protect the perverts. 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

dumpster. We shared our dumpster with a Chinese food joint. There are really no words to describe its stench, but the closest ones include rancid, nasty, coarse, foul, Mfen­sive, beastly, reeky or fetid. I worked in the back where an old, beat-up radio piped in the Howard Stern show and tapes of the Jerky Boys. There were no old ladies in the shop. No altar boys either. Just perverts. 
Unfortunately, I didn't detect the overall perversion right away -it was lost in my notions of roses and daffodils. In fact, be­fore I found the stack of crinkly porno magazines under the sink in the bathroom, I simply saw my co-workers as an interesting cast of characters. 
Vito, my boss, was the leader ofthe pack. Vito is a take charge kind of guy. When brides and their mothers came in for wed­ding flower consultations, his first words to them were usually something like, "Look, dear, I'm the professional. You can show me what you like, and I'll tell yuz what you want. All right, love? And I'm always right. People complain about my attitude awll the time, but they never complain about my flowiz." He was a little more forceful with those who wanted to purchase funeral bou­quets, often saying things like, "If yuz · really loved ya fatha so much, wouldn't yuz be spending more than $200 on his funeral spray?" These kind ofcomments were usu­ally met with hysterics and huge sums of money. Vito loved fu­nerals. 
Vito often told me that he plans on forcing his daugh­ter to work in the flower shop when she is myage because he wants her to "see the scum of the earth firsthand." I agree that working in a flower shop was a culturally enriching experience for a young woman like me. I guess that's why I was able to laugh off the Playboys in the bathroom and the comments from greasy Vito. I kind of looked at it as a social experiment. And the pay was really good. Of course, Vito 


Zuaro 
doesn't shell out the cash unless you ask 
him for money, persistently. I went for three 
weeks without a paycheck before I figured 
this out. 
I did eventually get paid, though. And 
since Vito kept no record of my hours, I 
could pretty much write out my own pay­
check. I _kept a tally of all his off-color 
comments and charged him extra for each of 
them. By taking extra cash as I went along, 
I prevented the need for any troublesome 
sexual harassment suit in the future. I be­
lieve that's what Vito would call "business 
sense." 
I can'tsay I felt too bad about leaving 
Flowers by Perverts at summer's end, but I will admit that I do feel a tiny pang of nostalgia every time I get whistled at by one of Notre Dame's const;uction workers or catch a couple of guys attempting the sand­wich maneuver at a party. Maybe I would be better off, or at least a little more sane and · stable, if the kinds of things that made me homesick were sweet old ladies and lily bouquets, but you know what we Italians 
say: FuggetabauHt. ~ . 



c:~ ~{ 
~:::. 

·=-:\:~f::...~,;,·:,..:~~ 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 

DISTRACTIONS 
_:: ._··. LJ I·\. r;~:':::\ · 
1 • University Ope*in~ ~ass for t~e ) ·...· ; .academic year, p:30 PM, J~yce<Center : Arena .· I i c••., \ 
• • • I > \ \. 
; •Soccer: Notre Dame men vs. Pittsburgh, : t,:09 PM,.Alu~n(Field\ \~//-·· 
• • • J • '·~~---,--.-/-. 
, • : : ••. •_1. • 
redPier , . . . i;Sni e 
:),;;·•J.... /ttt~W· ,,;.:•••.·
·."·,_ .. ' 
... __ .. . _.. . c·:_.. ·.'; .'·: :.: / .. i~:-·~ :-<i,\~// 
.• •!]/::~~N~~fitQ·t)·J
--·--.;:::-··· .• ·.·-. ·:, ~··;_.;;:-_~_.. :: 
'.\_'/~~i-~· 
);-;_::>.::.:\{/\, 


/N:ext.St.Qp VfoilqerjandJ:20.t3_:50· 7:05/9.:20. ,\'_; '.'·•· 
n 
)> 
r­
m 
z 
)> ;;;o 
I 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 SCHOLASTIC 31 
MAGAZINE 

~ 
'I 
:1 





How to get a degree 
<( 
(in eight short years)
z 
by K. Maxwell Murphy 

Back at last ... back at last ... thank God Al­mighty, I am back at last.The prodigal son, older and wiser, has returned to his family's table once more. As with any strong and loving family, they have welcomed me back. Ofcourse, I did have to hand them a suitcase stuffed with small, unmarked bills, but I was embraced all the same. Can I get a show of hands from the audience please? Who, still here for an undergraduate degree, is an original member of the Class of '95? Hands down, seniors. I mean Notre Dame's Class of 1995. The over-protected, only child of neurotic writers, I came to ND in the fall of 1991 with one thing on my mind: oats. Firstlhadto get 'em, and then I had to sow 'em. An unfortunate byproduct of the American public school system, which locks its bright students away and keeps them sequestered among their own kind, I had never been in the same zip code as a lady's lips. That had to change immediately. I was not about to be denied those experiences 
when lcame to college that fateful August afternoon seven years ago. I'd show them. I can put a beer down with the
Now it's my 20 Gs /'m playing 
best ofthem. I can skip 

with, and I am not playing 
classes, and getFs and laugh about it likeanymore. nobody's business, 
K. Maxwell Murphy still works at LaSalle Grill. He thinks The X­
Files is the most credible show on TV. 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

and I sure. as hell can suck the support structure out of a woman's body with a kiss. These points, instead ofmy intelligence, I was determined to prove. I did. 
You would never guess what happened as a result ofmy.insane behavior. I had so manyfriends !needed applications to weed them out and filing cabinets to get them straight. Thank goodness American culture rewards fall-down drunken stupidity. Too bad bas­tions of academia do not. 
I hate to hear people give credit to destiny, but only Providence could have arranged the group I became part of in the now-defunct Flanner tower. Let's just say that we were the most heavily fined section in Notre Dame ~story (challengers welcomed). I think my roommate once used du Lac as a shot tray; 
These were my first friends, my boys, soul mates for life. The bonds we forged were of no known earthly substance. As Gonzo so eloquently put it in The Muppet Movie, "There's not a word yet for old friends who just met." He's right, Ilooked. There isn't. 
Now I had these brilliantly funny comrades and their lives, experiences, dreams and goals were ev­erything to me. We waxed philosophic, played music and laughed until the hours passed from wee into medium-sized. When they were studying for tests, I was· their study partner -their comic relief. And sometimes I would make itto my classes. Sometimes. I guess I didn't want to be pre-med after all. Instead, I learned the richness oflife denied me by high school and sheltered from me by my parents. 
Questionable choices were made on my part but then, "Don't we all, Paul." When I am mass gradu­ated in May with the College ofArts and Letters, and receive niy American Studies degree, I will have proven to myself that these choices were not made in vain. I take full responsibility for my actions so I have no regrets. Well, maybe one. My parents paid $44,000 to watch me get a 1.76, a 1.755, and a 1.69. On my fourth try, they paid the full 11 grand to watch me withdraw mid-semester. 
I had to attend other institutes ofhigher learning to earn grades worthy of readmission. In this interim phase of my life, I could never commit to school, fully aware that I was "there," and not "here." I decided to tum my debt around, parlaying my exten­sive drinking experience into the General Manager's position at Coach's. After four months, keeping in mind what students really want from a bar, I turned it into the bustling gin mill we frequent today. Then I got out of the proverbial Dodge to accept a position at the LaSalle Grill. These jumps up the economic food chain enabled me to pay back what I owed to the family and to take one last semester at IUSB. Dean's List. I was making my comeback. Time to right the wrongs. 
Time also inevitably brought knowledge. And sim­ply put, my people are gone, so temptation is also gone. Now it's my 20 Gs I'm playing with, an<i I am not playing anymore. 
It all comes down to choices, and I'm out of them. Instead ofinitially opting for one well-planned path, I tried them all. Seven years later, I have no more choices; save one: succeeding, getting out alive. For now, I will suck every iota of knowledge from this remarkable,·demanding place this year and graduate with. a stellar GPA (okay, .omitting a semester here and there). · D 
SEPTEMBER 10, 1998 


Fried Rice  
.ein1  _Qt  
Vegetable Fried Rice  3.69  5.69  
Chicken Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
shrimp Fried Rice  4.99  6.99  
Beef Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
Ham Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
•curry Fried Rice  3.99  5.99  
combination Fried Rice  5.49  7.49  
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable  
*Szechuan Fried Rice  5.49  7.49  
Chicken-Shrimp-Vegetable  
Soup  
*Hot and Sour Soup  1.49  
Wanton Soup  2.49  
Egg Drop Soup  0.99  

Customer's Choices 
(served with steamed rice) *Chicken in Hot Garlic Sauce 6.66 *Kung Pao Chicken 6.66 cashew Chicken 6.66 Almond Chicken 6.66 •curry Chicken 6.66 Chicken Chop Suey 6.66 Sweet & Sour Chicken 6.66 Chicken with Broccoli 6.99 Chicken with Peapods 7.99 Orange-Flavored Chicken 7.99 Empress Chicken 7.99 Sesame Chicken 7.99 *GeneralTso's Chicken 7.99 *Hunan Beef 6.99 Mongolian Beef 6.99 Pepper Steak 6.99 Beef Chop Suey 6.99 Beef with Broccoli 7.99 Beef with Peapods 7.99 

Fat Free Dishes 
Vegetable Deluxe 6.66 Stir-Fry Broccoli in Brown Sauce 6.66 Steamed Broccoli 6.66 Steamed Cauliflower 6.66 Steamed Cabbage 3.98 

House Specials 
Noodles with Sauce  Pint  Qt,.  
Vegetable Sauteed Noodles  3.69  5.69  
Chicken Sauteed Noodles  3.99  5.99  
Beef Sauteed Noodles  4.69  6.69  
Shrimp Sauteed Noodles  4.69  6.69  
Combination Sauteed Noodles  
Chicken-Shrimp-Veg  5.79  7.79  
*Szechuan Sauteed Noodles  5.79  7.79  
Chicken-Shrimp-Veg  
Appetizers  
Egg Roll  0.99  
Cream Cheese Wonton (6)  2.29  
Pot Stickers (6)  2.49  
* Hot and Spicy •  






~. ,-:;­
No([))cdlIl~ IHI(I}1ill§ e 
,,......~/ 
~--~~ 


Chinese Cuisine · -­
· ·"iJ 
Delivery Hours: ~~ / ·, Mon-Sun 
5:00 to Midnight 
··~-. -..-_ 
. 271-0125 ­

:, 
'\
·,, 
'\ 

Subscribe to: 

Only $35 a year -regular bi­weekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: 
• 
the latest_ campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends • off-the-wall humor 


MAGAZ N E 
r---------------------~ 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1997. Name: Address: ______________ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
L---------------------J 

WVFI 640 AM 


Back in style ( even the grill is nevv) Your campus radio station-­serving Notre Drune & St. Mruy's with 1nusic, nevvs, and sports. "\V'e're back on the air Saturday Sept. 12th with the Tviichigan State game. First join us for the WVF1 Kickoff Classic Saturday Sept. 12th fi·om 6-8pm at the Reeker's outdoor stage. -Free Stuff -BBQ -Live .i\.coustic Music Join us to find out iflviichigan State really does taste like chicken 







