PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE . . .
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JULY ...
PAY ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST . . .
CHARGE IT, THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. Get whatever you need, when you need it, and charge it on your account, the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . one-third in August. Naturally, there is no interest or carrying charge.
On Campus
(By the Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Bogs! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.’’)
THE PEN IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SMOOCH
Back in my courting days (the raccoon coat was all the rage, everybody was singing Good Morning, Mister Zip Zip Zip, and young Bonaparte had just left Corsica), back, I say, in my courting days, the standard way to melt a girl’s heart was to write poetry to her.
I don’t understand why young men today have abandoned this gambit. There is nothing like poetry for moving a difficult girl. What’s more, poems are ridiculously easy to write. The range of subjects is endless. You can write a poem about a girl’s hair, her eyes, her lips, her walk, her talk, her clothes—anything at all. Indeed, one of my most effective love lyrics was called To Maud’s Pencil Box. It went like this:
In your dear little leatherette pencil box
Are pencils of yellow and red, And if you don’t tell me you love me soon,
I’ll hit you on top of the head.
Honesty compels me to admit that this poem fell short of success. Nothing daunted, I wrote another one. This time I pulled a
switch; I threatened myself instead of Maud.
Oh, Maud, pray stop this drivel
And tell me you’ll be mine, For my sweetbreads they do shrivel And wind around my spine.
My heart doth cease its beating, My spleen uncoils and warps, My liver stops secreting, Soon I needs be a corpse.
X
When this heart-rending ballad failed to win Maud, I could only conclude that
Let’s drop rhyme and turn to reason. The reason Marlboro ' has gone to the head of the biter cigarette class is simple: better “makin’P’—a flavor that pleases, a filter that works, Marlboro—from the makers of Philip Morris.
4
she was cruel and heartless and I was better off without her. Accordingly I took back my Hi-Y pin, bade her adieu, and have not clapped eyes on her since. Last I heard, she was working in Galveston as a Plimsoll line.
But I did not mourn Maud long, for after Maud came Doris—Doris of the laughing eyes, Doris of the shimmering hair, Doris of the golden tibiae! Within moments of meeting her, I whipped up a torrent of trochaic tetrameter:
Oh, my sweet and dulcet Doris!
I love you like a Philip Morris With its mild and rich tobacco In its white and scarlet pack-o.
I’d swim from Louisville to Natchez
For Philip Morris and you and matches.
Well, of course, the dear girl couldn’t resist a poem like that—what girl could? —and she instantly became my slave. For the rest of the semester she carried my books, washed my car, and cored my apples. There is no telling where it all would have ended if she hadn’t been
drafted.
So, men, you can see the power of poetry. Try it yourself. All ydu need is a rhyming dictionary, a quill pen, and a second-hand muse.
© 1959. Max Shulman
CALENDAR
TODAY
7-8 p.m.—Registration for the Universitywide Chess tournament, sponsored by the Chess club and the Student Center house committee, in the Student Center lobby. The fee is $.25. Registration will continue until next Thursday.
8:15 p.m.—Concert and Lecture Series presents Robert Goss and Louise Whetsei in “Make A Show” in Washington Hall. Tickets are on sale at the box office.
SATURDAY
1:30, 3:40, 6:20, and 8:20 p.m.—The movie Mardi Gras starring Pat Boone and Christine Carere in Washington Hall.
8:30 p.m.—St. Mary’s variety show “Going Continental” in O’Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are $1.50 at the box office.
SUNDAY
8:30 a.m.—Graduate Students Association’s Mass and Communion Breakfast at the Fatima Retreat House.
3-8 p.m.—Faculty Film Club movie “Rashomon” in the Engineering Auditorium. Open only to members.
_	i
7	p.m.—Campus room reservations on sale in the Drill Hall. Rooms are available in campus residence halls and in the Morris Inn for the parents of graduates.
7:30 p.m.—Third Student Forum “Technology As Liberal Arts Education On the Undergraduate Level” in the Law Auditorium. Speakers are Prof. Marcel Newman and Prof. Frank Keegan.	■
MONDAY
8	p.m.—Basketball: ND vs. Valparaiso in the Fieldhouse. WSND and WNDU will broadcast.
TUESDAY
7	p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in the Student Center amphitheater.
7:30 p.m.—CCD meeting in 2A of the Student Center.
WEDNESDAY
7:30 p.m.—Fifth Marriage Institute lecture in Washington Hall. Louis B. Leone, M.D., speaking on “The Doctor’s Viewpoint.”
THURSDAY
8	p.m.—Father James Egan speaking on the “Reach of Reason” in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
8	p.m.—Leo XIII Lenten Series continues with John J. Fitzgerald speaking on “Science and Catholicism” in 104 O’Shaughnessy.
The Scholastic
the Scholastic
Vol. 100 February 27, 1959 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victunu Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
M Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, M Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of ■ postage. Authorized June 23, 1918. ■ A ■ ■■	-	—
I	BOB SEDLACK
Editor
I	LOU STETTLER
V"
M	Associate Editor
I*	RON BLUBAUGH_____________News	Editor
It	WALT RUDGE_______________Copy	Editor
I;	JIM YOCH.____________Features	Editor
[L	TEDDY THOMPSON_________Sports	Editor
li	JON SIDDLE..............Cover	Editor
I	DAVE SOMMER...............Photography
11	PETER HASBROOK-----Business Manager
11	CONRAD SUSKI............Circulation
?	ROY RUBELI___________.Assistant	News
•	AL GENIESSE............Assistant	Copy
।	CHAS RIECK_____________Assistant	Copy
BENGAL BOUTS: Last fall a rumor circulated to the effect that there would be no Bengal Bouts this year. As the Scholastic reported on November 14, the rumor began quite by accident when the compilers of the “Notre Dame Date Book” neglected to include the bouts in the list of campus activities for 1958-59.
When someone noticed the omission the administration decided to investigate the situation and determine whether or not the bouts were fulfilling the intended purpose, that is, raising money for the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, India. As it turned out, the investigation discovered that the Bengals have not been grossing the expected 60-70% which would make the bouts worthwhile. In fact, the total grossed has been around 50% or less. The decline of interest in the Bengal Bouts has been going on, it seems, for the last six or seven years and can be attributed to the general decline of interest prevalent in the United States.
As you know from the signs on hall bulletin boards and from ticket sales, the bouts will be held on March 16, 18, and 20. The Bengals have provided a lot of excitement and enjoyment on campus in the past few years and should do so again this year, especially since the rumored discontinuance. Good luck to the sponsoring Knights of Columbus and to all participating boxers; let's hope the bouts can make a worthwhile revival this year.
OSORIO’S BACK: The upperclassmen who have enjoyed Ivan Osorio’s cover work for the Scholastic will be pleased with this week’s cover, an Osorio special depicting the typical Lenten resolution season in South Bend. Ivan is a fifth year architect who is finishing his last semester at Notre Dame; he was supposed to return last fall but broke a leg and was unable to do so.
BACK PAGES: This week’s “Back Page,” a contribution of John Kroha, senior economics major from Detroit, concerns a recent national issue, the Right-to-Work Law. In the future we would like to run similar studies on national issues and would appreciate it if our readers would contribute manuscripts devoted to such topics.
SENIORS: On campus room reservations for graduation will be made this Sunday afternoon in the Navy Drill Hall. Tickets will be given out at 3:00 pan. and reservations will be made at 7:00 p.m. Don’t forget that there will be a five dollar deposit per room and that each senior may reserve only two rooms in Keenan, Stanford, or Pangborn.
FRANK DUDA__________________Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass’t Features ; CHUCK MILLER______________Assistant Features
j TOM ROSE____________________Assistant Sports
I BOB SCHAEFER---------------Assistant Sports
I BOB HORN___________________Assistant Business
| FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C.-Moderator
! BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, I Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
I NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade J Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin. John Hoey, Bob Kelley, Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom L Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
THE THIRTEENTH APOSTLE: Lest the Sunday night devotions in Sacred Heart impair the student’s intellectual growth by conflicting with some of the more adult cultural programs, the Religious Bulletin resurrected Bart’s brother Bret on a weekday a little time ago. The impression wrought upon the students was significant. It was not significant because the readers will go out and pay for the piping but rather because it is indicative of a small change — a change for the better — in the religious life of the University. The appeal of the Religious Bulletin is enhanced by such incidentals as cowboy heroes and witty remarks — which, though not necessary, tend to give the articles a more interesting flavor. Consequently the Religious Bulletin, with these innovations, has a greater effect upon students, especially the more blase students, than did the traditional and more staid publications of the past decade. Father Boarman is to be congratulated on his work with this paper. Also, he should be praised for the new system of late morning masses which afford students the opportunity to hear Mass and to receive Communion at a time convenient to their whim.
£ SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, I Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William J Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and 'I Asociated Collegiate Press. Represented for na-L tional advertising by National Advertising Service, I Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examine-tioa periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, |5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SENATE ACTION: Comment was made in the January 16 issue of the Scholastic that the actions of the Senate Investigating Committee were not an end in themselves but rather a basis for further action. Last Monday the Senate did act upon the findings of the committee by passing the Student Organization Policy. It makes direct provisions for annual financial review by a new officer, the Organization Director, of the clubs’ records and for the enforcement of eligibility rules with respect to dub athletic events. The latter policy can effectively control the abuse which it is intended to; but the control of the financial activities, especially misactivities if they exist, is more complex. The provision for the annual financial statement and the article stating that all business is to be negotiated by check will give the Senate an indication of the Club’s financial situation and will make obvious graft impossible. The Senate, however, if it wishes to make its financial control iron-clad, must find some way of making accurate estimations of the proceeds from the sale of tickets for dances away from the campus. This area is perhaps the only area left in which graft can exist; but it is also the area most inaccessible to strict control. — &&&
5
| February 27, 1959
PICTURE TOUR
FUTURE
IN INIS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO
I WIN A FIN ! •	I
•	I
from
LIMERICK
LAUGHTER
Looking for a solid, satisfying career with a vigorous company in a growing industry? American Air Filter Company, Louisville, Kentucky — world’s largest manufacturer of air filters, dust control, heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment — needs graduate engineers to fill responsible jobs in sales, engineering and production in its 173 field offices and eleven manufacturing plants located in seven cities.
Next summer AAF will inaugurate its next five-month technical training course for a select group of engineering graduates. This full-time program combines classroom work, under the direction of competent instructors, with field trips to both company plants and large industrial users of AAF products.
A representative of American Air Filter will visit the campus to interview interested seniors on
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11
Make an appointment, now, through your Placement Office.
A NEW MONTHLY CONTEST SPONSORED AND JUDGED BY THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF ON BEHALF OF OUR BACK COVER ADVERTISER
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the monthly SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter” Contest. It's easy. It’s fun! You have THREE chances to win every month you enter. Here’s how the contest works:
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the February contest must be received by March 1. Names of the winners will be published in the March 13 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
So enter now and keep entering each month. The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.
At N.D. the coming of spring, Is not marked by a bird on the wing. Its portent instead, Is a thousand-and-one heads, Off to the Dunes for a fling.
CHESTERFIELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
AHMImHI Kh ■■Wb
On Ruddy Pierre let us tarry. He dated a coed named Mary. With taste as their basis, They of course smoked Oasis. Compatible pair—need you query?
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
6
The Scholastic
twice the brinded cat hath mewed
by JOHN BELLAIRS
Due to the fact that Charles Bowen, dissolute vagrant that he is, has ridden off in search of Eldorado (Mass.), I have been given the privilege of writing 150 forty-character lines for the second week in a row. Thus I have finally overcome the forces of Mammon, and am on the road to hegemony in this space. I will not be satisfied, however, until ‘ Bowen is reduced to writing aphorisms for Chinese fortune cookies. He might even be forced to do Back Pages.
ENEMIES REVISITED
Due to the hard-hitting satires I have done in past weeks, I have gathered enemies by the gross. In fact, I have a ’ large war map of the campus on my wall, with alienated sectors blocked out in red. As it stands now, the only places which I may visit with safety are the Rockne Memorial, the B-X, and the Boathouse on St. Joseph Lake. One day, in a spirit of adventure, I decided once more to invade two of the more promi-' nent hostile territories, the Radio Station and Howard Hall.
When I got to the Radio Station, I noticed a few changes since my last fruitful visit. The door was guarded by a former member of the Potsdam Guards, replete with bearskin shako and bayoneted rifle. A picture of me was hung from the ceiling by a string, and thus my likeness was kept constantly ’ before the guard’s eyes. He kept staring at the photo and muttering “Program Director good . . . Bellairs bad,” and was so wrapped up in his task that I was able to get past him with ease. Once inside, I wandered about for a while until a door opened and I came face to face with the evil Director. He chased me the full length of the studio, pounding on my head constantly with his little plastic sceptre. I fled down the stairs in mortal terror, and was able to escape because my pursuer became entangled in his serape and rolled to the bottom of the stairway. “No sense of humor!” I yelled (from a safe distance).
The next day I set out for Howard, but was stopped dead in my tracks by a frightening thought: How does one go about visiting a non-existent place? I decided that Logic, the realm of pure reason, might assist me, so I visited the office of Professor Darii Ferioque, the prominent logician, who edited The Hardy Boys Meet the Square of Opposition, Polysyllogisms in the World Today, and the Classic Comics version of Aristotle’s Metaphysics, besides many other favorites. When he heard my problem, his brow wrinkled in contemplation, and he soon had mapped out on the blackboard a complex forty-three
February 27, 1959
part polysyllogism, in which the minor term is woven in and out of the premises (producing a very pretty pattern), the major is naturalized, and the fullback goes over center for three yards and a first down. The professor, covered with chalk dust, paused in his labors and looked at me in disgust. “It won’t work,” he said. “Your middle is undistributed.”
The professor’s secretary, Barbara Celarent, showed me to the door, and I left somewhat saddened. I spent the whole afternoon standing where Howard should have been, but I could figure out no way of entering that unreal world. I went home somewhat crestfallen, and convinced that the world of those who were friendly to J. Bellairs had grown smaller. Perhaps the day will come when I will be barricaded in my room with the thud of battering rams and poleaxes ringing in my ears. Then I will be unable to get the little native boy to carry my work over to the Scholastic offices. But I suppose I must cross that bridge when I come to it.
THE LIBRARY AND OTHER STORIES
A week or so ago I decided to return a copy of Glibtrite’s History of Byzantium Vol. I to the library. I needed Vol. II of the same work in order to complete my thesis on the evolution of curse-words among fishermen in the Sea of Marmora. I knew that it was going to be a trying day in the Notre Dame Parnassus when I caught my coat on the turnstile at the entrance to the library. This problem required the services of three maintenance men armed with sledgehammers, pliers, and acetylene torches, who all worked diligently to set me free. Once I had rejected the suggestion that the coat be cut in two and the largest part be given to me, these stalwarts got down to business, and in a matter of an hour I was free.
In the meantime, those who wanted to get past me had to hurdle the rail (some were injured in the attempt) or go in through the checkout section, and thus be considered subversive. Once I was free, I went to the main desk, where I found four librarians hard at work. The one who was dealing the hand at the time turned to me and said: “What can I do for you? (Aside) Three clubs.”
I told her that I wanted to return a book. At this she shrugged her shoulders, laid down her hand, and snatched my book. She threw it disdainfully into a large dustbin labelled “Books to be Shelved.” As my book landed in this chaotic mass, a cloud of dust rose, then settled slowly. It was explained that the librarians have a phobia about
catching diseases from books other people have handled. Therefore the pile of returned books is allowed to gather until it begins to block traffic. Then (I am told) the books are taken out and burnt, thus rendering them forever germfree.
I pushed my way past a tottering pile of books and went up into the stacks in search of the tome I wanted. I came upon a worker who was in the act of pouring a bottle of red ink down a vacuum tube. I found that the book I. wanted was in section ZZ. Half this section was to be found in the south end of the library, and the other half in the east (three floors up). Once I found the right section, I discovered that the book was missing.
After an hour of litigation I found that my book had been filed under J, since Justinian was a Byzantine emperor (Mnemonic devices have always puzzled me). The trouble now was that section J had been placed inside the Grill (there being no other place for section J). The lock on this massive dungeon had long ago rusted shut, so the locksmith and janitor went to work. While waiting for the blasting operations to begin, I leafed through a collection of Titian’s paintings. I am not familiar with his work, but it exhibits a terrible monotony. Each plate shows nothing but a cut-out space, as though someone had cut a hole in the page. Puzzling over this, I was interrupted by an explosion, after which the janitor told me that I could get my book.
I was almost saddened at the prospect of leaving the pleasant company of the librarians. I had been with them so long that I was beginning to be accepted as a member of the group. They even let me play a hand or two of bridge. At long last, I saw the janitor coming through the stacks (rather, I saw the cloud of dust around him) bearing my book. Suddenly the xylophone on the wall began to ring. At this, the worker bearing the book stopped, threw the said book onto the dust pile, and vanished into the rear of the library. By this time I had become somewhat resigned to my fate, so I checked out. Ahead of me in line was a man wheeling a cart on which was the complete set of Encyclopedia Brittanica. “They belong to me,” said the man to the checker as he trundled past.
I, however, was thoroughly frisked. There was an hour’s delay as my address book was checked to make sure that it was not Library property. At last I was free to leave, and did so, giving the revolving file a good spin as I went out the door.
7
From the author of Pygmalion and Man & Superman.—G. B. Shaw
What an appealing widow she would make!”
That's the wicked thought of the Society Doctor!
MGM present*
LESLIE CARON DIRK BOGARDE - BtMIMtD SHAWS the doctors dilemma m METROCOLOR An M-GM Release
YOU’VE READ ABOUT IT. NOW SEE IT!
1GDH Msatl
QJ-S4OH UlOAj-lpHAAg
U3MSNV 1QDM
KGDL KROSSWORD No. 16
ACROSS
1. Hot compress for cool student
5. Deanly talks
10.	It’s Instituted in Texas
11.	He didn’t buy a balcony ticket
12.	Coin changes religiously
13.	Land of amore
14.	Slugfest
15.	He ran with Adlai
16.	Quiet, cat!
17.	% step
18.	Dulcet-toned damsel
20. Role too small to get your teeth in
23. Pinch punch line
26.	Water boy’s burden
27.	She starts evasive action
28.	Revised risk
29.	Work free
31. Skeleton’s abode
33.	King-size Kools have a filter ____
34.	Also__divine
35.	Weirdy
38. Hand percussion
42. Kwai baby
44.	Proverbial holidayer
45.	Kind of gone
46.	They could be sober
48.	Me, myself and I
49.	Podder
50.	Kind of gal moms like
51. So what else is______?
DOWN
1.	Cheat, a little childishly
2.	Puerto’s last name
3.	Helping hearing
4.	Kools are___
5.	Help! Wow! Boohoo!
6.	Switch from
7.	They’re really lovers
8.	Kind of gram or phone
9.	Beans
18.	Date who’s all arms
19.	Kind of Vegas
20.	Radar talk
21.	Start of
Ivy League
22.	Asking a gal real nice like
24.	Co. in France
25.	DDE’s predecessor
30. You pay ’em when you err
32. Hopper with a hunger
35.	Feels rough, this smoothie
36.	Performance, while rocking?
37.	Miss Fitz.
39.	You said it. Preach!
40.	Kind of boy bob
41.	Kools are 	fresh
43______hear this!
44	. Buzzin’ cousin
47. Half a beer
1	2	3	4	*ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*				5	6	7	8	9
10								11				
12								13				
14								15				
		16				21		17				
18	19				20		22		23		24	25
26					27				28			
29				30		1		32				
			33				34					
35	36	37						38		39	40	41
42					43		44					
45				46		47				L		
49				50						L		
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
SWITCH FROM
KGDL

• Finest leaf tobacco...mild refreshing menthol and the worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
e'Witli every puff your mouth, feels dean, your throat refreshed!
Qmericoh Most J&fieshing Ogaidk,
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER!
01959. Brown A Williamson Tobacco Com.
K®L
MILO MENTHOL king-size

The Scholastic
’Goss. Whetsel1 Plan Variety Show Tonight
Tonight at 8:15 in Washington Hall, Robert Goss and Louis Whetsel will present their song and dance sensation “Make a Show.” Styled as a modern approach to the concert, the attraction is expected to be one of the most unique shows that the Concert and Lecture Series has ever scheduled.
“Make a Show," done in colorful costumes, with special staging and piano accompaniment, consists of vocal selections from Broadway shows, folk songs, operettas, and operatic favorites.
The concert will contain duets from Showb.'at, Call Me Madam, King and I, Oaklahoma, and many others. Dances will be taken from such selections as My Fair Lady, Merry Widow, and Down in the Valley.
Robert Goss, formerly a dance band leader, has appeared as leading man in the Broadway run of Wonderful Town, with the Metropolitan Opera Association tour of Fledermaus in the United States and Canada, and on nationwide telecasts of Omnibus and the NBC Opera. He has also been soloist at Carnegie and Town Hall and made numerous records for Columbia Book of the Month Club, and New Records.
Louise Whetsel, a graduate of the Julliard School of Music in New York City, has been a soloist on tour and on TV with the NBC Opera Company, the New York Philharmonic and the Little Orchestra Society.
In the Robert Goss and Louise Whetsel background both experience and excellence are reflected, and their repertoire promises a fine and memorable concert.
Tickets.. will be available at the student prices of $.75 and $1 until show time.
VON BRAUN TELLS SENIORS U. S. MUST FACE UP TO RUSSIA OR ELSE
U. S. missile expert Wernher von Braun, who was chosen to receive the annual “Patriot of the Year” award by the senior class of Notre Dame, warned an attentive audience that the United States has its work cut out for it if it intends to surpass the achievements of the Soviets in the scientific world.
America, said patriot Von Braun, must overtake the Soviet Union or face “inevitable doom" to its “social, political, economic, and moral structures.” Russian success is “downright alarming” and it “is not the destiny of America to accept runnerup position in outer space.”
Von Braun told his captive audience of seniors that the United States ought to be greatly concerned with the possibility of Russian manned artificial moons circling the globe. A manned satellite, said the award winning patriot, “would be entirely feasable from the technical standpoint,” and would require no “major engineering breakthrough to achieve."
RUSSIANS AHEAD
In the space field, said Von Braun, the Russians “stole the march on us” and have not lost their initial advantage. Our tragic mistake, he said, was our inability to start on a missile program as . early as they did. The catching-up process will take time.
It is not a question of who reaches the moon first, the rocket expert said, but rather which educational system can produce the type of scientists needed for such work. It is up to every American citizen if he is to he a patriot to take an active interest in his country’s welfare in this regard, even if he thinks outer space is just “the hole we live in.”
Dr. von Braun, speaking to a partially skeptical if not hostile audience, very forthrightly answered his critics. To be a patriot, he said, one must “love his country and support its authority and interests.” This is demanding enough in a democracy, but in a totalitarian environment it is all but impossible, a fact which native Americans cannot appreciate because they have never suffered under such government.
ASTUTE CRITICAL MIND
There “simply is not such an animal as a creature without an austute critical mind. And there is no astute critical mind being astute in the field'of natural sciences only, and incapable of a critical attitude toward the political environment in which it operates.”
Speaking of young Russian scientists,
but obviously reflecting his own experiences in Nazi Germany, Von Braun continued to say that because the political scene is “taboo in a totalitarian system,” the scientist is not allowed to indicate opinions. Although he may have quiet misgivings or utter abhorrences about the political system, he must take the' advice of friends to remain passively silent.
In this atmosphere he can find an excuse for almost anything he does. This whole idea seems incredible to Americans, Von Braun said, that anyone can accept this type of life without resistance, but Americans, he added have never experienced such an ordeal. ■
FREEDOM IN AMERICA
Dr. von Braun said every American can make himself heard, and for him to refuse to accept the fundamentals of citizenship granted to members of a democratic society shows a lack of patriotism.
The one-time V-2 rocket expert for Nazi Germany who became a citizen in 1955, said he had always entertained hopes of coming to America, “but fate, in the form of a power-mad dictator intervened to postpone my arrival until 1945.”
“I consider it the highest accolade which can be granted to any man that, he is recognized as a patriot,” said the a speaker, “especially in America (where) an entire nation, dedicated to peace has become an inspiration - to free men everywhere.”
Dr. von Braun, speaking in English with a German accent, somewhat surprised the audience with his excellent manner of public speaking. He spoke frankly and clearly, explaining his past activities in Germany while at the same time comparing them to those of modern Russian scientists. He also showed his deep concern for our failure to suppress the Russians in technological development. Throughout the talk the audience sat silently impressed. Afterwards it gave him a standing ovation.
HAYWARD SPEAKS
In presenting the award to Dr. von Braun, John Hayward, senior class president, read the citation on the plaque honoring a scientist who possesses “a truly rare and brilliant inventiveness and creativity, now turned to the best interests of . . . (his) . . . adopted America.”
After Von Braun’s talk, the University band played a suite by Gustav (Continued on page 31)
9
TWO FOR A SHOW . . .
! February 27, 1959
J
Club Rosters Fixed Within Fifty Mile Radius; Shaul Cries Over Senate's Dead Imagination
Following through on their policy to straighten out the problems relating to campus clubs, the Senate, Monday night, finished work on a revised Campus Organizations Policy. The work was begun last week and the senators, taking pains to turn out another good policy, sent Junior Class Prexy Ed Butler back to committee with suggestions for a number of amendments.
Membership in geographic clubs is now limited either to the state or states from which members are drawn or to a 50-mile radius of a city. No student may 'belong to any geographical club except the one or ones from his own area unless no club exists for students from his area. If this is the case, he may then join one geographical club of his choice if this is allowed by that club.
While this serves to halt nearly all abuses in regard to club elections and athletic rosters, it gives the individual clubs the prerogative of opening their activities to those outside the club memberships if that is their intention.
Certain financial restrictions were placed on the clubs, too. Now, any student organization must pay its bills by a check, signed by the president and treasurer of that club. If a payment by check is impossible, the organization must obtain a receipt for the payment.
All club activities, including those in the home areas of geographical clubs, must be approved by the director for student organizations and the vice-
' Am erica's Cup Defense1 Set For Presentation on March 6
A lecture-movie, “The America’s Cup Defense—1958,” will be presented Friday, March 6, at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
It is being given by John Biddle who, during the last three years, has brought to colleges, clubs, and civic audiences throughout the United States his interesting and entertaining sailing films, “The Bermuda Race, 1956” and “Sails to Nova Scotia.”
The hour and a half movie, according to Dan Schuster of the Notre Dame Sailing team, “captures the tension, excitement, and beauty of this epitome of all yachting events, starting with the planning of the new boats to the final Cup races.” In the elimination trials, Don Matthews, skipper of Vim and founder of the Notre Dame sailing team, will be seen as captain of “a crew which functions with the precision of a fine watch.”
Sidelights of the show, “filmed for lubber and salt alike, “include scenes of the Newport Jazz festival and of the start of the stormy Bermuda Race.
The program is being presented by the Notre Dame Sailing club and tickets may be purchased from any team member or at the door. General admission is $1, while the student prices is $.75.
10
president for student affairs. In the case of hometown events, they must also be cleared with the alumni association in that area or the alumni office here. All student organizations operating under a University-approved budget are exempt from the provisions of the policy.
In his report, President Denny Shaul expressed concern over the lack of imagination on the part of most senators. He felt that the commissioners have worked out exceedingly well but the inactivity of the Senate in general, makes student government top-heavy on the executive side. These comments raised again the question in this reporter’s mind about the seldom-heard-from senators including Herb Riband, Jay Jones, Murray Turner, and Dick Ciccone. Riband is quite busy with a myriad of other duties and perhaps has little time left for the Senate.
Karl Mangold again submitted a detailed report of the activities of the Hall Presidents’ Council. The major news here is the planned series of hall lectures to be given by members of the Law School on such topics as constitutional problems involved in the exercise of censorship laws relating to movies; church-state problems, including federal aid to education; and the problems presented by civil liberties in the field of labor law. These topics will be ready by Sunday and the lectures will probably begin then in the senior halls.
Jack O’Brien’s report on welfare com-mitte activities showed that his group was still working on the problem of prices for transcripts and is looking into the possibility of special rates at the Morris Inn for prom week ends, student cab rates on football week ends, and the possibility of the laundry reimbursing students for damage to their clothes.
Next week the Senate will discuss the University Review and permanent hall residence in a meeting schduled to be broadcast over WSND. —Jim Byrne
MUSIC MEN COMING
Ticket sales for the upcoming Kingston Trio concert will be Thursday and Friday, March 5 and 6. They will be on sale from 12:30 until 5 p.m. in the Drill Hall for $1. The performance itself will be on Friday night, March 13, at 8 p.m.
The trio was formed last year when Dave Guard, a Stanford University grad student, joined up with Bob Shane and Nick Reynolds. Their first club booking earned them star billing and a seven month holdover. Since then they have appeared at “Mr. Kelly’s" in Chicago and are scheduled for the New York “Village Vanguard."
Juniors Set to Propose i Review Plans Monday I
The issue of a campus Student Review , which first came before the Student Senate last November will be presented for approval Monday night. The plan, proposed by a committee of juniors, calls for a review of well-considered opinion contributed by both students and faculty which would be circulated only by sub- * scription on the campus.
Censorship and policy would be controlled by a proposed board of seven students and a group of two faculty J members and an administration member, I either of which group could veto editorial policy by majority decision.
.4
The committee envisions the need for such a review in order to promote an interchange of ideas and opinions concerning both ideas of national and international interest and of campus impor- ' tance between faculty and students. It would in no way be a media of news, I but rather, provide for a significant interchange of thought between members ' of the academic community.
If approved, the publication would not begin until next year, and under the present proposal, the Review would be submitted to the administration and the Senate after thro months operation for a complete evaluation.	>
The editor of the review would be chosen from applicants by the student and faculty boards. The prerequisites would be a satisfactory academic and disciplinary record. The editor could be removed only by a unanimous vote of the faculty advisory board or by a vote of five out of seven of the students comprising the editorial advisory board.
The student editorial advisory board would be chosen by the student body president with the consent of the . Senate, and would then act as an y autonomous body by selecting its own . replacements in succeeding years.
Doctor Leone to Appeor At Fifth Institute Lecture | "
The fifth of six Marriage Institute J* lectures will be delivered by Louis B. ; Leone, M.D., on Wednesday, March 4 in M Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. His topic will be “The Doctor’s Viewpoint.”
Dr. Leone is a graduate of the University of Illinois Medical School. He is '	.
now a member of the obstetrics depart- :^i ment at the Skokie Medical Center. The } | doctor has four children and has been an I j active member of the Cana Conference I movement. This will be his fifth appear- ; ance with the Marriage Institute.
Seniors are reminded that the final lecture by Mr. and Mrs. John Evans on p March 11 will also be in Washington g Hall. .	g .
The Scholastic Bs
I Chess Championships to Begin Today for University Trophy Matches of the University-wide chess tournament jointly sponsored by the No' tre Dame Chess club and the house committee begin today in the LaFortune Student Center. It is still possible to register and enter the tournament. Anyone interested may register in the lobby of the Student Center from 7 to 8 p.m., tonight, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. The entrance fee is $.25.
The tournament will determine the champion chess player of the University iand appropriate trophies will be award, ed the winners. The tournament will be run according to the Swiss rules of scoring, and matches and scores will be kept posted in the lobby of the Student Cen-r ter.
The members of the tournament committee from the Chess club consists of Bob Ciaffone, Dave Hudson, and Tom . Brady. Dave Stump and Bill Sharman represent the House Committee. Rev. Regis Riter, C.S.C., is the moderator of ' the Chess club.
i	Debate Team Places 4th
,	In College Park Contest
*1 The University of Notre Dame de; bate team this past week end placed fourth out of 30 schools at the University of Maryland Capitol Hill Tournament in College Park, Md.
On the negative, with five wins and one loss, was Guy Powers and Jay Whitney, while the affirmative of Maurice O’Sullivan and Jerry Goudreau had a three and three record.
Though sustaining one defeat, the negative defeated Northwestern University which won the final round held : in the Senate caucus room in Washing-k ton, D. C. Whitney received a medal for second place and Powers a certificate . for eighth place among negative speak; ers in the tournament.
Meanwhile, on the campus, final preparations were being made for the > seventh annual Notre Dame Invitational
I Debate Tournament.
* Tournament committemen who have been working for the last month in anticipation of the 42 schools which are ■ to enterare: General Chairman, Thomas A Banchoff; Registration Chairman, Ger: aid Goudreau; Publicity Chairman, Joel Haggard; Tabulations Chairman, Wil-
|	i	liam	Barrett; Reservations	Chairman,
I	*	Maurice O’Sullivan; Banquet	Chairman,
|	John	Sullivan; and Timekeper’s Chair'	man,	Richard Meece.
DESPERATELY NEEDED
■, j In order to gain an accurate idea of the number of students returning i V to the University next fall, those I coming back are asked to report to '■! the Office of Student Accounts next week. At this time, a deposit of $50 will be required. The office will be open daily from 8:30 to noon and 1:30 to 4:30. p.m.
Proposed Plans Locks Students in Soph Halls
Groundwork for an expression of student body opinion on a fundamental change in the hall residence system is being laid by a committee headed by Tom Cahill, student affairs commissioner.
The committee composed of Jim Twohy, John Clark, and Bob Biolchini of the Student Senate, Rich Julani and John McKee of the Hall Presidents Council, Neil Stalter and Tracy Osborne of the Blue Circle, Joe Geary of WSND, and Ron Blubaugh of the Scholastic, is preparing a tentative plan that will enable the student body to vote on a system of permanent hall residence.
A campus-wide vote, Cahill emphasizes, would seek to determine student opinion on the philosophy of such a system and not on the desirability of any one particular plan. The committee’s purpose is to stimulate discussion of the proposed plan thereby eliminating any vagueness about the system itself or the reasons against it.
It hopes to conduct an intensive edu-
Campus News Briefs
More than $1,500,000 worth of land has been placed in trust for three Catholic organizations by Carl Koch of Clearwater, Fla., a real estate developer. The Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana Province, is one of the three that are sharing equally in the trust.
To serve as trustees, Koch named Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior; Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., provincial steward; and Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C;, director of provincial development. Father Mendez heads a committee which will seek purchasers to develop the strategically located tract of land.
The tract consists of 490 acres of choice development land in Pinellas County, Fla., a peninsula jutting into the Gulf of Mexico. It is northeast of Clearwater and across from Tampa.
Koch has also established at Notre Dame a four-year scholarship open to Catholic high school students from the state of Arkansas.
Three authorities on. Italian, Polish, and German immigration were among the speakers at a Notre Dame symposium on “Immigration and American Catholicism.” They were Judge Juvenal Marchisio, national chairman of the American Committee on Italian Migration, Very Rev. Msgr. Aloysius Wycislo, assistant executive director of the Catholic Relief Services and Rev. Colman Barry, I.S.B., professor of history at St John’s University in Minnesota.
Notre Dame’s Dr. John Kane served as chairman of one of the symposium sessions which were sponsored by the University’s history department and the Faculty Seminar in American Civilization.
cational campaign through the Scholastic and WSND with the hope that the eventual vote will reflect the reasoned decision of the student body.
The proposed plan, as it stands flow, would make residence in the twelve upperclass halls permanent. The freshmen would stay in the “Freshman Quad” but would join the upperclassmen in their second year. Once in an upperclass hall, the student would remain there for his next three years.
According to Cahill, classes would be mixed within each hall with the added feature that students could switch to another room at the end of the year on the basis of their class and grades. For example, juniors would get first choice of the rooms within the hall vacated by the graduated seniors with sophomores and freshmen choosing next in that order. This would take the emphasis off grades as the sole guide for selecting rooms and stress seniority in addition to marks.
The discussion of installing a permanent residence system at Notre Dame dates back seven or eight. years, but this is the first time it has been given serious consideration.
The University Theatre will present “The Boy Friend” by Sandy Wilson on April 30, and May 1, 2, 7, 8, and 9 in Washington Halt
Directed by Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, CJS.C., the play’s technical director will be Mr. Gilbert L. Rathbun. Dr. Charles A. Biondo will conduct the orchestra, with Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., in charge of choral work and Mr. Allan Powers as choregrapher.
Successful on Broadway, “The Boy Friend” introduced Julie Andrews to the American public. It is currently in an off-Broadway production in New York.
Rev. John A. O’Brien of the Bureau of Convert Research here, has successfully completed another “Operation Doorbell” in the Archdiocese of Portland, Oregon, in which it was found that the Catholic population rose to 186,560, an increase of 14 per cent over the previous census.
Father O’Brien assisted. Archbishop Edward D. Howard in launching the successful operation in which 7,994 Catholic men and women called at 242,852 homes. A similar program was conducted in the Diocese of Baker under the leadership cd Bishop Francis P. Leipzig.
The University has one of the largest groups of National Merit Scholarship winners in the United States. Forty outstanding high school students who successfully competed for the coveted awards have enrolled at Notre Dame since the program was established three years ago.
Notre Dame’s group ranks twelfth in size and is the largest at any Catholic college or university. The current freshman class contains the fifth largest group of winners in the U. S.
! February 27, 1959	11
IBM
invites the 1959 Graduate
with Bachelor’s or Master’s Degree to discuss career opportunities
Contact your college placement office
for an appointment for campus interviews
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
Career opportunities
Soks
Applied Science
Product Development
If your degree major is in:
Liberal Arts Engineering
Physics
Physics
Business • Accounting Mathematics
Mathematics • Engineering
Mechanical
Engineering Physics
• Electrical Mathematics
Some facts about IBM
IBM’s phenomenal growth offers unlimited professional opportunities to highly qualified graduates. Company policies lay a firm groundwork for stimulating and rewarding careers in the areas listed above. At IBM,
you will find respect for the individual_small-team operations... early recognition of merit... good financial reward... outstanding company-paid benefits... and many educational and training programs.
IBM’s laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N.Y.; Burlington, Vt.;
San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Sales and service offices axe located in 198 principal cities throughout the United States.
If you cannot attend the interviews, write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
IBM Corp.
234 N. Michigan Shoot South Bond 1, Ind.

IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
COBPOBATION
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS « MILITARY PRODUCTS SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES • TIME EQUIPMENT

The SchoUshc
GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL
by G. P.

’* When I hear the name Handel mentioned, I think of three things: the Messiah, J. S. Bach, and Grove’s Dictionary of Music and Musicians. This year I can add a fourth: the year I 1759, which saw Handel’s death. Bicentennials amuse me.
They inevitably result in the same thing time after time. All over the world musicians scurry to the gesellschaft of the composer-in-question, drag out works which are rarely perA formed (in many cases their neglect is backed up by excellent reasoning) and for one solid year we are subjected to an overdose of the celebrated composer, an overdose which often has dire aftereffects. Much can be gleaned from a venture of this . sort, however. In many instances we are led towards a better understanding of the composer. The series of lectures, recitals, seminars, ' teas, and pilgrimages which a composer’s • bicentennial evoke are very often well worth the effort, and in the final analysis we are forced to agree that it is fit' ting that history repeats itself numeri-t cally, even if we must also agree that the works exploited, after a year of toil, , have earned a long absence from recital programs.
m Handel first became subject to this type of celebration in 1785. In collaboration with a society (now graciously extinct) called the Concert for Ancient Music, a series of recitals was presented in London commemorating the centenary 5 of Handel’s birth. William H. Husk has left us a list of performers (525 in all) which is astounding: 59 sopranos, 48 altos, 83 tenors, 84 basses, 48 first and v 47 second violins, 26 violas, 21 violoncellos, 15 double basses, 6 flutes, 26 oboes, 26 bassoons, 1 double bassoon, 12 trumpets, 12 horns, 6 trombones, 4 drums, and the ’ conductor (at the organ). Certainly an imposing array of gifted Handelians.
The cause of all this celebration is a
-j. German-born Italian-trained English-adopted musician, and without qualification one of the greatest musicians of all time. Handel’s twice-married father, 63 when George Frederick was born, was a
* barber-surgeon. He was court physician at the court of Weissenfels, and it was here that Handel first came into contact with music. The .. court’s chapel had an organ, and in view of little George’s obvious abilities, Papa Handel permitted him to study with Zachau, the hometown organist.	_
In 1696 Handel visited Berlin, and in the court of Sophia Charlotte heard Italian music. Obviously enthralled with the Italians and their music (who wouldn’t be?) Handel begged to travel to Italy. Papa violently refused; Handel humbly went home; Papa refreshingly died. Handel, true to the wishes of his sire, completed his studies at the University of Halle and received a Law degree.
Hamburg saw Handel next, and here, his law degree behind him, he completed his musical studies, at the same time serving in the orchestra of the opera-house. Death almost removed the cause of our bicentennial celebration in 1704. It seems that there was a certain disagreement between Handel and Mattheson as to each other’s ability on the harpsichord. The disagreement was settled with'a duel outside the opera
febnuny 27, 1959
house. Fortunately, the duel was never consummated.
By the end of 1705 Handel had two performed operas, Almira and Nero, to his credit. In 1706, after another opera and an oratorio, Handel made his way to Italy. He was to stay in Italy four years. Florence, Borne, Venice, Naples: Handel experienced all these places, at the same time imbibing the Italian style and method of composition. Domenico Scarlatti, it is said, met Handel at a masked ball in Venice. Scarlatti, hearing Handel handle the harpsichord heroicaDy, is reported to have muttered (under his mask): “That must be either the famous Saxon or the devil himself.” Scarlatti was right the first time.
In 1710 Handel returned to Germany, .becoming kapellmeister at Hanover. (He made 1,000 thalers yearly). After a few -weeks, London beckoned, and Handel, taking a leave of absence, traveled to England.
Britain was anything but foreign to Handel. Her music was heavily under the influence of Italian opera. His first opera in the Italian style, Rinaldo was premiered at the Queen’s Theater in the Haymarket, and with resounding sue-cess. Even Addison and Steele satirized the first performance. Six months later Handel returned to Hanover, coming to England again in 1712.
The English people were quickly taken to Handel. Having no outstanding homegrown composer, they had no choice. And yet Handel was in the employment of George of Hanover. He couldn’t stay in England, even if Queen Anne begged him. Who would look after George? God did. Anne died, and George, elector of Hanover, became unelected King of Britain.
It is out of this period (1714-1715) that the famous Water Music pours. The . Water Music is in reality made up of many different compositions which were
nj/rntr	collected and finally published in. 1740.
rWQw*	King George took a special liking to the
,■	music, and from what we (Grove’s dic-
-	tionary and I) can gather, the Water	:
-	Music was played as the King sailed	'
along the Thames, hence the liquid connotation of the music.
England became	Handel’s heme from this time until his	;
death. His musical	ventures carried him over a wide range	!
of composition. He	became kapellmeister to the Duke of	J
Chandos (from which time the famous Chandos anthems stem)	:
at the same time assuming the duties of director of the newly- -formed (1719) Royal Academy of Music. This position re-	■
quired him to travel across Europe in search of good voices.	‘
England seemed to have a dearth of singers as well as com- J posers.	.	J
Through nine seasons of the Academy’s history, Handel I wrote opera after opera, all in the Italian style, and all well received. The Academy never saw season number ten. Bank- : ruptcy and disputes forced it to cease operation.	j -. I
hi January of 1728, Gay and Pepusch produced the famous . 5 Beggar's Opera, and Handel’s days of ruling the musical worid -	|
of England came to an end. TheBeggar’s Opera began, to. / ]
J (Continued on page 21)	.	, ; 4

A
(Considering the quality of the pictures and the romance of their story, the SCHOLASTIC feels that it is worthwhile to present them now. even though the relaxation of semester break is long gone.)
by AMMAN AMUR
Anyone who has skied can only envy the person who has felt the cold air of a winter morning stinging his face, snow swirling up from fast moving, well waxed skis, and the thrill of unobstructed speed.
The between semesters break provided an opportunity for more than sixty members of the Notre Dame Ski club to take to the slopes of Caberfae for a week end of skiing. Clear weather and temperatures ranging down as far as 24 degrees below zero provided good skiing, although the slopes turned somewhat icy by Sunday.
The Caberfae ski area, located approximately 280 miles from South Bend is rated as one of the finer ski areas in Michigan and has long been the favorite of Notre Dame vacationers. Caberfae is equipped with 30 ski runs serviced by some 20 tows including a newly installed chairlift. Crowds of two or three thousand a day lent a carnival atmosphere to the area.
The many beginning skiers on the trip spent a great deal of the first day buried in the snow or falling off the rope tows, but all quickly became familiar with the fundamentals and left the area as confirmed skiers. A few of the more advanced members provided instruction for the beginners, and some took time to try out the jumping hill where leaps of about a 100 feet are possible.
Enlivening the atmosphere, more than 90 St. Mary’s College girls made the trip and participated in an informal party hosted by the Notre Dame club at the Cadillac Legion Hall on Saturday night.
■ Despite the activity - filled days and nights, almost all were up at eight in
T
R

P
the morning to board the buses to the ski area. A few late-sleeping SMC girls were seen sheepishly hitch-hiking to the ski area at midday, however.
Eight-thirty Mass on Sunday morning saw St. Anne’s Church overflowing with students packed in the aisles and choirlofts.
Anyone who read a recent issue of Life magazine might get the impression that skiing is extremely dangerous and fit only for those who enjoy wearing casts as symbols of their bravery. This feeling, according to the National Ski Patrol, has been due largely to the overpublicity of ski accidents. A ski accident is news, but the thousands of disciples of the sport that get a thrill each time they try a new slope get no publicity, therefore the rate of accidents seems rather high. An NSP survey shows that 51 per cent of all skiing accidents result from persons trying to ski above their ability, and skiing when they are fatigued.
The people who often caricature ski patrols as demons who delight in whisking injured skiers off the hill at 60 miles per hour need only watch the volunteer members of a ski patrol putting in many hours a day to the slopes to dispel this idea.
Many people who would no more entertain the idea of skiing than being buried by an avalanche, find great enjoyment at a ski area. The accompany-
14
The Scholastic
ing pictures attest to the fact that ski > areas are a photographer’s paradise, and many prefer simply to relax before the warm fire of crackling logs in a ski chalet.
Five p.m. Sunday afternoon saw a mad rush to turn in rental skis which might not have fit all week end, or worse yet, which one or two of the speed demons had. managed to break.
Most everyone had by now picked up some of the skier’s jargon and was talking about having schussed a hill, taken three or four moguls in succession, or done a perfect gelandesprung.
Sunday night, the group regretfully headed back to the warmer climes of
South Bend after a roast beef dinner. Several skiers from Howard Hall, (currently non-existent), managed to disappear and rumor has it that they returned aboard the SMC bus.
Few people awoke Monday without nursing minoi- aches and pains or windburn, but many are already planning to return. Having been overbilled on several occasions, the officers were left to balance an overdrawn bank account.
Organized ski trips have become increasingly popular in the last several years because of the great economy of group trips. The Notre Dame group alone had twice as many students on the trip as they had last year.
The University ski group is already planning more outings, and in the meantime will continue to have meetings and show ski movies of instructional value as well as some of the more spectacular racing events. Membership is open to all and no past experience is necessary.
The club provides a meeting place for skiers from different areas to plan longer, unofficial vacation trips such as the one last Easter to Aspen, Colo. De
spite the attractions of the sunny beaches and quiet breezes of Ft. Lauderdale, an increasing number of adventurous students are being lured to the thrills of the jagged peaks of the western areas with snowfalls of avalanche proportion and the unequalled socialibility of such famous places as the Red Onion in Aspen, the Peruvian at Alta, and the Challenger Inn at Sun Valley.
The rapidly expanding sport will reach a climax next February when the winter Olympics at Squaw Valley, Calif., will draw the best of the world’s skiers for several weeks of competition. The Olympic committee is already looking for volunteers to help stage the races,
with a free pass to all events as the compensation. Any takers?
Ski equipment, for the person who has decided to take the sport seriously can be obtained for an initial outlay of $60 or $70, although for those who become more expert and look for the best, equipment can become increasingly expensive, and it is not uncommon to lay out $80 or $90 for a pair of skis alone.
One aspect of the sport which many skiers have never become acquainted with is that of cross-country skiing or touring. A ski tour across the nigged mountains of the east or west is something never to be forgotten; even a ski trip through the woodlands around school on a winter day when cold, powdery snow is weighing down the trees is something not soon to be forgotten.
For anyone with even a casual interest in the sport, a subscription to the highly illustrated monthly, National Skiing, published in Denver, Colo., is highly recommended.
To prolong the ski season, many areas have begun to install artificial snow machines, and some of the more ambitious areas have even hired cloud seeders in hopes of increasing their snow cover. Some of the diehards go west every summer to participate in the Fourth of July races held on glaciers high in the mountains. Many skiers, however, have found water skiing to be an acceptable, if not so thrilling, substitute and a fairly good way of staying in condition.
Skiing can be a year round source of thrills and enjoyment — and it’s never too late to begin.
February 27, 1959
15
LIGHTS OUT!
A “Commitment to Excellence”. . . Please?
■ .
by James D. Rose

A general demand for restatement or explanation seems to have arisen from time to time, perhaps never more vehemently than in the period we are considering. Such a demand presumably indicates a disharmony between traditional explanations and current needs. It does not necessarily imply the “falsehood” of the other statement; it may merely mean that men now wish to live and to act according to a different formula.
Basil Willey, Seventeenth Century Background
In the past year, especially since Father John Cavanaugh’s published concern for the apparent failure of Catholic education to produce national leaders or a “Catholic intelligentsia,” we have seen “Time,” “Newsweek” and other more thoughtful publications spotlight the comments of Catholic educators regarding the present status and the anticipated future of Catholic higher education. Their pessimistic apprehension would seem to some extent justified, but an investigation of the causes of this apparent shortcoming necessarily demands an inquiry into the attitude of those entrusted with the administration of an educational institution.
The attitude and opinions of a university administration are embodied within the regulations of the university, both in the active and contemporary legislation and in the implicit approval demonstrated by the acceptance of regulatory precedent. The regulations governing the students at the University of Notre Dame (excepting a few basic moral tenets) are the mere opinion of the University Administration; they were not handed down to Father Sorin on a mound of Hoosier soil “a little north of Vincennes” by an Old Testament God; but the earliest regulations of the University were the result of Father Sorin’s training in the Congregation of the Holy Cross, his experience with education, and his particular belief in a method for regulating the activities of an educational institution. The present system of regulations represents his opinion and the opinion of his successors. The regulations are not the result of Divine Revelation but are the opinions of men, and those responsible for their existence must be prepared to answer for any failure to accommodate the rapidly changing contingencies of the University, particularly in the milieu of modern America.
There are as many attitudes toward education as there are educators, but borrowing Jacques Maritain’s observation that men of various philosophical persuasions (or educational opinions) can agree upon a course of practical action, we can minimize or (hopefully) eliminate basic disagreement from the consideration and achievement of practical and necessary regulatory action.
The purpose of regulation at a university is to maintain a necessary modicum of order consistent with the proper function of the university; it is not the proper object of regulations to “enforce sanctity,” or to secure the habit of obedience necessary for a seminary or a military institution. The proper function of a university is education; the pursuit of knowledge, the training of competent scholars, scientists, teachers,
16
and other important leaders, and the intelligent preparation for citizenship in a democracy. Regulations are necessary to prevent chaos and to effectively assist in the achieving of the purposes of a university; but when a particular regulation is diametrically opposed, in a most elemental way, to the educational purpose of this University, it’s repeal or modification is essential.
Henry David Thoreau, recalling the visit of a French Canadian trapper to his Walden Pond, notes that:
. . .the intellectual and what is called spiritual man in him were slumbering as in an infant. He had been in- ' structed only in that innocent and ineffectual way in which the Catholic priests teach the aborigines, by which the pupil is never educated to the degree of consciousness, but , only to the degree of trust and reverence, and the child is ♦ not made a man, but kept a child (italics mine).
Education consists not only in the classroom instruction but in the conditions of responsibility and maturity presented the student. The question is — how much of the attitude expressed by Thoreau is intentionally or unintentionally, struc- t.,' tured into the system of regulations at Notre Dame?
To utilize an athletic metaphor (frequently and popularly 4 heard on this campus), the head may proclaim excellence, but if the body is congenitally deformed, the hobbling, awkward, grotesque attempts of the cripple to run will not replace the necessary corrective surgery for atrophied limbs accustomed to walking during the race. Must mediocrity be our pacer? Is this one “sport” where we may legitimately emphasize “win- ' ning”? And what are the congenital deformities that prevent : our “athlete” from putting himself in good condition, much J less run the “good race”?	Ji
Of all the regulations of this University, I think the one most generally agreed by students and faculty to be the most ridiculous and antithetical concerns the sovereign privilege of electricity. At the solemn stroke of eleven o’clock, electricity is cut off in all the residence halls of the University (except tho. Senior halls). Seniors, because they are twenty-one years of age or older, because they have reached the undergraduate summit of maturity, because they may have inculcated a certain desire for knowledge which some believe the University provides between football seasons, because they are regarded as prospective leaders of the laity, and the Knights of Columbus, because they may become the political and economic leaders of America — for all these reasons — the Seniors may have electricity for an additional sixty minutes. During the examination period, although the foolhardiness of intensive study is publicly discouraged, the privilege of midnight electricity is benevolently bestowed upon all. In each residence hall, varying from a cramped, converted residence room to the larger, more noisy accommodations of the newer halls, we have our “commitment to excellence,” our study lounges, the lone consideration of the physical exigencies of intellectual pursuit.
The Scholastic
“ An examination of the factors present in the continued I toleration of this regulation would seem necessary. Tradition, whatever has been done before, without an adequate recognition of the conditions of the times, would seem to be the most rationally impenetrable factor. Protected by the romantic musings of misty-eyed alumni (many of whom wouldn’t be accepted at Notre Dame under today’s more rigid entrance requirements), untouched by the “work-a-day” instructors who are ignorant of the study conditions (or lack of them) of their students, perpetuated by the seminary-structured, rigidly-weaned background of the priests, the abstracted “tradition” of a regulation floats in the air as a glorious platonic idea, hovering high in the sky, higher than the football stadium, ’ even higher than the Golden Dome, out of reach, almost out of sight, and most assuredly, “out of the question.”
Under the guise of locum, tenons, we are asked to believe Eby those “taking the place” of our parents, that our parents are as unloving, unsympathetic, and supremely administrative as to turn off our lights when we wish to finish an assignment, to write a poem, play or letter, to deliver that extra effort ; that distinguishes the “excellent” from the mediocre. We are )	asked to believe that our parents would be that unreasonably
I	motivated as to ignore the very purpose of our status as stu-
dents, prospective scholars, artists, poets, philosophers, dedicated to the pursuit of the various facets of God’s truth. We are asked to believe that our parents would continue an “enforced immaturity” and fail to recognize that we are not their ’ age, that we do not have their older, more tired bodies; that A we are young and impatient to learn and that we should not be strangled by regulations for an older, less physically active person. Not bounded by a “self-appointed” and “self-oriented” position of enforcing regulations they don’t believe in, our । parents are free to concentrate upon the more important aspects of their legitimate authority, their love and their assistance. In the same way, our rectors and prefects, divorced from the physical demands and the psychological stigma of 11 being inextricably connected with the unrespected regulations, could devote themselves with an individual interest, a confessor’s solace, and a friend’s assistance to the many problems of the student. An immediate retort to the question of allnight lights would be — why don’t you arise at five o’clock when the lights are turned on, and do your extra work then? a The answer is simple and a matter of principle: the student should have the right to choose, according to his own needs, , * his hours of scholarly effort, artistic creation, meditation and contemplation.
But the best reason for the “lights out” regulation is that it provides a simple, efficient, and practical system of accounting for the inmates of a beautifully administered com! munity. (What poetic justice that the organization of penal * institution administrators should have held a convention here last year.) Instead of regulations oriented to the individual l * needs of students in concurrence with the purpose of their k attendance at the University, we find in this regulation the perfect example of an impersonal and administration-oriented system, where mathematical efficiency obliterates basic purposes. Students are the victims of an administrator’s attitude, , , codified in a traditionalized system incompatible with the I	more fully recognized purpose of the University of Notre
1	Dame. It’s nice to live under a model system, but Notre Dame
f is certified and advertised as a University, not a model edu> cational plant.
In reviewing reasons for the enforced “bed-time,” the most insidious, uncurrent, unstated, and psychologically important ! factor in a system of all-night lights is an anticipated drop ) in morning Mass attendance. I suspect the secret reason for a failure to realistically adjudge the benefits of an all-night > light system comes from an Old World-structured and seminary-inbred response to an early Mass, although the cut from :	five “Mass checks” to three “morning checks” several years
|	ago resulted in no detrimental effect upon the basic religious
>	conviction or fervor of Notre Dame men. It is an insult to
the faith of a Notre Dame man, as well as evidence of ignorance of the realistic adaptations of Pope Pius XII for afternoon Masses, to say that increasing student responsibility and developing maturity in this manner will result in decreased religious attendance or interest.
February 27, 1959
Obviously, I consider none of the objections given here to have sufficient value to obstruct some system of all-night lights from being initiated, but you might legitimately ask why I don’t think there will be a change in attitude. Last Spring, Lyons Hall presented to the Administration a lengthy report and request for all-night lights, carefully documented with time studies, extracurricular involvement, course study requirements, academic averages, etc. This petition was signed by all the residents of the hall (including six students who disagreed in principle with all-night lights (a legitimate position) but who were willing to support the experiment). The plan had the approval of the rector and the active support of the prefects of the hall, but it was rejected by the Administration, essentially for the reason that, in all probability, the plan would be successful and the other halls on the campus would want it. To those committed with the maintenance of order, I suppose this was valid enough reason for rejection; but again, a position of administration without positive or constructive contribution to the basic purpose of the University was restated.
When I spoke informally with a member of the University Administration about my plan to write this essay, I was informed that various minority groups within the Administration have been diligently at work for many years on this same problem. Possibly, in several years, this particularly antithetical regulation may be changed; and I was referred to the “vast complex” of tradition, authority-structure, personalities, etc., which surround the code of regulations. If I may be permitted a pun, “vast complexes” are for persons in psychological difficulty. I was informed that an incontinent essay might “upset the applecart” of previous effort, but my reply is that as far as I can see: there is no applecart.
We have seen no indication of any effort on the part of the Administration regarding a realistic appraisal of the situation or any sort of anticipated regulatory reform. I don’t believe it is incumbent upon the Student Senate to initiate such a basic change in University policy; their lack of initiative in stating student opinion in such basic matters is a serious breach of purpose, though usually any effort of Student Senate concerning basic policy is generally met with cogent criticism, but no positive assistance.
All-night lights will not necessarily result in any immediate or over-all improvement of intellectual life, but a serious impediment to individual development will have been eliminated.
(The last two paragraphs of this article were deleted.) •
Let’s Call It a Day
by L. Martin Topping
The other afternoon, (Sunday, to be exact, if anyone is interested in specific factual information), after sampling a gourmet’s nightmare at the most popular watering hole on the western half of the campus, I stopped by the room of a friend of mine, for the express purpose of returning a book, long ago borrowed, and still only half read. I found my friend in, thanked him for the use of his book, chatted amiably in the accepted social fashion, toyed with the idea of borrowing another book, but thought better of it, accepted a lemon drop, and prepared to take my leave, when we were interrupted by a third party with whom I am slightly acquainted, who burst into the room aftei' the manner of a Greek messenger, scattering books, papers, cigarettes and me, all over the floor. I looked up eagerly from my landing position next to the bed, for the torch he should have been carrying in his left hand, and listened for the announcement that Troy had fallen, and Helen was expected back directly.
However, this bearer of news merely breathed heavily in our faces, and announced that a group was leaving immediately for St. Mary’s, and would we care to go along? Hav-
MASS SCHEDULE
February 28
Mass (purple) Saturday of 2nd week of Lent 2nd prayer for vocations
March 1
Mass (purple) Third Sunday of Lent
March 2
Mass (purple) Monday of 3rd week of Lent 2nd prayer for vocations
March 3
Mass (purple) Tuesday of 3rd week of Lent 2nd prayer for vocations
March 4
Mass (purple) Wednesday of 3rd week of Lent 2nd prayer of St. Casimer 3rd prayer of St. Lucius
March 5
Mass (purple) Thursday of 3rd week of Lent 2nd prayer for vocations
March 6
Mass (red) Sts. Perpetua and Felicitas 2nd prayer of Friday of 3rd week of Lent 3rd prayer for vocations
— or —
Mass (purple) Friday of 3rd week of Lent 2nd prayer of Sts. Perpetua and Felicitas 3rd prayer for vocations
N.B. — In the above Masses the Preface is that of Lent
ing heard, from various veterans of these answers-to-the-Sunday-afternoon-cocktail-party, I shuddered visibly, and politely declined, pleading my passport was in my room, and I certainly did not plan to climb four flights of stairs, etc. This did not please either of my friends, and subsequently, the /'L book friend told the herald that I would definitely accompany I them, and that we would be right down. The herald left, pre- | sumably to spread the word among the other states, of the I impending departure of the caravan.	Ij
Ten minutes, six lemon drops, two cigarettes, and many | ; protests later, I found myself among those assembled on the J j walk, with roll being taken by the general, a friend of mine *7i whose talents in this line had remained, until this time, hid- * [ den from me. The troops in our battalion had evidently de-	i I
cided that, it being Lent and all, we would do something	1
positive and live within our parental-bestowed incomes, spurn- 1 j ing the costly public conveyances in favor of a brisk walk in the spring air, over open fields and through green vales.	f
I have yet to see a vale, green or otherwise, in this part of	j
the country, and in my opinion, the whole thing sounded more like a trek across the frozen wastes of Siberia, than the Boy < Scout hike through Yellowstone Park, that our leader seemed to be outlining.
Further, I could never recall any such interest, much less | enthusiasm, on the part of any of the members of the group,	I
tor the great outdoors. When I mentioned this, and voiced	|
my own lack of enthusiasm at the prospect of such a safari , through the wilds, my companions scorned my dismay, and c told me that I should have worn rubbers. Had I been given	|
the slightest hint that we were going to spend the day re-	\
living the adventures of Frank Buck, I would have properly prepared myself, hut I hate rubbers, as do all of them, and I doubt that any one of us would have worn any kind of foot covering even during the sinking of the Andrea Doria, had f we been there.	, /
My enthusiasm for the entire project was rapidly dwin- / dling, but my curiosity as to the reason for my friends’ com- j plete reversal of attitude intrigued me, and thinking of the stacks of books waiting in my room, I held tongue in cheek, 4, and sallied forth to take my place in the convoy.
IS
The Scholastic
Finally, we reached that concretized guillotine onto which one has only to place a single foot to have himself hurtled into eternity by one of those mobile automatic washing machines, of which there seems to be such an overabundance in this area. We stood for several moments, literally on the brink of death, and yet the constant dream of Sunday gawkers continued to zoom by, deliberately splashing mud, and throwing slush at our once oyster-white mackintoshes. Growing muddier, wetter, and more infuriated by the minute, I breathed a silent prayer to the patron of the foolhardy, and before the horrified eyes of the other troops, plunged headlong into the line of washers, and held up my hand in a manner which would have made my eighth grade safety-patrol
4
captain justly proud. The screech of brakes and the honking । of horns was delightfully deafening. I stood in this position, ignoring violent oaths heaped upon us by the gray little driv-V ers in their gray little machines, until our group was safely across the Red Sea. We received another round of curses as we stood safely on the left bank, but merely turned our backs [ on the squealing tires and belching mufflers, and proceeded ' “ up the local Gaslight Alley.
Shortly, we reached a place hitherto unknown to me — Holy Cross Hall. We entered, and as I adjusted my eyes to the sombre gloom, I made out a staircase and balustrade which looked like something from the set of “Sunset Boulevard,” and I fully expected Gloria Swanson to appear momentarily on the landing, in a slinky, sequined gown, colt revolver in hand, and say in a voice choked with emotion, “If I , can’t have you, no one can!”
However, instead of Miss Swanson in sequins, there ap-* peared momentarily on the landing, Miss College, in cash-mere, grinning, for no apparent reason, like a Cheshire cat. She asked if she might help us, and invited us to ascend the staircase. We did so, I with some apprehension, having heard of the frailties of stage furniture, but reached the top without incident, where the Cheshire continued to beam, and talk , at the same time. We were invited to wait in one of the parlors into which we moved directly.
> Being exhausted from our arduous journey, and spying a soft looking couch, I made straight for it, and sat down heavily. At once, I was plummeted to the floor on a cushion of sagging springs, and felt myself nearly smothered by musty > upholstery. As I struggled to regain my equilibrium, I felt a sharp pain in the back — a stiletto, I was sure, from the , hand of Lady Macbeth, who, from the looks of things, could have been lurking behind any one of the sprung couches or >• chairs. On hearing my cries of distress, my companions rushed to my aid, and finally succeeded in wrenching a rusty spring from my left scapula and righting me into the usual position. I was cautioned by my sage and more experienced » colleagues, not to attempt to sit down again, and reluctantly stood stationary, afraid to move lest I fall into a concealed trap door somewhere.
Presently, the Cheshire came back accompanied by a group > of lovely young maidens, who were doled out, each in turn, by an efficient - looking young lady who lacked a ladle, but handled introductions with dispatch and grace, and who, with a perfunctory wave, dismissed them. I thought fondly and longingly, how delightful it would be to see her made Cruise Director of Sing Sing, or something. I was left standing with the Cheshire, still beaming, one of my companions, and the Cruise Director. My companion and I thanked them both,
tried to match their beaming, (an impossible task), and bowing, backed out of the room, down the stairs, and into the blinding sunlight, whence we turned our faces toward Le Mans. Upon reaching this hallowed hall of social activity, we gulped a last breath of fresh air, and plunged into the murky depths of the upperclass parlors.
Again we readjusted our retinas, and made our way past, the silent forms toward the first parlor. We finally made it through the bottleneck, and were at once set upon by a gorgeous young lady who came toward us walking at a forty-five degree angle, and did not stop until she had come fully upon us and stared intently into both our faces. We recovered somewhat as she drew back, explaining she was nearsighted, too vain to wear glasses, and thought we were someone else.
We then proceeded to the operator who kindly - listened to our requests, and sent them humming back over the wires into those dark, mysterious regions that lay beyond the inner sanctum. We looked about for a comfortable spot, and finally decided on an innocent looking couch, testing first, although I was sure such calamities as had already beset me could never occur in an upperclass hall. My optimism was confirmed and we settled as comfortably as possible to wait, amid the too gay laughter, overly profuse Chanel, musk, and Suave.	j
In the evening when most areas take on a softer glow,	i
these parlors have always reminded me of an abandoned con-	i
vention hall of the WCTU or the DAR or something, but in the daylight, with soft voices all about us, and hushed whispers of greeting, a sort of relatives-in-the-anteroom-of-the-dying-patient air hung over the place; a kind of quiet antici- ! pation of, perhaps, the black plague. (Indeed, from the looks on some of the girls’ faces when .presented with the heads of their escorts without platters, it had already arrived.)	.j
The forty-five-degree-angle-girl had startled four more of ■ the wrong young men during our adjustment period, and the odds that were floating about the room were in favor of her finding her companion by the time she had to sign in, provided, of course, he wasn’t nearsighted, and walking at any more than a ten degree angle, in which case, someone quite . cleverly suggested magnet and iron filings as the only solution. ?
Finally, exactly two and one-half hours after leaving the । security and comfort of our campus, the objects of our pil- ?
I

February 27, 1959

grimage hove into view, and, by pulling hard to starboard just in time, avoided the forty-five-degree-angle-girl, and reached us with short, breathless cries which we liberally interpreted to be indicative of joy and gladness at finding shelter in the storm, for that was a pleasant thought, and we chose to believe it.
We stood about for several minutes greeting one another, and then launched into the usual one-sided discussion of one another’s health, studies, families, world affairs, and whether or not the lovely damsels needed coats in the spring air. Deciding they have need of more clothing, their backs were abruptly turned to us, and they re-entered the off-limits area.
Evidently they stopped to rip out and install a new electrical system, for within an hour and a half, they were back downstairs, each clutching the remains of a once proud and noble camel, and laughing too, too gaily. The gaily laughing bit was beginning to get on my nerves after our long wait in Ward C, but I said nothing, and we set forth onto the muddy paths and lakes of the campus. The walk was uneventful, save all were thoroughly soaked. We eventually re-entered Convention Hall, and our moor-tromping companions immediately suggested bridge — at a nickle a point. I said that I never played cards because I always felt compelled to win, and, in order to win, I always cheated. The others agreed that it was some sort of mania, but in the interest of mental therapy, I must play. At this point, had they been handy, I believe my friends would have donned smocks and masks, and, depression sticks in hand, and told me to stick out my tongue.
My book-friend, still with me, encouraged me to play, and so I consented. After a few hands, the ill-fated fortunes of the early afternoon were forgotten. I played the game with more than rapt attention, and the afternoon became a total success, for, without resorting to my usual strategy, I was able to relieve my opponents of eighteen dollars. I attempted to return the winnings, but my book-friend came close to shattering my shins registering his disapproval of the proposed disposition of my newly-minted fortune.
The enthusiasm of our lady friends was rather dampened, I suppose by their losses, and to my delight, the gay laughter had calmed down to a civil chuckle. After a reasonably decent interlude, they thanked us_for a lovely afternoon, and we thanked them for the lovely eighteen dollars, they hoped we could come again soon, we could, and would love to come again soon, and yes, we’d love to play cards again. Then we said some more of the usual witty things, and finally the mutual-admiration society said good-bye, the girls withdrawing into tiie great black void behind the oak panelled drawbridge.
We decided, my book-friend and I, that in view of my whist winnings, we really ought to splurge, (since Sundays actually aren’t Lent), and patronize a public conveyance for — the return journey 'to our-diggings. The trip back was considerably more comfortable, but perhaps a trifle dull. We arrived just in time to join the crowds of celebrities entering that watering hole for dinner, and I reminded myself that this was where I had gotten on the merry-go-round earlier in the day, and now it was time to get off.
The End
20
tyieati ^u»n tke Patt
75 YEARS AGO — The South Bend Register felt that college life, judged by Notre Dame standards, is not as dreary as it may seem. The students could always find beneficial activities in the gym, the quiet billiard rooms or, of course, the “stag” dance. The dance was a must to see when you visited campus; the best orchestra available played for these dances, and one saw how gentlemen could dance with gentlemen without breaking the rules of decorum. It seemed that s in those days the boys got as much of a kick at the “stags” ! as at dances with girls.	•
25 YEARS AGO — The investigation to track the pilot of the plane who was using the field behind the Law Building to land his plane was successful. The owner was an athletic man named Max Conrad. A 31-year-old, who had suffered brain damage while trying to save a woman who entangled herself in the propeller of his plane, he couldn’t talk and it took him three years to relearn pronounciation. Enrolling in 4 the University to take speech and engineering, he intended to compete in Notre Dame athletics. A high-jumper having cleared 6'7% ", no mean height today, he had beaten the world record holder of that era five times without a defeat.	,
10 YEARS AGO — Mr. Evelyn Waugh, one of England’s best known authors, visited the campus. He spoke on Ches- ’ terton, Knox, and allowed himself to be questioned by 15 students in the Dining Hall’s Lounge. He was deeply impressed * by student piety, the number of students who visited the grotto, and the daily communions. He was also struck by the fact that no wine or beer was served in the campus “tea room.” He felt wine or liquor should be found in the tankards at the ends of the cafeteria lines. He stated, “You know one should consume great amounts of wine while eating.” After being informed of the University regulations on alcohol, he said, “I still think it is better than having them take swigs of gin in their lodging. Which they probably do, don’t they?” Oh, no! Mr. Waugh, not us.
The Ancient Editor
AT THE GALLERY
an exhibition of MODERN MASTK DRAWINGS, WATER COLORS, AND COLLAGES
loaned from die collection of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Randall Shapiro February 8 to March 8, 1959
1 to 5 P.M. Daily
The exhibition feature* works by Chagall. Hee, Feininger, Kokoschka, Beckmann. Miro, Matisse, Weber, Lipschitz, Braque, and Kandinsky
The Scholastic

Handel
(Continued from page 13)
At the Movies

wean people away from the Italian style, and Handel suddenly found that he had several failures on his hands.
Rival opera companies sprang up, and eventually (1737) Handel was forced into bankruptcy. This he cleared ' up scrupulously, and gradually began to look into other musical forms, particularly that of the oratorio.
There followed several years of semisuccess, climaxed in 1741 by an invitation to visit Ireland, which Handel accepted. It was while on location in Ireland, in 23 days (August 22 - September 14) that he created the Messiah. Upon his return to London (1743), the Messiah was met with mellow antipathy.
AVON
The Doctors Dilemma: (Feb. 26-March 4). An adaptation of George. Bernard Shaw’s play starring Dirk Bogarde and Leslie Caron. This one is very nice to see, if you don’t mind Shaw’s undercooked wit, but that is about all that can be said about it.	■
GRANADA

Seven years later, formances at the the Messiah began through the choral
in a series of perFoundling Hospital, its popular journey societies of history,
Some Came Running: (Feb. 19-March 4). Held over for another week by popular plan of the management. This ghastly accident rejoins actor Frank Sinatra and writer James Jones but does not quite add up to the initial triumph of From Here to Eternity. The book has been considerably cleaned up, and it’s a wonder there’s some plot left to the thing. The characters seem to feel out of place behaving decently. That other singer (?) turned actor, Dean Martin, spends the whole movie preserved in a large jar of alcohol. There is some consolation, though, in Shirley McLaine’s strikingly contrasting professional acting.
a journey which is still progressing at top speed.
The English aristocrats rose up a second time against Handel, and by 1745 he again found himself in the deplorable condition of bankruptcy. Several operas and oratorios, among them Judas Maccabeus, Alexander Balus, Joshua, Susanna, and Solomon, served to balance the budget sufficiently. What they made up for in lost money they lost in good health. Handel’s sight began to fail in 1752, and less than a year and three operations later, he was totally blind.
But music is sound in time, and Handel was anything but deaf. The year he lost his sight he participated in a series of concerts at which he played his 12 organ concerti from memory. On April 6, 1759, he took his Messiah to Covent Garden. On April 14 of the same year the Messiah took him to his eternal reward. He lies buried in Westminster Abbey.
These are the facts of a life. These are by no means reason enough for a bicentennial celebration. The reasons for that are much too numerous to mention: 25 oratorios, 38 operas, 12 concerti grossi, and 12 organ concerti only begin the list. Suffice it to say that we of the music world will gladly celebrate his genius throughout the year. The close of the year will bring the same prayer to my mind that has found its way there at the end of every bicentennial year: Bicentennials like this one are worth the effort. Sweet God, spare us from the necessity of duplicating this arduous task for Jerome Kern, Richard Rodgers, and W. C. Handy.
PALACE
4
4

The Journey: (Feb. 23-March 4). Cool Yul plays a Russian major of the black leather jacket school who is a lover of some of the finer things in life (women, horses, vodka). The finer thing which seems to corner his affections to the point of sobriety is Deborah Kerr who, together with a busload of other travelers, wants to cross the border to Austria. Set against the background of the Hungarian Revolution, the story tells how Yul, in charge of a border post, refuses the travelers safe entry into Austria because he suspects one of the passengers is a Hungarian refugee. The refugee is excellently played by Jason Robards, Jr., of Broadway fame, in his screen debut.

4,
RIVER PARK
Onionhead: (Feb. 27-28). A fairly good comedy for all Andy Griffith fans, though it really is an unfortunate attempt to keep cashing in on No Time For Sergeants. Perhaps in the horizon looms (Heaven forbid) such treats as Will Stockdale Joins the WACS and WiU Stockdale Ever Stop? -Let’s hope so.
Co-Hit: Wind Across the Everglades. A trip through the glories of the swamp Everglades starring Burl Ives. Gypsy Rose Lee must have some clothes on, because the South Bend Police have not threatened the financial welfare of the management. Co-starring Pulitzer Prizewinner MacKinlay Kantor and the alligators.
The Reluctant Debutante: (March 1-4). Kay Kendall’s sharp wit outdoes even Rex Harrison, and that’s saying a lot for her. Truly high style comedy of manners co-starring Sandra Dee.	•
Co-Hit: Bombers B-52. Ladies and gentlemen, our balanced budget!



>
STATE
The Ten Commandments: (Feb. 19-March 4). The Bible, according to -Cecil B. DeMille, seems to have one more week of fight left in it. Which is ; more than can be said for the reviewers. Charlton Heston’s energy is also -running out, trotting back and forth across the beach like that. It remains a must for any of those (be it possible?) who have yet to see it.

4
NOTES
John Rockne Guinn, graduate student of the music department, will present a lecture on Puccini with special emphasis on Tosca at 1:30 pan. Sunday, March 1 over WSND. Thomas the tenor will join him.	'	.
COLFAX
No Name On the Bullet: (Feb. 27-March 4). Frankly, this shouldn’t be . classified as a Western, except perhaps as a child Western. The hero has a . too-new twist: he shoots good guys. And he never thinks of handing out ; calling cards. As if this isn’t able to break the camel’s back, our buckaroo doesn’t even appear in the Trendex top 1000.
Co-Hit: The Silent Enemy. Another entry in the round of pictures using ’ salt water as plot seasoning, this one deals with the explosive exploits of Lionel Crabb (no kin to Alaska), Great Britain’s famed frogman. The cast is headed by Lawrence Harvey and Dawn Addams (for whatever that infor- - ’ mation is worth). No conscientious Navy Rotsie boy should miss this one.
— Tony Wong ; .
February 27, 1959


EUROPE
Dublin to the Iron Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups. Also shorter trips $724 - $1390. EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadena, Cal.
WANT TO SEE WHAT YOU’RE DESIGNING?
What engineer doesn't! Seeing finished hardware is a special kind of satisfaction. Matter of fact, an engineer needs to be close to his product throughout design. He should be in close touch with lab and field testing of his own components, see the final product. At least, that's the way we feel at Chance Vought. Ask our representative.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
March 2 and 3
OUGHT AIRCRAFT
J. S. Bach, songwriter, says: "Wildroot makes your hair look cool, man!*
Just a little bit of Wildroot and...WOW!
I BEST BOOK BUYS III noon*
ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS FICTION GOVERNMENT & POLITICS HISTORY HUMOR LANGUAGE LITERATURE MATHEMATICS & SCIENCE MYTHOLOGY PHILOSOPHY POETRY RELIGION PHYSICS & ASTRONOMY
Save Time and Money Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
OR-ffce-campus
22
. preferred /Rk CHICAGO
L. BUSINESSMEN kiwIKBR	executives
boTO 0 FAMILIES
FAMILIES
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton—preferred by the family, and business executives for downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates — guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
THE NEW
Rates froAi
si HAMILTON
20 SOUTH DEARBORN
HOTEL
IM KANSAS CITY ITS THE BELLERIVE HOTEL
100% AIR-CONDITIONED
The Scholastic
Sfuvdi Pttiun»
IRISH BEGIN FINAL WEEK OF SEASON MONDAY
Entertain Valparaiso, Marquette This Week
by JAY KILROY
On Monday, March 2, Notre Dame will be host to the Valparaiso Crusaders in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The Crusaders, coached by Paul Meadows, employ a running offense and, when needed, a man-to-man defense. The squad has good speed. However, the Crusaders are a young and inexperienced ball club. They carry a 9-10 record into the clash, including five straight losses.
SCHROER HEADS ATTACK
Valparaiso’s attack is centered around Captain Dick Schroer, a 6-1 senior guard who was theii* top scorer* last season. Schroer is the floor leader of the squad. He specializes in one-hand jump shots and also scores well on set shots.
THE SECOND GUARD
The other guard, 6-1 junior Topper Woelfer, joins Schroer in giving the Crusaders their top scoring punch from that position. Woelfer, who was the third-high scorer for Valparaiso last season, hits well on hard, driving shots.
A main cog in the Crusader attack
February 27, 1959
TOM REINHART’S SHOT BLOCKED
DePaul’s Mike Salzinski fouls in process
is center Lew Keller, a 6-8 junior. When Keller scores and rebounds well, the Valparaiso attack is difficult to stop.
Coach Meadows states that 6-2 junior Tom Orton is his best forward. Using a fine jump shot, Orton is the fourth high scorer on the Crusader squad. Forward Paul Manske, a 6-4 junior, rounds out the starting lineup for Valparaiso. Although not a big scorer, Manske is a good rebounder and defensive player. Manske also specializes in setting up scoring plays.
The Irish end their regular season schedule in a return game against the Warriors of Marquette on March 7 in the Fieldhouse.
DEFEATED DE PAUL
On Saturday, February 21, in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated the DePaul University Blue Demons, 76-67, before a nationwide television audience.
The Irish, starting quickly, built up a 23-13 lead in the first nine minutes of play as Tom Hawkins, Gene Duffy and John Tully dominated the scoring. Howevei* the Irish attack slowed down, and they led at halftime with a four-point lead, 35-31. Hawkins led the Notre Dame first half scoring with ten points. Tully and Duffy each counted seven.
SCORING SPREE
In the second half DePaul closed the gap to 38-36 in the first four minutes of play. But the Irish then began a scoring spree that carried them to a 5844 lead with eleven minutes left to play. Hawkins and Tom Reinhart were the top scorers in this rally. From then on, the Irish lead was not seriously threatened as they went on to win by nine points.
Hawkins, Tully, and Reinhart each scored 18 points, giving the Irish a well balanced attack. Gene Duffy, playing a fine floor game, was also an effective scorer with 13 points.
DePaul was led by guard Bill Haig who hit for 17 points. Forward McKinley Cowsen scored 16 and 5-10 guard Howie Carl counted for 15 points to balance the Blue Demon scoring.
Notre Dame outrebounded DePaul, 59-48. Hawkins pulled down 17 rebounds; and Tully had 15.
DEMON FOUL SHOOTING
The Irish hit on 31 field goals and 14 of 20 free throws. DePaul hit on only 20 field goals, but outstanding foul shooting kept the Blue Demons in the game. They hit on 27 of 33 from the free-throw line.
Langfordmen Expect Top Meet of Season
The three top fencing rivals of the Midwest, Notre Dame, Wisconsin, and Illinois, will meet in a triangular match in Madison, Wis., tomorrow. The Badgers and the Illini have always been ND’s top Midwestern opponents in the fencing world.
Last year an undefeated Irish squad beat Illinois, 17-10, and Wisconsin, 1611. “These are our traditional rivals,” says Coach Walter Langford. “Wisconsin is undefeated so far while Illinois was beaten by the Air Force and upset by Buffalo, and they’ll both be hip* for this meet. If we continue to fence as we did last week against Ohio State and Michigan State, we could beat both of them.”
The Irish defeated both Ohio State and Michigan State last Saturday by scores of 20-7 and 19-8 respectively. Against MSU the Irish won honors in all three divisions.
They took the foil division by a score of 8-1, the sabre, 8-1, and the epee, 5-4. Against OSU the Irish won the foil and the epee by identical scores of 7-2. The fencers lost the sabre division to the Buckeyes however, 5-4.
In the Michigan State meet, Jim Rus-somano, John Lauerman, and Jerry Johnson each notched two victories for the Irish in the foil division. Norbert
(Continued on page 25)
Helps Irish to victory in triangular
Before, During, and After by GREG ROGERS
About one hour before game time, the members of the Notre Dame basketball team start arriving in the Irish dressing room underneath the south stands in the Fieldhouse. What they do during the hour before the jump at center is mostly routine.
Most of the players sit in front of their lockers, slowly taking off their street clothes and pulling on their white- or green-numeraled uniforms. There are some, like Mike Graney, who just sit or walk around and then dress quickly just before taking the floor. Angles are taped by the trainers, and leggings and jerseys are pulled on.
Coach Johnny Jordan arrives about half an hour before game time. Jordan spends this time in the room adjacent to the training room where the team dresses.
A cup of coffee and a cigarette are his companions along with Assistant Coach Jim Gibbons and Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano, the man who runs the scoreboard. At this time, the team manager passes around sticks of gum while some of the players, usually Emmett McCarthy, Tom Hawkins, Bill Crosby, and Mickey Bekelja, throw a ball around.
Twenty minutes before game time, the team gathers in the training room to meet with Jordan. The players listen attentively as Jordan makes comments about the opposing team. Then the players huddle in a prayer after which Gene Duffy and Hawkins, the team’s co-captains, lead the squad to the floor for the pregame warm-up.
Jordan then finishes his coffee and goes to the floor, usually meeting with the opposing coach for a few moments. While the team goes through its drills on the court, the coach greets wellwishers and talks with Gibbons and the team manager.
JORDANMEN HUDDLE FOR PREGAME PRAYER IN THE LOCKHI ROOM
Five minutes before the tip-off, the team returns to the training room and again meets with Jordan. The opposing line-up is given to Jordan at this point, and the coach reads the names to the team, pointing out the capabilities of each member of the opposing team and how he should be played.
“Graney and Reinhart, watch Ruk-lick’s hook and stop it. Move that ball and get the good shots. Get up on those boards and grab that ball. This is the big one, get out there and play ball.”
Jordan sometimes stops for a short time, and the players pick up the break with “C’mon gang, we can take ’em.”
Before the St. John’s game clippings from New York papers were posted on the portable blackboard in the dressing room. Such things as this catalyze the team’s pregame enthusiasm. Then the players huddle for another prayer and take the floor. Jordan follows the team, putting out his cigarette on the steps leading to the court.
Before the halftime break the managers are in the dressing room preparing towels, quartering oranges, and getting short drinks of water for the players to rinse their mouths.
Intermission finds the team back in the training room. Jordan is one of the first in the room. He usually starts by commenting on the team in general, waiting for the statistics to come from the courtside table.
“All right, we’re winnin’ by a couple, but we gotta go out there and get ’em in the first five minutes. Get on those boards, they’re getting too many rebounds. Get up there and grab that ball. They’re getting too many shots from the inside. Tighten up in there and stop ’em.”
Jordan will sometimes draw a diagram on the blackboard in the front of the room and point out deficiencies in
JORDAN SCOLDING AT HALFTIME
the Irish attack. By this time the statistics are beginning to arrive.
“Huh, what did I tell ya, they’re outrebounding us two to one. What’s the matter. Get up there and start hustling.”
By this time Jordan has hit upon particular players and mistakes made by them during the half. The shooting percentages are now given to the coach and he studies them before making any comments.
“They missed one foul shot out of 15, and they tipped that one in for a three-pointer. You guys missed six of 13 and lost the rebounds to them. How ’bout it. Let’s start hittin’ when we get out there and beat ’em.”
The players themselves keep up a steady stream of chatter and suck oranges. Some filter into the backroom to get some water and meet with Gibbons who points out things to the players that will help them during the second half.
With about three minutes to go, “Nappy” signals Jordan that “they’re ready to go.” The team huddles again and hustles onto the court for the second half.
The chatter and encouragement continues from the bench while the game is going on, and Jordan continues to point out mistakes and game strategy during time-out huddles on the court. After the game the team again meets in the training room.
“Okay, we took ’em. But it was a dose one. Let’s learn a lesson from this one. Keep awake and play heads up ball all the way. Fight for that ball and never let up. That’s the way you win in this game. They were a good ball dub. Okay! No practice tomorrow. ? WeTl wait *til Monday.”
The team then quickly showers and dresses. Sandwiches and milk are passed around by the managers, and the dressing room quickly empties. Jordan meets with Gibbons and friends in the back of the training room. He has his usual coffee and cigarette before leaving for home., .	'
24
The Scholastic
Fencers. Win Two More (Continued from page 23)
Spitzer and John Hutchings both won one bout while Charles Duggan dropped his only match.
In the sabre, Notre Dame made a similar showing in winning eight of nine bouts. Joe Klein and Tom Lee won two each. Pat Green, Klaus Muller-Bergh, and Rudy Ehrensing each registered two victories.
Jim Jock’s two victories helped the Irish squeeze through the epee. Jim Brogan, John Ronayne, and Jim Radde each took one bout.
Notre Dame took the Buckeyes in the foil division, 7-2, with Johnson and Rus-somano leading the way with two wins apiece. Spitzer and Duggan notched one apiece while Lauerman recorded a victory and a loss.
' In the epee division, which the Irish won by the same 7-2 score, Jock and Clancy each posted two wins. Dave < Schwartz, John Donlon, and Ronayne each tallied one victory.
OSU won the sabre in which Lee took two bouts for the Irish. Green and Charles Petrungaro posted one win each against the Buckeyes in this event.
In the third part of the triangular, .Ohio State beat Michigan State, 18-9. The Buckeyes won all three divisions, copping the sabre, 8-1, and the epee and the foil by identical scores of 5-4.
“This was our best day so far,” said Langford after the meet. “The squad really looked sharp. Both meets were completely in hand from the beginning.”
TIME OUT
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks TONIGHT
Kansas State over Kansas
k-	TOMORROW
Akron U. over Capital Auburn over Alabama ( DePaul over Canisius Cincinnati over Houston Holy Cross over Providence Illinois over Iowa ► Kentucky over Tennessee Xavier over LaSalle ' Marquette over Toledo Michigan over Ohio State ' Purdue over Minnesota
Mississippi State over Mississippi North Carolina over Duke > Northwestern over Wisconsin
St. John’s over CCNY St. Louis U. over Wichita Utah over Utah State
HOOSIER HOE-DOWN Indiana over Michigan State
MONDAY
Notre Dame over Valparaiso
LAST WEEK
Twelve right, eight wrong, 60 per cent	/
TOTALS TO DATE
69 right, 24 wrong, 74 per cent
It wasn’t any stroke of genius that caused the triangular fencing meet . last Saturday to be scheduled in the Fieldhouse following the basketball game, but this move certainly seemed to have a beneficial effect on the fencing team as- it mowed down two opponents to advance its record to 12-1.	-
Probably most of the fans who watched the fencing meet figured that they might as well stick around after the basketball game to watch at least part of the meet.
Inasmuch as fencing is the winningest sport on the campus, even if it is . not the most attractive from a spectator’s standpoint, Coach Walter Langford’s squad deserves much more attention than the sports followers around the campus have given it.
EMPHASIS ON PRECISION
.There is an art to watching a fencing match which very few students have. The poor attendance at most fencing meets substantiates this statement. But one can enjoy the finesse of the sport, without being an expert, just by watching the precision thrusts of Langford’s more accomplished artists.
Fortunately for the fans, the Irish fencers put on one of their best shows of the year. They handily vanquished both Michigan State and Ohio State with comparative ease as those fencers who have stood out for the Irish all year paced the twin victories last Saturday. This triangular meet was, incidentally, the last home appearance of the fencers this season.
Those who remained for the meet were introduced to a sport which does not command a large following but a sport which here at Notre Dame, because of the perennial high caliber of the teams, deserves a large following.
The fencing team has developed into one of the nation’s strongest, and the quality of its performance should attract all those who enjoy watching a precision skill exhibited. Perhaps this introduction last Saturday will help.
IMPRESSIVE TRACKSTERS
Records fiew again a week ago last night in the Fieldhouse when the Irish tracksters romped to an unexpectedly easy win over Purdue. Leading the assault were Steve Dornbach, who has been an outstanding performer for Coach Alex Wilson in the hurdles ever since his surprise victory in the Central Collegiates here two years ago, and Ron Gregory, sensational sopho- . more distance ace.
Dornbach continued his great work in the hurdles, clipping the 66-yard high hurdles in :07.4 and the 60-yard lows in :06.9, matching the meet records in both events. His time in the lows established a new Notre Dame . record for five hurdles. It ties the old Fieldhouse record, but that-record was set over four hurdles. His performance will only be considered in the record books as a tie of the old mark, but it is actually a superior achievement^
Gregory’s performances this year have been outstanding. He led most of the way in the mile by a slight margin before sprinting away from the field to win in a flourish with a time only 1.4 seconds slower than his recordsetting 4:10.0 of the previous Saturday.
THRILLING TWO-MILE RACE	L I* | F i
Even after this powerful sprint, he came back to capture the two-mile in exciting fashion. Content to stay right with Purdue’s distance ace George Harvey, although Harvey .was a distant second for the first half of the race, Gregory grabbed the lead with only a quarter-mile to go and raced away from Harvey to set his second Fieldhouse mark in two days — this time the two-mile" in 9:14.6.	’	'
Perhaps one of the more important results in the meet was a second- J; place finish by Marty Clynes in the 880. Purdue’s top miler Hugh Enicks had been figured to gain at least a second place in this event, but Clynes just ; did nip him at the tape to finish behind soph Chris Monohan and give the Irish an-almost insurmountable lead. From there on, the outcome of the meet was not in doubt.	‘	.	X - T;
Apparently having found themselves after a slow start, the Notre Dame swimming team will provide the only home sports entertainment this week?.V end. Coach Dennis Stark’s crew, in its first year of varsity competition,!* coming along well and should prove a welcome addition to Notre Dame’s ; sports teams before the year is out.—T.T.	-

February Zt, 1959
Student Keglers Second In South Bend Tourney
Not content with burning up the alleys at Notre Dame, the campus keglers have invaded the domains of the South Bend bowlers to try their hand at a few tournaments.
Bolstered by several of the Intercollegiate team bowlers, a team composed of Bay Grabbe, Tom Jablonski, John Curran, Denny Panozzo, and Jim Flannery did a very creditable job of representing the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame in the South Bend City Association tourney. They took over second place by rolling 2748-303-3051.
Jim Flannery continued to demonstrate his ability as a consistent bowler by shooting 1631-225-1856 to move into seventh in the all-events. Flannery teamed with John Curran for a 1102135-1237 score to place in the top ten in the doubles. Just to make the week end complete, Flannery also racked up 535-75-610 to shoot into the money in singles.
Journeying downtown to the Al Dlu-gosz doubles tourney, held on the V. F. W. Legion alleys, Jerry Cangiano and Bob Miller teamed for 1478-2281706 to move into fifth place, although
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won't dry up before you've finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves...try
Old Spice Smooth Shave!
1™
•OCR
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
26
NOTRE DAME'S INTERCOLLEGIATE BOWLING TEAM
(Left to right) Captain Ray Grubbe, Ted Nekic, Fred Vida, Coach Jean “Speed” Sheehan, Frank Mullen, Tom Jablonski, and John Curran.
later dropping to seventh as the tournament progressed. Cangiano rolled 800132-932, while Miller contributed 67896-774 for the four games.
The Intercollegiate team will spread the Kampus Kegler name further by journeying to the Indiana State tournament March 14 and 15. —Ed Silliman
The Scholastic
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Typewriter Paper
It’s easy to flick off your mistakes on Eaton’s Corrasable Bond. Make a pass with a pencil eraser and typing errors are gone—like magic—no error evidence left. Corrasable has an exceptional surface—erases without a trace. Once does it—there’s no need to
retype. Saves time; money, too. The perfect paper for perfection—erasable Corrasable.
Eaton's Corrasable Bond is available in light, medium, heavy weights and onion skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
• '	'-5^^
Lose something? Hove a service to offer? Want to reach the Student Body? ;; Use a tested medium........place a ? Classified Ad...............	■- i;
N. Bonaparte, French G. I., Myc "Wildrootconquers dry,unrujy hair!’*
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Made only by Eaton EATON PAPER CORPORATION :'E) PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
MASTERS DEGREE CANDIDATES
in Electrical Engineering; Mechanical Engineering; Mathematics and Physics
are invited to meet Representatives of IBM on
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
For appointment, please contact your College Placement Office.
IBM.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
ftbnutry £7, 1959
IHO SAID IT FIRST’
A column of incidental intelligence bycfocAtV brand
"THE MORNING AFTER"
This horrible time was first immortalized by George Ade in "The Sultan of Sulu." Here's the way he put it:
"But, R-E-M-O-R-S-E!
The water-wagon is the place for me;
It is no time for mirth and laughter,
The cold, gray dawn of the morning after!"
"GENTLEMAN AND SCHOLAR" High praise, indeed, for any man! But did you know that the description comes from Robert Burns—who said it first about a dog? Here's the quote: "His locked, lettered, braw brass collar
Showed him the gentleman and scholar"
You'll find the couplet in Burns' "The Twa Dogs."
"MAN BITES DOG"
That's everybody's definition of news, and we're all indebted to John B. Bogart, city editor of the old New York Sun (1873-90) who first said:
"When a dog bites a man, that is not news, because it happens so often. But if a man bites a dog, that is news!"
JOCkd] Underwear
What's true about expressions is also true about styles. Somebody always got there first. Take Jockey brand underwear. Jockey brand is made only by Coopers. Coopers invented Jockey underwear—and no copy can compare with Jockey brand for quality, comfort and fit. For underwear that feels better because it fits better, insist on Jockey brand —the original comfort-tailored underwear. You'll find it at better stores everywhere. Recognize it by the Jockey trade mark.
fashioned by the house of
Irish Thinclads Compete In IC4A Championships
Tomorrow afternoon in Madison Square Garden the top college trackmen in the country will gather together for the annual IC4A indoor championships. Defending champion Villanova will have its ace miler, Ron Delany, on hand in hopes of winning their second straight IC4A title. Last week in the AAU championships Delany set a new world indoor _ record in the mile with a time of 4:02.5.
Notre Dame is among the teams entered in the championships. Coach Alex Wilson’s team will be hoping from standout performances from Captain Steve Dombach, Ron Gregory, and Jerry Fitzpatrick.
Gregory, who ran both the mile and < the two-mile against Purdue last week in 4:11.4 and 9:14.6 respectively, will probably only run one of these events tomorrow.	.	•
Dornbach and Fitzpatrick will be attempting double victories in their spe- , cialties. Dornbach runs the 60-yard high and low hurdles while Fitzpatrick’s 1 events are the broad jump and the 60-yard dash.
Last week the Irish thinclads won their second dual meet of the year with < a 59% -44% win over Purdue.
Gregory’s 9:14.6 in the two-mile set a new Notre Dame Fieldhouse record. This is especially remarkable because 1 earlier in the evening Gregory had run the mile in a very creditable 4:11.4.
Dornbach tied the Notre Dame indoor record in the 60-yard low hurdles with a time of :06.9, and he tied his own meet record in the high hurdles with a time ' of :07.4 as the Irish captain turned in another double victory performance.
Fitzpatrick ran the 60-yard dash in :06.3 to tie the meet record. He also won the broad jump with a leap of 23 feet, foul' and one-half inches.
The Wilsonmen managed to pile up a wide margin in the track events and 1 were thus able to offset the superiority of the Purdue field team which won three ' of the four field events. ,
The summary:
Mile run—1. Ron Gregory (ND); 2. Hugh Enicks (P); 3. George Harvey (P). Time: 4:11.4.
60-yard dash — 1. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND); 2. J Ron Etherton (P); 3. Pete Salsich (ND). Time: :06.3. (Ties the meet record held by Dillings N.D.
1933; Smith, N.D., 1949; and Omer, P., 1950).	,
440-yard run (ND Freshmen)—1. Steve Schwartz;
2.	Jim McCann; 3. John Garnet. Time: :50.6.
Broad jump — 1. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND); 2.	"
Dick Monjeau (ND); 3. Jim Johnston (P). Distance: 23-4%.
440-yard run — 1. Ron Etherton (P); 2. Ray Ratkowski (ND); 3. Barclay Ewart (ND). Time: :49.7. (Ties the meet record held by Haider, P., 1950).	'	'
60-yard high hurdles — 1. Steve Dornbach (ND);
- 2. Dick Stillwagon (P); 3. Ron Huffman (P). Time: :07.4. (Ties Dernbach’s own meet record, set in >. 1958).
880-yard run — 1. Chris Monahan (ND); 2. Marty Clynes ('ND) 3. Hugh Enicks (P). Time: 1:55.1.
Pole vault — 1. Jim Johnston (P); 2. Glen Civi-- din (ND) and Mike Johnson (P) tied. Height: 14.0.
.. Two-mile run — 1. Ron Gregory (ND); 2. George Harvey (P); Dave Cotton (ND). Time: 9:14.6 (a	;
meet record, the old one: 9:22.3, Matthews (P),	<
1953, and a new Notre Dame Fieldhouse record,	■
9 i
The Scholastic t
28
4

Tankers Home Today, Seek Fourth Straight
Today the Notre Dame tankmen host Central Michigan in a dual meet stalling at four o’clock. Coach Dennis Stark’s swimmers have posted a 3-4-1 record going into today’s meet.
Last Saturday the team invaded St. Louis and crushed the Billikens, 69-15, cracking three pool records in the process.
With the exception of the 50- and 220-yard freestyle races, the Irish took first in every event. Among the record smashers was the 400-yard medley relay team of Jim Garrity, George May, Tom Moran, and Bill Cronin with a time of 4:16.5. Tony Haske broke the. pool record in the 200-yard butterfly by more than a full second. His time was 2:32.4. Dick Katis won the backstroke for the Irish in 2:23.9, breaking the old pool record of 2:25.5.
Irish 100-yard freestyler Gene Witch-ger tied the pool record of 54 seconds in this event and Tom Landrigan set a new Notre Dame varsity record of 5:26.1 in the 440-yard freestyle.
Other winners for Notre Dame included Frank Dinger, Chris Lund, Moran, and Joe Meany in the 440-yard freestyle relay, Paul Chestnut in the diving, and May in the 200-yard breaststroke.
On Thursday, February 19, the Irish swimmers topped the Riviera Club of Indianapolis by a 60-25 margin. The Notre Dame squad won seven out of ten events in this meet. Irish first place winners were Katis in the 220-yard freestyle, Chestnut in the diving, Mahoney in the 50-yard freestyle, and Garrity in the 200-yard backstroke.
Notre Dame won two relay races, the 400-yard medley relay with Garrity, Moran, May, and Cronin and the 440-yard freestyle with Witchger, Dinger, Lund, and Mahoney.
>
Schedule for Open Bowling
(OPEN TO THE PUBLIC)
Mon. through Fri______12 noon to 5 p.m.
Friday ____________evenings after 9 p.m.
Sat. and Sun_______12 noon to midnight
the old one: 9:15.0, Hunter, N.D., 1943).
60-yard low' hurdles — 1. Steve Dornbach (ND);
2. Dick Stillwagon (P); 3. Jim Sheeler (ND). Time: :06.9. (A new meet record, the old one: :06.9, Fleming, N.D., over four hurdles (Dornbach’s over five hurdles), and ties the Notre Dame Fieldhouse and Notre Dame indoor record, held by New-quist, N.D., and Dornbach).
High jump — 1. Jim Johnston (P); 2. Jim Loer (P); 3. Dick Monjeau (ND); Jack Reilly (ND), and John Zurewich (ND), and Dave Sawicki (P), tied. Height: 6-2.
One-mile relay — Won by Notre Dame (Mike Breitenbach, Jim Sheeley, Barclay Ewart, and Ray Ratkowski. Time: 3:24.2.
Shot put — 1. Dave Edelman (P); 2. Ken Scarborough (ND); 3. Bill Hickman (ND). Distance: 50-10.
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 59%; Purdue 44%.
HAVE BUSES . . .
WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Rep.
263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
BipersMate
FREE OFFER 1
giaht	special
Papers Mate
VALUE
$25Z
so TU-TONE pen STANDARD REFIt-L .39 SCHOOLMATE PEN
AST UNKIETTHI
MITOU GOOHKY
HURRY! GET YOURS AT
$4 69
GWOUCHO MAW
GENUINE
Paper Mate
257 VALUE ONLY 1”
LOOK FOR THIS SPECIAL FREE OFFER CARO TODAY


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
GendeRs Surplus Sales All Officers Insignias You Save Everyday of GENDtL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
££££
PEN-
££££
49C EXJU RfflLL-
MffiVIWMr A hwnMnt n-nnEPBi
February 27, 1959
AQIM LIBRARY art RNK SHOP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY •
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne
Irish Knights Are Second In K. of C. Tournament
Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus council took second place in the annual Indiana State K. of C. basketball tournament last week end at the Sacred Heart Gym in Indianapolis. The Notre Dame squad, coached by Ken Boone and John McDyer, won two of their three games and walked off with two trophies.
George (Mike) Hanahan of Notre Dame was awarded the individual State Sportsmanship Trophy for displaying outstanding ability and sportsmanship in the tournament games.
In the first contest of the tourney on Saturday afternoon the Notre Dame Knights defeated the Gary council, 52-46. 46. Dick Mootz lead the scoring attack for the winners.
In the semifinal round on Sunday afternoon Notre Dame won a thriller from Vincennes, 54-52, to advance to the finals.
The championship game was played Sunday evening between Indianapolis and the Notre Dame Knights. The host Indianapolis squad had too much for the Irish and won easily, 62-49.
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
CE 2-3339
Campus Leagues Finish Play Next Week—Play-Offs Follow
The Interhall basketball league winds up its league season during the first week of March. Then follow the playoffs between the winners of the six leagues. The winner will qualify to meet the champion of the Interclub League. This game will decide the champion of the campus.
In last week’s competition, the leaders of the individual leagues retained their leads. The Stanford Whites finished their season with a 44-25 win over the Lyons White squad. It gave them a
INTERHALL ACTION	"
It takes all kinds ...
%
7-0 season record and the championship of League I. Lyons Red still leads League II. In League V, the Stanford Blues defeated their hall rival Stanford Golds to remain atop of this league. Pangborn Gold was not scheduled and still leads League VI. Their record is 4-0, and following them are the Pang-born Reds with a 4-1 standing.
According to league director Gene Perry, an elimination tournament will be staged to determine the league representative in the title game against the Interclub winner. This game will take place sometime during the middle of March.
In the Interclub League, the Met club still is leading Division I. The Villagers and the Columbus, Ohio, quintet head Division II. In Division VI, the Kentucky Blues and the Washington Blacks have unbeaten records.
When the league season is completed, an elimination tournament similar to the one of the Interhall League will be conducted to determine the eventual champion. The winner of this tournament earns the right to meet the Interhall League champion in the playoff for the campus championship.
30
The Scholastic
Bengal Bouts Dates Set; Fighters Now in Training
The 1959 Bengal Mission Bouts will take place in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, March 16, 18, and 20. This is the 28th successive year for the Bengals.
Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano will again be the trainer and coach of more than 80 Bengal hopefuls. The boxers will be in training for six weeks, and the field will be narrowed to about 45 fighters. This is in keeping with Nappy’s threefold motto “to teach ’em, to train ’em, and to match ’em as evenly as possible.”
Two champions from other years will be assisting Mr. Napolitano this year. These are Ed Ricciuti and Dick Shulsen. Ricciuti will be remembered for his two 147-pound championships and Shulsen for his two first round knockouts last year for the heavyweight crown.
Two of last year’s champions are fighting again this year. Ross Franco, who defeated Leighton Young on two successive occasions for the 139-pound crown, and Pat Healy, the junior heavyweight champion from last year, will defend their crowns.
The Bengal Mission Bouts are staged annually by the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus for the benefit of the Bengal Missions of the Holy Cross Fathers in Pakistan. The Bouts should be especially interesting this year with the return of some of last year’s champions and many of the runners-up.
. Matmen Away for Week End; (1 Sachsel Cops Wheaton Title
< This afternoon the Irish grapplers travel to Cincinnati to take on the Uni’ * versity of Cincinnati wrestlers. Tomorrow afternoon they will be at Miami University of Ohio for a dual meet. ।	The Notre Dame squad carries a three
* ‘	won, three lost record into the meet this
afternoon.
< Last week end the Notre Dame mat> men competed in the Wheaton Invita! * tional tourney at Wheaton University.
The only individual winner for the Irish was 123-pounder Jerry Sachsel. Sachsel, undefeated for the past two l. 1 years in dual meets, won both of his J matches Saturday to cop the 123-pound crown.
He decisioned Jim Bledsoe of South) ern Illinois in his semifinal match, Saturday, 5-3. Then Sachsel took the :A championship with a 6-2 decision over Gene Taylor of the host Wheaton squad.
Team Captain Paul (Bucky) O’Connor, Dick Sapp, and Dominick Carbone were also entered in the meet for Notre Dame. O’Connor (177 pounds) picked V up two victories in four bouts, losing the consolation championship to Ken
* Pontikes of Southern Illinois, 6-4.
Carbone picked up a third place for the Irish in the 157-pound division. He dropped his opening match on Friday but came back and took two matches : Saturday.
February 27, 1959
Symposium Features Papers On Catholic Wisdom Mar. 6,7
The philosophy department will conduct a “Symposium on Christian Wisdom” in the Law Auditorium March 6 and 7, it was recently announced by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy and symposium chairman.
A series of six papers and a panel discussion will explore “whether there is something distinctive about the learning to be achieved in a Catholic college or university.”
W. K. Wimsatt, Jr., professor of literature at Yale University, and Prof. Alceu Amoroso Lima, of the University of Brazil and the Pontifical Catholic University, Rio de Janeiro, will address the opening symposium session, March 6. Lima will discuss “Christianity and Sociology” while Wimsatt’s topic is “Quotations from Work in Progress.”
Prof. Joseph Sikora of Loyola University, Chicago, will share the platform with Prof. Frank Keegan, a staff member of Notre Dame’s new Maritain Center at the afternoon session; Sikora will speak on “Modern Science and Christian Wisdom,” while Keegan will give a paper on “Highlights of Maritain’s Christian Philosophy, 1910-1931.”
A highlight of the symposium will be a panel discussion on “The Problem of Achieving Academic Excellence in a
HUNTING A REAL "ENGINEER’S COMPANY”?
Looking for a company where research and development are primary missions? Where a big share of earnings goes into new research equipment?
Where one out of eight employees is an engineer? Where professional matters get quick corporate attention from engineers in top management? See our representative. He may have a clue.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL RE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
Catholic University,” led by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, and presently director of the Notre Dame Foundation. The panel will include Sister Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College; Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., and Profs. Alvan Ryan and F. B. Crosson of Notre Dame.
The final symposium session on March 7 will include talks by Prof. William Frankena, head of the University of Michigan philosophy department, on “Religion in Our- Universities,” and by Rev. Virgil C. Blum, S. J., of Marquette University, on “Freedom of Choice in Education.”
Von Braun
(Continued from page 9)
Holst, which was followed by the presentation of the flag by Mark Shields, vice president of the senior class, to Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president, who gave the traditional acceptance remarks.
Senior Bob Dempsey, chairman of the Washington Day exercises, introduced the program with a brief history of the event, which was started by Father Sorin in the early days of the University. The award for “Patriot of the Year,” which is under criticism for lack of interest among the seniors, was started only a few years ago.
—Charles Tausche
AB Advisory Council Discusses Dean's Plan; Plunkett Offers Student Teaching Proposition
Saint Mary's to Present Stage Feature Saturday
One of the most important proposals discussed at the last meeting of the AB Advisory Council was an idea brought up by Assistant Dean Devere Plunkett.
While stressing that it was only in the discussion stage, Dean Plunkett proposed the idea that a student assistant would teach one day a week while the professor handles the class on the other two. This would be limited to freshman and sophomore survey courses.
The idea would involve, for instance, a senior history major handling a freshman or sophomore history class to give tests, answer questions, or lead a discussion. This system is presently in operation at the University of Illinois.
The carefully selected student assistant would receive compensation for his services. Some of the advantages would be greater economy, practical pedagogical training, and a smaller work load for the professors.
The board recommended that the unofficial policy, which permits sophomores to take an additional year of their freshman language by postponing the sophomore history or social science requirement and taking it as a junior elective, be officially published in the catalogue.
This would permit greater continuity in studying the language and eliminate
University Receives Painting Given by Austrian Chancellor
The University of Notre Dame will receive an 18th-century painting, the gift of Austrian Chancellor Julius Raab, at a ceremony here today.
Dr. Wilfried Platzer, Austrian ambassador to the United States, will make the presentation to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, at 11 a.m. in the president’s office. Chancellor Raab received ’an honorary degree from Notre Dame and delivered a major address at a special convocation here last May 22.
The painting is an original by the Austrian artist George Kasper Prenner, who was born in Vienna in 1720 and* died in Rome in 1766. It symbolizes in an allegorical form the dedication of the Austrian coat of arms to Our Lady. Chancellor Raab selected the painting as one particularly appropriate to express his appreciation to Notre Dame and to serve as a memento of his visit to the campus.
While at Notre Dame, Dr. Platzer will be the guest of Father Hesburgh at a luncheon in the Morris Inn. The Austrian ambassador also will give a lecture under the auspices of the University’s Committee on International Relations. He will speak on “The Common Market and the Free Trade Area” in the Rockne Memorial Lounge at 3 pan.	.
the student’s being away from it for a year.
A further recommendation was made that a sophomore be permitted to take an extra year of his language and to dispense with social science or history completely.
Dean Plunkett indicated that this year’s sophomore comprehensives would be held in much the same manner as last year’s. However, the committee is working on ways to improve the oral exam and to attach more sanction to it.
For the freshmen, a series of informal talks orienting them in the concept of liberal education, has been planned for March. It will take the form of faculty discussions with groups of freshmen. One of the first speakers will be Rev. John Quinlan, C.S.C.
Work has begun on the sophomore “Meet Your Major” program as well as the possibility of having St. Mary’s girls attend the Wednesday and Thursday night language sessions. In addition, the Council is going to assume the A. B. part of the freshman advisory program of the Blue Circle.
Sabo Assumes New Position As Head of Tutoring Service
The YCS has announced that its tutor reserve is extremely low and that students who wish to tutor and can meet the qualifications of a 90 average in the particular subject to be tutored or who are on the Dean’s List should report to the YCS office as soon as possible.
Dick Sabo, a sophomore pre-med, has replaced Senior Roy Wessel as manager of the YCS tutoring service. The service is now working on plans to expand its program of help under a new and more efficient system.
While plans for this system are being carried forward, the present system of tutoring at a cost of $1.50 per hour to the student will be continued.
At last week’s meeting of the YCS, final preparations were made for moving the files from the old YCS office into what was the graduate students’ lounge. The cramped facilities of the old office seriously hurt the efficiency of the organization during the first semester. It is hoped that the move will remedy this problem.
ENGINEERING IN A.B.?
“Technology os Liberal Arts Education, on the Undergraduate Level," will be the subject of the third Student Forum to be held Sunday, March 1, at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
Forum speakers will be Professor Marcel Newman of the M.E. Department and Professor Frank Keegan of the General Program.
St. Mary’s College will present the variety show, “Going Continental,” tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
The plot centers around four American girls who decide to “go continental” as they leave New York for Europe. Their European tour takes them to strange places and through exciting experiences such as an intrigue in the Russian ballet, an arrest in London, and a discovery of the Parisian fashion world.
The four main characters are: Mary Lou Ashley as Flossie, Mary Ann Schnabel as Susan, LaVerne Hartman as Micki, and Mary Duffy as Cynthia.
The general chairman of this year’s variety show is Molly Bolster.
BRIDGE CHAMPIONS
In a two session match last week, Bob Funderlic and Marty McGinn won the Campus Pairs Bridge Tournament. This is the third year in a row that the Funderlic-McGinn team has won the team championship. Bob Bennett and George Pelletier placed second.
This week end the winning teams will compete in a invitational tournament in Oberlin, Ohio.
100 Air ROTC Cadets Pass 60 Air Training Hours Mark
The orientation flights conducted by the AFROTC for category one cadets have passed the 60-hour mark in flying time, Lt. Col. Matthew Merkle of AFROTC announced recently. During this time over 100 cadets were flown in hour-long flights.
Flights were made in the detachment’s L-17, a four-place light craft which had been given to the detachment by the Air Force for orienting the cadets in basic aircraft functions and providing them with experiences in flying and handling an aircraft.
The flights were under the instruction of Lt. Col. Merkle, Capt. Frank Zettel, and Capt. Robert Ambrose.
A special flying instruction program initiated last year is being resumed for seniors who enter flight training upon their commission.
The program consists of 36% hours of flying time divided into two sections; 20 hours of dual instruction and 16% hours of solo time. The solo time is highlighted by a four-hour cross-country flight. Every cadet participating will be given the opportunity to apply for a private pilot’s license at the end of the program.
32
The Scholastic
Music Till Noon
The following is a list of album music to be played this week on WSND’s “Music Till Noon” show:
MONDAY, MARCH 2
9:00 “Carmen Cavallaro at the Embers”
9:30 “It’s So Peaceful in the Country,” Faith. & Miller
10:00 “Music for Romance Reminiscing,” Winterhalter
10:30 “Vienna Holiday,” Michel LeGrand
11:00 “Music of Cole Porter,” Andre Kostelanetz
11:30 “Concert in Rhythm,” Coniff
TUESDAY. MARCH 3
9:00 “Mr. Wilson,” Teddy Wilson
9:30 “Lonely Night,” Eddie Calvert
10:00 “Mood for Twelve,” Paul Weston
10:30 “Blue Chiffon,” George Shearing
11:00 “Musical Comedy Medley,” Boston Pops
11:30 “Billy May Plays for Fancy Dancin’ ”
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4
9:00 “Themes of Distinction,” Bill Snyder
9:30 “Soft and Sweet,” Three Suns
10:00 “Night Dreams,” Gorden Jenkins
10:30 “Moments Together,” Ray Anthony
11:00 “Oklahoma-Carousel Suites,” Morton Gould
11:30 “Young Ideas,” Ray Anthony
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
9:00 “I Get a Kick Out of Porter,” Joe Bushkin
9:30 “Perfect for Dancing,” Henri Rene
10:00 “Body and Soul,” Norman Greene
10:30 “While My Lady Sleeps,” Phineas Newborn, Jr.
11:00 “Music of Victor Herbert,” Kostelanetz
11:30 “ ’S Wonderful,” Coniff
FRIDAY, MARCH 6
9:00 “Dance to the Sweet Beat,” Tony Crombie
9:30 “Intermezzo,” Alfredo Antonini
10:00 “Kostelanetz Conducts”
10:30 “The Tender Touch.” Nelson Riddle
11:00 “Movie Time,” Morton Gould
11:30 “Dancer’s Choice,” Les Brown
Engineers to Dramatize Advancement of Science
The annual Engineering Open House will be held the week end of April 24, 25, and 26. The theme of this year’s open house is “General Advancement of Science in All Fields.” General Chairman Bob O’Shea has announced that the affair will be the most informative in the history of the engineering department.
The Open House will have the services of the newly formed engineering science department which will display the purpose of science in industry and demonstrate its uses.
THE BEATIFIC VISION
A lecture on the “Reach of Reason" will be given by Rev. James Egan, O.P., at 8 p.m., March 5, in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
> The subject matter concerns a presentation on. Henri DeLubac's question on man’s natural desire for the vision of God in the light of Thomistic Theology.
Father Egan is the present Chan* cellor of the School of Sacred The-ology at St. Mary’s College. He received an M.A. from Catholic University and a S.T.D. from the Collegia Angelicum in Rome. He has taught at both Catholic University and the Collegio, and is presently at St. Mary’s College.
ND Student to be Picked For 'Inside Advertising*
Each year the Association of Advertising Men and Women sponsor “Inside Advertising Week,” which is intended as a “Graduate Course” in advertising education, for over 60 colleges and universities both in the United States and foreign countries.
This year one student will be selected to represent Notre Dame at “Inside Advertising” being held in New York City during the week of April 5 through 10.
Any student interested in aplying for this award should make an application and place it in the mailbox which is located on the marketing bulletin board located in the Commerce Building. This application should contain a brief resume of his knowledge and experience in the advertising business. The student pays his own way; where help is needed, Notre Dame can aid with funds available because of previous awards. Letters of application should be deposited in the mailbox not later than March 1, at 12 noon.
The student selected by the committee to make the trip must afterwards prepare a short report to be submitted to New York in international competition to determine the Outstanding Advertising Student of the Year.
Due to a policy set up by the A.A.M.W. in New York, all candidates must be seniors.
GOT YOUR EYE ON SPAS?
So have we. Matter of fact, our Crusader fighter series is already cruising near-space. Space research vehicle studies are among our lop priority projects. You aught even say that at Vaught the shy is no limit... far products —or careen. Ask our representative about these way-oet projects at Chance Vought.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE Will BE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
EYES EXAMINED
CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-3/77
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING cu be pfaeed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the Unieeujty ftaB Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Bndna Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimmnef three lines is necessary and all achei rising neat he presented by Sunday night preceding puhficntina.
PLACEMENT INTHIVIEWS_____________
AMERICAN AIR FILTERS CORP.—AD Graduates, Wednesday, March 11. see page 6._
CHANCE NOUGHT AIRCRAFT—All Graduates, March 2 and 3. see pages 20, 31, 33.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES—AR Graduates, March 5, see page 10._
IBM — Master Degree Candidates, March. S, see page 27.__________._______________
JET PROPULSION LABORATORIES—March 16, see page 28._____________
PERSONALS _______________________
LOST—PEARL AND ' GOLD EARRING, ON MARDI GRAS WEEK END; IF FOUND CONTACT JOHN BOYCE, 256 ALUMNI. REWARD.
------------■—\
February 27, 1959
Bach Paw
right to work
by JOHN KROHA
During the past few years the clash between union and management has become a critical political and social issue; much has been said concerning the different problems, but little has been accomplished as far as a solution is concerned.
One of the major issues under discussion today is the Right-to-Work Law. In order to understand the basic issues involved, we must define exactly what this law is and what it purports to do.
First of all, the very title of the law — Right-to-Work — is a misnomer. The Right-to-Work Law does not give the worker a right to the job he holds or to any other job he might need in the future. Instead a Right-to-Work Law makes it illegal for a union or for a union-management contract to require union membership as a condition for employment. Since the Taft-Hartley Act of 1948 only outlaws a closed shop, where a worker must be a union member in order to be employed,' a Right-to-Work Law is a state law. In effect, the federal legislation allows the union shop, where the worker is required to join a union after a certain period of time (usually 30 to 60 days) in order to retain employment after that period. Most union-management contracts contain this principle as a recognized condition for union security and power at the collective bargaining table. The Right-to-Work Law destroys the union shop by prohibiting the firing of a worker after the trial period if he should decide not to join the union. In other words, a Right-to-Work Law prohibits compulsory union membership.
The basic-contention of those who favor a Right-to-Work Law is that under the Fourteenth Amendment, no person shall be forced to join a union unless he wishes to join. No new rights are created; those fundamental rights guaranteed by the Bill of Rights are protected.
It is also held that if the workers cannot be forced into the union, the union leaders cannot become dictatorial and must attract and hold members by per
34
forming honest, efficient service for the rank and file. The implication is that corruption will be eliminated since honest workers would not be required to join a union dominated by racketeers. Workers would no longer be forced to support a political candidate which he opposes, or have his dues money used to support such a candidate. Minority groups, who object to unions because of religious beliefs or who object to frequent strikes and artificial make-work rules imposed by the union, would not be oppressed by compulsory union membership.
The first and most serious objection to the Right-to-Work Laws is that they tend to lessen union security and solidarity. It is argued that the contract forged at the collective bargaining table by union and management states that the particular union involved would be the sole bargaining agent for all the employees of that firm. If some of the workers in the plant are not union members, faith in the mutual contract is broken and union power at the bargaining table is weakened, since the union would not be speaking for all the workers.
Another argument is that a non-union employee may enjoy all the benefits that the union has obtained for its members. These “free-riders,” as they are called, do not contribute to the union yet they reap all the benefits. If a worker is benefiting from union actions, it seems logical that the worker has a moral obligation to support the union by the payment of dues.
Father William J. Smith, S. J., has pointed out that the Right-to-Work Laws are socially and philosophically unsound. He maintains that the Right-to-Work Laws foster individualism which is contrary .to the nature of man since God created man with a social nature which demands unified organized action by groups of people acting for the common good of all. He states that social philosophy demands collective action such as the union employs and that it is wrong to pervert this objective. He qualifies this statement, however, by adding that
this social obligation exists only when the union has exhibited reasonable standards of conduct. Thus it seems that a worker has a right to refuse to join a corrupt union.
The collective bargaining agreement has been the culmination of a long and hard fought evolution in industrial relations. The Right-to-Work Law would lessen the impact of these negotiations and possibly ruin this good and equitable institution. Thus it seems that collective bargaining and consequently good industrial relations are dependent on the unity of labor through the union shop, which the Right-to-Work Laws seek to abolish. Unless a better method of achieving these ideals of industrial ' relations is found, it seems illogical to destroy the present method, even though there has been some misuse of power.
I do not feel that the Right-to-Work Laws are the solution to the present union problem. The evils which these laws seek to destroy could be handled by other legislation which would not destroy the union shop principle and consequently union security. A program containing the following provisions would solve many of the problems of labor organizations while maintaining the socially acceptable union shop:
1.	Grant the legal right to a union shop only to those unions which subscribe to the AFL-CIO Code of Ethics or government standards.
2.	Prosecute criminal activities of corrupt union leaders and make more unethical practices illegal through new legislation aimed at controlling the union officers.
3.	Legislate against the political activities of unions where union dues are used to finance certain candidates or to support a particular party’s activities.
4.	Require a federal investigation of union activities and finances on an annual basis.
I believe that these four measures, if implemented, would appease management while fostering good unionism for tiie workingman and the common good of. all citizens.
The Scholastic

Check this new collar style the ARROW Glen
Here’s a broadcloth shirt with features that please the college man with an eye for style. The collar (button-down, of course), is a shorter, neater-loolting model. The fine broadcloth cools you throughout the warm days ahead. There are trim checks in many color combinations, solids and white, of course.
$4.00 up.
first in fashion
Check, and double-check our new ARROW Glen
This new button-down broadcloth shirt comes in a neat check. It’s a natural with a solid color suit or jacket. We have the Arrow Glen now, in white, solids and checks in many color combinations. See us now for the Arrow Glen . . . and don’t miss seeing our ties. Arrow never offered so handsome a collection.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend