Tinkling harp and cymbal sweet Swept their rapture thro’ the hall;
Bathed in light from head to feet,— Queen Editha knew it all!
King of Angles, lord supreme, Edward, son of Ethelred, With the passing of the dream, On his royal couch lay—dead!
The Passing1 of King Edward, Saint.
October 13, A. D. 1066.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
Respectfully inscribed to Very Rev. Ed-ward Sorin, C. S. C., on his Patronal Festival, October 13,1884.
King of Angles, prince supreme,
Edward, son of Ethelred, In the taper’s wasting beam, Lay upon his dying-bed.
All the courtiers long dismiss’d,— Queen Editha at his side, (Tears, like dew on amethyst, In her blue eyes fair and wide.)—
Hid her lovely face;—the King
Turned his tranquil gaze at last; On the hand which wore the ring, Saw the burning drops fall fast.
Forth he stretched his royal arm, Softly drew the flaxen head,	•
Till it rested, meek and calm, On the samite of the bed; -
There he stroked the tresses strewn, Sunbeams on a field of snow;
There he spake in measured tone, Words of music, clear and low,
“ Weep not, sweet heart!”—(tho’ his eyes Dimmer grew with shades of death;)
“ Weep not!” (even love’s disguise
Could not hide the labored breath;)
“ Weep not, faithful, wife, for me;
I am not about to die, But to live eternally
In the Kingdom of the Sky! ”
—-Queen Editha heard and smiled;
Held the cold hand firm yet soft;
: From her tearful woe beguiled, .	Raised her shining eyes aloft.
Flamed a glory in the air,
.	Thro’ which floated Something white;
Incense, like the breath of prayer, Rose upon the waves of light.
William M. Thackeray.
The subject of this sketch, William Makepeace Thackeray, was one of the greatest, and, in the opinion of some, the most eminent, or, at least, the most readable, of the novelists, essayists, and humorists whom modern England has produced. Thackeray was descended from a respectable old English family, and was the son of a gentleman enjoying a very profitable position in the East India service, where he amassed a considerable fortune, which was left to his son. William was bom in Calcutta in 1811, and was sent to England to be educated. He first attended the Charter-House School, London, but completed his education at Cambridge. While still young, by his father’s death he inherited a f ortune of not less than £20,060; He travelled over the Continent, and studied art at. Rome and other places. He made use of the art of drawing in illustrating his- own works, or, in his own words, as he called “Vanity Fair,” when first published, “ A Novel, Illuminated by the Author’s own Candles.” Through the negligence of fraud of those managing his affairs, and partly through his own extravagance, his large fortune soon dwindled away, and he had to turn to some' occupation for sustenance. He studied law and was called to the bar, but finally decided to adopt literature as a profession. His first contributions were to Fraser's, Punch, The Times, and Other periodicals, under the nom de flume of Michael Angelo Titmarsh. These contributions consisted of sketches, squibs, etc.,, and were afterwards collected in book-form. These sketches were distinguished by a covering of sly humor over a vein of neatly-hidden satire. The articles and the comical illustrations by the author taken together provoked . a world of merriment. Thackeray’s first great work was published in 1847—48, but was not received with as much favor as it is now
98	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thought deserving of. In this,work, though he calls it, “A Novel Without a Hero,” Thackeray introduces his greatest creation, Becky Sharp, a wily, intriguing woman of the world, whom he describes in so remarkable a manner that we at once picture to ourselves a class like Becky, and consider her only as a representative of the whole class.
A reader of Thackeray can classify his heroes, so well does he represent them. It is a pity that his attempts to introduce a true English woman were such lamentable failures. Ethel Newcome and Amelia. Sedley are two examples of this. Miss Newcome he makes a heartless flirt and coquette, and depicts Amelia as a poor chicken-hearted creature, with very little ' independence, and less spirit. “Pendennis” came quickly after “ Vanity Fair,” but was considered as no improvement on it. The character of Major Pendennis is almost a faultless creature, and in his conception of this character Thackeray includes nearly every eccentricity of an old uncle and bachelor. In 1832 “ Harry Esmond,” Thackeray’s most finished and artistic work, was published. The characters were of a higher type than those in his other works. He describes the manners and styles of English life, a century and a half before, in very fine style. The critics received this book with greater favor than any of Thackeray’s former works, and Fraser's Magazine called it a work of higher literary power and kindlier and truer humanity than his preceding productions. “Harry Esmond,” however, was not then so popular with the people as “Vanity Fair” and “Pendennis.” “The New-comes” appeared in 1853. The perusal of this book gives more genuine satisfaction than any other from Thackeray’s pen. We may lay it aside without such feelings of sorrow as some of his works produce, and with a greater admiration for its author. One immediately falls in love with the good old Colonel, and when speaking of him Thackeray lays aside all satirical language, and speaks only the language of kindness. There is a depth of feeling in his conception of good Mr. Newcome, especially where he depicts him, old in years and bowed down with the burden of sorrow, living in the old Charter House, and in the last moments of the old Colonel’s life, when he answers his last “ adsum ” and “ closes his kind old eyes forever.” Few works contain more true feeling than “.The Newcom es.” The Lyndon Quarterly Review, speaking of this book, says: “ This is Mr. Thackeray’s t masterpiece, as it is undoubtedly one of the masterpieces of English fiction, if fiction is the proper term to apply to the' most minute and faithful transcript of actual life .which is anywhere to be found. “ The Virginians ” appeared in 1859, and was intended as.a description, of life in England and America during .the last century. This work is the worst of Thackeray’s novels. He introduces “our” Washington as one of his characters, but the attempt to make him a person of fiction was Thackeray’s greatest failure. “The Virginians” drew forth many harsh criticisms, especially from our side of the Atlantic.
Thackeray’s failure is explained perfectly in the following words: “ In this hybrid sort of composition, between history and fiction, we think his powers misapplied,”—so speaks the great Edinburgh Review.
Thackeray visited our country,- and delivered his celebrated lectures on. “The Four Georges” and “ The English Humorists of the Eighteenth Century.” In the “ Georges ” he gives English life under these kings in a peculiar, humorous way. The “ Lectures on the Humorists ” are splendid models of prose, but much cannot be said for them as biographies*. Thackeray’s real characters are treated more leniently by him than are the creations of his brain. His two last novels, “ Lovell the Widower” and the “Adventures of Philip,” are not up to the author’s usual standard. “ Denis Duval,” a posthumous novel, displayed greater pains than any of Thackeray’s other novels, and some critics call it his best. This work is not so widely known or read as the rest of the author’s productions. Besides his great novels,” Thackeray published many sketches and squibs, which Have been kindly received under different titles.
Thackeray is much more popular in the United States than in England, and since the translation of his novels he has become very popular in France. That Thackeray was a great genius no one can doubt; but many think his genius to have been trivial, and that his greatest passports to distinction were his wit and humor, and in these some persons delight in comparing him to Fielding. Charlotte Bronte, authoress of “Jane Eyre,” was a great admirer of Thackeray, and always defended him. To persons disparaging his great genius and attributing all Thackeray’s success to his humor, on one occasion this lady wrote: “They say he is like Fielding; they talk of his wit, humor, comic powers. He resembles Fielding as an eagle does a vulture; Fielding could stoop on carrion, but Thackeray never does. His wit is bright, his humor attractive—but'both bear the same relation to his serious genius that the mere lambent sheet-lightning playing under the summer cloud does to the electric death-spark hid in its womb.”
Many consider Thackeray a misanthropist, but a careful reader can .see hidden in all his works sincere love for mankind. By his acquaintances he was held in universal esteem, and the appearance of his noble form at his resorts always drew forth a burst., of welcome. Thackeray had long been troubled by a .disease which, caused him .great anxiety, but still he was always amiable and merry. A few days before his’ death he was at his club, as gleeful and happy as ever, and, to some of his friends he showed the manuscript of a novel half completed. He died very suddenly, his servants having found him lifeless in his bed. Effusion on o	___
the brain—a disease Thackeray never feared—is said to have caused his death, His death occurred in 1863, and when the three sad words, “ Thackery is dead ” went the rounds of London society all was grief and sadness. Being the most popular author in. the United States, his many admirers here deeply lamented his death.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Thackeray was buried in. the “Poets’ Corner,” Westminster Abbey, and a bust of the great author, by a nobleman friend, and a bronze pedestal bearing the name and dates is the only monument to mark the long resting-place of the eminent dead. “ Thackeray is dead,” but the memory of his great genius will always live. I can best conclude with the truly-spoken words of a well-known writer. “ It is Ion? since England has lost such a son; it will be long before she has such another to lose. He was indeed emphatically English,—English as distinct from Scotch, no less than English as distinct from Continental. The highest, purest English novelist since Fielding, he combined Addison’s love of virtue with Johnson’s hatred of cant; Horace Walpole’s lynx eye for the mean and ridiculous, with the gentleness and wide charity for mankind, as a whole, of Goldsmith. Non omnis mortuus est. He will be remembered in his succession with the men for ages to come, as long as the hymn of praise rises in the old Abbey of Westminster and wherever the English tongue is native to man, from the banks of the Ganges to those of the Mississippi.”	O. C.
St. Edward’s Day.
Old customs please us most; the heart loves best What time, with frequent use, hath long made dear.
To see familiar faces ever near,
To live in places with fond memories blest
Imparts a joy that, dearer than all zest
Of strange adventure, novel ways, doth cheer Our souls with peaceful confidence sincere.
Custom and habit lifeless things invest
With kindlier aspect, as to glow with life:
And how much more the feelings of the heart!
We, then, on this time honored holiday	.
A celebration make of friendly strife, In sports athletic, with the drama’s art, Music and song, unto our patron’s honor.
N. H. E.
Letter-Writing.
This study should take its place amongst the important branches of education; though, to,a great extent, it seems to be neglected in our schools and colleges. It is certainly a great accomplishin ent for a person to be'so qualified as to correspond agreeably with others, and to" make" them understand the sentiments which he wishes to express. In our intercourse with others what especially claims our attention is to make ourselves understood.
Why do men correspond so much by. letters ? To this question there may be a variety of' answers. It would certainly be very expensive for merchants to have to go to different parts of the country in order to transact their business; but by means of epistolary correspondence they are enabled to make contracts and agreements with other men, no matter how great may be the distance between themselves
and the person or persons with whom they correspond. .
The principal use of letter-writing is that per- . sons can convey their thoughts to others who are at a distance from them; sometimes on important subjects, sometimes for the sake of etiquette, and sometimes for scarcely any other motive than amusement. But the question may be asked, “What benefit can accrue from letter-writing?” I think it would be quite difficult to answer this question so as to make it of special application to everyone. Those who write for amusement gain very little by such correspondence. But those who.write on important matters—for information pertaining.to their special .occupation—are ..necessarily very particular about the language which they use;, a slight . mistake in this case might be the occasion of a . great loss to both parties.	.
Some persons write to obtain news, and in this way they become acquainted with the secrets and concerns of the correspondent. Some, again, write in order to examine the style of others and for the purpose of correcting their own. It appears at first sight to be very easy to write our thoughts in an intelligent manner, but to do it correctly requires more than a passing thought. In order to do this well, we must have mastered our orthography and grammar. There are many persons who are so successful in this respect that they can convey their thoughts in a more beautiful way than they could in conversation, because they have sufficient time to think before they write. Others may be good speakers and appear to have an excellent command of language; they may speak on almost any subject which presents itself in the course of a conversation: they may speak of law, politics, and affairs pertaining to good government, but if they were required to write down all they utter it would be a perfect failure; and, in many instances, after reading one of their letters we would be induced to say, unless we were acquainted with them, that they were unable to fulfil any of the duties of a responsible position.
A person who wishes to become a good writer must practise composition. “Practice makes perfect.” We may not succeed at first, but by practice we become skilful. There are many and various kinds of forms in letter-writing. Nearly every person has a style of his own. In familiar letters, letters of condolence, letters of congratulation, letters of business and letters of introduction, in all these the style differs. The great trouble with most persons in writing a letter is the beginning; they are at loss to know how to commence. In familiar letters we may use those suggestions with which the heart readily sup-.. plies dur mind. We need not be afraid of mentioning anything which concerns our personal welfare, as the one to whom we are writing, if he is our true friend,"will be more pleased with this simplicity of style than that which-is redolent with figures of rhetoric. In writing, especially to our parents, we should tell them how we are getting along, whether we like the place, the persons in whose company we may be thrown by the chances of the world, etc.; these, and a thousand other incidents,
too	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
not only serve to fill up a letter, but make it interesting and instructive. In all familiar letters we should write as if we were speaking with those . with whom we correspond. If we are good-natured, loving persons, our writings will be such; if the contrary, our writings will be cold and reserved.
In letters of condolence we should comfort and console those, to whom we are trying to afford some relief in their misfortunes, consequently it requires good taste and fine feelings to do this in a proper manner. That which the heart most needs in time of sorrow is sympathy. What kind of men would we be were we devoid of any sympathetic feelings. Our hearts would be hearts of stone, insensible alike to joy and sorrow. It will be very difficult for us to afford true condolence if we make use of arguments which are intended for the head and not for the heart. We have been wounded in the most sensible portion of our bodies, therefore we naturally seek a remedy which can reach this spot, and this remedy is .nothing more than sympathy. How often have we seen persons, not intending it, tear open the almost closed wound and make it bleed afresh, because they were either ignorant or had a faint knowledge of the proper style of expression!	*
Letters of congratulation should be written in a style differing from that of condolence. The style of these letters should be lively and show that we have neither sorrow nor grief in our hearts. Letters of introduction should be brief and to the point. It is very embarrassing for the person who is introduced to have to wait during the perusal of a long letter of introduction. Conciseness in this point is extremely necessary. -
We see by this that we must have some knowledge of epistolary correspondence. Without this knowledge we cannot hope for success. As the person who, though having all the tools of a mechanic yet has no knowledge of the trade, cannot succeed, so with us: we may be good in other branches of learning, but if letter-writing is neglected, we cannot hope for success. How many men have we not seen deploring their condition in not being able to write a letter! They had to confide their secrets to others in order thereby to answer or receive an answer on some important business pertaining only to themselves. How many persons have been denied the positions which they sought because they did not know the value and utility of epistolary correspondence! This, then, ought to be sufficient to show us the importance of this study. Now, while we are young and have the chance, we should embrace the opportunity of perfecting ourselves in this important, but sadly-neglected, branch of education. . J. D. C.
When misfortunes and adversities assail a man as the natural consequence of his own act, or as the legitimate outcome of manifest folly, he should not complain if he find but few to sympathize with or pity him. In such a case the calamities that come upon him are properly viewed by people generally as a wholesome lesson—a just retribution for his folly.
The Value of Time.
The employment of time is a subject on which much has been said and written. Indeed, there are few, if any, subjects more frequently treated of, from which we may justly infer its great importance. On this subject I do not expect to be able to say anything new, and therefore, if I fail to be as interesting to my readers as might perhaps be expected, they will, I hope, make all due allowance.
Did we all fully realize that our happiness for time and eternity wholly depends on the use which we make of time, we would certainly be extremely careful to guard against its loss or abuse. That our happiness and success during this brief earthly career depends wholly on industry is a truth evident to everyone. The student cannot hope to become more learned unless by constant application; the merchant cannot expect to prosper unless he knows and appreciates the value of time; neither can the mechanic succeed unless he is industrious. To the young scholar, especially, is a due appreciation of the use of time invaluable. He, above all others, should in the early spring-time of life realize that time once lost never returns. He may pass through an entire complex college course and receive his diploma, yet if he has not rightly employed his time, though he may have succeeded in gaining a reward without deserving it, the chances are that he will never make his mark in life; his shallow pretensions will be soon discovered. How different is the feeling toward the true student! we respect and admire him more for his nobility of heart and simplicity than for his knowledge. How can he be other than noble when he despises sloth? and otherwise than learned when he is industrious?
Young men coming forth from college generally have their minds set on the pursuit of some profession. Now, is it possible for the negligent student to make the steady and industrious man? Hardly! If we remember the adage which says “As the twig is bent the tree’s inclined,” our answer must be in the negative. The slothful student will develope into the slothful man who cannot be successful, and to whom life is a burden. In all the walks and grades of life we find young people Jdly spending their lives, steeped, perhaps, in crime and loaded with misery. It is impossible for these persons to assign any reasonable cause for being in such a state, for each and every one of us can find some occupation awaiting our attention. If, by fortune, we happen to be placed above the necessity of doing corporal work, there is left foi" us the work of the mind—an honest, noble labor; one that, if we devote all our time to it, may one day win for us a place in the ranks of those illustrious men who are the leaders of the people, and who are venerated and admired by a whole nation.
On every page of the history of pur glorious country we see the names of noble, great men, who from the lower ranks of life have risen to the highest position attainable by man. Who does not know the story of the lives of such men as Lincoln,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
idi
Webster, and Garfield, how they mounted from the lowest step to the topmost round of the ladder of fame? What bright and encouraging examples for the struggling student! How they fill him with emulation and laudable ambition! He should not be discouraged if, perchance, he happens to be surrounded by unfavorable circumstances; let him follow the example of such illustrious men, and he will soon behold all his difficulties vanishing to give way to brilliant, well-deserved success—a success that cannot be fleeting, as it is based on an assured and solid foundation—industry.
Yet, there is another, a far more noble motive than that of temporal advancement which impels us to use our time to the best possible advantage. It is a consideration for our welfare after we “shake off this mortal coilhowever laudable the former motive maybe, the latter is far more important. The first consideration is a matter of only a fewyears, the second affects an eternity—an eternity of bliss if we have been faithful, one of misery if we have proved delinquent. We possess the power of selecting for ourselves either one or the other. Which shall we choose—bliss or misery?
In conclusion, it may not be out of place to cite the following anecdote related of Disraeli: it well illustrates what may be effected by perseverance and industry. On one occasion he had made a speech in the House of Commons which called forth the hisses and jeers of those assembled. This manifestation greatly angered Disraeli, and he exclaimed: “You will live to see the day when you will be glad to hear me speak!” He devoted himself to study for a year or so, and then made his second speech which was received with rounds of applause. A few years later, this despised Jew, who had been hissed in the House of Commons, was a respected and admired Hebrew, occupying the chair of Prime Minister of England.
Frank J. Hagenbarth, ’87.
Address of the Minims to Very Bev. Father General.
Dear Father, see St. Edward’s Park!
How stately is his Statue— In light of day, in evening dark— That graciously looks at you I Lo! ’Tis the image of a Saint
We Princes prize sincerely;
Because his character we paint
As like to yours most nearly.
Now, as we meet you full of cheer,
So urbane, kind, and gentle,
With health much firmer than last year, It is not accidental
That visions of the past recur,
In Claude Loraine-like beauty, Of Mary, and your love for her
Expressed in love of duty.
When first you entered on this field
Of intellectual culture
The spot looked more as if its yield
Of use was for the vulture,
The hunter, or the Indian Chief,
Or crafty, grim Fur Trader:
Yes, Notre Dame—to make it brief—
Now stands what you have made her.
The forest trees have been hewn down;
The .marl-bed’s transmutation, Has reared a fair artistic town, None fairer in the nation.
With honest pride we look upon Our college liliputian
As, of the grand works you have done, The crowning institution.
For Father Walsh, accomplished, skilled In judging of such matters, Declares his aspirations filled— We know he never flatters—
- In the politeness he observed Among St. Edward’s Princes.
Last year their high notes never swerved, Their record past convinces
That in the future everyone Will see sustained securely Our name; nor will we be outdone In noble manners, surely!
’Twas not a Graduate astute Who came first to the College, Not even a Junior most acute, With more of fun than knowledge;
But ’twas a Minim who began The crusade intellectual, Now in his prime, a wealthy man, He sees the scheme effectual.
There is a fitting parallel, Should anybody ask it;
Rich diamonds, as all know full well, Are smallest in the casket.
Therefore, we name the richest gem In this famous haunt of knowledge
—The brightest of the diadem,— “ St. Edward’s Minim College! ” Look on our walls! there, there alone Beholders are astounded
By the true sight of what was known When Notre Dame was founded.
The lakes so blue in summer time. Were white with snow; the clearing, Displayed one log hut, and no chime Of rich bells was in hearing.
Here Mass was said, so we are told, All on the bare ground kneeling;
The Altar was not formed of gold, Nor frescoed was the ceiling.
The organ did not aid the voice When Vesper hymns were chanted;
The chapel? There could be no choice;
The hut alone was granted.
And this was Notre Dame du Lac, So says the best recorder:
A young priest took the Indian track, And paused within her border.
A young priest, stately, eloquent, Refined and educated—
One that the world would compliment, Would fain have captivated;
One fitted every -way to fill The loftiest of positions— He turned from all, to do the will Of God, in foreign missions.
And here he stands, the Indians near— In wampum fur and feather, While all around the signs appear Of settled wintry weather.
The wild men of the forest dark Composed his congregation;
Instead of cars canoes of bark Were used for transportation.
io2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ah! In that priest we recognize .
Our Father, who has blended
His life with every enterprise By which faith is extended.
From Tiber’s banks to Great Salt Lake,
From Mexico to Paris,
His work for Holy Cross doth make The Western Church true heiress
To zeal—to earnest, steadfast hope, ’
To charity unbounded;
Broidered, as if a golden cope, By which earth is surrounded.
Now Indian tribes are gone, and lo! • Grand buildings, richly furnished, Arise where lay the virgin snow;
And, brightly fair, and burnished
Like purest gold, the statue stands Of ever-Blessed Mary,
With forehead crowned, and outstretched hands, And smile o’er wood and prairie.
Dear Father, on your happy feast, ’Tis meet our hearts to gladden, Comparing present times, at least, With those of Father Badin.
How joyfully he must have met The promise warm and tender
Your coming gave! Do you forget
Young hopes and all their splendor?
Ah, no! The zealous life you led, Frugality and rigor,
Are the good seed, it may be said, Reaped now in health and vigor.
Health, vigor! Ah! the thoughts convev A promise wise and sober,
That you will keep St. Edward’s Day For many a bright October.
Dear Father, a thrice happy Feast!	.
Warm, warm felicitations!
Your joys be year by year increased, Increased your consolations.	'
Your affectionate sons,
The Princes of St. Edward’s Hall.
History.
History is a record of past events for the instruction of man. After the rudimentary branches, there is, perhaps, no more useful study than that of history. It is only by comparison of past events that we are able to shape our actions, or to form plans for the future.
The man who would be successful in any profession or calling must exercise his judgment; and as the only way of judging is by comparison, it is essential that our resources should be as extensive as possible. He would, indeed, be a poor statesman who knew nothing of the history of ancient times. A lawyer who is unacquainted with any jurisprudence but that of his own country and time could scarcely hope for renown. The man who aspires to hold the reins of government, to make laws for an enlightened people, must first make himself acquainted with the laws of other nations and of other timesl He should study their effects, the circumstances that brought them into existence, and the condition and temperament of the people for whose benefit they were . made, that theirerrors may be avoided. What is true of the
statesman is equally true of the judge, the general, the merchant, and all those who would excel in their calling. One of the keys to success in any undertaking is to be able to tell that certain causes will produce certain effects, and be able to profit by the knowledge thus obtained. .This cam be acquired only by a study and comparison of the past.
The reading of history affords us a great amount of pleasure. By it we are enabled to live in the past. The men who shaped the destiny of nations, upon whose valiant deeds the history of the world is built are brought before us to enact the drama of their lives. We behold the children of Israel in their flight out of Egypt; we behold the mighty hosts of Xerxes advancing on Greece, and rejoice at their overthrow. Now we are in the Roman Forum; to our wondering gaze the splendor of the Empire is opened out before us. There sits Augustus, after the battle of Actium the master of the world; in civilization we behold Rome reaching a height never before attained; and so we continue through all time.
Besides, the reading of history has a fascination which grows stronger as we continue and become more interested. It is safe to say that a person who has once acquired a taste for this style of reading will never lay it aside for that which is light and trashy. Doubtless, more could be accomplished towards destroying literature of the dime-novel type by placing histories and historical tales within the reach of the youth of the land than could be done were every minister and lecturer to make it his special theme.
G.
Books and Periodicals.
Eighth Annual Report of the Depart-memt of Public Works to the City of Chicago. For the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1883.
Mr. Dewitt C. Cregier, Commissioner of Public Works for the city of Chicago, does himself great credit, and must give the city perfect satisfaction by the elaborate report here submitted. It is comprised in a neat volume of 250 pages octavo, and gives the character and extent of all the improvements made during the year. Besides a convenient summary in tabular form, full and complete details of every branch of the public works are given under special headings.
Lessons in English Literature. With a Short Dictionary of British, Irish and American Authors. By John O’Kane Murray, M. A., M. D. Baltimore and New York: John Murphy & Co. 1S84.
This work will prove a useful manual to the student of English literature. In a small compact volume, I2mo of some 450 pages, it treats concisely . and clearly of a great number of subjects. The catechetical form adopted in speaking of the writers and their works will serve as a great aid to the memory of the young scholar. As stated in the pref ace, “ the work is divided into four books. Book I gi ves a brief history of the English Language, a bird’s-eye view of its composition, and a history of English
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
103
Literature from Caedmon to Chaucer. Book II covers the English Literature of Great Britain from Chaucer to the present time. Book III treats of the Literature of Ireland, Celtic and English. Book IV embraces in brief the English Literature of America, and ends with a short “ Dictionary of Authors.” Each of the books opens with an “ Historical Introduction,” which gives “a rapid view of British, Irish and American history, with special reference to the progress of letters, learning and civilization.” The work is very neatly gotten up by the publishers; good, clear type, and well bound.
—Brainard's Musical World comes to hand with its usual promptness, and the reading-matter, as well as the music, is of interest to all lovers of art. We find a choice feast of good miscellany, bright correspondence, able editorials, news gossip, advice to teachers, etc.; in short, a great amount of useful reading. Some charming- songs and bright piano pieces are also contained in this October number. Price, $1.50 per year; 15 cents per copy. S. Brainard’s Sons, Euclid avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
College News.
—A statue of St. Joseph, ten and one-half feet high, is to be placed on the tower of Ottawa College and will overlook the whole city.
—Only three students presented for Political Economy at Harvard. Unless another is added before Nov. 15 the class will not be called this year.
—We learn from the Cornell Sttn that of the Sage Chapel preachers for the Fall term 2 are Presbyterian, 2 Methodist, 2 Unitarian, 2 Baptist, 1 Congregationalist, 1 Episcopalian.
—It has been decided that women shall be admitted to lectures in University College, Toronto. This concession is regarded as a great victory by the friends in Canada of the higher education of women.
■—Cornell University had 990,000 acres of land donated it by Congress, and chiefly through the agency, we believe, of Mr. Justin Morrill, of Vermont,—the same who, in violation of law and statute, refused to let works of art for Notre Dame University come in free of duty!
—An Irishwoman, named Mrs. Santamaris (relict of a Spaniard), who died lately at New Brighton, Cheshire, bequeathed .£2,000 to'the' Catholic Institute, Liverpool, an educational establishment; £2,000 to the' Bishop of Liverpool (Most Rev. Dr. O’Reilly), for the Diocesan College at Upholland; £2,000 to St. Anne’s Industrial Schools, Mason street, Liverpool; £2,000 to the Bishop of Shrewsbury (Right Rev. Dr. Knight), for an orphanage at Stockport, and several minor sums for other charitable objects.
____A canvass of the students at Harvard University resulted in 483 votes for Blaine, 462 for Cleveland, 26 for St.John,—a plurality of 21 for Blaine. 30 students who responded “No choice”; are probably Butlerites or People’s Party men. On a poll for choice of processions, in which the Harvard
students join in a body, there was a majority of 176 for the Republican. In the Senior Class at Harvard, 95 are Democrats and 58 Republicans; Junior, 85 Democratsand 112 Republicans; Sophomore, 83 Democrats and 119 Republicans; Freshman, 87 Democrats,97 Republicans; Law School, 85 Democrats, 50 Republicans.
—One of the school visitors in England, Dr. Browne, mentions in his report a curious result of overstudy. He says that somniloquency and somnambulism are now common among school children and are directly traceable to over-pressure on the brain. In one school of three hundred and eighty-one boys, one hundred and twenty-nine have been foupd to be sleep-talkers and twenty-nine sleep-walkers. This was in a school in which home lessons were insisted on, so that the poor little fellows, instead of playing in the fresh country air, were obliged to puzzle over their sums at home and go to bed with the unwholesome puzzles still working in their young brains.
—Red Cloud, the well-known Sioux Chief, visited the government school for Indians at Car-lisle, Pa., and addressed the scholars in his own language. A prize of - three dollars was offered for the best translation of this speech. We give a portion of the successful report, made by Luther Standing-Bear:
“ You seem like my grandchildren; and now I went pass through the shops and saw what you can be done. I saw the shoe-maker, harness-maker, tailor, carpenter, tinner, blacksmiths, and they all doing well. Here you see I wear a boots which is you make it. I was surprise that the black-smith doing very good.- Also the girls can washing clothes and sewing. Also I went pass through the school-rooms and I saw some of you can write very fast, and read, and I was glad. Now, this is the thing what we send you here for, to learn white men’s way. There is two roads', one is good and one is what we call a devil road. 2\.nother thing is, you know, if who do nothing, just put his hand on his back and lie down, so any dime not come to in his pocket itself, so you must do something with your hands. Now you must not homesick any; but you must try to be good and happier.”—St. Nicholas.
The Autumn Poet.
When’er the poet -writes a line Whose final word is sober, -The dullest reader may divine He sings about October,
Oh, wherefore will he never find A new rhyme for October?
Why won’t he call the chilly wind ‘ The sycamore’s disrober?
Why won’t he call each squirrel gray The chestnut’s nimble prober, Whene’er he sings his simple lay Of russet-shod October?
He e’en might call the lily dead The bumble-bee’s englober, When singing of the gold and red
That glorifies October. -	-
o
Before I’d use that hackneyed rhyme I’d sing about a crowbar,
And just for once be unsublime, And call the month Octobar.
—N. r. Sun.	R. K. M.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JWnElWCSCHOWE
Notre Dame, October 18, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Founder’s Day at Notre Dame.
EXERCISES BY THE EUGLOSSIAN ASSOCIATION.
The 13th of October, Feast of St. Edwaid and the name-day of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, is always a day of general rejoicing. From away in the past it has been customary fur the students to provide on the eve an entertainment in which, with music, speech and dramatic art, they seek to give expression to their feelings of honor and respect for him who inaugurated the mission of their Alma Mater. This year, as the eve of the festival came on Sunday, the entertainment was given on Saturdays evening. The pro-pramme was published in the last number of the Scholastic and was faithfully carried out.
A large audience of students and great numbers of friends from Chicago, South Bend, and other cities assembled in Music Hall at 7 o’clock, when the exercises were opened with a stirring piece bv the University Band. It was well rendered, and in its execution the Band gave promise of being one of unusual excellence this year. Next came the “Address from the Minims” read in a clear, distinct voice by Master Elmo Barry, assisted by Masters W. McPhee and Leo Scherrer. The address appears elsewhere in this paper. Master Cecil Quinlan, at its conclusion, presented an elegant bouquet to the venerable Patron of the “ Princes.” The power of song was then portrayed by the Orpheonics in a grand chorus entitled “ St. Edward’s Day.” A pleasing duet was sung by Messrs. Ramsay and Stephens. This was followed by addresses from the Juniors and
Seniors, read respectively by Messrs. F. Hagen-barth and Neal H. Ewing. An overture—“Lust-spiel ”—was then played by the University Orchestra, and with it closed the first part of the evening’s entertainment. The second part consisted of a play in six acts, entitled Une Cause Cel'ebre— better known as “ A Celebrated Case,” which was given by members of the Euglossian Association. Before the rise of the curtain, Mr. D. C. Saviers appeared, and in a neat introductory address described the plot of the play, which may be concisely stated as follows:
The drama is based on an incident of the Battie of Fontenoy fought May 10, 1745. Jean Renaud, who had fought like a lion, was skirmishing the field after the battle to find out the enemy’s plans. He longed to visit his family, and his mind was wavering as to whether he should go home that night or not, when he noticed an officer, richly dressed in the uniform of the Swiss Guard, lying in great pain. The officer, whose name was Count de Mornay, was under sentence of banishment and was supposed to be out of the country. He confides to Jean’s care a casket of diamonds, and a package of papers' to be given to the- Prebendary of Arras, the uncle of his son Valentine, and also gives Jean a purse of gold for him=elf. Jean, not knowing what might happen in the next day’s battle, determined to take these valuables to his house, and, knowing that he cannot get permission to do so, slips the guard, goes home, meets his brother and child who have been expecting him. Adrian the child, becoming sleepy, is put to bed in the next room. Jean tells his story; the iewels and documents are put in a strong box, and he returns to the camp. Shortly after his departure, Lazare breaks into the room and threatens to kill Ferdinand unless he opens the box and delivers the money and jewels. A struggle ensues, and the child, awakened by the noise, tries to get into the room the door of which had been locked. Ferdinand is forced to say “go to sleep, child, I am with your father;” but, refusing to deliver up the keys, is murdered by the robber, who flees after securing the valuables. The father Jean is tried for the murder on the testimony of the child, convicted and sentenced to the galleys for life. Twelve years later, zYdrian has been adopted by the Duc D’Aubreterre, and one day, meeting a gang of galley slaves, is interested in one who, from his story, he discovers to be his father. Every effort is made to have Jean Renaud released, but fails. The villain who had committed the murder now appears, having assumed the titles and dignities of Count de Mornay, the wounded officer whose papers and jewels he had stolen.
From the papers he learns of a son, Valentine, seeks him out, claims him as his son, and passes off as the real Count. He denies the story of his having entrusted Jean Renaud with any jewels, and forbids Valentine to associate with Adrian. The suspicions of Valentine are aroused by the Count’s being thrown into convulsions on the mentioning of the murder. He presents Valentine with a casket of jewels, among which he finds the long-lost necklace of Ferdinand. He tells him find Henrie, and gives him the necklace. The Duke is informed, and through his efforts Jean Renaud and the Count are brought face to face. Jean tells his story, part of which the Count admits, but denies ever having given jewels or papers, as he has them with him, and claims they never were out of his possession. Jean denounces the Count as the murderer; Valentine produces the convicting watch, and the false CounFis led oft' to the galleys.
The play abounds with thrilling situations, and calls for a great display of elocutionary ability on the part of many of the characters. Its presentation by the Euglossians was not such as might be expected; there were too many defects, such as failure to properly commit one’s lines, indifference to the spirit of the role, etc. However, the spirit, energy and fidelity of one or two leading characters
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
- 105
served in a great measure to offset these defects and keep alive the interest of the audience' to the end. The hero of the drama—Jean Renaud— received an excellent portrayal from Mr. Wm. E. Ramsay, who displayed a proper conception of his role, and brought to its expression a good command of voice and action. Mr. J. J. Conway as Lazare—the villain of the play—apparently entered into the spirit of his part, but spoke too low to make his rendition effective. Mr. B. Howard as Duc d’Aubreterre lacked the dignity and commanding presence his character required, and was too monotonous in his vocalization. Mr. Elmer A. Otis took the part of the “ Prebendary of
the College ” and made a very effective scene when confronting Lazare with the proofs of his imposture. Mr. F. Dexter made an excellent Dennis O 'Rourke, and the quiet, unobtrusive humor of the character enlivened the representation, while the energetic denunciations called forth at times imparted additional interest. Mr. H. Stcis as Count d’Aubreterre showed a good command of voice, as also did Mr. F. Callaghan as “Valen-tine.” Messrs. J.KIei-ber and A. Browne as “ Ferdinand ” and “Adrian” played fairly well, though both were too quiet at times. The same may be said of Mr. T. A. Ancheta as Raoul de Langley. Joseph Garrity as the “ boy Adrian ” in the
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Founder of Notre Dame.
prologue, though rather too large for the character represented, rendered his part with great fidelity and good voice. The other characters were taken as indicated in the programme of last week. The mounting of the play was all that could be desired. New scenery had been painted and elegant and appropriate costumes provided; so that, all in all, we may say the general effect was pleasing. In the interval between the second and third act, Master Oxnard, of the Junior department, executed a ‘piano Solo—“ Mendelssohn’s Midsummer’s Nights Dream ”—which was a veritable musical treat. The young performer, scarcely iqyears old, rendered the morceau with all the skill and grace of a veteran professional, and was deservedly greeted with rounds of applause and obliged to respond to an encoKc.
Owing to the lateness of the hour, no closing remarks were made; however, the audience had been delightfully entertained and retired to the inspiriting strains of a march by the Band.
Monday the 13TH—
the festival of St. Edward—dawned bright and beautiful, everything happily betokening a day propitious and favorable to all the various exercises. At eight o’clock, solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Very Rev. A. Granger as deacon, and Rev. M. Regan as subdeacon; Mr. J. Thilman, C. S. C., acted as Master of Ceremonies. The rich tones of the venerable celebrant’s mellow', powerful voice, as they resounded through the sacred edifice, made all hearts glad at the evidence thus afforded of continued health and strength. After Mass, Father General preached an eloquent sermon. He began by thanking all who had taken part in the entertainment the previous evening. He then dwelt at length upon some

special characteristics of St. Edward; re-Herring to the deplor-fable condition of = England when the Saint ascended the throne, and its prosperity at the time of his death. St. Edward united in himself the qualities of a great statesman with the virtues of a saint; and the example of such a grand character on the throne
could not but leave its impress upon a whole people. The reverend speaker concluded by exhorting all to be true children of St. Edward, and dismissed the congregation with his blessing;.
At ten o’clock, the members of the Facultv in a body waited on Father General, and through their representative, Prof. A. J. Stace, expressed their felicitations upon the recurrence of his festal day. The venerable Father acknowledged their expressions of esteem, and made a short but instructive response.
The rest of the morning was taken up by the “ regatta ” and the field-sports in the Minim department, both of which are fully described in another column. At twelve, Father Sorin presided at a grand
Banquet, served in .the Senior dining-hall which had been
io6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
beautifully decorated for the occasion. At the close of the repast, Rev. Father Cooney, Miss. Ap., in response to an invitation from President Walsh, made an. eloquent speech, of which the following is a brief synopsis:
He commenced by congratulating Very Rev. Father General on this the forty-first celebration at Notre Dame of his patronal festival—St. Edward’s Day—in the perfection of health and vigor, and in the midst of these grand monuments which he has erected to the honor and glory of God and His Holy Mother—the New Notre Dame and its surrounding buildings. These are monuments to Religion and Science which shall proclaim his praise long after he has gone to his reward. Every element of these stately buildings,—from the gold-clad statue of the Mother of God which now surmounts the lofty Dome of the main building, and soon to be crowned with twelve electric stars, down to the lowest foundation-stone,—shall perpetuate the name and genius of their Founder through many generations yet unborn. The celebration of St. Edward’s Day excites more joy and eclat in the hearts of the members of the Community and students of Notre Dame than, perhaps, any other festival of the year. It is because everyone is conscious that it is a festival of thanksgiving and gratitude to God for the great blessings obtained through Very Rev. Father General’s royal patron and model, and through the powerful intercession of the glorious Queen of Heaven, under whose banner he has so successfully fought, and whose holy name he has stamped upon every building in the cluster of Notre Dame.
The yearly celebration of this festival is very beneficial both to him and to us. It is beneficial to him, because it affords him an opportunity, at least once a year, to practise in a special manner humility and self-denial, and to refer all praise to Him w.ho is the infinite source of all good and the divine Author of every good and perfect gift. The Mother of God herself did not refuse the praise of the Archangel Gabriel, nor did she disclaim that same praise repeated and amplified by the lips of the inspired St. Elizabeth; but she replied, in the grand strains of the Magnificat, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour, because He mho is mighty hath done great things to me! Very Rev. Father General might not be able to say, in the same sense, He mho is mighty hath done great things to me; but he can truly say “ He who is mighty hath done great things through me.” The celebration of St. Edward’s Day is likewise beneficial to us, because it affords us an opportunity to render due homage to God’s representative, our spiritual Superior, and to practise one of the most beautiful and consoling articles of our holy Faith—“the communion of saints;” for there would be no meaning in the celebration were there no bond of union between the Church militant and the Church triumphant. But we have the divine assurance that success and victory over our enemies on earth gives joy to the saints and angels in heaven.
Father Cooney then briefly reviewed the struggles, trials and triumphs of the past forty-one years in the life of Very Rev. Father Sorin who, with one priest and two or three Brothers, towards the end of the'year 1S42, in the midst of a vast wilderness, with only five dollars in his pocket, commenced to lay the foundations which, under his guidance, have since expanded to the grand dimensions of the' present Notre Dame. And this was done without any endowment or aid from any source whatever, but from the patronage of a generous and appreciative public. Notre Dame for its success had to depend upon its own merits. The poverty and feebleness of his resources in the beginning maybe imagined from the fact that Very Rev. Father Sorin and his Rev. companion had but1 one hat between them; so that it was commonly remarked “whemthe hat was out with one, the other was sure to be in.”
If the inner history of the past forty-two years of Father Sorin’s life were written, it would doubtless be very interesting and edifying. How many anxious days and sleepless nights he must have spent in trying to find means to carry out the plans which he had formed to meet the wants of a generous patronage, down. to the year 1879, when Notre Dame, by a remorseless fire, was but a heap. of ruins! In the life of General Sheridan, during the late
war, there is one fact which alone would be sufficient to immortalize his name. While absent on important business, his army was attacked and driven in fragments from the field. He heard of the disaster when at least fifteen miles from the field; and, hastening to his command as fast as his powerful steed could carry him, he rode into the midst of his scattered troops, reorganized them, and, facing the enemy, regained the field and obtained a glorious victory. In a similar manner, Father Sorin, about to embark for Europe, hearing of the destruction of Notre Dame, returned and found the fruits of his anxious labor of thirty-seven years a heap of smoldering ruins. Nothing daunted, he organized his forces, removed the debris, and in less than three months he had a new and more splendid Notre Dame ready for the occupancy of the hundreds of students who returned to congratulate him and rejoice with us all in his glorious victory. But in all this he rejoices in giving all the glory to God through' His Blessed Mother, whose glorious name all this work bears. To the intercession, therefore, of St. Edward and the Queen of Heaven let us appeal to preserve in our midst, for many years to come, the life of our Very Rev. Father General, to enjoy the fruits of his labors, and to guide us on to still greater victories for the glory of God and spread of Religion and Science for the benefit of the rising generation.
On-the conclusion of his speech, Father Cooney was greeted with rounds of applause. Then Father General, President Walsh, the Faculty and invited guests .repaired to the spacious parlors of the University where some time was spent in social converse. During the afternoon, the Senior and Junior sports were carried out as reported elsewhere. And thus passed a day, the brightest and most gladsome of our festal days—one that inspires in every heart the renewal of best wishes that the venerable Founder of Notre Dame may celebrate many another St. Edward’s Day.
, Exchanges.
—Kunkel's MusicalReview., published by Kunkel Bros., St. Louis, Mo., is undoubtedly one. of the best publications of its kind in the United States. Each issue of the magazine contains a number of able articles from persons who must be good musicians as well as able writers. The reviews are keen and searching,—cutting to the bone, so to speak,—and no nonsense or claptrap in music or .methods of teaching are allowed to pass, no matter from what source they come. Each number of the Review contains twenty-four pages of music— good music,—not of the goody-goody sort, but really good music, some of it difficult, but generally varied with a. few -select pieces of easier style for ..beginners. ^Although; the yearly subscription to Kinkel's Musical^Review is only $2—a valuable premium being also given—each number, monthly, contains nearly $3■ worth of sheet music.
' —Among our exchanges we notice the Notre Dame Scholastic—an old acquaintance. The little quarto rejoices in a new embellishment upon the outside pages— namely a wood cut of the college building. The Scuo-LAStic has omitted its exchange column. The ex.-editor of last year was such a sinner that the good Fathers of Notre Dame probably sat upon him and the column over which he presided —Hesperian Student.
Well; it is hardly necessary to inform our lively Nebraska friend that the Exchange column is. here again, and has not been “.sat upon,” although last year’s Exchange-editor is not with us. Oh, no! the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Facuity havn’t taken into their heads the notion of making Simon Stylites of themselves by sitting on a column; such a high perch' would hardly prove a comfortable one, even though our column be not as high as the “lying” tower of London or the Egyptian monolith in Central Park. We wisli the “ sinner ” of last year were back with us, to relieve the present incumbent of his hard-bottomed easy( ?) chair. . We greatly fear that even if our exchange notes were like the love-making described by Heine, “a judicious mixture of sensibility and sausages,” some people wouldn’t like the sausages, while others wouldn’t like the sensibility. Our Hesperian friend probably knows how it is himself; if he doesn’t he has yet something to learn.
—The College Review^ from Upper Alton, Ill., begins an editorial as follows: “If there is one man in this country, who, better than any other, might be held up before a young man as the type of an active American citizen, it is George William Curtis—a scholar and thinker, his name has become synonymous with manliness and independence of thought and character,” and more in that strain. That Curtis is a scholar, a well-read man, and a good writer, anyone who knows him will concede; but we fail to see a single instance in which he has established a claim to either manliness or independence of thought and character. He is the editor of one of the cleverest, but at the same time one of the most narrow-minded and bigoted sheets in the world—the so-called “Journal of Civilization,” published by the Harpers, a firm that has grown fat on literary piracy. As an editor, G. W. Curtis seems to have taken special pleasure in reviling persons and things devoted to a religion that never did him or anyone else an injury, and a people that have fought the battles of our country and helped to make it prosperous; all this he has done for years, and now he crowns his work by bolting a nomination for the presidency in which he professed his acquiescence at the Chicago Convention. George' William Curtis has thus shown to the world the true, innate littleness and narrowness of his character as a man, which he had for years shown in his paper towards Catholics and the Catholic Church at large. And forsooth, the Colle ere Review holds up this G. William as an example to young men! Well, this is a free country. Everyone to his taste.
—The Cornell Era, takes a manly stand against the barbarous and disgusting habit of “ cane-rushing,” of which an'abominable specimen was recently given at Cornell. The Era, says:
“Perhaps the final cane-rush may be called a time-honored custom, but it has served its purpose and it is sincerely hoped that there will never be a repetition of Saturday’s rush. Class rivalry had been wrought to such a pitch that the participants in the rush acted like madmen. For the past three years, little anger had been shown on such occasions, but on last Saturday it was everywhere apparent. There was kicking, pounding, biting, and choking without end; yet no blame can be attached to those who exhibited this anger; it was simply a natural consequence of the excitement of the moment. The rushers were attired as the occasion demanded, and nothing but sheer exhaustion could . stop them. A number were so overcome that it was some time before they were able to stand alone. As the entering classes increase in size, the more mob-like .these.rushes
will become, and before anyone is seriously injured a change should be inaugurated.”
These, “ rushes ” are simply and in fact barbarous tussles, not a whit less blameworthy than the Sullivan style of slugging, and altogether unworthy of gentlemen. And, yet, at Yale and Columbia and Cornell and other Colleges these barbarous tussles or “ cane-rushes ” are an annual occurrence. And for what purpose? Simply to deprive Freshmen of the privilege of carrying a cane! It is useless for the Cornell Sun to treat the late “ rush ” “as a little affair, of no consequence or import”; it was barbarous, and it must reflect upon the college, and not only upon Cornell but on colleges and college life in general. It may be true that the pictures for the newspapers were overdrawn, as no one got killed or seriously hurt, but a letter from one of the Freshmen participants in the Chicago Tribune shows that if no one was seriously hurt it was not through the consideration or self-restraint of the rushers.
Local Items.	*	’
—Founder’s Day! ..
—The ushers did nobly.
—The villain lost his knife.
— Une Cause Celebre is to be repeated.
—“I don’t loike that fellow’s physiogamy!”
—No rain marred the celebration of St. Edward’s Day.
—The Band was out on a serenading tour last Monday.	.
—The “Judge ” is jubilant over the result of the Ohio elections.
—-An interesting debate is being carried on by the St. Cecilians. .
, —The Seniors’ refectory was elegantly decorated for St. Edward’s Day.	•
—Messrs. Steis, Ramsay and Stephens were excellent stage managers.
—The Euglossians return thanks to Bro. Paul for favors in connection with their late entertainment.
—A large number of visitors from South Bend and the surrounding country witnessed the fieldsports on Monday. .
—The electric apparatus for the crown of stars on the statue is daily expected, and will be put up as soon as it arrives.
—The vote of the Class of ’85 stands: Blaine, 5; - Cleveland, 4. One is said ‘to be wavering be-Ben. Butler and Belva Lockwood.
—YThe Mammoth bell is rung every evening, at half-past seven, in honor of 'the beautiful devotions of the month prescribed by the Holy Father.
—Founder’s Day was celebrated with even more than usual enthusiasm this year. It was in every way a “red letter day” for all at Notre Dame.
—Among those who took minor parts in the play, Messrs. Hotaling, Wiley and Stephens- were especially distinguished for clear, distinct articulation.
io8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—An excellent portrait in oil of Rt. Rev. Bishop Flaget, first Bishop of Louisville, has been finished by Signor Gregori and placed in “ Bishops’ Hall.”
—The slate for the roof of Science Hall has arrived, and the work is being pushed forward as rapidly as possible. One suite of rooms will be finished before winter.
— The members of the Lemonnier Library Association are under obligations to Mr. Joseph Brennan for a set of the “ Vatican Library ” presented by him to their reading-rooms.
—The addition of the western wing to the Junior hall makes it a large and beautiful room. Last Thursday evening, Rev. Vice-President Toohey read the notes, and expressed his satisfaction at the perfect order kept.
—Airs. Clement Studebaker sent a quantity of choicest cut-flowers from her green-house for the decorations on the 13th. This refined and estimable lady shows her esteem for the Founder of Notre Dame in this beautiful gift.
—The statue of St. Edward in the sanctuary was elegantly decorated on the 13th. Numberless lights and a profusion of the richest flowers artistically arranged enhanced the beauty of the statue, which, art critics say, is the finest that Froc-Rob-erts, of Paris, has ever finished.
—Hon. Isaac P. Gray, Democratic candidate for Governor of the State, visited the College yesterday, accompanied by Prof. T. E. Howard, of South Bend, and Mr. T. Murdock, of Michigan City. He made a brief but practical address to the students, and was heartily applauded. .
—The 2d regular meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held on Wednesday evening, the isth inst. An instructive address was O'	•J	_
delivered by Very Rev. Father Granger. AIasters W. AfcPhee, L. Schener, and J. McNulty were appointed to prepare essays for the next meeting.
—Air. Frank M. Smith, of Toledo, Ohio, entertained the students on last Tuesday evening with an interesting talk upon his experiences in Andersonville Prison, while a prisoner during the Civil War. The speaker was very graphic in his descriptions, and his manner of address inparted an air of realism to all that he said.
—We devote a great deal of our space this week to the report of St. Edward’s Day celebration. We are sure that our paper will be none the less interesting to our readers. We are pleased to be able to present with this number an engraving of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame. A kind friend, whose name we are not at liberty to mention, has our thanks for furnishing the means of procuring the same.
—Among the numerous visitors in attendance at the celebration of Founder’s Day were the following: Mr. P. L. Garrity, Chicago; Mr. arid Mrs. C. Studebaker, Prof. L. G. Tong, ’63; Mr. C. N. Fassett, of the Register^ Mrs. P. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. Jacob Wile, Miss Wile, and Mrs. <D. J. Wile, Laporte, Ind.,; Mr. J. Bares, Peru, Ind.; Mrs. Blaine, Misses Gregori arid English,
St. Mary’s; Airs. J. Henry and daughter, Texas; Airs. Jas. O’Kane, Cincinnati, O.; Airs. Leoni, Air. T. Quill, Air. J. Stumer, Air. T. AtcGill, Chicago; John A. Gibbons, AI. D., ’So, Keokuk, la.; Alr.A. Gordon,Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. J. O’Meara, Des Aloines, la.; Airs. J. AI. Ryan, Miss Ryan, and C. D. Ryan, Galena, Ill.; C. Foster, of ’So, and many others, whose names we did not learn.
The Regatta.
The athletic exercises of Founder’s Day opened at 10.30 a. m., by the regatta on St. Joseph’s Lake, which was at that time in excellent condition, with but a slight breeze rippling over its surface from homewards. This was the occasion of the first appearance of the crews in the Club’s new rowing uniform—the “Evangeline” in the regular red rowing suits and blue stockings, and the “ Alinne-haha” in dark blue suits and red stockings. The crews’ banners were, respectively, of elegant red and blue satin, richly embroidered, and bearing in the centre the initials of the captains—for the “ Reds,” Henry A. Steis, and for the “ Blues,” D. C. Saviers. At the word “ go,” the “ Alinnehaha” leaped a short distance ahead of the “ Evangeline,” but before half the length of the first course had been passed, the latter crew bent to their oars, and forged steadily ahead of the former; and as both crews rounded the buoys in splendid shape, the enthusiasm was intense. The “Evangeline” led on the turn, and for a quarter of the second length it seemed as though thev would be the winners. It was here, though, that the “Alinnehaha” did some magnificent work, and “ picking it up’’for the buoy they managed by hard work to creep ahead a boat length. The captains of both crews by their efficient work, and the coxswains, by cries of encouragement and direction, succeeded in infusing into their crews much courage and new strength, and at the “spurt for the buoy” they lay . down to their work in grand style. As the “Minnehaha” passed the banners of a length in advance of the “ Evangeline,” the Band struck up a lively air, and the crowds on shore shouted with intense excitement, not so much in favor of the winning crew as in applause for the close and exciting struggle of both crews. The time for the two lengths, which is fully three-fourths of a mile, was 3 minutes, 22 seconds.
The common opinion expressed in general by the Faculty, students and visitors is that the race, was one of the most satisfactory arid exciting that Notre Dame has yet had.
Field Sports.
SENIORS.
At 2.30 p. m., the field sports were opened by a 106-yard dash. There was the greatest interest centered in this trial of speed, as it was known that several amateur runners of local celebrity had entered. It was divided into three heats, and in the first L. Austin, Denver, passed the wire a few feet ahead of T. McGill, Chicago, Ill. Owing to some misunderstanding, T. McKinnery did neft run, and was assigned third place. The second heat
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
109
was easily won by T. J. McKinnery, De Land, Iowa, who beat all our previous records—making the distance in ioj^ seconds, with the track a quarter slow. McGill was second and Austin third. In the third and last heat, McKinnery, amidst great applause, won by at least 10 feet, with Austin and McGill almost a tie, but the former was declared a few inches ahead.
The first prize—a gold medal, presented by Professor J. F. Edwards—was awarded to McKinnery; the second—an elegant meerschaum pipe—was awarded to Austin; and the third—a fine cigar-holder—to T. McGill. In the second-class 100-yard dash, F. Combe, Brownsville, Texas, secured the lead, and, after a hard struggle, won the first prize—a fine gold pen and holder—in 11^ seconds, being but sec. behind last year’s first-class record. H. Paschel, Council Bluffs, came a good second, and H. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis., third. The next event, vaulting with pole, was won by M. Dolan, Charlotte, Iowa, who went over the line at 7 ft., 8 in. Neither he nor D. Saviers, Columbus, Ohio, who claimed second prize, succeeded in equalling their last year’s record, when Dolan cleared 8 ft. H. Porter took the third prize, with 7 inches below Dolan, and would have done better but for a painful accident which compelled him to retire. A fine “ Greenburgh ” stiff hat was given as first prize. Following this came the long jump with dumb bells. The best record was made by McKinnery, 10 ft., 51^ inches; beating last year’s by 2%f in. J. Guthrie, Carroll, City, Iowa, by a good effort, reached 10 feet, 5 inches; and T. McGill, 10 feet, inches; thus securing in their order first, second and third prizes.
The mile race was next announced, and eight competitors entered; of these there were but three who held out for the mile; P. Chapin, F. Dexter and C. McCartney being in the above order on the last Jap when Dexter rapidly lessened the distance between' himself and Chapin, and after running both abreast for an exciting 20 yards, suddenly shot ahead and won the race in 21 min., 55 sec.—the best record made at Notre Dame in 5 years. The «Buysse ” silver cup was awarded to Dexter for first prize, while Chapin easily carried off second, and McCartney, with hard work, the third prize.
Running jump: In this contest T. McKinnery again came out the winner, by covering 16 feet, inches. Guthrie took second prize, with 16 feet, 4^ inches; and McGill third, with 15 ft, 8 in.
A sack or one-legged race was the next event, and although 20 longing bodies “ bobbed up serenely ” on the start, there were but 6 who passed the winning post. R. Noonan literally “ got on his ear,” but picking himself up again, he succeeded in winning first prize; while G. Harless and W. Patterson respectively captured second and third. The flight of these zmi^eds was too rapid and vacillating, to be timed.
For the hop-step-and-jump there were 10 contestants, but, as usual, McKinnery carried off first prize, covering 38 feet, 6 inches; F. Combe won second prize, by 36 feet, and Guthrie the third, by 34. feet, 1 inch. In the three-legged race, Wagner
and Paschel secured first place; F. Combe and M. Dolan, 2d; and J. De Groot and P. McGuire third. Two boxes of cigars were divided between the winners.
High jump: J. Guthrie tipped the rod at 5 feet, 2 inches, and captured a fine gold pen and ebony holder for the best record of the day; while M. Dolan followed with second, and J. Rahilly with third prize. A tough struggle ensued for victory in the hitch-and-kick between D. C. Saviers, E. Pohl, and P. Proudhomme. However, Pohl succeeded in taking the lead at 7 feet, 5 inches; just equalling Gallagher’s record, with Saviers 7 feet, 2 inches, and Proudhomme 7 feet. For the three-mile race the entries were R. Reach, P. Goulding, F. Combe, Williams, Ashton, Proudhomme, Conlon and White. In the last lap there were but the above first three on the track. P. Goulding, after a severe struggle with D. Reach and F. Combe, carried off the trophy—the grand silver cup; while Reach’s second and Combe’s third prize were also very fine. Time, 22 minutes, 35 , seconds.	.	’	.
Darkness intervening, further exercises were postponed until Thursday.
JUNIORS.
Owing to the unfavorable condition of their campus, the Juniors held their sports on the Minims’ grounds. The prizes were very handsome and costly, and, be it said to the credit of their department, the Junior students very generously aided in their purchase.
The sports began with the 200-yard dash, won by J. Dorenberg, M. Sheuerman second; 150-yard dash, won by J. Courtney, S. Holman second; 2d 150-yard dash, won by N. Leoni, C. West second; 100-yard dash, won by A. Adams, F. Fisher second. 1st three-legged race, won by G. Meyers and W. Borgschulze; 2d three-legged race, won by E. Porter and S. Holman; 3d three-legged race, won by W. Vandercarr and C. West; 4th threelegged race, won by G. Servis and F. Fisher. 1st hurdle-race, won by E. Proudhomme, G. Meyers second; 2d hurdle-race, won by E. Benner, T. Williamson second; 3d hurdle-race, won by P. Waggoner, D. Tewksbury second; 4th hurdle- -race, won by E. Amoretti, C. Nussbaum second. 1 st burden race, won by H. Lang and J. Riley; 2d burden-race, won by C. Knisley and P. Mullane, J. and F. Garrity second. 1st one-legged race, won by J. Weiler, W. Waggoner second; 2d one-legged race, won by F. Thurston, A. Finckh second; 3d one-legged race, won by J. Donellan, W. Grimes second; 4th one-legged race, won by D. McCourt, J. Stange second. The remainder of the sports were postponed till Thursday. .
MINIMS.
The sports were begun by a 150-yard dash, won by J. Montcada, Stanly Day second; 2d 150-yard ’ dash, won by C. V. Inderrieden, A. Grunsfeld second ; 3d 150-yard dash, won by J. Baker, E. Kelly . second. 1 do-yard dash, won by J. Ernest, Cast Johns second; 2d 100-yard dash, won by E. Bar ger, A. Mason second; 3d 100-yard dash, won by
Iio	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Leon Paul, E. Falvey second. Then followed the fatman’s race, won by Stanly Day; Blind man’s race, won by W. McVeigh, A. Grimes second, ist sack-race, won by. W. McVeigh, I. Bunker second; 2d sack-race, won by G. Addington, E. Kell}' second; 3d sack-race, won by W. McPhee, Leo Scherrer second; 4th sack-race, won by E. Doss, A. Mason second. The three-legged race, was won by G. Landenwich and I. Bunker, followed by W. McVeigh and —. Piero.
***
Thursday afternoon the contests postponed from Monda}' took place. The light weight, 12 lbs., was cast 31 feet, 1 finches by H. Paschel, who secured first prize. T. McNulty secured second place, with 30 feet, io^f inches; and P. Carbajal third, with 30 feet, 9^ inches. In throwing the baseball, J. Guthrie took the lead at 313 feet, 6 inches; F. Combe came second, with 300 feet, 8 inches; and T. McGill third, with 298 feet. The games were wound up by two consolation races, for those who had won nothing in the previous contests. In the first-class, J. Wagner secured first prize; H. Steis 2d, and A.- Browne 3d. In the second-class, J. Hotaling captured first, and C. Hausberg second prizes.
Thus closed the sports of ’85, with much satisfaction to all.
The students express their appreciation of the impartial decisions of the judges, Rev. Fathers Toohey and Regan, and the kind attentions of Bros. Emmanuel, Paul, and Leander. The committee return thanks to Profs. Lyons and Edwards, and to the following- South Bend gentlemen for favors o	o
received: Messrs. Cushing, Greenburg, Polack, Kempner, Adler, Buysse, Moses and Meyer Livingstone, and the Tribune Co.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
■ Messrs. Ancheta, Alvarez, Ashton, Brooks, A. Barba-bosa, J. Barbabosa, Bustillos, Felix Baca, Filadelfo Baca, Bates, Becerra, J. Baca, Burns, F. J. Baca, F. Brown, Breen, Callaghan, Conlon, Wm. Collins, Chapin, Crawford, Casavantes, Creel, F. Combe, C. Combe, Dory, DeGroot, Donohue, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan, Dickerson, Ewing, Goulding, Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Hamlyn, Harless, Halligan, Howard, Hausberg, Johnston, Kleiber, King, Kolars, J. Lechuga, M. Lechuga, Livingston, McMillian, McKinnery, McNulty, G. Miller, Meyer, McErlaine, McCartney, McArdle, Marquez^ McGill, A. Miller,'Noonan, J. V. O’Donnell, J. P. O’Donnell, O’Kane, O’Connell, Perley, C. Paschel, H. Paschel, Pohl, Padilla, P. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, C. Porter, J. Piefer, Rothert, J. Ryan, O. Ryan, Reach, Rice, Rui, Riley, Rivard, Ramsay, Rahilly, J. Smith, Sheridan, Saviers, Steis, Spangler, Schaefer, Sanchez, G. Smith, Thomas, Triplett, Tully, Troy, J. Wagoner, W. Williams, F. Wagsoner, Wiley, C. Williams, Willard, A. Williams, White,; Wilson, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. . ,
Masters Aikens, Arnold, Arts, Ackerman, Amoretti, Butterfield, Borgschulze, Bearss, Baur, Berthelet, Brown, Congdon, Cummings, Chamberlain, Clarke, G. Cartier, Cooper, Cleary, E. Dillon, O. Dillon, Dempsey, Doren-berg, Dougherty, Donnellan, Daly, Eppstein, Emmons, Ewing, Finckh, Fehr, Grunsfeld, L. Grever, E. Grever, J: Garrity, F. Garrity, Grimes, Hairing, Hieronimus, Hib-beler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Knisely,
I Kenny, Leoni, Luther, H. Long, F. Long, A. Moye, Mul-kern, R. Morrison, B. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Mason, Myers, Mullane, J. McGordon, Nussbaum, Oxnard, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, Proudhomme, Regan, Real, Rose, Ratighan, Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Ruger, Stubbs, Senn, Sokup, Soden, Stange, Spencer, Schmauss, Shaw, Sedberry, Tewksbury, Talbot, Tarrant, Vandercar, Wabraushek,- P. Wagoner, Williamson, West, Weiler, Flood, Meehan, Robinson, Darragh, E. Byerly.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters J. Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Bunker, Berry, Bull, Barger, Blakeslee, Baker, Crotty, Comins, Cobbs, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, J. Doss, E. Doss, L. Doss, Day, Ernest, Grunsfeld, Grimes, Henry, Haney, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jones, Johns, J- Kelly, E. Kelly, Kellner, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, McGill, C. Mitchell, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mahon, McNulty, McGuire, Mooney, Nusbaum, Noonan, O’Kane, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piel, Paul, Perkins, Piero, Quill, Quinlin, Rugee, Salman, Sweet, Scherrer, Stone, Smith, Shoneman, Weston, Williamson, Zozaya, Mason, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey.
Class Honors.
- COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Rahilly, Murphy, Chapin, Austin, Creel, J. Ryan, Noonan, Hamlyn, Monschein, E. Howard, Ruffing, O’Brien, Berthelet, Myers, Rogers, Daly, Mullane, Johnson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Piero, Rugee, F. Dunford, Jones, Crotty, Murphy, Salman, C. Mitchell, Comins, J. Doss, Moncada, Sweet, McGill, McCourt, Mooney, R. Inderrieden, Williamson, E. Doss, Nussbaum, J. Mitchell, Quill, T. Falvey, Stone, Barger, Cobbs, Bunker, McVeigh, E. Kelly, Scherrer, McGuire, McPhee.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. F. Long, Mullane, Tewksbury, Knisely, Arts, Dougherty, Ruffing, Creel, McMillan, Ruppe, Marquez, De Groot, Remish, Berthelet,. Servis, Emmons, Butterfield, Flood, J. Hasson, Chamberlain, Macke, G. Hasson, W. Willard, Zollars, Vandercarr, McNulty, White, Dwan, F. Browne, Meyer, Pohl, Welker, Hamlyn; Grammar—Messrs.M.O’Kane, Oxnard, Zollars, Arts, Flood, F. Garrity, Sokup,- Senn, McCourt, W. Grimes, Becerra, McArdle, Bates, Livingston, Zeitler, Donnellan, Fisher, West, Rebori, Ruffing, Aiken®, R. Morrison, E. Dillon, Stephens, Leoni, Ratighan, E. Ewing, Remish,Finckh, P. Johnson, Rogers; Geography and History —Messrs. McCartney, Schaefer, Wm. Collins, W. Collins, Thomas, H. Ackerman, Dougherty, Arts, Chamberlain, Reilly, Soden, Borgschulze, Cummings, Dorenberg, E. Dillon, Mullane, Menig, Tewksbury, Wabraushek, Shaw, Fisher, Hamlyn, Miller, O.Ryan, McArdle, Dwan; Arithmetic—Messrs. Mullane, Hamlyn, E. Howard, Pohl, Brooks, G. Miller,-Martinez, Harring, Nussbaum, Senn, Arts, Reilly, Chamberlain, Loya, Leoni, Sokup, Donnellan, W. Willard, Zollars. Ruger, McCartney, Dwan, Loomis, Thomas, McArdle, Sanchez, Becerra, P. Proudhomme, Zeitler, Rivard, Bates, McErlain, Livingston, Meyer; Penmanship—Messrs. Oxnard, Macke, Zollars, Quill, Murphy, Remish, Clarke, Monschein, Flood; Latin —Messrs. W. Morrison, Courtney, De Groot, O’Connell; Algebra—Messrs. Harless, Ramsay, De Groot; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Hamlyn, J. Ryan, E. Willard, Austin, Meyer, Noonan, Ratighan, O’Brien.
. For the Dome.
A Pious Soul.-..........................  $10.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ■
in
Saint fflary's Academy.
One Mile West of'Notre Dame University.
—The Roman mosaic cross in the Junior department was won by Miss Grace Regan.
—Severe study has not been interrupted by the festal preparations. Time has been economized, Class Competitions have been in order, and, to their praise be it spoken, not one of the Juniors has absented herself from study since the opening in September.
—A feast day souvenir was placed on the breakfast table at the Pastoral Residence on Wednesday morning, in the shape of a handsome cigar-set. The accompanying card announced its origin: “ With best wishes to Very Rev. Father General from his little Princesses.”
—The gold prize fell to Alice Schmauss at the late voting. This little scholar, who is of the second Preparatory Class, has received 100 in lessons every week in this session. B. Murray, of the same Class, received too two weeks in succession. Flora Johnson, of the ist Junior Class, has received 100, and Mary Lindsey 94 every week.
—The presence of Mrs. Judge Hamond, of Rensselaer, Indiana—formerly Miss Virginia Spitler— Class ’6r, is hailed with more than ordinary satisfaction; as also that of Miss Jennie Bennett, Class ’77, and Mrs. Ida Fisk Carroll, Class ’79, of Paw Paw, Mich.; and that of Miss Sarah Gleeson, of Chicago, a former pupil of the Academy.
—On Saturday the Children of Mary assisted at Holy Mass, which was offered in the Chapel of Loreto, by Father General. In his instruction he mentioned his first Mass in Indiana, at Logansport, 43 years ago, on the Feast of the Holy Rosary; his second at Vincennes, the following Sunday, the Feast of Maternity of the Blessed Virgin.
—On the Feast of the Holy Angels, the Society devoted to the services of these heavenly messengers received the Misses Maggie Ducev, Stella Hagan, Mabel Barry, Cora Proudhomme, Fannie Hertzog, Lizzie Norris, and Grace Stadtler as aspirants; and Ada Malboeuf, Margaret Smith, and Mary Murphy were received to full membership. Rev. Father Shortis officiated. The ceremony took place in the House of Loreto.
Founder’s Day at St. Mary’s.
The festival of St. Edward has been the absorbing event of the week. The opening of the feast, as a matter-of-course, was the low Mass, at which the Community and the Catholic pupils received Holy Communion for the intentions of the beloved and venerated Founder of St. Mary’s, whose feast was celebrated. The celebrant was Rev. Father Saulnier. High Mass was sung by the Rev. Chaplain, at eight o’clock, at which the Blessed
Sacrament was exposed, followed by Benediction and the chaplet.,,
At three o’clock p. m., a select and appreciative audience were gathered iij the study-hall which was tastefully decorated for the occasion, and to the exceptionally great satisfaction of all, the following programme was presented:
Programme.
Homage to Very Rev. Father General—played by the Misses Ginz and Carney.
Felicitations Framjaises.................Miss Call
Duet—“ Caro, Piu Amabile Belta.”......G.B. Handel
Misses Bruhn and Hale, accompanied by Miss Shephard. Seniors’ Greeting........................Miss-Gove
Polonaise Etude..........................Moskozski
Miss Barlow.
Gluckwunsch..................... ........Miss Ginz
Song—“Che Gioja”.........................  Mattei
Miss Bruhn, accompanied by Miss Gove.
Festal Greetings...............Miss	Hannah Stumer
Valse Arabesque......................Anton	Strelecki
Miss Gove.
THE TIMES OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.
(An original drama in four acts.)
Miss Murphy
Marie Antoinette............. The Dauphine (Louis Charles Princess Royal (Marie Therese)..........Alice Schmauss
Princess Clotilde ) o. . rT .	( Miss Williams
“ Elizabeth J Slsters of Louis XVI } Miss Barlow Princess Louise de Bourbon (Cousin of Louis XVI)
Miss Wolvin.
Princess de Lamballe............. Madame de Tourzel................ . Madame Hortense................ Mlle. Josephine.................. Mlle. Emile......................
Mlle. Lucille....................
Angelique J Maids of Honor ( ....
Anabel	( ....
Marie Malsherbes................ Isabel Malsherbes................
.... Miss Schulze .Miss Alcott ___Miss Carney Clara Richmond Hannah Stumer ..Sadie Campau .__Miss Fuller
. .Miss Danforth ....Ella Blaine
......Dot Lee
Helen Malsherbes....................Florence	Johnson
Camile (A Gerondine Leader, and Sister of Angelique) Miss Munger.
Jeanette
Annette - Gerondines '
Charlotte
Femme La Cosse'
“ Herbert
“ Santere
“ Clotze
“ Simon
“ Louvet
.Miss S. St. Clair" Miss L. St. Clair ___Miss Taylor ___Grace Regan
Women of the
Mountain Party
“ Sampson J Prologue......................... Printemps d’Am our...............
Miss Shepherd.
Cavatina
____B. Lauer ____E. Sheekey ____E. Horn I __M. Dillon I___G. Legnard (. .Maggie Ducey ____Miss Sheekey ____Gottschalk
Verdi
Miss Hale.
Gavotte—Fragments from Violin Sonata, Bach-Sf.-Saens Miss Gove.
Song.......................-............Blumenthal
Miss E. Walsh, accompanied by Miss Barlow.
Melody.................................A. Rubenstein.
Miss Gove.
March..........................Misses	Carney and Ginz
The Felicitations Frangaises were charmingly rendered by Miss Call, a very marked improve- . ment being observed by connoisseurs in the young lady’s pronunciation and fluency, as well as in her grace of manner. It is to be hoped that she will be duly rewarded in time for her faithful application to the mastering of the beautiful French lan-guage. 00
iSsSArtfigaii
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The “ Seniors’ Greeting,” by Miss Gove, was faultlessly read and gracefully presented; and German scholars were equally delighted with the rendering of Gliickwunsch, by Miss Ginz.
“Festal Greetings,” recited in her best style by Miss Hannah Stumer, expressed the sentiments of devoted esteem entertained by the Juniors and Minims for the Very Rev. recipient of the honors of the day.
The music, from first to last, was up to the high standard of the institution. In a clear, appreciative voice, Miss Sheekey read the prologue to the drama, “ The Times of Marie Antoinette,” and the performers in the various scenes have every reason to feel that their efforts have been abundantly crowned with success. The parts of Marie Antoinette, Camile, Angelique, The Dauphine, and Princess Clotilde are perhaps especially noteworthy for perfect rendering, though all were admirable, each performer being well adapted to the role assumed.
The closing speech by Father Cooney was to the point. He did more than compliment. The purpose of the drama was brought out, “ showing as it does the frightful results of the spirit of revolt, contrasted with the elevatinsr influence exerted by that love of order which is cheerfully subject to authority, and which is the only safeguard of Christian society. Skilful judges, and, among them first of all, Very Rev. Father General, pronounced the entertainment better than anything yet given at St. Mary’s.
The Rev. President of the University honored the young ladies by his genial presence.
. Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, I. Alcott, J. Barlow, M. Bruhn, L. Blaine, N. Brady, M. Blair, L. Carney, F. Cummins, C. Congdon, E. Call, C. Cox, S. Dunne, N. Danforth, N. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, M. Dillon, M. Ducey, C. Ducey, A. Dwan, B. English, A. English, M. Fuller, D. Fitzpatrick, C.Fehr, J. Foster, G. Faxon, C. Ginz, B. Gove, O- Griffith, C. Griffith, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, M. Hale, M. Helpling, E. Horn, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, M. Hawkins, L. Hutchinson, ’N. Kearns, B. Kearney, M. Kearsey, G. Legnard, C. Lang, M. Munger, A. Murphy, J, McHale, B. Morrison, T. McSorley, A. McSorley N. Myler, E. O’Connell, E. Pierson, H. Ramsey, D. Reynolds, M. Rein-holdt, E. Rose, L: Sheekey, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, A. Shephard, M. Schmidt, K. Smith, M. Shea, M. Scully C. Scully, A. Schidler, E. Strawn; E. Taylor, L. Williams, L. Walsh, A. White, 'E. Walsh, F. Castanedo, R. Eisenstaedt, M. Fisk, B. Lauer, L. Murdock. M. Morse, L. Ryan, E. Schulze, C. Torrent, G. Wolvin.
. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Allen, Brown, Bayer, M. Barry, M. Cox, S. Campeau, M. Ducey, F. Hertzog, T. Haney, A. High, E. Hagan, A. Keyes, M. Mulhall, M. Mc-Eweny M. Murphy, A. Malboeuf, L. Norris, M. Paul, C. Proudhomme, E. Preston, N. Quill,, G. Richmond, G. Regan, Margaret Smith, G. Stadtler, B. Snowhook, M. Smith, H. Stumer, N. Sheekey, G. Searls, L. Trask, L. • Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin. F. Johnson, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, Bl Mun ay, F. Spencer, A. Schmaus, S. Van Fleet.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
2D Class—Misses A. English, L. Williams, Legnard, Fuller, Fehr.
3d Class, 2d Div.—Misses Eisenstadt, Trask, Kearney, Smith, E. Walsh, Stadtler, C. Scully, Keyes, M Smith, McHale, Alcott, Reinhold, Lang, Pierson, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Munger, T. McSorley, O- Griffith.
painting in water-colors. X
Misses Fuller, Richmond, Van Horn, Shephard. oil-painting.
2D Class—Misses Sheekey, Dunne, Heckard, Williams.
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses O. Griffith, C. Griffith, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, M. Kearsey, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Hawkins, Torrent, C. Cox, Dwan, Faxon, Ryan, Shea, L. Blaine, Schmidt, Blair, Schulze, Taylor, White, Myler, Schidler, Reynolds, Murdock, Congdon, Rose, Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Snowhook, Brown, E. Sheekey, High, Stadtler, Smith, Schmauss, Trask, Keyes, Lindsey, Allen, Barry, Johnson, M. Cox, Murphy, Malboeuf, Searls, Hagen, McEwen, Campeau, Boyes, Preston, Quill, Hertzog, Proudhomme, Stumer, Mulhall, Richmond, Lee, Chapin, Van Fleet, Murray, Spencer, Burtis, L.-Johns, V. Johns, E. Blaine, M. Smith, Baur.
St- Edward’s Day at St. Mary’s Academy.
St. Edward’s day at St. Mary’s Academy was the occasion of a delightful entertainment given by the pupils in honor of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross. A large number of visitors were present, including President Walsh, of Notre Dame University, Prof. J. A. Lyons, and others prominently connected with that great educational institution.
The addresses were beautifully engrossed and the covers artistically ornamented with water-color paintings, the work of the Sisters and pupils of the Academy. These were in turn presented to the Father General after the reading.
The entertainment concluded with an original dramatization of the times of Marie Antoinette in four acts, which was a beautiful and thrilling conception of the spirit and scenes of the Revolution and rendered with powerful dramatic effect. In fact, the young gentlemen of Notre Dame must yield the palm of histrionic excellence to their fair sisters at St. Mary’s. Miss Murphy as Marie Antoinette, Miss Fuller as Angelique, Miss M. Munger as Camille, Miss St. Clair as Jeanette, and the little Misses Mary Lindsey and Alice Schmauss, as Louis and Marie, were specially worthy of mention, though all performed their parts well.
The acts were interspersed with music, which is one of the most delightful features of entertainments at the Academy.—South-Bend Register..