Diamond Jubilee 1867 -1942
Volume 76
Number 9
August 14, 1942

Because of the Summer Semester Students will have the opportunity to participate in the procession celebrating the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin
BOSS
Football Ticket Information
Since students will undoubtedly be getting many requests from relatives and friends for information concerning the 1942 football schedule and ticket prices, the Scholastic is happy to supply the basic facts.
Ticket application blanks and instructions for ordering tickets have been available at the Adiletic Association offices in Breen-Phillips hall since Monday, July 27. The individual sale for games bodi at home and away opened August 1.
The season ticket sale for the five home games with Georgia Tech, Stanford, The Iowa Naval Pre-Flight Training School, Michigan, and Northwestern, has already opened and will not close until Sept. 1. Under this plan it is possible to buy tickets in preferred locations for all five home games at $12.10 a ticket, a saving of $2.20 over the list price.
The site of the Southern California game is not final, although it is believed at this time that the contest will be played, as scheduled, in Los Angeles. Ticket prices for this game have not been announced.	-
For complete details concerning season tickets, alumni section tickets, and general public tickets, feel free to call at the Athletic Association from 9 to 5 week-days, or 9 to 12 Saturdays. Out of town subscribers may write to the Football Ticket Committee, Notre Dame, Ind., for information.
The schedule and ticket prices follow:
Season of 1942
All Prices Include Federal and State Tax.
Sept. 26—Wisconsin at Madison. Reserved Seats $2.75-$1.50.
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame. Reserved Seats $2.20-1.65. Box Seats $5.50.
Oct. 10—Stanford at Notre Dame. Reserved Seats $3.30-$1.65. Box Seats $4.40.
Oct. 17—Iowa Navy Pre-Flight School at Notre Dame. Reserved Seats $2.20-$1.10. Box Seats $4.40.
Oct. 24—Illinois at Champaign. Reserved Seats $2.50.
Oct. 31—Navy at Cleveland. Reserved Seats $3.30-$2.20-$1.10. Box Seats $4.40.
Nov. 7—Army at New York. Reserved Seats $4.40. Box Seats $6.60.
Nov. 14—Michigan at Notre Dame. Reserved Seats $3.30. Box Seats $5.50.
Nov. 21—Northwestern at Notre Dame. Reserved Seats $3.30-$2.20. Box Seats $5.50.
Nov. 28—Southern California at Los Angeles.
Dec. 5—Great Lakes at Chicago. Reserved Seats $4.40-$3.30-$2.20-$1.10.
Schedule and Prices

2
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 76
August 14, 1942
Number 9
STUDENTS WILL PARTICIPATE FOR FIRST TIME
IN ASSUMPTION PROCESSION AND BENEDICTION
TED WEBER
The University’s first regular summer semester will this week-end allow students to participate in the traditional Assumption afternoon services, heretofore participated in only by community members and visiting religious. All students who will be on campus over the long week-end are invited to participate in the procession and benediction sched
The Procession will end at Sacred Heart Church with Benediction.
uled for two o’clock Saturday in Sacred Heart Church.
The procession will form in the sanctuary of the Church, then move out the main aisle and down to the Grotto singing hymns. An antiphon is chanted at the Grotto and then the procession re-enters the church through the Grotto door. Benediction closes the services.
Students who' wish to participate will take their place with the Sisters in the procession. The order of procession is: cross - bearers, Brothers, seminarians, priests, celebrants, and Sisters and public. A statue of Mary is carried in the midst of the marchers.
There are usually 200 visitors from South Bend and vicinity for the ceremonies. These consist mainly of Polish and Italian peoples. The day is a feast day for the Italians and it is their custom to spend the entire day on the campus. They arrive early in the morning, sit down at the Grotto, and attend Masses. They bring their lunches and eat them at the Grotto.
The statue is an Assumption representation of the Blessed Virgin and is about three feet in height. It is carried in a “carrier,” built something like a sedan chair. The statue is a copy of Murrillo’s Assumption. The garments are white and the mantle blue; the base is decorated with flowers.
On the way to the Grotto, hymns in Latin and English are sung, including “Ave Maris Stella.” The antiphon at the Grotto consists of a verse and response followed by an oration.
The ceremony is European in origin and has been celebrated on campus since the summer of 1843. But as far as can be determined, this year will be the first time that students have participated.
Masses on Assumption will be the same as on Sundays: six, seven, eight-thirty, and ten o’clock.
Student Performers Are Success at Vaudeville
Last night the fourth of the revised K. of C. Vaudeville shows entertained a packed Washington Hall for two hours. Competition for the prizes of §15, §10 and 85 produced tops in entertainment selected from the best entertainers at the various summer hall parties. Furnishing the background with dance music was “Veet” Capello and his Cavaliers, who climaxed the evening with their regular Thursday night broadcast over WSBT. This added feature of the orchestra, produced and announced by Tom Cooney, may provide the nucleus for a (Continued on page 23)
3
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana,. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
CLUB GEORGETOWN
As reported in a recent issue of The Hoya, Georgetown students have for their three favorite pastimes, dates, sleeping and reading, in that order. When it comes to participation in sports they prefer baseball, swimming and dating, if the last may be called a sport.
The Hoya Poll, which presented to' the students 20 apt questions, revealed that the boys’ favorite girls’ school was Trinity. Visitation ranked second, National Park third, Vassar fourth. Harvard claimed three votes. The various government agencies in Washington came in for their share, but were regarded as irrelevant by the tabulators. However, when it came to the question of dating conditions in summertime Washington the majority- of students classified them as good, providing there was government cooperation.
While the greater number of students intend to join the Army, six admirable gentlemen will hold out for the WAAC. One sweltering student, in answer to “How do you keep cool?” said, “By going around with nothing on but the radio.” And as to “What does Georgetown need most?” the boys want a gym, coeds and more permissions.
Had we known in time we would have entered an absentee ballot on that last question.
VITAL STATISTICS
Statistics from the College of St. Francis, Joliet, Hl., show that 48 per cent of the girls graduated from 1933 to 1941 are teaching school today, while only 25 per cent are married. The others are in library work, social work, science or business.
At least Cupid isn’t working overtime.
CO-EDS GO MILITARY
Indiana University will inaugurate in the fall semester a military training -program for women, said to be the first • in any college in the country. The ” program, similar to the R.O.T.C. offered male students, will be under the supervision of the Department - of Military Science and Tactics. It differs, however, from the R.O.T.C. in that the course is
4
not compulsory, and it will not lead directly to a commission.
Besides a certain amount of drill each week, the coeds will study military history and policy, sanitation and first aid, care and operation of motor vehicles (this should be a required course), map reading, aerial photography reading and military courtesy and discipline.
Should our own Sweetbriar-on-the-St. Joe take any such initiative in the coming semester, we shall investigate the matter thoroughly. They did have a blackout once.
ART TAKES A RAP
“Hoosier Artist Jailed for Sketching” warns the Indianapolis Star.. This is war, and the sheriff is after all art students who use prohibited ‘shots’ for subject matter.
Mr. Hanley and boys, take cover.
IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE
The. Phoenix of Swarthmore College sends along a report on the Baby Bawl, a rather informal dance held at such places as colleges of coeducation. The beautiful babies attending this gathering were appropriately dressed students who cavorted as infants and danced before the1 judges.
, Voted the funniest baby of the evening was one hairy-limbed six-footer who wore a plaid shirt and a diaper held up by 14 pins. The song most memorable for the evening was “The Nearness of You,” sung by the Siamese twins.
MONEY IN THE BANK
Trends toward larger junior college enrollments and vocationalization of junior college education are under way on the college front. Dr. Walter C. Eels, executive secretary of the American Association of Junior Colleges, recently reviewed the situation when he said, “Combined, with vocational training, the , junior colleges offer a general education which fits the student to be a better citizen as well as a better wage-earner.”
At the present time three-fourths of the junior college students are taking courses which can be completed within two years. Upon graduation they will take vocational and technical training instead of university courses.	/
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr.........Managing	Editor
Daniel Downey..............Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds..............Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker.........Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan.................Promotion Ted Weber.................Photo	Editor
George Thompson..............Art	Editor
James Chrisovergis....Staff photographer Gail Fitch, Jr...............Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New. York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame. Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Students in Assumption Procession 3
Dining Hall Situation ......i...  5
New York Trip Favored ____.._______ 7
ADMINISTRATION
Inter-American , Seminar Here....... 9
Noted Alumnus, J. G. Mott, Dies.... 9
SPORTS
N.R.O.T.C. and Dillon take Base-
’ ball Lead ;....________________-15
Third Boxing Showri.______:________15
Peasenelli Teaches Tetherball ........18
FEATURES
The College Parade ____1;..____..... 4
The Telescope	    6
-	The Clubs..._____________________ 7
.	^The,W^ek.„C.;„'..,.....:...„	.14
. Short-Shots, ______________1 ......18
Introducing ,	 .......20
Pressbox4Spliriters.___..........._21
• - "Cover Photo:by Cacciapaglia from a ..Painting by Gaueli Giovanni Battista in 1-the Wightman Art Galleries.
DINING HALL FEELS IMPACT OF WAR PRIORITIES;
STUDENTS FACE CAF CONVERSION, FOOD SHORTAGE
The University Dining Hall, under the management of Mr. E. F. Connolly, is being considerably handicapped by priorities in taking care of local needs, Mr. Connolly announced this week. The attitude of some students, in regard to meals served, definitely reflects the lack of recognition on the students’ part of the seriousness of war and the consequent difficulty of providing food at Notre Dame for very large numbers w’ho insist on eating regularly and eating well.
Contrary to opinion, Notre Dame has no priority on food, either for the students or Navy. The status here is the same as that of private consumers. Government requisitions on various commodities affect.local residents in the. same manner as other civilians throughout the country.
Mr. Connolly stated that present prices on various meats are up 50 per cent overlast year, the highest in. 13 years. In reply to orders sent in, many leading meat companies assert they can promise nothing definite in deliveries. Beef, pork, veal and lamb, upon which. the dining hall relies heavily, are at a premium, and can be obtained only after government orders have been filled. Since the ‘ entire University uses the staggering
amount of 15 tons of meat per week, it is evident that local patrons will feel the effects of shortage. .
In the line of fruits, all canned pineapples are out of the question, as are apricots, and, possibly very soon, pears. The dining hall was counting on dried fruits to fall back on, but recent requisitions have also stopped all civilian consumption of this.
. Milk, formerly first on the local beverage list, has gone up, for bulk consumption, 75 per cent over last year. Even as served in bottles it is 50 percent higher. In one day, from 10 to 12,000 half-pint bottles are used in both dining halls and cafeteria. Considering the price rise together with bottle breakage, it is evident that providing milk for the University presents a grave problem.	'
According to Mr. Connolly, there is no -reason to expect better conditions along this line in the immediate future. Since no ceiling has been put on farm products, nothing is to be looked for but a. continued rise in present prices. ‘
Besides this very positive effect the war has had on food, the dining hall has had to face a serious shortage of labor.
Defense jobs and selective service have taken all workers between 20 and 50, so that now there is nothing left but the two extremes to fill open positions. This fact and that of the normal quota of students returning in the fall constitute the 5 two conditions necessitating the east hall’s conversion to a cafeteria. When the . latter is realized, both halls will be large enough to serve the entire student body and the Navy, under a program of shifts, and will require only one half as many waiters and set-up workers.
A plan is now being worked out whereby certain students will be directed to a particular entrance to the dining halls which will lead to a' specific service center. Another wartime innovation will be the use of compartment trays such as the Navy is now using in the west Kall. As the war goes on, many undesirable features will undoubtedly arise but students must remember that they are living in a trying period of war, and endeavor to cooperate insofar as they can with the changes on the campus which the war necessitates. Meantime Mr. Connolly and his staff will endeavor to present the best service possible in this hour of national emergency. It would be nothing less than unpatriotic for his clientele to accept this emergency in a manner other than the . good grace which the present exigency challenges.
No Band For Ball Yet;
Call For Songwriters
It is estimated that at least 18 bands ranging from Warings Pennsylvanians have already been engaged for the Senior Ball, but Pete Moritz says no. Pete is general chairman; so he has the facts. Besides reporting there is nothing like a war to make the job of a Ball committee tough, Chairman Moritz vowed that the band would be signed and its name announced within five days. This last he was willing to. back up with the life of Lee Raymond, music chairman; Raymond is reaching-bandleaders the country over . through Chicago agents..
In other sectors the Centennial Senior Ball is rapidly taking shape. The favors committee, headed by Tom Sweeney, has . completed its business, but the nature of its choice will be a secret until Ball night. Ed Cummings made quick work of . his programs assignment and Jack Jeakle is almost up with the Tea Dance bulletin.
- -	■	5
Apparently, last hopes for a candle-light supper went out with the University’s announcement last week that the East dining hall would soon be serviced cafeteria style.
Again, Chairman Moritz had a word for a song—the song some Senior will write and hear played by the Ball orchestra. He advised contestants to bend to the task as some men are known to have their entries all but finished. Lee Raymond, 251 Alumni, is the mailing address.—George Kelly
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
FRIDAY, August 14: “Notre Dame Newscast,” WSBT, 3:30. What’s new on the campus with Pischke and Johnson at the mike.
Movie, “Shadow of the Thin Man.” Information, s’il vous plait; news.
Week-enders off for a gay time.
SATURDAY, August 15: Feast of the Assumption. (See special article appearing in this issue). No classes!
“Notre Dame Forum of the Air,” WSBT, 12:30. Inter - Americanism. Joe Rud, news moderator.
’ Movie, “Vatican; Telltale Heart”; News. Prices change at 3 and 7:29 p.m.
“Notre Dame Quiz Show,” WSBT, 5:00. Clowning by Curtin and Downey.
SUNDAY, August 16: Shucks, Gladys is up at the lake with her folks this week-end. Well, there’s always Sybil. (Eh gad, no!).
MONDAY, August 17: Classes again— Freshmen scream with glee!! Stu' dent-Prof. meeting, Rockne Lounge, 7:30. Dr. Karl Menger, guest.
TUESDAY, August 18: You name it.
WEDNESDAY, August 19: “Sportcast,” WSBT, 3:30. Moritz and Raymond.
Economic Round Table Meeting.
THURSDAY, August 20: A Wranglers meeting. They wrangle.
RUMOR OF THE WEEK: Walsh and Sorin move off-campus to make way for large navy contingent arriving Sept. 1.
Reporter Yooks At Boats;
Finds Interesting Facts
Over on St. Joseph’s Lake there are some odd boats and some common boats, new ones and old ones and there are some interesting facts about them.
That large silver life-boat anchored near the student swimming pier is the
one used for training the N.R.O.T.C. cadets; it is used about once a week. The boat is the regulation life-boat used by the U. S. Navy; it is about 22 feet long and has a 19-man capacity. Usually 10 rowers and a coxswain man it here, though.
On the other side of the lake is a nameless craft that was built by Brother Austin, C.S.C., in four months. It is a sail-boat that can hold three persons, but unfortunately there never seems to be enough wind on St. Joseph’s Lake to really get her going well. Brother Austin says that it is an “unsinkable, self-bailing, self-righteous, craft.” In other words it is foolproof. This vessel is 12 ft., 3 ins. long, and has a beam of 48 inches.
The bright blue, rectangular, flat-bottomed row boat that is tied up next to the Community House was built by Father Lange, C.S.C., who is a carpenter by hobby. He has his workshop in the old natatorium where he turns out everything from ship models to book stands. This boat, now on the lake, was built last spring and is named the “Admiral Nimitz-General MacArthur” — quite a name for a lowly rowboat.
The other four craft are the kind of rowboats that are seen on practically every lake. There is one for the Community infirmary, one for Moreau Seminary, another for the Community House, and then, of course, the life-guard’s.
—Bob Sinkle
Third Summer Concert
Presented By N. D. Band
Last Tuesday evening at 7:30 the University Band under the direction of Walter E. Cleland, guest conductor, presented the third of its series of summer twilight concerts on the lawn in front of the Administration Building. This was the first public appearance of the band since Mr. Cleland has taken over
and the results were every bit as pleasing as those under Mr. Wiltse who left some two weeks ago.
Highlight of the program was an exhibition in baton twirling by Mr. Nearle Smith of Mishawaka, Ind. Mr. Smith has had much experience in this field and at present is conducting classes for the younger group in and around South Bend.
A varied program was offered to the large crowd that filled the quadrangle. Patriotic airs were numerous, but classic music was not forgotten. The most popular of the compositions was a medley of the best known numbers of the immortal
Victor Herbert. Johann Strauss’ “Blue Danube” was ably presented as the closing number.
The program was as follows:
Star Spangled Banner
Rustucon -----------------------Carl Frangkiser
King Cotton (March)__________John Philip Sousa
Cavitina ------------------------Joachine	Raff
Pasadena Day (March)_________________________M.	Vessela
Moonlight on The Nile_______________K. L. King
Victor Herbert’s Favorites______Victor Herbert
Arr. by M. L. Lake
Lights Out (March)________________E. E. McCoy
Jingle, Jangle, Jingle.___________Loesser-Lilly
Melody A La King.__________________K. L. King
The Vanished Army (March)____Kenneth J. Alford Blue Danube Johann Strauss
Notre Dame Songs
—C. S. Coco
Valuable Stamps On Display in Library
s A collection of rare and interesting stamps, valued at several hundred dollars, has been put on display in the catalog room of the University library. The stamps themselves have a local attachment since most of them are written to, or from, members of the faculty over a period of almost a century.
One rare cover, postmarked in Bataan this past January, contains the report of Notre Dame’s Father Duffy. There are also several Hawaiian stamps with the envelopes addressed by the famous leper priest, Father Damien, dated 1886.
An early stamp issued by the Postmaster General, without the consent of an act of Congress, is contained in the display. The stamps are pale blue and have a value of five cents when bought, but now are worth much more, as they were outlawed in 1851.
Several issues of 1869 are valued at $77 and a special Thomas Jefferson cover of April 12, 1870 is valued today at $45. There is an interesting block of 1861 12 cent stamps, which unused are worth $7,000 on the market! However, those displayed are cancelled.
The University has played some part in the issuance of stamps in the past, for the design of the ten cent stamp, used in a special series to commemorate the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893, is taken from the mural by Luigi Gregori on the wall of the Main building. It shows Columbus presenting American Indians at the court of Spain.
There are many other odd stamps on display together with a papal bull of Pius VII, a letter signed by former King Carlos of Spain, a papal letter to the bishop of Ft. Wayne in 1864 from Pius IX. The latter pope also wrote a letter to Orestes A. Brownson which is contained in the display.
| *J/te CluJti |
Economic Round-Table
Hears O'Neill on Prices
Wednesday evening, at the weekly Economic Round - Table Meeting - Dinner at the Morningside Hotel, Bill O’Neill, an Alumni senior, outlined price control as it exists in wartime. “The first thing to remember is this,” said O’Neill, “this is not a complete analysis of price control. Such a survey would require the services of a certain Leon Henderson. I am no Leon Henderson. Hence this paper does not intend to probe into the intricacies of price control, its numerous ramifications, its possible results. But I shall try to give a brief picture as seen through the eyes of the average American.”
Mr. O’Neill asserted that the price control device is undoubtedly constitutional. “It is almost certain that if a test case on this should come before the Supreme Court it would be declared constitutional. However, it is highly improbable that such a case will arise.”
“Price control, to be effective, must be complete. For instance, should the control fail to keep the price of a certain raw material at a reasonable level, then companies using that material and selling their products at a controlled price, would inevitably incur a serious loss. For example, should the price of timber be free from control and the price of paper be controlled, then the price of timber will rise during wartime. The paper producer will have to buy paper at a high price; yet he will be forced to sell his product at a controlled price. The result? Continued loss during wartime, possibly eventual bankruptcy.”
In this respect, Mr. O’Neill stated that to be totally effective, wages and farm prices must fall beneath the scope of Leon Henderson. He believes that if purchasing power is allowed to accumulate in the hands of consumers because of increasing wages, and farm prices are uncontrolled, then these prices will skyrocket on the competitive market due to this surplus of purchasing power. “Market price is established by the interaction of supply and demand. One factor controlling demand is the purchasing power of the prospective buyer. If his purchasing power is great, the supplier will naturally take advantage of this and withhold his goods till the buyer meets his ‘ price.”
Finally Mr. O’Neill paralleled the British, Canadian, and American systems of price control to show that com
plete price control is the only way of combating a serious domestic problem in war time.
The speaker for next week is as yet unannounced.
Bob LeMense Outlines
Propaganda Methods
Contrasting dictatorial and democratic methods of propagandizing, Robert LeMense presented a paper on the “Propaganda in the Present War” to members of the Wranglers last night.
He opened his paper with outlines of democratic and totalitarian propaganda and plans for it. He correlated this material with an explanation of the general misconception of the term and set up what he termed a correct interpretation of the term. He closed his paper by presenting a plan that outlined the means and methods of enlightening the public.
Commerce Forum Issues
Prospectus For Fall
Officers of the 1942 Commerce Forum this week released a prospectus of the club, outlining membership qualifications, plans, and committees for the coming year. Composed of students in the College of Commerce who boast of averages above 82 per cent and have clean disciplinary records, the Forum will this year be directed by Gail Fitch, Jr.
Last year about 325 members were enrolled in the club but this number has dropped off during the summer semester. The membership drive is still on. Due to the seasonal conditions, meetings are being held every three weeks instead of bi-weekly. The policy is to alternate an entertainment meeting with educational features.
Sports are the main part of the summer program; a golf tournament, softball team, and tennis tournament are being arranged by members of the Forum. Bill Moorhead, Jim McElroy, and Bob Short are directing these activities, while Blair McGowan is making plans for a Forum picnic.
The Fall schedule includes plans for a series of discussion groups and some type of dance, perhaps after one of the football games.
Students Poll New York
For Fall Football Trip
New York with all its glamor, excitement, and millions of people to see, places to go, and things to do, is, according to the Notre Dame men, the ideal location for the student trip this fall. New York means the Yankee Stadium, the Cadets,
two great football teams, and finally the bright lights and music to take up the slack in the tension and excitement of the afternoon. All these elements, so says the student, make up for the long and tiresome train ride.
This poll, which covered each of the seven residence halls, shows that out of the 14 students questioned, 11 preferred the New York trip, with the remaining three looking toward Cleveland. One very optimistic gentleman had his eye on Loa Angeles. '
Floyd Richards, 311 Sorin: “I would like to make the trip to New York because the Army game is always one of the most outstanding and colorful of the year.”
John Forster, 306 Cavanaugh: “I’d like to go to New York; it has more to offer for people who have never been there.”
Gene Moore, 285 Dillon: “New York: it’s closer to home and always a good ■ game and a big thrill.”
Ted Manyak, 405 Breen-Phillips: “It doesn’t make much difference, but, I suppose New York.
Steve Weigle, 208 St. Ed’s: “I’ll take Cleveland. I think it will be the best game.” -
Dick Kisgen, 208 Sorin: “I’d like to have it in New York because I have never been there and the Army game is always colorful.”
Jack Tallett, 261 Alumni: “I’d prefer New York because I have never been there.”	.
Dick Brydges, 335 Walsh: “I’d like to go to New York because there you find other things besides the football game to provide the entertainment.”
Bill Rich, 213 Dillon: “New York for me; I live there and so does Grace.”
Mike Mitchell, 241 Breen - Phillips. “Make it New York. It is always a good game and you can have a lot of fun there.”
Frank Kiely, 208 St. Ed’s: “I think I would like to go to Cleveland. That Navygame looks good.”
Sam Molter, 330 Alumni: “I suppose New York—more chance to operate and we always have a good game there."
Eddie Dowling, 114 Walsh: “I’d rather go to Cleveland; New York is old to me now.”
Herb Clark, 258 Cavanaugh: “I’ll take New York. A good time was had in the East last year in Baltimore. New Yors ought to be good for a repeat.”
7
SUN SEEKERS MOVE FROM LAMP TO ROCKNE ROOF;
60 "BATHERS'' DAILY SPREAD RUMORS, SWAT FLIES
JAMES DOWNEY
The Sun-Boof of the Bockne Memorial, located west of the light apparatus room, has become an outdoor facsimile of the famous winter sun-lamp. It is estimated that approximately sixty students, faculty members, and Navy men enjoy these facilities on an average fair day. There is a fine spirit of cooperation to be found there. Everyone helps himself to a pad from the convenient pile and returns it upon leaving, thus keeping the pads from becoming red hot while lying out in the sun. There are no rules or regulations, no do’s or don't’s. Every one simply enjoys a few brief moments of relaxation.
From the looks of some of these cultivated sun-tans to be seen on numerous suave Seniors it would seem that the various Seminars are held on the Sun-Boof of the Memorial. Those neglected students who do not have a Seminar in Education or Philosophy find time to enjoy old Sol daily at ten, two and four. In the past, pictures of students at Southern-Cai or the University of Miami absorbing knowledge and sun light simultaneously have caused quite a furor here. But besides the co-eds, the beach, the ocean, and sundry other accidental anomalies of University life, .our Seniors have found a way to make this Mid- . western oasis a summer resort-of no mean distinction.
Many an inhabitant of Alumni or Sorin can be seen headed for the Bock, book in arm, where Tommy Mills has supplied these luxurious beach pads so that the body beautiful will be comfortable in the process of ultra-violet con
winging for the high altitudes again. At . , this point in the war five Seniors, have	among professors that the student body
become Aces, each having knocked down	is in, a state of lethargy, • and the latest
or disabled 30 flies in one day’s ac-	report from the Student Activities Countion. Tommy Mills believes he has a	cil seems to verify this fact. Several
defensive weapon to. counteract, these	months .ago Walt Jones president of the
gleam that has been seen in the eyes of Hghtning-like thrusts. , ■ . .	.Council, jounced that there would be
, . ,	,	,,	. -r,	. „ T,	-	• J a.prize of $15 awarded to the author or
certain boys from the.“Sorin Boost. It ... The one distinctive element about the the best cheer1 sone or idea for the comis rumored that the “pads” on the Sun- Bockne Sun-Boof is thatjt is, the only :	„rfdiron season To- date about 15
Boof are better than the beds in Sorin., -place in the world which is bombed con	£ L 'j	-, j, k
n	nv, ■	,	,	Domoea con- . entrles have been made, several of which
One of those pads could cause quite an .. stantlv. vet never undene-oe^ anv block' • . i.’ '	■ ’ - ■ -1'
•	™	yeu never imuergoes any Diack, - have some merit. But it is deemed
improvement in any room at the ‘roost. - out drills	.... -.	. , ,	' -	,
; - .	' •	- that these are not sufficient to close the
Besides the element of vitamin con-	.	.- ------- ------ contest. - Consequently, it. will be held
tent to be garnered, the Sun-Boof has k .	.. -	-	. oyer until? early in the. fall semester,
other potentialities. Few know that the Main Building Murals	- thus .giving ..the; new Freshmen a chance
sumption. -The Alumni contingent feels
source, of all local rumors, at least this summer, is various “dreamers” basking.
’"there in the sun light. .. .	-
A typical example: Two friends come up together and verbosely. proceed to
Gregori was commissioned by Father . : The entries already submitted will be Sorin,to paint murals on the walls of ‘the '•;	. kept, until, a ' final - decision has been	\	.
: Administration Building. Today his fam- .	reached.; If, in the interim between now	j
...	— ------ , , and late September, anyone, should stum,	floor corridor and;cover the. concave .of -	ble upon a stray idea don’t fail to send it	.
invariably slip in the old “did you hear ; the Dome. With the aid of egg-white	in to the Student Council. That stray	.
about the new set-up we are 'going to ... andturpentine,commingled .with natural?, : ideamay.be worth $15.—James Downey
- propound their numerous theories con- . Administration Building. Today his faTn-cerning the ideal university. In the midst ous murals' line the walls, of; the first of their broadcast to each other one will 1
have?” At this the other, tan-aspirants look like pointers: their ears prick up so as not to miss a word—but inevitably they miss the source from which the present fellow got his information. Nev- -ertheless, the fife is started and on goes this fresh rumor until, finally an utterance from the President drives it down a dead end, street, where it is hacked to pieces by a little cold logic.
30
Dive bombers seem to be the most dreaded and potent factor in this present war. And as yet we have heard of .no cowardice in our armed forces... But when a squadron of flies dive-bombed a sailor on the Sun-Boof yesterday it was terrific. He had just returned from active . duty on the Pacific and he swore the Japs had nothing on local squadrons. The F. B. I. is sending a man out here to investigate the possibility of a. hidden air base somewhere on the Bock roof. It seems the enemies drop down from the higher altitudes of. the main roof, knife their way through the outer defense of swinging, arms, and legs, and with a few ’
short bursts of their feelers they-are
D II I L \/	to show. the.residual element of the stu-
Recall Columbus Voyage
dent body a. truer type of Notre Dame
. Back in 1882_an Italian painter named	•	. .
paints, Gregori devoted two years to the history of Columbus’ great discovery.
In painting these murals, now valued at half a million dollars, Gregori used Father Thomas Walsh, C.S.C., second < president of the University, as his model
for Columbus. .However, in the last mural, Death of Columbus, Father Sorin modeled for. him. It did not take long for the murals to become extensively popular. The one titled The Return of Columbus amd His Reception at the Court was used as the theme, of the Columbia Exposition in 1892. And another, Taking Possession of the Neiv World, has many times been reproduced in print for history textbooks. ’
The first- two murals in the corridor are individual paintings of Isabella and Columbus. Two small ones show Colum- . bus first at the gate of the Convent of -. La Babida and, later, receiving the blessing of Father Perez before the embarkation, which, significantly, took place 450 . years ago this August fifth at 8:30 in. the morning. Other murals picture the treasurer' of Aragon, the priestly pro. tectoi- of . Columbus, and the mutiny aboard ship at sea. The four remaining murals are the largest. They depict Columbus’ landing, his reception in Spain, his betrayal by . Bobadilla, and his death at Valladolid in 1506.
(Editor’s note: It was on August 16, -1492, that Columbus sailed for the first .time in quest of a new route to the Indies).—Bill Talbot
Cheer-Leading Contest Due For Fall Renewal
It seems to be the consensus of opinion ’
8
/latninlibbcditM Newi.
PRESIDENT OF UNIVERSITY ISSUES OPEN LETTER TO STUDENT BODY
Considerate and of timely importance was the open - letter issued Wednesday evening by Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, President of the University, to the student body of Notre Dame. At the same time, the letter marked a departure from the usual custom of convocation heretofore ‘employed by Father O’Donnell.
.The letter was in fulfillment of the pledge made earlier in the year by the President of the University, to keep the students accurately informed of develop- . ments vital to their welfare in the current emergency. Likewise, the official announcement served to dissipate, many - groundless rumors now prevalent on the campus. ,	. .	.
The letter was issued in preference to the usual convocation in an effort to' spare the students the inconvenience which such a gathering and" the August ; . heat would entail.	•
After thanking: the -undergraduates . for their recognition of new exigencies for their spirit of cooperation, and for ’ their understanding of the University’s' problems during.the present term now drawing to a close, "Father O’Donnell an- . nounced the proposed installation of a new-cafeteria service in the east dining hall. He likewise touched upon the leave of absence granted to several'members ‘ of the faculty who are entering the service, the difficulty experienced by the dining halls in securing food in the quantity . and quality to which Notre Dame is accustomed, and the labor shortage which . seriously rimpairs the smooth maintenance of the University’s physical plant.
Of special interest and directness were -the words relative to military service wherein Father O’Donnell wrote:	. '
“You have one problem, that overshadows all. others—your future. You must solve it for yourself, but Notre Dame • , well help you if she can. With this idea in mind I went to Baltimore to attend a -meeting of presidents of American col-■ leges aiid universities held by the Ameri-•can Council of Education to discuss the war as.it affects you. The meeting urged prompt development of plans providing for a ‘continuous and adequate supply of ; men and women trained in technical ■ ‘ skills and in leadership to meet both immediate and long-range [war] needs.’
“Because of the several convocations that Father Trahey has held, you 'have official information about your personal problem. Therefore, if you are approaching military age, I advise you to ignore rumors regarding academic deferment and take advantage of the-opportunities in the various service branches open to college men. I urge, you to confer with your parents as soon as possible in order to avoid a delay that you may regret. ■Meanwhile, your opportunity., in any branch of the service will depend largely on your scholastic record in college. Apply yourselves diligently to your- studies.
“If. I, my office, or any member of the administration can help you, you have only to remember that, always and especially in times of ^stress, the family of Notre Dame stands together. It might be well, for you to send a copy of ’this letter home so that your parents may know what advice Notre Dame is giving you.” ■	.	...	‘
The letter closed on a. gracious note of approval of student conduct manifested . thus far, together* with the verification of the announcement that semester examinations had been advanced to August 31 and September 1. A final note, characteristic of all of Father O’Donnell’s utterances to the student body, was his fervent appeal to. his readers that they place their cause in the hands of the Blessed Mother:	‘	.
“If you are tempted to become discouraged, as you may ;be;. if the problems that confront you seem insurmountable, as they sometimes will, turn to her, strong in the knowledge of her power as the mediatrix before the Throne of God.” -
California Alumnus, '95, Dies in Midst of Plea
John Griffin Mott, Los Angeles pioneer and graduate of Notre Dame in the 90’s, died in Los Angeles last month. Known and respected throughout his career as a civic and Christian leader, Mr. Mott collapsed while delivering a plea for an assessment reduction on charitable organizations. Perhaps sensing what was to come, Mr. Mott had spoken briefly of his early life and work in California. After he had turned to two nuns present' in the Hall of Records and'said: “These
sisters are giving their lives—” her collapsed and shortly afterwards died. r
Mr. Mott’s final plea was not unheeded -as a 50 per cent horizontal cut in the assessed valuations of hospitals was ordered by the Board of Supervisors after the meeting. When , told of Mott’s death, Joseph Scott, a fellow Los Angeles attorney said: “He died just as he would have wanted to—in the harness, working in the cause of humanity.”
. John G. Mott	,
Mr. Mott’s list of achievements a? a Los Angeles pioneer is a long one. He •was a leader.in the movement to conk solidate San Pedro with Los Angeles and : in the campaign to finance the construc-. tion of the Owens River Aqueduct, which according to a Los Angeles paper, “made possible the astounding - growth of Los Angeles.” He was chairman arid director of several insurance and trust companies and active in* various clubs.	.
His mother was Ascension Sepulveda,', descendant of a land-holding California family. His father, Thomas Mott, has been called.“The. father of Los Angeles” and was a ’49’er.	‘	.
. He was bom in Los Angeles in 1874 and after primary schooling attended, and graduated from St. Vincent’s College (now Loyola University). He then en-
, tered Notre Dame and received a Bachelor of Law degree in 1895 and a Bach- -. elor of Literature diploma one yearlater.
9
He later received a Master of Laws from Catholic University of America.
The meeting was stunned as the 67 year old man collapsed, while civic and medical leaders rushed to him. He was carried into an adjoining office where at first no heart flutter could be detected. The last rites of the church were admin-
PROMINENT LATIN AMERICANS TO BE PRESENT At N. D. SESSION OF INTER-AMERICAN SEMINAR
When the University of Notre Dame is host to a session of the Inter-American Seminar on Social Studies August 31, two bishops, the rectors of the two Catholic universities of Colombia, four other priests and several laymen will be among the 13 prominent Latin Americans attending the meeting on the campus. Richard Pattee, assistant chief of culture relations in the United States Department of State, will accompany the group as interpreter.
The Seminar, which is conducted under _ the auspices of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, will open in Washington, D. C., on August 23. After a week of meetings there, it will leave Washington Sunday evening, August 30, and arrive at Notre Dame the following Monday morning. Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., professor of Spanish at the University, will deliver the welcoming address at a breakfast to be given for the group. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., chairman of arrangements for the Notre Dame session will also, speak at this time.
The meeting is to be held in the Rockne Memorial Lounge from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Topics of discussion will be the education of Latin Americans in American Catholic universities and in Latin American universites. Another part of the meeting will be devoted to the subject of Catholic universities’ contributions to the solution of social, economic and political problems. The object of this subject matter for the Notre Dame session is to make an attempt at effecting a unified Catholic program that will be operative in the two Americas and one that will meet group conflicts inevitable after the war. The general theme of the Seminar is “The Americas and the Crisis of Civilization.”
The combined group of Latin Americans and some 15 of the University’s faculty members who have been invited to attend the campus session will lunch to-■ - gether at 12:30. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, .
C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will be present at the luncheon.
Mexico, Cuba, Venezuela, Colombia;
10
istered by Msgr. Thomas J. O’Dwyer general director of the Catholic Welfare Bureau. Then a slight heart movement was detected and Mr. Mott was rushed to St. Vincent’s Hospital, the organization he had been vigorously defending when seized. He died shortly afterwards.
—Ted Weber
Brazil, Ecuador, Chile and Argentina are among the Latin American countries that will be represented at the Seminar.
Latin Americans, all leaders in the Catholic social movement in their own countries, who will take part in the Notre Dame sessions, include: The Most Rev. Miguel Dario Miranda, Bishop of Tulancingo, Mexico; the Most Rev. Miguel de Andrea, of Buenos Aires, Titular Bishop of Temnus; the Very Rev. Felix . Restrepo, S. J., Rector Magnificus of the Pontifical University of Bogota, Colombia; the Very Rev. Felix Benao Botero, Rector of the Catholic University of Medellin, Colombia.
Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C.
The Rev., Antonio Brambila, of Coyo-acan, Mexico, writer on social questions; . Monsignor Oscar Larson, of the Catholic University of Chile, Santiago; the Rev. Alphonso Castiello, of Mexico City, Catholic youth leader; Dr. Jose Vieira Coelho, of Rio de Janeiro.
Rafael Caldera, scholar, author and house member, Venezuela; Dr. Julio Tobar Bonoso, statesman and Catholic leader, of Quito, Ecuador; Ur. Paul Maestri, economist and publicist, of Havana, . Cuba, and Efrain Gonzales Luna, scholar and Catholic leader, of Guadalajara, Mexico.	,
The last issue of the summer . SCHOLASTIC will come out Fri- . day, August 28. There will be no ; SCHOLASTIC next week; instead „ “Scrip,” the University literary ' magazine, is scheduled for appearance.	-	~
Ind. Acad, of Social Sciences To Meet in October
According to Prof. Wesley C. Bender, president, and Prof. Edmund A Smtih, chairman of the arrangements committee, plans for the fall meeting of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences (which was incorrectly referred to as the Indiana Academy of Science in Scholastic’s July 24 issue) are progressing sat
isfactorily. This meeting is one of the many such gatherings of learned soci-
Prof. Wesley C. Bender
eties which will meet at Notre Dame dur
ing the University’s Centennial year.
The dates for the Academy’s meeting have been definitely set for Oct. 30 and 31. According to the sectional' divisions of the Academy, there will be four meetings conducted simultaneously on the campus. In charge of each one of these programs (business administration, economics, sociology and government) is the particular executive of the Academy-representing his division. Thus Prof. Bender is personally arranging the program for the business administration meetings; and the vice-presidents of the Academy, Prof. P. S. Sikes of Indiana University (government), Prof. W. G. Mather of -Franklin College (sociology), and Prof. F. R. Ormes of Wabash College (economics) are planning their respective
programs.
To date Prof. Mather of the Sociology section has his program most advanced. The general topic will cover the effects of the war on various human relationships. It will consist of eight or nine short summaries of these effects in symposium style, followed by general discussions. Experts, to be named later,. will participate in the symposium.
Rev. Philip S. Moore is cooperating with the arrangements committee on behalf of the University. All faculty mem-hers and students are reminded that their' attendance at the meetings will be welcomed.
Fr. O'Neil Appointed To
Notre Dame Mission Band
Rev. John R. O’Neil, C.S.C., assistant professor of religion and speech at the University, has been appointed to the Notre Dame Mission Band. He will finish his teaching schedule for the summer semester and will then take up duty as a member of the Mission Band in the fall.	.
Father O’Neil has been at the University since 1936. He received his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1931 and his A.M. from Catholic University in 1936. It was Father O’Neil who organized the Speakers Bureau two years ago. As a student society the Bureau has been very active and has done excellent work since its inception.	.
Dr. McMahon Leaves for
Extended Speaking Tour
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, associate professor of philosophy at the University, left last Sunday for an extended speaking trip through Massachusetts and other eastern states.
Dr. McMahon, who is president of the Catholic Association for International Peace, is discussing in his speeches the general topic of the problems surrounding the winning of the war and of the peace. He began' his tour in Quincy and Lowell, Mass., Monday, and then went on to Fall River, Springfield, and Boston, Mass.
Visits to New York City and Washington, D. C. are also included in Dr. McMahon’s itinerary.
Valuable Paintings Are.
Presented to University
The University’s Wightman Memorial Art Gallery was greatly enriched last week by the gift of 15 paintings and two bronzes from Peter ,C. Reilly of Indianapolis, trustee of the University and holder of an honorary LL.D. degree from Notre Dame, bestowed on him in 1939. The paintings and bronzes are a continuation of the gift of seven paintings and three bronzes made by Mr. Reilly to the University last year. All these presentations will be transferred to a room in the library, "which is to be known as the Peter C. Reilly room.
The most notable of the 15 paintings is “St. John Baptist” by Raphael (born in Urbino in 1443—died in Rome in 1520). This painting by the famous ■ Italian shows St. John as a shepherd boy sitting on a lion skin and feeding a lamb, the red cloak and the staff in his hand blending in with the purity of the picture’s colors. “St. John Baptist” .ranks
■ among the finest paintings in the gallery.
Two paintings by Van Dyck and Rubens, each about 7% ft. by 5 ft., are also in the collection. One is entitled “Princess at Market” and the other “Pendandt Princess” (companion picture to “Princess at Market”). Both, are characteristic paintings of the Dutch school of the 17th century and were probably done while Van Dyck was a student at Rubens’ studio. The two pictures represent scenes in which the brilliant coloring and elegance of composition of the two great Dutch masters are clearly brought out in the commodities of a fruit market.
“Artist’s Sister,” a life-size picture distinguished by simplicity and dignity, is by James Carroll Beckwith, one of the outstanding American painters of the 19th century. His works are found in most of America’s major art galleries.
Two paintings, “Countess of Carlisle” and “Duchess of Richmond” by Peter Lely, are also to be found among the paintings. They are patterned after the Gainsborough-Constable school and are noteworthy for their deep animation and the warmness of their colors.
Probably the painting of greatest interest to the University family is the portrait of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., military delegate to the Army and Navy. The portrait, showing the bishop in his episcopal robes, was painted by Stanley Sascha Sessler, head of the University’s department of art, and will be added to the collection of presidential portraits hanging in the University parlors.
The other paintings are: “Countess of Erroll” by Sir Martin Shee, famous Irish portrait painter, who was at one time president of the Royal Academy of Art in Dublin; J. Richardson’s portrait of the Irish Nationalist leader and orator, Daniel O’Connell (from life, 1831); “Savior Appearing to St. Ignatius Loyola,” a , work done jointly by .Juan Castillo and his student, Esteban Murrillo; “St. Peter in Despair” by Giacoma Cavedome; “Cardinal’s Reception” by Isabey; “Mother and Child” by Guerra; “Squire Hallett” by Francis Wheatley; and “Tribute to Pan” by Barre.
The bronzes are “Arcadia”—Shepherd and Shepherdess, by S. Fiocclin and “Triomphe de la Verti” by Godet.
American History Course
Stressed by University
The University of Notre Dame is one of the two of 18 Indiana colleges and universities that make the study of United States history a requirement for graduation it was recently revealed in a survey ' conducted by the Indianapolis News.
Both in the colleges of Arts and Letters and of Commerce at the University, U. S. history is necessary for degrees. The subject, however, is not required for degrees in the Engineering and Science colleges. Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, is the other institution making the study of United States history a requisite for graduation.
The News survey was prompted by one conducted in June by the New York Times, which brought to light the fact that 82 per cent of the nation’s colleges do not require U. S. history for the undergraduate degree and that 72 per cent of the institutions of higher learning do not even include it as a prerequisite for admission. The Times survey further revealed that less than 10 per cent of the entire undergraduate body in the country was enrolled in United States history classes during the spring semester, while 30 per cent were taking European or world history courses.
According to the News survey, however, the situation in Indiana is somewhat better than the national average. In spite of the fact that only two of the 18 colleges require the course for graduation, 40 to 60 per cent of this year’s graduating classes in five Hoosier institutions took courses in United States -history.
Father Brown Doing
Parish Work in South Bend
Rev. Francis C. Brown, C.S.C., assistant professor of German at Notre Dame, left the campus last week to assume the duties of pastor at St. Mary’s Church,
Rev. Francis C. Brown, C.S.C.
German parish in South Bend. This is Father Brown’s first assignment in parish work. His classes at the University will be taken over by Prof. George J. Wack.
Father Brown has been a member of the University’s faculty since the September of 1936. He received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1917 and did graduate work at Catholic University. Father Brown taught German at the University of Portland, Ore. from 1922 until 1925 and at St. Edward’s University, Texas from 1925 until 1936.
.	—Francis Kearns
11
i il . —:	-■ -	*	'* ■' ~ *" , -
> > > > Mauy at Motte ^ba^te * ■ , , ■,
-	'	—	~	~	....	-J!	- _■=.=	....... M.
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
By the Public Relations Officer
This writer has been all-out in demanding a second front, until we began thinking, instead of just talking about it. What do we know about opening a second front hi Europe? When you stop to analyze it, nothing. We’ll still match that knowledge against any average person who clamors for a new front. We are not dropping our second front ideas and hopes because we think nothing can. or will be done. Far from it. Something had better be done before Sept. 15, to relieve the pressure on Russia, or days will add months to the war.
But we have a hunch. We believe that our military leaders want to win this war almost as much as we do. Now if those military leaders should start telling our local governments what to do about local civic problems, they would be told in short order to stick to the task they are suited to direct. For some reason, that psychology does not apply to the men in and out of uniform, who insist on telling our military leaders what to do, regardless of whether we know the whole situation.
Military men realize what offensives cost in material and human lives. A tactical Blunder, caused by desk-pounding politicians, who want to hide pre-Pearl Harbor sentiments and look forceful by their second front assertions, could be very costly and accomplish nothing. We might as well face the facts. Military leaders like MacArthur, King, or Spaatz will not be stampeded into launching a campaign that will cost more than it will gain.	• ' ■ '
To bur leaders, war is not something run according to box office or popular demand. It is something they were studying, and preparing for (in event it happened) when the rest of us were looking for the “two chickens in every pot” back in ’28.
What should we do?
'We should remember two basic things. -The first was said by Hitler. “Divide and Conquer” is the title to a whole chapter in Mein Kampf. He’s trying to do that right now, and the second front shouting is right down his alley. We’ll have that front, and soon, but the plans will not be published in your local news- , paper.	-
12	•. . .. '	' .
Secondly we can become soldiers and not admirals or generals. That doesn’t mean to become sheep who blindly follow a stray leader.' It means recognizing the truth that great leaders are made only because they have great soldiers. If we don’t believe in them whom can we trust in time of war? Your judgment? It’s no better than mine. Arid this writer, for one, thanks God we do have leaders who will not open a second front until every man in it has a fighting chance of .staying alive. We wonder if those, who demand a second front against the will of the military leaders, would be quite as anxious to see it happen....
If they had to help do it themselves.
In command of the Medical Corps at the Navy School. Joined the Navy in 1917 as a lieutenant, junior grade. Served as medical officer aboard troop ships during the First World War and was once in charge of a leper colony. Under submarine attack during the First World :War. Was once national A.A.U. champion of the low hurdles. Was the football team physician at the U. S. Naval Academy and fleet surgeon for the Atlantic Scouting Fleet. He is the holder of the First World War medal with bronze star for overseas duty.
Lieut. F. C. Dugan—Academy gradu-■ ate. Training officer at the Navy School.
Has served aboard battleships, destroy-- ers, supply ships in the Atlantic and
Pacific. Wears World Wai' I medal.
Lieut. C. W. Myers—Academy graduate. Discipline officer at the Navy School. From 1922 to 1924 was junior turret officer aboard the battleship Arizona, that was sunk last December 7 at Pearl Har- , bor. Wears World War I medal.
. Lieut. Kenneth-L Keepers—Academy graduate. Supervisor of buildings arid equipment at the Navy School. Previous-- ly stationed at the naval , air stations at Pensacola, Fla., and Corpus Christi, Texas.
❖	51s
: Lieut. D. J. Lloyd—Enlisted in Navy as seaman during First World War and '..earned himself the coveted berth at the ' Naval Academy, through his own efforts. Is. instructor in Navy Regulations at the Navy School.
- Lieut. J. K. Lord—Academy graduate. '■ Commander of the First Battalion at the
. Navy School. Enlisted in,ranks of Navy, during First World War and won appointment to Naval Academy;
.
Lieut; (J.G.) E. C. Fant—Georgia -Tech graduate. Trained with R.O.T.C. while in college and the field artillery of, : the,C.M.T.C. Commands the Fourth Battalion at, the Navy. School, which has won the coveted best battalion prize .
<. three times in a row.
.	_	v -	*	,	'•
Lieut. (J.G.) H. F. Smith—Academy ^■graduate. Served aboard the battleship
Mississippi. Part of his “hitch’’ on her /.was in, the No. 1 turret and the re-
MEET YOUR OFFICERS
Capt. H. P. Burnett—The “Skipper” of the Navy at Notre Dame. Graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md., in 1915. Served during the First World War aboard the flagship U.S.S. Pennsylvania on the staff of Admiral Henry T. Mayo, then command-er-in-chief of the United States Fleet. Commanded both destroyers and submarines. Was promoted to senior lieutenant-commander in 1925 arid in 1935 was upped to commander. He earned the four stripes of captain when he was sent to Notre Dame last September-to take charge of the University’s R. 0. T.'C. training. His decorations include the vic-. tory medal of the First World War, the second Nicarauguan campaign medal, expert rifleman’s badge, and Amercan Service medal with star. His submarine insignia is equivalent in the Navy to an aviator’s “wings.”
-■-J-.	..'*”***	-
-Lieut. Commander J. D. Shaw—-The executive officer. Began his Navy.career 19 years ago when he was graduated from.the U. S. Naval Academy, at Annapolis, Md. Served on battleship Maryland, destroyers and the gunboat Mindanao. During his term as executive officer .aboard the Mindanao she was stationed in the Far East during the outbreak of war between Japan and China. The Mindanao was in the area during the heavy bombings of Canton. Commander Shaw was also skipper of the destroyer John D. Ford which is still fighting somewhere in the Pacific. He has also seen service in the Philippines.
Commander J. E. Malcomson, (MC)—
mainder as engineering officer. Also was communications officer aboard the-Navy tanker Sepelo. Commands the Second Battalion. -	-
. - *
Lieut. (J.G.) A. P. Brown—Graduate of Southern Methodist University where he was a star athlete. Won letters in . basketball, baseball and golf. Since grad. uation and prior to receiving commission in Navy was connected with Diesel engine manufacturing concern in an administrative capacity. Commands First ' Company. ■ * * * ■
Lieut. Fred Denfeld—Attended Naval Academy where he was a football- star and won- place on Walter Camp’s All- ■ American. Athletic officer at Navy School.	-
'■
Lieut. E. H. Dunlap, Jr.—Academy graduate. Was wounded at Pearl Harbor. Has served on battleships, destroyers, . submarines and other types of naval ships during his training, and active service periods. Holds the Navy. Cross and ■ American Service Medal. Commands. • Third Battalion.
Lieut. (J.G.) Tom E. Brady—Otter- ‘ bein College graduate. Joined the Navy in 1940 as V-7 apprentice seaman. Had midshipman cruise on the battleship Ark- . ansas. Before entering Navy was production manager for large concern and also basketball official. Is aide to the Executive Officer at the Navy School. • ’ * * * . ’
Lieut. (J.G.) G. R. Brines—Graduate of Illinois Wesleyan where lie was active in both undergraduate work and athletics. At. the school here he is an instructorin rifle and sidearm practice. .
- - . ~ • ,
Lieut; (J.G.) C. B. Brouillette—Grad- . uate of Southern Illinois Normal University. Entered Navy as V-7. Cruised aboard U.S.S. Arkansas. Prior to coming to Navy School at Notre-Dame was at . Navy School (Radio) at Indianapolis, Ind. Commands Sixth Company. ’
Lieut. A. M. Babich—Graduate of . New Zealand College. Boxing champion . in college. Commissioned ensign in 1935. Served as disbursing officer, Destroyer Division 21. Stationed aboard U. S. S. . Kearny. Was on her when she was tor-’ - pedoed in North Atlantic. Is supply officer at Navy School.	'
* * * '
Ensign H. ,B. Miller—Graduate of the University of Illinois. Former advertising man from Jefferson Corners, HL, is en-. gaged in teaching Navy School trainees ' swimming and life saving. Before coming
to the Navy School, he was assigned to Great Lakes as communications officer.
..***•
Ensign E. C. Dollard—Graduate of the University of Wisconsin where he was editor of the year book and president of his class. Joined the Navy in September 1941 as public relations officer. Prior to assuming the duties as public relations officer at the Navy School, he was at Great Lakes and Fairfax Air Base, Kansas City, Mo. Before entering the Navy he was with a Chicago advertising firm and also wrote radio scripts. .
. * * * - . • '
Ensign L.-F. Chamberlain—-Graduate of Wabash College where he played end on the football team. He was also in the Golden Gloves tournaments. He is an instructor-in ordnance here.
. . . ' '.***- .
Ensign V. M. Dickerson—Graduate of Central State. College. Director of music at Luther High school, Luther, Okla. Received commission Sept. 12, 1941, after V-7 training. Cruised on U.S.S. New York and was on active, duty at Great Lakes before coming, here. Commands Seventh Company. Home town, Flafville, Okla.	-
Ensign H. J. Langen—Graduate of Whitewater State Teachers College. Taught school at East Dubuque, Hl. Commissioned, in September, '1941, and was assigned to Great Lakes before coming; here. He is a - mathematics instructor here.	. -
’ * * * - . '
Ensign R. M. Palmer—Academy graduate-. Was stationed at the’Naval Training-Station at San Diego before coming here. At the Navy School he is recreation and welfare officer. He is also in charge of the school choir.	-
-	4:	s£	'	*
Ensign Louis Ranchman—Graduate of the University of Cincinnati. Received commission in June 1941. Prior to his assignment to the Navy School here he was stationed , at the Naval Armory, Toledo,. 0.. He is an instructor in mathematics here.
•	Jjc 4j	.
Ensign G. R. SchlueterA—Attended the University of Iowa from which he en- . tered the Navy in -August, 1940. Mid-
shipman cruise on U. S. S. Arkansas. Is commander of the Eighth Company here.
*	4s & 4s	.	.	■
Ensign W. S. Davis—Academy graduate. Won Great Guns award for ability in gunnery at Academy. Ordnance in- . structor here.	’
4c	4=	-	* '
Ensign A. J. Kennedy, Jr.—Academy graduate. Also attended Citadel College for three years. He commands the Third . Company. - * * * -
Ensign: F. C. Rutherford—Graduate ’ of the University of California and the . Harvard School of Business Administration. Disbursing officer at the Navy . School. He comes from Potsburg, Calif. -
MEDICAL CORPS	'
Lieut. Commander H. S. Millett— -. Lake Forest College and University of Kansas graduate. Specialized in psychiatry and neurology before entering the Navy. Is second in command in the Medical Corps here.	,	-
■ - * * * .
Lieut. R. R. Rambo—Graduate of the University of Arizona and Harvard Med- -	-
ical School. Commissioned in Navy in ■ 1938 and has had sea duty with the fleet before being sent here.
• . , * * ~ _
Lieut. C. A. Gripkey—Graduate of.--University of Kansas. Chief resident ' surgeon at Crile Clinic, Cleveland, 0.	'
from 1933 to 1935. Teaching staff at U. of Kansas until summoned into the Navy -last year.	. ■
-	* * * . -
Lieut. (J.G.) B. K..Shafer—Graduate of West Virginia and Western Reserve University School of Medicine. Was assistant resident in medicine, University . hospitals, Cleveland, O. before entering the Navy. '	- .
DENTAL CORPS
Lieut. Commander H. W. Rinesmith—-	•
Graduate of University of Illinois and Washington University at St. Louis, Mo. Taught at Washington U. and practiced . 1 . in St. Louis. Called to active duty April, . 1942.•	’ ’	.
.	4s 41	,
Lieut. H. O. Gaebe—Graduate of the George Williams College and Northwest- . ern University. Center on All-City basketball team in Chicago where he later - . practiced dentistry. ■ Served at Great Lakes before coming here. ' - * * * ’ . . ’ ;
Lieut L. D. Reaves—Graduate of Washington University at .St. Louis/ .. Practiced in Deslogue, Mo. Been in the ’ Navy since early in 1941.	;; ;	.
-	: -	13	.	•
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK:
Student commits hari-kari.
JEEPERS LEEPERS!
It has been brought to our attention that the glee club was rather prominent in Leeper Park a couple of weeks ago. They gave a concert. "So that’s what they were doing” you’re all going to say. The sturdy little group stood in rain and fog as thick as soup and a lot of them came down with croup. Their first rendition as they waded in the St. Joe was "Three Little Fishes.” A trio of local girls thought they ■were being serenaded and came up for air. The boys stood along the shore ignoring such pleas as, “go take a running jump.” Instead they broke into song with “River Stay From My Door.” The finale was terrific. Mr. Pedtke swam under the Michigan Street bridge and the glee club marched over it singing, “You Keep Going Your Way etc.” The audience thought the boys meant them and took the hint. As the sun reflected through the smoke of the high rent district, we were carried away on wings of song and the last thing we remembered seeing was two lamb chops swimming ’round the bend of the St. Joe. They were the two that got away.
❖
LA DE DA
The thunder storms last week were a banging success to say the least. One of the boys woke out of a sound sleep and thought he’d been drafted and was in the Far East. He thought it was morning and the dawn had come up like thunder out of China cross the bay ... The swimming meet last Saturday afternoon was a huge success. As soon as they recover the body they’ll announce the winner of the high diving contest. Bob Reilly of Cavanaugh was terrific in. the two mile . dash and Jim “Rigormortis” O’Brien won the ten yard relay. “Stratte” Coorlas was still going strong when he broke the tape. He set a new wading record and was working under a handicap all the time too. The water was up to the ankles of most contestants while “Stratte” was wading along knee deep. . . Such characters they have working at the Philadelphia. “Indians,” “Frenchies,” and last but not least “Casaneti.” ... Theme song over in Doc McMeel’s office lately is. “Tommy girls.” (Sung to the tune of Danny Boy.). . . A thrill to every stu
14
dent is to rush back to his room Friday afternoon, pick up the Scholastic, leaf through it madly and see what happened twenty-five years ago today. Oh, it’s keen all right! — There’s been a new singing advertisement on the “Mourning Bugle” program these past few mornings. It’s one of those singing things for Mail pouch Cut Plug. “Boop hoop dittem-dottem watch ’em chew.... Cavanaugh lads are complaining that Dick “Iron Lip” Pedrotty is trying to push his lungs through that horn.... What is so rare as a day on the Notre Dame golf course when someone doesn’t cutin on the tenth?
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“I don’t care if it is the coach, fore! Fore! FORE!”
PAGING MAX ADLER
As long as the architects are going to have fancy coats with emblems on them the whole school may as well jump on the band wagon and follow suit. Here is a short preview of what the misdressed N. D. student will be wearing if present plans go through. Engineers will be sporting tin suits with their emblem, the slide rule, engraved where it’s usually seen. Pre-meds will wear frocks with stove pipe hats. Their insignia will be the long faces they were born with. Lawyers will wear what the average lawyer wears practicing a few years. We doubt if the authorities will let them rim about the campus in that condition though. Arts and Letters students will keep their present uniforms—no books, plenty of spare time, and lots of money. The yacht clubbers from Commerce will sport barrels, without cuffs, too, fellas.
QUIZ KIDS
Downey and Curtin have been giving away passes to the Palace the last few weeks in exchange for some dumb questions. The passes are good anywhere in the Palace before twelve in the afternoon or after twelve at night. They’re good for any seat in the fifth balcony. No fifth balcony? That’s because the people who sit up there are well camouflaged. They blend with the darkness. Back to the quiz program. Lyle Joyce comes on the air. with a piano background. Sometimes the piano is so loud, Lyle is the back-
ground but here come Downey and Curtin. “Hi Dow. Hi Curt.” These are the only intelligent things said all during the show. Joyce breaks in with recipes for Curtin’s Crummy Cheese Cake or Downey’s Dunkey Doughnuts. Both boys act suave when the girl contestant comes to the mike. Says Downey: “Hi!” Says Curtin: “My!” Everyone giggles and the show ends when they ring Down(ey) the Curtin. (Dja get it, Edgar?)
OVER THE BOUNDING MAIN
The R.O.T.C. unit has been training in the St. Joe Lake the past few days. The boys row back and forth getting used to pulling one of those life boats through the waves. The coxswain stands in the stern and gives the orders. Sounds something like this. “0. K. fellas, ready, stroke. All right let’s turn around and try again.” The cruise usually generates into a fishing party before the day is over. Right now the sailors are trying to find a new route to St. Mary’s via a water way. How silly!
OH AIN'T THE FUNNIES FUNNY?
Joe Palooka is getting to be an awful pain. By next week he should be selling bibles to the Germans. Now Tillie The Toiler has decided to join the W.A-A.C. Mac-may be diminutive but. we’ll bet he can pass the E.R.C. physical. Terry will most likely bring a few of his pirates over here to beat the Dodgers. They’ll all join up in the V-7 and get sent out here to Notre Dame. (Don’t forget the Dragon Lady Terry.) Mickey “The Mouse” Finn should have caught those fifth columnists by next Christmas. They wasted two weeks just getting them on the phone. Tim Tylor ought to die any day now. This isn’t a prediction; it’s a suggestion. Prince Valiant got back, just in time to open the second front and see his first air raid. Flash Gordon has girl friends all different colors but he still looks around. He ought to try the Rock. Dan Dunn has been laying eggs for months and now one has finally exploded. Jane Arden is selling Frank short. OUCH! Johnny Skylark found his rose in Crabtree Corners. Slats “verbooted” himself - right into the hospital. How about Dick Tracy? Well he and Little Awful Annie are doing fine.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
He was the only one who didn’t pass the E.R.C. physical.
Mabie ^bame &p&tiL
N.R.O.T.C. AND DILLON WITH FOUR VICTORIES EACH
SHARE INTERHALL BASEBALL LOOP LEADERSHIP
BILL BOSS
Although, the first round play-off will not be closed until the end of this week the second round of the interhall baseball
program is bearing along at a fast clip.
Alumni, fighting for the first round title, has been trounced four times thus far in the second round. The N.R.O.T.C.,
which has a good chance of becoming the first round winner when the tie con
tests are played off, is rushing along at a murderous gait. Last week the sailors dropped Zahm and. Cavanaugh in fast order and since have also beaten Breen-Phillips and Alumni.
The Cavanaugh Casey’s, the wailing crew, had their predictions of second round prominence blown right back in their faces. After copping their opening tilt with Breen-Phillips the jubilant Mud-ville crew dropped successive contests to the N.R.O.T.C., Walsh, and Zahm.
Dillon Hall which seems to be monopolizing summer interhall athletic activities is sharing the league lead with the sailors. The sophomore nine is improving daily and will clash with the N.R.O.T.C. this week to determine the league leader.
Walsh Hall, a strong contender, dropped a tilt to “Bud” Ahern’s Dillon-ites after nabbing two successive victories.
Father Ryan’s nine is backed by an abundance of words from its members and they feel they are going to come through to gamer the league leadership. With a platoon of hurlers working for them they should have little trouble presenting capable mound material. “Nibs” Trimbom, Bob Carpenter, and Ken Brown lead the hill parade. Dan Downey is a first rate catcher. Dick Bodie parks on first and plays an efficient game.
According to reports via Vignola, the voice, the keystone combination of Coor-las and Vignola is the best in the circuit. The few errors that the pair have had
chalked against them prove that they perform very well around the second sack.
Paul Larson, Norm Mueller, and Bob Carpenter make up the outfield and although speed is lacking power at the plate makes up for it.
Results: Dillon 13, Sorin 4; Walsh 7, Alumni 0 (forfeit); Zahm 5, Breen-Phillips, 0; N.R.O.T.C. 14, Cavanaugh 1; Sorin 7, Breen-Phillips 0; Walsh 5, Cavanaugh 2; Dillon 2, Zahm 1; N.R.O.T.C. 7, Alumni 0; Sorin 8, Alumni 5; Dillon 4, Walsh 2; N.R.O.T.C. 7, Breen-Phillips 0; Zahm 7, Cavanaugh 2.
The standings:
TEAM	WON	LOST	TIE	PCT.
Dillon 			 4	0	0	1.000
N. R. O. T. C.			 4	0	0	1.000
Walsh 			 2	1	1	.667
Sorin 		2	1 ■		.667
Zahm			2	2	0	.500
Cavanaugh 				 1	3	0	.250
Alumni 			 0	4	0	.000
Breen-Phillips		 0	4	0	.000
Atwater Defeats Farrell
In Headline Boxing Bout
Sammy Atwater, of St. Augustine, Fla., and Dillon Hall, succeeded in securing his second decision in as many weeks at the expense of Joe Farrell, Cavanaugh, in the best , of seven bouts staged last Thursday night, August 6, in the old gym.
The card climaxed cooperation night and was the third program presented as part of Coach Dominick Napolitano’s summer interhall season. In the curtain raiser, Breen-Phillips’ aspirant,
Bill Walsh, of Port Huron, Mich., gained a judges’ verdict over Ken Palmer, Pittsburgh, Pa., and Cavanaugh. These 155 pound lads started slugging early, with Palmer trying desperate, looping rights, but connecting only with a few. In the third, it was Walsh who did the majority of walloping to gain the decision.
Cavanaugh’s Tom O’Connor, Streator, Ill., ran into a fast right thrown by Frank Culhane after 1:45 of the second round to lose via the kayo route in the second battle. Culhane is from Chicago and represented the N.R.O.T.C. Both, boys fought in the 145 pound bracket.
Walt Romito, Ravenna, 0., and Cavanaugh, threw enough high rights to the head of his lanky opponent, Bill O’Hara, Syracuse, N. Y., and the N.R.O.T.C., to win the judges’ nod. O’Hara’s superior reach gave Romito trouble but the latter led by a slim margin throughout.
In the Atwater-Farrell tussle, more hot leather was thrown than in any other fray and the season’s largest crowd voiced its approval throughout the bout. Sammy, current 135 pound Bengal king, earned the first round clearly but ran into trouble in the remaining rounds as Joe stiffened his defense, and became more aggressive. Following a heated exchange in the second, both lads clinched and fell on the canvas. There wasn’t a wasted second in the final canto with both men making it tough for the judges to decide on a winner. Sammy’s aggressiveness in all rounds, however, appeared to have given him the win.
The Boston strongboy, Johnny Yon-aker, Dillon, at 230 pounds, overwhelmed tough Bill Huber, from Dillon and Tuscola, Ill., in three rounds. Weighing 215, Huber absorbed everything Yonaker had until the second round when he was forced to take two counts. Coming back surprisingly strong, Huber lasted the third only to drop the decision to his huge, hard-hitting foe.
A technical kayo verdict was awarded to. Harry Florence in the third round as he finally succeeded in catching up with Gerald Gaffney, who rendered a creditable account of himself until he weakened with only 12 seconds remaining. Gaffney is from Cavanaugh hall and New York City, while his conqueror is an Alumni Hall senior from Yonkers, N. Y.
A bantamweight battle between Mike McNulty, Breen-Phillips, and Tom.Hes-sert, also of Breen - Phillips, put the wraps on the seven bouts, as Hessert hit ■ out an unpopular decision.
' Officials were: Judges, Elmer Tepe, Harry Richwine, “Scrapiron” Young, and Bill Lubbers; referee, George Van~ der Hayden; timekeeper, John A. Scannell; announcer, Harry Wright.
—Bob Dunne
15
Dillon Teams Leading Interhall Tennis Loop
Phil Keen
Two weeks ago the tennis varsity’s unbeaten streak was unceremoniously snapped. This week an interhall squad known as Dillon I, deceptive decoys of all defiant disbelievers of their domination, has continued in the steps of the varsity by taking their four matches in stride. With a record of four wins and no defeats, they ride atop the interhall tennis league closely followed by the Naval R. 0. T. C. and their fellow sophs, Dillon II.
The principle change in the standings this week was a result of a close Dillon I,
4 to 3 win over Cavanaugh. Before the match N.R.O.T.C. and Cavanaugh were tied for the runner-up spot. As a result of the defeat inflicted by the pace setters, the juniors have been pushed down to fourth place. Ray O’Connell set the pace for the Dillonites with an easy 6-2, 6-2 win over Bill Scheuch. Cavanaugh made its staunchest bid for a win in the number two and three singles. Bill Talbot extended Jim Whalen before succumbing 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 and Ken Palmer lost to Jim Sheridan’s cross-court drives 7-5, 3-6, 6-3. Pons and Purcell kept Cavanaugh within striking distance with straight set victories, but a victory by O’Connell ano Whalen in the number one doubles sealed the doom of the Cavaliers.
The N.R.O.T.C. remained in a "winning mood by shutting but Walsh, 5 to 0. Roy Grumbine started the navy parade ot victories with a 6-1, 6-2 decision over Bill Mulligan. Bob Bobbett out-lasted Bill Schroeder 1-6,'6-3, 9-7; Red Griffin and Ed Zupko traded drive for drive before the Dillonite snatched the win 6-8, 4-0, 8-6; Frank Beaudine white-washed Bill Deiss 6-0, 6-0 and Jack Coleman won an easy 6-0, 6-4 decision from White. The doubles were cancelled by mutual consent. - l
Led by Jim Quinn and Gerry O’Reilly, Dillon II kept in the thick of the -fight for the championship by taking Breen-Phillips to the tune of 6 to 0. Jim Quinn, undefeated in interhall play, turned back Bud Steffen 6-2, 6-2. Gerry O’Reilly knocked off Dick. Digan, 6-4, 6-3. Nilles and Keen recorded the other wins in the singles, defeating Denefe and Milloy. 16 ■	’ ’	. /• ■-	■	■';
Dillon took the two doubles matches to make it a dark day for the frosh.
The Faculty continued their upward surge in the "win column triumphing over Alumni 5 to 0. John Doerr came closest to extending the profs when he lost to Brother Edmund 7-5, 6-3. Langford, Demer, and Smith registered the other points in straight set victories.
This week Dillon I met Dillon II in “the” battle of the summer. Results arc not available at this deadline, but will be in next week’s Scholastic.
League Standings
TEAMS	WON	LOST	PCT.
Dillon I			 4	0	1.000
N. R. O. T. C.		 4	1	.800
Dillon II				 3	1	.750
Cavanaugh ....		 3	2	.600
Faculty			 9	_	2	.500
Walsh 				 1	3	.250
Alumni 			 1	4	.200
Breen-Phillips		 0	5	.000
Results: Dillon II 6, Breen-Phillips 0; Dillon I 4, Cavanaugh 3; Faculty 5, Alumni 0; N.R.O.T.C. 5, Walsh 0.
Schedule for next "week: August 18— N.R.O.T.C. vs. Faculty; Dillon II vs. Cavanaugh. August 20 — Alumni vs. Walsh; Breen-Phillips vs. Dillon I.
"Farby" Finds Statistics The Reward In Athletics
Saturday afternoon "while strolling across Brownson, Field, your reporter was stopped dead in his tracks as a senior second baseman reached for a hot ground ball, bobbled it, and then threw it ’ four, feet over the first baseman’s head against the green Cartier Field fence.
There’s nothing strange about a happening of this sort in a campus softball < game. But there was something strange in the effect which this error produced . in the ranks of the team in the field. Instead of the usual wailing and gnashing of teeth, they went into great spasms of laughter. Being a curious gent, the reporter decided to go over and find out . the story behind this seeming paradox. He didn’t have long to wait, for as soon ' as the team in the field came in for their turn at the plate, seven of the players-rushed to a battered, black notebook, ■ flipped it open, and gleefully marked an error behind the unfortunate second baseman’s name. Thus came , about ; the introduction., of the queerest ball player ever known—Charles. “Farby” Golden of. Dillon Hall and Farby’s A.C.:
Heretofore all athletes with whom we
had come into.contact have participated in their various sports for one of two reasons—for money and fame, as is the case of the pros, or for pure love of the sport, as in the case of the Simon Pures. But “Farby” is unique, for he has neith- . er of these motives. His delight in athletics comes not from the playing, but rather from the keeping of records, or as commerce men would prefer, statistics. Nothing gives him more pleasure than to win a hard fought ball game and joyfully rush back to his room to type up a neat report of that game, and the fielding, batting, and pitching records of his mates. .
After the game that cost the senior second baseman 25 points on his fielding average the reporter, too, rushed back to Dillon Hall to watch the action. Without even a shower he dove into a pile of papers, erasers, and pencils, and for a 45 ■ minute period worked.with seeming delight. Finally he turned, beamed and handed the reporter a neat, red note' book.
Upon delving into this life history of the Farby’s A. C. softball team, the reporter found many interesting facts. For instance, the roster of 14 men, viz., Walt “Mox” Rogers, Bob “Captain Blood” Rogers, Bob Baker, Pete Moritz, A. J. “Kenesaw Mountain” Muench, Bill Brady, Danny Stewart, Lee Raymond, Joe “Sleepy” Farwell, Bob Sweeney, and from Veet Cappello’s Cavaliers, Bill Frye, Vocalist Hank Kane, and Trumpeter Bill Binet; last but not least, Manager “Farby” himself.
Thus far they have played 24 games, . winning 12, losing 11, and tying one for a percentage of .522. The team batting is .281, and the fielding a wicked .884. They committed 96 errors in the 24 games. As to the individual stars; the potent warclub of handsome Bill Binet leads the pack with a sensational .415 batting average. His- nearest rival is Bill Frye with a compartively measly .346. From, the power hitting angle, Frye, and Pete Moritz top the home run column with three each. Frye also leads the team in total bases with his three home runs, . _ one triple, three doubles, and 26 singles . for a composite of 47 bases. Near the-bottom of the list the name-“Farby” appears, and behind it the terrific average of .235.	.	~	.
' In the fielding realm, Bill Frye is the j leader. The hustling catcher , is fielding I .984, committing only two errors in 124	:
chances. Next in line, but far behind, is j the immortal “Farby,” with a neat .905	|
to show for his work-around the first | sack., 7	. .	?	"	:
. . The backbone of the pitching staff is	|
two. hard working: twirlers, Bob Baker |
and Bob Rogers. Baker has won eight games while losing three, and has compiled an earned run average of 3.562. Rogers, the victim of spotty fielding in most of his attempts, has a record of three wins and five defeats.
At this point Farby suddenly remembered the Saturday night steaks and rushed, notebook and all, into the showers. After risking a new pair of gabardine pants to rescue the notebook the reporter headed for those same Saturday night steaks, leaving “Farby” in the shower, to dream of more softball games and the ensuing hours of statistical bliss.
-	.	—Frank Ralph
Dillon Takes Swim Meet
Off-Campus Team Second
Dillon Hall’s aquatic aspirants totaled 35 points to win the hall trophy in the . water carnival and swimming meet staged Saturday afternoon, August 7, on St. Joseph’s Lake.
An Off-Campus crew captured second place -with 30 points, while Cavanaugh .
. and the N.R.O.T.C. divided third place honors with 25 markers apiece. Sorin scored 15, Alumni six, and Walsh made ' four and one-half.
Individual laurels for the day went to Cavanaugh’s Bob Reilly who finished first in three events. Reilly was junior metropolitan 440-yard champion in 1939.
N.R.O.T.C. Chief Jablonski served as starter, also as one of the fancy diving judges and figured prominently in the success of the affair. According to the committee in charge, his aid proved invaluable. Other officials were: Bill Boss, timekeeper and head judge; fancy diving judge, Bill Talbot; judges, J. W. McAllister, Brothers Patrick Cain, C.S.C. and Justin Dwyer, C.S.C.
The hall trophy and individual awards were presented Thursday night at the Knights of Columbus' vaudeville in Washington Hall. The prizes were donated by the Student Council.
Final results of all events were as follows:	.	-
; Fancy diving: first, Reilly (Cavanaugh) ; second, Yoriaker (Dillon) ; third, Hefferin (Dillon) and Mulligan (Walsh).
Underwater swim for distance;. first, Lamb (Breen- Phillips); second, ■ McMahon (Navy); third, Leon (Cavan-' augh).
. 50-ineter breast stroke:, first, Walsh . (off-campus), second, McMahon _(Dillon,); third, Culhane (Navy).. „	‘ .
. 50-yard free style: first, Walsh (Off- -campus); second, Hefferin (Dillon);
. third, Culhane (Navy).	'
50-yard free style: first, Walsh (Off-campus) ; second/ Hefferin (Dillon); third, Platt (Walsh).
50-yard back stroke: first, Doerr (Alumni); second, McGrath (Walsh)
and Culhane (Navy); third, Marbach (Dillon).	.
100 - meter free style: first, Reilly (Cavanaugh) ; second, Herlihey (Navy); third, Doerr (Alumni).
The hall team 200-yard relay was won by the Navy contingent while Dillon paced second, and the Off Campus team placed third. Members of the winning combine were Webb, Herlehey, Monaghan, and Culhane. The hall team medley 150-yard relay was copped by the Off-Campus squad, Dillon and Cavanaugh were second and third, respectively. Comprising the Off-Campus crew wTere Walsh Caparo, and Burns.
With a w’atermelon employed as a “ball,” a Navy squad defeated a picked hall group in the water polo battle.
Coaches for the various halls were: John Nichols, Alumni; Paul McKee, Dillon; Bob Coleman, Breen-Phillips; and Bob Reilly, Cavanaugh.—Bob Dunne
Dillonites Take Title
In Campus Golf Tourney
The deluge came and washed away most .of the competition in the interhall
golf tourney last week-end but Dillon’s
pre-toumament favorites survived to annex the team crown.
Paced by Lanky Joe Moore, interhall match finalist, who toured, the 36 hole layout in 151, the south campus lads totaled 611 strokes to capture the event. Dave Sullivan, current inter
hall champion, lost his putting touch of
the week before and slipped through
with a .78-76 for a 154 "tally.- Everhart ScBleck, campus tournament medalist, . equalled Sullivan’s mark of 154. Blond Jim Gallagher, long man of Dillon, put together a 75. and 77 for a 152 total. “Tex” Crowley; high man on. the quintet, slipped on Saturday dnd came in with an 82 but his -75 on Sunday helped him aggregate a 157.	-	.
Three representatives from Cavanaugh Hall completed their 36 hole rim . and
were pushed into second place as the rest of the lineup withdrew from the meet. Several contestants managed to finish for each of the remaining team entrants but did not have the necessary four required scores to. total for the team score.
The weather obviously doused interest in the match for nine teams had entered the meet and had men in actiion on Saturday. Each hall was represented save St. Edward’s. Alumni had two teams lined up and Dillon mustered three squads.	•
Members of the winning team will receive individual medals and the Dillon team will also receive a hall trophy.
—Bill Boss
Varsity Golfers Compete
For John Harrigan Trophy
The members of last year’s undefeated Notre Dame golf team are competing for . honors in a round-robin tournament over the William J. Burke Memorial course.
The trophy sponsored by Mr. John J. Harrigan of Los Angeles, Calif., father of the Notre
Dame varsity flame, Jack Harrigan, is on the block. The possessor of this fine trophy will probably be known within the next two weeks. Each man is to play six matches.	.
There are seven members of last year’s varsity combine competing for the."
award. Capt. Bill Wilson, who traveled far in the National Intercollegiate matches at the Chain O’ Lakes course; is a strong contender. Bill Moorhead, the soft spoken Kentuckian, Jack Harrigan, Captain-elect Gene Fehlig, Paul Malloy, . and Dick Whiting are the other competf- ' tors.	- .
Whiting has just returned from Indianapolis where he played in the Indi- . ana amateur tourney. The Detroit lad ;
, was eliminated in the second round by . . the ultimate tournament victor who J . turned out to be a professional playing; under an assumed name. No direct action..
• has been taken on the case as yet.
—Bill Boss
Three Games Scheduled
For Irish Summer Nine
Resting on a. three game winning splurge the Irish Stars were inactive last ’ week as their scheduled contests were -rained ouf.	....
Coach Jake. Kline has scheduled three . more contests ■ before Summer play is terminated next week. The games will be . charity events with Dodge of Mishawaka and two South Bend units providing the -, opposition.	'	•	'
17
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
By BILL REYNOLDS
At least three ex-Notre Dame students are finding the road to fame in the professional baseball circuits.... John McHale, ex. ’43, although hitting but .226 for the Winston-Salem Twins of the Piedmont League, has rapped out five game-winning home runs. John’s total of eight round-trippers is second to a teammate’s nine for the league leadership. — Big Ed Hanyzewski, ex. ’44, has been showing real stuff since being sent to Milwaukee.... The South Bend hurler’s record of five wins against one loss virtually assures him of another chance -with the Cubs at the close of the American Association season.___Lou Bevilacqua, ex. ’43, entered the pitcher’s mythical hall of fame a couple of weeks ago as he let the Atlanta Crackers down without a hit or a run. Hurling for the seventh place Chattanooga Lookouts, Lou has compiled a record of 12 victories against eight defeats. Accommodating the sports writers he has shortened his name to Bevil.
Football hungry fans in this section were dealt a very disappointing blow when west coast army officials lifted the ban on crowds. Many mid-westerns were hopeful of seeing the Notre Dame-South-em California tilt played here.... add tough football schedules: the Navy PreFlight school at the University of North Carolina has a card calling for 12 games on 12 consecutive Saturdays, opening with Harvard Sept. 26, and closing with the Iowa Pre-Flight school on Dec. 12. Among the teams the cadets are to meet are Fordham, Boston College, and Georgetown. Only two of the games are to be played at Chapel Hill. Lt. Commdr. Jim Crowley heads the coaching staff.... Wes Ferrell, former American League pitcher who holds the major league record for most home runs by a pitcher in a season, has turned clouter in the minors. Playing manager of the Lynchburg class C Virginia league club, Wes recently hit his 25th homer of the season setting a new league record.... Frank McCormick, Cincinnati first baseman and Charlies Gehringer, Detroit coach, are two of the most red-hot Notre Dame fans in the majors.
It’s no wonder wrestling holds its popularity in sportdom, what with such names as the Green Hornet, the Yellow Devil, and Black Panther.... Proving that his high batting average in the American league last season was no fluke Cecil Travis is pacing his Camp Wheeler
18
teammates with a better than .500 stick average. — Greg Rice has been losing the track headlines to Sweden’s Gunnar Hagg. The reason: within three days after having a suspension lifted the fast Swede set two world’s records, lowering the mile record to 4:06.2 and the two-mile mark to 8:47.8.____And they say “there ain’t no Santy Claus.” But don’t try to tell that to Rollie Hemsley who stepped into the Yankee lineup a couple of days after he was handed his release by the Cincinnati Reds.... The real name of the Boston Red Sox rookie shortstop is Paveskovich.... Milt Piepul, the unforgetable “Moose,” has quit professional football to accept a high school coaching job in Indianapolis.... Did you know that the largest crowd to see a Notre -Dame football game was the 120,000 that jammed Soldier’s field in 1927 for the Southern California game. But the largest paid attendance was 117,000 for the Navy tilt the following year also in Soldier’s field.... If the Japs have heard of Bob Osterman’s feats as center for the “Fighting Irish” they will vacate the Pacific before the big boy arrives. Bob received his appointment as an ensign last week and was ordered to sea duty...
The Illinois football squad of 48 men is composed of 22 sophomores, 12 seniors and 14 juniors.... It looks like Coach Ray Eliot will field a green team.... But Frank Leahy’s team of last fall was supposed to be green too, so don’t count the Illini short.... Thirty-two of Coach Frank Leahy’s hopefuls are registered in the summer semester. Others, Bill Earley, Walt Ziemba, Angelo Bertelli, and Lou Rymkus to mention a few, are spending the summer working.... Wisconsin Coach Harry Stuhldreher is planning a big surprise for his alma mater when Notre Dame travels to Madison the last week in September. The Badger mentor has 23 returning lettermen.......
The University of Iowa will only get in 18 practice days before their opening game with Washington University of St. Louis on Sept. 19.... The war hasn’t hurt Notre Dame ticket sales. In fact sales are running ahead of the pace being set at this time last year. The Michigan clash is leading followed by Army and Northwestern.... The last time the Irish opened the season away from home was in 1929 at Indiana. Coach Frank Leahy starred at tackle that season as Notre Dame went undefeated to a national championship.
Peasenelli Introduces
Tetherball To Campus
A new type of game resembling outdoor handball has made its appearance on the Notre Dame campus. It is called tetherball and is becoming very popular. Many of the Brothers on the campus have been trying their luck at the new game and they find it very interesting and requiring plenty of skill.
John Peasenelli of the physical education department, has been putting forth a lot of effort promoting the game and has constructed three tetherball outfits. The game can either be played with the hand like handball or it can be played with a paddle. According to Peasenelli, a nine-foot pole is placed in the ground vertically, at the top of the pole a rope about six feet long is fastened and allowed to swing freely. At the end of the rope a ball resembling a baseball is tied. If a paddle is used a small rubber ball is placed at the terminus of the rope.
The two opponents stand facing each other on opposite sides of the pole. The ball swinging freely at the end of the rope is hit back and forth from one opponent to the other. Each player using his skill and speed tries to hit the ball in such a way that the rope -will swing around the pole and wind up tight. The player that does this gets one point and wins the game.
The game is a lot harder than it sounds. Those who have played the game say that to stay in bounds and hit the ball in such a way that the rope swings around the pole and winds up tight requires a lot of practice.
Dippy Evans, varsity gridder, plays the game a lot. He says that it is a very good game requiring a lot of coordination and practice in order to become really good at it. Anyone who wishes to try something a little different in the way of games is encouraged to partake in this sport. The tetherball outfits are not up all the time. But all interested persons should contact John Peasenelli at 219 Sorin hall.—George Blackmore.
Cavanaugh I takes Lead As Season Nears Finish
With only two weeks to finish play in the Interhall Volleyball League, Vincent “Commissar” Commissa, has given the go-ahead signal on a speed-up schedule for the final weeks. Some afternoon games have been planned in addition to the regular 7:00 p.m. tilts.
League officials are getting together . this week to determine the awards to the winning team and the runners-up. While this “pow-wow” is in session the
teams continued their heated struggle for top place. No matter what the final standings read; the team that finishes on top will know they have been through a tough battle.
A fighting Alumni I team shattered a weakened Alumni II outfit by stopping the league leaders in five fast games. Joe Gibbons and Dan Hagan led Alumni I in the surprise upset. Walsh jumped into fourth place this week by trimming Breen-Phillips and Alumni I. The Walsh men still have an excellent chance of finishing among the leaders.
Dillon lost again; this time succumbing to Cavanaugh I, who took over first place for the first time. The St. Edward’s A. C. combine kept driving toward their lost “heaven” by downing the hapless Navy R.O.T.C.
Schedule for week of August 17:
August 17: (Monday), Dillon vs. Cavanaugh II, and Alumni I vs. Walsh.
August 18: (Tuesday), St. Edward’s vs. Cavanaugh I, and N. R. 0. T. C. vs. Walsh.
August 19: (Wednesday), Alumni vs. Cavanaugh II, and Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh I.
August 20: (Thursday), Faculty vs. N.R.O.T.C., and Dillon vs. St. Edward’s.
August 21: (Friday), Walsh vs. Cavanaugh II, and Alumni I vs. Cavanaugh I.	. •
League Standings			PCT.
TEAM	WON	LOST	
Cavanaugh I		..... 9	1	.900
Alumni II 			 8	2	.800
St. Edward’s 			 9	3	.750
Walsh 			 8	4	.667
Alumni I 		... 6	5	.545
N.R.O.T.C			 4	6	.400
Breen-Phillips 		..... 3	8	.273
Cavanaugh II 		..... 2	9	.182
Dillon 			 0	10	.000
—Jack Denniston
THE HUDDLE—A NOTRE DAME INSTITUTION WITH A HISTORY AND A RAPID TURNOVER
TOM CLEMENS
Small, grey buildings seem to be popular places for inventing things. In history books pictures of the grey “home of the telephone” or “Ford’s workshop” are commonplace. It is doubtful, though, that historians will take any account of “The Huddle” as the birthplace of any benefits, great or small. But ever since the turn of the century the evolution of Notre Dame’s candy store has shown evidence of progressive ideas. Tradition has it as follows:
Brother Leopold was the manager of a candy store in 1908, located between Brownson Hall and the present site of Cavanaugh. His speciality was lemonade and four cookies—all for a nickel. For 12 years Brother’s store was popular with devotees of “lemonade and fours.” Then in 1920, an addition to the tailor and shoe shops was constructed, and Brother Leopold held forth in new quarters on the present location. Improvement number one!
Apparently as content and unsophisticated as ever, Notre Dame men continued to sip lemonade and a few innovations in refreshment for 15 years more. Great was their delight upon the installation of brand new counters and a simulated marble soda fountain in 1937. Again, improvement!
Brothers Prosper, Maurilius, Leander, and Philbert successively operated the candy store after Brother Leopold. When, in 1937, the University began officially to run the place with all its new fixtures, a certain Mr. Sheehan suggested naming it “The Huddle.” And so they did.
Although the outside of the building appears never to have tasted paint, the interior has absorbed plenty of “local color.” Besides the color scheme, the ever-changing stock of goods lining one wall is a multi-colored attraction in itself. Take, for instance, the descending columns of cigarette packs. Luckies are most lively, according to Manager Steve Krazmanich. Steve also takes pride in his stock of first quality gym shoes, hair tonics, and imported English briars. But he admits that the attitude of most customers is that of bargain-hunters. “They want quantity more than quality,” he says.
Some may wonder why Father Sorin, foresighted as he was, did not plan such a refectory for the consuming of malteds and chocolate doughnuts after 8:30 Mass. “The Huddle” deserves recognition along with the Rockne Memorial. Each year’s graduating class of seniors “will little note nor long remember” what they said there, but they cannot forget the meals they ate there.—Tom Clemens -
Notre Deme HUDDLE
Open Golf Tournament
Ends Summer Program
The final tournament of the Notre Dame summer golf program, the annual University Open tournament, will be played over the campus course the last two week-ends of the Summer semester, August 22 and 23, and August 29 and 30.	.
This event will be open to all students in the University and a valuable trophy will be presented to the victor.
The winner will be decided after 72 holes of medal play. Eighteen holes are to be played on each of the four designated dates.
Entries are now being accepted for the tourney. Golfing aspirants may register at the golf shop.
Dining Room
You'will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
*
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday. 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFTDRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
»
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
Leather Gifts
FOR ALL OCCASIONS . . .
There is a certain tow-headed gentleman, living in the sub of Sorin Hall known by the monosyllabic name of Jay. Jay, since coming to Notre Dame, has had quite an interesting life and it will -be the purpose of this column to acquaint you with the events which have made up this life.
Lwgg^ge Gloves Handbags Brief Cases Billfold Sets . . .
Wrapped as gifts and for mailing.
HansZ-Rintzsch
138 N. Michigan
Jay Gibson
FOR U. S. NAVAL OFFICERS!
Neckband Shirts .. $2.25
Collars_______________25c
Ties—black_____— — $1.00
Socks—black ___39c and 55c
White Shorts_______  55c
White Undershirts._..39c and	55c
WYMAN'S
On Michigan at Washington — next to the bank. .
Jay E. Gibson first saw the rays of old Sol on April 28, 1921 at Epworth Hos-. pital in South Bend. One hates to be so particular but Jay insists that it was room 302; so for the sake of the records it’s room 302.
After racing through kindergarten with genius-like abandon, Jay matriculated to Bieger Grammar school where, although there was no track team, he got the "urge” of the cinder path so that by the time high school days came around he had chosen his favorite sport.
It was Mishawaka High school that claimed priorities on the blond speedster, so off to M. H. S. he went. Track and football immediately became Jay’s main -source of after school enjoyment and both were handled quite capably. The. former rather naturally was his first love and this he showed by doing the 100 yards in ten flat, the 220 in 22 seconds. It was while running for Mishawaka that Jay first met “Dip” Evans but in the guise of competition from Riley of South Bend. Lou Rymkus also made himself known to Jay during these high school days. It was while Jay was holding the right half-back position on the football team. As Jay says: “I came through the line and thought I was off
for a long gain but Lou was in the way. I woke up 45 minutes later!”
A major in business administration, Jay will graduate in December and then faces Officers Training as a member of the Enlisted Reserve Corps.
Fortunately Jay did not hang up his spikes when he came to N. D. and has used them to the chagrin of many an opponent that dared challenge the “thin-lies” during the past season. As in high school, the 100 and 220 were his favorites. Bill Carter of Pittsburgh is his choice for the best man met during the past season. "His poise and form made him a bulwark of competition,” analyzed Jay.
The greatest thrill to Jay was back in his high school days when he ran the 100 yard dash in ten flat for the first' time. It is probably this love for speed that has’given him his taste for racey music. “Stuff” Smith, colored violin jazz artist, is his choice among music makers.
Questioned as to the idol of our blonde friend quickly brought the answer, “Nick.” “He was one of the swellest guys I’ve met and a great coach” was the comment which expressed earnestness.
Notre Dame Alumni Club
Formed in Mexico City
Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion at the University who is in Mexico during the summer engaged in research work and writing, has organized the first Notre Dame Alumni club in Mexico City.
Several hundred Mexican alumni of the University are living in various parts of the republic, with the majority in the Federal District. A meeting of the grad- -uates and old students was held at the American Club in Mexico City and a committee was formed to organize clubs throughout the republic.
Mr. Edward Trueblood, secretary of the cultural relations department of the American Embassy, commended the plan of organizing the Notre Dame alumni living in Mexico as an important step in furthering cultural relations and good will between the United States and Mexico.
Notre • Dame alumni clubs will be formed in Guadalajara, Puebla and Monterrey. A large number of Mexican students will return with Father O’Brien in September. Among them will be Paschel Orbiz Rubio, son of the former president.
20
Jk Motegi
“RED” LONERGAN
Let us help you get set for that Midshipman's and Ensign's Uniform. You will need the following when leaving Notre Dame:
White Neckband Shirts
White Collars
Black Ties
Black Socks
White Undershirts
White Shorts '
Michigan's Popularity
For the first time in many a season the Army-Notre Dame game has taken the back seat in popularity in favor of the Michigan-Notre Dame game. The only remaining seats are those behind the goal posts, as the others have either been bought up or are held in reserve for the alumni, students, or season ticket holders. This is undoubtedly due to the long time rivalry between the two great football schools of the Midwest. Army ranks second in popularity, and that should be a sell-out as usual. Next in line comes the Navy-Notre Dame game at Cleveland, where we hold the attendance record, a record we should have little trouble breaking according to all indications to date. The Irish will play their first away-from-home opener in some thirteen years against those dangerous Badgers at Madison on the 26th of September. This will undoubtedly be one of our most bitterly fought games as the Badgers have a backfield that any coach would look at with envious eyes. Marlin (Pat) Harder, who led in scoring and yards gained; Dave Schreiner, leading Big Ten pass snatcher, as well as all-conference end; and Len Sellinger/ the conference’s leading passer. Of course we won’t be going up there empty, handed by any means. . .
SPIRO'S
' 121 South Michigan South Bend
Alumni in Service
The current Alumnus, the Notre Dame publication, lists the names of 16 more former Fighting Irish athletes and student managers who are active in the armed forces. Included are Joe Campagna, 1941, baseball star, Army Flying corps; Paul Cunningham, 1941, footballer, Army Air corps; Clarence J. (Oonie) Donovan, former basketball captain and mayor of Bedford, Ind., Captain in the Army Air Corps Intelligence; Lt. Allen H. (Mal) Elward, U.S.N.R., former Purdue head coach and athletic director; Dan Gibbs, former holder of the all-time Notre Dame pole vault record, Naval Reserve Air corps; Ed Kosky, varsity end of a decade ago, Naval Reserve V-5 physical fitness program; Bernie Leahy, 1931, reserve back, Camp Grant, Ill.; Bill Mc-Gannon, 1940 back, V-5 physical fitness program; Paul Morrison, 1939, back, U.S. Naval Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.; Nick Pepelnjak, 1940, back, Fort Francis, Wyo.; Marty Peters, 1935-36, star end
and co-captain of the basketball, V-5 physical fitness program; Dave Reidy, 1941, star hurdler, Army Aviation cadet, Waco, Texas; and Joe Kuharich and Joe Ruetz, 1935-37, guards, Navy aviation.
Keepin’ Their Word
The priests and Brothers from* Zahm hall aren’t keeping their boast that they’ll take the second round of the interhall baseball tourney. They have lost two of their three starts so far. One of the games they lost ought to make Ripley’s column. It happened this way: Last week Father Florian was pitching against Dillon; he struck four men out in one inning and didn’t allow a hit yet a run scored and Dillon won 2 to 1. It’s very possible, but can you figure it out? Jerry Cowhig played his first game of ball in two years, and the first time up for Dillon he drove a long home run ball over the centerfielder’s head. He finished the game getting two hits and being hit by a pitched ball, which isn’t bad rejuvenation in that old hitting department, eh? Sorin and the Naval R. O.T.C. will have played it out by now for the championship of the first round, and to hear Jack Barry talk, R.O.T.C. was just wasting its time coming on the field. Sorin’s only loss was inflicted on them by the same Navy, whom Barry claims are so inferior. R.O.T.C. lost their only game to the up and coming Alumni outfit.
❖
Walsh's Sportsmen
The Walsh hall hard ball team showed us some real sportsmanship which is always a pleasure to see. In their last game with Dillon, they were losing 4 to 2 when a downpour came up from out of nowhere. Now there had to.be one more put out before four and a half innings of ball were completed, so Walsh could have called the game right there and the -game would have been scored as 2 to 2. But Walsh didn’t want to win the game . in this fashion, so they continued, the game till the other out was made and then walked back to their hall thoroughly drenched. “Bob” Fisher has yet to wear anything but a track suit for a uniform, one of those Tarzans maybe? The Notre Dame varsity has four more games re-
21
maining on its summer schedule. Thanks to Metzger and Fisher’s pitching, they have pulled up near the .500 mark . . . The man behind the scenes on the ball diamond, Andy Chlebeck, has just enlisted in Marine Officers Candidate’s corps, and will probably be called after graduation, September 3. We only hope nothing turns up so that he is called before the season is over as it would be a sorry mess out there on the diamonds without his watchful eye.
Never mind dat “Uncle” stuff—say
19 Trains a Day!
When you’re squeezed for time, it’s a good thing to know that the South Shore offers hourly service to the heart of Chicago.
Just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A.M. and 6:50 A.M. Thereafter, from 7:30 A.M. until 9:30 P.M., trains leave every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P.M. and 12:00 Midnight.
For detailed information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
Navy Men!
Ask about special furlough rates.
MISSISSIPPI LAD WHO STARRED FOR "ROCK" IN '30 RETURNS IN FALL AS LEADER OF ENEMY—STANFORD
BILL BOSS
The dart from Dixie, Marchmont Schwartz, who tempted many an enemy lineman out of position and wriggled off-tackle from the left-half situs to score for the Blue and Gold over a decade ago will return to the Notre Dame campus Oct. 10, 1942.
This time the Mississippi monsoon won’t be raking up the turf in a touchdown charge but will be pinned to the enemy bench glancing orders to the Indians of Stanford University.
“MarChy” Schwartz
The former Irish star was lifted into the head coach stool at the Palo Alto school when his old boss, Clark Shaughnessy, scrambled from Pacific ground to accept a $9,000 head mentorship post at the University of Maryland.
Schwartz, who wore the green in 1929, 1930, and 1931, under the guiding arm of Knute Rockne and “Hunk” Anderson, was All-American halfback his junior and senior years. Marchy served his coaching apprenticeship here on Cartier Field before becoming head coach at Creighton University in 1933. Shaughnessy soon induced the drawling southerner to prep the backs at the University of Chicago. Schwartz accepted and then followed the “T” originator to Stanford
when Chicago removed the shoulder pads for good.
As Notre Dame halfbacks go, Marchy Schwartz rides the top wave. Playing the vital left half spot in the Notre Dame system, Marchy performed with fathomless vigor and unparalleled finesse. He was a natural. He started out—merely an elusive back. He developed into an never-failing punter and finally a precision passer. Like Elmer Layden, Frank Thomas and many other former Irish grid luminaries, Marchy is a lawyer. He boarded on north campus boundaries in Corby Hall.
Another “dumb” southerner, the Irish grid troupe thought, when the hydrantsized Mississippian with 170 compact pounds nailed to his body chugged onto Cartier Field. He didn’t look tough; his curly hair emphasized his chubby face when he skipped back to flip an accurate pass or drift through a small slot in the front line. This guy was durable; he was good. Schwartz proved to be an essential element in the famed Rockne backfield of 1930, the second successive undefeated Notre Dame eleven.
Maybe it shouldn’t be mentioned but the picture that will not fade from the film of his collegiate days is a sad tale. Marchy’s parents were - in. the stands when the Irish tangled with Navy in 1929, the big game for the determined sophomore. He wanted to impress his folks. He was good but he had to prove it. His Dad had to be shown. Late in the battle Marchy nabbed his chance. Subbing for the speedy Jack Elder, Schwartz took a whip from center and broke towards tackle town. Grasping hands clawed at his piston legs but the mite slithered through and rambled into the clear. He was on his way. But lurching into the open Schwartz twisted his ankle and fell with open spaces ahead.
In 1930 Schwartz romped across the chalk for the only tally of the game when the Irish met Army in Chicago. Rockne’s last year was a great semester for Schwartz. His supercharged running attracted the attention of every writer, fan and coach in the nation. Eleven out of 14 top ranking All-American selection boards named him to their first elevens.
Carideo, the unexcelled, graduated in 1931 and took his magic arch "with him. The punting duty was relayed to Schwartz. March punted, and punted extremely well. Five times during the
22
Northwestern game that season he was camped on soggy turf behind the Irish goal and five times the stubby southerner booted the rain-soaked ball far over the Purple’s safety.
Marchmont Schwartz was also a passer by trade and a very adept one at that. The great heaves that were strung from his fist to the molasses arms of George Melinkovich will tag along with Notre Dame grid history indefinitely. In the front line of defense plugging and protecting Schwartz on many plays was big Ed Krause who will shortly be teaching the line at. Notre Dame how to stop the scintillating secondary that Schwartz rushes through the middle.
Schwartz led the Irish in scoring in 1931 when he waddled across the enemy goal five times during the season. After winging through two undefeated campaigns, Notre Dame walloped six opponents and dropped two frays under Heartley “Hunk” Anderson.
Some day if you’re rambling down an aisle of a clattery trolley or peering from the window of a rapid rail racer and a shock of curly hair leans over the top of a copy of Dickens or a tattered volume of Goldsmith tap the fellow on the shoulder and introduce yourself. For, brother, you’re talking to Marchmont Schwartz.
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
★
A. flewebuf,
★
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY ★
Toilet Articles Supplies
K. OF C. VAUDEVILLE (Continued from page 3) weekly variety show to be presented in Washington Hall every Thursday.
The Vaudeville, managed by Reggie Flynn, was well received by the enthusiastic crowd and marks as good a performance as has been put on by the K. of C. since the show’s revival in 1940. Doing an excellent job as master of ceremonies was Dave Curtin, who also gave a monologue and a song. Curtin’s comedy insured the success of the show.
The arrangement of acts went according to halls, since the talent was selected from hall parties. From Cavanaugh came Dick Hines, writer of the song which took third place in last year’s show, who played on the piano an original patriotic melody; Ed Dunigan, who played several selections on his trumpet; and “Red” McCafferty, who gave a comedy monologue on the war. Walsh hall presented Johnny Baum with his piano “boogey-woogey” music, and Paul O’Connell, who expertly imitated well known professors. Also from Walsh was Leo Link, a postgraduate student, who kept the crowd laughing with his songs. Playing a duet on the trombone and accordian were Bob Coleman and Jim Kucera from Breen-Phillips. Also from that freshman hall was Jim Bucci, who played the accordion. Dillon, too, sent an accordionist, Joe Hesch, who added yodelling to his act, and Brock Lynch, the tap dancer, who won second prize in the show of last spring. Representing Sorin Hall was a quartet headed by Kevin. O’Toole, and composed of Jim Madigan, Herb Clarke and Bill Murrin, who were mustered from other halls to complete the foursome.
Winners of the performance were named too late for press. Judges for the. show were Prof. Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech; Mr. Paul Byrne, University librarian; and Mr. Richardson of the Palace Theatre.
—Jim Clark
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Month and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Building South Bend. Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist	~ .
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 8-2*74
23
Ahoy Navy Men .aJ
*Z4e Cjood 'U. S. S. Abbott Jlcdl Awotti!
Anchored nearby is GILBERT'S new
store in the DRAKE HOTEL
Officer
AT THE
Florsheim Shoes
Dobbs Officer Caps
•	Aye Mates, soon you will be sailing by train, bus and plane to Port Chicago. Soon you'll be Midshipmen, then Ensigns. Now is the time to set your compass for the proper heading. Map the course toward your Officer's Uniform; order-it now.
•	Your stay at Notre Dame will be but 15 days, hardly time to get your bearings. To help you, South Bend's largest store for men has based a store on the shores of beautiful Lake Michigan in Chicago.
•	When visiting Port Chicago, sail two blocks north of Abbott Hall to Gilbert's in the Drake Hotel — experienced in prompt
and specialized Uniforms.
Complete
Naval Uniforms
NAVALSSaTAILORS
CORNER MICHIGAN AVE. AND LAKE SHORE DRIVE
IN THE DRAKE HOTEL ARCADE TELEPHONE SUPERIOR 2200