non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame, IN
Permit No. 10
IRISH IMPACT
A color poster to benefit the Center for the Homeless
$10
Available at the LaFortune Information Desk and through dorm representatives.
During JPW: O’Hara Lounge (LaFortune) Saturday, February 20, 12-4 p.m.
Alumni Legacy Reception in Monogram Concourse, Saturday, February 20, 4-5 p.m.

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE

3 A Time for Sacrifice
4 All That Glitters
8 Lending a Helping Hand
10 A Comic Creation

14 No Hurdle Too High
16 Advantage, Irish
1 Editor’s Notes
7 Campus Watch
22 On Other Campuses
23 Week In Distortion
20 Out of Bounds
21 Therapy? Review
24 Final Word
Cover photo by Matt Cashore
^ss

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
•Vol. 134, No.16 February 18; 1993
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus : ;;; Vive. Quasi Cras Moriturus.. :-
,.	Founded1867 .. :
EDITOR IN CHIEF
PatriciaK. Doyle ..;■ <•::	■ •
MANAGING EDITOR
Margaret S. Kenny 7 >.' ■' ; :
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
; ..David U.: Holsinger	.
.CAMPUS LIFE
. Editor Mollie Mudd Assistant: Michelie Crouch :
/;i'N^S /A	'•
' ■ Editor: Mark Mitchell IV ■ y: ; 7
i. SPORTS;;f./ ; .
^Editor: JimKuser .	.
/. Assistant. Amanda Clinton	<•
•ENTERTAINMENT? ,	?
? Editor; ! Bradley Keck	'/	'
Assistant: Peg Ward; '•	•? ' -•
{• DEPARTMENTS /	.
v'E^tor; Kate?VWjtrou^
PHOTOGRAPHY ■'''7	■
.Editor: Ken Osgood . i...
.
;.Editor: Chris Blanford:O.'/.)■
GRAPHIC arts; .?• / ■:
? Manager: Chin Wang7;:7 '<■ ^ADVERTISING ,'V	J’--.
;. Manager: Karen Riley -y
'ii BUSINESS:	? 7?
;• Manager:Eileen Shelley
tfpisf^iB.yjioN'O
7 Manager-fMark Fitzgerald ..; /,:
A
On The Cover
Each week, students from Notre Dame travel to St. Hedwig’s Outreach Center to volunteer their time and energy to the children of South Bend. These students represent the senior and freshman classes and Morrissey Hall. This week, campus life writer Beth Fehring writes about the children atSL Hedwig’s and the people that visit them each week. Also in the story is a sidebar on the St. Patrick’s Day T-shirts that the senior class is selling as part of a fundraiser for St Hedwig’s.
In This Issue
campus life, writer Christy Hall previews the upcoming student-produced comic book, Wired Comix.
Assistant sports editor Amanda Clinton writes about the sprinting talents of Erica Peterson, a freshman from Blairmore in Alberta, Canada. Writer Carolyn Kapustij takes a look at the men’s tennis team and their hopes for the season with six returning seniors. In entertainment, executive editor Dave Holsinger reviews the album Nurse by Therapy?
As usual, you will find “Out of Bounds,” “Coming Distractions,” “On Other Campuses” and “Week In Distortion.” Enjoy!
Correction
In news this week, editor Mark Mitchell takes us on a journey through the inner sanctum of the dome. Although most of us are familiar with the Main Building, few have been to the fifth floor or even beyond. Also, J. Bradley Keck narrates his trip from the dome to the base of Mary’s feet. In
In the February 11 issue of Scholastic, the article “This Old House” should have been attributed to Jason Beachy. Scholastic regrets the error.
Patricia Doyle
Editor in Chief
Applications are now available for the followingpaid positions dhthe^
; Managing Editor . News Editor ? Sports Editor Campus Life Editor
EntertainmentEditor Departments Editor
: Copy Editor , Photography Editor
-. i Layout Manager.: Graphic Arts Manager .' -Systems Man ager,. {jBusiridss Manager
Advertising: Manager
Applications can be picked up in room SOS. LaFortuhe and must be
Scholast ic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods fl/ the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription raieis $25.00fyearund back issues are available at $125 [copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leiters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should in elude their department. AH letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelousor obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Beeau^ of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to;
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN46556
1_
HfS CoM MENTARY
A Time for Sacrifice
Barlett and Steele's prophecy comes true: President Clinton restructures America's ailing economy
by Mark V. Mitchell IV
As he entered office, President Bill
Clinton declared to the nation that it was time to sacrifice in order to solve our country’s economic problems. This week, he has announced his definition of national sacrifice.
From the White House staff to personal spending, Clinton has declared that it is time to cut back and to contribute more to the whole effort and work of rolling back the deficit and bringing the country out of the economic down turn which has dominated headlines for months. Clinton has declared an end to what he has called “twelve years of Republican spending and twelve years of economic disintegration.”
This week, two men came to Notre Dame and also declared that it was time to sacrifice to bring about an end to the national economic woes. They also stated that only through a total overhaul of spending habits on the part of the government could the country rid itself of the burdensome debt.
These two men are the authors of a national best-selling book which is an indictment of the past decade of law-making and deal-making which made deficit spending the rule, not the exception, and which brought prosperity to the influential at the expense of the rest of the nation.
Donald Barlett and James Steele brought their bold challenge to a full library auditorium. Their message was in sync with Clinton’s: everyone must make sacrifices to right the wrongs of the years of irresponsible economic policy.
Their book America:What Went Wrong has been touted as the hard truth by some and
denounced as an anti-establishment attack by others. In light of the President’s statements this past week, it would seem that Barlett and Steele have been right — something has gone very wrong and it has led to “the dismantling of the middle and working classes.”
Barlett spoke first and he described the massive national response to the book. He noted the vast numbers of letters which he and Steele have received supporting them for having sounded the alarm that something was wrong with national economic policy. But, he pointed out, until the Clinton Administration took over, he and Steele and their book were not warmly received by the conservative press and the Washington establishment “Our own newspaper panned us in the reviews and the response from those connected with Washington was even less glowing,” said Barlett.
Steele’s remarks were significantly longer and highlighted more issues brought up in the book. Steele’s emphasis was on shocking statistics which demonstrated that the percentage of the population employed in traditional working class labor has declined to the same level that existed in 1966.
He continued with new statistics noting that the number of state and local governmental employees is gradually increasing while the number of manual laborers is gradually decreasing. His only comment on these statistics: “Eventually we will have more government employees than manual laborers. Who’s going to pay the government’s salaries?”
Though Steele brought with him disturbing governmental memoranda which he claimed had never before been made public, his most shocking stories were those of
individuals suffering from the economic illness of the country. He told the story of three women, mentioned in the book, who all lost their jobs because new management at their companies tried deficit financing and lost They were fired, some after 18 years of service, and were left with no income and no health care. Steele commented, “How can the government claim to help the people when it allows these women to go without basic health care and when it allows them to be fired for having surgery.”
The problems which Barlett and Steele exposed in their book and which they further highlighted in their presentation are problems intrinsic to the national economy. They are problems which the authors have characterized as “issues of improper public acts and private greed.” And they are the problems which Clinton has taken aim to eliminate with his sweeping economic reforms announced this week.
Clinton has promised to cut government waste, waste which was graphically highlighted in charts and tables presented in the book by Barlett and Steele. Clinton has promised to renew the job market for America’s laborers, a challenge issued by Barlett and Steele through compelling tales of individual persons’ struggles with unemployment and personal debts. And Clinton has declared national health care to be a priority which his economic package will develop and implement. Barlett and Steele’s book was a forum for announcing the need of basic health care provisions for all. It would seem that the government which once repudiated America: What Went Wrong is now addressing the problems the book presented;
Barlett and Steele came here with evidence of economic failure, but also with the challenge to each citizen to act on an individual level to bring the country out of its economic quagmire.
So as President Clinton issues his charge that “we will rise or fall together,” that “this is a time for all Americans to contribute to a better tomorrow,” it is important to also remember the message of Barlett and S teele: something has gone terribly wrong and all citizens will suffer, as so many already have, unless the American people fight these economic problems together.	□

All That Glitters
From the very top to the bottom, the Main Building stands firm despite some creaks
by Mark J. Mitchell IV
Go inside the Main Building and read the directory. The highest level is the fourth floor. Go outside and count the rows of windows. There are five levels. Now go back inside and take the stairs to the top floor. You can’t.
On the stairwell from the fourth floor to the fifth there is a barricade. All that is visible of the top floor of the Main Building is a low vaulted ceiling with bare bulbs and exposed piping. The walls are visibly frescoed, but the dilapidation is evident.
From a distance, the shimmering gold of the dome lends the Main Building an external opulence which is not reflectedby its interior condition.
Inside, the Main Building shows the effects of being the center of an ever-changing and ever- expanding university. Originally a classroom-dormitory-cafeteria-library-office building, the Main Building has evolved from form to form over the years. Various offices have been constructed in mismatched styles. The floors have warped with time and the stairs slant to the right.
“The patient is sick but curable,” said Mike Smith, director of facilities engineering. “Our immediate problem is that the building doesnotmeet the presentfire safety codes or even simple worker health and safety regulations in some places,” said Smith. The Main Building is constructed of masonry bearing walls, but its basic internal structure is wooden post and beam. The problems arise from the fact that the wood is approximately 114 years old; in different places ithas shrunken, splitand warped. But both the university’s engineers and structural experts are confident that the wood is sound and the building is stable.
< Still, the Main B uilding is in need of major internal improvements, noted Smith. On the most basic level, facilities engineering re
quires that ancient joists and floor supports be replaced with new, more solid structural bolsters. But the building also needs elevators and new fire alarm and electrical systems. As well, there is a need for new lighting, artwrok restoration and office remodeling.
"The officers are reviewing some basic plans for a major renovation of the Main Building," said Smith, "but several questions need to be answered before any project begins. Forinstance, whatsortof funding do we have and where do we put the offices during the work," continued Smith.
The university's architecture firm, Elerbee, Becket and Associates, has presented three possible renewal projects to the officers. The first option is renovation, in which the building would be gutted and entirely refurbished as a modem office complex. The second option is rehabilitation, which would entail redecorating the public spaces in a traditional manner but entirly revamping the office spaces in a contemporary form. The third format would be restoration which would return the entire building to its state at a given point in history such as 1900 or 1920.
Though the cost of a restoration is high, quoted at somewhere in the range of $50,000,000 according to some sources, the officers and trustees of the university are inclined toward a complete restoration for the campus’ most historic and most recognized building. “In addition to the price of such a project, other obstacles include relocation and space allocation,” said Smith.
The Main Building houses the entire apparatus and personnel of the university’s administration, so the scale of any project would displace most of those who work in the building. Since the administrative offices presently occupy most of the Main Building’s 150,000 square feet of space, a comparably sized building would be re
quired for temporary use. Brownson Hall would be a possibility for the relocation, though Brownson is presently slated for demolition. Another option for the relocation, according to Smith, would be the Hurley Hall of Business Administration. In 1995, when the new Business Administration headquarters is completed next to the Hesburgh Peace Center, Hurley and Hayes-Healy will be available for temporary occupancy.
Second, under a restoration, the Main Building would be returned to a state similar to its original. Obviously the dormitories, which once occupied the wings, would not be included. But there is the question of allocating classroom space as well as increased public space.
“In any project, our usable office space would be reduced by 20,000 to 30,000 square feet. After a restoration project we would try to make the rooms substantially less crowded and we would allow room for the offices and staffs to grow,” Smith said.
Under any of the three plans, the Main Building will endure a major structural and aesthetic facelift. There is no target date set for the project, but an optimal time, said Smith, would be after the construction of the new Business Administration Building in 1995.
The Fifth Floor
Among the other problems of the Main Building, there is no access to the fifth floor. Under every remodeling plan, the fifth floor is restored to full use.
Neither Smith nor university historians can accurately determine the date when the top floor was entirely closed: Most likely, it was decided at some point that instead of remodeling the top floor, which is ten flights up, it would be closed to general access.
The fifth floor is not condemned. Rather, according to facilities engineering, it is not occupied because moving office equipment up five stories is unrealistic. In addition, there is a matter of occupational safety. While experts in structural analysis have tested the wood of the fifth floor and found it to be sound, they warn that floors which have not supported anything for at least 30 years should' not be tested unnecessarily. Even a cursory inspection of the top level from the outside reveals that the only fire escape apparatus consists of a narrow metal
=4 ’
.. scHoiinii
i 1 I
!
i
|
ladder scaling down the side of the building. Smith said, “You’d probably lose more lives by evacuating with that fire escape than you’d lose in the fire itself.”
Throughout the period of its use, the fifth floor, like the entire Main Building, has served many purposes. Architect Willoughby J. Edbrooke, who was nationally acclaimed in his day, designed the Main Building and created the fifth floor to have high ceilings, dormer windows and large skylights, since it is largely enveloped by the roof. The university’s architecture school was housed in the west wing of the fifth floor, the art department was in the east wing, and university artist-in-residence Luigi Gregori had his studio in the south wing. The top floor has also housed music classes, speech and journalism classes, the geology laboratory and the university museum.
The halls of the fifth floor were lined with glass display cases, which archival documents note were filled with Civil War artifacts like General Sherman’s coat and other artifacts including Father Jacques Marquette’s brocade chasuable. The classrooms and studios were two stories high and the walls were decorated with frescoes and huge canvas paintings of Civil War battles.
Today, the top floor is substantially less than the light and airy art studios of days gone by. From the moment one steps through the barricade on the stairs, the dust and debris left by years of neglect is evident. An alarm system now guards the restricted floor and the wiring of the system and of the utility lighting hangs out of open electrical boxes and snakes along the walls.
The display cases still line the halls and a few remaining Civil War scenes hang above them. But the cases were emptied long ago and ambitious explorers who gained access to the fifth floor before the alarm system have decorated the cases and the walls around them with their names and other graffiti.
In the west studio, the skylight has been blacked out by tar poured on the roof and large holes have been chiseled out of the floor to run electric and ventilation lines to the offices below.
The east studio is in considerably better condition. The skylight provides ample light for the large room which has only four
OUR LADY OF NOTRE DAME Hoisted to the top of the dome in 1888, the Virgin Mary statue is made of cast iron, Is 19 feet tall and weighs 4,000 pounds.
OUTER SHELL During the regilding of 1961, the original iron outer shell was replaced with a heavier corrosionresistant alloy of nickle and copper called Monel.
GOLD LEAF SHELL 1,250 23-karat gold strips, each of them just one millimeter thick, were applied by hand to an adhesive on the alloy outer shell during regilding in 1988. The strips were then hand buffed with cotton. The gold material is so tiny that individual strips could be carried away by light breezes while being applied.
□ ED
other windows. The walls, though dirty, are still painted bright yellow and the original light fixtures still hang from the high ceiling.
At various points, engineers have carefully removed floor boards for testing, leaving barren spaces in the floor. The windows offer an impressive view of the roof and of the campus. On the roof, the large chimneys appear. They are not actually chimneys from fire places, but what Smith called “a stateof the art nineteenth century ventilation system.” In the sweltering summers of South Bend, teachers could open windows and the cooler air from outside could enter as the hot air trapped in the building escaped through the vents high in the walls. The vents all opened onto the chimneys which evacuated the heat through the roof.
The classrooms of the fifth floor are ancient in design, with raised platforms around
A SYMBOL FOR THE AGES
The Golden Dome.
Perhaps no other single structure at any other college or university has become a symbol by which it is known nationally and internationally. Rising 158 feet above the ground at its highest point, it is a moniker for the university’s graduates, whether they have one degree-as in “Domer”-or three degrees-as in “Triple Domer.” The university’s yearbook is called simply, “The Dome.” Its likeness graces everything from T-shirts to stationery. Although the building under the dome is now used strictly for administrative offices, it was once home to classrooms, study halls, dormitories, a library museum, chapel and dining halls. Campus folklore has it that any dorm room facing the golden Dome assures academic success for the student’s freshman year. Here’s a sample of Dome history: •A landmark since its creation in 1882, it replaced a much less elaborate dome after both it and the original administration building burned down on April 23,1879.
•The statue of the Virgin Mary was made by sculptor Giovanni Meli to replicate the sculpture erected in the Piazza di Spagna in Rome by Pope Pius IX. Students at what Is now Saint Mary’s College-then Saint Mary’s Academy-pledged the statue as their gift of the reconstruction of the ! 	main building after
the fire.
\	•The Administration
Building on which the ™ Dome rests was hurriedly built in the summer following the fire, using some 300 local laborers. Its style was termed “modem Sorin” after the university’s founder, Rev. Edward Sorin.
•In 1988, the dome was regilded for the ninth time, at a cost of $300,000.
South Bend Tribune Graphic /MichasI Brugh
the room for the students’ chairs and a dias atone end for the teacher’s deskand podium.
Gregori’s southern studio is thebestmain-tained. Painted light green, the studio is illuminated by a smaller skylight and dormer windows. Elaborate drafting tables are still anchored to the floor, and the room is actually clean of significant debris, as though Gregori still cared for it. The studio is noticeably truncated by a wall at the far southern end. A ragged hole has been punched in this wall and the structure beyond it is visible. The wall used to divide the Gregori studio from the great vaulted ceiling of the Lemonnier Library which occupied the fourth floor southern wing. Today, a false ceiling has hidden the vault, and insulation, lighting and ventilation are all that is seen.
There is no mystery to the fifth floor. For
Above empty display cases hangs a huge mural of a Civil War battle. The halls of the fifth floor are decorated by these paintings as well as by the graffiti on the cases.
lack of an elevator, it eventually closed to 1 ; general access. Neglect has left it in a |; shambles; but the promise of restoration ?: should return the top floor to the light and
open spaces which Edbrooke designed for it However, the fifth floor must endure a few j - more years of exile before it can be reunited ! with the other four levels of the Main Build-i ing-
The Inner Dome
While Smith characterizes the Main Building as ‘sick,’ he asserts that the dome structure is very sound, indeed more stable than the rest of the building. The dome, which was completed in 1882, is a structure
largely independent of the rest of the building. Like the great domes of Europe, St. Peter’s in Rome and Santa Maria del Fiore’s in Florence, Notre Dame’s famed golden dome, also designed by Edbrooke, is based on a pier system.
Within the building are massive support structures, called piers, which bear the entire weight of the dome
down through the building and balance the burden evenly. This leaves the walls unstressed by the immense weight.
Also likeother great domes, the golden dome is a double-shelled construction. The structure is complex but serves to keep the dome stable, as Smith said, “even in wind storms.”
On the interior, the dome is ornately decorated. Access is gained to the inner balustrade, which is visible from the lower levels, on the fifth floor. Through a padlocked steel door (visitors are not welcome), there is an old wooden spiral staircase which winds up through the dome’s pier, eventually termi
nating in one of the four doors which are visible at the comers of the balcony. The balustrade is neither high nor wide, and it is quite precarious. The large windows which allow light down through the atrium and which are clearly visible from the outside are made of two panes of glass. One pane was frosted and one was clear. In various windows one or the other of the panes has broken from weather beating, giving the light passing in a checkered appearance.
Among the debris on the balcony are deflated balloons which children have let float up to the top of the inner dome; and adventurers have inscribed their names everywhere. The graffiti is not visible from lower floors and the steel door now prevents such expeditions.
The colors of the inner dome's mural are muted by dust when the view is from the balcony perspective. Yet, Gregori’s allegory of Religion, Queen of All Studies, is still as alive today as when he painted it over a century ago.
The Italian master had never painted on a curved surface before he tackled the dome project, so he first designed his mural in curved kitchen bowels until he found the precise angle for his painting, noted Smith. There is also the story of a priest who pointed out to Gregori that the painted figure of history had no eyebrows. The Italian perfectionist lashed together a series of long rods with a paint brash at the end and,
of the Dome
• padlocks and wired to an alarm system. This is the only passage up \ to the balcony and to the top of the dome. The staircasewas narrow, rickety and ancient. 'The entire stair case, was surrounded with
by J. Bradley Keck
graffiti, dirt and even bird carcasses. Boards were loose and nails . stuck out of lumber. This was the Notre Dame that is now hidden _ ,behind modem classrooms and mini-skyscrapers. ;
We came upon the door leading out; to the balcony; it was. H" efore I made my ejimb, my only impressiohs of the restricted ’. covered with signatures. The earliest I saw dated back to 1907.;. We ...places of the Main Building were pictures of the great.. were amazed as we stepped out onto the narrow balcony. The walls number of signatures left on tlic walls of the upper reachcrs of the were again covered willi graffitl, bird excremcnt and fil th. With
could. I remembered thinking how much I would like to see the Cross seal on the second floor r-r it was barely discernable. ■ ; inside;9gpnbthft|r|at^|unjyCTsi^^
it waswith excitementand an ticipationthatljoined Mark Mitchell floor, Mr. Smith pointed between the wall studs toanumber of thin for an investigation of the dome. / , gUg / '.-W;.i strips of lumber with some ancient iron square hails sticking from ItstartedwithtourofthcfifthfloorafterwhichMarkaskedifwe them. There.hcsaid, was theway tothetop. Isaw ashaftreaching |rodMb&^ei^unturoup:to|ie|Mcb^^
below the mural. Chief Engineer Mike Smith lead us over to a numerous joists and studs. I could only make out two light bulbs Sdorico’^^in.steeyciris&dywthjhst^^

at the base. Meeting at a point directly above the peak of the shell of the inner dome are the metal support rods of the outer dome’s tension ring. The ring maintains the integrity of the curved metal lattice work and helps to support the immense weight of the iron infrastructure.
The inner structure is built of wood covered on the outside with metal. The outer metal is
sheathed with 23 karat gold. Crowning the gold of the outer dome is Edbrooke’s pedestal which is the stand for the4,000-pound, iron statue of Saint Mary, bringing the total height to 197 feet.
Back inside the dome, no glitter of gold is apparent There is only the dark brown of the ancient wood frame and its black iron supports. At the peak of the inner shell, resting on the sturdy tension ring, is another rickety ladder which spans the 30-foot gap to the pedestal. The; ladder is reached only by climbing on all fours over the inner shell. One must be careful to step only on the latitudinal support beams since the lathe and
leaning dangerously over the railing of the balcony, finished the job of the eyebrows.
Gregori's timeless mural will undergo another improvement when the slated restoration cleans it of years of dust The Dome Structure
It is a climb of over forty- feet from the level of the little balustrade to the height of the inner dome. But the inner dome is not of the same pitch and height of the outer dome. Between the peak of the inner dome and the pedestal upon which the statue of St Mary stands there is a span of about 30 feet.
Returning to the top of the spiral staircase within the massive pier, through several joists and intervening wooden supports, there is a rickety ladder from 1882 which leads up through the wall of the dome structure to the inner space between the two dome shells. The climb is dusty and cramped between the wall joists and other protruding support apparatus.
At the top of the ladder is a small space directly above the cornice which surrounds the inner dome. In the dark space, lit by two bare bulbs, the skeletons of the outer dome and the inner dome are visible. The inner dome rises like an upside-down bowl. It is nothing more than wood lathe covered with the frescoed plaster on the visible side. Around the shell are latitudinal support beams which mirror the latitudinal support beams of the outer shell.
The outer shell has a metal lattice work of support. It is pierced with small windvents
:but still eerily dark.
I was sure that there was no possibility that we would be able to	cajoled me to climb the ladder up to the cupola below Mary,
climbup this old, darkpassage; butMark asked, andMr. Smith said	Nowl was really scared, but we had come too far to quit. The
that we could climb the ladder to the top. He gave us afew warnings . ladder was not braced at the top or the bottom.. The nearest wall .. .< and sentus up; Icouldn’t believe it; Iliad never'heard of anyone ■ was 23 feetaway, aqd below us was thq fragile shell of the inner; climbing up into the dome itself. We squeezed between the wall dome. As I climbed, I could feel the draft from the outside and I /. i studs and headed up the ladder.: I was nervous; it was a long way . : could hear the Wind whipping around the gilded dome ihat \ '. up. It was hard work cliinbingup a long ladder between joists and	surroundedme. Ontheway upicouldfeelsomeofthelobsenails'
:	sprinkler pipes, and'a dusty .darkatmosphere.	:	:	. onmy thumbs; I was hoping all the while that the nails that held
■. •	The sight was amazing.- Wewerein the ladder together would remain tight. When I got to the cupola
aldrge roomwith the outside dome highabove us and surrounding J'there was no floofi only apileof loose boards on top of a few cross, 'MW	It was like being in the attic of the oldest; , joists.; We were rigtitbelow Mary’s feet in a octagonal crow’s
7 biggest house y	In front of us was one more big	nest, of gold., /	'■ . \ ;	.-j ;,
<	obstacle oh our climb to the top the convex dome on the other I was ready to come back to solid ground. As I paused bn the
;	sideofwhich wasthe mural of Mary. Mr. Smith told usto be very	ladder and tookonc last look up atMary’s pedestal,Tfelt that
careful scaling the convex inner dome. If we were not sure-footed ■: Maik and I had seen a part df history that had been frozen the and missed the wooden ribbing that supported the plaster.wwoHW ,; history of a vision, of persistence and a realization of a dream of .’ /	'step right through the mu^	great university, a university that is"represented by a great'
.. the inner dome—on all:fours—carefully. Then at the top, Mark. ' building and a golden dome.	"	.
Looking up from the fifth floor, one can see the wall frescoes of the upper levels. Around the small balcony beneath Gregori's mural (on the left side) is barely visible some of the graffiti which covers the walls.
plaster is not meant to hold weight
Arriving at the ladder one stands upon the tension ring which insures that the dome holds up day after day. Finally, the ladder exits in the small space of the inner pedestal. This is the top of the dome.	-
There are few names marked-upon the walls at this lofty peak. They identify those who made the precarious climb. Among them are the original builders of the dome and university officials from throughout the many years. Though the wind whistles sharply through the vents, the engineers are assured that the dome will stand for centuries to come.	• □
igBRUAR¥18|i|93 "
Helping Hand
Students volunteer at St. Hedwig’s Outreach Center to give help, support and love to the youth of South Bend
by Beth Fehring
are representative of several groups, includ- tor, grew up in South Bend. During her
——-----------------------------------— ing Morrissey Manor’s service group. The childhood, an outreach program much like
r 11 wice each week a special group of four Freshman Class Council has recently an- St. Hedwig’s offered her help and support.
• ■ to eight Notre Dame students leaves
the shadow of the Golden Dome from behind Lyons and heads for St. Hedwig’s Catholic Church in SouthBend. Theretheyaregreeted by the beaming faces of more than a dozen children, from kindergarten through the seventh grade.
Approximately 20 students participate in the St Hedwig’s program, volunteering their time, understanding and knowledge to children who do not share the same opportunities. This program is unique in that it is not rigidly structured, nor does it demand a large time commitment. Students are free to volunteer as often as they like.
The senior class adopted the St. Hedwig’s program as their class service project during their freshman year. However, volunteers
7
The tutors,children and May Lee Johnson share In a meal provided by St. Hedwig's.
nounced that they, too, will be serving the children at St Hedwig’s Outreach Center.
May Lee Johnson, the center’s coordina-
Out of a desire to give something back to the children and to the community, she began the St. Hedwig’s outreach project. The Notre Dame student volunteers have a deep admiration for Johnson. “She instills a sense of religion and faith in the kids. I really respect her,” commented senior Sheila Buckman.
Each trip to Sl Hedwig’s lasts about an hour. When the group arrives, they are immediately greeted by the eager children. “The kids are excited to see us, and they start pointing and shouting, ‘I want you!”’ said senior class member Jenny Witt. The children are espe
cially excited to see new faces among the volunteers. “You don’t have to worry about not being there before. They appreciate you
f	silastic
The tutors volunteer their time twice a week at the Outreach Center.
coming anytime,” said Buckman.
The volunteers usually begin by helping the children with their homework. This is a great break from the stress of college life. “When I’m laboringaway overaphilosophy paper, the center is someplace to escape, where help on a simple math problem is appreciated,” said Buckman.
Other activities include drawing pictures and playing games. To celebrate Valentine’s Day, the group held a big party at the center with sandwiches and cake. In addition, the tutors like to plan campus activities for the the children. For Halloween they went trick-or-treating through the dorms. “The kids absolutely love Notre Dame,” said Buckman. “They get on campus and just run around!”
Buckman and Witt have been volunteering at St. Hedwig’s since they were freshmen. Over four years, they have grown very attached to the children who come to the center, as well as to the program itself. - “Initially, I started in the program because it was our freshman class service project, but I just got addicted and never stopped going,” said Buckman.
Both Witt and Buckman have watched the children grow up and have come to learn their family stories. In addition, they have seen the center nearly shut down several times as a result of financial difficulties. “You come to transcend the boundaries of being simply a tutor,” explained Witt. “1 once even went to visit one of the kids in the hospital.”
The service project is a bonding experience for all of the volunteers. Together, they
are witnesses to the struggles which the children are constantly put through. “A sense of frustration at the pain and drama in these children’s lives pulls all of the tutors together,” said Witt.
The program has given much to both Witt and Buckman in return for their volunteer efforts. Commented Witt, “It has really
|ljgg||Stllrl ed w i g’sB en ef it .................................
Hedwig’s: The senior class is selling
jSt.Patrick’sDay t-shirts to benefit their jciaswbm^
; 'jGentef^,“Wewanted to be able togi vethem gljljiigjgifV^the end of the year,” said Joe [jHustpn^senipr clasipresi^ ; jAThejt-shirts.jcreatedby senior. .^a^d-Cblgan, will be ph saleinthe ibpbkstorejaM Stiodidesk^i^^
Stives. They willsellforS 10 each and rmpsftpfthejpro ;i-0e<i5Wg^ gtpw^b .'thb^ehiorjjSend-bff,^a ban~ quetfbrjthbse.jseniorbenteringpost-gradiiate social 'service Avork, : Deri pending on sales, some money may bgojtbwardg subsidizing' theAppala-j chianj'Service Seminar, j “So many peoplego tothat seminar and they
Xneet^ekfe;^^^
^Hmbt^id&anhpplas center th* money on a few specific |prpj^^e\shidehtecpb^
Hedwig’s.”^	1
opened my eyes in showing me the importance of role models and education in kids’ lives.” Likewise, Buckman explained that the program has put her in touch with the real world. “It amazes me that you can have a place like ritzy Tippecanoe, which is only a block or so away from somewhere like St. Hedwig’s, where there are children from the sixth grade who have not yet learned to read.”
Also significant, the project has taught them to value the opportunities which they have in life, and to take joy in little things. “It’s easy to get wrapped up in stuff like school work and planning spring break here at Notre Dame and to forget to take time out for things that are really important,” said Buckman.
St. Hedwig’s outreach program is just one of the many service opportunities accessible to students through the Center for Social Concerns. Witt said, “Volunteering really is a great experience. It’s unfortunate if you don’t take advantage of service projects like St. Hedwig’s here at Notre Dame.” □
stadents
on-carnpus, projectsandoihersm al [gatherings. “Spine of the rripheymay also go to
helptopayfordoctorW
;said. “We, ' the tutors and-T, will decide what needs the inps^	the
□
nibrieyZ* Huston said;
												
8	Jill	■■						^5				i ■ <0
Y A Comic Creation
A student-produced comic book debuts on campus this week
by Christy Hall
It’s a bird, it’s a plane, it’s four “super men” with one terrific comicbook. Dave Devine, Steve Duenes, Jay Hosier and Bill Rbsemann have combined superpowers to create their very own comic book. Entitled “Wired Comix,” the book deals with three different themes that, when sandwiched together, provide entertainment, suspense and laughter.
Steve Duenes contributed a social commentary on life at Notre Dame which is spliced with satire and finger-pointing, while Jay Hosier included some “Rejection Man” material from his “Spelunkef” strip which appears daily in The Observer. Dave Devine and Bill Rosemann combined forces to create their own segment entitled ‘Truth and Consequences... A Mid-Knight Tale,” a story focusing on a woman asserting her strength in a male-dominated world.
According to Devine, “There just aren’t enough strong women characters in comic books today.” And that’s how Mid-Knight was bom. This multi-muscled, strong, intelligent, witty and beautiful mega-power graces the pages of “Wired” and, of course, saves the day, said Devine. Devine illustrated each panel, and Rosemann wrote the script with editorial assistance from Hosier. Rosemann explained, “It’s not just the writing, it’s the pictures too. Expressions explain feelings.”
This project began not too long ago when the students decided to “collect some of then-work together.” T hey were able to satisfy many themes and interests and appeal to
many different audiences. Rosemann said, “Some comic books are just for kids. Others bring up moral questions and make you say to yourself, ‘What would I do in a situation like that?”’ And that is just what “Wired Comix” has done.
The four students are also interested in
Jay Hosier drew this cover for the first Issue of “Wired Comix.”
starting a club. They feel a lot of people would be interested in future projects like their own. ‘There’s the newspaper, there’s Scholastic, but there’s nothing for people who want to write comic books,” said
Rosemann. “Before we started, there was no outlet for this. I couldn’t draw, but this linked all of talents together.”
“Wired Comix” has done more than display the work of these four talented students. It has built friendships. “Bill and I didn’t even know each other before we started this. Now we’re really great friends,” said Devine.
The premiere issue will debut within the week and will be distributed to dorms on Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses. They may even appear in local comic book stores. One thousand copies are being published and will be sold for one dollar, with half the proceeds going to the Riley Children’s Hospital in Indianapolis, Indiana. “It is the biggest children’s hospital in the area and it’s a great charity,” said Hosier. The decision to give money to the hospital stemmed from the reality that “it’s easier to sell something if it’s for charity,” he said.
Hosier said that the publication costs were covered by advertising and that half of the proceeds will go to defray the costs of the next issue. “We hope to upgrade the quality of paper, to increase the number of pages and maybe to introduce color in future issues,” he said. Their next issue should be published by the end of the semester.
Action, laughter, good will and friendship, that’s what“Wired Comix” is all about. Hosier commented, “It has been a lot of fun and it’s going to be pretty cool too.” It’ll take you back to the days of the Sunday funnies, cops and robbers, and heroes and villains. And who knows, it may even inspire you to get out those old Underoos.	□
ho
MWil


CampusV1/&tt
Someone out there is quite irked. The Gipp received this semi-coherent, rather vulgar outburst of outrage not too long ago from a guy who calls himself “The Handyman.” Readers should be forewarned that the Gipp doesn’t necessarily condone this guy’s attitude or language, but he nonetheless found the letter interesting. Partone deals with academics:
A MODEST PROPOSAL
“The honor code at this university is redundant, and therefore crap. I suggest that any professor who is going to ask me to sign an honor code statement before every piece of work should truck his fat [expletive] over to the freshman office where the damn honor code thing I signed four years ago is presumably still on file.
“And why is it that the faculty and administration don’t have to sign their own honor code, promising to act in the students’ best interests at all times? For example, take the deceptive action whereby the washing machines were removed from Washington Hall last year to make room for ‘academic space.’ The only materials currently in that room are some folding tables and a [expletive] can of spackle. Someone lied to us.
“Are you aware that some professor here stated not long ago that his idea of the ideal university was one with no undergradutate students? We should get this pretentious [expletive] fired.) It galls me to think that I pay a portion ofthis [expletive]’s salary. I am trying to get his name. Give me a few weeks.”
Does anyone know who this particular professor is? The art students in Riley are ready to make an effigy to be burned as soon as the Gipp calls back with his (or maybe her?) name! And what about that “academic space” in Washington Hall? The Gipp has to agree that there doesn’t seem to
be too much academic work going on in there.
Part two of Mr. Handyman’s letter espouses the attitude prevalent among many academic Neanderthals here at Notre Dame:
“U am annoyed by] all these cry babies who have been perpetually bitching about abortion, homosexuality and parietals. I don’t give a damn whether you are Catholic or not - you are attending a Catholic university. In agreeing to come here, it would seem to me that you implicitly agreed to accept Catholic morality as an acceptable behavioral norm. If you find these morals intolerable, GO AWAY! (Or at least shut up, especially you mouthy, philosophical fetus murderers.)”
A MODEST COUNTER-PROPOSAL
Mr. Handyman, get thee back to the middle ages, my friend! Yes, this place is Catholic, and many students here at least pretend to adhere to Catholic teaching. This place is also, as you mentioned, a UNIVERSITY, a place where ideas are debated and questioned. Dogma and authority that are never challenged lead to things like the Inquisition and the “Christianization” (read: slaughter) of many, many Native Americans and other “unbelievers.” This is one place where your Catholic beliefs should be challenged, and by being challenged, be strengthened. My guess is that you, like many others here, have never listened to the other (non-Catholic) side of any issue and are wasting your time at a university. You self-righteous lemmings are dangerous, and in the end, probably more so than those “mouthy, philosophical fetus murderers,” most of whom have, without a doubt, never harmed a fetus. A little diversity of opinion never hurt anyone, and if what you believe is right, debating with others should only strengthen your position.
DOMERS GET WACKY
So you say Domers are apathetic? Not so, replies a resident of Cavanaugh Hall. Earlier this year, the Gipp complained that a certain ugly blue truck had been monopolizing the best parking spot in the D2 parking lot Enraged by this fact, a group of guys from Cavanaugh moved the offending truck so that other drivers could have a shot at that coveted spot. The Gipp has to admit that he’s not exacdy thrilled to be motivating acts of vandalism, but getting a gaggle of 20 guys off their gluteus maximii on a Friday night is, in fact, somewhat of an accomplishment Just don’t tell anyone where you get your ideas, guys. I refuse to be held responsible for anyone taking me seriously.
SEVEN MORE REASONS TO HATE FEBRUARY
7. “Sunny and cold” weather: How many times have you seen the sun shining and thought you might not need a sweater?
6. Roses die really fast, and everyone seems to have dead ones around by February 16.
5. Thin winter air gets saturated with Ethanol® smell more readily.
4. Clinton’s first hundred days won’t be over for a few more months, so don’t look for anything else on the front page of the newspaper until then.
3. Lent starts in February this year.
2. It’s too soon in the semester to slump and too late in the semester to be enthusiastic about anything.
1. Fe-byoo-airy or fe-brew-airy? Who knows which is right?
Until next week, the Gipper bids adieu. Send your hate mail or fan letters fast, because this Gipper’s term expires at spring break and then an entirely new Gipper will step in. Time is short, so send your gripes in now.
Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 18
Movie: "The Grifters," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Filins: South Africa in Transition, "Changing This Country" and "Chain of Tears," Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune, 8:00 p.m.
Friday 19
Movie: "Pinocchio," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Swoon," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Seminar: "Supersonic Aerodynamics of Bodies with Star-Like Cross-Sectional Shape," Fitzpatrick Hall, Room 356,3:30 p.m.
Saturday 20 f
Movie: "Pinocchio," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Swoon," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Tennis: Notre Dame women vs. Texas Christian University, Eck Pavilion, 1:00 p.m.
Windy City Shuttle: Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk, $10.
I 1 f 1 1 (
s 11
( 8 I J
I X (
1WM®"MW	C all:
LaFortunelnformation Desk:
Senior Class: 631-5136	■'
Junior ClaB:
Snite Film=Series Hot Line:
Sophomore Class: 631-5225 ;
ND News Line: 631-5110 '
JACC Ticket information: 631-7354
Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111 Weekend Wheels Schedule: 631-fred
:lbuehFpur'W:: Dial239-2500,thenpress: X6050 for news headlines >x 6052 for world news x 6121, for top pop albums ;x 6571 for prirne x 6129 for video releases
x 1031 for local weather / x 6736; for national weather^ X;6123Tor movie foyiews ■; 1	•
x ■9463^ fot:^	; ?
x 6238 for TV Sportk events ; • |||)|||||^
x 6263 for college basketball
Sunday
21
Recital: Guest Organ Recital, Karel ’aukert, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 1:00 p.m.
nformal Discussion: "Reflection on
Hack Women Through Poetry," Nikki jiovanni, Foster Room, LaFortune, 1:00 p.m.
lophomore Literary Festival Reading:
Black Feeling Black Talk," Nikki Jiovanni, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library, 1:00 p.m.
lasketball: Notre Dame men vs. DePaul, ACC, 1:30 p.m.
Exhibition Opening: "Portraits of Catholic Vorkers," Mary Farrell, Center for Social Concerns, 3:00 pm.
Monday
22
Film: "Citizen Kane," IM pm., Snite, $2.
Film: "Print Generation," and "Saving the Proof," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.
Sophomore Literary Festival Reading: Tim O'Brien, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 8:00 pm.
Tuesday
23
Film: "Bom to be Bad," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Mean Streets," 9:00 pm., Snite, $2.
Basketball: Notre Dame women vs.
Duquesne, JACC, 7:30 pm.
Sophomore Literary Festival Reading:
Gloria Naylor, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 8:00 p.m.
Informal Discussion: with Tim O'Brien, library lounge, 12:00 p.m.

Suriday, F6t?,-21

-rMopday, feb;22 j; Tdesddy, Fbb< 23:
NbvelistTimO'Brien
Novell
TOUCH
FOUR
Wednesday 24
Performance: "The Heidi Chronicles,"
Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m.
Sophomore Literary Festival Reading: Marge Piercy, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 8:00 pm.
Movie Theatres
100:
259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583 ■
Town & Country Theatre k 259-9090 :	;
UniversityParkCinemaEast:
277-7336" J

University Park Cinema West:
SSL^:277-0^
Re^irgs begin ^;8:00p?nj; jeqchbl^t IndKe HesbUrgh riunvand:^
ForumI&II Cinema: ; •> 277-152^ ®I
No Hurdle
Too High
Freshman Erica Peterson brings her sprinting talents to Notre Dame where she is already rewriting the record books
X
by Amanda Clinton
In the Rocky Mountains of Alberta, Canada, there is a little town called Blairmore. There is a movie theater which features ope film, a swimming pool, a skiing facility with just two T-bars, an elementary school and a high school. In this small mining community of 2,000 people, the Frank Slide (which occured when a mountain being mined collapsed) was the biggest news to hit town and is still spoken about despite the fact that it happened 89 years ago. But recently Blairmore has been buzzing with the news of a new legend. Her name is Erica Peterson.
Last year Peterson could be seen running through the halls of Crowsnest Consolidated High School at the end of every class day. As a high school senior she was one of the best400- meter hurdlers in her age group in the world, but her high school does not have a track. So she would sprint down the halls practicing for her meets. Mats were placed at the end of the halls so that runners could put in a strong finish and not need to slow down. Sometimes the team even lined the floor with a rubber covering so that the runners could practice in their spikes.
Even though Blairmore does not boast impressive facilities, that did not stop Peterson from excelling in track. Besides being selected as one of two athletes to compete in the Junior Olympics in 1991 in Tokyo, where she finished third in the 400-
meter hurdles, Peterson also won a gold medal and set a record at the Pan American Junior Championships in the 400- meter hurdles in 1991. She also ran the 400-meter hurdles in October of 1992 at the World Junior Championships in Seoul, Korea. Despite tripping over one of the hurdles while warming up, which according to Peterson, “made me really nervous,” she still took a silver medal home with her.
Peterson did not plan on bringing her talents to Notre Dame. She had always expected to attend the University of Calgary, located about 100 miles north of her home, but her plans changed when Irish assistant track coach John Miller called her.
“I didn’t actually know anything about Notre Dame until Coach Miller called me. I came to visit and loved it I had so much fun. The track and weight room were so impressive,” stated Peterson. “After my visit coaches from other schools called to see when I would be visiting their campuses. I told them I had already decided to go to Notre Dame. I think some of them were upset that I didn’t even look at their schools. But Notre Dame is different”
Although the indoor track season began less than a month ago, Peterson has already begun to leave her mark on the Irish record books. At the Purdue Invitational on January 23, Peterson took first place in the 600-meter dash. Her 1:33.05 time beat the previous university record by six seconds.
Explained Peterson, “Competing here is different than Canada. When I am at home
I know what to expect. But here there is a lot more competition at the meets.”
But stiffer competition has not stopped her from gaining success. At the Meyo Invitational at Notre Dame on January 29, Peterson placed first in the 55- meter hurdles, 400-meter dash, 200-meter dash and 4 x 440 relay. She also broke the Midwestern Collegiate Conference record with her performances in the 400-meter dash, 200-meter dash and 4 x 440 relay. Peterson’s point total at the end of the meet was greater than the entire score of two other teams competing. Because of her impressive performances, she was named Women’s Newcomer of the Meet and Women’s Athlete of the Meet. Since she has already performed so well on the collegiate level, Peterson is expected to compete in the NCAA championships in June.
Peterson attributes part of her recent accomplishments to Notre Dame assistant coach John Miller. “I really like Coach Miller. He puts in a lot of time helping me. He always has new ideas to improve my endurance and thinks of special drills to improve my times,” she said.
Peterson glides with such ease over the hurdles that it seems as though she has always been a runner and a hurdler. But she only began her running career four years ago when the gymnastics program she participated in was discontinued.
Remarked Peterson, “I didn’t have anything to do. It was something to do in a small town. I never thought that I would love
running, but I do now.”
It has not always been easy for Peterson either. Two years ago she pulled her hamstring, missing numerous weeks of practice and competition. And she was injured in the summer, a crucial season for important
Outdoor Championship meet in Germany this summer.”
While only four years of experience may not seem substantial, Peterson has competed all over the world. Not only has this experience helped her in handling the pressure of
seconds slower than the winning time at the Olympics in August.
It is difficult to believe that a runner who practiced in the hallways of her high school placed eighth in the Canadian Olympic trials and is considered one of the best junior
Freshman Erica Peterson may be a small town girl, but she brings a big time talent to the Notre Dame track team.
meets.
“My coach then, Coach Braun, said, ‘If you stick with track after this, I know you’ll be hooked for life.’”
Peterson’s favorite event, the 400-meter hurdles, is not an indoor track event because the tracks are normally too small. She must wait until the outdoor season begins on March 20 before she can compete in her favorite event
“I like the 400-meter hurdles the best because that is where I see myself going the farthest,” said Peterson. “The world outdoor standard is 56.50 seconds. I want to reach that time. Then I will qualify for the World
collegiate meets, but she has also gained the confidence needed to continue her quest for the ultimate race, the Olympics.
“I want to compete in the Olympics. I guess that is the ultimate goal of any athlete,” said Peterson.
Last summer Peterson competed in the Canadian Olympic Trials in the 400-meter hurdles. She placed eighth, so she did not qualify her to run at Barcelona. But with the experience of competing in the Canadian Olympic trials last summer, Peterson will be even better prepared to try again in four years. Her current personal record in the 400-meter hurdles is 57 seconds, just four
hurdlers in the world. Now with impressive facilities to practice on, Peterson will have the opportunity to shave seconds off her personal times.
“I never thought our facilities were that bad, but after being here it would be tough to go back,” admitted Peterson.
With a few more years of collegiate competition and all of the world experience she gains in summer meets, Peterson’s goal of reaching the Olympics appears attainable. For many athletes, the experience of participating in a sport in college is the pinnacle of their athletic career, but for Peterson this is just the beginning.	□
Advantage
After finishing second in the nation last year, the men's tennis team hopes to win tit all this season with the help of six returning starters
by Carolyn Kapustij
Strength, determination and power describe the Notre Dame men’s tennis team. This is a squad which has expanded and built its program to be one of the best in the nation. But the Irish want to prove that they are here to stay as a national tennis powerhouse.
Presently, the Irish are ranked sixth in the nation. After a heartbreaking defeat in the final round of the NCAA championships last year to Stanford, Notre Dame completed the season ranked second in the country. This year the team hopes to win the national championship, a feat last accomplished by the Irish in 1959 when it tied Tulane for the title.
The Irish are the most experienced team in the country with six returning seniors: Will Forsyth, Andy Zurcher, Mark Schmidt, Chuck Coleman, Chris Wojtalik and Ron Rosas. These players are the core of the team. Forsyth holds the number one position in singles and doubles on the team and is currently ranked nineteenth in the ITA National Rankings. He is known for his powerful forehand and serve. Re
cently, Forsyth participated in the Rolex Indoor National Championship in Minneapolis. He competed well, advancing to the second round of the tournament.
At the beginning of the season, senior Andy Zurcher held the num -ber one spot on the team along with Forsyth. The pair also made a powerful doubles combination last season. Zurcher has performed consistently since his freshman year. They were supposed to alternate playing the number one spot on the team in the spring season.
However, over Christmas Break at a tournament in Arizona, Zurcher tore through the tendon sheath on his wrist Until last week his wrist was in a cast And now he must embark on a month of physical rehabilitation. After March first his doctor projects that he will be able to start to play tennis again. Right now he cannot even lift a racquet.
The loss of Zurcher has forced the team to restructure its roster.
!
Brent Tadsen
Forsyth holds the number one position in singles and doubles on the team and Is currently ranked nineteenth nationally.
Stated Zurcher, “Basically, everyone has just moved up one slot in the singles play. There was just a question as to who would play the number six spot. In doubles,
though, there was thequestion of finding the. graduatedlastyearaftermakingfourNCAA right combination of players for replace- appearances and becoming the first male ment.” Senior Chuck Coleman now plays tennis player in Notre Dame history to be a the number one doubles spot with Forsyth and the number two singles spot. Coleman, an All-American, features an aggressive service return in his game.
Seniors Chris Wojtalik and Mark Schmidt, both known for impressive singles play, have recently been playing well as the number two doubles combination. Theypulledoutabigwinin Notre Dame’s recent match against Kentucky. Another powerful doubles combination is senior Ron Rosas and freshman Jason Pun. The pair, the number three doubles squad for the team, has been winning consistently. They won their matches against North Carolina and Kentucky.
Pun is one of six freshmen who were added to the squad this year. The others are Andrew Chmura, Brian Harris, Marco Magnano and Michael Sprouse. With six impressive senior players, many of the freshmen look to this season to push their play up to the next level. This
way, they can step up and take over next year when Notre Dame loses six of its starters.
“The freshman are lucky be
cause of the six senior leaders. They are helpful. They help guide us,” stated Magnano. -“It will be a big loss for the team after they leave next year.”
In addition to the loss of Zurcher because of injury, Notre Dame will miss last year’s assistant coach Brian Kalbas who is now the women’s tennis coach at the College of
William and Mary. J.P. Weber, the former assistant coach at Furman University in Greensville, South Carolina, is the new Irish assistant coach.
Even though Zurcher is unable to play tennis, he still attends every practice. Re-marked Magnano, “Zurcher still goes to
every practice and helps out. He is a real leader.”
Perhaps the person most missed by the team this year is David DiLucia. DiLucia
Chuck Coleman, an All-American, plays the number one doubles spot with Forsyth and the number two singles spot.
three-time All-American. Although DiLucia was an essential player for the Irish, Zurcher believes the team, with its six seniors, is the most experienced in the country with its great power and strength.
“The team has a good feeling and responds well to losing Dave and myself,” said Zurcher. “No one is dejected. We realized
there would have to be an adjustment period during which there could be some losses but we are learning and gaining experience from these experiences.”
The Irish have suffered two heartbreaking losses. On January 31, Notre Dame lost five to three to the eighth-ranked North Carolina
Tarheels. On February 9, they lost to the Kentucky Wildcats with a final score of five to four. North Carolina is ranked eighth and Kentucky eleventh in the nation. According to Zurcher, “Both matches were extremely close, especially Kentucky. We could have won.”
As for the rest of the season, the Irish have a rough road ahead of them. They play one of the toughest, if not the toughest, schedules in the nation. Notre Dame will play almost all top 20 teams. Concerning key matches Zurcher remarked, “Almost every match will be difficult and we will have many opportunities playing top 20 teams.”
However, the most significant matches will be those played againstregional powers like Minnesota, Indiana and Michigan. Right now the team is first in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. It is important for the Irish to maintain their first place conference ranking because this determines their eligibility for the NCAA championship tournament The number one team from each conference is invited. So the most important matches will be the Midwestern Collegiate Com ference championships in April.
Despite the first two losses to North Carolina and Kentucky, the rest of the season looks bright for
Notre Dame. Working under the expertise of head coach Bob Bayliss, the tennis program has become one of the best in the
nation. Bayliss was named coach of the year for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference three years in a row and has never coached a losing season.
With a strong core of experienced seniors, six of last year’s seven starters, the guidance of an excellent coach and a strong freshman class, it looks hopeful that the Irish men’s
tennis team will remain a perennial powerhouse.
“Last year we reached the high level of a three to four year uphill slope,” commented Zurcher. ‘This year we are here to establish that we are one of the best teams in the country and will be for years to come.” □
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Greg Louder: Louder, a junior goalkeeper from Acton, MA, aided the Notre Dame men's hockey team in its win against Ferris State. In the last 26 minutes of the match-up, Louder prevented the Bulldogs from scoring. He tallied 19savesforthe game. StatedlrishcoachRic
Schafer, “We had a solid defensive effort and Dan Sawyer and Greg
Louder played exceptionally."
Stacey Fields: Fields, a freshman guard from Shoreview, MN, led the Notre Dame women’s basketball team to victory against Dayton last Saturday. Fields tied her career high point total for a game with fourteen against the Flyers. Remarked Fields on her performance, “I wanted to be as aggressive as I could.” Notre Dame beat Dayton by a score of 92-80.
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
.SUBWRV'
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
77 <7	' ■*	77 /•		'■ ■' , ■	-<-Z ■ ; ■	‘ , ■ ■ •	, ’ , ■ </7'	hallsl-77A7:^ ' '	- ■ - ■	-	
ery;::	7 B777; 7; 'Friday		BBS ALUMNI SENIOR ia6*a<aat^^ SCLUB	ry:C ■ 7?-:j\ - ■■::Pizzd;’;;7'^pl	
		DAME		, / ' ' '
. - /i ? \ < >/: -■ P ■ i'- > 1 ' ■ * - C\J '	+, '	‘	Rlumni-Senior Club is open euery Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday night from 9:00 pm until 2:00 am			. - :• 7' 7'"'' 7 '--7
v.^				-	7	■ "'Z: -7'
Italian Dining with an Irish View
^Peridia
"The. Italian Ristorante"
For any Fighting Irish Basketball fan, Parisi's offers the best Italian food in the South Bend area, and Parisi's is located right by the J.A.C.C.
232-4244	1412 South Bend Avenue
by J. Bradley Keck
Stagnated America
In the last six months (27 weeks to be exact) there have only been three number one singles on Billboard’s Hot 100 list This is the slowest turnover ever in the charts. Unfortunately, this slow turnover will produce the number one and two single of all time. “End of the Road” by Boyz n Men on the chart by for 13 weeks, was the number one single of all time—until now. After a two-week stint at the top by the Heights’ “How Do You Talk to an Angel,” Whitney Houston’s “I Will always Love You” has been tops for 12 weeks in a row. Billboard’s editors, after projecting the growth rate of bulleted singles and the overall points of Houston’s single, have concluded that “...Love You” will be at the top of the charts for at least two more weeks. So now you have witnessed chart history: Boyz II Men and Whitney Houston eclipsing all the hits by Elvis, Michael Jackson, The Beatles, Madonna, Prince, The Beach Boys and The Rolling Stones. Our generation has been defined by a remake of a Dolly Parton song.
A Naked Man in Michael Jackson’s House
Okay, it's not a real live naked man but a statue of “Oscar.” This statue, which one bazillion people saw in Jackson’s movie theater on Oprah’s special interview of the “King of Pop (rock and soul),” may have been stolen. The Daily Variety reported on February 12 that this “highly protected and copyrighted Oscar whose $100,000 sevenfoot molds are kept under lock and key” cannot be legally owned by Jackson. It has also been reported that one such statue had been stolen five years ago from the Acad-emy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
lobby. Many members of the Academy have been calling with theories as to how Jackson got the giant “Oscar.” My personal theory:
either Jackson
had the Oscar
cast in order to of the “El-or it is a new proved, f 1 a g e d his fabled chamber.
hold the bones ephant Man,” and im-
c a m o u -model of oxygen
Willy and Roger
Roger Clinton, the President’s brother, has signed a recording contract with a soon-to-be-announced sub-label of Atlantic records. Clinton, last seen preforming at the inaugural ball with EnVogue, is now in the recording studio with the aforementioned group. This has to be one of the best lobbying techniques ever used an entertainment industry company. By granting the President’s brother a record deal, it has to help the recording industry take some of the heat off that will soon be put on by Mary “Why you buggin’?” Tipper Gore. Just think if this tactic would have been employed in the past: Billy Carter may have been singing country and western hits for Arista instead of brewing beer and raising peanuts.
Hal Hartley
The independent movie director-writer-pro-ducer Hal Hartley will be at the Morris Civic
Auditorium for the South Bend Premiere of his new movie, Simple Men (in limited release since 11/2/92) on Sunday at 8:00 p.m. Hartley was the creative head on two other recent movies, Trust and The Unbelievable Truth. The Independent has described Hartley as Jean-Luc Godard-like and his movies as “a contemporary paraphrase of a poetic Hollywood B-movie.” New Republic has reviewed Simple Men as a “skewed but illuminating view” of the world around us. Hartley will be available after the film to answer questions and sign autographs.
Up and Coming
Flash! Velocity Girl to appear at Notre Dame on March 31... Super Flash!! I have learned, from a reliable source, that Blues Traveller may be performing at this year’s AnTostal. A second high ranking campus media source has confirmed this rumor. Alas! Sweet dreams of Arrested Development and Living Colour have quickly faded... Tickets now on sale for Michael W. Smith appearing at the ACC on April 22... Damon Wayans, Friday at the Arie Crown Theater ... Willie Nelson, Saturday at the Star Plaza ... Meli’sa Morgan, Isley Brothers and After 7, Saturday at the Arie Crown Theater ... Widespread Panic, Sunday at the State Theater in Kalamazoo ... At the movies this Friday: Mac, winner of best film at the Cannes Film Festival... Army of Darkness ... Strictly Ballroom, touted as the Dirty Dancing of the 1990s... Volere Volare ... Next Tuesday in record stores, albums by: Hypnolovewheel ... Coctails... Presence... Jesus Lizard/Nir-vana ... Arcwelder ... Mule ... Dazzling Killmen ... Brooks and Dunn ... Vanessa Bell... fIREHOSE ... Robyn Hitchcock/ The Egyptians... Eddie Murphy... Kentucky Headhunters ... Duran Duran ... School of Fish ... Low Pop Suicide ... Caron Wheeler... Stewart Copeland.
Amid all of the recycled Black Sabbath riffs that are permeating harder altema-
by Dave Holsinger
them stand out from others of the same caliber. Take the cut, “Disgracelands,” from
tive rock these days, one new band is using them better than Nurse, which even shows a little bit of Celtic influence in the verse,
everyone else. Although Therapy? uses these bits in a way that is not interspersed with a crunchy guitar bit which would have made circa-entirely original, their music is highly entertaining and likely to start 1973 Black Sabbath very happy. It’s an interesting juxtaposition of
inflicting head wounds in mosh pits everywhere before long. Belfast, Ireland’s Therapy? has captured the hearts of many a college radio DJ in recent months and are starting to make a name for themselves among dance music fans as well.
Chicagoans may hear the influence of two hometown favorites in the music of Therapy?: their rhythmic sense certainly echoes that of the Jesus Lizard, and the guitar and vocal textures are, without a doubt, influenced by Big Black. In fact, a cynic might suggest that A&M’s hype bubble surrounding Therapy?’s latest release, Nurse, might in part be aimed at countering sales of the newly re-released Big Black back catalog on CD.
sounds, and the song is laden with some beautifully vicious lyrics. Nurse’s first single, “Teethgrinder,” is another gritty, angsty tale of modem frustration and mental blowout.
The only major flaw with Nurse is that it doesn’t even come close to capturing the sound that this band is capable of producing live. Therapy? toured with label-mates Daisy Chainsaw and D.C. geniuses Shudder To Think earlier this year. Therapy? managed to overshadow the intensity levels produced by both of the other bands. Between bits of tape loop and blasts of guitar noise, Therapy? churned out melodies and chunky rhythms that sent plenty of moshers’ hair flying. Al-
Clever people, those A&M folks. The A&M crew broke grunge to though the songs were entirely unknown to the crowd at the time, us with Soundgarden, got a hold on the shoegazer market with nobody stopped flailing around long enough to complain. Nurse Swervedriver, and now they’re making Big Black-influenced dance definitely does a better job of capturing this band’s sound than their
music palatable to the mainstream by breaking Therapy?. Look for DGC, and whatever other Sony-mega-conglomerate companies that are feeding us corporate trendyrock, to follow suit soon. CMJ.the college radio trade rag, has been quite enthusiastic about Therapy?, and it is easy to imagine more bands following in the footsteps of Therapy?’s sound.
The fact that they’re being marketed by a label with more than a little bit of pull isn’t to suggest that Therapy? is without merit, though. Quite the contrary is true. They are one of the more inventive and energetic bands working in the metaldance fusion genre right now and there are other elements to Therapy?’s sound which make
2.
6'
.WVFIT6
,; L; DihasaurJr<J, Where YouBeen x i Sbp^rctiubk... The Question IsHow Fast
h:
, K;; 5. Pooh Sticks ...Million Seller i	,
JesusLizard/NirvanaF. Pusslbh, The Guilt
$ h hl M 'h
;'%;8;.KMg I^sile
h: 49: Therapy?Hulse hibh-h?':: -h •: h h>
; ■ 10.Various Artists ...Soluble Fish
We here at WVFI are real excited. That’s because we (with SUB’shelp)havegotten Velocity Girl,an amazing, upbeat, edgy : pop band from DC to play here. Unfortunately, this means our ; program guide will be delayed for a while: But, if you call 1-:
4070, you will be put the mailing list to receive information about: i upcoming shows, bands and labels. You will also be entered to ,j ; win CDs from us. We love rokk and we love you. / : : :
ri. J • • Joe Cannon	. .. •• '•>.<
previous release, Caucasian Psychosis, but there’s still something lacking. A live show gives these guys a chance to lay out a little bit more, and it gives their sound an absolutely crucial “spacious” quality that helps it immensely.
Therapy? has a dark sense of humor as well. As their guitarist Andy Fyfe says, “Our humor is a release, and our music is an alternative to some 14-year-old, acne-ridden death metallers singing about slaughtering lambs and painting the blood all over their mothers.” That’s nice. At least they can laugh about their angst So should you. TumTherapy?uploudand laugh about your sorry self. □
Fun in the snow, crazy fans and fossils instead of football
News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities
More than Frosty the Snowman
Maybe Notre Dame students should take a lesson. At Michigan Technological University in Houghton, Michigan, the annual winter carnival sponsors a contest for the most creative sculptures of snow. The largest sculpture, reports The Chronicle of Higher Education, was 50 by 30 feet and depicted a firefighter extinguishing a blaze. It usually takes the students about a month to create the masterpieces, which remain until the mercury rises in March. Finally someone is putting the white stuff to good use.
Kansas Superfan Banned
Those crazy Kansans. University of Kansas alum Joe Zielinski, a.k.a. “Captain Jayhawk,” is known for his crazy antics at the Kansas basketball and football games. Decked out in a cape and a crimson and blue basketball on his head, “Captain Jayhawk” is the unofficial mascotand crowd motivator, known for being tossed into the air by the student section. He got a little too wild, however, in the game against Long Beach State, when he decided to switch the nameplates on the scoreboard, said the University Daily Kansan. Kansas was down 20 points with five minutes left, and Zielinski claimed he was simply trying to raise morale. Stadium authorities booted him from the game and suspended him from entering the arena for the rest of the season. Now, however, it’s the fans who are supporting him. 110 people signed a petition asking the Athletic Department to rescind the ban, which they feel is too tough for his minor offense. At the latest basketball game, the Superfan-less fans tossed his cape attached to a basketball in the air in a show of support.
The Demise of the Naked Guy
For all those who followed the story of Andrew Martinez, known around University of California at Berkeley as “Naked Guy,” it seems even California isn’t willing to “bare” complete nudity on its campus. Martinez, who became infamous for his refusal to wear clothing, chimed that nudity was a form of free expression. Campus officials decided to expel Martinez because his “refusal to return to campus appropriately clothed would continue to disrupt essential university functions,” reported the Stanford Daily. Martinez claimed his plan all along was to get expelled and then sue for readmittance. He said, “I can learn a lot from suing them.” Maybe he’ll really get the message when he shows up for his job interviews completely buck.
Broken Bones in the Stadium
Football can be especially brutal. But 125 tons of broken bones? Brigham Young University has been storing 125 tons of dinosaur bones in, of all places, the football stadium. The fossils, which are one of the world’s most important collections from the Jurassic period, cannot fit into the Earth Science Museum that should house them. The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that the director of the museum decided to store the bones underneath the bleachers until the $20 million needed to build a new facility is raised. Until then, the bones will remain in the stadium along with the more modem beer cans and hot dog wrappers.
Edited by Kate Wiltrout

An imaginary place for all those old boyfriends and girlfriends
by Kevin McDonough
Bi our days ago, we celebrated the so-called “Day of Love.” Some of us were not able to reach the ecstatic heights you happy young lovers were forcing upon the other half. This illustrious work of literature is especially for those who had to deal with is a situation involving an ex-significant other. I do believe that I have a solution, a far-away place known as “Ex-Land.”
Think about it You would never have to worry about seeing your ex with another significant other. There would be no more dirty looks from his or her friends that ask: “What are you looking at, you low-life?” The ex would be gone; you would no longer have to worry about when they will show up to wreak havoc upon your fragile soul. The danger of being blacklisted from everyone of the particular sex that you are interested in would be over with, because the ex’s will be banished for life, with no chance of parole. I can feel that some of you are imagining such a place; others would give your last dollar to see such a place exist. I will attempt to present to you, the jilted and heartbroken, a picture that just might bring a smile to your face.
Where would it be? All that matters is it is far away from wherever you are. Okay, you might be saying, great, but what would all these ex’s be doing for the rest of their lives? Well, to give an overview, Ex-land would be a sort of support group for all those who have participated in the irrational activity of dumping someone. It would be like college, except that no one will ever
graduate. They would take a full schedule of classes specially designed by relationship experts. The goal of each class would be to torment the guilty partner with as much shame and embarrassment as possible, and then some. For example there would be classes with serious educational concerns including: “How to live with your grievous mistake” (Exl 378), “How to make your life hell, and leave your partner alone” (Exl 402) , and the most difficult class to complete, let alone pass would be “How to answer the question ‘Why am I such an evil, inconsiderate person?”’ (Exl 498). I’m sure even you philosophers would not want to touch the extremely frustrating questions raised in any of these courses. I know I wouldn’t envy the students pulling one all-nighter after another just to finish the required reading. As should already be apparent, there are no curves. Sorry.
What would these poor, undeserving souls have to do on the weekends? That question is easy: there would be nothing for them to do but to pair off in couples and make each other miserable. Imagine the scene, two wretched creatures walking hand in hand on the beach, looking into each other’s throats (people like this can never look someone in the eye), and suddenly they either: (A) realize that they are a horrible evil person who should never attempt to love again and should crawl into a hole and hibernate, or (B) simply have a relapse and without shame, dump that new person like a sack of rocks off a pier. Think of all the possibilities. We could watch weekly game shows such as: “Who’s She Gonna Dump Next?” or “Look at the Evil
Man Ruin Someone’s Life.” The licensing rights to Ex-Land products would be phenomenal, for we already know how well “x” products sell. Scientists would go bonkers examining these social menaces. The research would be very beneficial to the normal dating population, for we would have a whole new batch of “self-help” books to keep our lives running smoothly. Who could resist reading something like “How to Avoid That Very Un-special Someone?” I know a few people who would have loved to have had that book on their shelf before they started on their latest adventures.
The inhabitants of this land would have some hope at redeeming their sorry lives. After a few years of continual stress and unhappiness, some lucky residents will be asked to become tour-guides or orientation counselors for the newly arrived trauma artists. These select people would initiate the rookies, preparing them for the years of misery ahead of them, but most importantly help them realize that the only person to blame for all the hardship to follow is the pathetic person that they see in the mirror every morning.
Wouldn’t it be great? So think carefully before you do the dirty deed, you just might wake up one morning to find yourself on a plane to Ex-Land with a non-refundable one way ticket in your hands. “Thank you for flying Ex-Land airlines, we put litter in its proper place.”	□
Kevin McDonough is a senior English and psychology major. He is a bitter boy.

ss
Millie
Poster to Aid Center for
the Homeless
by Bill Mowle
Bill Mowle is a senior from Stanford Hall and the managing editor of The Dome.
O ervice is an integral part of the Notre Dame com-kJ munity. Whether that service comes in the form of aiding teammates on the field, helping fellow students in the classroom or being part of a service organization on campus, Notre Dame offers many possibilities for student involvement. Working as a photographer for The Dome over the past four years, I have enjoyed meeting various groups on campus and witnessing first hand their involvement in helping other people. As a photographer, my job is to record the actions of people at a particular time and place so that, in the future, people can look back and reminisce over the event and circumstances surrounding that particular time in their life.
For Notre Dame students and fans, the afternoon of November 14,1992, will be remembered for years to come. With snow falling most of the game, Notre Dame battled Penn State in a close, hard-fought game characteristic of the classic rivalry. With a dramatic end zone catch by Reggie Brooks, Notre Dame pulled ahead in the final seconds. The win marked the last regular season meeting for the two teams, as well as the end of a successful home season and the final home game for the seniors. Throughout the entire game, teamwork and emotion played a key role in the final score. I had the opportunity to photograph that particular game and capture the action and excitement surrounding it One particular photo I shot that day captured the essence of the game. The photo embodies several key elements of the game people remember most: the snow, teamwork and, most importantly, Notre Dame stopping Penn State.
After enlarging the photo into a 20” by 30” poster print, many people commented that they would be interested in having a copy for themselves. As more people approached me I realized this picture had a lot of potential. When I further reflected on the picture, I began to think back over all the things which put me in the position to capture that particular moment on the field. I have had so many great opportunities while at Notre Dame that I felt that I needed to share the benefits with others. Therefore, I felt that proceeds should go toward helping someone else who has not had the luck I have enjoyed.
During my first two years at Notre Dame, I had the opportunity to participate in the Urban Plunge program through the Center of S ocial Concerns. The experience made me more aware of the struggles that homeless people face on a daily basis. We met with several volunteers in centers which try to help people not only with their immediate needs, but also to overcome the obstacles that have placed them in their cunent situations. Some of the obstacles stem from drug addictions, lack of access to education, layoffs from work and, increasingly, the AIDS virus. Within the South Bend community, the Center for the Homeless helps people create solutions to problems few people can face on their own. However, the Center is increasingly in need of support for it to better serve the community.
I have had the pleasure of working with several student leaders over the past few weeks in creating another avenue for the Notre Dame community to get involved with helping others in need. On February 19, the Irish Impact poster will go on sale to the Notre Dame community. The poster, depicting a dramatic goal line stand during last year’s Notre Dame/Penn State football game, will be sold to benefit the Center for the Homeless. The poster will cost $10 in the hope of raising $50,000 for the center. The center, which was founded in 1988, has grown rapidly and functions not only to help this community, but it also serves as a national model for others to learn about ministering to the poor.
Through the generosity and enthusiastic support of Molly O’Neill, student body vice president, Missy Conboy at the athletic department, and a host of other Notre Dame leaders, the project has taken shape quickly. An alumnus,-John Woulfe, agreed to print the posters at cost, and with the help of design student Anne Ouellette, the layout was determined and the project has proceeded swiftly.
The easiest part of this project is now behind us. The real challenge now becomes selling the poster to the community. With the help of the student body and faculty, our goal of raising $50,000 will soon be realized. The posters go on sale the Friday of Junior Parents’ Weekend at the LaFortune Student Center information desk and through dorm representatives. Please help in any way you can. Together we can make an impact. □
IQWN Ar I H€ Rational /nS7-7TUT£ po/z. ^UCH ReSEAG.C.H.
TALES ERONA THE Tb? op THAT BI6 feOLO THlNb ON THAT ONE	OVEETHEKE.	Mark Maz.ZoI»

Daily Shillelagh
Week of February 21-25
7:00
7:30 8:00 8:30 9:00
930 10:00
10:30
11:00 1130
12:00
12:30 "l :00
1:30 2:00
2:30 3:00
3:30
4:00
4:30
5:00

..Fest, /
Sunday Feb. 21:
Nikki Giovanni 8 pm
Monday Feb. 22:
Tim O'Brian 8 pm (SUB open house-T-2: pm)-
Tuesday Feb. 23:
Gloria Naylor 8pm (SUB-opeirhause-t'2-pm)-
WednesdayFeb\24':.........
........NTarge'F'ieriy'8'p'm