. '. .. , 
"'•·onno
:'···.><: .::<:,.-.-·· ·_:•,•.'' ,",• .,. 



COVER 16 
Distance Dynamo Runner Mike O'Connor 

ENTERTAINMENT 6 
Music New Releases with Something to Say 
8 
Movies Pump Up The Volume 

NEWS 9 
Newsbriefs 
11 
A Woman's Place Is ln ... Politics? 

CAMPUS LIFE 12 
Long Distance Love 

SPORTS 19 
Brief Respite? 

WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS 
2 
Editorial 
3 
On Other Campuses 
4 
Week In Distortion 
5 
Unexamined Life 
24 
Final Word 
SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 



SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Vol. 132, No. 3 September 27, 1990 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael C. Wieber 
MANAGING EDITOR Derik T. Weldon 
NEWS EDITOR Traci Taghon 
SPORTS EDITOR Brian McMahon 
SPORTS ASSISTANT Jon Paul Potts 
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange 
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Tim Rogers 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
Mari Okuda 
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT Paul Webb 
COPY EDITOR Dave Raedy 
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER Patricia Doyle 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli 
BUSINESS MANAGER Jim Fitzgerald 
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER Jeanne Naylor 
Sclwlaslic is publisMI wukly lmoughoul th, sdtool ya,r <xcep! during examination and TXU:a/ion paiDds a/ th, Univasity of Notre o.,,,,, Notr, o.,,,,,JN, 46556and prin!<d at 11u: P"f"'Ts,Inc.,Milford,IN46542. Tht: subscription rat, is $25.00/y= and biukissiusammailahkat $1.25 /copy. Tkopinions ,:;,prts&<din ScJiolasticllT< thoS<oflkauthorsandtdilorsand do not n.=rily rq,r<S<nl /h, opinions of th, rnlir, <d~orial board of Sclwlastic or ofth, Univasity ofNotr, o.,,,,, its administration, faculty or slud<nls. f.ditorials sign,d Sclwlastic rq,r=nl /h, opinion of th, majority oftk a,culi"" <d~orial board. Manll5Cripts ar, w,l=. All unsolid/i,d msumals bw,m, th, propoty of Sclwlastic. 
Copyright 1990 Scnolaslic Magazin<. All rights =<d. &production in wlwk or in parl witlwut wrill<n permission is prohibit,d. 
Saty Yee§ 
itcc» ]D) Ir1illg§ 
0 pen-mindedness. Not something that nonnally comes to mind when one thinks of Notre Dame. Or its administration. 
But Monday, September 24, Notre Dame gave the "other side" a chance. Jack Herer, author of "The Emperor Wore No Clothes" and a leading advocate in the battle to legalize marijuana, spoke on this campus. Yes, our campus. 
Granted, he spoke at the Center for Social Concerns, one of the more liberal places on campus; nonetheless, the administration (and student body) allowed themselves to be open to an alternative viewpoint. 
This man was calling for legalization of a drug for environmental purposes. He claims that marijuana could help clean up the atmosphere and would cut down on the lumbering industry which threatens the deforestization of North America. 
But let's not be completely blind. Obviously, what he is calling for legalization of drug usage. The arguments both for and against legitimization of these illicit substances are strong, but that is not at issue here. What is at issue is the students' right to full infonnation and their right to make a choice. 
Scholastic would like to take this opportunity to compliment both those who planned the Teach-In at the C.S.C. and the administration. We are pleased to see such open-mindedness at this institution. We are not in any way saying we support the usage of mind-altering substances. We are simply pleased to see that Notre Dame is giving students the opportunity to choose for themselves. 
What we would like to see more of, however, is open policies and discussions on issues sue~ as alcohol and sex. Student input should be of utmost importance at any place where students rights are at issue. 
Congratulations, administration. Let's just keep on opening new doors. 
Ldtcs lo Scholastic must b, lyptd and inclwk th, wrila's namt:, .ddress and plum< numba. UniTJCsity stud<nts should incliuk lh<ir Y"" in sdtool and colkg,. Faculty m<mbas sJiould incliuk thdr department. All kllas must b, sign,d. N= will h< ~hh,ld upon 
'tsf&USt in cert,zin inslanus. 
Sclwlastic rt:St:TO<S tk right lo r,j<ct Id/as that llT< /ib,­lousorobscrn< lry th, /,zwsof/h, Unittd Stat,s. Sclwlastic also wi/1,mt for copyfilling, gramrnatiCDI or sp,lling t:mJrs and Sclwlastic styk. lleCDUS< ofspae<, Sclwlastic CDnnol print all Id/as r<ceiv<d. 
Address all corr,spond<ne< lo: 
Th, F,Jj/or 
Sclwlastic LaFortun, Cm/a Notr, D.,,,,, IN 46556 
SCHOLASTIC 


IL4'> 
'


n"· 
·~ 
,,j ,,_J 
F,, .\:) 
d.;·:.·
:1 
. ' ., ' 
,.,_'; ,, ,...,. ,,., 
' .,, 
'
&
~,..,,,:,,r:1> 1./r 
No Way It'll Happen At Notre Dame 
If you happen to visit Wichita State and someone offers you some gum that tastes a little rubbery, then chances are you've got a condom in your mouth. According to the Kansan, Wichita State has started to stock its vending machines with condoms. Wanda Maltby, director of student health services at Wichita said they put the condoms in vending machines because the machines are less susceptible to vandalism. The condoms come in packs of three with educational messages about sexual responsibility printed on the outside. Reports failed to mention whether or not the new Trojan™ Magnum size would be available: 

SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 


What's In A Name? 
The Chronicle of Higher Education reported a small chemical fire at a community college in Kentucky. White phosphorus, which ignites when directly exposed to air, forced 500 students and faculty members from a building after it ate through its protective container. The name of that Kentucky school? Hazard Community College. Officials denied reports that they were thinking of changing the school's name to merely Mishap in order to avoid any serious accidents. 

Cheaters Will Be Prosecuted 
Having a hard time deciding if the answer to number seven is "rum, sugar and slaves," or "bra technology, paper products and indigo?" Thinking about looking at your neighbor's answer? Well don't. According to the College Press Service, two chemistry professors from McGill University in Montreal have developed two computer programs that can spot classroom cheaters. One of the professors, David Harpp, said the basis for detection is "mental fingerprints" which students leave when they copy. The programs consider the probability ofpairs ofstudents getting the same answers. Obviously, thetwowon'tfindamarketattheUniversityofNotreDame. Wehave an honor code. 

Beer Makes An Artificial Cockroach 
Mr. Beer, an assistant professor at Case Western Reserve University, thinks the key to artificial intelligence lies in the cockroach. The ChronicleofHigher Education reported that Beeris trying to simulate a cockroach's brain and behavior in a computer program. Computer graphics enable Beer's cockroach to roam around and eat toenail clippings just like a real, live cockroach would. The next step in Beer' sresearch will be to build a six-legged, two-foot robot to test and improve the artificial design. Sound like the beginnings of a second rate horror film? D 
edited by Tim, Rogers 


T he other night my roommate turned 21. With thathonorcomestheage-old tradition ofyour roommates' spending all of their money in an effort to get you blind drunk But John, you are probably thinking, you really should clip your nosehairs. Well, you probably aren't really thinking that, but others have. What you are actually thinking is why someone should get stupid drunk on their first night of legal drinking, not to mention questioning what makes a tradition "age­old." Thatidonotknow. Butidoknowthat one's 21st birthday is justrife with "age-old" traditions. I wish to examine these traditions with the hope that my insights will shed some light on the "age-old" question of the 21st birthday. First, there is the BIRTHDAY AD. For some reason, when your birthday comes around, your friends begin to plot against you. "Hey," they say, "let's find some way of making ___ (insert BIRTHDAY PERSON'S name here) look like a really big idiot!" "Yeah," they say. "Hey Bill," they say (but only if you have a friend named Bill) "I have a picture of (BIRTHDAY PERSON) copulating with a wild animal!" "Wow! (they actually say Wow!) Let's put it in the newspaper -Yeah!" So you show up for lunch, not noticing the dining hall ladies derisive laughter. You sit down and open up the paper to find an 8x 10 picture ofyou ACTUALLY MOUNTING A MALE ELK. Of course, only experts will notice that it is a male elk, so you're safe there. Otherwise, you're pretty much branded a loser for, say, the rest of your life. But that's okay because they make up for it by taking you out for your BIRTHDAY DINNER. At this point, your friends feel really guilty and take you out for dinner. You go, just like everyone else and their brother, to Macri's and order a BRT. Gee, we're quite creative here at Diverse Notre Dame. Anyway, once you get there, you can order your first legal beer. When the waitress cards you, she'll wish you a happy birthday and probably call you "Elkie." What you need to do is pass your I.D. to everyone else at the table and see if she notices. Odds are she won't. In fact, when we did it, she actually wished us all happy birthday, including my sister. That's okay, though, because the fun starts when you HIT THE BARS. 
That's right! Who cares ifit's a Monday? Who cares ifyou have two exams tomorrow? Who cares if your nymphomaniac girlfriend wants to give you 21...um ... kisses? It's your BIRTHDAY! YOU MUST GET DRUNK! DUGH! (sound of a beer can smashing on your forehead) 
Your friends -remember them? the guys who you had your first fight over beer money with -now find it imparative to POUR ALCOHOL DOWN YOUR THROAT! and pay for it, too! 
"Hey! Make him do 21 shots!" 
"Yeah!" 
"Hey! Make him bong a beer!" 

"Yeah!" 
"Hey! Let's make him drink a flaming shot ofEverclear out ofhis underwear so that he'll wake up caked in his own vomit tomorrow morning!" 
"YEAH!" 
So you find yourself a drunken huddled mass, actually walking through the Northeast Neighborhood without a weapon and not being scared! Hey! Who cares about those knife-toting youths? Who cares about that drive-by shooting? IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY! and YOUR DRUNK! Hey! Woo-Woo! So when you finally make it to your final stop, Commons, it's time for BIRTHDAY KISSES. 
Occasionally, some people feel a bizarre urge to join lips and limbs with members of the opposite sex. For some people, the urge is frequent Take the demographic group called "human males," for instance. Studies have proven that "human males" would join in congress with "human females" approximately once every six seconds if the female agreed. Unfortunately, this is Notre Dame. Getting together with the opposite sex occurs about once a year. Thus, our birthdays are ofparamountimportance to our health. 
Therefore, on your birthday, it is crucial that you walk up to every qualified member ofthe opposite sex ("qualified" here meaning 
1) actuallyaliveand 2) conscious) and askfor a birthday kiss. 
Ifyou find no success, geta life you geek! Just kidding. What you should do is lower your standards -#2 above can be waived. Waiving #1, however, is just plain sick. If that doesn't work, see if you still have the number of the elk. After securing at least one birthday kiss, go home and ride the porcelain bus, take some Advil, and go to sleep. You can pretty much forget the next day because it's time for your FIRST LEGAL HANGOVER. 
You might as well lie on your couch all day and moan about how drunk you were and what stupid stuff you did. Feel no remorse, though. Just remember this "age-old" adage: What wicked web we weave when we practice to get schnokered. 
John O'Brien practices onanism and is better known for his work at the rag across the hall from Scholastic. 


I' 
. ' 
. 
....A 

Dear Dr. Head: I've been thinking about taking up a hobby. At first, I thought crocodile wrestling sounded sort offun. I signed up at the Crocodile Wrestling Club booth during Activities Night. I even went to their first informational meeting. Then I noticed something. They all had parts of their bodies missing. I ate the five dollar membership fee and dropped thathobby. Inquestofakinder,gentlerhobby, I turned to building ships in bottles. They didn't have a Building Ships in Bottles Club at Activities Night, though, so I've got no one else but you to teach me. I completed the ship-building phase of the project, now I justneed you to tell me howto get itin the darn bottle. Dr. Head, how do theyget the ships in the bottles? Lynn Amon, junior, Le Mans 

SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 
not a hobby  
for the weak  
Dear Dr. Head: When I was just a little tyke, my mom used  
to tie my house key around my neck with a shoelace. That  
way, when I went to school and hung upside down on the  
monkey bars, my key wouldn'tfall out of my pocket. It only  
smacked me in the nose. But now I'm older and I would feel  
stupid if my dorm key smacked me in the nose every time I  
hung upside down on the monkey bars. So I use a regular  
key chain. However, it does fall out of my pocket a lot. Each  
time I lose my key, I find myself checking my pockets  
repeatedly. I might check my pockets seven or eight times  
before I remember to go look under the monkey bars. Why  
is this?  
EricJubin, sophomore, Fisher  
Eric, I hope you only play on the monkey bars under close adult  
supervision.  
The answer to your question is of a slightly complicated nature. Ifyou  
don't understand quantum mechanics, then you'll just have to take  
my word for it You see, due to the magnetic flux in the biosphere and  
the transmigration of souls, we can only know the location or the  
speed of an object, not both. This principle, closely related to the  
phlogiston theory, explains why you repeatedly check your pockets.  
Unbeknownst to you, your brain continually calculates the speed of  
objects around you. The instant you figure out the speed of your lost  
keys, you can'tknow where they are. In that same instant, you forget  :!I  
they aren't in your pocket and you check. Overand over. Again and  ;;i  
again. Get it?'  
Dr. Head is miffed. He climbs threeflightsof stairs every day to check  
his mailbox at Scholastic. He says "there's never a damn thing  
there." He rants and raves, but under his rough, Ph.D.-toughened  
skin, Dr. Head appears hurt that Notre Dame students don't care  
enough to spendfive minutes to write down a few questions/or him.  
Ifyou care about Dr. Head's emotional health, send your questions  
to Scholastic magazine, 303 LaFortune, care of the doc. Please  
include your name, year, and place ofresidence. .  
5  


New releases with something to say: Queensryche continues their raging social commentary, and Pump Up The Volume gives us a movie soundtrack with a message 

manipulation interspersed with father's handgun. The lyrics belief that it would be another tragic views of love as show how the handicapped deal wimpy movie soundtrack filled remembered by the album's with their difficulties and stive to with teeny-bopper music with protagonist as he awaits attain their dreams. Another meaningless lyrics. To my treatment in a hospital's psych song, "Empire," is a biting welcome surprise, the bands on ward. commentary on the federal the LP were not those that 
Building on the impressive government's handling of the adorned the walls of teenagers artistic achievement of such an drug problem, specifically crack everywhere. Just reading the impressive album was the goal of and the violence associated with names like Concrete Blonde, 
the five-man group when they dealing it. Another problem The Pixies, Peter Murphy, and 
recorded Empire. In the words which the band covers is Soundgarden caused me to jump of the band's lead singer and homelessness in the song "Della up and run to the nearest record Empire lyricist, Geoff Tate, "We didn't Brown." The song is an eight­store to shell out fifteen bucks for 
Queensryche. Just say it out want to simply tread the same minute account of the woman's the disc. loud a couple of times. Sounds water, we wanted to become life and the series of events After listening to the disc a like some kind of torture use by more involved with the which drove her to the streets. couple times, I drew the the Nazis during World War II, experimentation we started in 
Instead of resting on their conclusion that the album, quiteright? Actually, Queensryche Mindcrime. The result of the laurels and continuing to churn unlike the movie, has something has, for the last seven years, 
group's experimentation, out albums like Mindcrime , to say about First Amendment come to represent a highly Empire, doesn't surpass the Queensryche demonstrates with rights. For example, the rapinnovative and intelligent band 
brilliance of Mindcrime, it the release of Empire that they group Above the Law performs a from rain-drenched Seattle. merely takes off in a new are willing to gamble with their song entitled "Freedom of Although the band has been direction. 
new-found fame and experiment Speech." In "Heretic," quitelabelled as "heavy metal," they 
Empire certainly gives the with their musical formula. possibly the best track on the have been constantly breaking listener a fresh perspective of With songs as powerful as those album, Soundgarden's Chris that image. Yes, their music is one of rock and. roll's most 
on their new album, one sees Cornell rants and raves againstloaded with the grungy guitar innovative bands. The group's hope that the intensity and pride the injustices of censorship byriffs and soaring vocals found in sound is tighter than ever, fusing which drive Geoff Tate, Chris conjuring up images ofmedieval the music of Gothic heavy metal the furious twin guitar attack of DeGarmo, and Company will witch burnings. Another song,bands like Iron Maiden and Chris DeGarmo, the band's main 
"I've Got A Miniature Secret Judas Priest. Yes, they dress in writer, and Michael Wilton with 
Camera," by Peter Murphy,
tight leather pants and jackets, the inspiring, stratospheric lyrics speaks out on the government's and they mousse their hair. The and vocals of singer Geoff Tate. increasing control on all forms difference lies in the music that 
The lyrics, always one of the of speech (and especially the 
they play. Instead of singing band's strengths, are as strong as media), by comparing it to an about "babes" and "gettin' ever,.containing Queensryche's Orwellian society, completewasted," like most bands in their usual array of eloquent and 
with Big Brother. 
genre, Queensryche deals with thought-provoking statements Only one tune really detracts highly sensitive social topics. about the human condition and from the rest of the album. 
l • Queensryche fulfilled their the world which affects it Arguably the worst song in 
l . promise for greatness with the While the majority of the sorigs recent history, a song called l I 1988 gold album, Operation: on the new album deal with love "Stand" by Liquid Jesus, is the 
Mindcrime . This album was in one fashion or another, the Soundtrack only bad spot on the album. I considered by most, if not all, 
strongest songs are those in As I was idly flipping through won't disgust you with the music critics as one of the which Queensryche sticks to the pages of .s.mn, trying to details, just suffice it to say that 
decade's most powerful and what they do best social 
devise new forms of they sound like a whiny version intelligent concept albums, commentary. The topics range procrastination, a full-page ad of California supergroup the rivaling even Pink Floyd's The from the environment to crack. caught my eye. The ad screamed 
Knack, 'nuff said. Some of the Wall in its complexity and depth. One of the best of these songs is "Pump Up The Volume: The more memorable tunes are the The story of Operation: "Best I Can." The track deals Soundtrack" in bright red letters. ones by Concrete Blonde, Bad 
Mindcrime revolves around with a man who has been Being the inquisitive soul that I Brains, and Sonic Youth. images of massive drug abuse, confined to a wheelchair due to a am, I checked the groups which For someone who has seen the political corruption, and 
childhood accident with his were on the album, smug in my movie, the soundtrack for Pump 
6 
SCHOLASTIC 


A look at two new experimental albums from the U.K.: England's In The Nursery and Ireland's Dead Can Dance explore new realms of music and mind 
Up The Volume offers a better line of commentary about teen rebellion and freedom of speech than the melodramatic rantings ofChristian Slater's character. If you just want another collection of dippy pop songs, go out and buy any of the other soundtracks that are on the she Ives right now. But if you 're in the mood for something with some meaning behind it, this is up your alley. 
by Randy Christopher 
In 

the Nursery 
L'Esprit 
on Wax Trax 
Two twins from Sheffield, England, Klive and Nigel Humberstone, challenge their listeners. Through their musical project, In the Nursery, the Humberstone twins dare listeners to let their imaginations fly. But this ain't no psychedelic mood trip, boys and girls. This is emotion and power. 
L' Esprit is the Humberstone' s second album on the Chicago­based Wax Trax label, better known as the premiere American industrial label partly owned by noise-monster Al Jourgansen (Ministry, Revolting Cocks, etc.) They have had previous releases on a now defunct British label, Sweatbox, and a recent compilation of those works, Counterpoint , on Wax Trax. Whereas their previous album, Koda , reveled in classical motifs, L' Esprit offers different aspects of the Nursery's dream­like world, while still presenting 
SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 
a cohesive, artistic whole. The album begins with "To The Faithful," an anthem which makes one think of a proud Aryan call to arms. However, in one of the Nursery's rare uses of English vocalization, this call, "where faith begins and dreams subside," is glorious as a battle for good and an "end to evil evermore." One can imagine the angelic armies of God gathering in "Paradise Lost" for a battle with the forces of evil, an image that sets the mood for the album, and its immense sound. Compostions like "At First Sight" and "Inamorata" combine an atmospheric new age-type of guitar with symphonic elements, while ethereal pieces like"Azure Wings,""Sesiduent," "Soeurette," and "The Pearl" offer beautiful angelic choruses and pipe organs combined with atmospheric keyboards, harps, and furiously plucking string sections. Other selections, such as "Retaliation," "Traumerie," and "L'Esprit" use ominous European and Germanic moods that could be a soundtrack to a sceneofpreparation for war. The Nursery's world doesn't seem to need words in order to express wonderfully their emotions. Like the title of the album, the Humberstone twins attempt to take you on a majestic journey into their sensual world. 

Dead 
Can 

Dance 
Aion 
on 4AD 
Another musical project known for its ambitious, fashion­rejecting orchestration is Ireland's Dead Can Dance. The brainchild of vocalist Lisa Gerrard and vocalist/musician Brendan Perry, DCD has consistently produced albums that affect the psyche, not unlike their fellow 4AD musicians The Cocteau Twins, Xymox, and This Mortal Coil (of which the DCD members have been a part.). Their fifth full album to date, Aion, named after a 3rd century 
B.C. Roman god, and a philosophical study into the self in relation to Christ and the anti­Christ by CJ. Jung, further distorts DCD's reputation as pioneers into historical spirituality. While their previous album, The Serpent's Egg , delved into the world of the Middle Eastern chant, Aion introduces the listener to traditional sounds of western Europe during the 14th to 17th centuries. The band usually bases their symphonic, classical, and choral styles around the powerfully haunting voice of Lisa Gerrard, who has sung in every conceivable language on previous albums, from French to Gaelic to Latin, and many others. Gerrard seems like she would be at home chanting dithyrambs in ancient Greece, and when she is accompanied by other acapella voices, the eff~ct is nothing short of otherworldly, and in "Arrival and Reunion," "The End of Words," "Wilderness," and "Song of the Sibyl." Aion also includes many instrumental dances, like the 14th century Italian "Saltarello," and other instrumentals like the interlude, "Mephisto," and "The Garden of Zephirus" which produces imagery of Eden, as does the album cover, based on a painting by the bizarre. Hieronymous Bosch. Gerrard's voice, combined with Dead Can Dance's unique instrumentation, make for the more interesting selections, such as the bagpipes in "As the Bell Rings, the Maypole Spins," and the harplike keyboards -and medieval reed instruments in "Radharc," which puts one in the mind ofthe hysterical dances one might see in a film set in 16th century Italy. Brendan .Perry's voice provides a much needed contrast in DCD's style. After usually singing half the songs in English, Perry has only given himself two songs to work with this time; "Fortune Presents Gifts Not According to the Book," with lute-like guitar and lyrics based on a sonnet by 17th century Spanish poet, Luis de Gongora, and the more Gothic sounding "Black Sun," with its imagery of slavery and mood reminiscent of earlier Dead Can Dance. Perry's voice is deep and similarly haunting, and his lyrics seem like pages from classical literature. It seems a shame that his intellectual poetry is only present on one song on the entire album. Dead Can Dance has had many incarnations in the past, with its gothic rock beginnings to its mythical landscapes and its avant-garde processional soundtracks. Their latest experiment into historical perspective is certainly much more than chamber music, and much more austere and disciplined than what can be called "progressive." Experience the world of Aion and judge for yourself. D 
by Jason Winsla4e Both ofthe albums reviewed by 
Mr. Winslade are available at 
Orbit Music at Town and 
Country Mall. 





u Up The Volume 
Corny teen-movie cliches destroy a great premise 


"Talk hard." That's what Pump Up The Volume says to the youth of Anytown, U.S.A., but all that this teen-angst flick manages to do is blow a lot of hot air. Pump Up The Volume begs to be compared to Heathers with its theme of teenage disenchantment and rebellion, butPump has neither the caustic wit nor the insight of Heathers. The only comparison that can be made to Heathers is Christian Slater's acting, and that's the only thing that spares Pump from the probability of being a complete waste of time. 
If it weren't for the demented Nicholson­esque acting of Slater, this movie would be entirely lost in campy teen-movie cliches. Slater is obviously the draw to get the crowds in for this movie (plenty ofshots of him with his shirt offto satisfy the teeny-boppers), and he certainly doesn't disappoint in his acting performance. His character, Mark Hunter 
(a.k.a. pirate D.J. Hard Harry), is a rebellious teen who is forced to relocate from New York City to the utterly blah suburb of Pleasure Hills, Arizona. Since he has no friends in his new home, Mark begins broadcasting a nightly lampoon of high school life from the basement of his suburban home on an open frequency. As the foul-mouthed, razor­tongued Hard Harry, Slater truly shines and gives us more of the psychotic babbling that he did so perfectly in Heathers . Full of humor that would otherwise be merely obnoxious, Slater's caustic monologues are thoroughly entertaining. Harry's snide insights into high school life quickly gain him a cult following ofstudents who gather in a park near his house so that they can get the 
8 
best reception, and he even begins to receive letters from his listeners. One female fan, the artsy, poetry-writing Nora (portrayed by newcomer and Winona Ryder look-alike Samantha Mathis), sends provocative letters to Harry every day that earn her the nickname of"TheEatMe, Beat Me Lady" on Harry's show. Nora listens devoutly for clues to Harry's real identity and eventually uncovers the shy, lonely Mark Hunter as the voice ofHard Harry. Her continual attempts to seduce him elicit no response, and in a really corny love scene, he expresses on the air the feelings that he has for her but can't tell her to her face. 
The movie really sinks to new lows even for the genre of teen-angst movies when it tries pathetically to deal with topics like suicide, homosexuality, and pregnancy. The suicide ofa caller who Harry blew off on the air is almost serves no purpose except to give Harry an excuse to tell the teens of Pleasure Hills that it's their duty to be as crazy and out of hand as they can be. A caller who phones in to tell of an incident where he was humiliated for being homosexual brings no other response from Harry but the corny reply, "I was just thinking how strong some people can be." 
After Harry's influence begins to be felt at the local high school, he incurs the wrath of the guidance counselors and administrators who are trying desperately to make their high school the most well-behaved and the best­run high school in the state. School officials call an emergency parents' meeting after a model stud~nt blows up her kitchen, and the tension begins to mount between students, who have adopted Hard Harry as the spokesperson for their generation, and their parents. A sub-plot involving a plan by the witchy principal to harass students with low 
S.A.T.'s into dropping out of school brings tons of cheesy confrontations between expelled students and the hard-nosed Vice Principal, all the while covered by the media, who have been attracted by news ofthe "Hard Harry" phenomenon. 
The final confrontation between Harry, the students, and the authorities (including an 
F.C.C. bureaucrat who you just want to smack) is utterly devoid of originality or worthwhile moral content. Yes, Harry broadcasts from a jeep so that he can't be tracked down by the F.C.C. Yes, he gets caught at the very end, surrounded by a throng ofcheering students. And yes, it's so 
· bad it does make you want to puke. 
Pump Up The Volume tries far too hard to be as cerebral as Heathers by dropping occasional references to Lenny Bruce and to bands like The Descendents, but. it's not nearly as insightful or as funny as Heathers. All of the buzzwords that become part of the teen vernacular in the movie after Hard Harry begins broadcasting are just sad attempts at hipness. I mean, can you really imagine seeing "The truth is a virus" as a graffito on a high school wall, or hearing kids saying, "So be it?" This flick just doesn't live up to what it could be -the premise of a kid actually mobilizing his peers against apathy and mistreatment by means of a pirate radio show is great, but the writers just don't deliver. . 
by Dave Holsinger 
SCHOLASTIC 



SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 
·-. . ' i > •"• :. • ·." ', 
Exercise and Relaxation Class Offered 
Memorial Hospital will be offering classes in relaxation techniques and gentle exercises from October 1 to 25. The "Body Balancing" classes are designed to help participants become vitalized, ready to work, and pre­pared for the demands ofthe day. The classes will meet on Mondays and Thursdays from 
8:25 to 8:45 a.m. Fee is $15. Call 874-8621 for more information or to register. 
Bank Endows Finance Scholarship 
Society Bank has donated $250,000 to establish an endowment for undergraduate scholarships in the College of Business Administration's Department of Finance. 
Society Bank, Indiana's president, Mi­chael J. Hammes, himself a Notre Dame graduate, said, "Ourbank has enjoyed a long history of supporting and cooperating with Notre Dame. The University is artasset to the community not only as the largest employer but also as an excellent educator of students in skills necessary for businesses like ours to perform." 
"Many of the students remain in the area to work and live," Hammes continued. "It is our pleasure to establish an endowment that ensures continuation of a resource of well educated young people that we can depend on for future growth and development. We believe that community support and involve­ment are essential for area growth and suc­cess." 
Society Bank, Indiana is an affiliate of Society Corporation, one of the largest bank holding companies in the Midwest. Through its affiliates, Society engages in commercial banking, consumer banking, mortgage bank­ing and leasing, and also provides trust and investment banking services. 
i 

Business Students to Compete in Strategy Tournament 
The College of Business· Administration will send a team to compete in the 2nd Inter­national Case Tournament at the University of Western Ontario next spring. 
Team members will be selected this fall from the winners of an intramural competi­tion among undergraduate students enrolled in Corporate Strategy courses. 
"One particularly exciting aspect of the competition is that Notre Dame business students will have an opportunity to compete with teams from the University of Virginia, last year's tournament champion, along with at least one school from Europe, and another from Asia," said John G. Keane, dean of the College of Business. 
Clayton Smith, assistant professor of management, and James O'Rourke, director of the Center for Business Communication, will serve as coaches. Students selected for the team will be expected to enroll in the Ad­vanced Strategic Management course to prepare for the competition. 
Hospital Sponsors Back School 
Eight out of 10 Americans will have a serious back problem at least one time in their lives. In the interest ofreducing this number, Memorial Hospital's Health Resource Cen­ter will offer a Back School from 7:00 to 8:30 
p.m. on October 3. The school aims to educate the public about the structure and function of the spine and to stress the impor­tance ofgood posture and ofcareful play and exercise. 
The course will be led by physical thera­pist Charles Wolf. Wolf is a specialist in the treatment of orthopedic and sports injuries and industrial rehabilitation. As a consultant to industry, he focuses on prevention of musculoskeletal injuries, education semi­nars, ergonomic analysis and patient treat­ment. 
The fee for the class is $10 per person or $15 for two people. For information or to register, call 874-8621. 
-

New Drug Education, Service Plans Required Break-Ins Affirm High-Risk Label 


Indiana colleges and universities would be required to develop drug education and service plans for students and workers under a recommendation of Governor Bayh's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana. 
The Commission's report, called "To­ward a Drug-Free Indiana: A Strategic Report to the Governor," was issued this month by its 15 member steering committee, including University President Rev. Edward 
A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
In supporting comprehensive drug abuse prevention and intervention programs for Indiana's post-secondary educational insti­tutions, the Commission noted that the 150,000 traditional-age students thus af­fected make up the largest block of highest­risk individuals in the state. "Alcohol is the most prevalent drug of abuse on Indiana's college campuses and needs to be the main focus ofattention," the report said. "Thenext generation of opinion leaders now resides on Indiana's college and university campuses," it continued. "Ifwe want to have an impact on (their) drug related attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors... we have an opportunity to reach them today." 
The state's Commission on Higher Edu­cation was given responsibility for imple­menting the recommendation; the estimated cost was $1 million. 
All Indiana colleges and universities re­ceiving federal funds, including Notre Dame, have come under the federal Drug­Free Schools and Comm unities Act and have an October 1 deadline to comply with De­partment ofEducation guidelines on dealing with campus substance abuse. 
Six Notre Dame students learned a hard lesson about insurance and off-campus neighborhoods both before and after their house was robbed on Saturday, September 15. 
Paul J. Equale, Jim Byrne, Dave Barnard, Dave Steigerwald, Brian Rini, and Jim Lezynski, all seniors living at 111 North St. Peter Street, had been trying for several weeks to find an insurance company that would cover them. Equale, for one, had been told at home that he was no longer covered by his parents' insurance company, Allstate, because he maintained his own residence here. 
Thestudents tried to obtain renters' insur­ance but were unable. "When I'd give them the address," said Equale, "they'd say, 'Oh, are you by any chance students? Sorry, we can't insure you -you're high risk."' 
One independent agent did offer to insure the men, but only if they would purchase a $20,000 package underwritten by Midwest Insurance. Since none ofthe students or their parents had heard of the underwriter and the $20,000 price tag was beyond their means, they didn't make the purchase. 
Other companies were willing to provide coverage ifthe students' parents would also purchase a new policy from them. 
On Wednesday, September 12, they gave up. 
On Saturday, September 15, they were robbed of three <::D players, a VCR, a tape deck, a Macintosh Plus computer with printer and external disk drive, a ten-band graphic equalizer, one faculty ticket to the Miami­ND game, and other miscellaneous items. The houses on either side, also rented by students, were also robbed. Some lost all their clothes, some their student football tick­ets, and one was even robbed of his high top tennis shoes. 
After filing the police report, the students talked with the landlord about repairing the damage to the house (a window had been broken to gain access). At this time, he offered the tenants a silent alarm system with motion detectors around the doors for $18 extra per month. The students took him upon his offer. 
Equale says they're all planning to be much more careful now. He and Barnard, it turns out, are covered under their parents insurance after all. For off-campus students who aren't, though, Equale suggests storing your belongings on campus or having neigh­bors watch your house when you will be away. Another good way to make sure your. things are insured even ifyou are robbed is to put them in your car when you won't be at home. "Ifyou put your stuff in your car, even if they break a window to get it out, every­thing in your car is covered," Equale said. Finally, an alarm system in the home can sometimes help students get the coverage they obviously need. 
A Woinan's Place Is In...Politics? 
"The natural and proper timidity and 
delicacy which belongs to the female sex 
evidently unfits itfor many ofthe occupations 
of civil life....[The] paramount destiny and 
mission of woman are to fill the noble and 
benign offices ofwife and mother. This is the 
law ofthe Creator. 
Myra Bradwell v. State ofIllinois 
In light ofthis case, the first sex discrimi­
nation case to reach the Supreme Court, 
Geraldine Ferraro is a freak -an exception to 
the rule. However, equal rights activists are 
more apt to refer to her as "a beacon ofhope" 
or "the light at the end of the tunnel." The 
first speaker in the Student Government's 
Forum on Contemporary Issues, Ferraro 
represents the giant step forward that women 
have taken in the political arena recently. 
"Every time a woman runs for an elected 
office it's like throwing a stone into a lake. 
The ripples spread far beyond the immediate 
point of impact," Ferraro said. A female 
presidential candidate would "be like throw­
ing a boulder in the lake. It would cause a 
wave of change." 
Ferraro looks forward to the day when 
women are represented equally in the gov­
ernment. "When we have fewer women 
making history, we'll have more women 
making policy ,"she said. Although she finds 
the current percentage ofwomen involved in 
politics encouraging, "it is not good enough. 
You have to run to win," she said. 
Despite the fact that her vice-presidential 
campaign in 1984 was not successful, Fer­
raro said that she has no regrets. "It is no 
accident that we have the number of women 
running for public office in this country to­
day," she said. 
Critics of Ferraro's nomination as 
Mondale's running mate said that she was 
only chosen because she was a woman. 
Ferraro points to her strong record as a prose­
cutor and Congresswoman as negations of 
this claim. However, she has said previously 
that the mere fact that she is a woman has 
sometimes helped her along the political 
route. 
"Would I have gotten to where I am in the 
Congress in little over four yearsifl weren't a 
. SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 
Geraldine Ferraro's loss proves women's gain as more females run for -and win­political offices 
woman? Again I'd like to think they recog­nized me as a genius but what happens is, the Speaker has twelve women and all these guys and invariably somebody will say 'We need a Commission and don't forget the women,' .... Would this happen to ·a fellow? No, so there are advantages to being a woman in Congress, advantages and disadvantages," said Ferraro in an article reprinted in "Women Leaders in Contemporary U.S. Politics." 
The difficulties of being a woman in a male-dominated profession are headlined in many career-oriented magazines. Typical judgements include being thought ofas weak for showing emotion, or brassy when merely showing determination. "You don't get things unless you work for them," Ferraro said. "Don't expect somebody to come out and ordain you -either in the Church or in politics." 
Ferraro's position in history puts her in a unique position of influence. Even though she is only one woman, she has had the power to live up to or break stereotypes of women, especially in regard to their capability in.the workplace, In most areas, her performance has been sterling. "Gerry has excelled in everything she's tried, from law school at night to being a tough prosecutor, to winning a difficult election [Congressional], to win­ning a position of leadership and respect in the Congress," Walter Mondale said in an article by John J.Hughes and Frank P.LeVeness. 
However, questions about campaign funds in the 1978 Congressional election and ties to her husband's financial dealings in the 1980 presidential election have marred her image. This in tum has helped put an end to the stereotype ofwomen politicians being by nature more honest than their male counter­parts. In terms ofFerraro's personal reputa­tion, these incidents are not becoming; yet on a larger scale of things, they have at least contributed to a more realistic view of women. 
Ferraro said that the way to judge if a politician is moral is not to examine his orher personal affairs, but to check the political record, for example, in human rights issues. This ignores an elected official's responsibil­ity to the voters. As representatives of the voters, their actions must reflect their con­stituents' values. And if the elected official is a member, and therefore, symbol of a mi­nority group, his or her actions will be watched and judged even more stringent!y. 
Until women are equally represented in government, the few female politicians who are active will be judged strictly, perhaps even with bias, as they will symbolize a minority. Right or wrong, these are presently the rules ofthe game. Ferraro, however, sees a change coming -a change which even her failed attempt at the second highest office in ­the land has helped to bring about 
"It is only a matter of time until people realize that some leaders are born women," Ferraro said. Perhaps then we will have a female president, she added. "She will be elected not because she is a woman, or de­spite the fact, but because she has proven herself as a leader." . 
By Cathy Flynn 



Long Distance Love 
Disabled students find companionship through student -run phone service 
By Megan R. Thomas 
:i 
H 
h ~ M ost college students head to their re­
:.•_11 
spective campuses bringing in tow consid­erable talent and high personal expecta­![ tions for the future. Even for these stua , dents, successfully adjusting to college life · often requires a great deal of patience effort. For those students who bring not -only talent and ambition to college, but who also bear the burden ofdisease, illness, or a handicap, adjusting properly is poten­tially even more overwhelming. Fortu­
nately, a program known as the Long Dis­tance Love College Network is currently striving to aid these students by matching up by mail students possessing -similar physical disabilities for the purpose ofpeer support. The service provides "pen-pals" who share not only a physical condition, but also the pain and fear that may accom­pany that condition. 
The Long Distance Love College Net­work was founded five years ago by 

12 

Roxanne Black, presently a sophomore at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. At the age of fourteen, Black was di­agnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus, a severe condition in which the body's immune system attacks the joints and vital organs. The disease also causes skin lesions, and the necessary medication produces side­effects such as water retention and hair loss. "The diagnosis was a shock," Black told . Family Circle magazine. "I went from a
] 
prominent position on my high school's crew 
I team to a wheelchair in a hospital." 
·· In an interview with Seventeen, Black 
continues saying, "All of a sudden I had some disease I'd never heard of. I wanted to talk to someone my own age who could re­late." 
Black claims that she has learned to accept and deal with lu­pus over the years. She also confesses however that her first experience with college life away from home a few years back presented new obstacles. While at school, feelings of fear and isola­tion would often arise due to her illness. The desire to find someone who could relate to her problems was great. 
As black ex­plains in one of ' her press releases, "After all, doc­tors, nurses, rela­tives and friends try to understand. However, only someone who has experienced the same tests and symptoms can really relate to 
another patient's feelings." Out ofher own need for peer support and 
. counseling, Black founded Long Distance Love. The entire service is presenyly home­based in her dormitory. Interested individu­als are asked to fill out a questionnaire that inquires about age, place of residence, cir­cumstance (handicap, disease, type of acci­dent, etc.) and involvement (heart, lung, kidney, etc.), as well as hobbies and interests. With this information, a computerized file is used to match that individual with another student in that college or in another college. If unable to find an appropriate match, Black contacts support groups and foundations until a match is located. She will even pro­vide the parents of children with chronic illnesses or disabling conditions with names and addresses of other parents in the same situation. Parents, too, often find the service useful in seeking out people understanding and empathetic to their ordeal. Once two students have been paired, they are free to write, call, or even meet each other with the purpose ofoffering support and information; in other words, the two can "compare notes." (Black stresses, however, that the service is not intended for romantic purposes.) Thou­

SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 


sands ofstudents have already been matched up, and Black says that she now receives 70 to 100 letters a week from individuals inter­ested in the program. 
The March 14, 1990 issue of Arizona State University's morning paper, State Press, printed an article about the students involved in LDL on campus. In the article, "Amy," a 19-year-old freshman at ASU who suffers from arthritis and derrnatomyosisitis, states that she has been with the program for over a year and a half. 
Dermatomyosisitis, an affliction similar to lupus, renders the muscles weak and causes a rash on the skin. "The condition is pretty weird," she said, "and I didn't know anyone else with the disease." Amy speaks highly of the service though. "It's really neat," she said'. "It really helps to talk to people who know what you're going through." ASU's director of Disabled Stu­dent Resources, Tedde Scharf, is also quoted in the article as saying, "The long distance peer counseling is an excellent idea. It is true that a lot of disabled students don't have anyone to talk to. It is a way for disabled students to talk to someone in a less threaten­ing way." 
Black stresses several elements of her program. First, the service is absolutely free. Secondly, the Long Distance Love College Network is intended for any college student who suffers from any health problem. Fi­nally, also included on the questionnaire is a release statement that requires a signature that will allow medical information included on the form to be disclosed to the student's matched "buddy." 
Black herself has met several people her age who suffer from lupus. "Afew are taking the same medication, and we're going through the same side effects and the same daily problems," she told Seventeen. "Knowing them is a great form of support. That's what I want others to feel, too." 
She urges others to become involved in the program. "By taking part in Long Dis­tance Love, you will be offering fellow stu­dents with health problems the comfort of knowing that they are NOT alone," Black said in her press release. 
Though many support and counseling groups for the physically impaired exist across the country, the Long Distance Love College Network is unique in that it connects primarily college-aged students, and its fo­cus is on the sharing of similar experiences, concerns, and emotions among those with common ailments. The success oftlie service is obvious. Hopefully, with the aid of pro­grams such as LDL, students experiencing emotional difficulties in college as a result of physical disabilities will soon realize that they are not alone.·. Though the service may be termed "long distance," involved students can find through other members the close­ness of shared ~truggles and the presence of true understanding. .0 
Students interested in participating in the program, or individuals desiring further information can write to Long Distance Love College Network, Box 2301, Ventor, New Jersey 08406. 



SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
is looking for several students to draw a 
STUDENT COMIC 
on a rotating basis. 
Ifyou would be interested in joining us in this or any other capacity,, call us at 239-7569 or drop us a note at 303 LaFortune Student Center. 
14 



orum 
Isn't it time 


you got 
yours in? 
Open Forum Issues Discussion Series The students of Notre Dame are invited to speak their minds every Thursday between September 13th and October 18th at 4 pm in Fieldhouse Mall. 








Distance Dynamo 
Mike O'Connor sets the pace for the cross country and track teams 
BY.JIM KUSER 
When Mike O'Connor was a fresh­man in high school, he desperately wanted to play soccer. "In my high school, soccer was it,"herecalls. However,as fate would have it, O'Connor did not make the team.
I 
I 
I Although he did not have the skills to play high school soccer, he did
i .
Ii .. 
have exceptional endurance. The cross country coach of O'Connor's high school recognized this endurance and was com­pelled to invite O'Connor or, rather, en­courage him to try out for the cross country team. 
O'Connor tried out for the team, made the team, and starred. The fact that he stumbled into something only to excel is not lost on O'Connor. "The story ofthe start of my cross country career sounds contrived," he admits, "but it's the truth." 
After a successful rookie cross country season, O'Connor decided to focus on distance running exclusively. He pos­sessed the innate ability to be an excep­


ij:: 16 
tional distance runner, and he began to use Mike's name appears three his ability in indoor and outdoor track in times in the Notre Dame track addition to cross country. Distance run­record book. ning became a year-round activity. 
Running for St. John the Baptist track coaches throughout the High School in Brightwater, NY, nation. His exposure subse­O'Connor became a six-time cross country quently earned him tempting and track Catholic All-Star on Long Is­offers. Coach Piane dueled land, NY. During his high school distance with Georgetown, Villanova, running career, he equalled the American and a host ofother colleges for high school record in the 2,000-meters the rights to O'Connor. with a time of5:25,placed 17th in thefive­"I called Mike in ex­kilometer in the New York State Federa­cess of thirty times," recounts tion with a time of 16:29, and was ranked Coach Piane. "College re­fifth in the nation among high school mil­cruiting is an ego stroke to a ers by Track and Field News. seventeen year-old high 
Although O'Connor broke and set school student. Although it numerous records in high school, it was his raises your self-confidence, it mile time that made him most alluring to also raises your self-doubt. It colleges. "What impressed me the most precipitates pressure, and about Mike was his 4:25 mile. A 4:25 mile Mike handled the pressure shows great potential and great promise," beautifully. ThefactthatMike says Notre Dame cross country coch Joe handled the pressure beauti­Piane. fully told me a lot about his 
That potential and promise personality. It told me that earned O'Connor prominant recognition Mike was a pressure per­
in the Eastern Track Journal, a journal former." distributed to college cross country and It was not always clear to 
An injury during his junior year earned O'Connor a fifth year of eligibility. 


O'Connor that he would attend Notre Dame. Having grown up in the East, he was not familiar with the Uni-
Paul Wetb (2) versity. However, as it fre­quently happens, O'Connor visitedNotreDameand was sold. "I was looking for good academics, good cross country, and good indoor and outdoor track. Obvi­ously, Notre Dame has the resources and the facilities to fulfill any needs. Notre Dame and I seemed to be the perfect match." O'Connor liked Notre Dame so much he de­cided to stick around longer than most students. Injured by a severe stress fracture during his junior year, he re­tained a year of NCAA eli­gibility and is taking ad van-. tage of it. "Having the op­portunity to be at Notre Dame for five years has been great. I love it." Notre Dame and O'Connor have been good to each other. Notre Dame 

17 


awarded him with a business degree last May and will present him with an MBA thisI spring. To date, O'Connor has accumulated 
I 
a 3.6 GPA in his business classes and a 3.4
I 
( 
GPA overall. 
I 
Athletically, O'Connor has helped push Notre Dame's cross country and indoor and outdoor 
eleven of twelve regular-season races, and 92nd in the NCAAs. 
O'Connor has also contributed immensely to the Notre Dame indoor and outdoor track teams. He is listed three times in the Notre Dame record book: he owns the second fastest time in the 5,000 at 13:58, the everything else is a distant third." 
Returning the complement, Piane says, "Mike is a very coachable distance runner. He has a great attitude. Everyone else puts in the time and the effort, but Mike is tenacious. Mike is on a mission." 
O'Connor literally and figuratively 
goes that extra 

track teams to mile to prove 
a higher level. 
As a freshman, O'Connor lived up to his advance cross country ex­pectations by being the first 
I 
Notre Dame
I 
finisher in all
I 
but one of his
I 
I cross country
! 
I 
races. In his first intercol­legiate cross country race, a tri-meet against Michigan State and Ohio State, O'Connor won with a 


time of24:53. 
O'Connor and Paine have a close relationship. 
He finished fifth in the Indiana Intercollegiate with a time of 24:36, fourth in the National Catholic In­vitational with a time of 24:41, and third in the Notre Dame Invitational with a time of 24:59. 
His sophomore year O'Connor won his opening cross country race against Geor­getown with a time of 26:08. He was the second Notre Dame finisher in both the Na­tional Catholic Invitational and the Notre Dame Invitational with times of 24:51 and 24:32, respectively. He again finished fifth in the Indiana Intercollegiate with a time of 
24:33 and was 20th in the District IV meet with a timeof31:06 and 68th in theNCAAs with a time of 30:36. 
O'Connor's sophomore season showed decreasing times and increasing abilities. The severe stress fracture negated O'Connor's junior season, and he spent his senior year recuperating and returning to top performance, finishing among the top ten in third fastest time in the mile at 4:04, and the fifth fastest time in the two-mile at 8:58. He placed seventh in the inaugural Meyo Mile with a 4:04 time, and second at the Stanford Invitational in the 5,000 with 13:58. 
In this, his final year of eligibility, O'Connor is more focused than ever. "My number one goal is to go to the cross country NCAA's and to record my best personal time. Three years ago, we were ranked 21st of 22 teams in the NCAAs and· we placed seventh. Coach Piane won the Coach of the Year award. Two years ago, we were ranked fifth and placed ninth. Now is the time to place in the top five. We owe it to ourselves and to Coach Piane." 
O'Connor and Coach Piane have developed a close relationship, one based on mutual respect. "I admire Coach Piane for his capacity to coach and to teach," says O'Connor. "From him I have learned that academics are first, athletics are second, and that he is the 
best he can be. 
He has indeed 
been on a mis­
sion for five 
years. "It is 
difficult for a 
man to contrib­
ute right away 
at the intercol­
legiate level 
because in 
high school he 
runs 5,000 
meters and in 
college he runs 
10,000 meters. 
The distance is 
doubled. 
However, 
Mike came 
ready tO run, 
and he made an 
immediate 
impact." 
Room­mate and teammate Ryan Cahill attests to O'Connor's impact on the cross country team. "Mike is a hard worker.. He leads 
vocally and by example. His presence is important to the success of the cross country team." 
O'Connor's leadership was obvi­ous when fifteenth-ranked Notre Dame upset twelfth-ranked Georgetown two weeks ago. O'Connor spearheaded the upset by winning the race with a time of 24:43. His leadership will be tested this Friday when Notre Dame runs in the National Catholic Cross Country Championships and again next Friday when Notre dame hosts the 35th Annual Notre Dame Invitational. 
With Mike O'Connor pacing Notre Dame's cross country team, it is likely that the final stop of O'Connor's mission will be at the University of Tennessee-where the Irish hope to be making a run at the national championship. . 
SCHOLASTIC 


Quarterback Eric Hunter was the Big Ten's Freshman-of-the-Year last season. 
State this past Saturday, they should not 
pose a threat to Notre Dame's lofty na­
tional ranking. 
There are several factors weigh­ing heavily against a Boilennaker upset-
first and foremost being recent history. The Irish have beaten Purdue handily all four meetings of Lou Holtz's tenure by an astounding combined score of 177-43, including a 40-7 romp last season on Purdue's home turf in West Lafayette. In that game, the Irish completely dominated both sides of the ball. Purdue's only touch­down came on a bizarre shuffle pass in the closing seconds against the younger, less experienced Irish defensive players. 
And the last time Purdue visited Notre Dame Stadium, in the 1988 champi­onship season, the Irish played with the visitors to the tune of a 52-7 drubbing. 
This year's contest may present Holtz with a prime opportunity to work the kinks out of his offense. True, sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer has come through in the clutch with big drives in the fourth quarter these past two weeks, but consis­tency has been a problem. The trend has been to come out strong and score first in the opening quarter, then sputter through the second and third frames, only to put on a furious fourth quarter rush to pull the game from the fire. 
Purdue will try to hold the Irish down with a defense that returns eight starters from 1989's 3-8 squad. The big horse is senior middle linebacker Darren Trieb, who is a two-time Big Ten second team selection. He has led the Big Ten in solo



espite? 
tackles the past two seasons, in­
cluding 104 solos out of his 144 
total tackles last fall. Joining

Purdue's Boilermakers come to town to face college 
Trieb will be junior outside line-


football's cardiac kids 
BY JON PAUL POTTS 
W hew! You can blink now, Irish fans. After a 28-24 nail biter victory over Michi­gan on Sept. 15, Notre Dame traveled north this past weekend to take on Michi­g?11 State and barely escaped with a 20-19 
SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 
victory and their number one ranking still intact. 
Well, step back and take a breath because the Boilennakers of Purdue are coming to town, and despite their 1-1 rec­ord and a 41-13 shellacking of Indiana 
backer Jim Schwartz, who placed second in Big Ten play with eleven quar­terback sacks. 
The Boilennaker secondary re­turns three of four veterans. Leading the way is senior cornerback Steve Jackson, who broke up 15 passes to lead the confer­ence last year. The other returning starters in the secondary are senior safeties Terry Johnson and Nat Martin. 
The offense could cause defen­

sivc coordinator Gary Darnell and his troops some problems. The old "Gold and Black" utilize a run-and-shoot type offense under coach Fred Akers which emphasizes quarterback mobility and the quick pass underneath the secondary. These have been an Achilles heel for the Irish thus far. 
Notre Dame's secondary has been playing deep, and as a result, Michi­gan and Michigan State were able to gobble up yards on offense by throwing quick passes on play action and short pat­terns behind the linebackers. IfPurdue can give their quarterback decent protection, the Boilermaker offense could prove dan­gerous. 
The offense is led by quarterback Eric Hunter. Hunter struggled early last season while Akers settled on offensive personnel. After he settled down, however, he compiled some impressive numbers on the way to earning Big Ten Freshman-of­the-Y ear. He threw for 1,368 yards and 11 touchdowns in barely half a season. Last week,hethrewforfourTD'sand291 yards against Indiana State. 
"I feel better than at any time since I've been here," says Akers. "It's 
Trieb led the Big Ten in solo tackles 
last season with 104. 

Purdue Sports Information 
20 
been a tough rebuilding pe­riod, but we've shown that we are ready to compete. I'm satisfied with our progress, but we're not there yet." 
Hunter will be throw­ing to a very in­experienced corps of receiv­ers. Last sea­son, Calvin Williams caught 51 passes for 630 yards and seven touch­downs; but he was lost to graduation and the National Football League's Philadelphia Eagles. The top returner is so­phomore Rod 

Akers' squad Is coming off a 41-13 victory over Indiana State. 
Dennis, who was a deep threat last season, catching 23 passes for six TD's and an im­pressive 23.6 yard/catch average. 
Again, if Hunter gets time, he could cause problems for Notre Dame;s secondary, especially if senior All-Ameri­can cornerback Todd Lyght is still out. Lyght did not even dress for last Saturday's squeaker with Michigan State. His replacement, freshman Greg Lane, played well but was not really tested by Spartan quarterback Dan Enos. 
IfPurdue can establish a passing game early, the defense will face a serious struggle. The Boilermakers will have to do so, however, in spite of an utter lack of a running game. They have not averaged over 100 yards per game as a team since the 1984 campaign. The leading returnee, senior Jerome Sparkman, gained only 451 yards on 118 carries. 
The jury is still out on the Irish run defense. Against Michigan,. Chris Zorich, George Williams and the rest of the front seven faced an offensive line that could start in the NFL, and running back Jon Vaughn chewed up 208 yards on the ground. 
Last week the Irish fared better, limiting the Spartans to a mere 117 yards rushing. The Purdue line is not in the same­league with Michigan or Michigan State and against Indiana State, the Boilermakers gained a mere 111 yards on 41 carries: They should do no better Saturday. 
Last year, after the 40-7 beating Notre dame administered to his team, a frus­trated Akers offered an assessment of the game which he may be repeating Saturday. 
"It is pretty plain to me that when you play the number one team, you have to play almost perfect football," he said. "They have great team speed and talent, and they are very deep at all positions." 
Akers' squad will have to play per­fect football Saturday to emerge with a vic­tory because overall, despite some impres­sive individual players, they are no match for the Irish. . 
SCHOLASTIC 


1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. 
South Bend, IN 


272-9000 
*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST *PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS *FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN *IN ROOM MOVIESNCR (over 50 titles) *FREE LOCAL CALLS *~ *LAUNDRY S *AAAANDMOBILERATED :Ii 

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE: 
1-800-347-8016 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Dave DiLucia: DiLucia, a junior from Norris­town, PA, won five matches this past weekend as the Irish hosted the Tom Fallon Invitational tennis tournament. In the final, he defeated teammate Chuck Coleman for the tournament championship. 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Tasha Strawbridge: Strawbridge, a freshman women's soccer player from Palatine, IL, is getting used to this spot as she returns as Female Athlete of the Week. Last week, Strawbridge added two goals to her team-leading total of five, including the game­winner with a minute left against Michigan State. 
SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 




OCTOEH~IR 
1 9 


CULTURE ON THE QUAD October 1-5 12:00-1 :00 P.M. Fieldhouse Mall 
CULTURAL CAFE October 2 8:00P.M. Theodore's 
FIRESIDE CHATS October 1-5 12:00-1:00 P.M. 
I.S.O. Lounge 
JOHN KENNEDY'S IRISH BAND October4 8:00P.M. Theodore's 
ETHNIC ENTERTAlNMENT October 1-5 4:30P.M. Fieldhouse Mall 
TASTE OF NATIONS October 6, 1990 
9:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. South Dining Hall 
Japan Club German Club Saint Mary's Italian Club Le Cercle Francais Spanish Club 
Professor Matta Father Miscamble Professor Bellis Professor Doris Professor Phelps 
Native American Hawaiian Phillipine Bagpipe Band Ballet Folklorico 

Sponsored by THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 

MOVIES 
ALIENS: Sigourney Weaver fights tons of slimy nasties in the sequel to Alien. One of the few sequels oflate that is actually on a par with the original. Shows Thursday night in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune, sponsored by S.U.B. 
BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY: The finest performance of Tom Cruise's career. This is a look at the realities of war, and the realities after the war Born on the Fourth of July shows Friday and Saturday night at Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by S.U.B. 
GLORY: Another war movie, this time set in the Civil War. Glory, starring Denzel Washington, takes a look at the experiences of a black soldier during the Civil War. Shows Friday and Saturday night at the Snite. 
AT THE SNITE: On Tuesday, October 2 will be Stella Dallas at 7 p.m. and Spellbound at 9: 15 p.m. The movies for Wednesday, October 3 are Where The Sidewalk Ends at 7 p.m. and Back Street at 9p.m. 

SPORTS 

FOOTBALL vs. PURDUE: The Boilermakers are looking for a beating when they come to take on the Irish at Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, September 29. Kickoff is at 12 noon. 
VOLLEYBALL: The Irish will take on Penn State at theJ.A.C.C. on Friday, September 28 at 7:30 p.m., and Miami (Ohio) at Krause Stadium on Saturday, September 29 at 7:30 p.m. 
CROSS COUNTRY: The Notre Dame Men's and Women's Cross Country Teams will host the National Catholics on Friday, September 28. Races are at 2,3, and 4 p.m. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

H.P.C. ALL-CAMPUS PICNIC: Will be at Holy Cross field on Friday, September 
28. Only 25 cents for pizza, subs, and all kinds of other good stuff. 
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTNAL: Starts Monday, October 1 and runs through Saturday, October 6. The festival will feature ethnic entertainment, food, and much more. 
SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 


Vision I 
I was sitting ata very small bar in Higashi­Ikebukero, a part of Tokyo where few Americans ever go. I spoke English. Next to me sat my friend Charlie the ex-patriot, who spoke English, and a tolerable amount of conversational Japanese. Next to him sat Mr. Takano, a middle-aged Japanese business man, who spoke Japanese, and a tolerable amount of conversational English. At the end sat another businessman, Mr. Shinici. He spoke Japanese. The fun came whenever Shinici-san and I tried to talk to each other. Charlie introduced me as a teacher. Now whenever my brother introduces me to his businessman friends as a teacher, I get the feeling they politely tolerate me as, sort of, the nicest person they've met in the non­productive sector of the economy. But in Japan, a teacher, sensei, holds a position of respect. They ooh and ah when they meet 

Ii I you. It feels good. The conversation proceeded like a tum-of-the-century fire line passing waterbuckets. Me to Charlie, Charlie to Takano, Takano to Shinici, and back. Up the line, "Where do you teach?" Down the line, "The University of Notre Dame." Next a sudden conference in Japanese at the end of the bar; then Takano leaned towards me and said solemnly, "My fliend say Notle Dame famous fo' football." 
Vision II; . --11 A.M. John, double-domer,I government and law, approached the bench. 

He's a federal prosecuter, and one of his witnesses didn't show up in court. Judges don't like that, especially if they think it's some sort of ploy. John apologized, almost 
24 
groveled. The judge pressed. "Are you a Notre Dame graduate?" "Yes, your Honor." "Do you give me your word as a Notre Dame 
man that you had the witness scheduled to be here at 11?" "Yes, your Honor. My word as a Notre Dame graduate." "OK, we'll recess now; get your witness here this afternoon." "It was incredible," mused John afterwards, "the judge put my status as a Notre Dame alum above my standing as an officer of the court." 
Notre Dame: Football and Character. September 15th we hammered it home again -onboth points. The Michigan game spoke for itself; no need to belabor the obvious. And on the TV broadcast, the University unveiled a new promo. With the sun setting behind the Golden Dome, and the strains of the Victory March lilting softly in a style more Lawrence Welk than Luther Snavely, the key words overprint one-by-one on the bottom of the screen. 
INQUIRY COMMUNITY SERVICE VALUES 

NOTRE DAME 

Vision I is an easy sell. When your seniors have not yet seen the team lose at home, it's for real. Vision II comes a lot tougher. Simply announcing it cioes not suffice; it demands engagement. Like a vaccination, it has to break the skin and get inside the bloodstream. Sometimes it hurts. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen enough. Just as we have too many infants medically unvaccinated, we have too many adults morally unvaccinated. That's why it would be refreshing to have debates in the Campus Life Council and arguments in campus media about a "Bill of Student Responsibilities" to go along with a "Bill of Student Rights." Or better yet, imagine this: every undergraduate applicant to Notre Dame views that ad and • writes an essay on what those key words mean. The essay becomes part of the student's public record. Then when some creep vomits in the bathroom and leaves it there for a section mate to walk through in bare feet, the rector can post what he wrote about "community"; when a plagiarist faces an honor code violation, the panel can begin with what she wrote about "inquiry." When a bratty freshman writes to the Observer about a food fight, "We paid for the food, we can do what we want with it," they can run a sidebar with what he said about "values." 

Both · visions portray a great heritage. Coach Holtz and the football team work hard to keep the first one alive. How well do the rest of us do on the second one? 
by Father Gerald Lardner, rector ofGrace Hall 
SCHOLASTIC 

.. 
by Norman Dog 
Do YOU enjoy listening 



to ®@@@ ffiiIO:D®O© 
while RELAXING and soc1AL121NG with good friends?? 
then..... . M 







Fl L H M LL 


Performing: 
5 O'Clock Shadow ­Bone Forest XYZ Affair September 28,1990 
Beginnin·g at 
4:30 and ending somewhere around 

8:00. 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 








