SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:	J
Name:_________________________________________
Address:	- .
City:State:ZIP code: 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE


3 Let The Proclamation Be Read
4 AIDS
10 Notre Dame's Own
S.W.A.T. Team

14 Streaking to Success
16 The Eagle Has Landed

2 Editor's Notes
19 Out of Bounds
21 Spin Doctors
22 On Other Campuses
23 Week In Distortion
24 Final Word

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 134, N6.9	7	’	::
: ;November 5t.1992
• '. Disce Quasi Semper Victurus •• • „ - <	Vive Quasi Gras Morityrus .
; . ^Founded 1867/
EDITOR IN CHIEF /;
Patricia K. Doyle • ••■ :''7 '	; 7
MANAGING EDITOR :7	' ‘
/Margarets.Kenny ‘ --r ■ :7\‘:.\
/EXECUTIVE EDITOR 7 '3	: ■ 7: <?7 .
David j. Hdisiriger	\
WHjSliFE.L^ - \77<;;:;-^5";
' Editor: Mollie Mudd.;; •. •• •	/ <• j- ; /..
■■ ■: ■
■/-.’Editors: KX; Lawrence ?.X777'7- ' /<‘;:7Mark.Mitchell;	<77'/ : .7
.'.s'’’	■ ’’’	7	:■
?srofrrs':-<
Editor: Jim Kuser :
:> Assistant; Amanda'Clinton.■::	?./
' ENTERTAINMENT ;	; 77
f Editor:. J. Bradley Keck
- DEPARTMENTS .Y .fiJ7:f:f ;
;':Edi^	•- .
' photography’::
'“.Editor Ken Osgood / L/ /:;;-//tfK.ff: f>•-- ,y.
-./cOpY;<;y
Editor: Chris Blanford. . y, if f'-:. y i ySENipRStAFFWRITERS:c7;'::77:;>:7? fi Amarida Clinton, Pete McGillicuddy, • ‘ ? y : Marcelle Ruiz-Calderon,■Jenny Tate,;
Heidi Laura'To^
. GRAPHICARTS<X
?>Mariager; Jake Frost'-, . fff;;-
Manager;.:Chin	:<■■>
Managed KaremRite^ </ f%f /'A'..; •? ?
^Manager: .Eiieeri^helley A-•/■	7.'. 'f
7 Manager:' Bill Rhomberg fffff ’fff,ff. 'ff
On The Cover
AIDS is problem that affects nearly everyone in our society. As college students we are not exempt from this disease. In order to increase student awareness, students on S.W.A.T., Students With AIDS Training, are helping to educate students about AIDS and the risks involved in unsafe behavior. All members in the group have undergone a Red Cross training course and present peer information sessions to dorms.
In News, K.L. Lawrence looks at the AIDS situation on college campuses. In an effort to promote AIDS awareness at Notre Dame, student government is hosting a variety of events during the upcoming week including an AIDS ID bracelet sale.
In This issue
In News this week, Editor Mark Mitchell looks at the making of a minor basilica. Due to the tradition at Sacred Heart, it received this recognition last year. At mass this weekend two important basilican objects will be carried in the procession for the first time. After the destruction caused by Hurricane Andrew in Miami, over forty-four Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students travelled south to lend a helping hand. Campus Life writer E. K. Mehl explains how the
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesubscription raleis$25.00/yearandbackissues are available at $1.25 jcopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not'necessarily represent the opinions of the attire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame,'. its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolidtied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All right s reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
students made there journey as well as what they did after their arrival.
Sports writer Allison.McCarthy previews the men’s and women’s swim teams. Besides looking forward to the incorning freshmen, both teams will also be relying on their returning upperclassmen. Also in Sports, Assistant Sports Editor Amanda Clinton prepares us for this weekend’s football battle between our own eighth-ranked team and the number nine Boston College Eagles.
In Entertainment this week, Managing Editor Margaret Kenny previews the upcoming Spin Doctors concert. This “boisterous bar band” will be performing at Stepan Center on Tuesday, November 10. You will also find a review of Prince’s new album written by Entertainment Editor J. Bradley Keck. After a sabbatical last week, The Gipper returns to his regular “CampusWatch” column.
A Nose For News
Do you want to be a reporter? If you are interested in being a news reporter for Scholastic we would like to hear from you! Either stop by our office at 303 LaFortune Center or give us a call at 239-7569.
Patricia Doyle Editor in Chief
Lettersto Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Facultymembersshouldincludetheirdepartment. All letters must be signed. Names will be wiihheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfiiling, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN46556
SCriilBTiC~]
Let The
Proclamation
Be Read
by Mark Mitchell
When is a church not a church? When the Pope says so. And His Holiness John Paul II has decreed that the Church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus is no longer a church; it is a basilica. The campus chapel has joined the ranks of the most important churches in Catholicism.
On November 23,1991, the Papal Bull, the official decree, making Sacred Heart a basilica was sealed by the Pope with the Ring of the Fisherman, the seal designating the Bishop of Rome as the successor of Saint Peter. However, this Sunday will be the official proclamation of the elevation of Sacred Heart to the rank of basilica, and there is going to be quite a liturgical celebration.
“It’s a big day for this old church,” com-
Worship, the ponl to see to liturgi consider elevatin tus, the bishop of church resides m tion. The Mos D’Arcy, Bish Wayne-South behalf of Notr at the Mass That mas
Mass celebfa silica. It i extensive rdfc preparatio hand to pre be alumna
these will be carried for the first time in the mass on Sunday.
The Mass will begin with the peal of the bells within the church's tower, cited in the Papal Bull as the oldest in America. These bells willalsoringas Father J enky, Rector of the basilica, reads the official proclamation (as translated from the Latin by Father John Leahy, C.S.C.) of Sacred Heart as a basilica. Lectors, ministers and musicians will be students of the university.
As a basilica, Sacred Heart takes on a deeper role as a spiritual center for the Notre Dame community. Sister Marie Therese, O.P., said, “The spiritual influence of Notre Dame is not limited to the campus or to the nation. Our alumni are are around the world, Holy Cross has missionaries throughout the nations, and the university is recognized as an international symbol of teaching the Catholic faith. It is fitting then that the Pope give this international designation to our church. And that designation gives Notre Dame’s spiritual aspect a more profound role.”
While the Mass on Sunday will feature an academic procession and many special guests, those planning the celebration have been careful not to exclude a congregation: only four pews will be reserved to allow as much space foij| worshipers as possible. After the MasghFather Edward Malloy, “.S.C., will host la reception in the Morris nn for Bishop DjArcy and his guests.
As president, [hkalloy has stated on many jdccasions that Note Dame’s primary goal is give spiritual /leadership, guidance and rmation. Sacrdd Heart’s elevation high-l|gte.thi&£^ on an ecclesiastical “6e.“^^cred~^^rt received its elevation tlffiM own merits and on those of the mgregalion df Holy Cross which this year feFrati^^ jtjsars of higher education, iis-Commitment to education is also cel-
f th
ted the
essaryfor
csn
The. rej
be
ilizing the bf the most
ouncil designated Related matters, to :ch to basilica sta-se in which that ( i an official peti-Reveiend John Michael
iocese of Fort the petition on ill be presiding Sunday.
olemn high dart as a ba-

ion of the irch and the ilica. On
ertory will Coleman,
nation of the
church inclhddd cleat
dedication, the elevation I tb basilica is the//
e frescoed
ound sys
there is only one other in Indiana and Sacre
themanwhpd the restoraliori
Heart is the first in the piocese of F
Wayne-South Bend. J
The Pope .piwlaimedfe^^^
minor basilica? Minqrfbas^ churches that are recogniz/ed by twJlWe t s
anc si
one
rbts
for
a
s
of
Theumbn
hit nd1
r d
4uid
ibnhifdrlmihb:
arid!
s.
d
iirected eli ec
mented Brother Dennis Meyers, C.S.C., stained gl
university sacristan. Indi
i, in the history extensive IbllBctij
of Sacred Heart, aside from its original/' ^French stajiie^ gl^s
most important event for the church. Therh i   . are only 32 basilicas in thb United State^^ The pr
other important centers
tion, places of devotion,i
active pastoral life. In hisedjetwhichhanj S “as a permanent record’^outside thqsacrisi y doorinSacredHeart.PqpeJphnP^ i' te£ “This church is an outstanding test/trnghy to the widespread labor opnisgionariesaii wejl
as to their resourcefulnpsfln addiiit church’s adornment hears/witn tliej fervor of the faith of tjie people and to the* diligent care which they, have given to tins, temple.”	~
In order for the Congregation for Divine
th
oiifiasilipa un
worl ®new
tus weife! that all pipas we
ring ®1g
In
eyer’s wqrk incl ided
hlilrch mbreU mbol
Heart, nain he
gas dang IB n nep fc-elli
oneni
Rd
io.
the
b;
dobt-o^e basilican
iinetedi^th century
, restoring ghting an
ed umbrel
tous
mes.
let M go
Mun
Id
eyers
K
M\th<
in Sacfed-^leart’s creation as a ba-1 the PapaljBull, His Holiness cites Jon’s ijeSoiinding harmony. How-closin^pn thatdocument refers both Heart and to the mis-
bra Llic le ver/
> th?
ionjg
—Human
“the urnbrellino, Meyers designed the proces- who hi
uhiveristy: “We hope y br<[>s$, tPopew that itssoundw/ili not ojily calm and gladden ^gjwyh—Human hearts, jpuLt^at it will also call those ------	—L- Sear it to faith and Christian truth and
sional bell called the tintinabulum. Both of that it will stir their spirits.”
□
AIDS
. .	i
HIV silently stalks new victims
by K. L. Lawrence
AIDS. Despite continuing education, in many people the acronym still conjures images of emaciated “queers and druggies.” Exactly how far have Americans come since the disease was first identified 1991? Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome is not a “sickness” in the sense it is commonly understood to be. According to the currently used U.S. Centers for Disease Control Definition, AIDS is a disease that is defined as HIV positivity accompanied by two or more opportunistic infections from a list compiled by the CDC. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS, but infection with it does not constitute AIDS by the current definition.
In essence, this means that AIDS is a state of suppressed a state of suppressed immunity severe enough to cause infection with diseases thatare not ordinarily contractedby people today. HTV, although it is the only cause of AIDS, does not constitute a diagnosis of AIDS unto itself. This does not mean that AIDS is not something to worry about. In fact, the silent nature of HIV infection, which causes no outward symptoms itself, means that the virus can be present in a person who looks and feels perfectly healthy. The director of University Health Services, Carol Seager, who is also in charge of campus AIDS education, stressed the invisibility of HIV infection and cautioned that this has lulled many into a
“false sense of security.”
According to the September AIDS Surveillance report issued by the Indiana De-partmentofHealth, there have been 230,179 cases of AIDS reported in the United States, 11,878 of these in September alone. The greatest number of all AIDS cases, 46 percent, have occurred in people between the
>“YoU' candefinitely , thediseased’ y ■ d dddk
::
Director^ University : ; He tilth Services y jd
ages of 30 and 39. Since the average period between infection and diagnosis with AIDS is between 7 and 10 years, according to the CDC, the average age of infection for current AIDS victims would be sometime in their twenties.
Because it is impossible to tell if someone is infected with HIV by simply looking at her or him, AIDS remains without a face on this campus. Seager cited an American College Health Association statistic when she said that, for every 1,000 people on a
college campus, there are two to three that are HIV positive. Assuming that Notre Dame is similar to other colleges, this means that 20 to 30 students are infected right now, she said. Any actual numbers of students with the virus would neither be released nor recorded by University Health Services due to the university’s AIDS confidentiality policy.
Although these numbers may seem alarming, they are only an indication of the prevalence of AIDS in this country. Because there are no uniform federal guidelines for reporting diagnoses of AIDS and HIV positivity, these statistics cannot be completely accurate. Even now, “people who have never been seen by a doctor are dying of AIDS,” Seager said. The CDC can only compile the numbers of cases that are reported to them, so their figures do not represent the thousands of undiagnosed and unreported cases of AIDS and HIV infection.
The demographics of AIDS in this country have changed dramatically in the past ten years. The early groups toward which AIDS education was first targeted have modified their behavior, but the numbers of infected heterosexuals, women and minorities are increasing at an alarming rate. This all points to the fact that there are no risk groups, only risk behaviors. “You can definitely take steps to prevent the disease,” said Seager. HIV is not an airborne virus; therefore, it can only be contracted through certain voluntary actions. The chance of
*• ••- . " "
transferring bodily fluids accidentally is miniscule, especially given the precautions taken in the health professions today.
Because of the university’s Roman Catholic character, the subject of AIDS is treated within a moral context by campus educators. Seager emphasized that, because AIDS is addressed as “basically a sexually transmitted disease,” education at Notre Dame is values-oriented. “If you choose to be sexually active, then you’re not safe,” said Seager. Although most nonCatholic AIDS education is morally neutral, all educators do agree that there is no such thing as safe sex. There are ways to make sex safer, but the only 100 percent effective method is abstinence. With regard to nonsexual risk behaviors, the use of street drugs such as heroin does not appear to be an issue with students on this campus. Seager did say that injecting steroids is an often overlooked route for HIV transmission.
Despite the relationship of risk behavior to the tenets of Du Lac, AIDS cannot be viewed as the physical consequences of its victims’ moral failings. Notre Dame theology professor, Rev. Richard McCormick, said that the Church has a non-judgmental stance and “takes the individual person with AIDS as a dignified human being to be treated with compassion and respect.” Because hot every person with AIDS became infected through irresponsible behavior, he said, “it is unfair to make judgements; we don’t look at how they got it.“
Although the Church is “very concerned” about AIDS education, McCormick added, “there is a great reluctance on the part of many bishops to even mention condoms.” McCormick said that to assume people are going to haye sex outside of the Church’s boundary' of marriage “isn’t giving them enough credit [for making sound decisions].” The approval of casual sex implied by the advocation of condom use has caused Church educators to avoid dealing with the mechanics; of “safer sex.”
Because AIDS is so widespread today, “the people who think they’re not vulnerable who are sexually active are crazy,” he said. “AIDS is a lethal disease for which there is no cure, and people who think it does not apply to them are simply irresponsible to themselves and others.” □
male composition of the group will be, he
?>?byK. L.Lawrence	> i. ?? ■■■ ? '■
Student government is also contributing
In addition-to. the activities,of the student-to campus efforts. JuniorFrankFlyhnofthe educators on the campus S.W.A.T.team Special Projects departmentisdirecting on-: (detailed on pages10-11), other events are going .activities that .will promote AIDS beirigplanned by campus groups. Although: awareness throughout the year. , Flynn said University Health Services director Carol that he dislikes the idea of an AIDS aware-Seager has stressed that: information is al- riess' week,; .because. “AIDS. is something _ ways available frdnl her department, stu- people should be conscious of every day bf dents are working to generate further ’ the year.” The first project will begin No-: awareness ontheir own. :	...	vember 5 when Special Projects willbegin
The newest contributor to the campus : scllingIDbracelets with thenamesof people ; -fight, against AIDS is senior finance major that have diod of AIDS.; The stainless steel i Tim Pepper? He is the founder and current bracelets will cost $2, and Flynn hopes that president of Notre D^me AIDSAwareness; .theywill serve as a long-termreminder of a student organization that was approved by the toll AIDS is taking on the country;? Student government just this year. ; :	On November 17, Special Projects is
The group’s title is somewhat of a: mis- sponsoring an AIDS exhibition to be held in nomer.he said, as' the focus; of AIDS thc LaFortune ballroom from lO a.m. to 3 Awareness is s^	.p.m.; Mock AIDS tests and counseling will
ratherthan campus education.'. AIDS: be available for studenu interested insccing Awarenesswill workon campus; to raise what theprocess is like. In forma tionabout funds for AIDS;research and care, and per- • AIDS and local testing-options will also be ': formcommunity service .at: locations off- ’available? ?	'/ -■ v.? ■ c:;■.'■■	;,.
cariipus/ A	Worid Albs Day will be d
gThey will he working with die. AIDS As- December 1, and SpecialProjects is bring-sist prograni of the South Bend AIDS Mih- ihg Rev. Raab and Sr. Eithne Kennedy from i: istry Committee in avariety of;ways. Stu- Soutfi Bend’s St. Joseph parish to address dents may volunteer to work in ;a hospice or ; the issue of AIDS from a Catholic wiew-to prepare Christmas gifts for patients. All point? ' g;;; ;.t? •	? -
off-cSmpus Service activities will be coordi- S^ialjftdjects is workingin conjunction
■; natedthrough AIDS Assist; ?. b;; ??? ' ? w*th the campus S.W. A.T.' team: to incor-
AhothergpalofAIDS Awareness, ac- porate: AIDS awareness into die freshman;
cordingloPepper.istomakelheS.W
'team .more accessible-to the generafstudeht student government
body? He hopes t6;fc
:: hotline where students can call for informa- papel of the
tion about AIDS and related services. Right whohasdied ofAlDS,.and theexhibition is - now,?ihe group h^
;-si ty.-funding.; “Without inoriey
■ anything dpne,”Pepper said. ??: ?demand for the i quill?final arrangements;
Pepper; cncouragesmentojoinAIDS; haybyet tobcmade;- : ?	■ f?
Awareness. If the current disinterest:^
, ' Mle student body ishU enqugh ihyentiye for
fmeh to join, perhaps the predo^
- Wib»s ..
What You
Can Do
To prevent HIV transmission
by K. L. Lawrence
The Church
does not
sanction
pf(^
family dentist. .
□
6
SCHOLASTIC .

The AIDS virus is a fragile virus. It is less caught than actively pursued today. A person has to “do something” to get AIDS — incidental transmission without voluntary action is rare. The most important way to avoid the virus is to modify personal behavior. The kinds of behaviors that put a person at greatest risk are any ones that involve exposure to bodily fluids.
According to CDC records, sex and drug use have been the most common modes of transmission reported since the disease has been identified. The safest sex is abstinence, and recreational intravenous drug use is just dangerous. There are alternatives to both kinds of behaviors, and many people live quite happily without either.
Because Notre Dame is home to students with diverse religious and moral beliefs, it is impossible to assume that every member of the campus community will adhere to Du Lac for the duration of his or her time here. For those to whom this may apply, or those who want to be able to give sound advice to others, there are ways to make sex and drug use safer:
• Get tested. People who are close enough to exchange bodily fluids should be close enough to make a trip to the health department together. Even University Health Services offers HIV testing. Both offer complete confidentiality; the health
department offers anonymity as well.
•	For those using any IV drugs, from insulin to speed, never use a needle unless you’re sure it is sterile. A needle can be cleaned by pulling bleach through the syringe twice, and then pulling water into it twice, but it is safest to use a new one
approve of cOndoninsf, nor does it
every time. The best advice for non-medicinal IV drug users is to get help.
•	The Church doesn’t approve of condom use, nor does it sanction premarital sex. Two wrongs may not make a right, but a wrong and a right could mean a death sentence. Unless both partners are
sure of their HIV status, condoms should be used every time.
•	Look for latex condoms. “Natural” skin condoms are porous, and therefore hot much help. They should be kept in a cool, dry place to avoid damage; a wallet is the worst place to store a condom.
•	Use a spermicide containing Nonoxynol-9. This compound has been shown to kill HIV in tests.
•	For the safety of both partners, a condom should be used for oral, anal and genital sex — and all their variations. Correctly using a condom entails more than just putting one on; instructions on how to use them correctly can be obtained at any local pharmacy or health department
•	If you are going to use a lubricant with a condom, make sure it is water-based. K-Y jelly and astro-glide gel are two examples. Oil-based lubricants like petroleum jelly or baby oil will cause condoms to deteriorate.
•	Females are not exempt from protecting themselves, either. Although the female condom is not available yet, nobody says that women can’t cany the regular ones.
•	For those whose sex plans do not include the part of the male anatomy associated with condom use, there are still things females can do for protection. Dental dams and latex squares can be bought a medical supply house or the
News Ccmwry
Campus Watch
I DV TUT rfDDT?D
News, information and outright innuendo
He’s baa-ack! After taking a bit of a breather from his exhaustive schedule, the Gipp is rested and ready to go for the rest of the semester. We hope that you weren’t too disappointed about the Gipp’s absence last week. Thisweek’scolumn will surely put an end to that.
SORRY, JIM
A few advocates of Admiral James Stockdale wrote in to complain about the Gipp’s rather unprovoked slam on the good Admiral a few weeks ago. At the time that the Gipp wrote that piece, his only exposure to the man had been from the Vice-Presidential Brawl. Believe me, the Gipp was thoroughly unimpressed with the Admiral’s debating skills. It seems, though, that the man is not completely empty-headed: the Gipp wasn’t considering his record of military service and his character. Sorry, Jim. The Gipp really didn’t mean to slam you that way . It was a spiteful thing to do and wasn’t meant the way most people took it.
DEFINITELY HANDICAPPED EQUIPPED
The Gipp finally got some long-overdue mail from you CampusWatchers this week! A letter signed “A Confused Student” pointed* out that the post office has an overabundance of handicapped parking spaces. In a lot which has room for maybe twenty cars, there are not fewer than seven handicapped slots. Upon further investigation of parking lots, the Gipper noticed that the circle between Decio Faculty Hall and the Galvin Life Sciences building has more
handicapped slots than is customary for a	all. What it this craziness? If the lab is open,
circle of that size. Is there really that much	why aren’t the doors?
demand for handicapped parking on campus? The Gipp really hasn’t noticed that many handicapped persons around campus. This isn’t to say that the spaces aren’t needed. It just seems that the university might be overestimating or overcompensating.
COMPUTER BLAB
Have you ever wondered just how the computer lab assistants assign computers to users? The Gipp has. Just why is it that, in a lab where there are 35 terminals and 4 users, the users will be assigned to terminals 1,5,18 and 35? Is there any method to their madness? So far, the Gipp can only guess
Scholastic Fite Photo
that the assignments are made based on a could go something like, “Of course I love formula which comes from ancient druidic you, dear. I installed you first on my list of scripts on how to predict eclipses.	recipients on Eudora!”
A colleague of the Gipp’s complained that
when he went to use the new DeBartolo Lab	JUST A THOUGHT
during normal business hours, the outside door was locked and he had to buzz the lab assistants on an intercom. First they pack us in like lemmings, then they won’ t let us in at
E-mail users who are Gipp readers, beware: The forwarding address listed in last week’s “Editor’s Notes” doesn’t work. The Gipp was told that all of the mail sent to “gipper@nd.edu” would be sent to his real name, but apparently this just isn’t happening. This means that, until further notice, the Gipp can only be reached by regular or campus mail.
The Gipp is also a big fan of the “nicknames” function on Eudora. With this handy little function, you can decide just who your friends are. If you like them more, you can put them higher on the list, if you don’tlike them, you can take them off. Can’t you just hear the new computer nerd terminology for “I’ve made the commitment?” It
Now that the Pope has finally pardoned Galileo, will Notre Dame have to change all of its science courses?

ByE. K. Mehl
Kathleen Lynch: University and the University
dents’ Council decided to donate $5,000 to
Arsenault and with the cooperation of An-
thony Travel, the request was easily this expedition. For a fee of $40, a student
of the Notre Dame/ SMC community could
granted.
■
SCHOtASTl®
Originally, the chartered bus was going to cost$7,400, but Anthony Travel waived the commission it would receive, lowering the cost to $6,000. In addition, the Hall Presi-
Upon arriving in Miami, everything went according to plan. The students were
Students were taught how to replace roof tiles in Florida. of Scranton offered aid to Mi-ami a few weeks earlier
ftwipus Life-
IN MIAMI
Students spent their vacation fixing what Hurricane Andrew destroyed
While many Notre Dame students were packing their bags for fall
break, eager to head back to the comfort of home or excited to travel with friends to their original stomping grounds, some students were on their way to Florida. Forty-four students, forty from Notre Dame and four from St. Mary's, journeyed to Miami, FL, to battle the destruction caused by devastating Hurricane Andrew.
The idea emerged from a group of Miamians, one of whom is the father of current senior John Mackie. “They got together and decided to call everyone they knew at Notre Dame, asking for assistance,” said John Mackie of his father. Fortunately, with the organizational skills of Kathleen and John Mackie and sophomore Mike
partake in this charitable mission. In fact, more than enough money was collected, leaving the surplus amount to be put toward food expenses. ? ■
Students jumped at the convenience, not to mention the goodwill, of this opportunity to work directly with the victims of the hurricane.
Some -students, like Kathleen Lynch, a first-year student from Breen Phillips, “saw this [trip] as a good opportunity to see what happened, to talk with the victims and to meet more Notre Dame students.” Herbie Calves, a junior residing in Fischer Hall who has some family in the Miami area, was drawn by more personal ties.
Students from Villanova
there from Sunday until Thursday and were really well, really quickly.” Needless to students deserved something for their ef-
scheduled to begin work on Monday. Their say, the venture was not one of “rest and forts, so they had a barbecue for the students
job was to repair damaged roofs in a low-income area known as The Goulds. Certain houses inhabited mainly by elderly people and’people without insurance were picked because the residents could not repair or afford the repairs themselves. Aided by government funds, the students were set to begin the task.
On their first working day, professional roofers taught the amateur tradespeople how to repair the hurricane-ravaged roofs properly. The procedure involved a strippingdown process, followed by reconstruction. After the initial guidance, students were left on their own, Students worked long days, from nine in the morning until five in the
afternoon. By the end of the week, they had worked on seven roofs.
Originally, the group had planned to work two days in The Goulds and then transfer to another battered section. However, the students and the families living there worked well togther. They decided to stay and concentrate on just one area.
Even though the accommodations were not the most luxurious, they did facilitate fast friendships. The students received free lodging at a retreat house for the University of Miami.called the Madonna Youth Center. However, all forty-four students had to sleep in one large room. Some showered in the facilities at the
center, while others were per
milted to use a nearby country club. After travelling 25 hours on a bus and rooming with the same people for five days, Lynch admitted that, “you got to know people
Kathleen Lynch
Students worked on houses like these that were destroyed by Hurricane Andrew.
Kathleen Lynch
A close-knit group of hard-working students stand on a finished roof on which they worked during fall break.
relaxation.”
The entire community seemed very appreciative of the students’ services. At the end of the week, the people felt that the
on their last night in Miami. “It was really nice,” said Calves. “They really went all out for us and we didn’t expect it at all.”
Furthermore, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Miami welcomed the students and showed their appreciation with a beach party and souvenirs.
All participants in this hurricane relief project said they were deeply touched by the experience. They said they sympathized greatly with the victims and even collected some of their own money together to offer to the people in The Goulds, but the neighborhood refused. Calves reasoned that they refused because “it would be like hurting their
pride.”
Although the experience uplifted the students, the devastation of the area still weighed heavily on their minds. Lynch described the area as “destruction beyond belief.”
“It was depressing, in a way, because there was so much damage and what we did was so little in comparison to the amount of damage present,” she said. One lady who lives there told her that the television simply cannot show the reality of the situation.
In general, Lynch said that the people were optimistic about repairs, but some people in the low-income area were discouraged and felt “like this [hurricane]
was one last blow.”
“Unfortunately,” said John Mackie, “complete recovery will take years and years.”	□
Bl
S.W.A1 MUI
By Steph Goldman
answer period. The members of the team . assumption.
SCHOLASTIC
Medical Services Coordinator position,' group because of a personal interest in the wanted to rejuvenate the group and foster a issue, said she thinks the majority of stu-more active relationship between the team dents on this campus are aware of the dan-
Own
The S.W.A.T. team (Students With
AIDS Training) is a relatively new group on campus whose focus is to educate students about AIDS and the personal risks involved in unsafe behavior.
S.W.A.T. currently has seven student members who conduct peer information sessions in the dorms on campus.
Ruthann Heberle, the group’s advisor and the Medical Services Coordinator at University Health Services, said the team is more effective in relaying information about the prevalence of the disease in society and on this campus than statistics. They use a method of “AIDS education through peer facilitation,” she said. “Several studies have proven that people your age really listen to your peers more than to adults or statistics.”
The group was formed three years ago but had not seen much activity or success during that time. Heberle, upon assuming the

and the Notre Dame community.
“Right now, we’re trying to get this off the ground,” she said. “It’s important that we let people know we really are available.”
According to Heberle, the S.W. A.T. team gives their presentation in dorms after being invited by interested dorm members. The sessions begin with an informational lecture about AIDS followed by a question and
must first complete an extensive three-day training course offered by the Red Cross before they are qualified to give the presentations.
Student turn out at the sessions has been variable, she said, but those who do attend usually have very good questions. “I think the people we do speak with are really interested. I just wish we could get ahold of more people.”
Melissa Lucke, a senior who joined the
gers of AIDS. She said, however, that many peopledon’tconsideritaprevalent concern.
“I think because they see the disease as confined to homosexuals and drug abusers, Notre Dame students don’t see themselves as vulnerable. It’s also the whole Du Lac thing: People think, ‘Well, sex is against the rules here, so no one is having it and there is no risk.’ But I think that’s a really false
Heberle said she, too, thinks people know about the seriousness of the issue, but she thinks that people believe it’s not something that will happen to them.
“My personal goal is to make it understood that you or I or anybody can get AIDS. We’re all aware of the statistics, I just think that we need to practice what we’ve learned,” Heberle said.
Senior Kathy Majcina, another team member, agreed. “It calls for people to
change their existing attitudes and practices,” she said.
Lucke said that it is estimated that one out of every 1,000 college students is infected with the AIDS virus. Thus, she said, at Notre Dame, there should be eight. However, the American College Health Association and Centers for Disease Control study published in 1989 estimated the number to be approximately two in every 1,000 students.
Majcina said AIDS is an epidemic that is affecting growing numbers of the population. Theimportant thing, however, is that the disease is preventable, she added.
Josh Schafer, a senior involved with the group, said that part of the reason for the ‘students’ ambivalence could be that the school administration doesn’t acknowledge the issue. He said there are some aspects regarding sex and condoms that the administration has said S.W.A.T. is not allowed to address during their presentations. “We would like for the university to have a more open attitude,” he said.
Thus far, the team has given presenta
tions in two dorms. Their goal is to reach every dorm by the end of the semester. “We really are there to inform students of their personal risk and let them know there are resources available,” Heberle said.

As far as the future is concerned, Lucke said that she hopes to reach more people. She would also like to see a mandatory program implemented during the Freshmen Orientation Weekend and perhaps, have more speakers come to Notre Dame to address this issue as well as others of such public concern.
According to Majcina, the team is also planning a campus-wide presentation during
the Safety Awareness Week later this winter. After that, she said she hopes the team will be able to “branch, out into the community” by giving their presentation to kids in local high schools.
Junior Mirka Blomme, a member of the team who spent eight weeks in Oakland, California, working with AIDS patients on a summer service project, said that being closely involved with the AIDS issue is a learning experience. “It can be great but it can be pretty harrowing at the same time,” she said.
Blomme said she would like to see more concern from the conservative middle class society that she said makes up the Notre Dame student body. “I think it’s a very
contemporary issue and students should get more involved.”
“AIDSisnotjustastatistic. Itcanhappen. It’s there but it’s not something that you have to get. You can avoid it,” said Herberle. She said she would like to get more feedback from the students simply because AIDS is such a pervasive problem in our culture and it affects us all in some way or another. □
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
^UBUJRW
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)

Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday
5
Movie: "LA Story," 8:00 & 10:00 p.m.»
Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Concert: University of Notre Dame Orchestra Fall Concert, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Friday
6
Movie: "American Me," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Zentropa," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: Comedian Don Reese, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., $3.
Swimming: Notre Dame vs. Bowling Green, Rolf s Aquatic Center, 6:00 p.m.
Pep Rally: North Dome, JACC, 7:00 pm.
Saturday 7
Movie: "American Me," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Zentropa," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: Shenanigans Pre-Game Show, 12:00 p.m., North Dome, JACC. Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous, Multipurpose Room, CSC, 9:30 am. Football: Notre Dame vs. Boston College, 1:35 p.m.
For More Information Call
LaFortune Information
239^8128:	.■ .J'■	iNews Une: 239^10 T
Shnibt Glass: 239-5136	Tc-SJACC Ticket Information:
J^pr^Class: 239-5117 V;
Shite Filni S m
Notre 0aineM^
Weekend Wheels Schedule: y 2'83-FRED^
l.


Dial 239-2500, then press: jx 1211 for news headlines ■ x 1212 for local hews
x1911 for prime time TV x 1906 for video releases
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for mpyie reviews
x 1300 for local sports info.
x 1301 for TV sports events :
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world news ■
Ml;


9
&

Sunday
8
Tuesday
10
Recital: New World String Quartet, Washington Hall, 2:00 p.m., $2.
Concert: "Mostly Mozart," O'Laughlin ■ Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2:30 . p.m., $10, student discounts available.
Concert: "Pomerium Musices," . Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8:15 p.m.
Monday
9
Film: "The Only Son," 7:00 pm., Snite, $1.' "
Film: "The Exorcist," 9:00 pm., Snite, $2.
Soccer: Notre Dame vs. Miami (Ohio), Alumni Field, 7:00 p.m.
Blood Drive: Sign -ups, North and South Dining Halls, during lunch.
Film: "Working Girls," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2, Film: "Celeste," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Lecture: "Report on CELAMIV," Robert Pelton, C.S.C, Room 103, Hesbergh Center for International Studies, 12:30 p.m.
Concert: Orlando Consort, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8:00 pm.
Blood Drive: Theodore's, 9:00 p.m. to 4:00p.m.
Wednesday 11
No events scheduled.
Movie Theatres
The Spin Doctors will energize Stepan Center next Thursday night.
100 Center Cinema I&II:
259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583 ;■
Town & Country Theatre:
259-9090
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema: 277-1522 .
Streaking to Success
Sustaining last season's team tragedy combines with a gifted group of freshmen to give the Irish the will and the way to win.
By Allison McCarthy
A s the Notre Dame swim team dives xjL into its 1992-1993 season, its focus is the success of the upcoming year, not its recent history. Led by head coach Tim Welsh, assistant coach Randy Julian and senior captains Tom Whowell, John Godfrey, Susan Bohdan, Tanya Williams and Jenny Stumm, the team is excited and determined to make a fresh start after last year's tragic bus accident involving the women’s team.
“We still have a long way to go,” said Julian. “The things that are prevalent are all kinds of nagging, irritating aches and pains. Some of the women have not competed for six months, and now they are back training and competing full time. Not only do the swimmers have adjustments to make, but we as coaches also need to learn how to adjust to the injuries and deal with them sensitively.” Only three swimmers remain injured on the women’s team. Sophomore Haley Scott and
juniors Alicia Feehery and Karen Keeley all suffer from neck and back injuries that will keep them from competition for at least part of the season. The season opened last weekend with a MCC dual meet tournament, Notre Dame relays and the Western Ontario dual meet
Tanya Williams commented: “I feel like it’s going to be a really exciting and positive season. Our main goals are a very unified team and to race well together. We learned a lot from the accident, mainly how much support there is within the team and how that support can get us through anything, be it a tragedy or just tough competition. Right now we’re just trying to channel our energies
ND Sports Information
A university record-holder in over four events, senior Tanya Williams will be a dominant force in the pool for the Irish this season.
into a more positive focus.”
According to Julian, this focus will be the key to a good season for the Irish. “The immediate focus is really involving concentration,” she said. “It is re-establishing their swimming goals and their goals for the season.”
A significant role in the fresh start of the swim team is played by this year’s freshmen. Holding over one-third of the positions on the team, their performances will be crucial to setting the tone for the season.
“The freshmen comprise a large segment of the team. They’re all really talented and should make a big contribution,” said Williams.
Williams herself will be looked to for big contributions throughout the season. Following her tremendous performance at the 1991 NCAA Swimming Championships, she placed eigth in the 400-yard individual medley and became Notre Dame's first swimmer to earn All-American honors.
■ William's time in that race of 4:19.88 set a university record.
Julian agreed with Williams' assesmentof the team's freshmen saying: “On both sides, the freshmen will be critical pieces to a successful season. Both will fill the tremendous voids left by the graduating classes of the past two years. There is room for all of them to be major and equal contributors.”
The voids Julian speaks of include those created by Jim Birmingham and Chuck Smith, both graduates of the class of 1992 and sprint freestylers. For the women, sprint butterfly is an important but open spot for the freshmen due to the graduation of Christy Moston in 1991 and Christy Van Patten last year. The team is also missing a
valuable competitor in sophomore David
Nathe, who is abroad this year but will return in May to train with the team this summer. Nathe is Notre Dame’s recordholder in the 200 freestyle and has the second fastest 100 freestyle in Irish history.
Not to be overlooked is the power of this year’s senior class, however. As Julian was quick to point out, “The leadership of the seniors and the captains is critical to the success of this team. So far, we feel like this year’s captains are some of the most outstanding that
two meets against Bowling Green and Ball
ND Sports Information
Senior John Godfrey, who holds the university record in the 200-yard backstroke, anchors a men's team strong enough to challenge the nation's elite.
we have had in recent history at Notre Dame.”
Coach Welsh added, “We look to the seniors and expect them to do a great job for us. We have very strong seniors in the 100 and 200 yard backstroke and .freestyle and 100 yard breaststroke, as well as the 100 individual medley.” Seniors also fill three out of the four positions of the medley relay. And just as the coaches rely on the seniors to lead the team with their skills and experience, the team relies on the coaches for their • wisdom and expertise.
“The coaches are great about motivating both the men’s and the women’s teams.
They complement each other well. We have a great respect for them because of all that they have done for us both in and out of the water, especially during the difficult periods last year,” said Bohdan.
That leadership will come in handy in the upcoming season when the Irish will face some tough opponents, starting with the next
State. As always, however, National Catholic Swimming and Diving Championships remains the main event of the first semester, while Eastern Intercollegiate Championships and the NCAA’s will dominate the second.
“Our primary ambition right now is to win that meet,” said Welsh of the National Catholics competition. “We are a very changed team from that of last year. What makes it exciting is that we need to learn what we can do. We are very focused on team unity.”
The change is due to the large amount of new swimmers and lack of returning record
holders, especially in the freestyle events. According to Welsh, “No one who holds a university record in a freestyle event is on the men’s team this year, and there are more points available in freestyle than in any other event in the course of a swim meet.” This leaves these positions open for the new team members.
With so many positive changes in the
Notre Dame swimming team, success this year seems inevitable. The goals of the team, however, although ambitious, are realistic and not without the understanding that hard work will be necessary to accomplish them.
“We have a good, tough meet schedule, but it is our goal to finish the season undefeated,” said Godfrey. “We have some challenging meets ahead of us, but if we can get through those meets successfully, I feel we will do very well this year. This team has the
comraderie and the conviction to make some great things happen.”
The fact that the Irish swimmers have been able to rebound from last season's tragic bus crash that claimed the lives of two freshmen teammates is testimony to the virtues that Godfrey esposed. This is a team that strives on its inherent strengths, both physical and mental. It is unique in a sport emphasizing individual achievement that such team spirit exists. With the enthusiastic support that has become typical of Irish fans, this could be one of Notre Dame swimming’s finest seasons as it takes on some stiff competition with a new vigor.	□

15
i ■
An emotionally charged Boston College squad hopes to bolster its credibility by beating Notre Dame for the first time.
I ____________________’_________________________
I	By Amanda Clinton
' ' /^cl0^er	As the final seconds
f ticked off the clock in Happy Valley, i ; Pennsylvania, stunned Penn State fans filed outofBeaverStadium. Boston College had j: • just upset the Nittany Lions, 35-32, on the f; Penn State campus. Back in Chestnut Hill, f ■ Massachusetts, resounding cheers echoed :■ : throughout the Boston College campus as । : students celebrated what many had believed ? ' was impossible for the Eagles, to upset the Nittany Lions. Even though the game had • been played hundreds of miles away, that j - did not stop a group of Boston College ' ; students from ripping down one of the goal ; : posts in their own empty stadium to cel-; ' ebrate the victory.
* This year, playing on the inspirations of
enthusiastic crowds and the memory of teammate. Jay McGillis who died of leukemia last July, Boston College has remained undefeated. Since Eagle quarterback Doug Flutie won the Heisman Trophy in 1984, Boston College has not been noted on the national scene. However, this year the Eagles are emerging once again as a college football powerhouse.
The man who is responsible for much of this turn around is Head Coach Tom Coughlin. Before taking on the duties of head coach last December, Coughlin was the receivers coach for the New York Giants, Green Bay Packers and Philadelphia Eagles. He also has had experience working at the college level with Syracuse University and Rochester Institute of Technology. Even though he has only been on the Boston College campus for less than a year,
Coughlin has been able to transform the Eagles from a losing team into a winning one.	"
Last year, the Eagles gained national recognition for one of the toughest schedules in the country. Boston College played top teams like Michigan, Georgia Tech, Penn State, West Virginia, Syracuse and Miami. Although they finished up the season with a 4-7 record, many of the games were close. The Eagles only lost to Penn State and West Virginia by seven points and to the Hurricanes by five;
After winning its first four games at home against Rutgers, Northwestern, Navy and Michigan State, Boston College travelled to West Virginia. It seemed unlikely that the Eagles would be able to defeat the Mountaineers without having the home field advantage to which they had grown accus
j ' 116	SCHOLASTIC
tomed to: • The Eagles didn’t win. But they did not lose either. They were able to salvage their record by tying the game. In addition to beating Penn State, Boston College also squeaked out a win over Tulane, 17-13, on October 24, in the Louisiana Superdome. And last Saturday, the Eagles demolished Temple, 45-6, in Chestnut Hill. These wins have a lot to do with the Boston College running game, something Coughlin was concerned about at die beginning of the season.
“I expect this to be an improved position. Last year, I didn’t know who could really play at this level, but we had some good performances,” explained Coughlin. “Now, we’re in the hunt for the big-play guy.”
Coughlin didn’t have to look far. Senior tailback Chuckie Dukes fulfilled his expectations with impressive performances in the 1991-92 season. Last year in a game against Syracuse, Dukes tallied 201 yards rushing, 30 yards for two pass receptions and 41 yards on two kickoff returns. He set a Big East record for his 272 all purpose yards that game. Last year he average 6.3
yards every time he carried the ball and averaged 23.3 yards per kickoff return on the 28 he had last season.
Junior quarterback Glenn Foley is on his way to rewriting the Boston College record books. Prior to this season he was the fourth all-time leading passer in Eagle history. After just two years at quarterback, Foley has already tallied 4,411 yards. But in past seasons Foley has had trouble with his consistency. In his freshman year he threw 21 interceptions and last year he threw 17. Despite this, Foley has still broken numerous school records like Doug Flutie’s rookie year record of 1,643 passing yards.
Stated Coughlin, “Given the kind of improvement Glenn Foley showed over the second half of last season, he gave us a sincere feeling that we’re going to be better at this spot. If he continues his improvement, he will have an outstanding year.”
Anchoring the defense this year is AllAmerican inside linebacker candidate Tom McManus. Stated Coughlin of the inside linebacker spot, “I expect to be rock solid here. This position is one of our strengths.” As a senior linebacker McManus set a Bos
ton College single season record for tackles with 165. Last year, McManus finished as one of the top five tacklers in “major” college football and earned a spot on the AllBig East Conference and All East first teams.
Explained Coughlin at the beginning of the season, “We should take the confidence from the ’91 season and know that BC can play with anyone. The next move is to win the tight, close ball games, and win against the great opponents. The lessons of '91 have to be taken to the next level. Last year we played with great intensity. We took our game plan and executed it to the best of our ability. It took a lot of sweat and tears. Now, we must be a better football team. The players know my expectations. We must perform and win. We were a good football team in September. Now we have to be a great football team.”
So far this season, Boston College has shut down some strong opponents. Notre Dame, however, is arguably its strongest opponent, given the recent collapse of Penn State. By beating the Irish, the Eagles would be flying high.	□
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Matt Osiecki: Osiecki, a junior from Burnsville, MN, lead the Notre Dame men's hockey team to a near upset over Lake Superior State, the defending NCAA champion, last Friday. Despite a 5-3 Irish lead with four and a half minutes left in the game, Notre Dame lost, 6-5. Osiecki, the captain of the team, scored one of the five goals on a power play.
Marilyn Cragin: Cragin, a senior from Rolling Hills, CA, lead the Notre Dame women's volleyball team to victory over Butler last Saturday. Cragin tallied 22 kills making her hitting percentation for the game .677. Stated Bulldogs Head Coach Sharon Dingman, “That was the most incredible performance I've seen against us.”
November 5,1992
17
1
Juan
Alejo
Notre Dame Men's Basketball Scrimmage
Blue Gold Game November 11
(and anyone else I may have upset last Saturday night)
What can I do to get back in your good graces?
Tickets will be sold:	\
i • in the dining halls: November 9,10,11.
at the ACC: starting at 6pm, November 11
Practice:
Game:
6:30
8:00
♦Ticket covers both practice and game Benefits Neighborhood Study Help Program.
Attention All Aspiring Journalists I
. Are you interested in journalism as a career?
Are you frustrated that Notre Dame has no journalism major? Are you looking for a forum in which to discuss your ideas and expectations?
SPJ is the Answer
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame Satellite Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists tonight, November 5,1992
Come to the Foster Room in LaFortune. at 7:00 p.m.
to learn more about SPJ
.sfiiiiiiMi

by J. Bradley Keck
One Beast of a Video

Last Thursday, the recent Disney hit Beauty and the Beast found its way to stores, one day before its official street date. What were the sales figures on early release Thursday? Over one million copies, reports Buena Vista Home Video. Advance orders for the video have already exceeded 14 million copies which should easily make the video the best selling ever, surpassing the current number one and two on the all-time list, Fantasia and 101 Dalmatians.
I
On each video sold there will be a trailer advertising the re-release, on video, of Disney’sciassicPrnoccAio on March 26. The first print of Pinocchio a number of years ago occurred before the home video market exploded, so
Buena Vista will offer it again for a limited time.
Aladdin, an animated feature by Disney, will.be coming to the silver screen for the Christmas season. Robin Williams stars as the voice of the genie. Talk is that Williams we be up for an Oscar for his role in the film. That would be the first best actor/actress nomination in the history of film for an animated flick.
Toon Quiz
The Cartoon Network kicks off programming this week and since we were on the
subject already, we at O.O.B. thought that it might be fun to give a pop quiz on the subject. (No, this will not count towards your G.P.A., and you are not required to abide by the honor code.)
1)	Name Donald Duck’s three nephews?
2)	In Tom and Jerry, what color is Jerry’s cousin?
3)	To what position did Fred Flintstone aspire in the Moose Lodge?
4)	Attribute: “I’d gladly pay you Tuesday
pons into
ewswee
Separated at birth?
for a hamburger today.”
5)	What was served for dinner on a pingpong table in Charlie Brown’s driveway in the Peanuts Thanksgiving special?
6)	Name the Wonder Twins.
7)	What was the title of Mickey Mouse’s first cartoon?
8)	Who played the voice of Shaggy in ScoobyDool
9)	In Thejetsons, for which company did George Jetson work, and what was the name of that company’s competition?
10)	What was the name of the Martian’s friend in the Bugs Bunny series?
Answers at the end of O.O.B.
Yes, His Name is Prince
Prince’s fourteenth album,, or “the stylized combination of male and female signs,” hit record stores two weeks ago amid a blitz of marketing ploys presented by Warner Brothers.
There are plans to make a video for each of the 14 songs of the album, each revealing part of a story that the album presents. D.C.
Comics has released a comic book outlining the album’s story. Prince has also recorded another version of Ute first single from the album, “My Name is Prince.” The song is entitled “My Name is Bart,” and will be featured in an upcoming episode of The Simpsons. Other plans include sending life size holograms of Prince to record stores and airing commercials on many cable televi
sion stations, including a four-minute com-: mercial on some stations.
About the album itself? It is a true concept album that Prince has dubbed “a rock soap opera.” The story presented is, simply, that of a recluse pop star and his infatuation/love of a 16-year-old princess from a fictional Eastern kingdom. The collection of songs presented are a collaboration of both Prince and the New Power Generation. The opera draws from numerous musical backgrounds, including rap, gospel, jazz, reggae and Prince’s ever-present funk.
The songs follow a simple story line. In “My Name is Prince” and in the slow-funk
“Sexy MF,” Prince goes after the princess that he finds unbearably sexy. Then he describes the give and take in their sexual relationship and Prince’s desire for unconditional love from the 16-year-old beauty. “The Morning Papers” is a typical Prince
Wl$m
ballad loaded with meaning and presented on a melodic cloud. “The Max” is a catchy song filled with the dialogue-like background vocals, found in many Prince songs like “Get Off,” that move the composition and remain in one’s head.
By the end of the rock opera, Prince dives into the religious implications of this love story. “7” explores the transcendence of true love beyond the final judgement and the most operatic of the collection, “3 Chains of Gold,” finds some puzzling religious symbolism to explain a love lost
In an interesting subplot to the story.
reporter Venessa Bartholomew (Kirstie Alley) covers Prince’s life, while hounding him for a straight interview.
This album is Prince’s most eclectic to date and is extremely well planned. It is a true soap opera/rock opera driven by the Purple One’s boundless creativity. The synergy makes this album exciting due to the relationship between a simple, realistic plot and a body of excellent, diverse music,

Ah, Respect
Well, a lot of people wasted a lot of time over one Bic-headed performer, and no one cared about her response. So just to show that our wise student senate’s plea for justice did not fall on deaf ears, I have chosen to waste some more time (my own) and give Sinead O’Connor’s response to the vocal outrage stimulated by her actions on Saturday Night Live. Here is the complete text of her October 13 statement
“To the people who have been offended by what I did,I want to say thatl respectyoufor standing up for what you believe in and I want you to know thatl am not your enemy. But that I know we have been given lies to believe in, and Pm trying to tell the truth.
"I ask you to study the history of the Roman Empire/Vatican and observe the ways in which they have distorted history and how they have used marriage, divorce, and in particular birth control and abortion to control us through our children and through fear.
"Here are the books I suggest you read on the subject: 'Vicars Of Christ' by Peter De Rosa; 'The HolyBloodand The Holy Grail’; [and] ‘The Gnostic Gospels.’
“Our loss of contact with historical truth has resulted in the highest manifestation of the disease of evil which is child
is also the
I
a I
abuse, which root of

Ws ? ^^^s:13zanl	ff /'■ f;
^^^^tw^f^^dl^ce^Uhioh . 8. • S^irl^^^	Them
? lO.-Shiny Beast-fflhinyBeasf
evil. This is what we need to fight and why I am fighting.
"If we learn the truth of what our Journey as the human race has been, we can heal ourselves through knowledge, understanding and love. Rather than destroy ourselves through ignorance, we can realize that God didNot intend us to livelikethis. AndthatHe is waiting to help us if we find out where He really lives and ask.
"Godls Truth."
Sinead O’Connor »
Up and Coming
Ricky Van Shelton, Friday at the Rialto Square Theater ... Taj Majal, Saturday at Freedom Hall ... Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Baily Circus, thru November 15 at the Rosemont Horizon... Rodgers and Hammerstein’s The Sound of Music, thru January 24 at the Lincolnshire Theater ... Charlie Daniels Band and Poco, November 13 at the Star Plaza ... Tickets now on . sale for Victor Borge, December 4 at the Chicago Theater. At the movies Friday: Waterland, starring Jeremy Irons ... Passenger 57, starring Wesley Snipes ... Jennifer 8, with Andy Garcia and Uma Thurman. In record stores next week albums by Ice-T, Whitney Houston, Morris Day, Jeff. Healy Band, Brand Nubian, Taylor Dane, Texas Tornados, Thousand Yard Stair, Brian Eno, J. J.
Cale, Patti LaBelle (live) and Dead Milkmen.	M
Answers to the Toon Quiz: 1) Huey, Duey and Louie. 2) Light Grey. 3) Grand Poo-Bah. 4) Wimpy, Popeye. 5) Popcorn, dry-toast, cold Cheerios, pretzel rods and jellybeans. 6) Zan and Jana. 7) Steamboat Willie. 8) Kasey Kasem. 9) Spacely
Space Sprockets and Cogswell Cogs. 10) Gossamer.
by Margaret Kenny
£ e°ple are so wry these days. It’s jT hard to get them to act like little kids and lose themselves,” Chris Barron told Spin magazine. “What we’re all about is getting people out of the house, getting people together, getting people to feel a sensation that’s coming from the environment that they’ve traveled to.” Prepare to lose yourself and regress back to childhood when the Spin Doctors take the stage of Stepan Center on Tuesday, November 10.
This boisterous New York bar band has come a long way in a few years' time. They played their first gig in the basement of Columbia University’s Delta Phi house and are now in the midst of a nationwide tour after their debut album, Pocket Full of Kryptonite, caught fire on the national charts, rising to 31 among the Billboard Pop Albums.
The Spin Doctors play funky, reggae-inflected pop, mixing top-flight musicianship with goofy off-the-wall theatrics. When they are onstage, the band members — lead singer Chris Barron, guitarist Eric Schenkman, drummer Aaron Comess and bassist Mark White — do not perform their old music; they are continuously making new music through their unique theatrics and improvisations. The key to their charm is that the members of the band are partly artists and partly jokers.
The band members met in 1987 while the three original members were attending New
York’s New School. Barron was studying graphic design, while Schenkman and Comess studied music theory. The trio began playing together at the Nightingale Bar in New York, the same bar at which the trippy roadhouse-rock band Blues Traveler also made its debut. After a succession of different bassists, Comess eventually invited Mark White to the band, thus finalizing the quartet’s line-up.
When Epic Associated first released the Spin Doctors’ album, it was not well-received. The Doctors were known as a performing band, not recording artists. The group did not become widely popular until a classic-rock station picked up their catchy single, “Little Miss Can’t Be Wrong,” eight months after the album’s initial release. The song gained speed and was further publicized by its paint-splattered video, eclipsing at number two on the Album Rock Tracks chart.
The video is also receiving widespread play. Diane LaVerdi, the director of the video, said: “They said they didn’t want a bimbo video. And since the lyrics have allusions to ‘the bitch,’ I think they were concerned with the image that was going to come off.” Yet Chris Barron asserted that this song was not written against women, it was personal and about one woman in particular.
The second single off Pocket Full of Kryptonite, “Jimmy Olsen’s Blues,” has just been released for airplay. Barron called it “very irreverent, like in Prometheus Un
bound, where the man stands up to God and says, ‘No way, dude.’ It’s a true underdog story, and the band’s really about that. I want the nerds to reign at our shows.”
Other gems off Pocket Full of Kryptonite include “Two Princes,” with its infectious sing-along chorus, featuring Barron’s teasing vocals over a strong backbeat; and “Shinbone Alley/Hard To Exist,” with its relentless chase between the guitar and vocals. In this song, the Spin Doctors’ distinct character is fully realized as, according to Schenkman, “we come crashing down onto the pavement from the top floor of the segue.”
While the Spin Doctors have only released one album, their concerts often range from two and one half to three energetic hours. The group’s funky rock inspires the audience to keep up with its breakneck speed. The Spin Doctors is one of the few groups around that is primarily a touring band that has recorded an album rather than a band that tours to promote its album; therefore, their shows are especially rewarding.
New York Newsday lauded the Spin Doctors as “a fiery brand of mellow. The Doctors challenge their audience to keep up, demonstrating a stamina acquired during almost three solid years of gigging everywhere from uptown frat houses to downtown septic tanks. The Spin Doctors have the potential to someday rule at that level where too much can never be enough.” □
Tales of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities
From High to Low
Trading Jerseys for Tutus
The head athletic trainer at the University of South Carolina-Aiken found himself in a little bit of trouble after he was arrested for shoplifting last week. The stolen merchandise: four whipped cream cans. He wasn’t planning to use it for any strawberry shortcake either. The Pacer Times reported that he and a student were found inhaling the gases from the cans in a local grocery store. Referring to the arrest, the trainer said “I consider it my lowest moment on this planet. I am humiliated, embarassed and I apologize.” Let’s just hope that he didn’t wrap any ankles or mix any Gatorade while he was high.
Cornell University’s men’s ice hockey team apparently doesn’t have a problem with their masculinity. In an attempt to raise money for charity, 32 players dressed in pink tutus (although they chose to keep their hockey skates) to give two on-ice performances of “Swan Lake,” reports the Chronicle of Higher Education. They were joined by Olympic skater JoJo Starbuck, and ice skating great Dick Button was the emcee. Maybe we can convince our men’s swim team to try synchronized swimming?
A Case of Mistaken Identity
Shooting victim “Jorge Razo” probably thought he was getting away with it. Lying unconscious for weeks in a bed in Stanford Hospital, he escaped the police, customs and the FBI. Somebody finally put some clues together and realized that the man was a drug runner and murderer who is wanted by the Mexican government since his escape from a Mexican prison. When he became conscious and was confronted with the facts, he admitted to his true identity and real hame, Rafael Hermosillo. He’s in even more trouble now, however. According to TheStandford Daily, “Jorge Razo” is also wanted in the United S tates on drug charges, and the one man is now in trouble for both his identities.
A Library Under the Big Top
We all know that California schools are laid-back, but this is ridiculous! UCLA’s newest library is a 36,000- square-foot, two-story tent. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that the tent will be used until 1995, when renovations on their more permanent library are completed. The tent will house 200,000 books, 500 study carrels and a40-station computer lab. Wonder if they’ll start serving popcorn and peanuts?
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
| SCHOLASTIC

Major Decisions
Ah Explanation of the Arts and Letters Mentality
By Kate Wiltrout
yr idsemester — just when you are IVXgetting used to this semester’s courses, the little yellow and white books come back. That’s right, folks, DART time is here again! For freshmen, who are saved the agony of trying to interact with an annoying computer voice and cheesy synthesized music, the question is most likely which college to enter. Some sophomores still have to make that decision, but most are grappling with choosing which major to declare. Thinking about DART-ing brings forth lots of deep-seeded animosities on campus that threaten to tear the university apart. No, it’s not male/female relations, or even liberals versus conservatives. It’s the ages-'old battle between the College Arts and
Letters and the Colleges of Science and campus for most of us non-science majors.
It’s kind of interesting to watch students as they progress through Notre Dame. This first misconception begins when we first set foot here on campus. After endless rounds of freshman mixers, it’s easy to conclude that every person you met was named Pat or Chris or Mary or Kathy and was planning on being either a doctor or an engineer. There is a disproportionate number of incoming freshman who intend to major in pre-med or engineering. But not all of us came to Notre Dame with such glorius aspirations. Some of us actually are Arts and Letters majors by choice, not because we couldn’t cut it in something “tougher.” And (gasp!) we had to meet the same requirements for admission as all the other people.
However, there’s still a lack of respect on
nizing we Arts and Letters majors have to take is jealousy. That’s right. All you science people are upset that what we’re learning might actually have some practical applications. (Okay, maybe I’m stretching it But we can use our knowledge for interesting dinner party conversation, or at least JEOPARDY! ) After all, when’s the last time you ever got into a heated discusion about chemical bonds or meiosis or quantum mechanical tunneling? If you have lately, maybe it’s time for a change of scenery.
But everyone thinks they have something over on us in one crucial area: jobs. Arts and Letters majors are pegged as liberal, impractical, having a few screws loose. There is a huge misconception thatifyou major in Arts and Letters and are male, you will end up
unemployed. It makes no difference that
Engineering.
Freshman and sophomores, be warned: the single most damaging or enhancing thing you can do to your reputation here at Notre Dame (except for playing on the football team) rides on your choice of major. For every major there is corresponding stereotype. PLS? Kind of hippy, probably wears a lot of black, maybe a vegetarian. ; Accounting? One of the clean-cut types, wears a lot of J. Crew. Chemical Engineering? Pale from lack of sunlight, eyes tend to glaze over for sustained periods of time. American Studies? A jock, of course, looking for an easy way out. The list is endless. Unfair as it is, we’re all guilty of “major” stereotyping. Just imagine, guys,
what your reaction would be if all you know about your next blind date is that she is a ’ physics major. Or, for the girls, all you hear is that your date is majoring in medieval studies?
I can’t speak for the Colleges of Business and Architecture, because I’ve always been in Arts and Letters. Yeah, I’ve heard all of the cute little nicknames — Arts and Leisure, Arts and Crafts, and so on. I’ve been asked more than once if I’ve fulfilled my underwater basketweaving requirement yet (No, but I think might have room for it next semester.) That’s one of the gripes about Arts and Letters majors — that our courses are so much easier. Okay, so a course entitled “Ideas, Values and Images” sounds like a lot of hogwash. But what it boils down to is plain old reading and writing. There’s not a whole Idt to distract ourselves with. We don’t get to play around mixing neat chemicals in a lab. We don’t have cute
plastic models to put together to help us “visualize.” We don’t even have much of a use for calculators. And the answers are never printed in the backs of our books.
I think what underlies a lot of the antago-
you graduate from what was recently one of the top-25 colleges in the country. Itdoesn’t matter if you end up with a 4.0. Check the welfare rolls, they don’t lie. The top category of longterm welfare recipients is unemployed liberal arts majors from top universities. For females, there is a little more hope. We have the nice, safe little option of marriage to save us. Because we could never possibly land jobs with our degrees, we must beherenotforourBAbutforourMRS. Our parents are shelling out $18,000 a year so that we can find ourselves nice little hubbies to take care of us for the rest of our lives. Something to remember while you’re pondering your next “major” decision. □ .
Kate Wiltrout is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and the Departments Editor of Scholastic.
! | NOVEMBER 5,1992
•w.
■n
Community
of Caring
by Erica Cain
Erica Cain is the president of Community of Caring
With the results of the election posted, a pertinent question is where does the term “community” fit into a society that constantly lives, eats and breathes distinctions? How do you get people to care and more importantly how can one integrate a sense of community and concern. Finally, at what point do people come to learn that it is not the differences one has but the sameness that they share?
As Bush concludes his presidency and Clinton prepares a candidacy of change, it becomes easy many issues to get lost in the transition. However, regardless of the dominating political stance some things remain the same. Social service is one of these factors. A couple of the characteristics that should always be constant in any society include: acceptance, caring, citizenship, commitment, compassion, confidence, cooperation, courage, courtesy, diligence, ecology, education, family, friendship, future planning, honesty, humor, integrity, interdependence, knowledge, respect, responsibility, selfworth, self-control, self-respect, trust, and tolerance. The Community of Caring attempts to implement as many of these elements into the educational process.
The Community of Caring is a program developed by the Joseph Kennedy, Jr. Foundation. It is a values-based approach to positive decision-making. Issues range from adolescent pregnancy to Aids and child abuse and neglect. The Community of Caring demonstrates how moral and values play an integral role in the academic process to encourage students to make responsible decisions and build caring relationships. Through instructional materials, subject guides, training seminars, and teen forums, the Community of Caring helps to create a school environment in which universal values of trust, caring, respect, responsibility and family relationships are taughtboth directly in theclassroom and though daily interactions of students and adults.
What is the community of caring school? The Community of Caring School is designed to present a values-based to adolescent sexual decision making. It is a school based upon the core values of trust, caring, respect, responsibility and family. It is preventative in nature as the project planners hope that students involved will be less involved with sexual, legal and moral dilemmas a result of the Community of Caring activities. It is designed to be infused into all areas of the curriculum. Most importantly it is unique!
The Community of Caring school not a unit in sex-ediication that focuses on medical information only. It is not a uni-dimensional, one-shot approach to solving social ills, a treatment program for those with serious substance abuse. It is not intended just for the guidance counselor or school nurse. It is not a duplication of programs like Quest, Career Education or health classes. Finally, a community of caring school is not intended for classroom usage only.
Clay Midddle School specializies in At-risk, black student advisor program, English as a second language, student support groups, guidance for student athletes, special education classes and “teams” programs. Because the program has only existed for three years at Notre Dame the receptiveness to new ideas and the flexibility it tremendous.
Granted, no social service will be effective if it is not generated from the heart Furthermore, good intentions often fall short. The program that Clay Middle School has incorporated has done an excellent job in recognizing the need to reach children on many levels. However, the fight is not limited to seventh and eighth graders. Instead we have a lifelong journey. As college students, we should ask ourselves how are we implementing a sense of community in our daily lives and also question our defintion of what a communtiy really means. Genuine caring begins when we can answer these questions.

SIBOLASTIC
TALES ERot^ THE ToP oF THE PbME

MeV ?^Y5 AXb 6)Rl6 ! -TjreD 5-tupyi^? pen, Sir JVw^AWd Tlay A Housvtt, 64me 0* jtf&TEE pMffittf®,. Ari &ciTtff6 tf£u> "HMor/AL CATAouC KeSEARejT "gMRD &AM£\ y&n FuZ-CHMt-fillS EXctr»^t E.piMr^AL 6AKE Arme Makses, ^ot^raRE "ok Tl£ Mhpu$ • For a fun. Tar bewuo akv ^£A5bWA^CE Pf^S^’5 thiTmi
-There ARE Saci-TiM TrjfERTi£5■
5MSUU.A
EST MU£
StbtaH C£MT£^ ^opT^am^
I UMS &?r*/6-n •pRA^ 5f©U*J ttJTUV SracE/Bu-rlCAAh' ■De its ■BEAUTY
JuSyi cC ,
LO
Trice 25 £
IS^^BHbhmd
M4Z.ZOL.A
-Tre 6
Vou M4VC To AVOID 5bM£ PARSER
You AttJ<To ^U-TtouBLCS XHP MV A MAIL MARVT2>6£-roarOP HERE...
Just ‘\MtTt>4&
2&3IEO
Hope y<xi'PoMir mhd here...
1
-feoo
42^°


-paA&w
/Jcrtxe PakcVamuy Community Chest Cards.. .

2^
VE4U£
Jt
Flakes
SMU^ 1
A^ut
Ttocgj
ttl	----—I —'
4 -policy rsyK.^


W
------ , UASP^^0 \
^^<l's->
-'^
As IFAW 0FtVtS^>ffeiRnnitx> XCTuAlH TrjcRIE	V"
6"ne 4TMUETS	trixm'T EXeA 6£T Arif)
XuJW>w- <J'6e£A^X6\ / Jfc7AXiFMt£ goto hell \ Go 7»XECnV To HELL
\T>O mot PASS Z
Collect
Saturday Night Live...
As seen on
1
performing such hits as
"Little Miss Can't Be Wrong" and "Jimmy Olsen's Blues " m
STUDENT UNION SOARD g
Tues. Nov. 10th 8PM Stepan Center
Tickets on sales NOW at LaFortune info desk Students $ 10 Public $ 15
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. IN
■' Permit No. 10