THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
579
rajttUj
William Craig Bernard Garber
Leo McIntyre, Richard Parrish. Richard Elfers, John V. Hinkel,
David Saxon George McNally
John DeRoulet Raymond Drymalski
Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager
J. F. Mahoney, Cyril J. Mullen, Arthur Stenius John Bergan,
- - - The Week The College Parade Music and' Drama - - Club Editor
NEWS
R. W. Munz
George A. Kiener
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
:k Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,
- - - News Editor :, Asst. News Editor Literary Editor - - Sports Editor
ADVERTISING
J. T. Bonner, - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H. J. Noon, - Local Circulation Mgr.
D. M. Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	h. O’Bryan
C. M. ASHMAN	E. J. raar.ru
W. E. Burchill

i

5

VOL. J#I. b1
FEBRUARY 24, 1928
No. 19
1872
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week ...................
Presentation of the Flag.... Acceptance of the Flag... Ode on Washington’s Birthday Next Week’s Events .... Music and Drama........ The Campus Clubs....... The College Parade .... Editorial..................
Hobnails.....................
Granite Thunder........... The Terrible Mouse........ Half-Light (A Poem) ...... Pitts Defeats Notre Dame ... Other Sport News..........
J. F. Mahoney........... John F. Frederick ...... Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C. Jack Mullen.............
Arthur Stenius John Bergan ... Cyril J. Mullen
Allan-a-Dale......— Murray Hickey Ley . Louis L. Hasley... Prospero Image.... John V. Hinkel....
1928
_ 580 _.. 581 _ 582 _ 584 _1. 586 _ 589 ...... 592 _ 593
....594 .... 596 ...... 596 .... 598 .... 599 .... 600 601-605
THE SCHOLASTIC la published weekly at the Lnlreralty of Notre Dame. MauuicriptB may be oddreaaed to THE SCHOLASTIC or to rooma M4 or 4M Morrfaaejr Hall.
h
*

<

The Advertisers’in Noire Dime Publications Deserve the Patronage of AD Notre Dame Men
£
Kntersd a* soeond^am matter at Notre Dams. ImUaaa. AtcopUmca for maOiaoat voM rate of pottage, Soction 120t. Ootobor t, HIT. mdlwrired Jima IS, Itlt.
580	THE NOT HE DAME SCHOLASTIC

| —m-^ THE WEEK^^^™!
First in importance is the basketball game we lost to Pittsburgh. It was heartbreaking for the team to lose that game, the biggest of the year, and the Week extends condolences to Coach George Keo-gan and the members of the squad.
The Oliver Billiard Parlor, not to be outdone by any Masked Marvels, has had a balkline billiard expert performing there this week, ocaching and drilling novices in the fundamentals of Better Billiards. We can expect the LaSalle Hotel to introduce an expert Mezzanine Sitter, who will teach apprentices how to act as if they had some legitimate business there on dull afternoons, and it would be a deed of the purest altruism were the Palace Theater to put on display a man who could teach the freshmen how to attend a performance.
The St. Mary’s Prom was the high social light of the week. It was held in the spacious Social Hall, and was over at a safe and sane hour. The two grand marches and the favors provided excitement; the former because only one was originally planned and because Charles Shelansky led both, and the latter because no one was able to tell with accuracy for what they might be used. '
Optimistic seniors paraded before the freshmen on Washington’s Birthday. The freshmen sat in the balcony and received great waves of mental and moral stimulation from the stirring scenes below. The seniors were not as thrilled as might be expected, which is strange, because the ceremonies were impressive, and very touching.
The senior pins’ of the Class of ’29 made their appearance on a few chosen vests. They were greeted by snorts of derision from the present seniors, who have long held their own plain badges to be treasures of the goldsmith’s art, which, as any junior knows, they certainly are not.
The He-man, among other things, is-passing. Like Lo, the poor Indian, his usefulness is past, and there are few to mourn the death of this once striking figure of the Notre Dame campus. The hobnails have clumped their way into oblivion, the necktieless neck has been legislated away, and the beard that Bud Boeringer wore and made famous is a rarity. Lent will bring back for a time the bulging cheek and the brown stained shirt of yore, but these will have disappeared after Easter, when the hardy will venture forth in knickers. You could have worn a derby in safety all winter, and if that isn’t a sign of change, nothing is. It is easier to mark the apostasy than to assign causes; old-timers will tell you that the freshmen aren’t the same as they used to be, and most of the Freshmen are a little bewildered at finding so little of the tradition left.	’
If you are starting Lent with that felon’s jewelry dangling from your leg, you had best heed the warning of the Religious Bulletin, because it looks like a long, hard season, and you may be in need of assistance before it’s over.
The weather is conducive to bridge, reading and respiratory disorders. You are fortunate that you were able to hear Father Carroll’s sermon Monday evening, because at this time of the year it is not unusual for gatherings in the church to sound like a foggy day in a tuberculosis sanitarium.
Notre Dame was well represented at the Rosary College Prom and other places during the week-end. One student, sleeping in the rear car of a South Shore train Sunday night, came near being left at Michigan City, where the car is put in the barns. Only the kindly offices of the conductor saved him from being marooned in the land of sand dunes and beach cottages.
—j.F.M.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
581
Presentation Of The Flag. To The University
By John F. Frederick, President of the Senior Class.
Reverend Father President, Reverend Fathers, members of the faculty, and gentle-ment of the class of 1928:
This morning for the first time we have
donned our academic caps and gowns, and have assembled within these familiar and
John F. Frederick President of the Senior Class
historic walls, to participate in the perpetuation of one of Notre Dame’s oldest and most beautiful and cherished traditions,— the presentation, annually on Washington’s birthday by each outgoing class to the University, of an American Flag — the flag which floats above
the campus during the year. It is indeed fitting that our first academic assembly should be for the presentation of this flag, and that such presentation should be made on the anniversary of the birth of one of America’s greatest patriots, and that this assembly should take place in this hall which bears his illustrious name.
This flag, as it lies here before us, represents the love and allegiance to a set of ideals of a hundred and twenty million persons ; and also as it lies there before us it represents the love of several decades of senior classes at Notre Dame which since eighteen-hundred-and-ninety-six have made it traditional to present the flag of their nation as a testimonial of their own constant love of country and of Alma Mater.
Catholic education prospered on this continent even before the birth of this nation; and Catholic educators have been teaching lessons of patriotism and lessons of obedience to the laws of God and country since
the very inception of America as a nation. A few lines taken from a speech of the venerable Senator Hoar, a distinguished son and spokesman of Massachusetts, sums up this ideal of Catholic patriotism. “If every Catholic in America were dead,” said Senator Hoar,“Protestants would still perpetuate our American institutions; and if every nonCatholic in this country were in his grave, the flag and all it stands for would be forever safe in the hands of its Catholic citizenship.” We, gentlemen, who for four years have been vitally associated with the teachings of this great institution, are able to appreciate the significance of these memorable words. For the past four years under the guidance of Notre Dame, we have learned lessons of integrity, loyalty, and patriotism. We have had one of the greatest blessings which this great nation of ours affords—an education at a university which complements her secular training with spiritual and moral instruction. This flag which we are presenting to the University is the undying symbol of all that such an education means—the training of mind and soul; and we are justly proud of that education given us under Catholic guidance for the service of our God and our country.
Reverend Father Carroll, in the name of the Senior Class of the yeai’ of nineteen-hundred-and-twenty-eight of the University of Notre Dame, I present this flag to you in all its beauty, in all its purity and all its symbolism as a living pledge of the faith and devotion of our class to the God who made us, to our Lady under whose guidance and patronage we always hope to live; to the patriots of our great nation both living and dead who have given us our national existence; to our teachers at Notre Dame who have impressed on our minds such lessons as may avail us our own salvation; and to all the men of Notre Dame with whom we feel we are united by a bond of filial relationship.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Acceptance Of The Flag
REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C.
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Senior Class:
I gratefully accept your flag in behalf of the University into whose keeping it is bestowed. Your flag up to this moment, it becomes hers now. Your act declares more emphatically than' words can that you recognize Notre Dame as the possessor and bestower of that fundamental emotion which we call patriotism. We heai’ a great deal about patriotism at the present time; we
EEV-.P-J- “J «s,c' will hear more as the
Vicc-Preaiaent of the
University	months go on. Much
of the patriotism we are to witness in the months that are coming will be of the spurious kind. It will submit itself to the following subdivisions:
First, there will, be the demonstrative patriotism; the patriotism which is vocal, which finds expression in public utterances for the sake of attaining personal ends; which is noisy and expresses itself in shouts of appreciation ; which is volatile and burns itself out quickly; which is quarrelsome and disputatious.
Secondly, there will be the political patriotism which is often insincere; which is nearly always self-seeking; which is generally, venal—can be bought and sold; the kind of patriotism that feeds on majorities, that lives on majorities, and dies with the disap
pearance of majorities.. It is the patriotism i of the opportunist who follows the current of least resistance and is never anchored to | principles.	J
-i
Thirdly, there will be the patriotism of I propaganda. It is the kind of patriotism that j seeks to exercise its will upon others, often	;
at the sacrifice of human rights. Such patri-	’
otism is often narrow, and when it secures ;i power is domineering, and when it secures very great power is intolerant. Such patri- ; otism necessarily manifests fury at opposi-	!
tion; and because it looks forward to success	J
with the anxiety of a zealot, it is not always scrupulous about the means it makes use of to secure a desired end.
Then,—but not belonging in any division or subdivision,—there is patriotism; just patriotism. This needs no qualification or limitation. It means itself. It is the love of a man for his country. It may or may not have occurred to you that patriotism, love of country, is subject to the same law of exem- . plification as charity, which means the love of ; God and the love of man. This love we may consider as an emotion or as a service. In a ; sense the two interact. One advances and enlarges the other. This is true charity.
It is also true of patriotism. Of charity . Christ says: “If any man love Me he will keep the Commandments.” Service is a test of l^ve. ‘ That which we love vitally we will ; readh out to serve without stint or limit. The mother who loves a child is willing to stop at no sacrifice to serve the child. The man ■ who loves his fellowman will not stop shot '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
583
at any sacrifice to serve him. The man who loves God is willing to do mighty things for the sake of God; so the man who loves his country is willing to make a great sacrifice for the sake of that country.
Again, just as love begets service, service engenders love. That which calls forth great sacrifices enkindles great love. A man who has built his home and reared his children at the cost of great labor, cherishes them. The mother who has watched a child go through the agonies of sickness remembers her trials, and her love is greater because of ‘ of this memory. Men who have been called upon to endure severe tests in behalf of the earth which they call country feel an intense devotion for that country because of the sacrifices they made. “Greater love than this no man hath than that man give up his life for his friend.” Greater love of country no man hath than that man give up his life for his country.
The test for our patriotism is not words or ■gestures or protestations. It is service: Our willingness to live for our country and by living to serve it; or to die for our country and by dying to save it. >
Today we comemorate the birthday of our first President, the founder of our republic. We are fortunate that our first President, and practically all the men who have occupied the presidency since, have been genuinely patriotic men. Even if there entered an element of political patriotism into their
striving for the presidency, once they obtained that high position they received what we may call the “grace of state.” Washington stands among first as a great patriot. , College professors and text book makers have of recent years tried to diminish and tarnish his fame; but Washington stands secure and untouched in his greatness. •
The first and noblest, and the best, ■ . The Cincinnatus of the West.
Following him other great names come to memory to illustrate high patriotism among our chief magistrates:
Lincoln, who suffered great lonesomeness' and heartaches for the saving of the union; Cleveland, rugged, sincere and unshakeable presents a striking figure, whose essential Americanism no one questions; Roosevelt, that typical American who was never afraid to utter plain truths, stands large and apart. We may include in this group Mr. Wilson..
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Senior Class: I thank you in the name of the University for the nation’s symbol which you bestow into her keeping on the birthday, of the nation’s founder. As it floats out from the flag pole during the coming year, its folds gathered and expanded by the caressing winds of the lakes and the prairies, it will serve to remind us that you men of the class of 1928 have welded your link in the great patriotic tradition of Notre-Dame, the tradition of the bestowal of the flag.

584
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Ode On Washington’s Birthday

•	I.	-
C^HEN, this was wilderness, the wide, green land ..From one blue ocean to the other spread,
Its echoes calling only to the sand Of shifting deserts, to the birds that sped Over the tops of ancient pine and oak, To silent mountains, each inscrutably Waiting, to single rising lines of. smoke, To clear; swift rivers sweeping to the sea: Except for one thin battle-line of men Who came in tall ships, plowed the uncut soil, Built villages and cities, and again Caught by a fever for new earth, new toil, Brought down the forests, while the noisy falling Of elm and fir sent other echoes calling.

3

II.
And, out of this came one—a man who kneiv That freedom was the last hope of a ^vorld Oppressed by royal grasping. With a feiv Gallant and fearless spirits, he unfurled New banners for the flaunting of a king, Whose scarlet armies, disciplined to war, •. Wavered and broke, when men had learned to sing The song of freedom, sivelling to a roar.
And he gave all: his home, his energies, His skillful sword, that had known other flags; Believing, he refused these certainties
To lead a band of patriots in rags.	•
Then peace. Then crowns refused. Then this one, knowing He built a nation, died, and left it growing.
S'1.'


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
585
III.
# has grown. Now fall the forests still, But fewer fall. Across the plains of sand Steel muscles hold great cities. At the will , Of powers throttled by a single hand, The river’s rush is harnessed. Mountains bow To burning coal, and shouting monsters 'pierce Their timeless secrets. All the prairie now Is ripped by blades to satisfy the fierce Hunger of working millions. Echoes rise From reaching towers, and from spreading steel , While men grasp gain, and freedom’s hard-won prize Makes way for goals less worthy but more real. The soft men gibe at one who willed to give His world that this young liberty might live.
IV.
Secure a nation stands, secure from foes
With swords, like some stout towered, mountain fort
Fed by an inner spring, whose trumpet blows ' s	k
Defiance to the world. The inner court
Is threatened now by subtler enemies Again in scarlet coats, but standing for ■ • No king. Supporting only anarchies ■ .
Of thought and. act, the worm sucks at the core.
There is no Washington^o guard it now, This land of flowing riches, but its men Rising in his great name, can make a vow That all he built for shall go on again, ’ , . That flames shall burn in men who will remember . One freedom when the earth’s a cooling ember.
—JACK MULLEN, '28. ,


5
ft
586
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
$ $	.j..;.	»•» •;« •;«
♦ NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS *
*♦* ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦♦* ❖ ♦•♦ *•♦ *•*	*♦* *2* *5* •♦• •♦♦ *♦* ❖
Friday, February 24—Stations of the Cross
—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Saturday — Basketball — Drake University vs. University of Notre Dame—Gymnasium—8:00 P. M.
Sunday—Masses—Sacred Heart Church— 6:00, 7:00, and 8:30 A. M. for students— Parish Mass 10:15 A. M.
Interhall basketball games — morning and afternoon—Gymnasium.
Benediction—Sacred Heart Church —■ 7:30 P. M.
Scribblers—Hoynes Hall—8:00 P. M.
Neo-Scholastic Society — Journalism room of Library—2:15 P. M.
Tuesday—Le Cercle Francais—Hoynes hall —6:30 P. M.
Meeting of Notre Dame Council, K. of C.
—Walsh hall basement—8:00 P. M.
Wednesday—Basketball — Wabash College vs. Notre Dame at Crawfordsville, Ind.
Sermon and Benediction—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Meeting of Wranglers — Lemmonier Library—8:00 P. M.
Thursday—Meeting of German Club — Hoynes hall—6:45 P. M.
Friday—Stations of the Cross — Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Saturday—Basketball — Marquette University vs. University of Notre Dame — Gymnasium—8:00 P. M.
Meeting of Neo-Scholastic Society— Journalism Room of Library—2:15 P.M.
--------$-------
DANTE CHART LOST
A valuable Dante chart, representing the Mount of Purgatory, and used by Professor Charles Phillips in the Dante Seminar, has disappeared from the Journalism Room, north basement of the Library. As this chart is not personal property, but the property of the University, Professor Phillips, who is responsible for it, asks that it be immediately returned.
MID-WINTER ISSUE OF “SANTA MARIA” RELEASED
Leo R. McIntyre, editor of the Santa Maria, the organ of Notre Dame Council No. 1477, produced his magazine on the campus this afternoon. The present mid-winter issue is dedicated to past Grand Knights of the Council, and features articles written by Harry McGuire, Robert Irmiger, Rev. -Thomas J. Tobin, and Martin W. Lammers, and letters from John C. Tully, Henry F. Barnhart, Professor W. L. Benitz, Mark E. Nolan, and Alfred N. Slaggert, all of whom were formerly of the local Knights.
In addition, Professor John M. Cooney, head of the School of Journalism, has contributed an essay on “The Perfect Knight” in his characteristic gently humorous style; Rev. Paul J. Foik has an article on the activity of Council 1477; John F. Burns, on the death of Brother “Gene” Kelly; Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, relates anecdotes concerning boys he has known; and John Dorgan gives a number of interesting excerpts from the “minutes” of past years. Jack Mullen, editor of the Scholastic, has contributed three poems to the issue.
The new features are complemented by the ’ Santa Maria’s regular departments. There are letterse by Howard V. Phalin, Grand Knight of Council No. 1477 and by Lecturer Edward P. McKeown. Jim Shocknessy, erudite connoisseur of all that is fine in literature, has reviewed "Clare Ambler,” “Avarice House,” and “The Ugly Duchess.” On the Mezzanine gives intimate of some of the Brother’ Knights. George A. Kiener has ; written “Paging Our Contemporaries,” the exchange page and has included some hints of local interest, and John F. McMahan gives .> a review of recent athletic events.
This issue of the book is 56 pages in ,j length, the most pretentious number of the << Santa Maria since it was founded nine years ago. It is now ranked with best council | papers of the country in size and in quality | content. New features to be followed in the | future are a contributor’s column, and an | etching by Dick Harrington containing names of all the past Grand Knights of the | Council.	■	1

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY EXERCISES HELD BY SENIORS
Arrayed in cap and gown, perhaps a little more serious than usual, several hundred seniors met in their first academic assembly in Washington Hall Wednesday and listened to a varied program of oratory and music, all a part of the traditional Notre Dame manner of celebrating the anniversary of the birth of George Washington.
Seniors and freshmen, both beginners, listened quietly to Sousa’s “The Dauntless Battalion” as played by the University orchestra shortly after 10 o’clock Wednesday morning, and then they raised their voices and sang the inspiring words of “The Star Spangled Banner.” In this way the exercises began.
CAVANAUGH, MULLEN AND FREDERICK ON PROGRAM
John W. Cavanaugh, A.B., ’28, student orator of prominence, was the first speaker. Eloquently and with ease he delivered a number of selections from Washington’s Farewell Address. Anthony J. Kopecky, Comm., '29, then sang “When Irish Eyes are Smiling,” in the manner that has won for him the praise of critics from coast to coast.
Jack Mullen, editor of the Scholastic, wrote and delivered the Ode, a poem that impressed the audience as one of the finest productions of its kind ever given on a similar occasion in Washington hall. Mr. Mullen pictured with deft touches the America of Washington and the America of today; then he turned to the future, a future that holds much for many of the members of the present senior class.
The presentation of the flag, tradition of senior classes for* 32 years, was made by John F. Frederick, president of the class. Declaring that the flag presentation is indi’ cative of the love of the class for country ' and Alma Mater, Mr. Frederick delivered the banner into the keeping of the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame.
FATHER CARROLL SPEAKS
Patriotism, the patriotism that means love of man for country, is required today, de
587
dared Father Carroll, as he accepted the flag in the name of the . University. The several types of patriotism that are prevalent in certain quarters at this time: demonstrative, political and propaganda, are not true patriotism and must not be confounded with true patriotism, he insisted. Service, rather then words, gestures or protestations, marked the code of Washington, and it is a code that might well be adopted today, he said in conclusion.	•
The program for the exercises was arranged by a committee of which Michael Ricks was chairman. The members of the committee were Vincent Walsh, Leo Manns, Francis McCarthy, Joseph Hilger, David Krembs and Joseph Montedonico. A. Lester Pierce, of the school of education’ assisted the committee.
PLAN UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME
’	NIGHT
Universal Notre Dame Night will be observed April 23 this year, according to James Armstrong, secretary of the alumni organization of the University. The Notre Dame student body for the first time will participate in the celebration, which will be world-wide.
About 70 meetings of the alumni will be held the evening of April 23. This will include the 46 active local clubs, seven or eight that are now being organized, the’ clubs of Paris and Manilla, and meetings of small groups of the alumni in various places.
The programs for the evening will be varied in nature. Many of them will be smokers, others dinner-dances, and yet others will be general meetings at which officers for the coming year will be elected. One program will probably be ’broadcast.
The S. A. C. has agreed to cooperate with James Armstrong, who is in charge of the affair, in arranging a program for the local student body. The main purpose in view, of course, is to bring about a relationship between the alumni bodies and the students. A campus entertainment of some sort will be planned in the near future.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
588
THE BROWNSON HALL SMOKER
On February 16 the Brownson Hall Recreation Room was the scene of one more of those delightful and traditional smokers which have made the Hall famous. This one proved to be the largest that has been held for several years. Over three hundred students attended the affair and enjoyed the program presented by the members of the hall.
The program was opened as usual by a little talk by the Rector of the hall, Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., who has been the organizer of the Smoker. To him is due most of the credit for maintaining the old tradition of having hall smokers. Brownson hall is practically the only hall on the campus that still holds a smoker for its members.
The active work in preparing the program was handled by Tom Conley. It was handled in a masterly way under the supervision of the Rector.
The music for the evening was furnished by the Big Bill Eastman Jazzers. The men who composed the “Syncopating Wizards” were Jesse Wood at the piano, Hilary Beir-iger, Jerry Moore and George Pope on the saxophones, Pat Mangan on the trumpet, Ted Strong on the violin. Bill Eastman kept his drums going all evening.
The biggest feature of the evening was the one-act play presented by Jack Phelan. The play, “The Dying Poet,” was especially written for the occasion by James Branch Gabelle, who takes care of the Short Cuts and Turns for the Saturday Evening Post.
Another feature was the oriental juggling and dancing performed by Thomas Lou, our latest arrival from the Orient. Andrew Hayes, Carroll Murphy, Arthur Evans and Ronald Zudeck entertained the crowd with songs, while Ray Doyle played the piano.
William McManus changed mits with John Holmes in the ring, likewise did Patrick Sullivan go with William Warren.
Ice cream and cake were the refreshments. Gilbert Brothers Clothing Co., of South Bend, furnished the smokes.
-J- «8>	.j. %
❖ FROM SCHOLASTIC FILES ❖
<$•	4>	<•<><$•$	$
February issues of 1905 and ’06.
' TOUGH LUCK
“Blushing and sweet as a queenly rose, My Emetine ’neath the mistletoe.
Quite accidental I suppose
She never kneiv, but then, yoti lenow My heart’s desire! To seize the chance
I softly crept to steal my kiss. Confound her brother in short pants,
Behind a chair he murmured, ‘Sis, Jiggers!’ That’s tough hick.”
“The Junior Class received permission to go to a play in South Bend Tuesday. Each boy had a splendid time.”
—t—----
“There is an unusual lack of material for this paper on hand this year. In former years it has been held as a great honor for a student to have his work accepted as • worthy and up to the standard that it should be for the Scholastic. It is hard to believe that anyone has learned to think otherwise. Get busy! Write some verse, humorous or otherwise; or, if you have the ability, write a short story, for this form of composition is always in demand.”
“Alas! Some do not realize that “Procrastination is the thief of time.” Had a certain boy applied his Latin instead of reading a novel of dubious literaiy value, he should have been spared some hundred lines of writing.”
——
“ ‘A thing of beauty is a joy forever.’ Let us hope that saying will hold good in regard to the recent repainting of Corby Hall smoking room. It has been tinted a rich cream color, and is quite attractive—in its way.”
“The first indoor baseball game of the season was held Thursday between Sorin and Brownson. The Sorinites played fine ball to win a hotly contested game by the score of 25 to 7.”
NOTRE DAME
THE
« MUSIC AND DRAMA ♦ Q ^ **•>***& <1* * <b * & *
Robert B. Mantell, a lone figure on the world stage today and the last of what the late William Winter termed “the royal line” of tragedians, opens a three day engagement at the Oliver Theatre Monday evening, February 27. True, now and then Shakespeare is acted with all due deference to the period of the play, for Mr. Hampden finds it profitable to stage- an occasional Shakespearean drama, Max Reinhardt makes a few gestures in the same direction, and othersi present sporadic revivals; but it is for Mr. Mantell to persistently carry forward the banner of the Avon bard with a defiance for all the - frivolous tendencies of modern times. One always finds his “Hamlet” advertised as "traditional;” for with Mr. Mantell, nothing ' is more sacriligious than a play of his ideal done in modern dress. The two, in his opinion, are as incompatible as Sophie Tucker singing “Just Like a Butterfly.”
South Bend is fortunate in an exceptionally attractive selection of plays which will be presented, for the repertoire is “The Merchant of Venice” for Monday evening; “Macbeth,” Tuesday evening; “As You Like It,” Wednesday matinee; and “Julius Caesar,” Wednesday evening. Yet another factor which may interest many is that the engagement is unusual in that it not only involves the appearance of America’s foremost legitimate stars in a repertoire of Shakespeare’s works, but at a scale of prices unheard of in many years, the best seats at all performances being $1.50.
—«—
But the week’s legitimate stage productions are not complete; with the three day visit of Robert Mantell, for next Friday evening finds Mrs. Fiske and Otis Skinner presenting that popular Shakespearean comedy “The Merry Wives of Windsor” at the Oliver Theatre. The coming of either of these artists as an individual star in any Production would invariably command public attention and incite local interest, so that the appearance of both Mrs. Fiske and Mr. Skinner in a highly approved play may
SCHOLASTIC rightfully be regarded as an epoch-making event of the dramatic year.
“The Merry Wives of Windsor” provides both stars with- admirable roles, Mrs. Fiske enacting the gay and mischievous Mistress Page, and Otis Skinner portraying the fat knight, Sir John Falstaff. ’ (
PHILOSOPHY NUMBER OF SCHOLASTIC TO APPEAR
The annual Philosophy Number of the Scholastic will appear March 9, just two days after the Feast of St. Thomas. This issue will be dedicated to St. Thomas, the Prince of Scholastic Philosophy.
The Neo-Scholastic Society is sponsoring this undertaking. The Scholastic staff has kindly consented to cooperate with Father Schumacher and the officers of the society in producing a number that will need bow to none.
Following the Neo-Scholastic Society’s meeting of Monday, February 20, Father Schumacher requested that those members of the society who are submitting work for publication in this number, remain, so that reports on the progress of the work might be made. The reports were quite satisfactory.
All work to appear in this issue of the Scholastic is the work of students at the University. Hence, it will be .quite representative of the Neo-Scholastic Society and of those men in sympathy with the work of the society.
Such articles as “A Biography of St. Thomas,” “St. Thomas’ Place in Contemporary Philosophy,” “The Renaissance of the 12th Century,” “Philosophy in Education,” and “Dante, the Poet of St. Thomas” are scheduled for appearance in this number. Others, not mentioned here, but of fully as much importance, are being developed.
—.-----4--------
CHICAGO EDITION OF ALUMNUS
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago, one of the largest of the alumni bodies, will be featured in the March number of the Alumnus, it is announced by James Armstrong, editor of the periodical. .

590	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
[ THE .EDITOR’S PAGE [
NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ACTIVE
The donation, a week or more ago, of one hundred dollars to a poverty-stricken family in South Bend by Notre Dame Council, Number Fourteen Seventy-seven, Knights of Columbus, brings this active organization forcibly before the attention of the entire University.
This donation, which like a dictaphone, speaks for itself, is only one of a number of beneficient acts performed by the Council this year.
When the University of Minnesota football team and its cohorts poured into South Bend Friday and Saturday, November fourth and fifth, of last fall to defeat the University by the singular score of seven to seven, the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, was there to meet them. A delegation, composed entirely of Council members, met all incoming trains; while other delegations sat in booths, erected both in the Oliver and La Salle hotels, South Bend, and on the University campus, imparting information of a general nature and securing rooms for those out-of-town visitors unfortunate in arranging for hotel accommodations.
Then, at Christmas time, Grand Knight Howard V. Phalin and several of the Council’s other officers, played Santa Claus for three South Bend families, who were slowly being put to perennial sleep by the lethal fumes belched forth by the dragon Adversity. These families were supplied with coal enough to last them until spring, shoes and other articles of clothing, and market-baskets replete with provisions.
Following closely on the heels of the gift of one hundred dollars to the indigent SouthBend family, was the purchase of a pair of shoes for a needy student at the University, whose hapless condition was brought to the
attention of the Council by Father Charles L. Doremus, C.S C.
Truly can it be said of Notre Dame Council, which already holds the distinction of being the first Knights of Columbus council established at any college or university in the world, that it holds the distinction of being one of the most charitable and active organizations at the University.	—l.r.m.
BACK GROUNDS
In a lecture to the journalism students a few days ago, Mr. Cosgrove editorial writer for the South Bend Tribune, said: "I suppose that, in going through college, you men have obtained a background adequate for editorial writing.” Mr. Cosgrove’s supposition may have been correct; if it was, then the process of attending a University for three or four years has not been lost on any of the students that were present. Every man who comes to college without an intellectual background of some sort should certainly obtain one during his student years; if he already has at least the basis of a background he would build upon that basis.
The reason is plain enough. A college man is expected to have culture in some degree when he is graduated. Culture, which is based on knowledge, conversational ability, a sense of values, and intelligence, is impossible without some realization of the accomplishments, thoughts, acts of men in the past and present. With nothing in his mind but himself and the things immediately affecting him, a man is certain to be narrow-minded, and if he has come from college with that type of mentality he has failed to obtain one of the most important advantages that a higher education could give him. He will be a man whose conversation will refer to work, automobiles, and radios for the remainder of his life.	—J A.M.

THE NOTRE DA
MORRISSEY HALL HAS FINE SCHOLASTIC RECORD
When it became known recently that only 26 of the 248 students living in Morrissey hall were placed on the probation list for the first quarter of the present scholastic year and that only two of the 26 failed, interest in that hall became widespread among the faculty and the student body.
How account for it?
Father Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey, answers that question directly and incisively. Discipline, and the building of fine traditions in the hall are responsible, he explains. “There were no undesirable traditions to combat in Mor-riss’ey,” he declares. “We were able to start at the ground and build straight up.” .His methods speak for themselves.
RESIDENTS ACHIEVE HONORS
Father Haggerty is a firm adherent of strict but fair enforcement of the disciplinary rules of the University. As a result, it is doubtful if there is a hall on the campus where there will be found more peace and privacy. Much credit for this condition is due to the cooperation of the three prefects, according to the rector. The prefects are the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., the Rev. J. J. Reynolds, C.S.C., and the Rev. Francis O’Hara, C.S.C.
Morrissey has good reason to take considerable pride in the achievements of its residents. The valedictorian of the senior class of last year, Cletus S. Banwarth, spent his final year in Morrissey hall. , His average is said to be the highest ever madel in the College of Science. Joseph Breig, who edited the Scholastic and whose scenario Avon first prize in the Culver Literary contest last year, lived just a few doors from ' Banwarth.
Playwriting has made an appeal to many of the Morrissey men. One resident, Richard Parrish, has had one play produced and another published, while Richard Elpers and Murray Young will have plays produced by the University Theatre next month. A one-
act play by Joseph Breig was staged in Washington hall last year.
WIN MANY PRIZES
The three winners of the Scribblers’ poetry contest last year, Richard Elpers, Jack Mullen and John DeRoulet, are all residents of Morrissey, having lived there two years. Their chances of placing in the contest this year are considered good. One of this group, Jack Mullen, who now edits the Scholastic, was given honorable mention for a poem he entered in the Culver Literary contest last year. He has had several poems published in various magazines recently. Murray Young, another Morrisseyite, won second prize with a short story in the Culver contest last year.
Six of the eighteen members of the • Scribblers, honorary writers organization, are residents of Morrissey hall. Five members of the Scholastic • staff also live in Morrissey. ----------------------------
JUDGES ANNOUNCED FOR “SANTA MARIA” CONTEST
Macready Huston, prominent stort story writer of South Bend, Rev. J.> L. Carrico, C.S.C., head of the English department of the University, and Paul Fenlon, short story professor, are the judges in the Santa Maria short story contest according to Leo R. McIntyre, editor of the Santa Maria. The contest closes on March 21. Manuscripts should be sent to Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind.
-------$------- '
PLANS FOR MONOGRAM
ABSURDITIES PROGRESS
John Wallace, football star, was chosen to manage the production of this year’s Monogram Absurdities at a meeting held by the Monogram Club this week. Wallace was prominent in the cast of the production last year.
All campus writers who have ideas for skits in the Monogram Show are invited to submit them to Wallace in 109 . Sorin. The cast is already being selected. Polisky and Moynihan will appear in a dramatic sketch • called “Save My Child” with the former as the mother, and the latter as the child.
( -
I	>	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■ZSi5BSBSSE3S2S3SZSiS3SeS35353EB53535253S35BS2SSSEii5BS3S THE CAMPUS CLUBS -
By John Bergan
NEW JERSEY CLUB
The first smoker under the auspices of the New Jersey Club was held Monday evening, February 20, in the Lay Faculty Dining.Hall. A very good program of entertainment was given to the seventy-five members of the club and their guests.
The music rendered by the Notre Dame Varsity Orchestra and the Notre Dame Glee Club Quartette were well received as were the vocal selections of Tony Kopecky and Andrew Hayes. The dancing of Jim McShane, who gave his conception of the "Jersey Walk,”, was very well received. At the conclusion of the smoker refreshments were served.
The arrangements for the affair were under the direction of Joe Abbott, who was assisted by John Winberry, Leo Hughes, Jack Reager, Ed Lea Mond and Dan Ross.
A. I. E. E.
The regular monthly meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held on the evening of February 15 in the Chemistry building. C. A. Topping, president of the club, conducted the meeting.
The club was addressed by Professor Daniel Hull of the College of Science faculty, who spoke on the subject of “Thunder Storms.” The talk was very interesting to the fifty members who were present at the meeting.,
GERMAN CLUB
The German Club of the University held its first meeting of the second semester Thursday, February 16, at 7 o’clock P. M. in Hoynes hall. Professor George Wack, president of the club, conducted the meeting.
A very interesting program was presented by the various members of the organization. Membership in the club is still open to all men enrolled in the advanced German courses and to everyone else who is interested in the German language.
The club meets very Thursday evening at 7 o’clock in Hoynes Hall.
' LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB
The members of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club met in Hoynes Hall, Wednesday evening, February 15, at 8 o’clock. Official business was conducted at the meeting and plans were laid for the club's banquet which will be held in South Bend in the near future. The date and place of the banquet will be announced at the next meeting of the club.
9
CLEVELAND CLUB
The first smoker sponsored by the Cleveland Club was held in the Faculty Dining Hall on Wednesday evening, February 15th. About one hundred mem
bers .of the club and their guests were in attendance at the affair.
William O’Neil,' president of the club, acted as toastmaster and introduced Tommy Mills’, coach of the baseball team, who gave a very interesting talk. Pat Manion, professor in the College of Law, also spoke and entertained the guests with numerous stories. Vocal numbers were rendered by various members of the Glee Club. Instrumental numbers were given by the popular banjo-saxophone trio. Refreshments were served at the conclusion of the event.
The committee in charge of the smoker included Bernard Zipperer, chairman; Norm McLeod, Cy Matthews, John Zaback and Al Shipicasse.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB *
All students residing within seventy-five miles of the Connecticut Valley are requested to be present in the south room of the Lemmonier Library tonight at 7:30, as plans will be made to reorganize the club. New members will be heartily welcomed.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
The regular monthly meeting of the Metropolitan Club was held in the North room of the Lemmonier Library on Thursday evening, February 16th. Following a discussion of current business matters, the chairman of the Christmas Formal, Harley L. McDevitt, read the financial report of the dance.
The meeting was closed with an announcement by John S. Lavelle, the president of the club, that the annual Mid-Winter Dinner would be held at the' Joan Tea Room on Thursday evening, March 1st.
SPANISH CLUB
The regular weekly meeting of the Spanish Club was held in. the court room of Hoynes Hall last Wednesday evening. President Roach, after making several announcements, called upon Father Francis E. Maher, C.S.C., and Fred Cunningham to read papers.
The meeting was closed with the election of officers for the ensuing month. They are: president, Fred Cunningham; vice-president, William T. Doyle; secretary, Bernard Conroy. The club elected Harley L. McDevitt reporter.
TRI-STATE CLUB
The regular meeting of the Tri-State Club will be held Monday, February 27, at 7:45 P. M. at the south basement room of the’Library. All men from Texas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma are urgently requested to be present, as important; matters concerning the activities of the club Will be considered.
i

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I	'	Cyril J. Mullen
In noting the various college sheets of the last week, I was pained to find continual references to the scene of so many of.Dante’s gambols; that is, the infernal region; that is, hell. To complicate matters for my non-fraternal mind, hell was invariably followed by the word “week.” I put one and one together after the most approved philosophical and mathematical manner, and discovered that I had hell week. Hell week, I gather, has been causing suffering, both student and civic, throughout the country. Mothers are protesting, police are arresting, and committees are investigating. All in all, every one seems to get a rather enjoyable time out of hell-week, except of course the fraternity pledges; and they aren’t supposed to enjoy it. According to reports, the stricken pledges, besides being subject to mental and physical tortures, are not allowed to sleep, and worst of all, are deprived of any desire to sit down. The point of going through hell week is to be admitted to a frat, with the privilege of making other freshmen suffer for the following three years. Three years as master, to one year as clown—a fair return on their investment, I think.
From The Oregon Daily Emerald: “A college student in Portland was recently mistaken for a tramp and arrested.” The traveling fraternity will, I suppose, start a libel suit.
—«—
Nothing like this incident, recorded by the Daiiy Texan, could take place out of doors, during February in Indiana:
“Thinly Clads Show up Splendidly Saturday.”
Have faith riot only in Indiana but also in California. Here, we think, is a step in the right direction. From The Southern California Daily Trojan: “The Uplifters Club will be the scene of the Delta Gamma for-^al dinner dance, Friday evening, Feb. 17.”
This dance, I suspect, will be not only formal, but also formal. I commend the Lord High Up-Lift for putting his club at the disposal of the dances, and I hope merrymakers
have the best time possible under the circumstances.
—<•—
“The spectacle of a long-dormant yellow race uprising to over-throw the white man’s civilization, The Michigan State News tells us, was “picturesquely prevented by a Upton Close ... in an address to faculty and students.” Most of us have dodged tarantulas, shot Chinamen by the gross, snoozedin vicious dope dens, and pondered the Oriental mind, under the direction of Mr. Sox Rohmer, advancer of the yellow peril and other civic projects. But here is Mr. Close, a mature man, I take it, who has had the veil drawn aside only of late. Recalling my youth, I envy him the thrill.
At the University of Indiana no co-ed may ride in a students car unless her parents are in the car, or she has permission from the dean of women. I am horrified at this prim-ative viewpoint; this obvious distrust of the good, the fine and the true. I shall appeal to our local chapter of the Association For the Re-Establishment Of the Reputation of Modem Youth.
—$—
Although I haven’t the slightest idea what the following may be about, I have always nursed the secret ideal of someday assisting the language professors in their arduous labors. Here is an advertisement from Le Qua/rtier Latin, publication of the University of Montreal. Reading it, I am confident, will be both interesting and instructive for students of French, students of things other than French; and perhaps, even their profs:
Gin Canadien Melchers Crois d’or Trois Grondeurs De Flacons Gros: 40 ounces.......$8.65
Mayers: 26 ounces.....$2.55
Petits: 10 ounces ....$1.10

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
594
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS DINE —HOLD INITIATION
Notre Dame Council, Number 1477, Knights of Columbus, Sunday evening, Feb. 19, at seven o’clock dined in the ballroom of the South Bend Council’s home. The caterers for the affair were supplied by the Hotel LaSalle, South Bend. More than three hundred men were present at the dinner, de • signaled on the admission card as “Initiation Banquet.” Among the “three hundred” were guests from Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, and
Me Henry; the last mentioned is situated in the state of Illinois.	'
When the coffee had been entirely sipped, the pie discovered under the cheese, and. the lands slipped from the cigars, Lecturer Edward P. McKeown arose to introduce to the assemblage Grand Knight Phalin, the toastmaster for the evening.
Toastmaster Phalin called upon the following men for talks: Father Charles C. Millner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University and Trustee of the Council; Dean Thomas Konop of the Hoynes College of Law at the University; Professor Henry C. Staunton of the University’s English department; George F. Carroll, Grand Knight of Detroit Council and K. of C. Commissioner in the state of Michigan; District Deputy Edmund A. Wills of South Bend; District Deputy Donahue of Detroit; and Joseph A. Naughton, the principal speaker of the evening, District Deputy of Indianapolis. All these men responded with succinct, humorous, thought-pregnant talks.
Music at the dinner was furnished by “Joe” Casasanta and his orchestra. Several members of “Art” Haeren’s orchestra, accompanied on the piano by Fred Ruiz, rendered vocal selections.
“The “Initiation Banquet” was the culmination of a day of activity on the part of Notre Dame Council. Starting at* 12:30 P. M., the sixty-eight men, who successfully
passed the first degree given Thursday, Feb. 3 16, were given the second and the third de- 1 gree of the Order in the chambers of the South Bend Council. The class was one of the largest ever initiated into the Knights of Columbus by Notre Dame Council. ' j
At the special meeting, held Monday even- 1 ing, Feb. 20, the Council decided to conduct 1 another class through the first three degrees | of Columbianism. Grand Knight Phalin an- 1 nounced that this event will occur just prior j to the Easter vacation or immediately fol- ’■ lowing it. The initiation of this class shall establish.a precedent; for, never in the his- ' tory of the Council, has Knighthood been conferred upon three classes in one scho- . lastic year.
*	•* *«* *♦* *♦* *♦* *♦* *♦* *•* *•* ♦♦♦ *♦* *** **• *** ♦♦♦ •** *•*
❖	OUR CONTRIBUTORS ♦
•	*«	*♦* *♦* *♦* *5*	***	*♦* *♦* *♦*	*♦* *♦* *♦* *♦*	-
“Granite Thunder,” by Murray Hickey Ley, is a sympathetic consideration of the art of the modern poet, Robinson Jeffers— a treatment that attempts to impart an understanding of the writer’s enthusiasm for ’ the poet by the use of language in the spirit of Jeffers. Ley is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters.
Louis L. Hasley, who writes “The Terrible Mouse” in this issue is known to Scholastic readers for his previously published short stories: “Sam, the Accordion Man,” and “The Spirit Lives.”
Pursuing the consideration of poetry in the modern tradition introduced by Mr. Ley’s essay, the progressive trend is exemplified in its most apt phase by Prospero Image’s poem, “Half-light.” . If you appreciated Prospero’s “April in Hell” in last week’s . Scholastic, you will probably clip “Halflight” for future readings.	—K-0'11,
------------------ _
The third Scholarship Dance of the season was held last Friday evening in the Studebaker Administration building. The affan was one of the most successful in the history , of the club, 400 persons being in attendance. Music was furnished by Art Haeren’s orchestra of South Bend.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
595

PERSEPHONE AND THE NIGHTINGALES (or A Hell of an April)
“And the nightingales that sinned began to sing”
—Prospero.
Those naughty, naughty nightingales
Who sinned but kept on singing
While Persephone with April breath Thru Hell's flames went a-winging.
The nightingales sang sinful songs
And all the devils hushed;
Persephone laughed at the birds— How skillfully she blushed!
“You beastly birds be more discreet!” Shocked Pluto cried in loud dismay.
“But if we do,” the birdies said, “You’ll bore Persephone.”
—THE LUCKLESS LAD.
OVERHEARD IN LYONS HALL
, Time: Early evening of Junior- Prom.
“Hey! Where the hell do you suppose Murphy is with that tux? He said it would be back by six to-night,” said one.
“Tux hell. What about my shirt? I just came back from the laundry and they have closed.”
“See Polisky, he has one.” The second voice dashes madly out of the room.
“Well, Murph, it’s about time you showed up.”
“Can’t help unavoidable delays. Just had a puncture. Thanks for the job, hope you have a good time.”
“Where the hell is my collar button?” Crawls on floor in search of the ‘hide-and-go-seek’ button. “See if you can fasten this shirt and collar. There looks just like a straight jacket.”
“What a neckband. He must have thought I was going to were it around my shoulders.”
"Pin it in back. There it looks 0. K., m n and x.”
“Did y<^u call a cab?” said the first voice as they locked the door.
“Thought you did.”
“Call one now.”
“They are all out. 'Looks like we walk to town.”
“Who are you taking?”
“Saint Mary’s girl."
. "Something to look forward to after the dance.” Door slams.	—MBS. hazzit.
THE COLLEGE TIRADE-—I.
, Two Freshmen were seated at a table in Wal-■ green’s. There appeared to be a contest going on to decide which one could talk the loudest and show ; off the most. The girl came with the check, and , the winner nonchalantly flipped a dollar- bill at her, saying, “Well, there’s lots more like it where that . came from.” Wonder if there are many more like him back there.	—jeff.
THE NINTH MUSE I lingered with Calliope, She sang sweet songs, read poetry. I tarried long at Clio’s gate, I sought to board the ship of, state. In course I viewed Melpomene And wished for roles in Tragedy. Thalia’s acting made me laugh, I wanted then to join her staff. Polyhymnia sang songs of praise, I there denounced all worldly ways. Terpsichore.next won my heart, I voiced we’d never dance apart.
Urania’s spell I also knew, I wondered why the sky was blue.
I wooed Euterpe and her flute, I failed—I was too dissolute.
Erato sang a marriage song, I fell; so now it won’t be long.
—THE GUMLESS TYPIST.
THESE CHRISTIANS—HOW THEY LOVE ONE ANOTHER
Allan-A-Dale : I alweze thot that yur page wuz a lot of hooey & now i shure kno it. Enny body thAt haz enny sence at all wud kno better than to rede enny thing that my dum bro. rote, you kno him all rite. His naim iz Finn & he rote that stuf about gosts in tha steem pipes over on tha gold coste. i bet the fellas ar shur gonna goof you a lot foi- printin that stuf. You shur ar a dum egg to beleev that stuf & boy i shur Feel sorRy for enny ■ bodY as dum as you ar.	—mickey mac cool.
SH! THOSE ARE ALL HOBNAILS REPORTERS
Dear Al: The real “College Parade” seems to be the dateless Notre Dame fellows who stroll up and down Michigan street every Sunday evening looking for “the soul mate.”
—DOGWOOD.
OPEN LETTER TO LEAP-YEAR CONTESTANTS
We’re sure sorry, maidens—but the contest closed last night, unexpectedly. The government closed the contest by closing the mails to you—said the congressmen couldn’t get their seeds delivered on account of the postofflce jams. Judges are Doris Blake,. Uncle Henry and the Circuit Judge of Reno, Nevada. The main consideration is the I. Q. (intelligence quotient, if you will). We need a wife that can handle “Hobnails” if we get sick, as Shelby handled the “Line” for R. H. L. See? Always thinking of our public. That’s us.
—ALLAN-A-DALE.
596
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

1

LITERARY
$
Granite Thunder
An Appreciation of Robinson Jeffers
MURRAY HICKEY LEY
1 $
■1 -
1 1
1
JOHN KEATS has opened one of his sonnets with a line as true now as’ in the days it was penned:
“Great spirits now on earth are sojourning.”
Captious critics may draw their broad-। swords; professional decriers of our civilization may look for their bludgeons; and yet there are “great spirits” now on earth and among the chiefest of these is Robinson Jeffers.
In 1925 the world of letters was shaken to its very roots by the appearance of a book of poetry bearing the sonorous title, “Roan Stallion, Tamar and other Poems.” Such a book suggested Walt Whitman, suggested, even, Sophocles! ' And yet it was different from the works of either of these two men— a unique, bizarre, tremendously significant achievement, it immediately dwarfed the output of most of our contemporary poets— Gargantua, with a mace of iron in a silken-gloved hand, had stalked into the realms of Literature, crying his song of terror and horror in a voice that was a stream of molten lead striped with rainbows and bolted with sunsets. And people began to inquire as to this mighty voice sounding out of the West. . Robinson Jeffers, the cause of this unprecedented commotion, was born in Pittsburgh in 1887. The next twenty-two years saw him educated in Europe and America. In. 1913 he married and in 1914 settled down in Carmel, Monterey County, California, on the very shores of the Pacific. " The father of two children, he lives a quiet . life in his sea-coast home.
And now to consider his poetry, that mass of written work which will perpetuate his name as long as there are, in this world,
souls alive to the cyclonic impact of pure, utter Beauty.
He cannot be said to stem, in any marked degree, from any other writer of any other time; his work is peculiarly and distinctively his own. He has been influenced only by life —life lived, it is true, at a tragic pace, but life made glorious by the stupendous beauty of the world. .
On the mighty forge of his mind the dancing thunders of existence have been hammered into blocks of lustrous granite, coldly fine, yet ever thunderously pulsating with the eternal secrets of Life.
The steel, orchid-laced towers of his imagination have all being and all unbeing for their realm; not only this world but thousands of others as well offer their corposant wreathed beauties to their view.
However, description by itself can in no wise convey an idea of the magnitude, the unbelievable grandeur of his poems. Quotation alone can perform that function; I beg . the reader’s pardon if I seem to over-reach myself here, but, “great spirit” is an all inclusive term, and, therefore, the evidence must be somewhat inclusive. And so, hear these rapier gleams of wonder, from a poem entitled “Choros,”
"1





■1
'j
“God was a hawk in the glow of the morning, a. bee in the rose that has stars for her ;)etals, The far lights felt him, the first-born .amps Spun from the brush of his wings when he bathed in the splendor of a firmament men’s eyes never imaged, Exulting in the beauty of things, a
free eagle.”
“When God was made man he had ’ something to suffer, a story of a stable, and to wee;) and be wounded,

3


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
' Little clogs on great glory, and suddenly, he soared
Wide of the Syrians and Romans, and the world that they ravaged ivas an atom in a multitude, surrounded
By the splendor of the dawn’s lamps dancing to their Lord.
By the splendor, by the blazing, by the gladness, the brave choir of the gods of the morning and the lords of the night, .
When he leaned and looked home from the marvelous, porches,
And his love like a home dipping swallow came down from the doors of the orient, the mountains ■ of light, The towers of the dawn that have roses for torches." '
"Mountains of Asia you masts of a little bark that floats on a firmament of waters, Himalayas have yozi seen across the beam ends of the Earth
.The master-star of the stars zuhen he brightens at the blossoming of midnight, tvhen he beckons to his daughters,
And they wreathe him witJi dances ivhen his rays are sent forth?”
“And an hour before down ivhen the night was split open on the patli, , of the planets to i’s height
Did they speak of the guidance of things, and the fury of the wings of the speed of the light, and who governs the light?"
“More loved is our Lord than a lamp in the night,	'
Sweeter than wild bees’ hivings, stronger ’ than storm in the mountains, lovelier than light."
In these flame-tongues from empyrean fires we have the very essence of Beauty—• her own hearts-blood poured into the scarlet iron cruets atop the towers of Jeffers’ imagination.
■ But there are many more manifestations of this man’s power. Where can we find anything superior to the following bits taken from several of his poems:
“When the ancient wisdom is folded like a wine-stained cloth and • laid up in darkness.
And the old symbols forgotten, in	•
- the glory of that your hawk’s dream
Remember that the life of mankind ' is like the life of a man, a flutter from darkness to darlcness
Across the bright 'hair of a fire . . . ."
• • • • after the leopard footed evening '
Had glided oceanward . . .	.
Let trumpets roar when a man dies And rockets fly up, he Jias found his fortune.”
“The evening opens
Enormous wings out of the west, the ■ sad red splendid light beats uptvard."
“I have spoken on secv-forelands with the lords of life, the men wisdom made Gods had nothing
So wise to tell me nor so sweet as the alternation of white sunlight and brown night, The beautiful succession of the breeding springs, the enormous rhythm of the stars’ deaths
And fierce renewals . . . ”
“Golden-haired the gorgeous day came out of the valley to kill dreams.”
“The red hawk wings of the first dawn Streamed up the sky ....’’
“And in Asia Himalayas
Shining like candles before sunrise hung socketless
In the night of the air. . . .”
“Dawn builds an awful flower at the world’s end ....”■
“ ... . here on this one fruit, lump of earth sprinkled stone	.
With the iron core, this Earth you call it.”
These are but a few of the many wondrous passages to be found in Jeffers. Many of them are from his three longest poems, “Roan Stallion,” “Tamar,” and “The Tower Beyond Tragedy,” three poems torn from the fire-paved volcano floor of human experience.
“Roan Stallion” is the story of a tragic and colossal love written, as George Sterling says, “in long, trampling rhythms, carrying in their surge something of the fateful rush of the breaking seas.” ,	•
“Tamar,” possibly Jeffers’ finest -work to date, is a story of the neurotic Cauldwell family. Critics, far and wide, have been unreserved in pronouncing it a masterpiece.
598	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
George Sterling finds it “terrific,” while Edwin Seaver in “The New Republic” declares that reading it “was an experience not to be forgotten.”	'
The sweep of the poem is the sweep of the horses of the storm, its music the clang of a black sun and a purple moon, cymbals in the hands of Archangel Michael assembling the Elysian legions to do battle with the demons of Tartarus. Jeffers here bears out his dictum that,
". . . . it is bitter earnestness	,
That makes beauty;	‘
.... for a poem needs multitude, multitudes of thoughts, all fierce, all flesh eaters, musically clamorous
Bright hawks that hover and dart headlong, and ungainly
Gray hungers fledged ^oith desire of transgression, salt slimed beaks, from the sharp
Rock shores of the world and the secret ivaters.”
Of “The Tower Beyond Tragedy,” George Sterling says that “one must go back to Aeschylus to find the match of this drama . ... one of the glories of English literature.” Mark Van Doren calls it “undoubtedly one of the great American poems.”
Into massive chalices of words Jeffers has poured the timeless foam of timeless oceans, hurled ashes from unnatural fires in Hell, given to his characters to drink; and well have they quaffed of the stirring draught!
His latest book, “The Women at Point Sur” again has the abnormal for its theme -------------------------------------------------

coupled with his powerful and beauteous 1 treatment, bearing out, in description at .1 least, the poet’s credo,	"
“. . . . The mind ■
Passes, the eye closes, the spirit
is a passage;	$
The beauty of things was bom before
eyes and sufficient to itself
the heart breaking beauty	,j
. Will remain when there is no heart	-I
to break for it."	■
The poem ends, as must all such chronicles of unnatural happenings, in tragedy,
"Tragedy that breaks man’s face and a white fire flies out of it.”
Two other books, “Flagons and Apples,” published in 1912, and “Californians,” following four years later, while fine, are not, as a whole, up to the level of his later work—work that must inevitably give him the mantle of immortality.
Little-roomed souls may. sneer, gnat-visioned minds may laugh, and yet, withal this, far removed posterity will treasure him, and, treasuring, image an age in which a voice of granite thunder from deep in the enormous generation-inched, century-layered, aeon-peaked mountain of Life, cried out to them,
"Far-floivn ones, you children of the hawk’s dream future when you lean from a crag of the last planet on the ocean
Of the far stars, remember we also have known beauty.”
The Terrible Mouse
A Political Issue Comes Out of Its Hole LOUIS L. HASLEY
THE Crusaders for the Betterment of Existing Conditions have at last come to realize that one of the most poignant evils of the day has been overlooked in the frantic efforts to revolutionize governments, purify morals, and make the straight and narrow path still straighter and narrower. They seek now to eradicate the mouse—that seemingly insignifi
cant, yet nevertheless intimidating vermin which is undermining the very nervous systems of some of the finest and most beautiful of our young women.
Yet the neurotic influence on our young womanhood is not the only regrettable aspect of the situation. Another facet is the intensity of emotion to which the mouse often subjects young men. Who among us
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
has never had the experience of trying to maintain his composure, as some demoiselle, begging for protection, drapes her arms promiscuously around him when one of these rodents, meekly searching for its daily cheese; invades the sanctity of the living room ? Or what young man has not been forced to employ religious aspirations to dispel the evil jinn from his thoughts as a lovely bit of femininity mounts a chair, stands screaming o*n tiptoe, and, perhaps, indiscreetly lifts her skirt a trifle ?
The Crusaders plan to offer a bounty for
each mouse brought in, dead or alive. This scheme, however, is opposed by voluptuous gallants who would disregard Emily Post and proceed to overdo chivalry on occasions such as those just cited. If the importance of the matter continues to grow in public opinion, it is planned to bring it to the. attention of influential political leaders. Then if there be a presidential candidate who still ignores the issue in making up the party platform, let him pay the price of his folly through popular disclaim on election day.
Half-Light
“And the frogs singing against the fauns in the half-light.”—'EZ'RA POUND.
The twilight brings a dimness to the doors. And darkened toindotos leap with yellow light, A stillness hushes all the sounds, and feet Step softer at the coming of the night.
Before I light the lamps I sit and gaze Into the purple of the grotving gloom; A distant clock now softly drops its strokes, And at my back the cat’s purr fills the room.
My eyes rest on a Swedish Baker-Shop, The strokes and purrs are mingled in my ears. Yet these are not'the things that fill my brain With dread, and quicken dll my blood with fears. It is that sitting in this dimming light Soft violet hands and singing voices reach My mind from distant places, hidden lands Where in the half-light strange things wake to speech. And with wild songs salute the coming night, And with wild dances bring to death the day. Why should this fill me with so great a fear, Or is it fear that takes my breath away?
The hands and singing voices disappear. I rouse myself, and zvalk from where I sat To pull the blinds across the window-panes, To light the’lamps, and then to wake the cat.
—PROSPERO IMAGE.
600	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	1
1-'^
||---------—.■ spqrT NEWS -=-------------------------I
Pitt Triumphant in Epochal Struggle; Score 24-22 1 -
Panthers outplayed by Notre Dame, but
Eastern foul shots decisive.	'J
Notre Dame was defeated—not beaten —by the basketball representatives of the University of Pittsburgh last Saturday evening on the Panther floor in the Smoky City. The final , score gave Pitt a close 24-22 verdict, but it did not tell how a courageous Blue . and Gold quintet । carried the fight • all the way to , their powerful f Eastern opponents before a
FRANK CROWE Panther field. goal in the last ten seconds of play sent them down to a glorious defeat. It did not tell how Captain Jachym, Smith, Crowe, Hamilton, Donovan, Newbold, McCarthy and Moynihan battled, and fought, and played basketball with every bit of stamina, courage and skill that they possessed, in outplaying their hosts throughout the major portion of the entire route. It did not tell how a brilliant Notre Dame defense held perhaps the strongest five in collegiate ranks today,, to a mere quartet of two-pointers; or of a Notre Dame offense that doubled this field-goal total of the Panthers.
It does tell however, the story of one of the closest, most brilliant, most desperately played basketball games on record between two of the outstanding cage machines of the nation; a battle that was, as fitting, not decided until the final gun; a mighty conflict that will live long in the
memories of the fortunate 5,000 or so spectators who witnessed the engagement.
The Panthers were lucky to defeat the Keoganites, and no one knows it better than themselves. Similarly, if the count had been reversed, Notre Dame would have been lucky to defeat Pittsburgh. Both fives deserved to win, but as only one could, it was the Smoky City outfit which received the smile, and the Hoosier aggregation which received the frown, from fickle Dame Fortune.
The attraction, hailed as the premier hardwood embroglio of the current season, lived up to its advance notices to the very letter. Thrill winged on thrill from beginning to end of the epochal engagement. Both combinations were equally matched in practically every respect, and played accordingly.
Coach Carlson’s players won, primarily, because they exercised to the fullest, the attribute which they shared with their guests of never giving up until the last second of, play had ticked away, and secondarily, because the exigencies of Eastern basketball standards exacted a huge toll of seventeen fouls from the Western invaders, sixteen of which were converted into points by the Panthers. 1 It was these sixteen one-pointers which proved Notre Dame’s eventual undoing, as the Keoganites held the upper hand during most of the forty minutes of play in regards to both scoring and playing ability alike. It was these points from the fifteen foot mark which kept Pitt in the running, especially during the latter stages of the fray, as the vaunted offensive proclivities of the Pan
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
601
I
thers were thoroughly subjugated for the most part by a sterling Blue and Gold defense.
Notre Dame started off in a whirlwind fashion, and dazzled the Pennsylvanians the most of the initial period with a beautiful exhibition of. basketball. . Beginning the last half, however, this domination was somewhat lessened, although not altogether lost, as the Pitt score, swelled by numerous successful charity heaves, gradually increased until with a minute and a half to go the count was deadlocked at 22-all. It seemed as if the cage activities were destined to be prolonged into an extra period, when Zehfuss intercepted a Notre Dame pass under the Blue and Gold basket, wheeled quickly, and threw a long pass to Hyatt who was weaving about near the Pitt iron hoops. Hyatt snagged the speeding oval and dribbled into the Eastern basket to sink the winning points. It was a thrilling climax to a thrilling game.
Notre Dame’s magnificent defensive operations featured the entire battle. Pittsburg’s long-passing attack, hitherto a dominant factor in the compilation of the unbroken chain of fourteen straight triumphs over some of the most representative quintets of the country, was summarily halted for the major portion of the hardwood festivities. Only four times were Panther players able to penetrate the stout Gold and Blue defense for field-goals. In fact, so impregnable was the Keoganite defense during the first half, that the Easterners were held to a single goal from the field, the intermission finding Notre Dame possessed of a 15-8 lead. This advantage was gradually cut down by Pitt’s remarkable foul shooting during the last twenty' minutes of play however, while a trio of two-pointers also coming at very opportune moments in this final session, were other integral factors in Pittsburg’s ultimate success. Hyatt, star forward of the Easterners, seemed the only Pitt performer who was able to solve the Notre Dame defense with any degree of success, the Pan
ther satellite caging a trio of two-pointers, in addition to a pair of fifteen foot heaves for a total of eight points, to tie with Smith of the Westerners for high-scoring honors of the battle. Wrobleski, Hyatt’s teammate and rival for top-scoring honor in the East, was held without a basket from the field for the first time this season, although three successful charity donations kept him from going altogether scoreless for the evening. ■
The Westerners were as brilliant in defeat as were their hosts in victory. What prestige was lost by Mid-Western cage teams when Pitt defeated five of the strongest aggregations in the Big Ten by decisive scores a short time ago, was more than made up by the Blue and Gold players who gave the Smoky Citians the greatest scare they’ve had since the compilation of the'ir famous record was inaugurated back in December. The Panthers deserve unstinted credit though for their gallant and persevering efforts to effect their great triumph, as they also gave everything they possessed to remove their most important obstacle to a national cage championship.
The entire Notre Dame team gave absolutely the best basketball they had in them, with perhaps the efforts of Smith and Captain Jachym shading the playing of the rest of their mates a trifle.
Captain Reed and Hyatt starred for Pittsburg in every department of play, while the rest of the Panther five showed just why their school rides on top of the national collegiate cage heap by their con
sistent performances.
Lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME
B. F. P.
Jachym, f-------1	1	1
McCarthy, f-----0	0	0
Crowe, f--------1	2
Newbold, f------0	3	3
Hamilton, c-----1	0	4
Moynihan, g	—1	1	1
Donovan, g------1	0	3
Smith, g--------3	2	3
PITTSBURGH
B. F. P.
Zehfuss, f-------
Hyatt, f
Wunderlich, c —0 3 1
Reed, g---------1 4 3
Wrobleski, g —0 5 2
0 2 0
3 2 3
(Illinois Wesleyan).
Referee—Fred /oung pire—Beggs Snyder (Yale). ■
Um-
602
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CARNEGIE TECH 31-19 VICTIM OF NOTRE DAME SECOND TEAM
With the regulars viewing the fray from the bench because of Coach Keogan’s desire to save them for the terrific struggle with Pitt the very next evening, the Notre Dame second string eagers came through with a splendid 31-19 triumph over the hardwood representatives of Carnegie Tech in a well-played basketball game last Friday evening on the Plaid’s floor at Pittsburg.
The Notre Dame mentor started Newbold and McCarthy at the forward berths; Vogelewede at center; and Moynihan and Bray at the guard positions. This quintet played intact practically the entire engagement except for a short time when Copps was given a chance to display his wares at the tap-off job, and when the first-stringers Crowe and Hamilton were inserted as a sort of conditioner for the attraction with the Panthers the following evening.
The Hoosier players started slowly, and did not perform at their best until the Plaid performers had run up a small lead upon them. Immediately, however, the reserves lost their stage fright and soon began to hit their real stride as the contest gradually waxed older until finally they were working together as a single well-oiled machine. Once they had gotten started there was no stopping them as the Techmen soon found out to their acute discomfort.
Carnegie started strongly, a quartet of successful charity tosses giving the Easterners a 4-0 advantage before the Keogan-ites really got down to business and swung into action. Newbold inaugurated the Notre Dame basket sorties by tossing a pretty two-pointer from side-court. McCarthy tallied a few moments later via the same route and the count was deadlocked for the first and last time during the engagement. Field-goals by Bray and McCarthy, interspersed with several more donations from the free strip, boosted the Blue and Gold total to 13 before the half was terminated. Meanwhile, the Scotch could do practically nothing with ah al
most invulnerable Notre Dame defense and the best the Plaid could do this initial twenty minutes was two field-goals to add to their quartet of free throws, for a total of eight points.
Play during the last half was practically a repetition of the first period’s activities, except that both quints seemed more adept at caging the oval for points. Carnegie attempted a rally at the start of the final session, but smart defensive work by the Keoganites nipped the potential pointsorties in the bud.
Vogelewede featured this last half activity by tossing three successive two-pointers from near mid-court to provide the outstanding bit of offensive action for the conflict.
The Easterners fought gallantly but hopelessly, against the spirited performances of their guests, and after the first five minutes of play the ultimate issue was never really in doubt. Nevertheless the Carnegie Tech players deserve a world of credit for the courageous game they put up to the final gun.
The entire Notre Dame reserve five flashed a commendable brand of basketball throughout, with McCarthy, Bray and Newbold in particular, standing out. In addition McCarthy, with a quartet of two-pointers and a lone foiil heave, was highpoint man for the contest.
Captain White and High were the most consistent performers for the Plaid.
Lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME (31)	CARNEGIE TECH (19)
G. F.	G’ F<
Newbold, f__________2	2	Crum, f ------------1	$
McCarthy, f_________4	1	White, (c) f--------2	2
Vogelewede, c_______3	0	Harpster, c---------0	I
Moynihan, g_________0	0	High, g-------------1	"
Bray, g_____________2	0	Hitchcock, g--------0	$
Copps, c____________1	1	Brown, f------------®	®
Crowe, f____________0	0	Kilgore, f----------0	®
Hamilton, c_________0	3	Letzelter, f--------0	®
Totals__________12 7 Totals----------------
Referee—Fred Young, Illinois Wesleyan. Umpire —Calbolstet, Pittsburgh. Free throws attempted— Notre Dame, 14; Carnegie Tech, 15.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
603
IRISH BASEBALL OUTLOOK ENCOURAGING; SCHEDULE FORMIDABLE Although it may seem inconsistent with present weather conditions to mention things pertaining to the baseball season, yet the truth, as news, must be stated. The Celtic diamond squad has been working out daily for some time now in the gymnasium under the tutelage of the well-known and capable mentors, “Big Ed” Walsh and Tommy Mills.
With such coaches, the early attempt at practice, and with the material that is out this year, the prospects look exceptionally bright for another successful diamond season. Last year’s air-tight infield was left intact by 1927 June commencement exercises, and the outfield, although bereft of O’Boyle, Moore and Yore, can almost as adequately be replaced by^Wilson/Polisky, Moran or Burns.
The infield, led by Captain Joe Sullivan, sterling second sacker, seems to be of outstanding prominence insofar as the lineup is concerned. There remains Colerick at first, Captain Sullivan at second, Schrall at short, and Niemiec at third. Although both Colerick and Niemiec have been absent from daily practice because of sustained injuries in other sports, they are expected to don their uniforms and resume their positions on the diamond within the next few weeks.
The names of the men just mentioned are those of the veterans. If any of these - individuals should in any way be unable to fulfill their berths through some unlikely mishap, there will remain many anxious and competent hands to replace them. To render Colerick competition at first there are Ed Fuehery, Ray Smith and Tom Purcell. The substitutes for the keystone base include O’Keefe and Dorgan, and Leo Schrall has Joe Palermo and Benton to contend with for the short field job. Benedetto, Kelly and Griffin, Niemiec’s understudies last season, bid fair to occupy the same status this year.
On the mound, despite the fact that Steve Ronay, Elmer Besten and Bernie | Abbrott have departed, a flock of capable
twirlers still remain. Ed Walsh and
Joe Bob and
Jachym head the list, and young Walsh, Oscar Rust, Leonard Nulty ________
Lefty ’ Buckley follow closely in their footsteps.
To back these men up behind the plate there are Law and Lordi. Both are undeniably good backstops and the battle for suprenlacy in this field is going to be difficult indeed.
The schedule is one of the toughest and most comprehensive programs ever handed to a Blue and-Gold diamond aggregation. It consists of 39 games and it includes two trips. One of them is a jaunt to the South, and the other is an invasion of the East. Both trips are to usurp vacation periods so that very little time will be lost scholastically.
The schedule follows:
April 3, 4 and 5—Fort Benning at Fort Benning, Ga.
April 6 and 7—Louisiana State at Baton Rouge.
April 9 and 10—Loyola at New Orleans, La.
April 11 and 12—Spring Hill college at Mobile, Ala.
April 13—Vanderbilt at Nashville, Tenn. '
April 17—Kalamazoo college, here.
April 21—Iowa, here.
April 24—Western State Normal, here.
April 27—Wabash at Crawfordsville, Ind.
April 28—Butler at Indianapolis.
May 1—Minnesota, here.
May 4 and 5—West Virginia, here.
May 8—Wabash, here.
May 10—Luther, at Decorah, la.
May 11—Coe, Cedar Rapids, la. <
May 12—Iowa, at Iowa City.
May 14—Bradley, at Peoria, Ill.
May 15—Northwestern, at Evanston, Ill.
May 18—Illinois, at Urbana, Ill.
May 19—St. Viators at* Bourbannais, Ill.
May .22—Butler, here.
May 24—Michigan State, at East Lansing, Mich.
May 26—St. Viators, here.
June 1—Indiana, at Bloomington, Ind.
June 2—Michigan State, here.
June 5—Villanova, at Philadelphia, Pa.
June June June June June June June
6—Holy Cross, at Worcester.
7—Boston college, at Boston, Mass.
9—Harvard, at Boston, Mass.
11—New Hampshire, at Durham.
14—Providence, at Providence, R. I.
15—Amherst, at Amherst.
16—Cornell, at Ithaca, N. Y.
—R.P.D.
604	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	|
■'	= .....==fr ILLINOIS TRACK JINX UNBROKEN* 1
I i i
Neu) Spring Suits and Topcoats are Ready Now!
---0--
* I ’HE particular fellows who seek A the smartest will find these Suits and Topcoats just to their tastes. . . Imported and domestic fabrics. The hand tailoring assures fit and style.
Come and See Them
MAX ADLER COMPANY ON THE CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
NOTRE DAME HUMBLED 76-19 ‘ f
The Notre Dame track squad invaded 1 Champaigne last Saturday in another vain '1 attempt to terminate the jinx which has so f persistently clung to Blue and Gold track 'i teams in dual competition with the powerful Illinois cinder artists. The Notre Dame I tracksters performed courageously against | one of the outstanding track aggregations | in the nation, but the strength and experi- j ence of the Gillmen were handicaps which 4 proved too great to be overcome, and once ) more the Blue and Gold trackmen were , 1 forced to take the short end of a track score against the Illini. This time the ’ count was 76-19, but in spite of the Illinois ; majority the meet was exceptionally well ; contested nevertheless.	.	'
The fact that three Illinois armory ,■ records were broken during the course of , the meet gives an idea of the tense compe- ' tition that took place. Joe Abbott, Notre Dame’s star half-miler, earned a name for . himself when he led the field home in that. event to smash the old Illinois record with the splendid time of 1 minute, 58 3-10 seconds. Abbott took the lead at the start, and although pressed closely by White and Hamlett, his Illini opponents, was never headed, to finish his run with a beautiful sprint.
William and John Brown, Kelly, Boagne, Welchons, and Captain Griffin also showed up well for Notre Dame. Elder came through with flying colors in characteristic fashion in the 75 yard dash and was little extended to collect the other first place
Lineup and summary:
75 Yard Dash—Won by Elder, Notre Dame; Boague, Notre Dame, second; Hale, Illinois, third. Time, :07 6-10.
Mile Run—Won by Novak, Illinois; Stine, Illinois, second; W. Brown, Notre Dame, third. Time, 4:24.
75 Yard High Hurdles—Won by Rodgers, Illinois; Johnson, Illinois, second; Griffin, Notre Dame, third. Time, :09 8-5.
440 Yard Run—Won by Orlpvich, Illinois; Chambers, Illinois, second; Kelly, Notre Dame, third. , Time, :52 1-10.
880 Yard Run—Won by Abbott, Notre Dame; White, Illinois, second; Hamlett, Illinois, third. Time, 1:58 3-10.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
605
Illinois, second; J. Brown, Notre Dawe, third. Time, 9:29 3-10.
Mile Relay—Won by Illinois (Watson, Bergstrom, Chambers, Hamlett.) Time, 3:34 5-10.
Pole Vault—Barnes and Heinsen, Illinois ,tied for first; White, Illinois, third. Height, 12 feet 4 in.
High Jump—Carr and Wach-owski, Illinois, tied for first; Wel-chons, Notre Dame, third. Height, 5 feet 10 inches.
Shot Put—Won by Lyon, Illinois; Kimmel, Illinois, second; Repetti, Notre Dame, third. Distance, 6 feet 11 inches.
Broad Jump—Win by J. Simon, Illinois; Lee, Illinois, second; Sib-bitt, Illinois, third. Distance, 3 feet % inch.
Send Home Your Laundry in a Kwi^Pak Laundry Case
Lightweight—and that saves postage.
Durable enough to withstand the on- • slaughts of baggage smashers.
Only $2.2S in our Luggage Section on the third floor.
------o--- Coyne and See Us.
GEORGE WYMAN & CO.
GILBERT AD-WRITING CONTEST POPULAR
The best advertisement of the first week of the Gilbert’s Ad-Writing Contest was submitted by Charles McGurkin ■ of Walsh hall, a senior in the College of Commerce, it is announced by the judges. The winning ad appearing in the current issue of the Scholastic.
, The contest has aroused considerable interest among the students to judge by the number of ads entered in the contest. The competition will continue for five weeks and the best three of the five papers entered will be adjudged the winners of the prizes. The prizes are a Lear-bury spring model suit, a pair of Florsheim shoes and a Manhattan shirt.
The contest is limited to Notre Dame students. The ads entered must feature the desireability of wearing Lear-bury College Clothes and the advisability of buying clothes at the Gilbert store.
Colle
S. S. Ryndam— Sailing Sept. 19
Limited, to 375 Men Students
Enrolments accepted now for 1928 . . .
For further information write to your local representative UNIVERSITY TRAVEL ASSOCIATION 285 Madison Ave., New York City
HARLEY L. McDEVITT
425 WALSH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
606
OFFICE PHONE LINCOLN 1067
RESIDENCE PHONE LINCOLN 9553
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
DENTISTRY
Will Anyone Accept This Challenge?
701-702 j.M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA '
Larus & Bro. Co.
Richmond, Va.
Gentlemen:
I am a veteran
Columbia, S. D.
Sept. 9, 1926
Dr. Frank M. Powers
UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN
Edgeworth army, still in active service.
I make this claim, challenging all comers, to have smoked Edgeworth and nothing else but Edgeworth (when it was possible to get it) for a longer period than any other person within the scope of your territory.
I have smoked Edgeworth for twenty-one years and will soon start on the twenty-second.
I’ll admit to having tried other brands, includingso-termed high-class, high-priced blends and mixtures, enough to appreciate and satisfy myself of the superiority of Edgeworth.
In all these years I have never had
PHONE MAIN
0254
one can of Edgeworth that varied in flavor or otherwise.
Yours very truly, (signed) J. J. Roberts
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco

DR.
DR.
J. M. SINGLER
E. A. PROBST
DENTISTS
216 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENS
PATRONIZE
OFFICE PHONE MAIN 0689 RESIDENCE PHONE MAIN 1162
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
EYTRACTING—DISEASES AND SURGERf . OF THE MOUTH AND JAWS
X-RAYS
612 J M.S. BUILDING
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
The University Cafeteria
DAILY SPECIALS—PRICES TO SUIT EVERY WALLET
SODAS CIGARS
CANDIES NEWSPAPERS
.t
