THE SMART LOOKING
SUIT THAT YOU CAN
REALLY WASH *N WEAR BY PALM BEACH
AND ONLY $39.95
Years of Palm Beach lightweight tailoring know-how go into these wonderful lightweight suits . . . eleven special construction features that insure a long and useful life! So, here’s a wash and wear suit you can really count on ... to keep you cool . . . keep you looking smart . . . and insure a carefree summer. When this suit needs cleaning, simply toss it in the washer ... let it drip dry from a hanger . . . and its ready to wear with little or no ironing. Come in and try one on!
'‘GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dome
the Scholastic
k
“ Vol. 100 May 8, 1959 No. 22 —.............................
f	Dbee Qaari Semper Victuras
।	Vive Quan Cm Montura*
*	Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
PADRE PIO: Someone wrote that “the mills of the gods grind slowly, but they grind exceedingly fine.” This may very well be true but the rumor mills of Notre Dame were turning them out fast AND LARGE last week when a rumor concerning the Italian stigmatist, Padre Pio, circulated the campus. As far as we have been able -to find out the rumor is completely unsubstantiated. For those of you who haven't heard it, one version went something like this: on the coldest day in January World War III would start and continue for eleven days, after which it would take eleven months to bury the dead. Repeat, the rumor is unfounded and the general attitude towards it has been to let it die a natural death. We mention it here not for the pur-* pose of reviving it but because we got a kick out of some of the reactions. Ed Ric-ciuti of Sorin figured he’d get a machine gun and entrench himself in the backwoods of Ecuador. Several freshmen were consoled by one priest who told them not to worry, if they survive they’ll never have to fret, World War IV would be fought with bows and arrows.
BOB SEDLACK
b	Editor
I
f	LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
k	RON BLUBAUGH._____________News	Editor
V	WALT RUDGE________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.______________Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON.__________Sports	Editor
।	JON SIDDLE______________.Cover	Editor
'	DAVE SOMMER_______________Photography
।	PETER HASBROOK-----Business Manager
CONRAD SUSKI_____________Circulation
•’ ROY RUBELL____________Assistant	News
AL GENIESSE............Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK_____________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA___________Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER_________Assistant Features
p TOM ROSE_______________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER___________Assistant Sports
* BOB HORN.____________Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C. ..Moderator
MONOGRAM CLUB: Last week the campus once again witnessed the Monogram club initiations, those joyous, springtime festivals when three or four huge members gather around a little runt who has lettered in some minor sport for the express purpose of humiliating him. Three years ago these events were, perhaps, slightly humorous; now, they don’t seem quite so funny. The initiations seem to bring out the semi-sadistic natures of more than a few people on campus and serve no real purpose other than that of causing bottlenecks on the way to class. Even as late as last year, when a prominent football player was blind-folded and pushed from the balcony of the Field House onto a trampoline, causing him to miss spring practice, the initiations seemed to serve some purpose, even if it was maiming or killing. Since this noble end has been forgotten we suggest that the Monogram club cease and desist.
SENIOR THESIS: Now that they’re all finished and handed in (we hope), we feel safe to comment on the senior theses required by the College of Arts and Letters. We understand that, beginning next year, the thesis will not be mandatory in several departments; this seems to be a step in the right direction. Often enough the theses fail to achieve their original purpose, preparation for graduate work, and become nothing more than a stumbling block for the senior’s final semester and an unnecessary task for the already crowded hours of most teachers. Many of the graduating seniors will not be going on to graduate work, for one reason or another, and the ones who do plan on grad school are, generally, quite well prepared anyway.
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
4
. NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade ' Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Bob Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
’ SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, > Dick Coho, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William * Reagan, George Vqris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Pres* Asmoatioa and Asmciated Collegiate Press. Represented for » ticaal advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
■ THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly duriM the ; school year, except during vacation and irraiwi—
hen peraxfc, at the University at. Notre Deme. ■I Sufaeciiptiun rate, 95.00 a year. Address all am! sodpti to the E«Etor, Ben 185, Notre Dame, ladmaa.
■j ■J	'	■ I	I....—
j May 8, 1959
DANCES: The Junior Prom, last week, which was originally scheduled for the Drill Hall and later switched to the LaFortune Student Center, was the occasion for many remarks concerning the dancing facilities at Notre Dame. Although some thought = the Student Center was not suitable for the large band, it is immensely superior to . the Drill Hall as a setting for a dance, especially a big dance, as the Junior Prom is. The New Dining Hall, which is perhaps the best suited place on campus to hold large dances, has not and most probably will not be made available to more than one ortwo dances a year. This year only one such dance was to have taken place there.
Originally the senior ball was to have been that one dance, but the class officers ; waived the option to the Mardi Gras committee. When the latter dance was so sue-' cessful, the seniors requested and gained permission to hold their spring dance in' the New Dining Hall also.	_	■ . .
The main drawback to the holding of more dances there is that it causes many dif-Acuities to the staff of the Dining Hall. These include the temporary laying off. of , certain employees, the closing down of lines for two meals, the need for extra sweep- ~. ers to be hired to clean and polish the floor during the night,, or in general an ex- * ; pensive disruption of the routine of the New Dining HalL Even though this expense ' is paid by the dance committee, the extra expense and confusion which result limit " the possibilities of the New Dining Hall as the scene for the major dances even though it is objectively the building with the best facilities to held the large dances;
'	—s.*a
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales Brasso, ROTC Collar Insignia All Officer Insignia Collar Straps Blitz Cloth You Save Every day at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
OUR COVER
This week's cover by Cover Editor Jon Siddle is a representation of the Senior Ball week end which begins tonight.
This cover consists of three panels, each in a different color and each representing one day of the big week end. The first panel, in blue, shows the Friday night dance. The yellow sun shines down on the beach, a usual destination for the senior and his date on Saturday. Finally, the last panel represents a Church and the traditional Sunday Mass.
1GDM Msad
OfstoH way-
U3MSNV*1GDM
K3DL (CROSSWORD No. 23
ACROSS
L Blow taken by scapegoats
4. Goes AWOL
8.	Enraptured
9.	Combo
10.	Khan and others
11.	She’s a mixed-up dean
12.	Isn’t it time you 	a Kobi?
13.	For the discriminating beer drinker
14.	An almost famous fellow
16. The time there will be in the old town tonight
18.	Mysterious non-Ava Gardner
19.	Hand a line
21. Performed an elbow operation
23.	New Haven-ite
24.	Kind word for a prof
25.	Break to follow up with a Kobi
28. In_________ by oneself
31.	Irish expletive (var.)
32.	Which was to be demonstrated (L. abbr.)
34.	Little Edith
35.	How Miami got started
36.	2 doz. sheets of paper
38.	French one(fem.)
39.	Famous novel about Willie’s kinfolk
42.	Take it off
43.	Que_____vous?
44.	Your one and only. Easy now!
45.	Vegetable that sounds like an . oompah-maker
DOWN
1.	Cuba has a new________
2.	Author of
39 Across
3.	Small units of whiskey (abbr.)
4.	It has a tip, but no filter
5.	Your no-degree days
6.	What icy fingers make you do
7.	Put on an act
8.	The green stuff
15.	Wonder drug
16.	She’s companion
17.	Small town
18.	Roman official who’s mostly idle (var.)
20. What you must never say
22. California university
25.	You may be here now
26.	It’s no Occident
27.	This should make things even
28.	Alone, no place to go
29.	Why can’t you behave?
30.	Plant ’em now, dig 'em later
33. One German
36. Square at some colleges
37. He just wanted pottage
40. Portuguese India
41. Kind of Arts (abbr.)
10
12
19
25
31
ARE VOU KCDL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?”
17
21
28
27
45
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER*
35
39
42
32
43
22
24
37
SWITCH FROM
KGDL
• Finest leaf tobacco.. .mild refreshing menthol and the worldb most thoroughly tested filter!
your throat refreshed!
Americas Most- ‘Refreshing Cgaidfe,
13
KGDL
mkomcnthol

4
The Scholastic
a baedeker
A
of sorts
by JOHN BELLAIRS
In my callow (this is not a misprint of either sallow or tallow) youth, four * years ago this month, I was waiting to he admitted to this Cathedral of Learn-r' ing. In the months prior to my accept-» ance, my mail consisted mainly of Gil-1 beri’s blotters and browser cards (which entitle one to a free pluck at the material of an Ivy League suit). However, in the midst of this torrent of commercialism, I found a soothing oasis in the form of , the “Facts for Freshmen” manual, * which introduced me to campus life in a tone of carefree and mischievous humor usually found only in the pages of “The Hardy Boys at Miserly Old Mr. Crimp’s Farm.” The one fault I can find in this journalistic touchstone is its peripheral and sparse treatment of the . metropolis which lies at our feet as an ermine-covered footstool rests at the feet of an enthroned empress — South Bend. I have decided, therefore, to call upon the Handmaid of the Muses (who comes in twice a week to clean the room) to give me the power to aptly present South Bend to the unwary freshman. Here, then, is the Official Bellairs Guide to * South Bend and Environs with Appropriate Remarks and Snappy Dialogue.
A GUIDE TO SOUTH BEND
History: In 1751, a deserter from the French and Indian Army named Beeg * Pierre LeBourgeois wandered lost and hungry by the southernmost bend of the St. Joseph River (known to the local Ink dians as Ummeukkeblaha or Brown-Water-With-Smell-That-Ki Ils). At this place he met a group of Indians who , lived on the shores of the river as part of a three-year ordeal required by the i, tribe of all those who sought manhood. ' Pierre was taken in by the kindly (and < by then somewhat demented) aborigines, on condition that he play a hand of chemin-de-fer with them to see who . would get the land on which they were camped. Pierre lost, and when he found himself in possession of this vast tract ' of wooded marshland he decided to found South- Bend out of sheer boredom. The j human detritus of wagon trains and ' scalping parties gradually gathered at ; this rude frontier town, which slowly
May 8, 1959
grew to be a rude Midwestern town of some size. In the 1850’s this city was the storm center* for a violent dispute between Illinois and Ohio over the possession of Indiana. Illinois said that if Ohio did not take Indiana it (Ohio) would not be allowed to be carved out of the Northwest Territory. Ohio kicked its foot petulantly (quite a sight in those days) and refused. Eventually the Hoosier State was forced to fend for itself since its sister states would not adopt it, but it got even by becoming the most thoroughly Midwestern state in the country — mainly due to South Bend’s gem-like mediocrity.
General Information: South Bend, pop. 115,900 (except during football week ends and pea-shucking bees) -Res (sullenly, one might imagine) -in the elbow-bend of the St. Joe Rivgr as .undigested food lies at the bottom of one’s stomach. It contains the Flimset Bundle Factory (their motto: When bigger bundles are bumb — bibber blubbers — oh, well), the Collapsible Thumbtack Works, and the Adobe Land Flattening Works.
GUIDE TO SHOPS AND
NIGHT LIFE:
Many places have become known to students for their wide assortment of wares, courteous and prompt service, and all-around nice attitude. Among these are:
The Old Traditional Candy Shoppe, whose fine assortment of expensively-packaged jellybeans has delighted N. D. students from the time of the Gipper to the present. Students have long thrilled to the Old-World charm which is reflected in the attitude of the delightfully surly manager and the quaintly inefficient clerks. The high point of the year at this approved “hang-out” is the raffling off of a 634 pound brown sugar statue of Knute Rockne which glows in the dark (until eaten).
The Crotchety Notions Shop, operated by Miss Wenceslava Bozny, who has for years sold those little things which one would not expect to find in a store, among them being rug-hooking hooks, Balaclava helmets, and Victorian lamp- -shades. In Miss Bozny’s shop I mar
veled at my inability to buy anything • worthwhile and at the sweet old lady’s inability to speak anything but East Latvian. But that is part of the charm of a cosmopolitan city.
The Oat Room, a plush but popular restaurant, has been a favorite dining place for years. The red damask upholstery and crystal chandeliers are pleasantly set off by the overalls-clad patrons who staunchly refuse to shed their badge of honest toil. At an adjacent table, for instance, one may find Farmer Fodderbin munching a chaw of Mail Pouch while snapping his galluses in time with the music of the organist. These folks, with their air of soil-rooted sturdiness, give a homy quality to any fancy eating place.
It was at this very restaurant that I overheard a fascinating dialogue which brought home to me the steel-like discipline and unflinching morality of the city’s restauranteurs. Allow me to reconstruct this scene.
Place: The Oat Room Cocktail Lounge.
Time: 7 p.m.
(Enter a youngish salesman from Poughkeepsie, N.Y., carrying his briefcase. He sits at a table and a waitress demurely approaches. Her tone of voice is like that of a flophouse keeper turning out some deadbeats.)
Waitress: I-D, BUDDY!
Salesman (tremulously): Well, here’s : my draft card and my. . .
Waitress (same tone, a little lower): I mean yer Noter Dame I-D, kid?
Salesman (flinching): But I’m not a ; student here. I. . .	>
Waitress (sarcastically) : Just passing	. :
through? From New York? You gotta ; do better than that, kid, now either. . .	•
Salesman (on the point of tears): Please, Madam. ...	-
And so it went. But it is a comfort J to know that youthful drinkers are be- ; ing thwarted.	-
On (hqiQe M^Shuihian (By the Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, "Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
THE MANY LOVES OF THORWALD DOCKSTADER
When Thorwald Dockstader—sophomore, epicure, and sportsman—first took up smoking, he did not simply choose the first brand of cigarettes that came to hand. He did what any sophomore, epicure, and sportsman would do: he sampled several brands and then picked the mildest, tastiest, pleasingest of all— Philip Morris, of corris!
Similarly, when Thorwald took up girls, he did not simply select the first one who came along. He sampled. First he took out an English literature major named Elizabeth Barrett Grisht, a wisp of a girl with luminous eyes and a soul that shimmered with a pale, unearthly beauty. Trippingly, trippingly, she walked with Thorwald upon the beach and sat with him behind a windward dune and listened to a sea shell and sighed sweetly and took out a little gold pencil and a little morocco notebook and WTOte a little poem:
I will lie upon the shore, I will be a dreamer.
I will feel the sea once more Pounding on my femur.
Thorwald’s second date was with a physical education major named Peaches Glendower, a broth of a girl with a ready smile and a
size 18 neck. She took Thorwald down to the cinder track where they jogged around 50 times to open the pores. Then they played four games of squash, six sets of tennis, 36 holes of golf, nine innings of one old cat, six chukkers of lacrosse, and a mile and a quarter of leap frog. Then they went ten rounds with eightounce gloves and then they had heaping bowls of bran and whey and exchanged
* * *
Anybody is rich enough for Philip Morris—and for Philip Morris’ brother cigarette, filter-tip Marlboro, the cigarette with better “makin’f*. The flavor’s fine, the filter filters, the price is right.
a manly handshake and went home to their respective whirlpool baths.
Thorwald’s final date was with a goldenhaired, creamy-browed, green-eyed, redlipped, full-calved girl named Totsi Siga-foos. Totsi was not majoring in anything. As she often said, “Gee whillikers, what’s college for anyhow7—to fill your head full of icky old facts, or to discover the shining essence that is YOU?”
Totsi started the evening with Thorwald at a luxurious restaurant where she consumed her own weight in Cornish rock hen. From there they went to a de luxe movie palace where Totsi had popcorn with butter. Then she had a bag of chocolate covered raisins—also with butter. Then they went to a costly ballroom and cha-cha’d till dawn, tipping the band every eight bars. Then they went to a Chinese restaurant where Totsi, unable to decipher the large and baffling menu, found a simple way out of her dilemma:

she ordered one of everything. Then Thorwald took her to the women’s dorm, boosted her in the window, and went downtown to wait for the employment office to open.
While waiting, Thorwald thought over all of his girls and came to a sensible decision. “I think,” he said to himself, “that I will stick with Philip Morris. I am not rich enough for girls.”
© 1959 Max Shulman
AT THE GALLERY May 3-24
The Annual Exhibition of Student Art Work and a collection of “Primitive Art in Transition,” loaned by Dr. Daniel Crowley
May 31
Arts works by members of the University faculty
Dear Sir:
In my article on the Wranglers which appeared last week were a few phrases which I did not write, and some changes in syntax and wording. I can probably attribute the errors to the fact that, because of a lack of time, I gave your agent , the hand-written manuscript instead of typing it over again. Most of them are not serious changes, but two of them I would like to point out and disown. In the section where I described a weekly meeting I am made to say that the majority of the members are not serious; this was not my intention at all, I was merely trying to give a humorous impression of a weekly ritual which is highly susceptible to humorous satire. In this connection, the quotation marks around “discussion” are not mine either.
Secondly, in the paragraph concerning the annual banquet appears this sentence: “A good time is had by all, and it’s almost free (if you discount hangovers).” The phrase in parentheses is both irrelevant and vulgar; I am sure it is not mine. This ill-fated phrase was intended to mention the charge covering the dinner.
I would not trouble you by writing except that these unfortunate but unim-putable errors coming in the most sensitive parts have largely transformed the ambiguous tone of the piece and have caused consternation in some people whose displeasure and disappointment should not be taken lightly.
Bob Ghelardi, 236 Walsh Hall
Ed. Note — The Scholastic is sorry that it added these troublesome phrases to Bob Ghelardi’s article. However, we do not feel that they were much out of keeping with the general tone of the article. What we regret more is that we did not consider the intellectual value and prestige of the Wranglers when we printed the article itself, which, to the uninitiated, tended to give the wrong impression about one of the campus’ most distinguished and serious organizations.
I SENIORS ‘REFLECT’ TONIGHT IN NEW CAMPUS BALLROOM
Dining Hall Scene Prepared to Receive Ball-goers; ‘ Brown's 'Band of Renown' to Provide Mood for Couples
"Reflections,” the 1959 Senior Ball week end, opens tonight with the Ball in the New Dining Hall. The week end will continue on Saturday with the Old-Timers game in the Stadium and picknicking at the dunes, followed by the Dinner Dance at the Erskine Country Club on Saturday night. Sunday morning the activities will be culminated with a Communion Breakfast in the New Dining Hall.
This evening, 650 couples will dance to the music of Les Brown and his “Band of Renown” in the “University’s New Ballroom” from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. Brown’s last appearance on the Notre Dame campus was in 1956. Brown’s greatest composition is “Sentimental Journey.” Les Brown plays tenor sax and features Stumpy Brown as bass trombonist and Jo Ann Greer as vocalist.
Highlight of the Ball will be the crowning of Miss Mary Barbara Morris as Queen. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will crown her. Miss Morris is from Port Huron, Mich, and is a junior at Eastern Michigan College. She will be escorted
QUEEN MARY MORRIS . . . Crowned
by Hugh T. Murphy, general chairman of the week end.
Chaperones for the Ball will be Dr. and Mrs. William Burke, Dr. and Mrs. Edward Cronin, and Dr. and Mrs. Paul Montavon. Parents of the committee members will be honored guests.
Saturday evening, 250 couples will dine and dance at the Erskine Country Club. The buffet dinner will be served from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m. Dancing to the music of Gene Bertoncini and the “Lettermen” will take place from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. There will be 1:00 a.m. permissions for all seniors on this evening. The entertainment during the intermission will be provided by members of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Chairman of the Dinner-Dance is Bill Whaley.
Sunday morning, the Rev. Glenn R. Boarman, C.S.C., prefect of religion and senior class chaplain, will offer the 8:00 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church for the seniors and their dates. A Communion Breakfast in the New Dining Hall will follow immediately after the Mass. Guest speaker for the Breakfast will be the Most Rev. Leo C. Byrne, Auxiliary Bishop of St. Louis. John Peter Moran is in charge of arrangements for the Communion Breakfast.
Other- committee members are: Don Gillies, executive chairman; Jerry Be-champs, tickets; Bob Becker, decorations; Joe Mulligan, publicity and refreshments; Jim Rhadigan, hotels and entertainment; Tom Smith, decorations; and Jim Sutter, business.
IF YOU DON’T LIKE IT . . .
write it. Manuscripts for the “Back Page" and the “Escape" columns of the SCHOLASTIC are now being accepted. Those interested in writing for either of these two columns are urged to send a sample work to 309 Pangborn as soon as possible.
In order to present the best possible columns next year the editors hope that a large number of students will submit their work. Manuscripts not selected for publication will be returned with criticism.
IES BROWN ‘Sentimental Journey’ for Seniors.
Walsh Elected Presideat Of Campus Aesculapiaus
Greg Walsh, a senior pre-med from Los Angeles has been elected the new president of the Aesculapian club. This club of students studying in the school of science as preparation for medical school attempts to acquaint its members with the profession which they plan to enter.	.
Other newly elected officers are Len Heartfield, senior from Port Arthur, Tex., as vice-president; Dick Sabo, the secretary, is a junior from Bozeman, Mont.; treasurer, Anthony Schilling, Belleville, Ill.; and three trustees, John Killilea, Fred Weigand, and Bill Roche.
The Aesculupians present a program of speakers each year to give the students an idea of medical life. Both faculty and students from medical schools speak to the pre-meds as well as specialists in certain medical fields. Professors from the University also speak on related topics such as the “Doctor’s Role in Society.”
In addition to these activities the Aesculupians are in charge of the advisory program for pre-meds. Next year President Walsh, who is also the science senator, hopes to include some noted speakers at his meetings, particularly psychiatrists.
A junior physics major from Mt. Vernon, N.Y., was elected president of the Notre Dame Physics club.	-
The new vice-president is Eugene Spe-jewski, a junior physics major from Chi- . cago, Ill. The secretary is Robert Hord, a science major from Dayton, Ohio. Leonard Delvecchio, a freshman science major from Bridgeport, Conn., was elected treasurer.	*
An informal banquet will be held on May 13, at Giuseppe’s for the introduction of the new officers.	.
7
May 8, 1959
Academy of Political Science Beets Officers; Fall to See Chasing of Secretary, Treasurer
Notre Dame’s Academy of Political Science has chosen its new president and vice-president for next year. The positions of secretary and treasurer will be filled in the fall.
President for 1959-60 will be Lai*ry Turner, a junior from Golden Beach, Fla. Serving as vice-president will be
PRESIDENT LARRY TURNER Looking toward ’60.
Bill Mapother, a junior and Dean’s List student from Louisville, Ky., who is also secretary-treasurer of the Kentucky club. -
According to present plans, next year’s Political Science Academy will try to emphasize more active participation in politics by its members. It is felt that the past policies of the Academy have put too much emphasis on theory at the expense of attention to positive and practical political activities.
The expanded plans for next year tentatively include a trip to observe the action of the Michigan state legislature, which convenes next year in that state’s capital at Lansing. Also, the Academy will try to engage a greater number of “name” and controversial speakers.
In the future, political science students at St. Mary’s College will be invited to attend the Academy’s meetings.
Biggest event held by the Academy next year is likely to be the mock con-
’59 DOME WRAPPED UP
The 1959 edition of the DOME has now completely gone to press with an exciting new look. The use of a flare design has altered the layout and has given a smooth yet dynamic look to this year’s yearbook. The books will be distributed in mid-May, before exams.
vention. The last such mock convention was held here in the election year of 1956 and was supervised by Professor Paul Bartholomew. It was immensely popular with the entire student body.
Delegates chosen from every hall will “nominate” the presidential candidate for either the Republican or Democratic party. The party selected for the mock convention will sponsor the affair, and numerous well-known speakers will address the assembly. Preliminary plans for the affair, which will probably be held early next April, are already being made.
This year’s president of the Academy of Political Science has been Doug Gonzales. Among the projects carried out by Gonzales and his administration was the partisan political clubs motion which was put up before both the student government and the University Council and successfully passed both. Constitutions for both the Young Democrats and the Young Republicans have been dr-awn up and the formation of these organizations will take place next year.
Catholic Grads Receive Law Scholarships Here
Three young men who will graduate from Catholic colleges and universities in June have been awarded William J. Brennan Law Scholarships in the Notre Dame Law School, according to an announcement today by Dean Joseph O’Meara.
The grants, which are valued at nearly $5,000 each, were established in 1956 in honor of Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan. Awarded annually by the University of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Law Association, they provide full tuition for three years plus an annual cash amount of $750.
Brennan scholarship winners are George G. Dittrich, a student at Providence (R.I.) College; William E. Donovan, currently studying at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C.; and Ivan L. Otto, Ackley Road, Parma, Ohio, a senior at John Carroll University, Cleveland.
According to Dean O’Meara, the Brennan scholarships are awarded on a competitive basis to graduates of American Catholic colleges or universities who have distinguished themselves in academic work and in extracurricular activities. A candidate must be in the upper 10% of his class and be nominated for the scholarship by his dean or his prelaw advisor.
Dittrich is an Army veteran, a member of Delta Epsilon Sigma, the Catholic honor society, and a staff member of the Providence College yearbook. Donovan has helped edit the Georgetown yearbook and has been active in Army ROTC affairs on the campus. Otto is secretary of John Carroll’s senior class, senior editor of the school paper, and a cadet colonel in the Army ROTC.
CALENDAR	<
TONIGHT:	4
8:30 p.m.—The University Theatre pre-
sents “The Boy Friend” in Washington Hall. Tickets are available in the Washington Hall box office.
10-2:00 a.m.—The Senior Ball “Reflec- : tions” in the New Dining Hall. .4 Music by the Les Brown Orchestra. -
SATURDAY:	*
2:00 p.m.—Old-Timers football game in ■ the Stadium. Students admitted free. After game: Student government “Coffee Hour” in the Student Center.
8:30 p.m.—The University Theatre pre- , sents “The Boy Friend” in Washing- ' ton Hall.
SUNDAY:	X
9:30 a.m.—Senior week end Communion •' Breakfast, after the 8:00 a.m. Mass, in the New Dining Hall.	<
MONDAY:
7:45 p.m.—Student Senate meeting in the Student Center amphitheatre.	;
TUESDAY:
8:00 p.m.—Prof. Ernest H. Brandl pre-, sents the second Mariology Lecture, , “The Woman Clothed With the ; Sun,” in the O’Shaughnessy Art Gal- / ; lery.	£*
8:00 p.m.—Graduate student meeting in ?
2A-B of the Student Center. i
WEDNESDAY:	;
7:00 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in the; Student Center.
THURSDAY:
6:30 p.m.—Monogram club banquet at Eddie’s. Father Tom Brennan, Sr.,: C.S.C., will be the toastmaster. For- • mer football player and Monogram club member, Jack Elder, will de- . < liver the main address.	_■
Mulhall Chosen CCD Leader During Midsemester Election n
Recently, the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine held its elections for the ' ’ executive board positions for the 1959- . 60 school year. Selected as president was Mike Mulhall. Mike has served as high school commissioner this year, and in tiie past has had much active teaching . experience.	'
Vice-president for next year is Bill Stehle, who will fill this position for the * second consecutive year. John Akalaitis became a new addition to the board at the position of treasurer.
Mike Murphy will retain his position -as helper chairman for another year. In this capacity, Murphy organizes religious f and social activities for the high school^ students taught by the CCD units. i
Chairman of the Fisher commission, which lays the groundwork for the ac-? tual teaching in the parishes and handles | special problems which may arise, will | be Ed Kearse. Rounding out the execu-S tive board will be Marv Him and Dave| Wehlage, who will serve as high school f chairman and grade school chairman, £ respectively.	f
The Scholastic^
> New Grading System Works, Corboci Reveals; - Profs. 'Certainly Pleased' With Early Results
Leo Corbaci, assistant to the vice • president of academic affairs, announced this week that the new Uni-* versity grading system is an “overwhelming success” and that the faculty is “certainly pleased with it.”
“The new system,” he said, “has accomplished all of its objectives: a wider grade spread, elimination of the abuses of the old system, more recognition of course credit hours, and a better rec-* ognition of the very superior student.”
He released at the same time the lat->• est figures on the new system. While the curve formeci by the old system was heavily concentrated at the middle, the new grade curve has a normal distri-' bution.
* SMOOTHER CURVE
K During the 1957-58 grading period 84.4 per cent of the students fell within the 75 to 89 per cent range. This year only 68.3 per cent are between the com-
NEW SYSTEM AVERAGES
Averages for the various classes and colleges are as follows:
Colleges
Arts and Letters ........3.116
Science ............... 3.121
Commerce ...............2.815
Engineering ............2.750
Classes
Seniors ................3.291
Juniors ................3.039
Sophomores .............2.901
Freshmen ...............2.634
, parable 2 to 4 range. Of this year’s students, 15.3 per cent were within the 5 , to 6 range as compared to 5.1 per cent within the similar 90 to 100 per cent range of last year.
Similarly, 16.4 per cent of this year’s students are within the 1 to 0 range as compared to 10.5 per cent last year. There were 14 times as many students in the 6 range as there were in the simi-, lar grade range last year. Also, there were 1.8 times as many in the 0 range. Thus, the curve has been lowered in the middle and raised at either end.
The University average has basically remained unchanged. It has gone from *• an 81 per eent to a 2.966, or has involved a change of only one percentage u point. The averages are not comparable however, since grades are now weighted by credit hours and the new averages are based on one semester.
While in 1957-58 school year 299 students were on probation, this year 418 are on the probation list. This involves an increase of 119 over last year’s number. The grade average for students on probation is 1.5.
Although the Dean’s List is based on
May 8, 1959
a complete year’s work, it is assumed that if this semester’s averages are comparable to last, there will be a drop in the number- of Dean’s List men. Last year 15 per cent of the eligible students were on the Dean’s List. This year the figure will be nearer 11 per cent.
The vice president’s assistant announced that for the present, there will definitely be no changes in the system. The faculty seems to be well pleased with the new system, he said. “We have had overwhelming support for it and so far, absolutely no complaints.”
Dudley Chosen to Supervise Next Year's Hall Presidents
Next year’s chairman of the Hall President’s Council is Ted Dudley, a junior marketing major from Newhall, Cal. and Howard Hall.
Dudley was president of Breen-Phillips Hall and was twice elected a stay member of the Hall President’s Council for his sophomore and junior years. He has been a member of the Senate social commission for the past two years and has participated in the freshman and sophomore class councils.
Dudley plans to head a “co-operative group to educate the new presidents in the better ways of running a hall.” He will emphasize the active rather than the passive. Believing that the purpose of the hall president is the initiation and co-ordination of activities within the hall, he plans to represent the halls in anything that will concern them as such. In this way, he feels that the religious, academic, social, and athletic programs can be delt with on a practical and immediately obtainable level.
This year’s chairman of the council was Karl Mangold, a pre-med senior from White Plains, N. Y.
CHAIRMAN TED DUDLEY Leader among presidents.
Or Kecord
According to SBP Denny Shaul, there are two thoughts which present themselves to an incoming president. One is a sense of awe, almost to the point of terror, for the size of the job confronting him. The other is a temptation to trust that the Senate will organize itself and proceed under the power of its own ambition. Fortunately, Shaul has not let either of these thoughts become traumatic.
He brushed away the first, I think, by “casting out into the deep” to face the tasks as they came and thus avoided getting tangled in his own net by staying in the shallow waters of caution. Shaul forced out the temptation to be little more than a spectator in relation to the Senate by keeping constantly in mind the mistakes of his predecessors, who all too often left the senators to themselves with the inevitable result that the Senate had one good month, March (election month), and eight bad ones.
By his own admission, Shaul has often been overly severe. However, his constant prodding has paid off in sparkling results. He feels that there was only one meeting which was really disheartening — the infamous “Bookstore meeting” (Scholastic, Oct. 24). Never was any meeting postponed for lack of a quorum.
The more tangible results speak for themselves : partisan political clubs, the foreign student leadership program, increased student government scholarship aid, improvements in the program of the academic commission, plans for a University organ of opinion, an insurance plan which would see a student through to his degree in the event of the family breadwinner’s death, and so on, practically ad infinitum.
From this list of Senate accomplishments we can get some indication of how closely Shaul followed his precept that the number one job of the president is to keep the Senate on its toes.
Of course, Shaul’s work extended beyond the confines of the campus. For example, he was away nearly every week end during the first semester, speaking at various colleges on the problems in the academic field which student govern- ' ment can and should be solving. This is Shaul’s main concern for student government in the future: a program to spark a real academic awareness. He dreams of projects like student art exhibits and student government sponsored travel programs.
Congratulations, and thanks, Mr. President, for a job well done!
9-
EUROPE
Dublin to the Iran Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups. Ako shorter trips $724 - $1390. EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadena, CaL
IHO SMD IT HOST’
A column of incidental intelligence brand
"GENTLEMAN AND SCHOLAR" High praise, indeed, for any man! But did you know that the description comes from Robert Burns—who said it first about a dog? Here's the quote: "His locked, lettered, brow brass collar
Showed him the gentleman and scholar."
You'll find the couplet in Burns' "The Twa Dogs."
J. PAUL Sheedy,* hair expert, says: "Quack down on that messy hair with Wildroot Cream-Oil.”
*oflSI Sc, Harri* Hill Rd., Wiiliamaville, K. T.
Just a little b>t of Wildroot and...WOW J
"THE MORNING AFTER"
This horrible time was first immortalized by George Ade in "The Sultan of Sulu." Here's the way he put it:
"But, R-E-M-O-R-S-E!
The water-wagon is the place for me;
It is no time for mirth and laughter.
The cold, gray dawn of the morning after!"
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
* City of God
St. Augustine
* The Russian Revolution
Leon Trotsky
* Barefoot Boy with Cheek
Max Shulman
* Dubliners
James Joyce
* The Great Gatsby
F. Scott Fitzgerald
* Men at War
Ernest Hemingway et al
* The Origins of Totalitarianism Hannah Arendt
Save Time and Money Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE oN-tfce-compvs
"MAN BITES DOG"
That's everybody's definition of news, and we're all indebted to John B. Bogart, city editor of the old New York Sun (1873-90) who first said:
"When a dog bites a man, that is not news, because it happens so often. But if a man bites a dog, that is news!"
Jocktq underwear
BRAND W	,
What's true about expressions is also true about styles. Somebody always got there first. Take Jockey brand underwear. Jockey brand is made only by Coopers. Coopers invented Jockey underwear—and no copy can compare with Jockey brand for quality, comfort and fit. For underwear that feels better because it fits better, insist on Jockey brand — the original comfort-tailored underwear. You'll find it at better stores everywhere. Recognize it by the Jockey trade mark.
fashioned by the house of
10
The Scholastic
. . . ONE YEAR
by DENNIS SHAUL
► Thursday, April 23, put an end to an abundant flow of printed material which had been sliding under my door for a week; it also marked the end of my year in office. It is not easy to evaluate that year fully and fairly. One remembers the time spent, the week ends away, the infinite minutia, the endless letters — and these must be seen as the debits. Yet it is not enough to weigh the year with only one side of the scale; certainly the year had its credits. It has been an honor M to serve the University. Many times during the year I have felt that we were accomplishing something worthwhile, something that affected the students directly. This satisfaction has balanced the account.
There are things about the year that are very regrettable. k Certainly all of us regret that there was only one candidate for the position of student body president. In part, this is a . measure of the respect this candidate enjoys. In part, too, it ' is a symptom of a student government disease. We are much too much a closed corporation. By election time there are usually only one, two, or three qualified candidates for studentbody president. If one or two of them decides not to run, then there is no contest. But it is easier to diagnose the illness than to prescribe a remedy. We could establish political parties on the campus — yet the disadvantages of this (e.g., what „ coherent set of issues would divide the parties? — party slates pull in the very poor with the good) seem to outweigh the advantages. We could waive the rule that says a candidate must have been a senator, a commissioner, or a hall president, but then we run the risk of having a student body president totally without experience.
“We could make the position more desirable by making it a paying position, but this would attract those who want the money of the office and not its work. In the end we fall back on an old statement: better candidates must be encouraged to run for minor offices — hall presidents, hall senators — especially in the sophomore and junior years. And let me give this statement a new twist — we should all do away with a certain amount of political embarrassment. Good men should i not be afraid to be ambitious, to set their minds quietly, determinedly on being student body president. I am not saying that this should be theii* desire to the exclusion of prime goals, but I do say that if people can, without embarrassment, in , their freshman and sophomore years, aspire to be Dome or Scholastic editor, why can’t this be true of freshmen or sophomores in student government?
There are also some other structural improvements to be made. When I came into office last year, I cut the number of commissioners nearly in half. This chopping has had great t success. It has done away with some of the top-heaviness of the organization. It has cut inefficiency and for the most part ; has made the five remaining commissioner positions (social, public relations, student affairs, academic, spiritual) more desirable because of their greater prestige. I would recommend that the public relations commission be abolished and be incorporated under the student affairs commission. There is not enough work to justify its present status.
Unquestionably, too, the student court should be abolished. This whole structure hangs on as a symbol of a day long since past. The framers of constitutions invariably feel that they have to model their own work after the federal constitution.
This has resulted in our case in a three-branch system of government. The student court has been practically non-existent for years. At the beginning of this year we established a committee to investigate the court and determine its functions. The committee named a few functions and recommended that the court be maintained for a year. The year has proven that there is really no justification for the court. Oaths can he administered by the student body president; election disputes can be settled by a senate committee; troubles over campus clubs can be settled under the office of student affairs commissioner.
The commission system is now at its greatest position of strength. In fact, it is also the strongest arm of student government. The social commission has had a great year. More big entertainment has been held on the campus this year than in any past year. The result has been an excellent response from the student body. Following the pattern set this year, in future years, fewer large Center parties should be held in the spring. The commission should concentrate on big name entertainment and a few novel Center parties. The student affairs commission, newly-formed this year as a combination of many old positions has worked well. The Jazz Festival gained a good response. The commission should now concentrate on cultural activities, inviting student participation in such things as art exhibits and music programs. Emphasis should also be placed on the education of students for summer travel. More should be done to encourage and prepare students to travel in tours or individually in the States or abroad.
The work of the spiritual commission is pretty well laid out and not subject to great change. Certainly its work is important and substantial enough to keep a commissioner and commission busy. Probably the commission has never worked better, or harder, than it did this year. The academic commission made progress this year, but there is still much work to be done. Care must be taken to insure that the Student Forum does not die. Hall lectures are working well but only in certain places. The question of college honor societies is the still unsolved. There is so much work to be done here, and need for great imaginations. It is the field where student government should make its greatest progress.
As one leaving office, and one who has spent two years in the student Senate, I must confess that it'is this body that most worries me. To begin with, the Senate is too large a body. Students are represented by hall, class, and college. In most cases, they are triply represented. In some cases their representation is quadruple, because of stay-senators. There seems little need for a class president to be in the Senate. His duties are absorbing enough; little legislation, if any, ever comes up that touches a class as a class directly. One also wonders whether there is a need for college senators. It would be my recommendation that the Senate seriously consider the question of representation next year.
But the problem of representation is only one aspect of the total problem involved with the Senate. A good deal of the problem rests in just what should the Senate be doing, ami further in the question of whether there is enough to keep it busy every week. Several suggestions appear here. First,
(Continued on page 16)
JI
May 8, 1959
A Report: II
CUBA
by BRUCE BABBIT and JAMES ROSE
An example of a typical day we spent in Cuba would consist of early morning Mass at the Chapel of the Agru-pacion followed by a briefing conference at the American Embassy where we learned the background of the particular people we were to interview for the remainder of the day. Often, contacts for us were made through the United States Information Service, in addition to obtaining information about the education, position, and financial and philosophical commitment of the people we interviewed.
Because we hadn’t completely adopted the eating habits of the country, we usually had a light American lunch in the virtually deserted dining room of the Havana Hilton. One day, a chance street meeting with the editor of the largest Carribean newspaper (the Diario de la Marina, second oldest newspaper in the Western hemisphere) led to a lengthy conference with an assistant editor in the midst of a stormy labor difficulty (see this week’s Chicago Tribune for a report of the difficulty of two Havana newspapers with their workers). A knowledgeable Jesuit we met in the newspaper office gave us a ride to the University, where at a diner we met the twenty-seven-year-old military attache to Spain. We never knew where or when we would eat supper. Usually about ten o’clock in the pleasantly warm Havana evening, our host of the moment would suggest dinner, which meant anything from an American style cafeteria to home prepared Spanish dinner to a Chinese restaurant (Havana has a large Chinese colony).
One of Fidel Castro’s most vociferous critics is a professor of history at the University of Havana. Director of the Cuban-American Institute, and a public figure who had appeared on nation-wide television the previous evening criticizing Castro’s economic measures, this professor had taught Fidel Castro at the University. Brace Babbitt listened with particular interest as we were told of Castro’s political activity on the campus. Students in Cuba and other Latin American countries have been the traditional leaders of rebellion, and campus politics among these potential leaders of their country is quite fierce. Once when Castro apparently felt his political differences could no longer be resolved by debate, he challenged his opponent to a fist fight in the athletic stadium. He won the fight but lost the election when political factions of the campus united to stifle his attempts. (When we returned to Florida, we read an interview with the exiled Batista who referred to the time Castro killed a student at his University; in actuality, it was this particular fight incident.) The University professor criticized the inept and inefficient moves of Castro’s government but was optimistic about the government’s future if Castro keeps his word concerning the elections. The Professor also admitted the validity of the student accusations against some of the faculty members, but insisted the faculty was making its own progress to weed out the incompetent teachers; he criticized the student leaders for seizing military control of the University. We also learned from another source that Castro himself paid a secret visit to the University and told the students and professors to get together, settle their differences, and reopen the University as soon as possible.
Our constant companion was a twenty-five-year-old Cuban student, Fernando Alverez, who is currently studying for his doctorate in history at the University of Madrid. He intro
duced us to a group of young Catholic intellectuals who were vitally concerned with the present course of the new government, and who were informed and articulate in their criticism d and praise of the Castro regime. From the son of the president of the Bank of Cuba, we learned of the dire financial o condition of Cuba, with the all-important sugar crop still growing in the fields, and the government treasury wasted and sacked by Batista. He explained some of the inept financial reforms of the new government dictated by good intent ' but lacking a realization of the effect of their use upon the entire economy. For example, a 50% cut in rents to place ' more money in circulation has paralyzed the construction industry and reduced the amount of credit available for investment; and generally, the extra money is spent on imported items rather than remaining in the country as hoped.
A common background in modern Catholic writers:	I
Maritain, Pieper, Bloy, Bernanos, Mauriac, etc., and our	1
sincere interest in the problems of Cuba took us from a discussion of Cuban literature in the darkened, crumbling bell * I tower of the three-century old “Cristo” Church, to a modern television studio where we witnessed a two-hour debate (conducted by one of the young men we met) between three individual Catholic intellectuals and three of the top figures of the Communist Party of Cuba. The debate was lively; the Com- i munists were intelligent, subtle and quick. The three Catholics upheld their opinions as to the purposes and the inability to ( deal with the Communists as a legitimate political group. ’ Only one thing was decided; the Catholic Church and the , Communist Party are utterly opposed, not a particularly enlightening fact.	,■
The official party line in Cuba is academically engaging.
The Communists fully support the revolution of Castro because j they say Cuba has not yet progressed to the state of development where the inevitable Marxian class struggle will occur. 4 This is correct Marx doctrine, although Castro’s speeches proclaiming the unity of all classes for the economic improve- . ment of the country must be hard for them to swallow. 4 After the broadcast we were introduced to the Communists.
The party leader, a pleasant zealot who cultivated a remarkable physical resemblance to Lenin, was flying out of the country on business and the other party official agreed to let us tape-record an interview with him. Apparently he suspected something, or discovered the person introducing us was the son of the most powerful banker in Cuba. In any event, our interview date was never kept.	’
Being students we had a common background of interests < with our hosts. We watched with amusement as one of our friends, a soldier-student, attempted to make the acquaintance of three young ladies in a downtown Havana street. He loudly designated their polite but indefinite brush-off a savage blow to his morale cutting at the very heart of the Revolutionary movement itself. Finally, using a charge Fidel Castro hurls at all his critics, our friend branded them “counter - revolutionaries” for all the street to hear, and jumped into our impatiently waiting car.
One evening, as we were being driven to the heights of the city across the river behind Morro Castle, our headlights picked out the authoritative arm wave of a burpgun carrying soldier, while a companion “covered” us with his clip-burdened rifle from the passenger side of the car. Cigaretts glowed like sum-
Wreaths form memorial to executed student leader.
12
The Scholastic
Jim Rose stands next to a tank which was part of the armored division that failed to stop Castro’s arrival.
mei- glowworms in the sticky warm Cuban night from a barely visible machine-gun emplacement which commanded the ” road approach. The soldier inspected our car, noticed we were “Americanos” and apologized for the road block. The height ’ was a militarily strategic position and no civilian traffic was permitted.	'
After several days we felt we had enough background and questions to request an interview with Fidel Castro and President Urrutia. Our contacts were good and we were confident . as we broached the subject to our friends; but it was Thursday of Holy Week and we discovered that all government offices were closed and the officials were vacationing out of ‘ town. We were disappointed at not having the opportunity to intei-view Castro, but we felt our visit to Cuba had been a successful one. We were able to participate in many aspects of the Cuban religious services (including the funeral wake of one of our Agrupacion friends killed in an automobile crash). We left Cuba with a lasting impression of the religious conviction and devotion of the Catholic students we met.
( We concluded our stay by combining business and pleasure at the Comodoro Yacht Club, and Tara Beach at the invitation of our several hosts, lying in the sun but also interviewing the vice-president of Westinghouse in Cuba, among others.
Easter Sunday we left Cuba, Bruce flying to Puerto Rico while I returned to Ft. Lauderdale. A few days later, we k met again at the “Seabreeze” restaurant comparing a few notes Bruce had picked up while in the Dominican Republic of Dictator Trujillo. In four days, we had returned to Notre Dame at a total cost of thirty-four cents (apiece), thus ending what was for us, an educational experience and a wonderful vacation.
(In these two articles, we have purposely refrained from a lengthy and involved discussion of our political observations in Cuba. These views we gave at a lecture sponsored by the modern language department two weeks ago. But we would be happy to answer any questions, as far as we can, regarding any aspect of Cuba we encountered.)
May 8, 1959
leyloo lodges Vans’ Voice
by G. P. Scarpa
There are many nuns at Saint Mary’s college. This fact can easily serve as a boon to performing artists who come to Notre Dame expecting large audiences, which Notre Dame seems unable to afford. I do believe every nun in the order turned out for Edward Neylon’s May 1st recital. Their trek to the Little Theater was more than worth the effort.
Neylon, a 1957 graduate of Notre Dame, has progressed markedly along the ladder of piano progress. He possesses a technique of quite stable proportions, a perception of suitable acuteness, and a sense of musicianship which seems to be increasing.
Presently a pupil of Soulima Sti-avinsky (Igor’s boy), Neylon’s program looked at first glance very much like material from which his teacher’s father could make a substantial theme and variations.
As the program progressed, however, one was amazingly unaware of any semblance of that boring quality which seemed to be imminent at first glance. The music unfolded itself in a pleasing manner, and if one was bored at all, it was Ravel’s, not Neylon’s, fault.
There was obviously much emphasis placed on tonal quality, and in most instances the results were good. The Bach Capriccio, an adolescent work, was played with almost extraordinary clarity. The Stravinsky Serenade projected in dissonant regularity and the three-movements-too-long Ravel Tombeau de Couperin more than satiated the audience’s desire for French music.
Program presented by Edward Neylon, pianist,, on May 1, 1959 in the Little Theater at Saint Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Capriccio ................................... Bach
Serenade en “la”----------------------- Stravinsky
Le Tombeau de Couperin _____________________ Ravel
Nocturne, Op. 62 No. 2 ____________________ Chopin
Etude, Op. 10 No. 4.........................Chopin
Impromptu II _____________________________  Chopin
Variations on a theme of Paganini, Book I___Brahms
The weakest point in the program came with the Chopin group. Neylon could profit not so much from a better understanding of Chopin as from a more prudent choice of the few masterful monuments of the Polish pianist. It has always been my opinion that the complete Nocturnes should be disintegrated, and Neylon’s nocturne changed nothing in this respect. The Etude was brilliant, the Impromptu stupid. Having heard Neylon’s Chopin when it was good Chopin, I was not contented with good Neylon that was not good Chopin.
The Brahms Paganini Variations Book I were thrown from the Steinway with a great force of understanding. This was the type of playing that makes you wait for Book II. How interesting it is to see Brahms, by means of octave “glissandi,” scintillating harmonies, and sheer musicianship make Rachmaninoff’s Variations (on the same theme) look pallid in comparison. The Brahms Intermezzo which dove-tailed the Variations as an encore was too long.
In the final analysis Neylon shows marked improvement. Certain flaws, most prominent among them a completely badly focused tone, will undoubtedly improve. One is made well aware of certain truths through a performance such as this. Notre Dame, and certainly Saint Mary’s, desperately needs a mature pianist who can teach. There are some who can do both, but none of them are now in residence at either Notre Dame or St. Mary’s. Jobs, anybody?
IJM—Ci'lll
In speaking of the enlargement of the mind which he has defined as the peculiar service of education, Newman writes: “The enlargement consists, not merely in the passive reception into the mind of a number of ideas hitherto unknown to it, but in the mind’s energetic and simultaneous action upon and towards and among those new ideas which are rushing in upon it. It is the action of a formative power, reducing to order and meaning the matter of our requirements; it is making the objects of cur knowledge subjectively our own. . . . and without this no enlargement is said to follow.” It is the function of a university to assist in such a process of growth; anything in its structure which does not exert influence in expanding the mind is extraneous or at best tangential to its purposes. But there is no formation, as Newman notes without personal appropriation. The mind is not passive, an inert and abject receptacle, a place for the mere disposal of knowledge; it acts and reacts; it orders and integrates; it craves release in expression and re-formulation. Newman, above all, was a man of style, a person who had a unique and marvelous manner with things, a man who could wonder and whose resources of self-expression were seemingly limitless. He was priest, poet, controversialist, philosopher, educator.
. Although the Juggler does not claim to make Newmans, I think he certainly would have understood and appreciated its reasons for existence. It is a journal which seeks to foster the kind of formation without which a university is not a university. It is concerned with the person, with the student and the growth and maturation of his own unique and individual “style.” And since this is its concern or in proselytizing jargon, its mission, it is at the very center of the true “life” of the university.
The Juggler began under another name, the Scrip, which was founded in 1929, when the Scholastic assumed the format which it still retains, that of a news magazine which chronicles campus events, social, cultural, and athletic, wars intermittently with the administration, and features articles like this. The dissociation of the reportorial and literary represented a step in the university’s gradual consciousness of its purpose. There are perhaps those who see no need for the independent existence of the Juggler. If so, they have less insight than those who founded Scrip. The justification for an intelligent, responsible, and literate news magazine is obvious. It serves a large university such as Notre Dame by giving notice of .important events, by commenting sensitively and judiciously on campus happenings, and even by criticizing the more distressing and offensive aspects of campus life. All this is necessary and laudatory. But its very purpose, its beginning and end in activity and comment on activity, is inimi-cal to works which are reflective, non-clamorous, which begin and end in silence.
The Scrip was in existence from 1929 through 1947. From a rather inauspicious beginning, the Scrip gradually assumed. the format which its modern counterpart, the Juggler, maintained. Scrip stressed quite accurately the student’s personal rendering of his own experience, the expression of his own responses and formulations. This was the original purpose of Scrip and the interest of the faculty in it indicated the Notre Dame community’s awareness of-the student’s problems of formation. From the beginning, the magazine was given to the students for their own management. The editor has usually been an English major, but if he'has had any sense, he has by no means excluded the representatives from other de
partments. The Scrip-Juggler has published a variety of essays on historical, political, and philosophical matters. The range of interest shown by the contributors has been remarkable. In addition to works of fiction and poetry, I can recall within my own time at Notre Dame essays on Kierkegaard, Kant, Marcel, Arnold, Mann, Dickens.
In the past, the variety of student concern has been just as evident. In the 1948 edition of the Juggler for example, there were three essays. One, by J. H. Johnston, a great Juggler editor whom I shall mention again, was a sensitive appreciation of the two Italian neo-realist films, Open City and Shoeshine. There was an essay by Ernest J. McCullough called “The Expression of Music” and a third by a seminarian, Francis E. Mclnerny called “Newman: Christianity and the Human Person.” Scrip, though often less prolific in scope of interest, introduced a number of interesting people. Professors O’Malley and Sullivan published in Scrip; in one edition there was a poem by Fr. Soleta, and Fr. Sheedy at one time edited Scrip. In the early World War II period when the ranks of undergraduates were being thinned by the draft, the faculty contributed regularly to Scrip. In 1940, Prof. O’Malley reviewed Fr. Leo R. Ward’s book, “God in an Irish Kitchen,” and in the same issue, Prof. Nims published a translation of a poem by Clarence Finlayson who that year was visiting professor at Notre Dame from the Catholic University of Chile. The poem, which appeared bilingually was called “Invierno” (Winter).
With the end of the war, the Scrip became again solely devoted to student writing. J. H. Johnston who had started at Notre Dame before the war returned to complete his college career. Somehow to him and the group of returning veterans, the old publications, Scrip and the humor magazine, the Juggler, seemed things of the pre-war era. Adopting the name of the old humor magazine, they founded a new literary quarterly. In the first issue of the new Juggler they wrote:
“Yes, curiously enough, every college campus had a “comic” magazine back in those whooping years that followed the other war. And of course Notre Dame had her own — the Juggler. It was a good magazine — as good as - < I any of the other laugh sheets of the time. But its laughter	I
is gone. Its gags were folded away with the era that pro- J < duced them. The old Juggler can never return, except per- 1 haps at Commencement, in spirit, when the old boys get to remembering things with moistened eyes.
Nor can the old Scrip return, exactly as before, to a new world being bom in strange new travail. Scrip, un
like the Juggler, was a serious college quarterly. Perhaps it was a bit too serious at times, but it had its points. Some of its writers won national prizes. Once it became required college reading as far away as California! And it got reprints in the annual Best Stories. But it belonged to another day, and it became a casualty of the war.
So we begin a new venture, with an old name and a new purpose. Notre Dame has a new Juggler, but it will be very different from the College Comics of the '20’s. The new Juggler will not be a funny paper, but a general magazine for all kinds of student writing — something like Scrip, perhaps, with a few important differences. We shall welcome the best student work we can get, of whatever kind — the merry no less heartily than the serious — and from any student who wishes to try. But we shall not repeat the slogan of 'most college editors. We shall not say to you: this is your magazine. The new Juggler belongs to Notre Dame. It is dedicated to Our Lady. Our first purpose, in the words of the old legend, is to please her with whatever art we have.
14
The Scholastic
J. H. Johnston and his staff put into practice the maxims I	they had written down. Johnston himself was ideally suited
to be the editor. The first edition, the April 1947 issue, remains 4	one of the finest in Juggler history. James Newman con-
4	trihuted “The Divine Pursuit,” an essay that is still one of the
best critical evaluations of Green’s, “The Power and Glory.” Johnston reviewed Eobert Lowell’s first published volume of ‘ verse, “Lord Weary’s Castle.” His appreciation of Lowell’s craft and ultimate religious dimension was called after * u Lowell’s phrase, “Christ, God’s Eed Shadow.” These and other essays tokened the serious concern the magazine was to show , * for the realities of contemporary literature and society.
*	The Juggler had matured from the old Scrip. The war experience had given many of these students a deeper sense of the responsibility and privilege of scholarship and they created . a Juggler that was to be a dynamic force in student life.
Ideally the Juggler exists to complement the scholarly formation of students. In the classroom they are made aware of the tradition of English literature as a living, vital thing, the writers’ problems in the past though differently formed and shaped by the forces of thought, history, etc., being essentially the same as those confronting the modem writer. In the Juggler there is an outlet for their creative talent whether it assumes the imaginative or critical form. The discipline afforded by the study of literature is given a chance to come to fruition in their own work. The process of personal appropriation, so necessary in education, is given a concrete realization.
Naturally there must be criterions of excellence and the establishment of such standards is always the greatest prob-K, lem for the editors. The inclination, which has sometimes beset past editors, to make the magazine something which they imagine to be on a par with the Kenyon Review, can be fatal. Invariably their tenures are unpopular and paradoxically their issues are usually bad. This attitude is reproduced by student critics who comment at length on the lamentable quality of what is published. Of course, they never submit anything to raise what they regard as the abysmal standards and
•	v they seriously mistake the purpose of the Juggler. The edi' tors are always fallible but they are never entirely fools.
•	They are usually quite well aware of the relative merits of what they publish. Often an essay, story, or poem is not realized as it should be and yet it is published with the purpose of eliciting response, of revealing the processes of formation. I would hesitate to call any story we have published this year the highest example of the fictional art or any poem an abso-’ lute miracle of expression. The Juggler, of course, marches on with the University in quest of excellence, but it does not A demand or expect perfection.
' There is an opposite extreme which is sometimes encountered. This body of opinion would popularize the Juggler, or worse, involve it in current events as an organ of invective. It is well known that the Juggler’s sales returns have never been overpowering. (Neither is its budget astronomical.) So 9	there are the usual suggestions made to remedy the meagre
I	returns. The Juggler should take on advertising. (Perhaps
I ’ as once suggested, a downtown bar and grill might be per-
1 suaded to create a new drink: the juggler). The Juggler should publish things of more universal interest, e.g., sports stories, tales of collegiate derring-do, critiques of the cosmos by General Programmers. But the Juggler is not a commodity. Although its sales situation could be improved, it will never achieve the universal recognition accorded to Ivory Soap, Mum Deodorant, or the Chicago Daily News. Its success is not to i be measured quantitatively and the Juggler will never be popular until the university is more fully a university and there exists a greater concern for intellectual growth and achievement among the students.
Part of the Juggler’s function is to criticize intelligently and with restraint the manuscripts that it chooses to reject. This is, of course, a delicate thing since the criticism of peers is not often accepted kindly. Some ill-feeling is bound to arise and the editors are accused of favoritism or blindness to truly great talent'. Here I would like to clear my conscience by sug-' May 8, 1959
gesting in general some of the things that I think are wrong with student writing and ultimately with the Juggler. There . is too much apathy; either out of timidity or distrust or indifference people refuse to contribute. But I think that this failure might be subsumed under another deeper and more pervasive malady. The student is impatient with the exacting rigors of formation. He desires too quickly to “produce.’* He is not willing to spend the time in applying himself to his craft. He seizes on facile devices and exploits them; these agilities come to replace mature discipline and craft. As I have said, we do not expect perfection. But there is not enough serious interest in the problems of writing and scholarship. This too suggests a deeper ailment and I may be quite wrong but I would like at least to air the problem.
In any academic environment, the tendency in scholarly circles is often to regard student writing as negligible. This is not generally the case at Notre Dame. There is a genuine interest in the student and his formation. But the university professor is often a specialist whose world of competence, his “field,” is quite limited and whose absorption in the scholarly process is absolute. Within such a framework the student can be made to feel that the literature of a given age is accessible only through a plundering of footnotes, a search for meaning in the labryinth of textual explication. This is how our scholars are trained and they are forced by the university to continue the ghoulish transference of bones from graveyard to graveyard by the ruling, domineering, oppressive ■ publish or perish ethic. The student is left on the outside somewhat overwhelmed by the remoteness and immateriality of his subject. This has resulted in a serious alienation that these same people lament while they fail to realize that they have helped to create it. The young writer in general, and this is eminently true of Notre Dame’s apprentices, has no use for the past. If he would write poetry, it is inconceivable to him that he has as much to learn from a Dryden or a Pope as he does from an Eliot or a Stevens. It is the modern writer he reads and imitates; he has no desire to extend his linguistic competence; he looks upon the study of language, especially classical ones, as a drudgery and even a bore. If the student or the young writer is to be re-allied with the past, the classical traditions in literature and philosophy must be made to live in the classroom. The student must be made to feel that it is not only modern literature which can be appropriated personally, but that the literature of the past is equally vibrant. One can only recall Newman’s comment in the “Grammar of Assent”:
Let us consider. . . how differently young and old are affected by the words of some classical author, such as Homer or Horace. Passages, which to a boy are but rhetorical commonplaces, neither better nor worse than a hundred others which any clever writer might supply, which he gets by heart and thinks very fine, and imitates, as he thinks, successfully, in his own flowing versification, at ' length come home to him, when long years have passed, and he has had experience of life, and pierce him, as if he had never before known them, with their sad earnestness and vivid exactness. Then he comes to understand how it is that lines, the birth of some chance morning or evening at an Ionian festival, or among the Sabine hills, have lasted generation after generation, for thousands of years with a power over the mind, and a charm, which the current literature of his own day. . . is utterly unable to rival. Perhaps this is the reason of the medieval opinion about Virgil, as if a prophet or magician; his single words and phrases, his pathetic half lines, giving utterance as the voice of Nature herself, to that pain and weariness, yet hope of better things, which is the experience of her children in every time.
I have begun and ended with quotations from Cardinal Newman because more than any figure in the modern world, he embodies the skill, the intellectual and spiritual formation which the Juggler exists to produce. Mr. J. M. Cameron, who was a visiting professor at Notre Dame last year, has characterized Newman in Newman’s own words, though as Prof. Cameron points out, Newman did not use them in connection with himself. “He is the master of the twofold Logos, the thought and the word, distinct but inseparable from each other.”	.	.
1*
The Triumph of Thomas the Tenor
by G. P. Scarpia
The air conditioning was pleasingly present in the Art Gallery. The temperature was exactly 60 degrees. The door of the anteroom opened, and out came a dark-haired, tailed tenor, with boyish ears, followed at a sensible distance by his lean accompanist. The audience which greeted the couple was comprised of several notables: Hager, Pedtke, Bastien, Maloney, Stritch, Reeve — a rather goodly representation of campus greats.
- Sitting as I did at the back of the room, I was wary of the acoustical possibilities of the room in addition to a strong apprehension of the musical possibilities of Thomas’ voice, which I had heard dribble down his throat in December. Thomas’ first group destroyed both problems. The Art Gallery permits sound to pass through it beautifully, and somewhere between December and May Thomas has learned to stop swallowing.
The commemorative Handel group came off extremely well. It is rare that a first group sounds unlike a collection of vocalises. Perhaps Thomas used the anteroom as a rehearsal hall. He certainly didn’t use the Art Gallery.
The Italian group rivited its melodies into my mind, although I must confess that the tonalities sounded rather similar. At any rate, Thomas possesses a strong ability to extract the warm beauty of early Italian music and present it to the audience with almost childlike simplicity.
Franz Schubert sounds fine almost anytime, whether the German texts be read from a book or committed to memory. After all, it’s the music that counts. Thomas is able to achieve a remarkable contrast in recognizing the basic precepts of each individual style of composition.
Verdi’s Ingemisco, which always reminds me of a love song, made apparent Thomas’ major field of concentration. Italian operatic music seems as natural to him as does immutability to the Divinity.
With the English numbers my interest began to wane. Thomas’ voice kept up its strenuous job of attempted perfection, but the composers didn’t seem to. The final number of the group, authored by Thomas’ accompanist, displayed more solidity than the preceding three combined. Guinn obviously is a musician of varied talents. Some must at present be
FEATURE DEPARTMENT
of the SCHOLASTIC is now occepitng applications for next year’s staff. Applications must be in by next Friday, May 15. Address to:
CHAS RIECK
. Room 345	Lyons
called interests rather than talents, but there seems within this slight frame a decided desire to complete the room , labelled “improvement.”
Thomas delivered Rodolfo’s Che Gelida Manina in a grand manner. My watch is broken, so I couldn’t time the high “c,” but it was in the air long enough for everyone to realize that it deterred him not at all.
Some mention must be made of the extreme union between accompanist and soloist. These two people are able < to sense each other’s slightest musical expression. Guinn’s accompaniments were perfectly joined to Thomas’ solos. This " complete compatability is indeed rare in any dual musical expression. They both deserve singular praise.	k
With this well-rounded program, Thomas’ voice seems set for more things. His quality is full, a true dramatic tenor which is becoming more and more able to encompass music of technical and musical difficulty. His tone is well-focused, ' although at times it spreads itself open too quickly. There is a fine dark coloring in the middle range, a coloring which becomes pale as the melody falls. There is, however, with all this solid beauty, one disgusting thing: Thomas is majoring in commerce!
Last Performances
‘THE BOY FRIEND’
presented by the University Theatre Tonight, Tomorrow Night 8:30 o'clock
WASHINGTON HALL
. . . One Year
(Continued from page 11) the Senate must become convinced that its prime duty is to program for the commissions. It is up to the Senate to find things for the commissioners. to do. Second, it must convince , itself that it is no shame not to hold a meeting every week. In some weeks nothing occurs to justify a meeting. Third, a Senate will be only as good as its committees. It is absolutely K essential that most Senate work be done in committees, and that the committees be chaired by well-qualified men.
In the next year student government must harvest the fruit of this year. The Young Republicans and Young Democrats must be organized and made vital. This should not be t hard in a national election year, but direction will be required. The value of the Foreign Student Leadership Project will be determined by the steps taken next year. Much the same can 1 be said of the student organizations policy, the Mardi Gras policy, and the new minor sports policy. Perhaps the student insurance plan that we have worked on all this second semester will be adopted this spring. If not, then more work will be required in the fall.	. . v
But if the work that lies ahead is great, so are the rewards and the opportunities. I could not close this article without saying how great my optimism,about the future is. My own '' first year in student government made me skeptical of its work, made me wonder if it had its place in the University. These last two years have convinced me that it does. It does because students have a responsibility to give of themselves to others, to do things to make this University a better one, to take constructive steps to improve the attitude of the students here, and to provide them with more opportunities. As students grow in these tasks, they shall become better men and
16	The Scholastic
thus fitted for even more and bigger duties.
For the year that I have spent in of' fice, I will always be grateful. The op-j * portunities it has provided me are many, . but even more valuable to me, and more i valued by me, are the friendships I have I made. The year has given me opportunity to meet and work with many u people here and away from the University, who have impressed me with their many admirable qualities. They * have convinced me that our generation will be able to meet the demands the times will impose on it.
Finally I should like to publicly thank some of those people who helped us so much during the year. Without the help of men like Father Bernard, and Father Boarman, the year would have been I much less than it was. I am grateful, too, to my fellow officers, the commissioners, and tiie senators. And of course, I should like to thank the Scholastic for the fine, fair coverage they have given us all year. Most of all I should like to thank the students themselves, for it is they who receive, criticize, and acknowledge our efforts.
In the days that are ahead, my own thoughts and activities will undoubtedly । take me far from Notre Dame and Student Government. But no matter how > far away, I shall always remember this past year. That memory will always be y a most happy and a most satisfying one. For that, too, I thank you.
Back Page
(Continued from page 26) to the Red Army in Vienna constantly reminds Austrians today of the mean,, ing of Communist dictatorships. On the other hand, there is no possible excuse for students of Western Europe and * America to ignore this massive Soviet avalanche directed against them. All of us have witnessed irrefutable proofs of this barbarous policy of enslavement: the shameful attack on Finland in 1939, the enslavement of the Baltic peoples, j the complete subjection of the Eastern L European countries, the suppression with peace slogans and tank guns of the Berlin uprising and of the Hungarian Revolution, and now the smothering of the Tibetan revolt. Are there any other proofs needed for those who want to see and understand? We should all be aware that the responsibility for countering and defeating the Soviet aggressions lies on the shoulders of the students of Europe and America; if they will not or cannot defend their own standpoints and traditions nobody is going to do it for them. This task has been transferred to * the cultural and intellectual battlefield of today, especially to the field of ideas. k The Hungarian and Polish revolutions have shown all who wish to see, that the human spirit can and will conquer totalitarianism. Austrian youth has shown us how we, too, must forever be - on guard against the Soviet propaganda offensive and how we must constantly defeat the Communists at their own game. It is up to us to follow their inspiring lead.
At the Movies
AVON
Three Men in a Boat: (May 3-9). The movie isn’t much, but the stage show is terrific. Highlight: Jimmy Hoffa singing his latest, Anything Goes.
Co-Masterpiece: Every Second Counts. When all is said and done. . • this turns up.	.
COLFAX
Night of the Quarter Moon: (May 8-15). Julie London is one-fourth Negro. John Drew Barrymore is a brainwashed has-been. They marry, and the merry-go-round starts up. At the end, top-heavy-breather London stars in a courtroom scene which disentangles impossible racial problems. Filmed in the Black Hills.
GRANADA
Imitation of Life: (May 7-20). Lana Turner once more cries a river over her love-starved daughter, in this case Sandra Dee. Another in the line of racial ditties, this movie is freely adapted and cut from Fanny Hurst’s red-blooded best seller of another generation. Susan Kohner is the half-Negro. and her performance is better than the others, though this says hardly anything. John Gavin woos both Lana and Sandra. Who wins out? Don’t miss the next exciting episode.
PALACE
Count Your Blessings: (May 3-9). Rossano Brazzi, Deborah Kerr, and Maurice Chevalier cook up a powerful love potion which thickens with the plot. Result: salt-water taffy.
Tempest: (May 10-23). A veritable firmament of static stars. Viveca Lindfors, Van Heflin, Silvana Mangano, Geoffrey Horne, et cetera, crowd the scene together with several thousand extras to make a quite colorful potpourri of hardly worthwhile stories. Raw love scenes,'mispronounced Russian, and, gracing Heflin’s chin, a red beard in glorious Technicolor which would shame our boy Castro.
STATE
(NOTA BENE: This reviewer refuses to commit himself as to what on earth the STATE will henceforth be showing. Deceived by inside information, he made the costly trip downtown April 30 to see Compulsion, supposedly playing there. False alarm, and 50 cents went down the drain. If you want to be sure about their schedules, call CEntral 3-1676).
Compulsion: (May 7-21). At last, it’s here. Bradford Dillman, Dean Stockwell, and Orson Welles in a positively galvanizing motion picture of the highest caliber based on Meyer Levin’s best-selling account of the Leopold-Loeb murder case. A couple of Academy Award nominations are looming already on the horizon.
RIVER PARK
Light in the Forest: (May 7-10). Starring James MacArthur, son of Helen Hayes (adopted). And score one more for good ol’ Walt Disney, who has made it his business to cater to the American-as-apple-pie kids next door. Who spend a lot of money going to see his movies. This one, though, poses an adult problem. Is man really a creature of environment, or can you turn an Injun into a “civilized” civilian?
Tony Wong
May 8, 1959
17
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO I WIN A FIN I
LIMERICK LAUGHTER
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the SCHOLASTIC "Limerick Laughter" Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! Here’s how the contest works:	'
The SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the May contest must be received by May 24. Names of the winners will be published in the May 29 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.
Millions of times o year drivers and students keep awake with safe NoDoz
I oft must suppress a strong yen, To think for myself now and then. In all this “security,” Why strain my maturity?
It’s done for me by “competent men.”
On Ruddy Pierre let us tarry.
He dated a coed named Mary.
With taste as their basis, They of course smoked Oasis. Compatible pair — need you query?
Let NoDoz^alert you through college, too
NoDoz keeps you alert with caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: nonhabit-forming NoDoz delivers an accurate amount of dependable stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDoz, it’ll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
The safe stay awake tablet-available everywhere
• CHESTERFIELD KING
Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
18
The Scholastic
•	SfMti PidiM
KUHARICH WILL UNVEIL '59 IRISH TOMORROW
by BOB SCHAEFER
Tomorrow afternoon in Notre Dame ' Stadium the Notre Dame Varsity football squad will take on the Notre Dame Old-Timers in the annual spring foot; ball game. Tomorrow’s contest will be I the 29th renewal of the game started by I k Notre Dame’s greatest coach, Knute Rockne. Kickoff time is 2 p.m. (CDT).
The contest will witness the unveiling of the first Notre Dame football team coached by Joe Kuharich. Much atten-i tion will be focused on the fullback po-| sition where the first three players from ' last year’s varsity were lost through V- graduation. Further attention will be paid to the end and tackle slots where heavy graduation losses also occurred.
The probable starting line-up for the Varsity will have two-year letter winner Monty Stickles at left end, sophomore I letter winner Joe Scibelli at left tackle, Myron (Moe) Pottios at left guard, Bob ’* Scholtz at center and Ken Adamson at right guard, both two-year letter winners, George Williams at right tackle, and Bob Pietrzak at right end.
Of these starting linemen, two are starting at new positions, and one is a first-year man. Pottios lettered last season as a center but was shifted to guard to help bolster that weak spot in the „ line-up. Pietrzak was a reserve guard last season, but Kuharich moved him
GUS CIFELU
Former Irish football great has been named the captain of this year’s edition of the Old-Timers football squad. This will be the tenth Old-Timers game for Cifelli, who starred for Notre Dame from 1946 to 1949 and later starred for the Detroit Lions.
to end to take advantage of his blocking on outside plays. Williams is a first-year man, the only one in the starting eleven.
The backfield has experienced men at each position. At quarterback is the leading offensive threat of last fall’s squad, George Izo. The halfback posts will be manned by Bill (Red) Mack at left half and right half Pat Doyle. Jim Crotty, a converted halfback, will start at fullback.
Izo, Crotty, and Doyle have all lettered two years, and Mack won his monogram last fall as a sophomore.
Backing up this eleven the Varsity has Les Traver, Mike Lodish, and Jim Colosimo at end; Dick Ciesielski and Bob Bill at tackle; Paul Nissi and Nick Buoniconti at guard; and Dave Hurd at center.
The second team backfield has Tom Jorling at quarterback, Ray Ratkowski and Bill Clark at the halfback posts, and Dan Griffith at fullback.
Kuharich has devoted most of the spring sessions to installing his tight “T” offense with its variations. He has worked the squad into shape slowly to avoid injuries and has had a minimum of casualties. The first heavy scrimmage was held last Saturday when Kuharich had a full crew of Big Ten officials come in to officiate the scrimmage.
The Old-Timers squad will be made up primarily of last year’s Varsity which graduated 23 letter-winners. Included in this group are players who starred in the post-season All-Star bowl games. Nick Pietrosante and Norm Odyniec were named the most valuable players in the East-West Shrine game in San Francisco and the Senior Bowl games respectively. Frank Geremia and Ron Toth also won awards for their play in these games.
The headliners in the returning group however will be Pietrosante and guard Al Ecuyer, both All-American choices for the past two seasons.
The leading attractions for the older Old-Timers will be Gus Cifelli, who is making his tenth appearance in the game and who has been named the Old-Timers team captain, and Joe Heap, who last year scored four touchdowns and was named the game’s "most valuable player.”
Also returning for the Old-Timers will be Dick Lynch, the hero of the 1957 upset of Oklahoma. It was Lynch who tackled Doyle in the closing minutes of last year’s 37-36 Old-Timers win when Doyle was trying for the two-point conversion which would have probably won the game for the Varsity.
Tom Carey, a four-year monogram winner, will return to direct the backfield of Don Schaefer at fullback, with Heap and Lynch at the halfs. Schaefer
MONDAY AFTERNOON
Notre Dame’s tennis team will meet the University of Wisconsin here at 2:30 Monday afternoon. The probable starters will be Max Brown, Don Ralph, Ron Schoenberg, Bill Heinbecker, Ray Bender, and Chuck Stephens in that order.
Thus far the Irish have won five straight dual matches, losing only one point, and the first five starters are undefeated.
Irish Sailors Cop First In Notre Dome Regatta
Last week end the Notre Dame sailing team held its annual Spring Invitational Regatta. Eight teams from the Midwest competed: Ohio State, Ohio Wesleyan, De Pauw, Detroit, Marquette^ Wayne, Detroit Institute of Technology, and Notre Dame.
The Irish sailors, led by sophomores Bud Rose and John Miller, captured first place. Throughout the regatta, Detroit offered tough competition, and it was not until the last race that Notre Dame managed to pull out in front. Bud Rose also captured high point honors in the “A” division.
Veteran sailors Mickey Pavia and Dan Schuster skippered several races. Crewing for the Irish were Den McGovern, Jack Devenney, and Jim Kuras.
The varsity squad will travel to the Detroit Yacht Club this week end for the DYC Invitational where they will meet eleven schools from all over the country.
graduated in ’56, Lynch in ’58, and Carey and Heap in ’55.
Dan Shannon, a ’54 grad, will be playing one of the end slots. Shannon will be remembered for his great "tackle heard round the world” in the Oklahoma game of 1952 when he shook the ball loose from a Sooner ball carrier. The Irish went on to score the winning touchdown in a 27-21 victory.
Bill Wightkin, a teammate of Cifelli’s, will play the other end. He also played pro ball for the Detroit Lions and the Chicago Bears. Ray Lemek, captain of the 1955 Irish, will also be on hand.
Jim Morse, captain and halfback on the 1955 squad, Dick Prendergast, cocaptain and end of the 1957 squad, Dick Fitzgerald, a fullback on the 1955 squad, and Chet Ostrowski, a tackle on the 1951 squad will all return to their farmer playing field.
Bill Earley, former Irish assistant coach, will direct the Old-Timers.
May 8, 1959
19
Irish Footballers Conclude Spring Practice; Mack and Clark Pace Saturday's Scrimmage
Last Saturday the Irish gridders went through a heavy workout which featured two scrimmages under game conditions. While the workout was a long one, there was not an abundance of scoring.
The first team was opposed by the third unit in the first scrimmage. In the other scrimmage, the second unit went against the fourth unit. A group of Big Ten officials, headed by the veteran Don Elser of Gary, worked the first squad’s scrimmage.
The first team had possession of the ball for 30 minutes on the offensive. In this time, two touchdowns were scored by this group. Red Mack, running from his usual left half position, went over from the two for the initial score. Pat Doyle, operating from right half, later tallied from the three. A pair of scoring passes from George Izo to the elusive Mack were nullified by penalties. Both of these plays covered over 50 yards.
Five times during the session, the first unit failed to penetrate past the midfield stripe. Fumbles also hurt the Varsity cause. In case of a fumble, the offensive team was allowed to retain possession of the ball. They were then set back to their own ten-yard line.
Doyle got free for a 35-yard gain, and Jim Crotty had a 15-yard carry to his credit. Mike Lind, the highly-touted sophomore who has been slowed much of the spring by injuries, relieved Crotty in the latter stages of the scrimmage and was a consistent gainer for the Var
RED MACK BREAKS INTO DEFENSIVE SECONDARY
Sophomore speedster lengthens his stride os Joe Scibelli moves in to provide interference during lost Saturday's scrimmage on Cartier Held.
sity. His best effort was a 45-yard burst on which he came within one man of going all the way.
Bill Clark, junior halfback, set the pace in the second scrimmage. He scored twice on runs of 50 and 15 yards, respectively. On the longest run of the afternoon, Dan Griffith scampered 71 yards for another second team score.
The workout saw the players hampered by the oppressive heat. Seven players were withheld entirely from the scrimmage because of injuries suffered in previous practice sessions. In this number were Ken Adamson, Chuck Augustine, Tim Monahan, Dave Hurd, Al Sabal, Mike Baer, and Bob Pietrzak.
At the end of the three-hour session, Andy Timura, Roger Wilke, Dick Roth, Jim Colosimo, and Ray Ratkowski had added their names to the injury list.
Coach Joe Kuharich expressed displeasure over the scrimmage in general; however, he did see some bright spots. One was the play of Senior wingman Mike Lodish, who replaced the injured Pietrzak. The other was Lind. This was the first contact work for the big sophomore.
The second half of the scrimmage was devoted to work on defensive formations.
The scrimmage saw the Irish in a variety of formations. They attacked from the standard tight “T,” split the ends, flanked both halfbacks, leaving the fullback as the only man in the backfield, and used the halfbacks occasionally as slot backs.
insn DomDara Michigan; Divide with Kent State
On Wednesday, April 29, The Notre Dame baseball team whipped Michigan, 21-0, at Cartier Field. This was the worst beating the Wolverines have suffered in their long baseball series with the Irish.
Co-Captain Gene Duffy paced the Irish attack with four hits. He hit a home run over the centerfielder’s head and followed up with a triple to the same spot his next time up. He also singled twice. In all, the speedy flyhawk drove in eight runs. *
Ed Wojcik also hit a home run over the left field fence in the third.
Nich Palihnich, sophomore righthander, coasted to an easy win. The Wolverines could manage only three hits off him, and he permitted no batter to advance beyond second base.
Last Saturday the Klinemen team traveled to Kent, Ohio, for a doubleheader with Kent State University. The two opponents took turns at snapping each other’s winning streaks. In the opener, Kent destroyed an Irish six-game streak, downing the Irish, 11-5.
Notre Dame’s Jack Mitchell recorded his first loss of the season, after having won four straight games. After Kent’s Rollins belted a 340-foot two-run homer, Mitchell was relieved by Mike Brennan, who saw his first pitch to John Steffas follow Rollins’ previous homer over the left field fence.
After dropping the opener, the Irish rebounded to take Kent; 8-2, in the nightcap. ' Notre Dame’s big four-run third frame clinched the seven inning contest for the Irish. Jim Hannan was safe on a fielding error, and Danny Hagan survived a sacrifice-fielder’s choice. Duffy filled the bags for the Irish with his single, and John Carretta scraped through a two-base error, which brought in two runs. Gentempo sewed up the Irish victory with his sharp single, sending two
The Scholastic
► Trackmen at Missouri a To Meet Powerful Foe
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame cindermen will engage the University of Missouri track team in a dual meet at Columbia, Mo. Coach Alex Wilson ex-k pects some strong competition from Missouri and said, “This will probably be our toughest meet of the year.”
* Last Saturday, the Notre Dame track-sters traveled to West Point, N. Y., for a dual meet with Army. The Irish won , the meet by a score of 80%-59%.
The two squads set six new records I in the meet. Notre Dame’s star miler Eon Gregory set a record in the mile by traversing it in 4:11.3. Steve Dorn-bach won the 120-yard high hurdles in the time of :14.9 for a first place and another record.
Mike Morando tossed the javelin 220 feet, 8% inches for another record. In V the pole vault Tom Reichert and Glen Cividin, both of Notre Dame, tied for the victory and record at 13 feet.
The other two records were set by Anny. Keith Nance won the shot put with 51 feet, 61 inches. Bill Hickman 1 of Notre Dame placed third in that event. The other Cadet record was set > in the hammer throw as Ed Bagdonas threw his hammer 190 feet, 3% inches. > Gregory came through again in the two-mile run for another victory. Running the distance in 9:17.2, Gregory was followed in third place by his teammate Dave Cotton. Chris Monahan took first place honors in the 440-yard run in a time of :49.7.
Gerald Fitzpatrick won two events, copping both the 100- and 220-yard dashes in times of :09.7 and :21.6, re>- spectively. Jim Sheeler took third in the 100 and Monahan third in the 220.
In the 880-yard run, Dan Rorke and Marty Clynes, took first and second place honors, respectively. Rorke’s time was 1:54.2. The Notre Dame mile relay team of Monahan, Frank Hemphill, Clynes, and Rorke won that event in i 3:20.4.
Dornback won the 220-yard low hurdles in 24 seconds flat. He was followed by Sheeler in second place. Jack Reilly and Dick Monjeau tied with two . Cadets in the high jump at six feet. * Ken Scarborough won the discus event with a heave of 148 feet, 1% inches. * Fitzpatrick took second place in the broad jump with a jump of over 23 feet.
TIME OUT
Gene Duffy, senior centerfielder and co-captain of this year’s baseball squad, has been hitting the ball recently as though he were facing high
school pitchers. He has spearheaded an Irish hitting surge that has been
GENE DUFFY
gaining momentum since the southern Easter tour that opened the season over a month ago.
Up through the Northwestern game on April 22, Gene was hitting a respectable .280 with seven hits in 25 trips to the plate. Since that time (not including the game last Tuesday with Michigan State), he has raised his average exactly 100 points to an outstanding .380 mark.	-
Gradually increasing his Average, Gene went three for nine in a double-header at Central Michigan on April 25 to up his mark to .294. Then he knocked
in eight runs with his four for seven performance against Michigan a week ago yesterday and raised his average to .341. His five-for-nine splurge against Kent State last Saturday raised him another 39 points to .380.
Included in his 19 hits are two doubles, three triples, and two home runs. His 19 successful appearances at the plate have also produced 21 runs batted in.
As an almost inevitable result of his recent batting surge that has seen him hit safely in twelve of his last 25 times up, there have been rumors floating around about major league scouts. Gene has been contacted and talked to a few scouts during the rain that held up the start of the Michigan game.
He didn’t want to name the teams that have approached him, but he did say that he would certainly consider all attractive offers. If he continues to hit and hit with the power he has in the past two weeks and continues to roam center field as he does so professionally for the Irish, any major league team which declines to take a good look at the 5-6, 150-pound power-hitting outfielder may later have wished it had.
more across the plate.
Duffy was the big gun for the Kline-& men, punching out five hits in nine times at bat, three of them going for extra u bases. Backing up Duffy’s bat was Gen-tempo, who hit three for four in the second game, batting in three runs. Hannan was credited with the victory. His record is now 2-1.
Tomorrow the team travels to Glenview, Ill., where they will battle the ball players from the Glenview Naval Air Station. On Wednesday, the Klinemen will be in East Lansing for a game against the Michigan State club.
May 8, 1959
RELAY TEAM THIRD IN NATION
The latest statistics released by the NCAA show that the Notre Dame two-mile relay team of Dan Rorke, Marty Clynes, Chris Monahan, and Ron Gregory has the third fastest time in the country.
The only two faster teams are the two teams that beat the Irish at the Drake Relays two weeks ago. Kansas won the event in 7:33.3, and Georgetown was second in 7:34.9. Gregory brought the Irish home in a scant three yards behind Georgetown in 7:35.1.
Prior to the Drake Relays, the Irish quartet had the second fastest time in the nation with their mark of 7:36.9, recorded at the Texas Relays the week end after Easter. At that time Colorado had the nation’s fastest time, but all of the first three teams at Drake, including Notre Dame, bettered Colorado’s time. This is quite an accomplishment for a team that is three-fourths sophomore. Clynes, a senior, is the only non-sophomore on the squad.
ARMY AWARD TO DICK MUSIAL
At the Presidential Review yesterday (Ascension Thursday), Dick Mu-sial, one of the brightest freshman track prospects, received the Sons of the American Revolution medal for “Leadership, Soldierly Bearing, and Excellence.”
Musial, an Army ROTC cadet, has been one of Track Coach Alex Wilson’s top yearling sprinters. He was timed in :06.4 for the 60-yard dash in a special freshman “60” at the Marquette indoor dual meet when he finished just inches behind Jim McCann.
Although Dick has not been timed in the 100-yard dash yet, Coach Wilson stated that he has certainly run well both indoors and outdoors and that he has been pressing McCann all spring for the position as top freshman sprinter.
—T.T.
Linksmen Host Western Illinois and Tri-State; Spartans and Badgers Inflict First Setbacks
front nine. However, he rallied to shoot an even-par 36 on the back side, the. 4) lowest Irish score on the back nine all; day. His 36-hole total was 79-81 for a. 160 total.
Tomorrow the Notre Dame golf team entertains Western Illinois and TriState College in a triangular golf match here on the Burke Memorial Course. Tee-off time is 8:30 a.m.
Western Illinois has a top-notch team, and the Notre Dame golf coach, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., expects his golfers to run into stiff competition. Last year the Irish made a surging comeback in the afternoon round to edge the linksmen from Western Illinois. TriState is not expected to be as tough as Western Illinois.
Thus far, the Irish season record stands at seven wins and three losses.
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bep.
263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
CcvuLLrvaX B-u-d.
BYRON
“Give away thy breath!”
From My 36A Year, line 36
Two of these losses were to Michigan State.
Last Saturday in Evanston, Ill., the golfers defeated Northwestern while suffering their first two setbacks of the season at the hands of Michigan State and Wisconsin. The linksmen downed the Wildcats, 21-15, while losing to the Spartans, 20-16, and to the Badgers, 19-17.
The match was 36 holes medal play, and the golfers were playing under the heat of 90-degree weather.
Frank Hund led the scoring for the Irish as he fired a 77 in the morning round and toured the 6,400-yard layout in 76 in the afternoon round for a 36-hole total of 153. Sophomore Jim Stahl finished right behind with 76-78 for a 154 total.
Christy Flanagan started off in the morning with a fine one-under-par 35 on the front nine, but then he shot a string of three 40’s in succession to finish 75-80—155.
Terry Lally had the fourth lowest total for the Irish with a 80-78—158 total. Lally’s 78 included a triple bogey seven on the 16th hole.
The best comeback of the day was by Budd Zesinger. After shooting 79 in the morning, Zesinger started bad again in the afternoon, shooting a 45 on the
The number six position on the Irish squad was shared by Jim Kennedy and-Denny Nead. Kennedy played in the/ morning and shot 78 while Nead record^ ed a 79 in the afternoon round.	x.
On Monday, May 4, Notre Dame was j host to Michigan State and Iowa in a-j triangular match. The Irish defeated Iowa, 22-14, but lost to Michigan State;/ 39-15. Although both matches were 36-holes, the Irish used a nine-man squad ’, against Michigan State’s nine-man-; 4 squad and six men in their defeat o£? Iowa.	«
Ty Caplin of Michigan State was the ' day’s leading golfer with a one-undert par 70 in the morning and a 73 in the/ afternoon for a 143 total. Caplin was followed by his teammate Tad Schmid;'; who shot a 72 in the morning and a 73;^ in the afternoon for a 145 total. Schmid^ played number five man for Michigan;; State.	f
Frank Hund, playing the number two position, led the Irish golfers with a 75--in the morning and following with af 73 in the afternoon for a 148 totally Terry Lally, the number five man, fol£; lowed Hund with a 73-76 for a 149;’ total. Sophomore Ray Patak shot a 75/ in the morning round for the Irish, de£ feating Gary Barrett of Michigan State?. 3-0. Hund won four of a possible six; points against Michigan State, and;: Gerry Webster won the number six' match, 3%-2%, shooting 74-79—153.
Lally led the Irish in their victory;-over Iowa. Lally won all six points in-his match. Webster took 5% points -^ from his Iowa opponent, Zesinger picked up 4%, and Hund defeated Iowa’s num-; her two man, Frank James, 4-2.	*
CARRIE Z. Nation, barmaid, says: "Smart men choose Wildroot, the non-alcoholic hair tonic!”
Just a little M* of Wildroot and...WOW*
22

4 y Undefeated Softball Teams 1 Tangle in Interclub Feature
* ‘ The Rochester and Hispano-American Clubs will play for first place in their interclub softball league this week end. , Both teams are undefeated thus far.
Detroit and Cincinnati lead the other $ - two interclub leagues.
The Hispano-Americans have been j A playing good ball and have shown a strong team with better than average pitching. They defeated the Milwaukee Club in their first outing, 7-2, and the Kentucky Club in their second game, 9-0.
k The Detroit Club has also played well in its initial contests, downing Buffalo, 16-6, in the first game and Cleveland, 8-7, in the second.
There are four leagues in the interhall competition. Pangborn heads the first followed by Breen-Phillips Yellow, Badin, Keenan Red, and Lyons.
V ' Keenan Blue is on top in league two with Dillon, St. Edward’s, Morrissey, 4^ and B-P White trailing.
Farley paces league three with Stan-■ ford Red and Howard close behind.
Zahm and Cavanaugh are tied for first place in league four with Howard Blue, Stanford Blue, and B-P Blue the it -* other contenders.
Howard Overcomes Keegan To Take Handball Tourney • In the recently concluded Rochester club handball tournament, Bill Howard, from Rochester, N. Y., emerged as the victor over a field of 20 contenders, a > Howard is a Liberal Arts freshman and resides in Cavanaugh Hall. Runner-up to Howard was Tom Keegan, who also ’ hails from Rochester. Keegan is a mechanical engineering junior who lives in Badin.
। The tournament ran from late Janu-I ary until the middle of April. It was > a double elimination tournament.
, Howard showed his superiority over the rest of the field by going through
CANOE TRIPS
Personal service for wilderness canoe trips into the . Quetico-Superior wilderness. Camping equipment, 4 r Grumman aluminum canoes and choice food supplies only $6.00 per person per day. For complete in-_ formation, write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY 1	OUTFITTERS—Box 717C, Ely, Minn.
the tournament undefeated. Keegan was almost as good, suffering his only two losses at the hands of Howard.
In the final two out of three championship round, Keegan won the first game by overwhelming Howard, 21-4. Howard fought back to take'the second game by a 21-15 score to even the match at one game each. In the third and deciding game, Howard won going away, 21-12, to clinch the championship.
Currently, Howard is a member of the freshman baseball team. He plays second base. Keegan has been on the cheerleading squad for the last two years.
°*IUMTURBOW voftomtiiiot
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	Phone CE 4-3/77
we're tops
for new and used books
You’ve reached the summit when you visit our second floor. See the widest selection of textbooks and books for reading pleasure.
Textbook companies will pay “peak” prices for your used books.
Stop in soon. We’re always happy to see you.
Save on the finest at the:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
May 8, 1959
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY •
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St	J.M.S. Bldg.
minis UNUEY ui INK SIN
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
WHPfRMESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for • thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wiL.
donMa! Afominum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food-all at to* daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (PA Giris make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
MAY LECTURES
Next Tuesday, May 12, at 8 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery, Professor Ernest H. Brandl, of the Department of Architecture, will deliver the second of the Mariology Lectures. Prof. Brandl's talk, entitled “The Woman Clothed with the Sun” and dealing with the image of Our Lady in art, will be illustrated with color slides.
A.B. Council Forsees Fall Language Series
The A.B. Advisory Council and the department of modern languages has terminated their series of night classes, but both groups hope that the successful series will be continued next fall on the same non-credit, voluntary basis.
French, German, Spanish, Italian, and Russian classes were, for the most part, held on two levels: beginning classes which emphasized the spoken language • and stressed speaking and hearing rather than grammar and translation, and advanced sessions consisting mostly of conversation with an occasional short foreign film.
The classes, which were held every Wednesday and Thursday from November 20 proved to be of practical value for beginners and experts. The weekly participation averaged over 100 persons.
In connection with the attempt to awaken and maintain interest in foreign languages, booklets, current magazines, and newspapers from foreign countries will be placed on a magazine rack on the main floor of the LaFortune Student Center shortly. The selection will include reading matter in various languages.
UCLA Students Form 41 Unit for Tibet Action
The mail brings us news of a “Tibetan Brigade” being formed by a group of organized students at UCLA. These heroic crusaders, representing almost every state from Texas to Alaska, will try to -j > rid the world of the menace of communism single-handedly. Have you sea- , man’s papers? If so, let them know and they will give you an address of a secret agent to contact in Calcutta, Formosa, etc. Time and place must remain confidential! The Indian consulate has long ears.	• 4
Brigade strength to date is about 75 men including: four pilots, two demolition experts, two radiomen, two medics, three arms experts, a dozen marines, one Hungarian Freedom Fighter, three Cuban rebels, one Yugoslav guerrilla, four Chinese, one Costa Rican, two Negroes, and numerous Korean veterans.
If you are not able to pay the passage, the Brigade suggests the following freedom-loving groups that you may contact: ( labor unions, churches, fraternal organizations, anti-communist groups, veteran groups, etc.
4
Passports will be arranged in the ‘ “usual” manner. Training for the vali- . ant crusade will consist of rock climbing, * parachuting, horse riding, judo, demolition, and marksmanship. Remember, time is short! All interested candidates are to contact Brigade Headquarters at 2140 Oxford Ave., Berkeley, Cal. .
Bertoncini Group Opens At Cloister Inn on July 6
Gene Bertoncini’s Quartet, with vocalist Vince Mauro, has been booked into the Cloister Inn, one of Chicago’s top jazz rooms, for three weeks beginning . July 6. The student group, which has played extensively for Notre Dame func- < tions in the last few years, will appear with popular singer Carmen MacRae.
The engagement was negotiated by Associated Booking Corporation’s Fred Williamson, who was impressed by the group’s performance at the Midwest Col- J ’) legiate Jazz Festival which was held here on campus this spring.	*
“Gino,” who will graduate from the five-year architecture program this June, faces the task of replacing drummer Paul Willihnganz, who will receive a Navy commission in June, and bassist , George Wenz, who has other commit- v ‘ ments. Gene will rehearse the new combo before the July opening, with plans to 4 1 feature both Vince and pianist Wally . Jones, a Howard Hall junior.	I
Although his personal plans are in- I definite, Gene intends to sample the mu- | sic business before making a definite career choice. The decision probably won’t be hard to make. By opening at the Cloister, the . group is starting near the top.
24
The Scholastic
6 H y
*
I »
.J . ,
News Briefs
•4 >
Dr. Frederick Pike of the history department has been awarded a $5,000 fellowship from the Doherty Foundation for a year’s study in Chile it was announced here last week.
Dr. Pike, who is a specialist in Latin American affairs, will engage in research on the Christian Democratic movement in Chile. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1953, Pike currently is working on an edition for the University’s Committee on International Relations.
Four members of the second year class of the Notre Dame Law School were adjudged winners of the semi-final round of the 1958-1959 Moot Court competition following oral argument of the case last Friday evening. Named to compete in the final round of competition next October were William Custer, Don Gardner, Paul Titus, and Larry Wichmann.
James Culliton, Dean of the College of Commerce, was guest at a recent meeting of the Studebaker-Packard Management Club of South Bend. Culliton, who became dean in 1955 after serving on the Commerce faculty for four years, spoke on the changing role of the foreman.
Before coming to Notre Dame, Dean Culliton was a member of the Harvard Business School Faculty for 12 years. For a time he served as editor of the “Harvard Business Review.”
Ross L. Malone, president of the American Bar Association was the featured speaker at a recent dinner sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar Association.
The dinner marked the local observance of Law Day and also served as Notre Dame’s sixth annual honor banquet. Jerome Lynes, a senior law student, served as toastmaster.
Malone, a former deputy attorney general of the United States has practiced law for over 25 years. He was elected to his present position last fall and is one of the youngest men (48) to head the organization which was founded in 1878.
Michael Skop, a graduate sculptor student of Ivan Mestrovic has been awarded a Henrik Kauffman fellowship for further study in Denmark. The award is given by the American-Scandinavian Foundation of New York City. Skop, a native of Lakewood, Ohio, will receive his MA in fine arts this June. He will use the $1,700 grant to study at Copenhagen Art Academy.
A FAUX PAS
In the SCHOLASTIC of May 1, an art exhibition loaned to the University by Daniel J. Crawley of Notre Dame and entitled “Primitive Art in Transition,” was incorrectly labeled a student show. We wish to point out that the student exhibit was separate from the primitive art showing.
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS AND STAFF! SAVE UP TO 50%
You are now eligible to buy thousands of nationally advertised items at WHOLESALE PRICES through the ATLAS DISTRIBUTING CO.
Send $1.00 which is refunded on your first purchase to obtain the large new WHOLESALE CATALOG listing Electrical Appliances, Cameras, Radras, Television, Hifi, Watches, Luggage, Furniture, Typewriters and many more items.
WRITE TO:
ATLAS DISTRIBUTING CO., 605 So. Dearborn St., Chicago 5, III.
Get a head start on your vacation!
FLY UNITED
AID UNES
Going home for the holidays? Or maybe planning a trip somewhere? You’ll have extra days for extra fun if you travel via United. Chances are you’ll save money, too. United Air Coach Mainliner® fares are low. Your choice of fast, convenient schedules to 80 major cities coast to coast and Hawaii. See your Travel Agent or call your nearest United Air Lines office today.
May 8, 1959
Back Pop
by PAUL BODY
world youth festivals
Irresistibly, the world is being shown that the Soviet system is a truly totalitarian and all-embracing rule of terror. True, most of the peoples outside the Soviet sphere have even now failed to realize the grave implications of this fact, yet we are confronted by its reality all the same. The basic difficulty is simply that no human society has ever existed under such a system, which has totally suppressed all avenues of human initiative and perverted them to one unified ruthless design. Ordinary human beings in any part of the world have certain independent thoughts of their own, live their lives according to their convictions, say things which occur to them and even criticize people and institutions as they see fit. These basic rights are not only not enjoyed by Soviet citizens, but their possible exercise constitutes the most grievous crime that they could be accused of. Perhaps the offense in itself is not always harmful, but the very act of thinking, acting, or speaking independently amounts to a repudiation of Marxist principles, which have decreed infallible rules for all phases of human activity. There simply is no need for original action or thought; everything is regulated anyway by the party’s ever-present Central Committee. In practice the Soviet citizen is reduced to the position of a mechanical object, stripped of all human rights and qualities. Furthermore, he is forbidden to think of himself as a human being and to dream of the exercise of basic human rights. The deadly sin against Soviet society is the assertion of a human personality, since this act by itself can nullify and subvert all the achievements of the Proletarian Dictatorship. It is therefore not at all surprising, but logical, that the Soviet leaders consider it their primary mission to suppress and stifle all assertions of independent human actions.
One of the most obvious evidences of this Soviet policy can be seen in the cultural field. The great problem here is not only to prevent criticism of the Soviet world, but to indoctrinate and blindfold the young generation in accordance with the Marxist tenets. The failure of Communist educational policy has been demonstrated sufficiently in Hungary and Poland by the revolutions of 1956; however, it is still being relentlessly pursued in the Soviet Union and in Bed China, but with questionable success. Undaunted, the Soviets practice the cultural offensive also in the free world. Since World War II six so-called World Youth Festivals had been held in Soviet countries and now the seventh is to be held in Vienna this summer. Communist: agents have successfully infiltrated two Free World organizations, the World Federation of Democratic Youth and the
• ' ' - ' . • '
International Union of Students, which even this year are sponsoring this festival of Soviet friendship. The claim of these organizations that they are the representatives of world youth is pure fantasy and is regarded as such by most non-Communist organizations. The Communist orientation of the Festival as well'as its real purpose are best illustrated by the official guardianship over its activities of A. N. Shelepin, formerly Komsomol president and now chief of the Soviet secret police; furthermore by the extreme solicitude of the Komsomol organizations for the preparation of the Soviet delegates to the Festival.
The obvious purpose of the Festival is to invite unsuspecting Asian and African youths to view the peaceful Soviet policy in action. Expertly trained and prepared party-rank stalwarts are sent out from each Communist country to guide the uninformed to the true appreciation that they will not desert the Soviet cause, but also that they will gain converts to the Soviet Union’s viewpoint. In effect, this one million dollar exhibit constitutes a special phase of Soviet cultural aggression against the West with the avowed purpose of spreading Communist influence in non-committed areas of the world. Its importance is not to be underestimated, since such activity represents the most decisive phase of today’s world struggle: the struggle for the mind of youth. In this struggle all of us are vitally involved; whether we like it or not our future existence depends on its final outcome. Especially university'youth, called upon to defend and develop the Western cultural heritage, must be vitally concerned in any attempt to undermine its basic human principles. It is very important, that American as well as European students become interested and concerned with these attempts directed at their destruction. Our task is to reject these accusations, to expose the falseness of Communist claims and above all to boycott any and all such deceptions designed to cover up the ruthless oppression of Central European peoples.
Most European and American student organizations have rightly refused to have anything to do with the attendance at the Festival in Vienna. It is a sign of growing political maturity of youth, that these decisions have been resolved upon with such unanimity. At the same time, it remains an open question, whether many American and European students are aware of the gravity of such pseudo - cultural manifestations, whether they realize the critical danger of Soviet insidious propaganda, and whether they are prepared to defend with conviction and pewmafiinn the traditional Western system of values.
The impressive actions of Austrian
youth organizations would indicate that such an awareness exists in the youth of this small and brave nation. Austrian youth groups have spearheaded the movement to boycott the Soviet festival, they have declared their uncompromising position by leaflets and posters, and ail university students observed a nationwide student strike on March 6, 1959. < The next day a massive demonstration was held in Vienna with the participa- . tion of delegates of most youth organizations to emphasize the solidarity of all groups in their rejection of the Soviet insult to their country and city. The president of the joint youth organizations declared in an address, representing the views of the Austrian people:
“In the Communist countries liberty , and human dignity have been for years trampled under foot. Hundreds of young people are imprisoned, tortured, and murdered, merely because of their political convictions. The traditionally free youth organizations have been suppressed and all public initiative has been forced into state organizations.
“We young people have never forgotten and will never forget that the Hungarian Revolution was bloodily strangled by those whose words are full of slogans of peace and friendship.
“My Friends! While we in Vienna dance, laugh, and sing our brothers suffer the most terrible persecutions. This should ever be engraved on the minds of those who are always willing to sur- ■ render their principles for money or publicity.
“We shall not debate with the party functionaries of , the Eastern countries, but we shall explain to the youth of Asia, Africa, and South America our convictions and we shall inform them of the Communist character of the Festival. < We well know that the Communists intend to capture the minds of these youths. We shall greet the youth of Africa, Asia and South America and we shall warn them: Defend your liberties;
“And finally we greet the youth beyond the Iron Curtain. We bow with reverence before their steadfastness and we think of them as we silently march on the boulevard to show that the youth of Vienna and of Austria does not aid the Communist world conquerors, that . youth has comprehended the voice of the age and standis ready to defend its liberty by all means possible.” -
It can perhaps be argued that such an i exceptional understanding of its responsibilities had . come to the youth of Vienna by the road of hard trying experience. Since 1938 when Nazi armies in- ; vaded her soil until 1955 when the last Soviet soldier left the country, Austri- i ans had been living a life of impending ; violence and uncertainty. The memorial '
(Turn back to page 17)	- ■
. f ;	,	- The Scholastic j
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
1/3 IN JULY
1/3 IN AUGUST
1/3 IN SEPTEMBER
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Whatever you need for your summer wardrobe ... a wash ’n wear suit. . . new slacks . . . sport shirts . . . jackets . . . shoes . . . haberdashery ... get it now and charge it die Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in July . . . one-third in August . . . and one-third in September. Naturally, there is no carrying charge.
MEN
OF
AMERICA
THE RANCH
HANDS
Live-action, shots— Saddle Mountains, Wash,
Driving cattle!
Desert sun ablaze!
Pounding leather
rounding up the strays!
Herding steers across the range ou’U find a man
Takes big pleasure when and where he can... Chesterfield King!
This sun-drenched top-tobacco’s gonna mean...
That you’re smokin’ smoother and you’re smokin’ dean!
/ op-tobacco, stra/gnt uraae-n,	j
Top-tobacco all the way!	|
For big dean taste that satisfies!
Join Hie men who /h^-NOTHING SATISFIES LIKE THE BIG CLEAN TASTE OF TOP-TOBACCO
O Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
EXTRA LENGTH	<f
top-tobacco filter action ... tops in friendly satisfaction!
KING
3