
•	Will Back to Play for Knights of Columbus
•	N. R. O. T. C. Ball on February I I th
•	Bill Lawless Edits N. D. "Lawyer"
•	Radio Department Calls Volunteers
•	Irish Meet Western Michigan on Track Tomorrow
STAFF OF THE NOTRE DAME "LAWYER," LAW SCHOOL QUARTERLY
^he ZNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney_________________________________Editor-in-chief
. Ralph Abell________......____._____________Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole__________________________________________________________Managing Editor Harold Berliner and John McKeon„„Asst. Managing Editors Bill Waddington_________________________Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty________________________Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett______......_.The Green Banner Dick Murphy______________________________1_College Parade
Al Lesmez___________________________Man About Campus
News Staff	-
Frank Keenan____......__________________..__News Editor
Al Lesmez___________________________________Campus Editor
Edward Madden._______________________Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelson	Joe Plante
J. D. Usina	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
Jim Regan	H. G. Gilligan	Bill Thompson
Paul Wood	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Steve Loyacano John Locke	Mike Canair
Features
Al Broten______________;--------------------------Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner ■ Harry Tanner	Charles Veenstra
Howard M. Nelson .	-
. Sports Staff
Bill Carey__.______1________________________...___Editor
James H. Howard	Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey .
Staff Photographers	:
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller
_	Circulation
John Matmiller._____________________________1._Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.._„_„„__Faculty. Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, .Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, . Inc.; 420 . Madison Avenue,’ New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San. Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the. Univer- ' sity of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall ■ or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.	.	•
2
S	College Parade
M	BY RICHARD MURPHY
H_____________•________.

JUST LIKE HOME
A man and a small boy were riding on a train one day. Upon entering the boy left the door open.
Shouted the man, in a very harsh voice, “Get up and shut that door! Were you born in a barn?”
The boy arose, closed the door, returned to his seat, and began crying. The man felt a bit remorseful and went over to the boy.
“Son, I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings,” he said softly.
“Oh, you didn’t hurt my feelings,” said the boy, “But I was raised in a barn; and every time I hear a jackass bray it makes me homesick.”
A NEW SLANT ON EDUCATION
Texas State College for Women is sponsoring a demonstration school with a new slant on progressive education. In the belief that the children should be kept happy and “emotionally balanced,” no grades are given; hence there is no chance of the child failing. Each child is rotated into a section which is most suited to his individual need, and the school, operated” on year levels, requires no standard of entrance except age qualifications. The first graders are now learning arithmetic first-hand from the farmer’s exchange market. “They learn how to count by counting pigs which they have seen and drawn.” All of which makes us wonder what will happen when progressive education reaches the college level and the professor tries to explain the U. S. banking system.	.	■
—The Loyola, Maroon
NO WOMEN WANTED!
Recently a poll, taken at Saint Mary’s of California, revealed that the Gaels do not want coeds attending the < 7 school. The poll came as an answer to the proposed change to make St. -Mary’s a coeducational college. Strange people!
A THING OF THE PAST
Visitor: “How old are you, son?”
Little Boy: “That’s-hard .to say. According to my latest school tests, I have a psychological age of ten, a moral age / of three; anatomically I’m seven; mentally I’m nine. But I j suppose if you refer to my chronological age, I’m eight; but | >. nobody-..pays any attention to that any more.” .	|
'	—The Toiler
DOGS FOR DEFENSE	<
■ . . . <<
The De Pauw, tri weekly publication of DePauw Univer- 1 sity, tells us that at the University of Kentucky there is a little box in the book store that says, “Deposit cancelled * stamps here—benefit of Dogs for Defense.” Stamp collectors ■ in England want these stamps, and the money collected for their sale is used to train dogs in defense work.
'	(Continued on page 17)	j
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
VOL. 80	JANUARY 28, 1944	NO. 10
t Chicago's Will Back to Play for K.-Cs
BY AL LESMEZ
The 'past-'week saw plans for the civilian “Semi - Formal” emerge from embryo stage, and take on the semblance of life—the promise of a really good time ahead. With the committeemen busy on their respective projects, the details, big and little, promise to be well taken care of. The rest will be up to the ticket-buyers and the dancers.
It was announced officially during the week that Will Back and his orchestra, now appearing at the Paradise Ball Room in Chicago, and a Middlewest favorite, will provide the music for the gala evening.
This semi-formal promises to be the fulfillment of much wishing, much planning, and much work. The cooperation of the Office of the Prefect of Discipline insures a long evening of dancing, and an enjoyable week-end. Dance permissions have been granted until 1 a.m., with a 2 a.m. “zero-hour” for all men to be back in their halls. Father Burke has done more than this. He will grant to all those who register cars with the Office of Discipline—permission to use
- Will Back
them for the week-end. In many cases, Father Burke is allowing “campused” students to attend the downtown affair.
In short, all the civilian factions on campus, along with the Knights of Columbus, and backed by the Commerce Forum, the Law Club, the La Raza Club and the majority of the civilian population, will attempt to prove that many other nights such as Feb. 4 can be possible, in spite of their depleted ranks. It is hoped that a spirited backing by each individual will insure a future social life for the “civvies,” and danceaffairs for this group might continue.
The Indiana Club will be the site of the ball. The bids will be §3^30. These bids will be limited to 250, and since there are more than 500 civilians, all are encouraged to get their tickets just as soon as possible. Tickets can be purchased in the cafeteria from 12 to 1, and from 5:45 to 7 o’clock each day.
As has been announced, dress will be optional. Due to wartime complications, formal attire will be absolutely a matter of personal choice. The majority will attend in comfort and economy of informal dress. Flower bouquets will definitely be a part of the panorama.
One of the features of choosing Will Back is the variety of his musical style. His orchestra is known for the enjoyable contrast he supplies by varying his dance numbers. Along with the popular ballads and love lyrics, fast tempo jive, rhythmic rumbas, soft waltzes and other dance styles will fill the Indiana Club. The orchestra committee is to be commended on its practical judgment.
Heading the various committees are Chairman Benjamin J. Mammina and Chairman Joseph Mumane. Richard Sadowski heads the program committee, and Jack Kelly is ticket chairman. Publicity is handled by the committee headed by Richard Murphy, with decorations being under the chairmanship of Patrick Rega. Thomas Halligan’s committee took care of securing Will Back for the occasion. The student body acknowledges the
services of all these men, and of the numerous others who have helped with the tedious details entailed in such dances. Through their efforts the dance is just one week away.
To those who are hesitant because of lack of dates, the advice is given to reestablish diplomatic relations with la jeune fille, for no matter what hardships this would entail, the effort will be well worthwhile. To others who have no dates, and who have not the “diplomatic relations” to re-establish, the advice is given to see some of the known Casanovas of the halls. There are plenty of these Romeos who have too many dates, and who will be only too glad to lend you one for the dance. And to the third class who doesn’t have the dates, nor the Casanova-friends, our sympathy. Your only choice is St. Mary’s.
Because this dance is a crucial one in that it will be a test to gauge other dance efforts in the future, and because, in reality, it promises to provide unforgettable enjoyment to all attending, all the “civvies” are encouraged to plan, and to act early on these plans.
N. R. 0. T. C. Bringing Buddy Franklin to Palais Royale; Ball Set for February 11th
Buddy Franklin and his 13-piece orchestra featuring comely Harriet Collins as vocalist, will support the musical end of the fourth Naval R.O.T.C. Ball to he held at the Palais Royale on the night of Feb. 11-
In the traditional settings of former Notre Dame class dances, members of the Naval Reserve Officers’ TrainingCorps and their dates will be entertained from 2100 until 0100. Franklin and his musicians are new in the Midwest. They have played an extended billing at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago and currently they are at the Chase Hotel in St. Louis. Another featture offered to the dance-goers will be found in the “Sweethearts of Strings”—Yvonne, Hope and Sylvia.
William W. Wicks, general chairman announces that this semester’s ball will be dedicated to the four members of the unit who will receive their ensign’s commissions at the end of the term—the first graduates of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. John P. Lawler, John C. O’Rourke, Thomas R. Shellworth, Charles M. Urruela and their dates will be the -guests of honor at their last Naval Ball.
The first Navy dance ever to be held on the campus bf the University was on April 17, 1942 when the Naval R.O.T.C. with the Notre Dame Cavaliers providing the music used the Rockne Memorial as their first annual Ball site. Captain H. P. Burnett, commanding officer of the Unit and Rear Admiral John Downes, commandant of the Ninth Naval District "
Harriet Collins
headed the receiving line. John E. Herlihy was the chairman in this inaugural affair.
On Dec. 11, 1942 the scene shifted to the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel where under the direction of Frank P. Crowley, the second and largest ball was held. Some 250 couples danced to the music of Harlan Hogan. Crowley was also chairman for the last Ball held as a part of a gala week-end for the Naval R.O.T.C. in conjunction with the Georgia Tech football game on Oct. 1-3 last year. The Naval Ball was Oct. 1 at the Indiana Club with Teddy Powell and his New York outfit. The football game, which saw the Irish smash the Yellow
Buddy Franklin
Jackets 55-13, as well as the Victory Dance Saturday night and a Tea Dance, Sunday afternoon Oct. 3, rounded out the week-end.
The past history of these Navy Balls has been one of colorful success. The committee for the coming ball is striving to make the forthcoming equally successful.
Miss Ruthann Baker of Chicago will be the guest of Chairman Wicks. She will also be Queen of the Ball. Miss Marijane Corbett, also of Chicago, will be escorted by John C. O’Rourke, who is in charge of bids and favors. Eugene F. Moore, decorations chairman, will have Miss Mary Tobin of South Bend as his guest. J. Richard Pedrotty, orchestra chairman, will escort Miss Jeanne Reed, also of South Bend.
"Ruddigore" is Delightful Story of Family Curse
By Harold Berliner Publicity Director
In two weeks the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “Ruddigore,” will greet the public. Already well versed in their lines, after three weeks practice, Mr. Cecil Birder’s company is now perfecting itself in the last details, and giving the whole work an artistic polish.
The story of Ruddigore, or the Witch’s Curse, is the tale of the last member of the Murgatroyd family. The scene is the delightful little village of Redherring, Cornwall. Chief among the inhabitants of the town is a troupe of professional bridesmaids, who have not had a wedding in six months, and are extremely anxious to get back to work.
Some time in the past, the male scion of the Murgatroyd family, on account of his unceasing persecution of witches in general, and the burning of one witch in particular, has been doomed by a curse to commit a crime each day. In order to avoid this evil fate, Ruthven Murgatroyd hides his baronetcy and passes the ancestral curse to Despard. The latter has abandoned his lover, Meg, who has gone quite mad as a result of his infidelity. Known as Mad Margaret, her hobby is working up fits of hysterics at unexpected moments. Ruthven, under the name of Robin Oakapple, loves Rose at a distance, but is too shy to approach her. Along comes Richard Dauntless, Robin’s sailor brother, and promises to win Rose, the village beauty, for Robin. “The dictates of his heart” tell him otherwise, so he wins Rose for himself. In a passage of rivalry, Robin regains his ascendancy over Rose’s affections, leaving Richard to the resource of revenge.
“Following his heart’s dictates,” as he must do by pact, Richard tells Despard that Robin is really the Murgatroyd heir who should inherit the ancestral curse of criminality which blights Despard’s existence. Rose, the vacillating ingenue, leaves Robin again and goes to Despard. But he, conscience - stricken, returns to his former love, Meg. At all times the matrimonial corps go about singing their patent wedding lay, with supreme indifference to the contracting parties.
In the second act Robin is established as ’ Ruthven, the bad Baronet, petrified with fear in his new surroundings. After* being scolded by the ghosts of his ancestors for. the insipidity of his crimes, he commissions his servant, Adam, to steal a girl from the village. Loyal Adam does so, and returns with Dame Hannah, the (Continued on page 16)	•
¥
<»
<6
4

g THE GREEN BANNER §
d	BY JIM CASEY AND "BUZZ" HASSETT	M
HAVE YOU NOTICED?
The campus seems to be all talk this week about the coming K. C. Semi-Form-al. Downtown hotels report numerous reservations, so it appears that there will be quite a few imports—just like the good old days. (There are few girls’ schools that have never been represented at an N. D. dance—even St. Mary’s— bless ’em all.)
BRIGHT SAYINGS OF JOE BLOW '08
(1)	Adam was the only man who could be sure of his wife. Adam was the only man.
(2)	Courtship is a man pursuing a woman until she catches him.
Any resemblance to Saint Mary’s is purely intentional.
GOSSIP—GOSSIP—AND MORE GOSSIP
Joe Murnane proved himself a real gentleman the other evening at Rosie’s— as he picked the lady up off the floor, immediately after removing the chair from under her as she sat down.... There was one worried NROTC fellow last week, as the naval dentist claimed that he would have to pull his tooth because he didn’t have time to work on it.... that sure sounds like the student infirmary.... The usual popular musical entertainment that comes from the third floor of Sorin has now changed, and . sounds more like Gilbert and Sullivan every day.... speaking of Gilbert and Sullivan, Tom Bremer claims he likes his role as a ghost—as no one in the audience will see him.... from our way of thinking it looked like a slow weekend. The boys either stuck close to the campus or enjoyed one of the several big movies down-town. . . . Weekends were numerous.
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS
Gas coupons can be procured for the K. C. Dance by merely contacting Dick Sidowski and paying a small premium. ($3.30 per coupon).
Scallions to the South Bend Draft boards for trying to draft all our profs.
Orchids to the front office for a ten day vacation (we hope). Better late than never, we always say.
THOUGHT OF THE WEEK
Finals only four weeks away.... Guess it’s time to hit the books.
AMBITIOUS FRESHMEN
The men of Brownson looked with
envy on the recent V-12 Ball. They de
cided that the civilians, too, needed a dance—a bigger and better dance. Hence they banded themselves into committees, and formulated the following plans (here presented in the words of the chairman) :
All we have to do is collect $2.00 from • every civilian in school for a down payment on the band we’ll have for our dance. All the lads will be glad to contribute because this money will not only be used as a deposit for Dorsey, Kay Kyser or whomever we decide upon, but it will serve as partial payment for the contributor’s ticket. The committee has decided that $5.00 should be a fair amount for all concerned to pay. Thus, after the band has been paid for, in order to enjoy the festivities, the goofs will only have to kick in $3.00 more apiece. As yet, we have not decided whether to use the Navy Drill Hall, Rockne Memorial or the Kitchen of the Dining Hall. If we use the kitchen the boys can see what is going to be served at the initial meal of the day, and can decide whether or not it would be worth while to get up for breakfast.
We feel that the idea of collecting a down payment is sound. We can’t pos
K. of C. Ballers Anticipate
sibly fail. But in case some mysterious misfortune should arise which would make the dance go under, and this is not likely to happen, we shall then, and only then, invite the members of the NROTC. So our advice to the future ensigns is to dig up tentative dates, as you may be fortunate to be invited to the dance. We’ll set the exact date when we get the band and we’II get the band when we get your two dollars. We have the sanction of the prefect of discipline, but he told us not to depend upon the school for any financial backing. Who said we need any help! So stay close to your rooms fellows, because one of these nights the committee will be around to collect your contribution for a jolly evening, in part.
HERE AND THERE
Rumor (and that’s all we ever have to go on) brings back to us the startling information that Patricia O’Connell and her crew turned in a very enjoyable Junior Prom for the “Rockettes,” not long ago; but that’s an old habit with the O’Connell clan. We remember years ago when she concocted some formula for a punch, to be served at a similar affair. Her brother (who preceded us in the world of gossip) stole the formula, and brought it back to Notre Dame’s laboratories. The upshot of it all was that both Mr. Dupont and Mr. LePage (glue tycoon) became interested. Today, synthetic rubber is making great strides, (Continued on page 16)
5
Bill Lawless Edits Notre Dame "Lawyer," Prominent Quarterly Published Since 1925
The Notre Dame Lawyer has been reorganized since the beginning of the present semester. The result is the current issue of the Lawyer which is now in the mail. Among the vitally interesting lead articles in this December issue are:
“Problems of Domestic Air Transportation,” by Oswald Ryan of the Civil Aeronautics Authority in Washington, “Indiana Jurisprudence—Mainly in Retrospect,” by Iden S. Romig, and “Address to the Graduating Law Class at the University of Wisconsin,” by the Hon Edward G. Ryan.
The review was founded in 1925 (November issue) as “A Monthly Law Review,” by Dudley Goodall Wooten, an associate professor of law at Notre Dame, who had received his AB at Princeton, MA at Johns Hopkins University, LL.B, from the Univ, of Virginia, and honorary LL.D, from both Southwestern and Baylor Universities.
When Mr. Wooten arrived at Notre Dame, he resolved to establish a creditable review at any expense of effort. Hence, in November, 1925 Volume I, Number 1 rolled off the press—33 pages in length. The first issue contained the following statement from Nicholas Murray Butler (Pres, of Columbia U.) :
4‘The undertaking to publish a new Law Journal under the direction of the students of the College of Law at Notre Dame University is one to he heartily commended. Experience proves the great value of a publication of this kind. Participation in the editing of such a journal assists the student to make his knowledge precise and to give it application to specific and definite issues.” ■	.
The first editor, Clarence J. Ruddy, and staff was composed of law students exclusively who adopted as motto of the review that ancient maxim of Lord Coke’s: “Law is the perfection of human reason.” The early motto appeared for the last time on the cover of the May 1932 Volume VIL In the next volume, the term: “A Quarterly Law Review” replaced the maxim, and survives to this day. Since the foundation of the magazine, 23 students have served as editor -of the Lawyer. The present editor, W. B. Lawless, represents the twenty-fourth.
Strangely enough the College of Law was founded in the summer of 1868 when the Board of Trustees of the University passed a resolution “for the opening of a course of law at Notre Dame,” but had no law review for. ,55 years, until 1925. This may be due to the early prejudice against the study of law at law
schools, and the consequent lack of public interest in the efforts of the student lawyers.
But since this beginning in 1925, the Lawyer has taken giant strides. Today it exchanges copy with every prominent law review in the United States, it is sent to libraries the country over, including the Library of Congress in Washington. Recent publication of the Roscoe Pound lectures at Notre Dame brought overwhelming requests from law students and professors everywhere for extra copies. War shortage in students seriously threatened the very existence of the review, however, when it was at th peak of its history. So it was that the Lawyer underwent complete reorganization at the outset of the present term. Budget working hours were assigned to Naval and Marine trainees, the staff was split into three distinct departments: Editorial, Business, and Notes, so that fixed responsibility could meet the war tendency of disorder. To bolster increased prices of production, a campaign for new subscriptions got under way that the sale price of the Lawyer woould not be increased to the many faithful friends and readers. In three weeks the subscription list doubled, bringing over $500 to the rescue of the review. New subscriptions are still encouraged.
Further adding to the prestige of the Notre Dame Lawyer is the fact that Current Legal Thought, the Reader’s Digest of the legal profession, has republished four articles from the Notre Dame Lawyer in the nine issues. The latest article which was reprinted was: “Trusts—as Distinguished From A Debt Where Interest is Paid,” by John H. Verdonk, associate editor of the Laivyer in 1941. Also, Prof. William Rollison, of the Notre Dame Law School, had one of his articles so honored in the Current Legal Thught. They republished his: “Priorities in the Law of Mortgages,” an article which has been cited in many texts as being outstanding.
The present reorganized staff of the. Notre Dame Lawyer is as follows:
Editor-in-chief, William B. Lawless, Jr., New' York; Business Manager, Charles M. Boynton,' Michigan; Associate Editors, Peter F.' Nemeth, Indiana; Jack P. Lawler, Florida.	- -'
Editorial Staff: Vail W. -Pischke,. Indiana; . Norman B. Thirion.' .
Business Staff: Samuel Alonzi, Illinois; Wil', liam Bodden, Wisconsin; Patrick Flanagan, Ohio;
Robert Murphy, Illinois; H. William Smith. '•	'
Note Editor: Thomas F. Halligan, Michigan. . Note Staff: Donald E. Hummer, Ohio. ~ Publicity. Director: Vail W. Pischke, Indiana.
I	Marine Murmurs	I
=	By Private Knoc-E Toff	E
H- ittiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiii [2
It wasn’t a hurricane or a whirlwind that hit the marine barracks Monday night. No, it was a field day in preparation for the inspection Tuesday by Lt. Col. Rohiser. . . . It’s also the reason for all the dark glasses on Tuesday. In the words of Pvt. E. Gorp Witherspoon, “That shine, hard on my eyes.” The one blemish in the whole barracks was in room 161. The occupants forgot to polish the third spring at the foot of the bunk. Such an example!
Elkhart tasted the “Charm” of the V-12 trainees last weekend. The boys thereabouts really tried their luck when the local beauty was portioned out punchboard style.
. . . Hasta la vista, Luke
Only one thing foggier than last Saturday night.
“The chow mugs,” — you guessed it, that’s right.
S.M.C. Tragedy
Then there’s the miss with a gleam in her eye,-
Who tried to snare a marine striding by—	.
But he carried on to the bar for a coke,.
And she was resigned to a bellbottomed bloke.
- Clipped from the ”Ski-u-Mah"
Captain: “The man who sneaked out of barracks last night and met a girl in the Knoll will step forward. . .'. COMPANY HALT!”
This narration is the inside dope about the movements and experiences of "jPvt; Geezmo B. Fuddled while he was
; (Continued on page 19)	/


6
a TOP OF THE WEEK
The Dining Hall girls.
LA DE DA
And next there cometh the Dance at the Indiana Club, Friday night. . . . Rumor hath it that St. Mary’s will attend in volume, and the Dance Committee has borrowed N.D.’s basketball bleachers to accommodate the little charmers. ... If you manage to get to the affair, be sure to wear dress uni" form, and if that’s at the cleaners wear undress; and if your roommate’s got that, wear a gunny sack, and you’ll blend nicely with the crowd. . . . Leader of the contingent from the Rock is Miss Flossie Bavardage, the Bavardage Cheese heiress, really a lovely girl, beautiful poise, reeking with savoire fairs . and, like her papa’s products, unspoiled. Flossie’s date will arrive from Chicago via Railway Express. . . . When asked for an opinion of the Ball-to-be, one of the gals said oh-so-colloquially, “It’s going to be (sic) a simply excruciatingly gay affair,” and she’s probably . partly right. . . . See you-at the Dixie.
MULL THIS OVER
Chandler’s Introduction to Parasitology: “The indolence of the Egyptian peasant is due mainly to schistosomes.”
"—LOVE OSCAR"
Co. 27, Pltn. 1, G.L.N.T.S., Great Lakes, Ill.
Dear Bea,
Sorry I haven’t written you since the V-12 Ball, but I’ve been pretty busy getting settled and making new friends.
Did you have a good time at the dance, Bea? You certainly brought down the house when you' went through the receiving line! I almost bust a gut when you pinched the Captain’s cheek, and . said you thought sailors looked positively zoot with gold braid on their uniforms: You certainly are a card, honey! At Kewpie’s you had us all rolling in the aisles when you broke the coke bottle over that . Ensign’s head, then pointed to me and told him if he didn’t stop bellowing, that Oscar W. Funking-
The Week
L "'-3g	-	-JF "aEg
BY BILL BYRNE AND JACK CARSON
ham, A/S, V-12, U.S.N.R., 704-46-12, 299 Alumni Hall, would beat his brains out. Boy, did he shut up!
It was a scream when you were driving my U-Rent-It car. It tore along the sidewalk on Colfax Avenue, and ran over that silly old woman and her Seeing-Eye dog; and was that cop surprised when he tried to stop you! I double up every time I think of the way you nailed him when he jumped for the curb, and the hilarious expression on his broken face as he looked up from the pavement just in time to jot down our license number. Ha! Ha! By the way, he got it down perfectly.
The high spot of your visit was when you asked Chief Broderick if he wanted to hear a good gag and he said sure and you, with a girlish laugh, jammed two fingers down his throat. Too bad I was wearing a dress jumper, but it costs less than a dollar to have it cleaned so what am I moaning about?
Love (still),
Oscar.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“Just tell your mother I’m stationed at Notre Dame.”
QUOTES FROM ALL OVER
Montague Wolfgang (marine V-12) (with a sigh): “Anything for the boys in Service.”
The date to the Captain (while shaking hands with herself): “A-w-w-w-w, I’m all goofed up!’’
At - the milk-counter (fortissimo) : “Who d’ya think I am, dope -— Elsie the Borden cow?”
Father Mxtckenthaler (with - conviction) : “Academic imbecile! . . . Say, . that’s not bad!”
Dr: Powers (Biology Dept.): Phylo-genetically, birds are characterized by feathers. ...”	, _ ,	. '	•
Commander Pierson ■ (with considerable logic) : “Was it worth it?”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
They’re either too young or too old.
EDITORIAL
— -------------- ~
The Alumni Association
By Harold M. Nelson
Today, in the face of all adverse conditions created by the war, the Alumni Association of Notre Dame University plans for the beneficial advancement of relations between the University and former students in the post war era.
Organized in 1869, the silver anniversary of the University, the Alumni Association has functioned continuously since. As it was first organized, the alumni group was to be of a social and fraternal order. Soon, however, a pleasant obligation was felt by those who had graduated to give the University those materials and equipment with which to further the education of students- In order not to have the relationship grow into a strictly financial one, Notre Dame traditions and fraternal spirit were also emphasized.
The organization was completely revamped in 1908 and again, in the hectic years immediately following the World War, it underwent another modernization in order to keep abreast of the times.
Today, the Alumni Association has over 90 clubs in as many different cities. Over and above the social activities of the clubs, the organization has set up and operated a post-grad study plan for all members. This plan consists of diligently compiled reading lists, and a course of review and survey lectures for men who would, for a few days, periodically come back to the University in order to keep alive their interest in broadening their education.
Also of importance to recent graduates and future graduates is the fact that the Alumni Association can materially aid grads in placing themselves in the • world of business, or manufacturing, or -public relationship, or any other field of endeavor which the man might select. Valuable time is gained for the individual in this way; moreover it tends to build a powerful and efficient Alumni ' Organization which in turn means a' topbracket University. •
The important message the Alumni , Association desires to leave with all men graduating this year and in future years is to know the University and its make-up—not only one’s own college, but the other colleges as well. This fraternization will make for a more closely knit alumni group which in proper order will -increase for all students future chances of success in any field of endeavor.
New System of Unwarned . Inspections is Inaugurated
By Al Broten
“.Open ranks for inspection,” snapped the company commander after the men had been mustered and the mail had been distributed.
That was the worst order that could have been given. Looks of anger spread throughout the company. Fear on the faces of some; sadness on the faces of others. To most of the men, it was like being caught unprepared on judgment day.
The company commander, who had not been forewarned of the inspection and therefore had not had an opportunity to. coach his charges at the morning muster, smiled dimly. He was unhappy also.
Approximately 90 percent of the men had been released from their last class at ten minutes before high noon. That last class had brought to them a humble “1” in Physics or rebuke in English.
As soon as the 11:50 bell had sounded, they had swept back to their halls in order that they might be ready to “fall out for noon muster at 1200. Some brave boys straggled back.
Making a swift survey of the hall, you could find everything in a state of confusion. Before the mirrors, handsome youngsters were primping themselves up, assuming that possibly some ambitious chief would give an inspection. There were a few, of course, who had decided at the last minute to shave. So, in the midst of a turmoil, they were involved in conducting two-second beard slashing.
Down the corridor, shoe polishing equipment had been unearthed, and was being applied with vengeance. Another few took to clothes brushes as their means of preparing for inspection.
However, the majority of the men had either completed one of these necessary processes or had completed none at all, sensing that no chief or officer would be so heartless as to give an inspection without warning.
So, here they al! were, at 12:05 opening their ranks for inspection and wondering if they had a demerit card in their pockets. Standing at the end of the second squad was a man who must have been a wizard. His shoes were shined, his clothes were brushed, his . pants were pressed, his face was shaved, and his hair was combed. Some rumored that he hadn’t had a class during the last hour; others gossiped that maybe he had been tipped off. .
Stacked up alongside this immaculate fellow was a colleague whose appearance had suffered slightly from a three-day
8
lack of attention. Although it was generally7 admitted that he is a nice fellow and beloved by his fellow man, he was slightly out of focus. However, except for baggy trousers, a three-buttoned peacoat, a beard worthy of some note, and a glareless shoe shine, there was no reason why he should worry about an inspection.
Looking along the remainder of the squad, three mustaches could be seen— one of which appeared cultured, another rugged, and the third, in its embryonic stage.
Such was the picture of this proud company as the commander ordered, “At ease.” That was the cue for all those with a guilty conscience to start attempts to brush off their peacoats, seek reassurance from their buddies concerning their neglected beards, and to rub their shoes in vain with their gloves in order to obtain a glow.
When the command came for “Attention” and the inspecting officer stepped forward, all men resigned themselves to the situation. There was nothing more that they7 could do but hope and pray.
The remainder of this story would be too cruel to recount, except to mention that all men vowed that from this time forward they would be ready for anything.
Commencing last week, the purpose of this new system of inspection among the marines and seamen of the V-12 unit is to put all men on their toes and to give inspecting parties more experience.
Every other day has been set aside as inspection days by specific parties. Since four parties have been appointed, four companies will be inspected on these days. Other days will be used for inspections by CPO company commanders.
The four groups making inspections include the regimental commajider and his aides, the first battalion staff, the second battalion staff, and the third battalion staff. Marines may7 therefore inspect seamen companies.
❖	NEWS BULLETIN	❖
❖ Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender, ❖ *** Commander of the Ninth Naval Dis-•I* trict and speaker at the recent V-7	'
❖ graduation here, has been awarded ❖ the "Legion of Merit" medal. The ♦♦♦ ❖ award, conferred on Jan. 12, 1944, ❖ ❖ was given in recognition of the Ad- ❖ & mirals services rendered as Com- # ❖ mander of the Naval forces in the ❖
❖. South Pacific from September, 1942 ❖ *!* until November, 1943. Admiral Car- ❖ pender had been previously awarded the Distinguished Service Medal. *1*
•2* ♦j* ♦£♦ <£♦ «£♦	*** ❖ *2* ♦♦♦	❖ $
THE SNOOPER
- Snooped, Edited and Written by: THE SNOOPER

One Mr. J. T. Patane (Co. H, 357 Alumni) is making a valiant attempt to enter V-7 — via the back door. He doesn’t like the uniform he is supposed to wear, so he wears his jersey (without a jumper) to chow, classes, and elsewhere. What are you going to do while standing inspection, when the Chief asks you to open your peacoat?

Well, well, the eternal triangle loomed its ugly head at the V-12 Ball.' Mr. John F. Fratella, Yeoman Second Class (V-12 office) took Mr. A. Mistretta’s favorite girl to said formal! Due only to the fact that the occasion was formal, there was no hair pulling, no scratching, no biting, no blows exchanged, nor other intimacies exhibited — at the dance. A very sarcastic time was enjoyed by all parties concerned. What happened after the dance, fellows?
Mr. Ralph A. Gunnion (Co. E, 137 Dillon) was overheard the other day, ■ while talking to an officer. They7 were talking about the dance, and Gunnion’s date. Gunnion was heard to say, “That ' was mighty fragile gear I had there.” How fragile, Gunnion? It didn’t break when.you were dancing! ’
Hey fellows, did you know that to make one V-12, it takes one V-5 and one V-7? Believe it or not! V-5+V-7= V-12.
At last, we have a rival for the “bullslinging contest’s” first place — mentioned last week. Mr._F. P. (Big Noise) (Co. E) is the “salty” sailor (from Great Lakes) who is competing for first place. He is the lad who has . been around —. if you don’t, believe it, ask him. Such a salty sailor, I have never seen; why. only the other day he was seen shining the shoes of Chiefs Scharff, Norris, and Clark .— gratis too! Bootblack, they called him' in them there days!
Here fellows, is what I am told is (Continued on page 18)

Radio Department Calls for Interested Volunteers; Plans Full Broadcast Schedule
BY BILL CARNAHAN
Most will remember that back in 1930 N. D. experienced its second consecutive year with a championship football team and names like Bucky O’Connor, Joe Sa-voldi and Marty Brill constantly made the headlines.
Yet few are aware that during this’ time a sound-engineer from WSBT, Herb Cole, began experiments with what were known as Radio Remotes. These were a type of broadcast that originated outside of the main studio in South Bend. He thought the Notre Dame campus was a perfect spot to test his ideas, and with 'the cooperation of the University, he set up broadcasting facilities. Later he interested a few students and the Radio Club was organized.
In the following years the progress of this group was carried on by such men as Jim Britt on WSBT; Edward R. Murrow, now a well known war commentator; Frank Maynard now on WJJD in Chicago; and Toby Reed and Tom Mul-ready, now on .the Fitch Bandwagon.
Much was done for the University by these men. There were weekly broadcasts on the daily campus life, and as time went by Notre Dame grew from provincial recognition to that of national acclaim.
And yet, after all these years, the activities of the newly incorporated Radio Department are just beginning. It is becoming more and more apparent every day that the pioneering carried on by the aforementioned men, is now being rewarded in the form of modernized ideas and equipment.	. .
At present a new addition to the studio is being completed. It consists of two rooms, one of which will house the engineer with his complicated dials and instruments; while the second room will be used primarily for conference broadcasts, sportscasts, and those which do not demand the larger studios. It has been promised, however, that there will be no Mr. Anthony’s on WND.
The remaining portion of the studio is much bigger. It will be shared with Mr. Lee Hope and the band. Recently an expert from Indianapolis tested the floor and walls, and pronounced them acoustically perfect.
The staff of the Radio Department ineludes Mr. Vail Pischke, who is the director of the group. A likeable and modest young man, Vail intends to pursue the law profession, and he is now in his
senior year at the Law School. Entering Notre Dame in 1939, he became interested in radio. After joining the Radio Club, he began broadcasting. During the ensuing years he acquired a great deal of experience, both in amateur and professional .work.
Another member of the directing staff is Tony Earley, who is in charge of the ND Sportscasts, and incidentally is looking for a partner. Anyone who is interested, regardless of experience, is invited to try out. The announcer’s spot is ably handled by Frank Cronan, while Jim Kress, who most of us remember as a prancing drum major, aids Vail on the present broadcasting.
Father Eugene Burke has played an important part in the activities of the organization in an advisory capacity. A debt of thanks is extended to James E. Armstrong for his valuable aid in technical and financial matters.
The future development of the Radio Department is so promising that it should capture the interest of every one in the University.	.
Two weeks ago Mr. Pischke was approached by. the Army with the idea of recruiting men for the Air Corps. The project will consist in popular radio propaganda, with skits and similar presentations that would make radio audi-. ences conscious of the growing need for flowers. As a result the Radio Department is looking for talent of all kinds; future script writers, announcers, actors, engineers and so forth.
There are a number of men on the campus who possess talents of one kind or other, and there are also a greater number who have no experience at all. Yet, from these two groups the department hopes to draw out those who are interested enough to drop by the studio in order to gain further information.
(Continued on page 16)
❖	FALSE RUMOR	❖
There is absolutely no truth in the *£♦ ❖ rumor that Freshmen are planning a ❖ dance. According to reliable sources, ❖ absolutely no civilian dance—other ❖ than the K. of C. “Semi-Formal"—will ❖ **• be held. And bids to the "Semi-❖ Formal" are limited to 250 couples. •&
N.D. Midshipmen School
Graduates 1, 170 Ensigns
Last week 1,170 blue-clad midshipmen marched for the last time in formation across the campus. In a ceremony which lasted one hour, the work of four hard months of naval officer training was rewarded - with commissions as ensigns in the United States Naval Reserve.
This class of 1,170 men was the fourth to be graduated from the United States Midshipmen School at the University. The new ensigns have been prepared to cope with problems in many fields of the war — wherever their individual assignments may take them. '
Present at the impressive but short . graduating exercise was a crowd of close to 4,000 spectators who travelled from all parts of the country to watch the midshipmen receive their commissions from Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender, U.S.N., Commandant of the Ninth Naval District.
Admiral Carpender has recently returned from service as commander of allied naval forces in the southwest Pacific, and thus was able to speak from experience. Directing most of his talk at. the Japanese, Admiral Carpender said bitterly, “They must be killed man by man until no one remains alive. They must be exterminated. There must be inculcated in your hearts, as there must be in the heart of every man, woman and child in this country of ours, a hatred of the Japanese.”
But the fact that it is “a tough job” ahead for the new officers against an enemy that worships “no true God,” was not the sole substance of Admiral Car-pender’s talk. In admiration, he said, “I can tell you without reservation that the performance of the naval reserve officers is magnificent.” Thus he struck a note at the good qualities which should be possessed by the men, qualities which make America’s fighting, men the finest fighters in the world.”
A slightly humorous twist was added when Admiral Carpender said that many mistakes might be made by newly commissioned officers, but that these mistakes were not necessarily unwanted, but rather desirable. In explanation of this statement which seemingly contradiets the optimistic • viewpoint of perfectionists, the Admiral said that the. officer or man who does not make first-mistakes “is seldom worth his salt.”
That newly commissioned officer can make many mistakes was proved true as . 13 of the 1,170 new ensigns flocked to altar right after receiving their com-
(Continued on page. 15')	-
~	9
Sailors, Marines, and a Soldier in Second Riotous V-12 Variety Show last Tuesday
The venerable old face of George Washington, mellowed through nearly fifty years of existence to a dusty palish yellow, glowed the bright crimson of a stop light for over an hour Tuesday night as the hottest variety show in ancient Washington Hall’s history smouldered over the wooden planks of her stage. The V-12 unit’s second bi-weekly production of “Nights and Daze” reached new heights in the roughness of its humor, as the jammed-packed auditorium nearly burst at the raucously bellowed reception the show was accorded.
The show opened as gagmen Cassidy, O’Keefe and Schellenberg awaited the arrival of emcee Noel Digby. Digby came too late, however, to prevent the bitter gun battle between would-be trombonist Schellenberg and disappointed music-lover O’Keefe, which resulted in O’Keefe sprawling across the steps of the stage with the smoking revolver still in his grasp. Belated though the arrival of Digby was, it lacked nothing in color as the riotous red-head wheeled down the aisle and up to the stage on a bicycle and buried under a golden football helmet. Digby’s subsequent mention of Kamm’s Light was enough to disrupt the scene’s only peaceful stageprop, as orange-pajama-clad George Olson tumbled from his bunk and sprinted in the general direction of the imagined beverage.
The curtain finally’ rose on maestro John Stehlin’s newest creation — an octet — which proceeded to render “Sunnyside of the Street.” Following this came talented Gabe Maviano who played a couple of selections on his accordion, both very well received.
The show entered its more riotous moments as K. C. Snyder and the Tattooed Lady appeared on stage, accompanied by a wild reception. The “Lady” then went into song, “Lydia, the Encyclopedia,” and dance, approximating a good fourth rate burlesque. When the couple left, however, it was a reluctant audience which sent them on their way.
Johnny Stehlin and the octet took over once more with a nice arrangement of “Exactly Like You.” Marine Private Wally Yakey followed with an expert exhibition of tap dancing, which twice brought applause from the crowd as intricate steps were smoothly executed.
“Nights and Daze’’ reached its climax as Miss Kay Landing and Seaman
Jackie Cooper presented an original skit, which left the audience gasping (But out loud) with amazement. The skit concerned a young man waiting for his twenty-first birthday and his resulting release from a promise to a rich aunt that he would have nothing whatever to do with wine or women. To say the least the sketch had its moments of suggestion, coupled with surprises.
The army had its representative at Washington Hall, also, as Joe Flynn, ex-N.D. vaudevillian, interrupted the show to begin passing out what appeared to be circulars. On closer examination it was revealed that Flynn had mistaken Washington Hall for Camp Shelby, but was appropriately enough distributing applications for the army. As Flynn made his exit Stehlin’s eightman band broke in with “Basin Street Blues,” which featured the instrumentalizing of all eight men.
Seaman Dick Stenger was next on the program and presented a line of corn that was seemingly unstoppable.
SATURDAY CO-HOP
❖ Another Co-Hop will be given at ❖ ❖ the Progress Club Saturday evening. ❖ ❖ Refreshments will be served, and ❖ girls provided for those who fail to ❖
❖ bring dates. Admission will be fifty
❖ cents per person. Marty Ross is to ❖ ‘J* furnish the music.	❖
So old, so unfunny and so steady was this diet that it was effective because no one could quite ascertain whether it was presented seriously or otherwise.
Scholastic’s “applause-o-meter” 4 ranked Salvadore Perez as the hit of the whole show. No act received the steady and thundering ovation which followed this seaman’s vocalizing. Had he been prepared Perez could have spent the rest of the evening' singing to the audience, with no resulting lack of interest.
The second V-12 written and produced variety show came to a close as John Stehlin played “Honeysuckle Bose,” and the National Anthem.
Lt. Col. M. S. Rahiser	’
Reviews Marine V-12 Unit
On. Tuesday night in Washington Hall, the marine detachment heard directly from headquarters in Washington via Lt. Col. M. S. Rahiser. Colonel Rahiser is officer-in-charge of the College Training Section of the Marine Officer Procurement Division.
The object of his visit was to “spike” any rumors that may have been spread and to try to straighten out in the minds of the men of the detachment the full picture of the program and its many complications.
First, Lt. Col. Rahiser advised the men not to be in a hurry to “get a gun and shoot a Jap. The trouble over there will last a while yet. . . . Too many of you are victims of the optimistic attitude of the newspapers. Many of you will get plenty of action and will be t plenty sick of it soon enough.” The Colonel adimtted that it was hard to study while other men were fighting, but he said, “You’ve been given a job to do, too. You’ve been sworn into the marines as have the men out there and you must follow out your orders.”	x
Secondly, concerning academic standing. If a man fails two of the required courses in one semester, he must be transferred out of the program. If he fails one required course and one other course, it is up to the recommendation of the officer in charge, Marine Detachment, as to whether he goes or not. However, a man may even go if he flunks two non-required courses or only one required course. Much depends on his conduct and on the judgment of the officer in charge. Also, in regard to the degree of difficulty of the course, it ■-> makes no difference, a fail is a fail no matter what the course.
However, if a man flunks out, his academic failure is not a black mark on his personal record. Only leaving the pro-(Continued on page 13),
10
Notre Dame Sports
Season's First Intercollegiate Track Meet Pits Irish Against Western Michigan
BY JOE
The first intercollegiate track squad of the young indoor season will invade the fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon. The meet will pit the Bronchoes of Western Michigan, down from Kalamazoo, against the once-defeated Irish squad. Roy Weitz is sending a team about which little is known by his rival coach, Doc Handy. The Notre Darners lost their initial start to a veteran Midshipman team by a 57-55 count last week. The Irish haven’t been beaten in two years of collegiate competition, and the team is out to keep this record unblemished. Bad news, the ineligibility of 14 competitors, reared itself before Coach Handy last week.
Big things are expected tomorrow from Ralph Pohland, George Sullivan and Frank Martin. The quality of competition to be expected from Western Michigan is unknown, but it will have to be something extra if they expect to take the honors in the half mile. In this event
• Pohland holds the Big Ten record. He is also a consistent quarter miler, but will
FAHEY
probably get plenty of trouble from his teammate Hank Murphy, if from no one else. George Sullivan has been improving daily in the shot put, and though he is not quite capable of reaching Yona-kor’s distances, he is doing fine for a boy whose experience has been limited to his freshman year here at Notre Dame. Last week against the Middies he put it more than 45 feet to take first place. Frank Martin will start the feature event, the one mile run, along side John Lyons who drove Martin hard in their first meeting. The rest of those who competed last week are expected to start tomorrow. Hence Anderson will
Irish Score Stunning Upset Over Valpo;
Lose to Northwestern's Wildcats Again
BY PAUL BRENNAN
The still unpredictable Irish cage team balanced their season won and lost columns at five apiece last Friday night as they dropped a second contest to Northwestern U., 43-36, in Chicago Stadium. In defeating Notre Dame, the Wildcats made their first sweep of the annual two game series between the schools in 13 years.
Hard luck took another swing at the Irish who have been unable to chalk up two successive victories this season when it was announced that Carl Loyd, star freshman forward, had been inducted into the navy and reported at Great Lakes Thursday. The 18-year old Loyd was an important cog in the hot and cold Irish five and his loss will be keenly felt.
The green and gold quintet’s in-accuracy from the free throw line was the main reason for their defeat. They connected only twice on gift tosses, while the Wildcats made the most of 20 charity tosses on 16 Notre Dame fouls for 11 points.
Northwestern grabbed an early lead in the typical Notre Dame-Northwestern “rough and tumble” contest and were never headed by the Krausemen.
High scoring Leo Klier, Loyd’s run
handle the pole vault, and Hogue the high jump. Scarpelli, Clifford, and Burnett will be at the post in the dashes; Kunzler and Kiely will probably see action in the two mile run, and Kunzler also possibly will be seen in the one mile.
The one mile relay team will be composed of Pohland, Murphy, Bob Jones, and Ace Purcell, and will provide tough competition for the Broncoes. The first event is scheduled for 2:00 p.m., and the program will continue until approximately 4:30.
Frank Martin has been appointed acting captain for this meet by Coach Handy.
2:00 p.m.—High Jump.
2:00 p.m.—Broad Jump.
2:15 pan.—60 yard dash (Trials).
2:15 p.m.—Shot Put.
2:30 p.m.—One Mile Run.
2:30 pan.—Pole Vault.
2:40 p.m.—60 yard dash (Finals).
2:50 p.m.—60 yard high hurdles.
3:00 p.m.—440 yard dash.
3:05 p'.m.—220 yard dash (Finals).
3:10 p.m.—60 yard high hurdles (Finals).
3:20 p.m.—Two Mile Run.
3:30 p.m.—60 yard low hurdles . (Trials).
3:40 p.m.—SSO yard run.
3:50 p.m.—60 yard low hurdles (Finals). .
4:00 pan.—One Mile Relay.
Honorary Referee: Frank Leahy.
Head Timer: T. Mills.
Klier. f Loyd. f. Kivisto, f. Todorovich, Luiack, g. Rutledge, g. Kelly, g. Pierce, g.
ning mate in the forward position, diminished the Purple’s lead with a scoring splurge in the first 12 minutes and the score narrowed to 12-9 with the Wildcats on top. Another Northwestern rally gave the ’Cats a nine point lead, but this time Todorovich teamed with Kelly and Klier to pull the Irish within two points of the Purple as the halftime score stood at 26-24.
It was still a point for point battle going into the last half and Bernie Rutledge gave the Irish their last chance to pull ahead as he clicked on two long shots to tie the score at 28-all. However, the Wildcats paced by the 15-point marksmanship of Otto Graham, gradually nosed ahead of the Notre Dame club. The final score was 43-36.
* Northwestern (43)
G.FT.P.
Graham. f..	5	5 3
Ward. f.	4	12
Vodick, f.	0	0 0
Wilt. f. ,	0	0 1
Felt. c.	1	1 0
Schadler, g. 3-0 0 Carle, g.	2	3 2
Schumacher,	g- 1	1.0
Sickels, g.	0	0 0
Clamson. g. .000
Totals 16 11 8
11
Notre ’ Dame (36)
G. ft. p.' 4 1 O’ 4 0 2 0 0. 1 5 13 0 0 4 3 0 4 10 2 0 0 0
IT 2 16
Totals
Upset Valpo, 57-44
Before a record-breaking crowd of 4,200, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame tore loose with all the speed and fight they had, to defeat Valparaiso University, one of the nation’s leading teams, 57 to 44.
The Irish took an early lead on Leo Klier’s one-handed shot from the free throw line, a lead that they never lost. Valpo tied the score at 3 to 3, and again at 5 to 5, but the Irish pulled away after ten minutes of play, 16 to 11.
Valpo had the height, but not the fight and speed to match the Notre Darners. As a result a 13-point difference on the positive side. It is impossible to point out any one star for the Irish, but no one fought harder than Johnny Kelly. Klier also played an outstanding game. These two boys made up in fight what they lacked in height. It seemed that every time the ball came off the backboard one of the two had it, or were jumping for it.
Carl Loyd, who reported for induction into the navy 13 hours after the
Sorin, Breen-Phillips Battle for Interhall Lead; St. Edwards Leads Overflow League
In a battle of the two freshmen teams Brownson Hall outlasted Breen-Phillips last week to emerge victorious by a 23 to 14 score to tie Sorin Hall for the league lead. As a result of the game Breen-Phillips is a game behind the leaders. St. Ed’s and Off-Campus trail by several games.
Sorin Hall meets Breen-Phillips tonight in an important tilt. If the B-P’s are beaten they are virtually eliminated from the league race. In order to stay in the running they must defeat Soorin and Sorin in turn must upset Brownson. In the other league game tonight Off-Campus plays Brownson.
The Breen - Phillips and Brownson game was hard-fought with the teams battling on even terms until the last quarter. At the end of the first period the score was tied 6 to 6 and at the half it was 10 to 10. In the third quarter Brownson gained a 15 to 13 edge, and put the game on ice in the last session as they held Breen-Phillips to one foul.
Brownson	B	F	. T	Breen-Phillips		
				' B	F	.T
Cianch'etti,- If	3	0	6	Ruggiero, rg 2	1	5
Zahnder, rf. ■	2 -	0	4	Krbth, 1g ■	1	1	3 -
Saad, rf , '	0	0	0	Leary, c	1	0	2
Tully, c	3	0	6	Neimer, rf 1	0 .	2
Elynn, !g -	2	1	5	Capucci, If 1	0	2 .
Canning, rg‘	1	0	2	- . - . —	—	—
	11	1	23	“ - 6	2	14
The Standings of Ladders A and B
-	(Sunday, Jan. 23)	~
Ladder A	w	i,	pct.	Ladder B w	l pct.	•
Harps _____ 2	1	.667	St. Ed’s ___ 2	0 1.000
Tigers, ___-2	1	.667	Civies ____ 1-	0 1.000
LaRaza______ 1	1-	.500	Wildcats .... 2	1 .667	-
Mustangs „. 1. 1 ’ .500	Intellectuals 0-1 .000
Doakers   0 2. .000	-Blues_______ 0 1 .000 -
. ;	'	"	' Stratoliners 0 2- .000 ■
game, was the high scorer for the evening with 15 points. Loyd, the smallest man on the floor, looked like a pine in a grove of redwoods. Bob Dille, the nation’s leading- scorer, had 13 points to pace the “Redwooders.”
The play was hard and rough, with 28 fouls called, all told. Both Mike To-dorovich and Bernie Rutledge were put out on fouls, as was Mike Schoon, 6 ft. 9 in. Valpo player, in the first three minutes.
Valparaiso (44)
Notre Dame (57)
B	F	p	R	F	p
Klier. f	4	4	2	Dille, f	6	1	3
Loyd, f	7	1	1	A. Schmidt, f 4	4	1
Todorovich, c 4	3	4	Schoon, c	0	1	3
Rutledge, g 4	0	4	Hashu, g	2	1	2
Kelly, g	4	2	3	Warnke, g 0	0	0
Sheehan, c 0	0	1	Janisch, c	2	3	2
Trump, c	0	0	0	I. Schmidt, g 2	2	0
Lujack, g	0	1	2	Eades, f	0	0	1
Kaufmann, f 0	0	0	—	—	—
Priece. c	0	0 23 11 Score by quarters: Notre Dame 	:. Valparaiso 			0 17	16 16	26	45 11	24	37	12 57 44	12
Officials: Nick	Kearns		and Sam Peccararo.		
—Toni Hynes
Overflow League in Third Round of Play
St. Ed’s appear to be the class of the Overflow League in games played to date but several teams are expected to give ■ them keen competition for the title. St. Ed’s, however, is the only team left in the undefeated ranks of both Ladder A and B of the league. They lead Ladder B with two straight wins followed by the Civies with one victory and the Wildcats with two wins and one defeat. The Harps and Tigers are deadlocked for the Ladder A lead each having won two tilts and met defeat once.
During last week’s play the' Tigers split two decisions. They were defeated by LaRaza 36 to 27 but they bounded back into the win column with a 44 to 19 ■win over the Harps. St. Ed’s defeated the Wildcats 66 to 15 to remain undefeated. The Civies rolled up 46 points in defeating the Stratoliners 46 to 21. The Mustangs received a forfeit win over the Doakers in another scheduled game.
Miller Reveals New Talent: After-Dinner Speaker
' By Seaman Herb Ziegler
Creighton Miller’s career as an afterdinner speaker began quite unexpectedly one windy Monday morning last November. As he was leaving the Law building-after his nine o’clock class, “Creight” was approached by Wally Ziemba of the Notre Dame coaching staff with the news that he must leave for Chicago immediately to speak that noon before the Monday Morning Quarterback Club at the Morrison Hotel.
Naturally, “Creight” objected that he had a full morning of classes. In fact, that he was expecting a couple of tests, and he was certainly not enthusiastic about the deal. Wally told him not to worry about a speech, but that he was simply to show pictures before a group of men, enjoy a good dinner, and report back to practice.
Well, Mr. Miller did hurry to Chicago. He rushed over to the Morrison, was taken to the ballroom and shown his place. There sat 1800 important looking “Quarterbackers,” eager to start on that meal, and eager to see what this young All-American candidate from Notre Dame was like.
With nothing but the pictures, and the wit of the Irish half of the Miller fam
ily, Creighton made a very successful appearance. The Purdue coaching staff was on the program that day also, and “Creight” says that he was shaking in his boots for fear that he might seem too sure of himself. The club had invited Coach Leahy to say a few words, along with the outfit from Purdue.
The big boys from the big city were much impressed by the forthright and able manner in which this Notre Dame senior filled the shoes of the accomplished speaker, Mr. .Leahy. From that time until now, Creighton has visited many large cities, making talks and showing pictures.
Of course, word has spread among luncheon groups that Mr. Miller also does well off the gridiron, with the result that Creighton has received many, many requests that he cannot fill.
Creighton retains his 1-C (honorable > discharge) Army classification. He expects to be graduated from the College of Arts in June, after which he hopes to enter law school. Recently, he was . elected captain by vote of the 12 men chosen by the All-American Board of Football. That means that he was selected, as the leader of a team of All-Americans—what an honor! Creighton’s talent is not restricted to the halfback slot. He is the type of man Notre Dame likes to call her own. .
12
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Announcing a Ping Pong Tournament
It’s in the making, plans are underway and now the rest is all up to you, civilians, Marines, V-12 Navy, and NROTC .... Yes, it’s the Scholastic All-campus Ping Pong Tournament. . . . Appearing at the bottom of this page is an entry blank which will be filled out by all entrants. ... Enclose it to Ping Pong Tour-
Bill Waddington 100 Walsh Hal1’ Campus.... Or your entry may be submitted through the man on duty in the Recreation Hall.... Kindly put your entry slip with 20c in an envelope and give it to the man on duty .... Blanks may be procured there also.
All entries will be due Tuesday, Feb. 1, 6:00 p.m.___The first round of pairings will be run off during the week of Feb. 7-12.... Finals will be held during the following week, Feb. 14-18.___It’s the chance for beginners, mediums, and seasoned performers to carry off a campus honor. — On the entry blank, you are to check either the Novice class, Intermediate class, or Senior class—you being the judge of your own ability.... Awards will be given to the winner and runner-up in each class.
Rules for the Tourney
1)	All entries will be submitted along with 20 cents by Feb. 1, 6:00 p.m. Ping Pong Tourney, 100 Walsh Hall, Campus, or may be personally submitted to the man on duty at the Recreation Hall.
2)	Games are to be played and com. pleted by date designated on card which will be sent to each contestant three days before the deadline for completion of his set.
= Name_____________________-__________________L____Status—______J____________ i
E Campus Address \	:
= Mark desired Classification: _________Novice; ______Intermediate;______: Senior. . - :
I . Mail this.entry blank with 20 cents to PING PONG TOURNEY/ 100	. |
E	Walsh Halt Campus, or deposit it with the man oii duty in Recreation" Hall.	=
=	Entries close Feb. 1, Tuesday, 6:00 p.m.	.	.	=
3)	Winners will be judged on a two out of three basis.	.
4)	Those failing to play theii* set by assigned date of play will forfeit their entry and entry fee.
5)	All entrants will necessarily nominate either the Novice, Intermediate, or Senior class on their entry blank.
6)	Opposing contestants will have four days advance notice in which to agree on a playing date.
7)	Winners of each set will report same after playing to the man on duty in the Recreation Hall.
8)	No money is to be paid for the games played but they must be reported as tourney games to the man on duty in the Recreation Hall. Practice games will not come under this heading as they will entail the regular fee required at the Recreation Hall.
So, now’s your chance. Nobody should be left out of this amazing classic of skill.... There’s room for the experienced and crude beginner alike.... If you don’t feel too sharp at present, brush-up on your game a little bit and toss in that entry.___There’s no reason why you, you, and you can’t win one of the awards. .
LT. COL. REVIEWS N. D. MARINE UNIT
(Continued from page 10) gram because of disciplinary reasons will leave a black mark on your permanent reocrd.
Thirdly, word should be received within a week as to how many seniors will go to Parris Island at the end of this semester. There will be a limited number from all the colleges. This limit is necessary because only a certain number can be taken in at Quantico and at
New River. The rest of the men must be screened out.
Last semester 1600 men went to Parris Island. Only 1400 could be sent on to Quantico or New River. This meant that 200 men or 12.5% of the original group were screened out. This is not too high a figure. It is even less important because, according to Lt. Col. Ra-hiser, many of these men will get commissions later on. Although it may take one or two years, some will get. their “brass bars.” The re_t will at least be high ranking N.C.’s.
Fourth; once at Parris Island, all men start on equal ground. Their academic standing in college is not taken into account again until they have received their commissions.
Fifth; Lt. Col. Rahiser said, “Boot camp is still only seven to eight weeks long, three weeks on the rifle range and four weeks of marching.”
Sixth; the time at New River may vary from 0 to 8 weeks and it is very seldom more than ten weeks. Men will . be chosen to leave, according to apparent fitness, as room is made in Quantico for them. Also, beginning with the month of January 1944, fifty men will be picked to transfer to the V-5 program from the men at New River. More men will also be screened out at New River. Consequently, the wait between Parris Island and Quantico: will not be too long.
Seventh; after a. man is commissioned, he can apply for specialist training. It is then that his academic standing in college will be taken into account. If he does not want to go to a specialist school, he will become a line officer. Here his college academic standing will affect his speed of advancement.
Eighth; after the war some men may want to transfer to the regular marine corps. This will probably not. be too difficult. Before the war there were 1300 officers in the corps. At the present time there are 20,000 officers in the corps. The difference is made up largely of reserve officers. However, after the war about 50% of these reserves win want to go back to civilian life. There will be a lot of room for the rest of the men in: the new marine corps that will have , to be organized if the United States is to carry out its plans of ’ helping to police the world after the war.
Lt. Col. Rahiser then closed by complimenting the detachment on its. fine . . drilling especially in the Parade and . Review staged in his honor, and said that he thought much of the credit should go to the band. He also said that . the detachment was very fortunate in having barracks as we do. Many schools - are not nearly so fortunate, he stated.
13
Irish Cagers Face Marquette Tomorrow;
De Pauw in Fieldhouse Next Wednesday
Form players who follow Notre Dame on the basketball court will have their fingers crossed tomorrow night, when the Irish eagers tackle the Hilltoppers of Marquette University at Milwaukee, Wis. This is the twelfth game of the season for the Blue and Gold and statistics show that the Irish have been successful only in the odd games played. However the Hilltoppers had the misfortune of playing the Irish in one of those odd games two weeks ago and came out on the wrong end of a 52-46 score. Since that time the Irish eagers have been idle, while Marquette’s quintet has proceeded to burn up the courts.
One week ago tonight, before the biggest basketball crowd of the season in the Chicago stadium, Coach Bill Chandler’s lads outdistanced the nation’s top ranking team, De Paul, and emerged victor in an upset triumph. The Milwaukeeans led most of the way, and had enough reserve strength to withstand a futile but spirited rally by the men of Meyer. The game was marked by the experimental tryout of the new three minute penalty rule suggested by Bill Chandler.
Sadowski, Chandler, Downey, Kallen-berger and company have turned their fast breaking offense into a style of play that resembles the “fire wagon” brand of play featured in the East. Hot shots against De Paul if Marquette shoots tomorrow evening with the same accuracy against Notre Dame in the auditorium, they will be hard to beat. They also clearly remember their- defeat two weeks ago in pur fieldhouse suffered at the hands of Notre Dame and are anxious to wipe this blemish from their record. In their only appearance in the “brewery city” this season the Irish lost a heartbreaker to Wisconsin in the last 20 seconds.	'
It is expected that the Notre Dame squad will have suffered the loss of its high scoring forward, freshman Carl Loyd. Small but spirited this five foot, ten inch native of South Bend and a product of nearby Woodrow Wilson High Loyd has been the surprise package of this 1944 team. Breaking into the regular lineup after weeks of sensational play in practice, Carl proceeded to become one of the most dangerous and consistent threats of the Irish. His sensational one-handed shots from the corners rang sweet music in the ears of Irish partisans. Now a naval trainee at Great Lakes it is feared that later in the season he will once again play
basketball with Notre Dame — on that occasion, however, in the uniform of Great Lakes.
It is expected that burly Tom Sheean, of baseball fame, will replace Loyd in the starting lineup. A high school and independent amateur club star in his home town of New Haven, Connecticut, Tom has specialized in the Diamond sport since coming to Notre Dame. A candidate for basketball this fall, his steady, consistent play in practice has won him a place in the first five. Well over six feet and 200 pounds Tom will put more bulk under the backboards and should add more height and power to the Irish rebound game.
Next Wednesday evening Notre Dame’s basketeers will meet the De-Pauw Naval Pre-Flight School in the fieldhouse starting at 8:00 o’clock. The Aviation Cadets will present a lineup that sparkles with former college stars. This season to date has found them more than a match for many of the topflight collegiate and service fives they have faced on the hardwood.
World's Champion Typist Demonstrates Technique
By Ed Mikkleson
Last Thursday, in the Engineering Auditorium, Notre Dame was treated to a new form of entertainment and instruction.
The atmosphere in the large room was hushed and tense as an attractive young woman crossed the stage , and took her place at an odd looking machine which, in the hands of competent operators, has made inestimable" contributions to the nation’s war. effort. Her hands moved smoothly, and the silence of the room was shattered by the staccatto beat of flying lead slugs which rapidly rose to a . screaming crescendo. Miss Margaret Hamma, the world’s champion typist, was demonstrating the correct use of the typewriter. The typewriter has become a common place article in bur lives and few of us realize how important it is—the uncounted thousands of reports and letters which flash through the rubber rolls are vital and indispensable in our war effort and in the ordinary business of the day.
Miss Hamma, sponsored by the International Business Machine Corporation, is now devoting most of her time to instructing and helping typists engaged
in war activities to become more proficient. Few typists, however, can ever, hope to rival Miss Hamma in typing perfection, because she has met and defeated ' brilliant typing competition. In June, 1941, in competition with the world’s fastest typers, Miss Hamma established the remarkable and still standing record of 149 words per minute for a period of one hour. She became the first woman in
25 years to win the world’s typing cham- ' pionship, and she was also named the American Businesswoman of the year.
To one who is accustomed to the Hunt and Peck system of typing as this writer is, Miss Hamma’s record is truly amazing. 149 words per minute requires . about 645 strokes per minute or more than 10 strokes per second. To maintain „ this pace for one solid hour requires a great deal of physical and nervous stamina.
-In her instructions to typists, Miss Hamma stresses the fact that fatigue is greatly lessened by keeping the machine in good running condition and by using good posture. Unfortunately she does not include advice on how to eat lunch in five minutes, but perhaps a few of the Waves stationed here could enlighten us on this technique.
Alumni Board Meets
By Seaman Art Wagner
The board of directors of the Alumni Association met on Saturday and Sunday, Jan. 22 and 23, at the University of Notre Dame, to discuss the program for the Association for 1944, the diamond jubilee year, of the Association which was launched in 1869.
Thomas F. Byrne, Cleveland, Ohio, president; Gerald Ashe, Rochester, N.Y., vice-president; E. Bradley Bailey, Philadelphia, Pa., vice-president; John T. Balfe, New York City; and John T. Higgins, Detroit, Mich.; were among those attending. the meeting..
James E. Armstrong and William R. Dooley, executives of the Association, presented a program of detailed activities to the Board, including plans for the 94 local alumni clubs, the 55 class organizations and their many entailing activities. The alumni magazine, Universal Notre Dame Night, the second annual alumni fund, placement for returning Notre Dame men now in the service, and other problems of the war era occupied two days of intensive discussion.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., celebrated a special mass in Corby Hall chapel for the members of the Board on Sunday morning, and was present at the Sunday morning session. Rev. J. Hugh . O’Donnell, C.S.C., honorary president of this Association was unable to attend.
14
MIDSHIPMEN GRADUATE
(Continued from page 9)
missions. Many of these couples were married on campus, or in downtown churches; some waited until getting to churches in their home towns to let the bonds be set.
An investigation of the facts disclosed the surprising figures which prove that these kinds of “mistakes” are on the decline. According* to figures released by Lieut, (j.g) Paul T. Sprinz, USNR, public relations officer, Dan Cupid is slowly putting away his arrows for the duration.	,
When the first class of some 1,200 ensigns was graduated in January 1943, more than 500 made marriage the next order of business. By the time the second class finished in May, the number of marrying ensigns was reduced to 400, and the third class last September produced only 152 marriages. .
Even that low figure is large by comparison with the 30 members of this fourth midshipmen’s class of 1,170 men which received commissions.
Addressing Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, who delivered the invocation at the ceremony, Admiral Carpender said:
“Your university has contributed and is continuing* its great contribution to our country in her hour of greatest need. The high scholastic standards of Notre Dame and the hard-hitting, clean, competitive spirit for which your men are widely known are vital tools in the prosecution of the war.”
The program opened with the national anthem played by the Midshipmen’s orchestra. Following the invocation and Admiral Carpender’s address, was the presentation of awards and then presentation of diplomas and commissions after which came the administration of the oath of office. The benediction was given by Rev. F. E. Davison, First • Christian church, South Bend. A song by the midshipmen’s choir, and “Anchors Aweigh” by the orchestra, completed the program.
Awards given members of the gradu-. ating class were the University award for highest honors, given to Robert G. Schreffler, Shelby, Ill., and awards to Bernard P. Carey, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa., outstanding leadership; Charles • M. Grether, Chattanooga, Tenn., ordnance; Celester T. Loch, St. Cloud, Minn., damage control; Chester J. Claudon, Jr., Fairbury, Ill., greatest contribution to morale; Bernard D. Ratshin, Brooklyn, N. . Y. letter of commendation, and Charles L. Latimer, Jr., Charleston, S. C., letter of commendation.—Al Lesmez
"MWD"MKBW SHOWS $/X HOOTHOWWSSS !
devel
Sp
bell
t v. i arrest camera, 1 oped and u	y e<ratives up to
Laborrate” of 20,00» a 6 feet high at thin5ide lhe onth. The crew work camerauhichh^abatte^
costly to produce. 1
handling of blue-
peated heat printing.	me,hod hdp
This safer, »ste of neW and eed the	.pment

special com^Xs-nowthemain for the armed forces	ientists.
telephone SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy .. .That’s why your call may be delayed.
15
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued from Page 5) isn’t it?-... But this is no time for frivolities; this is exam week and a brain cruise at the Rock. Have you noticed an intelligent look on any of them lately? Yesterday, we caught the elder Pfaif Mdme. lining up her nursery rimes in preparation for a lengthy and involved term paper; while Pat and Candy buzzed about in an elongated jalopee in search of a second-hand literature market where they hoped to obtain some pertient facts regarding one John Dryden. Since the fellow wasn’t in the regular Brooklyn Dodger line-up, last season, we couldn’t help them too much. We offered The Rover Boys, but met with a cool reception. ... It is nothing short of amazing how Frank Kent has taken to the great outdoors, during the past spell of clement weather, roaming the field adjacent to his beloved Sorin Hall (but no farther) , in search of the finer beauties of nature study. Any day, now, we expect him to come bouncing up the front steps, a smile on his lips, and a song in his heart (bless him!) with the startling information that he has ssen the “first” robin. When confronted about his pastime in -the open, Frank would only smile and confess: “It has its own rewards, and is reserved for a very few. Indeed, it can be more poignantly felt than described. As a matter of fact, come to think of it, it is even more economical, too.”.. . . Has anyone seen the St. Mary’s Chimes lately?... If Betty Ludwig takes up the art of the lariat, or horseback • riding, or permits an occasional drawl to compete with her usual Illinois accent, there’s a good reason for it. Mr. Crowley, as you know, isn’t from Boston. Incidentally, he has excellent taste, hasn’t he?.____At one time we were on the Chimes mailing list.	From all indications, the civilians are finally going to dance, and are all excited about this opportunity of a lifetime (or, wartime)________ Hardly a magazine in our exchange list can hold a candle to the Chimes—when it appears, as it used to quite regularly .... With the appearance of the New Year (Leap Year) we have likewise noticed the appearance of some new hats on campus —- obviously hunting hats, geared for action and of special advantage to the wearers. Therefore, men, be on the alert; and don’t say that we didn’t warn you in ample time... .. And now, at least, it has come home to John Caron that he. can hardly go tripping off to Chicago and its environs every week-end, and not expect to lose some ground here on the local battle front.___________________If any of our readers (yes, we have two or three) sees a copy of the Chimes, please let us . know. Something tells us that the literary lights at St. Mary’s still burn as bright as ever. -____________________________.
16
RADIO
(Continued from Page 9)
General auditions have been set for the. second week of next semester.
It may also be interesting to know that the Army’s theory is to begin these broadcasts on the campus, pick out the best in writing material and acting ability, and give these men a chance for future radio work. They will be allowed to inspect war plants and tour Army camps on which to base their future presentations.
In addition a “Man on the Street” type of broadcast is being planned which will originate from the South Bend Service Men’s Center. The Radio staff feels that by interviewing flyers on furlough a more realistic picture can be painted concerning the opportunities offered by the Air Corps.
There are many new broadcasts being planned for the near future, and some of the former ones will be resumed. By next semester the following schedule will probably be in effect; Concerts by the University Band; Swing sessions by the Campus Swing Band; Front Views and. Profiles which is now broadcast every Saturday at 12:30; The Notre Dame Authors program on which men like Father Ward and Dean Manion have appeared, and finally the Midshipmen Choir which is broadcast every Monday evening at 5:30 p.m. All of these shows welcome talent.
RUDDIGORE
(Continued from Page 4)
old flame of the latest deceased Baronet of Ruddigore, Sir Roderic Murgatroyd.
Ten years ago this noble gentleman committed suicide rather than be bound
No matter what branch of the service you are headed for, you will find AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES the best way to carry your travel money. They are not only spendable everywhere, but they have an important safety feature that protects you. It is this: if they are lost or stolen, you get a prompt refund.	-■<
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 750 for each
$100. Minimum cost 400 for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
1 AMERICAN EXPRESS
. TRAVELERS CHEQUES —»
by the family rule of “a bad deed every day.” In a startling manner he comes back to" life, breaks the curse, and marries his old sweetheart. Every boy winds up with a girl, the bridesmaids have several weddings, and all is happiness in Redherring.
To appreciate some of the subtler humor of the play, it is a good idea to take a look at a few special words and terms. Many of these are salty nautical phrases, some are English expressions, , and the rest are pure Gilbert and Sullivan, composed for the occasion.
Here, neatly alphabetic, is our Ruddigore Glossary:
Amaryllis & Chloe:—Typifying a pastoral sweetheart.
•	t
Baronet:—A degree below a Baron; the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary.
Belay:—To stop.
Basinstake:—The word “teaming with hidden meaning.”	-
Binnacle:—Box containing ship’s compass.
Birmingham:—The word used in mistake for
“Basinstrke.”	j
Cape Finistere:—Most westerly headland of Spain.
Clodhoppers:—Rude rustic fellows.
Doldrums:—Part nearest the equator.
Frigate:—A war vessel.
Italian Glance:—Comical look.
Lantern Chops:—Thin p-rt of jaws.
Lubberly:—Clumsy.	'*
Parbuckle:—A nautical exclamation Penny Readings:—Dime novels.
Pipe my Eyes:—Slang for weeps.
Reddering:—Humorous contraction of red herring.
Ravenue Sloop:—Governmant Vessel used to enforce the law.
Ruddigore:—'Red Blood. Opera first produced at Savoy. Theatre. London, January 2nd, 1887.
Shires:—English name for counties.
Spleen & Vapors:—Melancholy.	%
Stow my Jawing Tackle:—Keep my mouth shut. .
Strike:—To lower.
Tack:—To change course as a vessel, to bring wind to other side.
Thimble Frogging:—A shell game.
Welkin:—Anglo-Saxon, “Wolcen” cloud.
Faculty Members Attend
Engineering Conventions
Three members of the faculty of the College of Engineering are in New York City, this week, attending engineering conventions, John A. Northcott, professor of electrical engineering, is attending the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineering. Robert S. Eikenberry, assistant professor of aeronautical engineering, and Frank N. M. Brown, associate professor of aeronautical engineering, are attending the annual convention for the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences.
through an . L-shaped closed tunnel, which leaves him at the bottom, and up through another tunnel, which brings him to the top.” P.S. Then they , call in the respirators.
CONSOLATION FOR SWEETBRIAR GIRLS
From the University of Chicago, via the Pitt Nezus, we are reminded by three sociologists that there is to be no short
age of marriageable males after the war. They point out the fact that casualties so far have been small and that medical care of the wounded has developed to the extent that more lives 'are being saved than ever before. This probably doesn’t interest the gals from Sweetbriar on the old St. Joe (a dollar to your nickel that they’re beating their brains out worrying about it) but these optimistic profs say that, even allowing for casualties, there will be a man for every girl in America.
JOSIE and JIM'S
THE COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 2)
DID you KNOW?
When speaking of endowments. . . . W. P. Murphy’s gift of $20,000,000 to Northwestern University ranks among the largest ever given to an educational institution. It raised N. U.’s assets to $82,662,000, putting the school in sixth place among heavily endowed universities. The first five are Harvard, Yale, Chicago, Columbia and Rochester universities. Though Harvard is America’s richest school with an endowment of $150,000,000—at one time the college was so poor the legislature ordered men to solicit subscriptions for its support! How times have changed — they say—we wouldn’t know.
—The Student Life
IN THE NEWS
When a British bomber blasted a war , plant in the Danish town of Skive, Joe Goebbels issued a communique saying that no damage was done except that a cow had been hit. The local paper dutifully carried the communique, then commented simply: “The cow burned for four days.”
AN OVERBURDENED CONSCIENCE
Old Lady (to little boy caught stealing apples) : Isn’t your conscience whispering to you?
Little Boy: Naw; I just got gas on my stomach.
• —Queen’s Jozimal
IS IT POSSIBLE?
The Loyola Maroon tells us that Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., boasts the only underwater obstacle course in existence for naval reserve trainees. The poor object of the obstacles “jumps from a 12 foot board, swims through an in- ; verted U tube, over three hurdles, back !
JUN NY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
17
THE SNOOPER (Continued from page 8)
thought of The Snooper’s Column by one James W. Church, an expert and official literary critic!
“To (sic)	The Feature Editor	j
The Snooper	।
Private Knoc-e-toff.	[
Gentlemen:
There are many of us who disagree quite violently with your columnist policy of allowing columns like the Snooper and Marine Murmurs to be vehicles j of insulting and character-assailing personal remarks.
If you reviewed Charles S. Brook’s definition of wit and humor, perhaps you would recognize our position. Wit, including that exhibited in these particular columns, is defined as sharp, scintillating and leaving an ill-feeling. Any of us can criticize, gentlemen, whereas humor and humerous (sic) satire with no malice leaves everyone in a jovial mood.
We have been satisfied tliat the Snooper and Marine Murmurs usually contain interesting and non-offending items, but recent issues have evidenced a few very uncharitable remarks: (sic) remarks, gentlemen, which will by their presence detract from the good name and dignity of the Scholastic long after the personalities have been forgotten.
Messrs. Casey and Hasset write a column (which they are evidently not • ashamed to sign) presenting a much more intelligent and Christian idea of a college medium when they deplore the backfence chidings of “the other Columnists.”
Thank you for your consideration.
James W. Church, AS, Rm. 132, Dillon.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler -
Wow, did I get told! But wait a minute, according to Webster’s Dictionary (a reliable authority, I believe) the definition of wit is as follows: “1. Activity of mind. 2. The power of conceiving, judging, or reasoning; intellectual power; sense; as, in wit, a man. 3. Powers of mind in a specified condition of balance or soundness. 4. Mental alertness; esp., such capacity along with lively fancy and aptness or talent for clever expression.” I know you meant what you said as an insult, but thanks for the compliment! This word “scintillating,” according to Webster again, means: “1. To emit sparks; to spark. 2. To gleam or emit quick flashes as if throwing off sparks; also, to sparkle or
REMEMBER JOE COLLEGE?
There’ve been some changes made since this guy graced a grandstand—but Arrows are still top favorites for shirts!
Arrow Shirts have the incomparable Arrow collar which lies smooth and comfortably on your neck, the Mitoga figure-fit construction, and the Sanforized label guaranteeing fabric shrinkage less than 1%. In khaki, white, and fancy. $2.24, up.
See your Arrow dealer today!
twinkle, as the fixed stars. Syn. Gleam, glitter, flash.” So now I am' a star! Thanks again, James. Gee, you make me feel as though I am somebody! You are indeed a lavish adulator, my most profound gratitude and appreciation for your cajolery. In other- words, James, why don’t you say what you mean? Instead of giving- misgivings you intended, you were actually “throwing bouquets.” About this “character-assailing” phrase you used: if you can show the proper authorities where I assaulted, molested, or attacked violently, the character of any man, I shall cease to write this column; if not, the column shall go merrily along as it has for the past seven issues.
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-array plan.
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS > UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS ★ BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
18
MARINE MURMURS
(Continued from page 6)
a V-12 trainee at a Hoosier university. Pvt. Fuddled was primarily a guard on small-town Tech’s football squad before being called to active duty as a trainee. Pvt. Geezmo (Mo for short) blew into this university town on a golden chariot alias the S.S. Jackass. Stepping jauntily out of the contraption Mo expected a sergeant major or at least a general to step forward, shake his paw and ask him out for a beer or two before going out to the base. After waiting two hours it was a little insulting, Mo decided, when he finally had to hire a cab to deliver him within a mile of his destination. Dinnertime had long since passed and Geezmo counted on a quart of milk and a “T” bone or two waiting for him when he arrived. He’d heard about the swell grub fed Uncle Sam’s fighting men and really was going to down his share. But Mo never did get anything to eat until evening chow tune that day.
Finally after much inquiry he got jockeyed into position at the end of a long resigstration line. Geezmo lit a fag. “No grub, no reception, no nothing. Was this the way to treat the star, a potential one anyway, of the Smalltown Tech football squad? But then the deal doesn’t look half bad. Heard there are some swell broads at a culture school near here, too. No Sir, not bad at all,” Mo mused as he whistled to himself rather loudly.
“Will you stop . that CENSORED racket,” a tough voice boomed at him. “Just who the H— do you think you
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell_$2.50
... at the Bookstore
are? Can’t you see we’re trying to work in here . . . etc.” Mo’s bones jellied down to his shoes. Nice reception.
The next few days Geezmo stood in lines, sat in lines, ate in lines, and was pretty well lined up in general. He was soon to learn that standing or sitting in some sort of line would occupy about 75% of his time from now on. One variation of standing lines was marching. Geezmo learned in short order when he ' got into his first formation that he didn’t know his right from his left.
“Complicated business, this marching,” he told himself. “How am I going to learn all these various movements, especially with the Sarge breathing an eruption of sound into my face every time I make a mistake. I do what he orders about 50% of the time. Feller can’t be perfect. But how the heck did all these other fellows catch on so quick? Must have been Boy Scouts or something.”
As he was marching along thinking these things to himself he suddenly noticed quiet surrounding him. A quick glance informed Mo that the fellows marching next to him were there no longer. Mo slowed his pace and sneaked a glance over his shoulder. There, about 100 feet astern stood the company at ease. The sarge had just thrown his’hat into the dust and was walking around with his hand on his forehead as in a daze.
“Must be the sun,” thought Mo. “Poor guy! Can’t take it, I guess. Seems funny, though. Appears to be pretty tough. Maybe I can sneak back into position before he sees me. Wonder what all those guys are looking at though. Haven’t got a rip in my pants or something.” Mo started forward but was frozen in his tracks by a blast of words so furiously uttered that he didn’t know whether to run or start digging head first for China, ostrich style. Ah, yes! Pvt; Fuddled learned, meanwhile developing a swell water cushioning job on the soles zof his feet.	-
The orders Mo had received suggested that he bring sufficient clothing for ten days which meant to him an extra shirt and a pair of socks. Two weeks passed— no uniform; three weeks passed — no uniform. Geezmo had a system though; each night he weighted his trousers to the floor with a desk and hoisted himself to the top bunk, leaving.them standing straight at attention for him to jump into in the morning. He bet he could make some money after the wan producing.a starch that strong. A .
But the night was his Saturday night leave. Full particulars in the next issue. ..
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST • ~
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP...TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE. FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS 51.00.
Phone 4-148I
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. DJ).S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Beni,. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
.	Registered Podiatrist	-
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation	-
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg-, South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
. '	825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, MJ).
19
she knows I’m choosey
... and so are all Chesterfield smokers. They’ve
caught on to the Milder Better-Tasting cigarette that
really Satisfies ... and nothing else will do.
They expect more smoking pleasure, and Chesterfield
gives it to them every time ... yes, every time, with the
Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos
Chesterfield/