
·=-\
f;..­
·:it 
if 
!1 
: 1·: Ir.7 f.~.'.;\-~1'.c.:1:l1~~,,f1=rlb."~Li\9iu_1Pfj...·.n.~.<~ .. ..;;:.,.---~ y.P\·~.) r._ ..)' 1 2.~_-.(_._J-\ 1._-.) (.l(l-f) ;;30)
l .I . ·-..~/,! I i l, --I \/ ./ ·-L___;,· // ·. j // H_JJ \Lj? ·71
il:J. t.:::.::::::,,;L=J -.JL' .•. t:,_~ J .c.e-=0-d~ ~
I . ~ 


features 
4 An Essay On Youth 
1{[} fi~HfI~e~t}!l~f~'?j"dy 

16 Starving Art 
What the "THIN" exhibit in the Snite Museum is all about. 


20 k!t~id?!!o~o11x~the new 
Eddy Street Commons. 
34 Nip/Tuck 
A run down on the reasons behind the sports facilities' face-lifts. 


41 R2ittPu!~M1~fiiedouble major
at Notre Dame really means. 
sections Opinion 
News 7 Culture 13 Cover Story 22 Sports 31 Hutnor 41 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 

The best thing about working for Scholastic is the free food. Another good thing about Scholastic is tradition; like the tradition of making freshmen get the food. My freshman year I was banned from food runs after my first attempt. I called the office three times to check orders, was one for six on drink accuracy, and doused myselfin Starbucks as I scrambled across the quad for a speedy delivery. 
Fast forward three years. Last week, while copy editing Marques Camp's essay 
"On Youth," I wrote my initials in the editor-in-chief box for the first time. In 
his essay, Camp addresses our obsession with growing up, and I smiled as I read, 
reminiscing about scalding coffee and an irate executive staff. 
Then I got a wake up call from our cover story writer, Associate Editor Courtney Ball. 
Ball set out expecting to find a controversy. Much of the coverage from last spring's commencement ceremony portrayed Notre Dame alumni arid current students as bitter enemies, battling for the identity ofNotre Dame. What we found was that there is no more of a united front among alumni than there is a consensus among the student body. Thus it became less a story about a battle between alumni and students, more an exploration ofthe misconceptions on both sides. 
The rest of our issue is even more exciting than this year's MTVVMAs. (cue 
rimshot) 
Not really-but it is definitely more eloquent. Start the semester right and check out news editor Meagan Drapalik's "How to Schmooze a Professor." Ifyou already have that figured out, skip ahead to Krishna Surasi's "What Does Your Double Major Say About You?" to make sure that your self-image is not completely delusional. Ifyou're curious about what's happening in the war zone that was once theJACC, Andy Gray will keep you abreast ofrenovations in his story "Nip/Tuck: Campus Sports Facilities get a Face-lift." And, of course, there is always the Gipp. 
Enjoy, 



i-'flulj 
Jen Wulf Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 APRIL 2009 


SOAPBOX 


An Essay by Marques Comp 
This i~ an essay on youth, and on runnmg. We spend so much of our lives running away from youth. It is that inexorable and untiring force that trails behind us, like an ominous shadow, waiting for the instant we begin to slow down. We fear that youth will catch us and keep us in its grasp forever. We start early. We steal our mother's makeup. We use our father's razor. We play house. vVe imitate. vVe say things like, "When I grow up ... " We continue. We break curfew. We date the bad boy. We become the bad boy. We party. We drink. vVe experiment. We lie. We cheat. We steal. All in the name of asserting our independence. Allin the name ofrejectingour youth and chasing the dream of adulthood. We do it because we think this is what adults are like, and this is how we should be. vVe slowly grow older. We grow, as we would hope, wiser. We are not yet nostalgic for our youth because we rationalize it as a period of stupidity, of rniYvete, of infinite potential but pervasive aimlessness. We say that we have learned from bur mistakes. They are the follies ofyouth, of a time where we did not know any better. We grow even older. The pace of our run slowly decreases. We begin to question what the hell we were running from all this time. There comes a moment when we stop and turn around, hqping that our youth has continued on its chase and come to :a stop · right behind us, waiting to welcome us back. ·But by the time we turn around, we realize that we were running much too fast, and that youth had stopped its chase long ag<?. This sense of nostalgia is oftentimes the sobering realization that we took our youth for granted, that we did not value it enough for what it provided us: imagination and hope and wonder and optimism and curiosity and infinite possibilities and second chances. Despite the forewarnings of our elders, we continue to run toward this vague dream of adulthood as though it possessed the meaning of life when we really had that meaning all along. 

We take that turn, and youth is nowhere in sight. So we simply do what we have been doing our entire lives: We run. We don't know where we're going, we don't know where youth went, but we run nonetheless. 
For a lucky few, this realization comes at just the right moment, at a moment that would have resulted in a fruitless chase had it come any later. And for those lucky few, they rediscover their youth, if ever so briefly. For many, however, the realization comes far too late, and the only vestiges of youth that remain are grainy photographs, wrinkled and faded love letters and misremembered stories told a thousand times. , 
Perhaps that is why many of our elders tell us that aging is a humbling experience. We grow wiser, we grow more refleGtive, but what good are wisdom and reflection when you have little use for them? Wisdom and reflection are thus given as a gift from the old to the young. At times, we are ungrateful for this gift. Our sights are set higher. We think we know everything. We treat this gift as if it were a pair of woolen socks on Christmas: Our elders merely try to keep us 'warm and to protect us' from the ccild and harsh winters of adulthood. They merely implqre us tci treasure our youth, because there will indeed come. a time when youth becomes tired of chasing us down and will just decide to stop 
and disappear into the night. 
Eight months from now, I will enter into the world I have _been sprinting toward for the last 21 years. We call this the "real world" as if in our youth we lived in an imaginary world, a Neverland. We call this the "real world" because, as the worn cliche goes, reality hits us. No longer is our life segmented into grades and graduations and milestones and birthdays. In our youth our lives were already pre-divided and pre­sorted, but as we stand · at the precipice of adulthood we look far out into the horizon and all we_ see is a blank landscape, giving us freedom to run to our heart's content. We discover that we have been thrown out into this great unknown all on our own, armed with only this freedom to guide us. 
But instead of providing ourselves liberation, we often utilize this "freedom" as a means to conform to what we think we should be. We run simply because everyone else is running, but we never think to ask the people running side by side with us precisely why we are running in the first place. 
. We are never freer than we are in our youth. In trying to become the adults we should not be, we are demonstrating the children that we are -full of_ excitement and curiosity and discovery. We are demonstrating the true value of freedom and revealing the true beauty ofour yduth and.of-our humanity. 
Eight months: fioni. now, I will likely have ,run as far as I will be able, to the point of no return. I can only hope that when I turn . aro~nd, I -can grab· youth by the hand so · we can run side by side into thfs brave _new world. 
The views of this author are not necessarily_ the views ofScholastic Magazine. 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 

OPINION 

HEALTH 

Can Obama Deliver on Health Care? 
Scott Hagan

C((flam not the first president to take up this cau:.e, · but I am determined to be the last." 
So began President Barack Obama's landmark speech on health care reform last week. Historians should be skeptical of his optimism. 
In the past century, seven administrations have attempted to bring about universal coverage. The good news, though, is that as of September 15, reform bills have already passed in four of the five Congressional committees, with the final committee ready to approve a bill of its own. Obama could sign a major health care bill by November, but will it fix our broken system? 
To be a success, health care reform must address two issues: coverage and costs. In current bills, employers and individuals will be mandated to purchase insurance, which will bring the system close to universal coverage, while subsidies and strong insurance regulations would enable the uninsured to afford coverage regardless of health status. What remains much more contentious, yet equally important, are cost controls to curb runaway spending in our system. 
Current bills include three significant cost reforms: the public option, insurance exchanges and the Independent Medicare Advisory Council (IMAC). A strong public plan could lower health care spending by cutting back on unnecessary administrative costs and competing with private insurers. The reality, though, is that no public plan in current proposals would enroll more than 10 million Americans by 2019. Without a substantial market share, the public plan will not wield enough influence to cut costs in any significant way. 

While the public plan may not factor significantly into the final proposal, legislators have proposed a more feasible alternative: health insurance exchanges. These exchanges let citizens purchase insurance, public or private, in regional pools that offer simplified comparisons of health care plans. By pooling risk and providing better regulation of insurers, insurance exchanges are a crucial step toward improving an individual market that is currently the most expensive and difficult way to buy insurance. If opened to all citizens, exchanges could provide even more savings by introducing competition between insurers in our largely employer-based system. 
The most important cost control measure in Obama's plan is the IMAC. The current system allows congressmen, with little expertise in health care and lobbyist funding from the health care industry, to set the amount of money Medicare pays to providers. The result is a payment system that rewards hospitals delivering high 
-cost, wasteful care. Evidence suggests private insurance companies mimic these payment rates. Fundamentally changing the way Medicare pays health care providers could produce systemic cost savings. This is where this council comes into play. vVith IMAC, a panel of health care experts would craft Medicare's payment schemes independently of Congress. Rarely discussed in news coverage, IMAC is potentially the most important step in reducing health care costs. 
Obama's proposal features many improvements over our current system. The health insurance exchanges and IMAC have major potential for reducing overall costs, while mandates and subsidies would bring the system close to universal coverage. Obama may not be the last president to orchestrate a health care overhaul, but his reforms would make important steps towards a more equitable, higher quality health care system. 0 

Scott Hagan, an '08 alum, serves as Federal Policy Liason for the Vanderbilt Chapter ofthe American lvledical Student Association. 

Hungering for Gender Diversity 
Molly Kring 
n a campus with so many walking success 
stories, I find it incredible that these same 
people suffer from what the media has recently termed_ a "semi-eating disorder." This involves an unhealthy, obsessive attitude towards exercise, dieting and body image that can easily become a full-fledged disorder in the course of a semester. I can count at least seven friends who have sought help at Notre Dame's University Counseling Center (UCC) for eating disorders and each of them still struggles with related issues to this day. And they are not alone. The UCC reports eating concerns as one of the top reasons for student visits. Nationally, approximately eight million women and one million men suffer from eating disorders, not including those on the verge of developing one. 
If you do not personally know one of the multitude of women at Notre Dame with a distorted body image, look no further than the girls on the elliptical for an hour every day at Rolfs who record their weight afterwards or those in the dining halls that carry trays containing solely a salad that could hardly be considered a 
O

snack. While diet and exercise are clearly health­promoting habits, when fueled by negative body image and practiced to a point of obsession, they reverse the very work they should promote. A 2007 National Institute for Mental Health survey found that about one-third of college girls in the country suffer from some kind of "disordered eating" habits. And at Notre Dame, I would guess the numbers are significantly higher. 
Notre Dame women have more odds stacked 
against them than the average college girl. An overwhelming percentage of our homogenous campus' population falls into the high risk category for developing an eating disorder: white, middle to upper class female with perfectionist tendencies. Some studies also note a lack of close male friends as an additional risk factor. And this possible addition is where Notre Dame women are hit hard. These already high-risk women are placed in single-sex residence halls with other girls striving for thinness, acceptance and control at a tumultuous and vulnerable time in their lives. The less than ideal gender relations at our University . encourage girls to have girl_ friends and guys to 
The views expressed in these columns are not necessarily the views ofScholastic lvfagazine. 
stick with guys. And the consequent single-sex tables that are an all-too-common presence in our dining halls allow girls to compare their meals to those of their friends. The competition begins and the obsession spreads. If the desire to be thinner is not already present as a freshman, its acceptance as a viable, if not necessary, mindset among a girl's initially all-female peer group will take care of that. 
While this underground culture of thinness must be considered in light of the media's narrow definition of what is "beautiful" and a lack of education about what "healthy" looks like, it is undeniable that Notre Dame women face an additional challenge in being surrounded by similarly high-risk women at a university with strained gender relations that proffers excessive exercise and body consciousness as the norm. While strides are being made (i.e. the "Thin" exhibit in the Snite Museum and the annual Edith Stein conference), freshmen girls are still indoctrinated into a culture of thinness and obsession that is only exacerbated by single sex residence halls. 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I5 


.C¼fr_ tJtff tJtf11 1duftb11 f 
NATURAL :& HEALTHY iSNACKS 

:! 
!f-HMJWhf,dllll:lllllllimli NM M·l!illllllil!D:WB-/'·f ..@MMHi" 1 11¥i@\ii'•hif&!l'iS!l!hn@
i$j u; 1§ P·!!lllllllllllll!~} l•:•··H lllilil!D!lll!:\hil!llilll!mlllt:Mm-t-:·n!-@fl!!ll!lllll!l!li1· 

:1
ii 
!i 
Fu-ht1111J ii-em, I-Ml-~,,e, 
1 
1 


VEGAN 
I 
VEGETARIAN ORGANIC HEALTHY GLUTEN FREE 



the stories we live 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 




JiL~GM~~lf 
MCAl~ 
I!-____________v_______..c___
_ 
-
-.. -­
! ;,_·-----------------------
Kanye West vs Taylor Swift Kanye West does not care about --country singers. 
The Smartest Freshm.en yet As if there aren't enough 
overachievers here already. 
The South Quad Beautification Project The commemorative rock really ties it all together. 
The Dining Halls' new "Wasted"" Campaign We hadn't thought of pre-gaming class until we saw this. 
"Spending time on the beach while players go through two-a-days" He sure does have a way with words. 

HOWTO 
Schmooze a Professor 
Meagan Drapalik 
Between football season, fleeting nice weather and beginning of the year procrastination, classes may have already fallen by the wayside for some. But before you have to resort to sending your professor late night e-mails about your roommate eating:your Econ homework or actually writing your FYC paper, it's time to brush up onyour schmooze. 
1Preemptive· strike. "Stop by an office hour before you run into trouble so that you develop a rapport with your professor beforehand and when you do run into something you don't understand, it's an easier conversation to have," First Year Advisor Elly Brenner says. 
2Betty Crocker. Wow your Orgo professor with the chemical reactions that go on iri the baking ofchocolate chip cookies. Your finance professor will surely invest in you and your poppyseed muffins. Even an unyielding philosophy professor will understand your viewpoint ifit's paired with a nice batch ofbrowrii~s. 
3Details, details. Know that your theology professor is a triple-vente­extra-hot-Americano kind of guy? "Accidentally" order two. Convinced that you may have a distant relative with your professor's last name? Bond over a family tree. 
/
4The cheerleader. Become your professor's biggest fan. Be sure to vigorously nod along with everything he says in clas·s. Vehemently challenge people who oppose her in discussion. Write papers that glowingly praise your professor's research. 
5"What Not to Wear." Imitation may, indeed, be the sincerest form of flattery. "Wear a tweed jacket with elbow pads to class," senior and veteran schmoozer Alex Gorrell says. 0 
t-·-----­
8 ISCHOLASTIC I17 SEPTEMBER 2009 


Curbed at Corby's 
New taxi cab regulations affect students' rides home 
from local bar on Lasalle Street 
Kerry Sullivan 
This semester, a new off-campus living situation may not be the only change in some Notre Dame seniors' lives. Students over 21 will also have to cope with another adjustment: taxi cabs are no longer allowed to park outside Corby's, a popular bar on LaSalle Avenue. Robert Lundgard, manager of Express ABC Cab Company, says the majority of taxi cab regulations are the same from last year -the only new change surrounds Corby's Irish Pub. "[Cab drivers] are no longer allowed to wait outside Corby's. They give us a ticket ifwe're sitting outside," Lundgard says. Fifth-year senior Chris Hall says that he was not surprised that these new regulations are being enforced. "[LaSalle] is a two-lane street, and the cabs used to park on the side of the road, which technically isn't allowed, so [the new rules] really don't surprise me at all," Hall says. Hall also says that these new regulations may not impact the students who live close to the bar, but may have a larger impact on those students living on campus who want to spend their evening at Corbis, "Once kids realize that it will be hard to get back to campus from Corby's, it may affect both Corby's business and the students that go there," Hall says. Lundgard agrees, suggesting that the university, South Bend and Corby's find a solution so that cabs can still drive students home. "I think that the city and Corby's are going to have to arrange a cab stand or work something out with the university," Lundgard said. Hall is a bit weary after hearing these new rules and is now thinking about planning his nights accordingly. "I like Corby's and I like to go there,. but now knowing that cabs can't wait outside may make me think twice about going or cause me to have a friend that can give me a ride," Hall says. Resilient students, however, can still have a great time at Corby's, as they always have. Although cab drivers cannot wait outside the bar, there are still plenty of ways to get back to campus. Lundgard suggests finding a specific cab driver who is willing to come pick up students. "Cab drivers are still allowed to give students their personal information, [allowing students to get home safe]" Lundgard_ says. 0 
2' 
' 




ways to really improve Hesburgh Library 
'
1 
Anti-gravity chamber in the 
' 
·physics section
' 
Hot tubs in the group study 
rooms 
Nap room ­private 
so you can drool in 
Term paper bonfires complete with marshmallows 
New Head-In-His-Hands-Jesus mural to be more accurate 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 SCHOLASTIC I 9 


NEWS 




[JJJ 

Usa Bucior 
Call it a rebuilding year. Football pep rallies did not have an all­star season last year. Student 
attendance steadily declined. Students and alumni commonly used words like "spiritless" and "boring" to describe the events, and Sorin College decided to boycott them altogether. 
"They made students wait around too much, and they made it PG when it should be about going crazy," senior Aidan .McKiernan says. Last year, .i.VlcKiernan helped organize a hall boycott against the pep rallies as Sorin president. "It's too much of a production. It should be about having fun with the team and fans." 
With the usual pep rally venue, the Joyce Center (JACC), closed this semester for renovations, university administration has d~cided to experiment with the rally's format and location. 

"We all realized that this would be something of a transitional year for rallies due to the absence of the Joyce Center," director of football game-day operations .Mike Seamon says. 
"Since the renovation and expansion of the Joyce Center's Purcell Pavilion made it impossible to hold rallies there this fall, we decided to take this opportunity to try a variety of formats to determine what, if any, ideas might be carried forward in future years. We'll take stock in everything that happens this year when we begin to make plans for next fall," he says. 
Some changes amount to little more th~n a new location. Seamon 
'I 
says for niost games, the pep rally will become the "Rally on the Green," a gathering on the lawn south of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) that will include the band, cheerleaders, the leprechaun, representatives from the football team and guest speakers. Exceptions include the USC pep rally, which is tentatively 
NEWS 

scheduled for Notre Dame Stadium, and the final Connecticut pep rally, which will be held at the newly finished Pu_rcell Pavilion. · 
Other changes are more noticeable and encourage greater student involvement. This year was the first time the Dillon Hall Pep Rally was incorpor-ated into official events. Keith Ruehlmann, a senior who organized this year's Dillo_n Pep Rally, says head .football coach Charlie Weis had the idea of combining the opening Nevada rally with' the signature hall event, known for its comedic skits and stage-diving rector. 
"Dillon was obviously flattered by the offer and took it up immediately," R_uehlmann says. 
"The most difficult change to the script was incorporating the football team, band, cheerleaders, pom squad, and everyone. Also know-ing there would be an audience of alumni and kids, we had to take that into account when deciding what we put on stage," he says. 
The audience numbered in the thousands, Ruehlmann says, and was the largest of any Dillon pep rally to date. 
"[Father Paul Doyle, the Dillon rector] 
has since called it one of the finest hours of students, and a deafening roar would in Dillon Hall's history, which I consider fill the entire building." a huge honor," he says. Students packed into Stepan with 
"Students enjoyed having the team the band and football team. Unlike the 
right there in front of them, and a more staged home rallies, which can last over an hour and a half, the Michigan send-off was scheduled only for 30 to
~should be about 45 minutes. The event did not feature ­any of the student contests or musical
going crazy...It should be 
performances that usually precede the · Ji "th football team's entrance, and was hosted
about having un wi . .
by the leprechaun mstead of Alum111 
the team and the fa'f!i}t,~,). Association director Chuck .Lennon. . -,1Jf c Speakers were much less restramed, and -FORMER SORIN PRESIDENT __...r-· their uncensored comments electrified 
AIDAN MCKIERNAN 
the crowd. "Spiritless" could not be used couple of players even stage dived into to describe this pep rally. our Dillon freshman, which was really Student reaction after the Michigan cool to see." send-off seemed pos1t1ve. Students 
This year also featured a student-only repeatedly said they were glad they pep rally in Stepan Center the Thursday attended the rally and were looking night before sending the football team forward to similar events. to Michigan. McKiernan sent Scholastic the .i 
I 
In an e-mail sent to students, the following e-mail immediately after the event was billed as "a throwback to the Michigan send-off: "I just got back from old-school rallies when thousands of the pep rally and it was everything we riotous fans would pack together like ever wanted. Perfect. Quote me." sardines, toilet-paper and effigies would 0 fly through the air ,amongst a raging sea 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 j SCHOLASTIC j 11 

NEWS 

Alexandra Moulton 
umor has it the castle in the 
film Sbrek is designed after our 
own Hesburgh Library. And the South facade of the building, the mural of "Touchdown Jesus", is one of the most recognizable university landmarks in the country. But despite the glory of the mosaic on the outside, the hallowed halls ofHes burgh are lacking in the eyes of many faculty and staff on campus. 
According to the Association of Research 
Libraries, the library ranks 49th in the 
number of volumes added per year, 56th in 
the total number of volumes and 65th in 
the size of professional staff. Some students 
and professors have demanded more from 
Notre Dame's prestigious library in terms of 
new spaces to learn and additional research 
inaterial. 
"Notre Dame is a place that never settles 
for mediocrity," Student Body Vice President 
Cynthia Weber says. Weber is a member 
of the Hesburgh Library Renovation 
Committee. "I think everyone involved [in 
the renovation] believes that the Hesburgh 
Library can excel more," she says. 
Phase one renovations, completed in . 2002, included the installment of compact 
shelving, expansion of special collections 
and university telecommunications, and the 
movement of the Government Documents 
collection to the lower level. 
"Several years ago when we renovated the 
lower level, we [created] an environment with 
collaborative spaces, group study rooms, 
and a place for serious study and research," 
Denise Shorey, Associate Director for User 
Services at the Hesburgh Library, says. 
The past renovations led to a deeper push 
to continue to update the rest of the library 
by establishing consequent phases. 
"Our goals include enhancing usable space 
and creating new destinations for scholarship 
and research," Shorey says. "This 45-year­
old building needs to be upgraded with more 
power and technology to support the needs 
and resources [of the Notre Dame research 
community]." 
Renovations for phase two include new 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 
R
lighting and furniture for the first and second floor. Starting within the next two years, 56,000 square feet of the first floor and the entire second floor will be refurbished. To facilitate this project, Notre Dame has hired the firm Shepley Bulfinch, who is currently creating specific plans for the project. 
Despite the focus on the technologies, furniture and study areas, some students and faculty realized that one renovation had not been assessed -an update to the book collection. As students and faculty became more aware of the renovations that were occurring at the Hesburgh Library, they took action. 
"We have had many discussions with members of the faculty and student body who have signed the petitions circulating around campus. Each person has expressed a desire to see the library equipped with resources, especially subject specialists and other experts, space for the print collections and library services," Shorey says. 
The student petition highlights the areas of the library that students felt were insufficient compared to other university libraries. David Morris, a graduate student at Notre Dame, took the reins on the petition project . 
"It is no coincidence that many of the universities we consider to be the best in the world -Harvard and Yale, Oxford and Cambridge -have some of tlie largest academic libraries in the world," Morris says. "Notre Dame doesn't need the world's largest library, but ... we shouldn't have to settle for having a library collection that only ranks 56th nationally." 
As a result of making the student body aware of the Hesburgh Library renovations, about 1,200 students and 200 faculty members signed the petition. The petition calls the university to recognize our "Catholic intellectual tradition" and focus attention on building a collection and resources that reflect that emphasis. 
The petition advocates adding up to 300,000 acquisitions over the next decade to make up for the gap and then adding 150,000 a year after that. This kind of development would necessitate a $25 million increase in available budget annually and more professional staff who are experts in specific subjects and can assist faculty in the undergraduate and graduate programs. 
"Will Notre Dame assume a role of leadership in helping the liberal arts to flourish, when all too often other universities have allowed them to wither?" Morris asks. "Instead of focusing on the trees, this is the forest we need to be looking at. The stakes are much higher than just books and librarians." 
Weber echoes this belief that cultivating Notre.Dame's library is both necessary and achievable. 
"Notre Dame is a place committed to the education of the mind, body and heart," Weber says. "I think it is clear that Notre Dame is seeking to nourish all three of these things, particularly in the context of a community of scholarship." 0 



17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 


CULTURE 

Veronica Stafford 
Looking at Lauren Greenfield's "THIN" exhibit in the Snite Museum of Art is an emotional experience. The exhibitcombines a display of snapshots of women who are afflicted with eating disorders such as anorexia, bulimia and binge eating with journals and stories that help the two­dimensional images come to life. According to Valerie Staples, the coordinator of eating disorder services at the University of Notre Dame Counseling Center, the "THIN" exhibit is especially provocative because it takes a topic that is often neglected and places it in focus. "Any medium hits yo~ at an emotional level. You feel something different," Staples says. The viewers are spectators and yet also human in the compassion they feel for the suffering women. 

On a campus populated with students known for theiri.inrelentingdiligence and perfectionism, eating disorders are not uncommon. According to the University Counseling Center, 10.3 percent of students who sought counseling in the past year indicated that the reason for their visit was because of an eating disorder. This number includes students who struggled with anorexia, binge eating and bulimia. 
This topic is also especiallychallenging in a university environment. "The time .in life sets the stage for it to blossom. They are faced with so many changes that it all happens at one time," Staples says. 
But for two Notre Dame students 
whose roopmates suffer from eating 
disorders,/the pictures unearth some 
very real/experiences. For these women, 
"THIN" .was especially captivating 
because it displayed the contrast between 
passively viewing strangers and actively 
watching a friend abuse herself. The 
emotions attached to their experiences 
transcend the boundary between art and 
life. 
Hillary's roommate was never able 
to remain in the same position. "She 
wouldn't sit down very long. She would 

CULTURE 

get up and walk around just to burn a few calories," Hillary says. She was aware that her roommate felt pressure to make a good impression on her new classmates, but did not immediately realize that her roommate was losing too much weight. She was unable to notice the difference between a girl who was driven to look her best and a girl who was driving herself into danger. Hillary's roommate was anorexic. 
Mariah's roommate took the opposite approach by mollifying her homesickness with food. "She would cope by eating sweets, which made her feel better," Mariah says. Rather than talk about her fear and anxiety, Mariah's roommate spent time alone. She munched on any snacks in the room, even ones that belonged to Mariah. "She had no filter on what she consumed," Mariah says. Mariah, like Hillary, did not notice immediately that her roommate was sick. "One day I just looked at her and she had ballooned," Mariah says. Her roommate was a binge eater. 
Both Hillary and Mariah felt a sense of guilt after learning that their roommates had disordered eating. Hillary felt a responsibility to help her roommate. "As someone who was around her a lot, I wondered what more could I have done? Should I have helped her more?" 
Hillary says. Even after realizing that her friend's disorder was not her fault, Hillary said that she never overcame her feeling of responsibility. "I still had that in the back of my mind," Hillary says. 
Mariah also felt accountable for her roommate's sickness. "I did feel responsible to a point. We were supposed to look out for each other," Mariah says. 
Yet both girls were supportive during their roommates' times of crisis. Hillary says she and her roommate would talk about the situation. "I was always supportive when she would talk of efforts of change," Mariah says. However, their attempts at being supportive did not lessen the emotional culpability. 
Perhaps the experiences of Mariah and Hillary are similar to the emotions that flow through the viewers of Lauren Greenfield's exhibit. The pictures of women remind the observers of sentiments that they find within themselves. For instance, the women portrayed in the display were motivated, although their motivation led them to unhealthy outlets. 
Any student like Hillary or Mariah can help their friends if they are suffering from eating disorders. Acc6rding to Staples, the best way to stari: is to simply begin by acknowledging that you are watching out for your roommate. You can try to converse with your roommate in a non-threatening way that gives him or her permission to talk freely. 
"Go to that person individually. Say, 'I'm worried about you.' 'I'm scared for you.' Let them know what kinds of changes you have seen. Be specific about what it is that you've observed. If it comes out wrong, that's better than saying nothing," Staples says. 
"Students are usually glad that their roommates called them out," Staples says. "When they realize that it is a problem for others, that's a turning point." vVhen their roommates demonstrate that they are concerned, they may open up more possibilities for assistance. Staples also advises students to encourage their roommate to seek out help, so that they will be able to become healthy again. 
For Hillary and Mariah, the sunken eyes or distended stomachs of the women in Lauren Greenfield's exhibit are a glance into their own realities. But even within those not personally affected by eating disorders, the exhibit evokes disturbing sentiments. Whether the response is longing, guilt, fear, or sadness, viewing "THIN" will provoke feeling. 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I ScH~)LASTIC I 17 
CULTURE 


Campus Chatter 
DEPARTMENT OF DISORIENTATION 
About halfway through my sophomore year I realized that my days of attending parties where Natty Lite is swilled from iced trashcans were numbered. One day I would have to pay for real beer in real bars, and one day I would have to graduate. 
That was two years ago. Last month, as I moved into my first apartment off-campus, I vowed that I would carpe the diem out of my senior year. 
Exhibit A: Crash a freshman Dis-0. Though not everyone's idea of a fun night, it has certainly been done in the past. My sidekick (who has requested to remain anonymous) and I, however, went where few seniors have gone before -we crashed it sober. 
Mostly it was an accident. It's a Thursday night, you're busy, and before you know it, it's 11:00 p.m. and you're still not housed. In the name of Scholastic, however, Sidekick and I decided to follow through with our plan. 
As we stepped out of the car, we were greeted by blaring music and a puddle of vomit that I missed at first, but my left shoe found pretty quickly. As I wobbled outside, trying to clean my shoe without actually touching it, I overheard one of my senior friends use the tried and true pick-up line: "So you're a freshman, huh?" We had arrived. 
Sidekick immediately dove into the maelstrom and I briefly lost visual contact. I lingered to hear the outcome of my friend's conversation. Meanwhile, with the decisiveness and accuracy of a bloodhound, Sidekick immediately scouted out the keg. I followed. 
The already packed basement reached critical mass as the density of freshman positively correlated with the proximity of the keg. We found a ring of desperate frosh being sized up by the keg-master who was allocating beer based on a complicated equation of clothing yardage, cup size and current inebriation level. 
Aware that going out in our clothes from class would put us at a severe disadvantage, Sidekick took matters into her own hands. "KEGSTAND!" Pushing expectant frosh aside, she "stumbled" to the tap and was promptly hoisted by three beer-t-shirted gentlemen. 
After the requisite screaming, cheering and hugging, Sidekick and I decided to focus on reconnaissance. Donning alter­egos whose sole modus operandi was to giggle and fall down, we made our way upstairs. 
I quickly picked out the frosh staples: The "tired" couple, who sit on the futon because they're "worn out" from dancing and are actually just waiting for the first break in conversation to suck face. The "bros," who prefer grunting with other guys in the kitchen to the daunting task of meeting a girl. The "varsity beer-pong" girls, who hog the table and loudly announce every point in case that cute guy in the kitchen is listening. And, my personal favorite, the "wait, did they just do that?" couple. This usually involves a dress that would be too small on a toddler, a push-up bra and a guy with bad balance. 
They were all there. And as I pretended to steady myself on Sidekick's shoulder and shoot flirtatious glances at the guys in the kitchen, I wasn't overwhelmed by embarrassment or revulsion (a little revulsion, I did still have puke on my shoe) but, rather, sadness. Here I was, in the middle of one ofNotre Dame's most time-honored traditions, realizing that I could never be a part of it again. No matter how many beers we spilled, kegstands we did, or freshmen butts we grabbed, the window had closed and there was no going back. I started to sober up from my feigned drunkenness and without verbally communicating, we ooth knew it was time to go home. 
But then we went to Club 23 and a bunch of alumni bought us drinks -sucks to be underage! 
-The Animal 

18 j SCHOLASTIC j 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 
)ttum:
:....--. towards the Red Arrow Highway, Harbor Country or bust! A few 
1 

i things to do when driving beyond Douglas and Edison: 



CULTURE 
Not So Common: Life on 
Malisha Samarasekera 
Flip through the pages of Home & Garden and you may see this apartment. There's the urban-chic walls of exposed brick flanking expansive windows, the industrial pipes running across the ceiling, a walk-in closet big enough to fit even Carrie Bradshaw's wardrobe -all features of what would be the dream home of any young adult journeying out into the professional world. The apartment even comes with a balcony overlooking one of the most beautiful skylines in America: non~ other than that of South Bend, Indiana. Welcome to The Foundry at Eddy Street Commons. The best perks, however, are not actually found in the apartment itself. The Foundry's building amenities are enough to rival a vacation resort: A screening room with a drop-down projection screen and rows of armchairs, flat-screen TVs in the hallways and a billiards room with high-definition ESPN shown on the plasma TV are just a few of the perks Foundry residents enjoy. Add to that tanning beds, personal study rooms and a state-of-the art workout center featuring flat screen TVs and iPod ports on each individual exercise machine, and you have yourself one of the classiest cribs in the 574. With all these amemt1es, finding student housing within the Foundry can get competitive, as only ten percent of Foundry apartments can be leased to university students and all students residing in the building must be over the age of 21. When these lucky students are not relaxing in their luxurious apartments, they can venture downstairs and explore the new Eddy Street Commons. 

Popular restaurants such as Chipotle, Five Guys 
and Hotbox Pizza provide 
accessible eating options -that is, if these students choose not to grab a bite from 
the complimentary kitchen 
and bar-lounge available to all Foundry residents. 
20 ISCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEM 

"Every morning they offer free coffee and breakfast, so it's really nice if you're 
running late or just don't have food in your 
apartment," senior psychology major and Foundry resident Gabrielle Michalak says. 
While the m~dern facilities of The Foundry are impressive, Michalak's single apartment itself is just as noteworthy. Meticulously decorated in accents of pink, green and white, Michalak and her mother 
spent much of the summer planning out exactly what her new home would look like -made especially difficult as neither had ever stepped foot in the newly finished building prior to signing the lease. "We looked through Elle Decor and other home magazines tr.ying to get ideas, but we didn't realize it was going to be this big," Michalak says. "We knew there was going to be an exposed brick wall and ducts but that was about it, so we tried to come up with a modern, funky vibe that's also girly." 
Transitioning from a dorm to a complex where students are the minority can seem like a challenge, but Michalak has adjusted well to her new environment. "What's nice about it is that it's very quiet and really conducive to getting your work done," Michalak says. 
With all the amenities and services provided by The Foundry, it will be difficult to vacate her apartment when spring arrives. Michalak, however, is enjoying the time she has left in it before beginning life as a college graduate. "It's exciting living on my own. I like the idea of having my own place to really put my stamp on," she says. 0 

PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
.. 

Serving the Not:u~~::di!~:~~~ SCH O LASTIC 
------------------I 
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. NAME:---------------­ADDRESS:-------------­
National PacemakerAwardWinner I 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:/IMARKETPLACE.ND.EDU/ STUDENTSHOPI 


i{ffP~::::t:?/t:::: .<:/:::::::::::),-:=):::. ..::/ ":\:::•:::::.:::::,:::::;:.
~/it1;;f£c: :::,;~~;,$ \~ft! ~';.;( 
:~:~~--:-..:-;/;.,;, 
~$i@ 
COVER STORY 

Dame apparel and cheering about the 
good ol' days. Students are apt to initially 
conclude that the alumni are all a group 
of fanatic, at times eccentric, football 
fans who flood to campus during home 
games before disappearing back into the 
woodwork. 
i-Iowever, as students progress 
through their years at Notre Dame, 
their encounters with alumni diversify. 
It becomes apparent that the Alumni 
Association slogan, "It ain't just plaid 
pants," is true, with substantial positive 
implications for students. As students 
attempt to secure internships, search 
for job prospects or look for volunteer 
opportunities such as the Summer 
Service Learning Program, alumni 
become a source of valuable networking 
possibilities. 
"You cannot underestimate the ability 
of the alumni to open so many doors for 
Notre Dame students. If you go to the 
Alumni Association and ask where certain 
alumni are and the things they are doing, 
the connections you can make are jaw 
dropping," Student Body President Grant 
Schmidt says. "The network that the 
alumni create is incredible. We do a lot 
of benc-hmarki1~g l.n student government 
about the resources our alumni provide, 
and it is unparalleled with any other 
university." 
Students generally acknowledge the 
close relationships they share with 
alumni and appreciate the benefits this 
will eventually afford them. Similarly, 
alumni show an active interest in students 
and are quick to share stories oftheir time 
under the Golden Dome. 
"Everyone has apparel on because ·everyone is proud. When you ask 
someone where they went and they say Notre Dame, there is this sense of pride. _The first thing you are going to say is, 'What dorm are you in?' There is no awkwardness when you meet an alum. You have twenty things in common 
immediatelyt Schmidt says. 
Why, then; were alumni and students 
portrayed as possessing such polarized 
views during the_ Obama controversy? 
encounter with the alumni might have knocking on your door, thrilled to inform Students and Alumni: occurred at the first home football game you of his experience in that very room A Case of Competing freshman year. If you managed to sleep generations ago. The campus that had Ideals? through the band blasting the fight song, been so calm a mere day ago was suddenly 
you might have been fortunate enough to swarming with crowds of unknown "There's always a love-hate relationship have been awoken by an eager alumnus individuals clad in an assortment ofNotre between students and school at a certain 
24 ISCHOLASTIC I17 SEPTEMBER 2009 
level, with the students wanting to stretch the boundaries and the school trying to keep things orderly," manager of the popular Notre Dame Web site NDNation, Michael Coffey ('91), says. "The mores and philosophies of the tim~ tend to determine what's 'acceptable' to each side, and students -when they graduate -tend to keep with them an image of the ND that existed when they were there, so the biggest conflict probably comes from that moral shift from year to year and decade to decade." 
It is difficult to deny or ignore the changes any university will inevitably experience as the issues facing each new generation change and students' approach to adapting evolves. The resulting controversy at Notre Dame becomes evident at times such as when "The Vagina Monologues" are performed on campus or the now infamous visit by President Obama. According to a Scholastic poll of 75 undergraduate students, 86 percent believe that when circumstances arise in which alumni and the current student body disagree, the students should ultimately have more influence on university policy. 
"Both are definitely important, but I would say the students' opinion is more important because this is our four years and our time. The decisions that we make and the causes we support are what we are passionate about right now and want to learn about, and I think it's difficult and unfortunate when it is stifled. If that is what people are dedicating time and effort to, it is a shame that people from a different view might not see the value in that," Angela Rossi, a senior biology major who leads a campus Emmaus group, says. 
SeniorJenn Metz, the Editor-in-Chief of The Observer, voices similar opinions. "However, in situations where alumni and student opinions might clash, I would say students would probably rather the alumni not interfere. It's a hard balance, though, to value keeping traditions on one hand and to value progressing forward on the other," Metz says. 
Maintaining the traditions that are crucial to the unique character of Notre Dame at least partially accounts for the vital role alumni play in influencing the university's identity. "If Notre Dame shapes itself solely on the trends and opinions of current students, it risks detaching itself from more traditional things. That, I feel, is the role of the alumni in shaping decisions on campus -to serve as a reminder of a past that has been (at times) great and (at other times) not so great," Coffey says. 
Senior Program of Liberal Studies major Tara Gilbride works as a student caller for the Development Office. She has extensive communication with alumni voicing their concerns regarding the university. "I think they should have some influence because obviously they came before us and they are part of the 
university as well. I also think though 
that they are not here for the day by day, 
so their input should be taken with a 
grain of salt because they are not here to 
see how the student body has changed," 
Gilbride says. 
Just as students generally interact with alumni in isolated settings, alumni also formulate views about students from limited encounters on campus. "I think there is a disconnect in some respects. I think that alumni don't always get the whole story because they are not present here on campus, so they are seeing it from an outside view; from a distance. It is just like the game telephone, and when you get further and further away things can get distorted. That distance causes the misconceptions more than anything," Rossi says. 
It is unclear how much of a disconnect 
truly exists between student and alumni 
objectives for the university. While 
generational differences almost certainly 
exist, to what extent do alumni really 
object to or interfere with university 
policies or student life on campus? .-Emily.Everett, a senior Program of 
Liberal Studies major and a student 
manager for the Development Phone 
Center offers a possible explanation for 
the perceived rift. "The alumni that we 
hear from are the ones who are voicing 
their dissent, and they are often taken 
to represent the whole even if that is not 
necessarily the consensus. Even from 
calling, the ones that stand out in my 
mind are the ones who were very vocal on 
negative things so you do not necessarily 
remember the positive remarks from 
calls," Everett says. 
The administration has a .. unique perspective on campus issues, as it receives feedback from both students and alumni and attempts to find a balance among what is an often varied range of opinions. President Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C, says, "A university is composed of alumni, faculty, students, staff, parents and others with diverse opinions -even within each of the affiliated groups -on a wide array of issues. To suggest that all students think one way about any subject and all alumni think another is a false assumption. So, no, there isn't a disconnect. What you find, and what is healthy for a university, is a broad range of opinion from multiple sources on important issues of the day." 
Is Notre Dame Now Secularized? 
The prevailingconcernvoiced byalumni recently is that Notre Dame has lost its Catholic identity, and this is certainly not anew issue. Both Everett and Gilbride say that questions about Notre Dame staying true to its Catholic foundation are the most common complaints they receive while conducting phone surveys. This concern was also cited by the Alumni Association as the predominant issue alumni voice about Notre Dame. 
William Dempsey ('52) head of the Sycamore Project, an organization committed to restoring the Catholic faith to pi:eeminence in the university, says, "First, in an institution in which a Catholic faculty predominated, I think it most unlikely, virtually impossible, that issues like this would ever arise. After all, only 16 ofsome 225 Catholic colleges and universities host "The Vagina Monologues"; and a dominantly Catholic faculty surely would not have accorded FatherJenkins several standing ovations for his dismissing both his own bishop and the policy_ established unanimously by the·-USCCB (United States Catholic Council of Bishops) by according high honor to the Church's most formidable opponent on the abortion issue. And if neither the play nor the president had appeared, their absence would have gone unnoticed by almost all, ifnot all, of the students." 
Student Body Vice President Cynthia Weber believes that the university might have additional concerns today but maintains that Notre Dame has · held on to its Catholic identity. "I think every year the university becomes more competitive and we are on the path to our rankings being erased, so our concerns [as current students] are with being a ·leading.,research institution and keeping academic rigor whereas older generations focus'ed primarily on the university being Catholic. I absolutely believe we still have 
· a strong Catholic orthodox community, but alumni saw it to be much more prominent," Weber says. 
Rossi thinks that Notre Dame's environment has fostered her religious growth and has helped her to define what she believes. She cites the 100 plus masses that are held each week on campus, the commitment to social justice and community service, and the religious 
COVER STORY 
-..· -------------------------------------------------­

discussions that occur on campus as evidence that the faith is still very present at Notre Dame. "The way society is structured today is different, so students might be making decisions in their life that alumni 40 or 50 years ago might not have made and they might associate that with students not participating in their Catholic faith, but I don't think that is necessarily true. I think it is just a Notre Dame students are more Catholic today than in previous generations. "The students are less Catholic? I think they are more because they understand the total commitment of being a Christian and a Catholic. They accept the community service aspect of it," Lennon says. 
It may be the case that Notre Dame and its students are adapting to new social movements to the best oftheir ability and 
difference in the times," Rossi says. s~rivinto find ways to incorporate the Some students,believe that the alumni FA 
may have valid concerns but think thatl9A . 
Notre Dame is doing what is possible to achieve a balance. "You can graduate the university without ever reading Thomas Aquinas, and that is a problem. On the other hand, the Notre Dame emphasis on service is much stronger than it used to be. I think there are strengths and weaknesses to our Catholic character today. It is not Notre Dame's fault," Weber says. Chuck Lennon ('61), the Executive Director of the Alumni Association, thinks that contrary to the perception fostered during the debat:'es last spring, 
The Catholic presence at Notre Dame is still here 
but it is under challenge. Being Catholic is always challenged. ,_,. 
• STUDENT BODY VICE 
7 /
PRESIDENT CYNTHIA WEBER 
Catholic perspective in an increasingly secular world. Weber says, "The Catholic presence at Notre Dame is still here but it is .under challenge. Being Catholic is always challenged. That is true for an institution as it is for a person. Notre Dame has responded remarkably well to the challenges we face in modernity, but there is still more to do and there is still more to change," Weber says. 
A Diverse Student Body, a Diverse Alumni Association 
Just as alumni might have some mistaken assumptions about students, some students are also gui,lty ofharboring false impressions of the alumni. Some students seem to believe that alumni commonly threaten to cut funding whenever they disagree with a university decision, in order to assert powerful influence in university policy. While Everett affirms that this is sometimes the case, she emphasizes that it occurs in only in rare circumstances. Gilbride has a similar impression. "Usually they will not actually cut funding. They will just donate it specifically to the CSC [Center for Social Concerns] or Campus 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 ISc_HOLAST1c I27 





COVER STORY 
Which is more important, academic freedom or Notre Dame's Catholic 
identity:,, 
111 Academic Freedom II Catholic Identity 
¦ Unspecified 

Ministry," she says. 
Jenkins says that alumni donations do not directly influence university decisions. "Vi'e appreciate the generosity of alumni and others who contribute to the continuing growth of Notre Dame as a world-class Catholic teaching and research university, but we are very careful to maintain the appropriate separation between financial support and university policy," he says. 
The common student conception of Notre Dame alumni as a homogenous group is also likely an unfair depiction. "Just as there was lack of unanimous consensus across the student body regarding President Obama's attendance at graduation or the Vagina Monologues, so too is there lack of a unanimous consensus within the alumni. Each group and individual is entitled to his or her own varied opinion, reaction and debate," Holly Colman ('86), the President of the NDAA Board of Directors, says. 
After four years at the university, each Notre Dame freshman will become an alumnus upon graduation. It thus seems likely that the alumni should reflect the diversity of the student body, rather than consisting of a majority from any one 
28 ISCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 
generation. "Over half of our alumni have graduated in the last 22 years. We are a young organization," Lennon says. 
In addition, the alumni do not share a cohesive ideology. "I have definitely taken calls from alumni who think that more has to be done at this university for gay and lesbian rights. There are so many of them [alumni], and because we 
~Over half of our alumni have graduated in the last 22 years. We are a 
young organizatio:J!.~belie__ fi,Lennon compares the differences 
· 
-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
OF ALUMNI ASSOCIAITON CHUCK LENNON 
are 85 percent Catholic and have been in the past, you are going to get a lot along traditional lines, but there are still a lot who have opinions that are completely opposite. And they are not always the young alumni," Gilbride says. 
of opinions within the Notre Dame community to the bickering that occurs within a loving family. Each group 
· 
respects one another even when holding opposing views. 
In fact, the one thing all alumni seem to agree on is the same thing students have in common, a love for Notre Dame. "People come back for a football game, which is only four hours out of a day. They are back to visit their classmates and visit their profs, to go visit the Grotto, to just walk this beautiful campus. It's 
Fighting Within the Family 
The national media portrayed student and alumni opinions as a strict binary, and the results of Scholastic's poll suggest that students have adopted similar beliefs regarding alumni. A closer analysis, however, suggests that while differences of opinion certainly exist, they do not fall cleanly into two defined categories. Students do not uniformly conform to one perspective with the alumni conforming to another. Instead, Notre Dame is composed of a diverse group of individuals with different ideas and 
COVER STORY 



the games we play 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 
ON: CAPPY GAGNON 
_( Mott Formica 
;~t>,::' ': 
)f;" -Scan the crowd at an Irish football game and you'll be sure to see hundreds ofyellow jackets ·•· dotting the blanket of blue and gold clad fans. These jackets belong to the 857 Notre;~j\,\ Dame Stadium ushers, whom Notre Dame students and fans have come to know for their jovial nature. But you probably don't see Cappy Gagnon. Gagnon has been Notre Dame's Coordinator of Stadium Personnel since 1996, a role that entails overseeing the entire staff of ushers behind the scenes. Gagnon and his crew, however, might be known more for their enthusiasm and love for Notre Dame sports than for their role as crowd security. Countless ·. ushers can be seen high-fiving fans, starting chants or pumping up the crowd on Saturdays.r,: Gagnon, a 1966 Notre Dame graduate, boasts experience in tl1e security sector and has ' provided security details for countless celebrities ranging from Frank Sinatra to Michael · -Jackson. He is also a noted baseball historian and published a book entitled "Notre Dame 
Baseball Grea~_s" in 2004. 
;: What is the 11wst 111e,11mwble sporting roentyou htroe witnessed at ND Stadiu7lt? I coached the St. Mary's football team in a flag game in the stadium, which was held after the Notre Dame-UCLA Game in 1964. Over a hundred girls tried out for the team, and the 25 we selected practiced very hard for two hours a day for over a month. My classmate 
.. Bob Conway, now a Notre Dame 1111stee, will tell you it's tl1e most fun he's ever had in the '( Stadium also. There were 20,000 or so fans who remained to watch us defeat Barat College :X-6-0. Like Rockne, I'm undefeated as a football coach in tl1e stadium. 
h>'.·'· 
:i What does a Saturday ga7lteday mean to you? How would you describe the overall atmosphere? ':.Even though I have been going to games since my freshman year in 1962 and standing in ";\the end zone since 1995, I still get a lump in my tl1roat when the Irish Guard leads tl1e Band !{onto tl1e field. Ifyou look at me during the playing of the National Anthem I am teary eyed. tIthink of Fr. Hesburgh's book, "God, Country, Notre Dame." Game day begins witl1 the 
-1Drummer's Circle at midnight. What other university-can turn out thousands of students 'and fans for an event like tlrnt? I once had a conversation with coach Bob Davie at the team }meal before the USC game in the Coliseum. We both said there is no NFL equivalent of ·college football weekends, which revolve around big rivalries. Notre Dame has dozens of :/·little traditions, all over campus, which inspire our students and alumni. Mike Seamon has ;:-added a few tllis year, which will become part ofthat lore. An outsider would be moved to see ;the faces of the 3,500+ people who walked down to the end zone on Friday, September 4. I ;have attended many Notre Dame road games, including [some] in very famous venues, and )I have never seen an atmosphere which matches ours. 
-,How have Norre Da7lte fans changed over the years? Are they more/less enthusiastic now than ·before? 'J don't notice any difference in enthusiasm. I had never been to a Notre Dame game until I !enrolled. "Wow" is all I can say about my first_ one! Johnny Lujack stood next to me at my 
first pep rally. I still never miss a pep rally. 
'.· 
;According to UND.com, you provided "protective services for more than 30 ofthe most prominent 'figures in the entertainment indust,y. "Are there any particularly notable celebrities that you worked (w/th, or any interesting storiesfr011t those experiences? ._ ;I1worked for Gavin de Becker, the number one pers\?n in the field. I was fortunate enough Ito be around some of the most prominent persons;in .the entertainment industry. All of %pf signed confidentiality agreements, so my best ~tori es can't be told, but I can mention 
'.a\Jew things which have become part of public knowledge. I have worked many Academy '{\,ward and Grammy Shows. I was on the protective detail for Yoko Ono when she accepted :(posthumous Grammy for John Lennon. This was her first major appearance after his ~~sassination. My photo was in every major newspaper in tl1e western world on tl1e day after Jylichael Jackson won his eight Grammies. Our security was pretty tight, and the only good photo ofJackson and Brooke Shields, !us companion for tl1e evening, had me in the middle. I 'filas a supervisor ofsecurity for President Reagan's first inaugural [ball]. The Gipp er brought i)?-56 prominent entertainers for the various Inaugural Balls held all around D.C. For a week ' as all over D.C. accompanying Johnny Carson, Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Elizabeth 
ylor and otl1ers. I worked many Tonight Shows, where it was quite difficult for me to keep at my daughters call my "security face" while scanning tl1e crowd and standing just a few .t from "the couch." I toured witl1 Cher on her 1990 World Tour and Neil Diamond on ' 1985 California Tour. 0 
SPORTS 
Survey Says. 
II ¦ 
Go up to a random 
Golden 
i The make-your­Make it funky and girl and get a good 
i The best thing i Easily Marissa 
TATE i own pizza. BBQ maybe a little touch sniff of her. Then 
: since sliced bread : Miller 
Football : chicken is the best ofTaylor Swift 
Lindsey i The seven grain 
i "Hey, is tliat peanut 
: bread at South "Faded" by Soul 
FERGUSON j Stupid i Gerard Butler : butter on your 
( Dining Hall is Decision
XC/Track i face?"
i phenomenal 
Time Travel 
Matt Formica 

With four seconds left in the 1980 Notre Dame-Michigan game at Notre Dame Stadium, Harry Oliver's 51-yard field goal just as time expired propelled the No. 8 to a thrilling 29-27 victory over the No. 14 Michigan Wolverines. The left-footed Oliver emerged as an unlikely hero that afternoon, as he had only attempted one field goal at the varsity level prior to the game. As Oliver trotted onto the field, the Irish trailed 27-26 with just four seconds remaining. A strong wind blowing against Oliver died down seconds before the snap, according to coaches and players. An eerie hush fell over the crowd of 60,000 as the ball sailed through the air. Absolute euphoria ensued. Oliver's kick barely cleared the goal post, setting off a raucous celebration and forever immortalizing Oliver among ND fans. "It's probably what's going to be on my tombstone. Instead ofwhen I was born or when I died, it's going to be 'September 20, 1980. Notre Dame 29, Michigan 27,"' Oliver said. 0 

17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 . I 
SPORTS 

Former starting quarterback puts baseball career on hold to mentor younger teammates 
Josh Flynt
0 ver the last several seasons, the Notre Dame football program has experienced its share of ups and downs. From the infamous "Bush Push" in 2005, to the thrilling victory· in the final moment against UCLA in 2006 to last week's heartbreaker against Michigan in the Big House, Evan Sharpley has seen it all. While many people know Sharpley as a quarterback, his career at Notre Dame is defined by much more than his time in a blue and gold #13 jersey. The fifth-year senior, who graduated in May, was also a standout on the baseball diamond and was drafted in this year's MLB First Year Player Draft. Instead of taking time to concentrate solely on his baseball career, Sharpley returned to Notre Dame this fall to student teach at a local high school and for one more chance to be part ofsomething special with the Irish on the gridiron. Sharpley, a Marshall, Michigan native, has seen a lot of changes at Notre Dame since committing to the Irish as a high school senior. He has adjusted to coaching changes and lineup adjustments in both sports. He went from being Brady Quinn's backup to starting ·for the Irish in a pair of games in 2007. When Jimmy Clausen took the reigns as the starter later in the year, Sharpley moved to backup once again. Though he is currently the third-string quarterback, 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 
Sharpley may be the most important man on the team for the Irish defense. Running the scout team, Sharpley gives the defense the best idea of what the upcoming opponent's offense will look like. 
Still, Sharpley does not want to be remembered, as he says, "as that guy that was a backup quarterback for 100 years and played some baseball." Other aspects of campus life, such as the dorm system and 
friendships within the residence halls, have also been a significant part of Sharpley's experience. "When I leave here, I want people to remember the type of person that I am. I don't want to be defined by athletics but rather by how many people I affected positively." It is this attitude that has helped Sharpley's contributions to athletics extend beyond the field. "I am in a position now to be more of a coach for some of these younger guys," he says. "I have been here for five years, so I have a lot of knowledge about a lot of things with football, school and social life." 
Like many student-athletes, Sharpley experienced some growing pains early in his career. During his sophomore year, he lost 15 pounds and earned the lowest grades of his college career. At that time, he knew he needed to make some adjustments. Sharpley met with head coach Charlie Weis and developeg a schedule that allowed him to do as much of both sports as possible. His new schedule helped him both academically and athletically. "I was in the best shape of my life, and I felt awesome on both the football and baseball fields." 
With the new schedule, Sharpley was able to spend more time focusing on baseball, and 


SPORTS 
,(},W.f,(1£[9; ,' . 
1p@,ses at South Bend's Adams H' 
. ,-;.,;r,•~-~~,y:\· ., "·:•<-" 
during his junior year, he broke out as one of the best hitters on the team. He hit .324 and led the Irish with 13 home runs and 40 RBI. "Baseball is all about timing and when you play a little here, then leave, then come back, it is hard to produce," he says. Sharpley's commitment to baseball paid dividends beyond Notre Dame. This past June, the Seattle Mariners selected the first baseman in the 50th round of the MLB draft. 
Sharpley spent this summer playing for the Mariners' Arizona Rookie League team, where he batted .333 with seven home runs and 29 RBI in 37 games. This environment was much different than anything he had experienced at Notre Dame. "I left a college environment where I could call someone up and within five minutes I could be eating lunch or playing a game of pickup basketball, to not knowing a single person and living out of a hotel for the whole summer." Though it started out lonely, Sharpley says that it was a great experience once he became acclimated to the new environment. 
So with a future in baseball on the horizon and a history degree already in hand, it came as a surprise to many people when Sharpley announced in June that he would be returning to campus this fall. Sharpley thought his football career was over, but during the winter, Weis convinced him to apply for a fifth year of eligibility, leaving open the option to return. He reached an agreement with the Mariners that al1owed him to cut his season short and return to Notre Dame for training camp in August. Despite spending the majority of the past two seasons as a backup, several factors influenced Sharpley's decision to return. As a history major, he has aspirations to teach and coach some day. Coming back gave him an opportunity to continue student teaching. On the field, he came back for the same reasons that led him to South Bend in the first place. "I want to be part of something special. I wanted to help put ND football back on the map," he says. 
Though his days in DeBartolo and O'Shag are finished, the 22 year old still spends his mornings in the classroom. Sharpley currently student teaches at Adams High School in South Bend, where he instructs two government and three geography classes each day. After school, he heads straight to campus for practice, making his best effort to savor college life and lead the Irish back to glory. 
No matter what the results are for the Irish on the football field this season, Sharpley has an exciting future ahead. In the spring, he will be returning to Arizona for spring training with the Mariners. He hopes to play baseball for as long as possible, and like any minor leaguer, hopes to reach the majors some day. Not knowing what the future may hold, Sharpley is trying to keep all of his options open. In addition, Sharpley and his younger brother Ryan, a pitcher on the Notre Dame team, would like to open a restaurant someday. They plan to make it a family affair. "My girlfriend· wants to be the receptionist," he says. "With my mom as the head cook, I am sure the place won't be empty. Not only that, but with my dad doing stand-up comedy, this place will be the hot spot. I can't forget my sister either. She can be the taste tester and decorator. Now all I need is a name." With all that is going on in Sharpley's life today, that restaurant might have to be put on hold. 0 

17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
tuck 
Campus sports facilities get a facelift 
Andy Gray
Get ready, because Notre Dame drink storage, television and computer shorter," he says. "We brought in sod is about to rock your world. a;eas, and facilities for meetings and from Colorado, which will allow us to Chair-back seating in a game-tape viewings. cut it shorter and have it still survive hockey arena. Imported grass "We'll also have areas in the hallways the weather here. This will help us with for the soccer field. State-of-the-art where we can honor our alumni, All-our speed of play." Grass from across locker rooms. And these are not the only Americans, Academic All-Americans, the country -that's treating our elite improvements being made to the Irish monogram winners, national team teams right. athletic facilities. We all know about the players and such," women's coach Randy Now, ice is pretty much the same renovations to the tattered monument Waldrum says. "It should be a shrine to everywhere. But don't think just because to psychedelia that is the Joyce Center the accomplishments of our 20-plus year Notre Dame isn't importing Canadian basketball and volleyball arena. But all history." water to freeze for the new Charles around us, stadiums are being planned, '4~ W. Smith Ice Rink that the hockey erected and refurbished. The world of program drew the short straw. A brand-No~re Dame sports is being polished to 1~~Jt should be a shrine new h~cke~ arena is in the w~rks, and a high sheen. €ii:) Iii · the umvers1ty hopes to open It for the For instance, if you were dissatisfied to the accomplishments of 2011-12 season. Therein, fans will find with the metal box that constituted . fj~~the aforementioned chair-back seating the old soccer stadium, you're in luck. our 2 0-plus year history-/ for many and a total capacity of up to Alumni Stadium, the new Irish soccer -WOMEN'S SOCCER COACH _..,,,,, -5,00_0, according to Coach Jeff Jackson, facility, recently made its debut as host RANDY WALDRUM who" directed his squad to a top seed in to home games for the nationally ranked last;,year's NCAA Championship. men's and women's soccer squads. The The new facilities should attract "It'll be one of the nicest in college stadium includes restrooms, concessions players who will continµe that history. hockey,''. Jackson says. "Not the biggest, and a much more aesthetically pleasing Waldrum and his staffwere able to show but ideal for the community size. We seating area, which was packed with off the facility to five potential recruits want to fill those seats." over 3,000 fans for the Irish women's over the weekend of the North Carolina In addition, the facility will house home opener against top-ranked North game. "They all loved the facility. It new locker rooms and a study area for Carolina, and nearly 2,000 for the men's would be hard not to want to play here the student athletes. Coach Jackson home opener against Michigan. It also in this stadium," Waldrum says. appreciates the fostering of a team­includes a well-equipped locker room and But Waldrum's favorite improvement oriented environment and, says such lounge area for players and coaches to in the move to Alumni Stadium is the improvements have been sorely needed. relax and work, complete with food and grass. "The playing surface is much "The old facilities [in the Joyce 
36 ISCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 

SPORTS 

Center] were seen as potentially among the weakest in college hockey and a sign that the university didn't support hockey, which of course isn't true at all," he says. 
These two new arenas are just part of a plan to update or replace sports venues across campus. In the near future, we will see new facilities for track and field, lacrosse and, of course, basketball and volleyball. The price tag for all of these projects is unquestionably steep, but by and large, they have been funded by alumni donations. Waldrum understands just how important it is that former Domers want to give back to their university, as Alumni Stadium wouldn't have been possible without it. 
"Two donors who were former players on the men's [soccer] team are actually the ones who funded the stadium," Waldrum said, "And we'll be forever indebted to them for this." Tom Crotty ('80), who was voted team MVP for the '79 season, and Rob Snyder ('84), who ranks seventh on Notre Dame's all­time list with 22 career assists, are the men to whom Waldrum refers. Such circumstances are not uncommon -the forthcoming hockey, lacrosse and track and field facilities all trace much of their fu~nding to alumni pledges. _ 
Of course, the bang for -these bucks doesn't just come in the improved experience of varsity sports. Jackson is quick to point out the wide variety of benefits that attend the construction of a new hockey arena. 
"There can be access for people to use it much like a rec center," he says. "Maybe it's a chance for women's hockey to become a factor on campus -_they already have a club program. They're talking about having pep rallies and indoor tailgating too." 
The possibilities for the newly-opened area under the north dome of the Joyce Center are endless. The new arena may also house community group activities and intramural events such as broomball. "Hopefully it'll be one of the gems on campus," Jackson says. 
So when your opportunity to see the newly improved Joyce Center comes along next year, don't just lean back in the fancy new seating. Get out on Charles W. Smith rink and sweep a ball around. 
Or do lean back. No one could blame you-least of all, the elite teams you will finally be watching in elite facilities. 0 

17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHQLASTIC I 3 7 

f. . . . ...· , ·. . . .·· , . ·. . . 
HUMOR 

Welcome home, my radiant rascals! Before setting out to air the Dome's dirty laundry, I would like to begin this year with a brief preamble for all you previously uninformed upperclassmen, virgin Scholastic readers and timid first-years still slurring what you think are the words to the Fight Song. I thus humbly introduce myself -the Gipper ­the eyes in the back of every inconspicuous Notre Dame head and the lively spirit of the legendary George Gipp. 
I was originally a Notre Dame gridiron god, but popular rumor now insists that my ghost still creeps -not unlike a mutant, Subway-seeking squirrel outside LaFortune -through the DW40-deprived seats of Washington Hall. But old Gipp doesn't just sneak riotous peeks at the sassy grown men in Professor McKenna's dance class (where many a 22-year-old male concludes that tapping to Hairspmy's most popular score is suddenly appropriate for all genders and sexual orientations). Oh no, the Gipper has eyes and ears all over campus and throughout the colorful city of South Bend. The tales recounted here are true -albeit often far from socially kosher -and in many cases are generously submitted from readers like you. So remember, when absurdity strikes, win one for the Gipper and send in your stories. 
Moving on to the goodies. The summer is officially drawing to a close and a new semester begins: bloodied baby dolls have been rolled away in their strollers and the King of Pop now gyrates lovingly over us from the heavens. The crisp swipe of angrily purchased, new $30 student ID cards fills the air, and pointedly ambiguous "isolation" quarantines from Health Services multiply faster than stolen dining hall utensils. The men of Dillon have already pranced half­naked across a South Quad stage (this time in the pleasant company of aging alumni and football-toting toddlers), the women ofZahm have already proudly displayed a hostaged female blouse in a first-floor quad-facing window, and everyone else is already thinking that the money spent lowering parking lots for a better view of Ryan Hall -lovely as it is -would have been better spent on a year's worth of Natty Light kegs. Without a doubt, a fresh year under the Dome is upon us. 
We begin the fall festivities with a tale featuring three equally exciting elements: the police, stolen goods, and $20 worth of Martin's Supermarket gift cards. One senior Domer, for the first time residing off­campus, made the alcohol-induced decision to pay a visit to Dillon, his alma mater residence hall. We shall call him the Peach Pirate, for upon entering the home of the Big Red, our hungry hijacker had to think only briefly ofhis empty pantry before plundering a large box of peaches and a moving dolly. Not bothering to contemplate the peaches' perplexing placement, the fruity fiend took off with his pillage on a solo voyage down Notre Dame Avenue. The Pirate, feeling fortuitous to have avoided walking the plank of a ravenous enemy lurking on the open seas of South Bend, was happy to appease the police officer that anchored a squad ship in his path. The Peach Pirate boarded the ship and was accosted with his captain's obligatory lecture on stealing before being curiously awarded $20 in Martin's gift cards. Feeling like a first-rate first mate, our starved senior can now treat his crew to a few quality six­packs or himself to approximately 17 iced chocolate-chocolate-chip muffins from Martin's bakery. The only things missing from this bizarre anecdote are nudity and a middle-aged townie (although hopefully not at the same time). 
Our second story boasts an age-old moral: don't count your chickens before they hatch -or, don't count your So-Co/lime shots before you pay for them. 
Grateful for the end of a slow, student­deprived summer, many of the dashing and delicate dives known affectionately as our South Bend bars showed appreciation for their loyal patrons by offering arousing drink specials to kick off the semester. One particular over-zealous customer, under the heavy influence of several preceding refreshments, was inspired by a conspicuous advertisement for $1 So-Co and lime shots. Feeling generous (and intoxicated), he flagged down the bartender and victoriously shouted out his order: 20 shots for him and his party­ready posse. 
The line-up was aesthetically impressive, 20 shot glasses brimming with the Comfort of the South and lined up enticingly like freshmen girls outside of a dorm party. But the magic dissolved like a booty call at parietals when the bartender informed his proud client that the Confederate special ended at midnight -approximately an hour and a half prior -and the shots were now $4 instead of just $1. vVith an emphatic "FML'' he turned desperately to his troops, and faithful yet furious hands probed into pockets to pool the $80 tab. 
But the Big Man was surely watching the drama escalate (not Coach Weis, the other one), for no sooner had the exasperated comrades sworn promises of sabotage under their breath than did a heavenly hand appear at the bar ... with an angelic American Express in tow. A darling damsel informed the crew that an anonymous benefactor had given her the card with explicit instructions to put the drinks on his dime. Not bothering to ask questions, the shots were downed like malt liquor at a Dis-O, and the night carried on without any other major common-sense blunders. Ahh, the sweet (and limey) taste of victory! 
So it seems you Domers have begun the year on the right side of the clover patch, the non-leaking side of Stepan Center in a rainstorm (is that even possible?), the Big Ten referee side of the Michigan/Notre Dame game (sorry, still too soon?). In a word, the luck of the Irish lives on, or at least it does for now. Wash your hands, cover your coughs, and don't forget to tip the Gipp! 
That's what she said, 
The Gipper 
T;FTH88fPP 
o © ® ® o at gipper@nd.edu 
17 SEPTEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 39 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center
CORE COUNCIL 
(Individual counseling)FOR GAY &LESBIAN Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at
S UDEN S 
corecouncil.nd.edu 
----~---~----------~--........... ~--------------------­
--__. ~--~~ -~-----------------·-·---------­
SENIOR PORTRAITS! Sign up for your Notre pame Graduate Portrait @ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the DOME Yearbook (Use the school password" Dome 2010 "to access the Notre Dame Portrait Schedule) .. Who: Class of 2010 Students When: Pictures taken Now through September 26 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2010 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook Remember Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com School Password ­Dome 2010  



What does your 

..,...OU
maJ 
Krishna Surasi 
is column is for all the freshmen that 
re considering a double major. You 
may feel at some point in your academic career that your current track is too limited and you want another major to fill out your schedule and make your studies more balanced. While this is a noble idea in theory, the truth is that double majors are usually only picking up that second major to make ~p f~r their silly first major or because they thmk 1t will sound impressive. With that being said, your double major does say a lot about wh? you are, but it is not always what you want 1t to say. Below are some of the most common d~uble majors, what they ideally say about a person and what I really hear. 
Business/$><= 
What they say: 
"I am a business major, but unlike other business students I am serious about my schoolwork. The way the world economy is developing, China's role will continue to grow and soon the demand fo~ Americ~n businessmen who speak Chmese will skyrocket." 
What I hear: 
"COLLEGE, WHOOOOO! Chinese? Screw that. I took the first two weeks of intensive and it was really hard. I'm just going to drop it and try to get an internship in my hometown this summer. I'm looking into one now that pays like $7.25 an hour, and as long as you don't burn the place down you're pretty much guaranteed an offer! Sorry bro, I can't talk anymore. It's 8:00 p,mon a Tuesday night 
and I'm not even drunR17e~·•··-.._ 
say about you? 

What they say: 
"I love science and I know that I want to go to med school and become a physician. In addition to the hard sciences that can be applied to a fuller understanding of the workings of the human body, I am also interested in healing the human person as a whole." 
What I hear: 
"I'm planning on applying to med school, but I know I'm not smart enough to cut it majoring in a real science. Instead, I have decided to take some basic science courses and boost my GPA with easy psych classes. Med schools look at your science GPA too? Oh crap, I better do a research project this summer." 
THEOLOGY/PHILOSOPHY 
What they say: 
"Philosophy is the keystone of the development of human kind as a superior _ species, and it represents the highest f~rm of human reason: thinking about man's existence in the universe and attempting to understand his relationship with it. Philosophy is also closely tied to theology, or man's attempt to find his place in the world in which he seems to have no clear direction or purpose." 
What I hear: . 
"I think I'm really intellect?al beca,useJ.•·· trulyexpc::ric::IJ.ced Virgil until you have read have not just one, but two completely. u_seles(i :. the origihalM~in, text, trust me." majors. I can't get enougl~ of dif:~ssing. . , · >'. ;;? , 
theology and philosophy with a r?OI,11: fuH · .Whadhif~f:'~ 
i 
e(?ple who thi.nk they are geniu,s~~(.a~ ~~;/;> ·_ ~ ~li~lly:i~o'wlidge and have come to terms , ~~~r.e ~ur~elves. I can t\~~!:~~1-'.~)~\:;wifh_the' 0 · ~s,ig~~ful and more cap~. :t·· ~~--im than the stude ;,-: 
~-l.!!!:i~pu=cI 4! 
Peace-Sat4e,s/ . /.' 
~/4JtUicalv Sau/,u,f 
What they say: 
"Hey man, I'm like, all about saving the world. The state that humanity is in right now is unacceptable, and I am going to be the force that changes it. I am going to El Salvador this summer to volunteer with the Peace Corps and then coming back t? ?1e US to try and raise funds to start a mission there. Every little bit counts, and ifeveryone plays his or her part, we can make this world a peaceful place." 
What I hear: 
"They have some awesome drugs in Third World countries, man. I smoked some crazy stuff in Mexico over winter break called Acapulco Gold. I was trippin' balls for days man, haha ... so do you know where I can find some pot around here?" 
X')...acrmxcr/Aa:nv 
(Classics/Latin) 
What they say: 
"Classic literature presents us with the greatest writings ever created by man. However, some of the most important texts in human history that have the power to do everything from inspire us to achieve greatness to make us weep with unrelenting sadness can only be experienced to their fullest extent in _thJ text's original language. You have n~ver 



EXIT INTERVIEW 
PROFESSOR MICHAEL REA 
Mike Tresnowski 


Professor Michael Rea is one of the rising stars in thefields ofmetaphysics and philosophy of religion. This summer, Rea was awarded a $1.4 million grant by the John Templeton Foundation to study the problem.of 
evil with fellow Notre Dame philosophy professor Samuel New/ands. The money will go to conferences, seminars, fellowships and public events to stimulate work on the challenge evil poses for belief in a loving God. 
Rea earned his Ph.Dfrom Notre Dame in 1999 and is the director ofNotre Dame's Centerfor Philosophy ofReligion. Sfnce Rea spends his time mulling over some ofthe biggest questions thatface humanity, Scholastic took the opportunity to pose some deep questions ofour own to him. 
What attrib11te do you most admire in another person? 
Courage. As a philosopher, I-should say wisdom (which, of course, I also appreciate and admire quite a lot); but real courage is deeply moving.. 
Ifyou could "live in someone else's shoes" for a day, whose would you choose? 
My wife's -I'd like to really see things how she sees them. 
What is the 11zost usefulpiece ofadvice you have received? 
"You have to fight this." 
What do you think is our generation's 11iostpressing issite? 
Self-absorption and a corresponding loss ofcommunity. 
What is your idea ofa perfect day? 
A cold day in a cabin in the middle of the woods, just as the leaves are turning, with a fire, some wine, coffee, and chocolate, a good book and my family. (Note that I prefer to have the fire in a fireplace, not in the woods.) 
You can invite any three figures, living or dead, to a dinner party. 
Who would they be? · · Moses, Jesus and Paul. I have some questions for them .... 
44 l SCHOLASTIC I 17 SEPTEMBER 2009 
What isyour biggest worry? 
I worry about my kids a lot (not because there's anything wrong with them, but because one hopes the best for one's kids and the world can be a scary place). 
Ifyou could have any one superpower, what would it be? 
Teleportation. Ifyou can teleport, you can simulate flying and a lot of other superpowers too. But you can also just teleport, which is pretty cool. 
What isyourfavorite quotaii:on? 
These two: -,.-------~ 
. ._,,.-. . 
"He who learns must suffer .. And even in our sleep pain that cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the heart, and in our own despair, against our will, comes wisdom to us by the awful grace of God." (Aeschylus) "Rise, fall, down, rise again. What don't kill ya makes ya more strong." (Metallica) 
You are stranded on an island and uncover a backpack with a single b__ook in it. Which book do you hope to find whenyou reach in? 
A very long one that I haven't read yet. Or a survival guide for people stranded on islands. 
0 
. DEDICATED FAMILY MAN OB~E~SED WITH HIS "COOL BLONJ';;;/ ' <DIRECTOR IN TOTAL CONTROL OFF'ILMS UNLEASHING PURE MAYHEM . 
~-'.·:··:':_:_'· ..... ' . ' ;_. , ·-.:. ' -_ ._. <i,. . . , ,:'" _·_\:'· //,:/ 
**********************AUTO**SCH 3-DIGIT 465 Presorted Standard · 
Notre Dame Archives \ 1 US Postage Paid 607 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame, IN Notre Dame, IN 46556-5629 Permit#2 
1.1 •• 1.11 ••• ,.1 •• 1.1 •• 11 ••• 1.1 •• 11 •••• 1.11.1 •• 11 ••• ,••• 1.1.1.1 







