This book is not to be taken front the Library
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
April 29
19 3 2
ALLERTON HOTEL.
Fraternity Begins at Sea!
Join the merry company who sail the ocean blue to Europe ... in the Tourist Class of Lloyd Express and Cabin Liners. Right gaily you’ll be initiated with dances, deck sports, jollifications, masquerades, Nainchenerabends, tournaments, and just doing as you please. Your club house is an ocean villa of comfortable staterooms, lounges, broad decks, delicious food, widi genuine Lloyd hospitality and service.
ENGLAND • FRANCE ■ IRELAND • GERMANY
*Go abroad to study this summer at one of the foreign universities. The Lloyd will take you there.
32 to 52 Day Tours
Marco Polo couldn’t do better! 5 to 7 countries in Europe ... great cities and local color of England, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Holland, Belgium, Czecho-Slo-vakia. Convenient sailings on Lloyd Liners. A remarkable bargain arranged by Student Pleasure Tours, Inc., and the Open Road. The price includes round-trip passage, hotels, meals, sightseeing, transportation, baggage, and other incidentals.
$195 up. Sign up now!
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
130 West Randolph St., Chicago, Ill. or your local agent.
Patronize Hie Advertisers, They Deserve It
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in. Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL
Chi c a g o ' 701 North Michigan Avenue
April 29, 1932
One
3
I
I Mother s
3
1
1
i I X
1
Day
X I X I
I
X
X I X I X
i I X
May 8th
3
S
I 5
3
3
Send flowers to her from ffflliams the Florist
X I
I I I X I I X
X I 1 I
I I I X I 3
1
3 I 3 I
I 3 I X I 3
3 I X
X 3
Mother’s Day May 8th
a
3
Come in early and let
1
3
I
5
for you
3
X I 3 I
I 3 I i
3 I
I 3 I 3 I X I X
Corsages for the
Ball
3 I
I X I
I 3 I X I
I 3 I 3
X I 3 I
I I I 3 I I 3
3 I 8
I
or her from
1
X
I 3
3
FLORIST
209 West Colfax Ave. Phone 4-4451
Near Colfax Theatre
3 I 3 I 3 I
I 3 I 3 I 3 I 3 I 3
1 I 3
3 3
3 I 3
3 I 3 I 3
3 3
3 I 3 I 3 I 3
3 I 3
3 I X I 3
X I X I 1 I 1 I X I X I X I
X
Order your Corsages for the Ball Early
3 3
3 I 3 I
I X
1
3
1
1 I 3
3 I
I 3
| Greeting Cards for Mother’s Day [
1
X I X
X
I ♦
[In our selection you can find the cardl that will express your own sentiment J
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO.
'Affiliated with.
THE BOOK SHOP
130 North Michigan Street
X I
I I I
April 29, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
E n t e r e d as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 23, 1913.
Neil C. Hurley_
Henry B. Asman.
__Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
William W. Corr.
Departmental Editor
Associate Editors GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN.........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant Netcs Editor MITCHELL TACKLEY, Assistant Netcs Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS PAUL FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors JAMES CARMODY...............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER............Staff Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS..........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON	Features Editor HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O'BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN.......Circulation Mgr. RAYMOND J. NABER. Ass't. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. Jr......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, .Iss't Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J.	ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
APRIL 29, 1932
Number 23.
5 UMMARY
NEWS
Sergius P. Grace, electrical wizard, to dedicate engineering building, June 4, in conjunction with commencement activities............................ 5
Edward J. O’Malley named valedictorian of the class of 1932, and William Kirby will act as class orator 5
Frank Duffy, vice-president of the American Federation of Labor, to speak here Tuesday............ 8
Father Murray will open Indiana State Probation association meeting with address on “The Positive Values of Probation”..........................   9
FEATURES
Paul O’Tool hopes to put economics to practical use “selling ground”; and “Peanuts” Crawford, of the Cleveland Crawfords, is going to learn to perform appendix operations............................. 12
Owen Young, commencement speaker—“The great -powers of Europe were pretty lucky to get such a Van Hornesville boy”
“We want Schwartz,” and Morrie Hull signed every name from Keogowicz to Yarr.................... 17
SPORTS
Bill Veeneman advances to No. 1 position as varsity' golf team faces Detroit and Michigan State in first
road games of the year............................... 20
Notre Dame two-mile relay team wins Kansas Relays event in 8:03, despite heavy track and bad weather conditions ........................................... 21
Loyola of Chicago falls as 18th consecutive victim to
Irish golf team...................................... 21
Scholastic golf tournament plans progress as many entrants turn in cards for handicaps; deadline Sunday evening ......................................
Coach John P. Nicholson and eleven varsity runners leave for Drake Relays at Des Moines..............
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, April 29—Track, Drake Relays, at Des Moines —Golf, Notre Dame vs. Detroit University, at Detroit. —Scholastic staff meeting: editorial board, Publications Office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staff, Publications Office, 7:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Meeting of the Commerce Forum, 102 Commerce Building, 7:45 p. m.—Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Alumni Dance, K. of C. Ballroom, 9:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, April 30—Track, Drake Relays, at Des Moines—Tennis,. Notre Dame vs. Armour Tech, Chicago —Golf, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, at East Lansing—Movie, Wallace Beery and Jackie Cooper in the “Champ,” Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 1—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Last day for handing in prize essays and theses—Interhall golf matches, Burke Memorial Course, 8:40 a .m.—Qualifying scores for the Scholastic Handicap Golf Tournament must be in 6:00 p. m.
MONDAY, May 2—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Meeting of the Bookmen, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, May 3—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard hall “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity, meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, May 4—Golf, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Burke Memorial Course, 9:00 a. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Western State, Cartier Field, 3:30 p. m.— Movie, Polly Moran and Marie Dressier in “Politics,” Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, May 5—Ascension Thursday, no classes; Masses, Sacred Heart Church: 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.— Breakfast at 8:00 a. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
ReMINISCENT of the days when Jack Cannon et al. held physical exams for freshmen in their room in Sorin sub is the latest about a young man called the Duke, who has been exhibiting his talents along many different lines for as many different sets of intelligent young Americans. It’s a great game, this going into contortions over the antics of a gratis performer, and it evidently has developed as the ideal recreation for the higher intellects of this place. The rest of us children who do not care for it and who spend our time in puerile pursuits like reading or just sitting still are to be condemned for refusing to take in the sport. But then we are dullards, and don’t appreciate clean, wholesome fun when we have the opportunity for some. It just occurred to us that the Dukebaiters are probably the same campus personalities who have just the dandiest time booing the Palace bill each week. Very, very clever. We knew a fellow like that once who used to tear wings off of flies, and he grew up to be the best catcaller in the neighborhood. He’s a first-class teamster now, but he certainly has "had lots of fun, and after all, fun comes first.
V
HOEVER it was who thought out the idea of running for president of the up-coming senior class a mystery man who claims that he will devote all profits of the office to the forlorn Bengalese, has a sense of deep humor and a flair for satire. As a sly reminder to all aspirants to positions of honor and advantage it is much better than a flock of editorials, even if it is obviously only another outcropping of
satisfaction of the need for mental diversion among the bored inhabitants here. It is certain that there is little enough to amuse one these days; and when the advertisement is satisfactory and carries with it as well an ironic moral that is not amiss, it can well be applauded. It would be interesting if the mystery man were elected (by a majority of sensible jokesters); after which we could all sit around eagerly to watch Bengal get its consignment of good things. We should probably be infinitely more surprised than would be the Bengalese, interrupted in their prayers for another boxing show.
V
About this time last year there happened the events which make a story to rival the famous one of Austie Downs, who once ordered a bun, wrapped it around a cigar, and ate even the band. The story we have in mind has to do with the finding of a watchman screaming that he had been shot, the amusement and the condescending opinion that he was suffering from hallucinations, and then the surprise at learning that he really had been shot, if only with an air rifle. The incident is recalled by the fact that the present incumbent of the office of guardian and post-grad detector has taken to wearing a deputy badge on his lapel, to make sure that any would-be marauders know he is the watchman, and not one of those unidentified ones who may be also prowling about but who should be well identified before being peppered. Our opinion is that it is decidedly sporting of the watchman, and it will save much deliberation as to just who is being shot.
April 29, 1932
Five
HERE’S WHY MYSTERY MAN WAS NOT PICKED
Perone Said Yes, But Kramer Said No—And That’s All.
A resume of the political situation in the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes will be found on page 7.
By Peter Jensen
What happened to the Mystery Man? Scores of Juniors who had read the threats and promises of the Unknown One for two whole days were somewhat startled when he was not even nominated at the primaries last Wednesday afternoon.
Rumors Varied
Rumors float about the campus, suggesting possible motivations for the whole affair, but all seem entirely inadequate to explain a campaign which was perhaps the most colorful and original that has been seen in local political circles for some time.
The Scholastic has it from reliable sources that the Mystery Man ballyhoo was not a hoax. A plan which embraced a psychological appeal and a note of sincerity was counted on to take votes from the other parties and make the clandestine candidate a strong contender for the Senior presidency.
The Stage Was Set
At the primaries the stage was set for his nomination. Two accomplices strategically placed in a section beneath the stands were to do the trick. They had been told by John Perone, one of the officers in charge, that their candidate would be recognized, uncloaked by his nom de plume.
At the last moment they were informed by John Kramer that for some still unknown reason the name of the man would have to be divulged if he were to be put into the balloting. Since such a move would have been completely out of tone with the whole purport of the campaign, the Mystery Man stepped out of the political picture, back into his nest, with his identity still unknown to but a handful of students.
Biography of Young
Edward O’Brien, of The Scholastic features staff, has written a short biographical sketch of Owen D. Young, who will deliver the Commencement address here this June. It will be found on page 16 of this issue.
SERGIUS P. GRACE WILL DEDICATE
ENGINEERING BUILDING ON JUNE 4
O9Malley Named As Valedictorian;
Kirby Is Orator
At the June commencement exercises this year Francis J. O’Malley will deliver the valedictory address
Francis O’Malley
A Worcester boy will say “Over the Alps lies Italy.”
and William Kirby will act as class orator, it was announced this week by the Reverend James H. McDonald, C.S.C., chairman of the committee.
No class poet will be. appointed. This is a distinct departure from the traditional custom.
Valedictorian O’Malley will graduate from the College of Arts and Letters with the distinction of maxima cum laude, his scholastic average being 96.4. He resides in Worcester, Mass., and has majored in English .
Handicap Golf Meet
Details of The Scholastic handicap golf tourney will be found on page 22 of the Sports section.
There is still plenty of time to enter. Actual play will not begin until May 7.
Cups and prizes have already been ordered and will be on display in the cafeteria shortly.
WILL ALSO GET DEGREE
Ceremony To Be a Part of Graduation Week-end Festivities.
By Raymond Waters
[Picture on page 9]
The dedication of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering is to take place June 4 in conjunction with the program of Commencement activities.
Sergius P. Grace, of New York City, will deliver the dedicatory address. This announcement featured the first meeting of the Commencement committee held Tuesday noon in the Trustees’ dining room.
Mr. Grace Well-known Here
Mr. Grace, widely acclaimed as an electrical wizard, is well known at Notre Dame. He gave an electrical demonstration in Washington hall last year. His return to the campus will be marked by his receiving an honorary degree.
Other features of the commencement program, aside from the academic events, will be an alumni golf tournament.
All events will be scheduled according to Central standard time.
Class Reunion Scheduled
Various class reunions will also be held during the week-end. Members of the class of 1907 will assemble for the observance of their quarter-century anniversary. There will also be “get-togethers” of the classes of 1889-90-91-92 and 1908-09-10 and 11. Musicales by the University glee club and band will entertain the visitors. A baseball game with Michigan State university is included in the order of athletic events. On Saturday night, June 4, the alumni will banquet in the University dining hall for a general get-together.
The personnell of the Commencement committee is the same as that of last year. The Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., is general chairman. Other members include the
(Continued on Page 13)
Six
The Scholastic
Fiss Announces Arrival of Novel Ball Program Favors
DEBATE NEGRO PROBLEM AT SPECTATORS MEET
TO BE DISTRIBUTED
Rolfs Criticizes Biased Attitude of Caucasoid Race.
“Garber’s Band Will Present Novelty Numbers Between the Halves”—Conway.
By F. Granger Weil
Favors for the Knights of Columbus formal dance have arrived. They are novel programs of brass with baked enamel fronts done in blue and
Jerry Conway
His enthusiasm knows no bounds.
gold, decorated with the seal of the K. of C. and with a cord of blue and glod attached. Charles Fiss was the chairman in charge of securing the oddities; they will be distributed from 253 Alumni hall between the hours of 12:30 to 1:30 in the afternoon, and any time after 6:30 in the evening.
Gerald Conway, general chairman of the party, who has been communicating with Jan Garber, whose band will provide the music, announces that specialties will be provided by the band “between the halves” of the dance.
Garber and his band, while noted for their comedy numbers, also make slow numbers a feature of their dance rhythm. Garber is well known at the Granada in Chicago, at Coral Gables in Florida, and at the Little Club in New York, and has made lim-
(Continued on Page 10)
Wranglers Will Vote On Twenty New Candidates
Last night at a meeting of the Wranglers club it was announced that next week the membership committee shall call on the twenty-odd students who have sent in applications for membership in the club.
On Sunday, May 8th a special meeting will be held at ten o’clock in the Law building to hear talks by recommended candidates and to vote definitely upon their admission into the club. Next Thursday’s meeting was cancelled.
John Wilson, chairman of the banquet arrangements, reported that it is probable that the banquet of May 19th will be held in one of the private dining rooms of the LaSalle Hotel.
McCarthy Wins Presidency After Heated Campaign
After a heated campaign, Martin K. McCarthy, a senior-to-be in the College of Science, was chosen to succeed Charles Hitzelberger as president of the Utica club for the ensuing year. The vice-presidency is to be filled by William N. McCormick.
The secretarial work is to be handled by Francis T. Crege, while Charles J. Gubbins was elected treasurer.
Under the leadership of Charles Hitzelberger, president of the Presidents’ club, a successful year has been reported by the northern New Yorkers.
The present seniors gave a few words of greeting to the new officers, after which plans for a summer dance were discussed. It was agreed that the dance should be held in honor of the graduation class of .1932.
Stamping the attitude of the white towards the Negro as a prejudice that cannot be rationalized by any biological laws or ethrological data, Daniel Rolfs, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, delivered a well groomed and analytical talk to the Spectators’ club last evening.
“Because the Caucasian has been the heir of a relatively greater amount of culture and because he has been placed in a much more favorable . environment in no way justifies his biased attitude towards the Negro,” declared - the speaker.
Rolfs suggested a plan of mixed education as a possible means of lessening racial prejudice together with amalgamation of the two races. He pointed to a steady increase in Mulatto marriages, and stressed the fact that there are no biological objections, to inter-racial mating.
The majority of the club contested the speaker’s thesis that the white has an obligation in terms , of strict justice towards the Negro and his amelioration, and were more inclined to believe that charity was all that could be called binding in this particular case.
Through his entire analysis of the problem Rolfs insisted that the Negro is inherently equal to the white and that there is no necessary connection between race and culture. A few of his colleagues granted this premise but argued that, whereas the two races might have been even at “scratch” they are quite incompatible now as the result of the white man’s greater progress.
The Spectators will meet again Sunday evening at 7:00 o’clock to consider all applications for membership.
Airship Akron Repaired;
Able To Take Air Again
By Intercollegiate Press.
Lakehurst, N. J., April 28.—The pride of the navy, the dirigible Akron, worthy again, it was announced today. The Akron was damaged recently while being taken from its hangar. Early next month it will leave for California, to take part in the maneuvers of the Pacific fleet.
April 29, 1932
Seven
PROF. DOWNEY CLAIMS TARIFF IS A BARRIER
Juniors Elect Rohrs And Werner In Record Ballot
Says Country’s Progress Is Not Due To Protective System.
FRESHMEN ACTIVE
In his talk on “Tariff and Foreign Relations” before the Foreign Relations club Wednesday evening, Professor William Downey, of the department of economics, defined a tar-
Professor William Downey
He believes our foreign policy is controlled by small group.
iff as “barrier which interfered with the normal flow of goods between countries.” He was of the opinion that our present foreign policy is controlled by a small group of men controlling sales, who are interested in money and not in goods.
“Tariff,” said Lecturer Downey, “is for most people a phobia. Great progress of our country for many years because of our wealth of raw materials was falsely attributed to the portective system. That idea, however, is gradually being dispelled because of the havoc wrought on our world markets of recent years by tariff laws.”
American bankers, claimed the speaker, who made large loans to European nations during the say that they cannot get their money back under the present system. European nations can only pay in goods, but we refuse to take their goods by virtue of our tariff policy. Any consideration of tariff, said Professor Downey, from a logical standpoint would result in a program of gradual tariff reduction.
Plans are under way at Temple University to combine certain activities of all the campus publications in a student publications association.
Maurice Lee Out For S.A.C.
Chairmanship
By Peter Jensen
A new candidate for the S. A. C. chairmanship appeared this week, when Maurice Lee threw his hat into the ring for election.
Running for the post of representative in the A. B. college, Lee is appearing on the Frank Werner ticket.
Lee has been in the S. A. C. for two years, and should he be elected today, as the Arts and' Letters candidate, he will be eligible for the chairmanship.
Hitherto the campaign within the local governing society has been between Jack Finneran, present head of the Junior class, and James Gerund, secretary of the organization this year.
Just what effect the entrance of Lee would have is not yea known by political observers, but many believe that the tendency to split the votes would become an actuality.
It is estimated that six men, carefully banded together, would be able to swing the S. A. C. election in any direction they desired.
Whoops! No More Ice-House
The ice house on the far side of St. Joseph’s lake is at present being torn down.
Old-timers cheei- the project, recalling the time when horses used to fall into the lake when carrying ice across in the winter.
Only Eight More Days
Tickets for the Senior- Ball will be on sale for eight more days, it has been announced by Casimir Dyniewicz, general chairman of the affair.
Fiss, Who Lost By Only Six Votes, Declares He Is Out of Politics.
BULLETIN!
At one-thirty o’clock this afternoon John Kramer, President of the S. A. C. announced that John Venables and Joe Condon had won the nomination for the Junior class presidency. The balloting was close throughout the noon hour and a final check was necessary to determine the winner.
By Peter Jensen
The Senior political situation tangled itself up nicely day before yesterday, when George Rohrs and Francis Werner scored in the primaries. Charlie Fiss, who came in second by a bare six votes, has opened up a great field of potential votes.
Just where the Fiss’ supporters will turn now that their man has been eliminated is now known. But it seems likely that should they unite closely together, it would be in their power to control the election on’ balloting day.
Fiss Out Of Politics
Fiss, however, has been reported assaying that he will make no attempt to keep the remnants of his party unified.
“I’ve been defeated and I have but one vote. That’s all,” is what he declared in substance, according to unofficial reports.
The situation simplified itself in the freshman class this week, when Brownson hall unanimously got behind Walter Brown for president. This places but two major tickets in the field.
Brownson and Sophomore, who have united for political reasons, are reported to be practically unanimously behind Brown and his ticket.
But activity within Carroll and Dillon has been none the less pronounced. John Breen was easily put into the president’s spot, and campaigners are stirring up agitation in (Continued on Pane 15)
Eight
The Scholastic
SMART SORIN MICE WILL FACE TOUGH CORBY RATS
'A Smart Mouse Is Better Than A Vicious Rat*—Gleason.
This is the story of three mice, who for the past two weeks have been caged tightly within the confines of Sorin Castle.
Jailer James Gleason has kept them. Nay, he has trained them; taught them to jump and to walk on their hands. The white little animals have become the sensation and the pride of Sorin’s first floor.
Then one day it happened.
Gleason was giving a performance. In the audience, breathless at the feats of cunning, were Norb Crowe, Henry Asman, Bill Newbold, Joe Quigley. The show was receiving a great ovation.
Gleason Proud
Gleason’s face was wreathed in smiles; his chest was expanded; pride glistened from his eyes.
But . . . “Vinnie,” best of the local mice troupe, jumped from his cage. He leaped with all of the strength that his little white legs could muster. He darted under the dresser.
Consternation was thrown into the room.
“Hey! Close the door,” cried Jailer Gleason, as he sprawled out on the floor, his hand reaching under the desk. “Don’t let him get away.”
The audience, stunned by the unexpected turn of the performance, leaped for the bed.
“You get him,” shouted Newbold.
And the chase was on. Behind waste-baskets to the locker, under the trunk, over the bed. But the little white mouse eluded all pursuit.
Send Out Riot Call
The first floor sent out a riot call. Their pet was escaping. “Vinnie” was leading a merry chase.
“Don’t tell Corby,” muttered Quigley under his breath.
And with this remark, bit by bit the story came out, as the captivators parnced about the room.'
Ever since Morris Hull grabbed the largest rat ever seen in these parts from beneath his bed in Corby hall, Sorin has been trying to avenge her honor.
(Continued on Page 9)
DELIVERY BOY
Andrew McGuan, capable circulation manager of The Scholastic, who is responsible for the delivery of Notre Dame’s favorite weekly to the door of each student every week.
Plan Indiana Bar Meeting To Be Held Here In July
In preparation for the forthcoming convention of the Indiana Bar association, to be held on the Notre Dame campus, two executives of that organization spent several days here making arrangements. They were President Frank N. Richman, of Columbus, Ohio, and the Honorable Orlo Deahl, president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association.
Mr. Richman and Judge Deahl inspected the new Law building and grounds which will be the scene of the meeting to be held July 7 and 8. Lawyers and members of the association from throughout the state will be in attendance.
Konop and Buckley Attend Mishawaka K. C. Meeting
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Notre Dame College of Law addressed the members of the. Mishawaka Knights of Columbus at a meeting of that organization Monday evening. He spoke on “Confessions of a Congressman.”
In his talk, the dean discussed some of the practices of the Congressional cloakrooms, speakers’ lobbies, and committee chambers.
Notre Dame was also represented at the meeting by Professor Louis Buckley, who is district deputy.
LABOR CHIEF WILL SPEAK
Frank Duffy To Make Address On Tuesday Evening.
Frank Duffy, vice-president of the American Federation of Labor, will speak on “Current Problems Faced by the American Federation of Labor,” at 2:15 Tuesday afternoon, in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
The speaker was invited to address Professor Buckley’s class in American Labor Movement, but any other student who is especially interested in this field is invited to attend.
Mr. Duffy has been connected with the Federation for a number of years. He was secretary and treasurer of the International Carpenters’ Union, the largest union in the Federation, before he became vice-president. Since then he has been active in directing the Federation’s policy, especially in cases where communistic groups have attempted to gain control of unions.
The American Federation of Labor was organized in 1881, and with its foreign affiliations it is now the largest organization of trade-men in the world. There are over two and one-half million members in the United States alone.
Robert Pollock, Harvard Man, To Teach Here
Announcement is made this week of the engagement of Robert M. Pollock as professor in the Department of Philosophy at the University, by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C. S. C., head of the department.
Professor Pollock received his master’s degree from Harvard university some time ago. He spent several years teaching at Bowdin college.
For the past two years he has been engaged in graduate work in the Institute of Medieval Studies, St. Michael’s college, Toronto university, Canada. He will receive his doctor of philosophy degree from that institute in June.
Professor Pollock will begin his work at the University next September.
More than 600 students of all ages registered at a new series of free courses provided by Western Reserve University for the poor of Cleveland.
April 29, 1932
Nine
‘EMIL FISCHER’ DISCUSSED
"Origin of Religion” Heard By Academy of Science.
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held Monday evening, April 25, at 8 p. m., in room 104 Science hall. President John Werner was in the chair.
Charles O. Kronke, a senior in the College, presented a biography of Emil Fischer, noted German chemist of the latter part of the nineteenth and early years of the twentieth centuries. A more or less technical account of the work of this eminent scientist was presented in a highly-interesting manner.
James P. Danehy, a junior, read a lengthy discussion of the “Origin of Religion.” Both papers were well received.
Plans for the final meeting of the year, an anniversary meeting, were discussed before the assembly was adjourned.
SORIN RAISES SMART MICE
(Continued from Page 8)
The mice of Gleason’s were to serve a double purpose. They were to be fed, to be petted, to be treated with kindness, and trained.
Then, if Sorin were not able to catch a rat bigger than Mr. Hull’s, why they would begin breeding intellectual mice—mice with keener senses, who would be called upon to avenge Sorin’s glory.
And “Vinnie” was an essential part to the program. But, to cut a long story a bit shorter, be it said that Jailer Gleason finally recovered the protege, and that Sorin once again settled down to the meticulous task of training and breeding mice.
But the battle is on. Corby’s ahead, but Sorin’s strategy may triumph in the end.
Tapping S. Reaves, freshman at Bowdoin College, was seriously injured when a javelin struck him in the head during practice and the blade embedded in his brain. Young Reeve pulled the instrument out and ran some distance to the gymnasium. He retained consciousness constantly until he was given ether for an operation to relieve the pressure of the skull on the brain.
SPEAKER
Sergius P. Grace, noted electrical wizard, who will deliver the dedicatory address at the dedication of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering on June 4.
[Story on page 5]
Just Scream and Watch All the Germs Fall Dead
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ft. Worth, Tex., April 28.—Killing germs literally by yelling at them has been found possible by Drs. Leslie A. Chambers and Newton Gaines of Texas Christian University.
The two have developed a device which sterilizes milk and other liquid foods by means of sound waves.
A high-pitched sound, produced by a vibrating metal tube, does the slaying. It kills germs because sound waves are a form of energy, although just what waves do to bacteria is not definitely known.
Milk treated with the apparatus showed an average reduction of 80 per cent in bacteria.
The deadly sound waves are concentrated in the large end of an inverted funnel for killing purposes. Milk, containing thousands of living bacteria, flows upward toward the funnel and through the concentrated sound waves. When the milk comes out the small end of the funnel most of the bacteria are dead.
If found consistently practical, the new device will probably in time do away with the heat method of killing bacteria in milk, since the heat has a tendency to spoil the flavor and food value of the milk.
SOCIOLOGISTS TO MEET, TALK, EAT, AND ARGUE
Notre Dame Men Numbered Among Prominent Speakers.
By John A. McElligott
The Indiana State Probation association will open their annual meeting May 6 with an address by the Reverend Raymond J. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame. His subject will be “The Positive Values of Probation.”
The gathering will take place in the auditorium of either the Law or Engineering building, on Friday, with the Saturday part of the session being held at the Y. M. C. A. in South Bend.
Arranged By Pettit
The entire meeting has been arranged by Maurice L. Pettit, professor in the Politics department, who as president of the association, will conduct the affair. He is also the chief probation officer of South Bend.
Father Murray will be followed by Mrs. Florence Riddick Boys, the state probation officer, who will speak on “Our Larger Task.”
Friday afternoon will present George B. Wall’s “Technique in Adult Probation.” He is the county probation officer, located at South Bend.
One of the most noted men in the field of sociology will follow Walls on the program. He is Dr. Clayton El-linger, M.D., Ph.D., professor and head of the department of sociology at Western State Normal college and visiting psychiatrist of the state of Michigan.
Hoyer To Talk
His speech will bear the title, “Psychiatry and Probation.”
Professor Raymond Hoyer of Notre Dame will then talk on “Organizing Communities in Support of Probation.”
Immediately after Professor Hoyer has finished, the members will adjourn for the conference dinner at 6:30 p. m.
They will re-assemble a little later to hear Professor Leo Kuntz, Ph.D., head of the Department of Education at Notre Dame, speak on “The Educative Processes of Probation,” and the Hon. Daniel Pyle, judge of the Circuit court of South Bend, on “The Relation of Probation Officers to the Court.”
(Continued on Page 29)
Ten
The Scholastic
DEBATING SEASON ENDS WITH RADIO ARGUMENT
Team Travels To Cleveland To Meet Western Reserve.
Speaking last Tuesday afternoon
for a period of forty-five minutes
over station WHK, of Cleveland, the
Prof. Wm. Coyne He coached the debaters.
varsity debaters of Western Reserve and Notre Dame met to discuss the issue: “Resolved that the United States should adopt a c o m p u Isory, nation - wide plan of control and distribution in the major basic industries.”
The debate marked the close of the Notre Dame debating season.
James Boyle and William Kirby, composing the Notre Dame team, defended the negative side of the question. Gerald Collet and Thomas Swail upheld the affirmative for the Western Reserve.
The winner has not as yet been announced. As the radio audience will render the decision, it will be a matter of a few weeks before the ballots forwarded by the “listeners in” have been tabulated, and the results reported.
Fiss Announces Arrival of Novel Ball Program Favors (Continued from Page 6)
ited tours over the Keith and Loew circuits.
The ticket sale, according to John Cahill, chairman of the ticket committee, will continue till May 1, and up to that time may be procured from: William Murphy, Off-Campus; Jack Jaeger, Alumni hall; Irwin Crotty, Dillon hall; Peter Connelly, Badin hall; August Von Boecklin, Lyons hall; Joseph Dunn, Off-Campus; Joseph Nugent, Walsh hall; Francis Marley, Sorin hall; Charles Bolger, St. Edward’s; Samuel West, Carroll hall; and Charles Nash, Corby hall.
N.D. Glee Club Gives Concert
At St. Mary 9s
Members of the traveling personnel of the Notre Dame GGlee club, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, entertained the students of St. Mary’s college Wednesday evening with a concert. The event took place in St. Angela’s auditorium.
The St. Mary’s concert has been an annual event with the organization. The singers presented the same program given on the Eastern tour during the Easter holidays.
Highlights of the evening’s performance included “The Benedictus” written by Father Hope; “In Old Nassau,” by Murchison; “John Peel” by Andrews; “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” by Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Professor Casasanta; “Mosquitoes”; “Why Don’t You Try,” and “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By.”
George Benard, Jr. was heard in a group of baritone solos which included “Little Grey Home in the West,” by Lohr, and “I Hear You Calling Me,” by Marshall. “One Alone” by Romberg and “Romance” by oDnaldson are the titles of the tenor solos sung by John F. Ryan.
Selections sung by the club as well ts the solos given were well received by the students.
The following men were nominated last Wednesday noon by the Junior class:
President:
Francis Werner George Rohrs
Vice-President:
Maurice Scanlon
Mike DeLay
Secretary:
Austin Sullivan
Marion Blake
Treasurer:
Joe Kurth
Jim McGrath
NOTED GRADUATE DIES
F. Henry Wurzer Succumbs Suddenly in Detroit.
F. Henry Wurzer, well known Notre Dame alumnus, died suddenly Wed
nesday afternoon at his residence in
F. HENRY WURZER
Detroit. M r. Wurzer had been in fair health after r e c overing from an illness which lasted most of the winter.
Mr. Wurzer
was graduated from the College of Law here in 1898. Taking up his practice in South Bend he continued it later in Detroit. Mr. Wurzer visited the campus last fall during the football season.
The deceased was the father of Lincoln Wurzer, of Dillon hall, and a member of The Scholastic staff, and of F. Henry Wurzer, Jr., who was graduated from the University in 1925.
The funeral will be held in Detroit Saturday morning.
Hoosier Star Breaks Wrist
By Intercollegiate Press.
Bloomington, Ind., April 28.—Indiana’s chances for the Big Ten baseball championship were dealt a severe blow today with the announcement by university physicians that an arm injury suffered by Ralph Gatti, Crimson hurler, in a gymnasium class this morning was a broken bone above the left wrist.
Gatti was to have pitched against Notre Dame last Monday, but the game was called on account of rain.

Two-Year Spree Enough For Any Man, Aged 155!
By Intercollegiate Press.
ISTAMBUL, Turkey, April 28.— Zaro Agha, 155-year-old wandering Kurd, is coming home at last. His wife, a slightly octogenarian, has been waiting two years while Agha exhibited himself in America and England.
She lost her last hope when Zara was reported killed in London. But it was only a stomach ache, the old man wrote. Now he is well, arid about to sail for Istambul.
A ram will be sacrificed when—and if—he returns.
April 29, 1932
Eleven
BUSINESS IS PICKING UP
Fred Bauer, “Scholastic” Ad-Manager, Finds Things Better.
Fred Bauer, advertising manager of The Scholastic, declared this week that business was picking up, both locally and nationally.
“Our advertising is gradually being raised,” he declared, “and we are
Fred Bauer
Somehow he missed the depression.
noticing a decided upturn in conditions.”
Simultaneously with Bauer’s pronouncement came a statement from John F. Setoeckley, graduate manager of publications, lauding him for splendid work during the past year.
“With conditiaons being as they were, Fred has done admirable work this winter,” Stoeckley declared. “He is one of the finest advertising men ever to work for The Scholastic.”
Graduate Posts Open
According to announcements by the Director of Studies, the University will offer several positions as assistants outside the class room to men in the graduate school next year.
Preference will be given to Notre Dame graduates in apportioning the duties. The remuneration for. this employment will vary from $150 to $300 a year. The incumbents will not be required to teach but will help the professors in activities outside the classroom.
All those interested should apply immediately to Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University.
The University of California has issued a bulletin describing the various methods of preparing fruit juices.
Kelley Named Head of Grand Rapids Club
Joseph S. Kelly, a senior in the College of Law, was elected president of the Grand Rapids club at the annual election held last Wednesday night. Other officers elected for the next year were George Shields, vicepresident; Andrew Janiszewski, secretary; and John McElwee, treasurer.
George Arehart was appointed chairman in charge of the club’s annual banquet which will be held this year at the Oldenburg Inn.
This social function of the club is scheduled to take place a week from Tuesday night. All members are expected to be in attendance as this is the big event of the season for the boys from the Furniture City.
Outboards Try For New-
Speed Record In Chicago
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, Ill., April 28.—An attempt to break the world’s speed record of boats propelled by outboard motors will be made this afternoon in the lagoon at the 1933 Chicago World’s Fair, .it was announced yesterday. The small craft will race over a one-mile course in events preliminary to the boat races to be held off the fair grounds in June.
Among the contestants will be Thomas Estick of Waukegan, holder of the present record of one mile in 56.5 seconds, fail- officials said.
K.	C. NOTICE!
The card party and dance which was to have been given this evening at the Knights of Columbus clubhouse in South Bend under the auspices of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Alumni clubs has been postponed indefinitely according to word received by “The Scholastic” this noon from those in charge of the affair.
ED. SMITH, FORMER N.D. ATHLETE, IN POLITICS
Alumnus of Law College To Enter Local Elections.
Edward B. Smith, a graduate of the College of Law in 1930, is, potentially, another Notre Dame representative in local political fields.
Stating that he will “always have the interests of the people at heart” in the. conduct of his office, Smith has recently announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for prosecuting attorney.
Pledging indiscriminate prosecution of violations and consideration of public interest, not only in the legal but also the economic administration of the office, he is making what gives indication of being a successful debut in South Bend politics.
While at Notre Dame, Smith had the distinction of being selected for three years on the All-western basketball team, playing varsity guard during that time.
Since graduation he has been practicing law in South Bend.
Finns Repeat Protest Over Ban On Paavo Nurmi
By Intercollegiate Press.
Helsinfors, Finland, April 28.—The delay of international athletic authorities in restoring Paavo Nurmi to good standing again, after the rejection of charges against the runner by the Finnish Athletic League, has prompted another storm of protest here. '
Nurmi, while scoffing at charges of professionalism, has merely said: “I don’t care, I’ve run enough,” and announced his engagement to marry.
“So far as Finland is concerned Nurmi is still an amateur,” stated M. Kekkonen, Finnish Athletic League chairman. “The documents which disqualified Nurmi are not legally justified here.
For the first time in the history of Yale, which was founded 231 years ago, a governor gave a class lecture at the university when Governor Cross lectured on literature last week. Governor Cross is a professor of English.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Men About the Campus
Due to the short period of time left until graduation and because of the many men deserving of a position in this space, The Scholastic is following the policy of running tzvo seniors each week.
By Louis Hruby [Picture on page 15]
A knock on the door of 351 Sorin is greeted by a cheery, “come in”— and you’ve met Paul O’Toole.
He was bom in Chicago, prepped at Loyola Academy, came to Notre Dame as an A.B., and is at present majoring in Economics, which course he hopes to put to practical experience after graduation, “selling ground.” He intends to follow his father in the real estate business.
Paul’s pet occupation is formulating theories, economic ones. His latest —“the costs of government are too high. Excessive taxation is ruining the United States.”
Dishing the Dirt
Of course other things go to make his spare time interesting. A “very depressing” book about Russia; golf, although somewhat pediculous; and the efforts of the fellow next door attempting to show him the merits of the G. O. P.. (Paul’s a Democrat, but who isn’t!)
As a member of an unofficial campus club, O’Toole’s supreme enjoyment comes when he “has something” on the other members, namely Jim O’Shaughnessy, Johnny Wilson, and Tom Duffey. It seems that the boys’ chief objective in life is gathering incriminating evidence against each other on such matters as girls, dances, and dates not fulfilled.
The last named item happens to be causing Paul some anxiety of late. So great have been the activities of this organization that Paul has been forced to hide all evidence in the lefthand drawer of his locker. (Pst! It’s a secret!)
Although news from home is not particularly lacking, O’Toole knows that his most reliable source of information is none other than Johnny Wilson. Oh yes Paul has a twin sister!
He hastened to add, before concluding that Jim O’Shaughnessy’s light suit which was given some publicity recently in these columns, is now extinct. It seems that Jim was showing him a small hole in one leg of the trousers,-and—well anyhow, Paul’s finger got caught in it, causing quite a rip.
By Roy Scholz
Walsh hall is proud of one of its residents who is known to some as Myron E. Crawford of the Cleveland
Myron Crawford
Took a gold medal from a varsity man.
Crawfords but to most of us as “Peanuts” Crawford.
Four years ago he arrived here, proclaiming that he was the first to come from West High School of Cleveland. In high school he was on the varsity track and football teams and was editor of the school paper. It seems that Mike had experience in politics before coming to Noter Dame, for he was president of his graduation class.
He reported for frosh football and remained out until the coaches got wise. Track next caught his eye and in the handicap meet (length of the handicap not known) he beat the varsity dash man to capture a gold medal. Armed with the medal, he reported for the varsity track team the next year and was able to obtain a berth on the varsity which he gave up to attend to his books,
Mike is a senior in the College of Science and a pre-med with a qualitative average for the four years of 85.0 percent. During the second semester of his sophomore year Mike was elected to the Academy of Science, of which he is now vice-president.
Politics held little for him until the middle of his sophomore year when the lure of the ballot box again put him in the running. After* a vigorous ■
(Contniued on Page 28)
BALL SONG IS COMPOSED
Miss Olga Melchione Composes “A Night In May.”
By Walter Kennedy
Casimir Dyniewicz, chairman of the Senior Ball, announced this week that Miss Olga Melchione, of Chicago, had been selected by the committee in charge as the winner of the contest to decide the author of the theme song of the Ball.
Miss Melchione’s piece “A Night In May” was selected with comparative ease by the committee because of excellence of her contribution.
A Mundelein Sophomore
Miss Melchione is hardly a novice in writing songs, for she has been studying music for over eight years, during which time she has composed many musical selections.
The Ball song author is a student at Mundelein in Chicago, where she is a member of the sophomore class.
According to Professor Joseph Cas-asanta and Willard Groom her song has unusual characteristics for such a young composer. They both declare it to be the best Ball song that has been written for many years.
Foz Trot For The Formal
The committee in charge of the musical arrangements report that the song will be featured over the radio for the week prior to the Ball, and there is a strong possibility that it may be played by Gus Arnheim in a nation-wide broadcast on the evening before the Ball.
The Palace theatre in South Bend will also feature the song during Ball week. Miss Melchione is also to compose a fox trot for the senior formal, her Ball song being a waltz.
The ticket committee reported that tickets are now on sale, and a deposit may be made on them at this time, with the balance to be paid later. Tickets may be secured from any of the hall representatives.
The ancient method of testing col--lege students by public examination was revived last week by St. Peter’s College in Jersey City when five honor students who had completed special studies of Greek and Roman literature were called upon to show their fitness by answering questions by members of the audience, and also by discussing extemporaneously topics selected by special examiners.
April 29, 1932
Thirteen
SANTA MARIA OUT MAY 17
Hallinan Says His Book Is Just About Ready.
Paul J. Hallinan, editor of the Santa Maria, official publication of the Knights of Columbus, announced this week that the book would be released on May 17. At the same time he made known several features of the K. of C. annual.
The cover is to be of a novel shade, with a stiff, sand grey aspect. Over eighty pages of written matter will compose the magazine.
The book will include activities of the Council during the year, personalities, and contributions by outstanding literary men of the country and campus. A remarkable portrait of Columbus, drawn by Joe Lopker, will adorn the frontispiece.
Cushing Hall of Engineering to Be Dedicated At Graduation
(Continued from Page 5)
Reverend Fathers J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., George L. Holderith, C.S.C., Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and William H. Molony, C.S.C. The lay members of the committee are Professor Joseph Casasanta, Registrar Robert B. Riordan, Business Manager of Athletics Arthur Haley, Director of Dining Halls Robert Borland, and James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary.
The musical events will be arranged and conducted by Professor Casasanta; Father Holderith is in charge of decorations and matters pertaining to the seating and ushering for the activities in Sacred Heart Church, Washington Hall and in the gymnasium.
Plans for the Senior last visit and the blessing of the flag are being formulated by Father Molony, and the reception committee is headed by Father Steiner.
Arrangements for the various banquets are being attended to by Mr. Borland. Arthur Haley is conducting the athletic events, while Secretary Armstrong is arranging the details for the alumni activities during the week-end. The problem of alumni residence will be handled by Mr. Riordan.
The committee in charge will meet again, May 10, to report on the progress of their respective committees.
Peter Jensen Gets The Dope
[Scholastic Photo]
The mysterious Mr. Jensen, of The Scholastic staff, getting the dope on the Zilch party at a political gathering.
Mr. Jensen (in the foreground) is taking doicn notes to use in his story for next Friday’s edition, as the cohorts of the “Zilch for 5-Year S. A. C.” party spill the lurid details of the campaign.
College Prexy Hits At
Prohibition Tactics
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ithaca, N. Y., April 27.—Dr. Livingston Farrand, president of Cornell university, has come out against Prohibition.
In a recent talk he said:
“In my judgment there has been no social experiment in our later American history which has proven so disastrous a failure as has the Eighteenth Amendment. I am not discussing the misguided judgment, often sincere, which led to its adoption. The fact remains that it has done more to debauch the public conscience than any other factor to which we can point, and is responsible in high degree for the widespread disregard for law and order, which constitutes today the chief menace in our American life.”
For the first time in the history of Yale, which was founded 231 years ago, a governor gave a class lecture at the university when Governor Cross lectured on literature last week. Governor Cross is a professor of English.
Cribbing Syndicate Found At Princeton, Says Alumnus
By Intercollegiate Press.
Princeton, N. J., Apr. 28.—Cribbing in English classes in colleges and universities throughout the country is about to become a racket if activities revealed by the Princeton Alumni Weekly are actual.
According to the Weekly, an organization has been formed whose purpose it is to supply college undergraduates with four-year sets of essays for §100 cash.
A representative of the group, says the Weekly, has visited the Princeton campus as well as those of Yale and Harvard in an effort to obtain perjured testimonials for the service, to be used in drumming up business in midwestem and far western colleges.
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, has invented a periodometer, or “brass brain,” capable of solving with more accuracy than human calculators the problems presented by hte curves of natural processes in space and time. It will be used as a long-time weather forecaster.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
DOWNEY, APODACA AND BUCKLEY ATTEND MEET
Convention of Economists and Sociologists At Butler.
By Robert Dillon
Professors William Downey, Joseph Apodaca, and Louis Buckley, of the Department of Economics, attended the convention of the Association of Indiana Economists and Sociologists held at Butler university, Indianapolis, on April 23 and 24.
“Taxation as a Means of Bringing About a More Equitable Distribution of Wealth” was the subject that opened the first session. Following the talk. a general discussion was held. ’ -• j
Michigan Prof Speaks
Professor Max Handman of the University of Michigan, who is a leading authority in the field of American Economical History, spoke on “The Myth of the Rugged American Individualist” at the Friday night session.
“Some Economical Consequences of Unemployment Insurance” was the subject of Professor Edmund Estey of Purdue, at the Saturday morning session. Prof. Estey is the author of a recently published book on labor problems.
Business Session Follows
A general business session, which closed the convention, was held oh Saturday afternoon. The possibility of the convention meeting at the University of Notre Dame in 1933 was favorably considered. Arrangements for the assembly, which will probably be held about the middle of April, 1933 were left to the decision of the executive committee.
The Association was organized about five years ago with the object of bringing together the instructors and professors .of the Indiana colleges and universities to discuss current economical problems.
. Commerce Notice!
Registration of Commerce Students for the 1932-33 scholastic year is taking place daily from 1:30 to 3:30 in the office of the Director of Studies. The last day for registration is Wednesday, May 11.
TOASTMASTER
John S. Wittliff, toastmaster, general chairman, vice-president, introduces Father Deady at the Detroit Chib banquet.
Father Deady Main Speaker At Detroit Club Banquet
Reverend Carroll Deady who will receive a doctor of philosophy degree from the University in the near future,. was the speaker at a banquet held Wednesday evening at the Rose Marie Tearoom by the Detroit club. Father Deady spoke on the “Engineering of Youth.”
The present method of education, said Father Deady, allows a child to try many different things and then when he becomes a failure to allow him to quit. The new method, to be effected by certain scientific tests given the children of sixth grade age, would determine what course of study the child should pursue.
“I would rather see a child go out into the world with his right hand cut off,” said Father Deady, “than to have him get the idea that he is a failure.”
John Wittliff, vice-president of the club and general chairman of the banquet was toastmaster and introduced Kenneth McLeod, president, Edmund Moriarty, secretary, and Granger Weil, who gave short talks.
Plans for a golf tournament were discussed by the club and the affair was placed in the hands of Dan Henry of Dillon hall.
PETRITZ HEARD BY FORUM
Development of Negro Press Is Subject Discussed.
By Bernard Cousino
Joseph Petritz, editor of the Football Review, read a paper entitled “The Negro Press” before the weekly assembly of the Press Forum Wednesday morning.
It was his thesis that the Negro, having obtained his emancipation and citizenship, is now trying to obtain social and economic equality with the white man.
First Was Propaganda
The Negro press first started in pamphlet form was mostly propaganda, but, according to Petritz, it is no longer dependent on social organizations. The Negroes now have daily, weekly, and monthly papers that are self-sufficient by virtue of their advertising and their circulation.
Petritz stated that the one hundred and twenty-odd colored news organs in the United States today have a circulation well over the million mark.
Some negro papers imitate the white papers slavishly, playing up negro stories exclusively, said Petritz.
The present influence of the negro press Petritz believed to be widening slowly, the main hindrance being the tendency of some editors who go too far, to antagonize the negro against the white, and accordingly defeat their own ends.
Ruth To Quit Golf; Has To Save Legs For Games
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, Ill., April 28.—Babe Ruth has given up his alternate love—golf —in order to concentrate on and conserve his energies for the business of helping to wallop the New York Yankees to the top of the American League.
“I found out last yeai* I couldn’t combine the two games and be at my best,” he said today.
“I need the rest I can get on these off days, especially since I have a little touch of water on the knee now and have to take care of that.”
This sounded a bit alarming, but the Babe added:
“No, it doesnt’ amount, to much. I’ve had it before.”
April 29, 1932
Fifteen
COMMERCE MEN TO MEET
Papers by Maronick, Garwin Feature Meeting Tonight.
Joseph Maronick and Ralph Carwin will speak at the meeting of the Commerce Forum- this evening at 7:40. Maronick will speak on the agitation of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce resolution favoring the abolition of its Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. At its last meeting the Forum went on record as opposing the resolution of the South Bend business men.
Carwin’s paper will treat of the tax program of the United States government.
At the meeting this evening plans for a banquet will be discussed. An outing has been planned for the club members at one of the nearby country clubs. This was an annual custom of the Commerce Forum until a few years ago.
Captain Bower Addresses the A. S. M. E. On Aeronautics
Captain Bower of the aviation industry discussed aeronautics before the members of the A. S. M. E. last Wednesday evening in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
The meeting which was well attended because of the interest in the speaker and his subject was brought to a pleasant conclusion with the serving of refreshments.
Chi Club To Hold Golf Meet
The Chicago club has announced that it is sponsoring the annual golf tournament once again. Entrance is open to all golfers in the University upon filing an entrance application with either Pat Crowley, 214 Alumni hall, or George Beaudin, 146 Alumni hall, on or before April 29.
Tapping S. Reaves, freshman at Bowdoin College, was seriously injured when a javelin struck him in the head during practice and the blade embedded in his brain. Young Reeve pulled the instrument out and ran some distance to the gymnasium. He retained consciousness constantly until he was given ether for an operation to relieve the pressure of the skull on the brain.
MAN ABOUT
Paul O'Toole, Chicago boy, one of • Loyola Academy’s favorite sons, a worthy subject for “Keyhole Portraits,” likes to talk about girls and
other economic problems.
Publication of “Bulletin” Is Endangered By Debts
What, no Religious Bulletin? If some evening, you should open your door in search of Father O’Hara’s daily contact with the student body and there is none, open your files and re-read Wednesday’s issue.
According to Editor Father O’Hara, in the April 27th issue of the Bulletin, this can be blamed on the sheriff who has undoubtedly walked away with his typewriter.
It would seem that the pamphlet rack that supplies three thousand erring students with the precepts of the Church, and the like, is in a state of bankruptcy, the amount being $351 in the red.
Father O’Hara’s issues an appeal to the students to meet the expenses of the rack through contributions and Sunday collections. As the University bears the whole cost of the Bulletin the students are asked to balance the pamphlet account.
NOTICE!
A course in Cost Accounting will be offered as a Senior elective during the 1932-33 scholastic year, provided 30 or more students indicate a wish to pursue such a course.
K. OF C. PICNIC WILL BE HELD NEXT MONTH
Professor Manion Speaks To Knights At Meeting.
By Michael Wiedl
At the regular weekly meeting of the Knights of Columbus Joseph Nugent was named General Chairman of the annual picnic which is to be held May 19 or 22. Other committees of the picnic will be headed by seniors. Indian Lake, the scene of last year’s festivities, may also be chosen again this year.
The time and location will be definitely decided upon by the members of the various committees. The proceeds of the formal are to serve as the picnic fund. Only members in good standing may attend the outing.
Clarence E. aMnion, professor of the Law school, addressed the council on “Catholic Action in the Knights of Columbus.’’
The Chairman of the Scholarship Committee, Edward Barret, gave a report on its work. On Wednesday afternoon a special trustee meeting of the Scholarship Fund decided upon the establishment of a budget for next year in which a Scholarship fund will be included.
Election for all offices for the ensuing year-will be held May 9. The regular procedure will be in vogue. Only members in good standing are eligible for the elections.
POLITICAL DOPE
(Continued from Page 7)
both the halls with the result that the race as it now stands is practically a tie.
The situation in the sophomore class for junior officers is in a bit of muddled state. The Scholastic reports in bulletin form the results of today’s nominations, but will not be able to chronicle the ffect it will have on the two remaining parties.
Dr. Charles G. Abbot, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, has invented a periodometer, or “brass brain,” capable of solving with more accuracy than human calculators the problems presented by hte curves of natural processes in space and time. It will be used as a long-time weather forecaster.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Campus Acclaims Selection PROFESSOR CAMPBELL’S Of Owen Young as Speaker 3M “ ™“l>
By Edward O’Brien
Listed high among the presidential possibilities for the coming political campaign is Owen D. Young.
It is the Mr. Young, who this June will come to Notre Dame to deliver the commencement address.
Ever since this announcement was made last week by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., seniors have enthusiastically applauded the selection.
Native of New York
Mr. Young was born in Van-Hornesville, New York. The population is about two hundred. Mr. Young lived on a farm on the outskirts.
His elementary education was received at some “little red school house.” At the age of sixteen, Owen Young’s mother mortgaged their farm for one thousand dollars so that Owen could go to college. With that as a start, he rose to economic leadership.
With the mortgage money Owen went to St. Lawrence university, near Van Hornesville. There he proved to be a diligent student. Next he went to Boston University Law School where he worked his way through.
Entered Law Firm
Upon being graduated, he found a position with a Boston law firm. It was about this time that corporation law was becoming extremely important. In this Owen D. Young was particularly apt. Older lawyers had become lost in the intricacies of modern finance and Mr. Young soon gained recognition in this field.
After having won several cases against General Electric, he was asked, at the age of thirty-nine years, to become General Electric’s chief counsel. In 1922, by natural evolution, he became chairman of the board of the same company. He holds that • position today.
Young Plan Attests Ability
Being a skilled lawyer, he was was attracted to national affairs. The famous Young plan attests to his legal ability. He was one of the rare representatives of the United States who did not apologize for his country or, more important still, did not boast about it. The result was that he
gained the respect of the European statesmen.
Mr. Young has a Park Avenue home in New York, and a summer place in Connecticut, but his legal voting residence is Van Hornesville. There he has a big, old-fashioned house, clapboarded and decorated with scroll-work. He keeps a desk in the barn. He likes to sit there and think.
Likes Home Town
Van Hornesville is very pleasing to him and he visits there frequently. Unlike other celebrities, he indulges in no philanthropic activities where the old home-town is concerned.
The natives would probably resent it. Anyhow, he would become a “great” in their eyes; as it is, he is still called “Owen” by them. “Owen’s quiet,” they’ll say, “but he’s smart.” To them there is probably nothing surprising in the fact that the leading nations of Europe selected him to preside over the making of a new plan for German reparations in 1929. The great powers of Europe -were pretty lucky to get such a Van-Hornesville boy.
Interested In Education
Mr. Young is greatly interested in education. He is trustee for many universities including Columbia, as well as being connected with national educational societies. Honorary degrees have been presented to him by a .score of schools. There will be another added to his collection when he receives an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Father O’Donnell on the 5th of June.	•
“Lawyer” To Make Last Appearance Early In May
Material for the May number of the Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly publication of the students of the Law school, is now in the hands of the printer. The magazine is expected to make its appearance during the second week of May.
With the May issue of the Lawyer, the publication of the lawyers takes its bow. The paper has made three previous appearances, in November, January, and March.
“Far Trouble” Is Title of Exciting Chinese Story.
By John Pick
Against the background of a chaotic and warring China, Professor T. Bowyer Campbell in his third novel, Far Trouble, weaves a parade of youthful adventure full of exotic glamour. -
He is a member of the department of history of the University and has written two other novels, Black Sadie, published in 1928 and Old Miss in 1929, both of which were well received in this country and in England.
Exciting Plot
The action of the story never algs: a young diplomatic official, Alec Wagram and the daughter of the English consul, Margaret Barbour, find themselves outside of the lines of protection in modem China seething with its armies of nationalists and reds and its bands of local marauders.
With the two young people the reader is taken through an amazing series of trials, from the time of their first capture to their exciting experiences when they disguise themselves as Buddhist bonzes, or monks.
Privation and cruelty surround Alec and Margaret and from their mutual suffering comes a deep and mellow love bom of the almost hopeless fight against opposing odds. Largely by the ingenuity of Wagram the two finally reach, again, the consulate in Shanghai.
Taught In China
The background, stem and realistic, mirrors not only the deepest depths of the individual characters, but shows a profound understanding of the entire Chinese race, and of the rich and varied life of the mysterious orient.
Professor Campbell graduated from William and Mary College. From 1913 to 1918 he taught in St. John’s University, Shanghai, where he gained an intimate knowledge of the life he was later to write about. Later he traveled extensively on the continent and in England where he spent a number of years in Oxford. He was one of the founders of the Confra-
(Continued on Page 30)
April 29, 1932
Seventeen
BOOKMEN HEAR BYRNE ON BOOK-COLLECTING
Corby Turns Co-ed as Scores Clamor for Marchie Schwartz
Rare Editions In N. D. Library Used To Illustrate Talk.
Book collecting was the subject of Mr. Paul Byrne, librarian of the University, at the meeting of the Bookmen in the library last Monday evening.
He began by giving the various motives for collecting books, telling of the history of what is generally a very expensive hobby, and giving some historical incidents.
Here’s Why
The speaker went on to mention a few of the things which make a book an item for collectors; its age, its scarcity, its association with a well • known person, its binding, its illustrations. All these and many other individual reasons make collectors pay enormous amounts for- books, he said. Most persons collect books for the joy they derive from it, but there are several collectors in this country who have made it a commercial project, Librarian Byrne declared.
N. D. Has Rare Books
At the conclusion of his talk, he showed the Bookmen several of the rare books in possession of the Notre Dame library. Among them was a textbook of Robert Emmet, the well-known Irish patriot; a “Breeches” Bible; a zoology and a botany text with full page illustrations done in water color; a rare edition of Dante’s Divina Comedia; and many others, all of which were collected for one of the reasons mentioned by the speaker earlier in his talk.
Following the regular meeting the club retired to the Dante library and spent some time looking through the editions of the Divine Comedy collected by the late Reverend John Zahm, C.S.C.
NOTICE!
The Bookmen are now receiving applications for membership in the -club for next year. Blanks may be obtained from John E. Driscoll, 248 Corby hall or from Martin Mad-. den, 416 Walsh hall.
By Donald Sullivan
Monday noon and all was well on the Corby front. Came 2:00 o’clock and things began to happen. Dozens
Marchmont Schwartz
They had to send in a substitute.
of boys and girls, big ones and little ones, stormed Corby’s front porch in search of Marchie Schwartz.
The din was terriffic. The few Corbyites lounging on the porch benches beat a hasty retreat before the formidable advance. The cry of “We want Schwartz” swelled from a hundred diminutive throats.
Rector Investigates
Aghast, the rector of Corby proceeded to investigate the cause of the riot. He found that the young ladies and gentlemen had come by bus from St. Patrick’s parish in Chicago to see Marchmont Schwartz and obtain his autograph.
Unfortunately, Schwartz was nowhere to be found. All of Father Cavanaugh’s diplomacy was called into play to save the battered walls of deah ole Corby from complete destruction.
Something, though, has to be done to satisfy the crowd, and the Reverend Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was
equal to the occasion. “Here comes Gene Connelly, president of the Senior class,” he announced.
That was enough. For the next forty-five minutes Gene was busy satisfying demands for autographs. Your reporter happened along and they mobbed him.
The signature “Rudy Valee” was denounced as fake. “Frank Carideo” followed, but some bright youngster announced that the all-American quarterback was at Purdue.
Morrie Hull Turns Athlete
Morrie Hull signed every name from Kegowicz to Yarr when coimered by a group of giggling, bashful schoolgirls. Busscher satisfied the craving for Nordy Hoffman’s indorsement.
Even Father Cavanaugh was coerced into signing every available slip of paper- once the craze had started. This might have gone on indefinitely, but the Corby hall signing-out book was produced and the children given some of their own medicine.
After the book had been properly signed, Ray Brancheau mounted the front steps of Corby. “Hes’ a football player,” a senior announced.
“You can’t fool us any more,” declared the cohorts from St. Pat’s, and they marched away to the cafeteria for lunch. Father Cavanaugh promised to send Marchie after them as soon as he could be located.
But your reporter, perspiring and tired, strode to his room and went to bed.
Yale Boys Get Playful, But Pranks End in Triple Tragedy
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., Apr. 22.—What two Yale students stared as a college prank last week ended up with the wrecking of three automobiles, and the placing of civil cases and theft charges against the boys.
The two, Charles M. Kase, a sophomore, and Allan M. Ferguson, a junior, took a large wooden horse from an antique shop, dragged it along the highway near Milford and caused the wrecking of three automobiles which could not pass the heavy traffic when they saw the horse loom up before them.
i
■Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
TRACK TUX
In accordance with a custom established last spring, track officials at Allegheny will wear tuxedos while officiating.
NOVEL ANSWERS
A zither is a kind of a snake, a French gun, or a sword; the L. C. Smith Company makes motor trucks and steam engines; habeas corpus is a medical term; “All Quiet on the Western Front” was written by Zane Grey; and Lacrosse is a kind of rowboat—this information was conceived by freshmen in an examination for general intelligence at the University of Kentucky.
STUDENT HANGMAN
Students at Budapest, Hungary, are seeking the job of public hangman in order to defray their expenses.
LEAVENWORTH
Since 1919 no one has held the yearly scholarship of $600 offered by Yale university to a student of good character and promise. The clause is the contract that seems to be holding things up is a stipulation in the scholarship that states that the winner must possess Leavenworth as his first name.
SOME BLOND
Someone at Marquette with a fiendish streak in him tried to stick his philosophy instructor with this syllogism: “Some blonds have brains. This girl is some blond; therefore, this girl has brains.” Of course, anyone knows that this is all wrong because the word “blond” is originally derived from a Latin word, “blankus,” which means just the opposite of brains.
ON THE TRAIL
Department of Useless Statistics: A recent survey of various colleges shows that 59% of their patronage for detective fiction comes from faculty members.	-
NO CLASS
After several years of experimentation the University of Pittsburgh has instituted a “noclass” method of education. The plan permits students to study alone and see their professors only when they need advice. However, if satisfactory progress is not shown by the students they will be required to attend classes. Everyone has to take the finals examinations.
INK GAZERS
An effort is being made at Rutgers to get one hundred students not taking psychology courses to stare at ink spots for forty-five minutes and then record their impressions. This material will be used by a graduate student in his thesis.
SERVICE AND SATISFACTION	.
Harvard has a lecture room fitted out with several labor saving devices. . . . For instance from the lecture desk a button can be pressed which electrically raises the shades, another lowers them, and a third makes them stop where desired. ... By pressing another button the blackboard is made to rise to the ceiling and a clean one replaces it. . . . And there is a traffic system in the back of the room. When a speaker begins his lecture a green light goes on; three minutes before his time is up a yellow light flashes, and at time a red bulb glows. On the assumption that students sleep through all lectures, if the speaker were color blind the whole class would probably die of sleeping sickness.
FINGER COUNTING GOES
Our troubles are over, you who painfully thumb log books and count on your fingers, you who laboriously puzzle over graphs and calculations, you who distractedly worry over problems of the right angle. “Anyone can learn math,” claims Professor Donald D. Durrell, assistant professor of education at Boston university.
“The idea that a person has to have a peculiar faculty for acquiring a certain phase of learning is foolish. No special ability beyond normal brains is necessary. All one must do is rid himself of his negative attitude, believe in himself, analyze his methods, discover his main trouble, and he will actually find himself liking mathematics.”
We thought this might be helpful to the math majors. Having used the finger method of counting for many years we also took it to heart.
BACKGAMMON AT UR
The museum of Pennsylvania university has a backgammon board dating back to 3000 B. C. The board was found at Ur in Chaldea.
April 29, 1932
Nineteen
EDITOK’J PAGE
THE MYSTERY MAN
One of the truly unique plans in local political history was attempted this week when placards and letters announced to the Junior class the candidacy of a Mystery Man for Senior president.
Not the least surprising of the entire revolutionary affair were the campaign promises which graced the platform by which the Mystery Man expected to be elected.
Letters on unusual blue stationery informed the class that should the Mystery Man be chosen the Ball profits would be given to Bengal. Furthermore, they stipulated that there would be no Ball chairman, but advanced the more original idea of a committee of three, chosen from the defeated candidate, who would handle all dance details.	■
It is not the purpose of The Scholastic to criticize S. A. C. men for not allowing the candidacy to be announced from the gym floor as ‘‘The Mystery Man.” Chairman John Kramer, in refusing to recognize such a nomination, was quite sincere, although parliamentary procedure does not specifically deny such a method.
Yet the sincerity of the men behind the Mystery Man cannot be doubted. The Scholastic, calloused to the customary cut-throat undergraduate political campaigns, would have liked to see this new, novel method put into effect. It would have done no harm to try it, and The Scholastic believes that a majority of the juniors would have backed the candidate.
But the chance is gone. As Peter Jensen, The Scholastic’s mysterious political analyst, declares on page 5 of this issue, the Mystery Man will go back to his nest, his identity never to be known but to a small group of friends.
THE VIGILANCE BOYS—AGAIN
For a considerable time The Scholastic has raised the tone of its editorial voice to a continuous shout against the existence of the Vigilance committee of the Blue Circle.
In its battle to rid the campus of the synthetic promoters of undergraduate loyalty, The Scholastic believes it has had the support of most of the campus. Students, you see, have learned that loyalty cannot be built by the threats of psuedo politicians, or awakened by the injustice of a nocturnal lake party.
The Scholastic urges every candidate for election to the S. A. C. to openly declare himself on this question. It urges the students to refuse to back any man who seeks admittance to the S. A. C. if he remains silent on the subject, or declares himself for its continuance.
There is no reason why a committee of the Blue Circle should exist under the guise of a Notre Dame organization, when in reality the scope of their work consists in policing the door-ways of the movie palaces. This is further enhanced by the fact that they are paid for their work by free tickets to all performances for their year of service.
If the Vigilance committee apply for a job downtown, then divorce themselves from the Blue Circle, The Scholastic has no argument with them. But they are pretending to be a Notre Dame service committee when in reality they are existing for a purely selfish and financial reason.
The Scholastic will not be able to back for office any S. A. C. candidate who refuses to pledge his vote against the Vigilance committee at the first meeting of the new organization this May.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Golf Team Faces Two Opponents
Veeneman To Play No. 1 As Irish Meet Detroit And Michigan State
WESTERN STATE BLANKS NET TEAM IN OPENER
Sophomore Replaces Redmond In Wednesday Match; Five
Men Make the Trip.
With Bill Veeneman, fast rising sophomore, moving into first position for the first time this year, the Notre Dame varsity golf team left yesterday for their first road meets of the year against Detroit and Michigan State today and tomorrow. Five golfers and Manager Frank Buhl made the trip.
Defeats Redmond 2 and 1
Veeneman advanced to first place Wednesday afternoon by defeating Captain Bill Redmond by a margin of 2 and 1. The victory was at least the sixth match play triumph in a row for Veeneman and climaxed the drive that has carried him from fifth place to first in the varsity rankings within two weeks.
Other matches in Wednesday’s chal-lege round saw Vince Fehlig drop a 3 and 2 match to Johnny Monte-donico. Montedonico’s medal score totalled 77 for the round. By virtue of the win, Montedonico moved up to third place for the matches this weekend with Fehlig slipping to fourth.
Gostisha is No. 5
John Gostisha, ranked at No. 5, will be the fifth man on the squad for the two road matches. It is probable that he and Fehlig will divide the playing assignments in the two matches with Gostisha seeing action in the best ball doubles matches.
Both Michigan State and Detroit were defeated twice by the Notre Dame team last spring. The Michigan State squad garnered only one-half a point in each of its meetings with the Irish. Detroit, too, was decisively trimmed by the locals though McFawn, Detroit captain, scored a
Bill Veeneman
Replaces Captain Redmond at No. 1 for matches this week-end.
victory over Fran Beaupre, Notre Dame leader, in the match here.
The match against Detroit will be played at the Clinton Country club and the Michigan State meet at the links of the Lansing Country club.
BIG WEEK
Spring sports at Notre Dame will go into one of their most active periods next week. With Spring football scheduled for a grand windup, and the baseball and track teams both seeing action, the major sports will all furnish a share of the rush. Tennis, golf, and interhall also have heavy schedules for the week.
Irish Netmen Lose, 7-0; Win But One Set In Meet.
The Irish net squad met defeat in the first meet of the season last Saturday at the hands of Western State Normal of Kalamazoo, 7 to 0.
The teachers, reputed to be the stiffest opposition the varsity is to meet this year, showed their superiority by winning all but one set in the seven matches played.
O’Hanlon Plays Well
O’Hanlon made the best showing for the Irish. He forced Nellis to the limit in the first set only to be beaten, 5-7. In thes econd set, O’Hanlon had things much his own way, coming out ahead, 6-3. Nellis recovered in the final set and after a tough battle won his match, 9-7.
Captain Sorenson of the Teachers led the way to victory with a straight set win over Edward Power, 6-3, 6-3. Louis Chreist, No. 1 player, found Ben Laevin’s speed too great and The Scholastic champion went down, 6-4, 6-3.
Carl Meyer was beaten by Zeimet, 6-2, 6-4, and Dick Kelly fell before the speedy service of Glasier, 6-2, 6-4, in the other singles matches.
Doubles Prove Easy
The Teachers had little trouble in earning victories in the doubles play. Zeimet and Glasier romped through Meyer and O’Hanlon, 6-1, 6-0. Captain Sorenson teamed with Laevin to make short work of the other local double team, Staley and Riegel, 6-0, 6-2.
Strenuous practice is on the schedule for the boys this week so that they will be able to meet with more success in future matches.
4
April 29, 1932
Twenty-one-
TWO-MILE RELAY TEAM WINS AT KANSAS MEET
Irish Quartet Win From Fair Field In 8:03 In Rain.
Golfers Whip Loyola For 18th Consecutive Victory
By James Pick
LOW SCORER
WIN EVERY MATCH
Last Saturday the Notre Dame two mile relay team, composed of Young, Roberts, King, and Wilson, travelled to Lawrence for the annual Kansas Relays and copped their event in 8:03. The University of Iowa quartet finished in second place.
The race was close from the start with the positions of the teams constantly changing until the last leg when Alex Wilson, veteran middle distance star of Notre Dame, took the lead and smoothly strode through his half mile in about 1:56 to bring victory to his team.
The track was in very poor condition. Rain made the cinder path soft and conditions were adverse to making a good record, but the Notre Dame quartet, composed largely of inexperienced runners, came through in good form.
Joe Young took to the starting line and ran the first 880 yards along . with a mass of runners in 2:05. Clyde Roberts, taking the baton • from Young, gained one position covering the distance in about 2:02. Running the third leg of the relay, Eddie King, powerful sophomore runner, advanced the team to second place by running his half mile in about 1:59. Alex Wilson, taking the stick from King, fell into his fast pace to win the event.
Irish-Chicago Tie 6 to 6 In Loose 11-Inning Tilt
Notre Dame and the University of Chicago played to an eleven-inning 6-6 tie last Wednesday afternoon on old Cartier field in the second meeting of the two schools in over 20 years. Notre Dame won the first game at Chicago a week ago, 3-0.
Neither* starting pitcher was able to finish the game marked by loose playing of both teams. Pat Page, Jr., son of the Maroon coach, was the opening hurler for Chicago while Captain Charlie Palt was Coach Keogan’s selection.
The Irish got to young Page in the second inning. Al Russo opened the frame with a hard smash to left center which went for a triple. Bill Lomasney hit him in with his single to right. George Kozak then got hold of one for another three-base hit to
Vince Fehlig
His 76 in the afternoon round led the Irish and Loyola golfers for low scoring honors. Coupled with a 77 in the morning the round gave him a 36-hole total of 153, the lowest individual total of the day.
center, Lomasney scoring. Cummings sent a long sacrifice fly to left, enabling Kozak to score. O’Neil got on when Offie fumbled his bounder. He went all the way to third on a wild pitch, and scored on Kane’s long fly.
Chicago made their first tally in the third inning. Johnson doubled. Russo fumbled Buzzel’s easy roller and all hands were safe. On a double killing, Russo to Kane to Cummings, Johnson scored from third.
Both teams scored in the tenth inning. Chicago got its run on a walk, a sacrifice fly and a single, while Notre Dame made the tying run on Kane’s single, O’Keefe’s double to center, and Powell’s sacrifice fly.
Score by innings:	rhe
Chicago______001 012 010 10—6 9 5 Notre Dame_041 000 000 10—6 13 5
Meet Score 1614 to 11,4; Fehlig Shoots 76 For Best Score of Day’s Matches.
Notre Dame’s hard-hitting golf team ran its victory string to eighteen in a row last Saturday by defeating the links squad of Loyola of Chicago by a margin of 16Vs to IVs. The win was the second of the year for the Irish.
Captain Bill Redmond and Vince Fehlig sent the Notre Dame team into the lead in the first of the morning best ball matches. The Irish pair were four up at the turn on the Loyola combination of Emmett Morrissey and Don Cavanaugh. The best ball scores for the nine showed Redmond and Fehlig leading, 37 to 41. They won the point for the 18-hole round on the 14th green by a margin of 5 and 4.
20-Foot Putt
Fehlig and Redmond made a clean sweep of the three points possible when Redmond dropped a 20-ft. putt on the 16th for a birdie four. The shot gave them the second nine by a margin of 3 and 2.
In the other doubles match, the Notre Dame sophomore due of Bill Veeneman and Johnny Montedonico defeated Jim Vonesh and Julian D’Esposito of Loyola, 2 to 1, in the point scoring contest. A 36 best ball for the out nine sent the Irish four up at the turn. They held their advantage to win the 18 by 4 and 2. D’Esposito managed to take one point for the invaders, however, by shooting a 38 on the back nine to win it one up.
Redmond Wins
Captain Redmond added three more points in the afternoon singles by measuring Morrissey, 2 to 1. Redmond led at the turn one up, divided the first six holes of the second nine, and swept the three points by winning two of the last three holes to have a margin of two up for the nine.
Bill Veeneman, playing No. 2, sailed through his match with D’Esposito in easy fashion. Dropping the first two holes, the local sophomore came (Continued on Page 24)
Twenty-itvo
The Scholastic
“Scholastic” Handicap Golf
Tournament to Begin May 7
NOTRE DAME ATHLE1ES FACE BUSY WEEK-END
MANY ENTRANTS IN
All Sports Have Share In Big Program For Week.
Varsity and Freshmen Whose Names Are Posted May Enter By Filing Blank Card.
By Henry B. Asman
With three days still remaining to turn in qualifying scores, cards for The Scholastic Handicap Golf Tournament are coming in in greater numbers each day. Nearly sixty men have now turned in at least one card and about one-half that number have deposited the three required to insure a handicap.
Cold Weather Slows Play
The cold weather at the beginning of the week seriously hampered play on the local course and the result was that few cards were turned in. Favorable weather over the week-end, however, should give all those intending to enter ample time to play their three rounds.
Handicapping will be completed during the next week and the first round pairings and schedules will be printed in The Scholastic of next Friday, May 6. Pairings will also be posted in the clubhouse together with a list of the names, addresses, and handicaps of all men who qualify.
All entrants are advised to read closely the rules of the tournament printed in last week’s Scholastic and posted now in the clubhouse. These rules will be strictly followed throughout the tournament.
Entrants Should Read Rules
One rule, in particular, has been disregarded by most of the contestants who have turned in cards thus far. This rule reads: “A separate card must be turned in for each round of each contestant. Each card must bear the name and address of the contestant plainly printed on the outside.”
The Scholastic Handicap Committee has received from Father Murch many cards turned in for varsity and freshman challenge rounds. Handicaps have been computed on the basis (Continued on Page 31)
Coach Nicholson, Eleven Trackmen Leave For Drake
A squad of eleven Notre Dame varsity trackmen accompanied by Coach John P. Nicholson left last night for Des Moines, Iowa, where they are scheduled to run in the an-naul Drake Relays to be held today and tomorrow.
The first of the Irish entrants to see service will be the distance medley team, making its first start of the year. Rege Kuhn is slated to lead off for the quartet with an assignment of a 440 before passing the baton to Brant Little for the second leg. Little will run an 880.
Eddie King will run the first of his two races as third member of the team. Scheduled to cover three-qaarters of a mile with the medley team, King will return to the track later to run on the two-mile quartet. Gene Howery 'will anchor the medley team, running the mile leg of the two and one-half mile journey.
The same two-mile team that won the Kansas Relays event last week will compete tomorrow. Joe Young will lead off with another sophomore, Clyde Roberts, in second place. King will run the third leg and Alex Wilson, the only veteran of the -four, will run the anchor 880.
Charley Kelly will lead off for the mile team in the third Notre Dame performance of the meet. Jack Scanlon and Rudy Obergfall will run the middle legs and Alex Wilson will run his second race in the anchor position.
The only individual entamt on the Irish squad is Bob Darling, veteran jumper. Darling has been named for the high jump and the hop, step, and jump event. The latter event is a new one for the Notre Dame entry but he covered considerable distance in practice during the past week.
Notre Dame athletes in all branches of spring activity face one of the busiest periods of the year this weekend and during the coming week. Footabll, track, baseball, tennis, golf, and interhall teams are all facingheavy schedules.	'
Golfers At Detroit
A part of the track team will perform at Des Moines in the Drake Relays today and tomorrow under the direction of Coach Nicholson. The remainder of the squad will work out on Cartier field under the guidance of assistant ocach Spike England.
Captain Bill Redmond and his crew, of five niblick swingers are up in Detroit this afternoon in search of their 19th consecutive win. Tomorrow they will move on to East Lansing where they will play Michigan State.
The baseball team will have hard workouts as their feature activity. Western State Normal is scheduled to play here next Friday and it is probable that several practice games will be played in the meantime.
Football Practice To End
The football squad is facing the final week of a rigorous spring training session. Preliminaries in contests for the Hering football medals were held yesterday with finals scheduled for this afternoon. Scrimmage is expected to play a prominent part in tomorrow’s workout. Practice is slated to wind up on May 7.
The Irish tennis team will make its second start of the season this afternoon against Northwestern on the local courts. The Notre Dame squad will journey to Chicago tomorrow to meet the net team of Armour Tech in their first road trip of the season. '
Paddock Injures Leg
By Intercollegiate Press.
Los Angeles, Calif., April 28. — Charles Paddock, one-time world’s fastest human, had an injured leg muscle today.
He pulled the muscle while working out for a place on the American Olympic team.
April 29, 1932
Twenty-three
RULES FOR TOURNEY ARE HERE REPRINTED
Entrants Should Follow These Rules Explicitly.
1.	The tournament will be open to all students of the University with the exception of the first eight ranking varsity players. Rankings as of April 30 will be used in determining the ineligible players.
2.	Handicaps will be given to all competing players. Handicaps as given by those in charge must be accepted as final.
3.	Handicaps will be computed on the basis of three 18-hole cards which must be turned in on or before May 1, at 6 p. m. All cards must be attested by at least one witness.
4.	A separate card must be turned in for each round of each contestant. Each card must bear the name and address of the contestant plainly printed on the outside.
5.	No handicaps greater than 16 strokes will be given.
6.	The sixty-four players receiving the lowest handicaps on the basis • of the three rounds will qualify for the tournament. In case of a tie for the final place in the bracket, the names of the tying men will be posted in the clubhouse on Monday, May 2, at 8 a. m., and each of the men must turn in an adidtional 18-hole card by Tuesday, May 3, at 6 p. m.
7.	First round pairings and schedules will appear in The Scholastic of May 6.
8.	All matches must be played as scheduled and cards turned in immediately at the clubhouse. A box will be provided in the clubhouse for all cards.
9.	Each contestant must pay his own greens fees.
10.	Semi-finals and final matches will be thirty-six holes; all other matches will be eighteen holes.
11.	The regular rules of handicap mach play will govern all matches in the tournament. The only exception to this rule- will be in the case of stymies. Stymies will not be played.
12.	Address all inquiries to: Handicap Golf Tournament, The Scholastic, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COLLEGE REGATTA TO BE HELD JUNE 18 AT CINCINNATI
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, April 28.—The third annual Midwestern Intercollegiate Regatta to determine the outboard racing championships of that section will be held at Cincinnati, Ohio, on June 18 and 19. The races will be staged on the Ohio River, where the college drivers will be the guests of the Queen City Yacht club. The University of Cincinnati and St. Xavier university will be co-sponsors of the meet along with College Humor Magazine and the Queen City Yacht club.
The first Midwestern Regatta was held on Lake Mendota at Madison, Wisconsin, in 1930, when a large field went into competition for the College Humor Gold cups. Last Spring the site was moved to Columbus, Ohio, Early reports indicate that the 1932 regatta will be the largest ever sponsored.
College Humor trophies will again be presented to first place winners in four events—classes A, B, C, and F. Second and third place awards are al-
Bring a
Spring
You’ll surely welcome Kellogg’s Rice Krispies these mornings. Delicious, toasted rice bubbles that are so crisp they crackle in milk or cream. What could be more refreshing—or so much of a change from the heavy, hot dishes of winter!
And truth to tell, we don’t need so many heavy, hot foods in this age of steam-heated houses and closed automobiles. Cold
so being posted by the committee.
Although only two years old, intercollegiate outboard racing has become a very popular sport among students in all parts of the country. Approximately fifty colleges and universities have been represented in the various meets held during 1930-’31.
While definite dates have not been set for the other sectional regattas, the youthful drivers are anxiously awaiting announcements regarding the meets in the South, the East and on the Pacific Coast.
Barthelmess’ Pay Slashed
By Intercollegiate Press.
Hollywood, Calif., April 28.—Warner Brothers-First National studios announced today Richard Barthelmess has signed a new two-year contract calling for a 33 1-3 percent cut in salary, although his actual earning power will not be decreased.
Barthelmess formerly made two pictures a year, receiving $1-50,000 for each production. In the future, he will be paid $100,000 a picture, but will make three pictures annually.
The studio said the actor volunteered to reframe his contract.
touch of to breakfast
weather just isn’t what it used to be. That’s why red flannels and bed warmers have disappeared—and why crisp, delicious cereals are becoming more and more popular.
Kellogg’s Rice Krispies are rich in energy, easy to digest. Great for a bed-time snack. Drop in at your favorite restaurant tonight and just try them.
Tzventy-four
The Scholastic
GOLFERS BEAT LOYOLA (Continued from Page 21)
Splinters From The Press Box
back to take a lead by winning three in a row. Two up at the turn, he ended the match on the 14th with a birdie three, winning 5 and 4.
Vince Fehlig took two honors for the day, and shot some of the best golf of the meet, to win from Don Cavanaugh, 4 and 2. The Loyola entry gained the final half-point for the visitors’ score by halving the second nine.
One Under Par
Fehlig carded four pars, a birdie, and an eagle on six consecutive holes of the first nine to reach the turn one under par. His iron play lost its accuracy in the face of a high wind on the second nine and sent his total for the round to 76. The same wind boosted all of the afternoon scores.
Notre Dame’s final three points were delivered by John Montedonico, No. 4. Playing in easy fashion, the southerner reached the midway station two up, won the eighteen 5 and 3, and took the final point on the 17th where he stretched his margin for the second nine to 3 and 1.
Summaries:
DOUBLES: Redmond and Fehlig, 72 (ND), defeated Morrissey and Cavanaugh, 80 (L), 3-0. Venneman and Montedonico. 75 (ND), defeated Vonesh and D’Esposito, 78 (L), 2-1.
SINGLES: Redmond, 81 (ND), defeated Morrissey, 84 (L), 3-0. Veeneman, 80 (ND), defeated D'Esposito, 85 (L), 3-0. Fehlig, 76 (ND), defeated Cavanaugh. 80 (L), 2%-%. Montedonico, 84 (ND), defeated Vonesh, 88 (L), 3-0.
By James S. Kearns
N. D„ 16%; LOYOLA, 1%
Cap’n Redmond’s 20-footer on the 16th in the morning . . . Morrissey: “What’re we supposed to do?” . . . Bill Veeneman’s four birdies on 10 and 11 . . . two each round . . . And a 25-foot putt for the one on 11 in the morning . . . The long woods all around in the first morning foursome . . . Cavanaugh . . . and Louie O’Shea . . . look alike ... if you noticed. . . .
Fehlig’s woods in the afternoon . . . 300 plus on No. 3 . . . across the 16th green in two . . . and that’s 570 yards . . . And a sweet No. 2 iron brought him an eagle on No. 5 . . . Montedonico . . . Dapper John ... smiles at birdies . . . and smiles at traps . . . Fehlig finally dubbed a wood . . . his drive on No. 14 . . . D’Esposito carried Vonesh for 18 holes in the doubles . . . low on every one . . . Statistics: one eagle ... 18 birdies . . . 133 pars . . . most pars in a round: Montedonico, 13 ... if you care. . . .
AMONG STRANGERS
Unless the overproduction of White Sox trades slows up a bit, friend Bill Sullivan is going to have a lot of new teammates to play with this summer. First, Cissel and Moore for Hodapp and Seeds. Next, Campbell and Had
ley for Red Kress. Will the next move affect Sully?
As a small sidelight to the deals with Cleveland is the fact that Cissel and Bill Kamm, representing a reputed investment of a quarter of a million by the Sox will be working side by side ... if Cissel ever starts to hit.
MR. VINES
The long awaited victory march of Ellsworth Vines got under way this week as the lean lad from the coast dusted off his fellow trouper Wilmer Allison. It may have been that Elly’s stomach ache wasn’t going well enough during the early season. That famed disturbance has been credited with doing everything but hold the racquet for the national champ.
There shouldn’t be much question of Vines’ right to the No. 1 position on the Davis Cup team. National singles champ, and winner of more summer tournaments than most people knew existed, he was the outstanding figure in the country’s tennis business—or is it pleasure?—last year. The win from Allison may mean that he is coming back. If it does, there are few who will challenge his right to play No. 1 in any tournament.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
WEEK-END EXCURSION
South Bend to Chicago
AND RETURN
THOSE SUGGESTIONS
Last week we asked for a bit of counsel on this sports program we’ve undertaken. We wanted, and still want, to know what the student body craves in the line of sporting events. The proposed lake swim and golf driving contest got a few votes apiece this week. How about some more?
Leave South Bend station, Michigan and LaSalle streets, any train Noon Friday to Noon Sunday. Return on any train up to and including 11:45 P. M. train, Monday. Same rate in effect from Chicago. For information phone South Bend 3-3111.
Phone 3-1254
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
50U[hshoRE
Drs. Smgler & Probst
DENTISTS'
405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
April 29, 1932
Ttventy-Uve
TRACKMEN ENTERED IN DRAKE RELAY MEET
Three Relay Teams, Darling, On Tentative Entry List.
Today and tomorrow the Notre Dame tracksters will compete in their second meet of the season. They will travel to Des Moines, Iowa, to engage in the annual Drake Relay carnival, April 29-30. The team will encounter rigid competition from the most prominent schools of the middle west including several Big Ten universities.
The two mile relay team which brought victory back from Kansas last week will attempt to repeat its win, this time on a faster track. Alex Wilson is the lone veteran on the two mile team this season. Eddie iKng proved at Lawrence that he is a valuable asset to the quartet.
Roberts and Joe Young did well and hope to make their times better on a dry track. The team hopes to improve enough to better the record of 7:48 set in 1930 by the Notre Dame two mile relay team composed
of Joe Abbot, Joe Quigley, Brant Little, and Wilson.
The cold and changeable weather this year has caused the runners serious difficulty in reaching the top form for the meets. Barring colds and sickness on the squad, Coach Nicholson expects the one mile relay team to compete. A medley quartet will also run.
Bob Darling is entered in the field events. He will high jump and try his luck at the hop, step, and jump in which he has made 42 feet during practice the last week. If Darling can stretch the distance to about 45 feet, he might cop a first place in the event.
Pre-registration Notice
Robert B. Riordan, registrar, announces that students may pre-register until May 11th, 1932. Failure to do so by that time will prevent return to the University next fall.
Registrar Riordan also stated that from the 2,100 who are eligible to pre-register, 1,900 have already done so.
The University of California has issued a bulletin describing the various methods of preparing fruit juices.
Senior Room List Posted^
Others To Appear Soon
The 1932 Senior list is now posted on the bulletin board inside the basement entrance of the Administration building. Other lists will be posted in the same place.
Seniors for 1932 began drawing at 1:00 o’clock Thursday afternoon, April 28, and are proceeding in order of numberingat the rate of sixty an hour. This will continue all next week.
All lists posted are subject to correction for class rating. The appearance of a stuednt’s name on the list is no guarantee that he enjoys the rating of that list or that he may draw from rooms allotted to that class.
Students in doubt as to their rating should consult their deans immediately and get a written confirmation of their status to the Registrar. Students changed from one list to another, though the change is not published, will be given a ocrresponding number on the correct list.
“It’s up to the college men to decide what they are going to drink and do,” said Alfred E. Smith in an article in the Yale Daily News.
Men’s $8 to
$10 Oxfords
Formerly Selling
$8 to $10
Crawford—
Osteo-Patik
others we
cannot
advertise
$4*85
Practically all sizes and widths in lot. You’ll probably buy 2 or 3 pairs. For the young man as well as the older man.
AH sizes in others at $1.85, $2.95 and $3.85.

GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Refined Atmosphere— Courteous Service---
Sanitary Equipment---
And an honest desire to please, gain and hold student trade
The Oliver Hotel Barber Shop 205 West Washington Avenue
Twenty-six
The Scholastic ------------ c
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Bennie Kane, St. Edward’s pitching ace, held the hard hitting Morrissey nine scoreless, enabling the “Minims” to cop their straight win, 3 to 0. St. Edward’s, champions in 1931 loom as probable winners for the current year.
St. Edward’s_______0 0 1 0 0 2 0—3
Morrissey _________0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0
Batteries: Kane and Alberts; Brost and Kiep.
Corby and Lyons are tied for second and third place in Group I. The seniors downed their old-time rivals, Sorin, 5 to 3. This game was marked by the intense cheering on both sides. Corby scored all their runs in the first three innings.
. Lyons, led by Sandura, Oakes, and Louy, defeated Badin, rather handily, 8to 2. The winners scored two runs in each of the first two innings, three in the fourth, and one in the sixth.
Howard, led by Laurie Vejar, Johnny Tobin, and Jack Laurie, three of
the stars that helped win the crown for St. Edward’s last year, defeated o Dillon, 8 to 7 to keep their slate clean of defeats, and maintain the lead in Group II.
Dillon___________0 2 5 0 0 0 0—7
Howard __________0 0 4 2 2 0 *—8
Batteries: Rigney and Bunck; Arn-heiter and Tobin.
Walsh, led by Benny Mikes and company, defeated Carroll, 3 to 1. Three of the total four runs tallied via the circuit route. Ed Caldwell of Carroll poling one and Behrman and Jane of Walsh being responsible for the other two.	.
Alumni swamped Brownson under a barrage of hits and errors, 14 to 3.
GOLF
Lyons, headed by O’Melia who went around in an 87, is out after a fourth championship, the golf crown. Sunday the sophomores downed Corby, 15% to 2%.
Lyons, 15%—O’Melia (87) 3, Lan
ders (93) %. Corby, 2%—Dillon (98) 0, Kempf (94) 2%.
Landers and O’Melia won the doubles, 3 to 0.
Kunz and Pahlman of Lyons won all nine points from O’Connor and Melchione of Corby by forfeits.
Alumni golfers found little opposition in Sophomore, winning 15 to 3. O’Brien, first man for Alumni was low in this match with a round of 84.
Alumni, 15—O’Brien (84) 2, Pugliese (86) 2. Souhomore, 3—Nagel-son (87) 1, Guimont (87) 1.
Alumni won the doubles, 2 and 1.
Sheedy and Powell won the doubles, 3 to 0.
Although the No. 1 man, Malloy shot an 80, the best of the days’s play, St. Edward’s golfers were put out of the championship flight by Morrissey, 9% to 8%.
Morrissey—Henry (83) 3, Leonard (104) 1. St. Edward’s—Lehan (104) 0, Crowley (100) 2.	•
Morrissey, 9% — Gleason (92) 0, Cronin (88), 2%. St. Edward’s, 8% —Malloy (80) 3, Kolb (92) %.
Henry and Leonard won the doubles, 3 to 0.
(Continued on Page 31)
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to .9:40.p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
ENTER NOW
The Notre Dame Scholastic’s
Golf Tournament
Read Henry B. Asman’s story on page 22 of this issue, giving complete details of the meet thus far.
THE SCHOLASTIC
April 29, 1932	Twenty-seven
Run an Advertisement the Dome I
It Will Not--
•	Revolutionize Your Business;
Put it on a Paying Basis;
Make your sales curve mount sky-ward;
Build a memorial to your business sagacity. ■	.	.	■*	-	.-1-
But It Will--
»	Deliver your selling message to—
More than three thousand men at Notre Dame;
Build a potential market while creating immediate sales;	•
Deliver a message that will last and be acted upon, not for a day or a month but for ten years or more;
Give intense local coverage at Notre Dame— »	with a national coverage in nearly four
thousand homes at no additional cost;
Reach thousands of families in all of the fortyeight states and seventeen foreign countries.
Board of Publications
(	At the University	:::	Notre Dame, Indiana
Tiventy-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING	Al Russo
MEN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 12)
By William Flynn
When the going is tough for Notre Dame’s baseball team and the opposing pitcher is making Dr. Keogan’s charges swing and miss, Albert Russo, centerfielder and pinch-hitter, usually steps to the plate and comes through with a hit. His season’s batting average is .340. Against college competition, his rating is .650.
Back in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., his home town, he is remembered as an outstanding baseball performer in another capacity. He played four years of high school baseball there, at Parsons and Wilkes-Barre high schools, and took part in every inning played during that time. Two league championships and twice runner-up -was the record made by the teams of which he was a member.
All-around Athlete
Baseball was not his only part in athletics at Wilkes-Barre. He took part in football, and basketball. He also ran some races in track, and when he graduated left behind him a record outstanding for a interscholastic athlete.
After high school he went to Syracuse university. He had ambitions to become a doctor, and there matriculated in the pre-medical school. Completing his freshman year at Syracuse, during which he played on the yearling nine, he decided to come to Notre Dame.
For three years he has been continuing his pre-medical studies in the College of Science, and playing considerable baseball. He put in one year on the Notre Dame freshman team to meet eligibility requirements, and is now in the midst of his second year of varsity ball. Next year he will enter Loyola medical school in Chicago.
Will Get Cum Laude
Pre-medics, as studied at Notre Dame, have made him rather versatile in the line of scholastic endeavor. The list of courses he has taken to earn his cum laude include seven courses in chemistry, four in philosophy, four years of biology, a year of mathematics to mention a few. His thesis, completed under the direction of Dr. H. D. Hinton of the department of chemistry, was entitled, “Action of Boron Tri-Fluoride Gas on Acetone.”
But Russo is also experienced in a few other lines of endeavor. His work during summer vacations have made him acquainted with the art of being a fireman, railroad man, and hospital orderly.
After his first year of college he was a member of a fire department, and played on the fireman’s baseball team. The next summer he performed in .the car department for the New-Haven railroad in Hartford, and played in the railroad’s baseball league. Last year he was an orderly in a hospital in Far Rockaway, N. Y., and played as a member of a team in that city’s league.
Waits at Head Table
When he returned to Notre Dame each fall, he undertook another type of work. He picked up a tray, and began to carry food and dishes in the Notre Dame dining hall. At the present time he is waiting on the head table in the West hall. This summer, he will probably work in Chicago and play ball with one of that city’s amateur teams.
While it may not, perhaps, be classed as occupation but rather as an avocation, he sometimes writes poetry. Seventy-two wras his record during his Sophomore year.
The K. of C. Formal » with « JAN GARBER «c « « «
MAY SIXTH PALAIS ROYALE
SUBSCRIPTION $3.00
campaign he ivas elected secretary of the Cleveland club and the following year its president.
The most important event of his residence here -was an appendictomy, one which, to hear him tell it, was the feature article in the Medical Journal for January, 1932. Surgery has previously done great things w’ith its knives, but never in its history has it accomplished so great a deed as the removal of “Peanuts” Crawford’s appendix.
Last year he served on the Prom committee and was the University editor of the Dome. At present he is a member of the S. A. C. from the science school and holds the title of “advisor to the Presidents’ council from the S. A. C.” (whatever that means). Part of Mike’s time is spent looking at the picture of a girl named Margaret.
When Mike receives his diploma (cum laude) he will have passed the half-way mark in his education. Next year he is going to enter St. Louis Medical School, where he is going to learn to perform appendix operations w’hich he can so vividly describe.
Plans are under way at Tufts College for the establishment of a law’ school which will train students especially for diplomatic service.
April 29, 1932
Twenty-nine
Sociologists To Meet, Talk, Eat, and Argue
(Continued from Pape 9)
Then the final address of the evening will be given by Dr. Patrick J. Weeks, M.D., special lecturer in criminology at Notre Dame and psychiatrist of the Indiana state penitentiary. The title is “The Relation of Probation Officers to the Penal Institution.”
The Association will re-assemble once again Saturday morning at 10 o’clock in the South Bend Y. M. C. A. to listen to the Hon. Frank J. Sheehan, referee of the Lake county juvenile court of Indiana, argue for “Needed Changes In Probation.”
The chief probation officer of Cook county, Illinois, juvenile court will speak after Sheehan. No subject for his speech has yet been announced.
The last sepaker of the meeting will be Dr. Herbert Williams, Ph.D., who will give his ideas on “The Philosophy of the Big Brother and Big Sister Movement.” He is the Chicago regional director of both these movements. After this talk the meeting will be adjourned until 1933.
Diaries of British Chiefs During Revolution Found
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ann Arbor, Mich., April 28.—What are believed to be some of the most valuable documents of the Revolutionary War ever uncovered have been acquired by the Library of American History at the University of Michigan. They are diaries, letters and other writings of Hessian officers who fought against the American for British pay.
The documents were found in a trunk in a castle in German Westphalia, where they had lain for a century and a half, by a Munich dealei* who asked to search for such documents by Dr. Randolph G. Adams, director of the library here.
“We have known what the British officers thought of Washington and his followers, but many of them were prejudiced,” Dr. Adams said in telling of the acquisition. “The Hessian generals, however, had no sentimental reasons for disliking Americans and their letters were full of admiration for Washington and his soldiers.”
According to Dr. Adams, the documents contain military information
which will be of inestimable value in adding to the history of the Revolution. Descriptions of Americans and the life of the country at the time, he says, may be of even more importance.
According to one young German officer stationed in New York, “the feminine sex here is exceedingly beautiful and of refined education. The women are dressed according to the latest European fashions.”
Another officer told how the British Commander-in-Chief Howe wasted a whole winter in Philadelphia with, revelry.
Cribs? Old Stuff, Pal;
Chinese Used ’Em In 1600
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, April 28.—Cribbing in examinations is no modern invention, it was revealed here when a silk handkerchief about 300 years old was presented to the Field Museum of Natural History. The handkerchief was identified as bearing thousand of microscopic Chinese characters, used in carrying answers into civil service examinations in the Rank Hi period of Chinese government.
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru, Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are , interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
*	Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.
102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Hello Men!
Smith s
Cafeteria
11 / E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
Thirty
The Scholastic
\SRKLK MEETS MICHIGAN
Home and Home Soccer Series Scheduled With U. of M.
The La Baza Club of the University of Notre Dame has arranged to play a two-game soccer series with the Sociedad Latino Americana of the University of Michigan. The final details have not been decided on as yet but in all probability they will play in Ann Arbor on Sunday May 8, and will act as host to the boys from Michigan for the return game on Sunday, May 15. ‘
Neither Michigan or Notre Dame, unlike other universities in the Middle West and especially in the East, have varsity soccer teams, although from all appearances they may have them in the near future. The fact that they do not have them at present, however, makes .the series between the Latin groups of both Michigan and Notre Dame a semi-official contest between the two schools.
The unique feature of the games is the fact that the players who will participate in them come from many different countries and from different continents. On the Notre Dame team, for example, North America, South America, Central America, Europe, and Asia are represented. They will engage in two contests of the most universal of all games: association football. (Soccer in this country.)
Last Sunday the South Bend Vikings, scoring twice on short, timely boots, defeated the La Raza squad. The game was played for the most part in the center of the field, showing the balance of forces, the failure of the La Raza forwards to shoot when near the Viking’s goal being the cause of the difference in score.
REVIEW FACULTY NOVEL
(Continued from Page 16)
ternity of Unity and was the editor of its journal. Professor Campbell came to this country last fall to become a member of the faculty of the University. -
His brother, J. L. Campbell, is the author of The Miracle of Peille, and his sister-in-law, Alice Campbell, is a noted writer of crime stories. .
Copies of Far Trouble may be obtained at The Bookshop, South Bend. The book is particularly significant now because of the present trouble in China.
To All Newly Elected N D. Club Presidents:
Congratulations!
And with our very sincere good wishes for a successful administration, may we remind you that you will want to attend to a great deal of correspondence this summer.
For that reason we proudly recommend our Monogrammed
Stationery
Which will be printed with the names of your officers and your college club.
v ■
And For Every
Notre Dame Student:
We have ideal Stationery to suit your pocketbook. Attend to that vacation letter-writing with your personal letter-paper.
v '	|
■ 1
Neil C. Hurley
119 Sorin Hall
(If nobody is in, leave name and salesman will gladly call.
No obligation to T>uy—just look around.)
April 29, 1932
Thirty-one
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 26)
Led by Cole, Dillon defeated Howard, 15% to 2%.
Dillon, 15%—Cole (81) 3, Martin (94) 2%. Howard, 2%—Becvar (87) 0, Staley (95) %.
Cole and Martin won, 3 to 0.
Dillon — Henry (90) 1, LaLonde (83) 3. Howard—Slough (87) 2, Andres (105) 0.
Henry and LaLonde won, 3 to 0.
Badin nosed out a Wish, 9% to 8%. None of the players in this match were able to break ninety.
Badin, 9%—Meade (90) 1%, Sullivan (90) 2. Walsh, 8%—Tarasovic (91) 1%, Dubbs (49) 1.
Badin—Sexton (97) 1%, Seigfried (106) 1. Walsh—McLeod (97) 1%, Jackson (104) 2.
The doubles were halved, 1% tol%.
Sexton and Seigfried won the double, 2 to 1.
Due to the fact that some of the halls have not qualified a sufficient number of men, it has been necessary to change the Interhall golf schedule so that the Championship will now be determined by a series of eliminations rather than under the league system. A Championship flight and a Consolation flight will be run at the same time.
Following the pairings and the starting times for: Sunday, May 1.
Note: Captains of the various baseball teams are requested to give the names of the pitcher and catcher to the umpire prior to the beginning cf . the game.
SOCCER
Lyons, the newcomers into the interhall soccer contests, won a 2-1 game from Morrissey last Sunday morning. Morrissey, on a low cross shoot by Hoffmann, opened the score in the first half. The strong wind sweeping the field from end to end made it difficult to execute plays in the best style, and kept the ball for the most part at one end of the field. Lyons came back in the second half and scored two points on boots from oKturla and O’Dea.
The lineups:
Lyons: Singson, Fitzpatrick, Cox, Tingley, oKturla, Macky, aCrpenter, O’Dea, Hallauer, O’Neil, Nanovic.
Morrissey: Ryan, Roche, Cmkovic,
Hoffmann, Shenkel, eHndricks, Froehlich, Reilly, Gilloley.
Sophomore forfeited to St. Edward’s in the other game scheduled.
Sunday Lyons will play St. Edward’s and Morrissey of. the Old Gold Coast will face Alumni of the New Gold Coast. Both of these expect to put strong teams on the field.
TOURNEY TO START MAY 7
(Continued from Page 22)
of these scores and the names of twenty men, who may thus enter the tournament merely by depositing a blank card bearing their name and address, has been posted at the clubhouse.
The trophies to be awarded the winner and runnner-up have been ordered and will be on display as soon as they arrive.
Cards now on file with the Handicap Committee range from a 76 up to 109, with the handicaps ranging consequently from 2 strokes up to and including 16, the limit set by the tournament officials. The majority of the scores, however, are between 80 and 95.
Windjammer World Cruise
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME TO GO TO SEA
on a trip of about 10 months on one of the largest sailing ships afloat. You pay about what it would cost you to stay home for the same length of time. Here’s how :
A carefully picked group of men from various parts of the country will serve with a few regular sailors as the crew under experienced officers. You have a chance to make this crew, if you act quickly.
The crew wil be big enough to avoid making drudgery of work aboard ship. Every man will stand all the regular sea watches in turn—he will learn the sea and seamanship. No passengers. No women nor children. No cargo.
Nearly 30,000 miles of adventurous sailing to the unfrequented waters of the world with a keen crowd.
Starts early September. Includes South Seas, New Zealand, Australia, southern Indian Ocean and the south and north Atlantic.
If you want to try for this crew, write now for details and low cost figures to
WINDJAMMER WORLD CRUISE
Spruce Pine, N. C.
Contestants are advised to watch the bulletin boards at the clubhouse for announcements concerning the tournament. Any changes or lastminute bulletins will be posted there.
Ray Nabor To Assist In Big Palmolive Contest
Here is a cash prize contest that does not discriminate against college men. A check of the winners in the Palmolive-Colgate shaving cream conetest reveals that seven of the cash awards have been won by undergraduates. To date honors are divided between Princeton, Columbia, Carleton, Duke University, State Teachers’ College of Arkansas, University of Dayton, and St. Thomas College.
In order to further stimulate interest among college men, free sample tubes of both Palmolive and Colgate’s shaving creams have been or are being distributed in college towns.
Ray Nabor, assistant circulation manager of The Scholastic, will be in charge of the local distribution.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, lnc-
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
0. A. CLARK'S RESTAURANT 104-106 N. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
❖
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
♦
WE HAVE NO KEY  ■
On Down the Line
With Joe Morper —
TED LYONS, Chicago Sox hurler, will receive his degree from Baylor this spring . . . He left Baylor ten years ago to play baseball . . . Seven billion fish and fish eggs were “planted” in lakes and streams last year . . . Six individual champs will be among the 3,000 athletes taking part in the PENN games today and tomorrow . . . SWEEPING LIGHT is the only foreign horse given much of a chance to win the Kentucky Derby . . . OMAR KHAYYAN is the only other foreign horse to win the event. . . .
V ’
MEL OTT, Giant star and a veteran of seven campaigns at 23, led the National League in runs batted in last year . . . The only time the U. S. ever lost the hammer throw in the OLYMPICS, an Irish competitor named O’CALLAGHAN won it . . . Experts say rowing and tennis are among the most difficult of sports . . . Yet they are the most popular at Smith College for young women . . . ED STRANGLER LEWIS has traveled over 600,000 miles by airplane . . . But JIM LONDOS is famous for his Airplane spin. . . .
V
MAMBU, Japanese holder of the world’s broad jump record of 26 feet, 2 inches, has also covered the 100 meters in 10.6 seconds, tying PERCY WILLIAMS’ Olympic record . . . WALTER CHRISTIE, head track coach at California for the past 32 years, will retire at the close of the 1932 season . . . McCARTHY, Fairfax (Calif.) High school star, recently ran the 440 in 47.4 . . . You’ll hear more of him later . . . PAOLINO UZCUDUN has never been knocked off his feet in 14 years of fighting . . . And he has met the best of them.
V
Only one FRESHMAN turned out for the catching position at Northwestern . . . E. O. HICKS of Little Rock made an ace on a 120 yard hole without hitting the green . . . BILL TERRY last week hit six home runs in four consecutive games ... RUTH, KLEIN, and KEN WILLIAMS are the only other players who have accomplished the feat . . . Only two earned runs were scored by the White . Sox in 52 innings ... Grid fans claim that rugby is guilty of overemphasis . . . Instead of a quarterback, rugby teams have a three-quarters-back....
Here, MEN, smoke a man’s smoke
A PIPEFUL of good tobacco is dis, tinctly a man’s smoke. The
women (long may
The pipe is not for pretty girls.
they wave!) have taken over most of our masculine privileges. But pipe smoking still belongs to us.
In every walk of life you’ll find that the men at the top are pipe
smokers. And most college men agree that the pipe offers the rarest pleasures a man could ask of his smoking.
Here’s the smoke for men, a pipe and good tobacco.
When you smoke a pipe, be sure you choose the tobacco that will give you the greatest enjoyment. In 42 out of 54 colleges Edgeworth is the favorite. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold.
Or for a special sample packet,
write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va. Sample is free.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, x 54 pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
Bruce Barton writes:
And that’s why The SCHOLASTIC enjoys the favor of many advertisers, local and national. Week after week it is read closely by more than three thousand men at Notre Dame.
Week after week the alert merchandiser tells his story. Certainly it pays to talk to this parade. Proof: few of our advertisers cease talking in our pages, once they have gained that student ear.
The Scholastic
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
KH. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, NOTRE DANE, IND.
ALL YOU COULD ASK FOR
O1932, Liggett&Myeks Tobacco Co.