
Follow Notre Dame Football 
Subscribe 
to 

Scholastic 
AND BE PART OF AN EVEN OLDER TRADITION 
Please send years of Scholastic to: Name 
Address _______________________ 
City ____________State ____ Zip _____ Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years = $___ 

Paid Advertisement 
Featuring: 



,. I 
I I 
i 
I 
i i· 
I 
J 
., 


2 


HUDDLE NIGHT 283-2391 OAK
239-693\>tfREc~39-7518 



OFFER VALID THROUGH 2-5-88; NO DELIVERIE9 WITH THIS CfFER 

UNIVERSITY HE SERVICES 
EXPANDED PHYSICIAN HOURS 
In an effort to better meet your health care needs, the hours in which physicians are available in our outpatient clinic have been expanded as follows: 
Open at 8:00 am Available during the lunch hour On duty from 5:00 pm -~:00 pm 
PLEASE NOTE: Above schedule is Mo11day~Friday · 
l-lOURS MAY VARY WHEJ' SCHOOL /SNOT IN SESSION 
Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
The 1987 Season 
4 Michigan By Bob Gordon 
8 MSU By Kathleen McKernan 
11 Purdue By Bob Gordon 
14 Pitt 
By Mike Farnan 
18 Air Force .. By Lawrence Pravecek 
22 USC By Terry Lynch 

26 Navy By Pete Skiko 42 Miami By Marty Burns 30 Boston College By Marty Strasen 46 Heisman Winner's Stats 
34 Alabama 48 1988 Cotton Bowl · By Brian O'Gara By Marty Burns 
38 Penn State 52 All Opponent Team By Terry Lynch 54 Individual Honors 
Cover photo courtesy ofNotre Dame Sports Information 

Scholutic ia published.weekly during the Khoo! year except during exuninulon, aad vacation period, at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and primed at 'ft• Papaw, Inc., Milford, IN '8542. Tbe auboc:ription rate i, $20.00/year and back issues are available U.00/copy. The opiniona expraNd ·ln Bcholllltk an thi1 of the autbon and ttditon and do not neceuarily repraent the ol)UUINU ol &IN enUN editorial board of· lcholutlc 01' the Unlvenity of Notre Dame, lta adminiatntion, faculty or ,tudent body. Editorial ¦ r1preaent the opinion of a ~ority of the Mlkorhl board. Manu¦cripta are welcome. All un,olicited material become the property of Scholutic. Scholutic i, ftpr¦ Nnted nationally by CASS Communicatlom, Inc. 
• 1911 Scholulk .....-ae. All richta NNrYed. Reproduct.ion in whole or part without permi ¦¦ ion i ¦ prohibited. 




Joe Vitacco 
Irish 
Thanks to seven Michigan turnovers, Notre Dame managed to do what no team 
had done before . . . beat 
BY BOB GORDON 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Michigan Wolverine football gen­erally offers few suprises. They play ball-control offense, tediously munching up minutes and yards on their trail to the endzone. On defense they stop the run, and create third-and-long situations for the opponent. This generates punts and sometimes even turn­overs. They repeat these tactics to 
the brink of boredom. 
Even the Michigan fight song is repetitive. Wolverine fans repeat the word "hail" more often than Father Hesburgh might while uttering a decade of rosaries. But the most frightening aspect of "Michigan Repeats" would have to be head coach Bo Schembechler's uncanny knack for winning his home opener. With a perfect 12-0 mark in home 

Bo Schembechler in a season opener at Ann Arbor. 
openers, in fact, one could almost say Schembechler wins his home opener almost as frequently as he loses the Rose Bowl. 
Not surprisingly then, the 1987 Michigan-Notre Dame opener was supposed to be a clear-cut victory for Michigan. The Wolverines were favored by four points, coming off a Rose Bowl year. Notre Dame was attempting to rebound from a 5-6 season and the loss of 11 starters to graduation. Quite simply, the game was not going be a mystery. 
There were no suprises then in Ann Arbor on September 12 when the two schools mixed it up, except that it was Notre Dame who dominated. Behind a solid defensive effort and an oppor­tunistic offense, the Irish cruised to a 26-7 victory. The win marked the first time Michigan had lost a home opener under Schembechler, and the first time a Notre Dame football team had been above .500 since midway through the 1985 season. 

"It was a very gratifying win," said Irish D.ead coach Lou Holtz. "I'm not suprised with how well we played because I really felt that defensively we were going to play awfully, awfully well. It was just a complete win for us." 
Notre  Dame's  "No-Name"  
defense  stuffed  M1chigan's  
offense.  Restraining  elusive  
Michigan  tailback  Jamie  Morris  

and harassing both of1 Schembechler's inexperienced quarterbacks, the Irish defense created more turnovers (seven) than any Ann Arbor bakery. Those "Irish Delights" were sweet for Notre Dame but they didn't sit too comfortably in Schembechler's 
Scholastic 
Michigan 

Holtz was all smiles before, during and after the "gra­tifying" win over Michigan. 
stomach. 
"Turnovers," muttered the famous Wolverine mentor, who seemed to opt for sour grapes as a post game snack. "We just had too many turnovers. We kept taking ourselves out of the game and really made it easy for Notre Dame. They are probably not as good as they looked. I'm not tak­ing anything away from them. Not at all. But if you give us seven turnovers, we'll beat a lot of teams." 
Notre Dame posted a 10-0 lead in the first quarter by capitalizing on Wolverine generosity. With Michigan threatening to break a scoreless tie on first down at the Irish 24-yard line, Wolverine quar­terback Demetrius Brown was rocked by blitzing Irish corner­back Stan Smagala. As Brown found himself heading to the turf he blindly hurled the ball down­field, where Notre Dame line­backer Cedric Figaro intercepted and rambled 11 yards to his own 29-yard line. 
From there Notre Dame quar­terback Terry Andrysiak guided his troops on a 44-yard, 11-play march. Although the drive stalled at the Michigan 27-yard line, and the Irish had to settle for a 44-yard Ted Gradel field goal, the Irish offensive line realized it could blow holes in the highly-touted Wolverine defensive front. 
The Irish soon learned they could pass effectively as well, after Michigan's Morris fumbled the ball on the first play after the kickoff and the Irish recovered. Andrysiak went to the air and promptly found Notre Dame's Reisman Trophy candidate, Tim Brown, for a 24-yard gain that moved the sticks to the Wolverine 10-yard line. After one rush for no gain, Andrysiak dropped_ back again to throw. This time, though, he spent a full eight seconds of time waiting in the pocket for a receiver to get open. Suddenly, the senior quarterback fired into the en:dzone to Brown, who was sandwiched in between two Wol­verine defenders. But Brown soared three feet in the air, caught the ball amongst the crowd and landed both feet in the end zone for a remarkable display of ath­letic ability and Notre Dame's first 
touchdown of 1987. 
"After I saw that second defender behind me, I couldn't believe Terry threw it," said Brown, whose touchdown recep­tion also closed out the scoring for the half. 
Andrysiak, however, found it to be his day all along. The Allen Park, Michigan native, who spurned an offer to play for his 


January 28, 1988 
Michigan 
state university so that he could play at Notre Dame, had a story­book type of game. He completed l l-of-15 passes for 137 yards on the day, including the Brown touchdown throw, and one mean­ingless interception on a pass just before halftime. 
"I think Terry played very well," said Holtz, whose Irish team had to replace graduated quarter-' back Steve Beuerlein in 1987. "I didn't have any qualms about Terry up until 13 days ago, when I didn't think we were on the same page or even the same book." 
By halftime of the game with the Wolverines, though, Notre Dame led 10-0 and it was clear the entire Irish squad was reading from the same playbook. Early in the third period · they proved it beyond any doubt, when the defense once again came up with the big play and the offense capi­talized for the score. 
With Michigan moving the ball effectively, mostly on dives by the quick Morris, it appeared the Wol­verines had figured out the defense of Notre Dame. Then on a third-and-seven from the Notre Dame 40-yard line, Michigan's Brown threw to flanker John 


Kolesar. Apparently Brown never saw Irish safety Corny Southall, however, because the junior defender stepped in front of the intended receiver and intercepted the ball, giving the Irish a first­and-10 at their own 45-yard line. 
Andrysiak then linked up with freshman tight end Frank Jacobs for a 23-yard completion and with Brown, on a third-and-eight, for a 24-yard completion to move the ball to the Wolverine 14-yard line. 


With 2:30 left in the third quarter, 
fullback Braxston Banks carried it 
in two yards for the touchdown. 
Notre Dame was shocking Michi­
gan 17-0. 
But Michigan countered behind 
the persistent Morris and Brown's 

quick thinking to make one last 
run. First Morris broke open for a 
16-yard scamper to midfield, then 
the fleet-footed Brown broke a 
quarterback draw for 39 yards to 
the •Irish 12-yard line. With 
100,000-plus Wolverine faithful 

suddenly reawakened, Brown 
rolled out and lofted a beautiful 
strike to receiver Greg McMurtry 
for the touchdown. For the first 
time-in-a long while, the Michigan 
band broke into "Hail To The Vic­
tors", and the Irish lead fell to 
17-7. 
"When they scored to make it 
17-7, I felt it was critical," said 
Holtz. "I called the offense 
together and said, 'We've got to 
answer the challenge.' And the 
offense did the job." . 
·The Irish did indeed respond, starting a scoring drive from their own 28-yard line. Andrysiak found tailback Mark Greeri in the .flat for I 4 yards to move the ball to midfield, then handed off to fullback Anthony Johnson three straight times for another first down. Testing Michigan's front four, Notre• Dame then ran six more times up the gut of the Wol­verine defense. Although the drive stalled, the Irish got three points ·off a 38-yard field goal by Gradel to pad their lead to 20-7. And 
perhaps more importantly, they 
took seven minutes off the score­
board clock. 
Facing a 13-point deficit with 
only nine minutes left put S_chem-
Although Brown never found the open field, he did snare an acrobatic touchdown catch to put the Irish ahead, 10-0. 
Scholastic 
Michigan 


bechler in a difficult situation. defenders George Streeter and attack, and the opportunistic 
Michigan, never a good second­Brandy Wells combined for a bunch generated the big turnovers 
half comeback team, now had to nearly flawless performance. They that Notre Dame always seemed to 
let its two run-oriented quarter-contained Michigan's passing lack in 1986. About the only thing that went wrong for the Irish, in fact~ occured late in the game, after Irish freshman tailback Ricky Watters took an Andrysiak pitch, ran 16 yards, and vaulted over Wolverine safety Doug Mallory for the touchdown. Leading 26-7, Andrysiak tried to pass for the two-point conversion. The pass missed,· though, and the Irish had to settle for only six points. 
The day still ended on a posi­tive note, however, when quicker than Bo Schembechler can say "I miss Jim Harbaugh", Irish line­backer Wes Pritchett intercepted a Taylor pass to seal the victory. Harbaugh, the ex-Wolverine star quarterback, graduated with two victories over Notre Dame. 
But on this day Harbaugh was not around to save Michigan, and as the clock wound down the thousands of Irish fans who gutted

8 out the road trip to Ann Arbor 
;;:.s stormed the field and then the ~ streets of the town. All along they ..., chanted, "We're Number One." On 
such a productive and promising

The Irish offensive line blew through the heralded Wolverine 
Saturday afternoon, who could defense, allowing Notre Dame ·to roll up 336 yards of total offense. 

argue with them? II 
backs go to the air. Although Schembechler had replaced Brown with junior option specialist Michael Taylor in the third quar­ter, he wanted Brown's strong arm back in the game and so Brown reentered the contest. Moments later, though, Brown left the field almost as quickly as he had entered it after · Southall again intercepted a pass for McMurtry. 
The young, unproven secon­dary of Notre Dame all day showed signs of being a force. Led by Southall and Smagala, fellow 


January 28, 1988 


rtheMon· 


BY KATHLEEN McKERNAN NOTRE DAME, In --After Notre Dame's 31-8 victory over Michigan State in the season opener of its 100th year of foot­ball, Irish head coach and erstwhile quipster Lou Holtz was simple in his praise: "This football 
anonymous defense, to a solid per~ formance for senior quarterback Terry Andrysiak, the Irish showed the capacity to win with special teams, fine defense and whatever else it might take. And they-did it against a fine Michigan State team which featured a Reisman candi­

to a pair of Brown punt returns that went for touchdowns within 
2:01 of each other. The first return marked the first. time in 14 years that the Irish had run a punt return all the way, and it was the first time since 1926 that a Notre Dame player had returned two 
team has an awful lot of things going for it." 
From Reisman Trophy candi­dat~. Tim Brown's 275 all-purpose yards, including two, yes two, punt returns for touchdowns, to eight sacks· for a formerly date of its own in back Lorenzo White and a physical defense that would carry the Spartans to the 1987 Big Ten title and a Rose Bowl win. 
At the end of the first quarter the Irish held a 19-0 lead, thanks punts for touchdowns. The first return was almost planned, Brown explained. "We knew (MSU punter Greg) Montgomery had a 53-yard average. We figured he'd overkick the coverage, and that's exactly what he did." Brown broke two 

8 

Scholastic 

Michigan State University 


tackles and got blocking help. Then Spartan safety Todd Krumm motioned, Brown said, for "me to 'come on, come on, come on.' So I came to him." 
But for the second return, Brown "was supposed to call for a fair catch," he admitted. "I think I would have been chewed out if I hadn't returned it." But the Spar­tans were having their own prob­lems. 
"If I had to do it over, maybe I wouldn't have emphasized our punt coverage so much," Spartan coach George Perles said. "Our senior guys were flying down there; they were trying so hard, some just ran by him. (For the second touchdown) they were all in one line with no second wave. And Brown is a great, great foot­ball player." 
Brown found himself alone with that single line of Spartan defense, since Notre Dame was going for the punt block, and just ran tight by them. The only thing between Brown and a 66-yard touchdown run was punter Greg Montgomery. And Brown said he was thinking; "I'm not going to let myselfbe tackled by a punter." 
Jan1:1ary 28, 1988 
"What a move Timmy put on that punter," Holtz gushed. "I don't know where a dance is being held tonight. That's the only place you might see another move like that." 
The Irish opened the game, meanwhile, with a couple of points courtesy of lady luc_k. MSU kick returner Blake Ezor snagged the opening kickoff close to the 2 
Heisman hopeful White ·(34) had no place to go with the Irish defense surrounding him all even­ing. 
yard line, and dropped back into what he thought. was a touch back, but which the officials correctly ruled a safety. So Notre Dame started off with a 2-0 lead before a second had ticked off the clock. 
Perles took the freshman aside and said, "Blake, you made a mis­take, but don't feel that you just got us off to a bad start or got us behind," according to the diplomatic MSU chief. Things were soon to get worse for the Spartans. After a Ted Gradel field goal made the score 5-0, Brown took over in helping the Irish run away with the game. But for all his heroics, the senior from Dallas transferred the credit for the vie-

The Irish offensive line of (left to right) Byron Spruell, Jeff Pearson, Chuck Lanza, Tom Free­man and Tom Rehder, carried the Irish once again. 

g 
Michigan State University 
tory: "The defense played better than I did," he said. 

The Irish defense held White to only 51 yards on 19 carries, and contained nimble Spartan quarter­back Bobby McAllister from breaking any long runs. White may "break parietals" as a sign on Keenan Hall proclaimed the week­end of the game, but he had a hard time breaking free from Notre Dame's tough defense. McAllister, meanwhile, was sacked eight 
times. "They blitzed more than we've seen in any game," Perles said. "The sacks really are a motivating factor for the other team --and it doesn't do a whole lot for your team. They really take away a lot." One of tackle Jeff Kunz's two sacks in the second quarter in the endzone accounted for Notre Dame's second safety of the afternoon. 
In addition to the sacks, Notre Dame forced four turnovers with interceptions by junior linebacker Ned Bolcar and freshman safety Todd Lyght. Bolcar and junior tackle Tom Gorman also recovered fumbles. And the Spartans only score, a 57-yard McAllister pass to wideout Andre Rison and a subse­quent two-point conversion throw, came with only 1:06 left in the game and against the Irish second teamers. 
Perles also added praise for Irish quarterback Terry Andrysiak. The Allen Park, Mich. native threw for 109 yards and scampered for 22. "The way he played tonight was the way I fig­ured he would play when I tried to recruit him," Perles said; "I'm glad we didn't have to face him the last two years." 

While Perles thought about the 
i: past, too many others were talking about the future. Before the Musco temporary lights surround-. ing the stadium had been turned off, Reisman odds and bowl bid possibilities already had become a prime topic of conversation. But Brown claimed: "I don't think about [the Reisman]. And Holtz was even more adamant: "We have a great group of guys," he said. "We've played two football games, and some great things have happened to us. But great teams are classified on Jan. 2." 



ATTENTION N.D AND S.M.C STUDENTS ... BRING IN THIS COUPON AND RECEIVE A 15% DISCOUNT ON 
APPOINTMENTS WITH KIM, TAMMY, PAM, OR BETH!!! 
** BEAUTY SUPPLIES **HAIRCARE AND MANICURES ** WALK-INS OR BY APPOINTMENT ** ACROSS FROM THE 700 CENTER 

I I I I 
703 Lincolnway West: 
I 
Mishawaka, IN 46544 l I 255-8608 I 
I
I, 
I I I I I 
----------·-------------------------------------------------· 
10 Scholastic 
CON tenders 
or 

PREtenders? 
"Which one are you?" Irish head coach Lou Holtz asked his team at halftime. The Irish responded with an awesome second half display that dashed a valiant upset bid by Purdue. 
history on a sunny September day 
BY BOB GORDON 

at Ross-Ade Stadium. Notre 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. Dame had spent its past century Purdue and Notre Dame, each becoming perhaps the most presti­celebrating its hundredth year of . gious team in the college game." football, met for the 57th time in Purdue passed the time mainly 

0
..,
.., .is 
-~ 
~ 


being a stingy foe to bigger powers, especially to the Irish, against whom it compiled more wins (21) than any other school except USC and earned for itself the label, "Spoilermakers". 
But with Notre Dame (2-0 and ranked No.8 in the AP poll) charg­ing into the game off of victories over stiffer Big Ten rivals Michi­gan and Michigan State, and Pur­due (0-1-1) staggering in after a tie with Louisville on the Boilers' home turf, not many fans were talking ·about any possible upsets this time. First-year Purdue head coach Fred Akers, in fact, went so far as to predict "one of the larg­est spreads in the history of foot­ball," a week before the game. 
Akers was close --bettors placed the Irish as 23-point favor­ites, but that gaudy spread didn't stop Purdue from scaring the wits out of Notre Dame with a 17-point second-quarter explosion that knotted the score at 17-17 at the half. Ironically, however, the Boilermakers could not sustain their upset dream, and allowed the Irish to dominate the second half and gain a 44-20 victory that even covered the spread by one point. 

"I told the team at halftime that there were two kinds of teams at this point of the season," Holtz said, "CON-tenders and PRE­tenders. Which one are you going to be?" 
. 
After a sluggish first-half, the "No-Names" got together and put the clamp on Purdue's upset bid. 
January 28, 1988 
11 

Purdue 


Holtz' team answered that question with their impressive second half, but one can forgive the second-year mentor for his doubts. After staking its way to a quick 10-0 lead, the Irish seemed to fall asleep while Boilermakers quarterback Doug Downing (ll­of-27, 106 yards) passed his squad 
back into contention. 

Downing acquired his hot hand just in time. Notre Dame scored on its first possession when placekicker Ted Gradel booted a 25-yard field goal after quarter­back Terry Andrysiak had con­nected on a 51-yard pass to full­back Anthony Johnson. Then, while Holtz was still marveling at that drive ("We felt Purdue would double-team Tim Brown, and that we could get the fullback open"), 
the Irish struck again. This time they went 81 yards, all on the ground, for a Johnson touchdown run that put the Irish up 10-0 and seemed to put Purdue in big trou­ble. 
But Downing strung together five straight pass completions in five attempts and directed a 12­play, 80-yard touchdown drive early in the second period to put his team back in the game. And after Boilermakers linebacker Jer­rol Williams intercepted Andrysiak at the Irish 37-yard line seconds later, rambling down to the 22­yard line, Notre Dame suddenly found itself in a tight contest. 
Whereas momen ts before, Notre Dame had been bulldozing its way through a Purdue defense that appeared to be on skates, Downing now found himself glid­ing past the usually stingy Irish "No-Name" defense with balance· and ease. The big senior, who had spent two years at Purdue on the bench behind star quarterback Jim Everett and then one behind freshman phenom Jeff George, hit flanker Calvin Williams for the scoring pass. Notre Dame now trailed for the first time in its entire season, 14-10, which brought most of the 68,526 sun­drenched fans to their feet. 

Enthusiasm turned to absolute mayhem a few minutes later when Purdue's Williams picked up his second turnover, landing on a Mark Green fumble at the Purdue 28-yard line. The Irish had driven 74 yards before the turnover, thanks to the surprise entrance of Notre Dame sophomore quarterback Tony Rice, who exer­cised a precise option that cut through the Boilermaker defense. "I told Tony that he would take over on the fourth series," said Holtz. "He did a fine job, but the fumble cost us." 
The Boilermakers promptly ran through the Irish to midfield. Purdue tailback Darren Myles scampered around left end on one carry, nearly scoring if not for a touchdown-saving tackle by Irish 
Notre Dame's "Mr. Touchdown," fullback Anthony Johnson, found his way to the endzone three times against the Boilermakers. 
cornerback Stan Smagala. Even with the save, however, Myles gained 32 yards and placed Purdue at the Irish eight-yard line. 
Still, Smagala's tackle may indeed have saved four points as Purdue failed to push it in against the Notre Dame brawn. On fourth down at the two, Akers settled for a 19-yard Jonathan Briggs' field goal which padded the Boiler lead, 17-10. Oddly enough against such a weak opponent, the Irish "No­Names" had become "No-Shows", allowing more points in the second quarter than they had all season. 
Not all of the "No-Names" had a long day, though. Smagala continued his spectacular play, cutting in .front of a Purdue receiver and intercepting-a Down­ing pass moments later. "Super Stan"'s interception prevented 
12 Scholastic 
Purdue 

another Purdue score and set up a late Irish touchdown that forged the halftime deadlock. Notre Dame's Johnson hauled in a 39­yard pass from Andrysiak on the drive, and then capped it off with his second touchdown of the day, a six-yard fight . to the goal to make it 17-17 at the half. 
Although Holtz' pep talk at the half app_arently did the job, it took a few minutes of play for it to fully ·sink in to his players. Purdue inside· linebacker Fred Strickland recovered an Andrysiak fumble at midfield, paving. the way for a 50-yard field goal by Briggs that lifted the Boilermakers to a 20-17 lead early in the second half. 
Down by three points to Purdue in the third quarter might have given :Holtz an upset stomach, but after a personal foul penalty stuck Notre Dame with a first-and-twenty at its own 9-yard · line, the perfectionist Irish mentor must have felt the rumblings of an ulcer. "We had our backs against the wall," Holtz confess~d. "There was no place to hide." 
A screen pass to Irish tailback · Mark Green picked up 21 yards, though, and Notre Dame ran 11 straight times behind its veteran offensive line_ to. go 70 more. The line, consisting of tackles Tom Rehder ahd Byron Spruell, guards Tom Freeman. and Jeff Pearson, and center Chuck Lanza, blew the Boilermakers off the ball, and sprung a hole for Johnson to col­lect his third touchdown of the game. For the day, the Irish gained 268 net yards rushing to the Boilermakers' 87. 
"I thought the (91-yard drive) was critical," said Holtz of· the score which put Notre Dame ahead for good· at, 24-2.0. "You never know how a team will react. I'm 
January 28, 1988 
really proud of our men. They handled the pressure well. We grew as a team today." 
The Irish "No-Name" defense, meanwhile, found itself 
1:lfJtti~ltii~I;; 
J,:i£1Jf~r;~;;w.tfi 
and began ·dominating in the bone-crushing manner it had shown in: the team's earlier two games. Over Purdue's final five possessions, the Irish yielded only 10 net yards. Notre Dame inside linebacker Ned Bolcar led the assault with 11 tackles. 
Then, as if to prove that everything was indeed back to normal for the Irish, Brown finally broke free after a day of double­teaming by the Boilermaker defense. "I was being double­covered all day, but I told Coach Holtz I could beat them deep. We had to wait, though, and use what they were giving us with that cov­erage." Brown's patience paid off, though, when he hooked up with an Andrysiak spiral for a 49-yard touchdown grab that put the Irish up 31-20. 
Gradel added two fourth­period field goals, from 28 and 44 yards out, for Notre Dame to make the lead 37-20. Then, with Boiler­makers substitute quarterback Shawn McCarthy attempting to ignite a late comeback, Irish safety Corny Southall rounded out the scoring by intercepting a pass and returning it 57 yards for the final touchdown. 
In the winner's locker room after the game, Lou Holtz made the rounds, shook hands, and congratulated his team of con­tenders. At one locker he stopped for a moment and interrupted a mob of reporters hanging on Tim Brown's every word to say, "Timmy, I'm proud of you." 
Lou Holtz, Tim Brown and pride, a trinity ascending Notre Dame back to college football's promised land in 1987. II 

,, ! 


13 




Breakdown 
at 

Pittsburgh 
Things couldn; t have fared much worse for Notre Dame when it lost two star players to injury and a football game to Pitt, 30-22. 
BY MIKE FARNAN 

PITTSBURGH --: When the 
4th-ranked Notre Dame football 
team unpacked its belongings in 
the visitors' locker room at Pitt 
stadium on October 10, the players 
probably had a strange feeling that 
they had forgotten something. A 
quick equipment check most likely 
would have given them the false 
impression that everything was in 
order. A role call .would also have 
seemed to reveal that they were in 
fact the same team that had beaten 
Michigan, Michigan State, and . Purdue the three previous weeks. 
By halftime of its game with 
the unranked and 3-2 Panthers-, · 
however, . Notre Danie probably 
realized that somehow it had. for­
14 

Scholastic 
:•... 
Pittsburgh 

Holtz looked worried when Andrysiak's injury turned out to be a broken collarbone. 
gotten its winning ways and had 
packed in its place only some lousy 
South Bend weather. Pitt managed 
to build a 27-0 lead in a rain­
soaked first half, and then held on 
to upset the previously undefeated 

Irish, 30-22. 
Although the Irish lost a big game and two of its star players in the fiasco at Pittsburgh --quarter­back Terry Andrysiak and junior safety Corny Southall went down with serious injuries --Notre Dame still managed to find some consolation. Sophomore quarter­back Tony Rice, a speedy option specialist from the hills of Woo­druff, S.C., led the Irish to 22 second-half points ·in relief of Andrysiak, and established him­self as the man who could perhaps lead Notre Dame to its first New Year's Day bowl appearance in 
seven years. 
Rice executed the Irish offense with surprising poise in the second half, despite entering the game under difficult conditions. Facing a 27-0 deficit and replacing the veteran Andrysiak, who had suf­fered a broken collarbone on the last play of the· first half, didn't seem to scare Rice at all. At least not after ·he got a few plays in. "At first, I was a bit nervous " 
' 

Rice admitted. "But once· I got going, it felt great." 
Indeed, Rice got over his jitters and racked up some pretty fair numbers for only one half of foot-
Despite one costly fumble, Brown had another super day, dancing through the Pitt defense for 217 all-purpose yards. 
ball. Irish head coach Lou Holtz termed Rice's 19 carries for 68 yards, and his 5-of-12 passing for 125 yards, "admirable", pointing out the fact that Rice missed all of his freshman campaign as a Propo­sition 48 casualty. "I thought Tony 
· competed well," Holtz said, emphasizing the one bright spot in an otherwise disastrous day. "Especially considering how diffi­cult it was to come in down 27-0. He's an excellent athlete, but he just doesn't have the experience that Terry did. We'll just have to work with him as much as we can to get him ready." 
The Irish defense, meanwhile, made a comeback of its own, hold­ing the previously unstoppable Pitt attack to a lone field goal in the second half. That feat was rather remarkable in itself considering that the Irish unit had been on the field for over 22 of the 30 minutes of the first half. In addition, the "No Names" had lost one of their more notable players in Southall, a victim of a severe ligament tear in his leg. 
But a solid final 30 minutes of football could not push the Irish past a Pitt team that played as though it had something to prove. Led by powerful running back Craig "Ironhead" Heyward and a much-maligned senior quarterback named Sal Genilla, Pitt established several lengthy drives early and converted Irish turnovers into points: The result was a first half in which Notre Dame's offensive players spent more time dodging raindrops on the sidelines than dodging tacklers on the field. 
"I'll remember (this win) when they are putting me in the casket," Genilla joked after he had silenced his critics with an 8-of-13 passing performance for 109 yards. Right up until game time, many Pitt fans had called for second-year Pitt head coach Mike Gottfried to go with one of his two freshman signal-callers against the Irish, after Genilla's erratic passing had helped Temple and Boston College upset the Panthers. Gottfried, however, stuck with his senior and Genilla responded well, throwing for his club's first touchdown and running a two-yard bootleg for another. 
Heyward, meanwhile, put on a 





January 28, 1988 
15 
Pittsburgh 


show of his own, banging out 132 yards on a whopping 42 carries. The stocky Heisman Trophy can­didate, who stands 6-0, 260­pounds, had been averaging 129 yards per game going into the con­test, and no team had been able to hold him to less than 100 yards. His effort, which vaulted him into fourth-place on the all-time Pitt rushing list (2,075 yards total), overshadowed even Genilla's and enabled the Panthers to. pull off their big upset. 
Observers might have guessed the Irish were not exactly in the best frame of mind as early as the coin flip. After winning the toss and electing to defer, Irish co­captains Chuck Lanza and Byron Spruell had a difficult time decid­ing which goal to defend. Upon setting up on the wrong side of the field each team had to turn arou~d and ex<. '.1ange sides across the midfield stripe.· Eventually, the Panthers remedied the confu­sion and then proceeded to show the Irish four times in the half that they indeed were supposed to be defending the north goal. 
The first of these scores took 
place midway through the first 
quarter when Genilla hit flanker 
Billy Osborn for a 31-yard touch­
down strike. Earlier on the drive, 
which covered 77 yards in seven 
plays, Genilla had set up behind 
protection and passed to Heyward 
for 23 yards. Although kicker Jeff 
Van Horne missed the conversion 
attempt and the score stood at only 
6-0, it appeared Genilla had the 
"No-Names" number. 

Genilla left no doubt moments 
later after Pitt defensive back 
Gary Richard intercepted an 
Andrysiak pass and carried it to 
the Notre Dame 38-yard line. 
Genilla drove the Panthers to the 
goal line, where Heyward plunged 
in for the score. Then, after 
Genilla hit a wide-open Reggie 
Williams for the two-point conver­
sion, Pitt led 14-0 and could sense 
a victory. "Everything was work­
ing," Genilla said. "That first 
touchdown really did it. It gave me 
a lot of confidence." 

Things could have turned in 
Notre Dame's favor a few . moments later, however, had not the Irish committed their second crucial turnover of the day. Notre 
Dame's Heisman Trophy candidate 
Tim Brown hauled in an 
Andrysiak pass at midfield and 
headed down the sidelines for 
what should have been a nice run 
to the Pitt 26-yard line. Unfor­tunately for Brown, however, he coughed up the wet football along the way and Pitt's Quintin Jones fell on it. Genilla engineered a 74-yard drive in 16 plays, includ­ing a 20-yard scramble for first­down and a two-yard bootleg for the score, to put the Panthers on top, 21-0.. 

Pitt's final touchdown of the half occurred with seven minutes remammg, after Irish punter Vince Phelan's kick carried only 34 yards in the driving rain. Pitt return specialist Teryl Austin returned the kick for 11 yards, and once again the Panthers had the ball deep in Irish territory. In what was becoming an all-too familiar sight to the Irish defense, Heyward barrelled in from the one-yard line for the touchdown. Despite Van Horne's second conversion miss of the game, Notre Dame found itself down 27-0 at the half and without its starting quarterback. 
"That first half was a real 
nightmare, but I still felt we had a 
chance to win," said Holtz, who 
began at that point preparing Rice 
for his second-half assault. With 
the Irish game plan effectively 
scrapped, and a quarterback who 
Holtz had stated could throw the 
ball 80 yards but not necessarily to 
the right team, the second-year 
Notre Dame mentor certainly had 
his work cut out for him. 

Rice, however, surprised Holtz 
and most everyone by linking up 
with Brown on a 25-yard pass play 
on the first series of the second 
half. Although Notre Dame 
punted on the drive, Rice returned 
on the second drive to direct an 
80-yard march for a touchdown 
Facing a 27-0 defeat, ND's Tom Gorman (87) tried to get something going on this John. Rasp punt. Like· the Irish effort, however, it was too little, too late. 
16 Scholastic 
Pittsburgh 


thinking of what might have been. 
"Tony Rice did a great job," he said softly. "But this loss really hurts. We should have beaten them. We just played lousy, and we beat ourselves." 
himself when he carried it in from 16 yards out. 
Not enough . time remained, though, for Rice and the Irish to catch the Panthers. Two fourth­period scores, a one-yard plunge by Braxston Banks and a 17-yard dash by tailback Mark Green, enabled Notre Dame to make it closer, but that was all. 
After the game, with spirits buoyed by a strong second-half showing and by the emergence of Rice as a capable competitor, Brown remained sullen.· Although he personally had given another fine performance (21 7 total yards, including 156 · receiving), the senior superstar couldn't stop 
January 28, 1988 
,U 
. !t 


Ironhead Heyward vaulted his 6-0, 260-pound frame through I 
. ' 

the Irish defense for two touch­downs. 
The Scoring 



!Notre Dame O O 7 15 -22 
Pittsburgh 14 13 0 3 -30 
1st Quarter 
P -Bill Osborn 31 pass from Sal Genilla at 6:02 (Jeff VanHorne kick no good) 
P -Craig Heyward l run at 
2:04 (Genilla pass to Reggie Williams) 

2nd Quarter 
P -Genilla 2 run at 8:47 (VanHorne kick) P -Heyward 1 run at 3:49 
(illegal procedure penalty -VanHorne kick ruled no good) 
3rd Quarter 
ND -Tony Rice 16 run at 
4:33 (Ted Gradel kick) 
4th Quarter ND -Braxston Banks 1 run at 14:21 (Gradel kick) P -VanHorne 20 FG at 5:34 · ND -Mark Green 17 run at 
1:29 (Tim Brown run) 
17 


~· 
}: 




Back In the High Life 
With substitute quarterback Tony Rice at the controls for the first time, the Irish soared to an eq,sy 35-14 victory over Air Force. 
BY LA WREN CE PRAVECEK .I,. 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Co. 
--Flying high in the rarified air of Falcon Stadium, Air Force was ready. The Falcons were on a five-game winning streak. The Irish had lost their last game to Pittsburgh, and with it their No.4 ranking. The Academy held noth­ing back for this non-conference foe. 
Everyone's preparations were done, and it was game time. The grass was long enough to graze ~attle, or to slow down an opponent's not-so-secret weapon. The F-16, KC-135, and B-52 fly­overs had the crowd roaring. Four of the five sky divers landed on the falcon at the 50 yard line. To top it all off, the Falcons wanted revenge for the 31-3 drubbing the Irish handed them in South Bend last season, ending their four-year winning streak over Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou 
Falcon noseguard John Steed
Holtz' first trip to Colorado 
(81) had to stay on his toes to
Springs would not be easy. 
keep track of the many weapons
Although he later said, "I really 
in the Irish backfield. 

like to make the trip out here. It's really beautiful country," he had to be concerned bringing his 3-1 team into any game· with a second-string quarterback making his first college start. With regular starter Terry Andrysiak out for the season, the Irish would have to 
18 Scholastic 
Air Force 

go with option specialist Tony Rice against a defense which allowed a mere 133 yards per game on the ground. 
Couple the problem of an inex­perienced quarterback with Notre ,,'· 

Ii
Dame's historic lack of success •i 
ji

defending the wishbone, and you may have had the makings of a classic battle. But the classic lasted only until 1:47 had elapsed on the scoreboard clock. By th.at point, the Irish defense had already stopped Air Force ·on a fourth­and-one at the Notre Dame 39­yard line. Notre Dame took pos­session and did not relinquish the ball until 13 plays and 61 yards later, scoring on a one-yard Rice run. 
"I feel that we have to get out 

Rice shook off Steed (81) and an early case of the jitters to lead. his team to a· win in his first start 
I 
l·

of the season. 
' ; ;. 
i: j· 


!-: !, 
i' 
.:-J 
i 


January 28, 1988 
19 
Air Force 



on top early and first," Holtz had 
told his squad before the game. 
And the Irish obeyed again and 
again. After gaining the ball back 
at their own 43-yard line, Rice 
went to work again, directing an 
eight-rush, one-pass drive that 
covered 57 yards and another 
touchdown. Rice also scored this 
touchdown, rolling over from the 
four-yard line to make the score 
14-0 in favor of the Irish. 

Air Force refused to buckle 
completely, though, and began 
moving t_he ball effectively behind 
sophomore quarterback Dee 
Dowis. Dowis, one of the leading 
rushers in the NCAA, moved his 
squad into Irish territory on two 
drives, one of which ended in a 
punt and another which ended in a 
missed field goal. Undaunted, the 
... unless one wants to count the 78-yard touchdown catch Brown made in the fourth period that was negated by an Irish holding call. 
Cadet defense stopped both Rice and substitute quarterback Kent Graham on consecutive drives to 
Although Brown later took an Air Force punt 14 yards for a touchdown, he managed only this 10-yard reception against the Falcons . .. 
get the ball back into the capable hands of Dowis for one more try before the half. 
This time, Dowis got it right. Starting from their own 25-yard line, the Falcons began a 75-yard march through the high grass of Falcon Stadium. While Holtz intimated that the Academy may have used a landscaper to help slow down the Irish, stating, "If my front lawn looked like that, my wife would kill me", the tall growth couldn't stop Dowis and his option attack on this drive. A 62-yard sprint by the quick Falcon quarterback brought the ball down to the Notre Dame nine-yard line, and tailback Albert Booker carried it in moments later for the score. 
No doubt satisfied with a 14-7 deficit at the half, Air Force head 

Air Force 

coach  Fisher  DeBerry  took  his  Leading  28-7  in  the  fourth  less than four minutes left and his  
squad into the locker  room  for  a  quarter, Holtz decided it was time  team  on  its  own  20-yard  line.  
pep  talk.  If his  team  could hold  to turn loose his triple-threat Reis­ Brown,  who  had fair-caught  two  
Notre Dame on its first possession  man candidate, and go deep.  On a  earlier  Falcon  punts  and  had  

and then score, he told his players, the Falcons had a good chance to win the game. 

Unfortunately, Holtz had prob­ably said something similar to the Irish during their intermission, because Notre Dame came out of the tunnel to drive 80 yards on nine rushes for the touchdown. Fullback Anthony Johnson picked up the score with a one-yard plunge to make it 21-7. 
The Irish then added to their margin on their next possession, picking up 57 yards on nine more rushes. This time fullback Braxs­ton Banks took the plunge for the one-yard score, and suddenly the Irish led 28-7. 
Everything seemed to be click­ing for the Irish offense. Then, on the team's third possession of the quarter, Rice dropped back and attempted a pass. Nineteen straight rushes, and on the 20th play, a pass. And an interception. For the day, Rice passed successfully one time in five attempts for 10 yards. But the Irish offensive line once again paved the way for a fine day by the Notre Dame back­field, as the Irish outrushed the Falcons, 354 yards to 269 yards. 
The "No-Name" defense of Notre Dame, meanwhile, had its finest day since the Sept. 21 Michigan State contest, repeatedly shutting off Dowis' options in the second half. Late in the third period, the Irish defense stopped Air Force again on a fourth-down play, this time sealing the Notre Dame victory. "I feel our defen­sive down linemen did an excel­lent job today," Holtz said. "They did exactly what we asked them to do, and they should be very proud because they beat a pretty good football team." 
··•·; p·•·'.odfll! ttJfefi~fo~; >tlfi'WP li11~ffi~11•:·•·':·ttid'I ,,··a'.6:;n~i~~,ll¢tj.~ 
!lczyy9ifir ,~~e::~:i:
1

·t.. •·'.·1,;.···•'.'.·.••·e'm ..oYH. ·:..1 ··· / ··n'-.i '. .;.t·.··'.·•.·.u..';.'e;;··•y<
...i'.;·.,'.' :.•··.·•·t· Pa•

II /:~(),, U II 
i!;i1l~~iift~t:llii 
third-down play from the Notre 
Dame· 12-yard line, Rice let fly a 
bomb which flanker Tim Brown 
corralled and sprinted 78 yards 
with for the touchdown. A holding 
penalty, however, brought the 
play back and gave the Falcons a 
needed boost. 
Dowis then capitalized on the 

emotional swing, directing a 78­
yard, 14-play drive that closed the 
gap on the scoreboard to 28-14. 
Unfortunately for the spirited Air 
Force players, though, Brown was 
not finished. 
After punting the ball back to . the Falcons, the Irish defense shut 
down Dowis and forced DeBerry. 
to send in his punting team with watched three others sail out of bounds, dropped back to watch another at his own 25-yard line. This time, though, DeBerry had his punter kick the ball to Brown, who promptly shook off several tacklers and rambled 74 yards for the day's final score. 
Despite losing convincingly to the Irish, 35-14, DeBerry said he was pleased with his team's effort against what he considered a championship-calibre football team. "I was tremendously proud of my team because they fought until the very end and they never gave up," he said. 


While the Falcons never gave up, Notre Dame showed something as well. They had the power to stop a talented team, a future Freedom Bowl team and the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy winner (given to the winner of the round-robin competition between ,i', the three service academies), and 'I to stop them convincingly. Every time the Falcons began to fly, the ,, 
/'

Irish were there to bring them I' back to earth. And that meant Notre Dame clearly was onto something special in 1987.11 

1, 
,.. 
21

January-28, 1988 
......• 



Notre Dame ran off with its fifth consecutive win over 
Allan Lim
arch-rival Southern Cal, thanks to a big play defense that left the n1en of Troy sacked and burned. 
BY TERRY LYNCH. 
NOTRE DAME, Ind. --The USC-Notre Dame game has never been a contest in need of hype. There's always ·the rivalry, the streaks or the revenge factor. A lot of times a bowl bid is at stake for the Irish, and coaches' jobs hang in the balance of who wins and who loses. And if the Trojans aren't on probation, the game's always on national television. For atmosphere, every couple of years there's at least one Heisman candi­date playing on the field. Some­times, there's even a controversial call or two that tips the game to 
one team's favor. · This year's contest, a thrilling 26-15 Irish win, did nothing to 
tarnish the reputation. And like 
any Notre Dame-USC contest, 
there were plenty of stories to tell. 
Monster drives by the Irish offen­
sive line, CBS commentator Brent 
Musberger's deification of gifted 
Irish flanker and Heisman hppeful 
Tim Brown, and the replays 
Musberger's network showed of 
Brown's blocking ability on nearly every running play come immedi­ately to min_d. 

In addition, the Notre Dame defense provided a great story by dominating the USC offense the entire game after allowing it an easy touchdown on.its first posses­sion. Or if one wants to find a hero, he or she needs to look no _ further than Irish linebacker Ned Bolcar, who picked up 13 tackles, one fumble and one interception. On offense, of course, there was ·Notre Dame quarterback Tony Rice, whose-second _start as the Irish field general impressed the nation and cost him 14 stitches thanks to USC linebacker Marcus Cotton. 
But the stories one could tell could not by any stretch of the imagination capture the flavor of this particular battle. On such a cold, rainy day like the one which greeted the two teams when they took the field, a Notre Dame fan knows that God's in heaven and all's well · with the world. But thirigs did not look that way early 
22 

Scholastic 
USC 

Notre Dame celebrated when Rice (9) outran USC's Mark Car­rier (7) for a 26-yard touchdown that put the Irish ahead, 10-7. 
for the Irish, when Southern Cal took the opening kickoff and went to work. 
On the game's very first play, USC quarterback Rodney Peete went to the air and hit tight end Paul Green over the middle for a 27-yard strike that put the Trojans in Irish territory. Then on the second play, Peete hit tailback Steven Webster for a gain that pushed the ball to the Irish 25­yard line. Two plays later, Peete found flanker John Jackson in the right corner of the endzone, and USC led by an easy 7-0 mark. 
Maybe it was too easy. The six-play, 70-yard drive took only 2:25, and was the first time all sea­son that Notre Dame's opposition had been able to score on its first possession. It appeared that the Irish secondary had a long day ahead of it, and Irish fans undoubtably began hearkening back to their team's debacle at Pitt, which saw the Irish get burned in the rain. 
"I told the team that I thought it was critical that we set the momentum right off the bat," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "That shows you how much I know." 
Holtz'  worries  proved  
unfounded,  of  course,  but  
nevertheless  things  didn't  get  

better for Notre Dame right away. After being unable to gain yardage against the Trojan defense on the ground, Rice dropped back on one play and lofted a deep pass intended for Brown. Unfor­tunately for Rice, however, Brown was running a short pattern. Tro­jan cornerback Chris Hale, the only player on the field near enough to catch the ball, promptly 
0 
8
.5 
;; 
... ~ 

did so and the Trojans had the ball back on their own 26-yard line. 
Yet when USC got the ball back, the passing game broke down for the remainder of the half, leaving Peete and his team­mates mildly perplexed. "We came out smoking on the first drive," said Peete, a swift-footed junior with a strong throwing arm. "We had the big pass plays and we were doing pretty good. But then we lost our intensity. It's hard to reeled off two successive and lengthy drives to paydirt. Keep­ing the ball almost completely· on the ground (the Irish rushed for 351 yards on the day), Rice led the offense 88 yards for one score, taking it in himself on a dazzling 26-yard scamper. Then, again using the run, Rice added to the Irish margin by leading his unit 90 yards on the second drive. Brown carried it in five yards for the score this time, and Notre Dame 



explain." 
After USC punted a nice high kick, the kind that Brown has to fair catch, Notre Dame took over and began executing for the first time in the ballgame. Six straight rushing calls moved the ball to the Trojan four-yard line, and although a penalty and an overthrown pass stalled the Irish, kicker Ted Gradel converted a 26-yard field goal for three points to trim the USC lead to 7-3. 
The Irish then broke Southern Cal's spirits completely when they 
Irish back Mark Green had another big day, picking up 73 yards and a touchdown in 13 car­ries. 
suddenly led, 17-7. 
The Brown touchdown run gave Holtz an easy feeling, USC head coach Larry Smith a headache, and Musberger more fuel to throw on the Reisman fire. Brown, though, was not finished. He had run for one touchdown already, he had forced the Trojans to kick away from him on punts, thereby giving the Irish ·better 
23
January 28, 1988 
USC 

field position, and now he was ready to catch a key pass. "I've never seen anybody like Tim Brown," Holtz said. "Just the mere presence of him on the foot­ball field is enough. He · gets triple-teamed sometimes and still gets it." 
Sure enough, Brown got it. On the very next possession, he hauled in a Kent Graham pass for 16 yards, added another catch, then caught what should have been Notre Dame's third touchdown of the half. A holding penalty nulli­fied the scoring strike, though, and Holtz settled for a Gradel field goal to make it 20-7 in favor of the Irish. Still, Brown had put on a show worthy of any Reisman candidate. 
"The key to this game was that 
we couldn't stop them and get the ball back," Smith snapped when asked if poor field position caused by a fear of Tim Brown had hurt USC in the first half. "I'm no dummy. I don't have a kicker who can kick the ball 40-45 yards. And I'm not going to be kicking line drives to Tim Brown." In other words, the poor field position .did indeed hurt Southern Cal. 
But Southern Cal had shown a dangerous propensity for scoring points in bunches in its first five games of the 1987 season, and the game seemed far from over when the two teams took the field for the second half. Perhaps the Tro­jans would, in fact, have been able to turn the game around had they taken advantage of Irish tailback Mark Green's fumble at the Notre Dame 31-yard line on the first play from scrimmage. 
The Trojans will never know for sure. Because two plays after Green's fumble, Peete rolled right and threw a pass into the hands of Notre Dame's Bolcar for the key play of the contest. Bolcar's inter­ception killed the USC scoring 
E 
:i 
i:I 
.!! 
<

. . . ' 
Souther Cal's Carrier tripped up Green on this play, but Green eventually g~t the touchdown that made it 26-7. 


USC 

chance, and made a prophet of his Notre Dame) was that the inside when Rice dropped back to pass wise-cracking head coach. people weren't tackling the dives late in the game. Doctors sent "I was walking into the office (on the option)," said Smith. Rice to the locker room after that, 
building in the JACC yesterday, "Against an option team, you've where he received 14 stitches. and Ned was there too," said got to stop the dive, the quarter­"I'm happy with Tony's play, Holtz. "Somebody in the hall back and the pitch. There were but I'm not happy with the 14 
asked me, 'Are we going to win some plays when we didn't stop stitches in his chin," Holtz said. tomorrow, coach?' and I said that any one of the three." "But he's such a good-looking guy, it all depended on how well Ned Rice, meanwhile,· ran the it won't faze him. But it seems Bolcar played. I was just jol<;ing option with poise and confidence that the only way I lose a quarter­with him, but I guess I got his back is when we're throwing the attention." ball." 
Bolcar, although he accepted USC finished the game's scor­his coach's challenge, never really ing with an 89-yard blitz down­had to be told just what the game field against an Irish defense meant. "It was a pretty intense loaded with substitutes. With less week of practice," he said. "With than a minute left, Trojan back the fall break, we had more time Scott Lockwood ran the ball in with football, which gets on your from the five-yard line, and Peete nerves after a while. We got tired hit Tanner for the two-point of hitting ourselves and anxious to conversion. start hitting USC." To the credit e With the win, the Irish managed of the rest of the defense as well, ~ a number of things against USC. the entire unit played aggressively, ! Their 360 yards rushing were. the holding top Trojan back Webster most against USC since Texas to 70 yards on 20 carries, or almost A&M rolled up 486 yards against 50 yards less than his average. hold on as ND's Stan Smagala the Trojans in the 1977 Bluebon­
The Irish backfield, meanwhile, applies the stick. net Bowl. Also, it was the fifth had another fine day. Tailbacks straight win against USC, the most Green and Ricky Watters, as well for most of the day. Besides the since Notre Dame · won five 
early interception and the pitch straight from 1957-61. 
that Green fumbled, the worst "It's always good to win," con­
experience of the day for the cluded Holtz. "And it's particu­
sophomore had to be the lick larly gratifying against Southern 
USC's ferocious Cotton delivered Cal.." Ill 
as fullback Braxston Banks and quarterback Rice, each gained over 50 yards rushing. Green, in fact, scored th.e final Irish touch­down of the day when he capped off a drive in which he had one run of 14 yards ~ith another long run. This one went for 11 yards and the touchdown. · 
"My biggest· concern (playing 
USC receiver Ken Henry can't 






January 28, 1988 
~ ' ­
·''' -----•-----~­



t 
BLUE_ 0 
more 
In the season's biggest mismatch, Notre Dame torpedoed Navy, 56-13, to keep alive a 24-year winning streak over the Middies. 
BY PETE SKIKO 

NOTRE DAME, Ind. --Domi­nation would be a pretty good word to describe the Notre Dame football team's 56-13 win over Navy. Sheer domination. 
Because on this chilly Hal­loween day, Notre Dame scared the life out of the Middies and maybe even scared itself a little with an awesome display of power football. The win propelled the 6­1 and No.9-ranked Irish into its first winning season since 1984, and gave them some much-needed momentum heading into a grueling November schedule which featured Boston College, Alabama, Penn State and Miami. 
Some of the accomplishments the Irish posted against a winless Navy team on this day were, to say the least, impressive. 
*The Irish racked up 630 net yards of offense, including 224 through the air against a passing defense that came into the game ranked second in the nation. In addition, the offense averaged a whopping 8 yards per offensive 
play. *Irish fullback Anthony John­son scored four rushing touch­downs --all in the first half. *Irish Reisman Trophy candi­date Tim Brown compiled 173 yards of net offense. In his col­lege career against Navy, Brown averaged 25.5 yards (459 yards on 18 carries) every time he touched the football. *The Irish managed to score 35 points in the first half while facing only one third-down situa­tion. 



Navy 

*The Irish also scored touch­downs on their first five posses­sions of the game. 
*And, despite the lopsided score, the Irish did all this while holding the ball for less total time than the Midshipmen. 
That's domination. It was evi­dent on Notre Dame's first posses­sion of the game when the Irish went 77 yards in 15 plays without throwing a pass to score the game's first touchdown. That score marked the sixth time in Notre Dame's past three games that the Irish were able to -score a touchdown without benefit of a completed pass. 
"It's always nice to win the ballgame," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz after the thrashing. "We were well prepared and, with a few exceptions like too many penalties and some missed assign­ments, the team played very well overall."· 
Although the game already had the look of a rout, with the Irish leading 28-6 late in the first half, one particular score by Notre Dame best exemplified the 
mastery the home team possessed over their opponents. With 12 seconds left in the half, the ball on Notre Dame's own 29-yard line and Navy expecting a pass, Holtz called a draw to tailback Mark Green which gained 20 up the middle. After a timeout and with only four seconds left, quarterback Kent Graham then took the next snap from midfield, faded back, and lofted a high, arching spiral in the direction of the streaking Brown. Brown, who had earlier ripped the fingernail completely off his ring finger while. executing 
a· block, snatched the. ball away 
NI>;s Mark Sppence (25) leapt Mgh and pitched off Alton Grizzard's second quarter pass to set up one of many Irish scores on the day. 

from two defenders at the five­yard line and lunged into the end­zone to give the Irish an insur­mountable 35-6 lead at the half. 
"Absolutely everybody knew how he caught it. The (Navy) defenders were playing back to defend against that pass. All I can say is that he's Timmy Brown." , 


Brown, meanwhile, was typi­cally nonchalant about the play after the game. "It's a pretty sim­ple play," he said. "It's called a ZCM, and all you do is go down the field and cut behind the guys in the secondary. I just went up, got it, and dove in." 
But perhaps the most exciting play of the day, and the best indi­cation of Brown's talent and instinct, came after the Irish forced a Navy punt late in the third quarter with the game well in hand. Brown fielded the punt at his own 16-yard line, circled hack 
inside the three-yard line, appeared to be entirely hemmed in by eight Midshipmen, somehow escaped, and darted up the right sideline before slipping and falling all alone at the Navy 34-yard-line. The play was called back by a clipping penalty back at the Irish 10-yard line, but that was the play that had Irish fans and a television audience shaking their heads and thinking Reisman. 



January 28, 1988 
27 

'i1 ,' 
i' 

Navy 

"He's simply the most exciting 
player I've ever seen," said Holtz. 
"You saw what he did ~ut there. I 
know I saw it and it was still hard 
to believe. He's just incredible." 
But, as easy as it would be to think so, it wasn't just The Tim Brown Show. The Irish defense completely shut off the Middies' attack, limiting them to a pair of first-half field goals while Notre Dame lit up its side of the score­board, putting the game out of reach early. Linebackers Darrell "Flash" Gordon and Cedric Figaro were, as usual, among the more imposing members of the "No­Name" defense. 
· · "We just went out and executed the game plan today, and you've got to give the coaches the credit for that," said Gordon. "We were a little off-balance in the first half, and we felt they got too much rushing yardage. But (Irish defensive coordinator Foge Fazio) made some great adjustments at halftime and we didn't have any more problems." 
Similarly effective was the Irish running game, which followed its veteran offensive line for another big day. Notre Dame picked up a season-high 406 yards on the ground, largely because of the mammoth holes fifth-year senior center Chuck Lanza and his team­mates in the trenches were able to open. "Navy's defensive line was quite similar to Air Force's line," said Lanza, a co-captain along with linemate Byron Spruell. "They lacked size but tried to out-quick us. It took some time adjusting to that again, but I would have to say that we wore them down pretty quickly." 
The running backs themselves also excelled. Holtz got a good look at two freshman backs who figure to be the future of the Notre Dame backfield --Ricky Watters and Tony Brooks. Each had a superb day (a combined 129 downs. Lincoln Coleman, another yards), as did junior sprinter freshman tailback and a neighbor Green, who finished with over 100 of Brown's family in Dallas, also yards, and of course the reliable · saw time and impressed Holtz with Johnson, who bagged four touch-some strong fourth-quarter run­

28 Scholastic 

ning. 
All in all, the Navy game could be shown as a Notre Dame highlight film. By giving a clinic on executing the run, and by 
Navy 
. ; 

presenting the nation with another glimpse of Tim Brown at his best, the Irish served notice that they could be vying for the national title in 1987.11 
29

January 28, 1988 BY MARTY STRASEN 


NOTRE DAME, In. --The 
Notre Dame football team, 6-1 and ranked No. 9 in the country mainly because of its outstanding rushing attack, went to the air more often than usual in the first half of its game with Boston Col­lege at Notre Dame Stadium. And it worked pretty well, mainly because Irish star flanker Tim Brown was brilliant. But, somehow, Boston College still managed to grab a 17-6 lead head­ing into the lockerroom at half­time. Quite clearly, it was time for some inspiration --·and time to run the ball. 
Running the football might seem like an unusual move for a team trailing by 11 points with only one half to play, but then again, this Notre Dame team w3:s an unusual team. 
And that's exactly what head coach Lou Holtz' fired-up Irish did in the second half, blowing Boston College off the line and running the ball expertly en route to a 32-25 come-from-behind vic­tory over the Golden Eagles in a game many had dubbed, "The ..c:
"' 

Vatican Bowl". Q "I thought it gave us . the best ~ .....
.. 

chance to win," Holtz said of his t,:, 
Ground Control to ajorBowl 



Notre Dame shot down the Eagles air attack and rushed f ram behind to win a 3 2-2 5 thriller. 
30 

Scholastic 

Boston College 
One-yard · touchdown runs by Braxston Banks (top) and Anthony Johnson (below) accounted for two of Notre Dame's four second half touch­downs. 
team's ground game, which accounted for 253 of Notre Dame's 284 second-half yards. "We wanted to control the football and control the game. And we did." 
But it took some inspiration from some of the Notre Dame seniors to pull off the feat and .send a large Boston College con­tingent back to New England with a loss. Irish players Tom Rehder, Alonzo Jefferson and co-captain Chuck Lanza, each of whom was playing in his final year of eligi­bility, were among those who took over the halftime conversation with a few minutes to go before the teams took the field for the final two quarters. 
"Coach (Holtz) told us not to come out until we were ready," said junior tailback Mark Green, 


.a 
~ 
DII 
::: 
t.:i 

who explained that the subsequent speeches by the seniors were n.ot carved from the "Win one for the Gipper" mold. In fact, added Green, the speeches might not have been even printable. "I can't say (what the seniors said)," he added. "There are ladies in the room." 
"We told them, 'Let's let Boston College know it's for real when they play in Notre Dame Sta­dium,"' Lanza explained. "In the first half, it seemed like we were playing in Boston. They were controlling the game, and our fans were out of it. In the second half, the crowd was in our favor. You could feel it, and the momentum showed." 
The momentum .showed faster than one could say, "Pope John Paul II." Green danced through attempted tackles and scored from 33 yards out to cap a 61-yard 
BC running back Jim Bell gained· 83 yards, but took a shot from ND's Stan Smagala on this play. 
-
Notre Dame drive to open· the second half. And although Irish quarterback Tony Rice, who shared the day's signal-calling duties with freshman Kent Gra­ham,: failed to convert the two­point conversion, the Irish found themselves within five points of their opponent at 17-12. 
But Eagle receiver Darren Flu­tie, whose brother Doug won the 
19.84 Reisman Trophy as a•' qu·ar­terback at Boston College, so.on showed why he too is highly­regarded by many pro scouts. Flu­tie, who caught six passes for 119 yards in all of the contest, hauled in a 31-yarder from quarterback Mike Power for a third-quarter touchdown. Power ran for the 
January 28, 1988 
Boston College 


conversion, and the Notre Dame momentum had been momentarily thwarted with the score 25-12 in favor of the Eagles. 
The next few plays from scrimmage, however, might haunt the Eagles until the next time they get a shot at their Catholic rivals. That's when the Irish won the momentum back and eventually turned a sure loss into a gratifying triumph, a 7-1 _record, and a cer­tain bid to a major bowl game. · Standing on his own 33-yard line, Notre Dame's Rice dropped back, pump-faked orice, and then overthrew Brown on a crossing pattern. The pass was tipped by BC cornei:'back Gerrick McPhear­son, · picked off by safety Ed Duran a,nd returned eight yards to the Eagle 48-yard line. But Boston College, with a 13-point lead and the chance to run some time off the clock and perhaps put the game out of reach, made the day's crucial error on the very next play. 
Running back Jim Bell, finding a hole in the line, bolted through for seven yards, where he was promptly laced by Irish strong safety George Streeter. The ball came loose and Notre Dame line­backer Wes Pritchett fell on it at the Irish 45-yard line. 
"That was big," noted Holtz of the fumble, which Notre Dame capitalized on when fullback Anthony Johnson crossed the goal line from one yard out to make the score 25-18. "It was big because it came after the interception, and it was big because we took it in for a touchdown." 
. The Irish defense, which had been susceptible to the medium­range pass in the first half; tightened up for the remainder of the game. Inside linebacker Ned aolcar recorded nine tackles on the _day and outside linebacker Darrell "Flash" Gordon broke up 
When ND's Streeter laced BeH and forced the fumble, the Irish responded by cutting the Eagle lead to 25-18. 
two Power passes. The Irish also found a much-needed pass rush in the second half, as Gordon, out­side linebacker Cedric Figaro and the defensive line found their way into the offensive backfield to pressure Power. 
"In the second half, we blitzed and rushed a lot of people," Holtz said. "I thought our defense did some good things in the first half, 

The Irish _scored the tying touchdown when fullba,ck Braxs­ton Banks ran behind the right side of the line from one yard away with 12:40 to go in the game. Green then finished off a 52-yard Irish drive and a dream-like indi­vidual performance when he went in from the two-yard line with 
5:25 to play. That put Notre Dame ahead for good, 32-25. 
Green finished the day with a career-high 152 yards on 23 · car­ries and two touchdowns. That marked · the second time in as many weeks that the junior broke the 100-yard barrier, as he gained 

.' I 
32 Scholastic 
Boston College 


102 on nine carries against Navy the week before. 
. Brown, meanwhile, recorded the most productive day of his career in the all-purpose yardage department, picking up 294 on 16 touches of the ball. The very first Irish play from scrimmage set the tone. Freshman quarterback Kent Graham started his first game in a Notre Dame uniform, and con­nected with the senior flanker on a 57-yard completion down the left sideline. Notre Dame, though, could only manage a field goal on the drive -one of two 21-yarders by Ted Gradel in the contest. 
Brown's performance prompted praise from Boston College head coach Jack Bicknell. "That Brown kid's as good as they say Ihe is," Bicknell noted. "He frightens you every time he touches the ball." 
January 28, 1988 

But in the end, it was a potent running attack and the inspiration of a few seniors that put Notre Dame over the top in this one. 
"What it came down to in the second half was more emotion," Gordon. explained. "We were really pumped up, more psyched. We started to get after it because we realized that everything was on the line -the· game, and the bowl 
bid." ¦ . . 







-1,a till On the un 

BY BRIAN O'GARA 

NOTRE DAME, Ind. --In Lou Holtz' inaugural season as Notre Dame's head football coach, only one team beat the Irish by more than five points. That team was Alabama, which embarrassed Notre Dame, 28-10, in Birming­ham. This year, the inspired Irish made the Tide turn, as in turn over and play dead. 
Seventh-ranked Notre Dame used another punishing running attack and a tenacious second-half defense to crush Alabama, 37-6, _in 
Mike Griffin (right) and the Irish defense ran 'Barna rookie
Bend.' It was an emotional game. 
quarterback Dunn

Our seniors really wanted to walk Jeff out of town figuratively and into a sta­
out of that tunnel for the last time 
dium wall literally;

as winners, and they did." Notre Dame inside linebacker Ned Bol­team. For the eleventh-ranked car, though only a junior, agreed Crimson Tide, meanwhile, the with Holtz' assessment. "Coach defeat was their worst since a 40-0 Holtz told us before the game, 'We whitewash at the hands of Auburn 
its final home game of the season. own this building.' And there was , in 1957. The win improved the Irish record no way we were going to let them "We were beaten by a vastly 
to 8-1, its best since the 1980 cam­come in here and beat us." superior football team today," paign, and kept alive hopes for a In addition to improving the conceded Curry. "(The Irish) are national championship in 1987. Irish record, the win also marked by far the best team we've played. 
"I told (first-year Tide head Notre Dame's fifth consecutive Had we responded at our very coach) Bill Curry after the game," victory ·and its fifth home win in best, I doubt seriously that we'd said Irish head coach Lou Holtz, as many games. Those feats also have beaten this Notre Dame team "'Bill, you just picked the wrong had not been accomplished since today. We just got whipped.'' time· to play us here in South Dan Devine's 1981 Sugar Bowl The Irish ~ntered the contest 



34 Scholastic 
Alabama 


obviously seeking to keep their 
national championship hopes alive. 
And though there would be no 

nation::il championship for the Crimson Tide in 1987, Alabama came to Notre Dame sporting a 7-2 record and fresh off a 22-10 upset of LSU in Baton Rouge. Both teams started rookie quarterbacks, Tony Rice for the Irish and Jeff Dunn for the Tide, replacing injured signal-callers. Ironically, both of the school's regular start­ing quarterbacks, Terry Andrysiak of Notre Dame and Alabama counterpart David Smith, broke their collarbones during losses in the fourth game of the season. 
But the similarities ended there. For with sophomore option spe­cialist Tony Rice directing the Irish offense, Notre Dame rolled past the Tide for 465 yards of total offense, and 368 on the ground. In fact, the only bright spot for the Crimson Tide came in the stellar performance of running back and Reisman longshot Bobby Hum­phrey, who matched Notre Dame's Tim Brown in the day's most interesting sideshow. 
The two gifted athletes staged an all-purpose yardage war in the game, running, catching and returning kicks for a combined 439 yards or two-thirds the day's total offense for both teams. Brown had his fourth 200-plus all-purpose yards performance of the season, picking up 225 while becoming the all-time Irish leader in career reception yards with 2,371, surpassing Tom Gatewood (2,283 yards from 1969-71). Hum­phrey, meanwhile, was the only offense the Tide could generate. He gained 214 all-purpose yards for the day, including a thrilling 65-yard kickoff return which he nearly broke for a touchdown a la Brown. 
On Alabama's first possession; the Crimson Tide marched quickly down the field to the Notre Dame 18-yard line before the Irish defense tightened. Facing third-
With the versatile Rice at the controls, the Notre Dame offense rolled to 368 yards on the ground and to 465 yards total. 
and-long, Dunn flipped a pass over the blitzing Notre Dame defense in the direction of tight end Howard Cross. Only a quick­reacting Bolcar saved a sure 'Barna touchdown, as the inside line­backer dropped back from the blitz and barely reached up to slap away the football and force a 33­yard Tide field goal. That defen­sive stand by the Irish built momentum that would increase a few minutes later when senior kicker Ted Gradel's 49-yard field goal, the longest of his career, just barely cleared the crossbar to tie 
the score at 3-3. 
From then on, it wasn't even 
close. Early in the second quarter 
Notre Dame drove methodically 
down the field and took a 10-3 
lead on a 12-yard keeper by Rice, 
who showed some hardnosed foot­
ball by plowing over Crimson Tide 
cornerback Gene Jelks at the goal 
line. Rice, fullback Anthony 
Johnson and tailback Mark Green 
each contributed over 20 yards 
rushing on the scoring drive. 
The Irish were both victims and 
beneficiaries of penalties on their 
third scoring drive. Notre Dame 
was called for delay of game on 
the 'Barna four-yard line on third 
down, but moments later a Tide 
offsides penalty on the line up for 
a Gradel field goal moved the Irish 
to fourth-and-two at the three­
yard line. 
"All those penalties (eight for 
the Tide, seven for the Irish), 
probably balanced out in yards," 
said Curry, who was entirely 
correct since each team gained 70 
yards on opponent's infractions. 
"But Notre Dame :was . able to 
overcome their penalties and capi­
talize on ours. If Notre Dame had 
a first-and-20, they'd get the first 
January 28, 1988 


Alabama 

down. We'd have a first-and-20 and not do anything." 
With everything going their way, the Irish called a timeout to assess the situation, eventually deciding to go for the touchdown. Holtz' clever shotput-type pass over the line of scrimmage worked beautifully as Rice hit junior tight end Andy Heck in the endzone for Rice's first career touchdown pass at Notre Dame. 
"We thought about going for three," said Holtz; "We've had a lot of problems with checkoffs on the line. That South Carolina ·· 
''When you beat a team like Alabama 37-6, you know you've done a real good job." 
--Brandy Wells 

accent (Rice hails from Woodruff S.C.) can be a real problem. Th~ 
guys don't always understand what he is saying. But when they jumped offsides we still felt that if we didn't make it, Alabama would be backed up in their own terri­tory. And then we might good field position." 
Another Gradel field goal gave the Irish a 20-3 edge before the Tide got on the scoreboarp for the 
second and last time of the ballgame. Humphrey broke his 65-yard kickoff return and Curry used some trickery of his own with a fake field goal to drive to the Notre Dame 11-yard line. 
They would get no further. 
Irish linebacker Darrell "Flash" 
Gordon ran Dunn out of bounds, 
through the Irish band, and into 
the stadium's retaining wall. 
Dunn, a red-shirt freshman, came 
out of the scary incident OK, but he was replaced by junior Vince Sutton. Sutton, however, fared no better as Irish freshman safety Todd Lyght broke up two passes and 'Barna was forced to settle for a field goal. Lyght's play on the drive reflected well the solid effort he showed throughout the game at free safety. For the day he broke up several more Tide pass­ing attempts, made key hits, and even caused a late Alabama fum­ble. 
Because of the performance of Lyght, as well as the rest of Notre Dame's "No-Names" defense, the Crimson Tide offense was never able to get on track. Alabama managed only six points on the day, despite averaging a healthy 
26.4 points per game before the contest. In the end, that Tide offense became the only Irish opponent not to score a touchdown against the "No-Names" this sea­son. 
"Our defense was critical in the second half," said Holtz, "because our offense couldn't get it going until we hit Tim Brown at the end of the third quarter. This was truly a team victory." 
Both teams could generate little production from their offenses in the third period. Finally, on third-and-11 from the 'Barna 40­yard-line, on Notre Dame's third possession of the half, Rice 
unloaded a 54-yard bomb down the_ middle into single-coverage on Brown. Brown leapt high in the air and fell to the ground clutching the ball for· a good catch, even though replays showed the ball hit the ground. Still, it was Notre Dame's day and the Irish added three points on a Gradel 22-yard field goal after failing to get the ball into the endzone. 
Alabama would get a shot to rally back after Brown coughed up the football at the Notre Dame 39-yard-line on a punt return. Two plays later, however, Gordon flashed in from his outside line­backer slot to sack Sutton for a ten-yard loss. Out of field goal range and out of luck, the Tide was forced to punt the ball away again. 




36 Scholastic 
Alabama 


"I believed that I could outrun most of· their offensive linemen and running backs," said Gordon. "And I knew I had to put a lot of pressure on their quarterbacks. We all knew that we had to improve getting off the ball, we practiced it all week and it showed today." 
Backed up to their own two­yard line, the Irish worked their way out to the 26-yard line as the third quarter ended. Then, under 
·the Musco lights, the Irish delivered the knockout blow. Green, who finished with 149 yards rushing on the day, dashed 7 4 yards down the left sideline to dash any Alabama comeback hopes. Even the side referee must have been hypnotized by Green's dazzling scamper, as once again, replays showed the Irish got a break when Green's foot stepped out of bounds on the 15-yard line. The touchdown run stood, at any rate, making it the longest run by a Notre Dame back since Allan Pinkett's 76-yard touchdown sprint against No. 1 Pittsburgh in 1982. 

That distinction for Green lasted only about five minutes, though, until freshman tailback Ricky Watters slipped through the left side of the line, cµt back right and won a 75-yard footrace to the end zone. Mercifully, the Irish closed out the scoring at that point 
as Holtz cleared his bench. 
Green's touchdown run, interestingly enough, ignited another orange-throwing jubilee by the Notre Dame student body. 
_Brown matched Reisman rival Hu_mphrey by leaping over Tide defender John Magnum for a few of his 225 all-purpose yards. 
The crowd had tossed the citrus 
projectiles earlier in the game as a 
not-so~subtle hint to Orange Bowl 
representatives that Notre Dame 
wanted to be in Miami on New 
Year's Day for a national cham­
pionship matchup. The last 
display drew a 15-yard penalty for 
unsportsmanlike conduct. 
"The penalties early in the 
game hurt us," said Holtz. "But I'll 
tell you, I've never before seen a 
penalty called on a student body." 
After the blowout, Irish seniors 
playing in their last home game at 
Notre Dame Stadium agreed that 
they had just played the best game 
of the 1987 season in the home 
finale. 
Tim Brown: "It's a special feel­
ing to dominate in your last home 
game. I'm sure we'll appreciate it 
even more when we're gone." 
Flash Gordon: "Everybody 
carried out their responsibilities. 
When we work together we're 
unstoppable." 
Brandy Wells: "When you beat a 
team like Alabama 37-6, you know 
you've done a real good job." 
Byron Spruell: "We had the .right scheme and the right inten­sity. It's the greatest way to go 
out."11 

The Scoring 
Alabama 3 3 0 0 -6 
Notre Dame 3 17 3 14 -37 
1st Quarter 
A -Phillip Doyle 34 FG at 12:03 
ND -Ted Gradel 49 FG at 8:55 
2nd Quarter ND -Tony Rice 12 run at 12:04 (Gradel kick) ND -Andy Heck 3 pass from Rice 
at 5:41 (Gradel kick) 
ND -Gradel 21 FG at 2:26 
A -Doyle 28 FG at 0:14 
3rd Quarter ND -Gradel 22 FG at 3:4.6 
4th Quarter 
ND -Mark Green 74 run at 12:11 (Gradel kick) 
ND -Ricky Watters 75 run at 4:01 (Gradel kick) 
'I 
! 
37
January 28, 1988 


j I 
i 

NO! 
Even a Cotton Bowl invitation couldn't lessen the pain for Notre Da!fle after it lost a heartbreaker to Penn State, 21-20, On a botched two-point conversion attempt. 

BY TERRY LYNCH 

UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. In the end, Lou Hqltz sat slumped iri the postgame press room, thaw­ing out after watching his team lose a football game and a shot at the national title, 21-20, to Penn State when a two-point conversion failed with 31 seconds left. After the post-mortem on a patented Notre Dame heartbreaker, two Southern gentlemen accompanied University Vice President Father William Beauchamp into the room. One of them began to speak. 
"Fellas, I'm Jim Braukhorst, the guy who's paid to run the Cot­ton Bowl. We've got our president, Dan Petty, here, and... I'll let Dan tell you what we did to Coach Holtz' football team just minutes ago in the dressing room. Dan Petty, our president." 
"Thank you, Jim," said Petty. "The Cotton Bowl Athletic Asso­ciation authorized me today by a unanimous vote of our team selec­tion .. committee to invite the University of Notre Dame to the Cotton Bowl for the 52nd Annual Cotton Bowl Classic on January 1, 1988.· Coach Holtz and the univer­sity officials and the team gen­erously accepted and we're looking forward to an exciting game on January L" 

Braukhorst then chimed in. "We appreciate it very much. We think it's been one of the best coaching jobs in the country this year and we're getting al). out­standing team. We're proud to have them, and I hope all you fel­las can c·ome down and joiri us in Dallas. We will have a great game. Coach, we're very pleased you're gonna join us." 
Holtz, still half-slumped in his chair and in no mood to deal with a promotional announcement, obliged anyway, and turned his head to the two men standing on his left. 
"We're disappointed over the outcome of the game," Holtz began mechanically. "We've got another one ahead of us, but I'll assure you that due to the fact that (the bowl)'s in the Southwest Conference, I have the utmost respect for the coaching. I know the enthusiasm they have down there, and we look forward to playing your conference cham­piori." 
.. After some thank-ymfs flew around the room, the postgame wrap-up resumed as automatically 
With strong winds forcing both teams to stay on the ground, the offe'nsive lines had to put in an extra effort. 
38 Scholastic 
j 
Penn State 

as if Notre Dame's first invitation to a January I bowl game in seven years had never even happened. But Holtz, anyway, was bent on savoring the moment. Or at least not discrediting it. A question about Irish player Brandy Wells' fumble on a punt return in the first quarter started to raise Holtz' ire ("I didn't think it was a factor until we fumbled the sucker," he shot back), and then another reporter started talking. 
"So what you said right now is 
that the Cotton Bowl's not a lot of 
c~nsolation ... ," one reporter asked game, but the only thing on my mind is to get over this and ... >' Holtz paused, then shifted gears rapidly. "Will w.e be able · to bounce back against Miami? I don't know. We're banged up, we're bruised. All chances of the dreams and the goals we had ... I don't know what's going to happen to our football team." 

It was not your typical announcement for a January I bowl game. But then again, it wasn't a typical day. Winds gusted into Beaver Stadium on an 18­degree day, causing the wind-chil! 

Rice's conversion run fell short. 
boldly. Holtz looked up from the table, and for the first time on that frigid afternoon blood rushed to 
his face. 
"I think we're proud and honored to be in the Cotton Bowl," he retorted angrily. "I want to tell you something, man. I played in the Southwest Confer­ence. That's a privilege to go to the Cotton Bowl. I haven't thought about it until after the football factor to hover below zero all game. Passing clouds brought periodical snow showers. It was so cold that even the hardy Penn State student sections, whose occu­pants were undoubtably influ­enced by the fact that the game was nationally televised, were half-deserted by game's end. 

But Penn State had all it needed with Blair Thomas on the field. The junior tailback ran for 214 
w, 
yards on 35 carries and gave the Irish defense fits. Combined with fullback John Greene (13 rushes for 53 yards), the Penn State start­ing backfield accounted for 267 yards of their team's 312 total yards of offense. 
"I think our offensive line did a great job," said Penn State head coach Joe Paterno. "Of course 

Blair Thomas was... well, he was just Blair Thomas." Holtz attri­buted Thomas' incredible day to another factor. "I said before that Blair Thomas is the best back we've played against all year, but I did not expect them to block us as well as they did up front." 

While Blair Thomas was being a Blair Thomas, Reisman Trophy :3 hopeful Tim Brown was definitely ~ not himself. Brown, who had .... established a Notre Dame career record in receiving yards the pre­h vious week against Alabama, had 
only four catches for 80 yards and only nine yards on four rushing attempts. Those two totals, com­bined with the 23 return yards on the day, put him· well below the average of 182 all-purpose yards per game that he had coming into the game. 

"They were tough," said Brown, who had played· some of the best games of his career ag..,nst Penn State. "Everybody always gets up for us, though. They were up and we were expecting them to be with their 
January 28, 1988 
Penn State 


seniors playing their last home game." But it wasn't as much a matter of Brown being hounded by Penn State defenders ("They just played basic coverage, even one-on-one.") as it was the freez­ing winds that prevented the pass­ing game from getting in gear. 
"The wind played a big factor since we couldn't throw the ball as often as we wanted to," Brown said. "They weren't going to kick to me anyway, regardless of the wind." 
After Notre . Dame took the opening kickoff and went nowhere, Vince Phelan's punt into 
the wind set up Penn State on its own 35. On the Lions' first play from scrimmage, quarterback Matt Knizner threw the ball . deep into Irish territory for wide receiver Jim Coates sprinting down..the sideline. But Irish .cornerback Mary Spence, who had Coat~s one-on-one, made an acrobatic interception that gave Notre Dame the ball on its 21-yard line. 
But the Notre Dame offense could not run into the wind against a tough Penn State defense, and punted again. On Penn State's next series, Brandy Wells sacked Knizner ori a safety blitz for an I I -yard loss on second down. Paterno then called for a quick kick on third down, and punter Chris Clauss' punt bounced in frorit of Wells, who was deep to return. Wells smothered the ball, but it popped out from under his chest and was recovered by Penn State's Brian Chizmar on the Notre Dame 19-yard line. 
The Lions made short work of 
the Irish. Blair Thomas went over 
the left side on the first play to 
put the ball on the lO yard-line, 
and one play later fullback John 
Greene cut over the left side and 
into the endzone for the game's 
first touchdown. 

The Irish, however, stormed right back. On first down from the Notre Dame 38-yard line,. quarter­back Tony Rice lofted the ball to Brown on a screen, and Brown rambled for 29 yards down to the Perin State 33-yard line. One play later, Rice took the ball over the left side of the Irish offensive line and sprinted 32 yards to tie the game. 
. Two critical penalties aided the next Penn State scoring drive. With 1:54 left in the first quarter, the Lioris got the ball .at midfield when Coates signalled for a fair catch. But freshman Donn Grimm tackled Coates, and the roughing penalty took the ball to the Notre Dame 33~_yard line. Seven plays later~ on third-and-goal from the five-yard line, the Irish were called for. pass interference when Knizner's pass fell incomplete in the end zone. Three plays later, 
Thomas went over the right side to put Penn State ahead, 14-7. 
Ei 
~ 
; 
~ 

Shortly after, however, the Irish moved back into scoring position and nearly tied the game before the half. Thanks to a shank punt by Penn State, Notre Dame got the ball at the Lions 28-yard line with just over one minute remaining. A crucial third-and­eight pass from Rice to Brown 
· moved the Irish to the three-yard line, and Penn State quickly sent in its goal-line defense. After Braxston Banks was stopped for no gain on first down, Holtz made the day's boldest coaching move, taking Rice out and replacing him with freshman quarterback Ke:r:it Graham on second down. Graham dropped back to pass, and with plenty of time left,. unloaded into the end­zone and into the arms of Penn State's Chizmar. Notre Dame went into the lockerroom empty­handed. "You can't do that against good football teams," said Holtz. "You can't have a chance to get on the board and not get on the board. But it was one of those games 

40 Scholastic 


Penn State 




where you can go back and look at a million different things." 
In the third quarter, the Lions were driving on their first posses­sion when Thomas fumbled on the Irish 23-yard line. Freshman line­backer Andre Jones recovered for Notre Dame, and the offense sud­denly found itself back in gear. With Rice back at the controls, the offense reeled off an 8-play, 77­yard scoring play into the teeth of the wind. Rice scored again, this time from 11 yards out, and Gradel's conversion tied the game at 14. 
Once again, the Lions came 
back at the start oC the fourth 
quarter, answering the Irish scor­
ing drive with a 76-yard, 15-play 
monster drive that took 7:17 and 
also went into the wind. John 
Greene scored the go-ahead touch­
down for Penn State on a 3-yard 
run. 
"I really felt we had an edge 
y,hen we drove 77 yards in the 
third quarter against the wind to 
tie it," said Holtz. "Then they 
started the fourth quarter on their 
24 yard line. I felt we had an edge 
at that time, but Penn State drove 
7 8 yards, used up 7:17 on the clock 
I 
. 

and we never got a chance tc util­
ize the wind." 
After the kickoff, the teams 

exchanged possessions before the 
Irish set up on their own 38-yard 
line with 4:33 remaining in the 
game. A 16-yard pass to Brown 
from Rice took the Irish into Penn 
State territory, and another 12­
yard pass to Anthony Johnson 
moved the Irish to the 30-yard 
line. Tw:o more runs by Green and 
Johnson put the ball on the 17­
yard line. The Irish moved to the 
8-yard line, where they ran into a · wall and, ultimately, a fourth-and-one. Johnson smashed up the middle for four yards, and it was first-and-goal for the Irish. 
Flash Gordon (38) and the rest of the Irish never could stop Penn State'ss Thomas (32). 
Rice rolled right on the first down, and finding no one open, ran the ball just short of the goal line. Johnson scored on the next play, and Holtz took a timeout to mull over Notre Dame's options. It was either kick for show or play for dough. The national cham­pionship was too big to ignore. 
"We never thought of going for 
a tie at all," said Holtz. "We 
wanted to win all the way." 
When the Irish lined up for a 
two-point conversion, Paterno 
took a time-out of his own~ "We 
had a lot of trouble with check­
offs, particularly down in that end 
(of the field)," said Holtz. ·"Tony 
(Rice's) voice doesn't carry very 
well, and we practiced the two­
point conversion, an 'either/or -­
before' (play), but when we went 
for it and called it initially, Tony 
just didn't feel real comfortable 
with it, so we called something 
else." 
Rice took the snap from center 
Chuck Lanza and rolled right. But, 
Lion outside linebacker Keith 
Karpinsky was there to force Rice 
inside, and left tackle Pete Curk­
endall threw Rice down at the 
five-yard line. 
Good-bye, national champion.­
ship. Hello, Dallas. ¦ 
41
January 28, 1988 


I: 

As "bad" as the Hurricanes may be, they sure looked good disniantling the Irish in Notre Dame's regular-season finale. 
BY MARTY BURNS 

MIAMI --"In your face, punk." That's what the Miami Hurricanes told Notre Dame, its gentlemanly Heisman Trophy can­didate, and the rest of the college football world, November 28, when they pillaged the Irish, 24-0, in broad daylight and in front of 76,640 patrons at the Orange Bowl. The Hurricanes, ranked No. 2 in the land, wagged fingers, shouted insults, and generally made life unbearable for an 8-2 Notre Dame team that was simply a much weaker football team. 
Whether it was planting a hel­met in a chest, a finger in a face, or Irish star Tim Brown in the turf, the bad boys from the land of Miami Vice proved once again that "bad" could be good on a football field. And when it was over, there was no more talk of revenge for Notre Dame's humilia­tion at Miami in 1985 or of the lost Orange Bowl bid in 1987, just a great deal about the fine play of the Hurricanes that day. 
"After watching Miami today I can say that they are an out­standing football team that plays very, very well," admitted Irish head coach Lou Holtz, after watching the Hurricane defense hold his team to its lowest yardage total ( 169) all season. "I think on any given day they are probably the best team in the country. They were just very impressive." 
For Miami, the win was indeed impressive. It was the Hurricanes' tenth without a loss on the 1987 season, and their 31st consecutive in regular season play. In its performance against the Irish, moreover, Miami showed clearly that no one else but the Hurricanes belonged on the Orange Bowl field New Year's Day against top-rated Oklahoma. 
Nevertheless, the ease with which the Hurricanes carved up the Irish defense, stymied the potent Irish rushing game, and so deftly put the clamps on Brown 
42 Scholastic 

Miami 

had to surprise most viewers. After all, Notre Dame supposedly had the edge in incentive. First of all, Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson had tried to strike an early deal with the Orange Bowl selection committee for an uncon­ditional bid to the New Year's Day battle, leaving what was then an 8-1 Irish team without a crack at the No. 1 Sooners. And if that wasn't enough to get a team's Irish up, there was always the revenge motive for the 58-7 humiliation Johnson's 'Canes pasted on Notre 

Dame in Irish head coach Gerry Faust's last game back in 1985. 
But if what goes around does come back around, Notre Dame will have to wait. For on this day, the Hurricanes just had too many weapons. Behind fullback Melvin Bratton's two touchdown runs and quarterback Steve Walsh's skillful passing, the Miami offense had its way the entire afternoon. In fact, if not for four Hurricane turn­ove~s, two of which occured in the shadow of the Notre Dame goal­posts, the score might have been much worse. 
"When I look at this game I see three phases: offense, defense and the kicking game," gushed Johnson. "And we won all phases.,. It should be noted as well that Johnson instructed backup quarterback Craig Erickson not to throw the ball late in the game after he had moved the 'Canes close to another score. "Don't 

want  any  trouble,"  Johnson  
remarked.  
Perhaps  Johnson  had  mel­ 

lowed. But there was no chance that his players, especially his defense, were going to let go of the Irish once they had them between their jaws. Instead, they just bit down all the harder and shook. Take, for example, the number they pulled on the flashy Brown. Brown let two deep throws from quarterback Tony Rice slip through his hands, and was gang­tackled repeatedly when returning kicks, much to the delight of super 'Cane safety Bennie Blades and· teammates Bubba McDowell and 
Darrell Fullington. 
"Brown's a 5Jod player ... ," said Blades, adjusting the chip on his shoulder that's a trademark of 
the Miami uniform, "but we really didn't have to do anything soeci~I to stop him." 
"We've been sluggish lately, giving up a lot of points," explained Miami all-America tackle Daniel Stubbs, referring to the 'Cane's lackluster showings against Toledo and Virginia Tech. "But today, everyone wanted to make the tackle. And if Tim Brown had the ball, everyone wanted to get him." 
Brown, meanwhile, had few comments in return for his opponents. "I don't get frustrated by what they say," said the triple-threat whose numbers showed only 95 all-purpose yards and one fumble on a late kickoff 
The Hurricane offense swept past linebacker Darrell Gordon 
(38) and the rest of the Irish defense all afternoon, registering 417 total yards 


43
January 28, 1988 


I I 
! 
:/ 
f 

i 
l 
; ' 
I' , . 
Miami 

return. "They played a great game. I just don't think they play with any class. They taunt you, talk about your momma, and all that. What do they say? Well, it's not printable." 
Not of all of it, by any stretch of the imagination, was Brown's fault. The Irish offense, led by the inexperienced Rice, seemed paralyzed in the face of the Hurricane's veteran 4-3 defense. Notre Dame's talented backfield of tailbacks Mark Green and Ricky Watters, along with full­backs Anthony Johnson and Braxston Banks, found some suc­cess early, but none after the first half. Miami linebacker George Mira Jr. took care early on to see no Irish player got through, garnering 17 tackles and pressur­ing Rice from across the line. 
On the two occasions the Irish did get the ball close enough to see the Miami endzone, the 'Canes 
defense frightened Rice into turn­
overs. The swift Irish sophomore, 
never comfortable in obvious pass­
ing situations, forced one attempt 
over the middle on a second-and­
twel ve at the Miami 31-yard line, allowing Blades to intercept. Then, in the third quarter, Rice pitched on the option to Banks when he should have pitched to trailing back Tony Brooks. The ball carommed off Banks' back and Mira recovered at his own 31-yard line to preserve the shutout, Notre Dame's first since a 20-0 loss to Miami in 1983. 
"What we couldn't do is get any continuity where we could stay with them," Holtz said. "They changed their defens es, they blended things around and that presented some problems. They're awfully strong up inside as well. And their secondary does a fine job." 


Walsh, meanwhile, was quietly terrific. A third-year sophomore who spent the past two years as an apprentice to Bernie Kosar and Vinny Testaverde, Walsh wasn't even recruited by Holtz despite the fact that he prepped at a Min­neapolis high school while Holtz minded the store at Minnesota. But he gained Holtz' attention this time with a 13-of-22 passing per­formance for 196 yards despite disguised blitzes and, one time, even a gimmick defense of six linebackers and five defensive backs. 
"Walsh really found his receivers when he needed to today," marveled Irish linebacker 
Bratton fumbled twice in Notre 
Dame  territory,  otherwise  the  
score  could  have  been  much  
worse.  

Scholastic 
Miami 
Wes Pritchett. "We blitzed him some to create some pressure ... but as a result he hit his receivers underneath. That was a real prob­lem." 

early, fumbling the ball away at the Notre Dame 11-yard line. But two more touchdown scores, one each by Bratton and. freshman back Leonard Conley, put the-Irish fingers pointed skyward. 
Come in peace, the Miami Hurricanes fold the Irish and all who witnessed their 24-0 thrash­ing, and you'll leave in pieces. II 
., ! 


Three of Notre Dame's "No­Names," safety George Streeter (27), linebackers Ned Bolcar (47) and Wes Pritchett (34), look on as one of their teammates hauls down the slippery Bratton. 

threw a pass for wideout Michael Irvin that was picked off by Notre Dame's George Streeter. Walsh made a mental note, though, and wasn't fooled again. He drove his team 80 yards on the next drive (no score . because of a Bratton fumble at the goal line), 65 yards for a Bratton touchdown on the third, and then 58 more for a Greg Cox field goal and a 10-0 lead before the halftime break pro­vided Notre Dame with a breather. In the second half, Walsh once again let the Irish off the hook 
January 28, 1988 

humble pie while the 'Canes strut­ted around in front of them, index 

1987 

Heisman Winner 
Tim Brown's Touchdown Plays 1987 
11-yard reception vs; Michigan 66-yard punt return vs. Michigan State 71-yard punt return vs. Michigan State 49-yard reception vs. Purdue 74-yard punt return vs. Air Force 
5-yard run vs. USC 51-yard reception vs. Navy 
Career Records at Notre Dame 

* 
Most Pass Reception Yards: 2,493 (340 in '84, 397 in '85, 910 in '86, and 846 in '87) 

* 
Most Kickoff Return Yards: 1,613 (121 in '84, 338 in '85; 698 in '86, and 456 in '87) 

* 
Most Kickoff Returns: 69 (7 in '84, 14 in '85, 25 in '86, 23 in '87) · 

* 
Most Kickoff Returns for Touchdowns: 3 (1 in '85, 2 in '86) 

* 
Most Punt Returns for Touchdowns: 3 (all in '87) 

* 
Most Combined Kick Return Yards (Punt and Kickoff Returns): 2,089 (121 in '84, 338 in '85, 773 in '86, 857 in '87) 

* 
Most Combined Kick Returns: 105 (7 in '84, 14 in '85, 27 in '86, 57 in '87) 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAJVIE 
HEISJ\1AN TROPHY WINNERS 
* 
Angelo Bertelli, 1943 

* 
John Lujack, 1947 

* 
Leon Hart, 1949 

* 
John Lattner, 1953 

* 
Paul Hornung, 1956 · 

* 
John Huarte, 1964 

* 
Tim Brown, 1987 



* Most Combined Kick Returns for Touchdowns: 6 (1 in '85, 2 in '86, 3 in '87) 
1987 REISMAN MEMORIAL TROPHY BALLOTING 
Name School 
1. 
Tim Brown Univ. of Notre Dame 

2. 
Don McPherson Syracuse University 

3. 
Gordon Lockbaum Holy Cross College 

4. 
Lorenzo White Michigan State Univ. 

5. 
Craig Heyward Univ. of Pittsburgh 


Total Votes Total 1st 2nd 3rd Points 324 173 124 1,442 167 135 60 831 108 103 127 657 89 121 123 632 17 44 31 170 
46 Scholastic 
* 
Brown's 137 career receptions rank him third on Notre Dame's all-time list behind only Tom Ga tewood's 157 from 1969-71 and Jim Seymour's 138 from 1963-65. 

* 
Brown's 13.2 career average for punt returns (36 for 476) ranks second on Notre Dame's all-time list behind only Nick Rassas' 15.7 (39 for 612) from 1963-65. 

* 
Brown's success running kicks prompted most opponents to kick the ball away from him --so much so that only 14 of the last 38 punts by Irish opponents travelled 40 yards or more. The Irish opponents' net punting average (punting yards minus punt return yards) stood at 31.6 per kick. Over the last six games (with most foes squibbing the ball or kicking short), Notre Dame received 25 kickoffs and only four times started inside its own 29-yard line. Average field position on those 25 kickoffs for the Irish was the Notre Dame 35. 

* 
Brown's two punt returns for touchdowns vs. Michigan State tied an NCAA single-game record held by many players (most recently Garcia Lane of Ohio State who returned punts 63 and 71 yards vs. Purdue on Octo bcr 8 1983). Both Lane's and Brown'~ returns came on consec·utive punts. 

* 
Brown ranks sixth nationally in all-purpose yardage at 167. 9 per game after ranking third in that category as a junior ( 176.1 ). 

* 
Brown established personal highs for all-purpose yards and attempts with 16 for 294 vs. Boston College --including a 57-yard reception on Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage. 

* 
Brown comes from Woodrow Wilson High School in Dallas -­the same high school that pro­duced 1938 Heisman Trophy winner Davey O'Brien who played quarterback for TCU. 


* 
Brown became only the second player in Notre Dame history to record more than 5,000 all­purpose yards in his career. Brown finished with 5,024 (2,943 receiv­ing, 442 rushing, 1,613 kickoff returns, 476 punt returns) to finish behind only Allen Pinkett's 5,259 total (4, 131 rushing, 774 receiving, 354 kickoff returns) from 1982­85. 

* 
Brown put together his impres­sive credentials despite the fact that Notre Dame completed only two touchdown passes over the last seven games combined (one to Brown vs. Navy from Kent Gra­ham and one to tight end Andy Heck vs. Alabama from Tony Rice). 



EASTERN STYLE 

FREE DELIVERY!!! SUBS 271-0SUB 
Whole Whut or While 

HALF-WHOLE SUPER 7•· 14" 18" 
THE  MATEO •• ••••••••••••.  $2.4,9.  3.07  ~.99  
TURKEY ..................  $2.49  3·.02  4.99  
TURKEY BREAST·.; •••••••••  $2.09  4.2:<  4.99  
HAM·•••••••••••·•••••••••  $2.72  3.91  4.99  
TUNA •••••• ;•••••••••••••  $2.72  3.9'J  4.99  
REAL ROAST B!EF •••••••••  $2.09  4.2J  4.99  
GENOA SALAMI••••••••••••  $2.72  3.99  4.99  
CHEESE •••••••• , •••••••••  $2.29  3.7'J  4,99  
REAL ITALIAN ••••••••••••  $2.09  4.23  4,99  
·caplcola,procluttc,  
genoa  salaal  
COMRINATION •••••••••••••  $2.09  ~.2;­ 
ham, turkey, roast beet  
l!OMEMllD!  MEATD!\LL • • • • • • •  $2. 12  J. ~••  4.99  
PIZZA  SUB ...............  $2.72  3.9'.'  4.99  
peperonl,aalaml, provolone,onlon, mushroom,red sauce  
and  apicca(HEATED)  
DI!T  SUB ................  $2.72  J.9'J  4.99  
lov calor'ie  
mayonals~,tUna  or  
turkey w/no oil  
x..TRAS  
MUSHROOMS • • • • • • • • • • .. . • •  $. 47  •00  . 1.27  
X-MEAT••••••••••••••-·••  $.47  .80  l .27  
X-CHEESE.,., • .,.........  $. 28  . ~7  • 80  
X-VEGETABLES,.. •• •• • • • ..  $,28  .47  .80  



X-M!\YO .•....... ••• ....... $.05 . 10 .15 COSMO (HEATED)••••••••" $.10 .10 • 10 
SIDES 

POT!\.TO SALAD••.•••, ••••• ,., ••• , ••...••••....•••• $;59 Sm1n l. lO I.art• COLE SLAW;•••••• .... •• ..........................89 12 ot, l. 10 16 01. POTATO CHIPS , ••••• • ••• • •••••••••...••••. ·..••••.• 50 l, 39 SOUP (Mateo's special blond) ................... l.35 (only one size) T ¦ stykake Cupkakos (imported from Philn.J .••• , ••70 (only one size) 
PEPSI. DIET DRINK. LEHON!\DE
piRlll?M-~R~. ORANGE 
s..all $.49 medluffl $,59 ln, ,~ ! ,r, 
Farm rrcsh Hilk $.65 6 FT. PA?.TY SUB /\LSO /\VAIL/\BL!l 
1636 N. IRONWOOD DR. FREE DELIVERY!!! 271-0SUB 


Hung 

ut 
to 
Dry 

New Year's day at the Cot ton Bowl turned into doomsday at Dallas for Notre Dame after Texas A & M stripped the Irish mystique with a 35-10 thrashing 
BY MARTY BURNS 

DALLAS, Tex. --All week long the Texas A&M football team felt like an orphan in a grade school play. While crowds gathered and flashbulbs popped in front of the Notre Dame foot-· ball team and hometown Reisman-winner Tim Brown as they invaded Dallas for the 52nd annual Cotton Bowl Classic, the Aggies looked on from afar. Texas A&M, sporting a 9-2 record and a third straight Southwestern Conference title, had not the reputation nor the national exposure which their opponent from the Golden Dome boasted. 
The Aggies, in fact, looked like an easy target for a Notre Dame squad ranked No. 12 in the nation, peaked emotionally by its first New Year's Day bowl appearance since 1981, and angry after two bitter defeats to close the season. Most experts figured the 8-3 Irish would not only win, but would ride rodeo-style over the champion of the probation­ravaged SWC. · 

· Instead, 73,006 fans and a national television audience witnessed a solid 35-10 thrashing by Texas A&M which left Notre Dame humiliated and the experts at a loss for words. "Our players got tired of reading in the papers all week about Notre Dame and how great they are," Aggie head coa9h Jackie Sherrill stated after the game. "It's not like our players Laren't also good students or good citizens or don't go to class. And they can play, too. 

Cotton Bowl 

~ 
Brown, who began his career with a fumble at Purdue, ended it with 
~ 
the con troyersial towel scuffle. 
Classic 
Our guys just did a great job of controlling their emotions and reacting to the mismatch in the media." 
But while Texas A&M's refusal to throw in the towel made the difference in the ball game, an Aggie player's refusal to give back a towel created the most memorable scene of the contest. Late in the affair, and with the Irish trailing 28-10, Notre Dame's Brown set off a bench-clearing skirmish after he 
chased down a member of the Aggies' famed all-walk-on "Twelfth Man" kickoff return team .and tackled him from behind as the player was trotting off the field. "I wanted to get my towel back," Brown explained after the me lee, in reference to a monogrammed towel. the Aggie player had swiped off Brown's uniform. 
With his heist of Brown's ornament, the thief, Warren Barhorst, joined the legendary Tommy Lewis of Alabama as perpetrators of famous Cotton Bowl capers.· Lewis gained fame .in the 1954 classic when he scooted off the bench to tackle Rice's Dicky Maegle as Maegle sprinted down the 'Barna side­line. Lewis' tackle cost his team seven points after the referees awarded Maegle a touchdown. Brown's tackle, however, cost the Irish only 15 yards in the form of a penalty. 
"The way I went about it probably wasn't the right way," Brown added. "But I think they had something planned. After I was tackled one guy held me down and the other took the towel and ran off. The towel was a gift from a friend. I didn't mean to tackle him, but I don't think he had any right to take 


it." 
The incident, sadly enough, overshadowed a fine perfor­mance by Brown, who dazzled the hometown crowd early with six first-half catches for 105 yards. One of those catches, moreover, went for the game's first touchdown as Brown took a pass in from the A&M 17-yard line to set up a quick 7-0 Notre Dame lead. Yet the frustration which would later take startling shape in the towel incident at the end, began for Brown and the day's critical error when he unwisely threw a pass into the endzone on a broken play with his team leading 10-3 and threatening again at the A&M 18-yard line. Aggie cornerback Alex Morris stepped in front of Irish tight end Andy Heck and held on to the ball while falling out of bounds for the intercep­tion. "Bad leadership on my part," admitted Andrysiak, who nonetheless played pretty well (15-of-25 for 203 yards), consid­ering he had not seen action since suffering a broken collar­bone in the team's October 10 game against Pittsburgh. 
That interception might not have proved so crucial, however, had not Sherrill made a bold stra-
Andrysiak returned after m1ssmg the team's final seven games, but he couldn't push the Irish past the Aggie defense. 


January 28, 1988 
49 


Cotton Bowl 



The "No-Name" defense had its but they were few and far between. 
tegy move on the next play. Noting starting quarterback Bucky Richardson's woeful pass­ing on the team's first three pos­sessions, the veteran mentor inserted a big freshman signal­caller named Lance Pavlas to take over the A&M offense. Pav­las had not taken a snap in the . team's last three games. Yet he connected immediately for 11

I; 
I' 
yards on the first play, and for 
I' 
33 yards to flanker Gary Oliver on the third play, to set up the Aggies tying score. 

..We needed a spark," Sher­rill said matter~of-factly about 
· the surprise move, ·.which exposed the weak pass defense of the Irish that Holtz and defensive coordinator Foge Fazio had hid­den rather effectively most of the season. For the day, Pavlas completed five of seven passes for 77 yards, while Richardson later returned to amass a game-moments, like when it shut down 
high 96 yards rushing, including his team's final two touchdowns and the game's Offensive MVP award. 
The entrance of the passing Pavlas, furthermore, set up nicely Sherrill's next trick --a halfback option toss from Darrel) Lewis to a wide, wide-open Tony Thompson for a 24-yard touch.:. down pass that tied the score at IO apiece. Then as if the quick turn of events there· was not enough to make Irish eyes swell with tears, (urther calamities surfaced on the team's first play after the kickoff. Andrysiak flipped a screen pass out in the left flat to fullback Braxston Banks, who juggled the ball and dropped it for an incomplete pass. Or, at least, ·everyone thought it was an incomplete pass. 

Officials conferred, though, and decided the ball had been 
Joe Vitacco
A&M at the goal line, 

caught by Banks, and then fum­bled. Texas A&M, which had recovered the loose ball, then took it in 21 yards for another touchdown. "I saw the ball hit the ground and thought it was incomplete," Holtz mused. "But I always worry when I see those suckers· get together and start discussing a call like that." The famed Aggie "Swinging Gate'' play added insult to injury, when on the conversion attempt after the score, Aggie center Scott Lark pitched·the ball sideways to teammate Wally Hartley for . a three-yard plunge into the end zone for the two-point conver­sion. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," Holtz said. "It looked like we were about to be up 17-3, but boom, boom, boom, we make three mistakes in a row. And in a two-minute. span, (Texas A&M) goes ahead 18-10." 
50_ Scholastic 
Cotton Bowl 
Despite the bad bounces for Notre Dame, though, Texas A&M showed itself to be the better team with a thorough second-half showing. Paced by a relentless Adam Bob inside and Aaron Wallace outside (each with 11 tackles), the Aggie lineback­ers completely shut down the vaunted running game of the 

· Irish inside and put tremendous pressure on Andrysiak after he was forced by the score to pass. "All day it seemed like we'd have a hole there for a second, but then (Texas A&M) would close· it," Andrysiak noted. "We just couldn't get it done." Notre Dame finished the day with only 
277 total yards of offense to the Aggies' 410, and could muster only 74 yards on the ground. 

Even Irish sophomore quar­terback Tony Rice failed to gain yards when he entered the con­test with just over eight minutes to go in the game. Rice, who led Notre Dame to a 5-2 mark after Andrysiak went down with his injury, tried to ignite a come­.back but instead committed his team's fourth and final turnover of the day. Aggie cornerback Kip Corrington's interception of ·a Rice pass at the Notre Dame 30-yard line enabled Texas A&M to salt the game away five plays later and forge the 35-10 final. 
As Notre Dame thrashed about on offense, meanwhile, the Aggies sailed along easily behind an overachieving offensive line that was really the star of the day's show. "They manhandled us," Holtz stated flatly. "They whipped us up front, dominated the line of scrimmage, and that was the difference. "Tremen­dous" echoed Sherrill, when asked for his description of his line's play. "And don't forget", he pointed out, "we only had six (healthy players) that could play. But they just wanted this one badly." 

After the game, the Notre Dame locker roomshowed a team weary and disillusioned by three straight losses. Still, a current of hope managed to penetrate the effort to bolster the sagging defense, slumped on his stool, his hair matted, and his weary legs stretched out before him. "I did my best," he said. "I'm never going to ever be embarrassed again in my life like that. I'm· upset.· I'm mad. But like I said, next year we'll be back." 11 
setting. Irish defensive linemap. John Foley, switched by Holtz and Fazio late in the season from his normal linebacker slot in an 


January 28, i988 




TE Paul Green 
junior, Texas A&M 


QB Rodney Peete junior, use 
WR Darren Flutie senior, Boston College 



RB Lorenzo White 
jun~~r, MSU 

52 Scholastic 





19 7 Football Honors 
TIM BROWN, flanker 

Reisman Trophy Winner 
Walter Camp Trophy Winner 
The Sporting News Player of the Year 
Football News Player of the Year 
Associated Press, United Press International, Kodak (American Football 
Coaches Football News), Football Writers Association of America, The 
Sporting News, Football News, Walter Camp Foundation All-America (all first team) 
Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP (by vote of teammates) 
Associated Press Midwest Offensive Player of the Week vs. Michigan State 
Sports Illustrated Special Teams Player of the Week vs. Michigan State 
Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl participant 
CHUCK LANZA, center 

Football News All-America (first team) Associated Press All-America (second team) United Press International All-America (second team) Notre Dame Lineman of the Year, Moose Kraus Chapter of National Football Foundation Hall of Fame Hula Bowl and Japan Bowl participant 
NED BOLCAR, inside linebacker 
· · ... CBS/Chevrolet Defensive Player of the Year 
4Associated Press All-America (second team) 
lFootball News All-America (third team) 

. CBS/Chevrolet MVP vs. Penn State ·Sports Illustrated Defensive Player of the Week vs. USC 
··Captain-Elect for 1988 
{ ,. CEDRIC FIGARO, outside linebacker 1·1, 1\' .:,;, ::1 
Football News All-America (third team) f United Press International All-America (honor8.ble mention) 

Associate.ct Press Midwest Defensive Player of the Week vs. Boston College 







GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-America
DARRELL .. FLASH" GORDON, linebacker 

(first team) Japan Bowl participant 
Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Scholar-Athlete A ward 
BYRON SPRUELL, offensive tackle 

Japan Bowl participant 
BRANDY WELLS, cornerback/safety 

Hula Bowl participant 
TERRY ANDRYSIAK, quarterback 

ABC/Chevrolet MVP vs. Michigan 
TOM REHDER, offensive tackle 


Football News All-America (honorable mention) East-West Shrine Game participant 
MARK GREEN, tailback 


Football News All-America 
{honorable mention) CBS/Chevrolet MVP vs. Alabama Captain-Elect for 1988 
ANDY HECK, tight end 


Football News All-America (honorable mention) Captain-Elect for 1988 
VINCE PHELAN, punter 


GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-America (first team) 
CBS/Chevrolet MVP vs. Miami 
TOM FREEMAN, offensive guard 

Football News All-Americ~ {honorable mention) 
TED GRADEL, kicker 
COMING THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT AT 7:30 TO O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 


KEENAN HALL DISPLAYS ITS TALENTS FOR THE CAMPUS TO ENJOY. 
PRESIDENT AND SENATORIAL Elections 
For those interested in declaring their candidacy for the offices of Senate, President and Vice President, take note of the following dates: 
THURS., JAN. 28 Informational Meeting for Prospective Candidates 6 p.m. Notre Dame Room, 
ij 
2nd floor LaFortune 
1i 
'ii TUES., FEB. 2 MANDATORY Meeting for 
' 
Declared Candidates 

6 p.m. Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
FRI., FEB. 5 Petitions Required for Candidacy Due by Noon in the Student Government Offices, , 2nd Floor LaFortune 
CAMPAIGNING BEGINS TUES., FEB. 9 AND ENDS MON., FEB. 15 AT MIDNIGHT 
ELECTION DAY IS TUES., FEB. 16 
If necessary, runoff campaigning will take place on Wed., Feb. 17 with a runoff election to be held on Thurs., Feb. 18. 
OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER Elections 
For those interested in declaring their candidacy for the offices of of the classes of '89, '90, and '91, these dates are of great importance: 
THURS., FEB. 18  Informational Meeting for  
Prospective Candidates  
6 p.m. Notre Dame Room,  
2nd floor LaFortune  
TUES., FEB. 23  MANDATORY Meeting for  
Declared Candidates  
6 p.m. Notre Dame Room,  
2nd Floor LaFortune  
FRI., FEB. 26  Petitions Required for  
Candidacy Due by Noon  
in the Student  
Government Offices,  
2nd Floor LaFortune  

CAMPAIGNING BEGINS TUES., MARCH 1 AND ENDS MON., MARCH 7 AT MIDNIGHT 
ELECTION DAY IS TUES., MARCH 8 
If necessary, runoff campaigning will take place on Wed., March 9, with a runoff election to be held on Thurs., March 10. 
1987 Regular Season 
Final Statistics 
RESULTS AND ATTENDANCE RUSHING .. . NO YDS AVG Green ...... . 146 861 5.9
S 12 at Michigan W 26-7 105,098(c) Watters ..... . 69 373 5.4
S 19 MICHIGAN ST. W 31-8 59,075(c) Johnson .... . 78 366 4.7

S 26 at Purdue W 44-20 68,526(c) 
Rice ....... . 89 337 3.8
0 lO at Pittsburgh L 22-30 56,400(c) Brooks ..... . 54 262 4.9
O 17 at Air Force W 35-14 51,l12(c) 
Banks ...... . 54 212 3.9
o 24 use w 26-15 59,075(c) T. Brown ... . 34 144 4.2

0 31 NAVY W 56-13 59,075(c) Taylor ...... . 16 46 2.9
N 7 BOSlDN COL. W 32-25 59,075(c) Belles ...... . 11 49 4.5
N 14 ALABAMA W 37-6 59 ,075(c) Andrysiak .. . 27 40 1.5
N 21 at Penn State L 20-2 I 84,000(c) Jefferson .... . 11 39 3.6

N 28 at Miami (Fla.) L 0-24 76,640(c) Jarosz ...... . 8 37 4.6

Avg. 67,105 Coleman .... . 6 20 3.3 Robb ....... . I II 11.0 Satterfield... . 2 8 4.0 

K. Graham .. . 9 -11 -1.2 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS ...... . 227 188 
TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP 

P. Graham .. . 3 -21 -7.0 Rushing ................. . 163 86 
NotreDame .. 618 2773 4.5
Passing .................. . 57 84 
Opponents . . . 456 I696 3. 7 
Penalty .................. . 7 18 3rd Down: Made/ Att. ...... . 67/156 54/146 4th Down: Made/Att....... . 8/11 7/12 
PASSING.... All Cmp Yds Pct
TOTAL NET YARDS ........ . 4191 3314 
Avg. Per Game ............ . 381 301.3 
K.Graham. . 24 16 248 66. 7
Total Plays ............... . 784 719 
Belles . . . . . I I 27 100.0
Avg. Per Play ............. . 5.3 4.6 
T. Brown I 0 0 0.0
NET YARDS RUSHING ..... . 2773 1696 P. Graham 0 0 0 0.0
Avg. Per Game ............ . 252.1 154.2 
Andrysiak 58 30 480 51.7
Total Rushes .............. . 618 456 

NET YARDS PASSING ...... . 1418 1618 Notre Dame 166 82 1418 49.4 Avg. Per Game ............ . 128.9 147 .1 Opponents. . 263 124 1618 47.1 Attempts/Completion ....... . 166/82 263/124 Pct. of Completions ........ . 49.4 47.1 Had Intercepted ........... . 11 13 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG 
PUNTS/AVERAGE .......... . 52/40.5 60/38.9 T. Brown ... . 39 846 21.7 NET PUNTING AVG........ . 36.5 31.6 Green ...... . 13 98 7.5 PENALTIES/YARDS ........ . 64/566 49/373 Watters ..... . 6 70 11.7 FUMBLES/BALL LOST ..... . 18/9 27/16 Heck ....... . 5 59 11.8 TOUCHDOWNS ............ . 41 22 Johnson .... . 4 110 27.5 Rushing ................. . 33 14 Brooks ..... . 3 38 12.7 Passing .................. . 4 8 Banks ...... . 3 15 5.0 Returns .................. . 4 0 Terrell ..... . 2 63 31.5 TIME OF POSSESSION ..... . 355: 12 304:48 Ward ....... . 2 50 25.0 Jacobs ...... . 2 23 11.5 Robb ....... . 2 21 10.5 Dumas ..... . I 25 25.0 
SCORE llY PERIODS I 2 3 4 TOT. AVG. Notre Dame .. 82 1418 17.3 Notre Dame. . . . . . . . 86 67 9 I 85 329 29. 9 Opponents ... 124 1618 13.0 Opponent .......... 38 73 32 40 183 16.6 
PUNT RETURNS SCORING ... TDR TDP TDRI PAT FG S TP NO YDS AVG 
Gradel..... 0 0 0 33/33 14/18 0 75 T. Brown ... . 34 401 11.8 Johnson . . . . 11 0 0 010 010 0 66 
Watters ..... . 2 23 11.5 Brown..... I 3 3 1/1 * 0/0 0 44 Lyght ...... . I 15 15.0 Rice....... 7 0 0 010 010 0 42 Wells ...... . I 0 0.0 Green . . . . . 6 0 0 0/0 010 0 36 
Notre Dame .. 38 439 11.6
Banks . . . . . 4 0 0 010 010 0 24 Opponents ... 31 205 6.6
Watters . . . . 3 0 0 010 010 0 18 Brooks..... I O 0 010 010 0 6 Heck...... 0 I 0 010 010 0 6 
KICKOFF RETURi'iS
Southall . . . . 0 0 I 010 010 0 6 NO YDS AVG
Ho........ 0 0 0 1/1 010 0 I 
T. Brown ... . 23 456 19.8
Neidell . . . . 0 0 0 1/1 0/0 0 I Streeter..... . 4 32 8.0
Team . . . . . . ------2 4 Johnson .... . 2 52 26.0 

Notre Dame 33 4 4 36/36* 14/18 2 329 Banks ...... . 2 32 16.0 Opponents. . 14 8 0 20/24# 9-14 0 I83 Francisco ... . 2 30 15.0 *Includes I 2-point conversion Smagala .... . 2 24 12.0 #Includes 4 2-point conversions Green ...... . I 17 17.0 
Brooks ..... . I -2 -2.0 
Notre Dame .. 37 641 17.3 Opponents ... 57 990 17.4 

Rice....... 82 35 663 42. 7

LG  TD  INTERCEPTIONS  NO  YDS  AVG  LG  TD  
74 75 31 32 27 18 31 13 12  6 3 11 7 I 4 I 0 0  Southall ........ . Spence ......... . Bolcar ......... . Figaro ......... . Pritchett. ....... . Smagala ........ . Streeter ........ . Lyght. ......... .  3 3 2 I I I I I  80 26. 7 18 6.0 25 12.5 II 11.0 II 11.0 10 10.0 4 4.0 O 0.0  57 18 17 11 11 10 4 0  I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
12  0  Notre Dame..... .  13  159 12.2  57  I  
12  0  Opponents ...... .  11  53  4.8  21  0  
13  0  
11 II  0 0  PUNTING  No.  Yds  Avg  TBIN-20  LGBU  
6  0  Phelan.. . . .  50 2044 40.9  6  8  68  l  
6 -2  0 0  Hackett . . . . Notre Dame  2 61 30.5 52 2 I 05 40.5  I 7  I 9  35 68  ( (  
75 62  33 14  Opponents. .  60 2337 38.9  I  8  56  I  
FIELD GOALS  1-19  20-29  30-39  40-49  50+ 1Ul  
TD  Int  Gradel ...... 0-0  8-8  3-5  3-5  0-0  14-H  
I I 0  4 4 0  Notre Dame .. 0-0 Opponents ... 1-1  8-8 2-3  3-5 4-5  3-5 1-3  0-0 1-2  14-H 9-1£  
0  0  
0  0  TWO-POINT CONVERSONS  
2  3  RUN(Md/At)  PASS(Md/At)  

4  II  Notre Dame ..  1-5  0-1  
8  13  Opponent ....  1-1  3-3  
LG 57  TD 3  TIJ'vl BROWN'S ALL-PURPOSE YARDAGE Att. Yds. Per Play TD PER GAME  
21  0  Brown  130 1843  14.2  7  167.5  
28  0  
26 51 27 11 38 34 23 12  I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  TACKLES (Total-Solos-Assists): Bolcar (106-62­44), Pritchett (70-32-38), Figaro (53-28-25), Gor­don (53-25-28), Wells (50-31-19), Griffin (43-20­23), Gorman (36-23-13), Smagala (35-23-12), Lyght (29-21-8), Spence (29-15-14), Kunz (25-15­10), Jones (22-18-4), Eilers (21-10-11), Southall (20-12-8), Flannery (18-7-11), Fitzgerald (16-8-8),  
25  0  Stams (14-6-8). Foley (13-8-5), Morrison (11-5-6),  
57 57  4 8  Grimm (9-7-2). Grunhard (8-5-3), Harris (7-3-4), Coleman (6-3-3), Alm (5-2-3), Francisco (4-3-1), West (4-1-3), Brooks (3-2-1), Kowalkowski (3-1-2),  
Kvochak (3-1-2), T. Brown (2-2-0), Johnson (2-1­ 
1), Taylor (2-1-1), Terrell (2-0-2), Banks (1-1-0),  
LG 74  TD 3  Rice (1-1-0), Bryne (1-0-1), Rausch (1-0-1), Ryan (1-0-1), Satterfield (1-0-1).  
22 15 0  0 0 0  FUMBLES RECOVERED: Kunz (3), Bolcar (2), Smagala (2), Grimm (2), Pritchett (2), Williams, Gorman, Griffin, Gordon, Jones  
74 13  3 0  FUMBLES CAUSED: Figaro 3, Southall, Gor­don, Wells, Streeter, Kvochak, Lyght PASSES BROKEN UP: Streeter 6, Spence 5,  
Wells 4, Smagala 3, Gordon 3, Bolcar 3, Figaro 2,  
Lyght 2, Francisco, Pritchett, Fitzgerald, Eilers,  
LG 36 17 32 17 16 18 17 -2  TD 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  Griffin, Streeter. West SACKS: Figaro (3-28), Gordon (3.5-31), Kunz (3­15), Pritchett (1.5-7), Bolcar (1-14), Wells (1-11), Harris (1-10), Flannery (1-9), Slams (1-9), West (1-9), Kowalkowski (1-9), Eilers (1-8), Fitzgerald (1-7), Rausch (1-6), Gorman (1-5), Griffin (1-2) Notre Dame -23-175 yds. Opponents -22-146 yds. TACKLES FOR LOSS: Figaro (5-15), Griffin (4­11), Bolcar (4-8), Pritchett (3-4), Gorman (2-5),  
36 65  0 0  Stams (2-3), Kunz (2-3), FitzGerald (2-2), Streeter (1-4), Wells (1-4), Eilers (1-3), Flannery (1-2),  
Harris (1-2), Gordon (1-1)  
Notre Dame -30-67  
Opponent~ -46-105  




