SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 82
August 18, 1944
No. 6
•	Law Ball Tonight
•	Statues Placed in Alumni and Lyons
Tonight: Top hat, white tie, and tails—if you have them!
NAVAL OFFICERS-Thank the U.S. Navy
for pushing prices down
and quality up
THAT'S the U. S. Navy for you... everything they've tackled, from officers' gold braid to officers' raincoats, has been
stepped up in quality and stepped down in price. We doubt if you can get finer
ones at any price.
QUALITY AND PRICES ESTABLISHED
BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
SERVICE
BLUE
UNIFORM
$40
NAVY RAINCOAT
With Removable All-Wool Lining FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
(Extra Trousers $10.00)
Fine Quality, 16-ounce 2-ply, pure worsted serge. Meets all government specifications as to
990-2% Star and 990-2% LACE
Sterling silver base with 2 per cent gold content.
wool stock, weight, dye shrink-
Finely woven, long
age and tensile strength.
wearing. $5.40 (full sleeve)
$3S50
With Lining
Of fine 16-ounce 2-ply, pure worsted serge, Cravenetted and. rain resistant. The "button-in" Warmer is of pure wool flannel.
providing excellent insulation
against cold.
TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
Out Mak, TijUt
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN
HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
IN SOUTH BEND TAXI FREE TO GILBERT'S
2
3
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867

Man About Campus
|	BY BLAIR NATTKEMPER
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ. Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	- Observations
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS -	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	-	The Green Banner
JIM HECK ----- Introducing EMMETT HASSETT -	- The College Parade
BLAIR NATTKEMPER -	- Man About the Campus
PETE BROWN -	Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LEBIEN -	The Periscope
ARNIE SKLARE - '	-	- The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY	GEORGE KRAUSER	BILL LESSARD
jack McCarthy	JOHN FEENEY	C. STONEBARGER
JOHN BUTLER	GENE DIAMOND	J. KLOCKENKEMPER
TOM DINGES	BILL BYINGTON	ART WAGNER
JIM CAREY	D. NUECHTERLEIN	L. HERGSTEIN
DICK GORMAN	JOE HAMMOND	JIM FOY
JACK CAHILL	S. B. STOCKWELL	BILL OVER
DICK MELLETT	f. S. HAMEL	UM SOMMER
JOHN MORRIS	A. E. FUSS	AL KOHN
TOM McNALLY	R. L. VOSBERG	GUY WILSON
JACK MILES	TOM SHANAHAN	GEORGE NUTIL
JAMES KEENAN	RONALD BYERSMITHROBERT MOLNAR	
HARRY SEIMONSMA
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER	CHARLES RENAUD	DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
Tall, likable, well known Richard G. (he won’t tell) Murphy uses 311 Sorin Hall for sleeping purposes only. “Murph” claims Oak Park, Ill., as his home. While at Fenwick High, he played two years of varsity football and captained his track team. Because of physical difficulties, Dick was forced to give up baseball after a year on the Irish squad.
Now a senior, “Murph” has passed his twentieth summer, stands 6' and tips the scales at 190. A discharged veteran of the army signal corps, Dick, who is majoring in Business Administration, will graduate this October. He has been quite the “boy” around the campus: was chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion, Junior-Senior Ball, music chairman of the Engineers’ Ball, and is at present co-president of the Commerce Forum.
“Murph” also won the frosh oratorical contest, helped to put on the TFar Charity Carnival two years ago, is circulation manager of the Scholastic and has announced the Bengal Bouts for the last two years. A former dining hall employee, Dick gave up in despair after his failure to unionize fellow employees.
Also one of the schools leading politicians, Dick used pressure politics in the Spring of ’42 when he wrangled an election before anyone else on the campus found out or had a chance to organize—his party won by an overwhelming majority. (Wonder why?)
His pet peeve is “Guys who swipe all my toilet articles.” To prove this point, Dick produced a rather forlorn, dejected toothbrush out of an otherwise empty cabinet. “Murph” gave up going out windows last semester, but is still a well known figure in the Prefect of Discipline’s office. A member of the “Two Week’s Club,” “Murph” has been campused off and on for four years. (Every time he goes off, he’s back on.)
A favorite pastime of Dick’s is to sit around with some of the old timers and reminisce about the pre-war days at N.D.—the good food, weekends in “Chi,” etc. He has been thinking seriously about starting a “Bunnies for Murphy Drive” since the laundry has greatly depleted the ranks of his wearing apparel.
Music is another of Murphy’s many talents; a few years back, Dick had his own 13 piece band, which played in and around the Chicago area. He featured soft and sweet melodies in the Del Courtney style, and his band went under the name of “Ray Kendel” because Dick figured the name Murphy was too common and far too Irish.
If you decide to go looking for Mr. Murphy any one of these hot summer evenings, you have an even chance of finding him parked placidly behind a cold bottle at “Georges.” Being a true N.D. man, Dick holds no love for South Bend —“and South Bend holds no love for Murph” so stated Jim Casey, one of Murphy’s bosom buddies.
The retail merchandise business seems to be a slight favorite with Dick’s intentions upon graduation. However, music or politics might prove to become the “Murph’s” ambition.
P.S. By the way, boys, Dick has a sister who is entering St. Mary’s next semester, and from the picture—hnmmm!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 191". Authorized June 25, 191S.
VOL. 82
AUGUST 18, 1944
NO. 6
Law Ball in the Rockne Memorial Tonight
Lew Diamond to Supply Music at Rockne Memorial; Civilian Semi-Formal Dance Promises to be Success.
Hear Ye! Hear Ye! Stately Rockne Memorial will be the scene of one of the most important social events of the season, this evening, as the Notre Dame Lawyers present their annual Law Ball.
Writs of Habeus Corpus, Mandamus.
Miss Loretta Kowalski
Quo Warranto, detinue, etc., have all been suspended; dancing partners have been summoned, and specific performance has been ordered .of Lew Diamond. Diamond’s orchestra, which has come from Chicago for the occasion, will furnish music for dancing from nine until two a.m.
Special guests of the evening will include Miss Betty Kyser, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. W. Kyser of South Bend; Miss Kyser will attend as co-queen of the Ball being escorted by co-chairman Theodore M. Ryan. Miss Loretta Kowalski, also of South Bend, will reign as coqueen in answer to a subpoena from the ball co-chairman, Saverio J. Alonzi. •'
Miss Kyser attended St. Mary’s College, and is presently one of the mem
bers composing the staff of the University auditor’s office. Miss Kowalswki is also in the employ of the University in the office of the manager of the Notre Dame dining hall.
Another special guest of the evening will be Miss Paula Popko, of Bessemer, Mich., who will be escorted by John Patrick Flanagan, president of the Notre Dame Law club.
Completing the list of special guests of the evening will be Miss Eileen Burns of South Bend. Miss Burns will be the guest for the evening of Charles M. Boynton, editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer.
In the past the Law Club Ball has been a pace-setter for the social activities of the season. This time, regardless of the handicaps that have been imposed due to the war, nothing has been spared to carry on the tradition that has made the Law Club Ball something to be looked forward to, and long remembered.
Miss Betty Kyser
"Scholastic" Announces
Photography Contest
Plans are now underway for the first photography contest ever to be conducted by the SCHOLASTIC on the Notre Dame campus. This contest will embrace all types and phases of photography and will be open to all civilian, marine, V-12, and NROTC students on the campus. According to present plans, there will be several divisions for entries so that each picture may be judged according to the techniques peculiar to that particular kind of photograph. Prizes will be awarded to each division of entries. These prizes will be a sum of money.
The purpose of this contest is to stimulate interest in photography, and to give those interested in the field an opportunity to test their prowess in competition along with others so inclined. This contest will also serve to give praise and honor where it is due for praiseworthy efforts and accomplishment. No limit will be placed on the time at which the picture was taken, so that pictures from the present, or from past collections, may be entered indiscriminately.
Rules, divisions for the contest, entrance fee-a very small one—and judges, as well as the deadline, will be announced in the next issue of this publication.
Speech Film Wednesday
The Department of Speech will present an educational sound motion picture: “Sound Waves and Their Sources and Fundamentals of Acoustics” on Wednesday, Aug. 23 at 4:15 p.m. in the Engineering Building Auditorium. This showing is open to the student body, particularly the students in Physical Sciences, Music, Psychology and Architecture.
Professor C. Robert Egry, of the College of Engineering, will show the films.
5
Beautification Project Progresses
BY RONALD BYERSMITH AND DICK MELLETT
Statues of St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Bonaventure, contemporary 13th Century Scholastic philosophers, have been placed in niches in Alumni Hall, and one of St. Joseph, patron saint of Prof. Joseph Lyons, for whom the hall was named, has been placed in the niche of Lyons Hall. These statues are the work of Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., former head of the University’s art department, and Mr. Eugene Kormendi, native of Budapest, Hungary, who has been at Notre Dame for the past two yeas as an artist in residence and teacher of sculpturing.
Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., with his “St. Bonaventure"
This program of campus beautification was instituted after the University’s art department closed for the duration, and plans were made for statues in niches of the University’s newer residence halls and other buildings. The University art committee which is supervising the work is composed of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.
The entire program is not expected to be completed for several months, officials stated; it began with the erection of two statues for the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart church. This completed the Notre Dame War I memorial which was erected twenty years ago in memory of our gallant dead.
Another recently completed statue is of Christ the King which will be placed in the niche of the Law Building, facing
the city. It is the work of the skilled hands of Mr. Eugene Kormendi, is rendered in cast stone, and rises six feet high.
A four foot statue of the Good Shepherd, to be placed over the door of the infirmary, is nearing completion. Mr. Koremndi is also working on a six foot statue of a graduate student to be placed in the niche of Alumni Hall, facing the city.
Outstanding among the statues to be completed by Mr. Kormendi will be one of St. Thomas More, one of history’s greatest lawyers and counselors, to be placed over the entrance of the Law Building. He was main counselor to King Henry VIII until Henry turned from the Church and had St. Thomas decapitated. The statue portrays him standing in a chancellor’s robe with a chain about his neck, signifying his importance, and in his right hand is clasped a book entitled Law.
Another work taking form is of St. Christopher carrying the Child Jesus which will take its place over the front entrance to the Rockne Memorial. This is very appropriate as Knute Rockne was also a man who helped men over hardships and difficulties and the use of the building is open to all.
Notre Dame’s memorial for the Spanish-American war, a monument of Wisconsin granite with a nine-inch shell from the U.S.S. Maine, was erected in memory of John Henry Shillington, ex-Notre Dame athlete who went down with the Maine. The second memorial was erected following World War I. The completion of the present program will be the execution of a World War II memorial by Mr. Kormendi.
Father Bednar was one of the first students of the Chicago Art Institute to receive a master’s degree from that
Gfee Club Concerts
The University Glee Club has written organizations in several cities in an attempt to contract concerts during the present semester. Now composed of fifty men, officers of the club feel that the Gleemen are able to present a well-rounded concert. Trips to3»Chicago and Detroit are definite possibilities in the near future.
institution, and started teaching at Notre Dame in 1939. At present he teaches sculpture, drawing, and painting to students of architecture.
The statues of St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Bonaventure each required about a month’s work to produce clay figures, from which molds were made. From these molds, figures in stone were cast. About two weeks was then taken for finishing the stone casting before the statues were ready for placing in the niches.
St. Bonaventure was a Franciscan and St. Thomas Aquinas was a Domini-
Mr. Eugene Kormendi shown with his “Christ the King"
can, thus providing a basis for contrasts in the habits of the two men. These contrasts have been effectively brought out by Father Bednar after much painstaking labor.
Much credit is due Father Bednar and Mr. Kormendi for their work in this campus beautification program and excellent execution of their commissions.
Concerts are now being scheduled for South Bend and vicinity, with the club slated to appear- at bond rallies and at Healthwin sanitarium. A combined concert with the University band and the V-12 Glee Club will be presented on the campus in the near future.
We knew it had to come. The Denver Register tells of a man who had a zipper sewed into his stomach so that his surgeon can treat a stomach disorder daily.
6
THREE NEW V-12 BULLETINS ON V-12(a) OR V-5 MEN
V-12 Bulletins 246, 250, and 251, just received, outline plans as now foreseen for men interested in Flight Training.
1.	For those who entered a V-12 Unit 1
November 1943:
Present indications are that all students in this group who desire and are qualified to be transferred to flight training and who are now in. Class V-12-(a) will have an opportunity to apply for entry into pre-flight training prior to 1 March 1945. 1,250 of this group will be transferred to Class V-5 on 1 November 1944; the remainder will continue in the V-12 Program for a fourth term (to 1 March 1945) in Curriculum 411 if regulars, or in appropriate advanced courses if irregulars. This remainder will have an opportunity to compete for selection for transfer to Class V-5 on 1 March 1945 with those fully qualified V-12 students who apply therefor and who will have completed four terms in the V-12 Program on 1 March 1945, or who were originally enlisted in the Navy with a flight training designation and will have completed three terms in the Navy V-12 Program on that date. 1460 men will be selected from among the groups described above. If not selected, those students who entered the Program on 1 November 1943 will be considered eligible for deck training provided they are fully qualified therefor.
2.	Those who entered on 1 March 1944:
As now foreseen, all fully qualified V-12 students who entered on 1 March 1944 may also compete for selection for transfer to V-5 on completion of their fourth term in V-12 on 1 July 1945. There will remain substantial numbers who desire flight training but who cannot be accommodated prior to the time when they would complete the requirements for other types of officer candidates in V-12 and be commissioned as Ensigns in classifications other than as aviators. Since students who originally enlisted in Class V-5 are bona fide officer candidates, they will be given an opportunity to qualify for commissions in the Naval Service. All V-12 (a) students in this group will be screened to upperlevel specialties prior to 1 November 1944 on the same basis as all other stu
dents who entered on 1 March 1944, and will be transferred, when screened, to V-12. They will be expected to fulfill the prescribed requirements for the type of officer candidacy to which they are screened, so that if necessary they may serve the Navy as officers in deck, engineering, and other classifications until restricted quotas make it possible to permit them to apply for flight training.
3.	Those who entered on 1 July 1944:
It is now believed that a procedure similar to that outlined in (2) above will be prescribed for this group of students at a later date.
4.	Apprentice Seamen in the eligible group who are desirous of Flight Training, but are not selected as part of the 1 November 1944 quota of 1,250 will be considered Apprentice Seamen, Class V-12 after 1 November 1944; but they will have a further opportunity to be considered for the input into Flight Training on 1 March 1945, in competition with other designated V-12 students, to fill the proposed quota of 1,460 at that time.
5.	Final selection from the physically qualified applicants will be made after a review of the following factors: (a) flight aptitude rating (after being tested locally); (b) advanced college standing at time of entry into V-12 Program; (c) college academic record to date; and (d) officer aptitude rating from local V-12 Unit and in interviews. This plan will be put into effect on the V-12 (a) men who entered the Program on 1 November 1943, on a date to be announced,
6.	The Bureau of Naval Personnel reiterates the statement that the V-12 Program is solely and exclusively a program for the training of naval officers, designed to provide officers to the Navy with the proper training and in the proper numbers to meet the future needs of the Naval Service; that students who continue to develop and to indicate officer-like qualities are retained in the Program solely because the Navy considers them to be of more value to the Navy as officer candidates in training on shore than as enlisted men in combat at sea; and that the Navy needs them most and has ordered them to serve to apply themselves earnestly to the task assigned.
Student Council Plans
Many Civilian Activities
The Student Council, at its meeting last Monday night, made groundwork plans for an activities-program for the civilian students of Notre Dame. Among the activities planned, a hayride and an all-civilian field day appear as definite possibilities, as committees swung into action to present working plans at the next meeting.
The committee on discipline, whose purpose is to represent students called before the Board of Discipline, was named, and included the names of each of the hall representatives. Any student called before the Board should contact his hall representative when he receives his notice to appear and the hall representative will see that proper action is taken by the committee. It is advised that any student unfortunate enough to be called before the Board avail himself of the help of this committee which will present his case in its most favorable light and do everything possible for the student.
A committee to be in charge of pep rallies this fall has also been appointed with “Buzz” Hassett as chairman. Upon this committee falls the responsibility of arranging all pep rallies during the football season this fall.
Jim Casey
SCHOLASTIC S.A.C. representative.
Cardenas Talks to Group
“The Wranglers,” honorary forensic society, heard Jose Cardenas speak on the current Argentina situation Thursday night. This was the first meeting of the semester for the organization.
In dealing with the Argentina problem, Cardenas briefly outlined the foun-. dation of Argentine politics, pointing out its dependence upon the eeconomic' life of the country. He attempted to defend Argentina against the recent attacks of Secretary of State Hull by showing the mutual economic interests which the South Americans have with Germany, and the natural conflict which arises with the United States in this connection. Cardenas also dealt with Argentina’s post-war problem, which he said, “rests mainly upon Argentina’s need to adopt whole heartedly either an agricultural or an industrial economics.”
The Wranglers will be open for additional membership Sept. 7. Both military trainees and civilian students are qualified to make application. Further details will be announced later.
7
Aero Dept. Host to Chinese Educator
By HABBY SIEMONSMA
This week Notre Dame was honored by the visit of one of China’s most distinguished professors. Dr. A. P. T. Sah has been the president of the University of Amoy since 1937. He did undergraduate work at Stanford university and graduate work at Worcester Polytechnic Institute.
Dr. Sah came to the United States in July of this year to study recent educational trends in this country. From his observations he will make plans for post-war education in China. It must be remembered that China has been isolated from the rest of the world for the last seven years and is in need of knowledge concerning modern educational systems.
Because of war difficulties, Dr. Sah was forced to move the University of Amoy from the island of Amoy to its present location in the Tukien Province where he has worked hard to continue education despite the war.
Dr. Sah will visit Notre Dame again before he returns to his native-land at the end of this year. Upon his return to China he will act as a consultant to the Chinese government on education in' engineering.
W’hile visiting Notre Dame, Dr. Sah was the guest of Professor Frank N. M. Brown, head of the department of Aeronautical Engineering.
V-12 Office Changes
Five enlisted men of ship’s company are leaving the V-12 office after performing their duties here approximately 13 months. Chief Yeoman R. G. Lewis, who is in charge of the enlisted personnel in the V-12 office, and Storekeeper J. A. Cafferty, will leave for San Francisco 11 September for assignment to duty with the Pacific Fleet.
Yeoman Doug Frederick left for San-Francisco 14 August, having been relieved by Yeoman J. D. Cole who reported aboard 10 August. Yeoman Marsh Trafton and John Fratella will receive orders to new duty in a few days.
In an interview, Frederick, who organized the V-12 band this semester and played a wicked piano with it, expressed his disappointment at having to leave that organization, but was “glad it’s all squared away now.”
These men are being replaced by other enlisted men of the same ratings from the fleet, and by our two new Yeomen, Waves Martha Mester and Irene Davis.
—Bill Byington
«
Major Jones, New Officer-in-Charge of Marines Here, Has Phenomenal Record
BY ARNIE SKLARE
“Mah boys” will continue to be “mah boys” in the sense that the new Officerin-Charge of the Marine detachment at Notre Dame, Major Ernest W. Jones, USMCR, is a Southern gentleman, having his home in New Orleans, Louisiana. Major Jones was graduated from Tulane university in the summer of 1939 as a mechanical engineer, and during the summers of ’37, ’38, and ’39 was enrolled in the First Reserve Officer’s Course, Platoon Leader’s Class at Quantico, Virginia, earning his 2nd Lieutenants commission in August of 1939.
A veteran, the present 0-in-C has spent twenty-six months overseas serving in base defense work on American Samoa, and making trips for observational purposes to British Samoa. Samoa was a main-supply-base at that time, • and the Major’s outfit helped set up defenses during the crucial first months of the American-Japanese war. Advanced to the rank of first Lieutenant in February ’42, to Captain in May of the same year, the recently arrived officer won his Majority in July of ’43. Such phenomenal success speaks for itself as concerns the Major’s ability as both a Line Officer and Staff Officer.
During his student days at Tulane Major Jones was active in extra-curricular undertakings, as well as in his academic pursuits as an engineer. He boxed for Tulane, and was busy in a campus spirit-rouser organization called the Greenbackers. The ring which the Major wears is of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity.
The Major is unmarried. He was returned to the States in March 1944 and served in Camp Lejeune, North Carolina previous to taking command of the Marines here at Notre Dame.
In the short association which Major Jones had with the ex-Officer-in-Charge,
Library Gets Paintings
This past semester some valuable art works were donated to the library’s collection by Mr. Peter C. Reilly. Mr. Reilly, a lay trustee of the University, has made three such donations in the past. This time he gave a total of nine paintings and two Chinese screens. If you visit the library you will find such works as “The Halt at The Inn” by Jules Worms, “A Dutch Interior” by Bernard Bloomers, Nikolaus Von Cederstrom’s
Captain John W. Finney, Major Jones developed strong admiration for the older man, and. in this respect says, “Captain Finney has done excellent work with the Marine detachment at this University, and as much as possible, I intend fully to carry out his policies.”
Major Ernest M. Iones, USMCR
As regards the Marine detachment itself and the general program of procuring officers, Major Jones states, “The unit here at Notre Dame, judging from its record and from my own short period of observation, has an excellent ships company and also excellent students and Marine outfit as does any I’ve seen in many a day.”	.
The Marine detachment is proud to have a man like Major Jones in command and has long since decided to maintain the outstanding records made under Captain Finney’s command. The motto of Semper Fidelis holds true for the fighting Marines of Notre Dame.
“A Game of Chess,” and the “Shore of the Mediterranean” by Edmund Louyot.
Other paintings to be appreciated at the Library are “Fjord of Norway” by Carl Nielsen, Albert Reiger’s “Pastoral Scene,” and Salvatore Ros’s "Mountain Scene.”
The library also received a painting of a Rumanian Gypsy from Augustin G. Paul, who painted it himself. Mr. Paul is the artist who painted the large murals on the walls of the Cafeteria.
—Dick Gorman

THE GABBY GIZMO
“Even tho’ this news is hot, It doesn’t mean an ar;ful lot!”
OUR WEAK-END:
Last weekend was a momentous one in the exciting life and loves of Bob “I-hate - to - come - back - from - Shore -Leave” Stupay. It was the first weekend this semester Stupay wasn’t restricted. After ID cards were handed out, he almost broke a leg in zooming out to the bus stop. All of the women in South Bend yanked their daughters in off their front porches, after the word passed around that Bob was free once again.	•
Fritz Velguth looks forward to weekends these days. His recent bride is in town now.
MY PALS
“They say I’m a schloomp, But it ain’t so:
I’m still the Gabby Gizmo!” Anyway, the Marines believe me!
GOOEY-GOOEY!
Conga! The Marines formed a Congaline last Wednesday going into evening chow "while the V-12 Band played on.” Everyone seemed to enjoy the swingy music very much. Joe O’Brien was completely carried away, and approached one of the dining hall attendants, saying, “Are you the head-waiter? Have you reserved the table for Mr, O’Brien’s party?” But Joe had his usual seat!— And then John Mayo asked one of the chow-girls to dance, he was so pleased with the hot tunes. But all she did was mutter something and throw him an extra pad of butter. — One of the swab-bies (name withheld for apparent reasons) grabbed another swabbie, and began jiving. These sailors do such amusing things!)
GREAT FELLOWS AT GREAT LAKES:
Several of the Marines have been sent up to the Lakes to recover from illnesses. To these fellows: Privates Guy C. Wilson, Howard B. Webb, and Ernie J. Okleshen, the rest of the Detachment says, “Good-luck and get well! We can’t expect the Navy to get along without you, can we?”
NOTES:
Freddie Matthies is quite a high-diver. . . . Minnesota’s jitterbug-king, Terry, “that mean red-head” McGovern cuts a rugged-rug at the SMC on weekends. — “Torchy” Steinbach has a steady-friend in town. ... Do you like the soft-boiled eggs on Friday mornings? — Dick Quasey is the snappy newsecond platoon’ Sgt. of Co. B. “You see, Moose, there isn’t any use.”
AND REMEMBAH!
“I wasn't kicked out, and ah didn't ask to go. It’s just the way of the wah!”
ODE TO THE COUGH-DROP BROTHERS “Larry and Harry, or Harry and Larry,
It doesn’t matter much. '
Wherever they go, no matter the weather,
Those inseparable bro’s are always together.
Each has the same look of contented blith,
Yes! Of course, ‘The twin-brother Smith!’ ”
GRUESOME TWOSOMES:
Breakfast and 0800 phy ed.
Weekend and a watch on the same day. Harry Le Bien and the Periscope.
Monday morning and a physics quiz.
TO TARRY AT THE LIBRARY!
With their usual vociferous hunger— for knowledge, the Marines have been seen rushing to and from that building near the lake. Bob Jochums especially has been struck by the mighty power of the library, or is it one of the librarians? To this we say: “Stay out of the stacks.”
YO-OH! HEAVE HO!
After evening muster on Sunday night, Company B decided to form a glee-club. While the fellows were merrily marched back to their beloved rooms, they could not contain the gladness which was overflowing their vibrant young hearts. Soon, someone began humming a melody, and then it was taken up by another, and before anyone realized it, the thing caught on, and lovely choral music surged melodiously through the barracks. — But not everyone likes good music.
“That’s all new, gotta go.
As usual, complain to the Gizmo!”
Larger Civilian Class Expected in November
The Future of Zahm and Cavanaugh halls has at last been decided. They will be ready next semester for civilian students. The reason for this decision is that the Navy is reducing its V-12 program by 40 per cent. The freshmen will occupy these buildings because, to date, there have been over 150 freshmen applications for next semester.
All students who have friends or relatives at home who, in turn might be thinking of coming to Notre Dame, are urged to try to persuade them to enroll early for the coming semester. The Registrar’s Office has the names of hundreds of students already who have asked to be placed on the waiting list. Some of these are Notre Dame men, but most of them are service men who have seen very clearly the value of educatiohj thus enabling them to obtain distinction after the war.
After the war, Notre Dame expects a very large enrollment from the better ends of the rehabilitation program and the G. I. Bill. Letters received from all over the world clearly show the service men’s interest in attending Notre Dame either at their own or the government’s expense.
Mass C/ub Formed ■
Recently a group of students from Breen-Phillips and Carroll halls organized what they have chosen to call the Mass Club. A meeting is held each Tuesday evening in the Breen-Phillips recreation room at 6:45 for student discussion of the Mass in particular and the Liturgy in general. It is also the purpose of the club to teach its members how to use the Daily Missal. Since the organization of the club, over 100 missals have been purchased by the students to use at daily Mass and in their discussions. At their weekly meetings the Mass for the following Sunday is commented on by the chaplain of the club.
At the last meeting Mr. Robert H. McAuliffe, assistant Prefect of Discipline, lectured on some of the more interesting points of the Liturgy. Additional speakers are scheduled to lecture at future meetings.
The members participated in a Missa Recitata offered in the Blessed Virgin Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. All students are invited to participate in this Mass which is offered each Saturday morning at 6:50. A Mass club bulletin is published each Friday by the members of the club for those interested.
The student officers elected for the semester are president, Earle W. Pye, and Paul Delker, vice-president, of Breen-Phillips hall.—Harry Siemonsma
9
Whites (Potential Regulars) Swamp Reds in Hot Grid Finale, 42-12; Start Again Sept. 4

BY GEORGE KRAUSER
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
With the student body and a blazing sun looking on, the Whites, or potential first stringers, crushed the Reds, the second team, 46-12 last Saturday on Cartier Field to windup the summer grid sessions. The Whites were coached by Ray Nolting, Clem Crowe and Hugh Devore, while the Reds were headed by Adam Walsh and Walt Ziemba. Head Coach McKeever watched the proceedings from a spectators viewpoint, but with a watchful eye on the performances of the two elevens.
‘‘The outstanding player on the field was Bob Kelly,” remarked Coach Ed McKeever, “and the outstanding lineman was George Sullivan. Another lineman who turned in a pretty good performance was John Adams. Chick Mag-gioli, George Terlep, Steve Nemeth, Bill
The 1943 National Champions left some big shoes to fill
O’Connor, and Bob Skeglund showed well for the Whites and Frank Dance-wicz looked best for the Reds along with Mike Davlin and Johnny Ray.” When questioned concerning the outcome of the four week training period Ed replied, “the summer practice was better than we had anticipated and the interest of the squad was splendid. We will begin fall practice on Sept. 4.” Perhaps the brightest news Mr. McKeever relayed was that Captain Pat Filley will be all set for the season’s opener with Pittsburgh. The return of Filley, last year’s leader of the National Champions would greatly Bolster the forward wall.
Gasparella in There Pitchin'
The inter-squad game opened with Bob Kelly of the Whites returning the opening kickoff to his own 33. After racking up two first downs, the Whites relinquished the ball on downs, but a
10
few plays later the Whites recovered a Red fumble and marched 60 yards to tally. Rudy Krall, fullback, busted over from the 2, after two neat runs by Kelly and a twenty-five yard Gasparella to O’Connor pass had set up the play. Terlep converted and the Whites led 7-0. After the Reds fumbled the ensuing kickoff, Gasparella pitched a strike to Georgie Terlep, who sped 38 yards for the second marker to place the Whites on top 13-0.
In the second quarter Bill O’Connor blocked Dancewicz’s punt and the Whites took over on their own 45. On the first play, “Chick” Maggioli broke through a quick opening hole and evading tackler after tacklei- turned in the day’s outstanding run, a 55 yard touchdown jaunt. With the score now 19-0,
the Reds again fumbled and John Adams recovered on the Red 30. After a fifteen yard penalty had set them back to the 45, Gasparella struck again, this time to Nemeth to take the ball to the 18. Krall and Maggioli advanced the pigskin to the 2 and Maggioli dived over for the fourth tally to bring the count to 25-0. Being unable to penetrate the White forward wall, Dancewicz punted to Nemeth who returned to the White 49. With Kelly, Terlep, and Gasparella combining, the Whites marched to the Red 16, from where Terlep took a Gasparella pass for a touchdown. This time Terlep converted and the half ended with the Whites on top 32-0.
Reds Find it Tough
After recovering a Red fumble on the Red 38, the Whites advanced to the 27. Then Bob Kelly, on a lateral play around left end, scampered the necessary distance for a sixth touchdown for the
Bunker Hill Nine Here 1 n
Sunday; No-Hitter Pi*
BY JOH1
"Scholastic"
With a pair of home games comprising this week-end’s baseball menu, Notre Dame fans will have the opportunity to see Coach Jake Kline’s team in action twice during the next two days.
The Bunker Hill Naval Air Station nine, which recently upset the Iowa Seahawks 6-0, will provide the opposition tomorrow afternoon at Cartier Field in a 4:30 twilight game as Notre Dame attempts to avenge an earlier 5-4 loss to the N.A.S. Fort Sheridan comes here Sunday to meet the Irish at 2:30. Previously the Blue and Gold toppled the boys in khaki, 7-1.
According to the original schedule, the Sunday encounter terminates the diamond activities for the summer. However, Coach Kline has definitely added one more tilt and may possibly card as many as an additional four. George Williams College of Chicago, its club bolstered by V-12 trainees, has been booked to play here on August 26. The definite dates of the other games will be released later.
Barrett and Albert Twirl No-Hitter
Launching a 13-hit attack against two opposing flingers, the Golden Domers white-washed the Plymouth Athletic club, 12-0, at Plymouth last Sunday afternoon. Dependable Jack Barrett and lefty Bill Albert collaborated to check in a no-run, no-hit pitching stint for the winners. Barrett worked the first five innings and didn’t permit anything even resembling a safe blow. He whiffed seven. Then Albert, making his debut of summer season, took over and did equal-
Whites. Terlep again converted and the score mounted to 39-0. Following the next kickoff the Reds began to move but an interception of Dancewicz’s pass stopped them. A moment later however, Elmer Angsman intercepted a Gasparella pass on the White 45. With Angsman and Dancewicz combining, the Reds land attack failed, Dancewicz. pitched to Davlin for the initial Red tally.
Steve Nemeth climaxed a 33 yard drive with a six yard touchdown' jaunt. Terlep converted again and the game ended 46-12.
ly B
bi bi oi oi
ni oi
in oi n ai
Ir fii w fc
Al
;at
co
ui ba
se
pi ch th lei te; in mi
eli pi N
be an Ai on at cl:
“C be ba
Sampson Wins St. Joe Valley Singles Title;
Interhall Teams Inaugurate Court Play
BY JIM CAREY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
morrow; Ft. Sheridan
hed Against Plymouth
>H3 ?EENEY
' ? seball Writer
ly well, striking out four and continuing e | Barrett’s string of hitless innings.
n I Only three Plymouth batsmen reached base—one after being hit by a pitched ball, the second on a walk, and the other on an error, Notre Dame’s only miscue of the afternoon.
„ After going scoreless for three inInings, the Klinemen exploded a barrage of hits which produced no less than nine runs in the fourth. Jack Mayo and Jim Kartholl gained the distinction of scor-a ing twice each in that frame, while five ' of their mates registered once. Two more runs were added in the sixth and still ’ another came home in the seventh.
_ Barrett and Vince Laurita paced the j Irish offense, each poling three hits in . five tries. Albert aided his own cause with two safeties and Mayo accounted for a like number.
Navy League Formed
• As part of an accelerated intramural athletic program for summer, an intercompany softball league has been formed under the direction of Lt. (jg) Brewbaker, athletic officer.
The league is an outgrowth of last semester’s- elimination tournament which proclaimed Marine “B” company campus champions. The new league has adopted the round-robin style of play to enable lengthier participation by all teams. All teams in the same hall will participate in their respective round-robin to determine the championship unit in each hall.
Winners will then enter a champion’s elimination tourney to decide the champion of champions with the mythical Notre Dame softball crown as the prize.
Teams may be composed of the members of Marine or Navy companies or any representative group on the campus. All games will be played on the diamonds south of the tennis courts, immediately after the completion of afternoon classes.
In opening play, Navy “B,” “E,” and “G” companies served notice as teams to be watched with impressive displays of batting and fielding prowess.
—Gene Diamond
Playing before a good crowd at Leeper Park, South Bend, Charley Sampson retained his title by winning his second straight singles crown in the Annual St. Joseph Valley Tennis Tournament on Sunday, August 13. Sampson subdued his Notre Dame teammate, Bill Tully, 7-5, 6-0, 6-4, to capture the singles event.
Top man of the Notre Dame tennis outfit, Sampson was seeded number one in the South Bend meet. Coming into the semi-finals, Charley, playing far beneath the level of his usual game, managed to stave off the determined efforts
Charles Samson
of Jim Gates of Chicago, former- star- of the University of Illinois courts. After five gruelling sets, Sampson chalked up the semi-finals win by scores of 4-6, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5, and 6-2.
In his semi-finals effort, Bill Tully hammered out a victory over Louis Chreist, Irish tennis captain in ’33. Tully, who was seeded fourth, won 6-4, 6-3, 7-5.
Charley Sampson and Tully will form that famous combination once more -when they enter the finals in doubles play Sunday in the same tournament.
Notre Dame was well represented in the Valley tournament by team members; Dave Caplam, Ed Kukuk, R. L. Bontsema also participated but all were eliminated in the earlier- rounds.
• Start “Open" Quarter Finals
Moving into the quarter-finals, the Open Event Tournament saw several
matches played on the Notre Dame clay courts. Charley Sampson continued his winning ways by defeating two opponents by the identical scores of 6-1 and 6-0. After smashing Dennis Strazalkow-ski, a Marine from Cavanaugh, Sampson returned to sink the Navy as represented by Sam Goldfein of Dillon.
Bart O’Brien, a member of Coach Walter Langford's summer team, encountered some very stiff competition from Phil Martin of Sorin, but finally triumphed, 8-6, 6-8, and 6-1. Bill Tully turned on the heat to down Ralph Wi-tucki, 6-0 and 6-1. Joe Wood, a V-12er, defeated Ed Kukak, 6-3, 6-3 in a match that was closer than the score indicated. Jim Griffin, another Golden Dome stalwart, rolled over R. I. Bontsema, 6-0, and 6-1.	_
Plans have been drawn up for the inteihall league which has already started its initial match play. The intra-mural athletes will play four doubles matches and two singles in each hall meet. Interhall medals will be awarded to the championship team.
Following are the respective leagues with hall captains:
League I—Walsh, Sorin, Alumni, St-Ed’s-Carroll.
League II — Zahm, Dillon, Faculty, Breen-Phillips-Cavanaugh.
Team Captains '
Alumni, Ed Kukuk; Cav.-B.P., Len Buchstaber; Dillon, Sam Goldfein; Faculty, Coach Langford; St. Ed’s-Car., John St. Germain; Sorin, Phil Martin; Walsh, Tom Mulhern; Zahm, R. L. Bontsema.	.
Schedule
Week starting:
Aug 7—Walsh vs. Carroll-St. Ed’s; Zahm vs. Breen-Phillips-Cavanaugh.
• Aug. 14—Walsh vs. Alumni; Faculty vs. Zahm; Dillon vs. Breen-Phillips-Cavanaugh; Sorin vs. Carroll-St. Ed’s.
Aug. 21—Dillon vs. Faculty; Sorin vs. Alumni.
Aug. 28—Faculty vs. Breen-Phillips-Cavanaugh; Alumni vs. Carroll-St. Ed’s.
Sept. 4—Walsh vs. Sorin; Dillon vs. Zahm.
Sept. 11—Playoff between winners of the two leagues to determine the interhall champion.
11
prxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxsn
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
^XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^
in, you know. Besides, if she challenge you to a little eye-gouging, it would be embarrassing to see some of you would-be-athletes get thrown. But the chances are nothing of this sort will happen because up to date we have seen no signs to the effect that St. Mary’s can go.
CONCERNING THE DANCE
This evening, for the first time in several years, Rockne Memorial will resound with the echoes of music and dancing feet. If our memory is correct, the Senior Ball of ’42, under the sponsorship of Messrs. Lillis and Kelly, was the last social function held there. La de da, — what a brawl that was! It was a great success. The coincidence that no more dances were to be permitted in the Memorial is a tribute to its success. But tonight, the Laicyers’ Ball. Oh yes they will, if the glunks don’t clear expenses.
This affair promises to be the beginning of a series of dances in this beautiful building for both the navy and civilian men on campus. We feel certain of that, ’cause rowdyism will be at a minimum. Not only will the'campus gestapo be on hand to give you the onceover, as you enter the gaily decorated gymnasium, but the lawyers have prom
Whatta ya mean “Why can't this go on forever?" I've got a math - test at eight tomorrow!	-
ised several innovations of their own. As you pass through the portals, a judge will be on hand to inspect your credentials (don’t worry; he doesn’t care if you are under 21; all he wants is a ticket).
You’re inside now; but you still can’t begin to dance. A jury consisting of men tried and true will be on hand to inspect your date. If this experienced group of legal minds says: “You’re lovely; you’re lovely; go home,” to your lady fair, you will know she is just that. However, we are certain that an embarrassing scene of this nature will not spoil your evening (if it does, you should be able to get a refund), ’cause the reason for-scrutinizing your girlie is to put the fritz on any lady athlete who merely accepts a date to the dance to gain entrance into ye aide Rock. Her purpose? To test out the parallel bars and wrestling mat. You might have been taken
Oh yes, the dance. Co-chairmen San Alonzi and Ted Ryan, with such formidable helpers as Chuck Boynton, Johnny Power, Bill O’Connell, and Harry have guaranteed a wonderful evening. Come early, ’cause the doors, as usual, will be locked. If you can get a jalopy, it is yours for the evening. But we don’t want to see you driving up to Michigan City in it on Saturday afternoon. Well, be on your best behavior, and wear a belt—’cause you may want to take off your coat, and suspenders (if you’re from Park Avenue, “braces”) showing will make you out to be one who is very close to the soil. A rube!
THE IMPORTS
Frank Paulson takes his dancing seriously. And when he steps out, he insists upon a partner he can be proud of. Frank’s date is coming all the way from Denver. While she is here, Frank, why don’t you find out if other mid-western schools are having dances within the next week or so. What a pity! Riding all that distance for one shindig!
■	.j>
HERE AND THERE
Frank “The Head” Linehan quit track. At least he is grubbing fags again. . . . Ernie Raucher had three dates for the Ball. We doff our hats to Ernie; he will be seen with only the conventional one. . . . Smooth talking, we’d call it. ... Joe Brady is no relation to the Joe Brady, Mayor of Mishawaka. . . . Has anyone ever seen Bill Granfield when he wasn’t going to, or coming from the pool hall? . . . Gutowsky and Berezney use more towels than any other two men on campus. No, not for showers; they have to wrap them around the many pipes running through their room in Sorin Sub, to keep from being flooded out of their rooms. . . . Phil Martin certainly seems to have an interest in those twins. . . . What can be Elmer Angsman’s attraction in Chicago every week-end? If he would go in on Fridays, we would say that it was to attend College Night at the Edgewater Beach. . . . Big visitors of the week were undoubtedly John Yonakor and Herb Coleman. Yes, Coleman looked different with a shirt, and tie. . . . And now to Rosie’s to discuss plans for the phomp race soon to be staged in the near future.
12
Waldorf Happier With "Irish" on the All-Stars
By DAVE CONDON
(Editor’s Note—This is the first of a series of articles concerning Notre Dame men who ivill compete in the annual football game between the College All-Stars and the world professional champions, the Chicago Bears, on Wednesday night, August 30.)
Evanston, III.—Lynn Waldorf, the man who became football coach at Northwestern University when Dick Hanley gave up the ghost some years back, is happier today than he has been at any time during his lengthy tenure with the Wildcats. The reason, is fairly simple—for the first time in his - life Waldorf is going to be coaching a team that will have a bit of Notre Dame talent on its side, rather than playing against it.
Waldorf is head coach of the Chicago All-Star football team that will meet those big bad Bears come that Wednesday night not quite two weeks hence. Included among the 70-odd collegians who
Corwin Clatt
will comprise his squad are Bill Huber, Ziggy Czarobski, Cornie Clatt, John Adams, James J. White, and John J. Yonakor, Notre Dame greats all.
The Irish won three straight from N. U., and you can hardly blame Waldorf for his jubilance today when he has the Notre Dame squad on his side instead of otherwise.
By way of introduction, White and Yonakor were All-Americans on last year’s national intercollegiate championship crew that played out of Notre Dame. At the tackle post opposite White, was Ziggy the Aiderman, a terror from Chicago’s Mount Carmel High school. And John Adams, better and more fa-(Continued on page 16)
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
ft aval QfyiceM.' Shop
Custom Tailored
Officers1 Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance
of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored to your individual proportions
Ye folly Little Tailor
by expert craftsmen in our own
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
work rooms.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
ZAHM INTERLUDE
There is a perpetual little game being played over in Zahm Hall in which the main character is Jack Wardley. The supporting cast consists of everyone on the first, second, third, and fourth decks. The curtain rises whenever Mr. Ward-ley appears from the duty office with a pack of green cards in his hand, a particular gleam in his eye and the announcement that “there’s a little work to be done.”
At once the five guys in the immediate vicinity announce they have just flunked out and are leaving for Great Lakes. The twenty guys around the corner run for the back door. Throughout the hall locks slip quietly into place. Silence reigns supreme. Completely undaunted, however, the imperturbable Jack starts his search. After a preliminary thumbing of the cards, he finally
reaches a certain door, knocks, waits. From within a tiny voice says, “Nobody’s here.”
Absolutely unfooled, Jack replies sternly, “Does K. K. Fink live here?” A hesitant moment and the voice replies in a resigned tone, “Y-yes.” “Then open up,” cries Jack. The door slowly swings forth. Jack frowns upon the creature within:
“You — have — one — demerit!” The fateful announcement rings down upon K. K. Fink. He cowers in a corner, all fight gone.
“On January 19, 1943, you had three dust molecules resting on the left side of your light bulb,” intones Mr. Ward-ley. Fink sinks lower, a beaten hulk. Horrible groans escape his lips.
“However,” condescends Jack, “I will give you a chance to work this blight
off your record.” Hope again gleams in K.K.’s eyes as he sees a chance to raise himself out of his terrible pit of self destruction. “Just follow me,” says Jack.
Three hours later, having swabbed and waxed the duty office, cleaned two heads, dusted four ladders, and filed 43,219 forms, Fink staggers back to his room, his demerit worked off.
Note to Eagerus Beaverus Primus Jack Wardley: No fooling, Jack, ice don’t tell ichether you are striking for V-12 or Vice Admiral.
COMPANY "L"	.
Last in the chow line;
Last in the pay line;
But first in the hearts of all true Scraggs. (some form of schloomp, no doubt.)
The long and short of it is contained in Reed and Reister. Reed’s quick tailor-
TAILCRS	CLOTHIERS
PARKER-WINTERROWD extend to all Midshipmen an invitation to call at our store and shop and inspect our tailor made uniforms before placing your orders for officers' uniforms. Each and every garment tailored to your measure and garments measured and fitted in our own shop.
PARKER-WINTER ROW D
I15'4-11714 N. Main Street (Upstairs)	North of the Oliver Hotel
Phone 3-6318 for appointments
14
ing jobs on Reister’s pants for inspection are effective but not practical.
In Fortress 145 Russ Moore tries to remain neutral while Pedleys and Parkers are feudin’ with the Pearsons and the Boothbys.
Major Hap Hoople is on a diet ever since it became necessary to use a gyrostabilizer on his lower chest while doing the Jumpin’ Jack.
“The Voice” Hansen—what a beautiful research laboratory for some laryngitis bug-scientist.
F. T. Goodyear needs only 89 hours, 6 minutes, and 16 seconds working time to get his major letter in coke-machine tending from the Coca-Cola Institute.
Terlep’s Delicatessen open now and then for business—you bring the appetite.
Our consulting expert, Don Doody, tutors all befuddled Descriptive Geometry Students.
Mail clerks, T. Sparks and E. Hannah, handle all the incoming mail that is never written to us.
Ed Hannah, the Lumbago Kid of the Infamous Holy Order of Salty Scraggs, is now the tootin’ Jerry James of Zahm Hall since he bought that trumpet.
“Olie” Olson—the reason why the little blonde gal in the Mess Hall almost misses our trays with the potatoes.
J. P. Moran still reading and re-reading the two letters he received last semester.
In secret jogs around the lake, Bill Pearson has lowered all or both of Arne Anderson’s and Gunder Haegg’s new records.
Sherman gave out with some fancy jivin’ the other day when a fly crawled up one pant’s leg and down the other during inspection; but he swore a streak of Tan 1/2 A formulas at it and it fell dead—dead of acute poisoning.
QUIZZ
That no one will be able to accuse this coly-um of not being intellectual, we present a puzzler for you to work in your spare time.
Question: A new book has just been written concerning Arnie Sklare. Its title is . . .
1)	Aunty dump’s Cook Book.
2)	Principles of Accounting, Revised Edition with Alternate Questions and Problems, Finney.
3)	Strange Schloomps.
Pick your choice and send it, along with five of Commander Gabel’s hats, to Farbien Smoot, 2 West Yaw Zz, Ntt 4-0 Moscow. The winner can pick up his gift at Great Lakes when he gets there.
Band Concert is Popular
The Notre Dame University band played its third weekly concert last Wednesday night on the grass in front of the Administration building. This concert consisted of a group of marches and two musical comedy hits. When playing “On
K
*
the Mall,” the third Goldman march played, the audience took part by singing and whistting the refrain.
H. Lee Hope, director of the band has done a wonderful job of improving it. Each week the performance has been better; the last was nearly flawless. Other songs played were “Prayer and Pantomime” from “Hansel and Gretel” by Humperdinck, and “In a Persian Market” by Ketelby. The concert was begun with the “Star Spangled Banner,” and ended with the Notre Dame Victory March.—Dick Gorman
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan’ St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
50WR[
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxr
JOSIE and JIM'S
M X
TUNNY ITALY CATC
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
*
M
ttxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxDgi
15
First American Phomp
Discovered by Columbus
Officials of the historical research department of Podunk University have published an article in the Podunk Historical Review which states that the first Phompus Americanus, the American phomp was discovered by Columbus on his first journey to the new world.
I	BUY WITH	CONFIDENCE	|
1	at	=
1	South Bend’s	Leading Jeweler	i
I	A wide selection of	|
|	Desirable Gifts	I
I	on display.	1
|	Use our lay-away plan.	i
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
1" NIX 7ini	VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B. (G)-C-Bg
E-Niaan-Caldum Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nlne~Vitamin Tablet Contains— AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B-” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS =^3.50
WALDORF HAPPY WITH "IRISH" (Continued from page 13) miliarly monikered as “The Tree,” was an understudy at tackle. Both Czarobski and White, who only gross a mite over * 200 pounds each, are “bushes” compared to “The Tree.”
As for Cornie Clatt—he played in last year’s All-Star contest; a member of the 1943 squad that gave the Washington Redskins a 27-7 licking before they shipped the professional champions back to the Capitol. And Huber, a soldier boy like Clatt, was the sensation of last year’s contest. Coming from Notre
Steve Juzwik
Dame, where as a sophomore in 1942 he had understudied the crew of Murphy, Dove and sometimes Limont and Cusick, Huber quickly showed the All-Star staff just who was master of the terminal position.
Cornie, if you remember, was the one who, on that cold December day in 1942, when the Great Lakes Bluejackets were leading Notre Dame, 13-0, first shook down the thunder by romping 62 yards over the frozen turf of Soldier’s Field and started the Notre Dame rally resulting in a 13-13 tie.
Coming into the new national championship era, you’ll remember White’s larceny of. the ball in last year’s Army game; the Tree’s familiar antics on the field and about the campus; John Yon-akor’s brilliant snatching of passes thrown by Johnny Lu jack toward the latter part of the season; and Ziggy the aiderman, who became Notre Dame’s orator.
All in all, it will be like old home week for Notre Dame at this year’s game. The All-Star classic always has been marked by the appearance of Notre Dame men.
Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and promoter of the annual
game, with proceeds given to Charity, is a Notre Dame graduate. Ed (Moose) Krause, now a lieutenant in the marines and until lately Notre Dame’s head basketball and assistant football coach, was co-captain of the first All-Star squad back in 1934. He was an All-American tackle at Notre Dame in 1933.
As for the coaches at the contests, Heartley (Hunk) Anderson, now cocoach of the Bears, was formerly head coach at Notre Dame and successor to Knute Rockne. He has been called the greatest line coach in the country.
The late Noble Kizer was head coach of the first All-Star team, and was assisted by another Notre Dame man, Jimmy Crowley. In 1935, the All-Stars were again led by a Notre Dame graduate,

HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
| HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP I f»h»iiniiiii»iiuniiiii!niiiimiiiiiuiiiii»iiiiiiHiiiii<iiiiiiniiiiiiiiini
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
* SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
16
Frankie Thomas, the head man at Alabama. His assistants included Charlie Bachman and Slip Madigan. Elmer Layden was an assistant with the 1936 squad that tied the Detroit Lions, 7 to 7.
In 1937 Gus Dorais, of the Rockne and Dorais combination, was head man and among his lieutenants were Layden and Jimmy Phelan. Layden was again an assistant in 1938 when the All Stars defeated the Redskins, 28-16.
And that brings us almost to the eve of the 1944 All-Star game, when the Collegians will race out on the field, one by one, and the spotlight will play on the individual as he enters the stadium. And the announcer will call off the names.
It will be another great day for Irish football.
"Hunk" Anderson
Elmer Layden came back in 1939 as head coach and his old Four Horsemen team-mate, Harry Stuhldreher, along with Slip Madigan, did the assistant chores. Dr. Eddie Anderson, also of Notre Dame, was the 1940 All-Star coach, with Buck Shaw, who made fame at Santa Clara after leaving N.D., as an aide.
No Notre Dame coaches figured in the 1941 game, when the Chicago Bears won, 37 to 13, but in 1942 Frank Leahy was an assistant coach of a squad that featured Steve Juzwik, sparkplug halfback in Notre Dame’s 1941 undefeated season. Juzwik ran over 90 yards against the Bears for the most spectacular play of the 1942 contest.
In 1943 the head coach was Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback on the famed Four Horsemen team of 1924. He was formerly coach at Villanova and is now coach at Wisconsin.
Organize New V-12
Executive Committee
The V-12 Executive Committee, previously organized to serve as a recreational liaison between the V-12 Trainees and the welfare and recreation officer, has undergone reorganization this term. In the past, most of the work of this group of trainees centered around the V-12 Ball, the outstanding social event of each semester. However, during the present term, this committee will widen its scope a bit and will plan such things as “Happy Hours,” campus sings, barracks dances, and other social attractions for the campus serviceman.
The Ball committee will be a separate group, working coordinately with the executive committee. Representatives from the band, orchestra, and glee club will serve on the committee, which is to be supervised by Lt. J. J. Collins, recreation officer, and Lt. (jg) C. L. Brewbaker, welfare officer.
Heading the committee is Private Larry Smith. Seaman Ray Bosler, financial advisor, and Seaman Ed Brown, assistant chairman, will work with Smith. Other members of the committeee are: Private Joe Thornton, Seaman Bill Byington, Seaman Bill Braun, Seaman Howard Savitt, Seaman Ray Michols, Private J. Kress (band), Seaman M. Craus (orchestra), and Seaman J. Stanfill (glee club).
Necessary arrangements for a name band for the Ball are being made. The tentative date for this affair has been set as Sept. 29.—Bill Byington
j OFFICER'S - PAR
Navy or Khaki Weight under 6 Pounds $21.30
(Tax included)
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Han
Rintzscn
Also available at PARKER-WINTERROWD. Inc. 115p2 N. Main Street
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251. .
17
Inspection-Restricted Weekend Focuses Attention on Entertainment in South Bend
BY AL BROTEN
Life to the average Notre Danie man becomes an interval between week-ends and in the short space of 30-odd hours, each must achieve the stimulation and edification necessary to equip him to ward off the determined attacks of physics, math, chemistry, and other matters of education. •
For navy and marine personnel, the week-end scheduled to get underway tomorrow must of necessity be spent in the vicinity of South Bend. “Inspection” will invade the four halls and week-end liberties are restricted to the South Bend area.
Rather than be resigned to the conventional movie, he who will be liberated may find numerous establishments in the “Bend” which are expressly designated for kicking the gong around.
Usual first stop is Rosies’, the city’s leading industry. Here Notre Dame men learn again the taste of food.
For the large group for whom liberty centers in the shoes, South Bend presents a goodly array of dancing spots.
"V-U Commanders," Conceived by Comdr.
Gabel, Play in Chow Hall; Very Popular
Music hath charms to "help" digestion
Highlighting the Notre Dame social calendar for August was the grand opening of a new and exclusive dinner club on campus, the Chow Hall Panther Room. The new club is located amid the
Outstanding among these are the Progress club co-hops, Zeebee (where dancing is of the rough and tumble variety), and the Service Center.
Invariably for Navy and Marine trainees, the Service Center soon becomes the center of all activity. Tea dances on Saturday and Sunday, good music, food, reading materials, and letter-writing equipment provide many of the essentials of a good week-end within the confines of one building.
The South Bend version of a miniature Coney Island is Playland Park carnival and amusement center equipped with an outdoor pool, a roller rink, and a dance hall. Civic-supplied recreation is found in Leeper Park and the Pottawattamie park and zoo.
Within easy travel range of South Bend is Michigan City, possessed of three of Lake Michigan’s best beaches.
Such features give a good impression of the ouside world which becomes remote during the course of the military week.
familiar paneled walls and mahogany tables of the chow hall and currently features the syncopated melodies of “Dutch” Crask, fresh from a long engagement at Washington Hall. s-
The Crask unit presents a very versatile front, ranging from “Star Dust” to the “Johnson Rag,” Leliaert, and Barry chiming in occasionally on some very smooth vocals. The leader himself has an engaging Woody Hermanish bandstand manner and his trumpet solos are reminiscent of Ziggy Ellman. Agent and “m.c.” for the “Commanders” is Chief Broderick, showman extraordinaire.
When the spotlight is off the bandstand, the patrons dine while exposed to the exquisite cosmopolitan atmosphere of the club. The bill of fare consists of the customary steaks, chops, fillets, and rarebits served by native girls in white.
The club is divided into the East and West rooms and there is no minimum or cover charge in either room. The 20% cabaret tax will be placed toward a cosmetic fund for the chow hall girls.
The entire scheme of chow hall improvement was conceived and instituted by Commander W. S. Gabel, in whose honor the “V-12 Commanders” have been named. The suppertime serenades are part of a broad musical program which the executive officer has instituted.
The Panther Room will continue to operate on a twice-a-week basis. Dress will be informal on both evenings.
—Gene Diamond
The phomp is probably the least known of the world's creatures, yet it is found in large numbers on every continent.
&n Ostoortffg (Sift is;
altoaps appreciated

18
■ M JWcml Adie* Ga.-------------------------------------------------
Soul/t Bend’s Quality Store since 1913------------------------------
Open Saturday Evening and All Day Sunday
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $38.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
WHITE DRESS UNIFORMS— $13.50 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers
M850
// doesn't we won't Jlet 4fon keep it!
ON THE CORNEA... MICHIGAN $ WSHW&TON
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
19
CAUQie lAMnic
and
BETTER TASTE

^rs from home ^•9arettes that SATISFY
i Back from the war zone, Carole also says
I saw thousands of cartons of cigarettes given
to our boys overseas and can say without res-;
ervation Chesterfield is always a favorite
Discover for yourself the meaning of Chesterfield s
5 Key-tvords to more Smoking Pleasure . . . RIGHT
COMBINATION WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS.
Chesterfield
FOR MILDNESS