

SAYE ON SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORT COATS 
The Campus Shop's semi-annual quality sale of men's fine suits, topcoats and sport coats is now in full swing! Come in soon . . . make your selection from our regular stock of famous-make men's cloth­ing. Save now ... charge it the Campus Shop way. 
AA..~ 
· LBERT. 

amp11$~ho

-------...;;:::-~-­
-


NO CARRYING CHARGE 

Get what you need now at Campus Shop Quality Sale Savings and charge it the Campus Shop way: pay one-third in June ... one-third in July ... one-third in August. Of course, there is never a carrying charge nor extra fee for this handy Charge Account service. So come in soon and save ... enjoy the convenience of your Campus Shop Charge Account. 
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS 
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: FRANK KIRK 
Il!inois Belrs Joliet Accounting: Offi<'e prepares 370.000 1·uslomer hills a month. And Results Supen·isor Frank l"-irk I B.S .. 1%0 I makes sure the job is done cff1ciently. 
Defore his promotion. Frank supen-ised 20 ke~-punch operators. Thal responsihilily ,ms gi,·en him soon after he <'nmpleted the management training program offered 
hy his company. ... ~ ~ 
Frank Kirk has aci.:omplished a lot in the two years he's hce11 with Illinois Dell. J-le·s seen his idens ndoplcd and re,rnrded by an interested management. 
Frank Kirk and other n,ung men like him in Bell Tele­phone Companies lhrougl~oul Lhe country help hring the finest communicalions service in Lhe world Lo the homes and businesses of a growing America. 

: ... 
..... 
~ ... 
,.
=_-t·~---~-. 
. 
·-· 
.-.·.•·.·: 
The Scholastic 



ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS & PHYSICISTS: 

If space is your future, your career is with Hughes 
IN ASTROSPACE IN AEROSPACE IN TERRASPACE IN HYDROSPACE 
A, far back as 1890. Jules Verne , i,ualizetl excursion train, to the moon. Totl.iy -73 year, later -Hughe, otfer, ;ou the opponunit:, to play an import.int part in man·s .,ctu.i! conquest of space. 
Help us soft-land the SURVEYOR on the moon -or \\Ork \\ith us on exciting atl,·ancctl projects such as: 
TFX(N)-Guided Missile System MMRBM-Mobile Mid-Range Ballistic Missile 
(Integration, Assembly & Checkout) SYNCOM-Communications satellite BAMBI ARPAT ANTI-MISSILE DEFENSE PLASMA PHYSICS & ION PROPULSION ADVANCED FIXED-ARRAY RADAR SYSTEMS LASER & MASER RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT NUCLEONICS & MOBOT• SYSTEMS SOLID STATE MATERIALS & DEVICES DATA PROCESSING & COMMAND-CONTROL 
B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. Candidates 
Members of our staff will conduct 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 


February 27, 1963 
Find out more about the wrde rancie of act1v1t1es, educational programs ana relocation al!o,-;ances oiiered by Hughes. 
For interview appointment or informational literature consult your College Placement 

Director. Or write: College P!acement Of{Jce, Hughes, P.O. Box 90515, Los Angeles 9, Calif. 
I I


i HUGHES :
L ______________ I 
HUGHES AIRCqAFT co-.1PA",,iY 
A., :cu:?.I co;:::orLm1 y ~ .,..al:iy .:.r 
*Tr.idem.irk Hughes Air.:r.1f1 Comp.in:, Bc11m.in ,\rdti\t: 

February 15, 1963 



with 
MJi9hulman 

THE CURSE OF THE CAMPUS: NO. 1 
Hate me if you will, but I must speak. We college types are for too complacent. Sure, we\·e got plenty to be proud of. ,ve\·e got atom smasher:-:, we·w got grad­uate schools, we\·e got new peaks in :-:cholarship, new highs in :1e:1demic hon­ors. And vet. in tlH· midst of these tri­umphs, we ha,·e failed di:-mally to make any progress in soh-ing the oldest and most horrendous of :ill campus problems: we\·e still got roommate:.:. 
To be sure, all roo111111atcs are not bad. There is the well-documented case of I-Iilquit Glebe, a :,:tudeut at the nfanhat­tan College of A!!riculture, majoring in curds and wht·y. ,,·ho admitted publicly that he actualh· likul his roommate­an odd admi:3s1on when vou consider that his roo1um:1tc, :i.\Ierds Trunz by name, was frankly not too winsome :i 
fellow. He pr:.idiced his tympani in hi,:: room, he kept an alligator, and he collected airplane tires. 
But, on the other hand, :::\Iervis bought two packs of :Marlboro Cigarettes every day and ga ,·e one of them to I-Iilquit and-I ask you ­who can stav mad at a man who gives ~you Marlboro Cigarettes? Who, upon tast­ing that fla,·orful blend of :\Iarlboro tob:1ccos, upon dr:rning through that pure white :Marlboro filter, upon e:-ailting in this best of all possible cigarette.-;, :Marlboro -"·ho, I say, can harden his 
heart against his neighbor? Certainly not Hilquit. Certainly not I. Certainly not you, as you "ill find when vou scurn• to vour nearest tobacconist and buy asupjJly. :i\farlboros come in soft pack or Flip-Top Box. Tobacconists come in small, medium, and large. 
But I digress. Roommates, I say, are still with us and I fear they always "ill be, so we better learn how to get along with them. It can be done, you know. Take, for instance, the classic case of Dolh· Pitcher and l\follv :Madison. 
Dolly and :Molly, roommates at a prominent Midwestern girls' school (Vas­sar) had a problem that seemed insolu­ble. Dolly could only study late at night, and :Molly could not stay awake past nine o'clock. If Dolly kept the lights on, the room was too bright for Molly to sleep. If Molly turned the lights off, the room was too dark for Dolly to study. 
* * 

What to do? 
,vell sir, these two intelligent American kids found an answer. They got a miner's cap for Dolly! Thus, she had enough light to study by, and still the room was dark enough for :Molly to sleep. 
It must be admitted, however, that this solution, ingenious as it was, had some unexpected sequelae. Dolly got so enchanted "ith her miner's cap that she s,Yitched her major from 18th Century poetry to mining and metallurgy. Shortly after graduation she had what appeared to be a great stroke of luck: ,vhile out prospecting, she discovered what is "ith­out question the world's largest feldspar mine. This might haYe made Dolly Yery rich except that nobody, alas, has yet discoYered a use for feldspar. Today Dolly, a broken woman, squeezes out a 
meagre living making echoes for tourists in Mammoth Cave. 
Nor has Molly fared conspicuously better. Once Dolly got the miner's hat, l\folly was able to catch up on her long­lost sleep. She woke after eight days, re­freshed and vigorous-more vigorous, alas, than she realized. It was the after­noon of the annual Dean's tea. Mollv stood in line "ith her classmates, waiting to shake the Dean's hand. At last her turn came, and l\folly, full of strength and health, gave the Dean a, firm hand­shake-so firm, indeed, that all five of the Dean's knuckles were permanently fused. 
The Dean sued for a 1nillion dollars, and, of course, won. Today :Molly, a broken woman, is paying off her debt by walking the Dean's cat every afternoon for ten cents an hour 
© 1963 .Max Shulman 
* 



The SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 104 February 15, 1963 No. 12 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras j\foriturus 
Fo:.:::-:ded 1867 

JOHN McCABE Editor  
JACK AHERN Managing Editor  
Associate Editors: Galvin, Ralph James Wyrsch.  John BecMartin,  htold, John  James Pesta,  
Business Manager: Jay Ward.  

Contributing Editors: James Devlin, John Kirlin, Frank McConnell, Robert ~fc­Gowan, J. J. Pottmyer, Patrick Saxe, Thomas Schlereth, Carl Wiedemann. 
Assistant Editors: John Anton, Ken Arnold, John Buckley, Joe Caspar, Vince De Coursey, Stephen Enright, Rich:ird Notebaert, John Rogers, Joe Ryan, Terry Wolkerstorfer, Bob Zielsdorf. 
Advertising ~Manager: Richard Roggeveen. 
Circulation Manager: Tom Dalum. 
Photography: Brian Beck. 
Faculty Advisors: Donald Costello. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C. 

STAFF: Pat Ba:ier, G:eg Callagh:m, Dick Connc'.ly. Dennis Corrigan, Al Dudash, Charles Dunn, Bob Edler. Geary Ellet, Jack Gerken, John Gorman, Rex Lardner, Bob Lt:mpkins. Dick Maher. John Pope. Jack R:iwe, Gary Sabatte. Frank Smith, Richard Weirich. Don Wharton. 
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second .-lass mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Colle$iate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertisin~ Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazmes Corp.• 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods. the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip­tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be­comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
We, the makers of1Jlarlboro and the sponsorsofthiscolumn, will not attempt to expertize about roommates. But we will tell you about a great pocket or purse mate-Marlboro Cigarettes-line tobacco, line filter, line company always. 
The Scholastic 
EDITORIALS 


Student Government 
WE WOULD LIKE to clarify our position on Student 
Government. Our feeling is not that Kevin Hart has done a poorer job than past Notre Dame Student Body Presidents. We feel he has, perhaps, done a better job, for he has not allowed the petty politics and futile forensics on ridiculous topics to reverber­ate along the bleak walls of the Student Center Am­phitheatre. We differ from him, however, and we think from most former student government admin­istrations, in that we believe that student government can be effective (and thus somewhat meaningful) only if it can form a student consensus, a consensus both cohesive and powerful enough to force the ad­ministration to change its views. Fr. Hesburgh ad­mitted as much when he told us last week that "any change has to come from below." 
Perhaps Kevin Hart and other student leaders would benefit from this counsel by Walter Lippmann: "The deliberate making of issues is very nearly the core of the statesman's task. His greatest wisdom is required to select a policy that will fertilize the public mind." They also must remember that, as Dean Acheson has said: "The essence of leadership is the successful resolution of problems and the successful attainment of objectives which impress themselves as being important to those whom one is called upon to lead." 


The Commonweal)s 
Protestant 
THE MERE existence of this column -unfettered 
comment by a Protestant in a Roman Catholic journal -is itself a significant symbol of Catholic openness and generosity in the new era of ecumenical relationship that has recently dawned." So said Robert McAfee Brown, Stanford's leading Protestant theolo­gian, in his first column of the new year in Common­weal., the journal edited by Roman Catholic laymen. The idea for the column originated at the Common­weal. 
In addition to trying to interest Catholic readers in Protestant affairs, the column will serve as an unsupervised comment on Catholic happenings and attitudes. Brown will also use his column to comment on his activities as one of the observers at the Second Vatican Council. 
With all the talk of dialogue and ecumenism in the air starting to repeat itself, and sound hollow, one had begun to wonder how much actual dialogue was taking place. Such concrete and intelligent steps as those the Commonweal has taken, permit one to nurture again the modest hope that has arisen during Pope John's reign. 
The editor's choice of Brown appears particularly fortunate in light of his first column. Brown looks forward to when he is able to write "not primarily as a Protestant to Catholics, dealing with points of difference, but writing rather as a Christian to fellow Christians, presupposing points of conviction we al­ready share, and examining some problem or issue in the name of our common allegiance to Christ, as we face together, whether as Catholics or Protestants, a world that is tragically torn asunder precisely be­cause it does not share the perspective we share ­that the resources of both wisdom and grace are manifested through a cross and an empty tomb." 
February 15, 1963 


Lecture Series 
T 
HE OPEN FORUM approach of the student lecture series (to begin next Sunday) could be an en­lio"htened avenue to strenuous debate and prm-oking thouaht amona students. It is certainly an excellent
:0 b 

idea that deserves support. 
Motivatina this attempt to stimulate discussion is a concern for our indifference to problems of social welfare and morality -problems that are much more easily avoided than confronted. Most of our aversions stem from two positions: a feeling that we have all the ans\vers, and the more subtle academic resistance of intellectual detachment. Underlying these natural defenses is our umvillingness to be touched deeply, to become personally involved with public issues. One of the most interesting approaches to a solution seems to be a face-to-face debate among students who actuallv feel something and are eager to express their prejudices. The hope is to institutionalize a gadfly, \Vith varying participants, and to open the door to argument. 
One advantaae that these debates provide is a 
0 • 
challenge -a chance to uncover weaknesses of opm­ions in ourselves and others. It's just too easy to rant and rave in the semiprivate of our rooms, on the way to class, and in line for meals, among a small group of similar-minded fellows. Here is a fine opportunity for open conflict of divergent opinion on important problems. Another advantage is that these debates will not be simply a..11 intellectual affair: it is assumed that participants will be more than fired up for what they have to say. Challenging from the audience will be expected. 

Self-Criticism 
JAMES O'GARA in the February 15, issue of Com­
monweal has written a devastating critique of the suppressors of self-criticism. ?.~ning with the ques­tion "Will exposure to self-criticism hurt the morale of Catholic students" O'Gara state~ that _a lay columnist in a diocesan paper put this question to himself recently "promptly answering it with a ring­ing affirmative.'~ O'Gara's column satiric~ly offers what these proponents of compulsory qmetude ap­parently want to hear. His article is a c~u~tic ridic~le of the absurdity-the naive and un-Chnstian evas10n of the complex problems of reality -that is con­sequent to such a position. 
We applaud O'Gara's stand,re8:lizingthathis~ee_m­ina extremism is a necessary tome to the stultifymg at~osphere that still prevails among mu~h of the American hierarchy and the latent Cathohc ma~ses. The froth of activity engendered by the sputtermgs of the "emeraent layman" (activated by the self­criticism of M~nsignor John Tracy Ellis and other~) has certainly not permeated the oceans of Cathollc mendacity. 
Commonweal has noted blatant manifestations of Catholic irresponsibility in the poor quality of the Church press. On the diocesan level especially, Catholic newspapers present parishioners with an almost unbelievably limited scope of vision. The pathetic inadequacy of most editorial. attempts, t~e unimportance and irrelevancy of topics covered 1s striking (see "The Issue Is Greatness" by Robert G. Hovt and "A Question of Purpose" by John O'Connor in ~the same issue). Though dealing with another aspect, _!\nthony J. Bader in the January 15, issue of New City has identified the Catholic problem with the title of his article, "The Ghetto Mentality Has Lasted, Because The Ghetto Has Lasted.'' 
Those who are struggling to surpass this isola­tionism of the mind, who believe that for Christianity to be real it must be evangelical, are, in fact, alien­ated. They are dissociated from the narrow-minded­ness and lethargy of the American Church. Char­acteristic of this feeling is the felt need for reap­praisal, epitomized in the expressions of men like Fr. Andrew Greeley and Michael Novak. Until the self-criticism of these men, striving for a vibrant Catholicism, is recognized as the reactions of sen­sitive souls in this, what Gerald Vann, O.P. has called, "The Age of Insanity," much of the necessary work of reform and renewal will never be accom­plished. 
Unfortunately, the majority of Catholics have n~t examined the implications of the Church's emphasis of the Mystical Body, of which we are all integral wholes. Neither has the majority, nor even a strong minority, made Christianity meaningful in their own lives in actual contact with the secular culture in which we also participate. The conversion of the soul, necessary for action with conviction, has not seemed necessary for us; the resulting morass of in­difference is glaringly contrasted with the demands of the Christian task to teach the world Christ's message. 
The Scholastic 



DeGaulle 

GENERAL DE GAULLE'S veto of England's Common 
Market bid may have fortunate effects. Western nations have been suddenly confronted with the very real fact of life that One-Worldism is not so easily come by as its theory is concocted. Nationalistic motives are still pre-eminent factors in world politics. The West's own troika1 speeding toward a united Europe that's to be somehow or other guided or guarded by the United States of America, has hit a rut. Whether or not it can regain momentum we will see in the coming months. 
We do not deny that a united West is ultimately the best thing for all concerned -indeed, only a united world could be better. But is it not dangerous to speed toward this ideal overhastily, almost reck­lessly? The theoreticians who mapped the strategy for a United States of Europe, constructed on the foundations of the Common Market, may be some­what zealously idealistic. Just now Europe may be unready for political union. Traditions of independ­ence and customs remain virile; prides, jealousies, and humiliations remain extant -even after eighteen years of armistice. Perhaps it was lucky that General de Gaulle applied his monkey wrench to the gears when he did. 
That De Gaulle had first and foremost France's interests at heart seems established: there's that much of nationalism in the affair: de Gaulle used his veto to see that England didn't get one of her own. Fear that England's obligations to her Common­wealth sisters would make her a selfishly inclined member, in a sense able to blackmail the Continental powers into unhappy trade arrangements, prompted de Gaulle to turn his thumb down. We may therefore wonder just how much British nationalism is in­volved. 
There are American interests involved as well: military, political, economic. As for the last, David Lawrence has keenly pointed out that this country would find it much easier to transact business with a single European unit rather than several states. With so many fingers in the pie, perhaps de Gaulle himself felt things were proceeding a bit too rapidly: obviously some things would have to be ironed out. One crease can probably be removed as soon as England is willing to scissor her Commonwealth ties. A European community must be a progressive viable force, unfettered by traditionalist economic ties that conceivably could impede the progress of Europe proper. 

De Gaulle's actions initially astonished the West. They continue to puzzle many people. Some charge that de Gaulle is attempting to snatch Western lead­ership from President Kennedy. Europe, de Gaulle feels, is seriously compromised by having to rely on decisions made in Washington on defense and eco­nomic policy. The North Atlantic Treaty Organiza­tion was itself conceived to provide the immediate striking force that's needed to retaliate to sudden attack. But de Gaulle's attitude toward NATO has been less than gratifying to many Westerners. With his own deterrent force de Gaulle would feel secure. 
A quickly perceived implication is this: given a militarily independent France, ( and, for that matter, a militarily independent Italy, Germany, and Eng­land) is American armed power a continuing neces­sity in Europe? Very likely United States strength will no longer be required in a Europe raised to sufficiently independent brawn. Commitments must certainly be retained -this is no appeal for a return to isolationism on the part of the United States; a one-fronted West is the only balance to an ideolog­ically active East. Europe would become a tightly treatied, tightly bulwarked continent. The much un­wanted American soldier, still regarded in many places as the troop of an occupying force, could graciously return home. At the least such a move would be a most grand gesture of good will and trust -something practically unheard of in days of big diplomacy. 
Certainly, ceding military control to European powers is no move to be made overnight. It may require a kind of five-year plan, during which time development of our allies' military potential could be directed and aided. It is important that we realize that these are our allies and that despite the disas­trous happenings of the past forty years, they must today be trusted. 
The Common Market was inaugurated as an eco­nomic system. We accept the principle that economic unity paves the way for political unity. If the troika has been slowed, it has not been upset: only a more gradual pace need be measured. An independent Europe, tightly secured with strong defensive alli­ances, will in the long run be best for the West. 
February 15, 1963 


tion of precisely such a general at­titude. Other examples could be given; to wit: 
a) 
All the petty rules of night check, etc., designed not for the bene­fit of the students (is there still any­one, even around here, naive enough to claim that the way to produce mature, educated Christians is by making them be in their hall after midnight?) but rather designed, ir­respective of any convenience it may cause to the students, to reduce the chance of any incident which might in the least embarrass the Adminis­tration. Analogous remarks can be made of the rules on cars. 

b) 
The regulations on class cuts ­intended to save some dull and in­competent professor the embarra£s­ment of having to lecture to an empty classroom, and a public admis­sion by the University that either there are a large number of such professors, or else that this "great" University is unable to attract stu­dents of sufficient caliber that they will go to class without being forced. Or perhaps both. 


But why continue? Anyone who stays at Notre Dame for more than an occasional visit must realize these and much more -all the manifesta­tions of the aberrant philosophy on which this University is run: not for the sake of the students, not for the faculty, nor even for the greater glory of God, but more importantly, for the greater glory of the C.S.C.'s. 
A. G. Hermida 413 Walsh Hall 
DEVOTIONS 

Dear Editor: 
I would only like to say in the ex­hausted voice of a second semester senior that being late for Mass is quite a bit different from being "late for an appointment with an impor­tant person." Perhaps the fact so many seem to think so accounts for so many being late. 
John Reishman 

334 Alumni Dear Editor: 
While the disrespect for the Mass evidenced by students arriving late and leaving early is regrettable, the polemic of Fr. Teske at the 12: 15 Mass this Sunday is little better. It would seem that this disrespect for the Mass is not wholly the fault of the Notre Dame Student Body. Some of the guilt belongs to the Congregation of Holy Cross. In the liturgy, the theology courses, the sermons and the Religious Bulletin, the Notre Dame student is generally pre­sented with an unintellectual brand of Catholicism which the Church in France and Germany had outgrown by the turn of the century. And ironi­cally this "Low Church" Catholicism is presented to the students with an air of paternal condescension. Our library is closed for May devotions and yet Fr. Teske chides us for im­maturity and threatens to lock the doors of the church at the start of Mass. 
Kevin Cahill 435 Walsh 
McCONNELLISM 

Dear Editor: 
Frank McConnell's harsh and un­comprehending criticism of "Through a Glass Darkly" and "The Virgin Spring" was hard enough to take, but his recent criticism of "Hiroshima, Mon Amour," reaching a nadir (see, I can use esoteric words too) of the critic's art, cannot go unchallenged. Mr. McConnell's fundamental hypo­thesis seems to be "If I don't see the point, there can't be any; if I don't see the unity, the picture is not uni­fied." May I suggest that your Mr. McConnell sleeps through the films he so glibly chops up. 
Let us leave aside the question of whether the motion picture can be "really valid art," as Mr. McConnell claims it cannot be. This largely de­pends on what we take to be art, though Mr. McConnell's statement seems to be the conclusion of another McConnellism, i.e., "If I haven't seen a good movie, there aren't any.'' 
One of the claims of the critic is that the movie is a technical study of memory. Another is that Hiro­shima had little to do with the theme of the picture. On the contrary, the film is an expression of the struggle of a woman trying to forget her past and its tragedy. Her lover, and the city of Hiroshima itself, learned to adjust to the past despite the horrors it had brought; the woman was un­successful. The fact that her lover was Japanese, and the many scenes of the destruction that the atomic bomb wrought on Hiroshima, were, I think, not at all incidental to the points that were trying to be made. A movie can have several themes; I am of the opinion that one of the themes of this movie was the folly of war, and the hope that we will never endure an atomic holocaust. Viewed with these points in mind the picture has a remarkable unity, and there is very little in it which cannot be related to one of the themes I have mentioned. That Mr. McConnell failed to bring up either one of these themes makes me think he "missed the boat" com­pletely. 
Michael Gemignani 
515 N. St. Joseph 
South Bend, Ind. 

at Notre Dame is perhaps the most fruitless task known to man. The thick walls of the Administration Building seem to be quite impervious to any complaints or criticism. Yet in spite of this, there comes a mo­ment when, ineffectually or not, one must give vent to one's ire. I wish to refer specifically to the situation in the office of Academic Affairs with regard to transcripts. It is already bad enough when they charge $1.00 per transcript (and this can cause a financial strain to one who is apply­ing to several graduate schools and fellowship programs), but when they have the gall to charge an extra dol­lar apiece for a supplementary re­port containing just one semester's credits.... 
If it actually costs Academic Affairs that much to send such a report, then this inefficiency betrays incredible stupidity in the running of the office. If (as is likely) it costs them much less, there is no way that such an incredible abuse can be excused. 
It would not be so bad if this were just an isolated instance of a "let the students be damned" attitude. Un­fortunately it is rather a manifesta-
Contact Lens Specialist 
• 
Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAIRS 
GLASSES FITTED 
• 

212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 
The Scholastic 
IBM 

Interviews On Campus 
Feb. 19 Financial Administration Science and Engineering Marketing/ Systems Engineering Programming 
y •. 

A  s  If you cannot attend the interview, write or call: W. F. Wahl, Br. Mgr., IBM Corp., 618-620 N. Michigan St., South Bend 1, Ind. CE 2-8251.  
:· ~­ • .. .. ., !-­.,,. < ~ ~ ... ~ ·. ';. .::~ .. ······· ::... :. ... ~ >_:~ < ~ •.<  ..  :  '  .. -,: .. ~..., .. ;---~---»  

February 15, 1963 
Now, a clean-filling, smooth-writing Parker cartridge pen ...only s3~ 
New PARKER ARR®W 

This pen can save you important money on car­tridges. And last longer. Ours are BIGGER and last longer (each is good for 8 or 9 thousand words). But, even if you didn't save a dime, this pen would be worth the price. It's a Parker. 
Only Parker gives you a solid 14K gold point, tipped with plathenium-one of the hardest, smoothest alloys ever developed. It should last you for years no matter how much you use it. 
This pen won't leak the way the cheap ones do -it has a built-in safety reservoir. It must meet most of the tough specifications we set for $10 pens. 
The Parker Arrow comes in black, dark blue, light blue, light grey, and bright red, with a choice of four instantly replaceable solid 14k gold points. 
r(Speci~tro=o~e~s -;:;;:ua~, ~ 7
I This coupon good for I 
I 5 EXTRA 
I SUPER QUINK : 
I CA~!~~1~GES I 
I Your Arrow pen is packed with 5 FREE cartridges. I Present this coupon for 5 more FREE cartridges 
I 
when you purchase the Arrow pen. Only one cou-I pon redeemable for each Arrow pen purchased. Offer not available where prohibited.
I To the Dealer: You are authorized to redeem the coupon I and we will_ reimburse you for the 5 free cartridges with like 
goods provided that you and the consumer ha•:e complied
A beautifully expressive gift. ~ 
L~h:::s~o~~ ___ J <p PARKER Maker of the world's most wanted pens 
i=:: 

The Scholastic 
• For Notre Dame undergraduates the economic facts of life have dic­tated, for the fourth year in a row, 

campus at a glance
a $100 increase in tuition, according 
to an announcement this past week by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president and treasurer. Effective next September, tuition for the under­graduate will be $1300 per year, spell­ing an over-all charge for boarding students ranging between $2080 and $2220. Remaining unchanged will be the $1000 per year tuition for grad­uate and law students and the board, room, and laundry fees for on-campus students. The latter fees have been constant since 1952. 
For those to whom the increased 
rates will be an undue hardship, spe­
cial loan considerations may be given, 
according to Father Joyce. 
• 
Prof. A.L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, has been elected a Corresponding Fellow of France's Acadernie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. The Membership in this exclusive Acade­my, founded in 1663 by Louis XIV, is limited to forty foreign Correspond­ing Fellows, and has only one other known American member. 

• 
It is said that the following story was very popular around heaven a few days ago: 


"It so happened that Father Engle­ton died, and when he got up here to heaven, St. Peter told him: 'Father, you led a good life on earth, and so we are going to give you a fine re­ward.' No sooner said, than Fr. Engle­ton got a beautiful new racing bike, with more gears than he could ever use. Father was very happy, and soon was racing his bike all over heaven. 
"A few days later Fr. Joyce died. and when he got up to heaven, St. Peter told him: 'Well, Father, you led a good life on earth too, and you will get a fine reward also.' True to his word, St. Peter presented Fr. Joyce with a beautiful, brand-new Olds­mobile 98. Father immediately took off to make a tour of heaven, ·and as luck would have it, pretty soon met Fr. Engleton and his bike. They were very happy to see each other, and pretty soon were talking about the good old days at N. D. As they stood there on the side of the road, they saw approaching them the most fab­ulous car either had ever seen: a most elegant, huge Rolls-Royce limousine. On the Rolls front were three large golden letters: T. M. H. 
"Fr. Joyce immediately said to Fr. Engleton: 'Hey, there's Father Hes­'Hey, Teddy,' but the Rolls passed them by without giving any answer. 'Obviously,' said Fr. Engleton, 'he didn't notice us. Let's go over 1.o St. Peter and find out where he is stay­ing so we can visit him.' 
"They both got into Fr. Joyce's Olds and drove over to St. Peter's office. 'St. Peter,' they asked 'tell us where Fr. Hesburgh is staying in heaven, so we can go visit him.' St. Peter checked his little bo~k, and replied: 'I'm sorry, gentlemen, but Fr. Hesburgh is not dead yet.' 
"'In that case,' Fr. Engleton replied, 'whose is that big black Rolls-Royce with the gold initials T. M. H. in the front?' 
"'Oh, that,' answered St. Peter, 'is God's car. You see, sometimes God thinks that he is Fr. Hesburgh.'" 
• 
By the way, Cheryl Lampley, who finished "second" in the Notre Dame Homecoming Queen Contest, was the cover girl on this month's Playboy magazine. 

• 
The new head of the mathematics department here at the University is Dr. Thomas E. Stewart. Dr. Stewart, who joined the N.D. faculty as an 



assistant professor in 1961 and is now an associate professor, succeeds Dr. Arnold Ross, who had resigned to become chairman of the mathematics department at Ohio State University. 
Dr. Stewart entered Christian Brothers' College in 1953 and in 1955 came to Notre Dame, obtaining here his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in math. He then attended the Institute for elect and will officially take over the­department in September of 1963. 

Dr. Stewart states that he expects a great number of changes in the department but not necessarily of a policy nature. Envisioned for the future: 
-strong effort to eliminate graduate student teaching. Henceforth these teachers would assist in seminars only. 
-a much improved, much more in­tensified situation on the graduate study levels. 
-maintaining of the present teacher training program. 
-addition of some outstanding math teachers to the faculty in the near future. 
-a general faculty expansion (at present it is 28) to meet a broader program on all levels. 
-aware that math is a requirement for all Notre Dame students, there will be an effort to see that the nec­essary material is presented in a more interesting manner. 
Commenting on the over-all situ­ation, Dr. Stewart had this to say: "I believe the department, as such, here at Notre Dame is on the thresh­old of developing one of the most outstanding communities of mathema­tics scholars in the country and one which will significantly contribute to the culture of the country.'' 
• President Kennedy's education bill does not provide for federal aid to private schools, but according to Dr. George N. Shuster, only tax support for public and private schools alike will change the "total picture" of Catholic education in the United States. Dr. Shuster, assistant to the president of Notre Dame, writing in the February issue of Extension mag­azine, prophesies that "this is not go­ing to happen soon" and sees that "the great obstacle is not the public law but the public unwillingness." 
While biding time for federal aid, Dr. Shuster recommends the Catholic school system maintain and improve present standards of its teaching reli­gious and concentrate on the "over­all problem . . . , which will require the development of new methods and undoubtedly a new organization.'' 
Dr. Shuster is presently engaged in a three-year, Carnegie-financed study of Catholic elementary and secondary schools. 

burgh in his limousine. Let's stop him . Advanced Study at Princeton from and talk to him.' So they waved from ' 1959-1961. In the math department • In this age of nuclear secrets and the side of the road, and shouted he now holds the position of head-(Continued on page 30) 
February 15, 1963 
fellowships from 1500 to 10,000 per year; a three-year, $67 million grant program for work-study plans at col­

On Other Campuses 
leges; a three-year, $150 million pro­

• 
A resident counsellor at North­western University was fired a week ago. One of the apparent reasons for this was that he allowed information about George Lincoln Rockwell's in­tended speech to leak to the campus daily paper. He revealed that stu­dents were preparing petitions oppos­ing the administration's refusal to al­low the speech by Rockwell, the head of the American Nazi Party. 

• 
The :Michigan State Legislature is attempting to strengthen a ban on its state campuses against speakers "advocating, teaching, or urging sub­version." One senator said that the controversial speaker policies ap­proved by the Council for Public Higher Education "is supposed to keep the Communists off the cam­puses. But it's not working." Pres­ently, prospective speakers are re­quired to say whether they are or have been Communists. Frank Wilk­inson, a Communist lecturer, avoided this ban by denying that he was a Communist. 

• 
In the January University of Penn­sylvania Law Review, Professor Wil­liam Van Alstyne cf Ohio State Uni­versity said, "Campus censorship in 1962 easily rivaled that of any pre­vious year." A considerable number of guest lecturers, formally invited to state university campuses by recog­nized student organizations have been turned away by members of the ad-


Feiffer 
ministration. The restrictions have 
entered the area of freedom of speech. 
He concluded: "Universities would 
render a far greater service by aban­
doning substantive limitations on 
guest speakers altogether. Any other 
policy necessarily expresses a skepti­
cism of student intelligence and fear 
of the appeal of today's social critics. 
Both inferences are contrary to the 
categorical imperatives of a free 
society." 
In response to an attempt of a state official to stop further lectures in a series which began with neo-fascist Sir Oswald Mosely, Dr. Clifford C. Furnas, chancellor of the University of Buffalo, said: "If there be an is­sue, it is an issue of education. Can and should young people who are now receiving their last formal education in a university setting be permitted to investigate directly and at first hand any idea advanced by man? Evil ideas which in our age are spread about us must also be studied by scholars and students if they are to be dealt with. . . . I trust our stu­dents to judge properly what will be said." 

• The education bill recently pre­sented by President Kennedy to Con­gress contains far-reaching proposals for higher education. The bill, if passed, would provide a 50% in­crease in funds for the National De­fense Education Act student loan pro­gram; an increase in NDEA graduate 
6t!Jf1,&M£1J, ff; !PE HAVE fAILW iO PROi1&C1 WW,,We HAI/€ EOIJ€ ~ME 
flM~ W£ lkl fHG PEACf 
MOVEMtNT 
5fOPPW 
31.Al-mJS OTHER'; F{)g OUR FAIL.URE: .A}JO lOOKW ro J fHE: REAi. CAUSE: 
OUR5El.VES. 
kl~M~ DIE-R&frfl£ OUR. MOV&­H£ITT ·AAWK~ FOR PEACE:' 
~BEf 1'DJO-f<tPlAC£ OOR f'U,[£ COlJIJcrLh WITII P€K.£.. • COMHAllDS-W€ CAIJ CAU, 1H£1-1'~Cf C0"1f,'\~:· ~UM0£R 1/IR~ -R€1iT/£ ~ OUR PiACE ~1<€RS-CAll 
1.~•1@UBt.f SHODTE~." 
1H€ RlbHT lMAGe. PfAC€, Rc5€ARCH AJJ() 11fctj€
Ae€ OUR rn..1v11JGS.

lfl(f NJ~rn11JG US€, 17 A 
Piooocr. IF Jµ£ lklf£1.J!7 TH~ PUBLIC FINO~ 
Pf;t,CE t,AC((r~6 IIJ
10 MA~S -MARKEf 11 ()}€ MUSf (10 OUR. ?flARE VI Rf&.rTY, 6EIJTLE"l-!fkl. 
OF CO!JSUMfR R6$E"A~CH. If FIIJOS IT OV6RLl1 PAtj5/V£, AJAll/e ABOUf COI-IMUIJ~M AIJO A 
SOP FOR. IAXJmJ NJO f3€ATWK'5! 
gram for insuring commercial loans to students making funds available to students who do not qualify for NDEA loans. National Science Foun­dation scholarships would increase from 2800 to 8700 a year. 
The bill would provide a three-year, $300 million program for buildings, books, and equipment in public and private college libraries, technical schools, science facilities, and grad­uate programs and would expand grants for teaching and research in science. 
The teacher-training, guidance, and counseling programs of the NDEA would be extended and enlarged. 
One proposition is a federal subsidy to schools to provide more part-time jobs for college students, with half the wages coming from federal funds. The jobs, up to 15 hours a week and $500 a school year for undergraduates ($1000 for graduates), must be di­rectly connected with education ­work as a grader, or in the school library. 
• South Carolina, the last state with unbroken public school segregation, yielded when Clemson College ad­mitted Harvey Gantt, a 20-year-old architectural student, at the begin­ning of the second semester. The transfer student from Iowa State University was surprised by his calm and friendly reception on the campus. But the state government is dedicated 
(Continued on page 38) 
1HA1 I? Nor TH€ l(IIJD OF 
P£AC€ 1HAf S&USI OUR. 
FrklOIIJGS RE"l/€AL 1Mf 
PfOPLE" FIi.JD fH6 PREPARA­
RATIOIJS FOR ™~11MULA11~!
~ 
If$ONL'f THE eAJD RESULfS THAf 1Hfl.1 FRolJJIJ OIJ-IF W£'Rf 60//JG 11) MAK€ P€AC€ CATCH ON wni60[ 10 MAn 11 AS MA',lUUtJE
I'\ 
MWR! 
\ 

OOM6€R f'OUR-M OOT A56/?IE"~ 1K WTl61-161J,OJJC6' We KHAKl·COLO!ceO CRASH PR06RAH5 MAK€ 111€ IHAbc OF OfJ SUCII ifffMf~ AS 'P€/'l€ PcAf£ MDR6 (&)Af· 
urce, OUR FUIJD

PCSTlJR( ~ PEN:.£ £~CAI.A110t( 
AAISUJ6 PR00W.f7

'P€ACtCOUNTERF~~= 
Wll.l. B~ OVcR !

/JVHBE~ FIVt-f»JJ,tf AlLOW PtOP/£ 
Wl1H SUIT? Al.JV 1165 iO iTOIIJ. 6£f A F6t>J OF iHOS£ Mlf,11;1ER$ 
OFF T!l6 S~,".,'5{)R usrAA.IQ PVT 
OIJ A C<YJPL€ (}" 6ErJERALS! 
The Scholastic 


C!Cbicago l\ailp t!Cribulation 
THE VOICE OF A LITTLE PEST 
LOCAL 
Dear Editor, 
I'm very sorry you found fault with my last dispatch; altho I still be­lieve that coitgh is easier to read than cof. Anyway, thank you for sending me the new fonetic diction­ary. Not too much hap­pened in South Bend today. Here are the stories. 

SOUTH BEND. A grand jury was convened today by the county prosecutor to investigate reported scandals surrounding class registration at the nearby University of Notre Dame. Assistant Prosecutor Rob­ert F. Snodgut, a much decorated veteran of the Normandy campaign and other World War II battles, claimed that he has evi­dence showing that class cards for Father Dunne's theology class were being sold by early registrants for $5 each. Furthermore, a class-card counterfeit ring is reported by "re­liable sources" to exist. Altho the location of their IBM card punch unit has not been discovered, many of the ringleaders have been taken into custody. 
The University has re­mained tight-lipped about this scandal, refusing to disclose the figures on the number of students reg­istered in the more popu­lar catechism classes. When contacted in Thai­land, the President of the University refused to com­ment, even tho he did ex­press surprise at allega­tions that as many as 350 students were registered in one section. 
NEWS HERE AND 
Since the first news of 
the scandal broke two 
days ago, the prosecutor's 
office has been deluged 
with complaints by irate 
students who claim that 
early registration permits 
were not honored by the 
guards in cases where stu­
dents were known by the 
registration machine to be 
planning to take theology 
courses instead of philos­
ophy courses. 
It is expected that the 
first evidence which Mr. 
Snodgut will present when 
the jury begins hearing 
evidence tomorrow morn­
ing will be eyewitness ac­
counts of threats made by 
a high official to have a 
student "kicked out of 
school." Upon being unable 
to change sections, the stu­
dent allegedly told this of­
ficial where to relocate his 
department with respect to 
his anatomy. 
What it all adds up to is that the Kennedy adminis­tration has no intention of ever getting the govern­ment out of the taxpayers' pockets. 
SOUTH BEND. A fiery dispute between Bro. Conan Moran (C.S.C.) and a group of irate students took place in the Book­store late yesterday after­noon. The students, all possessing coupons en­titling them to 5c dis­counts when purchasing Gleam toothpaste, became incensed when Bro. Moran failed to honor the cou­pons. When the students accused him of being op­posed to the "American way" and the gross nation­
al product, Bro. Moran re­
torted by saying, "Take 
your business elsewhere if 
you like." 

Many people in the South 
Bend area remember Bro. 
Moran as the adamant foe 
of trading stamps which 
he has never given at his 
place of business. 
What it all adds up to 
is that the Kennedy ad­
ministration has no inten­
tion of ever getting the 
government out of the tax­
payers' pockets. 

I'm afraid that the above 
is the only news which I 
have to offer for today. 
There have been no im­
portant thefts outside of 
the Bookstore; there have 
been no great disasters; 
and the only display of 
public immorality was in 
the Fiesta Lounge. 
To make up for the scarcity of news which I have to report, I'm enclos­ing the following inter­view which David Condom might like to offer to all the readers attending his Wake for the news. 
The old saying "Never bet against Notre Dame or the Chicago Bears" should be heeded this year by fol­lowers of intercollegiate croquet. Although plagued by scholastic ineligibility of two of his best players, Notre Dame coach Gil Humbert is surprisingly calm. Coach Humbert maintains that there is a great deal of student in­terest in croquet as a var­sity sport. 
"But, of course, every­one is talking about this team, and there's a rea­son: we're different." 
ABROAD 
The nursing, coddling, 
and pampering of a team 
of neurotics is no easy job 
any time; but Coach Hum­
bert has a good chance of 
winning a game this sea­
son. One game is played 
at home. When asked about 
the reluctance of other 
teams to play at Notre 
Dame, the coach replied: 
"Of course, our court is not 
the equal of those of other 
schools which have been 
playing croquet for a num­
ber of years. For one 
thing, the ground here 
hasn't fully settled. Then 
too, some of the other 
schools don't like the spirit 
shown by the spectators 
here." 
How did he get into his 
vocation? What are the 
problems of being croquet 
coach for a major college? 
"Well, I guess mainly I wanted to be coach to get me recognition. Of course, I have a devotion to Notre Dame as my alma mammy. 
"My biggest problem right now is that the team is out of shape. However, next week end we're going to go on a 50-mile hike for the President." 
What it all adds up to is that the Kennedy adminis­tration has no intention of ever getting the govern­ment out of the taxpayers' pockets. 
Tho not much happened today, I hope to have a good story tomorrow on expenditures on the new radiation building by the 
A.E.C. which will, of course, prove our custom­ary point. 
Your faithful reporter, 
J. J. Pottmyer 

February 15, 1963 
world of people, that the other has a grasp of hard cold facts, and knows what the story is. This conservative 
More than Belief 
by Ralph !1:artin 
IF THE FUTURE has historians they will look back to the mid-point of our century and see the flash of light which was Adlai Stevenson: the per­spective from which they look will indicate how well we have understood the meaning of his career. Perhaps he will be seen as a brief, futile bright­ness, who managed to illumine the globe for a moment, but whose spark found no answer and was soon swal­lowed by the rapidly gathering dark­ness. Then again, if there are his­torians, he might be seen as a man whose trust in the people, in America's uniqueness, was not in vain, that there were those who had the intelligence, strength and courage to say as he did, "I believe that something can be done, that the deadlock can be broken, that the world can make a new beginning toward peace.... We have to do more than believe in the good; we have to fight for it." 
Mr. Stevenson is a man who believes that the dream of a new America begins in the c1a s s r o o m , but if there is no world there can be no class­room; if there are tragic wars and mis­erable squandering of human lives and nat­ural resources there can be no quiet places, no places of peace where the meaning and values which have existed precariously for centuries, and are now threatened with extinction by the howlings of our cen­tury, can become vis­ible and present to us more and more. World War III? "I believe that hu­manity has some higher and nobler destiny." 
He has not been understood if one says that yes, he is fine to have around, but as president? No one can say if the darkness has heightened in the last few years and no one can say that it has lessened. We chose Eisenhower and Kennedy over Steven­son; many have strong opinions that both are truly sons of our century ­participating fully in the confusion of values, opportunities and possibilities -neither being able to understand what America had once meant. Is it too soon to say that we have not endured, that we are no longer the young, hopeful land, that we too are being engulfed by the dark waters? 
In his campaign of 1956, Stevenson spoke of a New America and of being an American. "It's an unresolved re­sponsibility, a responsibility to make this country a sounding board for new ideas, a welcomer of everything free and hopeful, a generous nation ... a responsibility, in short, to make America what we started out to be ­and what the whole free world expects us to be. . . . A free society cannot be content with a goal of mere life with-
Fred Ward -Black Star with the rest of the 
out want. It has always had within it a visionary spark, a dream that man, liberated from crushing work, aching hunger and constant insecurity would discover wider interests, nobler aims -the aesthetic, the moral, the reli­gious." 
There is a deep-rooted prejudice in the American mind that the idealist and the realist are two different per­sons; that one is a fanciful imaginer who has no real understanding of the 
position is often characterized by an intellectual inability to converse and discuss, a rigid and fearful locking onto old linguistic patterns which have lost meaning, and a proud boast of being realists, coupled with a sneer at the "dreams" of liberalism. Mr. Stevenson, inheritor and interpreter of our Western tradition in greater measure than any political figure in recent times, has quite seriously estab­lished the claim of being the greatest realist, yet doesn't object to being called an idealist. In our time he has found it suitable to go under the name of liberal and the structure of the Democratic party; the meaning he has attached to these temporal structures goes beyond our century and echoes through our country's and the West's past. Besides being intelligent and far­seeing, he is extremely articulate, and an outstanding wit. 
"Every four years the Republicans get concerned about the people -a sort of leap year liberalism-the dif­ference between the two parties can be stated very simply. When the Republican leaders think of economic problems, they see a ledger and a cash­book. WhenDemocrats think of economic problems, they see men, women, and children -for a cen­tury and a half, the Democratic party has been the party of re­spectful people, of reverence for life, of hope for each child's future, of belief that 'thehighest revelation is that God is in every man' -people are all that are important, all people are equally important, and such ideas as property and corporate business are only means, not ends." To those supposed realists who say "A­merica First, to hell 
world," Stevenson replies: "Don't you see that today it is to our interest, our very deepest interest, that the world is at peace and all men have a chance? 
"Once we were not ashamed in this country to be idealists. Once we were proud to confess that an American is a man who wants peace and believes in a better future and loves his fellow man. We must reclaim these great 
(Continued on page 35) 
The Scholastic 

SCHOLASTIC AWARDS 
THERE is a conspicuous vacuum at Notre Dame in the realm of recognition to outstanding students. In answer to this demand this issue marks the appearance of the first annual SCHOLASTIC Awards stressing academic achievement, diversification of intellectual interests, lead­ership in point of service in worthwhile activities, and degree of formative influence on fellow students. No other campus award, save the Dome selections published at the close of the academic year, honors those members of the senior class who have contributed to the intel­lectual atmosphere while actively participating in extra­curriculars that are adjuncts to their educational life at this University. 
After careful screening of over 50 candidates a five­man senior board -Rege Campfield, dean's list account­ing major; Allen Korenjak, editor of the Tech Review; Robert Ramirez, editor of the Science Quarterly; and the editor and managing editor of the SCHOLASTIC -the list was narrowed to the eight men whose pictures appear on this page. Since no attempt was made to limit the honor to an arbitrary number of seniors the selection was a difficult one. As a result several deserving men whose qualifications, though excellent, could not satis­factorily compare with these eight were passed over. 
Much could be said about each of these students, but their own records indicate to a great extent the reasons for this recognition. 
KEVIN CAHILL: Physics major from New York City; 
5.45 average (highest among seniors in physics); Wran­glers. 
AL KILLILEA: Political science major from Andover, Mass.; President YCS, two years; 5.1 average; CILA (spent 1962 summer in Mexico). 
PAUL LEHNER: Accounting major from South Bend; 
5.5 average; Secretary-Treasurer of Blue Circle; Company Commander NROTC. 
MICHAEL McCARTHY: AB General Program from Greenwich, Conn.; AB Advisory Board; Associate editor of the Juggler; Wranglers; Stay Hall Committee; Del­egate to International Conference on Atlantic Community. 
DENNIS McMAHON: Chemical Engineer from Brooklyn; Chairman and General Chairman, Engineering Open House; Tech Review; WSND; Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
ROBERT MCNEILL: AB General Program from Win­netka, ill.; 5.8 average (highest in AB); Rhodes Scholar; AB Senator, junior year. 
JOHN REISHMAN: English major from Charleston, West Vir.; 4.8 average; editor, Juggler, two years; Wran­glers; Bookman. 
THOMAS SCHLERETH: History major from Pittsburgh; 
5.033 average; Blue Circle three years; AB Advisory Board; Student Government Treasurer, junior year; CILA (spent summer in Peru); Contributing editor of SCHOLAS­TIC; Soccer team. 









Thomas Schlereth 

Michael McCarthy 
February 15, 1963 


Shakespeare a la Hayes 
Helen Hayes was the gracious queen of the American theater a gen­eration ago. She is certainly not the queen of this generation; she has not acted frequently on Broadway in the last few years and many critics con­sider Miss Hayes past her prime. But now she has another role, perhaps as im,portant. 
Through "A Program For Two Players, An Evening of Shakespeare," Miss Hayes and Maurice Evans hope to bring the theater to the American people and to show grass-roots America that William Shakespeare is worth being performed. Last Thurs­day evening Miss Hayes and Mr. Evans presented their selected Shake­spearean readings and scenes to an overflow crowd at O'Laughlin Audi­torium on the St. Mary's College campus. The performance was part of a Shakespearean tour that will cover 69 cities and universities in 19 weeks. 
Rising costs have driven both free­dom and the public from the Broad­way and the Off-Broadway theater, both long synonymous with the Amer­ican theater. 
Rising costs for both the producer and public first occurred on Broad­way when Equity, the actors' associ­ation, began demanding greater con­cessions from stage producers upon its formation in 1919. "Costs have hurt Broadway for a long while," Miss Hayes said in a SCHOLASTIC in­terview before her performance at St. Mary's. "Young people have dreams, and you need freedom to experiment if your dreams are to come true, so they left Broadway and went to Off­Broadway. I used to go to Off-Broad­way and cheer for them every Sun­day when I was in New York. But when I sat on the Equity Council I saw the Council's younger members draw in the reins on this Off-Broad­way freedom and demand more con­cessions from Off-Broadway." 
Rising costs have gradually driven Broadway to benefits. A charity society will purchase all, or a large percentage of, the tickets to a newly opening Broadway play for up to a four-month period, intending to raise the prices several hundred percent with the profit going to charity. 
Benefits protect the play from New York drama critics who can kill a new play with one bad review. With the seats all sold to the benefits, the 
Kate and Petruchio from, The Taming of the Shrew. 

new production has sufficient revenue to guarantee a two-month run, dur­ing which time it is discovered that the play isn't as bad as the critics said, thus giving the play a longer run. 
Since people who have an interest in drama often cannot afford benefit tickets, the audiences who first see the play will often be more in­terested in polio or cancer than drama or often attend only for prestige pur­poses. Such audiences could not ap­proach the audience of a grade school play in appreciation and sensitivity. 
Financial difficulties in the Ameri­can theater have reached from New York to Stratford, Connecticut, where the United States attempts to pro­duce its own Shakespearean festival. Each season the festival presents three Shakespeare productions, but always runs into the red during the third production. " 'A Program For Two Players' has grown out of an at­tempt to solve the festival's financial difficulties several seasons ago," Miss Hayes said. "lVIaurice Evans sug­gested to me that he and I do a two­person Shakespeare production that would save the cost of one Stratford production and so keep the festival from going into the red on their third production of that season. 
"After we had started rehearsals and saw how much work would be re­quired to present an evening of Shakespeare for two players, we de­cided to perfect and master the pro­gram some more, once the Stratford season had ended, and then play the universities," Miss Hayes continued. 
"I have found the student audi­ences we have played to on this Shakespeare tour much more sensi­tive than ordinary commercial audi­ences and this has been a happy sur­prise," Miss Hayes said. "I had ex­pected student audiences to be very critical and difficult to reach. On the contrary, though, the student audi­ence better knows and is more ex­perienced with Shakespeare than the average theater-going audience. The student audiences that I've encoun­tered on this tour have been the best audiences I've played to ; I've never enjoyed myself more," she bubbled. 
After their performance Miss Hayes and Mr. Evans met with a small group of drama students and teachers assembled at St. lVIary's for a drama workshop. Before Miss Hayes arrived at the meeting, Mr. Evans told the group that Miss Hayes had been so awed by the enthusiastic and ap­preciative response which the audi­ence had given to her portrayal of Rosalind in As You Like It that she had said to him betwe~n scenes, "I feel silly; they're overdoing it." 
"To comment on the state of the American theater is difficult because an honest commentary leaves you flatfooted." Mr. Evans said. "The American theater is so poor because it's so expensive. Broadway has out­priced itself from the public. Ev~ry generation must be exposed to Shake­speare," he said. "With 'A Program For Two Players' Miss Hayes and I have gotten around costs and have tried to inform youngsters that Wil­liam Shakespeare is worth being per­formed. The American theater must change; it is quiescent and in bad shape," Mr. Evans said. 

Miss Hayes and Mr. Evans see the university theater as a bright spot1 in the American theater. "The grass roots American theater must be healthy, for a theater can only be as good as the grass roots it feeds from," lVIr. Evans said. "The University along with the regional theaters will keep the American theater alive and give the theater back to the people," Miss Hayes added. 
Any revitalization of American theater will require consistent and devoted actors, not a long line of lVIarlon Brandos. Because she is a queen, Helen Hayes has said of her­self, "I could never be a tempera­mental star, only my own middle­class self." Miss Hayes emphasizes the necessity for character in an actor. "In watching the careers of myself and others in the theater I have seen that talent, training, pas­sion and other gifts of an actor can des;rt one if character is not present as a steward for talent. One cannot develop character after one has started in the theater. Character must be inculcated in an actor's youth. That's why I'm so grateful for my Catholic schooling; religious school­ing gives the inner poise and charac­ter so necessary," Miss Hayes said. 
But Helen Hayes, though still the sole queen of the American theater, is of another generation and can anti­cipate a role as queen mother of the American theater. 
"Sometimes I look forward to when I can drop the torch, or millstone . . . sometimes it feels like a millstone ... but it's been a torch all through this tour to the universities saying the words of Shakespeare.... Oh! that's excitement for an actor!" 
-JOHN ROGERS 

February 15, 1963 
65 Faculty Members From NOTRE DAME University say: 
We lha1·1 Work, Vote and Pray for the Election of Governor Stevenson 
This Statement Issued by 65 Members of the Notre Dam, University Faculty is addressed to all Americans. Notr• Dame, Indiana October 27, 1952 
The high quality of Governor Stevenson as a man and as a leader-­
FIFTH: Above all, we admire Governor Stevenson for his pro• a quality thoroughly demonstrated. in the .unusual decency, honesty, found spiritual insight into the rises-social, political and economic­courage and intelligence of his campaign-tonvinces us that we musl', of our time. He is no cheap philosopher of progress: nor has he 
:i.ny use for the mongers of despair. He has shown himself to have ~ 
as responsible citizens, support him for election to the presidency of Christian sense of history, and society. He grasps the mystery of the
the United States. This is what we believe about Governor Stevenson: existence of man in the midst of time and time's tasks. He knows 
and decribes the incredible difficulties that confront Americans-theFIRST: We believe that he offers a realistic foreign policy directed leaders today of the peoples struggling for human order and human to the maintenance of the strength of Ql\C own nation and leading rights-in their effort to establish and to deepen the form and realityto the peace and prosperity of all free nations. 
of freedom across the world. Rejecting all crude blustering and foolish 
formulas; Refusing to dcl1,1de the people by lies and phrases. HeSECOND: We believe that he represents a domestic poiicy de­in the spit1t of the words Luke: "It is b~-2J1,gill!,::c
tells-us, of St. voted to the adiieve~t of justice and prosperity for all groups and 
that you will secure possession of your souls." elements of our society and set firmly against special favors to special 
We believe that Governor Stevenson is a great man, a rare man prop• interests. erly recruited from the people, whom he warmly reveres-a man rising 
among us almost as an act of Providence when we so badly need him. THIRD: We believe that he will be forthright and· 'da(m~lcss in We believe that he is more capable than his opponent of leading us combatting the twin tyrannies-un-Christian and anti-C~ristian-that into our finest maturity as a national community and as the central threaten our democratic freedom and independence: on the one side, power of the earth. We believe-at the risk of seeming extravagant­the vast and evil movement of Communism crawling over the face of that his defeat would be the misfortune of every citizen, the misfor­the earth and, on the other, the menace of McCarthyism, representing tune of our country, and the misfortune of the world. the awful appearance on the .American scene of ·Fascism and Nazi We have written, signed and published this statement because we primitivism. feel deeply about Governor Stevenson and the meaning of his candi­
dacy for our own present and future welfare. We shall hope, work, FOURTH: We believe that he will give no quarter-and his vote-and pray-for the good fortune of his election. record in disposing of corruption in his own state is remarkably clear Jt must be made clear that we subscripe to this statement of conviction and unassailable-to any immoral citizens who would prey upon our ~-~ individuals and as citizens. Obviously this statement in no way com• government, our business and our daily life. mits the university of which we are members. 
Fr11nk O'Melley Rufus William R11uch Edward J. Cronin John A, Cassidy Alven S, Ry11n Stephen Hauser John Logan Richard J. Thompson Otto Bird Thomas McKimmey Richard E. Bell Thomes P. Bergin John J. Glanvill11 Thomas F. Brod"" Roger Paul Pet11r• ,01eph W. Evans John J. Broderick Marie K, L11wrence Russell R. Williams K. C. Campbell P11ul Carroll Leo M. Corbeci W. O. Shanahan Thomas M. Brown Richard Balfe Marshell Smeluir .John J. Kennedy Paul A. Montavon Waldemar Guri"" Christopher Febtn James A, Corbttt Daniel C, O'Gr1dy Richard Sullivan James A, McCarthy• Walter L. Shilh Mortimer Donov,.n EilHn Conley Relph, F. Weber Richard T. Early 
W. H. Hamill P. A, McCusker Ralph B. Devi, Ern11t L. Elie! Richard Otter John L. Maqu Milton Burton Michael Casey Louis Hasley 
l<arl l<reilk1mp Francis E. Moran Vincent P. Desanti, Jo1eph C, Ryen Ch1rl11 C, Pric• 
M, A. Fihsimon,

Arnold E, Ron Thomu P. M1dd11n L. Lion Bernar~
Ernest ,E. S1ndHn Stephen T. ltonay Aaron I. Abell
Anton Hermann Chroust Davere Plunkett Cecil Birder George Wack llernud B. Finnan 
NATIONAL VOLUNTEERS FOR STEVENSON 
7 South Dearborn Street, Chicago 3, Illinois 
H. D. Smith, Ch1irm1n Mrs, Edison Dick, Co-Ch1irman C. H. Sudler, Treasurer 

Melville 
•
in Drg Dock 
,,,, 
Carl 
Wiedemann 

H
ERMAN MELVILLE'S Dry Dock was once adapted for the stage and appeared on Broadway. It closed after one week. The Coxe and Chapman adaptation of Billy Budd by the same author has certainly fared much bet­ter, but as a play it is haunted by some of the same incongruities of Melville-on-the-stage that must have ruined the stage version of Moby Dick. Some of these inconsistencies are par­ticularly pressing on college players, but some could have been avoided. 
It should be noted that the Univer­sity Theater's performance of Billy Budd is always satisfying entertain­ment. Though often struggling to re­main competent, the performance pro­vides consistent enjoyment. Part of the enjoyment stems from the fact that the cast has to-work so hard to main­tain control of what is frequently an awkward and recalcitrant piece of theater. 
It would be silly to argue some neo­Classical theory that tragedy and com­edy are entirely separate genre and cannot be mixed in one play, mixed as are the comic and tragic elements of daily living. But the audience is not a keyboard of emotions to be played upon at will by the playwright. The audience at Billy Budd often has diffi­culty making the rapid changes from humorous to heavy scenes that the play makes. Some part of this diffi­culty can be traced to the fact that no amount of make-up or costuming can make college actors look like the dregs of Bristol that thehardened, im­pressed seamen of the H.M.S. Indomi­table are supposed to be. 
Frank Vitro, as Jenkins, Captain of 

the Maintop, does everything but shin­
ny up a mast, or actually slit some­
one's throat in trying to portray a real 
salt, but he is still lacking what is not 
his fault -about thirty years. His 
performance lacks no verve or anima­
tion, but it is more reminiscent of 
West Side Story than the British 
Navy. 
The rest of the crew has the flavor 

of college students on a cruise or a 
rumble in Manhattan, and the quasi­
cockney intonations don't avail very 
much. Frank Obert, as Claggert's 
flunky, Squeak, has more the manner 
of an Oriental houseboy than a cring­
ing vassal. But all the scenes with the 
The Scholastic 

crew are exceedingly funny and live­ly, probably funnier than they are written to be, because the crew mem­bers are a bit unconvincing and thus self-mocking. 
The audience has trouble changing mood from the ribald scenes with the crew to the more sober moments which intervene. The play itself can be faulted for the better part of this confusion of tone wherein the audi­ence is not sure what attitude it should have toward the proceedings. 
The two members of the crew who are most believable, the Dansker and O'Daniel, played by Terry Francke and Sean Griffin respectively, are both character parts. Sean Griffin dances a merry hornpipe about the deck as the bandy-legged, caustic little Irishman of the maintop, and he has the advan­tage of not having to affect a British seaman's accent. 
Terry Francke has a role that is a real chore as the mysterious Dansker, the man who always sleeps on his watch. The function of the Dansker in the play is somewhat obscure. He seems to be the man who tries to be an onlooker in society as represented by the lndom:itable, and so shares in the guilt of the two deaths by his fail­ure to act. The role is difficult because the Dansker is a very old man. Speak­ing like an ancient is a severe elocu­tion problem for a young man, lest he sound like a laryngitis case due to South Bend weather, but Francke is able to produce the aged Dansker without sounding for a moment phony. 
The chief crew member, foretopman Billy Budd, has a strong resemblance to a Notre Dame student, and Hank Whittemore has less trouble with his part than does the rest of the crew. More centrally, Whittemore does cap­ture Billy Budd's destructive inno­cence, which results in his own and Claggert's deaths. Whittemore ge-::s across Billy Budd's uncomprehend­ing goodness and unflagging charm as well as his pernicious inability or unwillingness to recognize evil and cruelty when confronted by them in the Master-at-Arms. It is easy to un­derstand, thanks to Whittemore, why Billy Budd is likened to an angel of God or to the blue sky into which he is last seen ascending. However, the play does not demonstrate very thor­oughly why Billy Budd is such a favorite with the crew. The audience is left to fill in the reasons, but Whit­temore's Billy Budd seems a little too angelic and charming to command the respect and devotion of a mutinous crew. The youthfulness of the crew helps to cover up this flaw of an over­ly puerile Billy. The treatment of Billy Budd's stuttering is a little heavy­handed. The literary tradition is that the person who stutters sees and feels so much that he cannot utter it. Hank \iVhittemore makes the stutter appear more like a speech impediment than a welling up of emotions. 
The performance clearly indicates Billy Budd's culpability in the two deaths, but doesn't take a stand on the possibility of a sycophant side to his character. The performance also ducks the question of Claggert's possible homosexual desire for Billy Budd. This last question is avoided because Clag­gert as played by Roger Dalton doesn't seem any older than Billy Budd. Roger Dalton's speed, timing and inflection are generally good, but he has mental lapses where he seems like Gardiner, the fuzzy-cheeked midshipman played by Michael Roddy. 
Mr. Dalton also can become wooden if his speeches are of any length. It should be said that Melville-like dia­logue spoken by characters in a play can often sound ridiculous by itself. It is one thing to read about the evil in the world permeating all things. And quite another to hear another person saying it without the benefit of blank verse. Roger Dalton can't quite seem to bend his tongue around the artificiality of many of his lines. In the briefer exchanges he is certainly malicious and hateful enough and his Claggert is twisted and perverted and is unfathomable as his image, the sea. But because of a volatile flavor in his performance, Dalton makes Claggert seem much more like a "Rebel With­out a Cause" than a satanic person. Claggert speaks like Captain Ahab, but Roger Dalton puts in an adolescent fall. The total effect is not unpleasing though. 
The officers have an easier time of it in Coxe and Chapman's navy and as actors. It is obviously easier for a col­lege student to portray the dandified British officer than a cutthroat. This ease in imitating real officers can be seen clearly in R.O.T.C. Elmer Dunn, 
C. Michael Newbrand, and David Clen­non as officers Seymour, Ratcliff and Wyatt, capitalize on some really "fat" theatrical scenes on the bridge of the ship, and in the work-horse scene of the theater, the courtroom. Their British English is quite clipped, and aside from a few times when their gestures and delivery become ineff ec­tual, they run a "Fleet ship." 
With Dick Kavanaugh as Captain Edward Fairfax Vere there is no doubt who is the hero of Billy Budd. Though Vere is the captain of the In­dmnitable, Richard Kavanaugh is the anchor man. He is able to take some of the theatrical load off a sometimes hard-pressed cast. He brings out in poignant detail the strain on the man in the middle, caught between nature and society, freedom and order, con­science and duty. He is caught literal­ly between the Devil, Claggert, and the deep blue sky, Billy Budd. 
Vere is a different kind of hero from the tragic Hamlet. Vere is the man who must make the decision, not act it out. Mr. Kavanaugh neatly inter­weaves the themes of pomp and cir­cumstances beyond human judgment or control. Richard Kavanaugh's art­istry is hard put, though, to hold the dramatic tension in the long court scene, but he does an amazing job with a rhetoric that sounds much more artificial than Shakespeare's. He adds many fine small touches such as an electric sensitivity to the mention of mutiny. Because of such a command­ing stage presence, it is easy to forgive him his occasional swashbuckling. 
A play that could drag interminably moves quite smartly to a theatrically pleasing climax, while remaining en­tertaining throughout. The unfortu­nate decision was the choice of sets, an unhappy compromise between re­alistic and suggestive, combining the worst effects of both on an already complicated staging arrangement. Even bare stage would have been better, since no amount of craft in Washington Hall could produce the sting of the salt spray. But luckily it is Captain Vere and directors who must make the decisions, not the SCHOLASTIC writers. 

February 15, 1963 
Phaedra 

DASSIN's Phaedra is neither an adaptation of Euripides· nor of Racine's play; the resemblance is just sufficient to Yalidate the use of the same title. l\Ir. Dassin saw fit to interpret Phaedra's lo\·er. Alexis. as a kind of artistic neurotic with a .strong moral sense and a weak will. Anthony Perkins plays the part well. but it is the wrong part. the wrong interpretation. The mo\·ie would pre­sent more of a tragic situation if Alexis were a strong and passionate. not so ecstatic. lover. But in trying to transpose the play into a twentieth­century context. the tragedy becomes Yitiate, and the mo\·ie turns out to be a satire on commercialism -at least_ in one important sense. 
:.\Ielina 1'Iercouri plays Phaedra \\"ith a great deal of professional .skill. There is nothing na'ive about her acting. Her gestures, her smile, and especially the now passionate.. now fierce and foreboding, now sad or resigned look in her eyes. are skill­ful rather than the result of fortu­nate casting. She presents Dassin's Phaedra Yery well. 
The story is a play on the son­mother theme which disposes itself Yery well to moral tragedy: and though the movie sets this action against a larger background-a social one-it does not a\·oid moral judg­ment. But the moral judgment is not the result of a dramatic de\·elopment: it is postulated. \Vhen Thanos (Raf Vallone) hits Alexis, beating him for making 10\·e to Phaedra. Alexis bleeds on only one side of his face: he is only partially guilty. But this is not given concrete meaning in the movie. "\Ve see the ethical implications ­which take hold of the larger drama. the conflict between love and the mechanics of society -but we see no moral implications. The entire moral import of the movie is a given: 
Phaedra is obsessed by her initial af­fair with Alexis. In a sense the movie fails to achieve any sort of unity, be­cause causes are not related to effects. Where there is a dramatic given_. as there is in King Lear, it should not be questioned except insofar as it fails to set other dramatic forces in motion or insofar as other dramatic forces exist which bear no relation to it. Given that Phaedra is obsessed by her passion for Alexis, it should fol­low that the moral judgment of the second-to-last scene relates to this obsession. What happens is that the given makes Phaedra the personifica­tion of an almost inhuman sort of lust which Alexis must be careful to avoid but which destroys him even though he tries to avoid it. Thus the dramatic control shifts to Alexis, the tone changes, and the movie loses its degree of unity. 
And all the while the social situa­tion develops: Phaedra's particular sort of intense evil is made the manifestation of the commercial or materialistic determination in society. She refuses to remain with Alexis be­cause she prefers the richer life. the gifts and wealth, of Thanos. But she changes her mind later, which indi­cates dramatically that the external force -money -is the real evil, and she is only the manifestation of it: it made her do something she later regretted. And, if by nothing else, the viewer is constantly re­minded of this by the droning air­plane and helicopter, symbols of the commercial attitude, ,vhich appear and resound whenever there is a structural division in the movie ­whenever the setting changes from one country to another -and ran­domly at other times. Also, Thanos cuts Alexis' face, when he beats him. with a ring -rings having been established in the movie as symbols of the materialistic life. Moreover. Phaedra is symbolized by the S.S. Phaedra, Thanos' newest ship which 
sinks in disaster at the end of the 
movie, indicating Phaedra's associa­
tion with another commercial, ma­
terialistic symbol. 
Two scenes are especially notable because they are important and ex­pert: both, however, are a bit over­done, it would seem. The passion scene, which is the crisis of the drama, is an example of very i n t eres ti n g visual effects, fire, symbolic of passion, and water, sym­bolic of both catharsis and sex. The photography of this scene merges fire and water and the lovers -there is a bright fire in the background, the lovers are set against it, and in the foreground water pours down a glass (the scene occurs, of course, during a storm which subsides after the pas­sionate incident is completed). Both fire and water are extended symbols: Phaedra sees her name written in fire in the sky, and she sees it burn out; she washes her hands before her suicide, and she washes Alexis' bleed­ing face. 
The movie illustrates an effort to become truly tragic in the last scene. with its overdone suicides. Alexis in his commercially suitable car, with his face bleeding, singing with the radio playing Bach, plunges over a cliff; Phaedra very quietly takes an overdose of sleeping pills, lies down with a mask over her eyes and dies. 
The production is exciting and in­tense despite certain failings, and it manages to reveal good acting and good photography at their best. 
-JAMES DEVLIN 

----------------------------------------------· State: "Repticilus," 3 :55, 6, :20, 9 :45. ''Warriors," 2 :35, 5 :30, 8 :25. 
Granada: "Who's Got the Action," 3 :00, 5 :00, 7 :00, 9 :00. 
Colfax: "Son of Flubber," 3 :00, 5 :00, 7:00, 9:00. 
.-lxon: "Phaedr::i.," 6 :45, 8 :45, 10 :45. 
The Scholastic 

Mary 
JVIary Allin Travers chose to visit the Notre Dame cmnpus and sing with her friends) Peter and Paul) under the unharrnonic geodesic pseudo-sky. They sang goocl pseudo-out-in-the-open folk music -the nrnsic was) especially because of the dome, sometimes frustrating. But llfiss Travers was ahcays frustrating. It iuould seem that she proceeds front and ]Jlays upon a very controlled sea; appeal, stepping coquettishly ·into the background between songs to gesticulate seductii:el:y, only to · emerge 1n01nents later and affront the audience with movements and tones of voice now coy) noic forbidding, now damning and conde1nning. She managed to be simultaneously congenial, hateful_. and sensuous, playing upon her limpid voice and tense body and toying with tlze cmdience's emotions until noth·ing remained but fatigue and a feeling of wonder at such cm arty) black-dressed) then golden-dressed, female. 
February 15, 1963 


just as we want it and expect it on the defensive boards.... We usually have a reasonable knowledge of
The 1-3-1 where the ball will land if a shot is 
Although the academic axe dealt a heavy blow to Notre Dame's basket­ball five, knocking Larry Sheffield and Ron Reed out of action, Coach John Jordan still intends using the fun­damentals of his 1-3-1 offense -a basketball formula which, in its own right, has become an institution at Notre Dame. In his twelfth year as Irish basketball mentor, Jordan labels the 1-3-1 offense in part as a "system of quick picks," the effectiveness of which depends upon one player's ex­ecuting an efficiently set screen and the immediate response of a potential scorer to utilize this screen or "pick" and shoot accurately from behind it. 
"It's a matter of timing, split-sec­ond timing," says Jordan. "This is an important point; if you don't have the timing, you're not going to win, and this is what we lacked most at St. John's, along with SheffieldandReed." 
In the 1-3-1 system, this timing is an essential ingredient in an offensive formation that starts play from either a strong side or a weak side. Two forwards, a guard and the center -Andreoli and Miller, Matthews, and Sahm respectively -compose the strong side. The weak side consists 
0 
nnX IJILLH?_
_)I
J-, 
ff §§ ~ 
~ 
§§
§§ 
~ 
l
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
"" 

X ® 

~1-mm.l.l> :>A~I.I ANDQ[Otl 


1·3·1 

Diagram I 

The 1-3-1 offense depends for its success on control of the offensive boards by three or four rebounders. 
Here Andreoli shoots from outside, and Miller, Sahm, and Sheffield all drive for a possible rebound. Andreoli, fol­lowing his shot, can give the Irish four men under the basket. 
of the other guard -until recently, 
Larry Sheffield, and since Sheffield's 
ineligibility, nobody in particular 
(Jordan is still shuffling his men to 
find a proper replacement for the 
flashy guard). 
Basically, the attack is geared to the strong side or the weak side de­pending upon how the opposing squad's defense is employed. It is up to Matthews to decide what side to play but oftentimes he is guided by Jordan. As Jordan says: "Matthews is the key to the attack ... he starts things moving. If it looks like we can capitalize on the weak side, I'll yell 'weak side!' and Matthews will start the play there." 
Jordan feels that the worth of the 1-3-1 offense lies mainly in that it is a "good offense against all defenses," and also that it is an effective means of controlling the offensive back­board. "Rebounding is the game," says Jordan. "We're fortunate to have such great height in Sahm and Miller and we utilize this height efficiently on the offensive board as well as the defensive board. We're conceding our opponents nothing on the offensive board; we want good position here 
-1­
.' 
i ' 

missed. In using the 1-3-1 or double pivot, we can usually get three play­ers quickly and easily in and around the basket for the rebound." ( See diagram I.) 
The 1-3-1 offense, for the most part, is unique. Few teams in the nation use it as the principal weapon of their attack. De Paul's Ray Meyers uses a variation of it, but according to Jordan, "most coaches will tend to get impatient with it because of the time required for perfecting the sys­tem." Then too, other teams might not have the personnel -that won­derful mixture of height and speed which makes the system effective. For Jordan, the 1-3-1 requires "practice and more practice." The effective "pick" -a noteworthy instance il­lustrated in diagram TI -is the re­sult of "hours and hours" of practice sessions. 
To John Jordan, the 1-3-1 is a matter of timing. With Sheffield and Reed ineligible, revisions in the sys­tem might have to be made to com­pensate for the Office of Academic Affairs' not-too-timely interruption of Notre Dame's march to the NCAA regionals. 
-Gary Sabatte 

MILLH!. 
1·3·1 
Diagram II 

In a typical play pattern, Matthews passes to Andreoli, gets the ball back and quickly throws it to Sheffield, who takes advantage of Sahm's pick and shoots. If unable to shoot, he can pass to Andreoli or back to Matthews. 
The Scholastic 

Bucks PsychedI 
Notre Dame's prospects at the be­ginning of the Midwest Open Team Chess Festival were not too bright. Their team's rating was the low­est among the entrants; their fourth board player, Ed Bark­meyer, baggage in hand, arrived only minutes before the opening round ; and their first opponent was Case In­stitute, the pre-tourney favorite. A 
,l third board conversation during the 
I round was symbolic of the situation: Joe McCarty (ND): "Just for my rec­ord, what's your rating?" (A rating is a numerical evaluation of a play­er's strength. It has been estimated that a player will win one out of ten games against a player 200 points higher than himself.) George Bau­manis (Case): "1978. What's yours?" 
J. McC.: "1683. But don't let this worry you." G.B.: "Oh, it doesn't." 
Thirty-two moves later, he still wasn't worried -he was entirely confident of squaring things the next time they met. A win on the first board enabled Notre Dame to draw the match, and gave them their first half-point. 
At the end of the day, two rounds later, Notre Dame was leading the tournament with a score of 2½ points, ½ point ahead of Case and Ohio State University and 1 point ahead of Dayton. One of these teams would win the tournament. 
In the fourth round, against strong Ohio State, Notre Dame gained a psychological advantage when Paul Vidmar, the second board player, was asked if he was related to the Yugo­slav grand master, Milan Vidmar. Al­though no relationship exists, Paul replied, "My friends call me Milan," and his opponent was understandably shaken. 
Further progress was made on the third board. While he was engaged in intense concentration, the OSU player discovered that his ND op­ponent had surrendered his seat to a comely co-ed and was conducting 

·I the game over her shoulder. Finding these odds insurmountable, OSU yielded the match 2½-1½. Mean­while, Case had added two wins to its
.JI 
I score, and Notre Dame needed a vic­tory over Dayton in the final round to maintain its winning margin. 
The match, and with it the tourna­ment, went to Notre Dame. In addi­tion, the prize for the best record on first board was awarded to Paul Dupuis (won 4, lost 1) and the third board prize to Joe McCarty (won 3, drew 2). 
February 15, 1963 
Voice in the Cro11Jd 
Notre Dame's basketball team is severely handicapped for the second half of this season because of the ineligibility of sophomore stars Larry Sheffield and Ron Reed. Whether or not this will be a fatal blow to the Irish squad is the major question debated by its followers. 
This, obviously, puts great pressure on the remaining key individuals on the club. Only continually outstanding performances by these players will enable Notre Dame to salvage the highly successful season it ap­peared to be heading for. 
BALANCE LOST 

The loss of Sheffield and Reed takes away the strongest feature of this team: its over-all balance. In previous games, any of the "starting six" could emerge as top scorer in an attack designed to accentuate this balance. Also a poor game by one or two of these starters was usually offset by an outstanding performance by one of the others. When this "hot night" was missing, the Irish lost. Now the team cannot afford these poor games by even one of its members against quality opposition. 
Reed's absence means the loss of a topflight rebounder and a brilliant, although erratic, scorer. However, the natural improvement of sophs Jay Miller and Walt Sahm on the boards will do much to dispel this loss. 
The greater blow is the loss of the smooth, high-scoring Sheffield. Sheffield gave many performances that showed a poise rare among sophomores. His absence will create a notable gap in the Notre Dame attack. 
INCONSISTENCY 

Like most sophomores, Miller and Sahm have been extremely in­consistent on the court. Sahm has looked both very good and terrible in various games, while Miller has been plagued by continual foul trouble. Consistent performances, perhaps too much to expect from sophomores, are needed in the remaining games. 
Co-captain John Andreoli has been the steadiest member of the team this season. This must continue or else this squad could easily collapse. Added to this must be a return to early season form by the other co-captain, John Matthews. Matthews' total performance has fallen off after some outstanding December games. 
REBOUND? 

With tournament selecting time here, the Irish must give indication that this basically is still an outstanding dub to be rated any kind of a chance in any postseason tourney. The performance of these key individuals, plus support from Sa..m Skarich and Larry Jesewitz, during the next three weeks will determine the final judgment of this team: either that of a team which showed great early promise but folded with the loss of two players, of that of a team which came back from this loss with a great effort to become the best athletic team at Notre Dame in recent years. 
-John Bechtold 

I 
27 

I 
ences with my own mother, I sym­
pathized with both the lad and his 
mother by chuckling at times and 

Swimming 
and the Coach's Wife 
Picture yourself in my shoes as I walked into an office in the Rock, expecting to interview Dennis Stark, our swimming coach. In I came, note­book and mouth both opening at once, ready to question the coach, who, on second glance, was not even in the room. In his place, I found two at­tractive ladies (l\'Irs. Stark and Mrs. Savering; please take note), his two sons and a smaller tot trying to per­suade someone to lend him a softball. 
l\fy first impulse was to excuse my­self from this family gathering and return later. However, I realized that this might seem cowardly to others on the SCHOLASTIC staff who have met and overcome such crises and felt that, as an assistant editor, I should endeavor to set an example for my lesser compatriots. 
I had not even heard the door close behind me before Mrs. Stark began releasing her pent up feelings on the ScHOLASTIC's sports department in general and the lack of coverage given the minor sports, swimming in partic­ular. Since I'm not generally one to stand in the way of anything or any­one with such obvious momentum, I graciously let the barbs fly and blamed the entire situation on John Bechtold, my editor. While one of the coach's sons was content to remain on the sidelines, the other, who must have been somewhat embarrassed by the situation, futilely tried to divert his mother. Having had similar experi­
shaking my head at the proper mo­
ments. 
Coach Stark, meanwhile, dropped 
in for a moment to give me a few 
facts about the last three meets. The 
team had just dropped its third meet 
of the year by the same score and 
the coach had decided on a short, 
postmeet practice. He, therefore, had 
little time for questions and, by then, 
I had forgotten most of what I had 
planned to ask him. 
Swimming at Notre Dame achieved 
varsity status only five years ago, 
which is one of the reasons why it 
is still considered a minor sport at 
this University. There are other 
reasons, but, I think, this will be the 
least offensive to Mrs. Stark. The team 
has never had a losing season with 
their total record to date reading 
28-22-1. 
This season, the Irish hold a 3-3 
mark, having alternated each victory 
with a defeat since their opening con­
quest of Wayne State. Despite this 
.500 percentage, the Rock is usually 

jammed for each meet, which usually 
runs about an hour and a half. If you 
have yet to witness one of these 
watery contests, you will have an 
opportunity to remedy this education­
al deficiency tomorrow when Notre 
Dame entertains Purdue. I might add, 
for those who have never been in the 
Rock at all, if you go in a sweat shirt, 
you will sweat. 
The sophomore class again has played an important role in a varsity sport as sophs Tim Kristi, Rocke Garcia, Tom West, Tom Kennett, Terry Ryan, Rory Culhane and Ted Egan score regularly for the Irish. West, Garcia, Culhane and Kristi have already set varsity records and, if you listen to Egan long enough, he will convince you that he's about due for a record or two. 
The team has been crippled, this year, by the loss of Bob Lieb, who was operated on for a kidney ailment earlier this week. Lieb was the team's leading scorer last year and stood a fine chance of duplicating the feat this year before illness struck. In one of the three meets that preceded the discovery of the ailment, Bob lowered his varsity 50-yard free-style record to :23.0 and added that record to the 100-yard mark (:52.3) which he established last year. 
Chuck Blanchard has taken over Lieb's spot as mainstay of the team. He holds varsity records in the 200-, 220-, 440-and 500-yard free-style events and is currently replacing Lieb in the 400-yard free-style relay. 
-Joseph Ryan 
The Scholastic 

SCOREBOARD
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN 
Swimming: The loss of sprint free­
BLUE & GOLD 

styler Bob Lieb has hurt the Irish aquamen who now have a 3-3 record. 
MOTEL 

Junior Chuck Blanchard has estab­
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD 

lished two new school records ­
EXIT ON U.S. 31 

1:58.9 for the 200-yd. free style and
• 

5:36.1 in the 500-yd. free style.
Reser,,ations: CE 4-0136 
Fencing: Tom Dwyer, with a 14-2
• 

individual bout record, and co-cap­tains Ralph DeMatteis and John 
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. '38 
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. '3S 

Wagner helped lift the Irish winning streak to seven with victories over Detroit and Chicago last week. 
SKI WEAR AND 
Wrestling: Captain Fred Morelli
ACCESSORIES 

(137 lb.), Dave Ames (177 lb.), and heavyweight Ed Rutkowski remained
• 

undefeated in dual competition. The
ICE SKATES 

squad is now 2-0-1. 
Track: Notre Dame trackmen placed fourth in the 18-team Michigan State
Reco Sporting Goods 

Relays on February 9. Carl Ludecke 113 N. Main St. 
won the shot-put for the Irish. Next to Oliver Hotel 
SCORES 
Basketball
DR. N. FIZDALE 

Notre Dame 69 ....................DePaul 83 OPTOMETRIST 
Notre Dame 96 ....................Purdue 86 Notre Dame 74 ..............Boston C. 66
I 
CONTACT LENSES ' 

Notre Dame 52 .............. St. John's 57
lnauiries lnTited 
Swimming

EYES EXAMINED 
Notre Dame 38; Northwestern 57
GLASSES FITTED 
Notre Dame 66; W. Ontario 29 
OPTICAL REPAIRS 
Notre Dame 38; W. Michigan 57 
1 to 24-Hour Se"ice 
Fencing 

305 5. Michigan AT 7-5477 
Notre Dame 17; Indiana 10 
Notre Dame 15; Iowa 12 
Notr~ Dame 16; Detroit 11 

Authorized Triumph Dealer 
Notre Dame 14; Chicago 13 
Wrestling

New and Used Sports Cars Notre Dame 24; Illinois Navy Pier 5
Sales and Service 

Notre Dame 12; Bowling Green 12 
* 
SCHEDULE
BROOK'S MOTORS 
Basketball
916 E. McKinley 
Mishawaka, Indiana Feb. 13, Gannon College at ND Feb. 16, Navy at Notre Dame Feb. 18, Bowling Green at BG Feb. 21, NYU at Madison Sq. Garden 

SPECIAL!! 
Swimming 

1 -8 x 10 Photograph in oil 
Feb., 12, Bowling Green at BG Feb. 16, Purdue at Notre Dame
$17.50 
Wrestling

• Feb. 13, Univ. of Chicago at ND 
Feb. 15-16, Wheaton Inv. at Wheaton
CARLTON STUDIO 
State Theatre Bldg. 
Indoor Track 
PHONE: CE 4•9596 

Feb. 15, Indiana and Purdue at ND 
Febrnary 15, 1963 
NICOLA'S CE 3-8283 OT For Fast Delivery Call CE 4-1565 Free Campus DeliYery Bestaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan JQUINJS LIBRARY 1111 BOil SHOP New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 138 N. MICHIGAN • SO. BEND A Non-Profit Organization  
BLOCK BROS. MICIDGAN AT WASHINGTON Jewelers to Notre Dame faculty and students for over 40 years•Featuring: A WIDE SELECTION OF N.D. JEWELRY •EXPERT. REASONABLE WATCH & JEWELRY BEPAIBJNG •NATIONALLY ADVERTISED DIAMONDS AND WATCHES •Gift packages shipped to all parts of the world  
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS PHYSICISTS NORDEN DIVISION United Aircraft Corporation will interview on February 21, 1963 Career positions in research, Devel­opment, Design and Manufactur­ing in areas such as: Fire Control Systems Radar Systems Data Processing Equipment Inertial Guidance Systems Television Systems Aircraft Instrumentation Navigation Systems Precision Components Solid State Devices Arrange an interview through your Placement Officer, or write to Mr. James E. Fitzgerald, Norden..,,..,.,..°FU!1itedAircraft Norwalk, Connecticut An Equal Opportunity Employer  

Campus 
(Continued front page 13) 

hidden missiles, the South Bend City News Agency considers it treason to disclose the circulation figures of what Notre Dame reads. As far as we can surmise and pump, the Chicago Trib­une and the Sun-Times lead the way in on-campus delivery, followed close­ly by the South Bend Tribune. 
The distribution of the local Trib­une and two of Chicago's tag-up pa­pers (the News and the American) points out the defects in the campus reading situation. Flocks of hawking news boys, both Notre Darners and tiny townies, solicit whatever profit they can at the beginning of the year with the bright-eyed story of how they'd like to win a trip to Mexico. Not many of these tykes speak Span­ish nor do they have a central agency to which to report. Although papers are delivered every day behind the North and South Dining Halls, deliv­ery routes are haphazard and inter­secting. 
Perhaps the best survey of news media can be determined by tallying the over-the-counter sale. In the Huddle and the Cafeteria you find the earnest soul who is willing to dole out his silver coin for a slice of the world's happenings. And the figures reveal what many have long suspect­ed: Notre Dame students think that the Sun-Times is a better newspaper than the Chicago Tribune. But in the words of the Cafeteria's chief vendor, 
"We get a lot of old priests who buy the Chicago Tribune." The figures: THE HUDDLE 
250 Sun-Times 75 Chicago Tribune 40 South Bend Tribune 
5 Chicago Daily News 5 Chicago American 
THE CAFETERIA 
250 Sun-Tirnes 209 South Bend Tribune 175 Chicago Tribune 
15 Chicago Daily News 15 Chicago American 
• At 7:30 Sunday in the Student Center Amphitheater, Mike Dunning and Dan Fennell will initiate a series 

ADVANCED AEROSPACE PROGRAMS AT DOUGLAS 
have created outstanding career opportunities for 
SCIENTISTS and ENGINEERS 
B.S. degrees or better 
Assignments include the following areas: 
Servo-Mechanisms-relating to Heat Transfer -relating to air­all types of control problems craft, missile and space vehicle structures
Electronic Systems -relating to 
all types of guidance, detection, Structures -relating to cyclic 
control and communications loads, temperature effects, and the investigation of new materials,
Propulsion -relating to fluid­
methods, products, etc. 
mechanics, thermodynamics, 
dynamics, internal aerodynamics Aerodynamics -relatingtowind tunnel, research, stability and
Environmental -relating to air 
control

conditioning, pressurization and oxygen systems Solid State Physics -relating to metal surfaces and fatigue
Human Factors -analysis of environment affecting pilot and Space vehicle and weapon space crews, design of cockpit con­system studies -of all types, soles, instrument panels and pilot involving a vast range of scientific equipment and engineering skills 
Get full information at 

INDIVIDUAL ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
with a Douglas representative 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18TH 

We urge you to make an appointment through Robert L. Leshe, Placement Officer. If you cannot, please write to 
S. A. Amestoy, Engineering Employment Manager 
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INC. 
3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California 
An equal opportunity employer 
The Scholastic 

of student debates with a discussion of birth control -a highly emotional issue that most Catholics dismiss from consideration a little too swiftly. These debates will continue each week on Sunday night, and should provide some delightful moments of mental conflict. (See editorial.) 
• 
Another event worth noting is the annual recital of the Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra at Washington Hall, Feb. 19, at 8: 15 p.m. The feature selections will be from the Baroque period. Bach's Third Brandenberg Concerto and his Double Concerto will headline. Richard Staunton will be the soloist in a horn concerto by Richard Strauss. 

• 
And if your idea of art is synony­mous with your idea of St. Mary's, then there are some student paintings in O'Laughlin to provide an aesthetic excuse for taking the walk. 

• 
The Wranglers Honor Society, a group of sixteen students who meet bimonthly to discuss more or less philosophic questions, is inviting ap­plications for membership. Applica­tions should be sent to the Secretary, 260 Dillon Hall, and should include the student's area or areas of interest. The Wranglers make a point of asking applicants not to submit their average. 

• 
"Turner in Indiana" is at Notre Dame and will be at the Art Gallery through February. The exhibition of drawings and paintings by the cel­ebrated English landscape artist John Turner consists of 53 pencil sketches, watercolor drawings, some oil paint­ings and engraved works from the Pantzer collection. This collection of Turner's watercolors is said to be the largest in the country. 


Turner himself has exerted a tre­mendous influence on landscape paint­ing, with insights into natural per­spective and the use of color. His reputation, unlike most artists', was acclaimed during his lifetime and then as now he was noted as possibly the world's greatest landscape artist. 
• St. Mary's held elections last week. Unlike Notre Dame, St. Mary's elects student officers in the middle of the school year, simply for the reason that this sort of procedure effects a better continuity between student ad­ministrations. Thus the newly elected officers have the spring semester to learn their jobs, the summer to plan fall programs. 
Newly elected officers include Joan Marks, Student Body President, 
(Continued on next page) 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Training for this year's bouts began last Monday. Anyone else interested should contact Joe Palooka in l 08 Howard. 
FOR THE BEST IN 

Pooped .•• but must carry on? Snap right back and keep going!Take Verv5 continuous action alertness capsules. Effective, safe, not habit-forming. 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FlfflD 
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED 
• 
DR. M. MITTERMAYER 
Optometrist 
228 S. MICHIGAN 
DANCE 
You'll 6Dd 11111 leemlaa ID dance ac &dla Kana,-• ia 
quick,.., k'•,..and C01C1
...s--
~l
opendan, 12 noon-II p.m. 
WILL YOU 
ACCIPl'A
..... 
'f!! 
BW.&mOllt 
UTl¦l-1111 
120 East Wayne • Call: CE 2-3339 
BOOKS 
• 
SCHOOL SUPPLIES 
• 
TYPEWRITERS 
• 
MONOGRAM 
SPORTSWEAR 
• 
SEAL JEWELRY 
• 
CLASS AND MINIATURE RINGS 
• 
RELIGIOUS ARTICLES 
• 
SPECIAL GIFTS • THE 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
• 
on-the-campus 

February 15, 1963 Jl 

GENERAL FOODS 
CORPORATION ....unces 

c111us interviews 
WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 20 
A wide variety of outstanding ~areer oppor• tunities are available at General Foods, a leader in the food industry, our nation's larg• est business -developing, producing and marketing packaged grocery products. 
Consult your Placement Officer for further 
information about our visit to your campus 
-and be sure to review the General Foods 


brochure•..you'll find it most interesting. 
GENERAL FOODS CORPORATION 
250 North Street, White Plains, N. Y. 
Maxwell House Coffee • Jell-0 Desserts • Post Cereals 
• Birds Eye Frozen FoOds • and many other fine prOducts AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPtOYER 

VITALIS® KEEPS YOUR HAIR NEAT All DAY WITHOUT GREASE! 
Greatest discovery since the comb! Vitalis with V-7®, the greaseless grooming-discovery. Keeps your hair neat all day without grease-and prevents dryness, too. Try Vitalis today. 

(Continued from preceding page) 
Auralea Sharrar, Vice-P res i den t, 
Megan David, Secretary, and Lois 
Tegethoff (rhymes with take-it-off, 
the opposite of put-it-on), Treasurer. 
This coming Sunday evening in O'Laughlin Auditorium, beginning at 8:00, Benjamin Britten's opera, an adaptation of Henry James' Turn of the Screw, will be presented. The opera, presented by a group of tour­ing players headed by Patricia Neway and Richard Cassilly, has received good reviews and should be interest­ing entertainment. Price of tickets: $2.00. The best seats will go to those who come early, since none are re­served. 
One final note. The Reignbeaux, the hot hall in Le Mans where the girls meet their dates, is now adorned with a sign, appropriately reading: "No parking here." 
• 
The Fifteenth Annual Marriage In­stitute will open on Wednesday, February 27, with Father Walter Imbiorski, head of the Pre-Cana Con­ference in Chicago. The series, con­sisting of five talks, will be held on consecutive Wednesdays in Lent and is open only to seniors and graduate students. Ticket sales begin on the 19th of this month. 

• 
With a packed suitcase next to the door, Father Hesburgh laid bare the motives for his travels. "Everything is for the benefit of the student around here . . . the administration, the faculty, my travels, it all comes down to the benefit of the under­graduate." On Father Hesburgh's most recent trip abroad he is attend­ing the first meeting of the Confer­ence on Aid to Underdeveloped Na­tions, which opened yesterday in Geneva. 


Last May, the Cardinal Secretary of State asked Fr. Hesburgh to write a paper on the role of the University in the development of the under­privileged nations. Then, while in Antarctica in December, he received a cable from the Cardinal Secretary asking him to head the Vatican dele­gation to the Conference. Fr. Hes­burgh was forced to refuse this honor because of a lack of time, but prom­ised to attend the Conference as a delegate. 

After the Conference, Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Soleta will travel to Inns­bruck to talk with officials of the university there about setting up an exchange study program for Notre Dame students. 
Shortly after his return to Notre Dame, Fr. Hesburgh will go to Mexico City for a meeting of the Institute for International Education. 
The Scholastic 
Letter from Dachau 
Sol Levine was sitting in Dachau's 
new Social Center one day being 
forced to eat the bones of his children. 
He struggled an agonized grin and 
said "things could be worse...." 
It seems that there is a similar re­
sponse from some person who lives 
nearby ... 
A St. Mary's list of "Things I'm 
Thankful For": 
First, I'm extremely thankful for 
the opportunity to come in at 11:30 
on Friday evening so I can get a nice, 
quiet night's sleep. Then there's 
Saga's contribution -a wardrobe 
polka-dotted with melted jello, also 
the bright lights in front of Holy 
Cross so no one will slip, mice that 
make such cute pets, the five term 
papers due next week that will help 
make me a whole woman, and the 
personal invitation to attend each and 
every Dean's Convo. 
Needless to say, quite a few differ­
ences would be apparent now, had 
these hardy Englishmen chosen In­
diana over our Eastern seaboard. The 
sign on the Dixie might say "Saint 
Mary's Puritan Prep" and the byword 
would most certainly be "progress, 
pilgrims." 
White handkerchiefs would be ban­
ned on campus, since any sign of 
surrender would be a flagrant dis­
regard of tradition. The pilgrims 
never gave up, whether the odds be 
great or small. 
The evolution from dark, ankle length dresses through chaste pastels to the spectral assemblage present to­day on this campus would never have taken place. Instead there would have been an incomplete metamorphosis in brown and white, resembling uneco­nomical Franciscans. 

The only thunder shaken down from the skies would be from the pulpit, not the cheering section, ef­fected by a counterpart of Cotton Mather, not Johnny Lucas. 
Taking all this into consideration, 

cannot help but say my special thank-you on November 22 for the bestowal of the Pilgrims on Plymouth Rock instead of South Bend. I like the statue of Knute Rockne in a trenchcoat, and the perpetual full moon over Sacred Heart, and ruts in­stead of cobblestones on the road to Notre Dame, and echo yells with white handkerchiefs, and I really don't look good in brown and white. 
-MARIA MAzZA 

F ebrnary 15, 1963 

1. I'll tell you what you have to look for in a job. You have to look for fringe benefits. That's the big thing today. 
Yes-the big thin~. 



5. And you're not going to want to work all your life, are you? You're going to want to take it easy-you lmow, travel around, live it up. So you need a retirement plan that guarantees you plenty of dough. 
I can see it now. 


The Equitable Life A~surance Society of the United States (1)196:3 Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, New York See your Placement Officer for date Equitable·s employment representative will be on campus. Or write to William E. Ble\·ins, Employment Manager. 

6. That's why I say you have to look at the fringe benefits when you look for a job. 
But don't vou also have to 
look for in"teresting work, 
good income, the chance 
for advancement? 

i. You sure do. That's why I'm going to work for Equitable. You get all those job advantages­and all the fringe benefits, too. 
I admire your thinking. 



~fter you're married awhile, ~ey say, you begin to look alike. Why wait? 
All you married guys gather round. (The rest of you just stand there and learn· something.) Get a new University Fashion Sport Shirt by Arrow-with a matching Lady Arrow shirt for your wife. Muted prints in a wide range of colors. Button-down collar. Back collar button. Back pleat. 100% long-staple cotton. "Sanforized" labeled. Short sleeves. Devilishly clever way to tell the campus, "This doll's mine." $4 each 
Wherever JOU go you look lletter in 
--ARROW.~ 

Adlai Stevenson 
(Continued from page ·16) 

Christian and human ideas. We must dare to say again that the American cause is the cause of all mankind." 
And how did such a man, a man of understanding and courage, succeed in the world of politics? After suc­cessful university years at Princeton, Harvard, and Northwestern, culmi­nating in a law degree and a deep interest in both domestic and inter­national affairs, he was admitted to the Illinois bar. His grandfather, for whom he was named, was vice-pres­ident during Cleveland's second term, and his father, who was also a lead­ing Democrat, steeped him in political lore. To this he brought a fine mind, a sense of purpose, and an impressive control and mastery of his ability. 
He soon was noticed by the govern­ment and introduced into policy­making positions. He was special counsel for the AAA in the early days of the New Deal and afterwards he joined the famous Chicago Council on Foreign Relations. He had served two years in the Navy towards the close of the First World War, and when WWII came along, he was named special assistant to the Secre­tary of the Navy; and later, at the special request of Roosevelt, he led various missions to help the rehabil­itation of Europe. In 1945, acting as assistant Secretary of State, he took part in the San Francisco Conference which was to lead to the forming of the United Nations. 
He was a prominent member of the first three United States delegations to the United Nations until, in 1948, he was elected governor of Illinois by an unprecedented majority of over half a million votes. His four years as governor provided him with an outstanding record so that on the third ballot of the Democratic Con­vention in 1952, he was chosen as their presidential candidate. He lost. He was nominated again in 1956 by up-and-coming Senator Kennedy, this time on the first ballot. The story of the campaign and election is well known. 
There is great hope for this country when a man like Stevenson chooses public life. There is greater hope when such a man is chosen as a presidential candidate, polls over 27 million votes, and in the process exposes the elec­torate to some of the finest political speeches ever made. 
(Continued on next page) 

STUDENT  33 ITINERARIES  
TRAVEL...  f eatitring:  
STUDENTS CAN AFFORD!  Western & Central Europe Eastern Europe & USSR ·scandinavia • Spain Turkey • South America  
STUDY-TRAVEL  Israel • Greece  
PROGRAMS  36-60 land days ... from $510  
some schola1·ship assistance available Also Work Camp  also INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS and  
&Hosteling  BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS  
42-46 land days ... from $300  $239 all-inclusive by air  
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS International Student ID card..................................................... $1.00 Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings ancl Restaurants) .. $1.00 Work, Study, Travel Abroad........................................................ $1.00 Em·opean cha1"te1" flights and othc1· tmnspol"tation  
U.S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION -Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 20 West 38th Street, New York 18. N. Y ~:-.=-,.., OXford 5-5070 "USNSA is a 11011-projit organization scri·i11g the .4mcricmi studcnt community"  

"READING IS TO THE MIND WHAT EXERCISE IS TO THE BODY." 
SIR RICHARD STEELE 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
February 15, 1963 
(Continued .from, preceding page) 

On December 12, 1960, he was named ambassador to the United Na­tions, with cabinet rank, by President Kennedy. In early February of this year, on his 63rd birthday, Stevenson was still in this position, yet he had gone through one of the foulest and most confused political doings in re­cent years. The political cartoons depicting Stevenson climbing out of a swimming pool or with a knife in his back, promise to become classics. 
Kennedy's shilly-shallying, Alsop's awkward stiffening, and the whole cave of winds which is ,vashington, have evoked from the American pub­lic and instilled in government officials some unfortunate sentiments. The public, reacting en m!LSse to such flashy words as "Munich" and "ap­peasement," are confirmed in their suspicions of "that intellectual," and government officials no longer feel free to state in the very highest councils what they think and see. The way is now open to flatterers and sloganeers. As Stevenson pointed out: 
"I hope the time hasn't come in the United States when it is considered better to advocate war to settle issues, than peaceful means, because if that time should come, the world is doomed. I think it is time to stop this childish talk about hard and soft lines among the advisors of the president. What he wants is cool heads and reason . . . advice is of little value if it is chilled by fear of disclosure and misrepresentation." 
U.N. Secretary General U Thant had this to say about Stevenson: "In my experience of public men, I have very rarely come across a statesman of Ambassador Stevenson's stature ­with mellow wisdom, perceptive think­ing, and balanced judgment. He has been representing his country in the 
•

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY! 
Individuals, Campus Clubs and Groups! 
WIN 
VALUABLE 
PRIZES 

FOR SAVING 
EMPTYViCEROY PACKS 
Many Valuable Prizes to be awarded on this campus! 
ENTER THE BIG 
ICEROY 
EMPTY PACK SAVING CONTEST NOW! 
HERE'S ALL YOU DO: Just save empty Viceroy packs ••• win one of these exciting prizes ••• by yourself or in a group. The group or individual collecting the most Viceroy empty packs wins first prize. Second prize goes to the second largest num­ber of Viceroy empty packs collected .•• and so on. There's a large assortment of prizes ••• all to be awarded on this college campus. It's your contest! Plan to enter ••• plan to win. Start saving Viceroy empty packs today! Ask your friends to help you win by saving empty Viceroy packs for you • 
GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTY PACKS AT 
•• • • •• March 20 THE HUDDLE 
Entries accepted this date anly 

r~~•"" ·•· · ;--.w••... -. -. ·••, .._.,.._.__..,.,_.w,.••.,.• ..._ ;•~•,,...,:,.. v ,,..,,,.,~, ••·•-. v.,. .......,..,. .....,............,...~-.,..-.,.,...,_~.-.C"XlX,,..,,C-X_.,.-,-~>..-..-.«-_..,.>=<,-• -7 
Is this the only re~son for using Mennen Skin Bracer? 
Skin Bracer's rugged, long-tasting aroma is an ob­vious attribute. But is it everything? After all, Menthol-teed Skin Bracer is the after-shave l¦ • ¦ ~~!r;!,!l~~f 


IN THE NEW NON SLIP FLASK 
United Nations with eminence and with extraordinary competence." 
* * * 

Perhaps all of our mistakes are fatal; perhaps none are. The part that God plays in the world is strange and uncertain; "Providence" is a word no one understands. What meaning history has, what direction we are traveling in, if any, God only knows. No man has done a better job than Adlai Stevenson in conducting a public career in the light of such a situ­ation. Adlai Stevenson has endured: in his belief in the good and in his fight for it. His life and career are 
lotion that cools rather than burns. It helps heaf ,-: •, 
shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. Conditions your skin. , Aren't these sound, scientific virtues more 1mportant than the purely emotional effect Skin Bracer has on women? In that case, buy a bottle. And -have fun • 
crossed with mistakes, as all men's are, yet the beauty of his career, of his endurance, of his great intelligence and courage, is something which evokes our deepest gratitude. The Senior Class has chosen well; Notre Dame is honored. 
The reprinted advertisement accom­panying this article caused quite a stir when it was published in hun­dreds of newspapers across the coun­try ten days before the 1952 election. Notre Dame's newly elected president felt that it was an abuse of the Uni­versity's name. Sacks and sacks of mail flooded in, commenting on this statement, mostly from outraged conservatives. Professor O'Malley, who authored the statement as ·he does the citations for honorary de­grees and Patriot of the Year awards, looks back on the day with consider­able enjoyment. Many more signatures were placed on the document, but be­cause of the last-minute nature of the national extension of the ad, only 65 names were transmitted to New York. (Any persons who didn't have a chance to be included in the published copy may go on record in public sup­port of the document by dropping a note to the SCHOLASTIC.) 
. 
/--.~:--..;~~ . 



SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE 
New"wetter-than-water" action melts beard's tough­ness-in seconds. Remarkable new "wetter-than-water" action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard's toughness like hot towels and massage-in seconds. 
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering. no dry spots. Richer and creamier... gives you the most satisfring shave ... fastest. cleanest-and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated. 1.00. 

COVER 
Pat Saxe's sketch of Adlai Stevenson appears on our cover this week. An advertisement endorsing Mr. Stevenson appears on page 20. A story about Mr. Stevenson is on page 16.... 
Other Campuses 
(Continued from page 14) 

to fight Gantt's case and all other in­tegration attempts at the highest 
I
court level. 

• There is an advertisement in the 
i
Mississippi Free Press which reads: "Buy a leather 'tote bag' made by sharecroppers thrown off their land for registering to vote. Send only J $10.79 to . . . " 
• 
Recently Northwestern, following the lead of Ohio State University, dropped its National Student Associa­tion membership. The motion in their student Senate that signalled its demise also stipulated that the campaign to orient the campus to the aims of the NSA be discontinued. 

• 
Stay-awake drugs take their toll during finals. There were several stu­dents at Northwestern University who suffered reactions to such drugs as dexedrine, Benzedrine, and other stimulants during the recent examina­tion period. An undergraduate at Stanford, suffering acutely from fatigue after days of taking these pills, went into a final and scribbled his name for two hours, unaware that he wasn't writing a paper. An­other student wrote a 10-page exam but forgot to turn the page of the bluebook. Result -a giant ink blot. 

• 
Students of Antioch College, Ohio, were working at the newspaper offices in Cleveland to earn co-operative work-study credits required for graduation until a strike hit the papers., Now the Extramural Depart­ment has decided that the students can earn their co-op credits by par­ticipating ,in ·the picket lines. 

• 
·The Counselor for Men at Mexico City College has decided that male students will no longer be allowed to wear beards on campus. The ruling went into effect at the beginning of the winter quarter, and no male stu­dent with a beard of any form was al­lowed to register. 

• 
A faculty member at the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh is waging his ·, 


I 
own private war against the evils of tobacco. All the cigarette vending machines on campus bear posters warning prospective smokers of the possible consequences they face; e.g., lung cancer, addiction, yellow fingers. (He forgot bad breath.) However, the school newspaper still carries ciga­rette advertisements and the tobacco companies are undismayed. 
ME, EE, AE ENGINEERS 
'.
:, 
• > 

:rj•........--;: ...,..... j'· 
-f 1 
t f .:-; 
.//\ ·.l \ 
~ .::::-:-­
:.:::~~~~;::,:;t~=
t '{ .-:-··-~<-.._....,,.;;;.;,.:•:;......... 
:-'$-··----....____ 
' 
--. 
•-.•~v,......_..._._•._.:,.-~~­
~-~ ,.,,,.,-­
.,,... , __ 


Ever wonder why you've never been to Paradise? 
It isn't because no roads lead there. Accord­ing to the promises held out to engineering students, almost eve1·y\\·here there's an opening there is an ecstatic little Eden, or one close by. 
We'll indulge in no such nonsense here. Connecticut is real ... a fine place to live, to ,vork, to play. We shall ask no more from you than all of these. If you are interested, we are. Drop by your placement office and pick up our brochure. It gives a fact-packed no-ba­loney picture of our place. 
What's up at Hamilton Standard? In brief, a diversification program that includes design and development of propulsion controls, life support systems, other environmental con­trol systems, automatic stabilization systems, electron beam machines, propellers, and ground support equipment. 
A Hamilton Standard college personnel representative will be on campus soon. He'll be glad to answer your questions, and to take your application for a position if you decide you like what you've learned about us. 
THE DATE: February 27, 28, 1963 
u

Hamilton Standard DIVISION OF UNITED ARAFT CORPORATION 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
-.• ·:._ -... ~ .,, -·•.-1,.' ··--•··• ~ ...: .. ··•··!.· .: •_.. --. . • . -_-. ·--~-.-., ·\•~~-· ~:::-./?"-~.. -: __... :::.-..-~ .• ?~~~~J~:~~4t~~~~~~~:.:7~~ 





