
~ ¦---------------------------­
1d Save! 
(j 
the specialty shows are in ila/icsl 
1rsdav fridav saturdav sundav 


......., 
• ,..,,.••~­
----·· 
IS HIRING! 

TWO & THREE-YEAR SCH01ARSHIPS AVAl1ABLE 
REQUIREMENTS: 
. 
Minimum 2_65 GPA (Technical majors -Engineering, Math, Physics, Architecture, Computer Science) 4-Minimum 3_00 GPA (Non-technical majors -Government, 

Economics, Accounting, Etc_) 4-Minimum 3_65 freshman GPA (Pre-Med) . Minimum 3_50 sophomore GPA (Pre-Med) . Pass the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (Similar to SAT test) 

. 
Successfully complete the Air Force ROTC Physical Fitness _Test .:r, Run l _5 miles (<l 2 min_, 01 sec_ for men and <14 min_, 25 sec_ for women) . Be medicallly qualified . Success rate for qualified ND/St_ Mary's applicants is over 90% 



BENEFITS: 
4-Up to full tuition, all books, standard fees . Sl 50 per month during the academic year 
+ No job search hassles -directly apply your ND education upon graduation 
. Active duty entry salary of $25, 000 with guaranteed raises to $43, 000 at year four 
+ 30 days of vacation with pay each year 
& Outstanding opportunities for advanced degrees in Engineering, Law, Medicine upon graduation from ND 
. Pilot and navigator positions are expanding rapidly -excellent opportunities to 
fly, regardless of scholarship major . Gain valuable experience in the Air Force and increase your marketability 


TO MAKE IT HAP-PEN, CALL CAPTAIN RICH HARTER 631-4674 





CHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 13 FOUNDED 1867 FEBRUARY 2, 1995 
The Fab Fourteen 
4Scholastic Magazine interviewed each of the candidates for the 1995 Student Government election. We picked our winner. Now you can pick yours based on their responses. 


Westminster Woman 
8Instead of a semester abroad dominated by sightseeingandculturesampling,SheilaMoloney worked closely with Member of Parlia­ment Graham Allen in his quest to establish a bill of rights for the United Kingdom. 

Regis!
12He's Notre Dame's most enthusiastic alum. Scholastic's Theresa Hennessey takes a closer look at the lovable Regis Philbin. 

FEATURES 
From Crisis to Freedom• Kate McShane ............................................................................................................... 12 The Short End of the Stick · T. Ryan Kennedy ....................... ; ..................................... : ....................................... 16 Bobbing Ahead · Shannan Ball ..........................................................................•.................................................... 18 Condoms Not Included• Josef Evans .....................................................................................................................20 American Buffalo •·Steven Susco ................................. ; .......................... : ............................................................... 22 Film Fest '95 · Chris Meyers ................................. ; ............................................................. u••·································22 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor ............................................................. 2 
Coming Distractions ............................................... ; ...24 
Editorial.......................................................................... 3 
On Other Campuses .......•............................................ 25 
Campus Watch ........................... : ................................ 14 
Comics ............................:-,...........................................26 
Splinters from the Press Box ......................................15 
Week in Distortion ....................... · ................... : ........... 27 
Out of Bounds .............................................................19 
Final Word ................................................................... 28 

Iflast year's student body presidential and vicepresidential candidates can be summed up in one words, it would be "excessive." Candidates went platfonn-crazy, coming up with ideas to tum LaFortune into a fast-food hotspot, start a shuttle service to bring· studentsin from theparkinglot, and design an internship/mentordatabase collection. The scope of the ideas was exhaustive, and many sounded nice but were downright unneces-· sary. 
Hungeling and Orsagh changed all that with two little words-"Grateful" and"Dead." TheNotre Dame studentbody, sickofthe characterization ofbeing too serious, responded to the two "slackers" by voting them into office by a significant margin. Whether they accomplished what they set out to do is another story, but one thing is·certain......:. they will be a hard act to follow. 
This year's candidates for president and vice-president clearly came ofage during the Hungeling Administration. In our interviews, we heard phrases like "listen to the student voice" and "give the students what they want" countless times. Most tickets pledged to beaccountable to their constituents, listen to theirconcerns, and respond to their ideas. All of them appreciated the laid-back attitude that Dave.and Matt brought to student government This year's candidates dressed much more casually than those we inter­viewed just a year ago -proof that, at least in image, post-Hungeling Revolution candidates take themselves a little less seriously. 
Will this election return student government to business-as-usual? It's hard to tell. What is most important is thatpeoplecontinue to voice their opinions. Theelection is only the first step. We should challenge whomeveris elected to keep their campaign promises. 
How we conducted our interviews 
Scholastic interviewed each ticket running for student government president and vice president, asking them each the same 13 questions. We chose to print the transcripts of four ofthosequestions. We basedour endorsementon a majority vote of the interviewers, and the endorsement and reasons behind it appear on the facing page. 

A few new names 
I'd like to welcome some new staffmembers to Scholastic. Michelle Crouch, our news editor, returns to us from a semester in London, as does entertainment editor Miranda Sanford. We're glad to have both of them back. Patrick Skidmore joins us as the new graphics director and his work graces the cover this week. Kris Kazlauskas has taken over as departments editor, and Val Bauduin will be catching mistakes as copy editor. Awarm welcome to all of them. 
Kudos 
To Brent Tadsen, our photography editor, for winning an honorable mention in the U. Magazine/Nike photo contest 

1994 Football Review 
Anyone who did not receive their copy of the 1994 Football Review can stop by our office on the third floor of LaFortune to pick one up. 
Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 
Cover design and graphics by Patrick Skidmore. Cover photography by Brent Tadsen. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•FEBRUARY 2, 1995 
..~EDITQ:E.IAL. ·_ 



VoteK/au &Herczeg 
Scholastic endorses Kevin Klau and Larissa Herczeg for studentbody president and vice president Although there were a number of competitive candidates among this year's seven tickets, we believe Klau 
and Herczeg would be the most effective 
student body president and vice president. They seemed both capable and laid-back, combiriing competence with the approach­ability of Hungeling and Orsagh. 
Their platform is simple,. yet attainable, and it seems to define the current mood of the student body. Their goal is to increase 
student voice on university decisions. Ac-. 
cordingly, akey elementoftheir platforin is the implementation of student forums,. a series of meetings designed to l:lring stu~ dents into student government and admin­isttative initiatives. Although othertickets have thought of similar ways to increase studentfeedback, Kla:u and Herczeg have a more concrete idea of how their forums would work. For example, after willingly admitting that they had differing personal opinions on th_e 1,llliversity'srecognition of 
GLND/SMC, they said that it would be a 
good issue to discuss at one oftheir forums. OthercomponentsofKlau.andHerzceg' s 
platform wereattractive to·us as well. They 
want to get cable television in the dorm rooms and an ATM machine on mod quad; both obtainable goals. We also liked their desire ·.to eliminate the· overlap 'between student government and SUB, a prqblem 
that has plagued the organizations for a number of years. Klan's position as Ideas and Issues Commissioner ofSUB has pro­vided him with a working knowledge of 
that organization, giving him the.ability to 
distinguish between the missions ofthe 2nd 
floor LaFortune occupants. 
··. -WhileKiauandHerczegwereclearly the best, othercandidates had impressivequali­ties. StaceyKielbasa has extensive experi­ence working in the student government office. In.addition to serving as Flynn and Wellman's secretary in 1993-1994, she is currently thestudentgovemmentAcademic 
Commissioner and Executive Coordinator 
of Student Life. Kielbasa's background 
andwhirlwindofideas wasbalancednicely 
by Todd Leahy's easy-going manner and 
personalskills. However, thepairhad afew 
too many ideas for our liking. In a cam­
paign where the emphasis seemed to be on 
down-sizing student government (rightly, 
in our opinion),. Kielbasa and Leahy inun­
dated us with ideas. "Students have lost a 
senseoftrustinstudentgovernment We'd 
like to bring back that trust," said Kielbasa. 
Soundsa little too much like theStateofthe 
Union Address. 
Allen and Delaney demonstrated consid­
erable ease and competence in their inter-. 
view. They also voiced some good ideas.• .. that we heard from a number of different candidates -cab coupons, streamlining The Guide (perhaps by putting it on courseware) and increasing the level of . entertainment on campus. 
Thisyear'selectioncampaignisnotsoJely _ 
about ideas, however. Any candidates can 
attempt to implement different campaign 
ideas once in office. But it takes acertain. 
kind ofpeople to implement them success­.· fully. 
Klau and Herczeg struckus as thesekind 
ofpeople. Both are experienced enough to 
understand the ins and outs of student gov­
ernment Duringtheirinterview, they acted · 
confident and genuine. They answered 
questions directly, and they were willing to 
admit their differences. Most importantly, 
they seemeddown-to-earth and easy to talk 
to. For these reasons, we believe that they · 
are the best candidates for student body 
presidentandvicepresident VoteKlauand 
Herczeg.· 
-Scholastic 



Pasquerilla West Junior Science/Business Major Laguna Hills, California Pasquerilla West co-pres Soph. dass council Academic commissioner 
>
u,WCl>Z
E< 
CU..J 
~w 
C 
Alumni Junior Chem EngJEcon Major Indiana, Pennsylvania Alumni co-president Soph. fundraising commish Freshman dass council 
In one minute, tell us the main goal you would like to achieve as Student Body President (SBP) and Student Body Vice President (SBVP)? 
Jennifer Allen: I thinkbothJ.D. and myself are interested in stretching student services, providing already on-site ways of organizing resources students already have, like recycling and bringing back the book fair -installing traditions by making things become sort of a habiL For instance, ifyou expect at the end of the semester you 're going to deposit your books off, it becomes somewhat of a cycle, like a habit, as I said. 
How has the Hungeling/Orsagh administration affected the way you would run student government? 
JA: I think they weren't afraid to reallocate funds as far as taking them out of student government and placing them into the Student Union Board. They wanted to provide more entertainment., bring more entertainers, and I think that would be a big focus ofours. We are interested in getting a Winterfest of week-long activities going, perhaps incorporating bands with that. So I would basi­cally just say that we 're not scared or intimidated at taking away the funds and putting them in the students' hands; James Delaney: I would say that they showed that government doesn't have to be stuffy. It doesn't have to be all the government majors going to law school at Notre Dame. Other students can be involved. 
Which student activities do you think should have in­creased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't 
available, which activities would befaced with cutbacks? 
JD: I'mnotsurehowmuchmoney SUB has received, but I think they should get as much as possible in order to keep the entertainment level as high as it can possibly be on this campus.... [W]e would like to cut back spending on The Guide. It's a valuable resource, but not that many students use it, and you end up seeing the guides laying around on the floors in hallways and dorm rooms. Instead we'd like to put it on courseware, and those who want to use it can log on and read about the classes they want to take, rather than spending a lot of money and ending up with waste. JA: ... Perhaps we should expand fitness areas. Not exactly bringing contractors in to build facilities, but taking advantage of the resources we already have. I know in the J .A.C.C. there are alot ofauxiliary gyms. We could allow more equipment to be in there, and that could ' possibly open up the door for more work-study pro grams 
where students could monitor those rooms. 
Currently, GLND/SMC and pro-choice women's rights organizations are not officially recognized by the Univer­sity. Do you agree with the university's current policy? 
JA: Ithinkthattheyshouldberecognized. Whetherornot funding should take place, I really don't have a comment 
on that. I do believe they should be recognized as an organization, though. 
JD: I agree. I don't know ifwe 'II be excommunicated by 
the Pope, butl think we should probably fund them and we 
should definitely recognize them. 0 


Morrissey Junior Accounting Major Pepper Pike, Ohio Junior dass council 
t::I= 
~w 
oa: 
a:m 
In one minute, tell us the 'llain goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
Matt Golish: Our first initiative is the Student Housing fuitiative of Tomorrow. What we want to do is get lots of houses because right now everything' s kind ofspread out. You have to go from house to house. That's kind ofbad. Kids don't feel safe. It doesn't promote community, and transportation issues are a big problem too. So what we want to do is have the landlords buy those houses. The university also buys houses. They own houses -17 houses in South Bend. 
How has the Hungelfng/Orsagh administration affected the way you would run student government? 
Bob Brett: I think that before student government was kind of set apart from the students, and now a lot more people can associate with them, seeing them as average students, not someone going for a political career: I think they've opened the door for other students to come in and take charge. I don't agree with their work ethic and everythingthey'vedonein their term this year. But I think they've opened the door forus. And ifthey had the right people in there, like us, doing the right things, being dedicated, putting the right people in positions, then we can get things done. I think they started that. 
Which student activities do you think should have in­creased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities would befaced with cutbacks? 
MG: Well, we have a preliminary budget for next year. We want to put a ballot out as soon as we're elected with ideas we got throughout the campaign from the students. Students will vote on those ideas. These are going to be do-able ideas .... We've taken $1000 out of the National Catholic organization. Almost every year they have their meeting here, and we 're kind of just expected to do it even though about 20 kids from Notre Dame are in it. We'll take away $8000 out of administration costs. A lot ofthe secretaries are retiring this year. I don't think I'm a pretentious enough person to be 21 years old and have a secretary. The Guide we want to make electronic because the printing costs alone are astronomical.... 
Currently, GLND/SMC and pro-choice.women's rights 
organziatlons are not officially recognized by the univer­
sity. Do you agree with the university's current policy? 
MG: I believe it should be recognized .. Even though people may not agree with what the groups stand for, they still deserve the right to be recognized because they're organizations that have seeded beliefs and their group's mission and goals .... And we're not necessarily going to support any of them, but I think they should at least be recognized so people know they're out there .... It seems to me that the university by not recognizing these groups has taken away a part oftheir humanity. It's disgusting to think that a group of people can't get together and talk · about something that they have in common and not be recognized by the university .... [W]e wouldn't be giving them money. We'd say, "We'll help you. We'llputina good word for you." . 0 

In one minute, tell us the. main goal you would like to 
achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
Stacey Kielbasa: I think that the students havelosta sense oftrust instudentgovernment; we'dlike to bring back that trust. We'd like to kind of open up the office to students, really getinvolved in student concerns. In fact, we'd like to establish a guarantee of 72 hours for any student that calls our office or e-mails us, we'll respond within 72 hours. Not necessarily having an answer, butperhaps we forward the question to the correct authorities, etc. and hopefully get some oftheir programming -bring that to the forefront-,-what students really want. 
How has the Hungeling/Orsagh administration affected 
the way you would run Student Government? SK: I probably have the most experience with that because I ·worked with Hungeling and Orsagh both in Student Life department and through the academic coun­
cil. I think one of the best things they've done is gotten a lot different variety of students involved, students who wouldn't have had an opportunity otherwise. However, it's very tough to comeinto administration whenyouhave no experience with student government and have to learn all the techniques, learn how to deal with the administra­tion. I think that's one ofthe strengths J.hat we have, that we have the experience. And not to say that they didn'tdo a good job, or that they didn't get all their goals accom­plished, whatever. I think they were just really hindered by the fact that they had very little time to learn the ropes, so to speak. 
Which student activities do you think should have In­creased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities would be faced with cutbacks? 
SK: [I]t's very difficult forstudents to tell which activities are important ... I think that mostofthe groups that really need money are getting it. MEC is getting the money, student government is getting the money, but there are some that slip through the cracks. And it's hard to say exactly what those are. What we hopeis that thos~ groups would come forward....I don't want to second-guess any club, and it's very hard for me to judge, from this stand­point, notknowing whattheseclubs do, whattheirprojects are, to say that they didn't get the money they deserved. 
Currently, GLND/SMC and pro-choice women's rights organizations are not officially recognized by the univer­sity. Do you agree with the university's current policy? 
SK: Well, it's very tough. I think that one of the things that's very unique about this university is we have a mystique. And there's a reluctance, I think, to make changes, becausenooneexactlyknowshow thi~ mystique fits together and what creates it. So they're afraid if they maketoo manychanges, things may fall apart. So it's very difficult to judge their_ decision.... I would try to avoid direct conflict with the university .... We'renotpreventing them from doing programming, we're just preventing them from funding, so I see no problem in working with them to coordinate events and working with them in any way possible, even if they can't get funding. 
0 

Pasquerilla East Junior Government Major Darien, Illinois SG Academic Commish Exec. Coord., Student Life Chair, Stud. Acad. Council Provost Search Committee 
Grace Hall Junior Graphic Design Spartanburg, S. Carolina President of Grace Hall Freshman Orient Commish Student Selection Commish 

In one minute, tell us the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
Kevin Klau: I thirik the main goal that we want is to increase student voice on university decisions, whether they beadministrativeorregardingcampuslifeora variety ofissues. We think students need to be apart ofdecisions that will impact them throughout their time here. We'd like to see the institution of some forums that would help students to have their say with student government and anyone else who chose to attend, about issues that they were concerned about. LarissaHerczeg: Wefeel that students will bemore active and will have more ofa voice if they're more comfortable with the government structure, if they know where they can go when they have a problem, if they feel they can comeup to the student governmentoffice with an issue and not be lost and know who people are. 
How has the Hungeling/Orsagh administration affected the way you would run Student Government? 
LH: I think it's affected mein the way that they take things seriously and they do getthings done, butthey'remorelaid back about things. I think that it's taughtme alot in terms thatyoucanbeserious aboutsomething andstillhave a lot of fun with it, and just our attitude about that. KK: 1 think they're also somewhat different people and students have foundout that, for whatever reason, Daveor Matt have provided different backgrounds and a few different talents, and that is important, I think, for Larissa and I are different people, and it's important to be able to work together butyet have sortofclashing viewpoints on occasions, so that we don't get into a rut where we're thinking along the same lines. !'agree entirely with the whole attitude that they've brought to student govern­ment. Ithinkthat'sprobablythey'regreatestcontribution. 
Which student activities do you think should have In­creased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities would be faced with cutbacks? 
LH: I think one that we like to see increased should be increased primarily because it's a new organization and that's Habitat [for Humanity]. The Notre Dame sector currently just raised $1500 for their immediate needs in donation over break, and I believe they have something like $5000, but, in order to achieve everything, they need a lot more money. KK: I had to think of something that had to be cut back, I'mnotsureit'seasy to target one, butI would say it would be important ... to evaluate exactly the usage students get out of a club or an event before we go ahead and give a substantial amount ofmoney. 
Currently, GLND/SMC and pro-choice women's rights organizations are not officially recognized by the univer­sity. Do you agree with the university's current policy? 
LH: We personally have slightly differing opinions on that, but this was something we felt would really be an excellent issue for the forum. It shouldn't be a personal issue, wereally feel that this wouldbeagreatissuetobring to the forum. So that that way we could find out exactly how the students feel and base our decision on that. 0 
Morrissey Junior Government Major Minneapolis, Minnesota Coord., SUB lectures Commish, SUB Ideas & Images 



St Edward's Junior COTH Major San Diego, California Club Coordination Council Vice President of LULAC 


In one minute, tell us the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
Alex Montoya: Basically, what we want to do is take student government to another level, in terms of putting the students first We really feel that the students haven't come first, probably in the past five years, because ofboth bureaucracy and red tape, anything that the students proposed has been shot down really quick. So, with the plans that we have -we have about eight concrete plans -designed to increase both fun, safety ~d the overall lifestyle for students on campus. What we want to do is be the true representative for students both in the community · and with the administration that they deserve. 
How has the Hungeling/Orsagh administration affected the way you would run Student Government? 
George Fischer: They've. opened a lot of eyes, in the respect that they've brought some good issues out, like they want to have fun, they want to bring the Grateful Dead, and I think they gave a slant to student government that should not be overlooked, in the sense that wanting to have fun is key, but there's also some essentials we can learn about, and I think we can get down to basics as well from there. AM: I think with Dave and Matt, the whole key is that they've brought a new boldness and innovation to student government that we needed, they were the breath of fresh air that people needed so that the people that ran weren't always the type that came in ties and suits and were just looking to pad their resumes, and they exposed that. 
Which student activities do you think should have In­creased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities would be faced with cutbacks? 
AM: No immediate programs come to mind that are like a godsend to the student body, that absolutely, positively, the rest ofour life hinges on it....We are really impressed with the World Hunger Coalition, and what they do with the lunch fast ... We're looking to doing something to go above and beyond that by having a breakfast fast, recog­nizing that the majority ofthe students don'teat breakfast on the weekday .... As far as those facing cutbacks, you could probably go through a whole litany of things, and just see things to cut back on. 
Currently, GLND/SMC and pro-choice women's rights organizations are not officially recognized by the univer­sity. Do you agree with the university's current policy? 
AM: I think my own personal view, is one of the reasons Icame to Notre Dame because ofthe whole spiritual idea, and because spirituality wasn't the exception, but it was therule .... [S]o basically when the university says, "We're not going to support the gay and lesbian group, because it's against scripture and against church doctrine to recog­nize these groups," I think it's fine. I agree with it .... At the same time, they have to be consistent. I believe you have to be consistent with human rights abuses, with such issues as racism and prejudice, go all the way. Ifone thing goes against scripture and goes against doctrine, and you decide to not recognize it, or to combat it, do it for everything else as well. 0 


Howard Junior 
English Major 
Beacon Falls, Connecticut 
l· 
In one minute, te(I us the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP?' 
Michelle Mudry: Our main goal is to improve student relations at Notre Dame because we think that they're a little more restrained than they need to be, both between male and female and between female-female and male­male. And so we wish to get people more involved with everything, get people to meet more people at Notre Dame. 
How has the Hungeling/Orsagh administration affected the way you would run Student Government? MM: It definitely affected us because neither ofus have 
any experience running for or working in student govem­mentin a positionof authority. ButwesawthatHungeling and Orsagh did it without any experience. We've spoken with David Hungeling. He told us that sometimes fresh blood is good. We have a lot ofnew ideas, and we can bring some changes and keep some things the same. We see how it works from the outside. 
Which student activities do you think should have In-. creased funding? Assuming that more funds aren't available, which activities would befaced with cutbacks? 
Jennifer Szarek: One ofour ideas is to have a dance club kind of similar to what they had before, Theodore's'. Instead of having it every weekend, it would be two or three times· a semester. It would have theme nights, like Reggae or country line dancing. If we place money in those kind of activities, where people can just go out and have fun, I think that would place a little more emphasis on the funner side. MM: Another idea we have is a Notre Dame dating service because sometimes people are afraid or don't know anyone to ask and don't trust their roommate or their friends ordon'twantto getthem involved. We think this would be kind of a fun thing to do. 
Currently, GLND/SMC and pro-choice women's rights organizations are not officially recognized bythe unlver• sity. Do you agree wit'! the university's current policy? 
MM: I agree with the university's policy ofnot recogniz­ing them only because Notre Dame is a Catholic univer­sity and in order to recognize them officially they would be going against the Catholic church's ruling. However, I don't agree that gays and lesbians shouldn't have rights at Notre Dame. I see everyone as equal. I just think that as a Catholic university, we need to do that in order to keep their Catholic standing. 
In one minute, tell us the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
Jonathan Patrick: The main thing we'd like to achieve is to add a new dimension to student government. In addition to the allocation of funds and the day-to-day things student government does right now, we'd like to become the voice of the students. You know, trying to integrate our administration with the students in their minds, and hopefully become not only a voice but an advocate for what they would like us to do. And we have a bunch of ideas to help improve the communication between student government and the student body .... 
How has the Hungeling/Orsagh administration affected the way you would run student government? 
JP: Personally, I think that they marketed an attitude that was attractive to the student bocly .... They brought some things to light about ... things that are important to people on campus. So we've learned a lot from that-that a lot of people have the same sort of ideas that we have.... [E]veryone wants to have a good time and that needs to be part of the focus of the government. ... I would say that they've shown a lack ofconcrete effort to do things. We have some ideas and we think we'll be more effective in achieving these things .... 
Which student activities do you think should have In­creased funding? Assuming more funds are not avail­able, which activities would be faced with cutbacks? 
DM: More funding, well, I think that there's a lot of service organizations. I don't know_the breakdown, but service projects. I'm in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program.... I think promoting organizations like that in the community around Notre Dame is very central. JP: We'reinthe midst ofthe Northeastneighborhood, and there are so many things going on in that neighborhood. As a Catholic school, we stand for certain values. One wouldbeto help all the differentpeople inthe area.around us.... DM: [W]e're Of! HPC and one ofthe things we'vehad to do was cutthe weekend wheels. We thought itwas a great idea, but we were wasting money....In a similar line, The Guideis also a good idea, butit's stillnotaninstitution the students use. Just with things like that that are great ideas, but just don't work out. 
Currently GLND/SMC and pro-choice women's rights organizatlons are not officially recognized by the univer­sity. Do you agree with the university's current policy? 
JP: I think that as a Catholic University, Notre Dame and the administration obviously need to be autonomous and be ruled according to the Catholic church. I think they need to be open-minded toward what people believe and also individuals• autonomy to-run their own lives. Orga­nizations like GLND/SMC offer them an area to dialogue and spend time together .... So I don't think the adminis­tration should stop people from talking about and sharing things that they care about Soinmyopinion.I thinkNotre Dame should allow gays and lesbians to have an organzation. 0 
Flanner Junior BioChernistry Major Longmeadow, Mass. Flanner co-president 

Flanner Junior Management Major Manistee, Midii9an Flanner co-president 


Notre Dame junior Sheila Moloney may have helped make British political history while interning for Member ofParliament Graham Allen 



No 
Ordinary
erican To............,.... 
by Michelle Crouch 
Getting in to see a session of British parliament is no easy task. But Notre DamejuniorSheila Moloney walked into Parliament twice a week last semester without even a second glance by the security personnel. She could attend asession of Parliament whenever she wanted, and she was on a first-name basis with a numberofBritish politicians. As Notre Dame's intern for British Member of Parliament (MP) Graham Allen, Moloney was no ordinary American tourist. Moloney' s main task as an intern was research and constituent work. Although it was often tedious, Moloney was actually breaking new ground in British politics. This is because Graham Allen is not a typical British politician (see sidebar). He has a number of radical ideas, and Moloney was instrumental in trans­forming these ideas into concrete proposals and action. Allen is probably most well-known in British politics for his efforts to reform the British political system. A firm believer in democracy, his recent efforts have been directed at trying to get a bill of rights implemented in the United Kingdom. "I want to lead a Labour government that will introduce the most radical package of constitutional reform ever proposed by any major political party," he said. "This, I believe, will be a key battleground of the did extensive research for Allen in this area. For example, she examined Al Gore'sReinventing Governmentproposals as well as similar plans in other democracies. Her oral and written briefs on these subjects helped Allen to determine which reforms would be the most effective in his goal of greater democracy in the United Kingdom. 
Another major project on which-Moloney worked involved a direct mailing to allof Allen's Labour constituents. Allen designed an informal survey in order to find out which issues his constituents thought were the most important. Although this is a common practice in America, Allen was quick to point out that it is "the cutting edge of contact in politics in the UK." Most British politicians simply do not have the time, the money or the staff power to execute direct mailings. Therefore Allen's project was one of the first of its kind in Great Britain, and Moloney was "actually doing something very, very radical," according to Allen. Moloney was responsible for finding a means to record the con­stituents' responses and also for writing a personal reply to each of the 1073 constituents who responded. 
·As with any important job, the internship had its.difficulties. For Moloney, the mostfrustrating aspects of herinternship was thelack of space and the need for a larger staff. MPs have only a limited budget to work with, and Allen's two-room office and five-person staff are almost extravagant by British standards. The lack of many responsibilities. The result, in Moloney's case, was that she often had to work up to 30 hours a week, while at the same time keeping up with her class. work for Notre Dame's Londonprogram. 
Moloney seems to believe that the internship was worth the stress it brought, however. "The opportunities offered to me by working so closely with _a British MP outweigh the often stressful and tedious aspects of government bureaucracy," she said. When the job got stressful, the responses to the surveys were sources of great amusement for Moloney and the rest of the staff. "At least 150 

people have. com­plained about the dog poop on the streets," Moloney observed. "I can't imagine ever writ­ing my congress­man about the poop on the street" 
Moreimportantly, Moloney believed that shelearned more from her internship than simply how to write letters and research. Moloney was able to experience firsthand the workings of another country's government and its culture. "I also learned how ignorant we are as Americans," she noted. "Everyone in the office knew everything about our crime bill and our health reform. Yet most Americans have no idea what is going on in the British system." 
Obvi0nsly, the internship has a lot to offer to any American student interested in politics. What does Allen have to gain from it? "Sheilais avery dynamic girl to have around," said Allen. She's a real contributor to the work we do in the office." Allen has recruited a Notre Damestudentto intern for him consistently for the lastthreesemesters. "NotreDamestudentsarerefreshing,"hesaid. "They come from a culture of rights, they're good fun, and they're stimulating in an environmerit which is very constipated." . 
Notre Dame Intern Sheila Moloney sits with British MP Graham Allen In his Westminster office. Although he Is wearing a suit In this picture, It Is more common to find Allen In a button-down shirt, cowboy boots and Jeans. 
"Notre Dame students are refreshing. They come from a culture of rights, they're goodfun, and they're stimulating in an enviroment which is very constipated." -Member ofParliament Graham Allen 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a FEB_RUARY 2, 1995 9 I 
I 
I 






With Regis and NotreDame 
A closer look at the Fighting Irish's most dedicatedfan 
Regis Philbin stands In front of one of the many pieces In his
and loyal alum 
ND collection. "I love my Notre Dame memorabilia. There's just 
by Theresa Mary Hennessey 
EteNotreDame," screamsasweatshirt­ad lliinois fan during a commercial eak of the show. As he yells back at the boisterous audience member, Regis Philbinisanythingbutnervous. "Sitdown," he says with a smile. "You can leave if you have anything bad to say about Notre Dame!" Running back to his seat on the set of Live! With Regis and Kathie Lee, Philbin. posesforapicturewithaPennStatestudent and her father, and shakes the hands of some surrounding viewers. . He quickly 
not enough room for all of It!" 
inhibition in his life. 
"My biggest regret at Notre Dame was that I never really went out for anything," said the 1953 graduate. "That was my biggest problem in those days, getting my­self to join activities. I didn't think I was worthy, I didn't think lwas good enough. Actually, it was very difficult for me to get into this business with those kind of com­plexes and inhibiti.ons." 
Those doubts and fears were eventually 
· quelled, and Philbin has, in the meantime, proven himself a success. With countless guestappearences,aworkoutvideo,abook dueoutinOctoberandamorningtelevision show eleven years in the running, Regis 
takes his spot on the stage next to guest-star'· Philbin is no longer nervous. "The greatest Sinbad and his wife Joy (co-host for the hurdle was overcoming my fear. Now that week while KathieLee is on vacation); and Ihavebeendoingthisforsomanyyears,it's straightenshisclothingforthecamera. After just like any other job." witnessing this playful repartee, it is hard to After the hour~long show is over, Philbin believe that Regis Philbin has ever held an retires to his office for a break. The room is overflowing with Notre Dame memora­bilia, and a Play Like a Champion Today sign hangs over his door. "Most of these things are from fans," he says while eyeing a Fighting Irish blanket he just received in the mail, "I give a lot away to charity, but it keeps pouring in. Come over here and take a look atthese pictures of Lou Holtz." 
As he scans the pictures offamous Notre Dame faces and landmarks that hang on his walls, Philbin recalls how his interest in the university was first sparked. · "My father met Moose Krause in the Marine Corps during the second world war. Of course I was just a kid then, but Moose told all those marineofficers so many stories about Notre Dame that I became intrigued with the mystique ofit all." When·it came time for Philbin to apply for college, he gaveKrause a call. •~sure enough, I was accepted," he says with a laugh, "but I don't know if I could still get in today!" 
10 
During Philbin' s career as an undergrad, he lived in Zahm, Lyons, Dillon and Fisher Halls respectively. "I go back every time to see who's living in 222 Zahm Hall, and to visit with the guys there. It brings back a lot of memories." 
His memories from life in Zahm are not the only ones that stand out in his mind. "Wewerealways gettingin trouble,"Philbin noted. "They turned the lights out at 11p.m. in those days, and we just weren't ready to go to sleep." 
"I lived with a roommate from Daven­port, Iowa who was a kid of enormous strength. We'd go up and down the hall­ways checking for open doors. We found one room with this kid who would sleep with his feet right by the door. I'd go down there and open the door, and my roommate would twist this guy's feet until he'd wake up hollering. He'd let go, I'd close the door andwe'drunbacktoourroomlaughingand screaming." 
In addition to his friendly antics, Philbin, asociologymajor,alsoworkedintheHuddle for two and a half years, and took part in interhall sports. "I did a little boxing and a little football. But in those days, interhall was not nearly as competitive as it is today. It was much more of a pickup game." 
However, despite his interest in televi­sion and radio extending back to his days as a six year old growing up in the Bronx, Philbin was never involved with any extra­curricular activities that dealt with commu­nications or the media. "I went up to WNDU and knocked on the door; but I . couldn't do it," Philbin recalled. "I wanted to get in there and learn all about it, but I'd just turn around and walk away." 
After graduation, Philbin entered the ser­vice. "I met an old marine major who got a hold of me and once said, 'You can have anything you want in this life, you justgotta want it bad enough."' Stationed in San Diegoatthe time, Philbin toId the majorthat televisionwaswherehisheartlay. Hewent · to Hollywood and began knocking on a few doors, where he eventually made a connec­tion. 
"The guy said he would call me, but I went back to New York and became a page at NBC, never thinking that I would actu­ally hear from him again. The guy did call, so I went back to Hollywood and started as astagehand. Itwas along, tough road to get in· front of the camera, but somehow I did it." 
During his stay at the university, Philbin was witness to both an exciting and tumul­tuous time in Notre Dame football history. "We won the National Championship dur­ing my freshman year in '49, and we were. really dynamiteforthelastfouryearsofthe 40s. No one at the school had ever seen them lose agame, so in 1950 when we went into a little bit of a tailspin, it was really something to see. Frank Leahy helped build the team backup though, and in 1953, they began winning again." 
Philbin still keeps in contact with his college roommates and goes back to all of his reunions. Although he is working on a very full schedule, he is still able to catch a couple of football games each season. "I came to the Michigan game this year and we lost I wanted to comein fora game that I'd be sure we'd win, sol made sure I went to the Purdue game. I thought about going to the BC game, but something inside told menotto. ThankGodididn't-Icouldri't stand having those Boston fans yelling and screaming at me!" 
Since the fall of 1992, Philbin has no longer been coming back to Notre Dame solely as a distinguished alum. He now experiences the university through the eyes of a parent as well. With the arrival of his daughter, who is currently a junior, Philbin almostfeels as if he is back on campus again. "It's a major thrill ofmy life to have JJ. not only go to Notre Dame, but to love itasmuchasldo. TogobacktoWalshHall where she lives and visit with her was really dynamite. Itreally means a great deal to me, and I am delighted to have a daughter there who is getting the same education and feel­ing the sarne vibes that I felt." 

. Philbin received such great vibes as a result of,his time spent on campus, that he somehow seems to work Notre Dame into almost every episode of his show. "I know it annoys some people that I talk about ND so much, but that's just the way it is. I'm doing an ad-lib show and I don't have any writers, so I talk about what I know best." 
Through it all, Philbin has managed to keep his mood upbeat and his self-confi­dence intact "Through theyears, you come to rely on what you learned there -the discipline, the spirit, the will not to give up, to keep trying -all of those things have been instrumental in my career," replied Philbin. "Many times I have been in be­tweenjobs oroutof work, and itwas always Notre Dame that kept me going to the next plateau.''. 
11 




From Crisis toFreedoIU 
Professor Oliver Williams' curiosity about South Africa led to a role in the country's movement toward democracy 

by Kate McSbane 
He has met with Nelson Mandela. He has advisedSouthAfricanPrimeMinisterThabo Mbeki. He is good friends with former South African parliament member Helen Suzzman. He isFather Ollie Williams, C.S'.C.,and heis theco­director of the Center for Business Ethics as well as anassociateprofessorofManagementatNotreDrune. Notonlyhashehadanopportunitytomeetwiththese South Africanleaders, buthehas also affectedUnited States investments in the new government under Nelson Mandela. In 1985, Father Williams began questioning whether or not it was ethical for U.S. businesses to invest in South Africa because of apartheid. "I read every article I could get my hands on, but could not conclude whether it was ethical or not," said Will­iams. Heappliedforagrantand went toSouth Africa to see for himself. The result of his research was his book, The Apartheid Crisis, which came to the conclusion that it would only be ethical for U.S. companies to invest if they invested on the side ofthe blacks. Companies would have to help dismantle apartheid, aid blacks in acquiring job skills and help them advance in companies. Father Williams' book was widely read and as a result, he was appointed to several councils, one of Companies. InMarch 1991,NelsonMandelainvited the council to discuss how to encourage U.S. inves­tors to come to South Africa. Mandela was elected presidentin May 1994, but at the time of the council, he was worried that if elected, he would not be able to increase employment (unemployment among blacks is approximately 25%). Mandela asked Fa­ther Williams ifNotreDame would be able to hold a conference for potential investors in South Africa. The conference, ''The African National Council and New Investment in South Africa," was held in Octo­ber 1991 and Thabo Mbeki, the current prime minis­ter, was the speaker. 
The conference was meantto quell investors' fears that South Africa was unstable, and that there would be a smooth transition to a post-apartheid govern­
-ment ''The African National Congress was very thankful that Notre Drune had helped them," said Williams. ''The conference was a success, and it was widely covered in Africa." In the past six months, Ford, McDonald's, Pepsi and IBM have made major investments in South Africa. IBM plans to manufac­ture in the country and it will be the major foreign employer and investor on the continent 
In 1985, Father Williams and Helen Suzzman, a member of the South African Parliament for over thirty years, began a friendship that would span the transition from aparteid government to the election of Mandela. Suzzman is one of the most famous 

From left to right: Father Ollie Williams, Helen Suzzman, Zoch .DuBJerand his wife stand In front of Suzzman's home, which Is located In Sandton, South Africa. Suzzman has been a member of the South African Parliament for over thirty years, and Is best known for her fight to dismantle apartheid. 


dismantle apartheid. This spring she will receive the Notre Dame Award, given to aperson who fights for justice and exemplifies the values of Notre Dame. Two past winners of the Notre Dame Award have been former President Jimmy Carter and Mother Theresa. "Helen Suzzman is a remarkable woman, and I am looking forward to her visit this spring," Father Williams replied. 
Since 1985,Father Williams has returned to South Africa every year, and he just returned from spend­ing a semester there working on his new book. He will return to South Africa again in February to be a guestlecturerforaNotreDamealumni tour of South Africa, where twenty alumni will spend two weeks travelling the country in efforts to promote foreign investment Father Williams has offered to intro­duce alumni to local leaders, clerics and other no­table South Africans. He has announced that ifany alumni havespecial requests to meet with someone in the South African government, he will try his best to make the meeting to occur. 
Not all of his time in South Africa was spent involved in business matters. Father Williams re­lated a funny story about a two and half hour mass which he said last fall. ''The ·mass was so long because of all the singing and dancing that occurs during mass; it is very jovial. They kiss, hug and shake hands for twenty minutes during the sign of peace. I wasn't sure how the people would respond tomeastheonlywhitepersonin the church. Butafter the mass, mothers and fathers kept coming up to me and asking ifthey could take a picture of me and their children. I couldn't understand why they wanted to have this picture. So I asked my black priest friend about the picture taking. He told me that he told his parishthatiwasanadministratoratalargeuniversity and ifthey were nice to me I might just bring some of them back to get an education in the United States." 
Forthe 1995-1996 academic year Father Williams will be in South Africa again so he can continue writing another book. In return for the support the government is giving him, he will teach business ethics at a university in Capetown. He will also be running four one-week seminars for the Aspen Insti­tute, aninternational organization whose purpose is to bring together top business leaders and politicians. At these seminars, black leaders in Mandela's gov­ernmentand topbusiness leaders in South Africa will read classic works of western literature, and discuss how to translate the concepts in the books intoa better South African society. "It is a way to get people thinking and a way for them to get people to know each other," Father Williams responded. 
When asked about differences between the South Africa of yesterday and today, Father Williams re­sponded with a smile. "South Africa has become the great hope. Itisan emerging democracy and on,e that has great, great promise. Everyone is wondering if the new government will work. I think that it will. I sense great optimism and lots of hope." 0 
13 



303 LaFortune-631-7569 -gipper.1@nd.edu 
Your tuition dollar at work & administration profiles 
FEsale at the Venture deli! You know what that means: new Huddle furniture!" -auniversity adminis­trator makes another key decision. 
WHAT WOULD J.P.Il SAY 
The Gipper has heard from some of his higher placed sources that Campus Minis­try hasrequested permission from the Board of Trustees to form a support group for the homosexual students of campus. Suppos­edly this group will be created within the guidelines set out by the Church (like play­ing lots of Village People music). No word on whether the trustees have approved the measure yetor exactly how Campus Minis­try will support homosexuality without set­ting themselves on the fast-track to hell. The punchline of this whole report, the Gipper is told, is that Campus Ministry's orignial choice to head this homosexual support group was a young Holy Cross priest. However, in the planning process, it was wisely recommended that he be re­placed by an olderand less attractiveC.S.C. 

A SIDE-ORDER OF RICE 
Surprise, surprise! The administration is selectingthenextprovostwithoutanymean­ingful input from anyone (as if you thought thatsomething like that would be handled out in the open). Well, the Gipp hears. the next beauty queen for the dome's adoration is 38 year-old Condoleeza Rice who cur­rently occupies her time as Stanford pro­vost. Good thinking: you wouldn't want anyone in the Provost office who knows something about this university. 
WOULD YOU LIKE A RECEIPT 
Recently the Rolfs family (as in Rolfs aquatic center) offered the school $3 mil~ lion to build an athletic center for non~ varsity sports. ,Well, administrators took the money, drew up lavish plans, and went back to the Rolfs and asked for $2 million more. An offended Mr. Rolfs took his $3 million back, but someone laid a serious guilt trip on him and he gave back $5 million. Sucker! 

WEEKEND RATES 
The Gipper bets the majority ofthe cam­pus fails to realize how many people ac­companythefootballteam toitsawaygames and exactly how much money is spent for their fun. Well, at the Fiesta Bowl there were two players per room and nine rooms for each Malloy and Beauchamp. Now, either they were having an whole bunch of guests, or they like playing hide and seek. 

CURTAIN FALL 
The Gipper hears that the only thing Student Affairs hatesmore than his column is the infamous Keenan Review. But the Gipp's favorite stage production looks to be in danger of cancellation after this year. The only thing that has saved the Review forthis long has been Keenan rector Brother Bonaventure. In fact, fearing that the Re­view might find· another religious friend, Patty O'Hara has barred any priests from moving into Keenan for two years. The present danger to the Review is. this: the indomitable Brother Bonaventure is retir­ing this year. Ifyou hear water flowing, it's Patty O'Hara drooling· at the thought of killing the Review as her last act. 0 




SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports 
January 24 to January 31 
edited by Jake Schaller 
low five points against LaSalle with 23 and 18 points in the two wins. Morgan's five point total against LaSalle ended an amaz­ing run of 32 consecutive games in double figures. 
HOCKEY After a disappointing start to its season, Notre Dame's hockey team has begun to show impressive flashes. With a 7-2 victory over Ferris State, the Irish snapped a five-game losing streak and climbed out of the CCHA cellar. The victory also gave the Irish their first series win of the 1994-1995 season. Junior Brett Bruininks and sophomore Terry Lorenz scored two goals apiece in the win. 
Jamie Ling, who leads the team in assists 
(26) and points (36), has continued his hot play. The junior center had a goal and at least two points in the last three games. Sophomore Tim Harberts leads the team with 16 goals and is second in the CCHA with 10 power-play goals 
SWIMMING Notre Dame's men's and women's swimming teams both picked up wins over the weekend over Saint Bonaventure. The women ran their record to an impressive 10-1 with a 174-114 victory. Sophomore Erin Brooks and jun­ior J esslyn Peterson were double winners. Brooks took the 100 and 200 backstroke, while Peterson won the 200 freestyle and the 200 breaststroke. 
The men upped their record to 4-6, with a 150-87 win. Junior Ry Beville won the 

-I
200 butterfly in style, breaking the Saint 
. Bonaventure pool record with a time of I 1:53.20. Predi.ctions Kennedy's Kall: Several factors play into this one. UCLA is drooling for revenge. They are explosive, having scored 137 points in one game this year. The Irish are 1-5 on the road, but they play their best game of the year against UCLA. The inside game is sporadic against Ed O'Bannon and Zunik, but Hoover and Justice are on fire. While it's a good thing for Eddie that Joe Ross is gone, ND's got Gotsch. UCLA by 8. Schaller's Schott: After last year's defeat at the hands of the Irish, the O'Bannon brothers and UCLA are ready for Notre Dame. The brother tandem combines for 35 points, and helps the Bruins storm to a huge first-half l'kd. A Garrity-led run in the second half helps keep the score respectable. UCLA by 14. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL What a differ­ence a year makes. After a disappointing 1993-94 season in which the squad won 12 games theentire year, Notre Dame's men's basketball team has rebounded, starting this season 12-7. The Irish record stands as their best start since 1989-1990 team went 12-7, and has prompted tournament talk among fans. 
Much of the team's success has been due to the play of its three freshmen, forwards Pat Garrity, Derek Manner, and Brian Watkins. Garrity has made by far the greatestt impact, cracking the starting line­up, and leading the team in points and rebounds per game (13.2, 4.8). The fresh­man phenom truly came of age during Notre Dame's loss to Duke. Matched up against Duke's senior center Cherokee· Parks, Garrity scored a career high 27 points and pulled down eight rebounds. 
The Irish bounced back from the Duke loss with a 74-68 victory over Boston Col­lege. The victory was a special one because the Eagles are from the Big East Confer­ence, which Notre Dame will join next year. The Irish_ were sparked by a game­high 20-pointperformanceby Ryan Hoover that included six three pointers. Billy Tay­lor provided a spark off of the bench, scoring a season-high 17 points in only 19 minutes. With the win, the Irish ran their record to 10-1 in the JACC. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL With four straight wins, Notre Dame's women's bas­ketball team ran their record to 10-7. Out of the team's seven losses, however, four have been decided by five points or fewer. The team has started to roll of late, with nine wins in its last ten games. A 67-56 win on the road over Wisconsin-Green Bay, and a 98-50 home trouncing ofWisconsin­Milwaukee gave the Irish two conference wins, running their MCC record to a per­fect 8-0. 
Key in those two victories was the out­standing play ofBeth Morgan. The sopho­more guard bounced back from a career-
15 

Far below where they should be,in offensive production and in conference standings, snakebitten Jamie Ling and Co. are getting 

the short end of the stick 

by T. Ryan Kennedy 
Tie offense charges down the ice and dumps the puck into the zone. Defenseman Davide Dal Grande 
gathers the puck and shovels it off to num­ber 6 who slashes across the ice in front of his own net, cuts around two forecheckers, and barrels down the right wing headed for theoppositegoal. Number6slidesthepass across the crease and number 8 slams it home from the left side. The red team skates off and the blue group comes out Perfectly executed, for aThursday morning practice. 
All year, the Irish icers have struggled to apply practice plays to the real thing. And their 7-19-1 (3-15-1 in the conference) record shows it. It all began, perhaps, in a 
I
., home-and-home series against Illinois-Chi­cago, not the most impressive team. The Irish let a 2-0 third-period lead slip, and the fired-up Flames netted the game-winner with less than a minute to go in regulation. A win would have set the Irish off on the rightfoot, butthe losssetthe table for games like the one two weeks ago in the JACC. 

Throughout the first two periods of the Notre Dame-Michigan State showdown, the Irish took it to the Spartans, one of the nation's elite. Though they trailed 3-2, an upset was in the making -until the third period. While the Irish werebeing upended in every respect, and while Coach Ric Schafer stood calmly behind the bench as the referees took over the game, the Spar­tans racked up goal after goal until the final tally read 8-3, Michigan State. 
"We're still trying to sort that out," said Schafer, referring to the the two weekend losses to Michigan State and Michigan. "Fatigueenteredintoittoadegree. Butthen again these _are the UCLA's of college hockey." 
Oneoffew brightspots to have come out of recent games has been the play of fresh­man netminder Matt Eisler. During the break, Eisler was the story in a 3-2 win over Boston College. While the Eagles shelled the Irish net furiously in the closing min­utes, Eisler was the one who kept his cool, turning away more than 30 shots overall, many ofwhich were labeled. "MattEisler's going to be sensational," said Schafer. 
Eisler,at5-8and4.76GAA,hasmade 11 consecutive starts, and has been in goal for Notre Dame's last four wins. He continues to move up in overall conference goaltending, ranking eight in saves and minutes played and ninth in wins. And all of this as a freshman. 
However,itis difficultfor any goaltender to prove himself if his team cannot put the puck in the net. "We're not scoring very much," said Schafer. In fact, the Irish have scored about 14 fewer goals than the team ahead of them in the CCHA standings, according to the coach. 
But this did not stop the Irish from pep­pering Ferris State last Saturday with seven goals. Sophomore Terry Lorenz led the assault with a two-goal performance and is developing into an offensive force. "That was a big boost for us because Ferris has beaten top teams in the conference," said Lorenz. "We have 8 to 9 games left and we're looking to get on a roll because the playoffs are only a three-game series. We probably want_to stay away from Michigan, but we feel we can beat anyone." 
The most important thing, though, is that people understand that the team has played in the nation's top conference (CCHA) for only three years. Respectabil­ity and consistency will take time. "With eight games to play, the spirit of the team has not been broken," beamed Schafer. "Practices have been particularly upbeat. There's got to be a reward somewhere." 
The iceis melting quickly in South Bend. The young Irish have the chance to skateoff and to fold the season up here. But they are spilling their guts game after game. They know there is a reward out there, something bigger to come in the future, but it all starts now. D 
16 
.,•--•1111
1=-spr41r11 
A dialogue like this between the Head Hockey Coach and the Athletic Director is likely to occur ifthe Coach doesn't start 

Sorting Out the Pieces 
I 
Spartan who looked like he was chopping by T. Ryan Kennedy wood with the way he buried his stick into Lorenz's back. The second Spartan into theCoach: (entering the dark, cigar comerspeared him in the ribs, and the third smoke-filled room) A.D., you slashed at his legs. And no whistle. No 
wanted to see me? whistle to stop play and no whistle for a A.D.: (in adeep, gruffvoice) Havea seat, penalty by the referee Mr. Sotiroff. Every Coach. (Coach sits, on edge ofhardwood fan in the arena wanted to ring his neck! 
chair, trembling). Now Coach, be­fore I begin I want to thank you for what you've done for the program. You came to us from an upstart Alaska-Fairbanks program, which you ignited. You played for Notre Dameandnow you'reinyoureighth year behind theNotre Dame bench. We appreciate-what you've done. But, Coach, it's what you're doing now that is the problem. I thought this year's team was supposed to exceed last year's team of 11 wins 
(becoming red in the face, pauses, blows smoke). l guess what I'm trying to say Coach is why, how, howcomeNotreDamehasonly six wins (slamming hisfist through his creme-filled doughnut)? 
Coach: (stuttering) Yes, there really seems to be _no explanation, 
A.D. Um, ah, we're tightening up defensively, except for the last few games. -­A.D.: Coach, _were you at the Michigan State game two weeks ago?· · Coach: Of course, sir, I was be­hind the bench as usual. 
A.D.: No, what I meant was, did you see what was happening to our 

Coach Is much to blame for giving officials and opponents the chance to spoil close games for goaltenders like Eisler and Salzman (above), who let this one slip through against 
Michigan. 
You looked like the newest Snite sculpture 
players? The Spartans were charging them, · with your arms crossed and mouth shut. I banging them, boarding them, and elbow­would have been over theboards and on the ing them from 30 feet away. And while the ice, up in the refs face. An ejection would Irish.were busy peeling their faces off the have been liberating, motivating. The next glass, the Spartans were scoring. I'll never night at Michigan, your Irish led 2-0 early forget the scene: Terry Lorenz fell on the on but lost 9-3. Understandably, it was puck along the boards in his own zone, Michigan, but Coach you promised you'.d desperate for a whistle. Then came the first beat Michigan this year (out ofbreath). 
Coach: I always hesitate to comment on therefereeing. Ithought there were acouple of tough calls. I thought we should have been awarded a penalty shot when we were down 3-2. 
A.D.: You thought, but did you let him know about it? And besides, when you're trailing 7-3, it's time to let your players 
loose. Let them go crazy. Now, Coach, I also feel it is your respon­sibility to corral the fans. Have you addressed the fans about the neces­sity of their support? Because I think it is a disgrace, that number one, fans can't make it to a few hockey games, and number two, · whentheydomakeitforabiggame, they sit with their hands under their legs and their mouths strapped shut. . 
Coach: The fans could be more ofafactor. Butfirst,I think it's time for a new set of stands. They don't even go all the way around: Imean, ifwe wantto benational-champion­ship caliber, if we want to be strong like other Notre Dame sports, we. need more than bleachers. Apacked house for us is only 3,500 fans. My feeling is that we won't be serious contenders until we get rid of the portable stands. 
A.D.: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I agree, butwhatdoesitsayaboutthecoach­ing if we can't fill the seats? (Si­
fence). I know you have guys on thatteam with great potential. What yourplayersneedissomeonewho's 
going to berich a player if he's not 
hustling, someone who's going to let an official know about a shady call, and some­one who's going to demandalittleextracur­ricular play, um roughhousing, so to ·speak · when things look bleak. They need a moti­vator. (Silence). Coach, I'm going to give youanoth~~shot. Butifthisteamdoesn't improve in a hurry ••. as I said, we're grateful for the effort. D 

two swimmers to study-abroad programs. Other swimmers have been lost due to 



Bobbing Ahead 

Irish gem Jesslyn 
Peterson has 
helped lead the 
women to a 10-1 
record. Only a 
Junior, Peterson 
has posted two of 
Notre Dame's all­
time top 10 times 
In the 100 
breaststroke and 
six of the top 
times In the 200. 

u i 
injury or academic problems, leaving the team with fourfewermembersthanithad in December. "We are still racing faster than in December," said Welsh. ''That says a 
lot." 
The challenge to build a winning team comes from sources that have nothing to do with the water. Due to Title IX, the men's team has only one scholarship, whereas the women have 10 scholarships available. 
Welsh commented on the difficult situa­tion created by the funding mandates. "I understand the reason, but it's hard on the men. They're being asked to compete on the same level (as the women) but without, the financial support" Despite the dispar­ity in funding, Welsh expects the same performance out of both the teams. 
"Each person has theirown bestpersonal performance and that's the most formi­dable opponent you can have. Your own best self is your perfect match. The ques­tion is-Canwe improveourown personal bests?" he continued. That challenge will be taken seriously by the Irish as they pre­pare to host theMidwestCollegiateConfer­enceChampionships from February 23-25. 
Both the men and the women hope the momentum they have built throughout the season will be a boost going into the meet "It's.our lastMCC championshipbefore we move to the Big East. We'd like to win the meet We'd like to win it with style, class and pizzazz. We want to see people swim­ming life-time bests, making NCAA stan­dards and setting university records. We'd like to do it all right here in Rolfs Aquatic Center," Welsh said. 
The Irish hope the meet will provide opportunities to meetthe times necessary to be. considered to compete in the NCAA meet. Erin Brooks was the only one to have raced below the consideration time for her event, the back stroke. However, Welsh believes several of his swimmers are ca­pable of qualifying. 
"When it's over we want to treat itlike a math problem -draw a line under it and say this adds up to a new total. We're at a new level," said Welsh. · 
"Wecan define existenceatthis leveland look for the next one. We want to finish the season and not say 'What a dream that was' but to say 'Look where we have come and look what's ahead.'" · · 0 
Notre Dame swimming hopes to leave its mark on the MCC, and the NCAA, before entering the unchartered, competitive waters ofthe Big East 

by Shannan Ball 
On the morning of Jan.uary 4, most· Notre Dame students were prob­ably sound asleep in .their own beds, with another week and a half remain­ing on the vacation calendar. But the men's andwomen's swim teams were returning to resume training for the remainder of the season. They spent more than four hours a day in the water, demon­strating an intense dedication evident throughout the season. Whilethewomenhavepostedanimpres­sive 10-1 record, with their only loss com­ing against nationally-ranked Purdue, the men have struggled at4-6. "We have a wonderful balance of upper and lower classmen," said Head Coach Tim Welsh of the women's team. "A lot of our success has to do with the make-up of the team." "Our team is really close," said freshman Courtney South. "We're supportive and encouraging." Through the combination of talent, attitude and effort, the Irish have had outstanding performances from members of all classes. ''There really haven't been. 
standoutsbecausethegirlsstepupasneeded. · 
It's not 'Ifonepersondoesn'tdowell, we'll 
getbombed.' It's'Ifwedon'tdowell,we'H .get bombed'," said the coach. 
But nothing helps more than talent, and 
the Irish seem to have their fair share, for 
now. ''They have the abHity to make the 
right decisions regarding' athletic excel­
Jenee," continued Welsh. "Besides which, 
they have talent None of the other stuff 
wins a meet if you don't have talent" 
The contributions have resulted in sev­
eral Irish firsts. This season the women's 
team has defeated Brigham Young, Texas 
Christian, Air Force, Southern Illinois and 
Navy,allforthefirsttime. Theyalsoputan 
international twist to the schedule by trav­
eling to Canada, where the Irish defeated 
Western Ontario. 
Onthemen'ssideofthepool,RyBeville 
has been making a splash for the team, 
setting Notre Damerecords in the butterfly. 
"One person can't win a meet This has 
been a growing year for the men. They're 
searching for leaders," Welsh commented. 
The men's team has suffered the loss of 
18 

19 



Condoms Not Included 
Band De Soleil returns to campus 


more money playing music than Ido selling and "Black River," the next song on both 
by Josef Evans condoms." theCDandthesh~w,gotthecrowddancing 
Butthatdidn'tmean they let the warning with the appropriate degree of fervor.Youcan'tmasturbate,youcan'tf-1'** go unrecognized. This time out, Malone Not everybody was thrilled. But that· ... but hey, at least you can still tossed out Hershey Kisses, assuring the seemed to have more to do with Malone's rock and roll." That said, lead audience with a telling smirk that "there's . untempered discussions on sexuality and 
singer Michelle Malone launched Band De nothing wrong with kisses." Christianity than. it did with the band's Soleil's show last Friday night at the Thecrowdwasrelativelysmall,andeven musical performance. A noticeable portion LaFortune Ballroom 
of the audience made with an impressive its way towards the barrage of gut-level exit when she de­blues. clared before ''Teen 
Putting music Lament," also off Re­where her mouth is is demption Dream, no small task for "This next song is Malone, whose out­about Christianity ­spokenstyleleftafew I didn't believe that audience members s*** then, and idon't unsettledafterherap-· believe in it now." pearanceherelastNo­Those whoremained, vember with the In­though, were treated digo Girls unsettled. tooneoftheevening's Ifnothingelse,every­most danceable and one at that show re­emotionally charged membered Malone's numbers. impromptu distribu­Malone explained tion of condoms and the bitterness beneath exhortations to prac­''Teen Lament" (the tice safer sex. On a chorus of which finds campus where the her demanding "If comparatively tame Jesus is coming, he antics of Billy Joel better come on/If (supposedly singing Jesus is coming, he "Only the Good Die better move") while Young" three times stringingherguitarup during a concert here) earned him a sup­a bit apprehensive at first, but Band De before the sound check. "My parents got posed lifetime ban from campus, it should Soleil's easygoing style and honest perfor­'saved' after years of being club musicians. be no surprise that Band De Soleil 's return mance soon won mostofthe audience over. It was disgusting to be around. •.. It all was greeted with serious caution by its After opening with "Redemption Dream," seemed so hypocritical, like 'I'm right and promoters. Malone shrugged it off before thetitletrack from theirlatestalbum,Malone everybody else is wrong."' the show with characteristic lack of con­waved the crowd closer to the stage with an Whatever one's place on the religious cern. "Well, the only reason we didn't have "it's O.K., we don't bite" look upon her· . spectrum might be, it was hard not to find condoms tonight is because they said they face. The apprehension (at least for those this bitterness captivating as performance wouldn'tpayus-andlmakeahellofalot up front) quickly passed from that point on, truly delivered from the soul. As a result, it 
20 
was those songs dealing most directly with Christianity that had the evening's greatest impact. 
Though Band DeSoleil isMalone'sshow, bassistMikeSnowdenanddrummerDanny Bigay were not without their moments. Their playful attitude, which included toss­ing drumsticks across the stage at each other mid-song, kept the show loose and relaxed when Malone stretched the bound­aries of being intense a bit too far. In addition, the rhythm rarely flagged between the two, providing a solid base for her forays into feedback and offbeat guitar so­los. ' 
For Malone, meanwhile, the chance to throw in a few jabs at the administration which forbade her condom-throwing-and ­selling proved irresistible. Besides the Hershey Kisses, Malone made repeated allusions to the collective repressed sexual­ityshe saw onNotre Dame' scampus, prom­ising beforethe show that since she couldn't discuss condoms, "we're going to try to bring up masturbation as much as possible -in fact, maybe I'll write a song about it just for tonight." When informed of the supposed Billy Joel incident, she laughed and added, "Hey, maybe I'll write a song about a Catholic girl masturbating." 
After a lengthy sermon on the glories of sex, she and the band moved into a number that featured the same kind of sexual charge that powered her November appearance at Notre Dame. Stripped down to her faded green-and-white Kool T-shirt, hair falling over her closed eyes, Malone smoked a cigarette languorosly and ripped into her guitar with the intensity of a woman who'd been delivered to another place. Exuding desire as she moved to the song's slow beat, she provided the audience with a vivid lesson on unrepressed sexuality. 
"If I was independently wealthy, you know what I'd do? I'd get a helicopter and fill it with condoms. And then I'd fly over Notre Dame and dump them all over cam­pus.... Except then people might not know what to do with them. They'd be like, hey, look at these cool balloons!" Malone said jokingly before going onstage. 
This may seem a bit extreme, but it is typical of Malone's way ofcommunicating whatshefeelsisamoreimportantmessage. "The most important thing is learning to think for yourself. If I can get that across 
BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
n,af 1111 
somehow, it'd be great." 
To those willing to listen, the message may indeed have come across. Theremain­ing sparse nucleus of crowd cheered until the very end at every incitement and proc­lamation Malone made. And in between, they were treated to a blistering four-song finale that included songs as diverse as Band De Soleil's own ''Light of Day" and the theme from "The Jeffersons" ("Movin' on up"). The encore was equally entertain­ing, with a pair ofmidtempo numbers from "Redemption Dream,"one of which was an audience request, being played to as much approval as the diminuitive crowd could provide. 
Notre Dame may not have been ready for Michelle Malone this time around, but shouldshecontinuetoperformwiththemix of playfulness and intensity that made Fri­day night a success for most, the future may welcomethem backwithevenlargercrowds. As Malone said, "Hey, I'm just bein' me." In the world of music performance, that's the best anyone could hope for. 
"I'm here to save everyone from being 'saved.' If nothing else, I hope I can get people to start thinking for themselves." 0 

1iliiiibii~tuiid 
Open for carryout and delivery only from 4 -1 O p.m. weekdays, 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS .FOR $1 a.so EVERY THURSDAY** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 
. 273-3890 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties and banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 261 O Prairie Ave . 
288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" 
We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 





Student 
Players 
Perform 

American 
Buffalo
David Mamet's American Buffalo is being produced this week by the Notre Dame Student Players, the_. 
student-run production organization which brought"ANightOfCandelightGhostStory Readings" to the campus this Halloween. American Buffalo is directed by Stephen Susco, and stars Andy Heil, Scott Paradine, and Joe Cavataio. Perfonnanced will be on the Washingtion Hall Mainstage on Thurs­day, Friday and Saturday, February 2, 3 and 
4. Tickets are $3.00 and can be purchased at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
American Buffalo was written in the mid­70s by David Mamet, who also wrote Oleanna, Glengarry Glen Ross and Speed the Plow, and the filmed House of Games and Homicide. It is a harsh examination of the negative aspects of the American busi­ness ethic, and how it adversely affects intra-personal relationahips. The play also examines the loss ofspirituality in America, and the rise of the individual as a kind of machine, or part of the mechanistic system which is the,foundation of capitalism. 
According to Mamet, "American Buffalo is about how we excuse all sorts ofgreatand small betrayals and ethical compromises called business.... It's a play about honor among thieves and the myths this country runs on ... the ethics ofthe business commu­nity is that you can be as predatory as you want within a structured environment ... The operative axiom is "Hurrah for me and fl'~* you."' TheplayoriginallystaredRob­ertDuvall, and, inlaterrevivals, such promi­nent actors as John Malkovitch and Al Pacino. 
While Mamet's Glengarry Glen Ross focused upon a group of salesmen in the 
.middle region of American capitalism, the subjects of American ·Buffalo are petty crooks, the 'have-nots' on the bottonrung of 
MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 2, 1995 
the ladder who make up a delinquent soci­ety. Though· they don't have status as the 'aristocracy' of successful business­men, and they are just as prone to function on the same distorted principles to justify a predatory business ethic. The play takes place in the course of one day, as the three men plan the robbery of a coin collector. 
This is an electrify­ing and riveting play, that will leave the 11u­dience with much to consider. The audi­enceshould be warned that it contains adult language and harsh profanity; anyone who might be offended by such language may want to consider not purchasing a ticket 0 Actors practice for this week's performance. 


SUBWAY Has A Sandwich 
For ANY Size Appetite!!! 





Coming Distractions 
From February 2 -8 ­
Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
ii All Sports: Nothing noteworthy under the dome. Call St. 
' 
i Joseph's high for local hoops schedule.
!, 
Lawn Darts: Pointy metal objects and a whole lotta love at the "Niles Lawn Dart Spectacular" this Saturday. Call the Niles coroner for more details. 

I Cultural Connection
t 
Concerts: Christine Rutledge, Violist & William Cerny,
Ii 
Pianist, Sun., 2 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. 
ri: 
I. Acoustic Cafe: Every Thurs., 9:00 p.m., Huddle. Lectures and Seminars: 
"The Gay Catholic Paradox," by Andrew Sullivan, Thurs., 

7:30 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. ''The Clinton Administration in the Light of a Republican Congress," by Deborah Green, Tues., 7:00 p.m., ND Hesburgh Center. "Democratization & Human Rights in Africa," also by Deborah Green, Wed., 12:00 p.m., ND Hesbur~h Center. 




On the Silver Screen 
University Park West: 277-7336. "Pulp Fiction," R, 2:15, 5:30, 8:45. "Nobody's Fool,'· R, 1:45, 4:20, 7:00, 9:40. "Disclosure," R, 4:10, 9:20. "Demon Night," R, 2:00, 6:45. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Higher Learning," R, 1:OO, 3:45, 6:45, 9:30. "Legends of the Fall," PG-13, 1:30, 4:15, 7:10, 9:55. "Dumb and Dumber," PG-13, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:15. "Highlander Ill: The Magician," R, 1:40, 4:20, 7:20, 9:40. "Litttle Women," PG, 1:15, 4:00, 7:30, 1o:oo. "Murder in the First," R, 1:45, 4:40, 7:40, ·10:1 O. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "Houseguest," PG-13, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00. "Hoop Dreams," PG, 4:30, 8:15. 
Cinema at the Snite: Q31-7361 "Student Film Festival 2," Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 9:45. "Mildred Pierce,".Mon., 7:00. ''The Promised Land," Mon., 9:15. "Divide & Conquer," "Battie of San Pietro," and "Night 
Mail," (It's a short film triple whammy), Tues., 7:00. "Jules and Jim," Tues., 9:00. 
Saint Mary~ Colle~· 
Lithuanian Folk Dance: More exciting than break dancing; more erotic than Lambada.. SundaY, at the Regina basement .north lounge from 7-9 p.m. & Sunday at the Clubhouse from 6-8 p.m. Come feel the magic. 
24 

l•)§i•lii•~iMd•i•t#i-1 

age! 
Campus crime spree scares 
students and anima,ls alike 
. Toilet seats swiped 
On Halloween weekend, students fromMcKendree college in Lebanon, Ill. were left stunned, shocked and asking,"Why?" In what can only be touted as acrimeofextraordinary magnitude,some disgruntled soul stole fourteen toilet seats 
from a guys dorm. 
We're not sure who took the toilet seats or why, claimed a visibly distraught Mike Sandy, McKendree's chief of security. Shortly after the interview he brokedown in tears. 
Whatisevenmorebaffling,andprobably indicative of a professional criminal, is the fact that five of the toilet seats were recov­ered at various sites throughout campus. In addition, this stealthy character broke into the academic dean's office and spelled out a derogatory phrase on the dean's desk by removing keys from his computer key­board. 
''The thought process that provoked these thefts is very disturbing," read an editorial by the McKendree Review, the school pa­per. Of course, no one actually saw the criminal(s), because in every instance of professional porcelain heists in the U.S., there has never been a witness. 
Yet,McKendree college was only thefirst victim ofthis bloodthirsty bastard. 
. Duquesne pain 
On November 29, a Duquesne student reported to security that someone had bro­ken into his room and erased a date on a personal computer. What does it mean? Did a Duquesne Duke know something about a toilet seat theft in a small college in Illinois? Did he write a special date on his computer that the toilet seat ninja sum­marily erased? The FBI says no. I say so. 
Ifnot, how do you explain the two gold­fish that were stolen from a dormitory fish tank only three days later? I will tell you. All porcelain toilet seats in the state of Illinoiscontain small amounts of Charminwn, a drug that has been known to 
after the holidays? 
lfso, come to Sera-Tee and donate plasma today! We' 11 
provide you with extra  r.:  ·"  
for books, rent, etc.  __·}  
~~·  
SERA TEC BIOLOGICALS 110'S. WASHINGTON PHONE 334-1405 (WASHINGTON AT KIRKWOOD)  

I by Kris Kazlauskas 
enlarge.the size of a typical goldfish by as much as thirty thousands times. Because it takes 5000 grams ofthis drug for the gold­fish toreach its maximum growth potential, and each toilet seat can have as much as 500 grams of this substance, the culprit had more than enough of the drug for two fish. 
Problem solved? Not yet. 
. Hoosier Heist 
In a parking lot l:lt Indiana University, security discovered a chair in the park­ing lot. Is it a prank gone awry? No way. 
Thechairwasvaluedat$75,aheftysumfor an ordinary university furniture item. In fact, it was a pre-Depression era chair, and with this in mind, it should be painfully obvious to any ichthyologist that old chairs contain fine amounts of wormwood,a bitter extract that acts as a catalyst in fish growth. · There is little doubt that our toilet seat criminal was at worlc again, and since IU is the only school in the continental United States with really old chairs, (s)he would naturally prey upon their campus if his or her fish were not developing correctly. The chair in the parking lot suggests that the thiefmay have sensed danger, thus aborting his mission. 
. Raw Meat and Champagne 
A month after a candlelight vigil for the missing fish (read above), two kids were caught stealing raw meat and champagne at a store near the University of Illinois. Ac­complices io our fish burglar or just two love birds committing a crime of passion? I say the former. Itis documented thatcham­
pagne can increase testosterone levels in 
fish by as much as 500%, rendering the two monster goldfish capable of annhililating a medium-sized cow in sec­onds. Yet, the search for multiple suspects goes on, America sleeps with one eye open, and police refuse to entertain the thought of a single inastermind to this crime spree. Sigh. D 


Grist for the Mill RICK GREY 
DAYS LAfil, 11-lE "BEDSIDE. VIGIL FOR. TIM CO/JTlt-iOED. WHH.l ANb IF I-IE. 
WOOLD ](£COVER lJAs l)J,.)c.LEA'f.1 BUr TI-IE. "DIA&ts:'O.SIS /JJAS c.EJffi\llJ. TIM HA"D SOl=l=EtEb A P0.ST-5UPERl?>OIJll.. 
BU>blOOT .'Bo~E."t>OM-Jt-1"1:>uc..ED COMA. Ch, THE. HUMAIJrr?. 

o.t.--· PET /JAMES OF l)O&'S (IJ M1;!)1GVAL 
:CRH-A@. L.Y.l'f35.3 .Alf!.Dlf!,Z'a C'7Sl5Z. l{5'1 
/'1l/3 V. 'Ii c., I 1'871. IIX.3 Be. N-58 ,.• €xadl7 wt,,-,.J r: l1lld .f!w 
,..,Y ref"r+ ! 
\ 



ootloose for 







esus 
"They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. They sing to the tambourine and the harp." -Job 21 :11-12 

by Kris Kazlauskas 
As many of you may or may not know, last November I was fired from the player/coach position of the pom-pon squad after an embarrasing loss to iUSB in the regional qualifying rounds of the NCAA tournament. Now, I am not writing to slander the porn squad in any way, because Ilove them as dearly as if theyweremyownoffspring.But,apommer by birth, the void that was created when I turned in my equipment was an oozing sore left to fester, a black cavity slowly eating my soul from withjn. Searching for an es­cape, Ineeded someone, something-any­thing that might restore the wind beneath my wings.· I found that wind with Shenanigans. Thefiery dance troop thathadbeen enter­taining double-digit crowds for years ·in-· vited me with open arms the week before finals. As you might imagine, the excite­ment of this opportunity was impossible to contain, and upon calling my pregnantaunt to tell her the news, she exclaimed that the baby leapt in her womb! Was I the spark that would ignite them into superstardom? They wanted me to coach, choreograph, and motivate them to the next level. Were they ready? Was I ready? In December, I was just another Shenani-sheep without a shepherd -but a mere month and a half later, I can say triumphantly that this group is now an entertainment time bomb that explodes every time they set foot on stage. 
Ladies and gentlemen: Meet the new Shenanigans. 
Letme first begin by saying thatas coach and overseer of the spunky lads and lasses that comprise this organization, I heard the cries oftheadministration thatwe needed to "toughen up." Thus, it is with great excite­ment that I make the following announce­ment. The rumors are true. After tense negotiations that almost resulted in a drop­dead, season ending strike, the merger be­tween Troop ND and Shenanigans is com­plete. The result? Twice the entertainment power. Starting this year, the charming, chipper, cherubs that you once knew are dead. The catch words for '95 are rough, raw, raucous, and radical. No more "In the Jungle." No more "Rockin' Robin." Citing a quote in the Saskatchewan Times that labeled Shenanigans as, "Too happy to be effective. These kids are walking examples of Prozac abuse," I can tell you that this year's performances will be more insane than amash pit at aWilson Phillips concert. 
Yet, every student needs a mentor, and the Shenani-crew is no exception. Public Enemy, Ministry, Ice Cube and the Boo­Yaa T.R.I.B.E. have been tremendously helpful in designing our winter program entitled, "Fear of a Shenanigan Planet." This year's dance routines even include originalmusicbythenewlyformedShenani­band, including the powerful rock ballad, "Martina Navratilova (six-love, six-love)," · and the phunky, phat, slow rap, "Stepan Out." In addition, we have hired the ser­vices ofPipe BombsUnlimited from Gary, IN for what is sure to be an awesome pyrotechnics display. 
However, this article would not be com­plete without an atta-boy to the university for all ofits help with promotional funding. We are currently selling t-shirts at the LaFortune informationdesktopromoteour new tour. On the front is a jolly roger with "Shenanigans" written below it, and on the back in a spray paint font are the words, "JOIN:THEREVOLUTION!"Itmightalso be worth noting that we have forgone the cozy, public performances in favor of 10,000-15,000 seat venues. 
Yes, the changes are big, but we think you'll like what you see. In closing, allow me to leave you with a snippet of our new image, "Pump it up! Here. we go with a wickedtrack/Bigger, better ,badder, deffer­we ain'ttakin' no flack/ So forget whatyou heard, weain'tplayin' games/Shenanigans iskickin' a-and takin' names." . 
This i~ humorous column. The views 
expressed do not necessarily represent 
those o/Scholastic Magazine. 


Priorities in 
by John DeBoy 


the Balance 
I 
I:
I: 
JohnDeBoyisa sophomore government and French major living in Keenan Hall. 
i '' lfyou are interested in writing a Final Word, call the office at 1-7569 for details. 
F:gid. Jam-packed. And whilst the 1981 Hondasputteredboisterously,erratically(oh, the cold), I was almost certain that-barring any sudden and unexpected reversal of the current traffic situation -the damn car would stall. En­meshed in frustration, l sat. muttering curses at a merciless rush hour that could not hear and did not care. Traffic. One more routine exasperation in an al­ready typically intolerable day. And then -a ·distraction. Weathered, tom, faded, and scarcely clinging to the flank of a dilapidated dark blue Chevette was the most fantastic bumper sticker. And itread (in big, bold letters): "SCREW THE WHALES, SA VE THE PEOPLE!" "Amen," I answered, suddenly chipper. A-:rvIBN! And so there comes a time in the life ofevery young individual when he or she arrives atthe consequential realization that people too often do the right things for the wrong reasons. And history affords countless illustrations. One only need look, for instance, to the oft hypocritical rebelliousnessof1960sAmerica. While indeed thou­sands of"well-meaners" crusaded for human rights, peace, justice, etc., a multitude of others saw the entire generational uprising as nothing more than a "golden" opportunity to "party hard" and "raise a little hell." A war demonstration? Yeah man,/'ll go. Sounds cool. Pass me ajoint. And the current environmentalist movement is no different. Environmentalism is trendy. Granted­therearethosewhoseintentionsaretrulyaimedatthe "salvation ofthe planet" But woe to the many who have heinously lost perspective! And where are the "save our kids" t-shirts? A Greenpeace demonstration? Yeah man,/' II go. Sounds cool. Pass me a joint. T'was not very long ago that a pair of vivacious youngsters arrived on my front porch peddling Rain Forest Cookies. "Rain Forest Cookies? What in the hell . . . ?" ''They'refortheenvironment,sir. Toraisemoneyso that people will stop cutting down all of the trees." "Rain Forest Cookies?" I was overcome. Bewil­dered. "Yessir. Thecookiesarepackagedinenviron­mentally-sound recyclable boxes and the money will 
be used to help 'save the planet'" "Rain Forest Cookies?" So much p.c. had me stammering. "Yessir. Would you like tobuy abox?" 
"Whatin the hell ...?" It was clear that these two young ecological "freedom fighters" needed abitof a"wake-upcall." laskedthemabouturbanviolence, 
Theyknewnothing. Iaskedthemaboutthehomeless in Baltimore. They knew nothing. I asked them about Rwanda. And third world poverty. And they 
KNEWNOTIIlNG. Andthenlaskedthekidsabout 
the OZONE LAYER. And the duo spewed forth pagesofrehearsechhetoric,outliningtheapocalyptical state of the present environmental "crisis" and the earth's "imminent destruction." 
''The ozone is a gaseous layer situated within the 
atmosphere above the earth's surface-" "Go home." · "Excuse me, sir?" "Go home." I told the kids that they could return 
when: they were willing to sell me a non-recyclable package of Ethiopian Easter Eggs. Or a styrofoam box of Archbishop Tutu Krispy Krunch. 
The solution lies in a revolutionary reshuffling of priorities. One must continue to do the right thing­buta different right thing. And for the right reasons. 
Ifchildrenarecapableofleamingtodepositalumi­num cans into recycling bins, then they are most certainly capable of l~ing to "shelter the home­less, feed the hungry, and clothe the naked." If they are capable ofcomprehending the technical intrica­cies ofthe ozone layer and the "greenhouse effect," then they are undoubtedly capable of comprehend­ing social injustice, global oppression, structural 
-violence, and the pressing need for societal refonn. 
First things first Then the rest The environmen­talist movement need not be extinguished. It need only be placed quietly in the background while.the more immediate social concerns are brought rightly to the forefront 
The "KNOW NOTIIlNGs" need be sent home penniless and dejected, their heads hung low and their outstretched arms stung by the weight of so many unsold Rain Forest Cookie boxes. Only then will the children learn. 
SCREW THE WHALES. 
At least for now. D 
28 

Did you like what you saw in the 1994 Football Review? All pictures printed in the review are available through Scholastic -All photos in full color -8" by 1 0" glossy print $10. 00 Call Scholastic at 631-7569 and give the page number and description of the photo you want. 

Off-campus students pick up your copies of the 1994 Football Review in the Scholastic office on the third floor of LaFortune. 

Clip Out ru 

640am 

mondav tuesdav wednesdav thl 
'10'\ r:,ot,I Olf10"'t/Ol•O,, 
U.S POSTAGE 
PAID 
No/ft! Dom'° IN p.,,,,.,,IJO l(J 
= 
cw, 
,..~ 







