Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 27, 1883.
• No. 20.
Address to Melancholy.
A nay, dull god, and turn thy lace from me! On thy grim visage ne’er a smile I see: And yet how many worship at thy shrine. In saddest mis’ry, deepest sorrows pine, And ever writhing ’neath thy sombre gaze. Nor joy is ever theirs for days and days. Thy surly brow, o’ershadow’d still with gloom. Thy face so haggard, so devoid of bloom ; Thy frowning features and thy ugly form,' Thou seem’st a portent of some coming' storm That beareth death, destruction in its train. As on it sweeps across the fertile plain. Away, away, thou ever-whining god!
I ne’er again shall answer to thy nod.
J. McC. Notre Dame, Jan. 15, ’S3.
Colorado.
After the mountains, the next feature of interest to the traveller is the wonderful and unique park sys-system of Colorado. T here are four principal parks named North, Middle, South and San Luis, and these constitute a belt, about fifty miles wide, running north and south through the State. They are immense bowls or basins placed high up in the main range, the smaller, South park, having an area of 2,200, whilst the park of San Luis has an area of nearly 8,000 square miles. They all afford excellent pasture lands, and a great portion of them is adapted to agriculture. The elevation of the parks. ranges from 7,000 to nearly 9,000 feet, and gives an average altitude of a mile and a half above our own. Here are preeminently places in which are found a pure, dry, bracing atmosphere, free from that miasma and malaria which are always present in the plains and prairie lands of the eastern and middle states. In these parks the great rivers of the west take their rise. Besides the four parks just spoken of, there is a number of smaller ones, lovely -little retreats, hidden away in the mountain fastnesses, the admiration of the tourist and the resort of the sportsman; but of these we need only make mention.
■ So far I have given you a passing view of the chief physical aspects of the State, but that whiph is. less known, and which, I am sure, will possess
greater interest for you is its economic characteristics. I do not wish to give you a long list of statistics—although I think they would hold your attention—because they - are so remarkable, but rather to tell you of what I have myself seen and ' state, where it may be necessary, the most salient facts of the statisticians’ report.
To many persons Colorado is a kind of an EI Dorado that offers nothing to any one except the miner, adventurer and .speculator. This impression had its origin in the celebrated Pike’s Peak craze, about twenty-five years ago, when gold was first discovered, not at Pikes Peak, but considerably farther north. The rich mines that have since rendered the counties of Gilpin, Clear Creek, Boulder and Park, so celebrated, were not discovered till 1859. The existence of gold in Colorado was indeed made known in 1851, but no exploring party was organized until six years later, when "old was discovered near Denver. Before this time the region now' named Colorado was practically unknown except through the information given to the public by such explorers as Pike,' Long, Fremont and Gilpin, and the meagre accounts obtained from a few hunters, trappers and traders. With the exception of a few Spaniards and Mexicans in the southern part, its only inhabitants were various tribes of Indians that roamed unmolested over plain and park, and through mountain fastness, lords “ of all they surveyed.”
True, the Centennial State is an “El Dorado,” and it is my humble opinion that its hidden treasures of "old are only beginning to be realized and located; But-its. resources are not limited to veins and deposits, of gold. Those w.ho visited the Centennial and examined the wonderfully large and rich exhibit of ores of all kinds made by Colorado, were disabused of this riotion.if they were notbefore, whilst those who had an opportunity, as I had, of examining its marvellous resources, as shown at the -recent Mining and Industrial Exposition.in Den-ver, and. of investigating the Territory from one end to the other, will see that it is to be looked at in quite a different light from that in which it is ordinarily viewed.
We must bear in mind that Colorado is a new country, that there is much of it that has riot yet been explored, and still more that has been examined only superficially. But, speaking of, w,hat the State can now offer, and- what she has shown at the recent Mining and Industrial. Exposition that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
she really possesses, one must necessarily conclude that her natural advantages and inexhaustible supply of mineral wealth have not been known or appreciated.
Gold is found in greater or less quantities in almost every part of the State. The richest and best known mines, however, until lately, have been those in and around Gilpin, Clear Creek and Boulder counties. Here it is found native, but ordinarily in combination with sulphuret of iron, as well as that very rare and valuable ore, telluride of gold. Judging from the results of recent prospecting in other parts of the State, and from the output of Judge Bowen’s Bonanza mine, in Rio Grande County, it seems to be only a question of time until the annual vield of gold will be as great as it has ever been either in California or Australia.
It surpassed.-anything ever heard of in the history of mining; rich strikes were made every day, and fortlines were ‘made-and lost in a few hours. The annual output of the mines soon reached a fabulous amount, running up in 1881 to more than $12,-000,000; according to some estimates, the amount ran up to $15,000,000. , The output of 1881 was no less. Several mines, notably the Chrysolite and the Little Pittsburg, were sold for millions. The value of the ore taken out in one day from only one mine would be incredible, were it not evidenced in such a manner as to be incontestable. The Robert E. Lee, from ore taken out in seventeen hours, has, in one instance, yielded crude bul-Jion to the value of $114,000.
But, notwithstanding the millions of the precious \ metal that have already been taken out, there rc-
Phantom Curve.
But the best returns, especially within the last few years, are given by the silver mines of the State. This is particularly so since the discovery of the rich carbonates in and around Leadville. As far back as i860 the placer mines of California gulch had been worked for gold, and -with profit; but no one ever suspected the treasures of silver existing nearby, until the Gallagher brothers made their lucky strike, in 1877U r A year later the town of Leadville received its name. It had then‘about three hundred inhabitants, living in rude cabins ,	* J o
and shanties arid dilapidated old tents; in the beginning of 1879 the population had increased to 5,000, and before the end of the. year there were upwards of 25,000 people in the new' city and neighboring camps. ’ ‘
But the progress of mining was more extraordinary even than the magic growth of the city.
mains untold wealth. Carbonate, Fryer and Iron Hills, at the foot of which Leadville is located, await the advent of the miner’s pick and drill. According to the calculations of an expert geologist and mining engineer, who has made a special examination of the mineral-bearing belts of these localities, there is yet fully $200,000,000 worth of ore hidden away in the hills above mentioned. This, perhaps, is an overestimate, but still, anyone who examines the ground and goes into the mines that -honeycomb the place will at once perceive that the amount of mineral actually “ in sight ” is simply enormous. There is, it is true, not that excitement there was in this neighborhood three or four years ago, but the lodes and deposits are none the less rich.- The period of wild speculation and business intoxication is now over, and mining and sampling and smelting are here reduced, to a
THE NOTEE TAME SCHOLASTIC.
3°7
system that one would scarcely deem possible had he not witnessed with his own .eyes proofs of its reality. Although the product of a few months, growth, Leadville is now a quiet and orderly, although active and entciprising city, and bids fair to continue so for years to come.
’ But Leadville is not unique in its rich carbonates. The}- are found everywhere throughout the adjoining district, as well as in other parts of the State. I have seen them in the mines of Kokomo, and vicinity, and in those of various parts of the Gunnison country. And ores, mostly sulphurets, but just as rich, arc found in Chaffee county, in the Spanish peaks, throughout the extensive, but as yet undeveloped San Juan country, and elsewhere in almost any direction one mav choose to prospect.
The unprecedented mineral display at the Denver Exposition last summer showed • conclusively that it was not from want of ore, but rather from want of capital to get the machinery necessarv to work the mines already staked out, that the annual yield of the precious metals has not been many times greater than it actually has been. The public, too, had an opportunity of being convinced that mining, like anything else, could be conducted on a business basis, without any greater chances of loss or fraud than is incident to anv other legitimate enterprise.
Colorado, then, is rich in orcs of gold and silver, but her mineral wealth docs not stop with these. Ores of iron of the best quality are found widely distributed and in great quantities. Bog iron, magnetic iron and brown hematite arc found, especially in the Gunnison country, that arc not inferior to anv found in Pennsylvania, Michigan or Missouri. More than this, they are found in the immediate vicinity of the necessary fuel and fluxes. They can be smelted and turned into the best of iron and steel on the spot, saving thereby all the trouble and expense of transportation. Indeed, from what I have seen and heard, it seems to be only a question of time until Colorado will enter into active competition with the iron producing states of the east in supplying the country with the most useful and most used metal in our age of machines and railroads. The large rolling mill in Pueblo is only an example of what the State will soon be able to point to. St. Louis and Pittsburg capitalists foresee the future magnitude of the iron industry of the “ Centennial State,” and are already making active preparations to erect smelters and rolling mills that will compare favorably with those to be found anywhere cast of the Mississippi.
Then the immense coal fields of Colorado seem to be scarcely known beyond the limits of the State, and yet as a factor of its future wealth their value cannot be over-estimated. Coal is found in abundance, not only from Boulder to Trinidad, and from Canon City to the San Juan country, but of every quality, ranging- from lignite to anthracite. And it docs not exist in thin layers only, but occurs in strata, exceeding in thickness the celebrated Hocking valley deposits of Ohio, or the mammoth veins of Nova Scotia. For making the necessary
coke for smelting-purposes, the coal of Crested ; Butte has been shown by actual analysis to be sev-! eral per cent, better than the best coking coal of
Connellsville, Pa., and the anthracite obtainable in various parts of the State is not inferior to the best grades of the famous mines of Lehigh, Lackawanna or Pottsville. Prof. F.V. Hayden, United States geologist, trulv savs, when speaking of the , Colorado coal-beds: -Nowhere in the world is there such a vast development of the recent coal measures, and in few places is their existence more necessarv to the advancement and improve-
. of the country they occupy.’’
, Much, however, as I have already said about ■ the mineral resources of the State, I have not told all. Colorado is rich not simply in the precious metals and in its inexhaustible deposits of iron and coal, but has within its borders untold treasures of lead and copper. Copper is found in abundance, both native and in combination, and in quantity probablv surpassed only by that afforded by the celebrated mines of Lake Superior. Lead, associated as it is with the ores of silver, of which such vast quantities have been mined, especially within the last few vears, has already added millions of dollars to the State’s revenue. Zinc, too, of the best grade, and in abundance, is found in the vicinity of Cotopaxi and elsewhere. Even mercury, free, and as a sulphide. exists, at least in the San Juan country, and I have seen specimens in Durango that would compare favorablv with any that even California can produce. It has been said that there is scarce!}* a metal or an ore that cannot be found in Colorado. and the more I saw of the State, and the more I examined its wonderful mineral resources as ex-
the different mines I inspected in various parts of. the State, the more I became convinced that the statement, comprehensive as it is, was not made without foundation in fact.	.
And then I must not pass over in silence the beautiful granites, coarse and fine grained, .the sand-stones white and colored : the marbles banded and variegated, fine white and breecias, all of which exist in quantities sufficient to supply the State with building material for all time to come: add to this the fire and pottery clays, lithographic stone and gypsum, fluor and heavy spar, sulphate and chloride of sodium, all of which are found in large quantities, and you will have some idea of the" mineral wealth of our country’s youngest State.	’
(to be continued.)
-	Amusements.
An amusement may include in its category anything « from Logic down to fishing.” It may be a game of ball,"or a boat-race; the theatre, or a dance: a good book, or an interesting companion. In fact, anything that draws the mind away from things that may be the cause of anxiety, wearisomeness or trouble, is but one of the different varieties of amusements. There are amusements which, to some extent at least, are improper—such
3o8	,	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
as most dances, play-parties and theatres. Others, such as a game of'“Rugby” or a stroll through the woods, or the like, are beneficial both to body and mind. This latter class, i. e., amusements of a healthy and moral tendency, will be the subject of ' the following general remarks:
It is a-.well-known truth that our pathway through life is a thorny one; in the midst of prosperity, adversity may attack us: puffed up with success, we will meet trials and disappointments. In the morning we may be rejoicing, while before evening, our cup of sorrow will be filled to the brim. Every occupation has its difficulties to be overcome, its obstacles to be surmounted, and if we could not at intervals find relief from the ' cares and anxieties of the world in an • hour’s amusement, this life would become a drag, and existence an intolerable burden.
Where is the man in mature age who does not look back with joy on his school-days, and sigh for their return? And why? Simply because they were days passed without care, anxiety or responsibility; days when a few hours of hard study alternated with amusements of a thousand different kinds;—days when they did not stay
“ . . . . ever on the height, . ’Mid intellectual snow; ” but they came
“ . . . . down betimes to tread the grass, .	And roam where waters flow.”
Of course, at all schools there may be found some who do not amuse themselves as they should during the recreation time. Probably the principal cause of this is the absence of means of amusement suitable to their taste. Here, however, the tastes of us all are satisfied. If the weather is fine, we have our out-door sports of every kind—ballplaying, racing, rowing, etc.; if not, we have our Gymnasium, where we can expand the lungs and strengthen the muscles; or our reading-rooms, supplied not only with good, reading-matter, but also with pianos, billiard-tables, and moral games of all kinds. When tired of these, we have pleasant walks, diversified by hill and dale, by lake and forest, around which we can spend many a -pleasant hour, cultivating our taste by the beautiful scenery, arid learning lessons of virtue from the many statues of the good and great scattered through the grounds.
The life of that man must, indeed, have been a barren waste, who, in looking back over the past, cannot find some bright' spots, looming up like oases in the desert, on which his mind loves to linger. He must belong to that hardworking class who, as students, spent ..the recreation time at their desk, or sitting listlessly around the buildings. Little do those who so act think that they thus ruin their , health and enfeeble their mind. Human nature .demands a certain amount of recreation; without.it, health is lost. And, whether we ruin our health,by inaction.or excess, by intemperance, in studying'or in -drinking, .we are guilty be-fbfe Gpd;; and will. be. held accountable.
Science ‘ comes to .the assistance of nature, and teaches us that'if the mind is' confused on one sub
ject too long, sickness is sure to follow. Amusements, then, are necessary to strength, for without health there can be no strength. They are necessary to study; for a sound mind cannot be found in an unsound body—Mens sana. in corpora sano. As health conduces to happiness, and assists us in the performance of all our duties,'it may be concluded that amusements of a proper kind renew physical, mental, and moral strength. : In proof of this—	’
“ Behold the wretch who slugs his life away,
Soon swallowed in disease’s sad abyss,
While he whom toil has braced, or manly play,
As light as air each limb, each thought as clear as day.”
'	J-
Books and. Periodicals.
Evidences • of Organic Evolution. By George J. Romanes. Price 15 cents. J. Fitzgerald, Publisher, 30 Lafayette Place, New York.
This is an account of Darwin’s famous theory of the Origin of Species. The cardinal principles of Darwinism are explained in the present work with such clearness as to give to the average reader a just and consistent idea of its main features.
— Wilford's Microcosm for January contains some readable articles. We are in thorough sympathy with the editor, and wish him every success in the warfare in which he is engaged against the theory of “Evolution.” For our part, we say, let evolutionists evohttionize as they will, as regards the lower “forms” of creation, but when they come to Man, let them stop. To say that man is evolved from any lower form of creature is out-and-out materialism, inasmuch as it necessarily supposes an evolution of intelligence— an absurdity which, the majority of evolutionists strive to uphold. The first article in the number before us defends a pet theory of the editor, but a theory which, as we remarked before, is downright pantheism. The writer thinks to see an absurdity in the creation of-something out of nothing, and so there would be, were we to suppose nothing as a subject out of which something was created—it would be an evident contradiction. • To say that God creates something from nothing means simply that, by His Almighty power, He causes that to exist which previously had no existence. The other articles will bear reading. Proceedings of the New York State
Stenographers’ Association, Including.Papers read, etc., at the 7th Annual Meeting. Troy,.N. Y.: Troy Daily Press. 1882.
We are indebted to Mr. S. C..Rodgers, of Troy, N. Y., a former President, and. now. Secretary of the Association, for a copy of the proceedings of the _N. Y. State Stenographers’ Association—a pamphlet of 98 pages, containing much valuable inf01 mation about stenography and stenographers in all parts of the United States. For the general reader, the papers read bofore the Association-will be the chief objects of attraction. The first of these, in-the order -in which they were read,-is a paper entitled “ Material: for Shprthand Work,’

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
309
by A. P. Little, of Rochester, N. Y., which called forth some discussion. In the second paper, “ The Benefits of Phonographic Journals,” by the same, I	a merited compliment is paid “ The Reporter's
j	Magazine'' London, England, edited by E. J.
Nankivell, F. R. H. S., as being , the best of the English magazines; Mr. Little might truthfully have said the best phonographic magazine pub-P lished anywhere, and a fitting representative of j.	Isaac Pitman’s matchless system of stenography.
Mr. D. L. Scott-Browne’s Phonographic Monthly | J	is given the lead of the American periodical pub-
| “	lications. “ Stenographic Laws and Reporters of
the United States,” by Mr. S. C. Rodgers, of t Troy, N. Y., covers 33 pages of the printed re’.	port and	is replete with interesting facts from all
■_	parts of	the United States, obtained with much la,	bor and	edited with painstaking care. This pa-
• '	per is of	itself well worth the price of the pam;	phlet. Mr. T. C. Rose, of Ithaca, N. Y., contrib;	utes a paper on “ Official Stenographers ”; Mr.
:	T. D. Schoonmaker, of • Goshen, a “ History of
Phonography”; Mr. Briggs, of Buffalo, one on . the “ Motives which should Lead to the Selection of Stenography as a Profession,” and “ A. B. Ig-lie”a laughable paper entitled “Perfecting Peri, fection.” The pamphlet contains other papers on I-	matters connected with stenography.
— The Catholic World, for February presents to its readers the first part of a learned and in-r structive article, from the pen of the Rev. A. F.
Hewit,. entitled “ The Eschatology of Origen.” i	The purport of the paper is to clear this celebrated
'	writer and teacher in the Church from all suspicion
of heterodoxy as regards the doctrine concerning ’	the final state of angels and men. It is well
;	known that, among the errors attributed to Origen,
. the principal one is the denial of endless punishment. Father Hewit says: “The orthodoxy of the illustrious Alexandrian in respect to the Trinity, the Incarnation, and all other Catholic dogmas (except the one mentioned) has been fully vindicated.” This “ first part ” may be said to be a “ statement of the question.” The cause of St.. Gregory of Nyssa is shown to be bound up with L	that of Origen. The real doctrine of both as reI	gards this question will be explained in another
number. “Ancient Art and Modern Thought” ' is a well written paper by the Rev. FI. J. Heuser. ’ The writer shows that art is impossible without.
religion—where there is not Christianity there can ' be no inspiration, and that “ pagan art of the best ► period, and in proportion as it is worthy of our imitation, was nourished by a sentiment similar or parallel to that which raised the Christian art of the middle ages.” *“ Among our Diplomats,” by Mr. John MacCarthy; is a trenchant criticism upon the official conduct of our representatives abroad, whose chief duty—when not indulging in antiCatholic tirades—seems to be to inform their Government of this or that fete oi' celebration, or about pork; while important matters, such as the illegal imprisonment of American citizens, receive little.or noattention. “ The Anti-Catholic spirit of Certain Writers,” “Sir Thomas More and His
Times,” “A London Literary Pilgrimage,” are articles well worth reading.., “The School Grievance and its Remedy,” by the Rev. Walter Elliott (of ’55), is an able and succinct exposition of the evil of our public school system. The remedy is thus expressed:
If some citizens wish to maintain schools exclusively secular, let the State help them. If other citizens wish to have denominational schools, let the State help them also; and let the State’s aid in every case be in proportion to the numbers benefited, and the success obtained in such instruction as the State judges necessary to form good citizens. Let us have fair play and payment for results.”
The other articles are “ De Contemptu Vitae Presentis ” (A Poem); “ Daylight at Last,” « Out of the West” (stories), and “New Publications.” The number is very entertaining and instructive. Published by the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York.
— The North American Review for February opens with another symposium upon the question of the “ Revision of Creeds.” Perhaps the most fitting review of the work of the six writers on this question may be summed up in a quotation from the essav of. Bishop McQuaid, in the same number, where he says:
“In leaving the Catholic Church, it (Protestantism) carried along many of the old points of doctrinal belief and some of the familiar and cherished religious observances. But, when it thus left the Catholic Communion, it was much like a mariner going out to sea in a ship without a rudder, who, when the storm arises, casts out one bit of cargo after another, in the vain hope of saving the sea-tossed arid foundering vessel. Protestantism went out to sea without Christ’s appointed pilot, and has been discharging cargo ever since, to escape shipwreck.”
Prof. Alexander Winchell, in an article entitled “ The Experiment of Universal Suffrage,” institutes a profound inquiry into the essential conditions of stable popular government, which are, substantially, virtue and intelligence. But these conditions, he maintains, are absolutely unattainable under our existing political system, where an electorate, either ignorant or vicious, or both, by the mere force of superior numbers, practically nullifies the suffrages of the better and wiser portion of the people, whose right to control the govr ernment of the commonwealth is grounded in the very nature of things. The paper contributed by Rt. Rev. Dr. McQuaid, Bishop of Rochester, on “ The Decay of Protestantism,” is the great feature of the number. In a plain, logical and learned article, Bishop McQuaid fully accomplishes the object which he proposes to himself, viz., «to show by facts and figures, and by the admissions of sincere and sorrowing friends that Protestantism, as a religious organization, is decaying.” The Rt. Reverend writer shows that the decay of Protestantism is to be found in (1) church creeds; (2) church government and ministry; (3) church membership and attendance at church worship or services. The splitting up of Protestantism into countless numbers of sects, each with its particular tenet to distinguish it from others, makes it a veritable “ house divided against itself ”—which must necessarily fall. In church government and ministry, Protestantism is fast decaying, inasmuch as it has not “the power and the will to en-
I
310	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
West Virginia, defending that corporation against its assailants, and John C. Welch setting forth the reasons for condemning it as a dangerous monopoly. The Review is published at 30. Lafayette Place, New York.
Exchanges.
—A series of interesting articles, entitled “ Rcmi-	.
niscences of Boston Reporters,” by Mr. W. B. Wright, of Boston, has added much to the attractiveness of the late numbers of The American y Shorthand Writer. Before entering upon the f journalistic career, Mr. Wright was a disciple of ' Vulcan, and cultivated his brawn for five years as a blacksmith. To this muscular training, perhaps, facetiously adds the editor of the Shorthand Writer, Mr. Wright owes a portion of his success
I in that famous “ capture ” of the libretto of the | “ Pirates,” a couple of years ago. It will be re-i membered that all possible means were employed to * prevent the publication of the libretto. A rival manager, however, hit upon the plan of secreting . a shorthand writer within ear-shot, to secure the	i
words while the piece was acting. Mr. Wright V was selected for the task, and after several unavailing attempts he- finally succeeded in getting a	।
correct report of the libretto, while lying on his
| back on thefloor of a private box. Mr. W right is > a pleasing, gossipy writer, with abundance of anec-	i
| dote to make the time fly. . Besides the news, I sketches, and other miscellaneous reading-matter,
| the Writer publishes a graded series of lessons jn	।
i Isaac Pitman stenography, fac-simile reportcis’	(
■ notes, news, etc. To encourage the public generally
to take up the study, the publishers offer to correct free the exercise papers of those who send 25	<
cents for the January number of the magazine, which is to contain the first lesson of a course of twelve. To those who do not require lessons cor-	;
reeled the price of subscription for the magazine is $1 a vear. Price of subscription for the course, $2.
Address Rowell & Hickcox, 409 Washington street,	j
. Boston, Mass.	i
—“ Now,; then, you critics, be not too severe:	5
Why, what a swarm of scribblers have we here!	J
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven; eight, nine, ten.	“
All in one row, and brothers of the pen.”	;
There they are, you sec; the 'Varsity, from	.
Toronto, getting out its special, with a protest	i;
against the abolition of residence at the Univer-sity; the Princetonian, with his splendid “Stock Exchange” at his right, inditing an article defining his position with regard to the Intercollegiate Press - Association, which, he states, has a well-defined aim, but; an empty barrel—nd •ammunition being;7at	?
hand.’ -..“Our position,” states the editor of the Princetonian,“ as a result of the convention, para-	i
doxical as it may seem, is, that we would have	1
been unwilling .to join the association had: it amounted to anything, but lire glad .to lend it bur	M
support, inasmuch as it does not.” Y onder. is The -Crimson, whose Exchangc-editoilnihblesthe end	I
of his qiiillin a quandary; as to whether the Scho-	■’
lastic-t-“ peculiar though . interesting-’’—is a re- •
force discipline find coerce refractory members.” . . . . “ When a church cannot tell what are the functions of its ministry, and when its government falls, in a degree, under the control of laymen who need not be communicants, it may be said to have abdicated all government and ministerial power and office.” The proposition that “ Protestantism shows decay in church membership and in attendance at religious services ” is sustained Ity proofs “ which ‘ are startling and conclusive,’ and which are found in the admissions of Protestant clergymen, in official documents, and in the statistics gathered by impartial secular newspapers.” These three points are developed and demonstrated with a force and cogency that leave no room for re-ply. The proofs presented are such as must convince any well-disposed and rightly-thinking mind, and forcibly bring Home to him' the fact that now and henceforth his choice must lie between Catholicity and infidelity. As of old, so, too, at the present time, in the religious arena the conflict is between belief and unbelief: with the difference that now practically—-and the time is fast approaching when it may also be said -professedly—Be:lief means Catholicity, and that alone. After showing Protestantism to be “an inefficient agency to hold and transmit faith in Christianity,” Bishop McQuaid next points out the causes of this inefficiency. “ There is one true and effective cause. ......Christianity is a religion of supernatural truths needing supernatural helps. . . Largely increasing numbers of Protestants are passing into Atheism, because they have no divinely-assured teacher io lead them'fo a knowledge of the supernatural^ and help them by supernatural means to a supernatural endf He then points out a num-of secondary causes for the decline of Protestantism; but the enumeration of them would carry us beyond the limited space at our disposal. We commend to the attention of all our readers the perusal of this truly remarkable and timely paper. We commend also the spirit manifested by the editor in securing such a paper and presenting it to his readers. . In a sense, it may be said to be a conformation of much of what is contained in the learned Bishop’s article. The time of prejudice has passed : men have learned to take a practical, com-mon-sense view of things, and to think and reason for themselves. ' There are, indeed, anti-Cath-blicsybut these-are also, at least practically, anti-religious. Again, we repeat, the great struggle isbetween religion and infidelity. And there is but one religion as there is but one infidelity, with the difference that infidelity, being error, is ever varying; while religion, being truth, is ever one and the same. “ The Political. Situation ” is the joint title of two articles, the one by Horatio Seymour, the other by Geo. S. Boutwell, who'offer their respective views upon the causes of the recent overthrow of the Republican, party. An article by Dr. D. A. Sargent, on “ Physical Education in Colleges,” treats a subject of prime importance to the .welfare of the youths in our higher educational institutions. There 'arc two articles on “ The Standard Oil Company,” Senator Camden, of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ligious paper or not; oh no, dear Crimson, the Scholastic is, decidedly, not a religious paper; but, albeit its brevities on peculiarly sacred subjects may not be in the best of taste, it is not an irreligious paper either. The big fire in Milwaukee has we see, brought a careworn expression to the genial face of Crimsons editor. Harvard is in equal danger, he says, and no fire-escapes on the college building, thus imperilling hundreds.of lives. The only reason that can be alleged, he writes, for not putting on fire-escapes, is “ the expense which it would entail upon this poverty-stricken institution.” “ Poverty-stricken institution ” is good, and will, no doubt, bring a crimson glow to the cheeks of the corporation. He further soliloquizes:	. .
“Perhaps the Corporation think it good policy to have the story get abroad that Harvard College is economical of everything but the lives .of its studentswe don’t. But let us put the matter on a strictly financial basis. Suppose Weld takes fire and burns to the ground. Unless the fire began on the roof, the admirably constructed chimneys in the centre of the building (whose draught-might profitably be imitated by other chimneys in the College Yard) would cut oft’ the inhabitants from all escape, and a loss of forty or fifty lives would be the certain result. Now let us take the smaller number, and let us suppose that, on the average, they are half through their college course. The amount the deceased would have paid in term bills is forever lost to the College,—a trifle (excluding interest) of $12,000. To this must be added the rents they might have paid for other College rooms, the endowments they might have given for new Law Schools, and the amount the Bursar might have charged them for damage to their Weld rooms caused by the fire. Ail this would be forever lost by allowing them to be cremated before their time.”
Frorn which it can be inferred that the Harvard cditor.is no more an advocate of the theory of cremation than he is of frozen prayers in Appleton Chapel. But it was wicked in him to set Weld on fire. Yonder the Argonaut is inditing an editorial on frigid lecture rooms. It seems, the corporation of Michigan University are philosophers, and, like the soldiers on Bunker’s Hill, believe in keeping cool and withholding their fire till the last moment. There are port-holes to the building, which the editors of the Argonaut imagine were intended for ventilation,, because located in the worst possible place for that purpose, and useful chiefly for keeping the feet cold. The Argonaut rejoices at the prospect of a new law for the protection of Michiganders from quackery Jn medicine: we hope that while the Michigan Solons are gunning for quacks they will take in the medical ducks that advertise in the newspapers. The ponderous Haverfordian has turned from .the “ Centre of Indifference,” where it occupied a prominent position, and has stumbled upon the “ Sources of Literature,”—hence, Ave presume, the paper will be’ stocked with first-class articles, j The* Exchangeeditor professes a wholesome dread of the College Journal''s Brogan, and keeps a civil tongue; a heavy brogan is a good thing sometimes. The Harvard Daily Herald, besides the usual amount of well-edited college news, for which that paper has become famous, discoursed! at some length on “.Proctors” and “ College Poetry.”*- One paragraph in the first, of thes.e articles we reproduce, as a hint to those persons who think.it their duty
to_ promenade the* corridors, from- ten,to twelve o’clock. every night," as if no one but themselves were in the house: • - *	'	' > a . -
“ Secondly,Het.the proctors, keep still, if they can, and let them, discard squeaky, boots.Common sense alone ought to keep them* from walking about, except to answer inquiries, and they can watch us just as well from one end or one side of the 'room,' or from the middle, if they will only stay there. A-proctor ought to know before he comes to an examination whether, his boots , creak or not; if they do, he can get a pair'bf felt slippers fori sixty-five cents. Or ’if he sits down, as fie ought to, he can do all his necessary walking in stocking-feet-’L -'- ■	*
The Cornell Daily Sun says there is no truth in the report that Porter has been the subject of Cabinet discussion at Washington. Porter has many able advocates at the City of Magnificent .distances, but-the. majority don’t seem to relish it. Fitz John thinks jt- isn’t appreciated as it deserves, and he may be right. The Hesperian Student has recovered from the. W-ild(e) excitement raised by what it terms the “underdone young man,” but is afraid of the “Jersey Lily,” and wants it crushed, or transplanted back to English soil. No need to be alarmed. We are inclined to think, with the Fordham College Monthly, that the “ Lily ” has been handled roughly" by the newspaper men. The latter have raised such a big smoke that we fear the wood is green and. there isn’t much fire beneath it all. Wait till the- smoke clears, and let us see what we shall see. . These virtuous newspaper men are not consistent; after lauding Bernhardt and patting Patti—who, besides the “yellow” fever, were badly marked with the moral small-pox—-they would now crush one who in her own country bears a good name, and against . whom no positive- charge has yet been brought. The Beacon, from Boston, is happy in its new . home and hopes for a prosperous future. Booby’s “ Autobiography of a Meerschaum ” is the centre of attraction in the last issue of the . College Message. The K. M: I. News asserts that in one of our criticisms on an exchange we called ourself the “Lion Ex.-Ed.” This is news to us. "If the K. M. I. man cannot tell us when and where we made that assertion—as we now challenge him to do—we will be justified in saying there is a “Lyin’ _ . Ex.-editof ” in Kentucky. The fat man of the Nevus may have intended the above- as a K.-o-M.-I.-k-al joke, but we cannot see the point. The Badger, . Wisconsin University, thinks the civilization of ■ the Indians “one of the most vexing questions with which ever}* administration has had to deal.” Oh dear, no; the Administrations don’t want the. Indians civilized . at all.They" wish the- Indians killed off, and put out. of the way. f When Catholic priests were out there civilizing, the Indians gratis, and teaching, them .agriciiltural -pursuits, the Ad> ministration drove the. priests offh and handed the Indians over to salaried Protestant ministers whom the Indians did not want and had no use for. Might . was right.fbr the* nonce,.and the poor Indians had -to submit'or go into rebellion and be shot down like dogs,- Nineteenth century civilization,, you .
-know!	...	*	*	. ” •	/	.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
wnrwc sEHomsne
Notre Dame, January 27, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is. called to .the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the manv old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Conf ahis:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art,- Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their .excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.jO fer Annum. Postfaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The Rotunda of the University presented a grand appearance, Wednesday evening- last, when, rendered as bright as noonday by the electric lights, a large audience -was assembled in it, to witness another of those rich entertainments, commonly called soirees, for which Notre Dame has already become famous. .
The Band was on hand to enhance the occasion with a few choice selections, and when, in his closing remarks, Rev. President Walsh said that its reappearance, after such a long absence, brought with it the joy which usually, accompanies the meeting of long separated friends, we think that he must have expressed the sentiments of the entire audience. .
Conspicuously displayed were the Stars and Stripes, “ shining with meteoric brightness ” ’neath the blinding glare of the brilliant “ electrics.” ’
The programme informed us that wc were about to witness the « Introductory Exercises to the Semi-Annual Examination, Literary and Musical, of. the Euglossians arid Orphednics”; and, from the same source, we became aware that the Band would open the evening’sexercises,—which it * did immediately on the appearance of President Walsh. ~ We have naught but words of praise for the Band. : It played. the opening march with all its old-time- energy and effect.
Then, Master W. Devine sang “Lonely, oh, so Lonely,” so sweetly, that we could-not imagine him to be so, lonely after all. Master. Schott, played, the accoriipaniment. gracefully arid well.
’ We would wish to have Master Devine become lonely, often, if he would only describe his feelings to us on each occasion, as pleasaritlv as he did last Wednesday evening. “Karl, the Martyr,”-was
faithfully and effectively described by Mr. E. A. Otis; .while Master H. Metz declared, with much spirit and earnestness, that “ The Union” would never be severed. “ Over the Rolling Sea,” a beautifursolo, was charmingly sung by Master E. Wile, who possesses a clear, rich voice which enables him to take the highest notes with perfect ease. Wc hope to have the pleasure of listening to this young gentleman’s singing soon again. “Our Republic” was ably declaimed by M. B. Eaton. His gestures, though not altogether faultless, were still, at important and strikingpassages, very appropriate, his delivery being-such as to evince careful preparation and study. The “Plantation Scene,” by D. Saviors, was, in our opinion^ the best delivered declamation of the evening. Each gesture, each word, every movement, betokened consciousness of the mastery of the subject; while the heart}’ applause of the audience gave.proof of the excellence of its rendition. At this stage of proceedings, we were favored with one of those delightful musical selections from the orchestra which never fail to give pleasure on every occasion. As usual, a storm of applause greeted the jinalc.
“ Epithalamium,” a Trio, was well given by Messrs. J. Guthrie, H. Foote, J. Kelly. The declamations which followed—“Battle Field,” E. D. Yrisarfi; “Charge of the- Light Brigade,” J. R. Devereux; “Barbara Fritchic,”J. Marlette; “The Editor’s Visitors,” J. P. O’Neill—merited the marks of approbation given them. Mr. Mar-lett’s burlesque of “ Barbara Fritchic ” won for him rounds of applause; and wc can assure Mr. O’Neill that his perfect portrayal of the “ Editor’s Visitors” found a responsive chord in the heart of at least one individual present This was followed by the grand Chorus “The Wolf is on the Hill”; and the style in which it was rendered reflected the energetic and careful training of the Director. Mr. W. S. Cleary closed the entertainment with a “ Scene from Richard III” (Brackenbury and. Clarence). ’ Mr. Cleary possesses, much dramatic ability and gave the “Scene” in a manner which would reflect credit on any amateur.
President Walsh, and Rev. Father Giles, of Brooklyn, N. Y., made the. closing remarks, complimenting all who had taken part in what proved to be a most enjoyable entertainment.
The Humboldt Library.
This is the title of a monthly "publication, by J. Fitzgerald and Co., 30 Lafayette^ Place, New York. The last’number, No. 39, now before us, is made up of Part II of Mr. Archibald Geikc’s Geological Sketches, and may. be taken as a failsample of the other numbers of the “ Library.” The paper and.letter-piess arc all that could be desired; but fftore than this, many of the numbers are profusely and beautifully illustrated. That, , however, which strikes us most of all, is the price . of tlie Library. Considering the nature of the matter it contains, it is indeed a marvel of cheap
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3*3
ness. Only 15 cts. a number, or $1,50 per annum for the best scientific literature of the clay! One can realize bow much is given him, at this low price, when he is told that each number embraces, as a rule, a complete work, or monograph, of some one of the most eminent scientists of the'day—a work, too, that 'ordinarily is sold for from .$1,50’ to $2,00 per copy. One year’s subscription, then, gives us fully $20,00 worth of the choicestscientific works, and in a form too—an octavo-pamphlet—which makes them convenient for use, and easy to bind and preserve. Indeed we do not know of any publication that gives so much for so little, or one that deserves more to’be encouraged. In saving this we do not by any means endorse all that is contained in the Library, or recommend the Library as a whole to all classes of readers—far from it. Well-selected as the works are,—the productions of the master scientific minds of our age—there are some that should be put in the hands only of those who are able to distinguish truth from falsehood, theory and speculation from doctrine and fact. .
The Library includes a wide range of subjects, and embraces almost every department of physical and natural science, history and philosophy. Each number is the reproduction of the work of some well-known writer, or successful scientific investigator, and may be considered as giving us the latest results of modern research and discovery. But one can obtain a better idea of the character of the Library from the names of the authors and the titles of some of the works published so far.
First on the list we have “ Light Science for Leisure Hours,” A series of familiar essays on astronomical and other natural phenomena, by that fascinating and brilliant writer, Richard A. Proctor. In Nos. 19 and 23, we have “ Familiar Essays on Scientific Subjects,” and “ Hereditary Traits and other Essays,” by the same author.
In No. 2, we have the production of another writer, Prof. Tyndall, no less charming in his own sphere. This work treats of the “ Fonus of Water in Clouds and Rivers, Ice and Glaciers” (19 illustrations). Besides this interesting monograph, we have, in Nos. 18 and 37, two other entertaining works from the pen of the same writer, viz., “ Lessons in Electricity” (with sixty illustrations), and “ Six Lectures on Light” (also with numerous illustrations).	.
Nos. 4, 16, 21 and 36 give us four of the ablest and best-known works, of the eminent comparative anatomist, Prof. Huxley. The four works alluded to are “Man’s Place in Nature” (with numerous illustrations); “The Origin of Species,” “The Physical Basis of. Life,” with other essays, and “ Lectures on Evolution (illustrated).	,	.
We have :also in the “Library,” a number of the most popular works of Spencer, Baine, Balfour, Stewart, Flammarion, Helmholtz, Grant, Allen, and others, scarcely less renowned.. The numbers, however, that we read with the greatest, interest, and which we have, not yet even mentioned, are “Town Geology,” with appendix on Corals and Coral Reefs, by Rev. Charles Kingsley; “The Romance of Astronomy,” by R. Kalley -Miller, .
1 M. A. “Facts and Fictions of 'Zoology,” bv Andrew Wilson, Ph.-D., and “Scientific Sophisms”
I —a' review of current theories concerning Atoms, | Apes and Men, by Samuel Wainright, D.D.
j But we have said enough to give dur readers an idea of the character of this new departure in journalism—the first attempt - to our knowledge, to present in a cheap form to the public what before could be obtained only at high, and, at times, even exorbitant prices. To any one who wishes to keep abreast with the progress of modem thought —and who does not?—and -wishes to get in the cheapest form, although in well-printed pages, the latest productions of our advanced thinkers, we'do not know of anything to recommend that will so well answer the purpose as the “Humboldt Library.” - ■
Obituary.
E 31. BROWX, ’65.
It is our painful duty to chronicle the loss of another of those genial friends, whose remembrance brings back to us that of the early struggles and triumphs of our Alma Mater. One who saw the beginning of many of the literary, dramatic and athletic organizations now flourishing here, and who was, in his time, the life and soul of them, has passed to the further shore, and his. face shall light up our reunions no more. .
Edward. Marion Brown was born near Plattsburgh, in the State of New York, Dec. Sth, 1843, and moved with his family to Sandusky City, Ohio, in 1852. In September, 1S60, he matriculated at Notre Dame, where his brother, Rev. Michael B. Brown, subsequently our Vice-President for many years, was already engaged in teach-•ing.. He entered as a student'in the Commercial Course, in which he was a graduate of ’61, but was subsequently advised by his friends to take a thorough collegiate course, which he completed ' most successfully in ’65. On his return to Ohio, he began the study of law, at Cleveland, and was admitted to practice in 1867, after which he attained prominence in his profession: and was elected Attorney-General of the State. In the fall of 1S76 he married Miss Ella Ewing, ‘thereby-allying himself to one of the most distinguished families of Ohio. Their union was blessed by the birth of three children, two of whom survive to . comfort the bereaved widow. He died on the 22d of the present month, at his residence, in Cleveland, Ohio, of congestion of the brain, aged thirtv-ninc years, one month and fourteen days.
He has departed, in the firm hope - of a glorious resurrection. The turmoil and struggle. of his brief but brilliant career are ended. His work in life is accomplished. He leaves us striving to follow him by our prayers and aspirations. May he rest in peace.	-	. -	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—J. W. Quinn (Com’l), of ’So, is a prominent business man, at Danville, Ill.	"
—Joseph Larkin, of ’78, is in business with his brother, at Wheeling, W. Va.
—J. G. Watson (Com’l), of ’70, is connected with the People’s Savings Bank, Detroit, Mich.
—“And}-” Greening- (Com’l), of ’77, is engaged in the wholesale and retail grocery business, at Bay City, Mich.
—We are glad to learn that Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., who for some time had been seriously sick, is now happily convalescent. The Colonel’s many friends at Notre Dame rejoice at the news of his recovery and hope soon to see him here.
—AV. F. Freeman, of ’67, is now successor to P. P. Freeman, wholesale and retail dealer in groceries, at Iowa City, Iowa.. Judging from the talent and energy displayed while a student, and the great amount of business which he now transacts, he will soon be the foremost business-man of the “ Far West.”
—S. N. Pettit, of ’58, is a Pullman Car conductor on the C. B. & Q. Railway, from the Missouri River to Chicago. Mr. Pettit says his great regret’ has always been that he did not remain at Notre Dame longer than he did. The Colorado students are indebted to him for many courtesies during their holiday7 trips.	.
-—M. J. McEniry7 (Com’l), of ’70, receives the following complimentary7 notice:
“The Argus says: ‘Sheriff Reticker has appointed Mr. M. J. McEniry, of Zuma, deputy sheriff' and that gentleman has taken the oath of office.’ The Rock Islander adds, this is a good appointment. Those McEniry boys are excellent young men and deserving of all confidence.”
-—We were delighted this week with a visit from one of Notre Dame’s old students, Mr. J. J. Mc-Ginnity, of ’70. He expressed great surprise at seeing the many7 changes and improvements made since he was a student. During his short stay here, Mr; McGinnity7 made many7 friends among the students. Most of the members of the Facuity7' remembered him as a student. We hope soon to see his genial face'again.
—We extend our congratulations to Mr. Anthony J. O’Reilly7, of ’68, oh his nuptials with Miss Frederica Devereux, which ceremony took place last Tuesday, at St. John’s Church, St. Louis. Mr.
. O’Reilly7 is one of the prominent railroad officials at Denver, Col., where, with his happy7 bride, he will resided The Scholastic joins with numerous friends at Notre Dame in best wishes for a long, happy and prosperous life to Mr. and Mrs. O’Reilly. .	••	;	'	-■
.	— The Minneapolis Tribune, in a notice of Mr.
James O’Brien, ’59, now State Senator in Min-nesota?has the following:	. . '
“Mr-.O’Brien taught the ancient languages at Notre Dame for three years after graduation, then studied law at Lafayette, Indiana; during the war recruited-for Indiana and Illinois Irish regiments; resumed, teaching, and con-
tinued at that occupation for some time, then opened a law office in Dubuque Iowa, remained there until the spring of 1S68, when he went to Lansing Iowa; practised his profession at that place until the summer of 1870, when he removed to Caledonia, Minn., where he has since engaged in the practice of the law. He has been elected County Attorney four times, and is married.” ,
- ••	•	• L . :
Local Items.	.
—Blizzard!	.
—Examination.’	• •
—Noblesse oblige.
—“ Salty ” looked “ Freshy.”	■
—Metz took France by storm.
—Er ist ein fleisziger Kranker.
—The coon was after the ivolf.-
—The Grand Chorus was superb.
—Who saw the “Stars and Stripes?”	.	.
—Examinations are now in full blast.
—The electric lights burned brilliantly.
—The genial chaplain of St. Joseph’s Farm is with us again.
—“Jim” took in the whole performance, and the ushers too.
—With great eclat did Kuhn ring the changes on the diapason.
—Ye “local” has a fine view from the window	.
of his sanctum.	.	'
—The “Marshal” and the “Judge” were applauded vociferously.	•
—He said “ between us ” was the simplest way to settle the difficulty.
—Let us soon have a repetition of Wednesday7 evening’s entertainment. -O	1
—Prizes for the best readers in the refectory7 are to be awarded next week.
—Classes will be fully7 organized for the second session before our next issue.	-
—Parties from South Bend are hauling ice in large quantities from our lakes.
x —The cost of the coal required for heating the University averages $ 10,000 a year.
—Prof. Paul with his orchestra entranced the audience, on Wednesday7 evening. . .	.
—To-morrow, Sexagesima Sunday, Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers’, p. 48.
:—Our friend John sayrs “ the incandescence of	.
the electricjight was an optical illusion.” .
L_-The three coldest davs of the^ season .were	'
Sunday, Monday7 and'Tuesday7 of this week. •
—The “Marshal” made known' “ ye editor’s ”	i
troubles, just as if “ he had-been there himself.”’	:
— The Curator of the Museum is specially in-	■
debted to Mr. A, J. O’Reilly, of ’68, for favors i e-	;
ceived. .	.	-	i
. z—The Juniors have jmade arrangements to .se-	।
cure two billiard tables of thejnpst approved man-	;
ufacturei : //	’
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
315
—“ The Wolf is on the Hill ” was fine, and we really did think there was a wolf somewhere near the Rotunda.
—Invitations for the Crescent Club Supper have been printed at this office. The-workmanship is superior.	'
—Bishop Ryan’s Lecture on “ Some of the
Causes of Modern Skepticism ” is being the Juniors’ refectory.
—The Club “ Hop,” last week, was a success. The grand marches were led
read in
decided by M.
Foote and C. Cavaroc.	-
—The machinists have been kept busy during the week repairing the damages done to the steampipes by the late blizzard.
—Every new arrival among the Minims is enthusiastically welcomed, because he helps to secure to them the Centennial Parisian dinner.
—The Minims are right into business about their examination. They expect that on its good result depends another bushel of Florida oranges.
—The Columbians, at their regular meeting; last week, had an interesting debate on the subject: “ Resolved that Whiskey has done more evil than War.” All the members took part.
—The Junior members of the Crescent Club gave a grand musicale, on last Satursday evening. Prof. Elbcl’s orchestra was in tittendance, and furnished its finest selections of delightful music.
—We regret to learn that the Horticultural Bureau suffered seriously by the kite cold snap. W c understand that the President has ordered from Vicks, & Co., of Rochester, a large supply of seeds, etc.
—A Quintette Club is in process of formation, of which Mr. Delano Saviers will be the fluteplayer. Mr. Saviers is the best performer on this instrument that has appeared at Notre Dame for many a day.
—We arc glad to welcome home the Rev. James Gleason, C. S. C., who for the past six months has been on an extended tour through the “Emerald Isle.” He returns much improved in health—in fact strong and vigorous.
1/ —The Directors of the Lemonnier Library return thanks to Mr. Harold Smith, of Chicago,— with the firm of Ginn. Heath & Co., Book Publishers, Boston, Mass,—for a fine set of Hudson’s “ Skakcspere’s Life, Art and Characters.”
—The daily-hot lunch which Father General ordered for his Minims did much towards encouraging forgetfulness of, the. very cold days of the past7 week.’ The small boys return their warmest thanks for his thoughtfulness and affection.
_____The Colorado boys return their best-thanks to Mr. T. J. McGinnity, of Denver, for the grand sleigh-ride, and lunch he gave them on Thursday last" Needless to say all enjoyed the excursion very much, and will; remember if as'one of the most pleasant events of the year. '	; '
—In the last number of the Scholastic some-
body asked if carpets are subject to taxation? If ! he had spelt “ taxation ” phonetically, with a “ ks,”
the question would have been clearer. Yes, car- ' pets are subject to tacksation, and to meet the ends .
of sumptuary lavys are frequently brought under the hammer. '	’	.	\ y
—The 8th number of the Scholastic Annual has reached us, and Js the most complete and enter-t taining number we have ever'seen. It is carefully | printed on excellent paper, arid stronglystitched, j so that it will stand a year’s wear, though its'abun-। dant information will cause frequent reference to j it. Price 25 cts.—Ypsilanti Sentinel. . \ }	—V. G. sends the following, with the request to
! publish it in testimony of his gratitude to - his 1 teacher for favors received:	.	•
..	Anselme, amaris! Non tame N - IE
i	Nigram ob tuam, quam plurimO	...
i	Studio colis barbam; sed o B	■	-
!	Et eximia scientia	E	'
;	Largam et virtutem f Siste, niL -	:	.
i‘	^lusa amplius I Vale Nobel S.	-
. ‘—Busts of Dickens,' Clay, Lincoln,. Garfield, I Mozart, Beethoven, and decorated pedestals -and I urns were purchased and presented to the' Junior ! reading-room by Messrs. A Schillo, W^ Jeannot.
A. Zeigler. J. Bush, W. Bacon, H. Dunn, .E.' Wile, G; Seegers, G. Hagenbarth, F. Lund, J. Nester, J. McGordon, J.' Devine, S. Waixel^ C-Foster, J. Kahman, H. Kibbler, G. Schaeffer,. E. . Dillon, C. Darling and R. Reach.	=	:
—A friend of ours has, it seems, a fat contract. -One day lately he was aslced about his moustache, . why it appeared so sickly. “Well, I will tell . you,” answered our friend, “the moustache is all right, and doing very well, but it has been cropped so often lately that there is hardly anything left; I have a contract, you sec, to supply the Studebaker Brothers with down to stuff their carriage cushions, and it is as much as I can do to fill the . ; contract.”	;
j	—On Wednesday evening, after supper, special
premiums were awarded to Juniors who had dis- . played marked proficiency in Grammar arid Arithmetic. In the 1st Grammar, Master Mug carried off the first prize. In Orthography, the Scholas-
| tic premium was awarded to Mast. Frank Hag- ~ j enbarth; The 2d premium in the same class was • I decided by lot between Masters F. Fishel, W. \ j Murphy and E. Gerlach, the first-named being-the ; fortunate winner.	.
I —The 12th regular-meeting of the Sorin Liter-j ary and Dramatic Association was held in. St. Ed- , j ward’s Hall, on Jam 2zd., The question, “ Is Paris ' a more Interesting City than Rome ? was debated by Masters J. P. Devereux, G. Huestis.and G. .Thomas, in the affirmative, and G. Stamm, W. • McPhee,, and F. /Whitney on the negative side. A well-written composition on St. Louis .was read by J. Hopkins; one on Dakota, by.D. Prindiville, -
i and one on Colorado, by W. McPhee. Master F.
-Coad, of Chevene, -Wyoming Ter..:was admitted
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
’ —The Delphine edition of the Latin authors has been added to the Library. The books are elegantly bound in full calf, and comprise the following: P. Virgihi Maionis Opera Omnia, ex Editionc Heyniana, io Vols.Quintii Horatii Flacci Opera Omnia, ex Editionc J. C. Zennii, 4 Vos.: Boethius, r Vol.; M. Tullii Ciceronis Libri Rhetorici, ex Editione J. Augustus Ernesti, 6 Vols.; Orationes, ex Editione Ernesti, 5 Vols.; Epistola? ad Diversos, Editione Ernesti, 2 Vols.; Opera Philosophic.!, Ed. Ernesti, 3 Vols.; Recensus. Editionum et Codicum M. Tullii Ciceronis et Claris Ciceroniana, 17 Vols.; C. Plinii Secundi Naturalis Historia? Libri XXXVII, ex Editione Gabrielis Broticr, 13 Vols.; D. Magni Ausonii Burdegalensis Opera Omnia, ex
’ * editione Bipontina, 3 Vols.; M. Accii Plauti Co-majdiie, ex Editione J. F. Gronovii, 5 Vols.; Apu-leii Opera Omnia ex Editione Oudendorpiana, 7 • Vols.; Claudii Claudiani Opera Omnia ex Editione P. Burmanni Secundi, 4 Vols.; T. Livii Pata-vini Historiarum Libri Qui Supersunt ex Editionc G. A. Ruperti, 28 Vols.; C. Julii Ctesaris Opera Omnia ex Editione Oberliniana, 5 Vols.; Eutropii' Breviarum Historiiu Romana?, ex Editione Henrici Verheyk; C. Cornelii Tacit! Opera Omnia, ex editione Oberliniana, 10 Vols.; C. Crispi Salhistii Opera Omnia, ex Editione Gottlich Cortii, 2 Vols.; Marci Valerii Martialis Epigrammata, ex Editione Bipontina, 3 Vols.; C. Suetonii Tranquitii Opera Omnia, ex Editionc Baumgarten-Crusii, 4 Vols.; P. Papinii Statii Opera Omnia, ex Editione Bipontina, qVols.jPub. Tercntii Afri Comaedia? Sex, ex Editione Westerhoviana,4 Vols.; Quintii Curtii Rufi De Rebus Gestis Alexandri Magni, ex Editione Frid. Schmieder, 3 Vols.; T. Lucretii Cari De Rerum Natura Libri Sex, ex Editione Gilbert! Wakefieldi, 4 Vols.; Panegyric! Veteres, ex Editionibus Chr. G. Schwarzii et Arntzeniorum, 5 Vols.; Auli Gellii Noctes Attica? ex editione Jacobi Groiidvii, 4 Vols.; Aurelii Prudentii Clementis V. C. Opera Omnia, ex Editione Parmensi, 3 Vols; Valerii M'aximi Factorum Doctorumque Memorabilium, ex, Editione Joannis Kappii, 3 Vols.; M. Verrii Flacci Qua? Extant et Sexti Pompeii Festi De Verborum Significatione Libri XX, ex Editione Andrea? Dacerii, 3 Veils.; Cornelii Nepotis Vita? Excellentium Imperatorum, ex Editione J. Fr. Fis-cheri, 2 Vol.; Justini Historia? Philippicas, ex Ed. Abrahami Gronovii, 2 Vols; Sexti Aurelii Vic-toris Historia Romana, ex Editione Th. Chr. Har-lesii, 2 Vol,; Dictys Cretensis et Dares Phrygius de Bello Trojano, ex Ed. Samuelis Arlopo?i, 2V0IS.; M. Manilii Astroriomicon, ex Ed. Bentleiana, 2 Vols.; Phasdri Augusti Liberti Fabula? ./Esopria?, ex Ed. J.G; S. Schwabii, 2 Vols;;yAlbii Tibulli Opera Omnia, ex Ed. J. E.- Huschkii, 2 Vols.; L. Anhaei Fiori Epitome Rerum Romanarum; ex Ed. J; Fr. Fischeri, 3 Vols.; C.Val. Catulli Opera Omnia, ex Ed. F. G. Doeringii, 2 Vols.; Sexti Aurelii -Propertii- Opera Omnia, ex Ed. Ch. Th. Kuirioelis, 2-Vols.; C. Vellieii Paterculi Historia Romana, ex Ed. J. C. H. Krausii; P. Ovidii Naso-nis Opera Omnia ex Ed. Burmanniana;ii Vols.; D. Junii Juvenalis Opera Omnia, ex Ed. Rupertiana, 3
Vols.	'
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	<
Messrs. Ashford, Anderson,. Arnold, E, Bailey, Bowers, W. Bailey, Brady, Burns, E. Burke, V. Burke, Coinerford, Castenado, Coll,* Cleary, T. Clarke, G. Clarke, W. Cogh-lin, Conway, Celia, Campbell, Clements, Claffey, Cole, Delgado, Deinhart, Eisenhauer, Eaton, Ewing, Fogerty, T. Flynn, E. Fenlon, Fleming, Fitzgerald, Fitzgerrell, Farrell, Gall, Grever, Golonski, Guthrie, Godfrey, Gooley, Grout, Hausberg, Harris, Kleiber, Kipper, Kolars, Kimmell, Koehler, Kuhn, Jas. Kelly, Larkin, W. E. Lally, Murphy, Molloy, W. j. McCarthy, McErlaine, Marlett, Muhlke, Mullen, C. Murdock, Morse, T. McNamara,- J. McNamara, Morris, Nelson, Noble, Noonan, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Peters, Quinn, Ratterman, Rodgers, W. Ryan, T. Ryan, Sturla, Stull, Simms, C. Smith, Solon, Saviers, G. Smith, Stover, Veale, Walsh, Waggoner, Wheatley, Yrisairi, Zahm, Ziihnle.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Masters Ackhoff, Arnold, Browne, Bacon, Bush, Brewster, Braunsdorf, Curtis, Cavanagh, Coovcr, Caveroc, Jos. Courtney, Cain, Chirhart, Devereux, Dolan, Dorenberg, Dillon, Darling, Eisenhauer, M. Foote. H. Foote, Fishel, Foster, Goldsmith, Gibert, Grothaus, Gerlach, J. Henry, Hess, Halligan, Hagenbarth, Hickey, Howard, Jeannot, Kahman, Kengel, Livingston, Lund, Morton, Mug, Mason, Metz, Mulkern, McCawley, McGordon, McDonnald, T. McGrath, J. McGrath, J. McCartney, D. O’Connor, M. O’Connor, J. O’Donnell, Porter, Rhodus, Reach, J. Ryan, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Seegers, Stark, Talbot Taggart, Taylor, Violette, Worcester, Wilkinson Wright, Wallace, Weber, Waixel, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall,.Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Chirhart, Dirksmeyer; Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Doherty, Fix, Hopkins, Huestis, Hynes, Harris, Hewitt, Johnson, A. Kelly, Krause, Kellner, Kane, Keeffe, Luther, Lare, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, McNaughton, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. J. McGrath, McGordon, McPhee, McGuire, Morrison, Moss, Masi, Metz, Nester, Noonan, B. Otis, F. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Roberts, Rebbri, Roper, Spencer, Stange, Smith, Sommer. Schmitz, Studebaker, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Shicker, Stewart. Thomas, Whitney, Warner, W. Walsh. Welch, Wright, E. Walsh. Wallace, L. Young.
List of Excellence.
.	. COLLEGIATE COURSE. .
Latin—Messrs. J. A. Mclntvre, A. F. Zahm, Bailev, E. A. Otis, W. Gray, T. E. Clarke, G. F. Clarke, M. T. Burns; Greek—Messrs. Quinn, Zahm, Ewing, T. Clarke; Philosophy—Messrs. Steele, Walsh; Algebra—Mr. Kolars; Geometry—Mr. Guthrie; Trigonometry—Mr. Johnston; Calculus—Mr. Otis: English Literature—Mr, Cleary; Criticism—Mr. Steele; Botany—Messrs. Ratterman, Peters; Physiology^Messrs. Cohwav, Saviers, Johnston; Physics—Messrs. Steele1/ Gray f Chemistry— Messrs. Anderson, Otis: :Astronomy-LMr. McIntyre; Mechanics-^-------; Descriptive Geometry-;; English Composition—Messrs. Craig, J. Heffernan; Rhetoric -----------------------------------------—; History-.	* -
. For the Dome.
Mrs. J. Fenlon. Notre Dame, Ind ?......      $100.00
Rev. J. Ford, Notre. D.ame, Ind...... 1........... 12.00 Anne E. McDonald! Ebensbiirgh, Pii......:. :. ib.'do
J. J. McGinnity (’70)......................... 25.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JFlary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Minims took a sleigh-ride on Friday, and enjoyed the delectable treat, as only innocent, pure-hearted, healthy little Minims can.
—A large . and beautiful. Mistletoe Bough o	o
was received from San Francisco. Will Judge Fuller accept grateful acknowledgments?
—The Juniors’ sleigh-ride on Thursday is by them accounted as the most notable event of the week. The day was clear, and the sleighing de-lighful.
—The examination in Catechism took place on Sunday. The Rev. President of the University conducted that of the Graduating Class, Rev. __	O' Father Shortis that of the Preparatory Classes, and Rev Father Zahm that of the Senior Classes.
----------------------
The Scapulars.
A TRUE STORY OF THE LADY ELGIN.
From the Nov. Number of “ Rosa Mysticaf 1814.
“Bless my heart, Tillie! Why can you not be satisfied to be a devotee yourself, without expecting everybody else to be one? You can never make me believe it is necessary to say prayers the live-long day and night, too. I am just as good - a Catholic as you are. I would die foi* my religion any day, and you, with all your fraternities and confraternities, your Agnus Dei, and medals, and scapulars, and the good Lord only knows what, for I cannot keep count of them; you can do no more nor better than die for your religion.” o
Lottie Payson paused here, simply because she was out of breath. Her impetuous remonstrance, however, seemed to have but very little effect upon Tillie, as she stood beside Lottie with a pair of beautifully-embroidered scapulars in her hand. She made no reply to Lottie, who merely paused to breathe and begin again.
“ If you had merely -given me the scapulars, Tillie, I should have taken them with the greatest pleasure, just for their beauty; but when you say, with that peculiar air of yours, that you expect me to be enrolled in the Scapular Society, and to wear them, it is quite a different thing, of course. I would not touch them unless I had made up my mind to wear them; but Lassure you, Tillie, I but just get through the prayers* I have to say now, and I never can find time- to say the scapular . prayers. Therefore, my dear (arid Lottie grew coaxing in her tone), I.let you keep the pretty very scapulars. Do not pray yourself to death over my wilfulness, now!” called out Lottie as she danced out of the room.
Tillie folded her lovely scapulars together, with a mild sigh, then turned to the window and
watched her gay friend as she passed down the street.	.	- .
Not half an hour after, the street-door opened,' ” and Lottie rushed into the room, white with terror. “Oh, Tillie, Tillie! Have you heard that the Lady Elgin.\ws> been run into.by another steamer, and. almost everybody lost ? And, you know', Emma Tracy was to come home on that boat! It is. dreadful, Tillie! What shall I do? what shall. I do?” and she wrung her hands with, terror and grief.	k	.
“ Do not feel so sure that Emma is lost,” said Tillie. “It is dreadful to think how many precious lives will be lost, Lottie, but Emma may be among the saved. She is a most devout child of Mary, and, I know, places the most unbounded confidence in the Blessed Virgin; besides she has worn her scapular from a little child, and I have often heard her say that if anything should happen to her, the Blessed Virgin would be sure to know her by her uniform, as she called the scapular; but let us go to Mrs. Tracy’s, Lottie.”
The two girls, hurrying along the streets on their way to Mrs. Tracy’s, found themselves in a crowd -which seemed to be pressing in the same direction, and following a carriage that moved very slowly. The carriage stopped at Mrs. Tracy’s door, and Tillie and Lottie both saw the ■white face of their friend, Emma, as she was borne into' the house. They knew themselves to be privileged to pass in at the door, in spite of the crowd.
In an instant after, Tillie was busy helping- Mrs. Tracy chafe the temple and hands of her daughter, who, though still living, seemed to have scarcely strength enough to breathe. Lottie stood close beside her, sobbing as if her heart would break, but utterly powerless to help anyone. Father Hennessy, the doctor and the family were already there, and other friends had come to assist Mrs. Tracy, but the two girls kept their places. At last, Emma opened her eyes, languidly, smiled, and laid her hands on her scapulars, which still hung around her neck; then, in a faint voice, but distinct enough for both Tillie and Lottie to hear, she said: “ You sec, our Blessed Mother knew her child by her uniform.” This was all she could then say, but afterwards she told Tillie and Lottie, as they stayed with her hour after hour, that the the last thing she remembered doing before she was washed off the boat was_ to lay her hand on her scapulars. When she found herself among the crowd, gathered on the beach to pick up the bodies thrown high on the shore, all the faces were strange to her. She knew, too, that the greater part of her -clothing had been tom from her by the water; “but,” she said, “ I found mv scapulars still on my neck, and knew I was clothed in the eyes of God, of His Blessed Mother and of the angels. I then shut my. eyes, and my soul was in perfect peace.”
Tillie and Lottie walked away together after this conversation. Both were silent; but when they came to Tillie’s gate, Lottie said-: “ Tillie, will you give me now, not the beautiful scapulars
I
1
3l8
THE NOTRE DAVE SCHOEASTJ
vou offered me the other day, but some plain ones, made of wool, with red woolen tapes for strings? I shall 2fo to confession this afternoon, and ask Father Hennessy to give me the scapulars tomorrow morning, after I have received Holy Communion. 1 am shocked when I remember what T said to you only a few mornings ago. It was all a piece of wilfulness and vanity. I thought the strings would be in the wav, under my nice dresses; I should be obliged to say more prayers; that I should be making, a sort of promise to be very good, and I did not want the trouble of being
O '	_ ■	o
pious; but dear Emma has cured me of all this. I shudder when I think, “ What,, if I, instead of Emma, had been on the lady Elgin that awful night! ”
“Learn of Me.’’
Zeal for God, and self-abasement. Can alone disarm His wrath.
From the cave, in deep abjection, :	Hear the world’s Redeemer.preach:
,	. _ Happy they who trust the lesson
.	. ‘ That God came on earth to teach!
:	Solve the problem of the manger:
;	“Learn of Me! My skill acquire: s
'	I am meek of heart, and humble!”
]	Who shall teach a wisdom higher?
:	"	M.
j Feast of the Hoi.y Name. I
I	Roll of Honor.
FOK POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
” f.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
In the quiet of the Chapel, Silent, ’neath the cave ol stone.
Jesus, Mary and St. Joseph
Keep the midnight watch alone.
But at morn we love to gather
At the Holy Sacrifice;
And to kneel before the manger
Where the heavenly Infant lies.
What a lesson He is teaching
From His throne of bristling straw! One to make the proud and grasping
Tremble, and bow down with awe!
There He lies, the mighty Godhead!
Weak, and bound -with swathing bands; He, whose law guides star and planet, Cannot even move His Hands.
Fiercely storms of January
Circle round the cavern dim. But no warmth or human comfort
Turn the wintry blasts from Him.
He is fairer than the fairest
Born among the sons of men;
Earth has given its own cold welcome In this lonely hillside den.
He has come to save all nations,
Yet the millions of the earth
Know not of their Saviour’s coming: They are mindless of His birth.
Ah! why should the King of glory. Master of a power divine,
Come to be the world’s Redeemer, And to men impart no sign ?	-
Folly asks the human question;	>
But the faithful heart lies still, , .	.
For it hears the angels’ anthem, “Peace to men of holy will!”
Swathing bands, the straws the darkness.
Winter’s cold, and midnight cave, , Have revealed the sign, undoubted. Whereby God the world shall save.
Love of ease—the world’s laudation, . Bear destruction in their path: - ‘ -
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Beal, Black, Billing, Clarke, Clifford. Castanedo, Chirhart, Dillon, Donnelly, ; Dunn. Daily, L. English, Fox, Feehan, Fenlon, Gove, 0, । Ginz, Heckard, Hagan, Hunter, M. Hawkins, L. Hawkins, ! Harrigan, M. Heneberry, Johnson, Keenan, Knott, B. King. : J. King, M. King. Kirkham, Laffer, Lancaster, Legnard, i Lape, Munger, Murphy, C. McKenna. McCoy, Newton, ! Owens. O’Brien, O’Connell, Quinlan, A. Ryan, Richardson, Rulison, Ramsey, M. H. Ryan, Shickey, Sullivan, E. Slat, tery, T. Slattery, Sawyer, Stackcrl. Schull, Todd, Taylor, Van Patten, Wiley. Wright, Walsh, Wallace, Williams. ' 2d Tablet.—Misses Adams, Barlow, ^M. Campbell, C. Camp; bell, Comerford, Dolan, Eldridge, Fendrich, Gavan, Hoag, ' L. Heneberry. Mohl, Madole, V. Reilly, J. Reillv, Semmes, ■ Schmauss.	‘
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT, i	Par Excellence—Misses • Best, Coogan, Chaves, Dillon,
; Dignan, N. Donnelly, Grist. M. Hawkins, Halsey, B. i Haney, T. Haney, Johnston, Luna, M. Morgan. Malbmuf, j Nevins, Naylor, Mary Otis. Otero, Richmond, Spangler, ; Shephard, Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses Brown, Considine, A. Duffield, C. Ducey, Hetz, Hibben, Keifer, Morrison, McGrath, Rodgers. Robinson, Schmidt, Snowhook, E. Wallace.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Barry, Burtis, Chapin. J. English, Lindsey, McKennon. Otis, Prescott, Paul, Sawyer, Schmauss, G. Wallace.	’
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. .
ist Class—Misses Fox, Lancaster, C. Campbell.
2d Class—Misses Van Patten, Rulison, Beal, Richardson.
.2D Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, M. H. Ryan, Williams, Gavin, M. Dillon, M. A. Ryan.
3d Class—Mrs. G. Costigan; Misses Daily, Knott, Shickey, E. Slattery, Pick, Unger, A. English, Richmond, Walsh, Shephard, Madole, J. Duffield, A. Duffield, E. Hawkins, M. Hawkins, Hoag, Durphy, Otis, Grist, Stacker!, Dolan,- Dickson, O’Brien, Fehr, Crawford, Matilda Hawkins, Van Horn, Johnson.
■	PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Wallace, Knott, A. English.	.
,	OIL-PAINTING. •
ist Class—Misses Fox, Lancaster, C. Campbell.
2d Class—Misses Van Patten, Rulison, Beal, Donnelly. ! 2d Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Owens, Richardson. ! 3d Class—Misses Heneberry, M. H. Ryan, Barlow. ' M. A. Ryan, Clarke, Williams, Gavin, Wood.
! .	:	GENERAL DRAWING.
|	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	' ./
Misses Nevius, Considine, Schmidt, Morgan, Moshier, Otis, Fehr, Dignan, Gale, Chaves, M. Coyne, Rodgers, Brown, B. Haney, T. Haney, Sullivan, Morrison.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^9
'sX.*4^'^
Kimball Organs.
It has become necessary for ns to greatly enlarge bur manufacturing facilities, and it is probable that during the coming year ' our factory will turn out over one-tv.'eQlh of the entire production of
PARLOR and CABINET ORGANS
on the American Continent, which demonstrates beyond a doubt the superiority of the Instruments manufactured by us.
AVe are sole agents for the W. W. Kimball Pianos, Hallet & Davis and W. P. Emerson Pianos.
Address,
W. W. KIMBALL,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Or,
S. D. ROBERSON,
General Agent, SOUTH TJEJXXX IIND.
The Minim Department.
Wabash, St Lonis & Pacific Rwy.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils'receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
G. F. NEVIUS,
DENTIST.
Office—101 Michigan, cor. of Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
The Popular Passenger Ponte oj America I
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant ! I!
*** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.	.	. y*
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale bv all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.
Special inducements offered to Colonist. Land-Seeking, and Emigrant Parties.
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Asjent of	-
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis,
40 W. Washington St.	•	"
Jno.- C. Gault, 2d Vice-Pre«t., St. Louis, Mo. '	•
320
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.	'
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE ’
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President. ‘
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address	..
Rca . T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
. Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES. THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULE LINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARA-	TIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.	"
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for ' Zoological Specimens for sale.
Address	..	•
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT,
sol-83 \	CQL.
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
L S.& M. S. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. i, 1S83, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Slain Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.;-Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.20 p.m., Special New York .Express, over Air Line, arrives„at Toledo, 5,40 p.ni. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m. •	.	•	■
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives 2t Toledo, 10.35 p.ni.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
. GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express.' Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago,,6.10 a.m.	:	.
4.35 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago. S.20 a.m. ‘
S.02 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, S.44 a.m. Chesterton,.9.40 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
i-3o phn., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt, South Bend.
. J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland. -
. J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
‘ W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
. V P; P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland. .,
•.......JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
4 I