Let’s be realistic . . . the suit that stands out in any crowd is the one you have on. Being well-dressed for the occasion not only impresses others, but knowing this, you create within yourself a sense of confidence that radiates to others. The styling, the tailoring, the fitting of your suit may be more important than the price you pay. That is another advantage of selecting your clothes at the Campus Shop, where you can benefit from the years of experience we have had in buying for men of good taste.
On the Campus — Notre Dame
CHARGE IT— THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
JAN
1
No Carrying Charge
At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of nationally famous suits, topcoats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you’re on a budget — like most college men are — why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in January, one-third in March and one-third in April. It’s that simple — and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow!
t DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!
October 11, 1957
On Campus Max Shulman
[By the author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” etc.)
The Notre Dame
Scholastic.
WHAT EVERY YOUNG COED SHOULD WEAR
Vol. 99 October 11, 1957 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Gather round, girls. Flip open a pack of Marlboros, light up, enjoy that fine flavor, that good filter, relax and listen while Old Dad tells you about the latest campus fashions.
The key word this year is casual. Be casual. Be slap-dash. Be rakish. Improvise. Invent your own ensembles—like ski pants with a peek-a-boo blouse, like pajama bottoms with an ermine stole, like a hockey sweater with a dirndl. .
(Dirndl, incidentally, is one of the truly fascinating words in the English language. The word originated on June 27, 1846, when Dusty Sigafoos, the famous scout and Indian fighter, went into the Golden Nugget Saloon in Cheyenne, Wyoming, to see Lily Langtry. Miss Langtry did her dance in pink tights. Dusty had never seen anything like that in his life and he was much impressed. He thought about her all the way home. When he got home his wife Feldspar was waiting to show him a new skirt she had made for herself. “How do you like my new skirt, Dusty?” asked Feldspar. He looked at the large, voluminous garment, then thought of the pink tights on Lily Langtry. “ Yourskirtis darn dull,”
said Dusty. “Darn dull” was later shortened to dirndl, which is how dirndls got their name.)
But I digress. We were smoking a Marlboro and talking about the latest campus styles. Casual, we agree, is the key word. But casual need not mean drab. Liven up your outfits with a touch of glamor. Even the lowly dungaree and man-shirt combination can be made exciting if you’ll adorn it with a simple necklace of 120 matched diamonds. With Bermuda shorts, wear knee-cymbals. Be guided by the famous poet, Cosmo
© Max Shulman. 1957
Whatever you wear, girls—and men too—you’ll find the perfect accessory is Marlboro, whose makers take pleasure in bringing you this column throughout the school year.
Sigafoos (whose cousin Dusty invented the dirndl), who wrote:
Sparkle, my beauty, Shimmer and shine, The night is young, The air’s like wine, Cling to a leaf, Hang on a vine, Crawl on your belly, It’s time to dine.
(Mr. Sigafoos, it should be explained, was mating about a glowworm. Insects, as everyone knows, are among Mr. Sigafoos’ favorite subjects for poetry. Who can ever forget his immortal Ode To a Boll Weevil? Or his Tumbling Along with the Tumbling Tumblebug? Or his Fly Gently Siveet Aphid? Mr. Sigafoos has been inactive since the invention of DDT.)
But I digress. We were smoking a Marlboro, and discussing fashion. Let
us turn to headwear. The motif in hats this year mil be familiar American scenes. There will be models to fit every head—for example, the “Empire State Building” for tall, thin heads; the “Jefferson Memorial” for squatty heads; “Niagara Falls” for dry scalps. Feature of the collection is the “Statue of Liberty,” complete with a torch that actually burns. This is very handy for lighting your Marlboros, which is terribly important because no matter how good Marlboros are, they’re nowhere unless you light them.
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor ■<1 DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor V
George Clements .... NEWS	EDITOR	.
Harry McKee ........ COPY	EDITOR
Bob Early ....... FEATURE	EDITOR	/
Mike Fitzpatrick . SPORTS	EDITOR
Bob Williams ....... PHOTOGRAPHY
Loran Sheffer        BUSINESS
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na- I tional advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	,
r = =	.	- -	-	— — £
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina- *■ tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, , Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, w Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct. 25;	No.	6,
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov. 22;	No.	9, .
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb. 14;	No.	14,
Feb. 21;	No. 15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No.	17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
ON THE COVER: Joe McDonnell’s * artistry makes a return engagement to the Scholastic cover with a salute to the Broadway hit No Time For Sergeants. The story is a comedy about regular army life (not Military Academy style) and Joe captures one of the scenes from the play.
The Scholastic
I	opinion
iT^OR many years, the Scholastic has provided students, JC faculty and the administration with news, features and k sports of varied importance and interest. In this capacity, I	the magazine has succeeded. It makes one wonder, though,
I	whether a student weekly should not fulfill a larger capacity,
n " It would seem that it should reflect the opinions of the if students.
■ No one is closer to the educational structure than the I student himself. Certainly, the faculty and administration want to know just how the students feel about their education and life at the university. Opinion reflected in a student weekly is one of the best ways by which students can Iv make themselves heard by the administration and the faculty.
An outburst in class is not enough for a teacher. He is interested more in the opinion of the student body as a whole rather than radical opinions of a few. A student newspaper can and should do this. The administration should likewise be interested in student opinion and consider it. If . they don’t, they fall down in their role as administrators. I All three groups can make mistakes. This must be ex' pected. These errors can be rectified by intelligent presentation of the facts from all sides. This presentation finds the student magazine as one of its most valuable outlets, for it is a medium common to all three groups. When one group •j is prevented from presenting its side, then one of the purposes of a magazine of this type is defeated.
It would seem that reflecting student opinion is one of the most important functions that this magazine can perform. , If it can’t perform this properly, then there isn’t much sense ' in putting all the time and effort into such a publication. a Reporting campus news could be done less expensively and probably just as well by means of the hall bulletin board, s* The Scholastic then has a obligation to the students | and also to the faculty and administration. Unless it can i fulfill its obligation, then it fails in one of its primary । functions as a true student publication.
i This is your magazine. It is not the University’s. It is 1	not the editor’s, nor does it belong to the staff. It belongs
J,	to you. How do you feel?	—/. G.
October 11, 1957
5
truth
The end of a university education should be to create in the student both an understanding of and a desire to seek after the truth. This is a difficult task for manv reasons.
First of all discovering the truth is no mean undertaking. It cannot be accomplished in four years but must be a continual process lasting for life. This is why colleges cannot simply be satisfied with teaching a small body of truth. They must teach the methods of seeking after the truth.
Colleges and universities in our own day are coming in for increased attack for failing to teach the students the truth or any methods of ascertaining the truth. Many colleges are nothing more than trade schools. They only provide the student with certain skills which were formerly learned in apprenticeship. Also many colleges seem to feel that the human reason cannot discover the truth. But this notion of no objective reality is pure nonsense.
A second attack launched against many of our colleges and universities involves the methodology of truth seeking. The schools are fearful of allowing the students to make any mistakes. They have become bogged down in administration and have forgotten that the students should be allowed, always within bounds of discretion, to make mistakes. Colleges must rediscover the principle that out of mistake and error higher truth is often found.
But this sword of methodology has two edges. American college students are all too willing to remain under the protective security of the schools. They too often do not want to become involved in controversy over something which might lead to a discovery of the truth. They do not want to make mistakes and are quite happy to be spoon-fed the elements of a trade. Of course they do wax eloquent over the relative merits of the Yankees and the Braves (which merit will have been empirically determined by this time). But in matters of consequence" they would prefer not to be involved. They want security and not controversy which, after all, is so disrupting.
Security is a wonderful thing but when it prevents a man from seeking after the truth, it loses its value. Man is no longer free if he fails to seek after the truth. He becomes chained to ease and intellectual laziness dominates him.
In regarding this desire of security and the distaste for truth-seeking among American college students one can only echo the plea of John Cogley, former editor of Commonweal, while speaking to the Tenth National Congress of the United States National Students Association this past summer. He said: “I would like to hear the voice of reasoned and impassioned debate echo again on the campus. I would like to read that from one end of the country to the other colleges are again rocking with controversy and seedling with curiosity.” Amen.	—J.S.
5
r
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Bill Tyer discusses features of a training program for operators with Miss Edith Sanders.
“There’s always something different”

“In my job, there’s always something different coming along—a new problem, a new challenge. When I got out of college I wanted to make sure I didn’t settle down to a job of boredom. There’s never been a chance of that at Bell.”
That’s Charles W. (Bill) Tyer talking. Bill graduated from Texas Christian University in 1953 with a B.S. in Commerce. He went right to work with Southwestern Bell in Fort Worth.
How did he make his choice? Here’s what he says: “From what I’d seen it was an interesting business with tremendous room for expansion. And a big feature with me was the opportunity to choose my location. I wanted to work in the Fort Worth area.
“I came in under the Staff Assistant Program for college graduates. I spent several weeks in each of the company’s five departments. Then I went back for six months of intensive training in our Traffic Department.
“After training, I was promoted. One of my first jobs was setting up and supervising a customer service improvement program.
“In January, 1956, I was again promoted. My present job is assistant to the District Traffic Superintendent. My responsibilities include instruction of PBX operators, employee and public relations, and scheduling operators to handle calls to and from 185,000 telephones.
“No—there’s no chance for boredom!”
Bill Tyer is typical of the many young men who are finding their careers in the Bell System. Other interesting careers exist in the Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Tour placement officer has more information about these companies.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
The Scholastic

r
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
scattered
shots
■ Bordering between hope and despair, that is, hope that I might still dry up and blow away, and despair because he is a “tired, old senior,” the august editor ■ of this weekly journal has granted me permission to relate my first impressions of these hallowed grounds. So before he comes back off the benzedrine, I would first like to thank the freshmen for confirming the suspicions of my whereabouts. From their diverse articles of emblazoned outer clothing, I am now positive that I am at the University of Notre Dame. I wonder if they are j equally convinced. But I suppose not;
the pink slips won’t be out for another month yet.
I also want to make an apology for underestimating the student body’s appreciation of what I referred to in my last column as moving symphonies. One day last week, while floating about the campus, I felt, in my lower ab-. dominal region, the rumblings of that morning’s repast; the “Yellow and Red Death,” or scrambled eggs with ketchup. In search of relief I stumbled, for the first time, up the steps of Notre Dame’s Horn of Plenty, prosaically known as “The Huddle,” in order to purchase a “Bromo,” when the strains of "You Gotta’ Have Money in the Bank, Frank,” followed by, “A Whole Lot of Shaking Going On,” wafted from the inner sanctum. I must truthfully admit that the only time I had heard anything of comparable feeling was when Ulysses’ Suitors gave, for the Marquis de Sade, a command performance of their “Death, Groans and Cries,” accompanied by the Inferno Symphony Orchestra. Gentlemen of “The Huddle,” I want to congratulate you on your profound, aesthetic appreciation of the lower sounds.
I also would like to congratulate and thank the men of Notre Dame, . . . and Sorin Hall, for the friendly feelings they have shown me. Especially Ivan Osorio, who asked me to pose for some of his art work. I feel highly complimented by his request, but as yet felt it necessary to decline his offer, so contrary to a spreading thought, I was not on the cover of the Sept. 27, Scholastic. But before I become maudlin in the eyes of
the upperclassmen, and jade the freshmen’s taste for laudatory remarks, I will proceed with my first depressions.
Starting with the concrete, I must confess to have been truly amazed and pleasantly pleased with the various colors on this campus in the fall. Relative to the whites, grays, and blacks of my past existence, the beautiful browns, and greens intermingled, diffused with red, yellow, blue, and orange give powerful proof of the inner-life that is present. Not to mention the imagination, for I am sure that not one magazine, from Esquire to the Hoboken News, has ever dreamt of such color combinations for dinner wear. I also think the changing of the leaves is beautiful. I suppose they inspired this type of apparel. I believe you call it the “Natural Look.”
I also feel obliged to comment on the democratic motivations behind this new rule. In my estimation it is only proper that at some time during each day the difference between the members of Student Government and the students should be obliterated. I hear that some of the students have taken this integration policy so seriously that they are now wearing their J. C. Penny boxer shorts right along with their Gilbert tee-shirts. So even if my wallet hums, “I Don’t Stand a Ghost of a Chance” every time I walk past The Campus Bank, I mean Shop, I would like to say, for those of us who have equality at heart, we appreciate their sincerity.
One thing that has touched me very closely is the campus barber shop, or to be more particular, one pair of shears in that shop. It seems as though my roommate, in his little helpful way, arrived at the conclusion that my shaggy black hair exaggerated my cadaverous, high cheek bones and sunken eyes. It was a crew cut, he decided, that would give me the typical collegiate air. So in quest of this typical collegiate appearance, I entered the shop, sat in the chair, and waited for that it-pays-to-be-neat look. And I might have had it if my barber hadn’t described, with clipper in hand, the sweeping get-away of South Bend’s answer to the Austin. I now have a smooth, ashen skull to match my
predominant cheek bones. My roommate philosophically tossed off this slip of the hand by saying, “Too bad it isn’t Halloween, Marty. I could gild your top, and you could go around as the Dome.” With an equally philosophical attitude, I have nicked his razor blades and forgiven him.
While I have my composure upset, I would like to answer the freshmen who approached me this week — he mistook my rather pale complexion for the bar room pallor of a senior — and questioned me about the condition of the girls that were in the St. Mary’s wreck. I talked to one of the seniors; he said theii- condition was poor, but really nothing to worry about ... if you have a girl back home.	-
Speaking of poor conditions and seniors, I am reminded of a personal favor that was asked of me this afternoon. It was called to my attention that one of the past lunatics of this column made a practice of publishing what was known as “The Flub of the Week.” This will not be my practice for I do not believe in treating lightly any happenings of this sacrosanct campus, but on this solitary occasion I will help the men of Walsh salute the senior who dropped his laundry down the chute last Thursday night. The pick-up was that morning. So contrary to popular opinion, your bulletin boards can be helpful, and that senior was not trying to make it difficult for the laundry by letting his clothes mildew for a week.
As I come to the end of this column there are perhaps many of you who are wondering why I have not touched upon such fecund fields such as the classrooms, ’ the Student Center — that pleasant trysting place of the Domers and Belles — and many other sundiy locations. I am sony for not doing so, but it is just that there are so many things about this campus that so amaze me that I can only hope that my blood does not run. thin before I can give them their due words of praise. But just now my roommate is setting up my weeks supply of glucose and plasma, so I must say, “Until next week, good night and pleasant dreams.”
October 11, 1957
7

presenting Brooks Brothers newly expanded UNIVERSITY SHOP for college and prep school styles
Because of the ever-increasing demand from undergraduates for our fine clothes, we have enlarged our department for older boys wearing sizes 35 to 42. Here you will find a comprehensive selection of suits, topcoats, sportwear and evening wear...and fine furnishings, too...all reflecting our distinctive styling and quality.. .all as moderately priced as we can make them.
We invite undergraduates to come in and enjoy the expanded facilities of our University Shop. Fall catalogue sent upon request.
Suits, $60 to $75 • Tweed Topcoats, $72
Sport Jackets, $45 • Worsted Flannel Trousers, $ 18.50
ESTABLISHED 1818
^tns fumishingis^ats $ Sbo ts
7+ E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
WEDNESDAY:
NO TIME FOR
Scum
SERGEANTS’
Student Senate Books Comedy for Drill Hall
Next Wednesday night Notre Dame students will have a chance to see comedy at its best as the Student Government presents the Maurice Evans production of No Time For Sergeants. The place is the Drill Hall and curtain time is 8:15 p.m.
Evans’ New York company comes here following its record-breaking run of two years on Broadway. The cast includes Charles Hohman as Private Will Stock-dale, Rex Everhart as Sergeant King, Tucker Ashworth as Ben Whitledge, and J. Robert Victor as co-pilot Lieutenant Gardella.
Those familial- with Mac Hyman’s popular novel of the same name need no urging to attend this performance. The novel was adapted for the stage by Ira Levin, while he was himself a private in the army. Levin, also wrote a novel entitled A Kiss Before Dying, which won him the Edgar Allen Poe Award, and was later made into a motion picture.
While Levin worked on the manuscript, Morton Da Costa was secured as director. Da Costa has also staged the
musical comedy Plain and Fancy as well as Auntie Mame. Peter Larkin was engaged to design the sets which include an airplane in flight, a parachute jump, a variety of rooms in army barracks, an induction center, and the heart of a deep forest.
No Time For Sergeants had its world premiere at the Shubert Theatre in New Haven, Conn., on Wednesday evening, Sept. 28, 1955. It was an instantaneous success, and went on to Boston where, in a two-week run, it broke records at the Colonial Theatre. The Broadway premiere took place at the Alvin Theatre on Oct. 20, 1955, and was greeted with many critical accolades.
A national company was organized in the summer of 1956, had a trial run in Dallas and then took Chicago by storm, playing in the Windy City for an entire season of 33 weeks. • In the spring of 1957, this second company headed west, playing in Cincinnati and Kansas City before record-breaking engagements in Los Angeles and San Francisco.
The play has also served as an ambassador of good will abroad. The London production opened in the summer of 1956, and is still causing Brit-
TABLEAU FROM “NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS”
Joe Latham, Charles Hohman and Donald Hylan star in stage comedy
October 11, 1957
ish audiences to laugh. Successful productions have been presented in Honolulu, Sweden, Germany and Austria, with a dozen other editions slated for the near future in territories ranging from South Africa to Central Europe.
As for the New York company, it would still be playing at the Alvin Theatre if it were not for the fact that Maurice Evans believes in the living theatre, and he does not think the theatre can live unless it travels to its audience. So the New York company is now in the midst of a forty-week toui-
The story itself concerns Will Stock-dale, an unmistakable hillbilly who is drafted over the protests of his father, who expresses said protests via a shotgun. Will strikes up a friendship with Ben Whitledge, a shy retiring type. Irvin, another draftee, is temporarily put in charge of his fellow inductees. Due to certain circumstances he has a fight with Will. As a result he tells Sergeant King to watch “the dangerous draft-dodger.”
Stirred by Ben’s accounts of his relatives’ feats of bravery in the infantry, Will decides that he will join his buddy in an attempt to transfer into this i branch. Instead, Will’s midnight solilo- ! quy of his plans earns for- him the dubious office of “Permanent Latrine | Orderly.” The play progresses in a i humorous vein, with one incident after | another, as Will succeeds in making mili- I tary life, for him at least, one big i unwitting joke.	]
Its lengthy run on Broadway and the j tremendous success it has enjoyed on | the road, marks No Time For Sergeants j as one of the best comedies in years, g The play has achieved its success in | spite of the fact that it is humorous I without resorting to sex or vulgarity. I Its history is one more in the long list 1 of successful novels which have been I adapted to the stage with equal success. I As with a great many of these produc- s tions it is now being filmed as a motion I picture. At a time when most men I can look back or forward to a stint in | the service, a military setting is a con- I stantly recurring and highly -popular theme.
Whereas most present a serious approach to military life and to war, No Time For Sergeants does not attempt to either depress or inspire, but merely to entertain, and in so doing achieves a freshness, and presents an experience to the audience which is highly rewarding.
9

SENIOR CLASS PLANS MADE
McNeill, Coffey, Doyle and Ahern discuss year's activities
McNeill Announces Senior Appointments; Duffy Chosen as Chairman of Senior Ball
President Don McNeill has announced the senior class ^appointments for the coming year. .
Bob Duffy has been named chairman of the Senior Ball which will be held in May. Duffy, will appoint his committees after the Army game.
Paul Coffey has been placed in charge of a new program to develop a “higher caliber” of student enrollment here at the University.. The committee will contact outstanding members of the ’58 high school graduating classes throughout the country, recommended to the committee by students here on campus, and through other sources.
Coffey’s committee will send material to these prospective college students outlining the various programs of study here at Notre Dame and the advantages of a Catholic education.
The committee will send members of the student body, particularly the senior class, into their home areas on week ends and during vacations to talk to the high school seniors and to acquaint them with the University, its opportunities, and various aspects of student life.
Bob Pivonka has been appointed chairman of the Senior Trip which will return again to Michigan State. McNeill also stated that this year’s spiritual commissioner is Frank Royle and that Bud Ahearn will head the senior retreat to be held in Lent.	.
Washington Day chairman _is George
Van Kula and the athletic commissioners are John Murray and Dick Murphy.
During the past few weeks the class has sponsored various projects including Senior-Freshman Day which was held the Monday of orientation week. They have also held a first Saturday Mass and installed a snack bar, headed by Dave Link and Art Roule, in Alumni Hall. One of their first social events of the year was a mixer with the senior class of St. Mary’s College. Two weeks ago 150 members of the class met at Purdue for the Notre Dame-Purdue game.
Movies of all these events are being taken by various campus photographers under the direction of Jerry Burke.
Plans are also being made for a class newsletter, a float for the Navy week end, and a class banquet.
President McNeill was a delegate to the National Student Association national convention held at Ann Arbor, Michigan in late August.
Scientists Set to Sell Tickets For Annual Ball Next Week
Tickets for the Science Ball, “Indian Summer,” will be on sale Oct. 14-16 from 3 to 5 p.m. in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
Football tickets for the Pittsburgh game and Communion Breakfast can also be purchased with the dance bid.
Departure Ceremony Held For Missionaries
Seventeen Holy Cross priests and Brothers who will leave soon to serve as missionaries in Pakistan and Ghana participated in a departure ceremony in Sacred Heart Church on Oct. 3.
Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province, presided at the rites. Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial, preached the sermon.
Missionaries bound for Pakistan include: Rev. James Madden, New York City; Rev. Francis Burton, Saginaw, Mich.; Rev. Walter Marks, Wyandotte, Mich.; Rev. Vincent Delavy, Roseville, Mich; Rev. Robert Steigmeyer, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Rev. Charles Gillespie, Philadelphia, Pa.; Rev. Harold Bride, Portland, Ore.; Rev. Thomas Zimmerman, Crestline, 0.; Rev. John Birkmeyer, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Rev. Joseph Lehane, Newport, R. I.; Brother Francis O'Donnell, Mt. Clemens, Mich.; Brother Eligius Ruscik, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Brother Donald Becker, Quincy, Ill.; Brother Paul Malich, Pittsburgh, Pa.; and Brother Carl Shonk, Lancaster, 0.
Two Holy Cross Brothers participating in the ceremony have been assigned to St. John Secondary School at Sekonde in the newly created African country of Ghana. They are Brother Rex Hennel, Evansville, Ind., and Brother Edwardo Michalik, Delancey, Pa. They will be joined in Ghana by Brother Donald Allen, Chicago, Ill., who has been teaching in Pakistan.
Bishop Fulton J. Sheen addressed the departing missionaries at a dinner held at the Commodore Hotel, New York City, last Wednesday. The missionaries participated in a second departure ceremony yesterday at St. Patrick’s Church, Washington, D. C., with Auxiliary Bishop William McNamara presiding.
Frank Morris to Play At Law Students' Ball
This year the annual Law Students’ Ball will be held at the South Bend Country Club on Friday, Nov. 1. “Frank Morris and his fine band will again be the featured entertainers,” states Francis Prebenda, chairman of the ball.
Free corsages, flown in from Hawaii, will be given to each couple. Tickets will be available to all the couples wishing to attend the Navy game Nov. 2. A Communion Breakfast on Sunday will round out the week-end activities.
Tickets for the Law Ball can be purchased for $4. All beverages will be furnished at the Country Club.
10
The Scholastic
'Campus Color' Introduces Many 'Firsts' In Dance Pictures at AB Ball Last Friday
Prof. O'Malley Given Wilson Grant Position
Color pictures of couples attending Notre Dame dances, a “first” on the campus, were introduced by “Campus Color,” new management of the photo concession, at the AB Ball last week.
.The pictures, taken with Rolleiflex cameras on Ektachrome film, are returned to couples having their pictures taken in about ten days. Each couple will receive two 4x5 full color prints in folders engraved with the name and date of the dance. Also returned is the color transparency which can be shown in any slide projector.
Sophomores Schedule Semester's Activities
According to their president, Dennis Shaul, the sophomore class has a well rounded program planned for this semester. It will include spiritual, academic, and social activities.
, Each day throughout October seven men in each sophomore hall are asked to say a rosary for world peace and on Oct. 19 the sophomores will have their monthly class Mass at 6:45 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. When the hall councils are elected there will be initiated a program to put a crucifix in each sophomore room.
The sophomore officers are also working in connection with the Student Senate in sponsoring a golf tournament on Oct. 19. There will be special prizes for sopohomores.
On Oct. 20 a class mixer will be held in the LaFortune Student Center with the juniors and seniors of St. Mary’s Academy and the sophomores and juniors of St. Mary’s College. Also on the social side is the date bureau which has been set up with the sophomores of St. Mary’s College.
Sometime in the future there will be a “Choose Your Major Program.” This will include talks from professors of the different colleges and, if possible, from professional men in South Bend in the various fields of interest. These gatherings will be held in the Law Auditorium.
Something new in the form of a monthly class paper with special information for sophomores has been added along with 40 sophomores having been chosen to help work out a new freshman orientation program.
The final scheduled event for the semester will be a closed retreat at Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House. There is also a possibility of a spring dinner dance though nothing definite has yet been planned.
The concession is also introducing several other new features this year. Instead of using harsh floodlights for the pictures, the shots are taken with electronic flash units. The flashes eliminate squinting caused by the photofloods. Only soft modeling lights are used until the instant the picture is taken.
Two sets will be used at most of the dances to eliminate any congestion at the concession. Sets are being designed by Joe McArdle. He has designed and
NEW DANCE PHOTO CONCESSION
Couple being posed for color picture
worked on sets for both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College theatrical productions. The sets will express the theme of each dance.
All processing and printing of the film is done professionally to eliminate the possibility of any error. Full tests have been run with the film and by the processor to determine proper exposure. This insures proper color reproduction and balance.
Couples at the AB Ball were impressed with the color and the set-up of the new operation, Chick Martin, one of the partners in the group, reported.
The concession will take pictures at all of the major dances at Notre Dame throughout the year. If the volume of pictures is sufficiently high, they will be able to offer them at the current price of $2.50, only $.50 higher than the price last year for black and white photos.
Other partners in the group, besides Martin, are Ed Mertz and Dick and Don Corbett. Also helping at the dances is Miss Carol Booth, a professional model, who directs couples to the two sets and assists in posing of the couples.
Prof. Frank O’Malley, of the English department, has been named to a regional committee which will select recipients of Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships for the 1958-59 school year.
His appointment was announced by Richard C. Boys, associate professor of English at the University of Michigan and national director of the Wilson Fellowship program.
AWARD 1,000 GRANTS
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation will award nearly 1,000 grants for one year of graduate study to June graduates interested in a college teaching career. Fellowships will be presented in the humanities, social sciences, and, for the first time, natural sciences. A student may be nominated by any professor foi- the award. If his application is found suitable, he will be interviewed by members of the regional committee.	.
Established at Princeton University in 1945, Woodrow Wilson fellowships came under the general sponsorship of the Association of Graduate Schools in 1952. Later they were underwritten jointly by the 37 universities comprising the Association of American Universities and by generous grants from the Carnegie Corporation and the General Education Board.
A grant of nearly $25 million, $5 million a year for- five years, was given last spring by the Ford Foundation and will enable nearly 700 more students to receive Wilson fellowships this year than did in 1956-57’.
Ticket Sales Scheduled For Senior Class Trip
Bob Pivonka, chairman of the Senior Trip committee, has announced that tickets for the Michigan State excursion will be sold on .Tuesday and Wednesday evenings from .7:30 pan. until they are all sold out. Sixty tickets will be sold each night.
The trip tickets will cost $16.50 and this price includes admission to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game, round trip transportation, a room for two nights, a box lunch, and a green hat.
Groups of seniors who want to stay together during the trip will have to buy their tickets in a group. Each senioi' must buy his ticket in person and present an identification card as proof of his senior status, Pivonka added.
The buses will leave the circle at 3:45 p.m. on Friday, Nov. 8, and arrive back at Notre Dame at 6 pjn. Sunday.
October 11, 1957
11
Local Student Government Found Maturing Though Some Errors in Discretion Appear
Student Government at Notre Dame revolves around the Senate. Although lacking full membership until the new hall senators have been decided in the coming elections, the Senate has been functioning during the last few weeks with a body made up of student executive officers and stay senators.
Their meetings, held on Wednesday nights in the Student Center amphitheater are quite long (around four hours), but nevertheless impressive for the amount of material and the maturity of the parliamentary technique being used.
Most of the functions of Student Government are naturally performed outside of these meetings by the various executive officers, commissions, committees and miscellaneous organizations.
At the meetings, reports are presented from these people in regard to recent proceedings and future plans. The Senate hears these reports, occasionally objecting to or questioning something in them.
The Senate deals at each meeting with one or two topics of comparatively major importance. These are usually handled under the agenda title of “New Business.”
At the second meeting, of this school year on Oct. 2 this topic dealt with the possible necessity of lowering the academic requirements during the coming elections for candidates running in Stanford and Keenan Halls. .
Because of the multitude of former off-campus residents now living in these halls it seemed very likely that there would be only a handful of students with the required minimum average to run for office.
With nominations closing in only eight days, Senate action was necessary at that meeting.
At 9:30 p.m. debate was about to begin when a Mr. John W. Birk (Sr., Alumni) arrived on the scene brandishing several sheets of reasons why he should be permitted to represent a charter bus company on campus. It was also discovered to the general confusion of everyone concerned, that Mr. Birk’s petition had, by some parliamentary technicality, precedence over the Stanford-Keenan controversy.
Because of the midnight curfew and: the ponderous look of Mr. Birk’s notes, it looked bad for the potential politicians in the new halls.
After a surprisingly brief fluny of opinions, the Senate resolved the problem by agreeing to refer the case to the concessions committee and get on to the Stanford-Keenan problem.
A brief recess was held allowing time
12
for* conferences on what to do. The alternatives were: 1.) Do nothing—leave the average requirements where they stand, and let the candidates come from the group above it, no matter how small. 2.) Lower the average requirements anywhere from one to three points by means of a constitutional amendment on the following Wednesday, thus increasing the number of possible candidates.
With the meeting resumed it became apparent that the entire matter depended upon how the averages fell in these halls.
Acting as a committee of the whole, the Senate decided to appoint a group to investigate the averages and on the basis of their- findings to make a recommendation on what action to take at the Oct. 9 meeting. (Unofficial findings of the committee during the week seemed to indicate that an amendment was likely.)
Student Government at Notre Dame is maturing steadily. The Senate spends Wednesday nights demonstrating this. The members are not perfect. Occasionally they make errors in discretion. A Student Government business—pleasure (“50-50” says Student Body President Jerry Brady) outing to a nearby lake several weeks ago was partially paid for by a $50 subsidization from the recently increased student activity tax and dance profit funds.
Student Body President Brady said he felt justified in paying for bus transportation and part of a meal because the Senators were asked to make a sacrifice of time and money to discuss Student Government problems and plans.
Less than a half dozen guests were present at the Oct. 2 Senate meeting. These Wednesday night affairs in the LaFortune Student Center are open to all students who care to come. No criticism of Student Government is warranted by anyone who is not interested enough to attend these meetings. They begin at 7 p.m. —Marshall Pidgeon
Commerce College to Begin First Management Program
Next Tuesday the first annual managenrent program of the College of Commerce will begin at 7 p.m. Initiated by Assistant Dean Thomas Murphy, the program is designed to help promising ■ .young men of the companies in this area to prepare themselves for better opportunities in business.
Classes will be held every Tuesday evening from 7-9:30 p.’m. for 24 weeks. The. program is divided' into phases
which include: basic business economics, marketing management, business finance, control, human relations and com- ♦ munication, and business policy. Four-classes will be devoted to each of these topics.
There will be two classes of 30 men each. These will be conducted on a discussion basis, combined with the periodic use of practical situations.
Upon completion of the course, certificates will be awarded to the students at a dinner scheduled for May 6 at the Morris Inn.
Carlton's Band to Play s For Military Ball Oct. 18
Dick Carlton’s orchestra will provide the music for the 1957 Military Ball, to be held at the LaFortune Student Center next Friday, from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. The ball is open to students of all the ROTC units on campus.
Dick Carlton is a favorite among colleges, supper clubs, theaters and ballrooms across the country for his popular ballroom dance music. His orchestra has been featured on radio and television shows and at the famous Mardi Gras , festival at New Orleans.
During World War II he acted as musical director for General MacArthur’s headquarters in the Pacific, where he entertained GI’s from Japan to Australia.
Dick has performed in Bermuda and Canada, and on a twelve month cruise I aboard the USS Wilson he played for the King of Sweden. He also makes * transcriptions for Musak and Langworth, who record music to be broadcast in stores and offices.
Jim Behme, military ball chairman, has announced that the final ticket sale is scheduled for Monday, in the Student v Center Rathskeller, 7:45 to 9:30 p.m.
The Scholastic
4
Student Elections Scheduled For Thursday; Balloting to Choose Senators, Hdl Officers
Election of all upperclass hall officers and senators, and off-campus senators will be held next Thursday, Vick Clesi, Blue Circle elections committee chairman, announced recently.
The polls will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6 p.m. in all upperclass halls, including St. Edward’s. Off-campus upperclassmen can vote in the Bus Shelter from 11:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.
For the second consecutive year, election of freshman class officers and hall senators will be held in early December. The reason for this is to give the freshmen time to get acquainted with their classmates and also to enable potential nominees to familiarize themselves with the problems and responsibilities of student government.
Nominations for all offices closed yesterday, but due to the lack of potential candidates with the necessary academic requirements in Keenan and Stanford halls the Senate at their Oct. 2 meeting decided to appoint a committee to investigate the situation. A recommendation will be made to the Senate by the committee and a change will probably be made by the Senate in their constitution and bylaws at the Oct. 9 meeting. However, the Scholastic went to press before the results of this important meeting were released. What has been done by the Senate regarding the elections will fbe revealed in next week’s issue.
As in the past, all other candidates
Members Selected by Board For Commerce Organization
Hugh Plunkett, president of the Commerce Forum, has announced 18 new members of the organization chosen by an interviewing board.
These new members are: William Cahill, Thomas Gozdecki, Alfred Wein-sheimer, Timothy Sullivan, John Higgins, Charles Susano, all seniors. Others recently admitted to the membership are juniors, John Stewart, Philip Miller, George Hahn, Richard Horsfall, Ernest Thomas, Charles Queenan, William Flynn, Edward Treacy, John Murray, John Nicodemus, John Zaback and sophomore William Phelan.
At each of the regular- meetings this year, a senior will present a paper on some phase of commerce followed by a discussion of the subject by the members.
A field trip is being planned to enable the members to meet top executives in various fields of business. Smokers and banquets are scheduled to offer members a chance to meet their professors and to hold discussions on commerce. .
must have a satisfactory disciplinary record, and have a minimum general average of 80. And in some cases the last provision is dependent upon the various hall constitutions.
Off-campus students will elect three senators. One will be elected by the upperclass villagers, one by sophomores and juniors, and a third by the seniors.
Wednesday morning, a sample ballot will be posted in all the halls. Any complaints about omissions or misspellings by candidates must be made by 7 p.m. Wednesday in order to have the actual ballot corrected in time for voting.
The preferential ballot to be used in the election requires the voter to choose in order of his preference by placing “1” before his first choice, “2” next to his second choice, etc. for all candidates.
JOHN HARRINGTON
New chief engineer at WSND
Harrington Assumes Post on WSND Staff
This past week Jeny Slater, station manager of WSND, announced the appointment of John Harrington to the position of chief engineer of the station. Harrington replaces Bob Borchers who resigned recently because of other commitments.
The position of chief engineer-is one of the most important jobs at WSND and requires a long period of experience, Slater reported.
' Harrington, who lives in . Mountainside, N. J., is a senior in electrical engineering. He will receive his degree in January. Currently a member of the AIEE-IRE, a national association of
electrical engineers, he worked this 'summer with RCA in Indianapolis. For the past four years, Harrington has worked at WSND as a technical engineer.
Announcing his plans for the coming year, Harrington states that he will place more stress on improving the existing facilities. In particular, this will be done with regard for the growing station’s need for a larger engineering staff in.the near future.
Harrington hopes to achieve an almost “foolproof” operation of the station’s equipment by the innovation of such improvements as push-button controls. Nd drastic changes in operation are planned, he says.
In the future, Harrington hopes to get into the communications’ field in such divisions as management or supervision. He is interested in the design, development, and production of broadcasting equipment.
student Benefits Raised By Insurance Company
Fox- the fourth consecutive year, the Continental Casualty Company of Chicago is adding more benefits without increasing premiums in . its insurance policy offered to all students.
- Lee Lagessie, campus representative, recently announced that the policy will cover disease, loss of limb or life, and both accident and sickness.	• - -
Premium for the insurance remains $21 for a full year. Students are insured at all times, wherever they may be.
Lagessie is expecting another sales increase this year with a goal of two-thirds of the student body insured.
. On campus, students can take out a policy by seeing Lagessie in his office in. the basement of the Student Center. His hours are from 3 to 4 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and from 1 to 2 p.m. on Tuesdays.
Subscriptions Still Available For Local Literary Magazine
Subscriptions are still being accepted for the Juggler, Notre Dame’s literary magazine, in 431 Walsh. There will be four issues this year, and the first will appear on Oct. 31. The remaining issues will be published on Dec. 6, Feb. 14, and May 16.
Poetry, fiction, or critical writing by any student is reviewed by an editorial board and either published or given individual criticism and promptly returned.
This year the Juggler will change its traditional cover; the fall issue’s cover was designed by Joe McDonnell, the art editor.
The editors are planning a series of monthly banquets to which faculty members will be invited to speak.
October 11, 1957
13
Engineering Council, YCS to Hold Smoker; Students Invited to Get to 'Know' Instructors
Erroll Garner to Play
At St. Mary's Oct. 20 *
The engineering section of the YCS, in conjunction with the Joint Engineering Council, will hold a student-faculty smoker on Monday and Tuesday.
This smoker is the result of a poll taken by the EYCS of last year’s freshman engineers which revealed that one of the major factors contributing to the reception of “pink slips” by freshman engineers was the lack of better studentfaculty relations. It was found that the majority of those students who did receive pink slips did so because they didn’t really “know” their instructors or didn’t know how to get extra help from them.
It was further revealed by the poll that many of the students were ignorant of the many engineering societies on campus and the many advantages which
Fogarty Selected Chairman Of Joint Engineering Council
Tom Fogarty was recently elected chairman of the Joint Engineering Council, along with Dave Immonen, vicechairman; Fred Cannata, secretary; and Jack Kirchner, treasurer.
The council is composed of two students from each engineering department, two from the Technical Revieiv, one from the YCS, and the engineering senator. The officers are chosen from this group.
The JEC is taking the place of the Engineering Advisory Board, and the new name is to give a better idea of the nature of the organization. The council will coordinate activities of the engineering departments, to handle problems too large for any one department, and to complete a bridge in faculty-student relationships.
Among the activities planned for the year are the Freshmen Advisory Board program under Dave Immonen and a program of smokers designed to acquaint the freshmen with their professors. These are a result of a survey made by the junior YCS group, in which the freshmen having troubles with their studies cited not having consulted with their professors early enough as a major contributing factor. The Board is already at work and the smokers are scheduled to start this month.
Bob Norris is chairman of the Engineers’ Ball, to be held Jan. 31 with “Rodeo” as the theme. He is also the chairman of the Engineering Open House scheduled for April. 25, 26, and 27.
The JEC’s intra-school football program, the only one of its kind in the University, will be followed this year by intra-department basketball and softball leagues.
14
could have been gained through membership in them.
It is the feeling of the EYCS and the JEC that an informal meeting such as this will do much to solve the existing problems of freshman engineers and to generally better adjust them to engineering life.
The meeting, under the chairmanship of Gerry Goetemann, will take place on two nights. The mechanical, architectural and civil engineers will meet on Monday while the electrical, chemical, metallurgical and aeronautical engineers will meet on Tuesday. Attending the meeting will be either the dean or assist-and dean of engineering, the heads of the various departments and the student advisors of the freshman engineers.
The master of ceremonies, George Navadell, will preside over the meeting which will feature the dean as its first speaker. He will give a short talk stating his approval and support of the engineering societies, the JEC, etc.
Following the dean’s talk, Navadell •will introduce the department heads. Tom Fogarty, the JEC chairman, will speak on the different engineering societies and their help to the college and the student. He •will also stress the importance of active student participation in these groups and the necessity of their closeness in working with the faculty and the unity of the departments in each college.
The Technical Revieiv editor, Guy Weismantel, will follow up with a talk on the Engineering Open House, Engineers’ Ball, and the Mardi Gras and will point out their relationship with the faculty.
The program will close with a movie of the highlights of the 1953 Oklahoma-Notre Dame football game.
University Theater Extends Season Subscription Sales
Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., University Theater moderator, has announced that subscription sales have been extended as the result of increased student demand. Student subscriptions have doubled, and there has been a larger mail order of season tickets from South Bend then, ever before.
Season-tickets for the three University Theater-productions may be bought in Room 12 of, Washington Hall until next Tuesday. They ,may also be purchased by calling the 'University Theater office or the boxoffice. ;	,
Prices for subscriptions are $2.50 orchestra and $2 balcony. .
Erroll Garner and his trio will present “ a jazz concert in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s on Sunday, Oct. 20, at 8 p.m. Tickets go on sale in the Student Center Rathskeller next Monday and Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. Admission ■ price is $2.
Hailed as an outstanding contemporary pianist, the 34 year-old Garner has been playing the piano since he was three. In this time he has played both on the riverboats of the Allegheny River and in the top concert halls of the ' nation.
He is currently regarded as one of the most original and distinctive musical voices of his field. His style, attack, progressions, and sound are uniquely his although scores of pianists attempt to imitate some of his “Garnerisms”. '
ERROL GARNER	।
Will perform at St. Mary’s	,
More than 70 works have come from • his hand and he is currently working on some ballet suites and a show score. Among Garner’s best known works are “Misty,” “Solitaire,” “Dreamy,” and “Gaslight.”	.| ;
Although he often plays by ear and improvises throughout all of his selec- •< tions, he has had to memorize some of his । own recorded hits to satisfy public demand that he play them as originally recorded.
Garner has won numerous awards in < the music world for his piano work, including the “Grand Prix du Disque” in * France for his own rendition of his work, “Play Piano Play,” and the Esquire, Metronome, Doiunbeat, Pittsburgh Courier, and Norfolk Journal and Guide awards. In 1956 he was again voted pianist of the year in the 1956 Downbeat poll. ,	.	.	..	•
The Scholastic
At the Movies
COLFAX
Jet Pilot. (A-2)
The Helen Morgan Story: (Oct. 15) Is another in the growing list of motion picture biographies about the people of the entertainment world. This one is about the singer (Ann Blyth) who is bounced from one speakeasy to another. It depicts her gangster boyfriend (Paul Newman) in frequent violations of the Volstead Act, and also includes the ever-present rich playboy (Richard Carlson) who vainly seeks our heroine’s hand. As to plot, setting, etc., it seems to be remarkably similar to a score of other ‘roaring twenties’ reproductions, yet it does feature some exceptionally fine musical content with 31 never-to-be-forgotten hits.
AVON
Let’s Be Happy: Tony Martin and Vera-Ellen. This is strictly a lighthearted musical. Its outstanding feature however, is the photography of the Scottish countryside.
The Green Man: (Oct. 13) (B). Is an English comedy starring Alastair Sim as a professional assassin. Full of typical English humor the show has one of the ridiculously improbable plots and also includes some jabs at British traditions, such as socialized medicine (a doctor wants to know if a certain corpse is from his district). Nothing special but it does have a few good laughs.
STATE
Rock Pretty Baby: Being shown in conjunction with the Festival of the Arts.
Elephant Walk: (Oct. 13). Stewart Granger and Liz Taylor find their Burmese villa overrun and finally demolished by a herd of rampaging elephants. The story really is a subtly disguised political treatise in which the aristocratic order is invaded by the great herd of common man. However, in the end the old order survives the crisis, and is even strengthened due to purgations from its numbers made by the allegorical elephants.
Co-hit: Red Mountain.
RIVER PARK
Fear Strikes Out.
Co-hit: No Place to Hide.
Roman Holiday: (Oct. 13). Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. This one was well worth seeing the first time.
Co-hit: Ma and Pa Kettle on Old MacDonald’s Farm.
PALACE
The Amazing Colossal Man.
Co-hit: Cat Girl. Together on the same bill these two features show amazing insights into both aspects of humanity. Being such superb documentaries the two films do cause one to wonder whether any human being, supposedly rational, is capable of producing and directing such masterpieces without a certain degree of diabolical possession.
Land of the Unknoivn: (Oct. 13).
Co-hit: Midnight Story.
GRANADA
No Down Payment.
WASHINGTON HALL
Desk Set: (Oct. 12). (A-2). This is probably the best show in town. And it’s also free. One of the varied benefits of a Notre Dame education.
—George Oess
WSND News
Radio officials on both the national and campus level have learned down through the years that there is a definite audience for programs featuring classical music.
The WSND programming department sets off two and a half hours each day to fill this need at Notre Dame.
“Afternoon Concert” with John Fazio at the microphone, is aired from 3 to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and Ed Sullivan takes over from 6 to 7 p.m. with “Invitation to Music.”
Opera is featured on Fazio’s program Tuesday afternoons while Friday is set aside for the light classics. His other shows include piano concertos, ballets and symphonies.
Sullivan’s evening musicale highlights the modern classical composers and other-light classics.
Additional selections can be heard on the “Festival of the Arts” broadcast Sunday afternoons.
Balanced with the classical programs are a number of disc jockey shows featuring the current trend in popular music.
John Casey brings you the music you ask for on “Requestfully Yours” each evening after the eight o’clock news. George Hahn gives out with the chatter and records from 5:30 to 6 and is always good for a listen before the evening meal.
Jim Rhadigan, genial host of “Penthouse Pops,” heard Monday through Friday from 10 to 11 pan.,' brings you mood music and the fine old standards to. help round off the day in a relaxed and warm-hearted way. Jim, an AB junior, is in his third year on the WSND announcing staff and has just the right touch, both mikewise and musicwise.
If you have relatives or friends here for any of the remaining home football games, officials of “The First in College Radio” invite you to bring them to the station for a tour of its facilities. Tours are conducted each football Saturday from 10 in the morning to 1 pun. Studios are located in the tower of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy building.
—Jim Dulan
,	OPEN HOUSE
Social Commission Chairman Pat Rogers announced that the only social activity scheduled for the campus this week -end is an open house in the LaFortune Student Center tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Recorded music will be played throughout the evening. Everyone is invited to attend. There will be no admission price.
October 11, 1957
15
Moment
of Truth
The bull charged out of the enclosure with its head high, the pale-yellow horns catching the sun, and the heavy legs crossing the hard-packed sand at a pounding gallop. He was a magnificent animal, dust-covered, and with a hide completely black except for a white patch at the base of his thick neck.
From the barrier Stephano watched the bull bear down on the banderilleros as they flashed their capes in front of him. Dust spurted with his footfalls, the head came down, and with a tremendous lunge the left horn caught a fleeing peon in the back of the thigh. The crowd was on its feet surprised and at the same time elated by the ferocity of this animal who, in spite of the cape play on the part of the other banderilleros, was now goring the downed man with both horns, pushing at him, pulling, and finally lifting him high above his monsterous, sweating head, shaking him, and then throwing him to the sand as if he were no more than a doll.
Men were running toward the scene from all sides of the enclosures. Capes flared up, hoarse cries screamed at the animal who now directed his attack at all those clustering toward the outstretched form on the sand. With head lowered, he bellowed, charged, and in general caused so much confusion that it was only by sacrificing one of the horses that the body of the unfortunate man was finally rushed from the Arena and toward the infirmary.
The sacrifice came in the form of a
by Frank Dasek
picador slipping from the saddle of his mount, binding the animal’s eyes ■with his bandana, and then giving him a sharp jab in the flank with the point of his lance. The startled animal leaped forward, and terrified not only by the shouts of the men, but also by the covering on his eyes, sped in an everwidening circle. The bull, diverted from the downed man by a series of cape plays, noticed the moving shape and sped heavily toward it with a loud bellow. Both horns caught the terrified horse in the soft skin of the belly, ripping it open and allowing the bowels to spill to the ground as the agonized animal swerved with the impact and then began a feeble, pain-ridden run across the sand.
What followed was brief and pitiful. The enraged bull ran close behind the fleeing horse, lunging at it until he caught him against the far wall, and then, ■with repeated savage thrusts, lifted the screaming animal partially off its feet, holding him pinned to the wall for a long painful moment before finally letting him drop in a withering heap. Three lunges followed in which the bull buried his horns into the soft, warm flesh. Blood spurted to the white sand. It was against the wall, in the shouts of the delirious crowd, and on the massive black snout of the beast who, after-having pawed at the carcass, now raised his huge head and stood quietly blinking his eyes in the sun.
From his position behind the barrier Stephano had watched all of this with
no small degree of satisfaction. Here, indeed, was an animal worthy of him. A short time ago he had walked from the arena in shame and with the angry shouts of the crowd beating down upon him. Behind him he had left his first bull of the afternoon lying in the sand. It had been a miserable contest. He knew it as well as did everyone else. There had been no excuse for the fact that it had taken three thrusts of his rapier to finally bring the bull down. Stephano had been unsteady out there, and he realized that it was a feeling that had become very familiar to him lately. It wasn’t fear as much as it was an overpowering nervousness that caused his hands to tremble so much so that at the moment of the charge the blade always seemed to miss its mark.
Years before things had been different. He had traveled throughout Mexico fighting in the best corridas and vanning for himself a reputation so high that for over seven years it had remained unblemished in any way. People had cheered him then, had flocked to the car doors as he had stepped out in front of a Plaza, and had showered praise that at the time had seemed so real, so eternal. But all that was gone now. Only the memories remained.
Since those days many things had happened, but the most marked change was that he had become a heavy drinker. Three years ago he had received his first wound in the ring. It had only been a gash across the back of the arm, but
16
The Scholastic
it had such a bad effect upon him that lie now relied upon at least three drinks i before ever allowing himself to set foot in any arena. That everyone was aware . of this meant little to him. His banderi-llero, Paco, had often spoken to him of it, but he had simply shrugged the advice off. After all, the liquor did help at times. In fact, it was helping him a great deal right now.
At his feet there lay an empty bottle of gin that he had persuaded one of the picadors to get from the infirmary. He kicked at it thoughtfully, burying the neck in the sand. It had helped him greatly when he had stepped shakily , from the ring a short time ago. It had given him that certain something, that I, feeling of confidence that had been abI sent from him lately. Yes, it was a good thing, a good thing to have.
Lowering his head, he rested his chin on his hands, leaned forward on the I barrier, and squinted across the vast ' stretch of white sand toward the bull who now stood quietly in the shade. He noticed the powerful black body, the short tail swishing slowly, and the large head dropping as the tongue searched the sand fruitlessly for moisture. For the first time in many months Stephano felt anxious. He glanced at the crowd that was also becoming restless as it awaited the start of the contest. No eyes were turned toward him as they had been in former days, but in a few moments they would be. He chewed at his lower lip thoughtfully. Yes, in a few moments everything would be different.
The picadors had just circled the ring on their horses, dragging the carcass of the horse across the sand, as Stephano j took his muleta from Paco’s hand and stepped from behind the barrier. He ; stood quietly to the side as the horsemen i passed him with the dead beast being r' pulled heavily behind them. He saw the I	open mouth, the gash in the stomach
'	thick with flies, and the trail of blood
that the peons hurriedly covered with sand. Closing his eyes he muttered a hasty prayer, folded the muleta over his left arm, and then stepped into the sight r' of the thousands sitting in the shadow and the sunlight of the afternoon.
’ Stephano realized that it wouldn’t take much to win the crowd to his favor even though there was only a feeble applause as he walked through the sunlight and toward the distant black shape of the bull. He understood quite clearly what he would do. If he could only give these people a few daring things he would have them in his hand. It was only natural, that the feelings should be with him instead of with the bull who, in spite of the show it had given a few minutes ago, had, nevertheless, destroyed any of the kindness that the crowd might have held in reserve for it. The
animal was supreme, yes. But at the same time he was cruel, desperate, and so intent on preserving his life that, in the eyes of the crowd, he had long since lost that right. He was to be destroyed, and it was plain to Stephano that the torero who did the job skillfully enough would not have to worry about lack of praise and attention in the months to come.
When he came within shouting distance of the animal he unfolded his cape. The bull spotted the flash immediately and, without the slightest pause, came thundering toward him in a maddened charge. Stephano braced himself, but at the last moment the animal swerved suddenly to the right and came to a dust-covered halt. Stephano pushed the cape forward a bit and with a loud snort the bull charged at the fluttering red object that suddenly flowed back giving him a puzzling view of nothing but white sand.
Before the crowd knew what was hap- . pening Stephano had put the bull through two more splendid passes in which he had pulled back the muleta only at the last possible moment. The beast whirled at the red cloth, maddened by its inability to reach it, and in its last charge so frenzied that it lost its balance and crashed to the sand on its black, sweat-covered side.
The crowd was on its feet cheering the torero with an echo that rolled down the flights of benches and across the shadow-streaked whiteness where he stood with the bottom of his cape on the ground, his free hand bending gracefully in the air.
“Aie, Stephano!”
“Torero!”
“Stephano!”
He heard all these shouts vaguely in
the background, and he wanted to recognize them with some kind of sign or movement, but he couldn’t. His eyes were clouded, his mind a hairy net, and his actions now suddenly becoming mechanical. It had come upon him immediately after the last pass. Where he had been all clearness and lightness, he was now cloudy and heavy. With his hand he rubbed his eyes clear, opened the muleta, and turned toward the black shape that was even now beginning another charge.
What happened then was simply a haze. He remembered the lowered yellow horns, the cape being wrenched from his hand, and a heavy weight slamming him away and to the ground. The next moment was a picture of flashing red capes as the banderilleros swept to his side, diverting the bull’s attention long enough to give him the chance to get to his feet. He felt a strong pair of hands beneath his arms, saw the sky, and then he was standing up, staring into Paco’s worried face.
“Stephano!”
“I’m all right, I’m all i-ight!”
He pushed away from the man, picked up his muleta, and in a few moments was once again trying to get the attention of the bull who had stai-ted after i the banderilleros as they fled back to the barrier.
“Aie, toro!”
The cape flashed into the sun, and even though his mind was a blur he knew that he was giving this crowd a show the likes of which it had not seen for many years. The perspiration stood out on his forehead, his hand flew back as the enraged animal whirled by, and a feeling of elation filled him. The shouting was deafening, and he stood in the
(Continued on page 20)
October 11, 1957
17
Moreau Seminary
VERY REV. BASIL ANTHONY MOREAU, C.S.C.
by THOMAS McNALLY, C.S.C.
photos by R. MARTIN HANAFIN
MOREAU SEMINARY
Moreau Seminary bears the name of the Very Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. At the present, Father Moreau’s cause for Beatification is in Rome as it has been for several years.
To many University of Notre Dame students a Moreau seminarian is a blackclad figure who, on cold winter days, emerges from the northwest like a chilled Mounty. Shoulders hunched against the cold, he hurries past the Main Building, cuts between the Architecture Building and Nieuwland Science, and enters' the last lap in the race against the clock to a class in O’Shaughnessy. Ten seconds after the class is over, he vanishes.
Where he comes from and where he returns to is a mystery to many. Presumably there is a building or something over by one of the lakes somewhere. One student, invited to dinner at Moreau Seminary, had his floor prefect draw up a handy little map to show him the path there from Howard Hall. The man can be forgiven because he had been a Notre Dame student only three years.
From the student’s viewpoint, the
5 18
!■:
The Scholastic

Seminarians make frequent use of the Library
question of where the seminarians live is not so important as the Emily Post question of what to call them when they emerge from their home. Some risk a “Good Morning, Father,” while others, seeking a compromise, try “Brother.” But a few, playing it cool, end then-greeting with a cross between a sneeze and a wheeze that could signify (they hope) whatever it is you actually are.
Which suggests the question (much more important than protocol)—what actually are we? Part of the answer might come from statistics. There are 89 seminarians at Moreau, representing 21 states, Washington, D. C., and five foreign countries — Australia, Bolivia, Canada, East Pakistan and Germany. We range in age from 19 to 35 although the most common age is 21 or 22. Our family backgrounds are generally middle class. We live in a prematurely-aging 1 ‘ yellow brick building, four stories high; I pray in a high-ceilinged chapel which *1 k has a beautiful statue of the Sacred Heart; and eat about $30,000 worth of food yearly in our undersize refectory. That food bill, incidentally, includes outlays for 12 loaves of bread and 30 gali if Ions of milk daily, 500 pounds of meat each week, 100 gallons of ice cream each month, and 15,650 pancakes each year.
Put those statistics and miscellaneous data into your private IBM computer > and a Moreau seminarian may or may not pop out. Probably not, because the i computer might have trouble digesting diverse facts about a group of men who cannot be lumped together and totaled.
Despite the cassock, despite the common foot and the common quarters and the common prayers, seminarians remain individual human persons with differing talents and tastes and temperaments. Seminary superiors do not turn out priests on an assembly line.
But Moreau seminarians do have many of the same intersts as the men in any residence hall on the Notre Dame cam
pus. They play the usual sports and with a vigor and determination which sometimes surprises guest teams expecting a superabundance of kind words and apologies. They worry about impending tests and term papers the same as other students. And they relax in a noisy recreation room where conversation fights its way through smoke sent up by crude roll-your-own cigarettes. Once a week or so, pop, ice cream, cake, pizza or what-have-you is hauled out for a soiree, Moreau’s answer to a fraternity party.
Besides being the high point of the Moreau social swirl, the soirees serve to break up the demanding schedule of the seminarians. After the relative quiet of the year at the Novitiate, where the spiritual life is stressed and the distractions of the outside world reduced to a minimum, the men take the vows of poverty, chastity and obedience and move into a stepped-up tempo at Moreau. Studies demand maximum attention, especially for those who have had no college work previously. Extracurricular activities mount up; religious exercises require at least three hours daily; and
hour must be parceled out each day for outdoor recreation. Everyone must adjust to the new life, regardless of whether he’s nursed his vocation since fifth grade or entered the Congregation when he was knee-deep in middle age.
We have both types at Moreau. There now are 37 seminarians who graduated from the nearby high school preparatory seminary. Most decided in their final years of grammar school to test their vocations, and came to Holy Cross. Other seminarians were plucked from the world later in life. Some took the first step to Moreau when they entered the Old College training program on the campus, after graduating from high schools in their home towns. Old College, a “halfway house” between the religious life and the life of a lay student at Notre Dame, gives men an opportunity to test their vocations without putting on a cassock. It also gives older men, who have been out in the world a few years, a chance to adjust more gradually to their new life.
One Old College “graduate” ot Moreau is an ex-Air Force captain who served in World War II and the Korean War and flew supplies into Berlin during the 1948 Airlift. Other late vocations include two fowner Navy officers, one former Marine lieutenant, two former Navy-petty officers and an ex-Army PFC. Look over a list of former occupations of Moreau seminarians and you’ll find, among others, a former electrician, carpenter, newspaper reporter, college instructor, architectural engineer, and car salesman.
Not one of them received a personal visitation from the Holy Ghost. A sailor sat down next to a priest in the diner of an Eastbound streamliner and the priest struck up a conversation. A year
(Continued on page 22)
And they wash dishes, too
October 11, 1957
19
Moment of Truth
(Continued from page 17) center of the arena with bowed head and arms outstretched.
During the brief pause that preceded the kill, Stephano crouched behind the barrier and emptied a small flask of wine that he had once again managed to get from one of the many banderilleros who were now only more than anxious to do any little favor for him. As the red liquid coursed its way with burning heat into his throat, he wiped his lips with the back of his hand, pitched the bottle to the side, and stood up. He received a few disapproving looks from several of the men slouched against the wall, but for the most part-those standing about smiled, winked, or said a few encouraging words about the kill. Stephano was elated, and spoke rapidly, gesturing with his hands, and in general made it quite clear tb everyone just how he was going to go. about bringing this toro to the sand.
Shouts came down to him from the gallery and he turned' with upraised hand to acknowledge the words of encouragement. Countless eyes smiled down, women waved the white edges of their shawls, and hoarse cries rang out from all sides. J
“For us, Stephano!”
“Ah, for us!”
“Stephano, Stephano! ”
Yes, Stephano. He was still the great . . . the great, great Stephano! The cheers were for him, 'and he leaned unsteadily against the /barrier waving at the faces that were slowly becoming a vague blur of blue, and gray.
A few minutes later he was walking across the sand with muleta and rapier in hand. Paco was a few paces behind him, and the crowd rose to its feet screaming as the bull, maddened by the pain of the banderillas protruding from its neck, suddenly broke into a crazed attack from the far side of the arena.
Stephano faced the charge, meeting the bull with the muleta and sending the animal crashing by with such speed that Paco had to dash out of the way. But even though this was so, the crowd noticed that Stephano had side-stepped at the last moment, .and as a result the play brought only a , broken applause.
Stephano now stood a few paces from the bull, getting ready for the first thrust. The crowd was suddenly silent, and he felt his hand tremble ever so slightly as he slowly raised the rapier over the top of the 'muleta and in line with his right eye. One gold-clad foot stamped the sand, the • bull dropped jts massive head, took a few paces forward, and then stopped. Stephano watched the animal carefully as the snout came close to the ground, blowing little depressions in the sand with its hot breath.
“Toro!" .	.
The shout came from his parched lips and rolle^ across the sand with a loud echo. The bull stood motionless and Stephano took another step forward, shouting again, stamping his foot, swirling the red cape as the liquor he had consumed burned its way into his mind and melted the wax covering of caution that had for so many months been such a strong part of him.
“Aie, toro!”
Stephano shifted the muleta again, bringing himself in direct line with the bull. As he lowered his rapier even .his dulled senses told him that what he was about to do was foolhardy and yet he continued to edge forward slowly until he stood only a pace in front of the animal. Before the crowd knew what was happening Stephano was on one
knee, his hand on the bull’s frothy snout, and his cheek close to the left horn. Not a sound came from the spectators as the torero began to gently stroke the massive black head. The animal blinked heavily as with a slow gliding of his fingers Stephano touched the dark snout that was thick with lice and sweat. He saw the animal’s large eyes as they suddenly rolled heavily, widened, and then fixed themselves on his golden vest. In an instant Stephano was on his feet, away from the hot breath, the suddenly lowered head, the animal who had just now recovered its senses and was already pawing the ground restlessly. The cape flared into the sunlight, a shout of defiance sprang from the torero’s lips, and the crowd came to its feet as the beast thundered into a sudden charge and swept by the motionless matador.
There was a tremendous ovation from the people as they saw the animal swerve to a dust-covered halt with Stephano’s rapier protruding slant-wise from the
back of the neck. But then with a tremendous heave of its head the beast suddenly flipped the weapon from him ‘ and once again faced the torero.
It took only one pass of the muleta to * enable Stephano to recover his rapier and 1 once again align himself for another plunge. He stood now to one side thickly fumbling with the cape as the scene before him began a slow rotation. There s was a dull feeling in his legs, in the back 1 of his head. He was only vaguely con- • scious of Paco standing off to the left, and of the crowd in the distance.
The bull stood with his legs apart, the heavy head lowered with the snout dripping long strands of blood to the ( sand. Stephano took a deep breath and with the rapier hanging stiffly at his side slowly crossed the stretch of sunlight and entered blue shadows.	•
The crowd was silent. Not a sound rolled from that vast multitude that . stacked row after row. The rapier was (' cold in his hand, and he felt the liquor ' now beginning to dull the rest of his senses, and to melt the last trace of j caution that might have still remained 4 with him. He wet his lips nervously, worked the cape in his hand until he I came to stand a few paces from the L front of the bull. For a moment he y stood silent, watching the motionless	I
black hulk. He heard the occasional	I
heavy sound as the beast blew through | black nostrils clotted with blood, and watched the eyes that had now begun to blink slowly, heavily as the pain cut through the animal’s body with each labored breath.
The sun bit into the back of Stephano’s Y neck. He stamped his foot to encourage the bull to give a last charge, but the dying beast remained motionless. Stephano took a few steps, turned his heavy eyes toward Paco who was also beginning to edge forward, and then suddenly tripped back with a surprised cry of pain as the bull, who had mustered the last of his strength, charged ‘ forward with a loud bellow, hooked that deadly left horn into the gold-vested side of the torero and pulled him to his knees. Paco rushed forward but already the animal had twice dug into the •> withering form on the ground, ripping at the silk, baring the stomach, and sinking « both horns into the warm, smooth, tan skin. The blood welled out of the wounds, and Stephano, with an agonized cry, twisted his open mouth into the sand. I ....................................—- *!i
SMC
Girls from St. Mary’s College are hereby notified that they are invited to Wednesday’s program, No Time For Sergeants. The play will be held in the Navy Drill Hall starting at 8:15 p.m. For further information see page 9 of this magazine.
The Scholastic
Moreau—
(Continued from page 19) later the ex-serviceman decided to enter the priesthood and he renewed his acquaintanceship; the former sailor now is at Moreau and the priest is his assistant superior. Another young man bumped into a fellow American in Florence, Italy. The man, wearing a beret instead of a biretta, turned out to be a Holy Cross priest who was studying in Europe. The friendship ultimately led the young American to the Holy Cross Fathers; the priest now is an executive at Notre Dame.
One German-born seminarian was living with his family in Bolivia when he decided to join a monastic order. He eventually arrived in Santiago, Chile, with scarcely a peso in his pocket after selling a silver match holder to pay for the last stages of the journey. The monks then turned the man down because of his age. He had never heard of Holy Cross — but a nearby C. S. C. priest soon supplied the necessary information, and an application form. This same priest, two year earlier, had been in Rome when two other Germans showed
Counseling is a vital part of any student’s life
up to select a religious society. These two men now live down the hall from one another at Moreau.
Incidents like those cited above might lead some to believe that vocations are largely the result of chance. But each seminarian knows from personal experience that Christ uses tiny occurrences and unlikely people to manifest his will. Perhaps He wants to make certain we understand that “It was not you that
And three square meals a day
chose me, it was I that chose you.” The individual seminarian never will know on this earth why he was called and not someone else who would, by all odds, have done a much better job. He only believes that God has called him (but in what a small voice, almost a whisper perhaps!) and that’s why he is where he is.
His duty at Moreau, of course, is to
equip himself by studies for the task which already has been charted for him. ’J Most seminarians take a regular four- I year course leading to a bachelor’s degree g in philosophy. Some are in science or I other fields, and men with late voca- | tions who already have college degrees are generally given a year’s “seasoning” at Moreau. After graduation here, the 'men study theology for four years in Washington, D. C., oi- abroad, and then ' are ordained priests.
Because of the pressure of religious exercises and a web of extracurricular activities, study time sometimes is scarce I for those overpowered by a heavy class schedule. On the other hand, the discipline, carefully-organized schedule, and rj quiet rooms make it easier to study than j in campus halls. The seminarian studies ' many so-called “secular” subjects, such as economics and history, and also is ( expected to range beyond the orders of ; book knowledge and keep informed of [ problems of the world as well. This is important because Holy Cross is an “ac- i tive” congregation and its members must be prepared to live in the world as teachers, pastors and missionaries. Required is knowledge of “secular” subjects and a knowledge of the world that extends right down to yesterday’s headlines. . Truth, after all, is a reflection of the * Divine Truth which is God; and this truth is not limited to truths of religion. The seminarian, more than any other student, must seek to be educated so he can carry out his work with success in the future. That is his obedience at ' Moreau.
However, his duty does not end with
22
The Scholastic
A,*t
1
studies. Even more fundamental than the seminarian’s education is his quest of a goal which he has in common with all men — the love of God expressed through love of neighbor. To put it another way, the common goal is perfection, because Christ was speaking to all men when He told us to be perfect as his Heavenly Father is perfect. The seminarian walking into his class at O’Shaughnessy has the same goal in life as the lay student who sits next to him. And a non-Catholic studying at a state university is in the same category with both. All are “committed” as men to use the education they receive to serve their neighbor, to try to reach perfection. To pursue the objective easier, the seminarian has the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience.
The vows and rules may make the task easier but they also entail a greater obligation. If all men are called on to try to reach perfection, the Religious nevertheless must be obliged to make a greater effort than the others. The Constitution of Holy Cross sets forth the goal of perfection specifically as one of the organization’s two major goals, thus putting extra pressure on members to do the job asked of all men. It is at Moreau where young men first live under that rule as Holy Cross Religious.
From a human point of view, it’s a hopeless task. The individual seminarian knows before he starts that he never will attain the goal, no matter how heroic his life may be. At Moreau he has all the spiritual weapons possible. There is Mass and Communion and meditation every morning; there is the recitation of the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin during the day, as well as spiritual reading and rosary; there are the countless reminders of his obligation
such as the prayers before and after meals, the silence, the regimented schedule, and the bells which signal the end of one activity and the beginning of another. Despite all these aids, the seminarian knows at the close of the day that he’s failed to live each hour perfectly for Christ. But the battle begins again the next morning at the very instant that the soud of the bell first flashes its disagreeable message to his will, and the seminarian pushes back the covers in the 5:30 darkness and gropes for the light.
This may sound frustrating, but it isn’t. Christ doesn’t expect us to reach perfection — He knows we can’t. He asks that we try and He makes his payment on the basis of effort expended rather than goal achieved. The Religious seeking perfection is not like a man on a quiz program who knows he must answer the $64,000 question correctly or forfeit all. Nor is he like the athlete
who is trying out for the Olympic team and knows that he has failed forever if he’s bypassed this year. A better comparison is that of a window which starts to let in the first rays of the sun at dawn. Gradually, the sun comes up and the window admits more and more light into the room. The window never will be the sun — it always will be simply a channel for the sun’s rays. Yet if the sun is streaming through, the window has become a very clear pathway for the light. Christ is our Sun, the Religious must be a window which will reproduce, as faithfully as possible, the rays of the Sun.
The acquisition of perfection could become, like everything else in the hands of man, a very selfish quest. So spiritual writers tell us that the reproduction of Christ is brought about not by “getting”
Make your own bed
but by a complete “giving” of self to others for love of God. A life founded on this ideal, such as our life at Moreau, is not squishy with sentiment but solid with truth. Such was the life of the first Christians, for example, who “held together, and shared all they had, selling their possessions and their means of livelihood, so as to distribute to all, as each had need.”
St. Luke tells us that this early community persevered with one accord and, as they broke bread in various homes, took their share of food with joy and simplicity of heart. That joy continues to exist in Religious communities and for the same reasons. A seminary like Moreau cannot be anything but happy as long as the seminarians tiy to live out the ideal which led them there.
The Chapel—where each day begins and ends
October 11, 1957
Symposium to Feature Papers by 7 Scholars
A symposium on “Ethics and the Social Sciences” will be presented by the department of philosophy Oct. 18-19, according to an announcement today by The Reverend Herman Reith, C.S.C., department head.
Seven scholars will present papers at the symposium which will be held in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn.
Professors Francis G. Wilson, of the University of Illinois, and Kenneth E. Boulding, of the University of Michigan, will speak at the opening session next Friday at 9:30 a.m. Wilson will discuss “The Social Scientist and His Values”
while Boulding will speak on “The Knowledge of Value and the Value of Knowledge.”
Christopher Dawson, the noted British philosopher and historian, has prepared a paper to be read at the symposium’s second session at 2:30 p.m. next Friday. The Dawson paper is entitled “Notes on Culture and Ethics.” Dawson himself will not be present. Prof. David Bidney, of Indiana University, will speak at the second session on “Anthropology and the Problem of the Unity of Ethics.”
The Reverend Joseph Fichter, S.J., of Loyola University of the South, will speak on “Sociology and Values” next Friday at 8 p.m.
“A Pattern for Relating Ethics and the Social Sciences” will be the subject
of Notre Dame Professor Herbert Johnston at the final symposium session next Saturday at 9:30 a.m. Prof. James B. Brown, of Wesleyan University’s Institute of Ethics and Politics, will discuss “Inter-Disciplinary and Inter-Faith Dialogue as an Approach to Understanding Political Ethics.”
BUDDY MORROW
The Buddy Morrow Show’s salute to Notre Dame originally scheduled for this evening has been reset for tomorrow. The program will be heard over CBS from 9:05 to 9:30 CDT and from 10:05 to 10:30 EDT.
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shave!
Quicker . . . closer . . . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
24	The Scholastic
DmaJi Seem
THE AUTHOR
The experience from last year’s defeats is beginning to show. Both the offense and the defense are much improved over- last season. In fact, the team played better against Indiana than against Purdue the week before. We realize that these first three games are the most important on our schedule. If we can pick up three wins before the open date, give our sophs time to gain some game experience and veterans time to reach their peaks, we will be in pretty good shape to face the rest of our schedule, which from here on out is the toughest in the country.
Last Saturday the defense again showed its marked improvement over last year. Indiana was using formations in which half the team was pulling out to block for the ball-carrier. But the fast hard-charging pursuit of the defensive linemen contained the Hoosiers to 84 yards in 32 carries on the ground, an average of only 2.6 yards per carry.
The one sustained drive that the Hoosiers did master, in which they drove from their own 24 to the Notre Dame 10, was stopped cold. In four plays Indiana could gain only one-yard.
Last year the defense was our biggest weakness. Our opponents were able to run about thirty more plays a game than we were. With that many opportunities, they were almost bound to outscore us. This year, though, Coach Brennan has two lines of equal strength he can alternate. This way he is able to rest one group for half a quarter and then send them back in fresh. Since the defense
is forcing the opposition to punt after three downs, we’re the ones that are running the majority of the plays. It’s showing up in the point column.
In the first two games this fall, the
Notre Dame's fullback and leading ground-gainer shows how the Irish are improving as he tells . . .
“Experience Begins to Show”
by NICK PIET ROS ANTE as told to Ted Thompson
line has displayed roughness and confidence out there. They have shown great spirit and hustle. The fellows aren’t afraid of penalties; they’re hitting the other guys with everything they’ve got. This year- the team is giving back the rough play they receive. They know that the harder you hit a back, the slower he gets up and the less he wants to run the next time.
One of the biggest improvements over last yeai- is the ability to get that needed third down yardage. Quite a few times, when we were in third and three or third and four situations, we were able to come up with the three or four yards we had to have to keep the drive going.
Also, when we are inside the opposition’s twenty-yard line, we are scoring more than before. Fewer offensive mistakes, penalties, and fumbles are contributing to this ability to take advantage of getting deep into enemy territory.
Last Saturday the hard running of
TOUCHDOWN THE HARD WAY
Chuck Lima makes it 13-0 against the Hoosiers
all four halfbacks gave us those few extra yards all afternoon long. On one play Dick Lynch was ti-apped behind the line of scrimmage but broke away and drove 15 yards before he was brought down. And the fact that we have adequate replacements at quarterback foi’ Bobby Williams cannot be overlooked. Good field leadership is necessary, and we are getting it from George Izo and Don White.
Army will be our toughest test so far. If we can get by them, we could well be on our way. If we improve from week to week and play as hard as we did against Purdue and Indiana and capitalize on all oar breaks, we’re certain to win.
The attitude on this year’s team is tremendous. We know we’re good, and we’re ready to battle hard to prove it. This year we look forward to the practices during the week because this year we have something to shoot for—as Don McNeill put it—“the greatest comeback in Notre Dame history.”
October 11, 1957
25
Army Pregame
by John Glavin
Notre Dame, Army Resume Grid Rivalry; Collide Tomorrow in Municipal Stadium
One of the greatest grid rivalries in modern college football resumes tomorrow afternoon when Terry Brennan sends his undefeated and unscored upon charges against an unbeaten Army team in Philadelphia’s Municipal Stadium.
Notre Dame will meet their first real test of the season after fairly easy victories over Purdue and Indiana. Army opened their season with a 42-0 win over Nebraska and then ripped Penn State last week, 27-13.
Brennan was happy with the performance of his entire squad last Saturday. After the game, he remarked that “I think that we are deeper than last year but we’ll know better in that Army game. They must have a real fine team. Our offense was a lot better but we can’t let that second half lapse happen again.”
The game rates as one of the best in the East this year and will receive some of the best press coverage of the year. The writers covering the World Series have migrated to Philadelphia to see just how far the Irish have come since last year’s disaster.
Tomorrow’s encounter with the Black Knights of the Hudson will be the 35th
meeting of the series after a lapse of ten years. The Irish won the last game in 1947, 27-7. The locals hold a wide edge in the series, having won 23 while losing seven. There have been four ties.
The rival teams have held each other scoreless 22 times with three of the four tie games scoreless duels.
Brennan is doubtful about his starting lineup. Both Aubrey Lewis and Ed Sul-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
ARMY	NOTRE DAME
Usry ..........   LE	   Royer
Melnik ........  LT	  Puntillo
Novogratz...... LG ........ Schaaf
Kernan _______ C ........Sullivan
Slater ......... RG	  Ecuyer
Wilmoth .......  RT	   Nagurski
Graf ........... RE	  Myers
Bourland _______ QB	   Williams
Anderson ......  LH	   Lewis
Dawkins ________ RH	  Lynch
Barta........... FB	   Pietrosante
KICKOFF—2:00 E.D.T.
TV—WNDU-TV
Radio—WNDU, WSBT.
Anderson, only a sophomore, will be the starting left halfback. Anderson is a slashing runner and possesses the abil- < ity to go all the way if he is sprung loose. Dawkins, a junior, is slated to -start in the right halfback position. Barta, a senior, in the fullback slot, is not a break away threat but is a good power runner.
Captain Jim Kernan will be the starter t in the center position. Although he is I small for a big time college center, his I quickness and mental alertness are the characteristics that have made him a good linebacker. He weighs only 190 pounds. In the guard slots will be Bob Novogratz and Stan Slater. Novogratz, a junior, weighs in at an even 200 pounds while Slater is only 188 pounds. Slater saw considerable action last year and has two varsity monograms. In the tackle positions will be Bill Melnik and Fred Wilmoth. Melnik, a senior, has been on the Army team for the past two seasons but has not as yet earned I a varsity letter because of a series of I' injuries. Wilmoth, a junior, is the H heaviest man on the squad, weighing in K at 240 pounds. Sophomore Don Usry I will be at the left end with junior Bill ■ Graf at the right end position.
Army features a tight “T” formation ■ with a “belly” series. They use a wide ■ open style of play, keeping the defense I off balance with Bourland’s passing. f
If the improving Irish defense can contain the Cadets, the locals will do all right. This will be the big one. A win could give impetus to a very successful season. All the big games are yet to come and a win tomorrow is a must. Irish followers, 750 student trippers included, will know late tomorrow afternoon.
DICK LYNCH Leads Irish Scorers
livan will not be able to go all the way because of ankle injuries. Dick Lynch, the leading scorer, will probably start although he was sick earlier in the week.
The Black Knights showed a powerful offense that tore the Penn State defense apart in the second half. The Nittany Lions managed to hold the Cadets down in the first half but quarterback Dave Bourland guided the Black Knights to three third-quarter touchdowns to clinch the victory.
Bourland mixes up the offense with deft handling of the ball on Army’s “belly” series while keeping the defense off balance with his passes. Bourland also proved his ability to run the ball with a 22-yard run after he was apparently trapped trying to pass. Bourland, a senior, is backed up in the Anny backfield by Bob Anderson, Pete Dawkins, and Vince Barta.
AUBREY LEWIS May Be Sidelined
26
The Scholastic
Wilson Sends Veteran Team to Marquette For Cross-Country Opener This Afternoon
Notre Dame’s cross country squad opens its 1957 season today, competing against Marquette at Milwaukee.
The experienced Irish squad returned to school in top physical shape and has worked hard in the four weeks of training prior to the Marquette encounter. Two sophomores, Dave Cotton and Galen Cawley, have shown promise and improvement. However, the team will be hampered by Captain Dale Vanden-Berg’s being confined to the infirmary last week.
Following today’s clash, the harriers will host the Indiana Hoosiers on October 19. Coach Alex Wilson thinks this meet will reveal the Irish squad’s true quality, as the Indiana team is highly rated. The Hoosiers dumped the Irish in last year’s State meet and in a dual meet. In the season’s other important dual encounter, the harriers journey to Michigan State on October 31 to take on the defending NCAA champion Spartans. "Exceptional last year, and should be very fine this season,” was Wilson’s description of the MSU squad.
The Irish mentor was optimistic in regard to the squad’s chances in the tournament meets at the season’s close. He expects the squad to improve its sixth place NCAA finish, be near the top in the IC4A, and cop first in the State and Central Collegiate Championships.
Twenty freshmen have been training under the guidance of frosh Coach Dick Hogarty. Hogarty, a Dartmouth alum-
Resume Interhall Football Under Different Schedule
The interhall football season will open next week under a different scheduling system than last year. This fall the teams will be assigned weeks during which to play, and the coaches will determine the exact days.
In the Blue League, Alumni and Off-Campus appear the best teams on the basis of last year’s performances. Alumni has practically the same personnel as Dillon did last year when they tied for the interhall championship. Don Faley will handle the team.
The Off-Campus squad will be directed on the field by either quarterback Frank Leahy or halfback Jim Rodgers. Last year Leahy was an All-Interhall selection for the Dillon champs.
In the Gold League, Dick Murphy, last year’s top coach, will direct a strong aggressive Keenan team. Cavanaugh’s 48 men is the largest turnout from any of the halls.
nus, is no stranger* to the Notre Dame course since he ran here in the fall of 1955 for the Quantico Marines. While stressing that it was a little early to tell much about the frosh, Hogarty said several runners show promise of becoming stalwarts on future Irish squads. Some of the top talent includes Pete Bourbeau, John Johnson, Dennis Johnston, Chris Monahan, Danny Rorke, and Dave Wehlage.
Probably the standout first-year man is second semester freshman Ron Gregory. Gregory holds the high school two mile record of 9:36.9 and was timed in 9:21 for the first two miles of the Olympic try-outs for the 5000 meters two summers ago. Last semester he established new Notre Dame freshman marks in the 880 and the mile.
Both coaches feel this year’s crosscountry squad has the potential for an excellent season, despite intense competition.
Purdue Meet Opens Sailing Team Season
Notre Dame’s Sailing Club held their first meeting of the year last week at which freshmen were orientated and plans formulated for the coming year. Ron Meissner, club commodore, reports that prospects look good for the coming
VANDENBERG, HAVERTY AND COACH WILSON
Discuss preparations for Marquette opener
year. None of last year’s skippers were lost by graduation and the freshmen show some promising sailors. Last year Notre Dame was rated fifth in the nation, the first in the mid-west.
The first meet of the year will be held at Purdue the week end of Oct. 26, where the Irish will be competing against Purdue, Michigan, Michigan State, Wayne State, Ohio State and Indiana. In addition to Meissner, skippers for Notre Dame will be Joe Boland, vicecommodore; Louis Morgan, fleet captain; Bernado D’Almeida, Ray Nelson, and Tim Rice.
The first home meet of-the yeai* will be held at Eagle Lake the week end of Nov. 2; competing will be approximately the same clubs as the previous week. The following week end, Nov. 9, eliminations will be held at Purdue to select the teams representing the midwest in the Fall Championship Races which are held over the Thanksgiving week end in Chicago. The winner of this Thanksgiving meet will be awarded the coveted Timmy Angsten Trophy, symbolic of sailing supremacy east of the Mississippi. There will be two teams representing the Middle Atlantic states, two from New England, and eight from the midwest.
With the completion of this meet the sailing season will go into mothballs, to be resumed again in April. The meets will continue until June, when the year is closed out by the Intercollegiate Sailing Championship Races, to be held this year in California during the first week of June.
October 11, 1957
27
Irish Versus Black Knights
by Joe Bride
The big game takes place tomorrow. After ten years of famine, the Irish and the Army knock heads again. From the opening kickoff by John McEwan in the 1913 game to the pass interception by Notre Dame’s Jim Brennan in 1947, the Irish and the Anny have sparked more thrills into 2,040 minutes of football than any series before or since.
Notre Dame has won 23 times, Army seven, and there have been four ties. The many Notre Dame wins might suggest a lopsided series, but in 23 of the previous games, the teams were two touchdowns or less apart at the finish, and in 15 games, seven points or less was the margin of separation.
Of the many thrills of the past, five games stand out for me — 1913, 1924, 1928, 1946, and 1947.
In the first one, the 1913 game, the Irish and the Army met on the windswept plains of West Point. Notre Dame flashed by the Cadets, using a spectacular brand of football never before seen in the east. Gus Dorais, the Notre Dame quarterback passed with deadly accuracy and skill, and the Irish who trailed 13-7, crushed the Army, 35-13.
Army was unbeaten and supposedly the best in the East, but Dorais completed 13 of 17 passes for 243 yards, and Capt. Knute Rockne was on the receiving end.
In 1924, Grantland Rice immortalized
TEN YEARS AGO
Coach Brennan boHs for his second score in ’47 encounter
the “Four Horsemen” and the “Four Horsemen” overran Army 13-7.
Rice wrote, “Outlined against a bluegray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden.”
In the second period Elmer Layden crashed over for one score, and the second Irish tally came after Layden had intercepted a pass. Jim Crowley circled right end for the touchdown.
In 1928, the Irish came into the Army game with two defeats and the Cadets were on the road to the National Championship.
The psychology of Rockne almost conceded the game to Army in pregame interviews, but the stubborn Irish battled the Cadets to an even draw at half time.
No one knows what occurred in the dressing rooms between halfs, but the inspired Army came out and fought to a 6-0 lead.
The scene is set.
The Irish drive back and before the period is over Jack Chevigny rips and slashes, pacing the Irish on a drive and scores the touchdown. The attempt for the point is blocked.
Jim Brady, who directed the Irish in their march to the goal, is taken out
by Rockne and receives a thundering- I ovation from the Yankee Stadium crowd. I As time moves in the fourth period
the Irish try to generate a drive. They move to their third successive first down fl and are on the Cadet 16. But, an errant ■ pass from center goes astray, Chevigny 1 falls on it on the 32, but is hurt and is forced to leave the game.
The Irish have third and 26 on the ■ 32. Frank Carideo fades to pass, and “One play” Johnny O’Brien, who just came into the game lunges and catches the pass for the touchdown. O’Brien ‘ jumps up, runs off the field, and takeshis old spot on the bench.
Army, paced by Chris Cagle, fights A deep into Irish territory, but the Cadets 11 are stopped on the Irish one as the ]< game ends.	II
This is the game that was won for the H “Gipper.” At half time Rockne quoted ll George Gipp’s deathbed speech: “Some- ll time Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks jl are beating the boys, ask them to win I| one for the Gipper. I don’t know where l| I’ll be then, Rock, but I’ll know about I it and I’ll be happy.”
In 1946, Army and Notre Dame were the best in the country, and the winner was supposed to be National Champion. The Irish drove 89 yards in the second t.. period from their own seven to the Army I four, but couldn’t score. Doc Blanchard > broke into the open and seemed headed for an Army touchdown in the third period, but ND safety man, Johnny Lujack, cut him down.
The two great lines, the Cadets and J*, the Irish battled back and forth, and ’ the game ended in a 0-0, tie. Barney \ Poole and Dan Foldberg paced the Cadets in the line and George Connor and Bill Fischer the Irish.	.
The final game, in 1947, might well be called Coach Brennan’s game. The temperature was in the low thirties and ■ the snow-laden wind carried the opening kickoff deep over the shoulder of ’' Brennan, who had to turn to gather it in. He pivoted on the three and moved up field behind blocks of Jim Martin and Bill Fischer. On the 20 he cuts to the ' left, moves two strides, and cuts back. *<, He’s in the open and goes 97 yards for I the touchdown.
Later in this period, Brennan smashes and cuts through the Cadets, and finally goes 3 yards for the second Irish score.
The final tally is 27-7, the series is halted, but the Irish have come back in this year of 1957 to re-haunt the plains of West Point. .
The Scholastic
’ i
i i 28
TIME OUT
Should the attitude of the Notre Dame student toward football closely resemble that of the Ivy League? No, for what seems to me to be obvious and sensible reasons.
Intercollegiate athletics are good in themselves, both for the athlete and the student. If they are not, we should rid ourselves of them entirely. The student, by his interest in athletics, manifests his interests in the school of his choice. Football IS a diversion, and a good one. But it is something much more than going to the Granada for a night away from the books.
If the students don’t care who wins on Saturday afternoons, the Stadium becomes the Granada. But the Stadium is more than this. Competition is basic to human nature and has a definite place in the University.
If football is to be left in the Stadium on Saturday, then it seems that there are several thousand ignorant people on campus. For it seems unlikely that 5,000 young men would jam themselves into a hot, sweaty Fieldhouse the Friday night before a game and yell themselves hoarse for the team up on the balcony if the following day’s outcome meant little to them.
What about the signs in the Halls exhorting the students to go to Mass and Communion for the team? This certainly isn’t leaving it in the Stadium but neither is it overemphasis. It’s good and wholesome and should continue as long as there is a Notre Dame.
Another interesting point is football from the standpoint of the alumnus. After four year’s at Notre Dame as a student, one of his strongest ties with the University is its athletic program.
GUNG-HO
Think of the nuns who listen to the games each Saturday afternoon, beads in hand. This game that they are hearing must mean more to them than just a diversion.
Or, how about the kids throughout the country who follow the Irish and who take it as a personal blow when Notre Dame loses? Some say this is silly sentimentalism, but it remains a fact.
Football means more to Notre Dame than other schools. Thousands have adopted Notre Dame through the sport. Doesn’t it seem illogical that those divorced from the University would have a real feeling for the team while the student cares little. Rather, it would seem that the traditional Notre Dame spirit started and continues from the inside out. The subway alumnus may be diehard, but the real alumnus will be dieharder.
ARMY-NOTRE DAME
Regardless of the above, 100,000 fans, including a great portion of the student body, will be in Philadelphia tomorrow to witness the renewal of the Army-Notre Dame series. Here the Irish get their first real test of the season.
Army is good. They have beaten the best in the East, Penn State. They, are always tough against the Irish, but we will have to go with the locals in this one.
Notre Dame played a fine opener against Purdue but looked a little sluggish in the second half against Indiana. Tomorrow they should be ready for a fine performance, both on offense and defense.
Then, too, the second Irish unit played much better ball against IU than many gave them credit for. This will be a factor in; the game tomorrow as it will give the regulars a breather without letting up on the opposition.
We’re going out on a limb and calling it Notre Dame by two touchdowns, 21-7.—M. F.
FISH FRY FRIDAY
Pizza, Spaghetti, and Ravioli Italian Style
Simeri's Cafe 410 NORTH HILL STREET
Have a WORID of FUN!
Trave! with IITA Unbelievable Low Cost Europt
60 Days	$585
Orient 43-65	$998
25tt Year
Also SI 49
Many fours include college credit
low-cost trips to Mexico up. South America $699 up.
Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
STEAK SPECIALS — on — Tuesday and Thursday A Long-Time N.D. Favorite Flaiiigo Miinit 610 NORTH MICHIGAN Open Sunday
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
October 11, 1957
Coming Opponents Capture rive of Six; Tarheels Surprise Highly Rated Middies
Notre Dame’s coming opponents won five of six games they played over last week end. Navy sustained the only loss. The North Carolina Tarheels upset a highly rated Annapolis team by a 13-7 score.
The Tarheels turned a recovered fumble and an intercepted pass into touchdowns in upending sixth ranked Navy. Navy’s vaunted offense which had crushed Boston College and William and Mary was held in check by a tight Tarheel defense until late in the fourth quarter when halfback Harry Hurst scored from the one-yard line to climax a drive from Navy’s 27-yard line.
Army, the Irish foe tomorrow, exploded for three touchdowns in the third quarter to dump the Nittany Lions of Penn State, 27-13. Quarterback Dave Bourland, handling the Army belly series, mixed up the Black Knight’s offense and kept the Army attack moving inside the Nittany Lion’s tackles. The Cadets scored on sustained drives of 40, 48, 66, and 71 yards. From the kickoff the Cadets moved for their first score in nine plays from their own 29-yard line with Pete Dawkins speeding the last ten yards around the left end.
Michigan State’s Spartans took to the air three times for touchdowns in downing the unexpectedly tough University of California’s Bears, 19-0. The nation’s No. 2 team tallied twice in the first half on tosses of six and seven yards by quarterback Jim Nonowski. Nonowski’s replacement, Mike Panitch, pitched a 13 yarder early in the fourth quarter for the final tally. The Spartans picked up
271 yards on the ground with 196 yards through the air.
The Oklahoma Sooners, despite a recent bout with the flu bug, smashed Iowa State, 40-14. But it wasn’t until the late stages of the game that the nation’s No. 1 team was able to pull away with the victory. It was the Soon-er’s 42nd straight win. Starting quarterback Carl Dodd made two of Oklahoma’s six touchdowns, with the others contributed by Clendon Thomas, Dave Baker, Jackie Sandefer and Bobby Boyd. Sandefer’s touchdown came on an 81-yard punt return.
Iowa also survived a week long bout with the flu and scored a fourth quarter touchdown to nip the Rose Bowl hopeful Washington State, 20-13. The Hawkeyes, pressed hard by the West Coast team, broke out of a 13-13 tie with four minutes remaining in the final stanza. The Hawkeyes took advantage of a recovered fumble for the victory drive. After Al Karras snatched up the State fumble on the Iowa 46-yard line, Iowa drove 54 yards in eleven plays. Kevin Furlong drove over from the one-yard marker.
Pittsburgh and Southern California, who will both meet the Irish later on in the season, hooked up in a real battle with the Panthers finally coming out on top by 20-14. Notre Dame’s final opponent of the season, The Southern Methodist Mustangs, were idle last week.
Tonight, the Mustangs take on Missouri at Southern Methodist. Tomorrow will find the Irish’s next opponent, Pittsburgh playing Nebraska, who was
walloped by Army, 42-0. Oklahoma will be in Dallas to play the Texas Longhorns while Michigan State will be meeting * their big rivals, the Michigan Wolverines. Navy will be in California to meet the < University of California, while Southern California will take on Washington. Iowa will play their first Big Ten contest of the year against Indiana.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame over Army West Virginia over Boston U. COP over Kansas State	'
Holy Cross over Marquette	x
Penn State over William & Mary Pittsburgh over Nebraska Oregon over San Jose State Ohio State over Illinois Iowa over Indiana Mich. St. over Michigan Minnesota over Northwestern Colorado over Arizona Oklahoma over Texas Texas A&M over Houston TCU over Alabama Auburn over Kentucky Georgia Tech over LSU Tennessee over Chattanooga	r
Baylor over Arkansas Duke over Rice Oregon St. over Idaho Colgate over Rutgers Miami over North Carolina Syracuse over Cornell Villanova over Va. Tech.
LAST WEEK:
18 Right; 7 wrong.	.
SEASON:
39 Right; 9 Wrong.
2 Ties. Pct. 813.
The Shoes that go to College-
before they go to College men
Cordovan Blucher
Hand-Sewn Loafer
PUS ENDORSED
We send Phi Bates to on-campus members of our College Advisory Board for their approval before these shoes can wear the badge of authenticity and approval-Phi Bates.
(campus endorsed) This is your assurance that all Phi-Bates styles are authentically correct for campus wear... TODAY.
$11.95 to $19.95
SEE THEM AT
GILBERT'S CAMPUS SHOP INDIANA
BATES SHOE COMPANY. WEBSTER, MASS.
30
The Scholastic
Founder’s Day
* This Sunday, Oct. 13, will be a day । of recuperation for many of us as we prepare ourselves for the long haul from New York back to South Bend.
But Oct. 13, has a more lasting importance for all Notre Dame men—student trippers or otherwise. For it is 1 Founder’s Day, the 64th annual celebration of the feast of Edward the Confessor.
Founder’s Day, of course, commemorates the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., who opened the doors of Notre Dame | i some 115 years ago, in November of H 1842.
। Father* Sorin and six Brothers came J to America from France in the Septem-i [' ber of 1841, and reported to Bishop ! Halandiere in Vincennes, Ind. Their I' original mission was to build a novitiate and an elementary school just outside j'. of Vincennes. But as soon as they had gotten this project under way, Father Sorin asked the bishop to allow him and his group to start a college at Vincennes. They were refused; the Eudists [already had a college there, and the bishop could not finance another one.
j But Father Sorin persisted, and finally the bishop compromised; he offered to let them build in northern Indiana, near j South Bend. After much consideration, I Father Sorin and the Brothers accepted the offer, and in November of 1842, they arrived at the old Log Chapel on St. Mary’s Lake, which such priests as Badin, Deseille, and Petit had been using as a missionary headquarters.
Father Sorin, who had spent a mere nine months in the novitiate prior to his ordination, due to the revolutionary conditions in France and the dangers of professing the Faith, had only 500 dol-I lars in cash and the barest of other J resources when he arrived. But he and the Brothers, using the chapel as a nucleus, expanded the college to include living quarters, classrooms, and a larger chapel — all in two years! Then Father Sorin obtained a college charter from the state of Indiana, and the group con-* tinued to build and expand.
In 1879, after 37 years of ceaseless labor on Father Sorin’s part, a fire destroyed every building on the then sizeable campus, except the church. But while most men would have given up, Father Sorin calmly organized everyone on campus and rebuilt the place, building 1 for building.
In 1893, when the University was well on its way to prominence, Father Sorin died, leaving behind him the basic working principle which he had followed for some 51 years at Notre Dame: the University exists primarily for the students, and should be managed accordingly.
October 11, 1957
Studios Air Conditioned
MOSTOF My STUDENTS ARE BUSINESS MEN NATURALLY THEY WANT TO LEARN TO DANCE QUICKLY...AND THEY 00-THANKS TO ARTHUR MURRAYS MAGIC STEP-
Over a million people have found new popularity and confidence thanks to Arthur Murray and his Magic Step method of teaching dancing. Why not visit Arthur Murray’s today and see for yourself how quickly you can become an assured dancer.
Come In for a Free Trial Lesson
120 E. Wayne ARTHUR MURRAY CE2-3339
REAL ITALIAN AMERICAN FOOD
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
713 East LaSalle	CE 3-0951
GEOELS
Soeth Reifs Largest Serples Store
NAVY OXFORDS — PARKAS
MILITARY INSIGNIA
ALL KINDS OF WORK CLOTHES
512 S. MICHIGAN AT 7-6277


31
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477

1QIII0S
LIBRARY and BOOK SROP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
^Marvin^
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
A Carpenter Without His Hammer—
— or a surgeon without his scalpel — is something like a student without his book. For books are the basic tools of the student’s trade. Nothing has ever replaced the professor in the classroom, and nothing has ever replaced the main tool of teaching and learning—the book. You may forget, but your books won’t. At 4:00 a.m. before your exams, your professors are getting their much needed rest. But your books are working with you —that is—if you have your own books.
Presumably you are in college because you want to learn. Your books are your tools. Don’t be like the carpenter with a borrowed hammer who must finish his work at the convenience of
Notre Dame Bookstore
Dr. Baldinger to Speak
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
the man who owns a hammer!
Penny for penny, page for page, books are the best
“buy” of your college career. We have then. Come inspect them, and buy your own books today.
At Texas Graduation
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, left today for San Angelo, Tex., where he will give the graduation address at Goodfellow Air Force Base.
Among the 72 men graduating from ( the five months’ course in multi-engine I flight training will be Dean Baldinger’s son, James. Young Baldinger, along with the rest of the men, will receive Air Force “Wings” and be commissioned first lieutenants at the exercises.
While he is in Texas, Dean Baldinger will also attend the inauguration of Brother Raymond Fleck, C.S.C., as president of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Tex. He will be the official representative of the College of Science and the University.
Brother Columba Curran, Assistant , Provincial, Brothers’ Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, will represent the Order and the department of chemistry, of which Brother Raymond is a graduate.
Purdue's Prof. Petty Speaks ' At Combined ASCE Banquet
Prof. Benjamin Petty of Purdue University was the guest speaker at the combined banquet of the American Society of Civil Engineers held at the Morris Inn on Oct. 2.
Last year the American Roadbuilding Association elected Prof. Petty “Engineer- of the Year.” He is currently professor of engineering in the graduate school at Purdue.
He spoke on highway progress to an assemblage of 20 professional engineers and 80 students. Engineering Dean f Karl E. Schoenherr, Assistant Dean Ray- I mond J. Schubmehl, and James A. Me- ■ Carthy, faculty advisor, also attended the meeting.
Navy Council Announces Pre-Christmas Activities ’
1
Bill Lynch, chairman of the Navy Council of the NROTC Unit, has announced a senior smoker, to be held in the Drill Hall during the last week of October.
The smoker will be open to all mem- *' bers of the NROTC Unit and will present comedy skits and talent acts. The skits will be concerned chiefly with the NROTC summer cruises. Chairman and master of ceremonies of the smoker is Bill Dotterweich.
Other pre-Christmas activities include a junior smoker, a cruise slide show, and a basketball league, Lynch reported.
32
The Scholastic
I
Golf Tournament Set For Campus Course
Don Corbett, physical facilities chairman, announced that the 1957 “Duffers’ Derby” will be. held on Oct. 19 at the Burke Memorial Golf Course.
The 18 hole tournament is open to the whole campus. The Derby will be played on the open week end of the football season, Corbett reminded.
Entries for the tournament must be made no later than Wednesday at 116 Fisher Hall. There will be an entry fee of 25 cents and total costs will include green fees and merchandise prizes such as golf balls, clubs, etc.
A trophy will be awarded to the player who comes in with the low gross. There will be other prizes given for such divisions as the “Blind Bogey,” “Poker Hand,” and the most threes, fours, fives, and sixes.
The starting times for the players will be published in the Golf Shop on Friday, Oct. 18.
Corbett also announced that any students interested in the following committees : interhall student athletic advisory board; the LaFortune Student Center house committee; the Rockne Memorial advisory board; the Gerity Golf and Bridge Fund; and minor sports committee, should submit applications to 116 Fisher Hall.
Campus Station Inaugurates Student Government Show
‘ Jerry Brady, student body president, addressed the whole campus last night over WSND in a first of a series of student government programs, “You and Student Government.”
This new WSND feature will be pre; sented every Thursday at 9:30 p.m. In addition to talks on the relation of the student and student government, there k will be panel-type discussions on such controversial issues as preferential hall residence, the Blue Circle, and all night lights.
j* Sorin Cadet Council Seeks - Freshman Representatives
The Sorin Cadet Council has recently elected its officers for the coming year. The Council will now begin interviews to determine the two representatives from the freshman class.
Gerry Genovese, a senior sociology major from Crete, Ill., is this year’s president. He is assisted by Vice-President Hugh Murphy, a junior economics major from New York City, and treasurer John McNeil, a sophomore in commerce. Other members of the council are Senior Bob Duffy, Junior Pat Toner, and Sophomore Mike Canavan.
FRESHMAN WRESTLING
Head wrestling coach Tom Fallon recently announced that there will be a meeting for all those freshmen interested in trying out for the team on Tuesday, Oct. 15, at 7:30 p.m. in room 1 of the Rockne Memorial Building.
He also stated that the first varsity match would be at home against Findlay College on Dec. 3, instead of on Dec. 10 at Western Michigan as previously announced by the Scholastic.
W*WM**WWW«*W*W*WW«*«WW**««W«W*«****^****W***9
Juniors to Select Members For Prom, Week-End Posts
Junior Class President Mark Shields has announced that applications and memberships for the Junior prom and the Junior parent’s week-end committees will be distributed among all juniors. As soon as the applications return, the interviews will begin.
The reason behind the interview is to elect a qualified man because of his merit and not because of favoritism. The intei-viewing board will be comprised of the four junior class officers and the general chairman who is appointed by the class officers.
Dick Quinn, who was elected the junior class vice-president last spring, entered the seminary this summer. Jack Beard, who was runner-up in the spring elections, has been appointed to take his place.
Morency-Lavin Team Wins Bridge Tourney
Bill Morency and Fred Lavin took first place in the weekly campus-wide bridge tournament held last Sunday in the LaFortune Student Center. Brian Moran and Ron Vardiman captured second place honors.
Bob Vondrasek and Tom Lee received the booby prize for finishing last among the field of eight teams competing in the tournament.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy: Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan AT 7-3630
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
• 1,000 suits in stock
• All the newest styles
• Boys’ sizes 2 to Men’s 56
• No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
October 11, 1957
33
Bach Pa/tfi
search
by JOHN KEARNS
for truth
Freedom of speech is one of the most sacred American traditions. It is one of the foundations of our whole civilization. It is guaranteed by the Constitution, and has been upheld by the coui-ts on numerous occasions. In the United States it is thought better to allow this freedom to be abused than to limit it in any way.
Freedom of speech, which, of course includes freedom of the press, is most often abused in print. Today, every magazine stand and drug store has many foul magazines and pocket books. And they sell—smut is a big business. Yet the rights of these magazines are vigorously upheld by our courts.
This has not always been the case. For many years, the book Ulysses was forbidden admission into the United States. One of the great novels of all time, it was forbidden in an extremely narrow-minded decision. And this points up the fact that no coui-t system is capable of passing judgment on the morality or immorality of a sincere attempt at ai-t. Such is outside the province of courts, and must always remain the responsibility of the individual.
However, with most of the trash offered in this country there is no pretence at being art. And here is the point at which legal measures could be applied. It is fairly simple to judge the intentions of these publishers—they are selling filth to those who want filth. .
If only adults were able to purchase this literature, then there would be some chance of defending its freedom. It would still exert a corrupting influence, being detrimental to our culture. However, the function of the law is not to force morality on man. It should be aimed at creating the condition best suited for man to attain his true end, but it cannot remove man’s responsibility for his actions.
It is a Puritan concept that law should force man to be good. Man cannot lose his soul except by his free choice. Therefore it is both ridiculous and futile to attempt to force him to save himself.
But children, as well as adults, can buy sex magazines and pocket books,
34
and the duty of the state, as also the parents, is to protect the children. Parents alone cannot prevent their children from buying and being corrupted by the literature. These children cannot be attributed maturity—they are not fully developed and able to take the entire burden of responsibility for their actions.
The fact that these publications harm the country’s youth is a sound argument for legal action against them. But freedom of speech is so highly regarded that this danger to children is allowed.
To understand this, we must first understand why this freedom has become so sacred. And the reason is that the limitation of freedom of speech is the chief means of limiting human freedom. Freedom of speech implies or involves all other freedoms—without it, men cannot be free.
To really control a population, one must control their thinking. And to do this, one needs to first abolish free speech. This accounts for its sacred quality in this country. Only those who would destroy the institution which grants this freedom are silenced. It is, after all, foolish to allow anyone to use his freedom to deny the freedom of everyone else. ,
The existence of free speech implies two things. First, it implies responsibility on the part of the individual. However, this responsibility is not total, for there are laws against libel, slander, etc. Second, and more important, it implies good faith in the grantor. For this demands of him a certain largeness, having nothing whatever to do with physical size. By permitting freedom of speech, the grantor* proves himself fearless, with the further implication that he has nothing to fear.
Wherever this freedom exists, it is bound to be abused. This is inevitable, because everyone is not capable of exercising their responsibility well. Such abuse need not be feared—the irresponsibility is usually evident.
Historically, the chief reason for the
reluctance to grant freedom of speech has been the fear of criticism held by those in authority. This is very often not a real abuse, being abusive only to those who deserve it. For where this fear exists there is usually good reason for it; the criticism being well founded. In this case such speech is a definite good. When the truth hurts, not the truth but the pained member should be removed.
The authority which grants free speech need not fear untrue criticism, for this authority is in a good position to publish the truth. And the truth has a more convincing ring than does a lie. Fear of free speech indicates that there is something wrong—that the limiting authority is vulnerable to criticism.
Even where there is freedom of speech, there is a greater danger that those in power will mislead, than that free speech will allow others to do so. Authority is more easily abused than freedom. A sincere ruler who allows no free speech is in danger of making ■ a wrong move through ignorance. Such a person is denying himself a wonderful opportunity to learn. For when there is only one opinion it is difficult to walk unerringly.
The truth cannot be found if error is forbidden. And this is, in effect, what a limitation of the freedom of speech does. The search for truth is a difficult one, and the goal is hard to recognize. Without this freedom of search and publication the theology of the Catholic Church would be in a primitive state, for most of the important dogmas were defined in opposition to some heresy. Without freedom of opinion and speech these heresies would not have come to be, but then neither would our Creed.
Man’s search for ti-uth is his greatest adventure. There, is, of course, risk involved, but that should not be reason for calling off the search. All worthwhile achievements are risky. But if none take this chance, none will find truth. To deny the freedom for this search is to legislate in favor of error —it is to deny man his nature.

The Scholastic
a
Pick of the
campus...
The new Arrow Trimway combines comfort and good looks. The madras fabric comes in newsmaking miniature plaids and, stripes. Collar buttons down, in front and at center back and there is a box pleat in back of shirt. Shirt shown $5.95. Square crew neck sweater in 100% wool. $10.00. Cluett, Peabody Co., Inc.
ARROW—
CASUAL WEAR
first in fashion
Examine our eye-catching Arrow Trimway
Come and see our wide, colorful selection of Arrow Trimway shirts. All are smartly styled, all are in the newest plaids and stripes. The sooner you come the more you’ll have to choose from, so don’t delay.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Salem
A new idea in smoking
© @ @
*	menthol fresh
*	rich tobacco taste
*	most modern filter
It’s a new idea in smoking —a refreshing idea for every smoker. SALEM’s pure white filter brings you rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness . . . menthol-fresh comfort... a smoke as refreshing to your taste as Springtime is to you. Next time you light up — switch to SALEM and smoke refreshed.
Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem