SCH O LAST! C
PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
~ RAYMOND J. KELLY —■	■	—
In Little Old New York
Though we have read, at one time or another, every column that tells of life in Manhattan and thereabouts we still turn to The Queen’s Journal for the one that is consistently most enjoyable. Putting Beebe, Sobol, Winchell and their ilk well behind, “Wide-eyed in Gotham” tries to gather the real flavor of the entire city. The writer manages to make New York look like a huge place with hundreds of different kinds of people living in it, instead of just the only city that can contain Sherman Billingsley, Ole Olsen, Elsa Maxwell and Fiorello all at the same time.
In his last issue, Reuven Frank who is responsible for “Wide-eyed,” emptied his pockets of all the little notes that he had been accumulating for weeks and wrote a long description of New York in which he said that New York was like any other city but—
sanctity of the Sabbath by such criminal acts as fishing on any of the lakes or streams of the state. Yet, in open defiance of this ordinance, several of the men from Sorin have intentionally and premeditatively broken the law and even boasted of their exploits. However, last week Gov. Schricker signed a bill repealing some of Indiana’s “blue laws” including the ban on Sunday fishing. Thus, by a stroke of the pen, the activities of the Sorin outlaws became legal and no longer can the Parade lurk along the lake shore, hoping to see a squadron of State Police swoop down and carry the entire crew off to jail.
The Ancients
Ted Peterson, the columnist who fills the Minnesota Daily with tales of his home town, Albert Lea, has begun a new series of articles. He went back into
the Daily files and the dim recesses of his memory to gather material for several columns, concerning former members of the Daily staff. The last such article dealt with a fellow member of the Kelly clan, one Jack. Though he was a nice sort of a fellow, his column was satirical, we were told. Kelly found fault with the Minnesota co-eds and with the coffee in the Union lunch room. Once, after a particularly stirring outburst against the coffee, during which he had referred to it as “grounds for divorce” he stopped in the Union- for his afternoon cup. When he approached the cashier, he was waved away. “It’s free. I liked the publicity you gave us in your column and I’ve set up the Kelly Memorial Coffee Fund. You and all your friends can have all the coffee you want, free.” To prove it, the cashier got coffee for two of Kelly’s friends who happened to come by and two co-eds who were standing at the counter. Each time, he explained “It’s being paid for out of the Kelly Memorial Coffee Fund.” For a while, Kelly was tremendously tickled by the whole set-up. Then he learned that the coffee was actually being paid for out of a dollar in change he had forgotten on the counter a few days before.
A few years ago in a Brooklyn saloon, a Dodger fan overheard a stranger knocking his favorite team and shot him on the spot. Every day a missing person is reported to the Missing Persons Bureau and never found. A musical show called “Crazy with the Heat” opened sometime ago but closed in a hurry. The producers then announced that they would reopen with a new cast, new songs, a new book, new costumes. Three weeks later the show reopened without a major change and became a great hit.
“New York has the highest standard of living in the world and the highest per capita crime rating, the highest buildings and the lowest slums, 12 or 13 colleges and universities and universal ignorance.”
Speaking aside and in sotto voce, the Parade still prefers Detroit and will mail Chamber of Commerce literature upon request.
The Law Moves On
A great thing happened at Notre Dame last week. Few noticed it but those who did felt a great weight lifted from their troubled hearts. To understand the significance of the change, one must realize that for many years it has been in violation of the statutes of the sovereign state of Indiana to violate the
“For leaving any residence hall by any other than the regular exits, the penalty shall be mandatory — suspension from the University.”
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
’’Holding Up The Hills."
By Father Ward. Appears
The Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., head of the graduate philosophy department, has again displayed his versatility in his latest book, Holding Up the Hills (Sheed and Ward, New York, 216 pages, $2.50). Father Ward’s book is sub-titled “The Biography of a Neighborhood,” and concerns life in an Iowa fanning commuunity. “He makes a por-
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
trait-gallery of the men and women whose personalities made the atmosphere of that place, as of a thousand other places in the middle-West. But it is more than a portrait gallery he gives us; it is a community.” Like his intensely appealing God in an Irish Kitchen, this latest effort is not altogther fiction, nor altogether detached journalism. Rather, it is these coupled with a third kind of contemporary art, that of photography which gives his writing richness, perspective. and the vitality of forceful realism.
Walt Brennan Chairman For Confraternity Meet
Walt Brennan, campus chairman of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, announced some of the plans made for the Confraternity meeting scheduled for April 25, 26, and 27 at St. Mary’s College. Plans have been made for more active student participation in the activities of the conference.
In the discussion groups especially, 35 or 40 Notre Dame men will be needed as leaders. A 25-minute dramatic sketch is now being concocted and presentation is planned for some time during the Confraternity. The theme of the sketch will blend in with the Confraternity events.
Ray Kelly, in charge of publicising the Confraternity, has worked up a series of radio programs to be presented each
Tuesday. The first sketch dealing with the Confraternity was broadcast at 3:30 p.m. last Tuesday. It was written by Miss Mary Driscoll.—Robert LeMense.
Catholic U. Players Do
Expert Job in "God's Stage"
Last Sunday evening on the stage of Washington Hall, the Catholic University Players presented “God’s Stage,” an experiment in theatre. Tracing the presence of the Divinity in drama from Aeschylus to T. S. Eliot, with classic simplicity, the production was swift, efficient, and exciting, topping everything theatrical that has been presented to a campus audience this year.
With Grecian fluidity and precision of movement a speaking chorus of eight women supplied presentational unity, and spotlighted narrators wove the varied scenes together for organic unity. The non-realistic acting unit and the stage-space directorial approach were only two of the many experiments attempted in the production; mood music flowed through the theatre, constantly abetting each individual scene.
Emotional and dramatic continuity, ordinarily difficult to maintain in any stage production, was ever present. For this the individual actors are to be praised. Of the many, Anthony Messuri stood out in the Death Scene from Marlowe’s “Dr. Faustus.” Messuri, despite being temporarily handicapped by laryngitis, was superb. Concetta Alonzi gave depth and feeling to Claudel’s Mara in the excerpt from “The Tidings Brought to Mary”; hateful and pitiable was the excellent “Athaliah” from Racine, played by Bette Davis-ish Mimi Norton.
The outstanding feature of the entire production was the excellent direction and supervision. Credit for this goes to Walter F. Ken- and Dr. Josephine Callan of the faculty of Catholic U. Kerr’s mainstay was the movement and interpretation of the individuals; the ken of Miss Callan was the chorus. The synchronization of the two resulted in a magnificent production.
The Rev. G. V. Hartke, O.P., director of the Drama and Speech department of the graduate school at Catholic U., in a curtain speech expressed the' hope that “God’s Stage” would achieve its end: to direct attention to the work that is being done by the country’s only Catholic graduate school in drama and speech. The primary purpose of this school is to turn out Catholic playwrights, and if Sunday night’s presentation is typical of the work being produced by this group we can look forward with more optimism to a renaissance of Catholic drama in this country.
—John Coppinger
NEW DEAL IN NEWS
By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Cairo. Egypt, March 11—Four archeologists of the Royal British Museum today announced that the mystery of the ancient scroll found in the tomb of King Tutkrosian has been solved. After two years of constant study and research, they revealed the writing to read: “Put five bucks on Cleopatra to show in any race.”
Sleepy Eye, Minn., March 10.—The entire population of Sleepy Eye gathered on the banks of the Minnesota River today in a farewell salute to Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy Eye correspondent of the London Times, as he started on one of the most dangerous missions of his entire career. At 7:09 p.m. Slurp set sail on a specially constructed cake of ice in search of Joe Glumpf, the prosperous New York sandwich man who fell into the East River recently and was carried out to sea on a cake of ice. Slurp’s reports will be carried exclusively in this column.
Notre Dame, Ind., March 10—In keeping with the modern trend which was started a few weeks ago when Princeton authorities announced that for the first time in 150 years Princeton students will be allowed to have liquor in their rooms, the officials of Notre Dame have cut the cost of Ginger Ale in the University cafeteria from 15 to 10 cents.
Kewpee’s Sandwich Shop. March 13
—Speaking at the annual testimonial banquet for the Press Club Ski Team w’hich was held here tonight, Franklin Plano, captain of the team, after congratulating the members on their fine record said, “It was one of the saddest moments in my life when I learned that ; our team had failed to qualify for the £ Saint Mary’s Winter Carnival. It was a bitter disappointment.”
Washington, D. C., March 8—As the United States Congress voted President Roosevelt dictatorial powers in passing Bill 1776 today, Senator John Cacklebush, an indifferent from Oklahoma leaped from his seat and shouted, “Who put that tack on my chair?”

The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
MARCH 14, 1941
Number 18
Bengal Prelims March 18, 19, 20; Leahy And Aides Officiate Finals the 22nd
Eliminations Will Select 16 Best Men for Finals
Notre Dame’s No. 1 intercollegiate sport will lend a helping hand to the University’s No. 1 intra-mural event, on the occasion of the tenth Annual Bengal Bouts, March 18, 19, 20 and 22nd, in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Head Football Coach Frank Leahy has consented to preside at. the ringside Saturday night as honorary referee and his four assistants, Ed McKeever, backfield coach, and John Druze, end coach, and Joe McArdle, line coach, will officiate as honorary judges, along with Mr. Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University.
In addition to these notables, Mr. Dominic Napolitano, director of the tournament, has garnered a long list of officials and followers of amateur boxing: Amateur Athletic Union Boxing Commissioner George Cooper; A.A.U. Tournament Clerk Charles Hafron; A.A.U. Referees George Nate and George Van. derhayden; A.A.U. Judges William Sheehen, Eugene Young, Hi Fermen, Earl Murphy, Bernard Witucki and Edward DesLauriers; Medical Examiners: Dr. J. E. McMeel and Dr. Joseph R. Caton; A.A.U. Timers: Elmer Tepe and Harry Richwine; Announcers: Track Coach William Mahoney and Football Coach William Cerney; Glove Clerks: Patrick Putman and Joseph Semenczuk; Bandager: Paul Patten; Equipment Clerk: Mike Hines
Over 120 University students, fighting in eight weight divisions, will enter the ring to fight three two-minute rounds for charity. The proceeds from the Bouts are to go to the Holy Cross Missions in the Bengal province of India. Preliminaries will be held Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights, after which time the field will be narrowed to 16 fighters who will battle Saturday night for titles in their respective divisions. Blue and
gold boxing sweaters will be awarded to each finalist. A trophy will be presented to the residence hall housing the largest number of winners. A trophy given by The Huddle will be presented to the individual who in the opinion of the judges displays the best sportsmanship in the ring.
Boxing fans who marveled at the flawless performance of Paul Malloy in the 120 pound division of the South Bend
FACTS ABOUT BENGAL BOUTS
Time—Preliminaries on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, March 18, 19, and 20. Finals on Saturday, March 22. Bouts for each night will start at 8 p.m.
Place—Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Admission—Prelims.: all seats 10 cents. Finals: General Admission, 35 cents; ringside, 50 cents.
Honorary Referee will be Frank Leahy, Director of Athletics and Head Football Coach. Honorary Judges will be Assistant Coaches Ed McKeever, John Druze, and Joe McArdle.
1940 Lightheavy finalists Ryan and Hebensteit battle before official eyes of the World Champ Billy Conn.
Golden Gloves tournament several weeks ago, will be disappointed to find that they will see little of Malloy in the Bouts. Paul is defending champion, and thus far only one entrant, Joe Becker, has signified his intention of asking Malloy to defend. In the 125 pound division, Martin Rock, a finalist in last year’s Bouts, and Dan Canale seem to hold the class of a very small entry list. The 135, 145 and 155 pound divisions hold practically three-fourth of the entrants. Sammy Meyer is defending champion of the 135 pound class but may have difficulty keeping the title from moving to Louis Schmitz, Adrian Padon or Kermit Rousseau.
Rod Maguire, who has been the impressive champion of the 145 pound divi
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sion for the past two years, looks strong enough to continue his wins over a third year but will have able opponents in Mario Massulo, Jim McGovern, Jim Rice and Bernard Wojcik. Bill McGrath, winner in the lightweight class last year, may train down to 155 pounds and join a large group of entrants of which George Greene and Tom Nolan look most impressive.
Entrants in the 165, 175 pound and heavyweight divisions are rather evenly match. Jesse DeLois, a finalist last year, will again seek the 165 pound title. Jerry Ryan will defend his title in the lightheavyweight class and Bod Dowd, who lost a close decision last year in the finals, leads the heavyweights.
The tentative list of entrants follows:
120 pound: Joe Becker, Paul Malloy.
125 pound: John Morris, Martin Rock, Dan Canale, Frank Conley.
135 pound: Andrew Barbiere, Tom Spencer, Louis Schmitz, Sam Meyer, Robert Taylor, Leo Linck, George St. George, Jim Clark, J. Debittotto, Ed Syr, Adrian Padon, Kermit Rousseau, Robert Gallagher.
145 pound: Mario Massulo, Joe Rorick, Robert King, Rick Whelan, Jim McGovern, Robert Houser, Jim Rice, Dick Reynolds, Bernard Wojcik, Walter Romito, Rod Maguire, Bill Scanlan.
155 pound: Bill McGrath, Robert McDonald, George Greene, Pack Russell, Robert Millett, Jerry Dwyer, Joseph Costello, Ted Burke, Sam Rowbottom, George Dickson, John Ahern, Tom Nolan, Robert Duffy.
165 pound: Frank Fenanto, Pete Ashbaugh, Norman Trembley, Frank McDonough, John Kelly, Jesse DeLois.
175 pound: Jerry Ryan. Charles Kra-lovec, William Hoyne, George McCostin, Pat Filley, Norbert Ellrott.
Heavyweights: John Clark, Howard Korth, Robert Dowd, Ray Quinn, Ralph Kuka, William Smyth, Bruce Heben-streit, John Kearney.
General admission for the preliminaries is 10c; admission for the finals is 25c. Reserved seats are available.
—Tom Powers
Movie Next Saturday
Is "I Love You Again”
Tomorrow evening in Washington Hall an amnesia-ridden William Powell and a perplexed Myrna Loy are doomed to recurrent marital complications in MGM’s farcical-comedy “I Love You Again.” An MGM cartoon and a newsreel will also be presented.
Father French Said First, Last Masses at Same Altar
As an eager young priest in 1883 the Rev. James J. French, C.S.C., said his first Mass on the altar that now stands in the Community infirmary. Last Wednesday he asked to be helped to the Chapel and there he said his last Mass at the same altar where 58 years before he started his exemplary career as a priest.
Rev. James J. French, C.S.C. R. I. P.
Father French died last Thursday after 58 years of devoted service to God and his Church. From his early services to the Community Father French had risen step by step, ever connected with the physical and spiritual development of Notre Dame.
Ordained in 1883, he first served as President of St. Joseph College, Cincinnati, Ohio, then as Superior of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame, (18871893). From 1893 to 1905 he was VicePresident of Notre Dame University and also acted as director of studies some of these years. He then served 20 years, until 1926, as Assistant Superior-General of the Order and meanwhile, from 1906 to 1912, he was Superior of Holy Cross Seminary for the second time.
He was instrumental in reorganizing the Holy Cross Mission Band in 1912, and establishing its famous reputation. Superior of the Mission Band for 18 years, ill health forced him to retire from such a rigorous life in 1931. Even
then he would not accept a well-earned retirement and asked for an appointment to the chaplaincy of St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend. After eight years as a chaplain he still was a bit offended when retired in 1939 at the age of 79. He wanted to die in his boots and in them walking!
Father Paul Foik, C.S.C.
Buried at Notre Dame
The late Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C., who died March 1 in Austin, Texas, was buried here in community cemetery last Friday after services held in Sacred Heart church.
As chairman of the library section of the National Catholic Educational Association, he was largely responsible for the organization of the Catholic Library Association, and was a founder and chairman of the editorial board of the Catholic Periodical Index.
His written works in addition to the seven volumes on which he was working include: “Pioneer Catholic Journalism,” “Martyrs of the Southwest,” “Early Catholic Explorers of the Southwest,” and “Fra Juan de Padilla.”
Father Foik was born Aug. 14. 1879, at Stratford, Ontario, Canada. He entered the seminary of the Congregation of Holy Cross in June, 1901, made his final profession in July, 1905, and was ordained to the priesthood on June 30, 1911. He received a Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1907 and from the Catholic University of America in 1912.
Expect New Engineering
Building Ready by June I
Cold, stormy weather has held up construction on the new Engineering laboratory building, situated next to the new Ave Maria building However, the Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C., director of maintenance, reports that the work will progress rapidly from now on. Completion of the building is expected by June 1.
The brick work was scheduled to be finished this week; and the structural steel work was to be started by this time.
According to Father Reddington, the new 120- by 80-foot building will be used as an experimental laboratory for mechanical and aeronautical engineers. It- will - house experimental machines which will be used for producing heat and electrical power.
The building will be completed and ready for use in the summer school session.—John Shine.'	_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Sesslers Art Featured in Chicago Show
Name Laetare Medal
Winner on March 23
Starting on March 5 and continuing for a month, through April 4, the Hoosier Art Galleries, of 211 West Wacker Drive, Chicago, are featuring in a three man show, the paintings of Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, Director of the Department of Art, at the University of Notre Dame. These oil paintings are the recently executed works that have been been exhibitedl in various art exhibitions in Chicago, Indianapolis, Boston, New York City, and Miami Beach, Fla. They are 12 in number. Of particular interest to Notre Dame men are the three paintings, “Nocturne—Notre Dame,” “Grotto in the Spring,” and “His Grace, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D’.’ There is also a portrait drawing of Prof. F. X. Ackermann, former head of the department of Mechanical Drawing.
“Nocturne—Notre Dame” shows the Administration building bathed in autumn moonlight, with several figures walking along the paths. A warm glow in some of the windows lends interest to the otherwise dark mass of the building.
“Grotto in the Spring” shows the freshness of color typical of our campus at that time of year, with the Golden Dome as an identifying background note. Gay notes of sunlight on the grass and students at prayer furnish stimulating visual accents.
The portrait of Bishop O’Hara is the focal point of the show and is the central note in the arrangement of the exhibition. Nearly everyone on campus is familiar with this painting, as it was reproduced in full color as the frontpiece to last year’s Dome. However, two additions have been made since, the illuminated lettering of the name and titles, and the coat-of-arms, giving the portrait an official and decorative quality. Lucile Morehouse, art critic of the Indianapolis Star, has described it as “the most brilliant and outstanding painting in the exhibition,” referring to the recent Hoosier Salon Show held in the gallaries at Block’s in Indianapolis. To a painter, the problem of red such as is found in the Bishop’s robes, is always a fascinating and thrilling one, and must be solved with a great deal of restraint. Prof. Sessler feels that this portrait is one of his finest paintings and acknowledges enjoying the execution of it above all others.
Also included in the exhibition is the still life painting called “Offerings to Kwan-Yin” a a recent winner of the Peter C. Reilly Prize in the Chicago Salon. The arrangement is of Oriental motif showing the beautiful jade carving
of the Chinese goddess of mercy surrounded by worldly symbols of spiritual devotion, a thought of peculiar significance at the present time.
At the reception held in the Hoosier Gallaries today Mr. Sessler gave a lecture entitled “Art at Notre Dame,” in which he reviewed the hjstory of the
Professor Sessler’s painting of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.
Department of Art at Notre Dame, and related a few anecdotes about former art personalities of the campus.
Titles of other paintings in the show are:
5.	“Shoson Screen and Sansevieria”— still life.
6.	“Angry Hoosier Skies”—landscape.
7.	“Archer Hunter,” a self portrait.
8.	“Robert J. Peggs, Esq.”—portrait.
Portrait drawings: 9. “Lupe and Little Ann;” 10. “Mr. E. V. Whitinger;” 11. “Four Score and Four.”
Hold Second University Economic Round Table
The second Round Table discussion in investment practices was held by the department of finance of the College of Commerce on March 5 in the Law Auditorium.
The subject was “Government Regulation of the Securities Business—Good or Bad?” Participants were Mr. W. McNeil Kennedy, regional director of the Security and Exchange Commission; Ralph S. Langford, vice-chairman of the Chicago Division of the National Association of Security Dealers; Charles E. Stine, a student from Mishawaka, Ind., and Mr. Francis Calkins of the Finance Department.
The recipient of the 1941 University of Notre Dame Laetare medal, the highest award that can be bestowed upon a Catholic layman, will be announced on Sunday, March 23. It will mark the 58th anniversary of the presentation of the medal to the outstanding layman in the Catholic church for the past year. It is donated for a two-fold purpose: as a reward for past works, and as an inspiration in future work.
The medal is awarded annually. It has been the custom since 1883 to present it on the day after which it was named, Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent.
Former recipients of the award have come from every walk of life. The first was- John Gilmary Shea, the historian. Among others that have received it are: Edward D. White, jurist and chief justice of the United States Supreme Court; Albert Francis Zahm, scientist; Stephen J. Maher, physician; Josephine Brownson in 1938, and last year, Maj. Gen. Hugh S. Drum.
The person upon whom the medal is to be conferred is chosen by a special committee headed by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.—Elmer D. Silha
Predicts Abandonment of Trade Agreements
Dean of the College of Commerce James E. McCarthy, speaking at the Notre Dame alumni business forum in Chicago, last Sunday, predicted that Secretary of State Cordell Hull’s trade agreements with the South American countries will be abandoned as soon as the present European war is over.
Dean McCarthy, who lived in Buenos Aires, Argentina, before coming to Notre Dame pointed out that European nations are natural markets for South American foodstuffs and our $1,000,000 trade with Central and South American nations was made possible only by the profits realized by our southern neighbors from their European trade.
“The Latins naturally feel that we should buy more of their products,” he continuued, “but despite all the ‘good neighbor’ talk, I have detected no disposition on the part of our national legislature to lower the tariff barriers that might bring such results.
“If we are to enjoy a profitable South American trade in the future we must, if necessary, help to create markets for the things they are currently able to provide.”—Jack Sprague
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By William K. Mulvey
New Jersey had first rights on our
Bill Cotter, but when he was four years old, she forgot to take up the option.
New Rochelle, New York, lost no time in snatching up this promising' infant.
With his home solidly established in the new town, young Cotter enrolled at Iona Prep. Here he absorbed his primary and intermediary ed-u c a t i o n . But, he
Bill Cotter
wouldn’t allow himself to be buried in
books and classes. He managed to gain distinction on his school’s basketball
and football teams, dabble in debating and make himself popular enough to climax his high school career as president of his Senior Class.
Bill was destined to come to Notre Dame. His father spent 14 years here. Please don’t misunderstand. It wasn’t that the Senior Cotter suffered extreme academic difficulties or that he had an overweaning love foi' the place. It was simply that in his time, Notre Dame was more than a college; it was a primary and preparatory school as well. To cinch things definitely, Bill’s father married a St. Mary’s girl and eventually became president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Perhaps it’s none of our business, but history may repeat itself, since Bill is a stalwart supporter of the “Good Neighbor” policy between St. Mary’s and our own noble institution.
Bill surrendered his athletic ambitions to the mightier men of Notre Dame, and turned his attention to the College of Commerce and the Wranglers Society. After the Rockne Memorial was completed, he was able to return to his first love, swimming. Of course, there is no official title accompanying the success of a Notre Dame swimmer, but Bill has collected a sufficiency of medals in the breast stroke and diving events to keep his grandchildren entertained on long winter nights.
There are no all-embracing hobbies to trouble him. He reads books on recommendation, managing a couple a
No Classes St. Patrick's Day—1877!
Next Monday, when the first families of Notre Dame, the Kellys, Maguires, Murphys, Sullivans, Fitzpatricks, and O’Briens, gather to honor the Emerald Isle Saint, there will be a note of regret rampant that the proper festivities of St. Patrick’s Day have long since passed away. For there was a time at Notre Dame when Erin’s glorious day was observed with speeches, band concerts, orchestra renditions, banquets, parades, plays, and, of course, a free day.
But that was long, long ago. It all began in 1873 when the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society, of Irish background, decided something had to be done about the utter disrespect with which the school was treating the Irish Saint. For in 1872 the only campus representation the Saint of the cloverleaf got was a single sentence in The Scholastic: “St. Patrick’s Day falls on a Sunday this year.”
So the situation was changed, and by 1877 The Scholastic was carrying items such as this: “According to a custom at Notre Dame, entertainments in honor of any festival are always given the evening before, and as the following day is a holiday the extra sleep given to the students in the morning in nowise interferes with their studies.” And by 1883 the situation had improved to the extent that: “The band was out serenading on the 17th,” and “The Columbians
month, and he likes good music. He does admit to one obsession — he collects things. The things that have intrigued him longest are drinking mugs. After a diligent search of. six years, he has accumulated seven tankards. The average' isn’t so bad when one considers that four of those six years were spent at Notre Dame, and besides it is quality and not quantity that interests him.
Looking into his future, he finds the same question mark that confronts most of us. Immediately his plans include a year’s service in the army. He has already filled out his questionnaire and expects to be summoned shortly after graduation. After that, he hopes, and we hope, that he will be able to settle down to a comfortable existence in sales work and industrial relations.
and Orpheonics joined their forces that evening and presented a very agreeable entertainment to a good-sized audience.”
The years passed, and as the South Bend Tribune of 1886 said: “At Notre Dame the advent of St. Patrick’s Day is of special significance.” That same year the Sorin Cadets, now extinct, marched in “pretty blue uniforms” and a baseball game was an added attraction to the day’s events of band concert, speeches, and so on. Three years later a football game was added to the day’s frolic. So the day grew in significance at Notre Dame and by 1894 had reached its peak. That year the list of events was as follows: Holy Mass celebrated by the late Rev. James French, and a sermon by Father Fitte; the appearance of the band and a tour of the campus by them; a “sumptuous” dinner at noon; a dress parade of the school military companies, led by the “sturdy young Sorin Cadets;” and entertainment in Washington Hall, opening with renditions by the orchestra and including a play by the Columbians before “a most select audience.”
St. Patrick held the spotlight every March, through the turn of the century and for a decade beyond. Somewhere in the early 1900’s the Irish and the Dutch of Corby Hall inaugurated and annual St. Patrick’s Day baseball game. In 1909 the freshmen held an eight-course banquet at the Oliver Hotel as part of their St. Patrick’s Day observance.
But as the school grew the spirit waned slowly By 1919 the events of the day had simmered down to the inter-hall track finals, held by the late Athletic Director, Knute K. Rockne. A sad note was struck by an admission that, “Our brethren, the Knights of Columbus were forced to postpone a social because of a Jewish celebration at the Oliver Hotel.” The worst was ahead, though, and culminated in 1930 when the students retreated to the State Theater on the 17th to see Lon Chaney in “The Phantom of the Opera,” “the marvel of the talking screen.” By 1933 the students were “wishing” for a free day in honor of St. Patrick.
So the “Fighting Irish” lost their fight for St. Patrick. The marching, the band-playing, the speeches, the plays; all were gone. And last year they threw the Irish Day to the winds by serving oranges for breakfast.—John A. Lynch..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Operetta in Rehearsal Under Director Birder
For the past ten days the tradition-haunted corners of Washington Hall have been resounding with echoes of lines and music almost as old as the Hall itself. The University Theatre group is busy rehearsing its second production of the schoolyear, a Gilbert and Sullivan light opera, “The Gondoliers.” Director Cecil Birder, head of
Prof. Cecil Birder the department of speech at the University plans to present his first production at Notre Dame, on the evenings of April 2, 3, and 4.
Director Birder is well qualified to produce Gilbert and Sullivan operas, having had several years’ experience on Broadway with the New York Light Opera Company, the Glendlaoug Opera Company, and just before the World War with a Gilbert-Sullivan repertoire company. He has produced this type of light opera for ten years at the College of St. Thomas and the College of St. Catherine’s, in St. Paul, Minn., before coming to Notre Dame last fall as head of the speech department.
At present, Mr. Birder is working with a cast of about 35 Notre Dame students and girls from South Bend. A full orchestra has been selected from the Notre Dame Symphony, and it too is under the baton of Professor Birder. A complete list of the members of the cast will appear in the next issue of the Scholastic.
While a student at Notre Dame during the years shortly before the war, Mr. Birder had the pleasure of playing to Washington Hall audiences with ardent thespians such as the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., Knute Rockne, Bill Cotter, Sr., Joe Pliska, Thomas Dockweiler, Jimmy Cahill, Tim Galvin, Leon Gendron, and Ray Eichenlaub. The University Theatre in those days was directed by the Rev. William Maloney, C.S.C., Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., and Mr. Charlemayne Koehler, an old theatrical figure who at one time played with Booth and Barrett on Broadway. After graduating from law school at Notre Dame, Mr. Birder spent several years on Broadway, and after the war studied abroad at Blackrock College, Dublin, Ireland.
Asked why he had picked “The Gondoliers” from the Gilbert and Sullivan repertoire for his first production here, Mr. Birder replied: “Because I think the
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
We used to spend many hours in the past trying to determine why certain young men had matriculated at this University, but we never had much success. Ever since last week our interest in the problem has been redoubled, for we finally heard the story of one young man’s reason for coming to this region of the Potawatimi. A first-year man, confined to the same hospital that restricted a friend of ours, and wanting something better to say, told how he never had given the University a thought when he began making plans for his collegiate interval. It seems that he and his brother had been provided with scholarships to an eastern school which endorsed fraternities and all those other things that the movies tell of so realistically. And the two brothers rather liked the idea. But a clergyman friend of the family, dominated by a solid Hibernian heart began to sing the merits of the University. In fact he used to plead with the parents of the brothers long after the young men had gone to bed. And his arguments must have been good, or his threats horrible, because one night the boys’ mother rushed into the room where they were sleeping and gasped, “One of you has to go to Notre Dame!” And, as the first-year man told our friend: “We flipped a coin then and there. I lost.” It is only fair that we tell you that the young man is happy that he lost.
*
We have definite proof that a blizzard of giant proportions is coming to the campus soon. The reasons? We have had four successive days of warmth and sunshine; the laundry girls have taken off their babushkas; and the golf bugs have begun to try practice swings.
♦
Even though the usual time for the naming of the college “most likely’s” is far off, we feel that in selecting that doer of deeds, that originator of enterprises, as most likely something we are not being rash. You see, his achievements cannot be limited to the installation of
boys here will like it; because of my actual experience with it; and because I find in this a medium of expression for speech and music students-.lt is a stepping stone which may easily lead to higher things, and yet which makes the stepping a pleasant process both from a dramatic and a musical standpoint.”
—John Casey
lights on the library tables (to come) and the organization of tea dances (gone but never forgotten); he also washes windows. Look to your laurels, Chambers of Commerce, look to your laurels!
♦
A professor of metaphysics took his class to see the University atom smasher recently. He had the laboratory assistant answer questions about “potential” and “coefficient” and “stability.” But the assistant was brought to a complete halt when one of the students (entirely on his own hook) asked what was done with the atom when it was smashed. We have a theory, but we would rather not tell it now.
♦
The sports editor of the Scholastic has asked us to say something of the coming Bengal Bouts, as if that were necessary. However, we have heard that this year the boxers are so rugged!
❖
Last Sunday, while we were walking along the path which is in front of the Commerce Building, we came upon three nuns peering into the rotunda where the large globe revolves. Just as we passed, one of the sisters who had her nose pressed against the locked door spoke. “It’s right down there. Right in the middle.” The two listeners made appropriate sounds and shook their heads. “That is,” continued the first nun, “if it is still there!” And we didn’t think any one believed in disappearing islands these days.
❖
We have a suspicion that the C.I.O. local for the Northern Indiana educators, the group that met in the Law Building last week, is out for no good. A fellow w'e know overheard two members conversing after one of the meetings. One of them, a woman at that, said, “We ought to have draught beer, that’s what we ought to have.” Her male companion, and probably more aware of the evils of that dangerous liquid, nodded his head but said nothing. “Yes, we should have draught beer,” said the woman as if he was not there. The fellow finally said yes without much enthusiasm. But it really didn’t matter.
♦
The library has reported the loss of a painting. We would like to bet that it can be found in one of the wooden halls, covering some broken window.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"Scrip" Changes Format;
Slick Paper Adopted
A slim March Scrip, wearing the green of a new season, was led in like a lamb last Friday. Highly noticeable are two variations in format; a change in type size and a shift from the usual dull paper to a new, glossy finish. These changes are novel; one hopes they will not be persistent.
Equally noticeable are some of the ' articles the staff has assembled: Noel MacCarry’s “The Crow Comes Home” is a rather long story of one youth’s delayed return to his boyhood residence, and in it the author has occomplished a clear fusion of the past and present and a sense of the changing focus through which such a youth must see his own small world. The story is remarkably good.
C. J. Kirby’s “On a Day Like Today” is a lazy little sketch led into a sharp tautness and a controlled, almost muffled explosion. Kirby’s poem Credo is exceptionally well done; in it he realizes firmly the slender threads by which men climb to God, and his poetry is intense and precise. “Song for St. Valentine,” another poem, by F. P., is thought by some to have quality.
Among the better short stories are ‘Off the Road,” by David Powers, a senior, and “Fresh New Earth,” the work of John Q. O’Connell. The former unfolds a quiet, polite tension, and is finely resolved. The latter is more direct; equally good.
William J. Schickel, staff artist, has done a number of striking sketches. His frontpiece, from Don Quixote, is as good a drawing as has been seen in Scrip for the last three years, at least.
The rationalism of Jonathan Swift is the frame upon which Kenneth Beh has hung his essay, “The Language of Reason,” and it seems as if he has done very well, too. His understanding is certain, his pattern of expression clear. Erwin J. Mooney has written a rigorous and sane treatment concerning the metaphysics of poetry, withespecial application to the Neo-Classicists and Romanticists; like Beh, his understanding is accurate, and his result good.
“Oracle,” by Paul E. Waldschmidt, C.S.C., and “Understudy,” by Edward B. Kunkle, are two sketches worthy of mention.
SKATING PARTY
The Commuters Club of St. Mary’s College will stage a skating party on March 17, St. Patrick’s Day, at Playland Park, from 7:30 to 11:00 p.m. Notre Dame men are invited. Admission is 25 cents. ’
Flag of Irish Brigade
in Civil War at Library
Notre Dame no longer has its celebrated Irish Room at the University Library, but an antiquated, green silk flag that recalls outstanding service of the Irish Brigade in the Civil War yet occupies a prominent position in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery.
The historic flag, which was presented by the citizens of New York to the 63rd New York Volunteers, Third Regiment of the Irish Brigade under Brig. Gen. Thomas Francis Meagher in November, 1862, once hung on a wall on the main floor of the Administration building at the University. It was presented to the “Catholic Historical Collection of America” by Gen. James D. Brady. In 1917, however, when the Bishops’ Museum of documents, vestments and valuable historical evidence became a part of the University Library, the Irish room was founded only to be replaced a decade later by the Wightman Gallery.
The flag is now mounted on a glass surfaced table nearly in the center of the Wightman Gallery on the second floor of the Library. The flag is eight feet square and is made of hand embroidered green silk. Threadbare in spots, the flag is mounted on a base of similar cloth. The upper left hand comer is embellished by an Irish harp of gold silk. Gold silken clouds shed rays of light from above and a spray of shamrocks are spread underneath the harp. In the lower half of the flag is inscribed the testimonial, “In grateful appreciation of their gallant and brilliant conduct in the Battle Fields
Bill Setty and Bill Talbot look over the Civil War flag of the Irish Regiment
of Virginia and Maryland in the War to Maintain the National Domain and the American Union. November, 1862.”
At the right hand comer and extending down the same side of the flag are the names of historic battles in which the Irish Brigade fought—Fredricks-burg, Chancellorsville, Yorktown, Fair Oak, Gaines Hill, Allen Farm, Savages’ Station, White Ridge, Glendale, Malvern Hills, Antietam, Gettysburg, and Bris-toe’s Station. Down the hall in the corridor from the Wightman Gallery is a case on the wall which includes a sword used by Brig. Gen. Meagher who received the flag for the Irish Brigade. Also included in the collection are swords of other noted military men of the era, Brig. Gen. W. S. Rosecrans and Maj. Gen. Shields.
Librarian Paul Byrne announced that the historic Irish collection of shillalahs, paintings, etchings, and a loving cup which were located in the Irish Room until the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery took over, are now stored in the tower of the Law Building.
Mr. Byrne also said that the Library has nearly 4,000 volumes of Irish history, music, and literature available. Of that total 1,800 volumes were given to the University by Capt. Francis O’Neill of the Chicago Police Force in 1928. Capt. O’Neill was an authority on Irish music. Other noteworthy Irish volumes include a first edition of the Annals of the Four Masters, a famous history of Ireland, and a letter of the Irish Mayor of Cork, Terrence MacSweeney to his brother. Mayor MacSweeney starved himself to death as a protest measure.
—Bill Scanlan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
For No+re Dame: 20 Crates from Napoleon;
A Bell, New Building, the "Scholastic"
OUR DAILY BREAD
One day in 1866 a little blue-eyed priest walked up to a guard at the entrance to the palace of Emperor Napoleon III. Then ensued the following conversation: “I wish to see the emperor,” said the priest. “Are you a soldier?” asked the guard. “Greater than that!” responded the priest. “Perhaps you are a lieutenant?” “Greater than that,” replied the priest. “Can it be that you are a general?” “Greater than that. I am a citizen of the United States.” And in to see the emperor marched Father Joseph Celestine Basile Carrier, scientist, philosopher, author and ex-Civil War chaplain. Tucked beneath his arm were dispatches from the French ambassador in Washington; on the tip of his tongue were w'ords for Napoleon.
Into the emperor’s hands he put the dispatches and then made his speech. He told the emperor about a small Catholic university in mid-western America, of its need for equipment. Finished, he walked out of the palace and returned to Paris.
A few months later 20 large crates arrived at the South Bend depot and were carted out to the Notre Dame campus. Split open, they spilled out musky hunks of packing material, volumes of books, a telescope of brass, a crown of gold and jewels, rich altar vases and church ornaments, a glittering ostensorium. Inclosed were the regards •of Emperor Napoleon, Empress Eugenie, and the French government.
Notre Dame grew up during the Civil and post war days that brought such gifts as Napoleon’s to the University. Into the Main building on Nov. 3, 1863, had stepped the year’s 230th student. To celebrate the occasion candles were put at all the windows, a concourse of students gathered in Brother Peter’s gafden to sing songs, plans were made to tear down the building. Two years later a new Main building was constructed to accommodate the increasing enrollment.
Things began to happen fast in the next few years. Father Corby became president of the University. The Alumni Association was formed. A French cook arrived from the Hotel d’Europe. The Ave Maria began. The Scholastic began. Newspaper photographers trailed mysterious, white-bearded Father Ney-ron, never succeeded in snapping a pic-■ture of the famous anatomy professor. Through it all, students stole smokes in secret haunts by the river or behind the workshop.
As the Civil War ended the Ave Maria began. Edited at first by Father Sorin and Father Neal Gillespie it soon came into the hands of Father Daniel E. Hudson who made it the greatest Catholic periodical in the country.
Two years later somebody “engrafted the tender bud on a strong and vigorous tree.” Result: The Scholastic is born. Appearing at first as a fly leaf of the Ave Maria it soon was published by itself. The Scholastic wasn’t Notre Dame’s first paper. The first, the ill-fated “Notre Dame Literary Gazette,” was destroyed by a prefect. Next came the “Progress,” best known of all the earlier publications. It lived for only a few years and in 1863 was succeeded by “such surreptitious publications” as the “Olympic Gazette” and the “Weekly Bee.”
The Scholastic’s reputation was assured when it got a “blow” from the Wesleyan College “Portfolio” Said the Portfolio: “Of the Notre Dame Scholastic, what can we say? If there be any paper .... heedless alike of the smiles and frowns of its contemporaries, it must be The Scholastic.” After that The Scholastic improved!
In 1866 league baseball began and in that year the “Juanita” club began its three-year championship reign. In 1870 came the “Star of the West” to hold the school championship for three successive years, after which it merged with the “Excelsior” club, which copped the title the following year.
Through many of these years Notre Dame’s chimes had rung across the flat Indiana prairie. In 1867 the largest and loudest bell ever brought to the United States arrived from France to be set among the chimes. Quipped The Scholastic “The big bell has arrived and we see that St. Mary’s can congratulate herself upon the acquisition of so many little belles.”—Don Heltzel.
Wranglers Are Guests of Fr. Hoff at Banquet
Retiring moderator Rev. Norbert C. • Hoff was host to the Wranglers on last Wednesday night at the Hotel LaSalle, when a dinner was served before the club held its regular weekly meeting.
Jerome O’Dowd, junior lawyer from Fort Wayne, Ind., delivered the paper dealing with the policy the United States should follow in the present defense efort, in the respective interests of both labor and capital.
LITURGY
Glumness has no place in the life of the Catholic, in Lent or at any other time.... The joyousness of the free hearted sons of God is always within his power .... “You are a chosen generation, a kingly priesthood, a purchased people: that you may declare his virtues who hath brought you out of darkness into his marvellous light.” (1 Peter 2, 9.)
The Church does ask her children to put away merriment these 40 days.... Merriment is dissipation of spirit and has only one form, like putting on a funny hat and blowing a horn .... Happiness has many forms, its most abiding one the consciousness of duty well performed.
“My eyes are ever towards the Lord” (Sunday Epistle) .... To cling to the Church is to cling to Christ.... All else may fail but the Church cannot fail.... To think otherwise would be to deny God’s own word, to make void the Cross .... “When a strong man keepeth his court, those things are in peace which he possesseth” (Sunday Gospel).
Lent renews this sense of solidarity .... Self-denial and mortification rebuild man’s spiritual forces ... As we share in the sufferings of Christ so shall we share in his glory. “The fruit of the light is in all goodness, and justice, and truth” (Sunday Epistle).
Scrutiny Sunday is the name for this Sunday in the ancient discipline of the catechumenate.____The sponsors of the new converts presented them for the first time in the assembly of the faithful____ It was their first step towards Baptism. ... The Liturgy of all these weeks is a renewal of Baptism, of our dying to sin and rising to grace.
The feasts of the coming week are full of inspiration and encouragement.... They exemplify in a special way the spirit of Lent____Sacrifice and renunciation of self, the will of God before all else, gave these saints their position of preeminence.
(Mass Calendar on Page 22)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
the sacred names or symbols of Christianity on the idols.
In any recapitulation of St. Patrick’s endeavours in Ireland, it must be said that he did two great things, the marks of which have never been erased. He made known to Ireland the foundation of all learning, and he instilled in Irish hearts the still greater blessings of the Christian faith. He did these things so magnificently that in the fifth and sixth centuries Irish missionaries, the tradition of whose faith and knowledge was born of the labors of St. Patrick,'went forth into central Europe to evangelize the barbarians there.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distnnutor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
St. Patrick in Ireland
On Easter Eve in the year 433 A.D., the supreme monarch of druidical Ireland, King Laoghaire called to assembly all the chieftains who were under him. They gathered together at one end of a valley at a place called Tara, where on the next day a great annual pagan feast was to be held. All was darkness this night because the chiefs had heard voiced through the land the command of King Laoghaire that all fires should be extinguished until the signal blaze was kindled at the royal mansion on the next day.	.
As he traveled about the country on his missions, St. Patrick had heard this command, but it happened that on this same Easter Eve his company arrived at Slane at the opposite end of the valley from Tara. They made camp there, and that night St. Patrick kindled the Paschal fire in preparation for the morrow. When the Druids saw the flame they told their king, who was filled with astonishment and indignation that someone should presume to disobey his decree. He demanded to know who the transgressor was.
His magi knew and they answered him in a prophecy: “The fire which we see shall never be extinguished to all eternity, unless we can put it out tonight. Moreover it shall prevail over all the
fires of our wonted observance; and he who has kindled it and the kingdom he is introducing, shall prevail over us and over thyself, and shall win away from thee all the men of thy kingdom; and all kingdoms shall fall down before it, and it shall fill all things, and shall reign forever and ever.”
The fire lit by St. Patrick did not go out, for when the Druids confronted him and attempted to capture him, his miracles wrought hate and confusion and death among them, leaving only the king and queen and a handful of their men alive. Then St. Patrick escaped with all his company.
St. Patrick continued his mission of converting the pagan Irish to Christianity, and as the druidical magi had prophesied, “he who has kindled it (the Paschal fire) and the kingdom he is introducing” prevailed over most of the land. The great success of St. Patrick in Ireland was due to two things. He converted the chieftains first, because the Irish have ever been a clannish people and when they saw the conversion of their leaders they themselves pressed around the missionary to receive baptism. It was for them a mysterious initiation into a new faith, and they did it because their chief and father had submitted to it. Next} St. Patrick was tolerant toward the old superstitions. He only rarely destroyed an idol or overturned a pagan structure. His method was rather to engraft Christianity on pagan superstitions, sometimes by inscribing
Yet there are some false notions existing about St. Patrick’s apostolate. Perhaps it is because of the easy, exuberant jpyousness with which St. Patrick’s Day is celebrated, that so many think the saint’s mission was an unbroken series of peaceful conversions. It must be remembered that the Irish were barbarously untutored, blindly clannish, and superstitious to such a degree that probably only a man of St. Patrick’s character could have converted. them to Christianity. And it was often a terrifying struggle for him.
During his long apostolate St. Patrick and his companions were seized at least twelve times and carried off as captives. On one of these occasions he was “loaded with chains” and a druidical tribe prepared to put him to death. A “benign Providence” saved him, according to one writer, but he is still accounted a martyr by some ancient authorities because of the hardships and sufferings he endured to bring the Faith to Ireland.	.
The secret of St. Patrick’s success was not his wise method or his unusual eloquence, but his great faith. In his Con-fessio he speaks of the faith he had even when he lived the life of a slave-shepherd, captured from Britain by druidical Irish pirates: “. . . the love of God and His fear increased in me more and more, and the faith grew in me, and the spirit was roused, so that, in a single day, I have said as many as a hundred prayers, and in the night nearly the same, so that whilst in the woods and on the mountains; even before the dawn, I was roused to prayer and I felt no hurt from it, whether there was snow or ice or rain; nor was there any slothfulness in me . . . because the spirit was then fervent within me.”
And St. Patrick communicated that spirit so welt that it still lives today, fifteen hundred years afterward, glowing in the hearts of Irishmen everywhere.—William C. McGowan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
HELLO AGAIN!
By JERRY SMITH
“H’lo.”
“H’lo.”
“You wouldn’t really rather read that magazine than talk to me?”
“Yes.”
“Do you know why you’re reading that magazine ?”-
“Do you know why you’re bothering me?”
“Yes.”
“Well?”
“You haven’t told me why you were reading the magazine.”
“You asked me if I knew why. The answer is yes.”
“Why?”
“No, it’s your turn now.”
“I always bother the first person who has an empty seat beside him or her.”
“Why?”
“It’s your turn.”
“All right, I’m licked. What was the question?”
“Why are you reading the magazine?”
“I’m highly allergic to men who try to talk to girls on trains. The magazine is
’ a good excuse not to look at them.”
“What’s the story about?”
“So far a girl art student has fallen in love with a finely-designed athlete who is posing for her. He doesn’t notice her and she’s wondering how she can get to know him.”
“What would you have done?”
“Are you the ‘man on the street’ taking a vacation?”
‘“This is no vacation. The man on the street wouldn’t stand for back talk.”
“Was I the only girl on this train with an empty seat beside her?”
“I’ve just finished sitting in an empty seat which had already been taken by a new hat.”
“Where are you going?”
“Immediately or ultimately?”
“Might as well conserve my valuable time—both.”
“Chicago-heaven.”
“They sound different together.”
“Any serious reason for that?”
“No.”
“I didn’t mean to be fresh. Where are you going and why?”
“Oberlin. My family collects college degrees. This will be my -lone contribution to the collection.”	.
“What do you plan to do when you get out of school?”
“It’s also traditional in our family for the girls to get married as soon as possible.”	.
“As soon as possible?”
“It must be your turn by now. Why are you going to Chicago?”
“To get a job.”
“Doing what?”
“Asking questions.”
“I could have guessed that on the third guess. For whom?”
“Mr. Gallup.”
“Don’t you know Mr. Gallup doesn’t hire anyone under 30?”
“No? Good thing I ran into you. Now I’ve got a few hours to think of something else to do when I get to Chicago.”
“Why don’t you write stories about the girls you manage to meet on trains?”
“It’s an idea. How did you know about Gallup?”
“I had to write a report on him for Politics last year.”
“My autobiography has come to the end of the chapter. Your turn.”
“Okay, but stay away from that marriage business.”
“All right. So -you don’t get married. What do you do?”
“Laugh if you pleae, but I’d like to work among the less privileged.”
“Why?”
“It’s a long story. I’ve had an overdose of teas, night clubs, play boys, gushy society matrons and all the other phoney environment I was destined to be bom into. Did you ever feel absolutely useless?”
“I’ve never felt that way. Lots of people have told me I was.”
“Well, am I right?”
“Yes, you’re right. You’ll learn more doing case work in Chicago than you would in any college.”
“How did you . . . Chicago . . . What do you know about case work?”
“I’m on a case right now.”
“What is it?”
“Your case.”
“What about me?”
“Your family would like to know where you are.”
“Now I wish I’d taken Mother’s advice about not talking to strange men on trains. They might be detectives.”
“Then you know about me?”
“No. But you’re probably like all the rest.”
“All the rest? Have you run away from home before?”
“I didn’t run away. Are you taking me back?”
“No.”
“What are you doing?”
“I was in your father’s office yesterday afternoon when your mother phoned that you had bought a ticket for Chicago rather than Cleveland and that you didn’t take your school book. They assumed that you were off on another career.”
“But you?”
“Your father didn’t want you in Chicago alone. Since I come from Chicago he decided I could have the job of watching you.”
“Don’t you think I’m a pretty big girl to have a nursemaid?”
“Yes, I think so.”
“Well?”	'
“My instructions are not to bother you until you begin to starve to death. Then I play the big hero and give you the money to get home.”
“You have bothered me. You’re fired.”
“Now I’m out of a job again.”
“You______you can work for me. I need a stenographer and chaffeur.”
“I’ll take it You’d just as soon have me around so long as you’re asking the questions.”
“Don’t talk back to your employer. Did you know me before you sat down?”
“I was pretty sure.”
“Why?”
“You looked so dreadfully mysterious. Then, of course, you cinched it when you didn’t get off at Cleveland.”
“I’ll meet you in front of the Palmer House in the morning.”
“Are you trying to get rid of me?”
“There’s an awfully nice lady sitting across the aisle. If she saw a man sit down beside me, give me a fast line and then pick me up, what would she think of the younger generation?”
“How do I know you’ll show up in the morning?”
“You’ve got to stop asking questions. You’re just my wage-slave now.”
“That’s right. I beg your pardon boss.
So long, boss.”
“I’ll see you in the morning. I’ll ask the questions. ’Night.”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Busy Coach Frank Leahy and Staff Start Pigskin Drills, Meet Students
New Head Coach Plans Squad Cut
After an 11 year absence from Notre Dame spring practice sessions, Frank Leahy has returned, this time in the role of coach rather than player.
Friendly, distinguished-looking Mr. Leahy was having a busy afternoon in the offices recently vacated by former Irish coach, Elmer Layden, when he remarked on his 1941 spring practice program. A flood of letters was being answered by Secretaries Bob Cahill and Johnny Donnelly; tackles Jim Brutz and Wally Ziemba and fullback Andy Chle-beck were there to discuss Uncle Sam’s draft claims on them with their new mentor; Jack Ledden, South Bend Tribune sports editor, telephoned Mr. Leahy, and during the conversation, Head Manager Jackie Ryan chatted with fellow chair-warmers while waiting to introduce his successor, John Bermingham, junior A.B. student from New Jersey, whose election awaits approval by the . Athletic Board.
Busy Bob Cahill finally interrupted his typing to introduce Scholastic’s representative to the new coach who had just bid farewell to Ryan and Bermingham, and the following disclosures on the early spring practice sessions were made.
Wednesday afternoon was scheduled as the official opener, to be preceded by the introduction of Mr. Leahy to the student body at a pep rally in the fieldhouse Wednesday noon. Newsreel and still photographers were to run the after-
The “Big Blond” — Capt. Lillis
noon program, which may again feature Mike Hines, star of last spring’s opening epic.
A preliminary lecture in the Law building is Thursday’s assignment with the first actual work in cleats slated for today. Greatest job for Mr. Leahy and his assistants will be learning the names, characteristics and abilities of the boys with whom they are working.
Special conditioning work for men playing each position will busy footballers for the first half hour in the early days of the program. After that, they will execute a few running plays and on the third or fourth day dummy scrimmages will loosen any lingering stiffness.
While the coaches will have to learn players’ names, there will also be some new brain work for the Irish gridders who will familiarize themselves with a new play-numbering system. Coach Leahy plans to use plays similar to former N.D. manuevers with possible variations of the basic Rockne system made in accordance with available talent.
Any candidate has a chance to earn a varsity berth but Mr. Leahy does plan to cut the squad, retaining the best men in each position.
Duration of the spring drills is uncertain. Being a former student on our campus, sandy-haired Mr. Leahy is not unfamiliar with the caprices of Indiana weather (he said it’s really not much different than Boston’s) and the closing date will depend considerably on the fellows’ progress.—Jack Dinges
52 Students Complete
Senior Life-Saving Class
Fifty-two students completed the annual Senior Life-saving Class conducted in the Rockne Memorial pool last week.
Requirements included 15 hours practice spent in swimming a quarter of a mile nightly, executing six carries the full length of the pool making approaches and breaks, and administering artificial respiration and first aid.
All successful candidates quality as Senior Life Savers for three years.
The following men completed the course: Flyke, Cummings, Williams, Smullen, Hohnston, Leon, Oden, Kelly, Gelber, McCready, Waterbury, O’Connor, R. Duffy, J. Duffy, Farrell, Kuntz, Troth, Kinney, Meyer, Bischoff, Lawless, McCabe, Shine, Desnet, Rohrer, Nowak, Hupf, Cunnift, Hogan, Becker, Chauvin, Rogue, Smith, Hannen, Leary, Duquette, Coffey, Landgren, Geraghty, Bishop, A’Heam, Burns, Castle, Roney, Flanna-gan, Hooley, McKelvy, Tsuroka, Finner-man, Finn, Kane, and Sharp.
There will be a refresher course for instructors at the South Bend Y.M.C.A. beginning March 17. All instructors are requested to renew their instructor’s course then.—Frank L. Kunkel
South Bend Fetes Layden
Elmer Layden, All-American fullback and coach of Notre Dame, was tendered a tangible expression of admiration, friendship, and best wishes in his new duties last Monday night in a South Bend civic testimonial banquet.
The keynote speech was delivered by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics.
“Not once, anywhere or any time, has Elmer ever brought about the slightest misgiving which reflected on his character or Notre Dame.
“We do not remember George Washington as a great military leader, or a diplomat, but Washington—the man and his character. Therefore, I salute. Elmer Layden — the All-American football player, and Elmer Layden the All- j American Christian gentleman.”
In response Mr. Layden expressed his gratitude. “If ever there was a time I wished my tongue was silver-coated, it is now. I can not begin to express my feeling here tonight. Notre Dame sent ’ me out a much better man than when I	j
entered, and it was indeed a rare privi-	■
lege to return and to renew my associa- । tions here.”	J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Irish Quintet Closes
Season With Detroit
Its sensational eleven game winning streak having been snapped by Butler the Monday previous, the Fighting Irish basketeers continued their losing ways against a hard-driving Michigan State quintet, dropping a 44-35 decision to the home forces, when the Irish invaded the lair of the Spartans a week ago last Saturday night.
State’s ability to convert from the free-throw line cost the Irish this game, the Keoganites being found guilty of 25 personal fouls, with the Spartans sinking 20 of their 32 charity tosses. Max Hindman, Joe Gerard, and Carl Petroski tallied 11 points each to lead the State offensive, while Larry Ryan Ivas high man for the Irish with eight markers. State’s victory avenged the 4639 defeat it suffered at the hands of the Notre Dame contingent, earlier in the season.
Marquette
Smarting under the stings of two straight defeats, the Irish returned to the victory trail last Saturday night, by turning back Marquette’s fast-breaking five, .44-39, to make a clean sweep of the home-and-home series, the Irish having been previously victorious on the home court by a 58-40 count. Eddie Riska was the big gun in this game, celebrating his return to the starting lineup for the first time since the ill-fated Syracuse game when he broke his ankle, which injury kept him on the sidelines until the last home game against Georgia Tech over a month later, by leading the Irish scoring with ten points. The rest of the tallies were evenly distributed along the line, which once again showed to advantage the smooth all-around team-play of the Notre Dame attack.
Detroit
Boasting 16 victories as against only five defeats, for one of the finest records in major basketball circles, the Fighting Irish invaded the lair of the Univ, of Detroit Titans, Wednesday night past, in what was to be the grand finale for both teams. By now the outcome of the game is well known to loyal Notre Dame fans, who join one and all in extending every success for the future, to the departing seniors, Capt. Eddie Riska, Bob Smith, Larry Ryan, Al Del Zoppo, Sammy Yezerski, and Charley Gillespie, who donned the Gold and Blue for the last time against the Titans.
Splinters From the Press Box
■■■' JAMES NEWLAND	’ ■»
MARCH, 1941
The month of many moods . . . when a young man’s fancy turns . . . baseball holdouts and the return of stiff arms . . . training camp dope . . . practice swings with rust-speckled golf clubs . . . clear, cool mornings, too hot for heat, too cool without . . . football practice and a new coach at Notre Dame . . . trackmen move outside, where the wind can whip at their flying feet. . . restlessness and discomfort . . . the end of basketball for another year . . . job hunting time for seniors . . . thoughts of trailer touring . . . Sunday excursions for some Notre Dame students, but not very far . . . flashes of lightning . . . rumblings of thunder . . . damp, soft, soggy ground, especially Badin bog . . . Bengal Bout time and the best squad of fighters ever to see action in the annual fisticuffs carnival. . . . No more ice skating, but plenty of fishing . . . rain and mud . . . gaunt trees desolate against grey sky . . . early robins . . . dazzling green of new grass . . . the Cubs come up with another “prize” rookie . . . first there was Marty, then Dallessandro . . . they saw action a few times . . . great trading ball club, those Cubs (Ahem!) . . . possum hunting time, down south . . . long walks on Sunday afternoons ... a a lockout at St. Mary’s . . . oozing sap from the maples . . . frogs croaking . . . lingering looks as the sun sinks in a purple haze. . . . For some seniors, thoughts on number 10 lullaby lane . . . for others, Uncle Sam . . . Sorin hall moves out on the front porch, with their new glider . . . plenty of extra liniment for sore, tired football playing muscles . . . but Piepul, Saggau, Osterman, O’Brien, et al won’t mind, until the “Will Bees-Has Beens” game . . . the return of cold cuts to the dining tables . . . tennis worries for Coach Walter Langford, instead of fencing . . . Dizzy Dean throwing a dead ball with a dead arm . . . measles catching time for students who don’t like measles . . . thoughts about Easter vacation . . . such is March.
Athletic Director Frank Leahy, who has kindly consented to act as honorary referee in next week’s Bengal Bouts finals, was an outstanding fighter a few years ago. . . . Upon graduation from Notre Dame, he considered turning professional, but changed his mind. ... His younger brother, Tom, threw plenty of leather two years ago in the bouts. ... The name Leahy is quite well known in
Notre Dame boxing. . . . Seniors will recall Dick Leahy winning the 155-pound crown in 1938. ... The new football head man and Professor Dominic Napolitano of the physical education department, who has been the principal factor in Bengal Bouts success ever since they were inaugurated here, were classmates in 1931.
There will be between 17 to 20 bouts each preliminary night . . . for one thin dime ... a fight fan can’t beat that. . . . Judging from the excellent turnout of fighters for the Bengal Bouts, several students wonder why a Notre Dame boxing team isn’t in order. . . . An outstanding array of freshmen scrappers definitely puts last year’s winners on the spot . . . the light heavyweight division is wide open and the 145-pound class will be interesting from start to finish. . . . One of the most interested spectators in past boxing tournaments will be missing this year . . . John P. Nicholson was a familiar figure at the ringside.
The final game of the season at Detroit Wednesday wrote finish to the collegiate basketball playing career of one of the outstanding players in Notre Dame hardwood history. Ed Riska, a stick of dynamite on the basketball floor if there ever was one, has joined the ranks of great Irish basketball stars including Paul Nowak, Johnny Moir, Ed Krause, Tommy Wukovits, George Ireland, Johnny Ford, Joe O’Kane and others. A seasoned veteran in his sophomore year, Riska was the main spring in many Irish victories and he was elected to captain this year’s quintet.
The flashy forward was a product of De La Salle high school in Chicago and during his sophomore year teamed with Eddie Sadowski, forming a brilliant forward combination that definitely will be hard to match by any team. Bob Smith and Larry Ryan will also be missed when Irish basketball strategists prepare for next year’s campaign.
Basketball coaches in and around the state of Indiana will have their eyes peeled on the forthcoming Indiana High School State Tournament, held annually at the Butler University fieldhouse. Indiana University especially watches this famous tournament with interest. Of this year’s LU. quintet, a large portion saw action in the IHSAA spectacle during their high school days.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
— By AL DEL ZOPPO ——
Joe “Buddy” Olbrys, captain of one of Notre Dame’s best track teams in the history of the school, tries hard to make you believe that track is only one of many interests that he has in life. He will tell you how much he loved to play football in high school; how happy he was to play varsity basketball at Pennington Prep; and how anxious he is to get a teaching and coaching job. But you only have to walk into Joe’s room and look at the collection of track pictures and track souvenirs — spikes, trunk ribbons, letters, etc. — hanging on the walls, to realize that he eats, dreams, and lives track.
Olbrys started to run on cinder paths as a youngster in grade school, continued to compete in junior high, and became such a star quarter and half - miler in his prep school days that in 1936 he received an invitation to run against the famous Glenn Cunningham in a special invitational race held in Trenton, New Jersey. Joe was the happiest kid in Jersey on October 5, for on that day he was awarded a silver trophy presented by Mrs. Glenn Cunningham for finishing second to her husband in the feature event of the invitational meet.
Cunningham is not the only track star familiar to Olbrys. Bill Bonthron, ace Princeton runner, is numbered among Joe’s intimate friends. For it was he who taught N.D.’s track captain much that he knows about the running game. Joe used to do most of his training on
the Princeton track near his home in Trenton, and Bonthron was never too busy to give Joe some pointers. Those pointers were valuable enough to make “Buddy” Olbrys New Jersey high school champ in the 880, and enabled him to wind up his high school career with an undefeated record in his senior year.
Joe was all set to go to Princeton after his graduation from prep school. But he happened to meet John .Nicholson, the
late N.D. track coach on the latter’s return from a European tour, and he became so attracted to Nick’s friendly manner that he enrolled at Notre Dame. Olbrys never hit peak form while running under Nichialson chiefly because of a serious knee injury incurred in his sophomore year while pole-vaulting in a physical education class.
Joe’s best performance to date has been his fine run at the Illinois Relays
last year when he finished second in a field comprised of the classiest halfmilers in the Middle West. Last week Joe turned in another creditable performance by finishing third in the C.C.C. meet held in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
Olbrys has definite plans for the future. A serious student, Joe intends to work for a master’s degree next fall, and then hopes to land a job teaching health education, with coaching as a side-line.
How Bengal Bouts Are Won
During the Bengal Bouts next week various decisions will be passed in the Notre Dame fieldhouse at the conclusion of each of the 60 fights. The boys in the bleachers from McGutsky Hall will claim that Joe Blow who lives on the third floor “wuz robbed” out of the decision over the guy from Green Tulips Hall. The judges at the ringside will judge by more objective criteria — the Amateur Athletic Union’s 30 point System.
By this system of scoring, each boxer is credited with 10 points at the beginning of each round. Points are deducted from this sum upon violation of five deteminants: (1) Aggressiveness—‘carrying the fight”; (2) Offense—“clean hits.” (3) Defense — prevention of “hits”; (4) Ring tactics—way of handling self in ring; ‘ducking” in the corner or “playing the ropes” frowned upon; (5) Sportsmanship — “conduct.”
Each of these determinants is valued at two points, and one or two points may be deducted from the fighter’s score for violations in a single round. For instance, two fighters may score evenly on Offense, Defense, Ring Tactics and Sportsmanship but one may be the more aggressive than the other and hence win the decision.
—John Powers
Boland Coaches at Purdue
Joe Boland, line coach under Elmer Layden since 1934, left last week to assume his duties as assistant football coach under Mal Elward, head football coach at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind. Purdue’s spring practice was scheduled to begin last Tuesday.
Alumnus Boland won monograms here in football and 'crack, first as a substitute tackle in 1924. He was a varsity man in 1925 and in the first two games of 1926 till an accidental clipping benched him with a broken leg. He won his track monogram as a shot putter.
The new Purdue coach was line coach at Santa Clara the fall of 1927 and head coach of St. Thomas college, St. Paul, Minn., from 1929 through 1932. His teams won 27 games, lost eight, and tied two.
Stewart Visits Klinemen
Bill Stewart, Sr., National League umpire, paid Notre Dame a visit the early part of the week. Stewart, who has been in baseball for 28 years, 18 of them as a player, gave some very valuable pointers to members of Jake Kline’s ambitious squad of pitchers and catchers. Bill Stewart, Jr., is an infield candidate on the Irish squad.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Baseball Prospects Gradually Take Form
With March on the mound pitching bad weather at him, Coach “Jake” Kline
continues to send his baseball squad
through indoor prac-
Ray Pinelli
tice sessions.
Coach Kline thought he had a knot tied in the March Lion’s tail the past week-end but apparently he didn’t heed. Shakespeare’s warning to “Beware the Ides.” Last year’s squad didn’t see Cartier Field until a day before the opener with Northwestern, and if the weather
doesn’t break soon history’s going to witness another repetition.
A squad of 35 practices daily. The batteries have a two week lead on the rest of the field but as yet no “Deans” or “Hubbells” have been discovered. “Jake,” however, will settle for an Ellis or a Hunthausen.
Moundsmen are Kline’s greates need at present. Claimed by graduation, Hunthausen and Ellis bore the pitching burden last year with “Sub” Nowicki on hand for relief duties. Possessed of most experience Nowicki should be the number one selection. From last year’s frosh squad come some good prospects: “Vince” Jerry, Joe Metzger, Bob Fisher, “Lefty” Pfeiffer, and Bill Schaffer are all ready, willing, and physically able. One or possibly two will make the grade. It is true that they lack experience but
in a year or two, they should prove their worth.
A comparative glance at last year’s lineup reveals Captain “Chet” Sullivan missing from the hot-comer—victim number three of graduation. Ray Pinelli will abandon his shortstop chores and cover third. Ray’s understudy is Ed Ringer, who offers a good arm and plenty of speed. Charley Crimmins will fill Ray’s vacated spot, with Joe Campagna, a soph with a rifle arm and dynamite bat making him hustle all the way. Crimmins’ experience should be the deciding factor.
On second will be basketballer George Sobek. If Don McGuire can get rid of that excess avoirdupois, there will be a hot time around the middle station. On first the ever-reliable Chuck Farrell should be at his favorite position but a sore arm which won’t respond to treatment will probably necessitate a newcomer. “Slugger” Don Hengel and a six foot four inch soph, who answers to the name of “Don” Teller are wrestling for the initial sack.
Gone from the outfield are “Hymie” Crane, Ray Pinelli, and “Red” Ober-brunner. Captain Andy Chlebeck will be ready for duty, the only regular flychaser returning. The efforts of Frank Calahan, John Warner, Dan Cestray, and John Milliman will determine who fills the remaining two positions in the outer pasture.
About all Coach Kline predicted was that nine players would be on the diamond when they open with Purdue on April 10. But he didn’t mention whether it would be in row-boats, snow-shoes or sun-umbrellas.—Louis W. Apone
Badin, Alumni, Morrissey,
Howard in Cage Finals
With the Interhall basketball schedule completed, the University championship games were slated for this Wednesday and Thursday nights in the Rockne Memorial.
In the lightweight division, Morrissey, champion of League I, was pitted against Howard’s aggressive club, winner of League II. These teams were to meet on Wednesday night. High scorer of. the fast Morrissey five, Joe Campagna, is defensively skillful. Other Morrissey stars are Ed Regan and Don Degnan.
Howard has ‘been using a combination zone and man-to-man defense all season. Not solely a defense club, the Howard boys boast of three fine scorers in Rod McGuire, Jimmy Dick, and Frank Fox.
Winner of League I in the heavyweight division, Alumni which used a zone defense and capitalized on their height, with John Meyer doing most of the scoring. Bill Sturm, John Mortell and Bob Osborn were fine rebound men.
Led by high-point man Tom Callahan, who has averaged ten points a game, a big, fast, aggressive Badin team which delights in shooting and then battling for the rebounds threatened Alumni’s chances. Sonny Randolph and Jim Kelly are defensive stalwarts.—Bill Rogers
Fencer Harris Threatens
Irish Scoring Record
“This Illinois team is really good,” said Coach Langford last Friday as his proteges limbered up at Champaign for a bout with the University of Illinois fencers. “One of us is going to win a close match and a good one.” Several hours later his prediction came true as Illinois handed the N.D. squad it’s second setback of the year 14% to 12%. Russ Harris starred for the Irish, competing in both foil and epee and taking 4% out of 6 matches. Capt. Jack Gaither and Sopohomore Herb Melton each came through with two wins.
The following night the boys came back with blood in their eyes to down the University of Cincinnati mercilessly, 14-3, to score the most decisive victory of the season with what was probably the largest margin victory ever made by a N.D. fencing team. Again Harris shone taking three foil and two epee matches to score a grand slam. Gaither took three out of three in the foils, and Humphreys and Melton each won both of their saber duels. Then the boys took their showers
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and plotted the downfall of Washington University of St. Louis, Mo., with whom the Irish wind up their season Thursday, March 27. here at Notre Dame. No doubt the trend of their thoughts were, “If we win that, our record will be, won 7, lost 2; the best Irish fencing record since 1938.”
Individual honors for the season and possibly for all N.D fencing history goes to Russ Harris. Having -won 35 matches and lost but ten this year, in both foil and epee, Russ is in a favorable position to shatter the all time victory high of Kevin Kehoe of the 1936 undefeated team who won 38% and lost but 13%. Coach Langford worried, “Washington will come here with only a small squad and that will mean that only 17 bouts will be staged. Harris will only have five chances to score, and -with an off afternoon against a good team, he might very possibly lose two to miss his record. His percentage now, is better than Kehoe’s but he hasn’t had as many opportunities to win. We’re all for him and I’m confident he’ll take the necessary four to set the record.”
Capt. Jack Gaither has filled out a staunch twosome for Notre Dame this year having won 26 and lost 15 in both the foil and epee. Both he and Harris have, to date, won 19 and lost five in foil bouts.—Mark G. McGrath.
Irish Netmen Prepare
For Eight Game Season
“—Best in a great many years, and if all goes well it should be the best tennis team Notre Dame has ever had!”—this was the emphatic statement of Tennis Coach Walter Langford when questioned about the prospects of this year’s tennis team. Of course there came the qualifying “barring injuries, upsets, and the like.” This year’s tennis schedule calls for eight dual matches: Detroit, Western State, Michigan State, and Michigan here; Indiana, Kentucky, Chicago, and Northwestern there; and finally the state tournament to be held at Earlham College, Richmond, Ind. Mr. Langford looked for the toughest battles with Northwestern and Michigan, but with Michigan State and Western State, as usual, furnishing plenty of competition.
Number one Irish player for this year’s team is, of course, Dan Canale. Dan broke a small bone in his ankle at the beginning of last summer and barely recovered in time to win the Notre Dame singles title early this fall. He was ■ a consistent winner last year, losing only a couple of matches while on the semiinjured list. Ranking second is Capt. Jack Joyce, a consistent, steady player.
NOTRE DAME’S FIRST BICYCLE
It was sent to the students from the Paris Exposition of 1866, by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., then president of the University. The man with the bicycle is unknown.
Jack captured the South Carolina singles championiship last summer and teamed with his opponent in the finals to win the doubles title. Running close to Capt. Joyce is Olin Parks, sophomore from Mishawaka, who lost in the campus finals to Canale last fall. Parks whips his 200 pounds about the court with surprising ease and blasts his opponents with power shots when the going gets tough. Other regulars on the team who will be counted on for points are Jack Walsh, Norm Heckler, and Joe Garvey. One other sophomore, George Biittner, was mentioned as a better than average prospect. Other men are expected to try out for the team when the first call is issued.
Some of the players are getting in a little early practice in volleying against the wall in the handball courts. Mr. Langford expressed hope that some outdoor practice might be crammed in before Easter, depending entirely upon the weather. After Easter, practice will assume a serious aspect since the first match is scheduled for April 26.
—Robert LeMense.
Indoor Track Season Nears Close at Butler Relays
Tomorrow afternoon Coach Bill Mahoney’s tracksters will be in Indianapolis engaging in the next to last meet of their ’41 indoor season. The Irish thinlies will battle the Universities of Michigan and Indiana for the team trophy of the 1942 Butler relays. This is the big indoor competition of the Middle-West and probably the most colorful of the nation’s indoor meets. Last year Michigan nosed out Indiana for the coveted team trophy in races that saw the Irish gather very
few points. Tomorrow will tell an entirely different story for Notre Dame, in excellent shape after last week’s Central Collegiates, is going to make it a hot three-way fight with the Big Ten’s best, Indiana and Michigan.
Coach Mahoney is well pleased with the Irish triumph in the C.C.C. meet here last week, and is now looking forward to a few upset victories. The 22 or 23 men making the Butler trip represent one of the largest Irish squads to compete in the relays in several years. This past week Coach Mahoney has been drilling his sprinters and hurdlers in starts which seemed to be the squad’s weakness last Saturday.
Distance men have been concentrating on the two and four mile relay races. The four mile team of sophomores, Will Riordan, Tony Maloney, Frank Conforti and Oliver Hunter, will be seeking revenge for the defeat handed them by Indiana in last month’s Illinois relays. The Hoosiers are also figured to be the team to beat in the two mile relay event; and the Irish quartet of Riordan, Capt. Joe Olbrys, Conforti and Hunter will give the downstate boys a real battle in the event.
The Irish one-mile relay quartet of Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe, and Ray Roy will receive its stiffest opposition from the Michigan foursome of Barnard, Dobson, Thomas and Ufer.
Besides these three events the Irish thinlies will be entered in a medley relay
You will always find a big stock of
DR. GRABOW
and other leading makes of pipes at
IIO- IWA main SOUTH ISHI, IHOMM
Opposite Oliver Hotel
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, N.D., ’23, Prop.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
race and in the special individual races for sprinters and hurdlers.
In the field events the Irish will be wel represented by such men as Keith O’Rourke, Bill Nicholson, Jack Weitoif and Jim Delaney. The high jump should prove to be the event of the day as Keith O’Rourke vies with Don Canham of Michigan. Last week Canham won the Big Ten high jump with a leap of six feet three and three-quarter inches and O’Rourke won the C.C.C. event at six feet and three and one-quarter inches. Broad-shouldered Jim Delaney, who set a new C.C.C. meet record for the 16 pound shot last Saturday is capable of taking another first place for the Irish providing he heaves the 16 pound ball at least as far as his 49 feet six and three-quarter mark in the C.C.C. meet.
Notre Dame placed in nine of the 11 events and captured five firsts and two seconds in piling up the 49 points which gave them the team trophy of the 15th annual Central Collegiate Conference indoor meet. Close behind the Irish was Pittsburgh whose 12 man squad scored in ten of the 11 events for a total of 43 points. Michigan Normal was far behind with a 22 point total.
Jim Delaney broke the only meet record bettered during the meet which saw four of seven champions dethroned. Ray Roy successsfully defended his quarter mile crown in the upset-filled meet. Ollie Hunter, ace Notre Dame distance man, pulled probably the biggest upset of the day when he came back to win the two mile run after finishing second in the mile run. Hunter’s brilliant iron man stunt gave him individual high scoring honors with nine points.
Final 1941 indoor appearance of the Irish will be at the Chicago relays March 22.—Bill Reynolds
Gives Dramatic Reading Of "Life With Father"
Miss Maud Scheerer will present a dramatic reading of Clarence Day’s “Life with Father” next Thursday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The sketches of Day’s erratic father were adopted to the stage by Howard Lindsay and Russell Crouse and are playing to big audiences in New York, Chicago, and Boston. The play is a hilarious comedy. “Father” is a blustering, domineering male; he is determined to reduce his entire family to a state of meek attendancy at his every command.
Miss Scheerer on being asked how long her reading took replied, “It depends on the audience. It reads an hour and 25 minutes, but one audience prolonged it to two hours by its laughter.”
SPRING SYMPHONY
COLOR, CLOTH and STYLE
blended in one distinctive garment.
What’s your favorite COLOR?
Dark Blue
Pastel Blue
Brown
Tan Dark Grey Light Grey
What's your favorite CLOTH?
Shetlands	• Coverts
Flannels	Gabardines
Unfinished Worsteds Cashmeres
Tweeds	Worsteds
What's your favorite STYLE?
Single Breasted Double Breasted Three Button
Drape Lounge
Brooks—3 Button
There are more than 1,000 fabrics from which to choose.
MADE TO YOUR MEASURE
• Every measurement carefully taken and checked.
• Every garment cut to order.
• Expert needlework and careful tailoring.
All garments ordered zip to and including April 1st will be delivered before Easter vacation.
PARKER WINTERROWD
115^2 North Main Street (upstairs)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Father,” of course, is the center of the laughter; the audience is invariably either laughing with him or at him. Miss Scheerer lectures, does dramatic coaching, gives dramatic re-creations, and teaches.
On Monday, March 24, the Barton Harp Quintet will again present a concert here. This group of five young ladies was well received last year.
Tonight the Siberian Singers will present their program of Russian folk songs at 8 p.m. in AVashington Hall.
—Robert LeMense.
Seniors Get Advice
On Marines from Officer
Lieutenant Bernard T. Kelly, Marine liaison officer, visited the Notre Dame campus last Monday night for the purpose of giving information to students interested in Marine Reserve Commissions. Lt. Kelly, temporarily stationed in Bishop O’Hara’s old office in Sorin Hall, pointed out that the Marine corps
ST. PATRICK'S DAY
TIE AND HANDKERCHIEF SET $1.50 •	A T O U	SPORT SHIRTS $1.65 and $2.00 (Several Shades of Green)
SOLID - PLAIN - FANCY	R	•
GREEN TIES $1.00	M E	"EVEN" GREEN SHORTS 50c
•	N	
GREEN BELTS	S	•
$1.00	s	SOLID OR FANCY
•	H	GREEN SHIRTS
GREEN SOCKS	O	$1.65 and $2.00
25c and 35c	P	
is offering a new project. This project, called the Candidates’ Class, gives the seniors who will graduate in June an opportunity to take three months’ training, and upon its successful completion to be commissioned as second lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserves. Candidates will then be assigned to active duty as officers for the duration of the present national emergency.
Monday’s visit was the first of three which Lt. Kelly will make to the campus in connection with the present recruiting drive. The first visit was for the purpose of making general arrangements with the administration and for the distributing of information to interested students. On his second visit, on the 31st of this month, Lt. Kelly will accept applications and gave preliminary physical examinations. The final physical examination and acceptance or rejection of applications will take place on the third visit sometime in May.
Applicants must present a certificate from the registrar indicating certain
graduation in June; they must also present a letter of recommendation from the President of the University and five letters of recommendation from business men in their home communities.
Those seniors who are accepted will be assigned to the Candidates’ Class
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION I Always
SKATING V
CHECKING Z5C
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
Soft Water Shampoos
•	Manicure
•	Shine
•	Haircuts
*	Specialties
Doddridge Barber Shop
124 W. Washington St.
W. E. PETERS
(Over Clark's Restaurant)
WATCH REPAIRING JEWELRY REPAIRING
GEORGE WYMAN AND COMPANY
Resetting and general replacement work is our specialty.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
commencing about the first of July. They will be trained at the Marine base in Quantico, Va., where they will spend the next three months in intensive training for positions as Marine officers. During this time they will be trained in the fundamentals of military discipline, the use of arms, tactical and technical subjects necessary for corps officers.
Members of the Marine corps reserves are not subject to induction under the Selective Service Act.
—Thomas F. Carty
War News
The Sarah Lawrence Campus announced “The war between Princeton and Sarah Lawrence is on.” The article that bore this belligerent headline accused the Daily Princetonian of extending a general invitation tQ its readers to attend a tea dance up at Bronxville and took the editors to task for intimating that the dance was not a complete success. The Princeton editors took these attacks calmly, pointing out that it was just another manifestation of the eternal Battle of the Sexes, which James Thurber says has been going on since primeval times without a decision.
, We had our own instance of that great battle when last Sunday our cousins across the tracks, collectively, absolutely and officially, played hard to get.
Metallurgy Expert Talks
At Meeting on Campus
Malcolm F. Judkins, chief engineer of the Firthite division of the Firth-Sterling Steel Company, McKeesport, Pa., outlined the development of what is now known as “power metallurgy” which dates back to the work of Isaac Newton, at the meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Metals on Wednesday evening.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Snccmor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Mr. Judkins, graduate of the University of Washington and Carnegie Institute of Technology, discussed the mech-
MALCOLM F. JUDKINS “Power metallurgist”
MARCH 17th through March 22nd
Special Prices and Very Special Values
For one week only
Sheaffer Pencils ........$1.00
(regular $4.00 value)
Eversharp Doric Pens...50% off (values $5.00 to $8.00)
Filler Paper and Pads..3 for 25c
Soaps, Lotions and Shaving Creams at special prices.
ABSOLUTELY FREE.... CHANCE ON A NOTRE DAME PENNANT (3 feet high and 6 feet long) to the lucky man whose name is drawn in the Bookstore raffle. Just come in and sign the register, before 4:15 p.m. Friday, March 21st. There is no other obligation except to sign your name. The drawing will be made Saturday morning, March 22nd.
•
Notre Dame Bookstore
Badin Hail
anism, properties, and uses of sintered metals with emphasis upon their use in the manufacture of cutting tools. A motion picture illustrated the manufacture of sintered power metals, such as carbides of tungsten, titanium and tantalum.
The Notre Dame Chapter has admitted six new junior members from its school of metllurgy—R. J. Breska, F. H. Con-aty, W. J. Fretague, D. A. Potter, R. W. Raff, and B. P. Wojcik.—Bill Herzog L
Lovely Voice Makes Chicago Debut
WHEN you ride the
South Shore you can get off at six convenient Chicago stations. The Randolph and Van Buren street stations are only a whisper away from Michigan Avenue and the “Loop.”
For complete information call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mass Calendar: March 16-22
Sunday, 16—Third in Lent. Second prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens).	.
Note—Purple vestments will indicate that the priest is saying the Ferial Mass instead of the mass of the feast on any given day.
Monday, 17—St. Patrick, Bishop, Confessor. Mass; Statuit (in Common). Prayer proper, 2d, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial Mass 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Tuesday, 18—St. Cyril of Jerusalem, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Second prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial Mass; 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Wednesday, 19—St. Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Second prayer, the Feria, Credo. Preface of St. Joseph. Last Gospel of the Feria.
Thursday, 20—Feria. Second prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens), 4th, for Peace. Requiem.
Friday, 21—St. Benedict, Abbot. Mass; Os justi (in Common). Second prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial Masss 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Saturday, 22—Mass of the Day. Additional prayers as on Thursday.
Freshman Class Elects
Officers on March 18
The Freshman class will elect officers from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 18, in the Carroll recreation room. All contestants must have their names in to the Committee on Elections, directed by Jack Burke, 227 Walsh, and Eugene Schumacher, 301 Dillon, before midnight tonight.
Next year’s Sophomor, Junior, and
PALACE
★ Ont Evening Perforatnce Only TUESDAY, March 25th
ALFRED	LYNN
LUNTFONMNME m ROBERT E SHERWOOD'S TKHSSHALLBENoNlHn Witli Ricfcard Wbtrf—$ydney Rremlrntt
MAIL ORDERS NOW!
Kindly Enclose Self Addressed Stanped Envelope. Orders Will Be Filled A* Received—ALL SEATS RESERVED.
PRICESi Orchnstrn—$3.30, $2.75, $2.20. MAIR FLOOR—$2.75, $2.20, $1.05, $1.10 Mezzanine—$3.30, $2.20. Ralceny-$2.75, $2.20, SI.65, $1.10, 55c (Tax IneMed.) • • ALL SEATS ARE RESERVED • •
Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt with a New LEE Water-Bloc*
“The MEN’S Store”
EXCLUSIVE
Headquarters For
LEE HATS
See and Wear THE RAINBREAKER
THE
CASCADE «5-oo
A 2-ounce hat by the famous LEE Water-Bloc process. The Cascade will wear longer because it takes three times as long to make. It’s rollable, foldable and super-serviceable.
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” $3.50.
Look for the Lee Hat signs
Sheds Rain Like a Duck
What a Coat. . . . Just Filled With Worth While Plus Features... Raglan Sleeves... Slash Pockets... Zipper Front. . . . Plaid Lining. . . . Rayon Yoke and Sleeves Made of Fine Gabardine Poplin.
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
Rvsc & K^TZ
■ W MEN AND I XrotweiSv
MAIN AT COLFAX
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Senior preliminary class elections will be held April 22, 23, and 24 respectively. The finals will be in the same order May 6, 7, and 8 and all voting will be done in the basement of the Dining Hall from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Contestants must register with the above mentioned Committee on Elections before April 2 in order that all problems of eligibility may be checked.
Eligibility requirements for all class elections are: a scholastic average of 80% or over, no scholastic deficiencies (a subject failed and not made up at the beginning of this semester), and approval of the Prefect of Discipline.
—Mark McGrath
Notre Dame Freshman To Enter West Point
While Notre Dame watched upper-classmen go down “Draft” avenue and many others got set for the journey next June, Eugene Q. Steffes of East Chicago, Ind., a freshman in the College of Engineering, quietly arranged to enter the Army another way, through West Point.
On March 8 he ended a successful week of physical exams at Fort Sheridan, Ill. His mental test having been cancelled by virtue of his first semester 90% average at Notre Dame, Gene was ordered to report to West Point on July
Shakespeare didn't know the half of it!
A complete selection of the famous
KIRSTEN PIPES
A sensational advancement in pipe enjoyment and beauty scientifically proportioned to fit the smoking habits of the smoker. The bowls are made of finest imported briar, the shank is genuine Duralumin.
Now Priced
$5 to $10
... when he wrote
“What’s in a Name?”
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LA SALLE
The Bard of Avon was right about the rose—its name is unimportant. But if he’d had anything to do with' naming telephone exchanges, he’d have learned a lot!
Names must be easy to pronounce and transmit—must not look or sound like other exchange names—must not use the same dial finger spaces.
Take MUIR and OTIS, for example. Fine!—except they dial alike! For the first two letters of each appear in the same finger spaces on the dial.
Often hundreds of names are listed, studied, discarded before one is found that meets all requirements. Such care in every phase of Bell System work helps to make your telephone service the world’s finest.
Why not telephone home often ? Long Distance rates to most points are lowest any night after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1. Meanwhile, he will finish his fresh- j man year here at Notre Dame.	|
Gene graduated last year from nearby Culver Military Academy as a Regimental Personnel Officer, and received his appointment to West Point through Congressman William T. Schulte of Indiana.—Mark G. McGrath.
Notre Dame Students
Plan Washington Visit
A party of Notre Dame students, and possibly of St. Mary’s belles, will enter the national political scene the first of April and get a behind-the-scenes picture of Washington, D.C., from Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, acting head of the department of politics, who is conducting his annual trip to the national capital.
On the program is a visit to the Supreme Court on decision day, and the Congress will be observed in action as well as a Congressional committee, possibly the Dies committee. Mount Vernon, the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, the White House, Congressional Library and a dozen additional places of historic interest and current importance will be visited. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, barred to visitors at present, will be available for the Notre Dame party, Dr. Bartholomew has been informed.
The group will leave here in Friday, April 11, via the New York Central and Chesapeake & Ohio railroads; and return is scheduled for the following Wednesday. Stops are scheduled at the University of Virginia and at Monticello. Jefferson’s home. On Sunday, the students will attend mass at the Franciscan Monastery in Washington.—Paul Neville.
Frank Kroeger Reviews
Each "Midland Naturalist"
Tucked away in an office in the Biology building Frank Kroeger sits with his tongue in his cheek, wondering why some scientists don’t make better use of the
Eczema,.Skin Itch, Athletes Foot, Golfer's Itch, etc., yield quickly to the use of
"33" LOTION
Guaranteed
219 E. Indiana Ave.
or at
TAD HOPKINS CO.
Oliver Hotel South Bend, Ind.
books on scientific drawing. Frank goes over every drawing in the American Midland Naturalist, the Notre Dame scientific magazine founded by Dr. Theodor Just. He re-traces uncertain lines and makes the drawings clearer so that they may be easily photographed for the magazine. Some he has to re-draw completely.
Frank was graduated and received a
B.F.A. degree in 1938. He hopes to |
t specialize in scientific drawing and from examining some of the scientific drawings submitted to the Naturalist he has decided that there is a decided need for good scientific artists.
“Although some scientists are very poor artists,” Frank says, “some of them are very good. A good drawing takes as long as thirty hours to complete and requires great patience.”—Jack Sprague.
Talk about a swell treat just sink your teeth into smooth DOUBLEMINT GUM
Yes, for real chewing satisfaction, just sink your‘teeth into delicious DOUBLEMINT GUM. Velvety-smooth, full of refreshing flavor. Chewing DOUBLEMINT daily adds fun to sports, informal get-togethers, study sessions. Helps brighten your teeth and sweeten your breath, too. And costs so little! Buy several packages today . . . and enjoy delicious DOUBLEMINT every day.
3^11
V-59
tog
i








NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
THE
Hess to Teach New Course
In Probation and Parole
On account of the growing popularity of the criminology sequence in the department of sociology a new course, Probation and Parole, taught by Mr. Loren J. Hess, chief probation officer of the circuit and superior courts in St. Joseph County, will be added next year to the curriculum. The purpose of the criminology major is to provide a pre-professional foundation for undergraduates who wish to become criminologists, either through the study of law or specialized social work, after graduation. The first class, which consists of 15 seniors, will be graduated this year.
Mr. Hess graduated from the University in 1933, majoring in sociology, and he received his master’s degree at Notre Dame in 1936. He has also studied at the School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago. Mr. Hess was director of Boys’ Work at the Neighborhood House Settlement Camp at Louisville, Ky., in 1934 and was also oin the staff of the Sophie Wright Settlement House, Detroit, Mich., during that year. He was employed as probation officer for the circuit court. South Bend, from 1935 to 1937. From 1937 to 1938 he was case work supervisor, St. Joseph County department of public welfare, having charge of the old age assistance, blind assistance and parole divisions. From 1938 to 1939 he was employed as probation officer at the Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia, and since January, 1939, he has served as chief probation officer for the circuit and superior courts of St. Joseph County. Mr. Hess is a senior member of the American Association of Social Workers and has served as secretary of the St. Joseph Valley Chapter for two years.
The criminology sequence is under the joint direction of Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology, and Mr. Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work.
Allergy Common, Says
Science Meet Speaker
“Allergy is a common illness. Hay fever, asthma, hives, and ivy poisoning are a few of the easily recognized symptoms of allergic disease. But there are many other curious ailments that can be traced to allergies of various kinds.” So stated Robert J. Fallon, senior in premedics, in delivering a paper on allergy before the Academy of Science at its regular meeting Feb. 24.
At a recent Academy Board meeting it teas 'decided that compulsory examinations will not be held before the Easter vacation. Class cuts will not be prohibited before or after the holidays.
“On the Corner”
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
It's Adler's for Arrows!
See the new Arrow patterns, reflecting the fashion trend to gayer and bolder colors. Be sure to take a look at the new Collar styles: button - down, wide spread, low - slope; and long point. You’ll find them all at Adler’s.
Adler’s Carry South Bend’s Largest Stock of Arrows
Why is an Arrow Shirt like apretty girl?
Because they both bring your friends around.
To keep the wolves from your girl, wear Arrow shirts. Charm her with one of those new multi-striped jobs that has the low
slope, long-pointed Arrow Bruce collar. It's up to the minute in style and fit. $2 up ... a low rate for glamour insurance.
To keep the wolves from your drawer, get a padlock. Wolves just naturally "go” for the cut of an Arrow, for it is Mitoga-cut to fit the torso. We advise a bolt and chain for those irresistible, wrinkle resistant, Arrow ties that harmonize. $1 and $1.50. See your Arrow dealer today.
ARROW SHIRTS
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Technicians Enjoy Work At Washington Hall
Since the installation of new equipment, Washington Hall has one of the finest projection rooms in this part of Indiana. In 1937 the entire sound system was remodeled and the old equipment, installed in 1930, was taken out. The Rev. Eugene Burke, director of entertainment, has four technicians at his service. Three of these men also operate at the Colfax theater in South Bend.
Roy C. Shoemaker, one of the technicians, says that the same men are working the machinery now in Washington Hall that were operating there in 1930, when sound was first installed.
“We like Notre Dame audiences,” says Mr. Shoemaker, “and we all like to work here very much. The students are certainly quick on the trigger, and they don’t miss a trick. It’s true,” he continued, “that the pictures are not always the newer ones, but we must comment on Father Burke’s ability to get the best.”—John Kirby.
Students Feel Papers
Have Sacrificed Ethics
Seventy-five percent of the 125 students interviewed in a recent poll conducted by Dr. John M. Cooney’s Ethics
A Variety of Pipes=-A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow .............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular_______1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial..... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ______ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor_____4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran______5.00
Hollyclourt ______________ 3.50
Sasieni __________________ 5.00
Comoy _____________________5.00
of Journalism class felt that newspapers were thoroughly biased and devoid of ethics. The purpose of the poll was to determine the students’ views on the ethics of the press.
Pecuniary ambitions, political alliances and increased circulations were cited as the evils causing sensational journalism and giving rise to a controlled and dictated editorial page. Non-conformance with the moral law, the law of the state and the unwritten law of custom, were blamed for the slow social aggrandizement of the newspaper and for its failure to be a lasting influence on public
to relax, and
Take a minute
f
1
Delicious and /, Refreshing
things go smoother. Ice-cold Coca-Cola adds refreshment to relaxation. Its delightful,whole-some taste has the charm of purity. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
opinion.
Fifteen percent were of the opinion that the majority of newspapers abide by what is considered ethical and reasonable standards and that the rise of Catholic newspapers, magazines and other forms of periodicals has been a good influence on newspaper ethics in general.
Refusing to agree that the press w’as ruled by strict ethical practices or that it catered to a non-ethical code, the remaining ten percent believed that the presence or absence of ethics in reporting was determined by the value and interest of the story.—Louis W. Apone.
When problems get knotty...pause and
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST "
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS DENT ISTRY—X - RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
82S SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D*
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose. d. d.s.
Cyril F. Rose. d. d. s. Peter J. Rose. d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST 314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone	Residence
3-2805	4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination hours by	609 J. M. S. Bldg,
appointment	SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
new Columbia
J
The Music of Stephen Foster—Andre Kos-telanetz and his orchestra—superbly recorded, repeating the success of his album of “Musical Comedy Favorites.”
3 records _________________________$3.50
Benny Goodman, who IS Used to giving a blood transfusion to old tunes, has come up with the best jazz arrangement ever recorded of “Perfidia” (Columbia). This new interpretation starts smoothly and easily, then jumps, after Helen Forrest’s fine vocal, into a “Don’t Be That Way” ending. The back-up is “Let the Doorknob Hitcha,” sung by trumpeter Cootie Williams.
The two latest Bluebird recordings made by Glenn Miller boast one good side apiece: “When That Man Is Dead and Gone” and “I Dreamt I Dwelt in Harlem.” The first is sung by Tex Beneke and The Modernaires with good, sustained drive. The flipover features a bundle that Miller wrapped up for Britain and they can have it — “A Little Old Church in England,” sentimentally voiced by Ray Eberle, Dorothy Claire and the Modernaires. It isn’t Miller’s fault; he doesn’t choose the numbers for recording. “Harlem” has been heard over the air many times. Ray Eberle sings the B side, “A Stone’s Throw from Heaven.”
That man with the six arms and four pianos, Maurice Rocco, has recorded another fine record for Decca: “Rocco’s Boogie - Woogie” and “Honky Tonk Blues.” The Chicago wonder again plays with unbelievable speed, especially in the bass, which makes up for a slight lack of precision. We look forward to an album of his recordings some day.
Les Brown has done a brace of good tunes for Okeh: “Broomstreet” and “Barbara Allen.” Both are sung by Doris Day — the first in blues-jump, the second in ballad style.
“Requestfully Yours” is paired with “Racing with the Moon,” his theme song, by Vaughn Monroe. As usual,. Vaughn sings — the latter by himself, the former with Marilyn Duke. Good job on both sides (Bluebird).
Will Bradley, who really isn’t as bad as he sounded here in town, features Ray McKinley and Freddie Slack in a drum and piano duet, “Southpaw Serenade.” This is a fine novelty number, with Ray, of course, singing the blues .lyrics. The backup is a good, solid arrangement by the whole band of “Bounce Me Brother with a Solid Four” (Columbia).
“I Yi, Yi, Yi, Yi — Samba,” which (you' couldn’t prove it by me) means “I Like You Very Much” has been given a nice treatment by Leo Reisman and Sara Horn (Victor). “Boa Noite” (Good Night), sung by Anita Boyer, is on the reverse.
Patter Songs from Gilbert and Sullivan— sung by Nelson Eddy with chorus and orchestra conducted by Robert Armbruster. He rolls, off the tricky English (4710 syllables) with enormous gusto—as well as with uncanny accuracy.
3 records.______________________________$2.75
Ein Heldenlehen (A Hero’s Life) by Richard Strauss — Cleveland Orchestra with Arthur Rodzinski conducting. Violin Solo by Joseph Fuchs. 5 records._________$5.50
Dvorak: Carneval Overture—Howard Barlow conducting the CBS Symphony—excellent recording of this popular and colorful concert overture.
Single record.$1.00
Don Cossack Chorus: Evening Bells and Kama-Song: both traditional arrangements of old folksongs, beautifully displaying the distinctive style of this famous choir. Single record. ____________$1.00
Send a little bit of music to that saucy mick you know...
Morton Downey Album “Erin Go Bragh”— It’s the Same Old Shillalah, Kevin Barry, Molly Brannigan. My Wild Irish Rose, The Rose of Tralee, That’s How I Spell I-R-E-L-A-N-D, When Irish Eyes Are Smiling, Where the River Shannon Flows.$2.50
Columbia 50c records
“You’re Dangerous” and “Birds of a Feather,” B. Goodman and his orchestra.
“Eli-Eli” and “A Little Bit of Heaven” (Sure, they called it Ireland), Harry James and his orchestra.
“Blues My Girl Friend Taught Me” and “Evening Star,” Raymond Scott and his orchestra.
OKEH 35c records
“Blue Echoes” and “Corn ’ Silk,” Dick Jurgens and his orchestra.
“It’s Sad. but True” and “Breakfast for Two,” Ray Herbeck and his “music with romance.”
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES., THURS., SAT. EVENINGS
RODIMS
Chesterfield
0 Swanked tfaatetie
MILDER, BETTER-TASTING
$
Those clean white Chesterfield packages have everything a smoker likes and wants. Pull the red tab — take out a Chesterfield ... and light it You’ll like the COOL way Chesterfields smoke . . . you’ll like their BETTER taste ... and you’ll find them DEFINITELY MILDER—not strong, not flat
That’s why Chesterfield is called the smoker’s cigarette— the cigarette that SATISFIES.
FRANCES BURKE
Miss America 1940-41
Copyright 1941, Liccett & Meehs Tobacco Co.