* The Notre Dame
Scholastic
March 8, 1957
You’ll like the extra good taste of Winstons, too! And the way that exclusive Winston filter — snowy-white and pure — really lets the rich flavor come through! So, if you aren’t already enjoying today’s most talked-about flavor-filter combination, get yourself a pack of Winstons right now — for Savory filter smoking!
LIKE A
WINSTON

TASTES GOOD!
s 1 Z E
I N G
Winston
_ /•IGA*11’
N E R N E B
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!
The taste folks take to
(and talk about/..WINSTON
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
Smoke WINSTON ...enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip!

PROBLEM: To evaluate the all-round career advantages offered by the widely diversified
activities at Divisions of North American Aviation, Inc.
FIRST STEP; GET THE FACTS in man-to-man
interviews, on campzts
Friday, March 15
As a graduate in Engineering, Physics, Applied Math, or allied subjects you need complete, factual information to help you make a sound decision in choosingyourcareer.
Get the facts in a	autonetics
man-to-man interview with our representative. Let him tell you about our unique placement and training devised to help your potential develop rapidly in a company where continued expansion has doubled the number of employees in 5 years. Your possibilities are wide and varied, as you will see from these brief notes on the 4 Divisions:
AUTONETICS creates automatic controls and
electro-mechanical systems of a highly interesting nature. Work includes research, design, development, manufacture and testing; you will become a part of the latest advances in inertial navigation and guidance, fire and flight controls, analog and digital computers.
ROCKETDYNE is building power for
rocketdyne	outer space—large,
liquid propellant rocket engines. The Field Test Laboratory in the Santa Susana Mountains is the most complete rocket engine workshop in the free world. Here a man meets more aspects
of his specialty in one week than in a year of “conventional” practice.
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL is pioneering in the creative use of the atom. If you are able to meet the high requirements for this work, you can help introduce a new industrial era. Atomics International is designing and building varied types of nuclear reactors, for both power and research, with the practical experience gained by 10 years in the field.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
Long range missiles, including the intercontinental SM-64 Navaho, present problems of the
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL
most fascinating nature. Speeds, materials and functions now being dealt with were only theoretical a few years ago. The work is vital; the opportunities for you, as a creative
engineer, are correspondingly great.
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY
Make an appointment NOW to see North
American Representative on campus. OR WRITE: Mr. J. Kim bark, College Relations Representative, Dept. 991-20, North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC. 4
March 8, 1957
3
Here’s a perfect place
... to build your career!
The Columbia Gas System offers you, as an engineer, the perfect place to grow. The seven states Columbia serves with natural gas—Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia and Kentucky—comprise one of the fastest growing areas in the country. And natural gas is one of the fastest growing industries in the U.S.
This growth combination means many rewarding careers ahead for young men with ideas.
Variety in your job, promotion from within, an individualized training program —tailored to fit you—and liberal employee benefits, are some of the things Columbia Gas offers.
If you are a chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical, welding, petroleum, or general engineer, our representative would like to talk to you during his visit to your campus soon.
The Notre Dame i
Scholastic
Vol. 98 March 8, 1957 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
JOE NORTON Associate Editor	;
DAVE THOMPSON	i
Associate Editor	.
JIM STEINTRAGER .......... News	Editor
JAMES McDONALD ..........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL .........Feature Co-Edi tor	;
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor ■ GEORGE CLEMENTS.........Assistant News	;
JIM DULAN ........... Assistant	News
BOB WILLIAMS ............Assistant News	1
HARRY McKEE.............Assistant	Copy
MARSH PIDGEON...........Assistant Copyjt
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN..............Sports Editor	'
BOB EARLY...........Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK .......Assistant Sports
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar-nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roger Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Dor^ Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe, Jim Goethals, Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
THE COLUMBIA
GAS SYSTEM
Loran Sheffer, Mike—
Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.	®
120 EAST 41ST STREET • NEW YORK 17. N. Y.
Business Staff:
Member of Catholic School Press Association. As- . sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national ' advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New- York City.	:
THE SCHOLASTIC is ftublished weekly during the • school year, except during vacation and examina- j tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre F’ Dame, Indiana.	. |
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 2jc. '
d
The Scholastic I
What a MATHEMATICIAN
can do at IBM
Mathematics is an ancient but ever-advancing science that contains many forms. It shouldn’t surprise you then that it took some time before John Jackson discovered the one brand of mathematics that seemed custom-tailored to his ability and temperament. John is an Applied Science Representative, working out of the IBM office at 122 East 42nd Street, N. Y. G
First of all, what’s it all about? What does a fellow like John Jackson do all day? In his own words, “I keep in touch with the executives of many different companies—advising them on the use of their IBM electronic data processing computers. I personally consult with these customers, and analyze their scientific and technical problems for solution by IBM. Occasionally, I’m asked to write papers, and give talks and demonstrations on electronic computing. All in all, it’s pretty fascinating . . . something new pops up every day.” In other words, John is a full-fledged computing expert, a consultant . . . and a very important person in this
Calling on a customer
coming age of automation through electronics.
Since the IBM laboratories are always devising easier and faster ways to solve the problems of science, government, and industry, an Applied Science Representative can never say he’s learned his job and that’s the end of it. At least once every two months, he attends seminars to be updated on the latest developments in engineering and operations research.
Introduces new methods
During the two years that John has spent with IBM in Applied Science, he has guided innumerable IBM customers to new and better ways of doing things electronically. For example: about a year ago, a leading aircraft manufacturer wanted to experiment with a radically different design for a nuclear reactor. Although the basic format had been established, the project still required many months of toil with mathematical equations.
The aircraft people decided that they couldn’t afford to wait that long, so they called in IBM. After discussion with top executives, John helped to map out a computer program that saved the organization over 100 days
Mapping out a computer program
of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arithmetic. Later, for this same company, John organized the establishment of computer systems for aircraft performance predictions ... for data reduction of wind tunnel tests... and for wing stress analysis. At the same time, he worked with this company’s own employees, training them in the use of IBM equipment. John still drops around to see that everything is running smoothly.
Another service that John performs is the constant reappraisal of each customer’s IBM operation. Occasionally, a customer may tie himself in knots over a procedural “stickler.” Periodically, in fact, John brings IBM customers together . . . just to talk over what’s happening in each other’s business—how everybody else handled that old bugaboo in any industry... details.
New field for Mathematicians
John is exercising his mathematical know-how in a field that was practically unheard of ten years ago. Even now, this kind of work may be news to you. It was to John Jackson a few years back when he was an undergraduate at the University of Colorado. At that time, he was considering actuarial work or mathematical research. But John liked the excitement and diversification of science and industry and he wanted to use his
mathematical background in both of those areas. It was not until he was interviewed by IBM that field computing whetted his scientific appetite. A few months later, John launched his own IBM career as an Applied Science trainee.
Promotionwise, John has come a long way since that time. He’s now an Applied Science Representative in one of the busiest, most responsible offices in the IBM organization . . . mid-town Manhattan.
With his wife, Katherine, and daughter. Lisa, 20 months, and John,
Discussing a problem with colteoguos
Jr., 6 weeks, he enjoys his suburban Port Washington home. He’s happy and he’s satisfied. And then, too, John knows a few vital statistics about IBM . . . such as the fact that the Applied Science Division has quadrupled during the past three years, and that in 1956 alone, over 70 promotions were conferred. If ever a future held promise, here is one.
• • •
IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what a mathematician can do at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, IBM will be happy to answer your questions. Just write to Mr. P. H. Bradley, IBM, Room 8701,590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORRORATION
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • TIME EQUIPMENT • MILITARY PRODUCTS • SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES
i'1
THE CAMPUS SHOP IS READY WITH NEW PRACTICAL RESORT WEAR
See the Campus Shop’s complete selection of new, lightweight wash and wear resort and.summer suits . . . perfect for southern wear during spring vacation . . . and warm weather wear wherever you live. See Haspels 75% Dacron, 25% cotton, suit that keeps its crisp, well pressed look for days and days . . . even on sultry days. When soiled, just dip it in the suds, rinse and hang up to dry. It’s ready to wear again in a short time . . . self-refreshed and self-pressed. Modestly priced too, only 39.75.
6
The Scholastic
PAY
1 /3
JUNE
PAY
1 3 AUG
NO CARRYING CHARGE
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY ...
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE PAY ONE-THIRD IN JULY PAY ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST
Get the clothes you need for the Spring Vacation now . . . and charge them. Pay one-third in June, one-third in July and the balance in August out of your earnings this summer. Use the convenient charge account for all of your apparel needs. . . . Naturally, there is no carrying charge to pay! Come in today!
DRESS RIGHT . . . You cant afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
March 8, 1957
James B. Walker received his B.S. in mechanical engineering from North Carolina State College in June, 1954, and -was working toward his M.S. in the same field when he wat called for military service.
dim Walker asks:
Can a mechanical engineer make real progress in a chemical firm?
“Pick” Pickering answers:
You might call that a leading question, Jim, hut the answer leads right into my bailiwick. I came to DuPont in 1940, after taking a combined mechanical and electrical engineering course. So I had what you might call a double reason for wondering about my future with a chemical firm.
I soon learned that the success of a large-scale chemical process hinges importantly on mechanical
equipment. And the success of this equipment—especially for a new process —depends on (1) Research, (2) Development, (3) Plant Engineering, and (4) Close Supervision. The net result is that a mechanical engineer at Du Pont can progress along any one of these four broad highways to a top-level position.
My own DuPont experience includes mechanical engineering work in fields as varied as atomic energy, fabrics and finishes, and nylon manufacture. Even’ one of these brought with it a new set of challenging problems in construction, instrumentation and power supply. And every one provided the sort of opportunities a man gets in a pioneering industry.
So, to answer your question, Jim, a mechanical engineer certainly has plenty of chances to get somewhere with a chemical company like Du Pont.
H. M. Pickering, Jr., received a B.S. in M.E. and E.E. front the University of Minnesota in 1940. He gained valuable technical experience at Hanford Works, in Richland, Wash., and in Du Pont’s Fabrics and Finishes Plant at Parlin, N. J. Today, he is Assistant Plant Manager at Du Pont’s Seaford, Del., plant, where nylon is made.
REG u S. PAT. 05*.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH "DU PONT THEATER" ON TELEVISION
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Mechani cal Engineers at Du Pont.” This 24-page booklet describes in detail the four broad cate gories of jobs mentioned by “Pick” Pickering. Typical pioneering problems in each of these four categories are outlined. This booklet briefs a young mechanical engineer on how some of the newest and most challenging problems in his field were solved. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Del
8
The Scholastic
by Bryan Woods 0
on the bog— basketbrawl
Though I am sure that by the writing of this column, I am going to draw a 0 blizzard, still it looks right now as if even the St. Joe Valley can’t hold onto winter forever. In other words it looks like spring might get here sometime this year. So what, you say? Well now, I ask you, to what does a healthy young N. D. man rush with open arms in the springtime. Certainly not girls, that’s sissy stuff. It’s outdoor basketball, as if you hadn’t guessed. Why they even had a crew out sweeping down the courts early one morning last week. What could be a surer sign? So this week Escape is going to try and give you a brief history of the game and the courts, as well as the first known codification of the rules.
Well anyway, once upon a time there was this open space between Walsh and Badin, and it was called the Badin bog. (The reason it was called a bog ought ® to be obvious when you remember that it doesn’t merely rain here in the spring, it “Hoosiers.”) Well anyway they couldn’t grow vegetation on this morass so they decided to cover it with a shopping center instead. Well through some error they didn’t build it big enough, so they spread some asphalt over the rest of it. This is now the basketball a courts, and though one of the newest local additions, they have already been pictured in Time magazine, which is more than you can say for a lot of other buildings around here. But now to the game itself.
The game is called basketball because that’s what it’s played with, but that doesn’t tell the whole story because it W also incorporates some of the best fea
tures of NFL football and good old Kick-the-Can. As yet it is without a name that does it justice (a name-that-game contest would certainly be a worthy project for some ambitious student leader), but the rules have become more or less standard. They’re really pretty easy too.
Now the first and most important step is the choosing of two teams. Ordinarily this is done by having everyone shoot fouls, and the first half to make one form one team. (Some games, especially those involving some of the “older men”, never get past this first point. If your group has gotten a little rusty since the days of high school glory, why not change the required shot to a lay-up?) The game stalls now, and though it is nominally a half-court game, it’s actually more like a quartercourt, since while it is not strictly illegal to guard a man who is outside the foul line, it is considered rather gauche and altogether bad form.
Games usually go to eleven, fifteen, or at the most twenty-one, though a grudge game once went to a hundred and seventeen before one side finally con-ceeded defeat.
Fouls are divided into two classes, major and minor. Major fouls, such as kicking, or hitting with a closed fist, result in the team fouled taking the ball in from the side, unless they made the shot, in which case it is ignored. Minor fouls such as tripping, blocking, charging, elbowing, pushing, and the like are usually rewarded only by dirty looks and mumbled curses. The rule is “If you’re not bleeding, you weren’t fouled.”
Now for the matter of strategy.
Though particulars vary with individuals, the rule in general is SHOOT. If you are a small man and get the ball, by all means drive, if it is windy, or set from back court, if it isn’t. Don’t let the fact that there are seven men in the middle bother you. Drive, even if you have to throw it up from the corner.
As for you tall men, take that hook	;
or jump shot. So what if there’s a	;
man hanging on each arm. You want ' to be high scorer, don’t you?
Defensively, anything goes, since the more you get the ball the more you i can shoot. For example, the iron stanch- j ions that the backboards are mounted । on have their uses, and what’s a split lip between brother domers anyway? One other hint. You can usually get away with adding one bogus point to the score for every four real ones. You can see where this sort of thing adds up after a while, so don’t neglect it.
This concludes my first and probably last venture into the territory usually patrolled by genial, lovable, John Glavin, Scholastic Sports Editor; that is, the wonderful world of sport. (Though whether the mystery game really belongs under this heading is questionable.) For copies of this article, send five dollars in N.D. drycleaning coupons to Kip Hamilton, Hollywood, Cal.
MEMORABLE REMARKS
AND CLASSIC COMMENTS
This week’s comment comes to us from Geronimo John Carlin, the beloved cowboy-philosopher of Dillon hall.
“And did you enjoy the play, Mrs. ‘ Lincoln?”
9
March 8, 1957
Live a little as you build an Engineering Career in Dallas
Don helps Chance Vought designers create producible, easy-to-maintain electronic gear for products like this Regulus II surface-to-surface missile.
It’s an old Vought custom, helping j-oung engineers. Our symposiums on creative thinking, programmed job rotation for broadening purposes, and expert career counseling have helped start some spectacular careers. And there’s long-standing agreement in bachelor circles that Dallas is a good place to live. Our campus representative can tell you more about living and advancing in Dallas. Ask your Placement Office to make your appointment. Meantime, if you’d like, write for immediate information to:
Mr. C. A. Besio, Supervisor Engineering Personnel Section CHANCE VOUGHT AIRCRAFT Incorporated Dallas, Texas
Talk shop or sports cars to Don Carter, and you’ll find his keenest interests. At Chance Vought, in Dallas, Don keeps up with both subjects. He’s lirinp while he’s building his professional career. Fun, to Don, means sports car races at nearby Eagle Mountain
Lake, a night at the Dallas Little Theatre, or a splash in his swank apartment pool. Fun means career, too, because Vought helped
Don find a field he thoroughly enjoys — exploring new applications for human engineering in Chance Vought’s Reliability Design Group. Don’s helping designers develop electronic gear that’s producible, simple to operate and easy to maintain. His electronics training comes in handy, and — for the human aspects involved — so would a good grasp of psychology. So Don’s working toward
an M.A. in Psychology this winter at Southern Methodist University, and Chance Vought’s helping with tuition.
4 ।
♦ )
Part of Don's assignment is to simplify instrument arrangement in supersonic fighter cockpits. Here he and a Vought psychologist study a problem in human engineering.
a
Our representative will be in your Placement Office Monday end Tuesday, March 18 and 19, lo describe firsthand Chance Vought*s program for >oung engineers. Reserve time for your own interview by making your appointment today.

10
The Scholastic
£ .
Viw
$
new approach
that color line
A rather heated discussion was boiling the other night •	.00
m the caf. The topic was something that has gotten big headlines in most of the nation’s papers in the last few years — segregation.
Everyone at this University has been affected by segregation in one way or another. Not too long ago several Notre Dame students were refused service at a local reO freshment parlor. And it is no secret that it was not the warm New Orleans climate that caused Notre Dame to drop out of the Sugar Bowl basketball tournament last year. It was a law passed by the Louisiana state legislature ( prohibiting desegregated athletic activities.
' Getting back to the argument, one student was criticiz-' ing the Supreme Court for the desegregation ruling. “I say 3 they should have left segregation alone and let it work itself out by evolution.”
, But that won’t work. Segregation existed before the Emancipation Proclamation, and that was almost 100 ' years ago. If it hasn’t worked itself out by now there is
=5
not much chance that it will do so in the next 100 years. The abolition of segregation is handicapped by the presence of the very ideas it attempts to correct. Racial equality won’t come about in an atmosphere that is saturated with racial inequality. The abolition of segregation needed a push, and that push was the Supreme Court’s ruling.
Then the antagonist changed his line of argument. “Heck, those people are probably happier associating with their groups than some ‘out-group’ as our Sociology prof calls them.” Maybe Negroes are happier when they are
3 associating with their own group. But so are the members y of the basketball team and the Knights of Columbus. The v; members of these last two groups are not prevented from pi associating with others. The Negroes are. Even though the ■■4 court has passed their sentence on segregation some states are still getting around the issue. Some of the laws the Southern states are passing do not look like jim-crow laws || at first glance, but a little examination shows otherwise. £ “Well, it seems to me like this desegregation amounts to ’4 nothing but a coddling of a minority group. Why not { coddle the Communists? They are a minority group, too.” > But the Negro is not seeking special privileges because he I is a member of a certain minority determined by physical characteristics. He is asking for rights and privileges that U other citizens have. He is human, too. He has just as much || right to sit in the front of the bus as anyone else of another color. Interracial justice asks that an individual be y taken for what he is, nothing more and nothing less.—D.T.
March 8, 1957
As this issue went to press. Student Senate and Blue Circle leaders were working out the details of a proposal to sever connections between their two organizations. The proposal was to have been brought up at last night’s Senate meeting; whether it made the floor should be known by now. If by chance the proposal had the good fortune to pass, it means a remarkable step forward for the Student Senate.
At this stage of the game, eliminating the Blue Circle from its executive arm frees the Senate from a decided hindrance in its efforts to attain responsibility and leadership. There has long been a definite resentment toward the Senate among a large number of the student body who have I felt that the Senate itself was directed along lines prescribed by the Circle. I’ve never agreed with this assumption myself, but it is in the Senate’s advantage to do away with the basis for it by breaking with the Circle and going its own way in full view of all.
And as an added advantage, perhaps an even more important one, separation from the Blue Circle opens a new | avenue to the Senate in its drive to establish student leadership.
In the four years I’ve been here, the “Blue Circle Society —Honor or Service?” question has been kicked around constantly with few definite decisions ever being awarded or any steps being taken to give the question meaning in the first place. At worst, the Circle has been regarded as a “pswaydo” honor society by the students; and at best, it has been defined as an honor-deriving service society by a Student Senate president and Circle member. The latter definition came from Tom Crehan on the eve of his campaign for the office he went on to win. Honor, Crehan insisted, accrues to the Circle during the course of the year for service well-rendered, and is not a thing specifically conferred.
Now this takes nothing away from the Blue Circle or its members; in fact it reveals a basis for just appreciation of their efforts. But it does eliminate all question of the Blue Circle being an “Honor society,” in the accepted sense. The purpose of an honor society is to give recognition to men who deserve it.	|
It occurs to me then, that separation from the Circle | leaves the Senate free to investigate the possibilities and ad- I vantages of establishing a real honor society at Notre Dame.	1
Why should there not be such a society at this university? A	|
society with membership derived from objective selection, selection based on superior achievement, would be a terrific asset to any leadership program. A group made up of men already respected and acknowledged as leaders would be able to exert a positive influence. This is the type of legitimate honor society that benefits a university.
It’s worth looking into.—J. N.
11
I
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Leader of an exploration
Owen Williams leads a team of research and development specialists at Bell Telephone Laboratories. His is one of many teams set up at the Labs to explore the frontiers of electronics and communications. In the picture above. Owen (right) discusses modulation problems in electron tubes with Robert Leopold. M.S., Electrical Engineering, University of Michigan, 1949.
Owen himself is thirty-one, and a B.E.E. from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, class of ’49. He joined the Labs upon graduation, and was assigned to communications development training — the equivalent of a two-year postgraduate course in communications. Mixed with his classes were various assignments in
the Chem Lab, the switching and wave filter departments, and work on transmission systems and coaxial cables.
In 1954 Owen was promoted to supervisor. He works with two electrical engineers, both systems analysts, and four technical assistants. Their current job is exploratory development of submarine cable systems, looking towards great new transoceanic communications links.
Owen is one of many engineers and scientists in the Bell System whose principal responsibilities include those of leadership. The work of improving telephone service in the Bell System is guided, and decisions are made, by men who understand the problems involved at first hand.
Many young men like Owen Williams are finding interesting and rewarding careers in the Bell System — at Bell Telephone Laboratories, in Bell Telephone Companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation, lour placement officer can give you more information about career opportunities in all Bell System companies.
BELL	■
TELEPHONE	I
SYSTEM	I
।
I __________________I
12
The Scholastic
o

) $
The crowd rose to its feet in a tremendous ovation as the short, stocky musician ambled to the center of the stage. With a huge, pearly-teethed grin he put the trumpet to his lips and began to blow. For an hour the audience perched on the edges of their chairs, captivated as they listened to one of the greatest entertainers of all time—Louis Armstrong.
Louis Armstrong, a name that has become a legend in American music. Part clown and part musician he has traveled throughout the world, giving to all the richness of his talent.
From a boy, playing his way through the back alleys of New Orleans, he has emerged as the most famous living figure of an era—an era of music and laughter, an Age of Jazz.
Leaving New Orleans he went to Chicago, which was rapidly becoming the jazz center of the United States. Here,.he was in his element, playing the kind of music he knew and loved. The public loved it also. It had to be loud and hot for the hip-liquor toter of the 20s’.
He started his own band and began recording songs that he had written himself. Songs like “Tiger Rag”, “Chinatown”, “I Can’t Give You Anything But Love”, and “Shine”, which sell for $20 or more today as collector’s items.
Then, he returned to New Orleans, his home, and the home of the raucous colorful music which we call “Dixieland”. People came from all over, and they listened—listened to a man doing mag-
March 8, 1957
13
VELMA’S BLUES
RED BEANS AND RICELY YOURS
ical things with a horn, and singing in a gravel pitched vaice, “Basin Street”.
Soon, he was in Hollywood. The movies were an ideal medium for his glittering showmanship. He gave free reign to the fluency of his technique. Employing grandiose phrases, he molded everything into a style all of his own. His slang expressions were imitated everywhere.
In the 30’s there was a decline in jazz, but never for Armstrong. By 1935 he was the most recorded of all musicians, putting at least a 1000 numbers on wax. His records sold all over the world, even enlivening solid middle-class English drawing rooms.
Louie’s phrasing and style were the admitted inspiration for almost every othei- prominent jazz musician and vocalist. Composers of so-called ’riff tunes today are still borrowing, sometimes unconsciously, phrases invented in some of Armstrong’s recorded improvisions a decade or two ago. His spontaneous inventions laid the foundation for the ‘swing’ of 1941. The Dorseys, Glenn Miller^ and Artie Shaw came afterward, but in the beginning it was “Satchmo”, blowing his trumpet and singing his songs throughout the war years.
Recently, he took a memorable jaunt
to Europe, where, as an ambassador of good will, he charmed thousands, just as he had charmed the small, eager audiences on Basin Street. Backed up by Trummy Young on the trombone, Billy Kyle on the piano, Edmond Hall on clarinet, Dale Jones on bass, and Barrett Deems on drums, he appeared before 100,000 thrilled listeners on the Gold Coast. He travelled to London for a performance at which he fractured royal protocol by referring to one of the spectators, Princess Margaret, as a “fan”. This was reminiscent of the occasion when he appeared before King George V in the 30s and interrupted a number to say,
“This one’s for you, Rex.”
While touring France he broke all records in popularity. In tribute plastercasts were taken of his hands and are now in the Paris Louvre.
When Louie appeared in West Berlin many people sneaked over from the Eastern Zone to hear him play. He comments on the fact that few could speak English when he says. “The music did all the talking for both sides.”
During this tour he announced that he was planning a trip to Russia. When told that the Big Four Foreign Ministers were discussing broadening the cultural
contacts between East and West, Louie glibly commented,
“I don’t know just how tight we fit in under culture, but I figure our little -ol’ two beat music might make them Russian cats thaw out a little.”
After 175 shows in 90 days he returned to the United States and appeared in a movie with Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, and Princess Grace Kelly. “High Society” was rated as one of the best musicals of the year, largely because of the efforts of this phenomenal talent, who at 55, is still going as strong as . ever.
With his All-Stars today, he is more relaxed and smoother than in the past, but as brilliant as ever. His talent is attributed to a superb tonal quality, which enables him to keep the tempo alive even in the slowest number. He has hardened his lip and jaw muscles and his abdominal air pressure to the * point where he can strike and hold a ' high C for a greater length of time than any living trumpeteer.
Richard M. Jones probably summed it all up when he said: “As long as those pearly teeth hold out, Louis’ll still be playing something new, and all the others will be running after him trying -to catch up.”—F. S.	t
14
The Scholastic

March 8, 1957
A Short Story
The End of It
by Michael Lawrence
The sun was hot, and his cord suit stuck to his arms and legs. The Saturday afternoon shopping crowd pushed and manuevered annoyingly, as he walked slowly toward the hotel where he was to meet her. They did not bother him, for he was happy that he was going to see her again. It had only been three weeks, but it had seemed much longer. He waited for the light to change, feeling the breeze coming from the lake, and he knew that it would be cool on his boat. We shall bring gin and orange juice and watch the stars, and plan for the future. He liked to dream of the future. The light changed, and he cursed himself for being so romantic.
The lobby of the hotel was pleasant, and it was not hot. He looked into a shop window, wondering if he should buy her something. He looked for a long time, but did not go in. He was too excited. The cocktail lounge and restaurant where he was to meet her was crowded, and he was a little angry that she had picked this place.
“Would you like a table, sir?” a very noble-lobking Filipino waiter asked him.
“No, no thank you. I’ll sit at the bar.” He took a bill from his pocket and gave it to the waiter. “If a young woman comes in and asks for me, a Mr. Sharp-r enter, would you please tell me?”
“Thank you, Mr. Sharpenter, I certainly will. A young woman, yes sir.” He smiled. The young man liked him, for he addressed him as ‘sir’, even though he was almost 22. The Filipino showed him to the bar obsequiously. This embarrassed Sharpenter, but he sat down on the stool confidently, and was glad when the waiter left. .
“Yes sir?” A middle-aged bartender put a napkin before Sharpenter. His temples were grey and his face was very red, and he did not look like a bartender. Sharpenter did not like him.
“Gin and tonic.”
“Yes, sir.” He liked him even less.
The bartender made the drink quickly,
16
and placed it in front of the young man. Sharpenter tasted the bitterness of the drink and felt better. A well dressed man on his left smiled genuinely and asked, “Waiting for a woman? Relax, they are always late.” They both laughed. His face was also very red and his dark brown hair was receding, leaving him a high forehead. He talked with a Southern accent.
“I’m afraid you’re right,” Sharpenter said looking at his watch and noticing that she was fifteen minutes late. He moved a seat closer to the man.
“I’ve waited for quite a few of them, and it never fails,” the man with the receding hairline said.
“I expect her to be a little late, though, she is coming in from the airport.”
“That’s different.” The older man bought him a drink. He was very cool now. The lounge was air conditioned, so the sweat no longer irritated him.
“Mr. Sharpenter,” the waiter said touching him on the shoulder, “The young woman has not yet arrived. What time do you expect her?”
“About 1:30, I expect she will be here soon.”
“Yes, sir.” He smiled and bowed, and then was gone.
“Very nice management here,” the older man said, “You don’t mind tipping at all.”
Sharpenter had not thought of it that way, but nodded agreement. He knew the man wished to staid; a conversation, but he didn’t feel like talking. He looked into the mirror to see if Ann might be coming. He watched the Filipino standing at the doorway. She was not there. He thought about calling the airport. I should have gone there, but she didn’t want me to. He offered to buy the man a drink.
“Please, let me. This is for your lady friend.” Sharpenter protested, but it did not do any good. He felt bad for not cooperating in the conversation; The Southerner was evidently lonely.
She came in the door, and asked the
Filipino for Sharpenter. He did not see her come in. The waiter pointed him * out at the bar, but did not accompany her. He did not want to seem to impose on the young man, and only nodded when Sharpenter thanked him with a smile. He was happy as she squeezed his hand and said, “Hello Richard, were you waiting long?”
He said no, put a tip for the bartender, and took her by the arm. He guided her out the door into the lobby, then remembered he did not say “thank ~ you” to the Southerner with the receding hair line and felt rotten.
“It is good seeing you again, Ann, I have missed you.”
“I have missed you also, Rich.” She had short blonde hair and wore sunglasses. She looked very beautiful, and he loved her very much.
They walked into the engulfing heat, and stood for a moment letting their if' bodies adjust to the change. Richard looked down at her pretty face. Her fair skin was splotched with red from the sun, and perspiration had begun to form on her forehead.
“I have so much to say that I don’t know where to begin,” he said and felt silly for such a remark. “Let’s go somewhere nice. Are you hungry?”
“Somewhat, shall we go to Jacques?” “That’s fine.” Sharpenter hailed a cab enthusiastically. They got in, and he sat close to her. He told the driver where to go, then took hex- chin into his hand, kissed her only lightly on the mouth.
“You look well, Rich, have you been working?”
“Just a couple days a week, like I say^ in my letters. Dad isn’t very strict with me this year, since it is my last summer at home.” He was graduating from college the following June.
“Your tan is very beautiful, I envy you.”
“Sailing has been wonderful so far.” He thought about this evening, but he<,
(Continued on page 21)	.
The Scholastic
It wasn’t anything like New Orleans, but it was the Mardi Gras! People danced, people sang, and people drank champagne that tasted like grape juice. While some 1300 merrymakers were @ bustin’ the seams of the LaFortune Student Center, others hammered and nailed various booths together at which people of all sorts lost their life savings.
It was a weekend at which all-time records fell. There was probably no time
in the past that the Centei- held as many people. Also, from last reports, the returns from the Mardi Gras have surpassed all standing records. Furthermore, it was more difficult to procure a bid foi’ the dance Friday evening, than to get standing room at a matinee of “My Fair Lady.”
At this writing the carnival is still progressing in typical fashion. It looks like the same show of previous years,
except for the classical designs of the booths, and the addition of a ‘revenge booth’ at which the BMOCs’ subjected themselves to rancid oatmeal. However, the experiment has turned out well, the Student Senate is numbered among the top money-getting concessions.
On this and the following two pages Scholastic photogs have captured the glory and grandeur of this annual and unique affair.

17
“LOOK AT THAT OPERATOR!”
£a
The Scholastic j
J
“I hear you need talent!”
J
. and also beer!”
Miss
Sweden
Visits
Ingrid Goude, who competed in the Miss Universe Contest of 1956, made a visit to the Notre Dame Campus last Friday. Reigning as Miss Sweden, she is now under contract to Universal International Studios. When asked how she liked the United States, the 19 year old beauty smiled and replied that it was a wonderful country, and in her five month stay she had been deeply impressed by the kindness of the people.
20
“I haven’t thought of marriage!”	T I
The Scholastic
® The End of It
(Continued from page 16)
would wait until later to tell her.
They sat on the outdoor patio. It was very beautiful and had a large fountain in the middle. You could see the sky, it’s hot blueness. The patio was surrounded by four tall buildings, so you could only see a patch of the sky. Small birds flew around the tables and the fountain. Women in big hats talked continuously and irrevalently, and a large woman with a red scarf around her head told the women with the big hats their fortunes. She did not smile, but sat very still holding a fat hand in hers, and said silly things. She was paid and she put the bill in a small black purse, then she J) waddled to another table. Everyone knew she was a fake, but they liked her.
A small dark waiter brought them a menu, and quickly cleaned the dishes from the table. They were always busy at this time of the day. Richard sat watching Ann, not talking; she was silent and had not said much since he had met her. He thought it very odd. The table was now clean, and the waiter stood at his elbow.
“Would you like a drink, Monsieur”? He was in a hurry and did not smile.
“Yes, Ann, gin and tonic all right”?
“Yes, that’s fine.”
“Two gin and tonics.”
“Yes, Monsieur.” He left.
“This place never changes.” Richard said.
“No, that’s what makes it so pleasant,” replied Ann. She again fell into silence and looked at the fountain. It rose high in the air, and fell with a regularity. At night she remembered that they had soft colored lights reflecting on the water. She liked it better at night. The waiter brought the drinks.
“Would you like to order now?” he said smoothly.
“How would you like the Parisienne Salad, Ann?”
She smiled. “It’s too hot to eat anything else.”
“That’s what we will have.” He turned to the waiter, and handed him the menu.
“Yes, Monsieur.” He took the other menu and left.
Richard picked tip the glass. “Would you like to drink to something?”
“Why not?” She said flippantly.
* “Forget it,” he said angrily, and drank half of the glass. She did not say anything, • but- sipped quitely. Now, he saw it all through her silence.
“You could have written me. You didn’t have to fly all the way up here,” he said looking down at the table.
“I thought it would be better if I could see you.”
March 8, 1957
“You wanted to see my face when you told me, is that it?”
“Please, Rich, don’t make it any harder than it is.” The waiter- brought the salads. Richard tried to eat, but it stuck in his throat. He seemed to gasp for air, then laid the fork down. The realization of what was happening hit him suddenly. The anguish of it struck deep and hot. He was angry at first, now the emptiness of losing her sifted from his brain into the rest of his body. His stomach was hollow and he felt sick. He did not hate her, but he did not want to see her. The boat would be very cool and pleasant now, he thought.
“I am sorry, Rich.” He picked up his drink and finished it.
“What plane are you catching back?” he asked.
“The six . . . tonight.”
“You can catch a cab after lunch.”
“Yes, that would be best.” She picked up her fork, but could not eat. “I really am ...”
“Don’t talk about it!” he interrupted. He saw the birds walking around the tables, picking at fallen scraps. The patio was now nearly empty. The waiters stood at the side and talked. One man sat near them drinking ahnar-tini waiting for his lunch.
“Can’t we talk about it, Rich?”
“Why?”
“There’s so much I want to explain.” “There’s nothing to say,” he said. That was wrong, there was much to say, but he didn’t want to talk. If they talked he might plead with her—he did not want to do that. She was still very beautiful, sitting silently, not looking at him. We must go, he thought.
Outside it was still hot, and there was no cab. They walked around the corner, and found one that sat in the shadows away from the sun. He opened the cab door. “Goodbye, Ann. We have had a lovely time.”
She put her hand on his shoulder, but did not say anything. She got into the cab, then he turned around and did not see the cab pull away.
It was dark now. His boat rocked slowly as the waves moved in from the lake. He lay quietly on the deck, and drank from a glass. The sounds of the city seemed very far away to him. He felt sick in the chest, and tried not to think of her. The wind came from the east and he thought it might rain. He poured himself another drink. Things just don’t turn out any other way, he thought, anyhow, there’s always another one you can put your trust in. He moved his leg and kicked the bottle into the lake. He stood up and looked around, the cars on the drive seemed like a , dizzy merry-go-round. Looking away, he stumbled down the stairs into the cabin to get another bottle.
A DEFENSE
Several times this year the Feature Dept, of the Scholastic has been severely i criticized for the use of outside articles, i.e. articles that are not written by students, about student life, or about Notre Dame as such.
To be sure, the employment of this	:
policy is not in conformity with previous	,
feature sections of the magazine. However, this year we have brought to the student, articles written by professionals or men who are experts in their fields, that definitely appeal to interests that we have noticed on. the campus. The editors do not feel that the Scholastic should be a showcase for student work i entirely. The magazine, rather, should ; entertain as well as provide an oppor- ’ tunity for students to further any journalistic talents.
However, it is logical that our reader interest is not narrowly centered upon the campus. Therefore we give him material that can only be found in national magazines.	.
The first issue of the magazine this I school year presented an article, “Just i Another Spectator,” by Frank Leahy. j With the coming of the football season j and with the high pitch of interest in i Mr. Leahy, we felt that an article from this slant would appeal to the students.
During the National elections the editors sought to guide the thought on campus toward this most pertinent topic. Leonard Hall and Paul Butler, chairmen of the Republican and Democratic Committees, wrote why the college student should vote for their respective parties.
In the music field, Alex Barris presented us with “How to be a Jazz Snob,” and John Mehagan wrote the “Coming of Jazz.” Both of these gentlemen are professional music critics.
Mr. Joseph Shapiro, an expert in modern art, who lectured on the campus, consented to write for the Scholastic an article on “Cubism”. His article explained the vai-ious facets of the ‘new’ painting.
Recently, Mark Clifton contributed a very timely article on “From School to the Job.” Mr. Clifton has studied for many years the problem of the adjustment of college students to business.
For the remainder of the year the editors have other such articles planned. There is a possibility that Dave Brabeck will also contribute to our pages.
The Scholastic aims at student interest and at stimulating their interest in the correct directions. By this new policy we feel that these aims are being accomplished.—D. K.	i
21 !



At the Movies
COLFAX
The Wrong Man (A-l). Henry Fonda, Vera Miles. This is the true story of Manny Balestrero, a bass fiddle player at the Stork Club, who is accused of being a holdup man. In the movie as in real life, he is arrested, fingerprinted, jailed, placed in the lineup, and bailed out. The outstanding feature of the movie is documentary realism, the picture actually being filmed in New York. Henry Fonda does a good job as the victim caught in the web of circumstantial evidence. Vera Miles is adequate as his distraught wife, who ends up in a sanitarium when her mind gives way under the pressure.
Summing up: A traditional Hitchcock thriller.
AVON
The Brave One (A-l). Michel Ray, Joi Lansing. The story of a boy and bullfights.
PALACE
Everything hut the Truth (A-l). Maureen O’Hara, John Forsythe, Tim Hovey. Tim Hovey, the little boy who was the star of “Private War of Major Benson” is back again and as usual causing trouble without doing anything wrong. This time his virtue gets him and his relatives into trouble. Tim gets carried away in the heat of politics and blurts out, during a campaign speech before the faculty and students of his grade school, that his guardian had kicked back $10,000 to the mayor during an airport development transaction. The accusation happens to be tine so the grownups spend the remainder of the movie trying to get Tim to retract his statement. The story itself is a light comedy and fortunately is treated as such.
Summing up: One of the few stories about children who are not juvenile delinquents.
Co-hit: Istanbul (A-2). Errol Flynn, Cornell Borchers. An action melodrama involving smuggled diamonds and their disappearance is interwoven with a lady’s amnesia after a fire with only nominal results.
RIVER PARK
Earth vs. Flying Saucers (A-l). Joan Taylor, Hugh Marlowe. You can pretty well get the plot of this one without any help.
Co-hit: Comanche (A-l). Dana Andrews, Linda Cristal. One of the best Indian pictures ever made—in India.
Sunday: Oklahoma (B). Gordon MacRae, Shirley Jones, Gene Nelson. A very fine picture and well worth seeing.
GRANADA
The Rainmaker (B). Burt Lancaster, Katharine Hepburn, Wendell Corey. The story concerns a droughtridden town and a love-sick woman. Heading straight toward both problems is Lancaster the con-man, a rainmaker at the moment. His first intended victim is the Curry family. The daughter is the main problem of the family, slowly moving toward spinsterhood. Pop and the boys are desperately trying to marry her off and the results are both humorous and highly absorbing. Both Hepburn and Lancaster turn in excellent performances.
Summing up: Surprising what Hollywood can do with a little rain.
* * *
Since many of the readers of the Scholastic want to know if the movies in this column are seen by the reviewer before they are reviewed, this should settle the question. Every Friday evening I am flown to Hollywood with all expenses paid by the Scholastic where I see a private showing and talk with the stars.—D.J.B.
- — - — ■
22
LENTEN
READING
Now that Lent has arrived many students will start ignoring the adjacent^ movie column, and will seek a replace- W ment for weekend entertainment. Senate . dances have been extinguished until after Easter, in keeping with the spirit of the season, and therefore this could _ leave some in a bit of a quandary.
An addition to those lenten resolutions, on the positive side, should be an extensive reading of spiritual literature. , Catholic publishers have contributed an impressive list for the layman.
Giacomo Cardinal Lercaro presents a practical guide on the methods of mental prayer. This book, especially useful for contemplation, appears as one of the finest studies of the subject. Methods of Mental Prayer has been published by The Newman Press at $5.75.
Another book by The Neman Press g gives a penetrating analysis of the fun- W damental differences between Protestantism and Catholicism. The author, Rev. ' Louis Bouyer, is a former Protestant minister. The Spirit and Forms of Protestantism is published at $3.75.
J. M. Perrin, O.P. in his recent work, Forward the Layman, points the finger at the layman, and shows him his duty . and his relation to the church. If you if are interested in lay apostle work, this book is highly recommended for your lenten reading. Published by The New- . man Press, it is priced at $3.25.	•_
The Wisdom of Sorrow, by Ricardo Leon, gives a fictional account of intense sufferings. Rich in spiritual vigor and consolation this book has been published by the Ave Maria Press for $3.00.
A popular piece of religious literature is the new book treating life under the communistic rule. As the Clock Struck Twenty by S. M. C. shows the hardship on Catholics living under atheistic communism. As the Clock Struck Twenty is published by the. Ave Maria Press at $3.00.
Monsignor Ronald A. Knox has pub- a-. lished the best of his Corpus Christi p sermons which concern the Blessed Sacrament. Monsignor Knox has preached in the London parish, Corpus Christi, for the past 30 years on the subject. J Sheed and Ward now offer The Window r in the Wall for $2.75. This book provides the reader with a stimulating series of meditations.—D. K.
The Scholastic ft
MARILEE YOUNG AND MIKE KENNEDY Success in Marriage
Wednesday Opening Production of 'Macbeth' To Feature Michael Kennedy, Marilee Young
The University Theater will present its second production of the year, Macbeth, in Washington Hall beginning Wednesday and running until Sunday, March 17. Michael Kennedy will take the lead in the play as Macbeth, and Lady Macbeth will be played by Marilee Young.
The play is the story of Macbeth, his rise to power and subsequent overthrow. One of King Duncan’s most trusted generals, he is propelled to seek the throne of Scotland by the prophecies of the goddess of destiny and the unquenchable '	£ desire of his wife who wishes to bear
the title of queen.
When King Duncan declares his son , Malcolm to be heir to the throne, Macbeth, with the aid of his ■wife, slays the king. Malcolm flees the kingdom in fear.
In his desire to obtain and retain the .	throne, Macbeth is driven to commit
..	crime after crime. He orders the murder
^of his friend Banquo, and all seems i assured. Further prophecies, however, e drive him to the murder of the wife and :	children of Macduff, who has joined
Malcolm in England.
Malcolm and Macduff, seeking veng-i ence, return to Scotland with an army . to depose Macbeth. From this point, 1 ^Macbeth’s downfall is swift. Lady Mac
beth, driven mad by the horrors of the crimes, dies. Macbeth himself falls by the hand of Macduff. Malcolm is crowned king of Scotland, and order is restored to the kingdom.
In addition to Kennedy and Miss Young, the cast of characters includes Barney Morris as Macduff; Reginald Bain, Jr. as Malcolm; Ed Sullivan as Donalbain; Neil Ball as Duncan; Frank Draine as Banquo; Paul Willihnganz as Lennox; Tom Brady as Ross; Rudy Hornish as Caithness; Joe Mocarski as Menteith; Bill Chesson as Angus; Paul Kusbach as Siward; and Larry Finneran as Young Siward.
Others in the cast are George Newman as Seyton; Andrew Staniszewski as the doctor; Bob Sasseen as the sergeant; and John Kent as the porter.
Bruce Junius and George Newman will portray the murderers; and Bernie McElroy will play the seiwant. Director of the production is Fred Syburg. He is assisted by Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., the assistant director; Gilbert Rathbum, technical director; and Stage Manager Jerry Dodge.
Box-office sales of tickets for the production begin Monday. Tickets are $1.50 for orchestra, and $1 for the balcony. Phone and mail orders for tickets are also being filled.
Rev. Philip J. Mitchell Dies of Heart Ailment
Rev. Phillip J. Mitchell, C.S.C., 41, , assistant professor of history at Notre Dame, died Friday morning, March 1. He had been ill recently with a heart ailment and was in the Student Infirmary at the time of his death.
A Solemn High Requiem Mass was celebrated by his brother, Rev. Paul Mitchell, Tuesday morning at 8:30 in Sacred Heart Church, with Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., and Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., serving as deacon and sub-deacon.
Born March 19, 1915, in St. John, New Brans wick, Canada, Father Mitchell graduated from St. Joseph University in New Brunswick in 1937, and took the habit of the Holy Cross shortly thereafter. He was ordained June 3, 1943.
Father Mitchell received his master’s degree in American history from Notre Dame in 1945. He also’ attended the Catholic University in Washington, D. C., from 1950 until 1952. He served on the faculty of the University of Portland, Ore., from 1945 to 1947, and from 1952 to 1954.
He taught at Notre Dame from 1955 to 1945, 1947 to 1950, and since 1955. Father Mitchell had been a prefect in Lyons and Dillon Halls, and recently had been saying Mass in Sorin Hall Chapel.
Father Mitchell was buried in the community cemetery at Notre Dame following the services.
Rev. McCarthy Chosen Senior Retreat Master
Rev. Raphael C. McCarthy, S.J., from. Regis College in Denver, Col., has accepted an invitation from the Senior Class to serve as retreat master for their annual retreat, according to an announcement made this week by Chairman Kieran Phelan.
The graduating class has planned a two-day exercise beginning with Mass on Saturday morning, March 30, ani continuing until evening on March 31, the Fourth Sunday of Lent. At the request of the class, cancelled cuts will be-granted on Saturday moiming for those seniors who are making the retreat. For this reason no extended weekend permissions will be granted.
Father McCarthy is at present director of laymen’s retreat in Denver. He is the author of several books on psychological studies and is a noted lecturer and administrator.
Six conferences will be held during* the retreat.	.
2*
March 8, 1957
Leo XIII Lecture Series Begins Thursday: Rev. Mathis to Speak on 'Lent in the Liturgy'
The Second Annual Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series will begin next Thursday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Five talks centering around aspects of Christian life will be presented during the Series.
The talks will cover the liturgy, literature, the laity, Scripture, and education. These lectures, lasting for about one hour, will be followed by a break and then a question period.
On March 14, Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., will open the series with “Lent in the Liturgy”. Rev. Thomas Brennan, Jr., C.S.C., will speak on “Christian Intelligence” on March 21. The Dead Sea Scrolls will be discussed by Rev. Thomas Barrosse, C.S.C., in “Scripture Today” on March 28. “Why Newman Anyway?” will be the title of the talk given by Rev.
ND Delegates Attend Mock UN Assembly
Six students from Notre Dame travelled to Bloomington, Ind. this past weekend to attend the third annual mock United Nations Assembly sponsored by the student government of Indiana University.
Over 300 students from 30 different schools throughout the midwest and southwest participated in the three-day conference. Notre Dame’s delegation represented Italy, one of 44 of the 76 United Nation countries that had student representations.
Jack Bure, Terry Byrne, John Heineman, Pete Keyes, George Oess, and Jim Rose were the ND students that took part in the mock meetings. Each one of the six participated in various committee meetings which then passed resolutions on to the general assembly for approval.
On Friday evening, the mock assembly heard an address by Dr. Frank Graham, the present United States mediator for Pakistan and India. Graham is a former president of the University of Carolina and has also served as United States senator from that state. His topic was “The U. N. in the Atomic Age”.
Following the talk by Graham, an exhibit was held depicting the products and raw materials of the different countries.
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science at Notre Dame, advised the local group before their departure to Bloomington as to how to best represent the views and opinions of Italy at the conference.
John Keating, C.S.C., on April 4. On April 11, authoress Mary Perkins Ryan will describe the “Layman—1957”.
The opening lecturer, Fr. Mathis, is a distinguished liturgical scholar. Before heading the Notre Dame liturgical studies program, he received a doctorate in Scripture from Catholic University in
FATHER MATHIS
Opening lecturer on Leo XIII
1920, and then entered the Congregation’s mission activities.
He was mission procurator, director and founder of the Catholic Medical Mission Society. He established and edited The Bengalese and built the Foreign Mission Seminary in Washington, D. C. He taught religion at ND from 1939 until 1941 when he became chaplain at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend.
In 1947 he was relieved of all other duties in order to devote his full time to the ND liturgical program.
The lecture series is free and the entire student body and faculty are invited. It is sponsored jointly by the YCS and Student Senate.
'Composition in Spring' Theme of Junior Prom
“Composition in Spring” will be the theme of the Junior Prom, it was recently announced by Don Corbett, publicity chairman. Decorations will portray characteristic spring scenes and colors.
The Prom will be held Friday, May 3, from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Jimmy Dorsey is scheduled to play for the event.
Chicagoans Win Gars^ ! In Carnival Contest
t Two Chicagoans were the winners of the two cars given away at the Mardi Gras last Tuesday night. The winner of the 1957 Cadillac was William Hoag, Sr., whose son, William, Jr., is a sophomore Commerce student from St. Ed- _ ward’s Hall.	«
Richard Loncar, also a sophomore Commerce student from St. Ed’s and also from Chicago, was the winner of the student prize, a 1957 Ford Custom.
Emmett Malloy, general chairman of the Mardi Gras festivities, announced that this year the Mardi Gras will clear . approximately $42,000, almost double last year’s profits. Malloy said: “The cooperation of the student body was a * display of the true Notre Dame spirit in helping us meet our goal. The St. Mary’s girls also added to our success with a substantial contribution through the sale of the Mardi Gras books. The credit for the success of the 1957 Mardi Gras belongs to the students themselves.”
The Accounting club booth which cleared $931 placed first in profits for the Mardi Gras. Second with $861 was the Washington-Maryland-Virginia club • and the Texas club with third with $791. S
Winner of the award for the best designed booth was the Architects booth. Second and third places went to the Italian club and the Texas club.
Six Law Students Advance In Moot Court Competition
Six junior law students won the quar-* ter final round of the eighth annual ’ Moot Court Competition last Monday , night at the Law School, and will advance to the semi-finals to be held on -April 12.
Winners were: Raymond Tam, Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii; John Murray, Elmira, N. Y.; William Ragan, Buffalo, । N. Y.; Donald Very, Pittsburgh, Pa.; John Curran, Rochester, N. Y.; Thomas^ Oglevie, Kansas City, Kansas.
These students were the winners from three courts, presided over by judges from the South Bend area and members . of the Law School faculty. In one court, ' contestants appealed the admission into -evidence of a confession obtained, without coercion, from a man who had been held in custody for ten hours without arraignment, and without the aid of*. counsel. Two other courts considered L whether a hospital record that contained a statement made by an accident victim ? about the cause of his accident, was i L - I properly admitted into evidence. .
In the semi-final round April 12, these law students will argue before six justices of the Indiana Court of Appeals^
The Scholastic i .
24
•International Relations Club to Host Little UN: Tentative Dates Set for Campus Conference
Tentative dates of March 28 or April 4 have been set for the Little United Nations Conference sponsored by the International Relations Club of Notre Dame, in connection with the Student Senate.
® The conference, to be held in the Ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center, will have sessions lasting from 3 to 5 p.m. and from 7 to 10 p.m. Topics to be discussed include the Suez Canal, the one mile territorial limit, independence of Cyprus, the Kashmir question, and possible security council changes.
Each hall at Notre Dame will represent a nation at the conference. There f.will also be seven delegations from the International Relations Club and three delegations from Santa Theresa Club at Saint Mary’s College. Fifty of the 80 nations belonging to the UN will be represented at the conference, with a minimum of 150 delegates.
Pete Keyes, chairman of the committee arranging the conference, said that it has two objectives. One is acquainting students with workings of • the UN General Assembly. The other is to provide a combination social and intellectual stimulation for students. All students are invited to attend.

It’s a fact! Good dancers are more popular, have the best times. And it’s so easy—and such fun—to become a popular dance partner. At the friendly Arthur Murray Student Parties people who once were shy, couldn’t even dance not long ago, now have wonderfully exciting times! For they’ve learned the latest popular steps and the shortcut to popularity from Arthur Murray. They’ve developed poise and self-confidence.
Yes, dance lessons develop personality, are loads of fun, too. You learn so quickly, because of Arthur Murray’s simple Magic Step method. You can actually go dancing after only one lesson. Each lesson is like a party in itself. So don’t go on missing half the fun in life.Be more popular than ever! Come in for your first lesson today! Arthur Murray Studios,
Arthur Murray’s ।20 e. Wayne st.
This is the second year that the conference has been held at Notre Dame. Last yeai' 27 nations were represented at the conference. A new feature of the conference will be use of translators for the Latin delegations.
Members of the committee, besides Keyes, include Jim O’Donoghue, publicity; Dave Valaik, delegations; John Heineman agenda; Dan Bergen, physical facilities; and Joe Joyce, parliamentarian.
Commerce Men Hear Talk By DuPont Company’s DeVore
Robert T. DeVore, midwest manager of the DuPont Company’s Extension division, spoke on “Progress Must Be Created” before students of the College of Commerce yesterday at 2:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
A native of Chicago, DeVore joined the DuPont public relations staff in 1947 after a 17 year career as a newspaper writer and editor. He served as assistant city editor of the Washington Post and as a reporter on the Toledo Times.
"I’m delighted when a shy, bashful pupil responds to my instruction and becomes a more confident and popular dancing partner,” says Florence Jennings.
O’Dowds to Deliver Final Marriage Talk
The final lecture of the annual Marriage Institute series will be given next Tuesday, March 12, at 7:30 pun. in the Engineering Auditorium. The guest speakers for the evening will be Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd.
Former chairman couple of the Lay Executive Board of the Cana Conference and Pre-Cana speakers, the O’Dowds both have been very active in family life work in the Chicago archdiocese. Their topic at the Institute will be “Success in Marriage.”
The usual question and answer session will be held after the lecture, followed by a coffee hour in the LaFortune Student Center.
The next to the last Institute lecture was given Ash Wednesday evening, March 6, when Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe of Chicago spoke on “Unity Through Love.” The Strubbes are also active on the Cana Executive Board and in Catholic Family Unity in Chicago.
Resumes of a previous Marriage Institute Lecture, “The Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex,” given by Rev. Arthur Maloche, will be available to those- attending the lecture by the O’Dowds.
AFROTC Students Tour Eglin Air Force Center
Sixty Notre Dame Air Force ROTO students recently participated in the third of a series of oi-ientation flights sponsored by the United States Air Force.
The students, accompanied by Captain Peterson, commandant of cadets, and also by Captains Zettel and Gruppe of the Notre Dame detachment, toured, the Eglin Air Force Base in northwestern Florida. Eglin, the world’s largest air proving ground, is situated on the Gulf of Mexico some 50 miles east of Pensacola.
With the Air Force providing free air transportation, the group left South Bend Tuesday afternoon, Feb. 19, in two C-119 passenger planes, landing at the base that evening. During their two day stay at the proving ground, the cadets and the officers witnessed a pilotless drone demonstration, toured the huge climactic testing hangar, observed test flights of the latest high speed aircraft, and witnessed a demonstration of the ejection seat, which is used to catapult pilots from speeding aircraft.
Previously, cadets from the Notre Dame unit toured Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio and the Arnold Engineering Development Center in. Tennessee.
March 8, 1957'
25
A frank message to	/
graduating electrical and mechanical /
ENGINEERS 7
You know it ... we know it ... so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fenc^/around it), and. for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. f
So, again, let's be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)'We are an old, young organization. Old, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec* tronics.ytOur technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
MARCH 18 and 19
ms sues • sun ■ MiEHis • aiciiiHES • laruici •sun sute • test EiuriEai • laaisiiiii 11.
FARHSW>ORTiH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
The Scholastic (
X f s
WO1

Hiiik Scutt
Bob Devine gives his views on this year's successful season and the forthcoming NCAA, stating that —
• We Can Go All the Way
by Bob Devine as told to Tom Edwards
Bob Devine has been a mainstay in the Irish basketball lineup for the past two years. As a sophomore, he was the third ranked scorer on the Notre Dame squad with a 13 point average. His defensive ability and fine floor play have been a main factor for the Irish success this year. Devine is a junior from Philadelphia and is a philosophy major in the College of Arts and Letters. He is • uncertain of his plans after graduation.
Next Tuesday night, we reach another stepping stone towards the goal that we have been working for since we began practice more than five months ago—an NCAA Championship. We face a good ball club, Miami of Ohio, but with continued hustle, I believe that we can move by them and on to Lexington.
Our defense has been showing steady improvement in the last few weeks and ♦ is helping us to keep winning ball games. While we had been scoring well in the early part of the year, our opponents had been getting quite a few points also. But in our last four or five games we have been keeping their offenses contained better. In our- first Marquette game, we held them to only 56 points which is the lowest mark scored against us this year.
At Columbus, next week, we are looking forward to keeping both our offense and defense working against a very tough Miami of Ohio team.
Miami has excellent balance and exceptional size and used both adequately to capture the Mid-American Conference Championship.
Their big man is center Wayne Embry who is 6-6 and weighs 240. He scores from the pivot with either hand and uses his big frame to great advantage under the baskets.
Miami’s back line is rounded out by two 6-6 forwards, Ronald Ellis and Ed Wingard. Ellis is a left-hander and gets a number of his points on the same shot that my teammate John McCarthy W scores with quite a bit—a jump shot
from the key moving across from the right side of the court.
Wingard is only a sophomore, but has done very well in his first year up.
Their guards are John Powell and Jim Thomas. Powell is 6-0 and was the third highest scorer on the Miami squad a year ago. Thomas is a 6-3 sophomore.
With these five men in the lineup, Miami will have one of the tallest teams that we have faced all year. And on the second team they have two more six footers and a 6-4 forward.
We are anticipating a rough game but sincerely believe that we can win and move on to the next round of the tourney if we keep hustling.
ATTITUDE A FACTOR
One of the big factors in the team’s rise in the win column after a mediocre start has been the attitude. Even in losing, no one ever quit. This was particularly true in our second games that we played against Butler and De Paul. In both of these games, we were behind midway through the second half, but came back to win.
I think that the credit for keeping us hustling and maintaining this attitude goes to our captain, John Smyth. He has shown himself as a great leader and kept us pointing towards this NCAA bid from the first day of the season. He is a very hard worker and through his own hustle and hard work, he keeps the rest of the ball club fired up.
Last Saturday night’s game with DePaul is indicative of how this hustle has enabled us to keep winning ball games. Even though we had beaten DePaul by 15 points just a week earlier, we were expecting a very tough game since we knew how tough they always are when playing at home. And during the first half it looked as if the Demon home court jinx might be working again.
We were having trouble getting started and weren’t hitting our shots as well as in previous games. Their guards, Rosen and Lakin, were scoring from the outside and really ball-hawking on defense and not giving us much of a chance to set up our offense.
But halfway through the second half
THE AUTHOR
Tom Hawkins and John McCarthy caught fire and we began to move. Our defense toughened up and we held them scoreless for three minutes and by the time they scored again we had built up a nine point lead.
Gene Duffy, in the second half, turned in his best performance of the year. He was passing the ball around, over and under almost every DePaul man on the floor to set up our big men. Duffy has been a real menace to opposing guards this year with his ball-handling feats. He has the knack of drawing defensive men off another ball player, and thus setting up that player for a clear shot.
Hawkins and McCarthy have both done tremendous jobs for us this year. Not only have they given us scoring but, teamed with Smyth under the backboards, they give us a trio of rebounders that fight for evei-y loose ball and grab a great percentage of them. Having them underneath gives myself and either Duffy or Tom Sullivan a chance to shoot more often from the outside since, we know that even if we miss, we stand a good chance of retaining possession through their rebounding.
ONE AT A TIME
We have played 25 ball games so far this year. We tried to take them one at a time knowing that each team we played was going to be up for their game with us. It’s the same thing now. Miami comes first. We plan to win that one and are working hard to do so.
I think that we can go all the way in this tourney, but to do so we’ll have ■to-hustle and beat every team we face. Miami is the first one and that’s the ’ one we’re waiting for.
March 8, 1957
Wisconsin Stops Fencing Win Streak at 15; Locals in Triangular at Cleveland Tomorrow
Klinemen Open Drills;^
First Game April 12
Wisconsin’s powerful Badgers snapped the Notre Dame fencers’ 15-game winning streak, which extended over two seasons, last Saturday by dumping the Irish, 19-8, in a triangular meet with Illinois at Champaign. Notre Dame edged the Illini, 14-13, by sweeping the last five bouts. Wisconsin slipped by Illinois, 15-12. ND’s record now stands at 12-1.
Last Friday the Irish used mostly second-stringers in swamping Indiana, 21-6, at Bloomington. The Hoosiers just started fencing four years ago and are still building. This was the eleventh straight this year and fifteenth in a row since losses to Wisconsin and Illinois in last year’s triangular.
Tomorrow the squad will travel to Cleveland to take on Case Tech and Fenn. Both are better than average and could give the Irish trouble. This meet will close out the dual meet season. Only the NCAA meet in Detroit on March 22-23 is left.
Coach Langford switched Denis Hemmerle from his specialty, the epee, to the foil in an attempt to counteract Wisconsin’s overwhelming strength in the sabre. Langford hoped to balance the foil and sabre and win the foil for the victory, but Wisconsin put on a blistering performance in the sabre and epee to outscore the Irish, 15-3 in these two. And the Irish could only manage a 5-4 advantage in the foil. This was only the third time in the last 61 meets that the Irish have lost the epee bouts.
The Illini jumped out in front early. They took both the foil and the sabre by 6-3 counts. Needing only two of the nine epee bouts to win the match, they took the fourth bout. But the Irish were able
COACH WALTER LANGFORD
Reaches century mark.
to come through in the last five. Ron Farrow captured the last bout to give the Irish the one-point victory.
Over the week-end, Captain Denis Hemmerle won seven out of nine epee bouts to give him 32 wins for the season • and 79 for his three years of competition to become the winningest fencer in Notre Dame history. He surpassed the record of 76 set by last year’s captain and the 1955 NCAA epee champion, Don Tadrowski. Pierre duVair took six of eight in the foil division in the three matches to up his season’s mark to 26-6. In the epee bout, Ron Farrow and Terry Laughlin each won five while dropping two and one respectively and now stand at 17-5 and 18-5 for the year.
Also, the Illinois win was the 100th of Coach Langford’s career at Notre Dame. His record now stands at 100 wins and 25 defeats.
Wheaton Tops Irish In Season Mat Finale
Last Friday afternoon, Wheaton College defeated the Notre Dame wrestling team in the final match of the season in the Vet. Rec. Hall 26-0. This gave the Irish a season record of three wins and seven losses.
The powerful Wheaton team took seven decisions and one pin in the lopsided victory to boost its season record to eleven wins, one loss and one tie.
Captain Terry Crowley, a senior, finished his last season as the top Irish wrestler. His season record was seven wins, two losses and one tie. Hank Nuss of Wheaton decisioned him in his last match.
Chuck Henzy and Al Ecuyer were both decisioned in the two closest matches of the meet, and both by an identical score of 2-0.
In the 123 lb. class, Gene Taylor of Wheaton decisioned Buddy Day, 6-1 to put them out in front 3-0. Chuck Stuber pinned Notre Dame’s Ed Finlay in the 130 lb. division to stretch the lead to 8-0. Scott Oury a 137 pounder, decisioned Bob Pivonka 4-3 to push them further ahead, 11-0. Then in the 147 lb. class, Hank Nuss defeated Terry Crowley 12-3. Chuck Henzy then dropped a close one to Dave Lindberg, 2-0 as Wheaton clinched the meet with a 17-0 lead. Gil Mucher decisioned Mel Larson, 6-2, in the 167 lb. class and Paul Teasdale defeated Bucky O’Connor, 7-0 in the 177 lb. division. Al Ecuyer dropped a close one in the meet and season finale to Win Hurlburt, 2-0.	.
A visitor to the Notre Dame Fieldhouse . during the past three weeks would have found an atmosphere filled with small white spheres, as Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline is in the process of rounding into -shape the 1957 Notre Dame baseball' team.
Pitchers and catchers reported on the 18th of February and the remainder of . the squad the following Monday. Due to the late Easter vacation this year, the team will not go on a southern trip as they have in the past but will instead play a schedule of about seven games against teams from the Big Ten and^ other midwestern schools, over the 12- -day break from classes.
The squad will open the season on the 12th and 13th of April at Bloomington against the University of Indiana.
THREE VETERANS GONE	•
Despite the loss of monogram winners Dan Nespo, Mike Lesso, and Rhodes ♦ scholar Don Sniegowski, Coach Kline is looking forward to an improvement over last year. Much of this optimism is due to Notre Dame’s first All American baseball player, catcher Elmer Kohorst. Ko-horst, a senior, last year led the Irish in almost every offensive department. His .344 batting average was tops on the squad and he also headed the team in total hits, home runs and runs batted in. This season, he will share captain’s hon-* j ors with first baseman Jim Cusack.
Five sophomores are currently bat- ; tling it out for the second string job t i behind Kohorst. They are John Mer- ; lock, Ken Hiegel, Bill Sidelka, Jim Bo-densteiner, and Marty Diegnan.
FIVE RETURN TO MOUND STAFF
The pitching staff is headed by five' returning monogram 'winners, seniors Tom Bujnowski, Paul Besser, John Ham- j mett, and juniors Charlie Symeon and Henry Bretting. Bujnowski, in addition • to being the most effective Irish hurler throughout the season, pitched ND to its only win in the NCAA championships by defeating Minnesota, the team which went on to win the title. Hammett, after winning a monogram in his sophomore -year, was forced to sit out last season \ with a sore arm. Junior Ron Jabavy, ' and Ron Smessaert, and sophomore ; hopefuls Jack Connors, Ken Cavanaugh, Dick Donovan, John Pogorzelski, John Cassagiande, Dick Amoral, John Hogan, Tom Marquez, and Frank Kennedy, round out the 16-man staff.
28
The Scholastic
The Story of the Bengals by TOM JUDGE
High atop the Notre Dame Fieldhouse w' every afternoon you will find some 80 or 90 active, quietly resolute, game fellows working up a heavy sweat in boxing drills, calisthentics and rope skipping. Officially begun some three weeks ago, the training season for Notre Dame boxers is now in full swing, under the direction of Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano.
Foremost in the minds of these boxers •' is the twenty-sixth annual Bengal Bouts. This boxing classic has become a tradition at Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, all proceeds from the bouts go for the benefit of the Holy Cross missions. Each year it has brought thrills and excitement to boxing enthusiasts in the Michiana area as well as Notre Dame.	'
The preliminaries will be held in the Fieldhouse March 25, with the semi’ finals the 27 and the finals the 29. Tickets for the three nights go on sale March 11, in the halls, promoter Terry Conway announced.
Mr. Napolitano, better known as Nappy, predicts this year’s bouts to be, “one of the best.” The reasons Nappy gives are, “the many boys back that did so well last year, and the equal abilities of the boxers in each weight class.” Napolitano has been the mainspring behind the Bengal Bouts ever since his graduation from here in 1931, except for several years spent in the Navy as a boxing coach at Iowa pre-flight base.
Nappy’s formula is top physical condition plus competition. In this line Nappy has set up a rigorous training schedule for “his boys.” The six week daily workout looks something like this: two miles of roadwork, a half-hour of hitting and defensive drills, and a final half hour of calisthenics, sparring, bagpunching and rope skipping. Contact work comes only after three or four weeks of this.
After the six week grind, those that are in top condition are matched by Nappy not only in weight but in ability. This makes the bouts what Rocky Marciano called, “the fastest collegiate boxing I have ever witnessed.” It also prevents any boy from being made a punching bag.
Nappy requires headgear and 12-ounce gloves to be worn in all contact work. He also insists that a two inch mat, which was adopted in the NCAA regulations, be used in the tournament. The referee is instructed to stop a bout the moment an opponent is dazed and in danger- of being hit at will. “This is a contest, like any other sport,” Napolitano says. “In a sense it is the purest contest we have. When it ceases to be that, stop it. Don’t let the boy get hurt.”
Thanks to Nappy’s guidance and stiff training program, there have been no serious injuries in the long history of the Bengals. Fortunately not. a bit of excitement has been sacrificed to the
Campus Cage Finals Scheduled for Sunday
One of the most succesful interhall and campus club basketball seasons was completed last Tuesday. Play began last Feb. 5.
With regular season’s games completed last Tuesday, the 12 winners of the 12 brackets of the leagues began play in the annual Campus Championship Tournament yesterday. Contests in this single elimination tournament will again be held today, with the semi-finals and the finals slated to be played off tomorrow and Sunday, respectively. All tournament games will be held in the Fieldhouse. The semi-finals and finals start at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Tonight, the games will begin at 6:30 p.m.
The halls to be represented in the tourney will be Pangborn, Lyons White, Farley, and Badin, each accredited with a spotless slate of four victories. Also competing will be Dillon, Off-campus Blue, Chicago Club, Detroit Club, Pittsburgh Club, and Milwaukee Club. These teams each cany 3-0 records into the tournament.
After the final results of the tourney are in, an All-Campus team will be named. Gold medals will be presented to the first team, while the runners-up will be awarded silver medals.
Pangborn and Dillon shape up as the teams to beat from the Interhall League. Steve Powers and Phil Prasses have been the standouts for Pangborn, while Jim Morris has been top gun for Dillon’s squad. From inter-club competition, the Chicago Club and Milwaukee Club pose as pre-tournament favorites. Tom Prendergast and Jim Milota carry the hopes of the former, while Harry Smith and Dick Swift are the top performers of the Milwaukee team.
safety precautions in effect, and those who saw last year’s tournament can testify to the thrills generated by the bouts.	-
This year is to be no exception as four returning champions will take the ring to defend their crowns. They are Pete Nozesky, Dick Murphy, John McGinley, and John Palumbo. To make things rough for them will be a few football players such as Dick Prendergast, Pat Healey, Gene Hedrick, Dick Lynch, Doug McGinn and Don Lawrence. '
Many excellent boxers have come out of the Bengals, but one of the most famous was Max Merek, 1932 champ and Chicago CYO victor, who knocked out Joe Louis in the Golden Gloves tournament, shortly before the latter won the heavyweight championship of the world.	.	-
March 8, 1957
Irish Trackmen Retain CCC Championship; Compete in Milwaukee Relays Tomorrow
The Notre Dame track team, fresh from their fifth straight championship in the Central Collegiate indoor track meet, will travel to Marquette tomorrow afternoon to enter the seventh annual Milwaukee Relays. Irish Coach Alex Wilson plans to enter Notre Dame in four events this year.
The Irish mile relay team of Aubrey Lewis, Joe Foreman, Bill Keegan, and Barclay Ewart hope to equal last yearls Irish first place performance. In the two-mile relay, Coach Wilson will start Dale Vanden Berg, Marty Clynes, Ed Monnelly, and either Mike O’Connor or Al Porter. In the collegiate mile, Dick DiCamillo is expected to rank well for Notre Dame; while Ron Gregory will compete in the open mile.
IRISH DOMINATE
The Irish dominated the Central Collegiate Championship track meet here last Saturday, copping eight first places of the thirteen events. The Irish finished with a 65 point total, far ahead of second place Marquette’s 36% points, for their fifth straight CCC crown. Western Michigan tallied 29% points to garner third place in the nine school meet.	'
The highlight race of the day, the 60-yard dash, featured Ira Murchison of Western Michigan against Notre Dame’s Aubrey Lewis, both of whom have equalled the :06.1 world’s record. Murchison nosed out Lewis in both the semifinals and finals with a :06.2 time, for
ALEX WILSON
Sends Team to Marquette Relays.
the only Western Michigan first place of the day.
The Irish also shattered four meet and Fieldhouse records in their easy victory. Junior Dick DiCamillo jogged his eight laps around the Notre ■ Dame Fieldhouse track in a record of 4:11.1, to break the CCC mile run record of 4:14.9 set last year by Irish ace Bill Squires. Another Notre Dame junior, Jack Cote barely missed his attempted 24-foot leap in the broad jump, but broke George Meagher’s former Notre Dame indoor record by 4% inches. Cote’s new mark was 23 feet, 11% inches. Although Lewis was bested in the 60-yard dash, he shaved one-tenth second from the existing Notre Dame Fieldhouse record with his 7.4 second victory in the 65-yard low hurdles. Notre Dame’s mile relay team, Lewis, Foreman, Keegan, and Ewart, out-distanced the Marquette entry in 3:19.3 seconds, to set a new meet record. The old 3:20.6 record was established by Drake in 1952.
OTHER FIRSTS
Other Irish firsts went to Joe Foreman in the 440-yard dash, and Steve Dornbach in the 60-yard high hurdles, beating Marquette’s Rod Chapman and Bob Thomas, respectively. Mike Hav-erty of Notre Dame came from behind to nip Western Michigan’s Bill Pyle and Drake’s Phil Howrey in the two-mile run. Ron Gregory won the Freshman Invitational Mile in 4:16.7, while Irish runners Dave Cotton and Andy Crawford copped third and fourth places.
After Dale Vanden Berg nosed out Mark Lipscomb of Marquette in the afternoon 880-yard semi-finals, Lipscomb returned to slip past the Irish half-miler in the evening finals. Other Marquette firsts were registered by George Brassch in the high jump, and Mike McGrath in the pole vault. Charles McIntosh of Wayne easily won the shot put with his 49 foot 10% inch toss.
Irish Sign Crimmins; Grid Staff Complete
Bernie Crimmins has been added to the Irish coaching staff for the coming football campaign, thus bringing Terry Brennan’s next year’s aides to full strength.
Crimmins, a 38-year-old native of Louisville, Ky., is no stranger to Notre Dame athletics since appointment to the staff marks the auburn-haired Irishman’s third return to Notre Dame.
As an undergraduate in the Com-
BERNIE CRIMMINS
His Third Return	.
merce school, Crimmins participated in three sports—baseball, basketball, and football. He was a catcher on the 1940, ’41, and ’42 Irish nines and played under Coach Keogan in his sophomore year. However, it was on the gridiron that he made his claim to fame, playing at right halfback as a sophomore, fullback dur- -• ing his junior year, and finishing his gridiron duties under Frank Leahy at guard, being unanimously chosen as an All-American at that position in 1941. He was the first football player in the history of Notre Dame to win three let- . ters at three different posts. The College All-Stars chose him as their captain in the 1942 encounter with the pro* champions.	,
WAR HERO
Following his graduation in May, 1942, he coached at Cardinal Hayes High School in New York City for five weeks, entering Midshipmen School here at Notre Dame in October, and receiving a commission as an ensign in June, 1943. Of his three years in the service, 18 months were spent in the South Pacific as a PT boat commander. He was decorated with the Silver Star, Presidential . Citation, Philippine Liberation Medal, and an Asiatic Pacific Ribbon with three battle stars.
After being discharged as a full lieutenant in 1945, he played one season with the Green Bay Packers and then returned to Notre Dame as an assistant .^ ? to Frank Leahy, who referred to Crim- ' mins as “. . . one of the finest coaches J who ever beat a bush.” He coached un- ■ der Leahy for six seasons, leaving in January, 1952, to assume head coaching duties at Indiana where he coached until the present time. Twice he was chosen as co-coach of the North squad for the,w annual Shrine game held at Miami.
The Scholastic
30
CCC Finals
Photos
by Dan Sheehan
DORNBACH RUNS FIRST.
March 8, 1957
31
Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue" Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ___or when inid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
,s ,.bl.„-35c S 98*
Dorms) 60 tablets—
NO^OZ
AWAKENERS
SAFE AS COFFEE
SOPHOMORES
YOUR JUNIOR YEAR IN NEW YORK?
See your dean or write for brochure to:
Dean F.H. McCloskey Junior Year Program Washington Square College New York University New York 3, N.Y.
Year
in
Ne'*
M<WTURB0W yOPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
TIME OUT
The classic of college basketball—the NCAA tournament—gets underway next Tuesday with 14 teams playing their first games. The other ten teams will await the results and move into the semifinals with the winners on next Friday and Saturday night. Madison Square Garden features a triple header and the Eastern schools annually turn in the upsets.
Our Irish move into the new Ohio State Fieldhouse to meet Miami of Ohio, the Mid-American Conference winner. In the first game of the double feature, Pittsburgh meets Morehead St., the Ohio Valley champ. The two winners then move into Lexington on Friday. If Notre Dame wins, they’ll meet the Big Ten representative, Michigan State. The winner of the first game at Columbus will meet Kentucky.
The Irish will go into the Miami contest as the favorites even though Miami will have a decisive height advantage. They average a little better than 6-6 across the front line. The Irish rebounding game will be put to the test but Devine, Duffy and Sullivan should find no problem driving by their slower opponents.
Coach Jordan does have one secret weapon against a bigger club if needed. The “terror” group of Duffy, Gleason and Morelli can demoralize a club with their ball hawking. They won an impossible game from Butler this way and there is no reason why they can’t do it again when called upon.
Michigan State will be a tough ball club. They have improved tremendously since Notre Dame beat them but so have the Irish. Kentucky is the big hurdle but the Wildcats are not as strong as some of the past Rupp teams. Don’t be too surprised if Morehead beats them.
WHY NOT A STUDENT TRIP?
While on the subject of the NCAA, why not a Student Trip to Columbus? Leaving Tuesday noon and returning in time for Wednesday’s classes seems highly feasible. The Student Senate acted on this last night but it is up to you students to put the pressure on your hall senators to insure it going all the way through. We have in our midst a ball club that has the potential to go all the way. The ball club thinks they can. Why don’t we support them and show them that we think they can. We sent 700 students to Pittsburgh to support a team that had a poor record. The least we can do is support a highly successful basketball squad that has (in this writer’s mind) a chance to go all the way.
BENGAL BOUTS TROPHY
Next Monday, tickets for the 1957 Bengal Bouts go on sale in the halls. This year’s Bouts promise to be the best ever with the heavyweight division loaded with football players. The Scholastic is awarding a trophy in conjunction with the Bouts. Each fighter that wins a fight will get a certain number of points for his hall. The number of points will vary according to the night the fighter wins. A win in the finals will count more than a win in the semifinals. The hall with the most points will receive the trophy. Points will also be awarded to the top three halls in ticket sales. To help your hall win that trophy, buy a season ticket when they go on sale Monday. They are only $1.00 and it is for the Bengal Missions.
EXTRAS: Last week, we mentioned a scandal brewing in the East. Last week the team did it again, winning by a point after being a 10-point favorite. Trouble has already broken out in the Missouri Valley Conference and now there are rumors of a fix in pro ball. The worst has yet to come. . . . The NIT gets underway next Saturday and we’ll pick Seattle as the winner in this one. Don’t be surprised if former Irish assistant, John Castellani gets the “Coach of the Year” award in his first year. He rates a close second to our choice—Frank McGuire of North Carolina. . . . Forgot trainer Bill Bell last week. Bill has been a master of the tape and bandage set for four years now. . . . And Marty Allen didn’t get the “Spoilsman of the Week” in Michigan again last week. . . . See you in Lexington.—J. G.

32
The Scholastic
Have you been thinking of buying a good pen?	Now is the time!
The SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY
is giving away free
Two Bulova Watches
Men’s Senator 17 Jewel $42.50
Ladies’ Jill A 17 Jewel $42.50
A FREE CHANCE to win one of these attractive watches given with a purchase of a Sheaffer Pen.
Take advantage of this extraordinary bonus offer.
Good until May 17.
Notre Dame Bookstore
... Join a creative team which has for over 25 years contributed significant firsts to aviation. Latest from our “Tomorrow Thinkers”:
For further information on Aircraft and Missiles opportunities see your Placement Officer
MAKE A DATE... to discuss your “tomorrow” with our representatives on this campus: TUESDAY, MARCH 12
If you, too, are a “Tomorrow Thinker”
AIRCRAFT- F-105 Thunderchief MISSILES—Terrapin
Farmingdale. Long Island. N. Y.
33
March 8, 1957

KODAK rO-MJ 135
CAMERA, Model C
Sure, inexpensive way to color slides
Versatile-plus! This fine but lowcost miniature focuses to 2^ feet; has a fast f/3.5 lens for fine results even on dull days; and shutter speeds to 1 /300 for action. Drop-in, no-thread system makes it apple-pie-easy to load, and the “red-dot” settings provide box-camera simplicity in color slides.
Camera $33.75 Flasholder $9.95
Pick up a free chance on the Anscoflex camera set with every purchase from the Photo Dept.
Color, Slides’
easy to take and show ... with Kodak miniature equipment
Notre Dame Bookstore
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Can Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost
First Bank & Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
Circle Begins Drive For Members Today
The Blue Circle society begins its annual membership drive today according to an announcement by John Reardon. The drive will continue until March 20.
Requirements for membership, according to Blue Circle policy, include an 80 or above academic average, a satisfactory disciplinary record, attendance at Notre Dame for at least one full semester, and an interest in Blue Circle activities.
Applications can be made by letter only, and are to be sent to the Blue Circle Membership Committee, 222 Fisher Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. The letter of application must include co-curricular activities in both college and high school, the present academic average of the student, and reasons the applicant desires to join the Society.
All students who apply will have a personal interview with Blue Circle members and selections will be made on the basis of the student’s record, his letter and interview. Interviews will be held March 26, 27, and 28.
A meeting for all applicants will be held on March 24, at which time the interview procedure will be explained and Blue Circle officers will explain the functions of the society.
Students planning to apply for membership must submit their letters by midnight March 20 to the Membership Chairman.
St. Mary's. ND to Argue Morality of Nuclear War
Students of St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame University will hold a debate Sunday on the topic “Can Nuclear Warfare Be Morally Justified?” The debate will be held in 104 O’Shaughnessy Hall at 3 p.m.
Representing St. Mary’s in the debate are Josephine Murphy and Janice Thei-seng. Notre Dame will be represented by Martin Kelly, Anthony Russo, and Robert Seckier.
The public is invited to the debate, and all undergraduate students are welcome to attend.
Mottl Named Vice-President Of Student Law Association
Ronald Mottl, senior law student from Parma, O., was recently voted vice-president of the Student Law Association in a special election.	.
Mottl spent his undergraduate days here at Notre Dame and won a monogram as a pitcher on the baseball team.
European Holiday Tour under leadership of Dr. Charles E. Parnell, Ph.D. Associate Professor Modern Languages Notre Dame, Indiana
Leaving Montreal June 12, 1957 Returning New York
August 12, 1957 All-Inclusive Tour Price $1060 by Private Motorcoach
For complete information see
FIRST BANK & TRUST CO.
Travel Department Notre Dame Campus: Book Store
Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Limit for Inscriptions: March 31st
mi ms LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
34
The Scholastic
। ^International Relations Symposium to Discuss | 'What America Stands For* on March 29, 30
The Committee on International Relations of Notre Dame will sponsor a symposium on “What America Stands For” on the campus March 29 and 30. Rev. ^Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president *'of the University, will be chairman of the symposium.
The first session will be held Friday morning, March 29, at 9:30 in the Law Auditorium. Dr. Stephen Kertesz, of the Notre Dame political science department, will deliver the first talk on “The Objectives of the Symposium.” He will be followed by Jerome G. Kerwin, of the University of Chicago, speaking on “The l-'Living Constitution.” The session will be concluded with a talk on “The American City” by Louis Brownlow, from Washington University.
On Friday afternoon at 2:30, Donald K. Price, vice-president of the Ford Foundation, will speak on “Government and Science.” A talk on “The Meaning of Literature in America Today,” by John T. Frederick of the Notre Dame ^.English department, will conclude the afternoon meeting.
George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College, will speak Friday evening at 8 p.m. on “The Meaning of
Higher Education in the United States.” This speech, like all of the sessions, will be followed by a discussion period.
“The Religious Factor” will be the topic of Aaron Abell of the Notre Dame history department, when the symposium meets on Saturday morning at 9 a.m. Mr. Abell will be followed by M. A. Fitzsimons who will talk on “American Culture: Universal Elements and Specific Features.” Mr. Fitzsimons is also a member of the Notre Dame history department.
All of the meetings of the symposium will be held in the Law Auditorium.
ATTENTION FRESHMEN
There are a number of positions available on the news staff of the SCHOLASTIC. Any students, particularly freshmen, who are interested, are urged to report to the regular news meeting at 6:45 p.m. Wednesday. The meeting will be held in the new offices on the second floor, south side, of the LaFortune Student Center.
Sunday Opening Slated For Seminary Campaign
The solemn opening ceremony of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Seminary Fund Campaign will be held at Holy Cross Church in South Bend this Sunday at 4 p.m.
The object of the fund campaign is to cover the $3,000,000 construction costs of a new seminary which will replace the old Moreau Seminary.
Plans for the erection of the seminary on the Notre Dame campus include 200 rooms for seminarians and 28 rooms for teachers and semi-retired religious. In addition to the main chapel, there will be five smaller memorial chapels, classrooms, assembly room, library, dining room, kitchen, and gymnasium.
The schedule for the four-story building calls for groundbreaking in early spring and completion by early fall of 1958.
Rev. John A. O’Brien, C.S.C., Ph.D., widely-traveled author and lecturer, will deliver the sermon at the solemn opening.
Father O’Brien has written numerous books, pamphlets, and magazine and newspaper articles in the field of apologetics, philosophy of religion and educational psychology.
ON MARCH 14,1957 GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT WILL INTERVIEW SENIORS
majoring in aeronautical, mechanical, electrical, civil and industrial engineering, and in physics and mathematics.
Contact your Placement Bureau
GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION
BETHPAGE • LONG ISLAND • NEW YORK
Designers and builders of supersonic Fl IF-1 Tiger, transonic F9F-8 Cougar, Albatross Amphibian, S2F sub-killer.
March 8, 1957
35
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
SENIORS
ADVANCE INFORMATION ON CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AT PROCTER & GAMBLE
Advance information on Marketing Management opportunities in the Procter & Gamble Advertising Department is now available. Write H. H. Wilson, Jr., Supervisor of Personnel, Advertising Department. Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, Ohio. Campus interviews in Placement Bureau March 14.
REPUBLIC AVIATION, Tuesday. March 12^ Placement Office.
ARMA. Wednesday, March 13—Placement Office.
GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT, Thursday, March 14— Placement Office.
NORDEN LAB, Thursday, March 14—Placement Office.
CROWN ZELLERBACH. Friday, March 15—Placement Office.	'
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, Friday, March 15—Placement Office.
VOUGHT AIRCRAFT, Monday and Tuesday, March 18 and 19—Placement Office.
COLUMBIA GAS, Tuesday, March 19—Placement Office.
NORTH AMERICAN (L.A.) AVIATION, Friday, March 22—Placement Office.
FARNSWORTH. Friday. April 5—Placement Office.
Sales prospects may be from any field of training. Interested students please call the Placement Office, phone 404-405, for appointment. Excellent opportunities in paper industry.
Prof. Engels Designs, Builds Summer Home
Prof. Norbert Engels, a member of the Notre Dame English department, and his wife have designed and built a summer home for themselves in the north woods of Wisconsin. The story of their-handiwork, together with a cover picture of their cottage, starts in the current issue of Science and Mechanics magazine. Text and dimensional drawings are also by Mr. Engels.
Besides teaching Shakespeare and freshman composition, Prof. Engels also taught engineering drawing at Notre Dame during the war. His book, Man Around the House, a collection of essays and drawings was published by Prentice-Hall Co. He has built practically all the furniture in their home.
Rev. O'Brien to Talk Sunday At Student Senate Breakfast
The Student Senate will hold a Communion Breakfast this Sunday at 9 a.m. in the Morris Inn. The breakfast will follow a special 8 a.m. Mass.
Rev. John A. O’Brien will be the speaker at the breakfast. Approximately 30 members of the Student Sen-
’ -i are expected to attend.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice president of student affairs, will be celebrant of the Mass. Joe Ryan is in charge of arrangements for the breakfast.
Wednesday Set as Date < For Officer Nominations
Nominations for the spring elections of officers will open next Wednesday, at 12:30 p.m. and close on Sunday, March 31, at 6 p.m. Nominating petitions and information sheets concerning the elections can be obtained from Bernie McGowan at Room 1 in Sorin Hall.
Elections for the posts of student sen-^ ate president, class officers, college senators, and village senator are tentatively set for April 4. Voting will take place in each hall, and in the bus shelter for off-campus students.
To qualify for nomination, a student must have a minimum accumulative average of 80, a satisfactory disciplinary record, and be able to serve for the next full academic year. Candidates for$ the senate presidency must also have served in Student Government for one year and be approved by both a nominating committee and the student senate. All candidates must submit the completed nominating form.
Any questions concerning qualifications can be answered by consulting McGowan.
---------- e
Debaters to Visit New Orleans For Tourney This Weekend
In New Orleans this weekend the ND Debate Team President Paul Coffey and Vice-President Jack Martzell will participate in Tulane University’s National Invitational Debate tournament. On hand will be some of the strongest debat<£ teams of the south, among them LSU, SMU, Tulane, Florida, and Texas.
Both sides of the topic of direct economic aid to foreign countries will be debated by the teams in alternate rounds. Besides debate, Coffey will compete in extemporaneous and Martzell in after-dinner speaking.
Next week Tom Banchoff, DennilR Shaul, and John Hirschfeld will travel to Kansas University for the “Heart of America” debate contest.
Prof. Leonard Sommer named Hirschfeld as manager and Shaul as assistant manager of the national ND Invitational Debate tournament on April 12 and 13.	D
The Scholastic
“Student Senate to Hold Special Discussion; Study of Problems, Self-Evaluation Scheduled
A motion to hold a special introspection meeting was passed by the Student Senate at its regular meeting, held last Wednesday evening, Feb. 27.
Pat Logan, student body president, •'said that the meeting would be held some time within the next two weeks. It will be a special meeting, distinct from the regular meetings. The senators will break up into small discussion groups for examination of various elements of the Senate, and then close with a general session which will make an over-all evaluation.
The Senate plans to examine some of tf-the problems it is facing, discuss the purposes of student government, the basis for its authority, what the Senate is doing, and what it is trying to achieve.
In other business, the student organization policy was revised. In the fu
ture, instead of limiting membership in geographical clubs to students from a specific area, students will be allowed to join any geographic clubs they desire. Logan said that the rule originally was to protect the smaller clubs, but that it had been found they could exist on their own without legislative protection.
At the meeting of Feb. 20 the largest budget in the history of Student Government was presented to the Senate. The fiscal report estimates total expenses for the semester at $16,482 with total income of $17,525.
Chief expenditure for this period will be the social commission with almost $9,000 and the class, hall, and college funds which total $1,750. The social commission, which will bring in over $8,000, and the second semester portion of the activity fee, $5,150, form the main source of income.
Menu of Specials
Sun.:	Fried Chicken ____$1.35
Prime Rib of Beef________ 1.25
Mon. & Wed.: Prime Rib of Beef 1.25
Sphagetti & Meat Balls .. 1.00
Tues. & Thurs.:
Sirloin Strip—T-Bone ____ 1.25
Fri.: French Fried Perch -- 1.00
Pasta Fazool ___________ 1.00
Sat.: Ham Steak .........  1.45
Pork Chops ______________ 1.25
. includes Salad or Vegetable Coffee or Milk	Dessert
(all meat 14 oz. or above)
1003 N. Notre Dame CE 3-0444

What a man uses on his face is important
CHOOSE QUALITY
SHAVE WITH

Rich, creamy quality for shaving comfort and skin health. New formula Old Spice Shaving Creams in giant tubes:
Brushless .60 Lather .65
Old Spice aerosol Smooth Shave 1.00
S H U LT O N NEW YORK • TORONTO
March 8, 1957
Parker-Winterrowd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115,/2-1171/2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS llS’/a-llZVa No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
Whi+emore-Lowe Play At St. Mary's Tonight
The duo-pianist team of Arthur White-more and Jack Lowe will present a concert in St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium this evening at 8:15 p.m. as a part of the Concert and Lecture Series.
Ticket sales will continue today at the O’Laughlin Box Office from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and 6:00 to 8:15 p.m. Price of admission for the concert is $1 for students and faculty and §1.50 for the general public.
Whittemore and Lowe rank as one of the top two-piano teams in the United States. They are in constant demand as soloists with the country’s leading orchestras in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Washington, Cleveland and Cincinnati.
Both men are graduates of the Eastman School of Music at the University of Rochester. In June of 1950, the school bestowed citations on the two pianists as two of the institution’s 13 most distinguished alumni.
Whittemore and Lowe have arranged almost 200 works for the two pianos and are constantly adding to their repertoire both rarely heard classic compositions and important contemporary works, many of which will be heard in their concert this evening.
Local La Raza Club to Host Pan American Conference
Four hundred students from colleges throughout the United States will attend the Pan-American Conference to be held at Notre Dame on March 23 and 24. The LaRaza Club of Notre Dame is the sponsor of the conference.
LaRaza will be aided by St. Mary’s College and the Human Relations Club of Notre Dame. The theme of the conference is “The Problems Facing Latin American Students in the United States” and “Those of United States Students in Latin America.”
Chairman Fred Thon and Moderator Rev. Robert Pelton met recently with the planning committee for the conference. Dave Valaik was named head of a committee to work on the program and seminars with the assistance of Maria Teresa Bouzon, Pat Griffith, Mary Ann Grybseck, and Benjamin Paiewon-sky. The entertainment for the conference will be handled by Ana Livia Casanova and Ivan Alvarez. Jose Milmo was placed in charge of accommodations and Robert Daily and Robert Callero of the Human Relations Club were appointed to take care of publicity.
Gulf Oil Corporation
Representative will be at the University of Notre Dame
MARCH 13,1957 to interview candidates for positions in
* RESEARCH
* DEVELOPMENT
Positions in the fields of petrochemicals, processing, product development, research on fuels and lubricants for automotive and aircraft engines, engineering research on lubrication problems, instrumentation, oil well production problems and equipment, large-scale computational equipment, and on instruments and techniques to be used in prospecting for petroleum.
B.S.; M.S.: Ph.D. candidates in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, Geological Engineering, Physics, and Geophysics.
For additional information and to apply for an interview, please see Reverend Louis J. Thornton, Director of Placement.
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Trave! with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
60 Days
Europe
from $525 Orient
43-65 Days ..X. from $998
Mon/ fours include college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up, Sout^ America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tours $528 up and Around the World $1398 up.
tITA Chicago
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 .
38
The Scholastic

J
•Kane Examines Role of Family in Vocations
Parents play an important part in fostering or discouraging religious vocations, according to Dr. John J. Kane, head of the sociology department.
Writing in the current issue of The /Ive Maria, Dr. Kane states that “In so ^far as attitudes influence vocations, parents are undeniably most important. The family has the child first and has him exclusively during the most formative years. Even when the matter of a call to the priesthood or religious life is first broached by a youth, the family can encourage or discourage it . . . The first attitudes that children form toward priests, Brothers and Sisters are largely • a reflection of the attitudes that parents express.”
Dr. Kane expresses fear that some vocations are being stifled because of unjust criticism of the clergy by parents, which influences children adversely. “In some Catholic families a favorite pastime is criticism of the clergy. Sometimes it appears that certain Catholics regard this about as binding on Sunday ^■as attendance at Mass. It is a post-*Mass ritual in some homes.”
Prof. Kane points out that "The most natural conditions under which vocations are likely to develop is the home in which religion is lived and talked about; where priests and religious are discussed as dedicated people who make important contributions to the family’s spiritual and temporal welfare. To have a priest visit the home occasionally also ^.stimulates vocations.”
Besides prayer, Dr. Kane writes, vocations “must also be encouraged by every permissible natural means, and principally by the good, positive influence of parents.”
Indianapolis Club Gives $500 •To Alumni Scholarship Fund
The Indianapolis Club of Notre Dame recently presented a check for $500 to the Indianapolis Alumni organization to be applied to the alumni scholarship fund. Jake Kiefer, president of the campus club, presented the check to Mr. James Rocap, alumni president.
The Indianapolis Alumni Club each •year gives four area Notre Dame students $500 each. The students receive $500 each of their four years at Notre Dame. In effect the Indianapolis Club has donated the scholarship amount for one person for a year.
Kiefer said that the donation was made possible by the success of the ^Indianapolis Club Christmas dance.
March 8, 1957
ENGINEERS
Research and Development NORDEN LABORATORIES
White Plains, N. Y. Stamford. Conn.
Outstanding Opportunities Available to Graduating Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical Engineers in the Fields of:
•	GUIDED MISSILES
•MICROWAVE EQUIPMENT
•	DATA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT
•	STABLE PLATFORMS
•	GYROSCOPES
•	AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTATION
•	TELEVISION
•	RADAR
•INFRARED EQUIPMENT
•	COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
•	SERVOMECHANISMS
•	ANTENNAS
•
Transitional Engineering From Idea Stage to Tested Prototype •
Liberal Employee Benefit Program PLUS
Exceptional Educational Program for Professional Development
•
FOR CAREER INTERVIEW
Company representative will be happy to discuss your qualifications
Thursday, March 14th
Please Contact Placement Office for interview appointment and literature. If you cannot come in. Write, giving details of background to:
NORDEN LABORATORIES DIV.
NORDEN-KETAY CORP.
12) Westmoreland Avenue
White Plains, N. Y.	White Plains 6-4300
NORTH AMERICAN HAS BUILT MORE AIRPLANES THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY IN THE WORLD
Engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
LIKE TO HELP WITH THE NEXT ONE?
The North American airplanes of the future will come from the creative potential of today’s young men. Possibly you— or members of your graduating class— will help to engineer them. One thing is certain. They will have to be the best to merit the space reserved alongside the famous North American planes pictured in this ad.
Designing the best airplanes to meet the demands of the future is the challenging work North American offers to graduate
engineers and to specialists in other sciences. If you want to work on advanced projects right from the start... enjoy recognition and personal rewards... live and work in Southern California... then join North American’s outstanding engineering team.
See your Placement Officer today to arrange for an appointment with North American Engineering representatives .. .they will be on campus on:
MARCH 22

If you are not available at this time, please write:
Dept. Col, Engineering Personnel Office, North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles 45, California
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC. TH
4
40
The Scholastic
•Special Services Set For Lenten Devotions
A special daily Mass will be celebrated at 5:10 p.m. during Lent according to an announcement made this week by the Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion. The Mass will be held ^alternately in Sacred Heart Church and the Dillon Hall Chapel.
Daily adoration from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. in the Lady Chapel in Sacred Heart Church will also be held during Lent with both students and faculty encouraged to participate. On-campus students have been assigned a specific day on which their hall will participate in the adoration. Off-campus students are J.sked to choose a time any day at their convenience.
The last weekend in March there will be a closed retreat for the seniors. Rev. Raphael McCarthy, S.J., from Regis College in Denver, Colo., will be the retreat-master.
On that same weekend there will be a campus-wide weekend of recollection. This will be planned by each rector and ®>ill vary from hall to hall.
Concerning Lenten rules for fast and abstinence, all campus students have a local dispensation. This means that students need not observe the Lenten regulations while on the campus. However, as soon as they leave the campus they are under the jurisdiction of that diocese. Off-campus students have a personal dispensation which allows them freedom from Lenten regulations wherever they go. Employees of the University must follow the rules of their home diocese and do not share in the local dispensation.
Grads to Hear Lecture On 'Unity of Knowledge*
A
w Dr. Vincent E. Smith of the philosophy department will speak to the fourth meeting of the Graduate Student Forum on “The Unity of Knowledge”, on Wednesday, March 13, at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
The lecture will concern the unification of the many kinds of human knowledge. An open discussion will follow Ghe lecture. All graduate students are urged to attend, and the University community is invited.
Dr. Smith is former president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association and editor of the New Scholasticism. Among his published works are Philosophical Physics and Idea Men of
^Joday.
SONIC Capjd.
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store—he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a Capri phonograph for as little as $19-95. This month’s special buy is the Capri 550. It’s a portable 4-speed hi-fi phonograph with WEBCOR automatic changer. Features are twin speakers, a quality amplifier and a smartly styled cabinet in attractive Two-Tone Forest Green. Specially priced at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N.Y.
INERTIAL NAVIGATION—a missile guidance system requiring no terrestrial source of energy, no earthbound direction—involves advanced; creative thinking of the highest order for;
|	•	Electrical Engineers
|	•	Mechanical Engineers
|	•	Physicists
Let ARMA talk with you about YOUR future in this dynamic and challenging field.
Learn about ARMA’s pioneering role in Inertial igg Navigation when our representative visits your g® campus shortly. Ask your Placement Officer for details.
H	WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13
g|
Hl	Or you may send inquiries to:
|$g	Mr. Charles S. Fernow
j|g	Administrator of Technical Education
Divisiw Anericaa Btsch Anu Cerp. Knsevelt field, Garin City. L I, N. t

March 8, 1957
41
&
Back Patfe
by Hal Blakeslee
chaos in the briarpatch
There wasn’t anything special about our town. It was just some buildings and some people tossed together in the West. The railroad didn’t come over our way so we never got big. The old timers were glad about that . . . they liked things pretty much as they had always been.
Just past the livery barn and the new hotel were the benches where most of us sat. We spent nearly all day there, arguin’ or agreein’ about somethin’ we didn’t care about in the least . . . but it was sorta peaceful sittin’ on those benches and not worryin’. With our dusty boots planted up there on the rail we tilted back and waited for somethin’ important to happen. Nothin’ ever did ... at least nothin’ did till that stranger rode in last Tuesday.
. He tore into town a beatin’ his mare and shoutin’ at the top of his lungs. Nobody paid him much attention at first, but when he calmed down a couple of us got curious. He said that a wagon train of young gals from the East was headin’ out to California and was passin’ right through here . . . not only passin’ through, but stoppin’ for two days. The women folk in town didn’t take too kindly to the news, but the men, especially the younger fellas, were all smilin’.
Now most of us haven’t had much to do with real refined ladies from the East. Leastways, if we did, we long ago forgot "about what we’re supposed to say and all that. Tuesday night we were still just sittin’ and wonderin’ what would happen when the ladies got here. By Wednesday things started to change. Some familiar faces were missin’ from the bench that mornin’ and seein’ as I
42
needed a haircut anyway, I wandered down to the barber shop. Well, you should have seen the crowd there!
That night we got word that the wagon train was due on Friday. Things really got mixed up then. Here was this warm lazy Thursday and there wasn’t a soul a-sittin’ on our bench. I’d a been there but I was pretty busy shinin’ my boots and things, but the rest of ’em . . . they got all excited and silly. Darned if they didn’t clean out the old Johnson barn and fix it up for a dance. And the way they started actin’ . . . eatin’ fancy with knives and forks and jokin’ all the time . . . practicin’ like a bunch of school kids for a play.
’Long about 3 o’clock Friday afternoon a speck of dust rose up over the trail to the East. You’d have thought somebody struck gold or somethin’ from the shouts that went up. The streets were lined with dudes ... at least they looked like dudes, but really they were just the grubby lookin’ critters I’d known all my life. Standin’ there in the middle of the crowd I couldn’t get over how funny they all looked . . . everybody shaved and all dressed up in flashy new outfits. The biggest shock was seein’ all those naked chins where wThiskers used to be.
Pretty soon • the ladies were stepping down from the wagons. Some of the fellas were kinda bashful and awkward at first, but it wasn’t long before everybody was more or less introduced. It just didn’t seem natural with all those swirlin’ skirts in town. There wasn’t anyplace that was safe from ’em . . . except maybe the saloons. The ladies ’ didn’t care for drinkin’ an awful lot, but nobody seemed to mind very much.
Anyway, that sure was a busy couple
of days when those ladies were here. By/ Friday night everyone was jokin’ and; laughin’ about the damdest things. It' sure seemed strange hearin’ all thos© high pitched voices talkin’ and gigglin’ at/ once. Over at the dance we were all/ stompin’ around and actin’ up . . . not? cussin’ or anything like that though.’ Some of the fellas were talkin’ mighty big about where they’d been and what/ they’d done . . . but nobody cared much . . . least of all the ladies.
The whole two days went by pretty/ fast. Sometimes it was hard to think of^ something to say, but the ladies didn’^ seem to mind if we kept quiet for spells;-; Saturday night a bunch of us fellas/, took the ladies over to a carnival that . some folks had rigged up. I guess we’ all spent lots of money but the ladies; seemed to be havin’ a good time and we; didn’t care . . . leastways we pretended / we didn’t.	.
When the ladies left, we all got to; talkin’ about how funny it seemed havid© them in our town. It was different, yet> natural at the same time. Once they got/ here, it just seemed right . . . but none ., of us are very good at figurin’ out;' things like that so we changed the sub--., ject. Darned if we still don’t miss those/, ladies though.	?
Lookin’ down the street it isn’t hard; to tell that things are pretty much bac^ to normal. Hardly anybody’s shaved; since the ladies left. Our boots are// dusty and the streets are littered with/ paper. The bench is full again. Every-§ body’s leanin’ back with their hats overt/ their eyes waitin’ for somethin’ impor-/ •tant to happen. Every now and then/ you can hear a little cussin’ from one of the saloons .. . otherwise it’s awful quie© .
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS^
V	Notre Dame Seniors
PROCTER & GAMBLE
REPRESENTATIVE HERE MARCH 14th
t	-
UNUSUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR
'	GROWTH JOBS
in the fields of Advertising and Marketing $ •
Procter & Gamble has openings for young college men of promise and ability in its Advertising Department. While the openings are all within the framework of Advertising and Sales Promotion, the nature of the work is Marketing Management rather than “handling advertising’’ as most people understand it. For this reason, specialized training or experience in Advertising or Marketing is not required. Good general business potential, a high degree of native intelligence; and the ability to work smoothly with many types of people will be considered foremost.
In the last ten years alone, Procter & Gamble sales have increased from $336 million to over $1 billion. This rapid expansion, plus our policies of always filling higher level positions by promotion from within and advancing people individually and rapidly as soon as they are ready to move up the ladder, creates a truly outstanding opportunity.
A brief description follows of the various careers now open in the Procter & Gamble Advertising Department.
BRAND MANAGEMENT—The marketing problems of each of our brands are handled by’ a separate staff of Marketing Management men. Men employed for this work are trained to manage and be responsible for the effectiveness of the over-all Advertising and Promotion effort on an important, nationally’ advertised brand. These positions involve working with many’ Company departments, including the Research and Development Department on product development, the Sales Department on the development of promotions, and with the Advertising Agency’ on all phases of planning for the brand.
COPY SUPERVISION—Copy Supervisors manage advertising copy’ operations on our brands principally’ by’ (1) representing the Company’ in a close working relationship with our agencies on all phases of the development of advertising copy’ and (2) evaluating agency copy proposals in the light of product facts, marketing objectives, and background knowledge of effective selling techniques. These men do not write copy; this is a function of our advertising agencies. However, within our Advertising Department, they are responsible for the over-all -effectiveness of advertising copy’ operations in radio, television, magazines and other media.
MERCHANDISING—Merchandising men develop store promotions involving groups of Company’ brands, select and develop premium articles, manage the country-wide sampling and couponing operations, assist the Sales Department in conducting trade conventions, and operate contests, mail-ins, and other forms of promotions.
MEDIA—Media men guide the Company in the investment of advertising appropriations. Working with the advertising agencies, they develop media plans on each brand using radio,, television, magazines, newspapers, etc.
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE AT NOTRE DAME MARCH 14th
MR. H. H. WILSON, JR.,
Supervisor of Personnel for the P & G
■	Advertising Department, will be at the
Placement Bureau Thursday, March 14th.
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT NOW!
[ive \ |odern!
Pick the Pack that Suits You Best 1
Newest, modern box. Crush-proof.
Closes tight! Flavor stays in ... everything else stays out.
Ever-popular handy L&M packs!
America’s fastest-growing King ... largest-selling Regular filter.
Smoke modem PM and always get
full exciting flavor
...PLUS THE PURE WHITE MIRACLE TIP
Yes, you are free to choose . . . only when you smoke modern L&M. And only L&M gives you the flavor . . . the full, exciting flavor that makes L M . . .
C195i, Lice tn * Mtebs Tobacco Co.
AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE