Vol. XIX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 29, 1886.	No. 37.
The Critic.
BY MARION MUIR.
“ Sing of love,” the critic cried;
“Sing of love, for love is sweet!”
And the singer answering, sighed, For the secret of her soul
To her cheek the color stole.
Memory woke from sacred slumbers, Till the heart broke with her numbers.
And he closed his eyes to drawl
“ Lighter notes for lighted hall.” o	o
Science.
BY JOSEPH A. AXCHETA, ’86.
Came the sound of flute and viol, Tempting eager steps to trial;
Yet the very waltz had strains
Swift and sharp as shooting pains.
Woke the listener’s languid wrath:
“ Sweep dead roses from my path, Better sabre-stroke than kiss Bitter sweet as Pleasure’s is! ”
Then the bearded captain rose, Showed with pride his battle scars;
Half in music, half in prose,
Told the story of his wars:
When the shot, through crashing trees, Drove the sound of stormy seas.
Death and fury in his words
Clashed with laughter through the chords.
For plashy isles where sedges wave And willows weep the nameless brave. Next he mourned—but, “ Cease the song, Out of taste and over-long.”
Angry foot the pavement spurning.
Answered him the soldier turning,
“ Take the truth, O fool and blind!
Idle song for idle mind.
Leave to Love and youth their spells, Call the jester with his bells.
•His the music without sorrow, Thine the life that has no morrow.”
Science has been briefly defined: “classified knowledge.” Unity, cause, and certainty are its three essentials or requisites. There are many di-	- /
visions of science; some subjective, others objective, , now ideal, then artificial—only a few natural." Fol-	;
lowing the classification which Ampere borrowed from St. Thomas, sciences are either cosmological or noological. Cosmological sciences include me- . chanics, physics and botany. All philosophical, ,	.
dialegmatical, historical, and political sciences are	..
noological. These two general divisions indicate two orders of science: one material, the other spirit- ■ ual. As to their methods, sciences are either ex-	* .
perimental or rational according as their, principles z.. , rest on observation, or rely on self-evident truths, ; _■	. .
from which strict conclusions, with regard to their	..
proper objects, are obtained. -Again, those which	.
deal exclusively with investigated truth are specu- i . lative; while those whose main object is the ascer- '	.
taining of the various rules which one is to putin :	. . .
practice in the different avenues of life are prac-	.
tical sciences. Finally, sciences are known asmathe- f . matical, physical, or moral. Mathematical sciences . ■ ' study the necessary relations between quantity, extension, motion, and other abstract notions; hence ,	>
they are sometimes called abstract or exact sciences. L ’ ~ . Those sciences which endeavor to discover and ’	■
formulate the laws of the material universe are called natural or physical sciences, and are either organic or inorganic. Moral sciences belong to , : \ ? the moral world, and investigate the relations be- -	...1."
tween the Creator and His intelligent free crea- - r L : tures as knowable by reason and revelation. They .. . . . ■ j- " . _■ explain what man has-to follow in order to obtain .	’ ;
his last end. A special science consists in a coin-.. \ plete knowledge of a particular class of objects having certain common characteristics. .	.	:x-.
Few will believe, that the rise of most cosmolog- . ical sciences belongs exclusively to modern times; XX yet such is the case. The philosopher of old dis-.X\ dained nature, and, retiring to the ideal world of x
I
586	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
pure meditation, judged that the human understanding was the measure of the universe, and thought that from the mysteries of the soul all possible truth could be obtained. He despised matter, and consequently would not attempt to study or observe it. Work was shunned by him as something extremely disagreeable and tedious. Not a single test or experiment was performed. This was not due to alack of intellectual activity, but to its bad application. Genius was consumed in battling with the wind, and the wisdom-lover withdrew, filled with imaginary phantoms. During many centuries all intellectual force was wasted in deriving false conclusions from capricious ideas wrongly assumed as axioms. Who can wonder, then, that the so-called truth-seekers were mistaken? It is but natural. Still their error paralyzed the world and rendered the first step of progress impossible.
In that age of inexperience the precious jewels which adorn both the physical and the immaterial worlds were utterly disregarded. As the primary conditions of science were unknown, science itself could not be reached. Nature everywhere triumphed over man. It seemed to be impregnable. Man appeared to be doomed to an eternal task. No exterior help was at hand. All hope of progress had vanished.
The oregularity and precision of the celestial movements at last awakened man from his lethargy. His eyes were truly opened. He commenced to try to detect a resemblance between the groups of stars and the various forms of animals; this gave rise to astronomy, the oldest science extant. Shortly after it was observed that the visible movements of terrestrial bodies were subject to invariable laws; the science of mechanics was the result of this discovery. No sooner was the idea of the universal order which reigns in the firmament as well as on our globe established, and the ordinary phenomena of putrefaction, combustion, and fermentation closely examined, when the hidden changes which are verified within material objects, and which alter their nature and properties, were discussed and found to be also of an invariable character; chemistry and physics then made their appearance. Later the structure and operations of living organisms were studied, giving rise to physiology, zoology and botany.- Within the past few centuries most of the natural sciences were developed.
Sciences do not spring up simultaneously, but come to'light successively ; one preparing the way for the next, and the last is, as it were, a child of them all. Although some matters, such as education, society and commerce, being susceptible only of partial scientific development, will never be completely analyzed by the mental faculties of man, still as science presents the only systematic and convenient method to study, complexities, no one can safely say that some of the things which are now met in a more or less rudimentary state will not perhaps take the shape of science before long. The unfolding of the intelligence and understanding, the necessary equilibrium of the social re
lations of men in their every-day transactions of i life, and the solution of mercantile difficulties, will I eventually be understood more scientifically, inas- : much as they may need the action of uniform causes and decidedly fixed principles. By means of a gradual transition one proceeds from that which is obvious and simple to that which is dubious and complex. It is the nature of knowledge to be progressive. Through the medium of a right training of the essential faculties of the intel- i 0.0	*
lect it grows gradually until it is converted into the 5 most elevated of sciences.	]
Science itself is not a mere curious examination ‘ of the recondite secrets of nature, neither is it a	i
rigid method of thinking of no value whatever and	1
inapplicable to ordinary things, nor does it belong exclusively to the world of matter. Besides being inductive and mental, it is also a truly normal development of the understanding, as the latter is completely disciplined. Its progress is not always physical, it being necessary to recur to the same mental operations. Now the thought is centred on external or material objects; at other times it directs itself to the study of the ideal, or possible, and maj’ with caution even try to fathom the spiritual. The progress of chemistry and all physical sciences is nothing but a condition of thought. All external results are but the traces which the understanding leaves behind as it passes steadily by on	j
its ever-onward march. Through scientific inves-	■
tigations the mental powers are repeatedly exerting	i
themselves in an exercise each time more elevated	!
and methodical. No wonder, then, that the ad-	!
vancement of science has produced untold social	|
as well as material revolutions. Scientific results	I
are no less useful than important. Their first	i
glorious .fruits have hardly commenced to be reaped;	’
still the discovery of universal attraction, vaccination, photography and anaesthesis, the crowning point of surgery; and the invention of the cottongin, steam-engine, electric and inductive telegraph, telephone, electric light, gunpowder, and printing- ' press are scientific laurels which interest the whole world.	/
In this new era of the scientific development of knowledge everybody realizes what can be attained through a formal and persevering study of nature. Neverthless the true spirit of investigation was somewhat behind time. The world of thought	।
tarried too long in the primary period. The germs	:
of learning, which were cultivated for thousands of j years under the name of arts, have to this day preserved their rudimentary properties. Art is the first, science the.most advanced,'stage of progress. One is the foundation; the other, the structure.
^The first requires rules; the latter, reasons. Science and art mutually accellerate their respective advancement; art submits its difficulties to science, and the latter resolves them, giving art in exchange for the augmentation of scientific, truths principles and rules .which are.to be its guide. Art being a question of practice, is empirical; while science is rational, as it deals with principlesand their causes. . So. long as man performs that which our ancestors did for centuries, he follows art; but
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	587
when he endeavors to ascertain the whys, hows, and wherefores, after having observed ordinary facts, he goes beyond the pale of art and comes within the domain of science. The crude material of science,—or results satisfactorily obtained after surveying the external aspect of bodies without reducing them to principles or submitting them to a rational analysis, and without theorizing, or explaining their causes or effects,—is denominated em-piricism. This word is to be understood in a technical sense and not in its ordinary meaning of charlatanism. Quackery is not at all scientific. By means of hard labor and painful meditation one understands first what he does and why he does it; then through experiment and theory reaches scientific results.
All sciences have originated from the rude actions of vulgar intelligences. They then go through a series of evolutions, becoming more or less perfect. Geometry sprung up from the art of measuring land. From the art of mining the science of mineralogy was born. Knowledge grows like o J	00
a tree. It commences in a confused vision of ordinary occurrences, is gradually developed, and takes the name of science when it reaches the plane of the latter. Impressions are produced on the senses. One is free to heed them or not; but by lending one’s attention to them an imperfect scientific operation is performed. This is the first condition and,.as it were, the basis of all knowledge. Great care and patience are essential, as one is apt to be misled by appearances and hastily to derive wrong conclusions therefrom. The hidden sources of deception are many, and are encountered where they are least suspected. As these latent occasions of error are hard to detect, if it is sought to obtain results which will not be altogether worthless, caution is necessary. One should submit himself to rigorous discipline before making the attempt. And the eyes of the intellect as well as those of the body should be trained not only to see clearly, but also to distinguish. By observation the external appearance and characteristics of bodies, whether animate or inanimate, are carefully noted. Then their interior properties and nature are determined by ex-. periment. In scientific investigations tests or trials play a very important part. It is for this very reason that the progress of science is systematic. Through repeated experiment the laws of the material universe are each day better understood. After observing passively, nature’ is submitted to numberless direct proofs either with or without instruments; and the exactness of knowledge increases in proportion to the rigidity of the examination. In this manner what for many years was considered simple has upon closer study been found to be compound. Water, air, earth, and fire, the four simple elements of the ancients, are now known to all as complex. Everybody performs experiments. The various changes that result and the conditions under which they occur are also observed. If it is required to ascertain the strength of a brick, or other building material, it is either placed under weights—and the pressure.it will bear without breaking is noted—or else its resistance to exterior
forces is subjected to some other practical proof. When “ hand-grenades ” were first. introduced their extinguishing power was tested by direct experiment. If the falsity of a coin is suspected recourse is had to its sound. After the exterior of objects has been studied by-observation, and their interior penetrated by actual experiment, their properties of agreement are separated from those of difference by means of abstraction. Then by an instinctive mental act, called generalization, one passes from particular to general qualities.
(conclusion next week.)
A Review of the Feudal System.
BY F. H. DEXTER, ’87.
(Concluded.)
INTRODUCTION OF THE SYSTEM INTO ENGLAND.
In the last paper was contained a brief description of the . development of feudalism in France; its establishment in England will now be considered, as these two countries more particularly demand our attention in connection with the treatment of the subject under discussion. We have nowar-rived at that period when all the continental nations were fast bound in the intricacies of feudal jurisprudence, when European society had issued from the confusion and instability consequent upon the disorders into which the barbarian irruptions of the fifth and sixth centuries had plunged the West—into the first organized state, leading to a subsequent and more ripened civilization.
The first centuries following these invasions were the occasion of a prolonged struggle between barbarism and enlightenment—a contest in which the wild and, hitherto, unrestricted passions of man fought for the supremacy in his heart, which now began to feel the influence and acknowledge the existence of another power. This was the dynasty whose peaceful and beneficent sway had first emanated from about the shores of the Gallilean sea, and, in the progress of centuries, had gradually engirdled the known world in the soft bonds of Christianity. At the time of which we write there lived up among the rocky headlands of Scandinavia a wild race of men, the Normans, Danes, Lombards, and many others, all possessing the same peculiarities of occupation, language, and dress. These were the famous “vikings” who roved about the seas and plundered the inhabitants of the southern coasts. Rollo, or Rolf, the “ Ganger,” a famous Norman chief, landed on the northern x coast of France about the year 911 at the head of a band of his countrymen, and, after a successful campaign, secured from the French king, Charles the Simple, by the treaty of Saint Clair-sur-Epte the .whole of this fertile district, holding it as vassal .by commendation. of the Crown. In a short time the feudal policy was established here in Nor- -mandy as effectually as in France. William, Duke of Normandy, introduced the ‘ developed system
588	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
into England when he conquered that country in the year 1066.	•
Traces of feudalism are to be observed, however, in the laws and customs of the Anglo-Saxons previous to the conquest. It would not be an altogether uninteresting, though a laborious, task to investigate this portion of the theme, nor would such a proceeding throw any greater light upon the matter in its connection with the matured system established by the Norman conquerors. It is curious to note, however, the great resemblance which some of the institutions of the former people bore to those existing on the continent.
As early as the reign of Alfred the relation of lord and vassal seems to have been recognized, and his laws contain many heavy penalties for the violation of the respective duties of each. In the heriot of the Saxons we find the analogue of the continental relief which was the sum paid by the vassal’s son who wished to succeed to his father’s fee; while many another analogy discovered in the institutions of the various European nations attests the unity with wThich society seems to have then advanced.
Military service was the principal feature of the vassal’s obligation, though this was not so systematically regulated as on the continent. There were recognized many of the incidents peculiar to the system as it existed elsewhere; and this fact, when it is considered how universally feudal principles rose in countries widely separated from each other by natural barriers, prejudices, and their enmities, would seem to demonstrate that the society jof the time naturally and necessarily inclined to such a policy.
From the time that Harold fell on the bloody field of Hastings, and the Norman lions of William were reared on English castles, the native inhabitants began to feel the influence of a rule very different from that of their ancestors. Though their personal rights were little affected, their lands and property underwent an almost complete transformation. To all his Norman followers William gave some portion of the confiscated lands, and thus he formed that feudal aristocracy, the Norman nobility, which, for many succeeding years, was to oppress the dispossessed people of the soil. He made all beneficiary grants hereditary from the first. The barons represented the highest class in the land and were possessed of extensive powers. They were the tenants in capite, holding manor lands from the Crown; while they, in turn, regranted to the lesser vassals, or knights, on condition of service in the field ’for forty days at the latter’s expense.	t	.
In like manner, these minor estates were apportioned by the knights among their immediate retainers, who accepted them subject to all the feudal incidents. There was another important tenure recognized, to which was given the curious name of socage, and which consisted in holding of a lord by a certain and determinate service not military in character. This completed the class of freeholders, who 'might appear in the county courts and exert an influence in directing state affairs; but
the common people who held subordinate estates and possessed no voice in matters of government, sought redress of their grievances or enforcements of their rights in the local courts of their immediate lords. In such a manner did William the Conqueror cement his new possessions and establish the laws and society of England on a feudal basis. It may thus be seen how the idea of the people was submerged in that of the individual, and how far society had yet to advance before it might be said to possess that first principle of civilization— universal freedom.
THE DECLINE OF THE SYSTEM.
As France and Germany had been the first to accept feudalism, so. they were the first in which it began to decline. Numerous and various are the causes which have been assigned for the change, but Hallam, who reduces them to the following, strikes more directly at the truth than any other writer on the subject:
(1)	Increasing power of the Crown.
(2)	Elevation of the lower ranks.
(3)	Decay of the feudal principle.
These topics will be successively considered, and an effort made to develop, in as brief a manner as possible, the'features connected with each.
INCREASING POWER OF THE CROWN.
At the time that the Feudal System was at its height the authority and power of the Crown was least. The reader’s attention has been called before to the assumptions of the nobility—especially on the continent; it remains now to be seen how royalty began to shake off the officious and constraining influences that clogged its free operations and to humble the pride of the haughty nobles.
For more than four centuries following that of the ninth the monarchs of Europe beheld their dominions divided among certain powerful vassals, who possessed little in harmony and, not unfre-quently, lived in deadly enmity with one another. Obviously such a state of affairs was not conducive to public prosperity or tranquillity, and while it existed there could be no soundly-established and well-regulated government. Until the thirteenth century Italy and France were but little affected by royal influence—the former being under the control of powerful nobles acting nominally for the distant German Emperors, the latter in too great a confusion to permit of any successful moulding of her heterogeneous elements into anything like conformity to the monarch’s will. In England the assumptions of the barons involved the people in contention, which displayed itself more prominently in the feudal anarchy that disturbed the reign of Stephen—though royalty never met the opposition in this country that it did elsewhere. Not until the famous instrument of English liberty, Magna Charta, was promulgated by mutual concession and consent, were any effectual efforts made to define the respective rights of nobles and king. Gradual as was the development its effects w£re nevertheless permanent-and sure, so that by the end of the thirteenth century European monarchs had recovered by forfeiture or escheat, by conquest
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
589
or purchase, all their ancient territory and accompanying jurisdiction. Their efforts met with encouragement from the people, who sympathized with them; and, as the kings generally acted as champions of the latter in the "contests against their common foe, the nobility, they considered royalty the source of their liberties, and yielded their respect accordingly. By this revolution, then, we see the power taken from the hands of the lords and lodged in the Crown, which, when it once recovered its strength, was careful not to lose it again by an impolitic disposition of important privileges. This leads us to the consideration of the second topic, which constitutes one of the most interesting of modern movements.
ELEVATION OF THE LOWER RANKS.
We have cast a glance at the condition of the people when feudalism was strongest, and have seen how it was built on subjection; to their ultimate efforts for freedom it owed its decline and increasing unpopularity. Through the exertions of enlightened princes, and the steady influence of the Church, servitude had ceased to exist by the fifteenth century, and this epoch marks the beginning of a new progressive era. The first favorable alteration in the condition of the people was produced as a result of various acts passed- to relieve them from the more onerous incidents of vassalage, such as fines, wardship, and marriage. These exemptions were gradually extended until they resulted in placing tenants of all description upon the level of freemen, having absolute disposition of their property.
"In touching upon this topic we are naturally led to the consideration of the rise and growth of the free cities, whose early career and final influence form so important a feature in the history of the Middle Ages—especially in their connection with the decline of the institution under discussion. From the first there had existed a certain inferior class, who, though subject to the lord, banded together for purposes of convenience and protection, and thus established the feudal town. The-first privileges they received were improved by them in bettering their social as well as political condition and in indulging their inclinations for commerical enterprise. Free communication was opened between the various European countries, liberal ideas were exchanged, and great wealth flowed into the flourishing cities. As a consequence, the towns advanced in importance, and their inhabitants rose in the scale of civilization and refinement. When the latter had arrived at the point that they possessed considerable strength from their union, they began to chafe under the restrictions which feudalism imposed upon them, seeking by every means to free themselves from its influence. In <this they were assisted by a fortunate connection of circumstances, chief among them being the Crusades, which opened their minds to new projects - and improvements. AH Christendom hastened to join the banner of the Cross, and manj' an indigent or extravagant noble found himself at a loss to raise money to defray the expenses of himself and vassals in their expeditions to the Holy Land, Rights
which the lord had formerly exercised over the people were purchased by the latter, or conceded to them in a spirit of charity prompted by the semireligious character of the times.
•Becoming more ambitious along with their increase of power, and acquiring a contempt for their feudal masters, who were unable to prevent their advance, the citizens sought from royalty confirmation of their liberties and an acknowledgment of their newly assumed importance. The cities of Italy became involved, early in the twelfth century, in a bitter struggle with the German Emperors; who witnessed their successive encroachments with jealousy and endeavored to assert the imperial jurisdiction with its old-time strictness. An end was put to the contest by the important Treaty of Constance, 1183, which contained a ratification of all privileges and immunities then possessed by Italian citizens. . Charters of liberty were originally granted to the various European cities, abolishing the incident of feudal subjection, that given in the year 1072 to the commune of Le Mans, in France, being the first of which there is positive notice. The following two centuries witnessed the enfran- . chisement of all the French, and German cities, which now formed the strength and reliance of royalty.
Similar to the communes of France and Xh&free' cities of Germany and Italy were the .English guilds, which were devoted, like the former, to O	3	f	J
the elevation of the lower classes. Through their influence the people obtained relief from oppression and a recognition of their rights of citizenship, so that by the end of the thirteenth century feudal subjection had almost completely passed away. As a necessary consequence, this brought about a decay of feudal principles, and society began now to divest itself of those features peculiar to the system.
DECAY OF THE FEUDAL PRINCIPLE.
The idea upon which the institution rested was that of military service, and it was but natural that it should lose its prestige when the people began to devote themselves to the avocations of science and trade and to reap the enjoyment consequent upon the broader views, increased facilities, and greater individual wealth—all of which were promoted only by the prevalence of peace. -To avoid serving in arms tenants began to offer pecuniary considerations . in its stead. This practice is noticed in the law books of Henry II, of England, where it is recorded under the name of Escuage, and a definite rule prescribed for its as- . sessment. By this revolution of custom the native population of the various countries left their place, in the army to be filled by hired soldiers, or mercenaries, who sold their services to the monarch who would buy them, and'thus permitted the natives to devote themselves to the domestic arts. The substitution of mercenaries for the feudal soldiery was hastened by the inability of the latter to meet ■ the exigencies and demands of the times. According to custom, forty days was the prescribed term for which a knight had to serve in the field, but in extensive campaigns this short period was found
59°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to be productive of nd great benefit, but of immense dissatisfaction and annoyance. During the progress of an important siege it often happened that a choice body of troops would suddenly decamp and depart from the scene of the contest upon the expiration of their forty days. To remedy this defect, Henry III, of England, sought to unite the service and duties of three knights in one, who would thus be obliged to serve four successive months in satisfaction for his fief and that of his two associates. A like difficulty was experienced on the continent, where the first standing army is said to have been raised pursuant to an ordinance of Charles VII, of France, in the year 1.444. This change of relation produced a corresponding change of tenure, and the estates that once were held but on condition of personal service in the field were now satisfied by considerations of a more peaceful nature.	w
Another influence which operated powerfully in subverting feudal doctrines was the introduction of the Canon and Roman law into European jurisprudence, and the part which chivalry played in moulding the society of the age. The right of private woar, possessed by the feudal nobility, was also broken in upon, partly through the politic efforts of the Crown and partly through the influence of the Church, which beheld in this practice the source of disunion and confusion, believing that while it lasted there could be no real obedience or recognition of supreme authority. In consequence of ecclesiastical intervention in this regard there arose, about the middle of the eleventh century, that famous institution known as the Truce of God, by which the exercise of this right was forbidden on certain days of the year; and thus, by interposing a breathing time, wherein the passions of the disputants might have time to cool off, the latter forgot their enmities, and ultimately the people began to live in greater harmony. This, of course, dispensed with the necessity of maintaining bodies of armed retainers and prepared the way for our modern tenures. .Particularly was this the case since royalty now -began to take cognizance of all disputed matters arising within its jurisdiction, instead of allowing them to be settled, as under the feudal.rule, by the nobles.
Such gradual elimination of feudal principles produced a revolution in the aspect of society throughout the whole of Europe, where the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries witnessed the extinction of that despotic aristocracy which had maintained itself for so many years by the strength of the feudal chains it had riveted upon the people. A transformation was taking place, however, in-v’olving the gradual disappearance of all institutions peculiar to the system, until this itself. received its .formal abolition in England by Statute Twelve; of Charles II. -On the continent the same result was effected by legislative enactments and popular prejudice, though at a much earlier date than in England.	.	.=
- As the reader will readily perceive the conclusion of this paper has been.reached-far;too hastily to convey a satisfactory idea of the subject under
consideration; but as it was impossible to enter here into a detailed examination of the system in a legal point of view, we were necessarily limited to a superficial consideration of it in its social aspect. The subject certainly demands more attention and better treatment than have been given it here, and if some industrious scholar competent for the task should ever publish in a comprehensive work the result of his labors in this field, it would prove of inestimable service to students and readers in general.
Whether we consider the Feudal System in a strictly legal light as an established code regulating the actions of those who recognized it, or look upon it in its purely social manifestations, we must acknowledge it a curious combination of good and vicious customs. In its conception and origin there was certainly a politic display of wisdom, although it-sprang from confusion, and owed its establishment to the accordance of its principles with the rude and martial propensities of the age. We cannot read the history of the Middle Ages without marvelling at the mechanical regularity and apparent unity with which .the various orders were controlled, nor can we contrast the society of those times with our own without being sensible of the many defects and abuses which characterized the former. During the space of nearly half a dozen centuries society was steeped in feudalism, traces of which clung to it long after the institution was formally and universally abolished. What features were then retained time has since eradicated, and there now remains nothing of that once extensive and popular system of jurisprudence but a few feeble, theoretical analogies, with many names and phrases strangely antiquated to the ears of modern lawyers.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Until very lately only one copy of the first edition of “ The Pilgrim’s Progress” was known, but recently two copies more have been picked up in London at sixpence each. One was immediately sold to the British Museum for £65, and the other to a London publisher for <£25.
—An antiquarian bookseller, Sig. Hoepli, in Milan, has in his possession a Hebrew manuscript the authenticity of which is not doubted by those who have seen it, and which is almost of priceless value. .The manuscript contains Maimonides’ “ Yad Hachazaka,”. and appears to be the identical one which was bought by the famous philosopher and Spanish Minister of Finance, Isaac Abarbanel, for no less a sum than 30,000 ducats as having at one time been in possession of Maimonides himself. On the last page is written in Hebrew characters:. “I write herein Venice with a broken, heart in remembrance of. blessed days. . Isaac Abarbanel, the humblest among men. May God giant help. , Amen!” ■ .........................    .	•
—Mr. Ruskin says a-few final words on the -book discussion in the Pall Mall Gazette. He cannot bear--patiently the “ buzzing and fussing ”

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	591 A
which have been going on about Renan and the Bible. He deems it necessary to tell what the sacred volume really is. “It is,” he says, the “ grandest group of writings existent in the rational world, put into the grandest language of the rational world*in the first strength of the Christian faith by an entirely wise and kind saint, St. Jerome; translated afterwards with beauty and felicity into every language of the Christian world;, and the guide, since.so translated, of all the arts and acts of that world which have been noble, fortunate, and happy.”—Ave Maria.
—Here is a curious item about newspapers which some one has compiled: “The number of pounds of type used in the newspapers of the United States is put at 6,589,878. The newspapers in the five States of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois and Iowa set half the number of ems set in the United States. A pound of type averages about 370 ems, and an average of 2,500 ems is left in the cases. The average composition per newspaper is 74,147 ems for dailies, and for weeklies 57,197. The ems for dailies and for weeklies is 57,197. The total amount of type set for one issue of the daily newspapers of the country would make 2,785 duodecimo volumes, and all the papers in a year would represent as much type-work as would make 10,000 volumes equal to Appletoris Cyclo-fredia. A slip of the work would extend from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Eight thousand persons are employed.”
—Leopold von Ranke, the great German historian, died at Berlin on the 23d inst. He was born at Wiche, Thuringia, Dec. 21,1795, and from an early age devoted himself to historical studies. Among his works are: “The History of the Roman and Germanic Peoples from 1494 to 1535”; “A Critique upon the Later Historians,” published in 1824; “The Princes and People of Southern Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries”; “The Conspiracy aganist Venice in 1688”; The Roman Pontiffs in the 16th and 17th centuries”; “German History in the times of the Reformation”; “Annals of tlie German Monarchy Under the House of Saxony”; “Nine Books of Prussian History”; “Civil Wars and Monarchy,” “Ferdinand land Maximilian I of Austria.” In 1841 he was appointed Historiographer of Prussia, and in 1848-was elected to the National Assembly at Frankfort. He was ennobled in 1866. His recent works comprise “A History of Wallenstein,” “The German Powers and the League of Princes,” a “History of England,” “ Frederick the Great,” “Frederick William IV,” and a “World’s History.”
Scientific Notes.
—On the evening of the 23d inst., Prof. Brooks, of Phelps, N.Y., discovered still another comet in right ascension (as determined at Warner Observatory, Rochester, at 10 o’clock), 11 hours, 51 minutes, 15 seconds, declination . north 8:55:15. It was large, but faint, with a slow motion southeast.
—-A blast furnace and rolling-mill have been
erected lately in Bogota. The machinery was “ bought in the United States, and it cost the own- ‘ ers as much to carry this machinery from the head \ - I of navigation, 600 miles up the Magdalena, as the purchase money and the ocean freight combined. • u
—A committee of the Paris Academy of Sciences has matured a plan for the foundation of an In-stitul Pasteur for the treatment of rabies, to be. ,	.
open to persons bitten by dogs or other rabid ani- _ j mals. A public subscription is to be instituted in ' France and abroad for the foundation of the estab- J lishment.	:
—The largest dynamo in the world is being set up in Cleveland, Ohio. It will be 13 feet long, 5$£ wide, and weigh ten tons—four times the size and ability of the “Jumbo” machine exhibited by Ed-isonatthe Philadelphia Exposition in .1884. Five ; hundred horse-power will be required, to drive it, and its current will furnish incandescent lights of . about 20,000 candle-power.
—Earliest Methods of Measuring Time. •
—The.story is that King Alfred had no better way . to tell the time than by burning twelve candles, each of which lasted two hours; and when all.the twelve were gone, another day had passed. Long . . before the time of Alfred, and long before the time . of Christ, the shadow of the sun told the hour of-the day, by means of a sun-dial. The old Chai- . deans so placed a hollow hemisphere, with a bead ~ in the centre, that the shadow of the bead on the inner surface told the hour of the day. Other kinds of dials were afterward made with a tablet of wood or straight piece of metal. On the tablets were marked the different hours. The dial was sometimes placed near the ground, or in towers or buildings.
The old clock on the eastern end o£FaneuilHall, in Boston, was formerly a dial of this kind; and on . some of the old church-towers in England you may see them to-day. Aside from the kinds mentioned, the dials now in existence are intended more for or-	■,
nament than for use. In the days when dials were .	’
used; each one contained a motto of some kind, like these: “Time flies like the shadow”; or, “I tell	.
no hours but those that are happy.” But the dial	: -
could be used only in the day time; and, even then; .	. , .
it was worthless when the sun was covered with -clouds. In order to measure the hours of the night, / as well as the hours of the day, the Greeks and .
Romans used the clepsydra, which means “ The	-' .
water steals away.” A large jar was filled with = water, and a hole was made in the bottom through - > which the water could run. The glass in those days -was not transparent. No one could see from the . . outside how much water had escaped. . So there .	/
were, made on the inside certain marks that told ‘ the hours as the water ran out; or else a stick; with v J notches in the edge, was dipped into the wafer, and . ' ' the depth of what was left showed the hour; Some-	. - J:
times the water dropped into another jar in which	. - J
a block of wood was floating, the block rising: as? Ja the hours went on. Once in a while some very AyAA rich man had a clepsydra that sounded a/musical / ^ note at every hour.—From ^Primitive ClochsP - ?A by Frederic G. Mather, in “Popular' Science Monthly” for June.
592	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 29, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.	.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We learn with pleasure that Rt. Rev. Dr. Spalding, the distinguished Bishop of Peoria, has kindly accepted an invitation to attend our Commencement exercises, arid will deliver an address on the occasion. Bishop Spalding is well known throughout the United States, by reason of his many gifts as an orator and writer, as well as his great services in the cause of Catholic education. All our friends who will honor us with their presence at Commencement time may be assured that the pleasure of the occasion will be greatly enhanced by the intellectual and oratorical treat which will be afforded them.

—We were honored with a visit from the Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, last Sunday evening. The learned prelate appeared in excellent health despite the fatigue consequent upon the arduous labors of the day—administering the Sacrament of Confirmation to over 600 persons in the four churches of South Bend, and preaching in each of these places. On Monday morning, he administered -the Sacrament at Notre. Dame to seventy young students, confirming them as soldiers of the Cross of Christ, strengthening them with the seven-fold gifts of: the Holy Spirit, and encouraging them to fight manfully the battle of
life. The discourse which our good Bishop pronounced upon the occasion made a deep impression upon his youthful auditors, and no doubt they will cherish his salutary counsels and heed the kindly cautions given for their guidance amid the trials and dangers of life. We are pleased to learn that Bishop Dwenger will visit us soon again, and preside; as on many previous occasions, at our Commencement exercises in June.
—It has been thought by some that students who cultivate their physical powers by engaging in out-door sports or games must necessarily injure the powers of mind. The idea is a mistaken one. Were the physical powers cultivated to the exclusion of the mental, the student would improve the former and hurt the latter. Were he to give all his time to study, the reverse would be the case; but when study and physical exercise are blended together in a manner calculated to preserve a perfect harmony of action between body and mind, then the health and vigor of both are made good.
It is admitted by all that to attain eminence in any pursuit, whether literary, mercantile or any other, sound health is, as a rule, indispensable. It is considered a general principle that, without health, success in life is impossible. Now to preserve health of body, to keep disease from making inroads upon the physical constitution, it is necessary that we give the body the exercise it needs, and those exercises—such as games and sports—should be indulged in, which give all the members of the body the development they require. He who cultivates his mind at the expense of his body as effectually buries his talents as he who trains the body and neglects his mind. Unless both body and' mind are brought together in full action, neither of them will attain that high degree of perfection which we all strive to reach; and this action must be regulated in proportion to the state of both; so that neither of them will be injuriously affected by the other. Every student should take a certain amount of healthy out-door exercise, or en?a?e ’n real earnest sport, in order that, while the body is preserved in a sound condition, the mind may be improved in the study-hall and class-room.
—The very pleasant musical entertainment, given in the grand parlor of the College on Sunday evening was well attended, and everybody seemed delighted with it. The opening piece—a piano solo, Prudent’s “ Re veil des Fees”—was given by a very small boy for such a large instrument as that in the parlor, but he produced excellent music, nevertheless, with 'perfect ease and good technical skill. The performer was Master S. Nussbaum. The second number, a Fantasia from:Bellini’s“ Romeo and Juliet,” was given with splendid effect by the String .Quartette. Some of its passages were-rendered with delicious delicacy and softness, with which others contrasted by their striking power arid brilliancy.
The vocal trio,“ Morning Invitation,”—an Eng,
4 -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
593
lish glee of the popular style—was artistically rendered by Masters Berry, Senn, and Miller. The lights and shades of the music, brought out in their full beauty, showed the careful and painstaking training of the singers. It is not often that one hears music rendered in such an expressive and intelligible manner, the traditional hand-organ style prevailing too generally among so-called singers and players.
A piano solo, “ The Mill,” by Joseffy, was played by Master R. Oxnard, who has so often delighted Notre Dame audiences with his renditions of the most difficult and complicated musical selections that we only mention him here. In solos he displays unexceptionable ability. With proper direction and training in concerted pieces and accompaniments, this young gentleman will undoubtedly become a great pianist. Another piano solo— “ Alpine Song ” Variations by Ryder—was rendered by Master Charles Ruffing in a very creditable manner.
A happy finale was the splendid violin solo played by Prof. Kindig—De Beriot’s 5th Aria and Variations, a composition of the great Belgian violin virtuoso, which, by its brilliance and variety, cannot fail to delight even those who are but little conversant with music. A simple yet charming theme is followed by five variations and -a finale of great difficulty. The great composer found an admirable interpreter for his music in Prof. Kindig, a graduate of the conservatory of Munich, who, though yet young, has already achieved celebrity in his chosen profession. The musical selections were agreeably interspersed with a couple of recitations by Messrs. Darragh and Cavaroc, forensic aspirants from Prof. Lyons’s Elocution Class. The evening passed so pleasantly that we hope other seances like that on Sunday evening are in prospect.
Literature as a Profession.
Among the humanizing arts there is none which occupies so high a rank as literature. In all its forms—both the higher, like philosophy and ethics, and the lower grade—it is supreme in humanizing nations, and it is by literature mainly, by its intellectual results and effects, united with religion, that all other arts are rendered capable of doing aught to subdue the barbarism of man.
Sculpture, painting, music and. architecture, although we hear a great deal about the elevating influence of art, have never of themselves exercised any great amount of the same. It is only when literature is cultivated with them that they are capable of so doing. If we examine the history of any art-loving and art-trained people, we will find that they are the most cruel and vicious of civilized communities; but when the influence of literature is begun to be felt, then there is among the people a change for the better.. This is apparent among the Oriental nations, where the arts have been cultivated and where literature has been of feeble growth.
The true basis of a race’s advance is the diffusion of knowledge. With a race of people noted for intellectual activity and culture art becomes as it were a rich and graceful -fringe of civilization. It gives to character some of its most agreeable qualities, supplies ideas and furnishes agreeable sensations. Were we deprived of art, life would indeed be harsh and barren; but it is only from intellectual culture that the suitable appropriation of art comes. Unless the basis of advancement be intellectual there can be none. Art by itself, among ignorant and slothful people, relaxes .the fibre, occupies the imagination with dreams and sensuous pictures, and goes to make the whole a chaos of emotions and passions. In connection, however, with intellectual culture it has a soft and refining influence, and only then. Hence we should award the palm to that nation which has developed its literature rather than its art.
Such being the case, that literature has a great and elevating influence on the morals of a people, we would naturally suppose that literature as a profession would be adopted by those who desire to do good to their fellow-men. Such indeed is the case: many there are who follow it, but only to find that it is a hard, exacting and difficult profession in which to earn a livelihood. Literature as a profession rarely pays. Every day makes this truth more apparent, yet those who enter the ranks may be counted by hundreds. Some there- are who are enabled to make their pens their breadearners, but these are comparatively few in number. A Sir Walter Scott, a Dickens and a Thackeray may receive large sums for their works, but then every one of the worshippers at the shrine of literature is not a Scott, a Dickens or a Thackeray. We know it is rather a degrading thought to make gain even a secondary object to the literary man. We feel that men should be willing, for the gratification of an honest and laudable ambition, or in the pursuit of a special branch of science, to forego those pecuniary prizes which to the larger portion of mankind are the grand stimulus to exertion; but in the case of the majority of those, who have embraced literature as a profession it is matter of regret that they have not endeavored to earn their livelihood in some other field. Without independence it is difficult to be happy, and as regards those whose moral culture is not the highest it is almost impossible for them to be honest. They see that they must write to please, if they would earn their bread, and the temptation to pandei* to the weaknesses and prejudices of the people overcomes them. They write to please, and they bring the profession, which they have determined to follow, down from its high pinnacle . to draggle her skirts amid mire and dirt. As a profession, we would say literature should not be followed entirely. He who would accomplish good in this world should take some other profes- -si.on in which to honestly earn his bread, and with . an independence he may then devote his talents to accomplish in the walks of literature whatsoever he can for the good of mankind.
B.
594	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Journalist on Classical Studies.
Hon. Charles E. Fitch, editor of the Rochester Democrat^ recently closed a series of lectures at Cornell University on “ Journalism and Journalists.” In speaking of the acquirements which one who aspired to efficiency in the field of Journalism should possess he laid great stress upon a classical education. We present here an abstract of his remarks on the subject as reported in the Cornell Daily Sun, and they are well worth an attentive consideration. He said:
“ But all this is general. Let us be more specific. And first, of the Greek and Latin classics. As I hold that eveiy editor should be a liberally educated man, in the broadest sense of the term, so I hold that a true scheme of liberal education should embrace the ancient languages. Am I trenching upon hospitality in saying so in this presence? I trust not. Cornell University, with its elective courses, and its various substitutions for Greek and Latin, is still Liberty Hall, where a guest will be permitted to say what he thinks, provided he does not violate the proprieties. I am on record too often elsewhere to avoid the issue here, even were I so disposed, and I am yet so conservative as to conclude that nothing can really be a substitute fc^r those tongues, which are the constant, changeless inspirers of most of our modern literature—the humanities that appeal with truth and beauty to inquirous minds. Whatever pleas may be urged in behalf of other studies as discipline— any agents, equal with, if not superior to, the classics, they are still the sources from which our vocabulary is drawn; and to which we must go for precise shades of meaning, if we would not be mere parrot-like memorizors of words. The sturdy Saxon, which immortalizes the speech of Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg, may be most fitting when terseness and force are especially demanded, but it will not suffice for the wide range of information .which must be the arsenal from which the editor draws his weapons, or for the variety of themes to which he must address himself.
“Even if the classics are not pursued in afterlife, their value in educational processes must not be ignored, and I may repeat substantially, in this connection, what I said on another occasion. “ Many graduates learn ‘ little Latin and less Greek’ during their college residence and go straightway into the world and forget even the little they have learned; but who shall say that nothing of this is incorporated into their mental entity by absorption, or who shall assume to minimise its effect upon the structure of their thought, their capacity for exertion, the lucidity of their style, or the success of their lives? Who. can doubt that the trenchant blade, with which Charles Francis Adams struck at the deficiences of classic training, was.forged and tempered, thirty years before, in the glow, and heat of the Harvard workstrop? In his eulogy upon Matthew H. Carpenter, before the Supreme Court of the United States, Judge Black said; ‘I have sometimes wondered
where he got this curious felicity of diction. He knew no language but his mother-tongue. The Latin and Greek, which he learned in his boyhood, faded entirely out of his memory before he became a full-grown man. At West Point, he was taught French, and spoke it fluently; in a few years afterward, he forgot every word of it.’ But, perhaps, it was not lost: a language, though forgotten, enriches the mind, as a crop of clover plowed down fertilizes the soil. Nay! it was not forgotten. It never is quite forgotten. ■ It may change its form, but not its entity.”
Books and Periodicals.
The Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster.
With Notes by John Oldcastle. New York: Catholic Publication Society Co.
In attractive binding, good paper and clear, large type the publishers of the above-mentioned work present an interesting, instructive and edifying “ Record ” of the public life of his Eminence Caidinal Manning. It comprises a collection of the principal letters*written by the Cardinal on subjects bearing upon the grace of his conversion, and various questions of the day—-social, political and religious. They cover a period of thirty-five years,' and reveal the great religious heart and deeply intellectual soul of the eminent prelate. They have been carefully collated by Mr. Oldcastle, whose own notes, introductory and explanatory, add no slight interest and value to the publication. There are besides inserted in the work several portraits of the distinguished Cardinal—taken at different periods of life, beginning with the little boy of three or four—which are in themselves particularly valuable. The “ record ” is a reprint of an article which appeared in an English periodical, several large editions of which were completely exhausted, so great was the demand. We are sure that in its present permanent form it will receive the large circulation it well deserves.
—Rich, blooming and variegated as the roses of June, comes the American Agriculturist for this month, with its one hundred original illustrations and original articles, by forty-four well-known writers in various parts of the Union, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Eveiy number now of this periodical is better than its predecessor, and the publishers announce that they are' providing for still new features and illustrations. The second paper, in the series of the Homes of our Farmer Presidents, will be written by Donald G. Mitchell (Ik Marvel); subject, George Washington. The accompanying engraving will probably be as large as that of Jefferson’s Home, which was the first of the series, to.wit: 27 inches long and 17 inches wide. These engravings of Our Farmer Presidents are to be presented to all subscribers of American Agriculturist as they appear.
—J, T. Trowbridge’s new serial, “The KelpGatherers,”, is the leading feature of the June S'/. Nicholas, It is a story of boy-life on the Maine
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	595
coast, with a strong flavor of adventure and a keen sense of boy-nature. “Little Lord Fauntleroy” is continued in a much longer instalment than last month’s, and we are told how that young nobleman learned to ride, and many other interesting items about him. “ How shall we spend the Summer?” is a question more often asked than satisfactorily answered at this season; but the two articles, entitled “ The Boys’ Paradise” and “A Boys’ Camp,” will throw a great deal of light on this perplexing subject, especially for those city boys who like to “ rough it,” but whose parents prefer them to do so “with all the comforts of a home”; while those who prefer to pass their vacation in Europe can join Frank R. Stockton’s “ Personally Conducted ” part}7 and visit all the beauties and wonders of “Queen Paris.” All normally constituted American boys are fond of baseball and dogs, and are certain to be interested in reading about a remarkable canine that played as “The Left-field of the Lincoln Nine.”
Personal.
—Samuel Katz (Prep.), ’83, of Helena, Mont., paid us a flying visit on Tuesday.
—Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Mitchell, of Harrisburg, Pa., are among the visitors to the College.
7	o	o
—Judson P. Fox (Com’l),’7o,a genial and active conductor of the Atlantic Railway, visited the College on Sunday last.
—Rev. Michael Lauth, C. S. C., ’76, has taken temporary charge of the large Polish congregation of St. Stanislaus’ Church, Pittsburgh, Pa.
—Rev. James Gleeson, C. S. C., Rector of Holy Cross Church, Keystone, Iowa, paid a pleasant visit to friends at Notre Dame during the week.
—Prof. A. F. Zahm was in Chicago during the week attending the meetings of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, of which he is an honorary member.
—John W. Guthrie, ’85, of Carroll, Iowa, visited the College during the week, and was warmly welcomed by numerous friends among members of the Faculty and former fellow-students.
—The New York Tribune recently published an interview with the Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, in reference to the labor agitation in the West and the Presidential prospects of certain publie men in 1888. More than a column was given to the interview.	•
—Among the welcome visitors during the week was Mr. Xavier Roth, of Brooklyn, New York. Mr. Roth is an accomplished and entertaining gentleman, and made many friends during his short stay at Notre Dame. We are glad to state that he himself was highly delighted with his visit, and we hope that he may find time to repeat it soon and often.	.
—Among the visitors during the week, were: Mrs. L. Mueller, Mrs. J. B. Reix, Misses Katie and Christina Kern, Miss M. Breen, Miss E. Mills, ।
James Maginn, Chicago, Ill.; J. M. Straup, Lewistown, Pa.; Henry P. Hake, ’81, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Juan J. de Moncado, A. F. de Cordova, City of Mexico; Misses L. and B. English, Columbus, Ohio; James G. Bennett, New York;-V. W. McNair, Minneapolis, Minn.; A. C. Cook, Boston, Mass.; Miss B. Taylor, Terre Haute,Ind.; Miss Knowlton, Logansporte Ind.; Miss Ida Morton, Indianapolis, Ind.; Dr. J. R. Congdon, BrisT tol, Ind.
•- Local Items.	.
—Big storm 1
—Did you hear it?	-
—Next Thursday is Ascension Day.
—Our friend John wasn’t a bit disturbed by the storm. -	.
—The Philopatrians return thanks to Bro. Simon for favors received.
—The Sorin Cadets were photographed in full uniform last Tuesday.	-
—The Law Class next year will be unusually large and composed of excellent material.
—Prof. Kindig’s brilliant violin solo was the 'piece de resistance of the musicale on Sunday evening.
—The crews are hard at work. There are indications of a splendid Regatta at Commencement time.
—There remain only three weeks more of study. Students should see to it that this time be well employed.	_
—The St. Cecilians expect to be ready to present their “Annual Summer Entertainment” on the 9th prox.	.
—The members of the Faculty were photographed yesterday morning. Every student should secure a picture.	x .
—The Minims are working hard for their examination. They will only be satisfied with the lion’s share of the prizes.
—Mr. G. H. Miller, the popular tobacconist of South Bend, has offered a prize to the Senior club winning the.baseball championship. ’
—Our farmers say that wheat is now in the ear
—something hitherto unheard of as happening in this locality before the month of June.
—We have received a war-poem in heroic measure, but- as we can obtain no clue to the identity of the author, We must lay it on the shelf.
—Fran k is as busv as a nailer at thatsteam-eng-ine. He says it will be a daisy, and requests us not to- ' permit the same to be obliterated from the tablets of our memory.	.	.
—We learn from the Rocky Mountain Nexus that a large delegation of prominent personages of' Denyer will attend the Commencement exercises in June. They will be welcome.
—Measurements were taken on last Monday for the. new iron steps to the Junior and Senior study- :
596
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
halls. The contract for this improvement has been awarded to the R. Benner Co., of Chicago.
—The vocal classes, under the direction of Prof. Kindig, are actively engaged in daily practice. The vocal music for Commencement promises to be very fine; and the same may be said of the music by our excellent Band and Orchestra. -
—Several admirers of the first nines in the Minim department have kindly donated handsome gold medals, the same to be given to the club winning three of the five championship games. The donors have the sincere thanks of both nines.
—The examinations in the classes of English and History will be written, as well as oral, and the percentages will be largely determined by the former. Papers will be submitted to a committee, of which Prof. J. G. Ewing will be chairman.
—The St. Cecilians intend to decorate the Exhibition Hall in gorgeous style for their entertainment, which, as we go to press, is announced for next Saturday evening. They say that these ‘‘ closing exercises ” will surpass anything thus far given.
—An interesting and instructive thesis upon “ Pleadings under the Common Law ” was read Wednesday evening before the Law Class by Mr.-M. O. Burns. It very accurately unravelled and explained the intricacies of a most complicated subject.
—The “ Grads.” are hard at work on their final papers. Their examination will take place a few days before the regular “ ex’s,” which will begin on or about the 15th prox. The Valedictorian this year will be Mr. T. J. Sheridan, of the Classical Course.
—The printers have commenced work on the Forty-Second Annual Catalogue. Manjr new features will be introduced in this edition, not the least notable of which will, it is said, be engravings of different points of interest in and around Notre Dame.
—Mr. W. Koudelka read a well-prepared thesis on “Libel” before the Law class Saturday' evening, May 22d. In the future a better .attendance is desired, as the subjects treated by the Graduating Class'will prove beneficial and instructive to students in general.
—The Oratorical Contest promises to be the most exciting event of the year. The determination with which each of the contestants engages in the work of preparation, the number of the competitors, and the closeness with which they are matched indicate that there are lively times ahead. May the best man win!	"
•—Able, practical and instructive discourses have been preached at the month of May devotions during the past week by Rev. Fathers Toohey and O’Hanlon. The closing of the devotions will take place next Monday evening with solemn procession, an appropriate instruction and the Bene' diction of the Blessed Sacrament.	-
’—The “ triple ” competitions, which now engage the attention of the classes, are so called because the percentage attained counts three times as much as for any other competition during the year, InaS’
much as this leaves a possibility of making up for past deficiencies, it can be easily seen that it is very important that they be earnestly prepared.
—The Faculty were photographed yesterday morning at the imminent risk of life and limb, being set up on a scaffold which quivered beneath their ponderosity. The amount of intellect brought to bear all at once upon the camera indicates considerable power of resistance in that instrument. The permanent secretary appears in summa facilitate.
—A terrific storm of wind, hail, rain, thunder and lightning broke over us last Saturday night. Beyond frightening a few of the more timid ones, no damage was done here. At St. Joseph’s Farm, ten miles east of- us—our favorite resort for excursions and picnics—the lightning struck a large shed in which a quantity of hay was stored. The whole structure, with its contents, was burned; but the loss was slight.
—It is likely that a grand illustrated number of the Scholastic, containing a complete history of Notre Dame, will be issued in the near future. The views which have been.taken of the many points of interest around Notre Dame, within and without its numerous buildings, are so fine that, in all probability, the authoiities will go to the expense of having engravings made of them for the Scholastic and the Catalogue. More anon.
—The twentieth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, May 26. A very interesting debate on the advantages of classical studies was participated in by Masters Cleary, Wabraushek, Goebel, Newton, Brownson, Darragh, Dillon, Levin, Regan, Cooper, Mulkern and Chute. Public readers were appointed as follows: Masters Cavaroc, Myers, Newton, Jacobs, Wagoner, O’Kane, Darragh and Mulkern.	.
—A special audience of advanced students was favored last Saturday with a lecture by Prof. Gumlogsen, of Chicago. The subject was “ Comparative Philology,” and dealt largely with the characteristics of the Indo-Germanic tongues and their affinities to our modern languages. .The general principles which underly, and the advantages which attend the study of linguistics were set forth very entertainingly and instructively. The Professor is a native of Iceland, speaks fourteen languages, with fluency, and brings to the exposition of his favorite subject a master-mind and much practical knowledge.
—We sincerely thank Prof. J. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, Indiana, for a complimentary copy of “ The Miser,” a translation of “ l’Avare ” by Moliere. We are already acquainted with the translationsand various publications of Prof. Lyons and we are not surprised at finding “The Miser” so well adapted by him for the college stage. The comedy retains a great deal of its original esprit and does inspire a sovereign contempt for the tvp-icgl avarice of Harpegon. We will not write for a better farce to humor up our wogtsoiree. Once more, many thanks_____St.Viateur's College Journal.
- —Mr, P, Doumet, a distinguished photographer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
597
from New York, has been engaged during the week in taking pictures of classes, societies, etc., and also various views of Notre Dame and its surroundings. Proofs of the pictures hitherto taken by Mr. Doumet are of pronounced excellence—and the work done, when received from New York, promises to be of a high order of merit, revealing all the possibilities of the photographic art. Mr. Doumet says that he has never seen a finer group of buildings than those on the University premises. He purposes getting out an album of views in and around Notre Dame.
—The regular monthly meeting of the Archconfraternity will be held on Sunday evening, beginning at 7.30 o’clock. The meetings of this association are always interesting, instructive and edifying. They are well attended, and deep interest is manifested in their proceedings. At each of them from two to three excellent essays are read. These are carefully prepared and marked by commendable research. They deal ordinarily with religious topics and kindred questions of history. At the last meeting Mr. Neill read a very interesting and highly meritorious paper upon “ The Rise and Growth of Religious Orders and Communities,” while Mr. White treated very acceptably of “The Dogma of Confession.” The papers to be read to-morrow evening are very instructive, and all members of the association should be present.
—Among the many features that give Notre Dame University a national reputation Science Hall is the latest. Here it is proposed to give young men a thorough course in the natural sciences and in mechanics, not only in theory, but applied in practice. It is this latter feature which in truth will fill “a long felt want.” Hitherto our Catholic young men, desirous of taking a thorough course in a-p^lied science, or in mechanics, have been obliged to seek training in these branches in nonCatholic institutions, often, no doubt, to the detriment of faith and morals. Notre Dame University, with its well-known thoroughness in training young men, and always in the front rank in teaching students the latest and newest in the. scientific world, will devote its best energies in this direction. Hence our Catholic young men with a taste for the sciences can rely upon receiving there a thorough training made under the direction of able and conscientious professors.— Catholic Universe.
—Last Saturday evening all the members of the Junior Athletic Association were handsomely entertained by Signor Gregori. The Junior reception-rooms were profusely decorated with garlands and branches of fragrant locust blossoms artistically placed by the skilled hands of Bro. Lawrence. The delicate fragrance of these beautiful flowers filled the atmosphere with a most grateful perfume, and the scene was made enchanting by the tinted lights emanating from globes of various colored crystal. On entering the grand salon each guest was presented with an exquisite boutonniere of hot-house plants. Under the direction of Mr. George Myers the Crescent Club Orchestra discoursed some of'its most soul-inspiring, music and
added greatly to the pleasures of the evening. The refreshment tables were attended to by Messrs. . Courtney, Fehr and Cooper. After several quadrilles had been danced, a grand march was formed and at least ninety happy boys marched to the refreshment room, where they enjoyed the good things set before them through the bounty of the distinguished host. The guests are unanimous in their praise of Signor Gregori, who left nothing undone to make the reception a most enjoyable affair.
—Memorial Day.—The following letter has been received by Prof. Hoynes, inviting him and the Light Guards to participate in the ceremony * of decorating the graves of the soldiers of the late r war who sleep in the cemeteries of South Bend:
“ South Bend, Ind., May 13,1S86.
“ Col. William Hoynes,	. ,
“ Notre Dame, Ind. :
“My Dear Sir:
“Memorial Day will be observed on the 31st of this month by the citizens of South Bend and vicinity, under . the auspices of Auten Post, No. 8, Grand Army of the Republic.	'
“You are respectfully invited to participate -with your command (the Hoynes’ Light Guards) in the services of the day.	.	-
“ The procession of soldiers, citizens, bands, and civic organizations will form at the Court House Square about 4 o’clock p. m., and march thence to the cemetery to offer our loving tribute to the memory of the heroic dead.
“Very respectfully yours,
“T. E. Howard, “Jasper E. Lewis.
“ Committee on Invitations}' -.
—The third championship game played last Thursday between the two first Senior nines was very exciting and interesting throughout. During the first inning H. Paschel was rendered hors de combat while sliding to second base and J. Crawford took his place. The following is the com
plete score:
University Blues.	a. b. r.
A. McNulty, s. s.......... 5	1
J. Nester, c.............. 5	1
H. Paschel, 3d b.......... o	T
F. Combe, 2d b............ 1	3
C. Duffin,*p.............. 5	1
W. Breen, 1. f............ 5	o
V. Burke, 1st b........... 5	1
M. Dolan, c. f............5	o
C. Paschel, r. f.......... 5	1
J. Crawford, 3d b......... 5	2
Total.....................41	11
University Reds. a.b.	r.
C. Combe,f c...............4	1
W. Cooney, 3d b........... 5	o
A. Browne, p. and c. f.....4	1
W. Harless, 1st b......... 5	.	1
P. Chapin, s. s............2	2
H. Luhn, r. f............. 2	2
J. Rahilly, 2d b...........4	o
J. Cusack, 1. f ?.:.......4	1
J. Wilson,' p. and c. f....4	o
Total.....................34	8
* Put out for batting out of turn. J Put out by being hit with batted
Score by Innings:—1 234-
Blues :—2 223 ( Reds:—o 1 o 1 c
Struck out: by Browne 1; Wilson, 6; Duffin 6. Base on
I.B. T.B. P.O. A. E. 4	4	0 2 o
3	4 6	14
00100 00322 22289 I	I	I	o	o
I	I	IO	I	I
I	I	o	o	o»
OOIOO 2	2	2	2	0
14	15	26	l6	l6
LB. T.B. P.O. A. Ei 2	2	II	2	4
O	O	2	O	2
2	2	O	1	+
I	I	7	0	I
0 0 0 3 o' . O	O	I	o	o
o	o	3	1	.1	•
2 3101 1	11	9 5;
8	9 26.i16.18
bail. '	"	kL:
; 67 89	"
> o o o 2=ri > o. 2 3 1=8. ..
BBS
598	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Balls: off Browne, 2; Wilson, 4; Duffin, 6. Wild Pitches: Browne, 1; Wilson, 1; Duffin, 2. Passed Balls: C. Combe, 2; Nester, 1. Earned Runs: Blues, 1. Reds, 1. Stolen Bases: Nester, H. Paschel, F. Combe, Duffin, 2; Dolan, C. Paschel, C. Combe, 2; Harless, Chapin, 2; Luhn, 3; Browne, Cusack, 2. Time of game: 1 hour, 45 minutes. Umpire: H. Dean. Scorers: G.W. De Haven and J. I. Kleiber.
—The Princes’ Photograph.—Last November the Minims, by a well-laid stratagem, succeeded in getting the venerable Founder, their especial patron, to give a sitting with them for a picture; but as only a certain number were photographed, it caused a little jealousy, which was only allayed by promising the malcontents that before the close of the scholastic year means should be taken to capture Father General again and have him photographed in company with all his youthful proteges. The long-wished-for occasion presented itself last Tuesday, when Mr. Pierre Dou-met, the photographer of New York, presented himself at St. Edward’s, saying that he was ordered to take a picture of all the Minims and another of the Sorin Cadets. The Minims’ first thought was to secure Father General, but on going to the Presbytery they were told that he had left for St. Mary’s. The prospect was rather discouraging, and it set the Minims at their wits’ ends to devise some means of bringing him home. At last they found that the Rev.President could alone help them out of the dilemma; so a delegation waited on him, represented their difficulty, and requested him to use his influence in their favor and to telephone to Father General that a gentleman (the photographer) had just come to the University to see him on business. Rev. President Walsh, who is always ready to listen to even the least among the 500 students under his care, very graciously consented. When word was received that Father General had started from St. Mary’s Mr. Doumet commenced the work of grouping the Minims, all of whom were tastefully dressed for the occasion. The Sorin Cadets, in their handsome blue uniforms, set off with scarlet trimmings and gold buttons, arranged in tiers, looked like a bank of violets, as they surrounded the chair in the centre left vacant for Very Rev. Father Sorin.
' Before the artist had his arrangements completed the active Founder, whose characteristic trait is promptitude, called on President Walsh. The explanation was easily made by introducing Father. General to the Minims, who were artistically grouped in front of the main building, under the President’s window, and whose happy faces showed the delight they felt at seeing him. Finding that there was no escaping such a formidable party, he very amiably took the chair, smiling as he said: “This is the second time.I have been caught, but it will be the last.” We doubt if it will; for the Minims are very ingenious, and so - resolute that whatever they .undertake, may be considered anJait.accompli.	.	-
So the picture was taken, and, judging from the negative, it .will be the finest group among the many that this skilful artist has taken at Notre .Dame. .	.	. ,
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. A. Ancheta, Ashton, V. Burke, M. Burns, D. Byrnes, Becerra, Bowles, Baca, A. A. Browne, F. Browne, P. Burke, Bryar, Conlon, Congdon, Craig, Chapin, Jos. Cusack, Walter Collins, Fred Combe, Cassidy, Cooney, Carbajal, Cartier, Chappell, Dexter, Dolan, Daley, Dempsey, Egan, Goulding, A. Gordon, Gallardo, Hamfyn, Hagerty, Houck, Hampton, Hagenbarth, Judie, Jackson, Jeffs, Koudelka, J. Kenny, Karst, Kleiber, Kendall, Kwilinski, Ley, Lally, Morrison, Murphy, McNulty, Murdock, Mc-Erlain, Miller, Moon, Nancolas, Ott, Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Padilla, E. Rielly, T. Ryan, E. Ryan, Remish, Rothert, Rochford, Regan, Rheinberger, Rodriguez, Shaide, Stubbs, Saviers, T. Sheridan, Soden, Snapp, Triplett, Voorhees, Vandercar, Werst, W. Williams, Wagoner, Zeitler.	-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Austin, Arts, Ackerman, Akin, Berry, Benson, Bodley, Brabrook, Bowles, Baur, Boose, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Baci-galupo, Curtis, ’Cleveland, Colina, J. Courtney, Cooper, Chute, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, Chaves, Corbett, Cain, E. Campbell, S. Campbell, Doss, Dickinson, Duffield, Dillon, Darragh, Dungan, Decker, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finckh, Flood, Fehr, Fitzgerald, Fitzharris, Fontanel, Grothaus, Goebel, Garrity, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hiner,Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hall, Inderreiden, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Joyce, Klaner, W. Konzen, F. Konzen, Levin, Luther, Long, McCourt, Mohun, Meehan, McConn, McPhee, McIntosh, Myers,- McNamara, Mui kern, Mitchell, Macatee, Mulberger, McCart, Nealis, Noud, Newton, Na tions, O’Connor, Oxnard, O’Kane, O’Gorman, Portillo, Press, Preston, Regan, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, Ramirez, Scherrer, F. Smith, S. Smith, N. Smith, Shields, Spencer, Stattman, Steele, Servis, Senn, Talbot, Tewksbury, Tarrant, Tiedrich, Vanselow, Valasco, Warner, W. Walsh, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, C. West, L. West, Williamson;
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters .Ackerman, Atkinson, Bailey, Barger, J. Boland, H. Boland, Bull, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, E. Connors, Cobbs, Campeau, G. Dunford, Jesse Dungan, Jamie Dungan, Dewald, L. Doss, T. Falvey, F. Fairey, E. Fairey, Farmer, Fontanel, F. Garber, E. Garber, Grant, Griffin. Graham, Healy, Hillas, Inderrieden, Jones, Kellner, Keeffe, Klaner, Landenwich, Mainzer, Moncada, McIntosh, Morgan, McGill, McCourt, McNulty, Martin, Murphy, H. Mooney, C. Mooney, Munro, Maloney, Mitchell, August Morgen week, Albert Morgenweck, B. Nealis, C. Nealis, Nester, Nussbaum, Noonan, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Quinlin, Ramsey, Rowsey, Riordan, Stone, Sullivan, P. Sweet, G. Sweet, A. Smart, W. Smart, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Taft, Tillenburg, Williamson, P. Moran, M. Moran, Chute, Crotty.
«. Class Honors.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Messrs. O’Connor, Portillo, Colina, Vanselow, L. Smith, McCart, C. Mitchell, H. Jewett, W. Austin, S. Campbell, E. Campbell, Talbot, N. Jacobs, Noud, Wabraushek, A. Hake, T. Hake, Mohun, McConn, N. Smith, R. Oxnard, Spencer, McPhee, Scherrer, E. Bowles, F. Long, C. V. Inderrieden, Jos. McIntosh, E. Jeffs, W. Gordon, Cain, Baci-galupo,- Macatee, Fitzharris, Dunning, Cavaroc, Clarke, x Darragh, Joyce, Nations, Valasco, Cliaves, L. Fontanel, Tiedrich, Servis, Sack, Breen, Ley, Soden, Rodriguez, Gallardo, Ashton, H. Long, Harrison, Judie, Hampton, T. Ryan, Glenn, Rahilly, E. Riley, Welch, Mulberger, C. Bowles, Ashford, Vandercar, Padilla, D. Cartier, Epple, Hiner, Senn, E. Prudhomme, Moon, Karst, P. Jacobs, C. . Ruffing, P. Paschel,:Murphy, Dillon, S. Smith, Bunker, W. Konzen, Remish, O’Kane, Cooper, Luther, F. Smith, Williamson, Tewkesbury, Finlay, Fitzgerald, O’Rourke, ■ Keys, F. Browne, Ott, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, W. Akin, ; W. Luhn, Jess, Rochford.	,	■
*	‘	-	s
’	3
- ’■ ■- ■' 1
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	599
Saint THary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Mrs. T. Donnelly, Michigan City, is on a visit to her two daughters, Nellie and Angela L., the latter of whom was among those Confirmed on the 24th. .
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid a. most welcome visit to St. Mary’s on Monday, the 24th, on which occasion he administered the Sacrament of Confirmation.
—Governor Gray, of Indianapolis, Judge Egbert and Mr. Baker, of South Bend, accompanied by Rev. President Walsh, honored St. Mary’s with a visit on Friday last.
—Work on the new church is rapidly progressing, and, judging from the solicitude expressed by them, the Minims, Juniors and Seniors are more concerned in the work of building than the architect.
—The exquisite fancy-work now to be seen in the work-room, and the quantity of fine work in the Studio, speak volumes for the skill and industry of the young.ladies, and betoken a fine exhibit in June#
—The French and German classes took .advantage of the lovely May days and indulged in a long ramble through the woods on Saturday last. The ruddy cheeks and bright eyes told plainly how well they enjoyed the walk and how much it benefitted them. ’
—Mrs. E. Brown, Dubuque, Iowa, has donated one of the rose-windows for the new church, as a memorial of her beloved daughter Kate, lately deceased. The design of the window chosen is touchingly symbolical, as it represents Our Lady of Sorrows at the foot of the Cross.
—The literary societies held their regular meetings on Tuesday evening. The exercises were, as usual, quite interesting. The members of St. Catherine’s Society varied the programme by having one hour devoted to experiments by the chemistry class. Those in charge showed themselves well acquainted with the agents they used, and the results were most satisfactory.
—The number of pupils who repair each week to the Library for books shows an increase in the taste for reading, while the judicious selection of matter given them, and their evident appreciation, is a subject of pleasure to the teachers. The Prefect of Studies has procured many valuable additions to the list of books during this session.
—M. Youmet, photographer, of New York City, arrived at St. Mary’s at 10 a. m. on Friday last; and by 4 p. m. he had all the classes photographed and ready for shipment to New York, from which city they will be returned in. a few weeks. Each class and each department were taken, as well as those who took part in the F rench drama, “Joan of Arc,” the odd costumes adding quite a charm. The soft foliage against the gray stone work of the front
entrance made a lovely background for the happy smiling faces.
—The 19th inst. was the day appointed for the annual picnic, and a more beautiful day could not have been chosen. The skv was bright and clear as, at 8.30 a. m., the Seniors started on their ride to St. Joseph’s Farm. The road led through * woods, past streams and over fields, so that Nature in all her varied aspects was seen and admired. On reaching the Farm a collation was served, after which the time was spent botanizing, rambling through the woods, etc., until dinner was announced. This was served on tables erected in the open air, under an awning kindly improvised by the Sisters in charge of St. Joseph’s. More rambling arid flower-gathering followed, until at 5.30 lunch was partaken of, and preparations made for the return ride. Before leaving, Misses Wolvin, St. Clair and Rose favored the assembly with recitations, and Misses Guise and Morrison sang. The closing remarks were given by Miss Williams, in which she expressed the thanks of all to the kind Sisters in charge. On the way home, songs and laughter made the woods resound; and just as the stars made ’ their appearance, and as the last strains of “ Home, sweet Home! ” were sung, the happy party reached St. Mary’s, delighted with the day’s pleasure.
. Honor.
Scarcely would it be possible to enumerate the many different trains of thought which the mere mention of this little word is capable of exciting in the minds of those to whom it has been spoken. Honor! those whose feelings have been disciplined in the school of meditation and profound reflection, at its mention are not content with considering its earthly significance. No; their noblethoughts rise far above the things of this life, penetrate the heaven of heavens, even to the throne of God, and there, at the feet of their Creator, humbly acknowledge that, after all, the wonders and beauties of this world are simply emblems of the greater honor and glory of Him who called them into existence. Truly none but the “golden mouth” of St.John Chrysostom, or the inspired pen of a Father Faber, could express in appropriate language the supernatural influence caused by the sublime consideration of this little word.
We must rest satisfied with choosing a far less exalted view of the subject, viz.: honor, that desire for preference and superiority which is but a synonym for the word ambition. In its infancy, development, completion, and almost inevitable decline, it may be compared to the successive transitions which the lofty oak undergoes before it becomes the mighty tree of the forest. At first a tender sprout, its slender branches are tossed to and fro by every breeze; but, little by little, strength is imbibed; the circumstances which previously would have been detrimental to its growth gradually become ineffectual, for its mightv trunk, no longer a tender sprout, is indifferent to nature’s lesser elements. Proudly it stands, the admiration of all
6oo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
who behold its beautiful foliage and wondrous strength: but when nature’s stronger elements are called into action, and the mighty tempests sweep through the forest, then is every fibre strained to - its utmost, in order that its towering mien may be maintained, but in vain; with one mighty crash it falls prostrate, and though the once lofty branches struggle to regain their former ascendency, their efforts are useless. What once called forth expressions of admiration is now a mere wreck. Its former glory lives only in memory, and as time passes on, and new objects occupy our attention, perhaps even that is effaced.
Thus are those persons'whose actions are instigated simply by ambitious motives carried from one honor to another until, when the very pinnacle of glory has been attained, they, through the caprice of fortune, are cast from their lofty height to a position perhaps far humbler than that from which they have sprung. We find an example of this kind in the life of Napoleon. Never, perhaps, has the world produced a greater man. “ Eagle in his eye, eagle in his soar, eagle in his strength of wing when balanced above his aim, and in swiftness when darting on it; eagle in his grip, yet eagle in • all that distinguishes the king of birds from vulture, hawk, or gentle falcon.” He was truly the great luminary of his age, and yet when in the very* zenith of power, when all Europe was crouching at his feet offering its homage, we see his brilliancy suddenly decline. His vast genius realizes and strives in vain to dispel the dark clouds gathering overhead, but his vigorous efforts are insufficient; the storm breaks forth in all its fury; and when all is over, and calm restored, we find the mighty conqueror fallen,—he vghom the world had honored and applauded but a few months before, condemned to lead the lone exile’s life, far from his native France, in the Atlantic Isle of St. Helena.
Not that from this we are to infer that ambition should be avoided as inevitably leading to ruin; on the contrary, a laudable ambition is in many cases advisable, and even necessary, for success. But what we wish to prove is, that when no other motive but one’s own honor and glory has prompted great deeds, half the admiration which would otherwise have been deserved is withheld, and bestowed upon one whose achievements, though perhaps less exalted, have been actuated by one of the . noblest feelings of the human heart,—honor, that moral virtue which causes an oblivion of oneself . for the welfare and happiness of others; that virtue which has truth for its foundation, and is; therefore, diametrically opposed to the most . contemptible of vices, deceit. Well may - we be proud of the “Father of our Country,” as^George Washington is justly styled. The honorable act of his youth, which is known and praised by every American child, is but an index to the still: more honorable acts performed in after-years, when his noble heart was inflamed in a still greater degree by that virtue so eminent in childhood.'	. : .
Honor should be the light which guides our every action, for we should often call to mind the
familiar couplet, few in words, yet withal so comprehensive:
“ Honor and shame from no condition rise.
Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”
Oh, lovely honor! thou hast always been, and art at the present day the only aspiration of noble, generous souls. So long as thou livest and bloom-est,so long will society remain virtuous and elevated; but when thou witherest and diest, then all is lost, for the heart easily falls a prey to falsehood and deception.
M. Dillon, ’87.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Alwein, Andreus, Barlow, Bruhn, Butler, Brady, Blair, Blacklock, Beschmang, Beckmann, Carney, Clendenen, Chaves, Claggett, Coll, Cox, Carroll, Dillon, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dart, Des-enberg, English, Ewing, Egan, Foin, Farnsworth, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Flannery, Griffith. Gordon, Guise, Green, A. Heckard, Horn, Hummer, B. Heckard, Henry, Haas, Harlem, Kearney, Kearns, Kennedy, Lang, Lyons, Levy, Lauer, Moon, Munger, J. McHale, M.’F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, Monahan, Neff, Nagle, North, H. Nester, Riedinger, Rose, Robb,/ C. Scully, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, M. Scully, Shields, Stafford, Stocksdale, Thornton, Trask, Williams, Wolvin, White, I. Wynn. F. Wynn, Walsh.
’	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses L. Bragdon, S. Campeau, M. Clifford, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, F. Haney, A. Keyes, L. Nester, C. Prudhomme, M. Paul, H. Stumer. 2d Tablet— Misses E. Balch, M. Coll, M. Duffield, M. Mason, B. Snowhook.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, T. Caddagau, E. Kendall, M?Lindsey, D. Lee, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, F. Spencer, J. Wallace. •
Class Honors.
[The following-named young ladies are best in classes —according to Competitions held during the past month.]
Chemistry—Misses Hummer, N. Kearns, B. Snowhook, A. Duffield, ,L Trask, G. Regan, F. Carmien, G. Faxon, N. Brady, A. Butler, H. Guise, A. Gordon, E. Stocksdale, N. Donnelly; Arithmetic—Misses N. Kearns, N. Brady, B Heckard, A. Keys, B. Snowhook, F. Carmien, G. Faxon, G. Regan, N. Sheekey, H. Rose, N. Carroll, M. Patrick, 'H. Guise, Gordon, I. Bubb, Rend, M. Cox, Henry, Reid-inger, M. Blair, G. Stadtler, L. Van Horn, M. Smith, L. Considine, E. Balch, M. Morse, M. Scully, C. Farnsworth, E. Coll, M. Stafford, S. Dart, L. Levy, L. Griffith, F. Hertzog, L. Meehan; History—Misses B. Showhook, A. Duffield, N..Kearns,'G. Regan, A: Donnelly, M. Neff, L. St. Clair, F. Carmien, Trask, H. Guise, Heckard, F. Spencer, Thornton, B. English, B. Moon, L. Walsh; Grammar— Misses M. Duffield, K. Shields, A. Kennedy, K. Servis. S. Campeau, F. Robb, B. Desenberg, N. Green, M. Murphy, A. Livingstone, N. Meehan, E Flannery, R. Smith, F. T. Balch, E. ’Blaine,’E. Claggett, A. Monahan, A Odell, H. Smart; Physical Geography—Misses H. Smart, M. Murphy, A. Kennedy, F. Robb; N. Meehan, M. Duffield, M. McEwen; M. Mason, R. Smith; Junior Arithmetic— Misses E. Qualey, L. Nester, A; Odell, A. Blacklock, M. Paul, M. Murphy, F. Wynn, G Prudhomme, H. Nester, O. Boyer, L. Bragdon,' D. Lee. ..	.	•	,: