NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	587
task, but is restrained by causes which are hard to overcome. A loving mother is the cause that restrains him from running to Arthur and swearing to fight for him and be his knight. This, he feels is a great obstacle, for he says:
“ Since the good mother holds me still a child—
A good mother is a bad mother to me!
A worse were better; yet no worse would I.”
The mother bade him go and tell not his name for a twelvemonth and a day, and toil as a servant among “the scullions-and the kitchen knaves.” In obedience to her command, he seeks the lowest position in the king’s household. In the hope that “the humble shall be exalted,” Gareth was as lowly as the lowliest, till, when a month had passed, he yearned to be in the jousts and sought the king secretly to make him a knight of the Round Table. The worthy will always end first, though they begin at the bottom; and thus did Gareth prove himself worthy. Though only a knave he proved himself a knight. He offered to champion the cause of Lynette and her sister, Lady Lyonors, to fight the four brother-enemies who strove to kill Sir Lancelot and capture Castle Perilous with its prisoner, Lady Lyonors. The four brothers are symbolized by “Morning Star,” “Sun,” “Evening Star,” and “Night or Death.”. .
Lynette feels slighted because the king did not send Sir Lancelot to fight these enemies. The mightiest of the four brothers kept guard at Castle Perilous and when they had killed Sir Lancelot he was to make Lady Lyonors wed him against her will; and now that Sir Lancelot, not commissioned to be her champion, was to go with her and kill these brothers who were against him and her, Lynette was angered, and still more so since her “need” had been filled by a kitchen knave. Gareth, like a knight, true to that which he symbolized—" the strength of manhood”—follows Lynette, though she persists in having him return, and calls him a mere kitchen knave, lowest among the scullions of the king’s retinue. He fights for her, first putting to flight a band of robbers, then he encounters and defeats “Morning Star,” first of the four brothers, and sends him to the king, saying:
" “ Thy life is thine at her command. Arise And quickly pass to Arthur’s hell and say His kitchen knave has sent thee. See thou crave
. His pardon for thy breaking of his laws.
Myself, when I return, will plead for thee.
Thy shield is mine; farewell! and, damsel, thou Lead, and I follow.”
Lynette still says:
“ The savor of thy kitchen came upon me;”'
and tells him to begone, for the second brother^ is hard by and he will pay him the wages of his deed. Whereon Sir Gareth answers, laughingly:
“ Parables? Hear a parable of the knave.	/
When I was kitchen knave among the rest * Fierce was the hearth, and one of my co-mates. ‘ Own’d a rough dog, to whom he cast his coat, .
‘ Guard it,’ and there was none to meddle with it; ’ And such a coat art thou, and thee the king ;	;
Gave me to guard, and such a dog am I, . ' To worry, and not to flee, and—knight or knave— -The knave that doth thee service as full knight Is all as good, meseems, as any knight -	, : ,
Toward thy sister’s freeing.”	-
That Gareth conquers the second. brother, “Sun,” is not sufficient to satisfy the pride of. Lynette. Though, knight-like, he fought, still she called him knave. The fate of “Sun” fell on “Evening Star” and Lynette then no longer' would lead but said:	-
“ I lead no longer; ride thou at my side;
Thou art the kingliest of all kitchen knaves.” '
Thus encouraged, Gareth felt that if to-day’s crosses are borne, to-morrow’s will be the more easily subdued. And thus it proved; for death, more frightful in appearance than in deed, was now revealed as but a child, and Gareth, released Lady Lyonors and Lynette from the fate that threatened them.
: As to the allegory in this story of “ Gareth and Lynette,” Gareth symbolizes the vigor and strength of manhood raised by the imagination, Lynette, to do deeds of wonder and greatness prompted by inspirations of the spirit, which is represented by Lady Lyonors. The four brothers illustrate the four stages of.life through and over which the path of man must pass. Morning Star is youth, Sun is the prime of life, Evening Star is hoary old age, and “Mors,” dr “ Nox,” or “ Death”—each being synonymous-— is the final end where all is past and nothing else remains to be conquered.
“Geraint and Enid” comes next in order, and this is the second best of all the idyls in so far as interest of incident is concerned. Enid, the truest and purest of all the. court, was beloved by the queen, and in return Guinevere iwas adored by Enid. But the sin of Guinevere : aroused suspicion in the brave Geraint and he departs with Enid to keep her from being contaminated with the evils- and scandals of thel court.	’	J
“Merlin and Vivien” are good types of Reason and Sensuality. Old Merlin as Reason; leaves the Round Table because of the evil that has crept in and the suspicion that fests on Queen Guinevere; but wherever he goes, Vivien,
588	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
as Sensuality, follows. Entreaty, flattery, threats and anger are used to overthrow all the arguments and strength of Reason, which at last gives way and “falls a prey to the seductions of Sensuality.”
“Lancelot and Elaine” is very fine. It teems with music and sweet rhythm. But the lily maid of “Astolat,” Elaine, is doomed to die because of her love for Lancelot, who deceived the blameless king. The ninth diamond is to be won, and Sir Lancelot, by the wish of the queen, goes incognito to the joust to win his ninth. The parting of Lancelot and Guinevere carries out still further the allegory; for as Guinevere represents the body, which unjoined to the soul is mere animal, so she proves herself by saying:
“----to me
He is all fault who hath no fault at all;
For who loves me must have a touch of earth.”
But Elaine, poor Elaine! She loved, and that very love was to prove her death. True, unalloyed, pure love cannot be flung away as a passing fancy that is now burning, now cold. She gave Sir Lancelot her favor and it delighted her that he took it. She found and.nursed him after the tourney. Her devotion was unabating. But when her beloved had gone—left her without a farewell, rode off without a parting glance, coldly turned his face from her, and would not recognize her, because her father advised some rough discourtesy—she felt that love’s sighs were vain, and yearned for death to take from her all memories of the past. Despairing of ever seeing her Lancelot again, and knowing full well how little the world would know of her and especially of her true love, she accepted death with placid smile. But she made a request that she be borne to the palace of King Arthur, for
“-------there the fine Gawain will wonder at me, And there the great Sir Lancelot muse at me. Gawain, who bade a thousand farewells to me, Lancelot, who coldly went nor bade me one: And then the king will know me and my love, And then the queen herself will pity me, And all the gentle court will welcome me,
. And after my long voyage I shall rest.”
But when her father told her Lancelot was not highest for his illicit love of the queen, she says:
“ Sweet father, all too faint and sick am I
.For anger; these are slanders; never yet Was. noble man but made ignoble talk;
He has no friend who never made a foe." .	.
So does the course of all true love run; and ill Elaine we find the truest of the true. And then they bore her—
“ The n icse the dumb old servitor, and the dead Steer’d by the dumb went upward with the flood— In her right hand the lily, in her left,
The letter—all her bright hair streaming down, And all the coverlid was cloth of gold Drawn to her waist, and she herself in white All but her face, and that clear-featured face Was lovely, for she did not seem as dead But fast asleep, but lay as tho' she smiled.”
Thus the Lily Lady of Astolat was borne to bid her last farewell to Sir Lancelot, and the letter in her left hand spoke the words that her lips seemed to speak. The king’s order to have her buried as were she a queen was none too high a favor, for far more did she deserve the privilege than she who really possessed the title of queen. And now Sir Lancelot thought what many others in like circumstances have often thought. He was in the same situation as those who have sacrificed all for temporary pleasure, to gratify one desire, which, when accomplished, is nothing at all. He compares himself to the child who has longed to be distinguished for some particular qualification, but when his hopes are realized he cares no more to keep it. He fought for it; obtained it, and found no pleasure in it; but to lose it would be pain, for it was now part of his nature. He cannot rid himself of it now, and it is of no use to him. So Lancelot finds his end is coming, his glory is to fade in the sight of men, and he wishes to leave, or that he could have left, the world before the taste of fame had touched his mind and his deeds that had made him great had been performed, for he scented the foulness of sin.
Though the story of “The Holy Grail” has an allegorical spirit running throughout the whole of it, nevertheless to find the allegory in it is a very difficult task, and I shall devote only a few words to the story itself. It represents a vision that appeared to those sitting at the Round Table and seen entirely by two persons only: Sir Galahad and his sister. The vision foretold the ruin of Arthur because of the sin in'his household. When Sir Galahad saw the Holy Grail his fellow-knights could see his face as in a glory; all arose dumfounded for awhile, then swore that they would see the holy vision. Sir Galahad alone was permitted to behold this apparition because he alone was pure. However, Sir Percivale, who “ passed.into the silent life of prayer, praise, fast and alms,” thereby grew to be able to see the sight.
In “Pelleas and Ettaire” we again find an instance of purity of heart, judging all else by its own.standard; and so Pelleas, when first he saw 4he beauty of Ettaire, thought all her beauty
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
flowed from her soul. Pelleas m ay well be compared to the Lily Lady of Astolat, Elaine, for when Ettaire has received the favors of the tourney she bids Pelleas to follow her no more. Pelleas, true lover-like, says that faith has its hardest trials, and to win in the end he must prove himself loyal to the uttermost. And so he strives. The bold insults, the constant perils to which he is subjected, make his love but the warmer. And never does this fever leave him till the baseness of Ettaire has been proved to him. In this Idyl the ruinous end is easily seen, and it is expressed by Sir Modred, “The time is hard at hand.”
Life’s characters are so varied that the poet, like an idealist, takes three examples to characterize the human race. Two of these are extremes, and the third is the mean. King Arthur, we have seen, is the extreme of spirituality, while Queen Guinevere is Tennyson’s example of extreme worldliness. In the Idyls we do not find the middle character very much, but it is personified by Sir Bedivere. Sir Bedi-vere is not a sanctified man, nor is he what is termed bad. He views the world and sees all its good and vices. From the latter he does not take scandal. He admires the good that is to be found on earth, and of this he is willing to partake. But he is not inclined to be sanctimonious, and where he can use the good he is willing to do so. When that which is not spiritual appears to be of benefit to him he will not shrink from it. This is not because it is bad, but he does it for the good that he finds in it. His philosophy is to overlook evil contentedly; to overlook what is bad in sifting for what is not bad, if indeed, such can be found. Matthew Arnold well expresses it: “ He is I'homme moyen sensuel?	•
The good old days of courtesy have passed away, and Tristram, the winner in “The Last Tournament,” has no Queen of beauty on whom to bestow the favors of the strife. King Arthur is losing his knights; they break their vows, and the world seems turned against. him. Remorse for past evil shames us from appearing before the world, lest our future acts should be judged by those of the past. And so was Queen Guinevere driven to seek a convent wherein she might conceal her name and live a holy life, reflecting on the evils of the past, wishing to be hidden from herself.
And now we come to the last Idyl,—“The Passing of Arthur.” The knights of the Round Table had fast fallen away, and there now remained but one, because he was of true metal, Sir Bedivere, to help the king.
“ Ill doom is mine ■ -	.:
To war against my people and my knights. -The king who fights his people fights himself.”
The year .was ending.	• . .
“A death-white mist slept over land and sea,”'.. < -
The battle in the West has closed the tale and Arthur has used Excalibre for the last time. ,. He directs Sir Bedivere to return it to that ’ arm which	‘
“ Rose up from out the bosom of the lake, . Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful,”
and up the same hand came again to receive Excalibre back again, and Arthur’s end draws nigh. The barge receives his body and slowly answered as it sailed out to sea:
“ The old order changeth, yielding place.to new, And God fulfils himself in many ways,	.
Lest one good custom should corrupt the world. Comfort thyself; what comfort is in me?
I have lived my life, and that which I have done May He within Himself make pure! but thou, If thou shouldst never see my face again. Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of. Wherefore, let thy voice Rise like a fountain for me night and day."	.
For what are men better than sheep or goats That nourish a blind life within the brain, If, knowing God, they lift not hands in prayer Both for themselves and those that call them friends? For so the whole round earth is every way Bound by gold chains about the feet of God. : But now farewell! ”
And Sir Bedivere climbed the highest peak to see the departing bark until it vanished from sight,	-
“And the new sun rose bringing the new year.”
On First Reading the Comedy of Comedies.
BY RICHARD D. SLEVIN.
HE Merchant of Venice” is a comedy well’ deserving of the great celebrity which it has attained throughout the entire literary world. It ranks among the first of the plays which aided in making the name of Shak- V In this play comedy and
spere renowned	_ _
tragedy seem almost to meet. This is plainer in our day than it was in Shakspere’s. The humor of the play may and does change, but .
the poetry and beauty with which it is overflowing will live forever.	;
Of “The Merchant of Venice” can be said what is true of all of Shakspere’s plays: It is
i
59°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
full of pathos and beauty, and the impress! on law against him, deprives him of his lands and
which certain passages make upon the mind of the reader can hardly be effaced even by time itself.
But the play is not interesting merely on account of this beauty. The story, regarded merely as such is intensely interesting. The plot, as the ones upon which most of the plays of Shakspere are written, is borrowed from another writer. The beauty of the play, however, lies in the manner in which Shakspere brings forth each character. He shows the character to the reader in its true light, and it is Shakspere’s perfection in doing this that brings “The Merchant of Venice” into such a high position of literature.
The story of the play may be told in a few words: Antonio the Merchant is a serious and sad man, who is very little understood even by his most intimate friends. Among his friends his most favored is “ Bassanio,” who loves a wealthy heiress and desires to obtain a place among the suitors to win her hand. His lack of wealth, however, is a serious drawback to his desire; but upon relating the affair to “Antonio” he is immediately met with encouragement. Antonio signifies his willingness and his desire to aid his friend, but his ships and possessions being all at sea, he has not the means wherewith to aid him. His credit, however, is good, and he obtains the desired sum from an old Jew, Shylock by name. But upon receiving it, signs a bond to forfeit a pound of flesh if the bond is not paid in three months. Bassanio, in the meantime, having obtained the money, follows up his suit and wins the heiress. He is scarcely confident of his success when a message comes announcing the miscarriage of Antonio’s ships. He is also informed that the Jew comes to claim his bond. Taking money sufficient to pay three times the bond, he hastens back to Antonio and attempts to save his life. The Jew can be moved by no manner whatever, and goes to court to claim the forfeit of his bond. All things seem to be against Antonio, and death seems almost inevitable. He comes to court and his friends all assemble there, when a letter arrives from Bellario, who was to plead Antonio’s cause, announcing that he is unable to come, but in his place he sends a substitute. Portia, Bassanio’s bride, then enters, disguised as a Doctor of Laws. She first tries to move the Jew to mercy; but being unable to do this she asks that he receive three times the amount of the bond and consider it paid. But it is all to no avail. Shylock remains firm, and just as he is preparing to take Antonio’s life, she turns the
property and makes him beg for mercy at the hands of the Duke. In the end all hasten to Portia’s house, where she reveals to them everything. The ships of Antonio which were supposed to have been lost, return safe to port. Thus the play ends happily for all, except Shylock.
- * *
The characters of the play are true to nature. “Antonio,” “Portia” and “Shylock” are at once the centres upon which the entire play revolves. The play is named after Antonio, but it is my impression that it would have been more fitting to have named it after Shylock. He certainly attracts more attention, and individually is greater, than Antonio but it is probably from the fact that the play is a comedy and not a tragedy that it was named “The Merchant of Venice.” Antonio, the Merchant, is one of the most interesting characters in the play. He is a character whom we should strive to imitate, as he is both kind-hearted and generous, and loves his friends in a manner in which they should be loved. He is, however, a sad and earnest man, as his words, which are the open-ng lines of the play, foretell:	.
“In sooth, I know not why I am so sad;
It wearies me, you say it wearies you;
But how I caught it, found it, or came by it, What stuff ’tis made of, whereof it is born, I am to learn;
And such a want wit sadness makes of me That I have much ado to know myself.”
This sadness moreover, Antonio himself does not seem to understand. When questioned by his friends he gives answers that show he does not fear any certain misfortune to come upon him, but that he has a feeling which seems to warn him of some distant calamity. Notwithstanding this, Antonio is a generous man, and is ever ready to help his friends. When asked by Bassanio to help him in his undertaking the answer he gives is enough to show his generosity: '
“.I pray you good Bassanio, let me know it, ■ And if it stand, as you yourself still do, Within the eye of honor, be assured My purse, my person, my extremest means Lie all unlocked to your occasions.”
Moreover when Antonio is called upon to pay the penalty of his bond with a pound of his own flesh, he says:
“Repent not you that you shall lose your friend And he repents hot that he pays your debt;
. For if the Jew do cut but deep enough ; I’ll pay it instantly with all my heart.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	591
Indeed, Antonio was a devoted friend. He was generous, kind-hearted and loving, and upon a little reflection we find that he is the character of the play, and would well repay careful study.
Shylock the Jew is a character upon whom the interest of the play depends. The impression which he first produces upon the mind of the reader is that of a beast more than of a human being. No fate is thought to be too cruel for him. He loves his money, and for the sake of obtaining it he lowers himself to the level of the beast. He hates Antonio, and - for so doing is hated in return by the reader, who is forced almost to love and admire a character such as Antonio. But it seems just that Shylock should hate Antonio. Antonio certainly despises Shylock and treats him in a manner which fully confirms his hatred of him. When asked by Antonio for the three thousand ducats he answers by showing him how he has been treated by Antonio for a long time, and how now Antonio comes to him for aid. Antonio gives answer in a fit of rage, and Shylock replies:
“Why, look you, how you storm!
I would be friends with you and have your love, Forget the shames that you have shamed me with; Supply your present wants and take no doit Of usance for my moneys and you’ll not hear me. This is kind I offer.”
Perhaps the one fault in Antonio is his treatment of Shylock.
Shylock loves his daughter Jessica, but he loves his money still more. But he should not be judged too harshly. He is not as low as he is regarded to be by most readers. One speech of his in particular shows this. Speaking of Antonio:
. “He hath disgraced me and’ hindered me half a million; laughed at my losses, mocked at my gains, cooled my friends, heated mine enemies; and what his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a Christian is.”
This passage is too well known to make it necessary to quote it further. It is certainly a speech in which [Shylock calls forth the sympathy of his hearers. His speech is truly just, and it undoubtedly shows the better part of Shylock. Even though entirely censured at the close of the play nevertheless he passes from the mind of the reader, regarded rather with a look of pity than of scorn.
“ Portia” adds to the beauty of the play what Shylock does to its interest. Every word that she speaks seems to come not from this earth
but from some higher and better place. Her soul seems to be overflowing with eloquence, and when she speaks she moves to pity the hearts of those around her. This can not be said of Shylock. He must have been very,firm ~in his determination if he was not moved by that famous speech in the trial scene. Such words as those which she spoke could hardly have come from anyone except Portia. When it was announced that Bellario was unable to come to plead Antonio’s cause everyone expected an argument from his substitute that would be good in length only. They were, however, much surprised. Instead of a long and senseless speech, which would have aided Antonio in no way, her words were very few, but they were words of which the most eloquent orator that- ever lived might well be proud. Such was her most beautiful speech:
“The quality of mercy is not strained;
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath: it is twice blessed; It blesseth him that gives and him that takes; ’Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown; His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, ’ Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway; It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to'God Himself;
And earthly power doth, then show likest God’s .. When mercy seasons justice.”
Such are the most beautiful, in my opinion, of Portia’s words. Judge her eloquence and character from the beauty of these words, you will then know Portia.
It is unnecessary for me to mention further the characters of this play. The beauty of the entire play is as perfect as is the beauty of the individual characters. “The Merchant of Venice” is the comedy of comedies, and it will repay the careful study and consideration of any student of English literature.
Men have commonly more pleasure in the criticism which hurts than in that which, is innocuous, and are more tolerant of the severity which breaks hearts and ruins fortunes than of that which falls impotently on the grave.— Ruskin.	' '
We judge of the excellence of a rising; . writer, not so much by,the resemblance of his works to what has been done before as by their : difference from it.—Id.	.	- -	;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 37, 1893.
gublteljeto tbrrj JSaturtoaa touring Erm Etntt at N. B. Knt&trsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now enters upon the twentysixth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff.
Fred. B. Chute, ’92;	Ernest Du Brul, ’92;
Roger B. Sinnott, ’92;
Fred. E- Neef, ’92;	Lamar Monarch, ’93;
R. C. Langan, ’93;
M. A. Quinlan, ’93;	Albert E- Dacy, ’93;
J. Fitzgerald, ’93;
Frost J. Thorne, ’94;	Wai. V. McNamee, ’94.
Jaaies G. Henley, ’94.
H. L. Femeding’, 1
P. M. Ragan,	> Special Contributors.
J. M. Flannigan.J
—Very Rev. Father Corby’s interesting reminiscences of army life during the late Civil War—especially the career of the famous Irish Brigade in the army of the Potomac—have been published in book form under the title of “Memoirs of Chaplain Life.” As its title indicates, the work describes in detail, the duties and experiences of a chaplain in active service, but, at the same time, the narrative, which covers a period of three years, presents many an interesting incident, throwing light upon the character and actions of famous generals, and the relations between officers and men in camp and on the field. It forms a notable addition to the literature of the civil war, and should meet with a wide circulation. Portraits of the Chaplains of the Irish Brigade accompany the text, together with pictures of Very Rev. Superior General Sorin and His Eminence Cardinal Gibbons to whom the work is dedicated. We shall give an extended notice of the book in our next issue.
The North Pole.
—The May number of Les Annales de St. Joseph (Neuilly, Paris) contains an interesting and edifying account of the audience with the Holy Father recently granted to the Rev. P. Dion, Procurator-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The Sovereign Pontiff deigned to bless in a particular manner all the members of the Community and the publications issued under the auspices of the Order, among which were specially named the Ave Maria, Les Annales and the Scholastic.
7 -—Father Zahm has in press a work which, judging from what we have seen of it, will possess, for Catholics at least, more than ordinary interest. It is entitled “Catholic Science and Catholic Scientists,” and embraces a histor-ico-scientific discussion of some of the current theories of modern scientists and a succinct account of the achievements of many of the more noted of Catholic scientists. The book has been prepared in response to numerous requests from patrons of the Catholic Summer School, from members of various Reading Circles, and from distinguished representatives of the hierarchy. It will be a handsome volume in duodecimo, and will, we doubt not, soon find a place in all Catholic libraries.	'
2j!^OCTOR NANSEN, a Norwegian, who (hoWD *s we^ known on account of his visit to
Greenland, which he travelled from end to end, is preparing an expedition to the north" pole. He has submitted his plans to the London Royal Geographical Society. They are as follows:
It has been noticed that whale ships which are caught in the ice on the eastern coast of Greenland, are in the spring carried southwards without much damage, whereas those that are • lost this side of Behring’s Straits and of Siberia are entirely destroyed. From this the inference is natural that there are marine currents starting near the coasts of Siberia and crossing the Polar seas in the direction of Greenland. Dr. Nansen has studied out this hypothesis, of whose truth he is firmly persuaded, since the fragments of the Jeanette, which was shipwrecked in the Siberian seas in 1881, reappeared after some years east of Greenland, having passed north of the land of Francis Joseph, not far from the pole.
The existence of such a current being admitted, Dr. Nansen proposes to make it serviceable for his expedition. He will sail from the mouth of the river Lena next August, because he finds that the current starts from • there. Borne along by this current in. a few
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
weeks his ship will be north of the Liakoff, or New Siberian Islands, and he will coast along until he finds the open sea. During winter he will quietly await the return of warmer weather, when the currents will bear him farther north. Another winter will pass, followed by other thaws and other currents, until he is carried to Greenland, passing as near as possible to the pole. The undertaking may require five or six years, if not more.	•
Dr. Nansen is so confident of success in his undertaking that, even on the supposition that his ship perish, he hopes to continue his enterprise all the same on the ice, because the ice will be driven by the currents towards the pole in the course that was followed by the Jeanette.
The ship to bear Dr. Nansen is already built; the wood used in its construction is of unusual thickness to resist the pressure of the ice. It is '35 metres long and is quite broad. It will be supplied with provisions to last from five to seven years. The crew will consist of twelve picked men who have already given proofs of bravery and endurance.
The plan submitted to the Royal Geographical Society was received with great applause. Persons who have studied the matter admit the possibility of success.	J. M. T.
The Politest Man of His Time.
V^MONG the books that have lately come •rode under my notice is one that deserves special mention; it has become famous; almost every one has read it; and it has been translated into many languages. It is universally praised and censured.	.
The “ Letters of Lord Chesterfield to his Son” are considered, impartially, to be masterpieces of wisdom and models of style—one word seems to suggest another, and thus letter after letter is written with wonderful facility, containing instructions for living, namely, how to live properly, and how to make one’s life, and one’s career in it, a success; by some they are held to be immoral and unfit to be read, especially by the young. Dr. Johnson says: “It might be made a very pretty book. Take out the immorality and it should be put into the hands of every young gentleman.”
But what we think immoral now, and condemn, might not have seemed so in the reign of King George; what we now consider a serious offence against morality was, possibly, pot even noticed in the time of Lord Chester-
593 Q
field; and we must also bear in mind that the	>
letters were written, not for the public but for 1 / . j , 2 his son, Philip Stanhope, whom he wished to - ^ 4 see a polished, highly accomplished man of the / < j world—attractive, well-mannered, interesting,:	\
and above all a man of diplomacy; but the well-meant advice and teachings of Lord Chesterfield failed utterly: his son became an J educated man, but he was far from the mark : his father had set for him. It seems that young Stanhope was not naturally given to graceful • politeness; and without some talent (if one . may call it so) for politeness one cannot . : become a society man, graceful, easy, interesting and attractive, without showing that he \ has, with all his efforts, great difficulty in pre- . ’1’ serving a free and easy exterior, which, after all, in a studied man, is much more restrained and stiff than in a man who is naturally easy. .
Chesterfield relates many incidents of his -own life, gives accounts of ancient Greece, \ of mythology, of all things useful and advan- . tageous, and his letters are interesting and at the same time instructive; but he never forgets to tell his son what he must be and what he :	-
must do to reach the end in view; and he is constantly advising him and inquiring after his -progress in worldly accomplishments. He says ,. ; -	-
that his affection “makes him look upon no -instruction, which may be of service to him, as too trifling or too low.”	.. . _ T
To quote a passage or two from the letters .
is almost unnecessary and absurd; for if we H _ quote one we will want another,, and then another, so the best method is to read them all;
what Madame de Sevigne said of La Fontaine’s -fables might apply to the letters of Lord Chester field: “ Elles sontcomme un panier des censes;	.
vous choisissez toujours les plus belles, et vous videz . .	,
le panier sans vous en apercevoirP However; I r shall quote one or two passages that will serve .	:	?
to change the opinions of those who consider	t
Chesterfield’s letters immoral:	?
“We must much rather die than do abase or criminal ’	:’ -
action.	.	.	.	"
There is nothing so delicate as your moral character, \ and nothing.which it is your interest so much to preserve.	. -A
pure.	.	.	*
Without this purity you can have no dignity of char- -acter; and without dignity of character it is impossible J \ = to rise in the world."	. .	, ? ? • 4
Even now Chesterfield is looked upon as the . , ; 4?- x? man of fashion; and one who is accomplished, learned and fashionable we call a Chesterfield, as we would call a tyrant a Nero, a married ; man a Benedick, and the like.	7 ■ z-
Mr. Stanhope died at the age of thirty-seven^ and it seems that the only advice of his'father
■
2
594	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of which he took advantage was dissimulation; for many years he concealed a secret marriage and when he died left a wife arid two children to be provided for. His widow gave the letters to the world, and she deserves to be thanked for it; she gave a treasure.
Who can read these letters and say they do not contain food for thought? One cannot help being attracted by them, by their easy style, by the instruction and pleasure they afford. True, there are some things in them against morals; but why should we throw away a diamond because there may happen to be a speck of dust on it?
It seems to me that the letters may almost be called a miniature encyclopedia of information on almost every subject; for we can find in them references to many things—with a view to make his son an educated man of the world— a crafty statesman, a diplomat, in the full sense of the word; he did all in his power to make him the beau-ideal of men and women. How his teachings failed everyone knows. Philip Stanhope failed as a speaker, as a diplomatist, as a man of the world, and, as was said above, his only accomplishment was dissimulation. As pieces of literary art Chesterfield’s letters deserve the highest commendation: they are both pleasing and instructive, and the style is easy and suggestive.
More need not be said; our object is only to draw attention to the letters and not to write a long essay on them. . Quotations are useless; one must read all, and then he will see why it is difficult to select among a cluster of pearls the one that pleases most.
Frost Thorn.
The Man in the Tower.
OCTOR JOHNSON says: “I hate a man who can do nothing but sit and growl.” Well, if the good Doctor could have been spared by fate to pay us a visit, he might find in our art gallery quite a number of those fellows who live on growling.
Take in any of the.college games you please, and there will always be found uncomfortably close by a swarm of veritable bugs, who are ever ready to magnify the faults or accidental mistakes their beneficent;entertainers happen to make. It is a pity the kind observations of these critics are always given, gratis. If it were
otherwise, we could then realize that we had sense enough to weigh these big imaginary blunders for ourselves. But no; their infernal mission is to be always on the alert to “dig up” others, and to do everything short of burying their victims.
It used to be the fad about town, as folks say, to kodak harmless people, who ventured out in style; but there is a wonderful specialty in store for the genius who can invent some contrivance to catch and immortalize the chronic objector’s disparaging words and deeds, which are his own native garb. There^s an old saying that reminds us to look upwards if we wish to see angels; but the angels at whom I am now, barking prefer to interpret this upside down, and thus begin to read their fellowman, proceeding from the follies of his feet and halting abruptly if they happen to collide with any of his good qualities en route.
A
How college boys do love one another! Isn’t it remarkable? If perchance, you come upon a group of students talking observe them, and I will forfeit my chances for the all-round sporting medal if they don’t squabble and roast one another before they are together five minutes. Why is it? Human nature is truly depicted in boys, if it is anywhere; yet who cares to say that it is natural for boys to be always guying their companions and harping about their weaknesses. Let us cultivate a brotherly feeling of good-will towards one another. The French boast of their esprit de corps, and it implies a natural, unforced regard for a fellowbeing. Our days, at college are all too short, and should we make a friend or two now he would probably prove a most pleasant and useful fellow to meet ten or twenty years hence. There would be great enjoyment, too, in visiting such a one, and having a good long talk over the happy days when “we were college boys together at dear old Notre Dame.”
Obituary.
Brother Moses, C. S. C..
With great regret we record the death of an esteemed religious of the Congregation of Holy Cross and one well known to the students of Notre Dame for upwards of sixteen years, Brother Moses, C. S: C., who departed this life about two o’clock on last Sunday morning after an illness of but ten hours’ duration. The deceased .served his Community faithfully and well, and his deathis a serious loss. The former,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
595
as well as the present students of Notre Dame, whom this sad intelligence may reach, will not fail to offer a prayer for the repose of the soul of Brother Moses. May he rest in peace!
Mr.'Hugh O’Neill.
Across the ocean, a few days ago, flashed the sad news of.the death of a distinguished Irishman, Hugh O'Neill, father of Hugh O’Neill, ’91 and ’92. The deceased gentleman was born in the year 1820 in Ballymulderg House, County Derry, Ireland. He was descended from that patriotic family of O’Neills of Ulster, that fought so long and well against English rule in Ireland. The deceased inherited all the patriotic zeal and undying devotion to his country so characteristic of Shane, Red Hugh and Owen Roe. Under O’Connell, O’Neill took a leading part in Irish affairs, especially in his native Ulster. He was a good organizer, a fine talker and a man of first-class literary taste. He was the tried and trusted friend of O’Connell, Sir Charles Gavin Duffy, Richard Lawlor Shiel, Isaac Butt, and the leading members of the present Irish party. When the Land League was organized, Hugh O’Neill, Sr., was the first prominent Ulsterman to link his fortune with the cause promulgated by Davitt and espoused by Parnell. Under the coercion regime O’Neill escaped imprisonment because he was so pop-, ular with all classes of his country that Hugh Law, the then Attorney-General, would not issue a warrant for his imprisonment lest he should be called upon to resign his seat in Parliament and thus lose his seat in the cabinet.
Few men of his age and country were so universally respected as Mr. Hugh O’Neill, as was testified by his funeral. All classes and creeds of his countrymen attended his funeral. The Irish papers have nothing but the highest praise for the memory of the dead and sympathy for his relatives in Ireland and the United States. Mr. O’Neill leaves three sons and two daughters after him. Two of his sons are John O’Neill of Boston and-Hugh O’Neill, an alumnus of our University. We extend our sympathy to our young friend Hugh O’Neill of the Chicago Bar in the loss he sustains in the death of his distinguished father.
RESOLUTIONS OF CONDOLENCE.
. Whereas: It has pleased God to remove from all earthly cares the loving father of our esteemed friend and former classmate, Hugh O’Neill,’92; and '
Whereas, We feel deeply-that the sorrow caused by the loss of a devoted and patriotic father is almost beyond human solace, yet the Christian heart forbears to the Will of Divine Providence, who willethall for the best; therefore, be it
-Resolved, That we, the members of the Law Class, tender him our most heartfelt sympathy, and be it . .
Resolved, That these resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, and that a copy of the same be forwarded to our grief-stricken friend.
J. G. Henley, , P. M. Ragan,
. P. H. Coady,	M. P. McFadden,
' ’	’	J. T. Cullen—Committee. '
—Profs. C. P. Neil and F. Ackermann spent Thursday in Chicago.	.
—E. Thomas Lynch was here on Sunday on a visit to his brother of Carroll Hall.
—Profs. Kivlin and McDonald were entertained by friends in South Bend on Tuesday evening.	.	.
—Prof. J. F. Edwards has been in Chicago for some time attending to the exhibit sent from -here to the World’s Fair.	.
—The Misses Margaret and Fannie Barrett , spent Sunday with their brothers at the College. The Misses Barrett are always welcome visitors to Notre Dame.
—We regret to announce that the Rev. F. , Veniard, C. S. C., lies dangerously ill at his . parochial residence at Besan^on, Ind. Very
- Rev. Provincial Corby left on Friday to visit -him.
—Harry Seery, a member of Carroll Hall three years ago, is now travelling agent for F. Prestet & Co., of Cincinnati, Ohio. He spent a . few days at Notre Dame the past week and we were glad to see him again.	. .
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding’s visit of last L week is a favor we wish we could enjoy oftener. -His presence affords great pleasure to all; but when he speaks to us, we appreciate it all the more. If we were speaking to the Bishop our words would be: “ Come often, and stay longer that we may hear more words of wisdom from, your great mind.”
—The visit of Mr. Pierce A. Murphy, ’92,. was a happy surprise to his many, friends on Wednesday last,,and the Scholastic can give greatest assurance that his visit to Alma Mater . was most welcome. It affords us unalloyed pleasure to announce that Pierce was successful in an examination to enter West Point, and he is how on his way to join our Army’s Cadets. We are confident that in this new position he , will be rapidly advanced, and in whatever; division of the army he sees fit to follow he will be second to none. Pierce has worked hard since leaving Notre Dame, and it seems . -to have made him thin, but he has grown:like : ; a weed.	j .	? L:
—It is with more than ordinary pleasure ; that we record the -presence, at-Notre Dame, of the illustrious mcestro, Signor Gregori, and.his
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
accomplished daughter, Signorina Francesca. After an absence of two years they return to visit Notre Dame, where many happy years were spent, and which, in College and Church, the gifted artist, by his skilful brush, has made the admiration of all who enter within the portals of our Alma Mater. The Columbus series of paintings which adorn the walls of the main building would alone suffice to immortalize the name of Gregori and give to him a fitting prominence before the world in this year of Columbian jubilation. But, besides, our most welcome visitors, during the time they made Notre Dame their home, endeared themselves to all its inmates, and their return is heartily greeted by all, with the fond wish that it may not be of short duration.
Villanelles.
BY J. W. RANEY.
S CHERISH this old hat of mine
It’s been with me two years I trow; Although you’d never call it fine, Though now without its early shine, It crowns a happy, careless brow.
I cherish this old hat of mine. ■ *
My little feathered brother’s song Sounds sweet out in the apple tree.
He gayly sports the blossoms ’mong, And pours his little soul along
The current of his melody.
My little feathered brother’s song.
' * ‘
What pleasure fills^his little heart
To wake such wild-wood notes of glee;
The sunbeams all about him dart,
The blossoms, too, adore his art, And he is proud of being free;
What pleasure fills his little heart.
—Locals!
—Give us that song. .
—Three cheers and a tiger!
—Next Thursday is Corpus Christi.
—They did not play phenomenal ball, but they won easily.
—The “fourth grammar” ( ?) boys can play ball after all.	_
—The corner grocery man is nowvice-presi-d ent. of the. wonder bank. ’
—Sam says that one would be a fool to agree with a crazy man.
—The blonde says he has “thoughts that he never thought of before.”
—C. Girsch won the drill for the medal in the Sorin Cadets on Sunday last.
—Ed. says that it is a serious ad-Vance-ment that has not a sudden ending.
—What is the matter with the Blackstonian table? They have formed a Ring.
—A. D’s presentation was heartily admired by all the members of the boat crew.
—“Our wheel” has suddenly vanished from our view. Probably the weather is too warm.
—The genial B. O. has a decided objection to creeping reptiles. Recent events have proved it.
—“Spike” says he has found out the metre in which the song “Up in a Balloon” is written. It is a gas metre.
—The members of the Orpheus Club enjoyed a ride to the Farm Thursday. They all report a pleasant time.
—Tuesday the “ Surveyors,” Capt. Ludwig, defeated Capt. McPhee’s “Moonshiners” by a score of 9 to 10.	‘
—The corner grocery man opened up a banking business this week, and deposits will be thankfully received.
—The annual ball and reception of the military companies will occur Tuesday evening in the new ^gymnasium.
—The Manual Labor School nine defeated a picked nine of Brownsonites by a score of 21 to 7 Thursday afternoon. ‘
—Dick has sent his aquarium to the World’s Fair. The principal feature of his exhibit will be his Siberian animals.
—Lost—A pocket-book containing fifteen dollars. Finder will please return the same to students’ office and receive reward.
—The bazaar given by the members of the boat crew promises to be a grand success. The prizes are to be distributed about June 1.
—Our friend John says that the silliest of the silly are those who, like tramps, for the want of buttons, leave their shirts open at the neck.
—Judge says his next lecture will be one that will instruct. It is entitled “Peruna,” is complete in six chapters, and has a great climax.
—Pink, shirts are now in order. The craze was started by the ushers in the recent marriage of the Earl of Craven in New York City.
—First Photog.: “I hypoed more than you.” Second ditto: “What did you hypo next?” Third party,deeplyinterested: “Oh! he’s got the pouts.” .
—The boys of St. Joseph’s Hall have thoroughly overhauled their campus, enlarging paths, etc., and it now presents a very neat appearance. . ’	.
—We would like to know what pleasure the stout gentleman finds in jumping four feet in

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
597
mid-air, turning a hand-spring and exclaiming, “What is it?”
—Solomon says he will refrain from thumping the sheepskin until the weather gets cooler.
. His health will not permit him to overtax his vital powers.
—The blonde says that they can all talk about Minneapolis and compare it with St. Paul, but they will have to admit that the flour of the family comes from there.
—For Sale—A job lot of tin horns and rattle boxes. Will be sold cheap. Preference given to bids from Minim department.-Enquire of managers of Sorin Hall base-ball club.
—The drill for the medal in Co. A is very exciting. Five drills have been held, W. Wilkins winning two, T. Curran one, while W. Covert captured two in succession on Sunday last.
. —Micky says that there is an ordinance against shooting fire arms inside the campus grounds. The boys that are practising for the one hundred-yard dash should hire a cannon.
—The members of the boat crews were the first to bathe in the lake this year, taking their first swim Monday. N. B.—They say they will wait a few days before taking another plunge.
—“Snowball” says that he loves things of a feline nature; but when they undertake to make fun of his books it is carrying the joke too far, and he very naturally puts his foot down on it.
—The members of the law department have organized two base-ball nines and are about to institute a series of games for the championship. Everything will be done according to law.
—The first nines had a practise game Thursday preparatory to the championship game, to be played Sunday next, and the new men promise to make things interesting for the next two weeks.
—The game of base-ball between the boys on Jos. Brady’s table and those comprising Bro. Just’s table, Thursday morning, was a very close one, the score standing 5 to 4 in favor of Brady’s nine.
—One of the old jokes descended from antiquity is that of the breaking of the camera if you have your photo taken. Yet some will insist on inflicting it on their friends in this civilized age.
—The open-air concert given by the University Band on Sunday evening last was highly enjoyed by the members of the various Halls, and the rendition of each piece was applauded by all present.
—A fair admirer of the members of the crew of the Minnehaha presented, a neat cap to the captain to be given to the handsomest man in the crew. The members were polled, and as a result C. Roby now wears it.
—The second nine in the Minims are playing a strong game this year. Thursday Captain Christ’s “Reds” defeated Capt. Bopp’s “Blues”
by a score of 10 to 9. Batteries, Croke and Christ; “Blues,” McCarthy and Bopp.
—The Brownson second nine met defeat a't the hands of Capt. Brown’s special Junior team, Thursday afternoon, by a score of 9 to 7. The batteries were: Brady and Whitehead for the Brownsons, and Kutina and Rend for the Juniors.
—The “Lamplighters” of Captain Gerdes, defeated the “ Moonshiners” of Capt. McPhee, the score being 19 to 7. The features of the game were the battery work, of Gerdes and Renesch, and the home run of Ford, as well as the fielding of C. Cullen.
—Messrs. Moses, S. & J. Livingston, the enterprising merchant tailors of South Bend, have donated a grand gold medal for the five mile bicycle race. The members of the Athletic Association extend their thanks for the medal, and will not forget them..
—One of our genial typos would like to hear an explanation of the all-absorbing question of the hour—Why do we get lazy? We wish some one would contribute an article on this interesting topic and thereby give peace of mind to the very many at present afflicted with that dread disease—spring fever.
—The third game between the Carroll Specials and the Second Senior Special on-Thurs-day last resulted in the latter’s defeat. R. E. Brown took three bases on a “one-bagger,” whilst G. Sweet brought two .men home and succeeded reaching third. The Seniors are gradually approaching the Juniors in the excellence of their play.
—The two first nines in the Minims have commenced their championship games for the medals, and the “Blues,” Lohner,captain, have taken two games from Captain.LaMoure’s boys, the “Reds,” the first game: by a score of 16 to 17, and the second 11 to 18. The batteries are, for the “ Blues,” Barrett and Crandall; “ Reds,” Johntry and Loomis.
—Mr. Hugh O’Donnell, of Sorin Hall, who was called home on business about ten days ago, returned on Tuesday last. During his absence he frequently had occasion to give public evidence of his elocutionarv abilities and of the training received at his Alma Matir. At Father Burke’s church festival, lately he ld ' in Bloomington,Ill., which Vice-President Adiai Stevenson attended, Mr. O’Donnell’s recitations formed the feature of the entertainment.
—The Brownson Hall Tennis Club began their handicap tournament last week for the championship and a gold medal. The following is the standing of the contestants:
		Played.	Won. Lost. . Percent.	
F. Barton	-	16 ’	-	12	- 4	-	.750
W. Frey tag	-	17	-	9-8	-	.530
L. Baldwin	-	16	-	8	- S -	.|oo
D. Monarch	-	*9	-	9	- 10	-	470
T. Monarch	-	25	•	10	- 15	-	.400
W. Wilkins	-	17	-	6	-- ir 	.350- >
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—“Richard” says that the boys who invest their money in tin horns should join the athcltic association. He also says that a great number of them, refused to join because they did not take any interest in base-ball; yet they make themselves very conspicuous during the progress of a game.	•
—A. W. Connable, President of the Connable Fishing Company, 269-271 South Water Street, Chicago, notified Bro. Paul on Wednesday that he would furnish the “all-around medal” for the best athlete again this year. Mr. Connable takes great interest in the sports at Notre Dame, and the medal he has presented is one of the finest in the country.
—The students of St. Joseph’s Hall are under lasting obligations to Bro. Albert, C. S. C., for a superb picture, in colors, of the Sacred Heart. The perfection with which the artist has imparted a spiritual meaning to what in the hands of a less skilful painter would have degenerated into a mere study of anatomy, can hardly fail to impress the least observant critic. The picture is made upon transparent fabric, and the effect of the whole is simply wonderful.
—On next Thursday evening the College Band will give another open-air concert, the weather permitting. The following is the
programme:
Overture—Vignette........................... Beyer
Selections from Somnambula.................Bellini
Gavotte Militaire........................Goldsmith
Selections from “Reilly and the 400”........Braham
Polka—“Morning Star”..................■......Smith
Constancy Waltz............................Hawkins
Darkies’ Reverie............................  Cope
Gallop—“ Recreation ”....................  Kiester
—The “Ludwigs” of Carroll Hall are little twirlers; but they found in the “Fredericks” of the Seminary pretty hard people to beat. Last Monday they played their second losing game on the latter’s campus. Up to the fifth inning only three errors were made on both sides, and the batting throughout the game was done on scientific principles.. O. Michel’s good pitching, however, kept the score well balanced-until he was relieved by Hennessy, and if Gilbert had half the support the “Fredericks” gave their battery, the score, which was’8 to 3 in the latter’s favor, might have been reversed.
—Wednesday Captains Covert and Roby selected the nines to play for the championship. „ The games will begin to-morrow afternoon, and the following are the positions of the players:
Roby's	Positions	Covert's
* Funke	. Pitcher.	McCarrick
Maynes	Catcher	Covert
Thorn	1st Base .	Beck
Cullen.	2d Base	Burns .
Schmidt •.	3d Base	. Chassaing • .
. Flannigan .	Shortstop	O’Neill
Flynn	f	Left field	St. Clair
Whitehead	Center field '	Marckhoff
-Roby	Right field ■ Bauer
Kinney . Substitute Ryan.
—From old volumes of the Index we learn that five and twenty years ago the Notre
Dame Scholastic was looked upon-as one of the best exchanges visiting our sanctum, and to-day we can endorse this opinion. Each issue of the Scholastic is well worth a careful reading, as the reader is sure to find in it prose articles of a completeness and polish that betray careful preparation. Its poetry is frequently from the hand of a master of English whose effusions are always gems, and whose name is a guarantee of any article to which it is attached. Among Notre Dame’s students are to be found budding poets who write verse with grace and beauty. In the number at hand we find two Sonnets of Spring which betoken much ability in the field of poesy. In the same number “Holmes as a Humorist” and “The Curse, of Kehama” are well-written prose articles.. “The Roll of Honor,” which in years gone by was the butt of humorous drives, we notice is tenaciously retained.—Niagara Index.
—Moot-Court.—The case that has occupied the attention of the Moot-Court—Judge Wm. Hoynes presiding—for the past week is that of Connolly vs. Stone, editor of South Bend Herald. Connolly was a candidate for Congress, and after his election Stone published the following in his paper, which Connolly claims is libellous:
"As we prognosticated last week, Connolly flooded this county with hand bills, declaring fraud and boodle, and offering $500 reward through N. A. Somers, the democratic county chairman. This is just what everybody looked for from a man of Connolly’s type; but they had thought that Mr. Somers was above such business, being made the tool of a man who resorts to the ‘stop thief’cry to detract attention from his own nefarious schemes of ‘fixing voters.’ It fell short of the mark, in fact, as the people were expecting it, and knew its purpose and object. t The remaining away from the polls of a few voters, who could give no good reason for so doing, however, showed conclusively that the thief got in his work.”
The first night was occupied in the selection of a jury, and at last six good and lawful men were secured. They are C. Roby, M. Ney, D. Murphy, W. Kirby, J. Bennett, and R. Healy.
Saturday evening there was a bitter contest between the attorneys over the introduction of evidence, and only one witness was examined, Mr. Connolly himself. The case will probably occupy the attention of the Moot-Court for the next two weeks. The attorneys are Messrs. Ragan and Cullen for plaintiff, and Messrs. Coady and Heer for defendant.
—Base-Ball:—The fourth championship game of the series between Sorin and Brownson Halls was played Monday afternoon, and was won by the Brownson boys by a score of 13 to 7, winning the championship with ease. The day was beautiful and a large crowd was in attendance, and the good plays on both sides were liberally applauded. The game was called a 3:10 p. m. with Sorin Hall at bat. Hannin struck out; Flannigan hit to Chassaing, but reached first on a muff and stole second. Combe flew out to Burns. Flannigan reached third on a.passed, ball by O’Neill, but was left there as St. Clair hit to Chassaing and was. thrown out
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
at first. For Brownson Hall, O’Neill hit to Hannin, and was thrown out at first. Roby . struck out. Cullen made a hit and reached second on Chassaing’s hit. Cullen scored and Chassaing went to third on Covert’s hit. Covert stole second, and scored with Chassaing on Funke’s hit. Funke stole second, but could go no further as Ryan struck out.
Second: Bolton struck out. McCarrick hit to Chassaing, but reached second on wild throws, third on a passed ball by O’Neill and scored on a wild pitch by Funke. Thorn was given a base on balls and reached second on McKee’s hit. Dechant hit in front of the plate. Covert threw the ball to third, putting Thorn out, and Schmidt threw to second forcing out McKee. For the Brownsons Burns was given a base on balls. Schmidt hit a hot liner to Hannin, who took good care of it. O’Neill had three strikes called on him, but Combe muffed the third strike and threw to second and put Burns out. O’Neill reached second on Roby’s base hit and scored' on a series of errors, Roby going to second. ' Cullen hit to right field and Roby scored. Cullen went to second on St. Clair’s muff of Chassaing’s fly, but both were left on bases by Covert, who struck out.
Third: Hannin was given a base on balls, stole second and made third on a wild throw by Funke. Flannigan was also given a base on balls and stole second. Here Funke determined to play ball and received the plaudits of the audience for striking Combe out. St. Clair was given a base on balls. Bolton hit to left and brought Hannin and Flannigan over the plate. St. Clair attempted to make home also, but was put out at the plate. Bolton stole third.but was left there, McCarrick striking out. For the Brownsons Funke hit too short and was thrown out at first. Ryan struck out. Burns was given a base on balls and reached second on a passed ball. Schmidt hit to McKee who let the ball pass him and Burns scored. O’Neill flew out to Flannigan.	-
Fourth: Thorn flew to Roby. McKee was put out by Chassaing. Dechant made a neat hit and stole second. Hannin made a hit and Dechant scored. Hannin stole second and third. Flannigan knocked a fly to O’Neill and, of course, was out. Roby for the Brownsons hit to third and was thrown out at first. Cullen struck out. Chassaing made a hit and scored oh Covert’s slow grounder to Flannigan. Flannigan threw wild to first and Covert was put out trying to make third on the error.
Fifth: Combe was hit with the ball and reached first, but was thrown out at second on St. Clair’s hit to Chassaing. St. Clair reached second on Bolton’s fly which was muffed by Ryan. St. Clair scored and Bolton went to third on McCarrick’s hit to O’Neill. Bolton and McCarrick scored on Thorn’s hit to Burns, who muffed it. Thorn stole second and was put out trying to get home on McKee’s hit. McKee stole second and third. Dechant struck
out. For the Brownsons Funke hit a short fly to Flannigan which was caught. ‘ Ryan was . ? given a base on balls. Schmidt made a hit and Burns went to second. Burns scored on O’Neill’s hit, and Schmidt went to second arid stole third, O’Neill going to second. Roby. -made a two base to left, bringing home O’Neill and Schmidt. Roby scored on Cullen’s hit to centre which was muffed. Chassaing went out ? Z on a foul fly to Combe.	;
Sixth: Hannin hit a twisting fly which Cullen took care of. Flannigan got first on being hit by the ball, and, of course, stole second. Combe flew out to Ryan. Flannigan stole third, but . was left there on St. Clair’s fly to Schmidt. For the Brownsons Covert flew to Dechant.. Funke hit to Flannigan and was out at first. Ryan flew out on a foul to Thorn.. .	;
Seventh: Bolton struck out; McCarrick followed suit. Thorn reached first on a hit. Me-Kee went out on a fly to O’Neill. For the Brownsons Burns was thrown out at first by McKee. Schmidt made a base hit. O’Neill flew to Dechant. Schmidt reached second on Roby’s fly, which was dropped by McKee. Both Schmidt and Roby scored on Cullen’s two-bagger. Chassaing hit to short and was thrown out.
Eighth: Dechant struck out. Hannin hit to Chassaing and was out at first. - Flannigan struck out. For the Brownsons Covert struck . out. Funke hit to third and was thrown out. Ryan struck out. •	.	.
Ninth: Combe hit to Burns and reached first on a muff. St. Clair hit to left and was out. • Bolton hit to Chassaing, who threw the balkto Burns forcing Combe out, and Burns threw to Cullen, who put Bolton out, thus making a neat double play and ending one of the most interesting series of games ever witnessed on our campus. The Brownson boys feel justly proud of their well-merited victory. They played ball from beginning to end, and outplayed their opponents at every point. The / Brownson boys carried Messrs. Funke, O’Neill-and Covert from the field to the dressing-room, and the balance of the evening was spent in;
congratulations, account of the
Soriv Hall.
Hannin, ad b.,	.	-
Flannigan, 3d b. and s.s. Combe, c.,	-	-
St. Clair, 1. f.,	-
Bolton, c. f. ’ . -McCarrick, p.,	-
Thom, 1st b.,	-
McKee, s.s. and 3d b., . Dechant, r. f.,	-
Total.....■..........
Brownson Hall.
O’Neill, c. and 1. f. -Roby, r. f. -Cullen, 1st b.,	-
Chassaing, s. s. - -Covert, 1. f. and c., Funke, p. -	-
Ryan, c. f„ .	-
Burns, adb., '	-	-
Schmidt, 3d b.,	,
Total.................
The following is a detailed
SCORE:
4 1
3 1
4 o
4 1
5 1
4 2
.30
4.0
4 1
35 7
5
5
5 ’5
5
5 -4 . i
4
2
2
I o o o
I I o
2 s o o o
2
2
• i o
O • I. o.. r S . o
S 1 o 1 4 -3 2- o o
24*18 ‘ 7}
i 6
2
3 2.
o o
i - S
o. • I o o
O 5
o o I'
I
o -
. O 9 O ;
I _ o
5 i
3
I 2 O,
39^13 I2..27^2o>5
6oo	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Score by Innings:—i 234567S9
Sorin Hall:—o 1 2 1 3 0 o o 0=7 Brownson Hall:—3 21 14020 *=13 Summary: Earned runs—Brownson Hall, 5; Sorin Hall, 2. Two base hits—Cullen, Roby, Dechant, Bolton. Stolen /^^5-Flannigan, 4; Hannin, 4; McCarrick, 3; Bolton, 1; Thorn, r; McKee, 2; O’Neill, 1; Covert, 1; Funke, 1; Burns, 1; Schmidt, 1. Double plays— Covert to Schmidt to Burns; Chassaing to Burns, to Cullen. Base on balls—Off Funke, 4; McCarrick, 4. Hit with pitched balls—By Funke, 2. Struck out—Hannin, Flannigan, Combe, Bolton, 2; McCarrick, 2; Dechant, 2; O’Neill, Roby, Cullen, Covert, 2; Ryan, 3; Passed balls—Covert, Combe, O’Neill, 3; Time, 2 hours, 20 min. Umpires, H. Dean, and E. Schaack. Scorer, P. Foley.
Field-Day—May 30.
On Tuesday next the field-day sports of the Notre Dame Athletic Association will occur, at which time the members expect to lay records before the college world, that will equal those of a great number of colleges, where sports seem to be their main course. The records now held by Notre Dame are very high, and for the benefit of all we will publish the names and records of those who now hold the championship in the various branches of sports; and following them are the entries for field-day:
One Hundred Yards Dash—T. McHenry, ’S4; M. Dolan,'85; H. Jewett,’90; 10 seconds each. Entries, R. E. Healy, R. B. Sinnott and L. Gibson.
2d One Hundred Yard Entries—R. Fortiscue, F. Keough, E. Krembs, J. Kerker, T. Curran, O. Schmidt, M. Quinlan, W. Burns.
Putting 16 Pound Shot-Y. Jewett, ’90; 39 feet 10 inches. Entries, J. Kelly, C. Roby, M. Quinlan, E. DuBrul, R. Sinnott, L. Gibson.
Running High Jump—H. Jewett,’90,5 feet 10 inches. Entries, J. Kelly, ]. O’Connor, M. Quinlan, E. DuBrul, R. Sinnott, L. Gibson.
Throwing 16 Pound Hammer— Entries, J. Kelly, M. Quinlan, R. Sinnott.
~ Throwing Base-Ball—K. Cooper, of Dubuque, Iowa, held the record from ’86 to ’92 at 359 feet, 10 inches and was beaten by M. Quinlan who now holds the record at 369 feet 20 inches. Entries, W. Covert, J. Baur, O. Schmidt, M. Quinlan, L. Gibson.
Pole Vault—E. Mitchell, ’92,9 feet 2 inches. Entries, C. Roby, M. Quinlan, R. Sinnott.
120 Yard Hurdle—The winner must equal 20 seconds in order to get the medal. Entries, F. Carter, R. Fortiscue, T. Ansberry, F. Rogers, R. Healy, E. DuBrul, R. Sinnott, L. Gibson, W Burns.
Running Broad Jump—H. Jewett,’90, 21 feet 11^ inches. Entries, J. Kelly, J. Baur, E.Krembs, R.Fortiscue, M. Quinlan, R. Sinnott, L. Gibson.
220 Yard Run—M. Jewett, ’90, 22X seconds. Entries, F. Keough, R. Healy, R. Sinnot, L. Gibson
RunningHop-Step-and-Jump—Yt. Jewett, ’90, 46 feet 8 inches. Entries, E. Krembs, M. Quinlan, R. Sinnott, J. O’Connor, L. Gibson, W. Burns.
One Mile Run—Y. Dexter, ’84,4 minutes 55 seconds. Entries, C. Roby, C. McCuddy, R. Healy, M. Quinlan.
Five Mile Bicycle Race—V. Donahoe, ’92, 16 minutes 42 seconds. Entries, F. Donahoe, H. Hunt, W. Covert, J. Tratt, H. Monarch. .	.
The winners of gold medals will not be awarded second Or third prizes, and in order to get a gold medal in any of the events contestants must equal the common.records.at.least.
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bolton, Brown, Carney, Cummings, Correll, Combe, Coady, Crawley, Chute, Dechant. Du-Biul, Flannery, J. Fitzgerald, Hannin, Jewett, Kearney, Keough, Kunert, Maurus, Monarch, F. McKee, Mitchell, McCarrick, McAuliffe, Neef, O'Donnell, Quinlan, Ragan, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Schaack, Sinnott, Schopp.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ansberry, Barton, Burns, Brinnin, Bennett, Berggren, Baldwin, C. Corry, A. Corry, Chassaing, Curran, Cooke, Cullen, R. Corcoran, J. Corcoran, Chidester, Croxton, Devanney, Dinkel, Dempsey, Dillon, Duffield, Eyanson, Foley, A. M. Funke, J. Flynn, Freytag, Fox, Griffin, Gerlach, Hermann, Hennessy, Hoepe, Healy, Hesse, Hagan, Henley, Hudson, Heneberry, Jacobs, Karter, Kelly, M. Kirby, Kerker, Kearns, Krembs, W. Kirby, Kintzele, Kilkenny, Karasynski, Kuhn, J. Kennedy, Lennon, Murray, McCuddy, McFadden, Meibers, D. Murphy, T. Monarch, McCullough, Maynes, D. Monarch, F. Murphy. McCarthy, McGarry, O’Connor, O’Shea, Pulskamp, Prichard, Patier, Palmer, Quinlan, M. Ryan, E. Roby, Stanton, Shermann, Stace, Spalding, Schmidt, Vignos, Vurpillat, Walker, Wilkin, Welsh.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Bergland, Barrett, R. E. Brown, J. Brown, Bennett, Berles, Bixby, Baldauf, Brennan, Blake, Bacon, Covert. Carter, Chauvet, Clendenin, A. Coolidge, E. Coolidge, Cavanagh, Cullen, Crane, Carney, Chase, Dorsey, Dion, Druecker, Ducey, Dannemiller, Dillman, Dixon, Dempsey, DeLormier, Dutt, Freeman, Franke, Fossick, Funke, Finnerty, E. Gilbert, L. Gibson, Gerding, Gonzales, Gerdes, Girardin, F. Hill, Hack, Hittson, Hurley, H. Hill, Hoban, D. Hilger, Harding, A. Hilger, Heizman, Howell, Jones, Janssen, A. Kegler, W. Kegler, Kutina, Kelliher, Kindler, Kinney, Klees, Lanagan, G. Lee, J. LaMoure, W. LaMoure, Lambka, Lantry-, Lohner, Lawler, G. Lowrey, Loser, Louie, Ludwig, Lynch, Lane, Lippman, Levi, M. Lee, Maurer, Mitchell, Maternes, Maguire, E. Murphy, L. Miller, J. Miller, Mengis, Mills, Miles, Moss, Moore, Monaghan, L. Martin, C. Meyers, R. Miers, S. McDonald, McPhee, McCarrick, J. McPhil-lips, J. J. McPhillips, C. McPhillips, E. McDonald, Nolan, Nichols, O’Mara, F. O’Brien,W. O’Brien, Oliver, E. O’Connor, F. Pim, H. Reis, Rumely, Rend, Ruppe, Repscher, Romero, Renesch, Reilly, Reber, Roesing, J. Rozynek, P. Rozynck, Sievers, Sweet, W. Spalding, S. Spalding, Slevin, Sullivan, Schaack, Sparks, Segenfelter, Strauss, Strassheim, Schroth, Shillington, Tong, Taylor, Trankle, Thome, Tempel, Treber, Thornton, Wolf, Wagner, Wensingir, Welty, Walker, H. Wilson, R. Wilson, Washburne, N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, O. Wright, Ward, Yeager, Yingst, York, G. Zochrlaut. .
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Ayers, Ahern, G. Abrahams, Arnold, Ball Bump, Bopp, Barrett, R. Berthelet, V. Berthelet, Bourgeois, Brown, Curry, Christ, Corry, Cross, J. Coquillard Croke, A. Coquillard, F. Campau, Cressey, Durand Devine, Dugas, Elliott, Egan, Eagle, W. Emerson, F Emerson, Engelhardt, Finnerty, Freeman, Flynn, Girsch Gavin, Green, Graff, Gifford, Howard, Higginson, Holbrook, Roy Higgins, Rai Higgins, J. Higgins, J. Healy, Ives, Jones, Johntry, Jonquet, Keeler, Kinney, Kilgallen, LaMoure. Lawton, Langley, Lohner, Lysle, Loomis, Lowrey, Maritzen, Minnigerode, A; Monaghan, C. Monaghan, Morris, McCorry, McDonald, R. McCarthy, E McCarthy, Enimit McCarthy, G. McCarthy,; Ninneman Oatman, O'Neill, Otero, H. Pollitz, W. Pollitz, Pyle Pieser,. L. Rasche, ,H. Rasche, .Roesing,’ V. Romero, A Romero, Roache, Robb, Rohrbach, Ryer, W. Scherrer, Swan, Shillington, Segenfelter, Schneider, Shipp, L.. Thompson, -Trankle, U. Thompson, Wilcox, Wagner, Wells. ■ ■ - J	p:	' -