KWSflMESneiflsri^
•PI5;E’ QV^SI • SE/V L • \/i QA/^y'S •	- Vivfc- Q\^SI • ^AS-/\O t^Tk/F^/S •
Vol. XXXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, July i, 1899.
No/&
Life.—Class Poem.
JAMES J. TRAHEY, A. B., ’99.
'TyJ’ERE life a momentary dream, ** A sudden flash, a broken beam Of crystal light upon the gilded fane, That man aspires to build in youth, His long hours spent in quest of truth And delving for the hidden gem are vain.
. But life is more. The straggling rill And gliding brook, the daffodil And purple lilac by the river side, Reveal the flow and ebb of life, Its gleam of joy and gloom of strife, The rise and fall of its impassioned tide.
Yet life can not all labor be.
Though tossed about its emerald sea, We slowly mount the sparkling, briny, wave;
We eat the lotus day by day, And hear strange music far away, Whose mellow notes are sweetest at the.grave.
We loiter where the belted bee . Flits errant on the flowerful lea, And gathers nectar from the'marigold;
We stop to hear the oriole sing, For then we know another spring Has come to make the buds of life unfold.
While drifting by the mossy quay, Or dreaming ’neath the willow tree, Where summer breezes play a secret fife, We. love to gaze on clouds of rain That steal o’er river, lake and plain Like mists of sorrow o’er the. vault of life.
Autumnal leaves alone can bring . Sweet gales of melody that wing Their flight on earth; creep o'er life’s purple sky, As rings of smoke the ivied wall, Then gentler on the spirit fall
Than love’s first glance, upon the virgin’s eye. .
Grey-bearded winter comes at last, , And like the snowflakes we are cast Among the leafless pines, that ever’stand As Druids of eld. when twilight falls;, ' We dare not stir till Heaven calls, . .'And’evening shades, conceal the glistening Hand.
Bachelors’ Discourses.
The Utility of Universities.
EDWARD C. BROWN, LITT. B., ’99.
KAN lives that he may be happy, and his whole life is devoted to. the attainment or this end. The savage delights in the anguish of dying victim; the civilized man is . fied by the satisfaction of others; the sinner takes pleasure in his vices; the saint finds-happiness in communion with his God; but the aim of all is the same.
A few centuries ago this happiness was . extremely difficult of acquisition. Man was in a state of barbarism. Selfish by nature, he looked upon life as a race in which the fittest will survive, and he regarded not his fellowmen unless they were an obstacle to him. As, however, men became more civilized, they no longer took pleasure in pain, and their former joys became a source of sorrow. They began to comprehend that life was not a race, but a journey, and the best progress was to be made by helping and not by oppressing the weak. The poor were no longer deemed tools for the hands of the rich; and it became disgraceful to . trade in slaves. All this we. owe to civilization.
Now civilization is the result of two influences—learning and religion, and the former is an agent by which the latter is spread. Again, learning is preserved and extended by ; the-universities. For centuries the universities, have been the guardians of knowledge; and this trust has characterized them as one of. the most useful of human institutions. In my address to you this evening I shall try to draw your attention to the utility of universities.
.Learning is the very essence of all civili
618
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
zation; and the more educated the people of a nation are the higher will that nation rank in civilization. When Greece produced Plato and Aristotle—men corresponding to our modern university scholars—her civilization was at its zenith. A few centuries later, when Rome controlled the whole world, she listened to learned orators and poets like Cicero, Horace, and Virgil. It is also a striking fact that in ancient Greece and Rome both civilization and learning existed only for the higher and educated classes. The poor were mere slaves.
At the beginning of the Middle Ages there were no universities, and, as a consequence, civilization was at its lowest ebb. Europe had been overrun by barbarians, and all traces of art and refinement had been swept away. Learning, of course, was almost unknown; and it was thought even disgraceful for a nobleman to be able to write his own name. The monasteries contained and handed down the little knowledge that had been saved from the ruins of the Roman Empire; but they were so engrossed in spreading the Christian religion that they could not perform the work of a university. And what was the condition of the masses? The lot of slaves under good masters would have been far preferable. Europe was controlled by a few lords. The rest of mankind was a machine for the hands of the masters. The sole pursuit of these lords was war. Ignorant of the great good to be derived from an education, their highest ideal was to be victors in the tournament before the king. Shut up in their impregnable castles, they resisted all authority, and sallied forth only to plunder. The vassals had no rights. These underlings were looked upon as accessories to the land they occupied; and their slightest pleasure was in the hand of their master. To him they were compelled to give a portion of their labor, when he deserved their curses. Truly, this was a pitiable condition, and it was all due to the ignorance of the people—a defect remedied by the universities.
In every age there are certain nations that are pre-eminent for their power. In ancient history we see Greece and Rome, later we have Venice, France, Spain, Germany, and England. These nations are undoubtedly the greatest the world has ever seen; yet, mark this fact—at the same time they are famous for their learning. When Greece was at the height of her glory, profound scholars were teaching the patrician youth in the University of Athens. When Rome listened to the oratory
of the learned Cicero, she was controlled by Cassar, one of the deepest thinkers of any epoch., Italy in the Middle Ages was composed of separate states that possessed the best civilization in the world, and her universities of Naples, Bologna and Salerno gave to the world men like Dante, Petrarch, Thomas Aquinas and Bonaventure. Later, when England conquered the great Spanish Armada, gained the supremacy of the seas, and began her modern career, Oxford and her other schools were training Bacon and Thomas More, under whose influence the magnificent genius of Shakspere and the Elizabethan dramatists was brought out. The northern nations were nothing but a horde of barbarians until Charlemagne, with the assistance of Alcuin, educated them; and then, armed with this great weapon, they conquered the whole world and are still the predominant races. Through their statesmen their influence is felt in foreign courts, and their generals are more capable-of planning and carrying out history-making campaign; their inventors and scientists give to them the latest improvements; and to the universities they are indebted for their inventors, scientists, generals, and statesmen.
Every man loves to look back and contemplate the deeds of men and nations, and to trace great movements noting their influence on the present time. Historical research, however, is necessarily confined to a few. Men instructed in the universities study the manners, customs and laws of nations that were once powerful. They pick out the good qualities of these nations and they discard the bad ones, and they give to the world the result of their labors. In this way they show men how certain actions have changed the whole course of history, and how battles have been lost; they point out great mistakes, that nations may avoid error by the experience of others. All this is done by the universities—the link that joins us, with profit, to the past.
The most distinctive mark of an advancing civilization is the fine arts. The modern world is so progressive, so commercial, that were it left to itself, it would soon forget the arts that made Greece famous and cause us to wonder still at Italy; but the university steps in and saves the arts from oblivion. It teaches men how to appreciate these masterpieces, and these men become the patrons of the arts. They protect and foster the artists, and give to the world men like Dante, Michael Angelo and Beethoven. They cause us to revere the



NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
names of Sbakspere and Homer; they give us our painters, architects, musicians and poets. In other words, these patrons of the arts, the students of the university, give us what is best on earth.
Turning to the individual we can not but wonder at the great good he derives from an education. It is commonly said, and sometimes by college men; that a university does not fit a man for the practical business world. To show the absurdity of this assertion, let us but glance at our own public officials. At a very liberal estimate not more than one per centum of the male population of the United States are college graduates, and yet this one per centum has produced fifty-five per centum of our presidents, six out of seven of the chief justices, sixty-nine per centum of the justices of the supreme court, and thirty-six per centum of our present congressmen. Remember, I repeat that college men in the ratio of one per centum to ninety-nine per centum of non-collegiate men have done all this. Why! if we were to give our college graduates their proportionate share of the public offices, we could expect to see possibly one as president, none as chief justice; one as justice of the supreme court, and five in the present congress. The figures show that a man’s chances for these offices is increased over fiftyfold by a university education.
All this would be sufficient to prove my proposition; but when we see how much of our modern welfare is due to the universities we realize how helpless we should be without them. This is especially exemplified by the medical science. When the black death broke out in the fourteenth century it destroyed nearly one-half of the- human race. T’o-day the black death is unknown. So of a dozen , other plagues. This present immunity is due to the wonderful progress , made in medical science at the university. A following speaker will elaborate this phase of the question, and I would call your attention to his remarks.
The present greatness of many nations is due to their commerce. A few centuries ago, when men believed that the earth was flat and when astronomy was practically unknown, there was almost no commerce between different nations. The universities, however, took up the studies of geology and astronomy; taught men how to steer, their ships by the stars, and inculcated in them a strong desire for, discovery. This knowledge that men now have of the earth and the heavens enables
619
them to steer directly from one port to another thousands of miles away; it tells them when they are off their course or in dangerous places; it alone makes modern commerce possible.	,
A few years ago science was in its infancy, and now we enjoy more comforts than all other ages combined enjoyed. The scientist of past centuries sought in vain for the philosopher’s stone. Man fought with the crudest implements, and travelled by stage-coach and sailing vessels. To-day he'has to touch but a button and whole cities are lighted; he talks to friends miles away, and dashes across land and sea in an incredibly short period of time. The luxuries that formerly existed for the'rich alone are now within the reach of the poorest laborer. Books that a few years ago could be had only at fabulous prices are now read in every home. The comfort and happiness of; the world have been increased. To what is all this due? Is it the result of chance? No, we owe it all to the universities. They have protected and.regulated science; they have made wonderful discoveries in chemistry; they have advanced physics to.an unprecedented degree; and thus they have enabled the modern scientist to make his inventions. It is .true that these'inventions are often made by men who are not university graduates; but the inventions are the result of years of work and expert mentation first done at the universities. The universities have worked out and examined the laws of science, and upon these laws all modern mechanical and scientific develop-, ment rests.
We may say that all our civilization is due to the universities, for they have been the most potent factors in the course of history for the betterment of. man. They have raised the poor from a condition of servitude- to a political level with the rich; they have warded off a multitude of evils from the human race; they have made nations powerful; and they still continue to exert a wonderful influence on the-present day. They are turning out men that are capable of contributing to human welfare not only in the professions but in all complex affairs of modern life that require intellectual force. These men are found as teachers, lawyers, editors, physicians and statesmen. They teach our youth; they guide our armies and navies and great commercial enterprises; they deal with all the problems that vex the present ' day; they are the pride and spirit of our government. .
620	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Utility of Scientific Schools.
EUGENE A. DELANEY, C. E., ’99.
H E marvellous progress that civilization has made during the last three centuries indicates the presence and development of a vital force that had hitherto lain dormant. In the olden time the powers of
thought were confined within the realms of o
fancy. A fanatic mythology held mastery over truth, and the faculties of the mind were feebly nourished in fields that had grown arid.' Then came the guiding light of physical science. Thought left the confines of speculations which were fruitless from a material point of view;. • and quickly turned to the fertile domains of 'the physical laws. Each vast and mighty empire of the ancients came to its term, and struggled and withered in the stagnation of its commerce. Science arose to free this stagnation, and to lay open broad avenues for energy that had been stored through the ages.
The advancement of science is the progress of education. All modern institutions' political and social, have become so thoroughly scientific that, training in the new methods is essential to success. The older course of studies can not be discarded, but it must be.supplemented by the.newer course that the development, of science suggests. Scientific workers have so proved their ability that the demand of the day is a demand for specialists; and to adequately meet this demand schools for specialists are a "necessity. Scientific thought is almost the ruling thought, and scientific schools are thus necessary to contribute to the ends of a fuller and a better education. That necessity is the reason for my remarks, this evening.
The early efforts toward the teaching of science were checked by a discouraging lack of appreciation on the partof the advocates of the firmly established classic studies. Science, however, is not opposed to the classics. On, the contrary, the. fullest development of training through the classics depends. upon the 7 assistance of the study of scientific, methods. Poetry may turn to science for the realization of ideals,;and the revelations >of science turn, the mind from the channels of rigid physical laws to lead thought to a speculation-that is; at once wholesome and rational. The results
of hypotheses, when in keeping with reason,are the highest that we may hope to obtain. Without the activity of.science, the mental forces would grow weakj and the best mental exercise comes from speculations that ultimately arrive at facts. Science gives life and reality to the- beautiful in the poetic. What can not be proved in the natural order must be discarded — there is no faltering. Myths are abandoned for something that is substantial.
Modern life discards what is purely imaginative, and embraces that which is practical and helpful. Proofs are the base from which fur
ther reasoning is developed. The trend toward the practical that scientific training gives to .the classic courses will surely make education more effective, and without this stimulus education would be confined to a few classes of individuals. If the end' of education is the freeing and the elevating of the mind, scienceclaims a just place among the essentials of a liberal culture. Science schools, then, are necessary to complete the work of a general education.	.
Science, though pre-eminently good from the utilitarian point of view, brings with its study a pleasure that is founded upon observation and understanding. The rolling hills and the valleys conceal an everlasting beauty that is exposed by the study of Nature’s ways. . To the ordinary observer, the great upheavals and the deep depressions, mean little more than a discontinuity of a regular line; but every ridge and every valley leads back the mind of the geologist to the early day of construction and even beyond to the time of confusion and chaos. The well-worked strata of compacted sand, tell of a work that, lasted through ages. The grinding of rocks, the wearing away of mountains, the slow transportation of continents are all. unmistakably shown by the regular layers, of geologic formations. To the trained observer, the heights of mountains are not mere, masses of rock that lie heaped upon a level plain. The regularity of the sys-terns and the, continuity of chains of mountains tell of a^ mighty force that was born of fire and water. .	. .
- While taking. note of the living forms of to-day, we study the. monstrous forms of a day gone by. From- our birds of music we' retrace, the development of species until we arrive ' at a complex organism that is both bird and beast.. So with all .lifer science indicates how original organisms changed ;w.ith the changes of the earth itself,- how useless organs were
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	621
discarded, and how useful organs were developed to serve the necessities of life:
The beautiful in tree and in flower is not shown by form and color alone. The life that stimulates the growth of every plant, from the minute nucleus of the cell to the great mass of' the giant tree, inspires thought and delightful contemplation. So, too, with the minerals, which, in all their regularity and perfection of form, give evidence of the methodical ways of Nature’s working.
Hence science reveals a beauty that is at ' once instructive; and the words of the soothsayer are the humble words of Science:
“ In Nature’s infinite book of secrecy, A little I can read.”
The aim of scientific studies is the application of the various physical laws and phenomena to the problems that control the moral and physical well-being of man. In the accomplishment of this aim, we dare neglect 4 no branch of science. One discovery leads to others, until the result of a seemingly unimportant observation culminates in a vast work. The alleviation of the pains that assail the human body and the construction of machines and engineering works are the direct results of scientific study.
Biologists have labored so assiduously that the deadly germ diseases have now come well within the control of laboratory investigators. Antitoxines and sterilization aie set as a fortification. against the bacteria of typhoid, diphtheria, and all the other microscopic enemies that attack man’s life. The patient workers that toil against these unseen foes are laboring for science, and science is ever laboring for humanity’s sake. As an example, take the work of Pasteur.	.
Here we see how science accomplished very practical commercial results. When the silkworm industry of Europe was threatened, Pasteur and his science rescued the silkworm -from what appeared to be hopeless extermina-. tion. He also drove anthrax away from cattle, and he completed a work that has brought hydrophobia to successful treatment.
To surgery, science has given the balm of. anaesthesia, and the suffering that once attended . the surgeon’s operations has been removed. Before the development of anaesthesia, the work of the surgeon brought to the wounded more pain, and usually more danger to life, than the lead and steel of the enemy. , Now science has found a soothing balm that., suspends natural sensibility. The patient rests
unconcious through the surgeon’si. work, and ?	.	~
awakes as if from a tranquil sleep. The dread ■	; -1
of painful operations has been banished, and surgery extends its field of benign action. \ j .
Chemistry has solved the problem of foods. -	1
The preparation of the soil that makes, arid?	'
fields fertile is an achievement of the complex • ;	<
problems of chemical analysis. Test-tubes and ■ . -j retorts may appear to have but little practical.. signification, but when the abstract reasoning-/ in symbols and formula is turned to .the needs . ./ .	~
of agriculture, to the problems of water supply, and to sanitation, we marvel at the usefulness . t of .chemical investigation.	- ; .	' . ; ,
The vast domain of physics may lay. a just	.
claim to consideration in any education that	1
would pretend to call itself progressive. The" \ production of motive power has shown its great . . results. Steam has carried civilization, to the	.
farthest boundaries of the earth, and science'	r
thus has become a great civilizing agent. .	.
The utility of modern technical training is, made evident with the progress of all the arts. ‘ The mastering of the principles of mechanics .	.,
lays.the foundation for all our modern, in ven- . , \ . tions. Engineering is based upon the theories . and laws of the mathematical discussions, of . this productive branch of science. The accu- \	.
rate construction of the immense motors that, .	’
furnish unlimited power, the erection of our gigantic modern structures,—all depend upon: . the mathematics of mechanics. How are we	.
to learn the best application of all the dis-cbveries- and deductions of science? Where’ . shall we find method restored to the different branches that are confused in the labyrinth ; of education? To scientific schools we must-turn to find order in chemistry, in physics, in. . mathematics—in all the physical sciences..:
-The temper, of peoples and of nations has;\ . been tried and tested, from the ages of spears .-and arrows to our own age of dynamite projectiles. Though man’s weapons have changed, . * his temperament is unchanged. Wars, we dare, say, can not .be avoided. Since we must depend upon success in war for national safety, we may . trace the: work of science in; modern warfare..	i
Warfare on land and on water is strictly	:
an application , of technicak science. The con^f struction of the great guns and the control.'of /	; / /
heavy floating armaments are'the result of the;, • application of the : most precise; calculations.; Late wars have proved the . necessity . and 7 importance of naval and military engineers.	V-
Every detail of . land operations and every . / 5	!
movement in naval manoeuvring are under
6'22	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the direction of science; and if wars are crises in civilization, science here holds a controlling hand.
Sometimes the pursuit of scientific studies appears to be purely theoretic, unreasonably abstract and of little practical application; but mathematics, chemistry, biology and all the useful sciences had to passed through stages of growth that promised but little fruit. The early experimenters with the strange electric fluid labored long before they, saw the commercial value of their work. Did the old fathers of chemistry ever think that the precipitations in their test-tubes or the products of their stills would one day bear so directly upon the problems of man’s existence? The abstractions of early mathematics had long to be developed before they could be applied to the calculations of modern mechanics. No effort in science is worthless. There is no toil without its reward, though the reward be far distant.	•
In the development of new territory, science takes the initiative step. The term “National Expansion” would be meaningless without the co-operation of the engineer. The engineer must plan, he must look well into the future; in short, progress comes through the avenues that have been laid open by the engineer. The best modes of reconstruction, the improvement of water-courses, the building of highways and railroads—the whole guidance of early commerce is left to engineering science. Then follows the more advanced structural stage. Great buildings are required, bridges must span the water-courses, agricultural and mineral wealths must be developed, sanitation is to be obtained; and in all these requirements, science supplies the need. The nation that would hold prestige among the great commercial powers must diligently and liberally encourage the progress of scientific schools.
To give a fair example of the wonderful work of science in the freeing of the mind from doubts and superstitions, we may turn to astronomy. The old speculative astronomy was perhaps the most fertile source of ridiculous fancies. The greatest work of the mighty minds that struggled with the problems of the stars resulted in theories that belong only,to dreamland. The truths of the heavens lay concealed through all the dark'centuries until the far-reaching machines of science came to penetrate the unknown depths of space. Imagination wrought evil, and error followed, doubt,
.. {Continued on page 629?} 7
Utility of Medical Institutions.
JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, A. B., ’99.
HE study of medicine, perhaps more * tha11 any ^e natural sciences, has helped toward our material and social progress. The medical profes-^j^L^sion in modern society is an honorable vocation of life, and therefore the good of our medical colleges ought now more than ever to excite our interest. My endeavor to-night shall be to give a few reasons why the welfare and perfection of our medical institutions deserve our attention. I shall show that they are a great benefit to the community for two special reasons—they supply us with good physicians, and they alone promote and carry on original medical research, which has helped to attain much of ' our progress in modern times.
It is of the greatest importance that the community be well supplied with good physicians. To them the country entrusts the dearest of material things that men prize here below,— health and life. A patient is completely in the hands of him that is charged to cure him; hence, in proportion to the value of a trust is our«solicitude that he to whom we surrender ourselves be worthy of our confidence. Although man’s great concern always was that the-physicians be skilfuEand have a deep sense of responsibility, yet never so much so as now when the study of medicine becomes vaster and more scientific.' As the knowledge of medicine advances, there are greater chances that the physicians may not take the care required to fit themselves for the more exalted position that they are required to hold in society at the present time.
As the science of medicine becomes vaster, greater power of comprehension and greater skill in the physician are required. Good physicians can come forth only from good medical colleges; for we can not expect from a student more than he is taught. Inxeperienced physicians bring about a greater loss of life in a short time than our late war with its accompanying yellow-fever epidemic; but incompetent colleges do greater harm still by overflooding a. country with this evil of partial instruction. Numerous small medical institutions should then be discountenanced, because they do not attain the end for which they were intended. Some persons with a noble philan
/
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thropic spirit spend money in founding an imperfect medical school, and they never think that they do the community the greatest harm. In no profession can we afford to have second-rate men, still less in the medical profession, for we are thus undermining our own lives. Endowment of small colleges is rather an encouragement of the evil. We should not be anxious to have many bad medical colleges— a few good ones are more useful.
Most of the utility of good medical colleges comes from original research. Skill is not very progressive except in individuals; it is a personal quality. To original research we owe all the remedies and preventives of disease,, all the valuable discoveries for the alleviation of pain, and methods of treatment that modern medicine possesses. What could we do without antiseptics and anaesthetics, or the knowledge of bacteria and their influence in contagious diseases?
Without antitoxines and systems of sanitation we should be as defenseless as were the people of the Middle Ages when the much-dreaded black death and other contagious diseases devastated Europe and Asia. Whole countries were depopulated. While one of the visitations of the bubonic plague lasted in the city of Cairo in the fourteenth century, from 10,000 to 15,000 persons fell victims daily. In China nearly 13,000,000 died. India, Tartary Mesopotamia, Syria and Armenia were covered with corpses. The dead could not be buried fast enough by their wretched survivors, while their unburied bodies gave forth new contagions. It has been calculated that no less than 23,840,000 persons in Europe and Asia were swept away by a scourge that by far surpassed the cruelty and ravages of Mongol and other barbarian’ invasions.
In modern times with the full knowledge and control we possess over disease-germs, such ravages as I have cited are absolutely impossible. The use made of antiseptics and the knowledge of Bacteriology render such a calamity out of the question. It might be objected, however, that even in our day the bubonic plague rages in India and carries off thousands of people as did that epidemic in the Middle Ages. We must remember, however, that the inhabitants of India will not follow the directions of a competent board of health, but rather do all in their power to spread the contagion by the preservation of the bodies of their dead relatives and friends in their huts and homes.
623
We should then do all in our power to facilitate means for original research. There are still many diseases for which a remedy or preventive has not yet been found. We must look to our medical institutions for a cure for consumption. Much attention has lately been directed to the study of the brain and nervous systems, and immense benefit has resulted both to the sciences of medicine and psychology. Perhaps the day is not far off when epilepsy and other baffling diseases will be as successfully cured as a wound in the hand. From what medical colleges have done and are still doing in discoveries we can safely predict what they may and can do in the future. No one before Pasteur’s time had any notion that hydrophobia could be cured. Yet the success that has been attained in this direction is surprising even to us at present.
Before Pasteur’s time statistics show that more than sixteen per centum of people bitten by mad dogs developed hydrophobia and died. Pasteur on one occasion during eleven months treated 140 patients. If we regard his method as useless one hundred and eighteen of these at least should have died. Only, four fell victims to the scourge. In less than a year he had saved 114 lives.	‘
I shall, however, consider some diseases that are more common, or have in the course of the history of man caused greater misery. In every case of .contagious disease original research has been equal to the occasion, and generally a remedy or preventive has been found. Typhus fever committed great ravages until almost the present day. “The complete history of typhus,” says Murchison, “would be the history of Europe for the last three and a half centuries.” At present there are physicians that during a course of practice for a lifetime hardly meet half a dozen cases. The reason for the staying of the contagion can readily be found in the.improved means of sanitation that have been prescribed by health boards after these methods had been discovered by investigations in our medical institutions.
Typhoid fever is more easily preventable than typhus. So true is this that an English writer has boldly declared that “for every case of typhoid fever some one should be hanged.” , In fact, the time has already come when most of the victims of contagious disease perish not of the contagion, but because they-would not listen to the warning of physicians and sanitary commissions. We complain too much
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ■
of bad physicians. More lamentable is the opposition of ignorant people to the methods prescribed by medical science.
There are few persons that have not witnessed opposition to vaccination as a preventive of small pox. Even at present there is still marked aversion for our lately discovered antitoxines, yet test and time have shown that these are our only means of combatting successfully and scientifically the contagions that have until lately dealt havoc among the human race without .opposition.
Cases of small pox are now comparatively rare, yet not long ago this was one of the most dreaded of scourges. Last century scarcely any one was to be met in Great Britain that had not had the disease.. Sixty million died of it during this hundred years. In fact, two million died in one year alone. In an asylum for the blind, two-thirds of the inmates had lost their sight from small pox. In Mexico alone during, the sixteenth century as many as three
a common opinion that all these discoveries in science are found by chance. It is a pity that men do not know or can not be made to understand all the arduous efforts of a discoverer. Success is glorious; but we deserve the honor of victory only when great sacrifice has been undergone to gain a noble end. Remarkable discoveries in science and art take place sometimes apparently by chance, but it is strange that none of these remarkable chance discoveries occur among the aborigines of Australia. Columbus did not. discover America by staying at home. In general, we obtain only what we look for, and the, discovery, though glorious, might, if measured rightly, sometimes seem to repay the scientist but little when we consider that.it was often obtained after the effor.ts of a lifetime.
The man that has ; devoted himself to original research has little to gain. Especially with regard to a discovery in medicine; the public receives all the benefit. Pasteur and'
and one half million of people died of this Koch never patented their discoveries. All they received was recognition from learned
contagion.
. To illustrate the efficiency of vaccination as a remedy for small pox one example is sufficient, though more striking ones might be supplied without number. Before the Franco-Prussian war, the German soldiers had. been vaccinated, and only two hundred and sixty-one cases of small pox occurred. The French, on the contrary, had not taken .the precaution, and the number of victims of the disease was 23,469. A person that served in the hospital at the time once told me that bn one occasion when in charge of a ward he alone had no less than a dozen cases under his immediate care. . ■, -b" ,	; . • ' '	.
The discoveries of medical colleges are also of great commercial importance. In.1892 the cholera broke out in Hamburg and its vicinity. In Altona, not far, away, the inhabitants fol-
societies, and many others that are forgotten received nothing for. their, devotedness to the improvement of man and often died in poverty. Had Pasteur obtained the one-hundredth of the profits derived solely from saving the silkworm industry in France, he would have been the richest man in Europe., His experiments that resulted in the discovery of a preventive for hydrophobia led to the erection throughout France of establishments where people are cured and cared for free of charge. Yet the objection is made that medical colleges and medical discoveries result solely in the profit of the founders and discoverers.
Since all these benefits are derived from original research the mem that had devoted themselves to this pursuit should receive all honor.. Alexander and Caesar, Hannibal and lowed the advice of the ^sanitary commission Napoleon sacrificed thousands of lives to andbuilt a filtration plant. Accordingly . only gain prosperity for some other thousands of 516 cases of the disease occurred. In Hamburg , their followers or simply to gratify their own
the city, officials would not incur the expense ambition. The discoveries of bacteria, and the . of filtering the water. Commerce and business influence of these germs in the spreading of were stagnated by; the contagion and quaran- contagious diseases, have saved hundreds of tine laws, and the city lost from five to ten thousands of lives without sacrificing any. times the sum asked for prevention, together While the ambitious projects of generals and with 7614 of7 the lives ; of its inhabitants— kings :have often increased the miseries of nearly thirteen* times those that perished at countless human beings, the discoverers of Altona. =	. ' L	\	:	antiseptics and anaesthetics,, by which surgical
, Many people become indifferent to the good operations are rendered-harmless and painless, ?
done by'medicalcolleges, especially :to the have done an inestimable service to mankind • Benefits -oforiginal research}-b^dause;;there is without ever: incurring a partia or accidental -
NOTRE DAME
J	'
disadvantage to anyone. Moreover, in doing their duties in attendance on patients afflicted with contagious diseases, physicians frequently expose their lives to a . more dreadful enemy than the soldier meets in battle.
There are, however, other standards by which merit is measured. If the attainment of the greatest benefit to-mankind with the noblest and dearest sacrifice is as good a criterion of true glory as any, then honor to the good physician to whom honor is due. There are other heroes besides bur heroes of war, arid before we attempt in our age of advancement, civilization and culture, to eliminate war and establish a Utopian reign of peace, we should first try to find out who are our truest heroes. A country has many a martyr that never-fought its battles, but that have done and sacrificed as much for the good of man’as the soldiers that defend their country in a just cause:
Valedictory.
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, A. B., ’99.
■gSmAAREWELLS for the most part are either hollow or false. Often we say good-bye while our faces belie us; often our lips are moved by words the f heart repudiates. At times we say farewell where there is no parting.
It. is so .with the college man upon his graduation day. The severing from old friends and familiar places, ffom habits that are dear and customs that are loved, seems to demand that one word—farewell. It is.here he errs; he deceives himself, for there is no parting. He forgets that, although he no longer greets the same men, ribr looks upon the same scenes, they have not passed from his life. He has been graduated, but he' has not left college. No man who has absorbed even a tithe of what is good arid noble and true in his college education, can say farewell. His life is woven inextricably with the life of his Alma. Mater. He passes .from study to action, arid;fhe loftier ‘ his actions the more closely is he bound to his college.	. ,	.
By his actions we may judge how far he has profited by the few years spent at the university of his choice'. We see -the men of a ’ college Tri thexworld,' an d instinctively we judgectheir Alma Mater: Their lives are a reflection^ of Their; college training, and by
SCHOLASTIC. .	. J;625
th is . reflection we know how they; have' been T; x’STT trained. .	- ;	; X. x: ; x'< XT£TTXXT
The lives of some men are more pfominentT^ and brilliant than others; yet too oftenAvhenTT;^ we look closely we find that certain 4iries areT; XTU, -wanting. The education of these men has	.:
not been completed; they have but paftiaHyX.^ attained the education for. which they-haveTTx;;;Xx striven. When we find many men of this same	-
stamp coming from one institution, we. areVTXX^ but right in judging that somewhere existsxTXX a flaw; that in some respects the system is XTTT faulty.	’ '	'	/ XX-TT
' This defect is generally an utter ignorance . of things divine. This ignorance is the result X either of choice or neglect, and since we areX;;xjxx: certain that there are but few men who would;; T'T,X;T willfully disregard their God, we must' con-	T
elude that their igriorance is the result of a	X
flaw in their education. Assuredly the .educa-'	X;
tion that remedies this defect is nearest the	.
ideal. . .	X • . x x^
Catholic education in its highest sense is	.
the development of the soul through the	>
mediufn of the mind. The fault of the defec- f. x -tive systems lies in their ideals. Brilliancy ,T unfortunately is .more attractive ..than solidity TXx The glitter of cleverness dazzles us and pre-. XX x vents us from seeing the shabby and unstable foundations that the tarnish of tinier* must;,X	X
expose to view. . X xTXTjTTT
Gentlemen of the' Faculty:—Gratitude	.
and not custom has caused each succeeding class to bid you farewell. From you indeed .. . there is a true parting, since we may no longer seek of you that advice and instruction that; have been so kindly given. We_ go to join a X - ; host, of those who in other days have said , these same things; you, remain to send afterus . those who will aid in the social uplifting. We . . . go to seek the honor of God, our country and .	.
our college. If we obtain this honor we will • have made the . highest, return in bur power, i . ; If we fail by reason of bur weakness, it shall . . X .. be with .the knowledge that you at least sympathize with us.\ To youthen we bid X X T. farewell. T ■'	~ .T -'x,' X J TTX? T'X-. x ■
' Members of the Class :—Our college course ? e X at times, has seemed, long and. wearisome, toXX . ./ ■ iis? It lies behind us now, and we know wherein“ , \ T T we have failed arid ’where we have .succeeded;.:. X-T. . .For us there is’ no. present—it is all past arid x T” future. Our lives will be what we make'themT-. .. XX failures or successes. And since we all ‘strive TxxX for the samejend—success—it is with the hope XT XX of; again meeting That , we; now say^ farewell 1;T X. xT x?Jx
6z6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WWE SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, July 1, 1899.
IBublisIjrb tbcro .Saturbas during ®crm ffiimr at £L. B. ©nibtrsitj.
Entered assecond-class matter atthe Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, 'g 7 ;
SHERMAN STEELE, ’g7; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, '98;
RAYMOND O’MALLEY, '98; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99;
JOHN J. DOWD, ’99; EUGENE A. DELANEY, '99;
EDWARD C. BROWN, '99; JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99;
JULIUS NIEUWLAND, ’99; JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, '99; LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99 ; FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY, ’OOJ LOUIS C. M. REED, igOO; THOMAS J. DILLON, I9OO;
ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, IgOO.
H. P. BARRY,	)
t Reporters.
HENRY S. FINK,	\
The Fifty-Fifth Commencement.
ROM time to time during the past ten months it has been a pleasant duty of the Scholastic to tell of successes in various departments at Notre Dame. There have been achievements
in debate, in wireless telegraphy, in theatricals, in athletics, all of which tests and contests of skill and strength have contributed to make our college better known and more highly respected by the world at large. In no case, however, have the students considered any of these things as, ends in themselves, but rather as manifestations of the substantial character of the work that is doing here. It is now our pleasure to chronicle the rewards for that work which came to individual students in the Fifty-fifth Commencement.
The Solemn High Mass, with which Commencement is always opened, took.place on Sunday, June n. The Reverend President Morrissey celebrated, assisted by the Reverend James J. French as Deacon and the Reverend Martin J. Regan as Subdeacon. The Reverend Luke J. Evers, A. B., ’79, A. M., ’86, Pastor of St. Andrew’s Church, New York City, preached the Baccalaureate sermon. As might be expected, this discourse of an old student was
of .great interest and of much benefit to those who heard it. The practical quality of Father Evers’ sermon was what distinguished it most. He pictured to the young men the kind of structures their characters should be, and showed them the necessity of building solidly and broadly in the beginning. Only the firmest foundations will.be serviceable when it comes to rearing temples of noble, Christian, manly virtues. In the very starting of a career it is necessary to see ahead, and a man’s after-life will be limited by the fulness and distinctness of this first vision. The highest ideal must be always in mind; then working upto it becomes comparatively easy. The trouble with men of to-day is that their ideals are unworthy. There is too little thought of eternity amongst us, and too much thought of gold and fleeting pleasures. The result is a tendency to materialism. The speaker also referred to the value of religion in life. He warned the graduates that they were going out into the world not as scholars so much as Catholics; and that unless they hold fast to the principles they have received in their religious training here, they will have no right to call themselves loyal sons of Notre Dame. They may be successful, but they will not gain the success their Alma Mater wishes them to have—a success reflecting credit on herself as a Catholic college and on her sons as good and faithful servants who do not bury their talents but use them well.
At two o’clock Sunday afternoon solemn Benediction was. given, after which Reverend President Morrissey asked.all to join in a Tc Deuni of grateful thanksgiving. The hearty response that greeted this request showed itself in the inspiring manner in which the grand old hymn was rendered.
The first day’s exercises closed with a most enjoyable band concert. Before the whole student body and a throng of visitors who had assembled on the college lawn, Professor McLaughlin’s men discoursed good music till the June twilight gave, way to darkness. “The Light Cavalry Overture” was, of course, received with greatest applause. The other selections were as follows: “El Capitan,” “ Her Grace” Waltz, “La Fiesta” March,'“Don Juan,” “The Banner” March, “ Belford’s Carnival, “ Liebestraume,”.and “The Stars and Stripes.” -
Monday and Tuesday were given over to the final examinations for , undergraduates and to the reception.of visitors. The Chicago.delegation.of Alumni and friends did not arrive
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
627
at the University till about 10.30 Wednesday morning. Shortly after that hour the band escorted them to St. Joseph’s Lake, the banks of which were already lined with a crowd of enthusiasts eager to witness the regatta. Just as the procession reached the site of the old icehouse every eye was turned to the lower end of the lake where the crews of the Evangeline and Minnehaha were in position for the start. At a signal the oars were dipped deep into the .water, and the first race was on. Both crews were strong throughout the first length, and the turn was taken by both at almost the same moment. The men in the Minnehaha, however, worked better against the stiff breeze that was blowing on the downward course, so that they had a marked advantage at the second turn. This advantage they maintained to the end, finishing two boat lengths ahead. The crews were made up as follows:
Minnehaha	Evangeline
P. Butler.............No. 1.............M. Morales
St. J. O’Sullivan.....No. 2.............J. Berry (C.)
J. Kinney ........... No. 3..........S. Stuhlfauth
C. Baab...............No. 4.........  F.	McCollum
E. McCarthy...........No. 5.............E. Guerra
W. Shea (C.)..........No. 6.............P. Hartung
R. Wilson.............Coxswain............R. Krost
The second race between the crews of the Golden Jubilee and Silver Jubilee was, more exciting, greater interest being centred in it on account of the ability of the men who composed the contesting crews. For two lengths of the lake neither boat was so far ahead as to make the race tame, but on the home stretch the Golden Jubilee forged to the front and crossed the line well in the lead. The crews:
Golden Jubilee	Silver Jubilee
R. Fox.................No.	1...............F.	Bouza
R. Garza.............No. 2...............F.	Bouwens
J. Kraus...............No.	3........... ..P.	Diskin
J. O’Brien..........  .No.	4...............E.	Brown
G. Lins (C.)...........No.	5...............A.	Fortin
A. Rahe..............No. 6.... .'........A. Van Hee
J. Touhy.............Coxswain..........J.	Mullen (C.)
The closest contest of the regatta was between crews in the, four-oared boats, Yosemite and -Montmorency. The former won by a small margin. The boats were manned as follows:
Yosemite	Montmorency
A. Gibbons........... No. 1............ • • -F. Schott
P. Butler.............No. 2............R.	Emerson
E. Sheekey.....?......No. 3............F. Kasper
J. Frazer (C.)........No. 4	....E. Darst (C.)
R. Krost............Coxswain..............C. Reuss
The closing.exercises of St. Edward’s Hall took place at 2 o’clock, Wednesday afternoon. Part of these exercises were made up, as in
former years, of a. well-arranged programme of recitations and dialogues, interspersed with vocal and instrumental music. The singing was particularly good, and two or three of the recitations , showed the effects of careful training. We need hardly add, of course, that every Minim who spoke or sang reflected credit on his kind teachers. The exercises were concluded with the distribution of premiums— always, so far as the boys of St. Edward’s are concerned, the greatest event of Commencement. After this Father Morrissey complimented the young students on the work of the year, congratulated them on the fact that that work was now over, and wished them the joys of a well-earned vacation.
During the afternoon the visitors were entertained on Brownson campus, and many were privileged to enjoy a very creditable Art Exhibition. The department of mechanical drawing, conducted by Professor Ackerman, was of interest to many old students in the. engineering courses; and the designs of bridges and culverts and engines and pumps were pronounced excellent. But Professor Paradis’ studio attracted most of the visitors. This department has been in existence only one year, and the methods of teaching employed have hardly had a thorough test. Notwithstanding these facts, the work displayed provoked enthusiastic comments.
The exercises of Wednesday evening in Washington Hall were the feature of the Commencement. The University Orchestra opened the programme with a march by Lachner. Then followed the first of the Bachelors’ Discourses. It was delivered by Mr. Edward C. Brown, who spoke on “The Utility of Universities.” Mr. Brown’s thoughtful oration elicited hearty applause. Then Mr. Eugene A. Delaney made an earnest plea for the study of the Natural Sciences. He spoke on “The Utility of Scientific Schools.” “La Scene de Ballet” was given by Mr. Michael J. McCormack in such artistic style that he was obliged to respond to an encore. Mr. Julius A.NieuwIand next treated “ The Utility of Medical Schools.” His oration was strong, and manifested a thorough study of the subject.
When Bishop Spalding went to the platform the audience was all expectation. And truly, no one could have been disappointed. The discourse was one of the deepest and most logical that the distinguished prelate has ever delivered at Notre Dame. The Bishop said in part:
628	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The orations that have preceded • me tell us of the advantages of scientific education..! would not say a word in depreciation of science. It is the instrument by which God places the resources of the material universe under our control. He has given us reason by which we may know the laws of the physical world. It is always, pleasant to witness the exercises of the young, who desire to grow that they may become the masters of larger and larger domains. But a man’s value is not measured by what.he knows.'A man is worth.what the things he loves best are worth. It is not what we know, but what we feel that gives us power. A school of philosophy, a very widespread school, has it for a principle that “ nothing is in the intellect which was not first in the senses, except the intellect itself.” Our knowledge comes through the senses and is derived; feeling is primary. The elementary feelings of hunger and thirst . makes us desire to know the things that will satiate them. It is the same when we go. up higher; our loftier feelings are productive of loftier knowledge. Of course, the nature of man is not simple. By thought man belongs to the world of intellect, by will to the moral world; his body makes him brother to the sluggish sod; his soul gives him companionship with angels. Again, the phases of human nature in the same individual are so various; the force of climate, of physical constitution, and the most trivial, accidental circumstances so marked, that the question of man’s perfect and complete education is difficult and involved. Religious faith, the' conditions of birth and country, national institutions and literature, , the scenes and occupations of childhood, habits—these, and a thousand other influences, go to mould character.'
What is man at present? What ought he to -be? What is his chief business in the world? Has he a destiny beyond this life? Hellenic religion had its origin in the deification of nature; the future life was to be cheerless in adand of shadows and gloorii; here we drink in the blessed light and air of heaven. In Sparta the whole aim was to discipline the man into-the soldier. In the Middle Ages an exaggerated notion of the worth of courage led to the fantastic extravagancy of knighterrantry. Feeling is the mainspring of action, and should be the motive of education. Roger Bacon’s axiom that “Knowledge is power” is fallacious. You can disprove anything by reasoning. There is nothing more familiar to us than motion; and yet you know how it is proved to be non-existent. A thing can not move where, it is, and it can not move where it is not; therefore, it can not ' move. There is, of course, value in knowledge. A scientific education gives the farmer knowledge which can
• be put to practical use in a thousand .ways.-Chemistry, zoology, botany, physiology, may, in the hands of:a scientist,. be . converted into, money. ..But this knowledge without faith, which science is coming to be, is materialistic and ruinous. It drags down the best in man and exalts what is worst in him. As Schiller grieved over the’deadrgods of Greece, this new philosophy is fillep . with the quiet sorro of fatalism in contemplating.the . old faith. That which began as the most self-satisfied optimism now fatally turns to pessimism. The universe . is ah eternal flow in which truth and beauty and goodness are but" the: changeful1 waves that float upon the great- world current of matter. - Each fact, each - individual, is a point of momentary rest.in the midst of universal mobility. Mathematics is valued only for its mechanical use ih building bridges, constructing forts aridindicating the proper angles for killing men atgiven distances.-The
philosopher is without honor. The average schoolboy pays more homage to the latest prize-fighter than to the poet; To-day the inind is taught that its chief use is to calculate profit and loss.	’
No hide-bound pedant can educate. Of man such a one knows only that he can be acted on by birchen rods. To educate we must touch the mysterious springs of love, fear, and wonder; of enthusiasm, poetry, religion. These are the inward and vital powers of man. That man is low and vulgar without high ideals or generous impulses or noble aspirations is the common testimony of all great thinkers.
Faith strengthens us,, enlightens us; with faith we can do all and dare all; for faith life itself has a thousand times been joyfully given away. And that is why the Catholic Church is right m holding so strictly to religion. Religion must not only inspire reverence for man, but must produce heroic types of men, saints of God, who in strong and painful wrestling with themselves and the spirits of darkness struggle upwards to peace and light. Reverence for those who are above us is a Christian virtue, which in this day has special need of being preached. We can preach doctrinal sermons to men Sunday after Sunday, we can explain and explain to them; but if they are not made to feel, feel, feel that it is right to do better and be better, purer men, our sermons will have no effect. As citizens we must feel it our duty to be better men; higher'men. We point to our millions of people, our millions of sheep, our millions of hogs, our millions of dollars, our boundless extent of territory,our railroads, our commercial enterprizes. We should1 point to our nobler, better, purer men and women. We are not concerned with wood and stone and iron, but with man.
St. Paul’s example of men who wrought great things by faith may- be generalized and applied universally. All heroic conduct springs from feeling. Knowledge alone does not suffice. The men who feel have been most conspicuous in the world’s history. It was what Columbus felt ’that led him to the discovery of this country. It was the feeling of the patriots that made the Declaration of Independence; it was the feeling of the warriors and statesmen who led the people through the Revolution that made our country possible. But now we are turning about. We are inconsistent in our actions; We are not in harmony with the feelings of the fathers who laid the foundation of . the Republic. Our disrespect for the marriage tie, our countless divorces, our lack of reverence for the home, for woman, for religion, is causing us to lose sight of the ideal. Let us believe in the worth of character. Let our patriotism be a sort of religion. Superficial minds, are fond of dwelling upon the evils religion has wrought;-but serious thinkers know that the ever-bpen and inexhaustible fountain of faith arid hope and love is belief in God.
On Thursday morning at half past eight o’clock the final exercises of Commencement were held in- Washington Hall. After the singing of “ Home, Sweet Home,” Mr. James J. Trahey stepped forward to read the class poem which appears in another column of this issue! Then Mr. John Fennessey, pronounced the formal word of farewell, and the Class of .’99 were facing the stern combat of life. Bishop Spalding, assisted By the Reverend President, distributed-the . medals-and diplomas, \ :
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
629
-	• . {Continued' from page 622^	-
until the accuracy of mathematics set forth the position and orderly ways of all the silent wayfarers of the skies. Compare the hypothesis of La Place with the myths that prevailed before the dawn of modern scientific thought. Compare the doctrine that traces everything back to its filmy, fiery origin with the doctrine that placed the planets, jewel-like, upon their settings in the fabled transparent spheres.
If the one work of astronomy had been the dispelling of doubts and superstitions, its work then would have been great; but this is not the only end of that science. The same rigid calculations that enable us to follow the motion of the heavenly bodies turn from their application to the stars and guide the mariner on the seas. The same crystal lenses that reveal the presence of distant, unseen suns bring down information that is an indispensable guide to the navigator. Without the chart that the astronomer prepares, the seaman would be baffled and bewildered on his trackless way.
A review of the wide work of scientific studies shows that the knowledge gained from science is necessary for the highest development of the mental faculties. A great part of the enlightenment of the nineteenth century is due to the progress of science during this era. The product of the twentieth century will be according to the development of science during the next century’s course. Science is now so far advanced that no step can be taken within its wide fields without the assistance of expensive instruments for investigation and experimentation. Laboratories fot scientific research are indispensable, and the methodical courses of science schools'are needed to set forth the facts that science has established.
Science, we conclude, turns the endless forces of nature to value for man; it frees the intellect; it cultivates accuracy, method, order; it inculcates a desire for unchallengeable truth. The close scrutiny of life under the microscope, the traversing of the limitless areas of the skies, the silent battling with the most subtle mathematics,—all work for the common good of man. Superstitions are overcome, and fancies give way to facts, then science advances to fathom what is yet unknown. This, varied work of science is divided and systematized by scientific schools, and to these schools we must look for the further promulgation of the broad, useful knowledge that science imparts.	.	.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES. ■
The Degree of Master of Science in Biology was conferred on Francis Joseph Powers, Trenton, N. J.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts in course was conferred on John F. Fennessey, Boston, Mass.; Julius A. Nieuwland, South Bend, Ind.; Matthew A. Schumacher, South Bend, Indiana; James J. Trahey, Michigan City, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on'Edward C. Brown, Sheldon, Iowa; John J. Dowd, Bristol, Ill.; Joseph F. Duane, . Peoria, Ill.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Julius A. Arce, Arequipa, Peru, S. America; Chester H. Atherton, Des Moines, la.; Eugene A. Delaney, Lykens, Pa.; Walter Geoghegan, Lockport, N. Y.; Wm. C. Kegler, Bellevue, la.; Maurice A. Neville, London, Ohio; Francis J. O’Hara, San Francisco, California; Thomas A. Steiner, Monroe, Mich.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on Edward H. Pulskamp, Celina, O.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was conferred on Wm. P. Grady, Chicago, III.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on Charles E. Blackman, Winona, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Stephen J. Brucker, Fond du Lac, Wis.; Patrick J. Corcoran, Riverton, Ill.; Leo Holland, London, Ohio; Joseph M. Haley, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Paul E. Hartung, Chicago, Ill.; Jacob J. Kraus, Pittsburgh, Pa.; J. F. Murphy, Chebanse, Ill.; John R. Meyers, Pekin, Ill.; Michael J. McCormack, Memphis, Tennessee; Thomas M. Hoban, South Bend, Ind.; Stephen B. Pickett, Toledo, Ohio; Sherman R. Steele, Columbus, Ohio; Edward J. Walsh, Kilkenny, Ireland; Louis T. Weadock, Saginaw, Mich.; Edward J. Yockey, Escanaba, Mich.
Commercial Course.
Commercial Course Diplomas were awarded to B. Clement, Notre Dame, Ind.; B. Ernest, Notre Dame, Ind.; Ladislaus A. Wieczorek, South Bend, Ind.; John. F. Donovan, Beresford, South Dakota; Stanislaus P. Drejer, South Bend, Ind.; Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Ill.; Meddie W. Crepeau, South Bend, Ind.; Frederick J., Kasper, Chicago, Ill.; Albert C. Fortin, Chicago, Ill.	.
Certificates in Telegraphy were awarded to Jose Mendoza, Guzman, Jalisco, Mex.; Louis M. Fetherston. What Cheer. Iowa.
NOTRE ’DAME SCHOLASTIC.
630
Prize Medals.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan of Chicago, for the student having the best record in the Classical Course, senior year, was awarded to James J. Trahey, Michigan City, Indiana.
The Mason Medal, presented by George Mason Mr. of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year, was awarded to Raymond V. Stephan, Scales Mound, Ill.
The'Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon. Wm. P. Breen, ’77, of Fort Wayne, was awarded to Paul J. Ragan, Maumee, Ohio. 'The~Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented by Mrs. James Meehan of Covington, ;Kentucky, not awarded.
The' Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A:S. Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best record in Mathematics, was awarded to Eugene A. Delaney, Lykens, Penn.
The University Gold Medal for proficiency in Mathematics during the four years of the Collegiate Course, donated by the Notre Danie University Association of Chicago, was awarded to Thomas Steiner, Monroe, Mich.
The Rademacher Grand Gold Medal, donated by the Right Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, for Christian Doctrine in Brownson, Hall First Course, was awarded to John F. Farley, Patterson,'New Jersey.
The-Medal'for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Second Course, was awarded to Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois.
The Gold -Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Third Course, was awarded to Thomas J. Murphy, New York City.
The Gold 'Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, First Course, was awarded to Thomas J. Murray, New York City.,
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, Second Course, was awarded to George J. McCambridge, Morris, Illinois.	.
:The Commercial .Gold Medal for. highest standing in the senior year Commercial,.was awarded to Anton Stephan, Scales Mound, Ill.
The Barry Elocution ’Medal in Brownson Hall, donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry of Chicago,-was ^awarded to Alfred J. Duperier, New.Jberia, La.
Gold Medal for Elocution in =. Carroll Hall was-awarded to,Frederick Schoonover, Duluth, Minn.	.
Gold Medal for Elocution; in Holy Cross Hall
was awarded-to Charles L.^Euart, Providence, Rhode Island.
The Military 1st Prize Medal, Carroll • Hall, was awarded to Ralph J. Ellwanger, Dubuque, Iowa.
The Military 2d Prize Medal, Carroll' Hall, was awarded to Grover C. Davis, Muncie, Ind.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The Gold Medal for improvement in Piano was awarded to Paulus T. Bortell.
The Silver Medals for improvement in Piano were awarded to Kenneth E. Casparis,* William P. McNamee.	.
First Honor Awards.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brownson Halls, who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Eugene A. Delaney, Lykens, Pennsylvania, (3d renewal); Thomas A. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan (2d renewal); William P. Monahan, . Chicago; St. John P. O’Sullivan, Louisville, Ky.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Edward C. Brown, Sheldon, Iowa; Anthony F. Dorley, Lancaster, Penn.; Francis J. O’Hara, San Francisco, Cal.
BROWNSON HALL.
[No First Honor Medal awarded this year.]
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Peter B. Lennon, Lennon, Mich.; Eugene T. Ahern, Campus, Ill.; Robert A. Kafton, Tyndall, South Dakota; Philip B. O’Neill, Anderson, Indiana; Francis C. Schwab,’Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Deportment Prize Medals.
[Gold Medal, for Deportment are awarded to, pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s, Hall, who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Albert L. Krug (renewal); James E. Morgan (renewal); Thos. J. Murray (renewal); William H. N. Maher (renewal), Thomas E. McCarthy (renewal), Jos. A. Clyne, J. Howard Furlong, Lawrence H. Luken, John.L. S. Putnam, John M. Quinlan, Hugh St. Clair Ward.
jST. [EDWARD’S HALL.
William J?Butler,Henry CMDowner,-Henry Donahoe, Wallace W. Hall, Albert -Fuchs, -J.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Benjamin Houser, Hugh W. P. Huleatt, Alex. M. McFarland, David J. Topper, Carlisle, R. Giffen, John B. Erwin (renewal).
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls, who have spent two full years at Norte Dame, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Lorenzo Hubbell, Guillermo Ordetx, Joseph J. Mulcare, Francis J. Phillip.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Carl Fuchs, Clarence J. McFarland, Charles E. Bortell, Frederick J. Fogarty, Huntington St. Clair, Carl J. Ninnemann, Belford C. McMaster, George P. Phillip.
Deportment Certificates.
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls, who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
A. Brown, M. Cooney, D. Cooney, H. Goodall, W. Irwin, A. Ill, J. Krupka, E. Macdonald, H. Manderfeld, H. Muno, D. Mahoney, J. McConnachie, G. McCambridge, J. Newman, W. Norton, J. Neeson,'C. Nissler, C. Rush, W. Reihing, G. Sinnott, R. Stephan, J. Storrs, J. Willard, H. Warner, F. Walsh, D. O’Connell.
. ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Henry J. Boyle, Howard C. Cary, Lorenzo J. Deur, Francis M. Day, John Kirwan, Wm. P. McNamee, Geo. J. McNamee, Chas. P. McNamee, Hugh C. Ratchford, Bryan M. Taylor, John R. Griffith, Claire Schonlau, Edgar J. Sinnott, William B. Manion.
Premiums.
SORIN HALL.
Arce, Julius—Premium in Assaying.
Brown, Edward—1st Premium in Political Economy, Constitutional History and Evidences of Religion, 2d in Belles Lettres and Typewriting.
Cypher, George—3d Premium in Elementary Zoology, Mention in Elementary Physiology.	‘
Cornell, Francis—2d Premium in Logic.
Dowd, John—1st Premium in Constitutional History and 1st French, 2d in Political Economy.
‘ Dwyer, Vincent—2d Premium in 2d Latin, 3d in Logic Mention in 2d Greek.
Duane, Joseph—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy, 3d Premim in Political Economy, Mention in Evidences of Religion.	. .
Diskin, Patrick—Mention in Evidences of Religion.
Dbrley, Anthony—1st Premium in Calculus and
Mechanical Drawing; Premium in Engineering, Analytic Mechnnics, Descriptive Geometry and Higher Surveying, 2d Premium in General Physics. '
Delaney, Eugene—1st Premium in Civil Engineering, 2d in Analytic Mechanics, Graphic Statics, Mechanics of - Materials and Sanitary Engineering, Mention in Evidences of Religion and Hydraulics.	,
Duperier, Alfred—2d Premium in 2d Geometry.
Fennessey, John—Premium in Political Economy, Mention in 1st Latin.
Fogarty, James—2d Premium in Evidences of Religion, , Mention in Literature.
Fox, Robert—2d Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Funk, Robert—Mention in Qualitative Chemistry, ' Analytic Chemistry and Elementary Botany. .
Forbing, John—Premium in Advanced and Analytic Chemistry.
Grady, William—Premium in Human Anatomy, Advanced Histology and Advanced Zoology.
Gibson, Norwood—2d Premium in Operative Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy, Premium in Advanced Qualitative Chemistry and Analytic Chemistry, Mention in Assaying-and Elementary Botany.
Garza, Rodolfa—1st Premium in Elementary Chemistry and Analytic Geometry, 3d in Instrumental Music, Mention in Elementary Physics.
Hay, Edward—Mention in Land Surveying.
Hanhouser, George—1st Premium in Phonography, 2d in English History, Mention in Literature, Elementary Physics and Evidences of Religion.
Holland, Leo—1st Premium in English History.
Johnson, J. Gillespie—Mention in Spanish.
Krost, Robert—1st Premium iu Elementary Zoology, Elementary Histology, 3d French and 3d German, 2d Premium in Elementary Histology, Mention in Evidences of Religion.	'
Kraus, Jacob—Mention in Spanish.
Lilly, John—2d Premium in Evidences of Religion
Mention in 3d Latin and Literature.
Medley, Thomas—1st Premium in Spanish.
Mullen, John—2d Premium in Calculus, Mention in Higher Surveying.
Monahan, William—1st Premium in 3d German and Evidences of Religion, 2d in Medieval History.
McGinnis, James—2d Premium in Evidences of Religion, 3d in Elementary Chemistry and Elementary Physics, Mention in 2d Latin.
Neville, Maurice—1st Premium in Sanitary Engineering, Analytic Mechanics, Civil Engineering, Graphic
Statics and Mechanics of Materials, 2d in Hydraulics and Logic.
O’Sullivan, St. John—1st Premium in 2d Latin, Criticism and Evidences of Religion, 2d in 2d Greek, 3d' inPolitical Economy and Logic. '
O’Shaughnessy, Francis—Mention in Spanish.
O’Hara, Francis—1st Premium in Logic, Hydraulics, Sanitary Engineering and General Physics.
O’Connor, William—Mention in Literature.
O’Malley, Raymond—Premium in Greek. •
Pickett, Stephen—1st Premium in Logic.
Powers, J. Fred—1st Premium in Typewriting, 2d in .
Instrumental Music.	’
Pulskamp, Edward H.—Premium in Steam Engine
Design.	’
.Ragan,- Paul—1st Premium in Instrumental Music.
Shiels, Joseph—1st Premium in 2d Greek, Mention in Logic and 2d Latin	.	.	.
Stuhlfauth, George—Mention in Analytic Mechanics;
6^2 ,	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Steiner, Thomas—1st Premium in Analytic Mechanics and Mechanics of Materials, 2d in Sanitary Engineering, Civil Engineering, Graphic Statics and Hydraulics.
Weadock, Louis—Mention in English History.
BROWNSON HALL.	'
Arana, Victor—2d Premium in Freehand Drawing and 1st Grammar, Mention in 2d Algebra and 1st German.
Adams, William—Mention in 7th Latin and 3d Christian Doctrine.
Ahem, Eugene—1st Premium in 6th Latin, 2d in Advanced Christian Doctrine, Mention in 6th Greek and 3d French.
Brogan, Anthony—1st Premium in 3d German.
Baldwin, William—1st Prmium in Literature, Mention in 3d German, Advanced Christian Doctrine and 3d French.
Bouza, Francis—2d Premium in Instrumental Music, 3d in Artistic Drawing.
Baer, Frederick—1st Premium in General Descriptive Chemistry, Elementary Physics and Analytic Geometry, • Premium in 2d German.
Brand, William—Mention. in Composition.
Bouza, John—1st Premium in Instrumental Music, 2d iri 4th Algebra, Mention in 2d Grammar.
Berry, William—3d Premium in Literature.
Berry, James—3d Premium in Chemistry.
Burg, Leo—3d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Becker, Alphonse—Mention iri Instrumental Music.
Becker, John—1st Premium in -2d Reading, Mention in 2d Orthography.
Butler, Philip—2d Premium in 1st Grammar, Mention in" 3d Algebra.
Bernard, B—2d Premium in Composition.
Crumley, Harold—1st Premium in Rhetoric, 2d in 1st Algebra, Mention in 1st Geometry.
Cortes, Carlos—1st Premium in Mechanical Drawing and 1st Grammar, Mention in 2d Algebra.
Connor, Michael—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Clement, B.—1st Premium in Composition, Mention in
2d “Algebra.	’	’
Devine, Mark—Mention in Instrumental Music.
Dihneri, William—3d Premium in Elementary Physics, Mention in 5th Latin.	,
Dalton, William—2d Premium in 6th Latin, 3d in English History.	,
.. Dominguez, Raphael—1st . Premium inf Chemistry, 2d in Elementary Zoology, Premium in Surveying, Men-., tion.in Elementary Physics arid Instrumental Music.
DeVore, Charles—Mention in 3d Grammar and 1st / an^ Miscrpscopy, 2d in Rhetoric and 7th Latin, Mention
Orthography.	:
Dillon, Thomas—3d Premium in Telegraphy. .
_ Dariaher, Ray—3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctririe, ■ Mention in Algebra. _ \	<	•
Drejer, Stanislaus—1st Premium in 4th German,.Men-tion in Advanced-Arithmetic and Composition.
Donovan, John—3d Premium in Special Orthography, 'Merition in ist4Bookkeeping. ..	; f.	.
7 Daly, Charles—1st Premium; in Special Orthography, - 2d in .2d Arithmetic, Premium in Penmanship..
J. : Emerson, Ritchie—Mention fin Christian /Doctrine.
Elitch, Charles—ist Premium in Artistic; Drawing. 3 . / .Ernest, B.—3d Premium in Composition.. - f .f \ ? Farragher, John—1st Premium in 2d Grammar.;	.
Farley.John—istPremium .in Advanced iChristian '■i Doctrine., ’ P/;' ,, •' ’ ... ; ;	' '•/ J
< Folomir, Jose—2d Premium in Elementary Physics,
Trigonometry and Mechanical Drawing, Mention in Composition.	.
Featherston,' Louis—1st Premium in Phonography Typewriting and Telegraphy, 2d in Modern History, Mention in Advanced Christian Doctrine. .
Fortin, Albert—1st Premium in Composition, 2d in 1st Bookkeeping and Advanced Arithmetic.
Fazendin, Joseph—2d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping,
Mention in 1st Arithmetic. ,
Gooley, Lawrence—1st Premium in 2d Reading and 2d Orthography.
Gaston, F.—2d Premium in Analytic Geometry, 1st in 1st Algebra.
Guilfoyle, William—Mention in Literature and 3d German.
Guerra, Enrique—2d Premium in Trigonometry and Mechanical Drawing.	<■
Graham, Thomas—1st Premium in Elementary Zoology and Mechanical Drawing, 2d in Rhetoric. ■
Hierholzer, Aloysius—1st Premium in 2d Grammar and U. S. History, Mention in ^Christian Doctrine.
Hayes, John E.—1st Premium in Rhetoric, Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine. .
Hayes, Arthur—Mention in Elementary Physics and Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Hayes, John P,—2d Premium in 3d Latin, 1st Premium
in Modern History, Mention in Elementary and 3d French.
Hennebry, John—1st Premium in Special raphy and 2d Grammar, 3d in 2d Arithmetic.
Herbert, Martin — Mention in Telegraphy Grammar.	.
Physics
Orthog-
and 3d
•Hamilton, Richard—1st Premium in 1st Orthography.
Mention in 3d Grammar.
Harrington, Thomas—3d Premium in Arithmetic.
Hoban, M. J—1st Premium in English History. ’
Johnson, Ernest—3d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping, Mention in Special Orthography. .	.	.
Kasper, Fred—3d Premium, in Instrumental Music.
Kinney, Joseph—1 st Premium in 2d Geometry, 2d in 3d Algebra.,	,	'
• Kafton, Robert;—fst Premium in 6th Latin, 3d in 6th
Greek, Premium in 4th German, Mention in Rhetoric.
Kelly, George—ist Premium in 3d Algebra.
Kehoe, James—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine., Kelly, James W.—2d Premium in 7th Latin. •
Kuppler, George—Mention in 6th Latin and Rhetoric.
Kachur, Albert—Premium in Chemistry Analysis.
Lins, George—1st Premium in Elementary Botany
in General Descriptive, Chemistry and General Biology. -„ Lennon, Peter—Mention in 7th Latin and Rhetoric.
Locke, J. C.—-2d -Premium in Rhetoric, Mention, iri
2d German. ■'	-	. . .	'	.
. Mendoza, Jose.—2d Premium in Telegraphy 3d in 3d Gramriiar.. :•	■ /	;	'
Merz, Arthur — Mention > in: 3d Latin and Advanced Christian Doctrine.r Z	;
. Murray, Joseph—2dPremium in 3d Christian Doctrine
. .Maurin, Francis—1st Premium iri 4th Latin, 3d Pre-miun in Rhetoric, t \	*	■ ..
f Murphy,; Thomas—- fst Premium in 3d Christian
.-Doctrine.;v''’.;;'.‘
. Murphys Francis—2d Premium in 1st Geography and -
U. S. History.. .	.... -	‘	/
-McCblluriaf (Eiancis Premium > in Instrumental
Music, Mentioh/infCriticism; < 7'5-
V
NOTRE DAME
. Moore, William — Mention in Bookkeeping and . Composition.	. .
Moren, Paul — ist Premium in ist Reading, Mention in Orthography.	v
. McDonald, Angus—Mention in Advanced-Christian Doctrine.	'	. •
■'	McCarthy, Eugene—Mention in 7th' Latin. ■
McKeever, Francis—ist Premium in 4th German, 2d in Literature, Mention in 5th Latin., McNichols, William—3d Premium in Typewriting, Mention in Telegraphy,	.
McNulty, Michael—3d Premium in ist Orthography, Mention in ist Reading.	.
McCarthy, Daniel—3d Premium in Advanced Christian Doctrine, Mention in 6th Greek. ,
Nast, Edward—Mention in Composition and 2d Christian Doctrine.	.	,
Nies, Charles—ist Premium in Theoretical Pharmacy, Materia Medica, Pharmacognosy, Operative Pharmacy, and Algebra, 3d Premium in ist Latin, 2d in Elementary . Botany.	.
, O’Neill, Philip—2d Premium in English History.
O’Brien, John—ist Premium in 2d Bookkeeping 2d in ist Arithmetic.	,	.	.
O’Reilly, Joseph—ist Premium in 2d German, 3d in '	■ 2d Algebra and Advanced Christian Doctrine. .
O’Shea, Daniel—Mention in 4th Algebra. ’ '	Reuss, Charles—ist Premium -in 2d German, 3d in
Elementary Chemistry.	.
Rowley, William—2d Premium in Mechanical DrawingRevels, Henry—ist Premium in Mechanical Drawing . Rincon, Luis—ist Premium in Penmanship.
Rebilott, Paul—ist Premium in 2d Algebra, Mention in ist Geometry.	‘
Rumley, Edward — ist Premium in 5th, Latin and . Advanced Christian Doctrine.	.
Schmidt, Henry—ist Premium in_ist Arithmetic.
Sullivan, Joseph—2d Premium in Elementary Chem-•istry, Mention in 2d German.
Stephan, Anton—ist Premium in ist Bookkeeping Advanced, Arithmetic and 2d Christian Doctrine, 2d Premium in ist Algebra, Mechanical Drawing and Composition.
•	Scheubert, Charles—ist Premium in ist German, 2d
•	in Algebra. -	• -
Svensden, John—3d Premium in ist Reading, Mention in 3d Arithmetic. •	.	’
.	Sweeney, Charles—ist Premium in 2d German and 3d ;
Algebra, 3d in Christian Doctrine, Mention in Special . Orthography.	-	.	.
’ Schott, Francis—2d Premium in ist Reading. .
' Schwab, Francis—Premium in 4th Greek, 2d Premium jin 4th Latin, ist in Rhetoric and Greek History, 3d in / Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Shea; William—Mention in 4th Latin. ’ , a	Sheekey, Eugene—2d Premium in 3d Algebra,. Men-
; tion in Composition and Phonography. :■ ...
Schilling, Andrew—Mention in First Reading.
Smogor, Francis—2d Premium, in General Descrip-
. tive Chemistry, ist in Mechanical; Drawing. .	. . ...
:	’ Smith," Ralph—3d Premium in Mechanical Drawing;
. . Senrich, George—2d Premium in . Materia Medica,
, and-Theoretical. Pharmacy. ;	:	v
. Tuteur, Leopold—Mention in Bookkeeping/ - . c
. Tucker, Joseph—1st Premium in 3d Grammar, .3d ‘ r Premium in Geography, U. S. History^and, ist Arithmetic, . 2d Premium in Reading.	= ;
SCHOLASTIC.	^3^	<
. Villeneuva, Augustine—ist Premium, in 2di.Readmg,' ; / Mention-in 3d Grammar.. . . .	.. r: y	J
Van Hee, Arthur—ist Premium in Electrical-Engi-/;	;
neering, 2d Premium in-Mechanical Drawing, 3d in 4th: .	? :
Algebra.	. ' ■	■	,	V< J//’///: ;'-?
Ward, James—2d Premium in Instrumental Music. . y/y - Winter, Francis W.—2d Premium in 5th Latin; 2d: EE-E-
Geometry and Christian Doctrine. .
■ Winter, Francis M—ist Premium in 7th Latin and 3d . ’ <	..
Algebra, 2d in Special Orthography.	J . .. _ — ////.}?;'/.
Wilson, Ralph—Mention in Elementary Physiology/
Wurzer, Edward—Mention in Algebra.'	.	:	- \ L
Wolfe,-Henry—2d Premium in ist German, 1st in 2d /; : / .
Algebra.'	.	.	■	' ."-JvJ ■
Wren, Raphael—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic, 2d^. _ . in 3d Grammar, Mention in 7th Latin.	/;/■<;
Wieczorek, L. A.—3d Premium in Composition. .	.
CARROLL HALL.	.'/'■/-'/X-/f;
Baackes, Godfrey—2d Premium in 3d Christian. Doc- . < . < trine, Mention in 3d Grammar.	J-.;-;.////-'.
Bender, Edward—ist Premium in 2d U.S.History,2d. ■/..
in 2d.Geography, ist Reading and Drawing. J /; J//.^/.Z Brehmer, Charles—Mention in Special Orthography.	'
Block, Herbert—3d Premium in Phonography, Meri-C . -./ ' \
tion in Typewritng.	.	J //-/■./.;-..
Brown, August—Mention in ist Reading and ist ...
Orthography.	~	;/J
Banholzer, Harry—2‘d’ Premium in ist Geography, .
Mention* in ist United States History and Penmanship.
Britt, Henry—Mention in ist Reading and 2d Grammars ;//.
Best, Louis—3d Premium in 2d.Grammar, Mention* in • , .	-
ist Arithmetic.	•	‘	y."	. . ..
Bellinger, William—ist Premium in ist Geography, ? , ; ;	.
United States History and Penmanship, 2d in 2d Chris- . . ; -tian Doctrine.	.	.	. :	,
Bligh, Michael—Mention in ist Grammar -and ist •	;.
Arithmetic.	. .	... ..	?
Brown, Henryr—ist Premium in 3d German, 2d insist ; /	•
French and Greek History, 3d in Chemistry and/Ad-; . .	.
vanced Christian Doctrine, Mention in: Physics .and Rhetoric.	.	- '.-/ '*/■
Barrett, Glenn—Premium in Instrumental Music, Men-: / tion in Typewriting.	.. . .	. - * \ 7 .:	..
Cunnea, John—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic, 3d in ist Geography and 2d Grammar, Mention; in ist United	.
States History.. .	. . . ;	. . -	. , . . ‘‘	:
Cdquillard, Joseph A.—3d Premium in. Instrumental. . <	. .
Music.	■	.	...	.	--	-	.
Curtis, Patrick—Mention in 7th .Latin.. . : -;///''/
Cooney,. Daniel—Mention in 3d Grammar. : r . .
Crowley, Michael—istPremium in * Artistic; Drawing,; //. ./
3d in Christian Doctrine.	-	.
Clyne, Joseph—2d Premium in 3d Algebra, Mention in Composition and.2d Christian Doctrine. . ..	:/Y/r/;yZ/
.... Cooney, Maurice—ist Premium in Artistic Drawing, . /	;
2d in 2d. Geometry and Mechanical Drawing, i	/J:
- Dougan, George^-Mehtibn in 3d Grammar. :, . / .//
Dreucke, Harry—Mention: in 2d.Bpokkeepihg and. ist"
■Arithmetic. . '	=
Daily, Edward—Mention in 3d.. Grammar/, and 3d J//	/
Christian Doctrine. / ' .
DuBrul, Davilla.—Premium, in 2d <Geometry; and chanical Drawing..	/'
Evans, Rolland—ist Premium-in ist Reading./
.' Eigelsbach, Joseph—3d Premium .in Special.rOrthbg//./; 7,. 7 y; raphy, Mention in ist Bookkeeping. - .■ :<
634	NOTRE DAME
Ellwanger, Ralph—2d Premium in Instrumental Music, 3d in Advanced Christian Doctrine, Mention in 3d Algebra.	.
Friedman, Arthur—1st Premium in Instrumental Music, Mention in 2d Bookkeeping.
Finlay, George—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Ferstl, William—Mention in 3d Algebra and Instrumental Music.
Fink, Henry—1st Premium in 1st Geometry, 3d Premium in Composition, Mention in Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Groogan, Dominic—Mention in 2d Grammar.
Goodall, Harvey—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine and 1st Geography.
Giffen, Harry—Mention in 3d Algebra.
Hanner, John—Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Hogan, Nicholas—2d Premium in 7th Latin, Mention in 3d Algebra.
Hickey, William—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Hubbell, Lorenzo—Premium in Penmanship.
Higgins, William—3d Premium'in 3d Algebra, Mention in 7th Latin and Composition.
Harmon, Rawson—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic, 2d Grammar, U. S. History and 2d Geography, Mention in 3d French.	.
Ill,	Alphonsus—1st Premium in Mechanical Drawing, 3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Irwin, Walter—2d Premium in Special Orthography, 3d Premium in 2d Grammar, Mention in Instrumental Music.	.
• Jonquet, Maurice—2d Premium in 1st Reading, Mention in 1st Spelling.
Kelly, Leo—3d Premium in Elementary Physics, Mention in 7th Latin and Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Kortlander, Adolph—Mention in 2d Bookkeeping.
Krupka, James—3d Premium in Instrumental Music, Mention in 3d Grammar and Penmanship.
Kasper, Robert—Mention in 1st Geometry and U. S. History.
Krug, Albert—1st Premium in 4th Latin, Elementary Physics, Instrumental Music and 3d-French, 2d in Advanced Christian Doctrine, 3d Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
Landgraf, Harry—1st Premium in 2d Orthography.
Land, William—3d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Mention in Composition.
Luken, Lawrence—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Lockwood, Elmer—2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Mahoney, Daniel—Mention in Penmanship.
Maxey, Sidney—2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Moxley, George—Mention in 1st Grammar.
Muno, Henry—2d Premium in 2d Grammar, 3d in 1st Geography and Special Orthography, Mention in Penmanship.
Miksak, Emil—3d Premium in 1st Reading, Premium in Penmanship.
Manderfield, Hilger—1st Premium in ■ 1st Grammar, Mention in 7th Latin, 3d Algebra and 2d. Christian Doctrine.	.	.
Macdonald, Edward—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic, Mention in 7th Latin and 2d Christian Doctrine.
Murray, Thomas—1st Premium in Advanced Christian Doctrine, 2d in 5th Greek, Elementary Chemistry and Greek History, 3d Premium in 4th Latin, Mention in Literature.
Morgan, James—2d Premium in 3d Algebra, Mention in’6th Greek.	.	.	•
McElroy, James—2d Premium in 3d Grammar, Mention
SCHOLASTIC.
in 1st Reading, 2nd Arithmetic and Special Orthography.
McDonell, Alexander—Mention in 4th Algebra.
Mueller, Walter—2d Premium in 2d Grammar, Penmanship and 3d Christian Doctrine.
McCormack, James—Mention in 7th Latin.
McCambridge, George—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine, 2d in 1st Arithmetic.
McConnachie, John—Mention in 1st Grammar.
McNaughton, Thomas—3d Premium in Instrumental Music, Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Maher, William—Premium in Advanced ' Christian Doctrine.
McCarthy, Thomas — 2d Premium in 4th Algebra, Mention in 7th Latin.
Norton, William — Mention in Special Orthography and 2d Grammar.
Noonan, Thomas—Mention in Rhetoric and Advanced Christian Doctrine.
Narcelle, Edward—2d Premium in 2d Orthography, 2d Reading and 3d Grammar.
Newman, John—2d Premium in 2d Bookkeeping, 1st Premium in Special Orthography, 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Neeson, John—1st Premium in Algebra, 2d in 4th German, 3d Premium in Composition and Instrumental Music.	■
Nissler, Carl—1st Premium in 2d Grammar, 3d Premium in German and Instrumental Music, Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Oberting, Marion—Mention in 3d Grammar.
O’Connell, Daniel—3d Premium in Instrumental Music.
Press, Arthur—Mention in 1st Reading.
Plunkard, Homer—3d Premium in Instrumental Music, Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Padden, Dominic—2d Premium in Phonography.
Petritz, Francis—1st Premium in 1st Geography, 2d in
U. S. History, Mention in Special Orthography and 2d Grammar.
Romero, Vincent—1st Premium in 3d Grammar, 2d in 2d Orthography and Reading.
Reihing, William—rst Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine, Mention in 2d Grammar.
Rush, Charles—1st Premium in Instrumental Music, 2d in 4th Algebra, 1st German and Typewriting.
Sheekey, Joseph—3d Premium in 1st Grammar.
Stich, George — Mention in 1st Orthography and Penmanship.
Stewart, Arthur—1st Premium in 4th Algebra, Mention in Advanced Arithmetic.
Stephan, Raymond—1st Premium in Modern History and 4th German, 2d in Composition and 7th Latin, Mention in Advanced Christian Doctrine.	.
Sinnott, George—1st Premium in 6th Latin and 1st Geometry, 2d in Composition, 3d in Advanced Christian Doctrine, Mention in 2d Algebra.
Schermerhorn, Henry—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Schoonover, Frederick—1st Premium in 4th Algebra.
Storrs, John—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Swan, Edmund—Mention in 7th Latin.
Tillotson, William—3d Premium in 1st Reading.
Trentman, Stephen—1st Premium in rst Reading, 2d ■ in 1st Orthography, 3d in 2d Grammar, Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Van Sant, Ralph—Mention in 1st Reading.
Van Dyke, George — 3d Premium in 1st Reading, Mention in 2d Grammar.	’