


S 0 
ursday, March 2 


features 
4 OnChange 
Redefining the gay lifestyle 

· 8 Perspectives from Abroad 
Fallout after the Chilean earthquake_ 
.~. 14 The Art of Healing 
:i~ Art as expression and therapy .. ,,, ...,,::;··~ . 
--,-,,.~_ ': ~ 3(()) Learning to Lead >}~ Danye Crist prepares to take the reins 
·.··.~ 
§

§ MyDad 
-~ 
-~ 341: On childhood naivety and manipulation 
• ·•§ 
CCif!.::;0iif)i Dining Hall Ethics . · 
35 Proper behavior in our most beloved eating establishment 


sections
~ 
... 
J' 
,'I'. 
f 
/, f 
~:~· ~ Opinion 4 News 5 Culture 11 Sarcastic. li~ 
~ 
rl 

] '· Sports 
21 . 
H.um.or 32 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 



EDNOTES 
Notre Dame students tend to be fairly serious: serious about our schoolwork, our athletics, our Viewpoint articles, our interhall racquetball matches. In honor ofApril Fools', the day of pagan debauchery preceding the most somber and holy days of the Catholic calendar, Scholastic takes the opportunity to highlight the ridiculousness of college and to laugh about our school, our classmates and, most importantly, ourselves. 
I, myself, am not a particularly funny person. My most humorous moments of the recent past include trying to walk through what turned out to be a glass door, leaving me bruised and confused as to why I was not outside (I see this as more of a compliment to the homeowners' housekeeping skills rather than an embarrassing incident) -I was not so much laughed with as at. Thankfully, our brilliant and hilarious seniors have put together this year's installment of Sarcastic, Scholastic's annual dose of self-mockery. 
It is also with those eight pages that our seniors bid us farewell. We cannot thank them enough for all the hard work and late nights they have put into this and every other issue. They are leaving incredibly large shoes to fill and you know what they say about big shoes ... it's a lot for the new staff to live up to. We wish them the best of luck as they begin to navigate the world and avoid the cult of personality. You will be sorely missed. 

Erica Pepitone Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 


... I'm gay." You can 
imagine how many parents 
dream of the day they will hear those words uttered from the mouths of their sons or daughters. I'll give you a hint: It's very few. Yet for many parents, it is a reality that they must face. The difficulty in dealing with these revelations, however, often lies in issues that extend far beyond one's choice ofa partner. 
For some parents, itis the crushing realization that they may never be grandparents. For others, it is a conflict with faith. Frequently, it is simply the shock tlrnt maybe their child won't turn out to be exactly tl1e person tl1ey had dreamed of. The coming out process that parents of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender children go through is riddled witl1 challenges, but none is greater tlrnn dealing witl1 the "gay lifestyle." 
Anyone who has ever heard of a Viewpoint war has seen the term thrown around recklessly in the annual debate surrounding Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. But what exactly is tl1is lifestyle so many administrators and alumni refuse to promote? 
If you asked some members of the Notre Dame community, itwould include vast amounts of anonymous sex, regular visits to bathhouses and a moral decline likely resulting in eternal damnation (don't worry, I've already picked out my handbasket, and it's fabulous). How, then, did this stereotype of tl1e gay lifestyle come to be? 
Allow me to take you on a brief trip through time. 
Following the Stonewall riots in 1969, the gay rights movement exploded across the country, ushering the era of free love into the '70s. No one, certainly no gays or lesbians, wanted to get married. After all, marriage was a made-up institution created by the conservative right to discriminate against anyone who was different. vVho needed marriage when you could have gratuitous sex witl1 total strangers? _ 
Needless to say, the conservative crazies led by Anierican sweetheart-turned-activist Anita Bryant caught on quickly and used their fear of all-things-unChristian to create a public outcry against the gay movement, expelling gay and lesbian teachers from schools for fear of "homosexual recruitment" (how else would we 
4 ISCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
get new members?) and laying a foundation for much oftl1e homophobia that exists today. 
The gay lifestyle was brought under siege for its debasing morals and corruptive acts. These sexual deviants needed to be stopped, and what better way to do so than to create irrational nationwide panic? After all, it's about tl1e kids. 
\iVhen tl1e AIDS epidemic broke out in the '80s, tl1e conservative activists used it as fuel for the fire, claiming the disease was God's punishment to gay men for their "unnatural" acts, furtl1er alienating members the GLBTQ community and stigmatizing their ve1y existence.· 
Flash forward to 2010 and many members of my parents' generation still think of tl1e gay lifestyle tl1e way tl1ey did 30 years ago: as a hypersexual playground for lascivious drag queens. So, are tl1ey living in tl1e past or has there really been no progress? 
During my Introduction to Theology seminar freshman year, my class was charged witl1 writing an argumentative essay, making a case for or against the use of Rom 1:24-32 (the only place in the New Testament where homosexuality is explicitly mentioned) as the sole basis for tl1e Catl1olic Church's teaching on homosexuality. \iVhile the class was split roughly 50/50 as to the importance of tl1e passage in Church teaching, our professor pointed out an interesting occurrence: Every student mentioned same-sex marriage in his or her essay, despite its absence from the prompt. 
\iVhile I was in no way shocked (Iowa had just legalized same-sex marriage and a media frenzy inevitably followed), our professor seemed rather surprised. As a self-described witness to the gay rights movement ofthe '70s, she found a stark contrast witl1 our generation's perception ofhomosexuality and that ofdecades past. 
As she explained, our generation has come to define issues surrounding homosexuality as tl1ose of marriage and legality, emphasizing equality and civil rights, vastly different from the "free love" of the '60s and '70s that rejected the social bondage of marriage. 
Our generation does not associate the "gay lifestyle" with promiscuity and hookups. Ratl1er, we have come to associate those very characteristics with simply being a young person. Binge drinking and the hookup culture promote one-night stands and casual intercourse, while music videos show more skin tl1an pictures in your dad's old Playboys. It would seem as if the college lifestyle has taken on the very characteristics that defined the gay lifestyle years ago. 
So where does tlrnt leave the gays? Married witl1 children. In a role reversal no one saw coming, the mainstream gay lifestyle has becoming frighteningly similar to the institutionalized right so loatl1ed for decades. 
Increasing emphasis has been placed on the role of gays and lesbians as husbands, wives, mothers and fathers. No longer the sexual perverts of the past, GLBTQ persons are now embraced by many communities as equals: fully human for tl1e first time. 
\iVhile the gay rights movement began with a simple desire for acceptance, equality in all respects has become the final frontier. Yet documents like Notre Dame's non­discrimination clause refuse to grant protections to members of tl1e GLBTQ community. 
Arguments against -the inclusion of sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause abound, rangingfromlegal complications to bold accusations and hate mail. Out of this so-called "dialogue," I have found tl1at, overwhelmingly, arguments against gay rights find deep-seated roots not in morality, but in fear. 
I ask, then, what are we afraid of? 
Are we · afraid of promoting healtl1y, monogamous relationships tlrnt emphasize mutual lover,and respect? Are we afraid of promoting p~sitive parenthood? Are we afraid of encouraging couples to partake in relationships tl1at could ·(gasp!) lead them closer to God? Or are we simply afraid ofpromoting tlrnt terrifying monster in the closet that is the unfamiliar? 
As future leaders of the world, we are called to redefine what it means to be members of an increasingly global society. As future mothers, fatl1ers, husbands, wives and partners, we are compelled to redefine a lifestyle by refusing to submit to fear and proudly embracing change.0 
The views of this author are not necessm·ily the views ofScholastic lvlagazine. 

1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 



. Mendoza ranked #1 =-·ND finally wins BCS Championship -Business College Superior. 
NDH April Fools' Prank 
_ As ifyour spoon placement wasn't =-annoying enough already. 
= Ricky Martin coming out 
--:He seems to be the last to know. 
!§"""~~~~~~~ 


Jesse James: The New Tiger 
_ Gives new meaning to "The Blind 

-~ ~ -==s·d " 
-._1e. 
= =Sbarro contract expiring 
• ________Ifit is replaced, will the 2 a.m. ~-====crowd even notice? 
llere comes a time in every college student's life when the homework 
has piled up so high that the only thing left to do is work through 
he night. (Engineers, you know what I'm talking about.) While 
the journey may be rough and the rewards dubious, it is a road that must 
be travelled. Below, I have provided a few pointers to help you complete 
your nighttime quest. . 
~ Discover the g!ories of la~e-night t~levision: One of the many 
~ benefits of staymg up late mto the mght, long after Letterman 
' and Leno have completed their nightly spiels, is the opportunity 
to witness the profound television programs that haunt cable channels. 
You'll find that MTV really does still play music ... at 3:30 a.m, and ABC 
Family, during the witching hour, airs fair and balanced fundamentalist 
Christian programming. · 
~ Devour any and all forms of caffeine: There may come a time, 
~ perhaps around 2:00 a.m., when you get your_second burst ofener~. 
· · Be prepared, however, for the horror that IS energy crash. While 
coffee is always good, additional caffeine reinforcements may be necessary. .. These may include tea, choco!ate or, acidly enough, 53-proof alcohol. 
~ Invent random, periodic distractions: A kind ofhypnotic stupor 
;;;f) may befall you while attempting to avoid sleep. At this point, any 
· ··· and all household objects become fair game for distractions. How 
many shapes can you make out of a paper dip? Just how tightly can you 
twist that string around your finger before it turns blue? Is it possible to 
actually hypnotize yourself by swinging a necklace in front ofyour face? 
There's never been a better time to find out. 
JWf Avoid the 15 minute power nap: Don't fall into the trap that is 
~ the power nap. When deprived of sleep, judgment is questionable. 
Fifteen minutes easily becomes four hours. The time for napping 
has come and gone, my friend. You are now in the endurance stage of 
your study schedule. ·
5Keep tissues nearyou_: There may c?me a time in~our night where 
the only reasonable thmg left to do IS cry. Go for 1t. Let out those 
tears.Just remember thatyou have limited time. Allot five minutes 
for .some intense sobbing, then it's back to work. 0 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 




Generosity Grants 
Money Awarded for the Study of Giving It 
Clara Ritger 
hile the recent film Extraordinary Measures made Hollywood 
millions, headlines are publishing the story ofa new kind ofresearch 
that has Notre Dame written all over it. Since 2008, sociology professor Christian Smith has been looking into the mystery surrounding the question of generosity: Why are some people more generous than others? 
Though there are many existing fields that examine altruism and volunteerism, Smith hopes to create an umbrella category with his research. In conjunction with his own research, Smith created the Science ofGenerosity Initiative to foster additional ideas that could lead to an answer. Through a competitive judging process advertised worldwide, the University of Notre Dame awarded a total of$1.4 million to four projects that, according to Smith, "will study the origins, manifestations and consequences of generosity." 
One such project focuses on the effects of Catholicism on generosity, but what interests Smith most is religious financial giving in general. "There are many social psychological factors that contribute to generosity," he says, "and aside from studying [local] congregations and field studies focused on religion, we want to look at the context of the situations surrounding major donors." Smith says that sometimes the neighborhood in which an individual grew up and who one does and does not know can affect whether he or she is generous. 
"By May or June, we plan on sending out a national survey, and from there conducting an in-depth study of households," Smith says. He hopes to solidify his findings a year from now, but plans to keep the grant active for at least another three years. Although there hasn't been any concrete evidence yet, Smith has a piece of advice for living a better lifestyle. "Ifyou volunteer more you will realize that it is a win-win situation," Smith says. "It is a world of abundance, not scarcity. Everything [students] have is a gift, and they ought to be sharing it." 0 
W
Ctdleaa rartbquate Doesn't 

Laura Kraegel 
On February 25, 19 Notre Dame students left Linares, Chile and arrived in Santiago. A day later, an earthquake devastated the city of Concepcion, only 200 miles from Linares. Despite the distance, the 8.8 magnitude shock traveled up and down the coast and inland, damaging homes and injuring people as far as 300 miles away in Santiago. "I was at home with my wife and our four children, sleeping because it happened at 3:45 in the morning," on-site director of the Chile program Juan Esteben 
Montes says. "I have lived through a couple 
earthquakes and this one was scarier," he says. "My house shook amazingly strong, bookshelves collapsed ... It was almost impossible to walk during the three minutes of the 
earthquake." And while the Chilean quake 
ranks as the fifth strongest ever recorded by the United States Geological Survey, it was not nearly 
as damaging or deadly as Haiti's January earthquake. 
"None ofthe students, their Chilean [host] families or friends were injured. None of their houses were destroyed or suffered severe structural damage either," Montes says. "For the magnitude of the event, damage was limited due to the high quality of construction standards, 
strict enforcement 
• ~'fi/1;//' of the building laws 
and low corruption of the pertinent Chilean authorities for the past several decades." 
Still, the country was not unharmed. 
"Most everyone I know in Santiago Centro had at least something happen to their house," Notre Dame alumnus Christine Clark ('09) says. Clark is volunteering with the Congregation of Holy Cross in Santiago. 
"Most buildings were built with construction codes and every modern building is OK," she says. "But some older buildings and churches suffered damage and there are several buildings ... that have to be torn down because they are dangerous. You see caution tape pretty often while walking around my area." 
After the three-minute disaster ended, tsunami warnings were issued. At least 200,000 homes were left damaged and 500 people were killed. 
"From watching on the news, it seems like the area of Concepcion is just a disaster," Clark says. "If it wasn't destroyed _in the earthquake, it was destroyed by the tsunami that hit right after." 
In spite of the region's devastation, Santiago and the ND study abroad program rebounded relatively quickly. 
"After three or four days from the earthquake, the city was working almost completely normal," Montes says. "Classes at the university were about to start before the earthquake and were delayed for three days. After that, life has been pretty much as usual." 
In addition to the delay of classes, the Office of International Studies (OIS) considered several factors before offering stud~nts the chance to return home. 
"There was uncertainty as to how we would respond, how the semester would play out for [the students,]" assistant director at OIS Lesley Sullivan says. "No decision was made for several days after the earthquake." 
But after OIS consulted with on­site staff, reviewed information on the United States Department of State Web site and received structural engineering reports that deemed all host houses safe, they left the choice up to students. 
"All students decided to stay in Chile and continue with their program," Montes says. "ND offered them the possibility to return to the US, but none did." 
While the earthquake hasn'tcritically affected this year's program, Sullivan suspects it may prompt changes in the future. 
"I took over [my position] in August of last year, so if conc;erns [about safety] were brought up previously, I'm not aware," she says. "I think it will be a concern going forward ... It will affect the way we prepare our students, probably the frequency and intensity of communication with on-site staff, and monitoring; the appropriate Web sites 
more." . 
Although Clark called the response to Chile's crisis "tremendous," she believes more aid will be needed and 
encourages ND students to be proactive in their efforts to help. 
"Stay abreast of the situation," she says. "It's hard to when it's not directly affecting you, but the worst thing that can happen is that Chile would ask for help and its situation is already forgotten by the U.S." 0 

NEWS 


Erica Pepitone 
ormer Fort Wayne-South Ryan Hall campus ministry commissioner Jessica 
Bend Bishop John D'Arcy Hedrich-says. "It enhances the spiritual life in the 
suggested new chapels on dorm by reminding us that the chapel is a holy place. _·campus be formally dedicated, It was a nice change to have a more formal Mass in · and on Sunday, March 21, Ryan the dorm. When we're down ~ the chapel in our 
Hall became the . first known pajamas and sweatpants, it's easier to lose some ofthat dorm to have such, a. ceremony . sense ofreverence." performed. The observance and rituals that took place 
During the dedication, Bishop during the Mass seemed to impact many of the 
Kevin Rhoades, the new bishop congregants. ~ of Fort Wayne-South Bend, used "[The ceremony is] solemn. It's traditional. It does } holy water, inc~se and holy · have an impact,'; Ryan Hall's resident priest Father 
F
t.chrism over the · course of the Joseph Carey; C.S.C. says. ''We've had Mass here
"'··· -. Mass _to arioint the altar and bless· before, but it is letting people know it is a holy place. the St. Anne Chapel in Ryan There are a lot of holy places all over campus, but Hall. seeing it done makes you realize it." _ · Although a _chapel •is a place of With D'Arcy's recommendation, Ryan _Hall's ·_ prayer and worship,· it · does not . St. Anne Chapel is likely to be aniong many chapel · have to be dedicated. Dedication is dedications that will occur over the next few years. -• meant to serve as a sign ofholiness ''The dorm Masses are an essential part of our and the presence of Christ for residency," Tomifolio says. "To .have a dedication -those who worship th~. Chapel · highlights the importance the university places ori • 
•
dedication is res~d for priests liturgywithindonnlife." ... _ who have achieved the rank of According to Hedrich, campus chapels are not bishop. merely a part ofthe architecture ofnew buildings. 

"C:an you walk in [to the chapel] _ "Thechapelisnotjustanotherroomina building," and' tell there's a dj.fference? No. she says. "It's a place where Mass is performed and __ 

•
But to ·be there and tci be pres~nt the Body ofChrist is reserved in the tabernacle, and I . in ·th.at Mass was. a' beautiful way . . it's aplace where people can go at any time of day _ to be present in our faitfi," Ryan or night to spend some quiet time with God. I think 1 Hall rector Breyan Tornifolio says. · dedicating the chapel acknowledges• this unique and · I ManyRyanHallresideni:saswella~ ·· holy:purpose.'' ··~I otherinembers oftheNotre Dame · --. This unique purpose is, for niany, an integral part .•_ · Ii, 


, . community were present for what -ofcampus life.and development throughout college. 
·was Rhoades's firsi: dedication on "[Notre Dame] is a place.-to live, study, make campus. . friends and worship," Tomifolio says. "Spirituality is 11 ._, While the inf:ormality ofmost ,part ofthe education ofmind and heart. To worship 1 " dorin Masses provides a sense -of \vithin a commwuty· is part ofspiritual growth and _ ; ·• ·cohifort and fallliliilri,tj, to those devclopment ~f -the whole .person." -Dedicating . 1. 
•who worship, th~ service served chapels, she says, draws attention to· -spiritual life as .a reminder to th()se present and .its importance within the hectic lives of college I · that the chapel is. l!•· house of · students. God. -.. ·. "People 25years from not might ~ot know [this .. ·. ''I came awayfrom the Mass -~pel was dedicated]," Carey says, ''but if people · · with an increased sense of. witness, tell about what they saw, they will kno¥.('.of 
_ reverence for the chapel and -[the] consecration, [the] dedication, [that] this is a .i the altar· in partiruiar:' junior ·.. spe~;il place where_ God is present." 0 . __i 
1
--1AI>rut 2010 Sciiousuc I 9..--· 






the. th.in.gs ·we do 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 


Women's Lacrosse vs. Cincinnati //; 
Where: Arlotta Family ,/ Lacrosse Stadium (east of the Joyce Center) // 
11!;~~1,~1~\ ' //
';c?,;;iWhen: Sat. 04/17,/3 P.M. 
"'''·\' /·
. 
Carnpu§ Group§ Counter Violence TJhrougJh Art 
Claire Reising 
As stories of violence and discrimination dominate headlines and conversations, the 
. Gender Relations Center (GRC) and Core Council are turning to writing and art to reflect on these problems. 
"You can get almost overwhelmed with the amount ofviolence. Even when it's not local, it. becomes close to you," MFA candidate in creative writing Sarni Schalk says. 
A Time to Write, a creative writing workshop sponsored by the GRC last Saturday, provided a forum for people to address sexual assault and other forms of violence. Stand Against Hate Week, taking place April 12-16, focuses on hate crimes against the gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (GLBTQ) community and will feature a coffeehouse where students can have open discussion and share art and 
· creative writing. 
· ATlierapeuticProcess · At A Time to Write, participants discussed > \Vriting's role in healirigand responding to violence. MFAcandidates were present to 
ii.·.• faciHtate small group writing sessions. >> «fr's basically. a chance> to express their ... tt!motio~sj11 a•.. way·.that theyusually ... don't <h~v'e time fo~,'' GRC student assistant Laura 
i1tatic:ksays: ·•·· ·. . . . . . . . . .· .·... . . . . . 
<.At tlie end 9f the 1.Vqrkshop, writers. could r{ad.theix::workout··.lovd,:. a11d .participants . ~a\;~Aath,o,£h~r.•positivef eedback . . 
[i4q)t~BStXs~I6J :1 APiuL 20·1oi..•· · 
"It's really nice to hear someone else reading words that you've written, knowing someone else internalized it ... [and] it meant something to them," MFA candidate and leader ofA Time to Write Tasha Matsumoto says. 
A Time to Write is part of Notre Dame's Violence Prevention Initiative (VPI), which was created to raise awareness about local and global violence, support survivors, raise money for nonprofit organizations and become a flagship for other Catholic universities. VPI is also accepting original writing for its literary journal until April 9. 
While not aJl those who participated in A Time to Write have personally experienced sexual assault, those who have survived it have the opportunity to heal through writing. 
"It also is important to people who have directly experienced violence as a way for catharsis. It can be a pathway to healing, to reclaim the voice that was taken from them," GRC Assistant Director Elizabeth Moriarty says. 
GRC student assistant Patrick Tighe says writing allows people to play an active role in their own healing. 
"When we discuss being healed, we think of it in passive terms," he says. "When you write, you're actually doing [something]. You're taking the l\Ctive step towards healing and doing the healing yourself." 
The workshop also examined how art can counter the desensitization that results from constant exposure to statistics and news stories about violence. 
"It's sad tha·t [rape statistics] are this high, and it's sad that it's that well known that it's being assimilated," MFA candidate m creative writing Levi Sanchez says. 
Stand Against Hate 
Core Council co-chair Eddie Velazquez says that Stand Against Hate Week, like A Time to Write, provides an occasion for students to ref;lect on violence and provide hope for a solution. In addition to the coffeehouse, Stand Against Hate Week will ·include a guest professor who will address the history of discrimination based on sexual orientation, a GRC panel on sexuality and a screening,,6C"'.I'he Laramie Project," a film about th~ true story of a young gay man who was.murdered because of his sexuality. Students can also sign an ally pledge banner, and the week ~ill end with a prayer service and the National Day of Silence. 
The coffeehouse, a new event this year, will provide an atmosphere open for discussion, and students can display artwork or present creative writing. Maureen Lafferty, a staff psychologist at the university Counseling Center and a member of Core Counc:il, says that students can submit any artwork related to social justice concerns, in addition to issues that the GLBTQ community faces. 
. . . , . . . . : . . , . . . . . 


CULTURE 
Velazquez says that after the Mobile Party from bad situations and I think that art is one that they don't think [sexual assault] happens comic joked about violence against gay of those things. It's a way to bring goodness here because it's a Catholic university," students, the Core Council wanted to use art into the world in what have been hard times Lauck says. "I think understanding and in a constructive way and provide an open for people," Moriarty says. "I think the way getting people to know that it's simply not environment for discussion. that people will survive these problems is the case -that's the first hurdle.. If people 
"Because some people saw this c0mic finding. hope and . . . we're all called to be aren't willing to believe that and listen to strip as a form of art, of course, because it hopeful to other people. I think the writing that, then your voice isn't being heard at all is a cartoon, we decided it would be a good workshop is a way for hopefulness." on these issues." idea to counteract that with original artwork Telling a personal story is one of the Moriarty also says that students can affect [also] made by Notre Dame students," he most effective ways to reach out to people, attitudes towards issues like sexual assault and says. Lafferty says. During educational talks or disrespect for GLBTQ students by avoiding 
"There was a strong stigma associated RA training sessions, for example, personal offensive language, such as inappropriate use with the student body that there were stories from GLBTQ students often have a of the words "rape" or "gay." perhaps not enough welcoming environments strong impact on participants. "I think simple steps can be clone through or welcoming people ·on campus, so by "We get the most consistently positive the grassroots and that's where true change implementing the coffeehouse we decided feedback about that because once people can can come," she says. to go a little bit broader with Core Council relate to someone's story, it opens up their Despite instances of disrespect, such as events to make sure people know itis safe to be hearts, it opens up their minds. They stretch The Mobile Party's cartoon, Velazquez sees a gay, lesbian or bisexual student on campus themselves, even if it's something that makes an overall increased respect· for GLBTQ and that there are resources available." them uncomfortable," Lafferty says. students on campus, and he says more people 
After the campus reacted to The Mobile are willing to sign the ally pledge banner. Party's cartoon, Velazquez says Core Making Progress? "I'm glad to say that the avoiding looks Council received support for Stand Against Although Lauck sees A Time to Write as and quick sprints past our [pledge] table have Hate Week from several student groups and a positive step, she says that more students diminished greatly over the past few years. the Office of the President. must recognize that sexual assault remains a More often than not we get students who 
"After [The Mobile Party's cartoon], I threat on campus in order for lasting change come up and say with open arms, 'Yes, I will think the student groups who were always to be made. be part of this."' 0 willing to help us were a little more vocal, "I think the biggest thing, at least at Notre and they realized there really are issues Dame right now, is [that] many people say facing GLBTQ students on campus, and that has made them alittle more active with the Core Council," he says. 
Healing and Communicating 
The organizers of both Stand Against Hate Week and A Time to Write emp~asize the role that art can have in helping people communicate their thoughts and emotions· after a traumatic experience. .i\!Iatsumoto says art can help someone say what he or she could not otherwise express. 
"I think one of the great things about writing is [that] it gives form to something," she says. "It's a way ofapproaching something that's overwhelming or unapproachable . . . I think that when you give ·a shape to a story you are able to have more control over· it in a way." 
Matsumoto and other MFA students at Notre Dame hold writing workshops throughout the South Eerie!· community at St. Margaret's House, ,the Center for the Homeless and a juvenile correction facility." 
Moriarty, whose parents are artists, says she appreciates how art and creative writing can help people persevere through a difficult situation. While art conveys someone's pain, it also celebrates the artist's humanity. 
"Not . that God would ever will these things to happen, but good things can come.· 


CULTURE 




Campus Chaffer 
DEPARTMENT OF NINETIES BALLADS 
One weekend, I witnessed something magical, a truly moving phenomenon that often goes unnoticed and unappreciated in our daily lives. I'm talking, of course, about that moment when the stars align, the universe smiles and all of mankind is brought together in brotherhood under the unifying power of a truly great Hit Single. (OK, maybe not ALL of mankind, but it sounds a lot better than "anyone who is within earshot of the song at the time.") 
Every time one of these truly transcendent popular hits begins to play, everyone in the room suddenly finds common ground in the appreciation of and, more often than not, the participation in the musical genius of the Hit Single. I witnessed one such event at the Sister Hazel Concert on Saturday, March 20 at Legends. 
I am not a Sister Hazel fan, but a slightly more enthusiastic friend goaded me into seeing their concert. I was reluctant to g~, on the basis that I only knew one of the band's songs: that catchy, popular tune from the late '90s, "All For You." Everyone remembers that song; it was huge back in '97, hitting No. 11 on the Billboard Hot 100. 
It's 10:45 on Saturday night at Legends, and Sister Hazel is just taking the stage. The place is packed with students, which I was not expecting. The band plays through their repertoire for about an hour, with each member of the crowd swaying along, maybe singing a little bit here and there to a song they know, but without connecting 
to any of their fellow spectators. And then, with three songs left before the end of the show, the opening chords to that unmistakable Sister Hazel Hit Single, "All For You," play through the speakers, and the crowd goes wild. People begin to dance like maniacs, arms smack nearby neighbors, air guitars are broken out. I even hear one girl in front of me singing along at the top of her lungs in opera. Weird? Yes. But it was the perfect demonstration of the incomparable power of the truly great Hit Single. 
What "All For You" did to the crowd on that Saturday in March is what all great Hit Singles are capable of doing: turning a crowd of strangers, who on most occasions operate within their own worlds -taking neither time nor effort to connect with any other wayfarer on this little journey we call life -into a family, a network of comrades, united in solidarity under the knowledge and love of this one song, if only for that three and a half minutes that the music endures. 
The moral of my tale is this: Be not afraid, my friends, to embrace the almighty power of the Hit Single, no matter how outdated or seemingly corny the song may be. Walk proudly through the dining hall singing the Backstreet Boys' "I Want It That Way." Blare "Breakfast at Tiffany's" from your open dorm window. Break it down to Soft Cell's "Tainted Love" at the next dorm party. You never know with whom you will connect under that blessed banner of the truly great Hit Single. 0 
-Katie Con· 
The views of this aiethoi-are not necess111·ily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

161 SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 

CULTURE 

$pring, the season ofnew beginnings, brings fresh t1,1?een pop lol?e songs, an up-and-c01ning band, and two ,navies that are sure to keep you on your toes. ~ad onfor the picks and skips ofthe nei,v entertainment releases. 
Jason G'Se/1 
Greenberg 
Greenberg, the latest creation from Noah Baumbach (The Squid mzd the Whale) features Ben Stiller in what is possibly his first new role since Heavy Weights. Shifting from his iconic funny-man persona, Stiller breaks new ground as Roger Greenberg, a lost soul who moves from Brooklyn to Los 
Angeles to figure out his life while house sitting for his successful brother. While Greenbergundoubtedly embodies Baumbach's style ofwhining, depression and morbidity, its appeal comes from Stiller's ability to infuse 

strangely comedic elements into one of the saddest movies you've ever seen. Greta Gerwig makes her mainstream debut as Florence Mar, Greenberg's love interest and the only person who can pull him outofthe funk he doesn't know he is in. 
Sure, Greenberg fo~tures the jaded, witty bantering of every wannabe indie film since Juno, but it manage~ to set itself apart with its no-depressing-rocks-left-unturned approach to life. Greenberg unabashedly states that he is "really trying to do nothing for a while," only to be received with looks of confusion and contempt. Perhaps Greenbergseems so· timely because 1t's a reminder that we.don't always need to have everything figured out. Reyolutionary? Not entirely, but refreshing nonetheless. 

An Education 
Academy Award-nominated Carey _ Mulligan makes her silve~-screen debut in An Education, a not-so-classic coming-of-age story set in 1960s London. Mulligap. plays Jenny Miller, an intelligent, cultured schoolgirl who resents her parents' overbe-aring coricern with her admission to Oxford: After meeting ~avid Goldman, a charming older 111.a:n played by Peter Sarsgaard, Jenny falls in love with his lavish lifestyle and well~cultured friends. ! ~:f.s~'/fft:;::'~c_;;~§~~= : 
When the friendship becomei rnore intimate, Jenny's wide-eyed innocJnce is replaced with­tl1e experience of someone well beyond her years. 
Mulligan and Sarsgaard shine with standout performances that quickly draw the viewer in, while a well-adapted screenplay (also nominat~d) provides food for thought for young and old alike. WhatAn Education teaches i~ something that can't be learned in the classroom; it shows the raw passion ofyouth while giving way to the wisdom of old age. Although the ending may not appeal to everyone, An Education is worthwhile for anyone looking to lea1~ beyond his or her courses.· 

Chris Milazzo 
My World 2.0 by Justin Bieber 
As a reviewer at a Catholic institution, I feel I must extend Justin Bieber some kindness. He is very successful. Success, however, is a tenuous thing, and his new album will not do much to increase it. Jvly World 2.0, his creatively titled follow-up to his first album, My World, is a whole lot of bubblegum pop. Just when the pre-teen music market looked like it could not take another song about the one who got away, Bieber tugs on the heartstrings of tween girls everywhere in a voice that is more appropriate for the Alvin and the Chipmunks soundtrack. 

Bieber covers themes tried and tired-wanting a girl ("Somebody to Love"), having a girl ("Runaway Love") and losing a girl ("That Should Be Me"). All ofthe songs seem beyond his age and outside his vocal ability. Bieber struggles to reach notes at several points, and the overall tone ofthe album could best be described as whining. Although declared by some as the future Justin Timberlake, the young singer has done little to raise himself to that sort ofstardom in this mediocre album. 

Habits by Neon Trees 
The lyrics could be Rob Thomas, and the vocals and music could be the Killers. In combination, however, Neon Trees creates a musical experience it can call its own in its debut album Habits. Although the album will not propel the band onto the national stage, it forms a solid foundation to build its catalogue and fan base. 
Habits is a rousing 

. experience; the songs meld together well and compel the listener to hear the album from ~tart to finish: What the band lacks in lyrical subtlety, it compensates for with enthusiasm and strong performances. Songs like "1983" and "Girls and Boys In School" showcase the band's talent for creating enticing hooks that will certainly translate well on a live stage. IfHabits is any indication, Neon Trees is well on its way to great things. 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 
University of Notre Dame MaH-Scholastic is.Listening,. jdoemerl0@nd.edu 
https://mail.google.com/a/nd.edu/#inbox/1867 


! ! l 
Scholastic is listening 
<Reply jv 
* Scholastic Magazine to jdoemer1 O@nd.edu show details April 1 Dear Student, 
If you've been to a computer cluster this year, you know that Fr. John has been listening. Well guess what, so has Scholastic. As a matter of fact, we've been doing more than just listening; we've been watching, and our intentions are far more malignant than what Jenkins had planned. We've been following your every move and we know everything about you, John Doerner ... 
It starts with your computer; from observing your activity on Texts From Last Night, Twitter, and the rest of your Internet indulgences we've learned what you're really doing when you say you're going to the library to write a paper. You should be ashamed of yourself for requesting an extension on that essay due last week. But who are we kidding? Pretty much everything people do on the Internet now is public information anyway, so we've taken it one step further and gained access to your real resume to see how good you are at spinning your college experiences. We never knew "internship" could be interpreted in so many ways. We even stumbled upon an article you wrote for The Grover that never went to print. The Grover might bark, but Sarcastis bites. 
And don't think for a second that we stopped at watching what you do on the computer either. This last semester we followed you around campus and have strung together a little photo narrative of your most dramatic experience yet, falling in and out of love at Notre Dame. At least you had a fling by spring, right? 
So now it's your turn to listen, Doerner. Can you look back on your last semester in college and be happy with what you accomplished? Well we hope so, because now Sarcastic airing out the truth, and letting the rest of the student body pass judgment on your life. Granted, in the time that it has taken us to put your web activity into magazine form, we could have actually·made a website for our magazine. Your pleas will fall on deaf ears though, Doerner-the truth is out! 
Sincerely, Scholastic Magazine Seniors 
gipp: greetings my hush-hush homeboy i've been watching you for a long time 
me: JUST TELL ME WHO YOU ARE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
president: Dear Friend, I heard that you recently got rejected by your first true love. 
If you need spiritual guidance during this clearly difficult time, please apply for my office hours. If what you propose is uncontroversial and can be answered with a "yes" or a "no," perhaps I will grant you 15 minutes of my time to listen, since this is what I do. I listen. Just ask those non-discrimination kids. 
president is typing ... 

HOME: Chicago. Well, a suburb outside of Chicago. Like twenty minutes away from Medieval Times PHONE (574) 631-0000 • E-MAIL IBLEEDGOLDNANDBLUE@ND.EDU 

JOHN DOEMER 
EDUCATION 
8/06-Present: University ofNotre Dame, Senior in Mendoza College of Business -Accounting; College of Engineering -Chemical Engineering; College ofArts and Letters -Arabic; Minor -Catholic Social Teaching 
• Study abroad in London, Spring 2009 Conspicuous alcohol consumption with other Americans Became friends with the kid who has lived in my section for two years Kicked out of a pub for belligerently speaking in a British accent 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
Irish Grover: It behooves a Muppet to fabricate irrelevant and offensive tirades with a clear conservative agenda. Good, Grover. Editor in chief (2010) 
• 
Dig through archives ofunflattering pictures of President Barack Obama. Front page, baby! 

• 
Publish truth the Observer can't handle 

• 
Serve God, Country and Rush Limbaugh 


Appalachia Supervisor: Because I was too smart to work with the normal people Mentor (2009) 
• 
Saved the Appalachia region by sacrificing an entire week out of my school year 

• 
Learned that, even though they don't have a 3.5 GPA while pulling·a superhuman workload at a private university that's just barely short of an Ivy League institution, the poor have something to teach us too 

• 
Saw the face of Jesus in a sick child. And then told him to find his own damn health insurance. 


Deloitte: This firm selects only the toughest, smartest, most driven interns in the field. And those with something least resembling a soul. Intern (2008) 

• , Waited in line fo.t 3 hours at the annual career fair. 
• 
Made enough copies. to kill all the trees on South Quad 

• 
Manager McJerk's favorite coffee-runner (super-skinny skim soy latte, half shot ofvanilla) 

• 
Gained knowledge, strength, wisdom, efficiency and fortitude 


Interhall Broomhall Champion: If hockey is for girls, then broomball is for gods. Force ofNature (2008) 
• 
Finally demonstrated that I can actually walk on water (albeit frozen) 

• 
Highest scorer in broomball history (probably because I was the only sober one) 


WORK & COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES 
• 
Fastest cross:-planter to date in the annual abortion protest (over 1,0000 crosses in 2 minutes) 

• 
Irish Guard -wouldn't you like to know what we keep under those kilts? 

• 
Volunteer at South Bend Center for the Homeless -I only went once, but it was a really powerful experience 

• 
College Republicans -President, four years running. Sarah Palin calls me for fashion advice. I call her SayPay . 

• 
Zahm House treasurer -Whistle blower in the House pizza embezzlement of '07 

• 
Latin Expressions -Though I'm 100% white upper middle class, I figured a little diversity never hurt the ole' resume 


AWARDS 
• 
Student Body Leadership 

• 
Student Government Leadership 

• 
Volunteer Leadership 

• 
Class Leadership 

• 
Leadership ofthe current Notre Dame administration Qenkins is a clueless pawn, say goodbye to your precious Vagina Monologues, bwhahahahahahah) 


1 APru12010 I ScHoLAsnc I19 

igh1: INqtre Dame 
i 
~-'--'-.1..........:-_,_;;_-"'-..;;....c._B_e_s_t-1-_w_-·_o_rs_t___,___R_a_n_d_o_m_-'"-'--A~~ut_J -Store~ 
( Search by keyword or areacode... 
D 
I;] Submit i i :~ Favori~es I ! P Text Us -! (812): 
what r u doing 2nite? 
(1-812): 
drinking. watch sportscenter. yell at farley girls from the window. prolly pass out by 2. 
IZl Good night (73) GJ Ba::I night (13) Order T-Shirt 
(574): 
Hey! We met at 23 last night! Want to go to my senior prom? My mom said we can rent a limo and I won't even have a curfew! 

' Good night (346) ey Ba::I night (53) Order T-Shirt 

(847): 
Dude, i threw up at finny's last night 
(231): 
had too much to drink? 
(847): 
nah, touched the floor on accident 
' Good night (63) ~ Bad night (464) Order T-Shirt 
(216): 
he seemed pretty cool, until i found out he lives across the lake 
(1-216): 
yeah, the walk to carroll usually isn't worth it. 
(216): 
thats true. but the walk to the seminary is NEVER worth it 
' Good night (150} ~ Barl night (29) OrderT-Shirt 
{773): 
is the big couch in the 24 hour lounge open? 
(908): 
well, there's a couple kids sitting here. i'm sure they won't mind if we make out. 
~ Replies(11) fi Good night (346) ~-Bad night (53) Order T-Shirt 


(614): 
I ended up in the gipper ...again. Who the hell is this person? 
(727): 
her name is Allison Thomas. she's a senior english and latin american studies major. BOOM! 
' Good night (83) {4) Bad night (7) Order T-Shirt 


(716): 
hey so we hooked up last night. my name's matt...your turn. 
~ Replies (3) 6 Good night (63) ~ Bad night (464) Order T-Shirt 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
! Most Active Area codes j Flickr I Twitter 
I ­
I 
:I 


g;~
)C09·l010 


-------View texts from tl;~-Archiv~­
1I 
-·····----·-·~·-·-··---------------,-·-·-------··-... ----------~-----------.. -­

it,{(:·\ ts> . .·.. ... . . . .· > . ; ·.• ··. •. . ·.. . . ... 
;[. I . )+ http://twitter.com/JDoemerlO . .. . . .. . . . . 




'.~-r~~):~.(~.~~ l
. . ~ome Profile Settings Help Sig:-~~ 
,.. ~--:>-~SA-~'--.::=:::J'--:::'.f,=__,,<V · 
,,,.--_// / 
What's happening? 140 
Tweet 
.1Home 
lllmfloyd#3stud: met a nice young female the other day ... janice? jane? jwoww? whatever ur name, ·holla back @ ya boy soon. about 3 hours ago via txt 

JDoemer10: check out the ring I got for a very special lady http:// tinyurl.bit/sfsrf8 . Sssh, dont tell! about 6 hours ago via Web 
...TheRealBK: who is officer tim mccarthy? why did he tell me there's· no ' reason to drive like navy did against our god-awful defense? 

JDoemer: new column in the grover. we shall fight!!! httg://bit.ysg/653 about 23 hours a:go via txt 
FrHessy: watching the weekly hesburgh challenge ... every other floor??? our young men and women certainly can't drink like they used to. about 10 hours ago via txt 
., 


Name John Doerner 
Location Notre Dame 
, Bio Just your typical 
i ND student trying to 
i protect Our Lady's 
: University from the 
1 threat of socialists and talking lady parts. 
8363 2124 
1 following followers 
Tweets 700 
, .......RevJJ: working on my handshake in tir,:ie_for this year's : commencement. My buddy Barack said 1t was too weak. · 2:30 pm March 31 via Web 

Cpt.Bzzkill: Just dumped out my 5th 30-rack of Natty tonight. No wonder there's no plants on Mod Quad. 
7:25 PM March 29 via Web 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 

During his nightly stalking of various Notre Dame women's Facebook profiles, John Doerner finds something that catches his eye. Similar interests, similar political views, and they both have Springsteen as their favorite music. It all chec out. Jane could be the one. 
et up at·the only place on campus oes anything that even resembles dating ­ortune. After bragging about his impressive ck full of service projects·and internships,Jane s him. 
Things got hot and heavy quickly. First they made it Facebook . The new couple celebrated their love in the only way Demers official. Then they stopped hanging out with their friends. But know how -making their fellow students feel inc~edibly then they really took things to the next level -same-siding it at awkward with their constant displays of public affection. At one 
SDH. point, they were logging 3 hours a day on their special bench. 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
Welcome John Doerner Help
fli 
Home The Tour Sign Up Explore l !search johndoemer's-photosteaml Search ~ ¥ 
But wait! Why is Jane looking at him like that? Hadn't they been the perfect Notre Dame couple? John never missed one birthday 
or anniversary and never 
stioned her wardrobe ofUggs 
pants. This is not how 
upposed to end! 
ve gone wrong? 
ongbender, 
is sorrows in Natural 
d singing Journey 
his bros,John still didn't 
understand. But he forgot the 
one thing that can ruin mo 
any Notre Dame relati As senior year rolls around, John and Jane find themselves strolling by the lakes.John had lined up his job at Deloitte. His boys from 
bought a sweet place on side of Chicago. But e dream was still 
o secure a date at the r a beautiful Doerner ng. Later that day, John and 
ane walked all the way around the lake for the final time, andJohn got to one knee at the Grotto, certain of his success. 
nt her? Should he 
hey are both adults and 
a mature discussion about 
r relationship ended? Of 
. This is Notre Dame. John 
to throw Jane's bike into a tree and ends her on Face book. That will 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 

P.O. BOX69 NOTRE DAME, IN.46556 WWW.IRISHGROVER.NET VOLUME 7 ISSUE 19, MARCH 31, 201( 
Veritas Quid Pro Quo Habeas Corpus Ergo Anno Domini Veni Vedi Vici 
campus of the plague that Obama wrought not think God can see you, but He can, and 
JOHN DOEMER 
last spring, but I was wrong. B. Hussein left He's super pissed. 
Editor in Chief his cronies from ACORN behind to start a In times like these, we must turn towards colony:. A commons, with rock music playing the wisdom of the papal encyclicals. My at has gone wrong with Our and restaurants that serve burritos. But the favorite, the one written by Glenn Beck, is 
Lady's fine institution, my constitution says absolutely nothing about entitled Vottts for Sarah Palinus. In it, Beck 
riends? This place used to be eating burritos. In fact, I know that when the denounces the evils of the secular world like the most Catholic place on Earth. Chapels Holy Spirit was writing the constitution, he affirmative action, lies about global warming, in every dorm. Theology classes teaching never once ate Mexican food. and Will Smith's 1997 album Big Willie Style. the good word to every student. Enormous So who are we to blame for this quagmire? We are called, as brothers in Christ, to drink pictures of Jesus adorning our largest I blameJohnJenkins. Shame on you,Jenkins! lots of cheap beer and yell at our dormmates buildings. Priests everywhere you look. I see what you are doing as President. It's about these issues. Ladies, you must steer Those were the days, my fellow Domers. But like you are trying to make alumni, faculty, clear ofthe male dorms while we save this fine today's Notre Dame? Well, I guess we still donors, and students all satisfied. A leader institution. You might as well just steer clear have all of those things. But once in a while trying to respond to many interest groups of of the university altogether. I remember this they have a play on campus with the word his organization? Blasphemy! The Observer place being a lot more Catholic and manly "vagina" in the title. Did you know that not refused to run this column! before you all showed up. Jesus, nor any of his apostles, nor any Pope I was watching the Pope's weekly address In conclusion, friends, we are the Fighting had a vagina? Why would we use that word last week. It was in Latin, so I didn't Irish and now is the time to fight. We shall as the name of a play? It's like I can hardly understand any of it. But I'm pretty sure I fight in the dining halls, we shall fight on the recognize this place anymore. know what he said. He said, "I want you to quads, we shall fight in the football stadium 
But let me tell you why I am really worried. write many Viewpoint letters to save Notre and in the JACC, we shall fight in the Main Just south ofcampus, the liberals got together Dame from turning into the University of Building; and we shall never surrender. Live and built some sort of secular fortress. They California-Santa Barbera." every week like it's Right to Life week. call it "Eddy Street Commons." That's Heed these words, oh children of Christ! right, Commons. Like Communism. I I see you all eating your meat from Burger ~ 
thought Alan Keyes sufficiently cured our King at LaFortune on Fridays. You might 

{' ./ ;_..-f--S\~ 
The Grover's Inaugural Clergy Crush: Meet the Blessed Fr. wl~~1ef~_;:ct .f 
1' X 7hile another unnamed campus publicati~of ill repute encourages you to -~efriend 
V V random students, who, we would like to war\li:m, could be binge-drinki~hook-up obsessed, anti-God-country-Notre Dame fanatics, we aq_he Groverwould like ~-point you in a holier direction. Introducing our first Clergy Crush, (furor~ Fr. Will Ha~y."He was so excited to be blessed with this honor that the C.S.C. ofhis future ~e~tly~er'should stand for Can't Stop Calling (and badgering and nagging and begging to be crdsh:ed on). He claims his favorite activities include long walks around the lakes contemplating Truth and Goodness, but we recently spotted Fr. Will trying to pick up girls at the Grotto and drinking something stronger than the Sacred Blood at Corby's. Fr. Will seems to have conspicuously led a march on campus supporting inclusion of all students and anarchy, so he gave up 97 things for lent, including a Fro-Yo addiction. Who needs friends when you could have spiritual guidance? "Friend" Fr. Will the next time you go to confession. Which should be now. -Statler Wald01f 
24 I SCHOLASTIC I 1APRIL 2010 


SARCASTIC 
, . · .. _,_"' 
\ • •. •, ___ ·c:......ho_··.:....,.._;_____________;_;;_:....,.__,.:......:..:..______:....,.__,______--------------------=----=----------'---"'-,1
. . >·:,,..-----,--.;;-------'-'----'---'----'--'------~'-'-'-'------"-'-'------------->---'-<----··..-"-o----·ok;.,,;;.;IS-'-. 
';; ' 
iors/0401201 
Scholastic Seniors 
wan Info Photos Boxes Discussions YouTube Box » 
Scholastic Seniors + Fans 
Just Fans Jen Wulf, editor in chief, will leave Notre Dame with a PLS degree, which will guarantee her a prominent role in any pretentious cocktail party conversation as the girl who thinks your interpretations on Plato couldn't even pass in her first-year seminar class. She will embark on her journalism career with an internship at the Philadelphia Inquirer. She hopes to return as a member Notre Dame's Gallivan Journalism panel, whereupon she will rant to young, bright-eyed journalism students that newspapers are dead and reporters like her have been rendered obsolete.
fl Yesterday at 8:01 pm -Comment -Like -Share ~ 58 people like this. 
) 
i!]Zj Marques "Sparkling Prose" Camp, managing editor, has forged perhaps one of the most eminent careers in Scholastic 
,,1
~;;J history-based almost entirely on weighty pronunciations on the fate of man that he somehow manages to weave into " stories on hockey tournaments. Besides managing editor, you may know him as the author of "A Dream Deferred." No? ..,.. Try "A Dream Deferred Part Deux." Despite his heart-rendingly inspired verse, however, Marques decided to sell out to 
The Man and is heading for the west coast next year to work for Intel. So it is here the dream dies. fl Yesterday at 6:16 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Courtney Ball, associate editor, is second in command -seriously. A philosophy/ psychology double major, Ball's loves include Nietzsche, Freud and dressing small dogs in clothes. Besides her more practical skill set of philosophizing and psychological analysis, Ball is a veritable storehouse of obnoxious South Park quotes. Whateva whateva, she does what she wants. Which, next year is grad school at Rochester -where she plans to start a Confederate uprising. The world.is a more beautiful place with proper etiquette.
fl Yesterday at 12:45 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Malish~ Samarasekera, associate editor, has a last name that nobody can either say or spell. It's okay, though, because Malisha loves abbrevs so we can just call her Malish. In addition to shortened words, Malisha loves attempting to fit a reference to the Browns or THE Ohio State into the sports section because she's never been anywhere more exciting than Ohio. Next year, Malisha will finally hang out with people who are her same height when she moves to Mississippi to be an elementary school teacher for Teach for America.
fl Yesterday at 6:07 am -Comment -Like -Share Molly Kring, executive editor, is a woman of many hats. Molly enjoys kittens, crinkling her nose and day camps. She also owns a pair of oversize boxing gloves with which to dispense of anyone who calls her cute and is prone to insensitive generalizations. Molly can't reveal where she will be employed next year, but swears that it is really cool and will be way better than anything we're doing. fl] Tuesday at 9:08 pm -Comment -Like -Share Mike Tresnowski, executive editor, has made a career on Scholastic out of exclaiming "oh man" and "the worst" at nearly everything he encounters. Affectionately known as Tres, he has had the most failed Top 5 and Judgement Call ideas in Scholastic history, but has refused to let these setbacks stop him from moving forward from his first journalistic endeavor, "Shalom at the Dome." His genuis culminated with the Pulitzer Prize winning column, "COLLEGE!" Tres will use the math skills he forgot duririg his four years.of college to teach algebra in Washington D.C next year with Teach For America. fl Tuesday at 3:34 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Meagan Drapalik, lead news editor, is the most nurturing, caring person on staff. Her fellow editors take advantage of her disposition by taking her creative story ideas and using them in their own section. Meagan responds to this abuse by apologizing to us and writing us a thank you note. She will take the lessons she has learned about sharing and use them to teach elementary school in Houston next year for Teach for America. 
fl Monday at 11 :36 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Lauren Cook, photo editor, came far too late to the Scholastic party, joining the staff the spring semester of herjunior year, not giving the magazine enough time to appreciate her razor-sharp snark and her photographic artistry. She probably regrets joining late too, not knowing that taking photos for Scholastic gives her the opportunity to feast her eyes upon the best man-candy Notre Dame has to offer. 
fl] Monday at 7:02pm -Comment -Like -Share 1 APRIL 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I 25 


SARCASTIC 
·.;ff:'.i(.:.,;,••~?i>~\::}}' .· }l;:fac~gq<>fl.;~£~~/astic·Sediors . 
J..... 1. . ) http://www.facebook.com/pages/ScholasticSeniors/04012010 

Lisa Bucior, news assistant, a true journalist, sticks her neck on the line to get the story. Sometimes this means stalking cab-driving townies through the slums of South Bend to get the truth about that guy who posed as a law student for a semester. Sometimes it's being offered 300 camels in exchange for your body from a middle-eastern tradesman. (Author's note: a camel is worth roughly $4,000) Also in true journalist fashion, she has no job for next year and is instead focused on buying droves of cigarettes, scotch and being bitterly inspired.
ffil Monday at l 0:23 am -Comment -Like -Share 
Kathleen Dilenschneider, assistant design editor, will be an unemployed business major following graduation (Surprise!) Her real dream however, is to eventually embark on a career in the realm·of television. Her claim to fame, which she tries to use to impress her interviewers, is that she interned for the "Late Show with David Letterman" last summer and did not sleep with him. That has to count for something, right? 
<tii] Sunday at 8:55 pm -Comment -Like -Share Jenna Newcomb, the manager of business and distribution, may perhaps be the woman behind the curtain for Scholastic. Though any Scholastic staffer would be hard-pressed to say that they have ever seen Jenna, her name has appeared in the magazine for 29 consecutive issues, which has to be a record of some sort. Her relationships with our advertisers ensure that Scholastic has enough money to rain "free" food on staffers week after week. Next year Jenna will be putting her skills to work at law school. fll Sunday at 2:30 pm -Comment -Like -Share Meghan Bliss is our star designer/copy editor/writer/whatever-else-we-can-bully-her-into-doing. Meghan's favorite part of being Catholic is guilt. When she's not Scholasticizing, she enjoys actualizing dreams, walking on broken glass and demonstrating the usefulness ofa pocketknife. Meghan will be putting her outdoorsy sensibilities to good use and maintaining her awesome bike shorts tan line with an internship at a youth leadership camp in Michigan next year. fl! Saturday at 5:20 pm -Comment -Like -Share Krishna Surasi, humor columnist extraordinaire, came out of nowhere this past year to revolutionize the Scholastic humor section. Using wit and observation, Krishna has pointed out the nuances of everyday Notre Dame life and also explored his dynamic relationship with his father. Krishna also plays a lot of Frisbee. If things go according to plan, next year he will be going home to New York to attend medical school. If not, he will just be going home. Either way, he will demand to be called Dr. Su~.
c.tliJ Saturday at 3:59 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Juliana Hoffelder is one part photographer, one part artist, one part superhero.Juliana's stunning work graced the cover of this administration's pilot issue and is also framed on this writer's wall. Juliana's next stop is Washington, D.C. (or perhaps Chicago?) where she will be doing educational policy research. 
fl! Saturday at 11 :00 am -Comment -Like -Share Claire Kenney, staff writer, has had a wild ride with Scholastic magazine. Her inaugural story was an expose on the game day drunk-tank and most recently she found herself stalking janitors in CoMo at l a.m. Claire's adventures will continue post-graduation as moves to LA to do public relations work for campaigns. 
fl Saturday at 6:07 am -Comment -Like -Share . Conor Binder, staff photographer, has a personal relationship with Scholastic that goes beyond his camera prowess. An RA in Sorin, he belongs to the dorm that a Scholastic survey revealed as one ofthe best party dorms;one ofthe easiest dorms to break parietals in, and hosted the best themed party, "Heaven and Hell." After graduation he ,plah~ to be gainfully employed in our nation's capital. ' fl Friday at 8:16 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Andy Gray, Scribe. Sportswriter. Samurai with a pen. He would always stand in the corner, watching, waiting. Scholastic editors would rave about the poetic profile in the works for the sports section. "Who is· this kid, Andy Gray? This kid has a future in the business! Why does he never come to meetings?" Unbeknownst to them, he was quietly listening, perhaps laughing. Week after week. He would softly raise his hand. "Hi, I'm Andy." So goes the eternal introduction of Andrew Gray. 
fl! Friday at 4:42 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
Erica Pepitone is your new editor in chief. After three years of crack copy editing, Erica will be taking the reins. Goals for next year include finally creating an official Scholastic Web site five years in the making (attention: OIT, help please) and taking the magazine all the way at next year's Indiana Collegiate Press Awards. Godspeed Erica. 
fl Thursday at 11:35 pm -Comment -Like -Share 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
the games we play 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 
SPORTS 



IRISH EYES ON: CARLETON SCOTT 
Matt Formica 
When fom1er Big East Player of the Year Luke Harangody injured his lmee in Notre Dames loss to Seton Hall on Feb. 11, manyIrish funs abandoned all hope of watching their team playin the NCAA Tournament ND appeared to be headed for its second consecutive NIT appearance and a disappointing end to the season.Then, thelrishsuddenlycaughtfire and reeled offsixconsecutive wins to earn a Tournament berth. Junior forward Carleton Scott played a pivotal role in this improbable late season nm, receiving increased playing time and contributing on both ends ofthe court Scott, a San Antonio native, wowed Irish funs with his rim-rattling put-back slams and emphatic blocked shots in 2009'-10 and promises to play a key role next season. 
Wbatareymtr'lhUllghtsunND's openhzgnnmdm 'ID O/dDmninion? 
Nowlookingbackonit, rm trying to learn from it rm trying to tal«:whatever I can out of it, and move on to the future. 
What wereyuu 'thinking us yuu released a put.enlinl pze-'lying, tln-ee-point attempt? WbatwllS gvmgthrrmg/Jymtrheadas 'the ballrnttied in and out? 
I thought it was a good look It felt great coming offmy fingertips. It felt like everything was in slow motion, and it just rattled out It was really tough to watch. 
DescribeND's beadroach, Mike Brey, in afew Sl!l1tJ!l1Ces. 
Hes a good coach. Hes intense. Hes a player's coach. He understands his players and he'll get on you when you need hin1 to, but he'll also help you out when you need hin1 to. 
When LukeHmrmgvdy wentthrum with a serious knee injury, did you expect 'ID play such a key role in 'the 'team's nm 'ID 'the NCAA To11r1111111ent? 
When he went down, I !mewI was going to be the next guyinline to step up for hinl. I just tried to concentrate on defense and rebounding and not worry about the scoring too much. I focused on helping my team out with that, and I let the offensive end justcome to me. 
Wbatwnsyourfavorite nrmnent of'the 2009-zo season? 
Probably the game-tying shot against Marquette. It was really intense, really fun. It made it a lot better that we won. 
I.ookingforwmrl, how do yoii 'think 'the team willfare next season without 
Hanmgrxly amlTo,yJadaun? 
Thoseare biglosses forus, but we have guys thatcan step itup. I have complete faith in the freslmlan class. I think everybody is going to be more focused and hungrier than we were this year. 
Wbatis'lhe mostimpurtantlessunYUll willtake awayfrrmi 'thispastseason? 
Perseverance. Through the lows you just need to remain confident, calm and poised, and keep working hard every day. You need to be ready for the hurdles. 
Doyuubavemr_ypemmalgva/sfar1U!Xl:smsun? 
Just to getbetterinall aspects of the game. 
Who isym,rnwst entertaining teammate? Why? 
ProbablyTory Uackson]. Some of the comments he makes are just ridiculous. He is the most vocal guy on the team. Whenyou need it, he'll be there to pick you up. He's a crazy cl1aracter. 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
A rot ofBig&st'teams 1mderpe1formed in ·the NCAA TournmnelTt. Doyou 
'thinkplayingin such agruelingcmrftre11ce wearsyuu guys duum? 
It is definitely one of the toughest conferences. We do beat up on each other a lot, and I think that can play a role in postseason play. I think it does matter, but not too much. It wears on you after a while, with every game being so competitive, but there are still some great Big East teams in the toumament0 


i_______________S_PO_R_T_S 


( South Bend will : c'b· Q b : only be cold 
( icago u ~ ( for three more ( months. 
Casey 
j Timepieces ..:. 
MARTIN·­
j Eric Clapton 
Baseball 
Scott 
! The permanent . RODGERS ( The "Yankees : gray cloud leaves : DMX Rug;rntsLacrosse ! South Bend. ! 
. .
. .
. .
. . 

Time Travel 
Josh Flynt 
April 1, 2001 
Nine years ago, the Notre Dame women's basketball team took on in-state rival Purdue in search of its first national championship. The Irish, who began the tournament as the No. 1 seed in the Midwest Region, dominated Alcorn State and Michigan to earn a trip to the Sweet 16 in Denver. With victories over Utah and third-seeded Vanderbilt, Coach Muffet McGraw's team moved on to the Final Four in St. Louis. In the national semifinal, the Irish overcame a 16-point first half deficit to stun Connecticut, the No. 1 seed in the East Region and the top-ranked team overall. The 90-75 victory propelled Notre Dame into the national final against the Boilermakers, who had knocked off Missouri State to reach the championship game. Like the victory over the Huskies, the final, against Purdue required another furious Irish comeback. This time, the Irish rallied from 12 points down to secure ND's first national championship in basketball. Then, in the all-Indiana final, the Irish were led by senior center Ruth Riley, a Macy, IN native. Riley finished with 28 points, 13 rebounds and seven blocked shots, and it was her two free throws with 5.8 seconds remaining that sealed the 68-66 victory. Riley, a unanimous All-American and the first Notre Dame player to be named Naismith Women's College Player of the Year, summed up the victory as the perfect culmination of her ND career. "I can't even describe it," she said. "This is the only thing I wanted. To be able to share this with my teammates is unbelievable. We worked so hard that it was fitting to end the season this way." 0 
Everything about Law Abiding college. Citizen 
j The university 
! Ghosts of
: as a whole. It is a 
: Girlfriends Past
! great place where ! featuring "The: I made a lot of !'Hey": memories. 



Tommy Krcmaric 
What many suspected on November 28, when Notre Dame's 2009 football season came to a close, became official 10 days later: Jimmy Clausen was gone and the Dayne Crist era officially began at Notre Dame. Coming out ofNotre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, CA, Crist was one ofthe most highly-touted quarterbacks in the 2008 recruiting class. Still, his future is largely uncertain. After a freshman season spent entirely on the sidelines learning the ropes from Clausen, he received little chance to showcase his skills during his sophomore campaign. He did, however, make the most of his few chances. With Clausen on the bench with an injured foot, Crist sparked a comeback victory for. the Irish against Purdue. Yet, Irish fans remember the Kyle Rudolph touchdown reception from Clausen in the final minute of the game. On Halloween against Washington State, C1ist showed great promise in a rare Irish blowout. He rifled a 64­yard touchdown strike to receiver John Goodman and displayed tremendous arm strengh, . perhaps stronger than predecessors, Clausen and Brady Quinn -standout Irish quarterbacks to whom he will be incessantly compared. But, the biggest headline Crist made that night was the knee injury he suffered late in the second half, revealed a few days later to be every football player's worst nightmare: a torn ACL. The fate of the 2010 Fighting Irish rests largely on the shoulders of this young player. Irish fans have high expect~tions for new coach Brian Kelly, but players need to make the plays to win games,_and, in recent years, Irish players have earned a reputation for not making those crucial plays. Beirig in the_.spotlight on what is likely to be one of the most scrutinized programs in college foqtball next season, the onus is on Crist to be' a playmaker and an example for his team. ·· 

There is no debate about Crist's physical tools: He possesses--prototypical size for a quarterback, standing 6'5" and weighing over 230 pounds. He has the aforementioned cannon for an arm arid was rated a 5-star player out of high school. The question wm be whether or not he can prove to be a winner on the field, which too often did not occur for the Irish over the past three seasons. 
Additionally, Crist is well-liked by his peers and respected as a leader by his teammates. He has ·the "it" factor, the trait which .allows_ a quarterback to not only carry a team_ on his back but also inspire his teammates to perform at their highest levels. It is this ability to lead that convinced Crist that quarterback was the position for him. "I've always loved playing quarterback and competing, having the ball in my hands," he says. "Leading the team down the field has always been appealing." 
His ability and willingness to learn from others also suggests future success on the field. Despite a lack of playing time in his first two seasons, Crist feels he has improved immensely by watching and listening to others. 
"There's so much to learn and you can never stop picking things up from other guys," he says. "The minute you stop trying to learn is the minute you stop getting better." Of course, having Clausen to learn from doesn't hurt, and Crist made the most of his opportunity to learn from the future NFL player. 
"He was a great teacher and mentor to me. Anything I could gain from him was valuable." Crist's humility and acceptance of the role of understudy in his first two years has already paid dividends, which Irish fans are hoping will manifest themselves in the fall. 
"I've matured a lot as a quarterback going through the system and multiple staffs, and I've definitely adjusted to the speed of the game. I'm a lot more comfortable with what's going on." 
Crist will be tested in the fall. He says his new role as the presumed starter will be a "trial by fire." But Crist's confidence is comforting to Irish fans. While spring practice will likely be spent away from team drills as he continues rehabilitating his knee and working on re-establishing timing with his receivers, come fall he will be the center of attention, not only among his team but also in the media. 
"If it comes with the territory, it comes with the territory," he says. "I'm just going to work as hard as I can to get wins and national championships for Notre Dame." After more than two decades without a national championship, many Irish fans feel lost. But if anyone can lead them back to the promised land, it is Dayne Crist.0 
1 APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 

HUMOR 

Springtime salutations, my darling little Darners! It's that time of year again, and ol' Gipp sees all the classic signs of the season springing up around him! 
St. Liam's is switching off its complimentary happy lamps as throngs of sun-hungry PLS students storm the grounds of South Quad to lounge in the grass, soaking up the vitamin D and a few nuggets of Plato's precious knowledge (so college). Up north, the strapping young chaps of Zahm and Keenan are blasting Bon Jovi from windows and stripping off their shirts for whatever mannish reasons they can find -frisbee, acoustic guitar sessions, etc. -in the eternal quest to prove· their masculinity and carefree attitudes to their more womanizing adversaries. Eager little Domer squirrels are swiftly scrounging up their buried "\¥inter donuts. And in an annual tradition of efficiency and sustainability,. the administration is far too busy planting ten thousand brand new tulips to bother turning off the heat. in LaFun. That's right, my little giplings -spring has sprung! And ol' Gipp here could not be more tickled by your tantalizing tales of seasonal celebration. · 
Nothing gets an overworked, under­boozed Domer more animated than the anticipation of some much~needed relaxation. In the eternal tradition of students throwing caution, character and dignity to the wind, many of you embarked on that most cherished and timeless excursion -Spring Break. While the most sensible headed home for Mommy's home-cookin', some of my raucous little rebels opted for more exotic destinations. 
This first tale comes from European 
shores, where a troubled member of our duLac flock found himself rather inebriated on his final night -and morning -of travel. Following an evening of, shall we say, crawling through the city center, our slightly soused comrade found himself most rudely ejected from a local McDonald's after unloading the contents of his stomach onto the floor. Indeed, our friend, who henceforth shall be known as Trip, spent much of his early morning transit to the international airport imbibing with a lovely lass who was so kind as to offer up her two-liter full of local libations. While Gipp loves to see his little giplings engaging in that age-old art of sharing, perhaps the two would have been wiser to stick to plain ol' OJ. For as the voyagers began their fateful journey up the airport escalators, Trip lost all sense of gravity and consciousness and found himself face-to-metal with those magical moving stairs! For several scary seconds our traveler, unnoticed by his sleepy sidekicks, drifted up the stairs in a horizontal manner. Of course, the stalwart stewards of security personnel did not take kindly to the situation at hand, and Trip was required to pound back several cups of joe before being accepted, bloodied and bruised, onto the flight. 
Our next narrative is one of travel as well, although much more local and involving far fewer articles of clothing. It was a dark and chilly pre­spring evening on South Quad. After engaging in an evening of very shrewd consumption, our newest friend set down his empty bottle of Colt 45 with a mission in mind. As it was far past four at this point, he headed to duLac's most esteemed eatery to consume a quarter. 
dog or two in the company of equally levelheaded companions. With a belly full of nutrition and a brain swimming in college juice, our prudent pal boldly embarked on a journey to the highest floors of Hesburgh to engage in the noble quest ofknowledge. The next thing our boozing buddy recalls, however, is a rather rude ejection from the building by those lovelies we like to call NDSP. When the wicked South Bend wind hit him at the doors, he felt an unusual chill in his nether regions, and looked down to find his own boxer shorts not on his hips, but almost unbelievably in his hands. Gipp can't say for sure, but he bets the bookworms of the 13th floor were unable to focus for the remainder of that night. 
What can I say, little ones? You seem to find yourselves in a sticky state of affairs no matter how far you roam! For the love of golden Mary atop the dome, it's time to keep your faces off the pavement and your delicates where they belong! Although ·on second thought . .. what would I be without you, my lovelies!? Keep sendin' in those tasty tips and don't do anything I wouldn't want to write about! 
xoxo, 
The Gipper 
T;P THeg11PP 
o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
1APRIL 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 

Krishna _S,~ 
Ilove my dad to death. He is the best father ever and I don't know what kind of dirtbag I would have grown up to be if he didn't raise me. In retrospect, however, I have realized that he can be a huge a-hole sometimes. This column is about how he was a jerk to me when I was a kid. 
The Point System 
When I was younger, my dad would always come up with new and creative ways to avoid having to do anything with me/ make me shut up. One of his most effective techniques was the point system. Every tinie I did something sweet, which could be anything from getting an A on my report card to doing a cartwheel, he would award me an arbitrary number of points. I don't know when he started this, but I do know that it was never clearly established what it actually 1Peant for me when I won points. All lknow is that when I earned points I got really excited and dreamed about all the points I could have someday ifI kept doing sweet things. It was in this way that he made me do the things that he wanted me to do. I will give you a typical example to demonstrate how the point system worked: 
Krishna: Daddy, come outside and throw a ball with me! Dad: Not now. Daddy is tired and he wants to play Tetris. Krishna: But, Daddy, you said yesterday 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
that today you would play 
with me ifI didn't say anything for two whole hours, and I didn't! Dad: Uhhh ... Hey Krishna, you wanna earn some points? Krishna: Yeah! Dad: I'll give points if you . ; . run 15 laps around the park. Krishna: OK! 
(2.5 hours later) 
Dad: Krishna, do you still want to throw a ball or do you just want to take a nap. Krishna: I'm really tired from running, Daddy. I want to take a nap. Dad: Good job! You earned 200 points today, Krishna. Now pay attention. For tomorrow, every hour after you wake up that you don't ask me to do something, I'll give you another 10 points. 
I remember the day I realized that I had been collecting points my entire life and had not redeemed them for anything, nor really ever understood what their value was. When I presented my father with this problem, the conversation went something like this: 
Krishna: Hey, Dad, you know those points you are always giving me, what are they for? Dad: What do you mean? You earn them for doing things I think are sweet. Krishna: Yeah, Dad, I know that. My question is, what'are they for, and is there any sense in the way you distribute them? Dad: (Pauses Tetris and looks at me) They 
are for whatever you want, Krishna. Krishna: So they are like money? Dad: Yeah, sure. Krishna: So is every point a dollar or something? Dad: (long pa1tse} What are you thinking 
about? 
Krishn~: I want an N64. 
0 
Dad: No, you can't :use theni for that. Krishna: Why.not? I think I have earned enough points to buy an N64 by now. I have like 100,000! Dad: Whydo you want more video games? We already have Tetris, Tetris 2 and I j~st got you Spell Checker for your Gameboy. You don't need more video games. They are not good for your brain. (Unpauses Tetris and conthmes playing) 
Krishna: So the points are useless, and ,you have just been using them to make me .do;your-bidding this whole time? All those 
times I played the quiet game, all those 
times I ordered Rooty Tooty Fresh and 
Fruity Jr. at IHO~because it was on the 
Kids Menu and th_!,y: wouldn't serve it to you and all those cart'wheels I did were for 
nothing!? · 
Dad: (pareses Tetris and another long pa1tse} 
Wanna ·go to Applebee's? 
Krishna: Yeah! 
Da_d: OK then, we'll leave in 10 minutes. 
Daddy has to finish his game. 
And it was in this way that my father controlled me _for the majority of my life up until young adulthood, although he still gets away with a lot ofstuff by taking me to Applebee's. 


HUMOR 

realized that going at 5:30 beats the 6:00 rush, so now my friends go at 5:15 to beat the 5:30 rush. As this vicious cycle continues, my friends are soon going to be eating dinner before lunch, wearing shoes on their hands and letting the American flag touch the ground. I pray I will have graduated by then. 
The next ethical question in the dining hall comes when receiving stir-fry. Since we go to a Catholic school, the students here are all pretty nice. As nice people, we like to say "please" and "thanks." However, is it really necessary to say this every time we ask for and receive more vegetables in our stir-fry? The DHCC says that, to show our appreciation for the dining hall workers, we actually should follow this practice ... unless you're that perky girl behind me, and I'm having a bad day. Then you can check your tone and keep to yourself. The workers will thank you. 
Another question arises when the napkin basket is not placed on the table as strategically as it should be, leading the person next to you to ask for a napkin. You're faced with a decision, and what you do says quite a bit about your personality: Do you make the sanitary move and pass the whole tub of napkins? Or do you grab 
Justin John Cullen 
It's a mechanical visit for most of us by now, but if done incorrectly, it can be one of the most irritating experiences on campus. I don't like to think of myself as a complainer, but there are just some things that rub me the wrong way during my dining hall visits. My main gripe is the general lack of dining hall ethics. Back in my day, kids respected the dining hall and those around them in the cafeteria. But just as family va.lues are declining around the country, dining hall principles are quickly becoming things of the past. The first, and, in my mind, most obvious, breach of the Dining Hall Code ofConduct (DHCC) occurs when my friends eat at the wrong time. To beat the rush hour traffic at the dining hall, most of the people that I know seem to like to eat dinner at 5:30 p.m., and since I'm a very popular and likable person, they ask me to accompany them on their journeys. I would be fine with that ... ifl were 50 years older and I were going to Denny's instead of the dining hall. Bros, I'm not a member of the AARP, and I wasn't alive during the Truman administration. How about we eat at, say, 7:00? But it gets worse! Other people have a couple with your grimy hands and pass them down? 

I live in Zahm, so we all know what my answer would be ifl needed to pass a napkin to another male. But what ifl'm passing said napkin to a female? She would probably be grossed out by my touching of the napkin, so I would pass her the basket. But since I always assume the opposite of what girls are actually thinking, she would probably think that I am saying she is going to eat quite a bit, and by the transitive property of napkin-passing, I'm calling her fat. 
The final question of dining hall ethics comes in the pasta line. Here's the scenario: I'm standing behind a person (we'll call him Kyle) filling his plate with spaghetti and covering every square inch of it with a cornucopia of red and white sauces. Meanwhile, I want one stupid piece of garlic bread. The same thing happens in the vegetable line when I only want a tablespoon ofcorn. Am I allowed to cut Kyle to quickly gather my treasure and move along on my merry way? I say yes. I'm an important person, and I have people to see and places to go. If you don't like it, you probably shouldn't have gotten in my path. 
And don't even get me started on those damn spoons at North... 
~TH 


FOOD COURT 

1 APRIL 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I 35 
EXIT INTERVIEW 

LOLITA HERNANDEZ 
Claire Reising 

vVrite1· Lolita Hernandez has.published several short stories and .poems, but her world extends for beyond coffeehouses and classrooms. She worked in auto .plants for over 30 years, and her collectio7z ofshort stories, Autopsy ofan Engine, narrates the closing ofa Detroit auto .plant from multiple .perspectives. Her family's St. Vincent and Trinidad origins also influence her writing. Hernandez recently visited Notre Dame for the third annual Women T,Vriters Festival. 
How did you know you wanted to be a writer? 
I'm not sure I ever knew. I just am, in spite of myself. 
What is your favorite subject to write about? 
Detroit and Caribbean people. 
What attribute do you most admire in another person? 
Warmth, sincerity and _humor. · · 
Ifyou could live in someone else's shoes for a day, who would you pick? 
My mother's. 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 APRIL 2010 
What is the best piece of advice you have received? 
When I was divorcing my husband, a very wise friend said to include my children in my decisions. She was right. 
What do you think is the most pressing issue of our generation? 
Maintaining our humanity, our caring for each other. I think we've lost that, at least in this country. We're so individualistic, so materialistic. 
What is your idea ofa pe1fect day? 
Good writing, sun, yoga and a good walk with my dog. 
Ifyou could invite three people, living or dead, to a dinner party, who would you pick? 
My mother, my father and my grandfather, Pafin, all of whom are dead. 
What is your biggest worry? 
War. 
Ifyou could have one superpower, what would it be? 
I don't have even a foggy notion about superpower. I muddle along in life hoping to make it from one day to the next with knowledge gained from the day before. 
What is yourfavorite quotation? 
The one I share the most is from Jorge Luis Borges' lecture on blindness: 
I, too, if I may mention myself, have always known that my destiny was, above_ all, a literary destiny -that bad things and some good things would happen to me, but that, in the long run, all ofit would be converted into words. Particularly the bad things, since happiness does not need to be transformed: Happiness is its own end. 
A writer, or any man, must believe· that whatever happens to him is an instrument; eve1jthing has been,given for an end. This is even stronger in the case ofthe artist. Everything that happens, including humiliations, embarrassments, misfortunes, all has been given like clay, like material for one's art. One must accept it. For this reason I speak in a poem of the ancient food of heroes: humiliations, unhappiness, discord. Those things are given to us to transform, so that we may make from the miserable circumstances of our lives things that are eternal, or aspire to be so. 0 


·· ·fruit Jam with tapioca Pearls 

-,,avors: Strawberry, Peach, 
Mango, Kiwi, Honeydew 
lZoba Powder with tapioca Pearls 
f1avors: Green Tea, taro, 
:·_,::.·.:" .. 
~ .. i.:.-, _ 
Milk Tea, Chocolate, Coconut 
earn 
NOTRE. DAME FOOD SERVICES 
• • -,; • • • • ' > ....•, : • • • • , • • 
I 
tQrun Ice creQm is locQted in the Huddle . ·. 
~-. ---·--------~ ~ . . ----------~ -------. --. -· -----­










