
The Notre Dame Scholastic
777
NOTES ON LfflNC
The othei- day some one remarked that books and music and “such things” were nice little dream-houses for spare moments, things to escape to, when, say, the ordinary tasks of the day become so tiresome that one doesn’t want to go to a movie when through work.
We have heard this type of remark so very often that it has really become monotonous; we have usually been aroused enough to swing into a reply that, sometimes, has been as hasty as it has Seen worthless.
You pick up a book. Now if you read that book, in whole or in part, enjoy it mildly while so doing, lay it down, say to yourself that you have passed a; pleasant ten minutes or hour, then forget it and pass on to something else—if you do this you have not only not read the book, but you have wasted your time as well. •
Suppose the book was a really great one, a book written by a man whose thoughts boiled over onto the page, who had something to say which demanded saying so badly that the words saying it fairly quiver with the heat behind them. They are words that, had they been spoken by the author as he stood before you, would never leave you, would always be with you. As you walk through the crowded streets of a city, as you stand clerking behind a counter, the spirit of those words would pound hotly -within you, like the wing-beats of a great white eagle.
You hear a piece of music. You remark that it’s pretty, then go on to the next thing—(which may or may not be a movie, a ride, or any one of countless other minute-smashers). Really, you haven’t seen that piece of music. You’ve heard it, yes. But there’s a great deal of difference between merely hearing and really seeing music. Real hearing is seeing— seeing something that a man thought too great for words, something that was like an army of lightning bolts, a flight of condors and hawks over the volcano-mouths of the mountains of the mind.
And so—our case. Which is really no case at all, but simply a plea for seeing!	—M. H. l.
|	~ Ghe
I Notre Dame Scholastic
| Disee- Quasi-Semper-Vic^urus«Vw-Quasj.£ras-MorituTus
Founded in 1872
	Murray Hickey Ley	 Editor-in-Chief	-
	Harley L. McDevitt	Graduate	Manager	Z
	EDITORIAL STAFF T. Vincent McIntire	Managing	Editor Emil L. Telfel	Assistant	Managing Editor Joseph B. Reedy	Assistant	Managing Editor J. Archer Hurley	The	Week ' Walter Langford	The	College Parade William Knapp	Music	and Drama	' Ramon G. Smith	Campus	Clubs Paul J. Hallinan	Features Editor Edward E. Brennan	Script	Editor	s
	NEWS STAFF John Bergan, News Editor James Collins	Neil Hurley	Lawrence Dunda Howard Webster	George Allan	William Karl Austin Boyle	Richard J. O’Donnell	James Carmody John Motz	John Pick	Leslie Raddatz	■ James Kearney	
X	SPORTS STAFF .	John A. Kiener, Sports Editor William J. Magarral	Cleve Carey	F. Granger Weil Harry A. Sylvester. Jr.	Henry B. Asman	James E. McFeely, Jr.	•
	’ BUSINESS STAFF	. Harrington J. Noon	Local	Circulation Manager Chester M. Ashman....Foreign Circulation Manager	' Frederick N. Davis	Local	Advertising Manager James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager	X i a
=	James H. Rorke	William Sherman	John Blanda Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan Merle V. Baldwin	Norman E. Duke	s
=	Vol. LXIII.	APRIL 11, 1930	No. 25	X
TABLE OF CONTENTS
:	Frontispiece ------------------------------------------- 776	j
E	The Week—J. Archer Hurley------------------------------- 778	j
:	Coming Events___________________________________________ 779	j
5	A Man You Know—William Karl----------------------------- 780	:
|	A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel------------------- 782	|
f	Glee Club Plans Extensive Tour—James Collins------------ 785	|
=	Editor’s Page------------------------------------------  787	j
=	More Words!—Paul J. Hallinan---------------------------- 788	:
:	Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith----------------------------- 790	’ :
=	College Parade—Walter Langford-------------------------- 791	i
I	The Wink________________________________________________ 792	|
|	Trackmen Plan For Relays—Henry B. Asman----------------- 793	|
|	Select Champs in S. A. C. Tourney Finals Tonight-------- 795	|
E	Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester-;------- 805	|
5	On Down the Line________________________________________ 808	5
THE SCHOLASTIC is published -weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
:	The Advertisers- in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	s
:	All Notre Dame Men.	>
□ •■■■■>>■■<>■■»■»»■■■■>•»»...................................................................»■•»»».......
778	The Notre Dame Scholastic

IPON, Wisconsin, is one of those little towns that nobody wants to go back to after he has once seen Ziegfeld’s Revue or eaten waffles in Child’s. Saturday night finds the street crowded, and for the rest of the week it is as dreary as the yawns of the storekeepers. A college that boasts of nothing but its history snores away on a hill above the village. The students rank Sinclair Lewis with the Four Evangelists, and read him with more faith. All in all it is a setting to arouse the wonder and humor of any stray Celt. Frank Corbett, who is to venture into Ripon this week-end as a lone Irishman pitted against fate and several orators of less worthy extraction, deserves our unstinted praise. He has dared the enemy in their own fort.
/^^GOOD chef gets as much pleasure from cooking a tasty meal as we do from eating it—but witness the dejected jowls of most cooks. Don Quixote, who was not as mad as some of his modern reviewers, remarked “that one way to acquire fame in poetry is to be governed by other men’s judgments more than your own.” The Scholastic scribes, gathered about the board of the Rose-Marie Tea Room, looked stealthily at each other, hungrily at their plates, and wanted to rise up and say something substantial both as an appetizer and as a consolation to their numbered spirits. Alone among them all the editor was happy —it was the only time during the year he saw the entire staff together.
HEN a man says he feels the need for a little vacation, he usually means that he is tired of looking at the murky steeps of the economic rut and wants to be carefree for a bit. When a woman insists that she must have a vacation, it usually means that she wants a new audience for the old charms. In either case the vacationer returns, not quite willing to admit that it was a failure but wondering what was lacking. To spend one’s life as a prolonged vacation is the only way to really appreciate the institution, for the short ones merely annoy one. Indeed, Cain killed Abel while they were on a vacation, “Let us go forth abroad.” History records a number of incidents where men lost their mental balance while on an outing and wanted to kill everyone about. Easter vacation will be an abrupt change—and for many of us the last college vacation. May everyone enjoy it as much as he deserves.
| HE Glee Club and the baseball team are to travel, one to the South, the other to the East. Inasmuch as songbirds usually migrate about this season, the Glee Club would seem to be following a natural inclination. Lordi and Hellrung, however, have more evident reasons for taking their baseball team to the South. And the scores for Southern trip games are going to be somewhat discouraging to many of our more neighborly opponents.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
779
4-
Coming Events
FRIDAY, April 11—Finals in S. A. C. boxing tournament, University gymnasium, 8:15 p. m.—Girl Number of Juggler on stands.—Deadline 12 midnight for submitting Dome activities.—Special meeting of the Boston Club, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, April 12 — Movies, “Barnum Was Right,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, April 13—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 6:45, 7:30.— High Mass at 8:15 a. m.—Breakfast at 7:30.
MONDAY, April 14—Joint meeting of the Engineers and A. S. M. E. clubs, North Room, Library, 8:00 p. m.—Local contest of the Intercollegiate Oratorical, Public Speaking Room, Walsh Hall, 4:00 p. m. (Manuscripts must be in the hands of Mr. William Coyne before noon.) —First meeting of the Education Club, Journalism Room, Library, 8:00 p. m.—Press Club meeting, South Room, Library, 7:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, April 15—Lecture, Mr. James O’Shaughnessy, manager of Liberty Magazine, Washington hall, 10:00 a. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Public Speaking Room, Walsh hall, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, April 16—Easter vacation begins at noon.—Tenabrae services, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
KONOP SPEAKS TO POLITICAL STUDENTS "
Practical procedure in the House of Representatives of the United States Congress was explained by Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, at a gathering in the Law Building, Wednesday evening, of several classes in American Government. In his talk, Mr. Konop, after explaining the organization of the House, traced the various steps in the passage of a tariff bill as an example of Congressional lawmaking.
Arrangements for this special lecture were completed by Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor of the American Government classes in attendance.
CLASSES TO NOMINATE
OFFICERS THIS MONTH
Nominations of officers of all classes will take place during the first week after the Easter vacation, it was decided at a meeting of the Student Activities Council, Monday evening. The freshmen will nominate their men at 12:30 on Tuesday, April 29, the Sophomores on Wednesday, April 30, and the Juniors on Thursday, May 1. Special announcement will be made concerning the nomination of the S.A.C. representatives from the various colleges, including the Law School.
The elections will be held Tuesday, May 6, in the old refectory in the Main Building. All nominations and elections will be in charge of the Student Activities Council.
DR. KUNTZ SPEAKS ON -“MENTAL HYGIENE”
Dr. Leo Kuntz, Professor of Clinical Psychology, gave a lecture to the Sociology classes, in the North Basement of the Library, last Friday night. His talk was concerned with the college man, his studies, his vocation, and his personality. These he treated in the light of Mental Hygiene, a science, which, he said, has for its function the helping of man to attain happiness. The lecturer took for his theme a passage from the works of the English philosopher, Hamilton: “There is nothing great in the world but man, and nothing great in man but mind.” He enlarged on this truth, explaining that the mind must be free from any of the psychic impediments which are common today. These are classed as psychoses, neuroses, and complexes, and the cure of them is the aim of the clinical psychologist.
The first part of the lecture was devoted to the analysis of the relations that exist between Mental Hygiene and the various professions. Dr. Kuntz showed how essential a knowledge of practical psychology is in the fields of medicine, law, and social science. He then enumerated several mental difficulties which frequently confront college students. For these “personality disorders,” as he called them, he suggested remedies, and he emphasized the harm that may result if they are disregarded. At the conclusion of his lecture Dr. Kuntz answered questions that were put to him by the audience.
BRIDGE PARTY FOR BALL VISITORS
Frank Dailey, chairman of the Senior Ball, announced this week that a bridge and luncheon will be given from two to five o’clock on Saturday
Frank Dailey
Chairman, Senior Ball
afternoon, following the Ball, at the Oliver Hotel, for the mothers and chaperones of the guests. Frank Walker is in charge of this event.
Invitations to the Ball are out today, and . may be procured when purchasing tickets. Tom Purcell .has charge of the invitations.
The ticket sale for the Ball closes May 1st, and all seniors are urgently requested by the chairman to obtain their tickets before this date.
Indications that this year’s ball wall be one of the foremost in the social realm of the year are already -manifest. Coon-Sanders’ famous orchestra will play; the choice of favors has been most favorably received; the program will be novel and distinct; and the tea dance should be a social success.
NOTICE!
❖ Applications for membership ❖ ❖ in the Spectators’ Club may be ❖ ❖ obtained from Murray Hickey ❖ ❖ Ley, 327 Sorin Hall, or from ❖ ❖ Louis Hasley, 325 Sorin Hall. ❖ ❖ All applications must be ❖ ❖ turned in to either Mr. Ley or ❖ ❖ Mr. Hasley by midnight, Mon- ❖ ❖ day, April 14.	<•
*•* ❖ *•* ••• *** *** *♦* *♦* *♦* *♦* ’♦* ❖
780
The Notre Dame Scholastic
------------------------------------------------------- -I----------------------------I
I A Man You Know	|
-_____________i
V------------------------■-----v
Wherever we find true personality we find its keynote—a rare sense of humor. Piercing the clouds of human care and solicitude, it serves to divert our attention from ever-present worries to the traditional silver lining. Only a minority possess it in its entirety, and among these we feel justly proud to number the Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, M.A., Ph.D.
. Reverend Sidney A. Raemers
Born in Wellington, a suburb of the great metropolis of London, England, Father Raemers received his early education in the London County Schools, which he attended for a period of ten years. Attracted by the picturesqueness and hidden charm of the lands across the channel, and in particular of France and Belgium, he left London after his graduation from high school to spend six years at the stately old University of Louvain near Brussels. These years were filled with studies of the old languages of Europe which Father Raemers learned at first hand. Here too, he obtained his first taste for philosophical speculation, which has never left him.
Not very many miles distant from Louvain lay the German Empire, with modern institutions of learning of an altogether different type than those of France and Belgium, and so, lured on by an insatiable desire to travel and to learn at the school of experience, Father Raemers decided to further' his studies in languages and Philosophy at the Lyceum in Luxemburg.
Before a year had passed, the grim spectre of war swept down upon Europe, and he was forced to leave the country. With his fluent, knowledge of French, German, and Italian, he left for Paris where he became engaged in hospital work and also acted as an interpreter. In 1916 his services were sought in London, where he taught for a short time at Cusacks College in Finsbury Square. Several months later, impelled by that desire which has brought many others to the New World, he sailed for Canada, and there engaged in teaching languages and English history at St. Albans, preparatory school for McGill University, Montreal. While there, Father Raemers began to realize that his calling lay in the priesthood. In accordance with his inspiration, he left for St. Mary’s Seminary in Baltimore, Md., an institution affiliated with Catholic University and Johns Hopkins University. It was here that he received his B.A. and M.A. degrees. The next year his Bishop transferred him to the Catholic University in Washington, D. C., where he was ordained in 1921. While there Father Raemers did graduate work in philosophy and education. From there, his varied and adventur- . ous path led to Portland, Maine, and the principalship of the Catholic High School as well as the assistant chancellorship of the diocese of Portland. When the high school went into the hands of laymen, he accepted an offer to head the philosophical department at Nazareth College, Nazareth, Mich., in 1926. During the summers of 1926-1928 he did graduate work at Notre Dame, coming here to teach in the fall of 1928.
Among the varied subjects taught by Father Raemers we find logic, psychology, sociology, ethics, history of philosophy, French, and many others. He has translated about a dozen French and Latin works, and has also published several reviews, notably a series of articles on the philosophy of Orestes A. Brownson, which appeared in the Placidean, a philosophical publication of Catholic University.
“Playing tennis in the summer and faithful attendance at football practice in the fall have been my particular hobbies while at Notre Dame; Charles Dickens has always been my favorite author,” says Father Raemers. We suspect that he also is a good musician, for we managed to discover that he had been successively organist at Catholic University, and at St. Mary’s Church, Redford, Detroit, Mich.
SULLIVAN, STETLER, AND CORBETT HONORED
BY CLASS
The selection of seniors for delivery of the class poem, class oration, and the valedictory at the 1930 Commencement Day exercises was announced this week by the University.
Richard Thomas Sullivan, of Kenosha, Wisconsin, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been chosen to give the class poem. In his four years at Notre Dame he has proven himself a consistently brilliant student and a poet of promise by his continuous contributions to campus publications. Mr. Sullivan served as Literary Editor of the Scholastic early in the fall and has, since that time, been an active contributor to Scrip. His fine and distinctive style, in prose articles has also attracted many readers.
Harry Louis Stettler, a native of Aliquippa, Pennsylvania, and a senioi- in the school of Commerce, is given the honor of class orator. His ability was considered on the basis of general merit and the work which he has done since his enrollment at Notre Dame. He has distinguished himself as an active member of the Commerce Forum and several campus clubs, including that of his home state. The honor bestowed upon him is indicative of his ability as a commerce student and candidate for a degree of Bachelor of Philosophy.
The Valedictorian honor as of the Class of 1930 was awarded to Francis Edward Corbett, senior in the College of Arts and Letters. His home is in Fort Wayne, Indiana. No more worthy man could have been chosen by the University to deliver the farewell address of the class of 1930. His special ability as a speaker and orator was recognized in speech contests this year when he won the Breen Medal. This honor carried with it the admittance to the Indiana State Oratorical Contest where he again won for himself and Notre Dame the prestige of a champion. Mr. Corbett stands in high esteem with the student body and members of the faculty.
BISHOP FINNIGAN VISITS UNIVERSITY
The Right Reverend George Finnigan, D.D., Bishop of Helena, Mont., and former vice-president of the University, visited the campus this week. He was returning from a four months’ tour of eastern cities, where he was working in the interest of St. Charles College of Helena.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
781
Girl Number of “Juggler” to be on Sale Tonight
Tonight the students will have the opportunity to see an issue of the Juggler which is so far superior to anything that has yet appeared, that even the six record-breaking issues of this year’s Juggler will seem small in comparison. In the Girl Number, Funny Fellow Nanovic and his staff have reached a high pinnacle for college comic publications.
Joe Lopker’s splendid pastel work will win for him additional friends when they see the cover- on this issue. It is a girl’s head, done in warm tones, and reproduced by an expensive color process which does not lose a bit of the original effectiveness of the work. It is the finest cover that has appeared for a long time, and early proofs of the plates have brought forth very high praise from editors of national magazines to whom they were sent for criticism. Inside the book, the very first feature that strikes the eye is a two-color special insert, done not by printing, but by an off-set process. This insert includes the frontispiece and poem, and a photograph of the Juggler Girl of 1930—the usual commencement issue girl which this year is made part of the Girl Number.
A new make-up is evident, with the transfer of the editorial page to the first page of the edition; a very appropriate change for this number. Also evident is a new feature in the dash lines used between the articles. The new dash is a logo-type of the Juggler head, laughing and frowning in its traditional attitude. It adds a distinctive appearance to the page.
The center spread announces the Funny Fellow’s Personality Contest winners; seven girls just bubbling
Disgruntled Contributor Complains to Editor
The wrath of a writer is a terrible thing, the editor of the Juggler has discovered, since the appearance of the Girl Number. Out of the hundreds of articles submitted, only a few could, of course, be used, but some impetuous young lady, not satisfied with the results of her work, promptly mailed to John Nanovic forty-five sheets of colored crayon work, done, according to the names signed to some of them, by children of the 3-a grade of the Sherwood School. The postmark on the package was indistinguishable,
over with personality, and one whose picture arrived too late. A theatre page by Miss Catherine Moylan, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s newest featured player, carries the theatrical section to a different field. Miss Moylan, students will recall, secured her movie contract when her picture, in the Football Juggler, was noticed by a Metro-Goldwyn official, who went to New York to secure her for his company.
With more than a hundred girls contributing to the issue, the work in the art and writing departments shows a great deal of new life and flavor. The girl contributors this year were three times the highest number ever reached before, and the selection of the best work was difficult.
The Results
A Juggler key for the best written material, to Miss Frances Bradley, Clarksburg, West Virginia. A Juggler key for the best art work to Miss Marjorie Danforth, Winterset, Iowa. Honorable mention to the following for good written and art material: Miss Catherine Haynie, Miami, Fla.; Miss Juel Morrissey, Chicago, HL; Miss Virginia Lee Beall, Barnesville, Ohio; Miss Doris Johnson, Syracuse, New York; Miss Pauleen Bessire, Louisville, Kentucky; Miss Marcelle Morrel, Hammond, Ind.
Because of early requests for copies of the number, the edition will probably be sold out within a day or two. The necessity of finishing work on the cover and insert so far ahead of time made the staff order a judicious number of copies, now expected to be much too little, in view of the constantly increasing sale of the magazine.
and the only clue to the sender was a little note saying, “Hope this is the kind of material that will meet with your approval.” The humorous part of the incident is that the material was mailed before the decision of the winners was announced, and before the issue appeared on the campus.
So, while the campus cops were busy working on the clues, Editor Nanovic commented to the effect that “that’s the fudge and cookies and things the girls are supposed to send for the Girl Number.”
VILLAGERS HEAR SPEAK-
ERS; WILL HOLD EASTER DANCE
The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C. delivered the main address to the members of the Villagers Club last Monday evening at the College Inn of the LaSalle Hotel. The remarks of Father Reynolds, who is a well known campus speaker, were very inspiring and were appreciated by the members.
Mr. W. K. Lamport, of the Fox-Lamport advertising agency, spoke on radio advertising and merchandising. Following his talk, a round table discussion was held in which the members of the club asked Mr. Lamport questions in regard to his speech.
Plans were made by the club relative to the Easter dance, which is to be given Tuesdayj April 22, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. A prominent South Bend orchestra will be engaged for the affair, which should be the outstanding attraction of the Easter season in South Bend. The officers of the club look for a splendid attendance.	•
Louis Chapeleau was appointed general chairman. The members of his committee are Robert Holmes, George Eichler, William Konop, George Bryan, and Forrest Hazen.
All students remaining at the University or in the near vicinity are cordially invited to attend.
“DOME” FIRE SHOWS FURTHER LOSSES
Following a complete investigation conducted by Robert L. Pendergast, editor-in-chief of this year’s Dome, it has been found that damage to pictures caused by the Russell Studio fire is greater than was at first announced. The fire destroyed many of the group pictures. Mr. Pendergast asks that the leaders of the various groups called upon, exert every effort to get their groups together for resittings when called upon.
ACTIVITIES DEADLINE IS TONIGHT
Midnight of tonight will be the deadline for handing in activities to appear under photographs of seniors in their section of the Dome. It is imperative that seniors have a list of their activities in the hands of the Dome representative in their hall by 12:00 o’clock tonight.
782
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«>--------------------------*
A Man About the Campus
❖---------------------------*
Jim Walsh is a Wrangler. Now Webster, in his invaluable work, has this to say about wrangles and wranglers: wrangle, (1) To argue; debate; dispute. (2) To dispute angrily; brawl; altercate. Wrangler, (1) One who wrangles. (2) A Cambridge University honor man placed in the first class in the mathematical tripos. There you have it, all very
James J. Walsh
clear and simple. With the possible exception of the second definition of wrangler, all of Webster’s definitions apply to Jim. He has been wrangling, using the word in all its possible meanings, for some twenty-odd years; and he has done it so successfully that the University’s forensic club (the Wranglers) have unanimously elected him president for the current year.
In his freshman year Jim confined his wrangling to interhall debating. His ability to “argue, debate, and dispute” won him a place on the University’s debating team in his sophomore year. By the time his junior year rolled around his position as a debater was well established, so well, in fact, that the debating team, taking their example from the Wranglers Club, elected him captain of the negative team for this year. As a captain he has done very well indeed; the team has so far lost only one debate, and they have met the teams of some of the foremost colleges and universities in the country, including Michigan State, Western Reserve, City College of Detroit, the University of Florida, and New York University.
It might be well to mention that Jim’s rise in the Wranglers was one of steady progression. The presidency was given to him after he had been
Third Number of “Scrip” Is Placed On Sale
The third number of Scrip is the best number which has yet appeared. Louis C. Heitger, the editor, has made good use of the material at his disposal, and the contents of the magazine are undoubtedly the best literary productions of the students at Notre Dame.
The book-review section, an innovation, will attract much attention. Of the five book reviews that appear in this number of Scrip four are written by members of the faculty. Professor Charles Phillips reviews “The Woman of Andros,” Thornton Wilder’s latest book. Phillips’ review is a critical analysis of this great book, which many critics say is Wilder’s masterpiece. The Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., finds in the new book of poems by Glenn Ward Dresbach, “The Wind in the Cedars,” material foi* an instructive and entertaining review. Mr. Rufus Rauch writes a review of the definitive edition of the writings of Ina Coolbrith by Professor Phillips. The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., reviews “De Soto and the Conquistadores,” by Maynard, and his review is a good resume and criticism of this book, which tells the stirring story of the conquest of America. Louis C. Heitger, the editor of Scrip, reviews Chekhov’s well known work, “That Worthless Fellow Platinov.”
An essay by Ronald Zudeck, “A Word on Contemporary Style,” has already received much favorable comment from the readers of Scrip. It treats effectively this important feature of modern writing and modern
weighed and found not wanting in the balance of the secretary-treasurership.
Walsh is as versatile with his pen as he is with his tongue. He has been at various times on the staffs of the Scholastic, the Dome, and the Juggler. In 1928 and 1929 he conducted the Music and Drama column of the Scholastic; he was an assistant editor of the Dome last year; and the Juggler has had him as an associate editor under both the McNamara and the Nanovic regimes.
Jim’s home town is Brooklyn, New York. He lives in that section of the city made famous by “Red Mike.” (If you don’t know who “Red Mike” is or what section of Brooklyn he made famous, we refer you to Jim himself, Harry Sylvester, George Kelley, or any other Brooklynite or New Yorker). He is a senior in the College
writers. Charles P. O’Malley is the author of “Semper Fidelis,” the second play to appear in Scrip. It is an amusing and realistic account of the experiences of three captured soldiers.
The five poems appearing in this number of Scrip have been carefully selected from the several submitted. Benjamin Musser, the editor of Contemporary Verse, who will be remembered by his poem in the first number of Scrip, is the author of “Inventory,” a poem of great merit which appears in this number. Cyril Mullen, who has also written a short story for this number, is the authoi* of “In a Doctor’s Office.” Joel Egerer contributes the poem “Quartier Latin.” Two seminarians, Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., and John Bednar, C.S.C., who are old contributors to Scrip, are the authors of “Freedom” and “Milkweed Near the River” respectively.
“First Day,” by Cyril Mullen, is a short story which tells of the unpleasant experiences of a small boy who is forced by the reversal of family fortune to move to a poorer section of town than that to which he is accustomed. Joseph A. McCabe has written another psychological study to succeed his short story, “Breakfast,” which appeared in the second'number of Scrip. His story, “Over-Time,” appearing in this number of Scrip, is another realistic study of industrial life.	.
“Beeches,” a pen-and-ink study by William Heineman, is the attractive frontispiece of this number of Scrip.
of Arts and Letters and lives off-campus.
Jim’s hobby is the theater and all things connected with it. He blush-ingly confided to us that his ambition is to write the “great American drama” sometime in the not-so-far-distant future.
ENGINEERS HEAR RAILROAD OFFICIAL
Mr. Stanley Child, an official in the Engineering Department of the Baldwin Locomotive Works addressed the -Engineers Club last evening at its regular meeting in the south room of the Lemonnier Library. Mr. Child spoke on the subject of “Diesel Engines” and in his talk pointed out their history and uses. The lecture was interesting and informative and « was well attended by the members.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
783
i-
Tickets on Sale for Annual K. C. Spring Formal
The post-Lenten season of social activities will be inaugurated a short time after- the return from the Easter vacation at the annual K. of C. Spring Formal. The dance will be held Friday evening, May 2, at the Palais Royale Ballroom, to the great delight of local Knights of Columbus and their guests.
Several prominent dance orchestras have been considered by the committee, and the choice has finally narrowed down to two of the best. Either Frank Silvano’s orchestra, now playing at the Cinderella in Chicago, or Pierce’s Illinoisians from the Pershing Hotel will play.
Several other inducements are offered to students to obtain tickets for the Spring Formal. As in other years 12:30 pers will be in order for those going to this dance. St. Mary’s girls, it is announced, have received permission to attend.
“ELECTRIC EYE” DEMONSTRATED BEFORE LARGE AUDIENCE
Under the auspices of the Notre Dame Branch of the A.I.E.E., the “Electric Eye” was introduced to the students by Mr. H. B Stevens, noted Westinghouse engineer, last Monday night in Washington Hall. The large body of students present was evidence of Notre Dame’s interest in scientific advancement.
This marvel of modern science guards prisons and banks, counts people (the number of students who entered Washington Hall was thus ascertained), distinguishes colors, and protects industries in many ways.
Mr. Stevens presented a number of demonstrations on the stage; notably, he built a fire which was detected by the “Electric Eye,” which then automatically caused the release of a drum of carbon dioxide. The lecturer spoke of the possibilities for the development of this new invention and conjectured about some of the things possible in future years through its use.
It was because of the efforts of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers that the Westinghouse Company sent Mr. H. B. Stevens.
At a council meeting of the Knights of Columbus last Monday night, tickets were distributed to the members and immediately placed on sale. Tickets for the Spring Formal this year- will be sold at $3.00. They may be had from members of the ticket committee or any Knights of Columbus. Those who plan to go should reserve a ticket now so that final arrangements can be completed as soon as possible. The ticket committee is composed of Nicholas Bohl-ing, chairman, Walter Scholand, William Harrington, John Nelson, Edward E. Brennan, and Frank Gartland.
The novel feature of the dance, it is hinted, is the favor which has been decided upon. Although the possibilities in favors for school dances have been almost exhausted, Chairman Connor- avows that this year’s Spring Formal guests will see something entirely new.
CORBETT WILL SPEAK AT RIPON COLLEGE TONIGHT
Frank Corbett, this year’s Breen Medalist and state oratorical cham- • pion of Indiana, wall speak at Ripon College in Wisconsin tonight.
The occasion is the Interstate Oratorical Contest, in which he will vie with student orators from the states of Missouri, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana for the sectional championship title. Mr. Corbett will deliver the same speech on the courts and injustice with which he took first place in the Indiana contest.
EDUCATION CLUB TO BE LAUNCHED
In view of the increasing interest in the subject of Education, the faculty members of the Department of Education are starting a new club open to juniors and seniors who have taken at least one course in Education. The primary purpose of the club is to foster closer relations between the faculty and the students in the Department of Education and to discuss current problems relative to school administration and teaching. The inaugural meeting of this organization will be held on Monday night, April 14, at eight o’clock in the Journalism Room of the Library. All those interested are urged to attend.
RETURN DEBATE HELD WITH WESTERN RESERVE
Last Friday evening three members of the varsity debating squad bandied words in a return contest with West
ern Reserve University, the scene of
Thomas Keegan
the debate being the old town hall of Bedford, Ohio. Walter Stanton, Francis McGreal, and Thomas Keegan, repre-senting Notre Dame, upheld the affirmative side of the question, which w 'a s again the much - mooted topic of dis-armament.
The teams divided honors. The judge, Professor 'E. W. Miller of Wooster College, Ohio, awarded the verdict to the Western Reserve speakers in a non-critical decision. But the Notre Dame speakers got along very well with their listeners; and the audience, having been asked to pass judgment on the discussion, ballotted overwhelmingly in their favor.
The Affirmative team was very hospitably welcomed in Cleveland by several Notre Dame alumni—including Thomas Byrne, John Victoryn, Al Nano vic, and George Leppig. On Saturday the members of the team were given a dinner at the Lake Shore Hotel in Cleveland as guests of Frederick Joyce, who was graduated from here in 1923.
CURRENT CATALYZER RELEASED
In the new issue 'of the Catalyzer we find a very interesting article written by W. E. Mahin. It pertains to the equipment used in the Haber-Bosch for the synthesis of amomnia. To cause a direct union of nitrogen and hydrogen, the elements comprising ammonia, extremely high pressures and temperatures must be used to produce a yield which is satisfactory from the commercial point of view.
Also contained in this issue are the usual “Steel Treaters Notes” and the “American Society News” as well as a very pertinent editorial on “Scientist and Layman,” which we are sure will prove to be of interest to those pursuing a non-scientific course.
784
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CHICAGO CLUB EASTER
FORMAL TO BE HELD
ON APRIL 21
Final arrangements for the annual Easter Formal Dance of the Chicago Club were completed at a meeting of the club Tuesday evening, in the Lay Faculty dining hall. The affair this year will be one of the most pretentious dances held in the annals of the Windy City group, if present plans may be taken as a criterion.
The dance is to be held in the Gold and Balloon rooms of the Congress hotel on the evening of Monday, April 21. Music for the occasion will be provided by Art Kassell and his Club Metropole orchestra. The auxiliary band will be Lloyd Huntley and bis Melody Boys, prominent Chicago orchestra, well known for their broadcasts over Station KYW.
The committee and officers of the club extend a cordial invitation to all men who do not intend to return home for the Easter vacation to attend the dance. Students living in the immediate vicinity of Chicago are also invited. Reservations must be filed before next Tuesday with Richard McShane at Walsh Hall. Bert Metzger and Art Petersen are cochairmen of the dance, and William McCarthy is president of the club.
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME
NIGHT SET FOR APRIL 21
Universal Notre Dame Night, with seventy alumni clubs joining in the celebration, will be observed on Easter Monday, April 21, according to James E. Armstrong, secretary of the alumni organization.
This is the seventh annual observance of a Universal Notre Dame Night. Clubs will participate in practically every state of the Union, in Mexico, South America, and across the Atlantic. Efforts are now under way to have the proceedings of some of the banquets broadcast over the radio.
In most of the meetings the programs will be somewhat similar, many cities having faculty members and officials of the University speak. More than 5,000 men will take part in this year’s event.
The St. Joseph Valley Club will sponsor a program in the Lay Faculty dining hall in commemoration of the event. A number of prominent speakers will be present.
FINAL “DOME” CIRCULATION DRIVE UNDER
WAY
The final circulation drive for subscriptions to the Dome, official University yearbook, are now under way, under the direction of Joseph A. Wilk, the winner of first prize in the recent subscription drive. The campaign w’ill be carried on in all of the campus halls as well as off-campus.
Mr. Wilks states that this drive will be the final chance for all men desirous of receiving the Dome of 1930 to subscribe. The price is five dollars.
OTIS SKINNER TO BE IN
ELKHART, APRIL 21
Seats are now on sale at the box office of the Elkhart High School Auditorium for the engagement of Otis Skinner in Papa Juan, on Monday, April 21st, in which he has been appearing all of this season. He produced the play in Chicago last spring and it ran there for ten weeks.
As a study of character—a study in temperaments, for the twelve characters represented are diversified— the new play has found a ready reception. Many who have seen Mr. Skinner in the title role have pronounced his interpretation the most complete and satisfying he has ever given. It is the 329th role he has essayed during the fifty-two years he has been an actor.
His portrayal of the character of Papa Juan is a picture of a very old and very fine Spanish gentleman that bears the mark of the real artist.. Besides this central study there is presented a general picture of Spanish provincial life. Age without bitterness and regret is this Papa Juan, a man whose outlook on life is kindly, tolerant, and hopeful, because he can see beyond, past today, and into tomorrow.'
STUDENTS INVITED TO ATTEND DANCE
Students of the University have been tendered a cordial invitation to attend the Post-Easter dance sponsored by the Saint Mary’s Club of South Bend, at the Palais Royale, on the evening of April 28. Music for dancing will be furnished by the Kilties orchestra. Miss Virginia Guthrie, chairman of arrangements for the affair, states that the students of both Saint Mary’s College and Academy will be permitted to attend.
❖------------------------------*
Gleanings
*------------------------------
Word reaches us that Johnny Mo-hardt, ’22, one . of the best halfbacks and captain of the baseball team at Notre Dame, will soon be married, his engagement to Miss Dorothy Harrison of Rockford, Ill., having been announced last week. John is now finishing his course in surgery at the Mayo Foundation Graduate School at the University of Minnesota.
—o—
Leo R. McIntyre, ’28, former news editor of the Scholastic, and campus writer, is at present connected with the Bethlehem Globe-Tribune of Bethlehem, Pa. He is assistant sports editor.
One of the interested spectators of the “Absurdities” Saturday evening was Freddy Collins, fullback of the 1928 football team. Fred is nowliving in Chicago.
“Big Ed” Walsh, famous pitcher and former assistant coach of baseball at the University two years ago, is recovering from a serious illness due to an operation for appendicitis. Mr. Walsh is the father of Ed and Bob, former athletes at the University.
—o—
• Chet Wynne, ’22, former All-Western fullback at the University, has signed as head’football coach of Alabama Polytechnical School, Auburn, Ala. Chet recently resigned as coach at Creighton where he had been since his graduation from Notre Dame.
-	—o—
Art West, pro of the University golf course, states that 700 students played on the golf course over the week-end. The greens are in fairly good shape at the present time.
.	—0—
A Notre' Dame man has been chosen guard on the All-Western basketball teams of Fred Young, noted cage authority and referee. His Notre Dame selections began with that of Louis Conroy in 1925 and 1926 and continued for the next three consecutive years -with Ed Smith, who was chosen this year. ,
“The Old Rocking Chair,” an article by Professor Hubert Tunney of the English Department, was one of the outstanding features of the Literary section of the South Bend Tribune last Sunday.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
785
GLEE CLUE ELANS EXTENSIVE TOLL
The greatest eastern tour the University Glee Club has ever taken will commence next Thursday morning, April 17, when Director Joseph J. Casasanta and his singers board special cars of the Twentieth Century Limited on the New York Central railroad, bound for New York City, where they will open their concert season at the Hippodrome theater. No stops will be made on the way to New York.
O’Sullivan Sloan, manager of the National Exploitation department of the Radio-Keith-Orpheum circuit, of which the Hippodrome theater is a part, is planning an elaborate reception for the Club when it reaches New York City. The men will be welcomed by Mayor Jimmy Walker, Commissioner Grover Whalen and other notables, who will extend the welcome of the city to them. News reel “talkies” will be taken of the reception, Mr. Sloan said.
From the station the Club will be conducted, in busses decorated in the University colors, to the hotel at which it will stay during its four-day appearance. H. Jerome Parker, business manager of the Club, has not de
cided at which hotel the Club will stay but is considering the New Yorker, Roosevelt, Vanderbilt, and the McAlpin. One of these hotels will be chosen this week, Parker said.
The prestige which the Club has gained in this and other years is used in the exploitation of its appearance. The Hippodrome and associated theaters have been running trailers announcing the presence of the Club at that place. Mr. Sloan said that he expected to fill the huge theater, which has a seating capacity of 6,600, three times a day, for the Club in its first appearance at any large metropolitan theater.
A lobby display is being used by the Hippodrome, containing pictures of the officers and managers of the Club, with a large picture of Director Joseph J. Casasanta in the center. A large picture of the entire personnel of the Club is also exhibited. Pictures, pennants, and banners of the University are hung around the lobby to give it a Notre Dame atmosphere.
An added feature of the display is the use of eleven football suits which have been worn by Notre Dame play
ers in important games. These were sent out early this week so that they could be put on figures representing football players. This equipment was furnished by the Athletic Association. A large display will also be given over to the Club in the lobby of the hotel at which it will stay.
Arrangements are being made by the metropolitan aluinni of the University to have the Glee Club take part in the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. The alumni association is arranging the entertainment of the Club for the evening and is attempting to have it broadcast over’ a national chain hook-up so that Notre Dame men in all parts of America can listen in and hear their beloved songs of the campus.
Complete new outfits have been secured for the men to wear on the stage during the New York appearance. They consist of light brown jackets, white flannel trousers, brown and white shoes, white shirts, and green ties. They will be worn during afternoon concerts, and will help to add a contrast to the more somber
(Continued on Paste SOI)
Front Row (left to right)—Francis O’Neil, Maurice Scanlon, Jerome Reidy, Thomas J. Kerrigan (President), Director Joseph J. Casasanta, H. Jerome Parker (Business Manager), Peter J. Wacks (Associate Manager), J. Edward Phelan (Junior Manager), James K. Collins (Sophomore Manager).
SECOND Row (left to right)—Francis Coogan, Jerome Roach, Morton Goodman, Francis Brown, Rudolph Sturm, Robert Alge, R. Zeno Staudt (Vice-President), David Barry, Alvaro Ferlini.
Third Row (left to right)—William McAleer, Raymond Ziliak, Donald O’Toole, Joseph Butler, Jerome Culligan, Jerome Crowley, Herman Ziffrin, Ronald Zudeck, Harry Merdzinski.
Back Row (left to right)—Francis Staudt, William Waltz, Arthur Glasow, Clarence Schmidt, Herbert Petzel, John Beljon, Francis Maas, John Hickey
1
786
Notre Dame Scholastic
FATHER O’DONNELL TO SPEAK ON U.N.D. NIGHT
Notre Dame men in all parts of America will be privileged to hear the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, speak over radio station WGN, on the evening of April 21, when he will deliver- the feature address of Universal Notre Dame Night.
Another prominent alumnus, yet to be selected, will give the introductory talk for Father O’Donnell. The entire half hour program will be given over to the observance of the occasion, Quin Ryan presiding. A vocal chorus will sing the songs of the campus. The program is one of a series of “Universities of Chicago-land.”
The program will begin at 9 o’clock, central standard time, and will end at 9:30. The wave length is 416.4 meters, frequency, 720 kilocycles.
O’MALLEY WINS MCINERNEY AWARD
William Lee O’Malley, a junior in the College of Law was declared the winner of the annual Mclnerny Award for excellence in Public Speaking, Tuesday evening in Washington Hall before a fairly large audience. Robert L. Eggeman, president of the Law Club, was awarded second prize and third place went to William Wetli.
The subject of the winning oration was, “The Law Delays.” Mr. Eggeman spoke on the subject of “Back to the Constitution” in which he advocated that the states should have more power, as against paternalism and the centralization of all power at Washington.
Other contestants were: Walter O’Malley, Walter Stanton, Francis T. Ready, James W. Murray and James E. Keating.
The judges of the contest were: Messrs. Elmer Peak, Herman New-some and Arthur L. May, members of the Bar in South Bend. Professor Clarence Manion served as chairman.
*	NOTICE! ❖
❖ For the convenience of the stu- ❖ ❖ dents leaving for the Eastei- va- ❖ ❖ cation the Barber Shop will be ❖ ❖ open on Monday and Tuesday, ❖ ❖ April 14 and 15, until 8:00 p. m.
❖ It will be closed only on Easter ❖ ❖ Monday, April 21.	❖
STADIUM WORK, SEATING PLANS PROGRESSING .
Construction work on the new stadium has been progressing rapidly with the coming of warmer weather. The workmen have been busy placing forms and pouring concrete during the last few days.
Plans have already been made concerning the seating arrangements, according to J. Arthur Haley, graduate manager- of athletics. Students will sit in the west instead of the east stands, as in former years, beginning with the fifty-yard line. A better cheering section to support the team can now be developed. The east stands will be given over to the holders of season tickets
BAND TO GIVE CONCERT
IN CLEVELAND
Members of the University Band are anticipating a trip to'Cleveland to give a concert similar to the one presented recently in Washington Hall. Harry Busscher, president, is in charge of arrangements. The time for the trip will be about May 15.
At a recent meeting of the organization, C. Patrick McLaughlin was elected vice-president.
Another announcement has been issued from the Band, in which it is stated that the annual Band dance will take place on May 10 in the K. C. Ballroom, South Bend. Music will be furnished by the Notre Dame “Jugglers.”
POETRY CONTEST RESULTS OUT SOON
The results of the Scribbler Poetry Contest are to be announced shortly after the Easter vacation, as soon as the judges can make their decision. The fifty-two poems which were submitted have already been sent to the judges: Benjamin Musser, editor of Contemporary Verse; Vincent Star-ret, a Chicago poet; and Morton Zabel, teacher at Loyola University, Chicago, and associate editor of Poetry. The first prize in the contest is $15.00; the second, $10.00, and the third, $5.00.
The judges of the contest last year were Katherine Bregy, Vincent Engels, and Theodore Maynard. The winners of the prizes last year were: Murray Young, first; Brother Emil, C.S.C., second; and Cyril Mullen, third.
♦---------------------------------------------------------------- | College of Law Notes | ♦----------------------------------*
Last Wednesday evening at 8:30, in the Law Building, Dean Konop presented to the politics students a comprehensive explanation of the intricate workings of Congress, covering all phases of its operation.
The lecture that was to have been delivered last Tuesday to the Law College by Judge M. M. Oshe of the Chicago bench, was postponed until Tuesday, April 15. Judge Oshe was unable to be present on account of a previous engagement in Chicago.
Professor James F. Kirby addressed the members of the Bar Association at LaPorte, Ind., on Monday. Mr. Kirby spoke on the legality of several new laws.
Francis T. Ready, editor of the Lawyer states that the next issue of his publication will be released May 5.
CONSTITUTION ORATORICAL CONTEST TO BE HELD MONDAY
The Campus contest of the National Intercollegiate Contest will be held Monday afternoon at four o’clock in the Public Speaking room of Walsh Hall. Members of all classes are eligible to compete.
Contestants must submit their manuscript to Mr. William Coyne of the Speech Department by Monday noon. The winner of the local contest will represent the University in the Regional meet to be held April 29th, at DePauw University, Greencastle, Indiana, at which representatives of the various colleges of the state will compete.
Considerable interest has been aroused in the Constitutional Contest this year in many sections of the country. More than 700 colleges and universities have selected their champions to compete in the National contest. Prizes totaling $5,000 are to be awarded to the winners of the first seven places.
♦-------------------------------❖
NOTICE!
All members of the Press Club are urgently requested to attend a meeting of the club on Monday at seven-thirty,‘in the north basement of the Library. Important business will be discussed, including plans for the forthcoming journalists’ picnic.
♦-------------------------------A
7
The Notre Dame Scholastic
787
DONE WITH TEAT
Once again the world walks to Easter, with the dying candles of Lent in its hands. Once again those words, “He is risen,” drop like chains of light through the churning waters of Life.
It is not our aim to say something new about Easter. All that can be said has been said before, said with such beauty and clarity that any attempt at effective restatement would be as ill-advised as it were foolish.
But there is implicit in this day, flung like a red glove into the arena of the days, a message (if we may use the word in its finest sense) that has a real meaning for mankind. .
We realize that young, raw college students are traditionally expected to tell the world how to manage its affairs; we realize, too, that any utterance on our part may be construed in such a light, may be seen as a vindication of tradition.
But two things appear to us as rather obvious: first, that world-conditions at present seem at a particularly low ebb (in spite of the trained-in-the-school-of-hard-knocks managers in control of affairs), and second, that it is the task, the duty of one viewing life as a thinker, “to make his symbols and ideas seem relative to the common life even when they actually are.”
And so it strikes us that a word addressed to the managers of things would be neither singularly inapropos nor the acme of impudence. The word is one that may easily be laughed out of court, may easily be dismissed with a tolerant smile—but, nonetheless, in it lies the one hope of a world that sees disarmament conferences fail and unemployment cover the land; in the word, too, is the summing up of the spirit implicit in Easter: and the word is Love.
The meaning is certainly relevant to the affairs of the world; but it is our task to show clearly, not only that it is, but also that it must suffuse all things with its glow. And the first step in this process, hard though it may be, is that the white threads of Love be sewn in the cloths of individual lives.
. Then, and only then, shall we have a valid reason for believing that some day the world may say of armament rivalry, of nationalistic hatred, of unemployment—finally and completely—that it is done with that.	—M. H. L.
TEE DEBATING TEAM
For the past month or so the Scholastic has been regularly recording the victories of the University’s debating team. In spite of the hardest schedule in years, the team has so far made a brilliant record. The forensic teams of some of the best known colleges and universities in the country have been met and defeated.
The individual members of the team have exhibited a thorough knowledge of the subjects under debate, as well as the necessary oratorical ability to place ideas clearly and convincingly before an audience. In rebuttal—probably the most important part of a debate—the Notre Dame debaters have shown themselves highly capable of refuting the arguments of the opposition.
Debating teams of former years owed their successes to the excellent coaching of the Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., the Reverend Thomas Crumley, C.S.C., and the Reverend William Bolger, C.S.C. Last year the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., who in his undergraduate days had been one of Notre Dame’s best debaters, was given the task of keeping up the University’s fine debating record. The results of his coaching can be seen in the splendid record of the team.
The Scholastic extends congratulations to Fathei- Boland and his charges; and wishes them con-
tinued success.
E. L. T.
Page 788—The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE chair of Campus Archaelogy in 2030 A.D. will be a pleasant office for a man who has an imagination. Although no such department exists at Notre Dame today, there are some who spend their days and nights reconstructing the early history of the University, re-creating the times of Sorin and Badin, and glorifying trees and stones as relics of pioneer days.
In 2030 A. D. the field of restrospective study will be even more enticing. Given a Cotillion program, a picture of Freshman hall, or the General Catalog, the archaelo-gist will be able to draw a picture of Notre Dame that will be a joy to any feature writer. A brick from the Main Building, or a paragraph of a disciplinary bulletin, a sketch of the Engineering Building, a sod of turf from Cartier will be priceless pieces of scaffolding for conjecture. What the archaelogist will do with a copy of the 1930 Juggler!
“Their necks were wreathed in grey, fluffy 'circlets which topped thick, short, ribbed, heavy jackets; their mouths rectangles of vacancy; their hair in two convex chunks; their shoulders padded into stiff right angles—these ‘men’ of Notre Dame in 1930 must have been an odd lot. Muttering two-line jokes and blowing rings and wreaths of smoke, these creatures took life with a reckless nonchalance which we today cannot comprehend.”
All our griping, our exams, our midnight cramming, the calculus, accounting, and metaphysics will be forgotten. Only the funny side of campus life will be found by the archaelogist who happens to run across a Juggler dated 1930.
It happens, however, that the Juggler was created, is existing, and will go on functioning exactly for that purpose—to . see life with a laugh. And to give McNamara, Nanovic, and Grady only what’s coming to them, the Juggler (or the “Funny Fellow”) has been doing his work with a bang.

One-time “Juggler” staff- 16 “Funny Fellows”
V “Five Feverish Days”
The bang has been heard on the c< for 11 years. At first it was only the of a pop; now it amounts to a canRC The Juggler stuck its floppy ears anc ling bells out from behind the pills Sorin in December, 1919. “Five^fe days,” as Nanovic tells us, were tai prepare that first issue. Delmar Ed son, Andy Moynihan, and Vince" j worked on the number.
The book was then an indepc “racket,” and Edmondson an^ I O’Brien had $7.50 each to enter _i “profits” column when June came. L the summer, as Nanovic’s narrdtrv plains, the two wrote and drew, dre1 wrote. Two days after school opens Juggler appeared, thus setting an ai record for early first numbers. [J
A unique claim is the Juggler's. m humor may have its place, but succ “Funny Fellows” refuse to admit ytl' place is in the Juggler. An official is appointed, but under the present he reads only what is submitted k"? r the Editor. They tell of stoppim presses last year to yank out a vers; a doubtful meaning. Risque jokes; the Juggler doesn’t “go for them.” J summarize the mental attitude of tl tors, “that’s that.”
Omniscience j
Like the Pathe. News, the Dome knows all. Dignified to a nice degf, year-book easily makes you forge months of fretful worry and rushec precede its publication. Any offe or 17 causes can be blamed for I' Studio fire—as Bob Pendergast foufl this year—the aversion of the camp’L to photography; measles in the fanli forseen fits of despondency; theft, j cane and flood—the Dome has a th Achilles’ heels and the puncture of a of them is accompanied by a sinking ing in the Editor’s diaphragm. k
The 1927 book stands in the .1 shelves as the largest Dome. The IS

The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 789

ords!

SHallinan
gljme is distinguished for some really fine Writing, especially the humorous treatment -’I
'^of the clubs, halls, and publications. The *£929 Dome, which Tom Keegan turned out iflast May, contained colored prints of cam-jmus scenes which were splendidly done.
il The future of the Dome is problematical, feecently the Minnesota year-book salesmen wffered the kisses of chorus girls as induce-Itnents to subscribe to the Gopher. Does vthat mean that college annuals are losing ^heir appeal? or, on the other hand, did the ;,K5’rfg line of students awaiting distribu-t*tion in Badin Hall last May point to an Seven bigger future? The Dome is a noble institution, 25 years old, and we believe it Ips, perhaps, the “noblest of them all.”
The big Publications Man on the left is earnestly searching for something; if he is a JUGGLER the objective is a snappy tzvo-line joke; if he is a SCHOLASTIC he will not be reiuarded until he has uncovered a “hot story” that ivill make the Friday afternoon readers wag their heads. The ponderous tomes in the background indicate Learning; the white slip-over sweater indicates that he is an Athlete—the combination is a
Scrip, the newest publication, is raising more than a childish mewl. Springing grandly—full-armed like Athena—from the Scholastic, the new Literary magazine has set a rather high standard of writing. The short stories and essays do not always become the meat of campus conversation for days following the publication, but both issues have sold well.
“Foxirth Estate'
Publications Man.
Those who chortle about the thirty teams which Rockne annually sponsors, and those who write with awe of the 700 men who find themselves inside of some kind of moleskins each fall, should not forget the 125 poor fellows who are battering typewriters, scribbling ad-contracts, peddling Scholastics, soliciting Dome subscriptions, sweating over galley proofs. These gentlemen of the press —this Fourth Estate—these “publica-
J
The One-Man Magazine
’ After the Scholastic, according to seniority, the Santa Maria should have been treated. This irregular organ of the I Knights of Columbus is characterized thus:
(a) it is the campus’ “one-man publication”; (b) it is the second oldest magazine. ;The one man just now is John Bergan, who writes, manages, edits, and publishes it. gWho received credit for proof-reading the - last issue has not yet been announced. The | magazine is a lively club-organ with an interesting list of contributors. Sometimes lit appears three times a year, sometimes | four.
The Notre Dame Catalyzer was founded in 1923 by Paul F. DePaolis. That, we fear, is about all we can competently say. The eight-page monthly was compared to the "Taj Mahal a few years ago by a campus ’writer. Both, he said, seemed perfect to him, but what either was all about was beyond him. The Catalyzers best bet for the layman is “Ramblin’ Round Chemistry Hall,” which is written in an informal vein. The rest of the magazine is probably of immense interest to the disciples of the Bunsen burners.
tions men”—they casual thought.
merit
at least a
Goest Kirby issue, to do
stantiate that statement. “Whither Thou?” for example, by James F. of the Law faculty, in the March shows that the present tendency is
In the technical field appears also the Notre Dame Lawyer, a healthy journal of jurisprudence, as Dean Konop’s students interpret it. “Law is the perfection of human reason,” says the masthead and stimu- • lating articles appear each month to sub
things differently than our fathers did them. “This,” says the author, “may lead us to dethrone the goddess of justice and to set up in her place the idol of the supreme state.”
The Lawyer is never flippant, but then lawyers usually are not.
790
The Notre Dame Scholastic
This is the last club page before Easter, consequently we shall try to sum up, as best we can, the activities of the Clubs during the Easter Holidays. For those students remaining on campus, we recommend a trip to Detroit. The DETROIT CLUB, in conjunction with the Detroit Alumni, have arranged a dinner dance on Universal Notre Dame Night. The Alumni have taken great care to make it such an affair that it will be worth the time and trouble of any student not going home for the holidays. If there are any fellows who would like to plan on making this trip, it would be advisable to see the president of the club, Mr. Sullivan, 334 Walsh Hall. A special bus is to be chartered for members. Tickets for the dinner dance must be purchased in advance.
The VILLAGERS do not as yet know whether they will ' have a dance or not. They are to meet Sunday to discuss the matter, and at the same meeting they will make plans for their annual party to be given to members of the club.
—o—
The ST. LOUIS CLUB kindly presented to us a complimentary ticket to its dance in St. Louis on Universal Notre Dame Night. The dance promises to be worth a trip to St. Louis.
The GRAND RAPIDS CLUB held a banquet on April 1 at the Rose-Marie Tea Room in South Bend. Plans for the Easter dance were completed. Jerry Roach and Harry Merdzinski entertained with music. The dinner dance, a formal affair, will be held on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Highlands Country Club, Grand Rapids.
The WEST VIRGINIA CLUB is holding its next meeting in Wheeling for a formal dinner dance. Howard Gore and his West Virginians will play. The dance will be held on Universal Notre Dame Night in conjunction with Wheeling alumni.
—o—
The ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB has abandoned its plan of giving a dinner dance for its members during Easter vacation and called a special meeting last Wednesday evening to plan some other activity. It was decided that a . smoker and a banquet, to make up for the dinner dance, will be held in the near future. The banquet will be for members only, but the smokei* will be open to all students ' of the University.
The last monthly meeting of the LA RAZA CLUB was held last Friday evening in the Law Building. At the meeting final plans for the annual awarding of a gold medal were made. The medal will be given to the member of the graduating class who, during his four years, has maintained the highest average. It was decided to ask the financial aid of the Latin-American Alumni for this annual donation. A Mass, attended by all the members of the club, was said for the repose of the soul of Carlo de Landero, father of Professor de Landero, honorary president of the club. The next meeting will be held April 14, at which time a prominent speaker will address the club.
—o—
The CLEVELAND CLUB has secured Russ Lyons and his orchestra to play for a dance at the Mid-day Club on Universal Notre Dame Night. The affair will be formal and is sponsored by the alumni. At the last meeting of the club Joe Butler was appointed chairman of a committee to secure watch charms for members.
—o—
The JOLIET CLUB of Notre Dame, one of the newest of the city clubs, is completing arrangements for a dance to be held Easter Saturday, April 19, at the Country Club in Joliet, Ill. William Redmond is in charge as general chairman for the party. The club held its first meeting in the month of March and elected Edward Franck, president; Emmett Oakes, vice-president; Lawrence J. Dunda, secretary; and Harry Langdon, treasurer. Considering the small membership the new club has made great strides.
—o—
EASTER DANCES
The DETROIT CLUB, dinner dance, Oriole Terrace, April 21. Tickets must be secured in advance at 334 Walsh Hall.
—o—
The ST. LOUIS CLUB, Crystal Room, Jefferson Hotel, April 21. Herr Hencken’s Orchestra. Informal. Two dollars.
The GRAND RAPIDS CLUB, dinner dance, Highlands Country Club, April 21. Formal.
The CLEVELAND CLUB, the Mid-Day Club, April 21. Russ Lyons and his orchestra. Formal.
The JOLIET CLUB, Joliet Country Club, April 19.
1
r
tns^fiMBtdasK
791
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
A Washington and Lee freshman recently found out that, though there is a time for everything, the moments immediately following a boxing match are not the time to ask a wise question of one of the boxers. This freshman saw a varsity boxer- salving his well-battered face after a gruelling fight, and he approached to inquire, “Taking medicine?” And the boxer paused to reply caustically, “Naw, Commerce.”
A copy of the smallest book in the world has been added to the library of Colgate University. The book contains four essays of Abraham Lincoln, is bound in red leather, and is about three-fourths as large as a postage stamp. In all it contains 143 pages. Our Bureau of Economy bids us suggest that this size book be officially adopted as the uniform size for all textbooks to be used in the University. The advantages of such small books are too obvious to require enumeration, but just think of all the volumes one could carry around in a single pocket without the least trouble.
—o—
There must be disadvantages connected with almost everything. We were just beginning to envy the luck of four Ohio State students who room in the Veterinary Building and have many desirable privileges, but then we read further and learned that not seldom the four are rudely awakened in the middle of the night by mooing cows, bleating goats, and other pastoral disturbances to be expected from the dumb brutes kept housed in the Veterinary Building. No, for our part we would rather be right here in Playboy Alley, where our slumbers are subject to interruption only by early morning visits on the paid; of our esteemed rector, or by friend Motz’s interpretation of “Tie Me to Your Apron Strings Again” (and a very free and original interpretation it is, too).
And that reminds us of the efforts being made by the students of the New Jersey College for Women to firmly establish a “single standard.” These college girls heartily declare themselves in favor of “the Dutch treat” and as heartily opposed to “gold-digging.” In a debate between the senior and the junior classes on the question, “Resolved: that all college dates be Dutch treats,” the affirmative, as argued by the Seniors, won a complete and overwhelming victory. May the fame and the influence of these girls spread far, and especially toward the Middle West.
The city of Athens, Georgia, has forbidden hitch-hiking, with the result that the travelling expenses of many Georgia students are going to increase substantially and materially. Those in command of this city in the peach state do not appear properly to appreciate the value of travel as a medium of education. Things are coming to a pretty pass indeed when one is no longer at liberty to “See America First,” as so many signs (especially on boxcars) used to advise us.	.
We may have our Wieczorehs, Walczynskis, Radasevichs, and the like here at Notre Dame, but we hardly believe that we are qualified to run in competition to the University of Minnesota, in the directory of which we find such names as Clavadetschey, Precarczyk, Plutzenreuter, Blankenbuehler, Vojtisek, Wagtskjold, Beschenbossel, Kanniainew, Yvil-saker, Dysterheft, Intlekofer, Gevorkiantz, and others far too numerous to mention and much too difficult to spell.
—o—
President Hibben, of Princeton University, in addressing two thousand undergraduates of that school, declared that loafing is an art every man should know. As he expressed it: “I believe that every man should know this art. It is an art not to be despised, but rather an episode in a busy life crowded with exacting duties.” After observing ourselves and others these last four years we find ourselves constrained to say that the President of Princeton is right and that he need have no fear about every man knowing the art almost to perfection.
—o—
Ordinary colds, according to Dr. William H. McCastline, medical officer of Columbia University, cause the greatest loss of time from college studies and thereby bring about the majority of “flunks.” He may be right, but our observations would make us believe that most of these cases are brought about by President Hibben’s favored art of loafing.
Some columnist in the University of Washington paper made a caustic statement to the effect that Washington couldn’t muster up any good fires with the fraternity fire situation at the University of Southern California. Immediately the Washington fraternities, indignant at being thus maligned, swung into action and produced a series of conflagrations that settled the matter quite decisively in their favor. In a very short time three of the fraternities came forth with first-rate fires that furnished not a little excitement and entertainment for the rest of the campus. On the day following the fire in which the Phi Kappa Psi house saci-ificed a perfectly good third floor, the bread truck drove up in front of the remains and the driver dashed as usual for the back door. His impatient knockings brought no response. He shifted the scene of his activities to another door and achieved the same result. Finally, by merest chance, he glanced upward and noted the absence of the third floor. He decided then that perhaps he should take up his bread and go home.
It used to be a good old Western custom at the University of Denver to intercept the mailman just after grades had been sent out and do a certain amount of doctoring to said grades before allowing them to continue on to the fond and deluded parents. But no longer can the students indulge in the practice, for the school authorities have effectually thwarted their efforts by adopting a system of punching out the grades on the cards.
792
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WINK
A group of students patiently awaited the coming of the leaping, bouncing and snorting street-car. As it screeched to a stop the worn-out passengers alighted, and those waiting prepared for the ordeal of riding into town. Just as the first was about to board the car someone in the rear of the crowd thundered forth, “Don’t get on that car; that’s only a Sample Street car.”
—The Bat.
Oh please Mr. “Bat,” tell us who you are; we have a most appropriate form of torture prepared for such as you. Let it be here stated that a reward of two extra issues of the Scholastic will be awarded to the person who brings in this insidious “Bat,” dead or alive; preferably dead.
“TO YOUNG INNOCENCE’'
Will you, too, break the hearts of men, When you are old and grown?
Will you, too, be regretful then When your fleet life has floivn And left you all alone?
I tvonder if you will shatter hopes And make all dreams seem false; And in the end yourself will mope When round your heart the walls	•
Of crouching time enclose?	■
And you, who had dreamed dreams,
Awake and find them fled;
Will see a light that gleams
So far above your head
And says: “Your hopes are dead’’?
—WAZMUS.
Scandal-------ah; we have just recently learfied that the “Vagabond King,” more commonly known as Francois Villon, was caught in the act of stealing five hundred crowns from the college which he attended. Using the laws of logic which have been dutifully taught us, we therefore arrive at the conclusion that Francois Villon must. have attended a dentist’s college .... dentist—crowns .... see? Ha, ha, joke’s ovah.
Dear Sans Gene:
Here’s my brainchild for your short poem contest. This remarkable (if I do say it myself) bit was inspired by none other than the notorious Dorothy Dix:
Oh pretty little playmate
That trembles at my touch,
Your heart beats at a great rate.
All my bucks are in your clutch. Oh pretty little playmate, Will I tremble at your touch?
Nice, isn’t it? Where shall I call for the prize?
• Yours,
—Dook.
“THE WINK’S ROMALOGUES”
Cameo has here given us a beautiful picture of the quadrangle of a mid-western university. The picture was snapped at high tide and in consequence the beautiful and magnificent buildings of the university cannot be seen. One will notice the bones on the shore; these are the remains of some animals who foolishly wandered from their Eastern sanctuaries and came too close to the death-provoking climate of this state. Cameo will attempt to get a picture at low tide to show you the beauty of this place, but this cannot be promised because the water very seldom goes down.	—o—
“THINKING”
When I’m old and the friends That I have numbered few, And I turn back my memory To think about—who?
And the times that we had;
It makes me so blue
And my heart becomes sad When I think about you. And after these years When my hair shall turn gray, Won’t you think of a boy Who aged in a day?
He will think about you As you live content And happy, because Of the blessings God sent.
He will rock in his chair But his eyes will be dim, Thinking there in his arms That you might have been; Perhaps there’ll be someone Beside his hearthstone, Working to. cheer up A snztg little home.
But even if that Were ever to be, And I’m lingering over My last cup of tea— I’ll take just a sip In remembrance of you, It will be for a pal That was always so true. —The Vagabond Lover.
—o—	’
This week’s Scotch title has been awarded to the story about the fellow who absolutely refused to get married because he would not give his name away .... Won’t someone please suggest a remedy for these Scotch jokes. They’re worse than a disease.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
793
Outdoor Trackmen Plan for Kansas, Pennsylvania and Drake Relays
Coach John P. Nicholson has been driving his track squad to the limit since outdoor practice was started twelve days ago. Ideal weather has helped the athletes a great deal and “Nick” is looking forward to an exceptionally fine spring season.
The first outdoor time-trials were held last Saturday, and considering the condition of the track, excellent time was made in most events. The sprinters, running first 90 yards and then 250 yards, were clocked in 9 1/5 and 25 4/5 seconds, respectively. The members of the two-mile relay team ran against the watch rather than in competition. Capt. Abbott, Joe Quigley, and Brant Little, each running a fast 660, took the last 220 yards in
a lap to finish up in times ranging from 1:57 for Little to 2:00 4/5 for Abbott.
Johnny O’Brien showed no ill effects from his recent injury and his form was well nigh perfect in the high hurdles. Roy Bailie worked for form mostly after running a 250-yard trial with the dash men. Vaughn and Acers also worked on the hurdles but the 120-yard distance seemed to be too much for them so early in the season.
Scanlon turned in the best time for the quarter-milers when he stepped the 440 in :52 8/10.
Shafer and McDonald, weight men, worked only to accustom themselves to throwing the discus and javelin
after their ten-months lay off. McDonald’s best distance for the javelin was 172 feet.
Johnson, Fishleigh, Slattery, Abernathy, and Darling worked the pole vault and high jump. Perfection of form was stressed, rather than height.
The Nickmen will meet their first competition in the eighth annual Kansas Relays to be run at Lawrence, Kansas, on April 19. This carnival annually draws the best athletes the Midwest can produce, and this year promises to be no exception. Entrylists at the present time seem to indicate that, with fair weather, the records in practically every event will be in danger, even though some of them are even now excellent.
Notre Dame will be represented in the 440-yard, half-mile, and two-mile relays besides the individual dashes, hurdles, and various field
“It Pays to Play”
The best and most complete stock of Sporting- Goods in northern Indiana, at prices that are right.
TENNIS RACQUETS, PRESSES, BALLS, COVERS
We re-string racquets and guarantee all jobs.
GOLF CLUBS, BALLS
' All the leading makes.
Stop and use our indoor net, and brouse around.
RECREATION EQUIPMENT CO., Inc.
The “RECO” Store
113 N. Main Street
‘‘It Pays to Play”
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
794
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Announcing
The Girl's Number
Most Famous of all the Issues of the Year
X
lilllilltlllllllllllillllllllllllllltIIItllllltttlltllllltllllltll
On sale
TO-NITE
All Halls	:::	:::	Cafeteria
The Notre Dame Scholastic
795
events. Of these, Coach Nicholson considers his two-mile team to have the best chance of breaking a carnival record. With Capt. Abbott, Joe Quigley, Brant Little, Alex Wilson, and Don McConnville showing consistent improvement with each day’s work, the boys should be able to break the 7:53 9/10 record set by Iowa State College in 1927.
The following week the squad will most likely be split up, with the two-mile relay team going to the Penn Relays, in Philadelphia, and the remainder of the squad to the Drake Relays, at Des Moines. “Nick” is particularly anxious for his two-milers to compete at Penn for they have already scored decisive victories over most of the teams they would meet in the West. The Penn carnival will draw all of the leading athletes of the East, and the contest will enable “Nick” to show how his team stacks up against Harvard, Bates, N.Y.U., Georgetown, and other schools boasting exceptional half-milers. It is doubtful, however, if any of these schools have four men who can compare with the standard Abbott, Quigley, Little, and Wilson have set up.
SELECT BOXING CHAMPS
TONIGHT IN S. A. C.
TOURNEY FINALS
TIME—8:15 P. M., tonight
PLACE—The University Gym.
EVENT—The Student Activities Council’s final boxing tournament of the season to select the champion in the various classes and weights.
Eight corking good bouts will be dished up this evening for the lovers of fisticuffs, and to choose the University boxing champions for the year. Johnny Burns, who has been in charge of the twenty-odd boxers who reported to him this week, conducted the preliminary eliminations last Wednesday, and he predicts that all the bouts will be of the highest calibre.
Fast moving, brim full of action slugging “grudge” battles, will be mixed up plentifully tonight when these boys meet to settle their ring differences. There will be little delay in putting on the bouts, those in charge promise, and the affair will be
run off as smoothly as possible. One pair of boxers will be ready to enter the ring just as soon as the final bell sounds for the preceding bout on the program.
Many of the winners of the first boxing tournament sponsored by the S.A.C. have been working out for the fights tonight, and they are sure of competing. The entrant list has been
When Campus Talk Turns Homewards
. . . and it begins to seem like an age since you last saw Mother and Dad and all the rest of the family . . . just walk to the nearest telephone and hear the home-folks talk. A telephone call home is really so inexpensive ... yet adds immeasurably to the pleasure of living for everyone concerned. Yes, charges may be reversedtothe home telephone if you say the word.
Indiana Bell
Telephone Company
especially heavy in the welterweight class with the middleweights also showing strong interest. Without a doubt these two classes should develop the finest bouts of the program.
Medals, significantly engraved, will be awarded the winners in tonight’s bouts, showing that their wearers are the champions of the University in their respective classes.
796
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
Floivers Telegraphed, Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.
TELEPHONE 3-5149
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH'S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
NU
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
Union Trust Company
Suits Pressed While You Wait 40c
Shoes Fixed While You Wait $1.75 with heels
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
Hats blocked While You Wait 50c
Special Waiting Rooms Shoes Shined...................10c
JEFFERSON & MICHIGAN
“Modernly equipped shoeshine parlor”
“Special Dressing rooms”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
797
BASEBALL TEAM TO MAKE SOUTHERN JAUNT AND
OPEN SEASON MONDAY
Boarding a 9:30 train out of Chicago next Wednesday night, the members of the Notre Dame baseball team will swing southward to Florida and Georgia where they will encounter three strong teams during the course of a week’s play. The members of the traveling squad will not be named until the last practice on Wednesday afternoon, according to Robert Hellrung, baseball manager who is making arrangements, and will accompany the players on the trip.
Coach Keogan’s ball tossers are now rounding into shape in preparation for the opening encounter to be held on the varsity field at 3:15 Monday, with Armour Tech of Chicago furnishing opposition. Armour is said to have a strong team, and the Notre Dame players are anticipating a hard game that will get them in the mood for a successful southern trip.
That the final selection of a starting lineup is in doubt, is evinced by the fact that Coach Keogan is still shifting his men in order to get the positions filled by the most versatile men. During the past week, O’Keefe, third baseman, has been shifted to second, while Mahoney will hold down the “hot corner” under* the new plan. Palermo at short and Sullivan at first base seem to be included in the possible lineup, but no definite players have been yet chosen by Coach Keogan.
The squad will arrive in Gainesville, Florida, on April 18, at noon and will work out on the University of Florida diamond that afternoon. Saturday afternoon will see the Florida Gators matching wits and skill against Notre Dame men and again on Monday the strife will be resumed. Universal Notre Dame Night will be celebrated in Gainesville Monday night with a banquet which the two squads will attend. Coach Charley Bachman, three year letterman at Notre Dame and now football coach at Florida University, will be present.
The Notre Dame squad will stay in Gainesville Tuesday, and then travel to Columbus, Ga., where they will tangle with the army officers at Fort Benning, on Wednesday and Thursday, April 23 and 24. Activities will be brought to an end with a two day stand against Georgia Tech at Atlanta. Georgia Tech and Florida recently played a two game, series in which each team won a game.
❖
fo*1 Nunn-Bush
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOES
112 N. Main St. — Oliver Theatre
Travel
by
Lower Rates Everywhere — Safe Comfortable — Convenient - World’s Largest Bus System
Tickets and Information at 206 Badin Hall
Greyhound „yell.9waY
J^nes, - -	1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
798
| INTERHALL ITEMS |
QQfiiiBiiiiBiiiiiiBiiiiiiminiiiiH'iinitiiMiimimiiiiiiimtumimiiiiiiuiiBiiimiiimniiiiiiiBimiBimiiwiimHUittiimntmiHiiuuiiiiQ
The playground baseball league started off with a bang last Sunday. Over 300 players participated in the games, and according to present plans the intra-hall league will swing into action immediately after the Easter vacation. In this league each hall will be divided into sections and the championship section or floor, as the case may be, will play the champions of each of the other halls. These contests will be played on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday nights at 6:30. The regular hall teams will play on Sunday mornings as usual.
The interhall swimming championship meet will be held at 8 p. m. Monday. From the marks already established several new records will be set by the natators.
Inter-hall tennis will be inaugurated after Easter. With a wealth of varsity material close competition is assured for the hall net-men. It is planned to have at least a four-man team representing each hall.
The qualifying scores for the interhall golf tournament must be turned in before the Easter holiday exodus. Fifty-four holes is the qualifying stretch and every day finds numerous mashie wielders playing their qualifying rounds over the University course. Owing to the inability of some players to have two men from their own hall attest to their card, limitations have been allowed which permit the player to have his card signed by any
DOZEN TEAMS ENTER PLAYGROUND LEAGUE
Twelve teams took to the diamonds last Sunday morning in the opening games of the Interhall playground ball league. Brownson, Off-Campus, Corby, Sophomore, Howard, and Freshman were the winners of the individual contests.
Two shutouts were registered in the initial struggles. Sophomore trounced Walsh, 12 to 0; and Freshman and St. Edward’s mixed in the most exciting game of the day, the yearlings winning out by the close score of 4 to 0.
The complete results of the games are as follows: Brownson 17, Badin 1; Off Campus 9, Lyons 1; Corby 11, Morrissey 4; Sophomore 12, Walsh 0; Howard 16, Carroll 3; Freshman 4, St. Edward’s 0.	-
two other students. They do not have to be from the same hall, but the card must be attested to by at least two players.
Brownson swamped the Badinites at playground softball last Sunday. Father Connerton’s boys took a 17 to 1 trimming from the dormites and are prepping themselves for a revenge victory at the expense of Morrissey Hall next Sunday.
The best round of the golf course is a 71 card, hung up by Larry Moller, a junior, two weeks ago. This is three strokes under the par 74, and is all the more remarkable because of the poor condition of the course at the time he went around in that low mark.
By the time the students return from the holiday vacation, the course will be in much better condition and the interhall golf tourney will be run off under more desirable conditions. Art West, who is in charge of the layout, has had a number- of laborers at work for the past week, watering the greens and rolling the fairways.
The schedule of interhall playground ball league games for next Sunday, April 13, follows:	-
St. Edward’s vs. Off-Campus, diamond 11.
Freshman vs. Carroll, diamond 9.
Howard vs. Brownson, diamond 13.
Badin vs. Morrissey, diamond 2.
Walsh vs. Corby, diamond 1.
Sophomore vs. Sorin, diamond 3.
INTERHALL SWIMMING FINALS ARE NEXT MONDAY NIGHT
The meet to decide the swimming champions of the University will be held in the natatorium on next Monday evening at 8 o’clock. All of those who qualified in the three preliminary meets will be eligible to participate in the finals Monday evening.
Owing to their earlier showings, Howard, Brownson, and Sophomore appear to possess the advantage. These teams were victors in three quadrangular preliminary meets held to narrow the field down to a limited number of contestants.
Sophomore Hall won the third preliminary meet held last Monday night, accumulating a total of 32 points. Freshman was close behind with 24 and Off-Campus third with
eight markers. Corby failed to score any points.
McCarthy of Freshman was the individual star of the evening, copping firsts in the 40-yard and 100-yard breast stroke events; Capter of Sophomore placed second to McCarthy in both of these races. McClilrg scored all of Off-Campus’ points by winning the 40-yard free style race and taking second in the 100-yard free style event.
The only clean sweep of the meet was that made by Sophomore in the 40-yard back stroke swim, Thieme, Koken, and Bresson finishing in that order. In this race, Thieme won his freshman numeral by attaining the fast time of :27.8. McClurg was awarded a numeral for his mark of :20.5 in the first heat of the 40-yard free style event and McCarthy received one for swimming the 40-yard breast stroke in :26.3.
The results:
40-Yard Breast Stroke—Won by McCarthy (Freshman); Capter (Sophomore), second; Giorgio (Sophomore), third. Time :26.3.
40-Yard Back Stroke—Won by Thieme (Sophomore); Koken (Sophomore), second; Bresson (Sophomore), third. Time .27.8.
40-Yard Free Style—Won by McClurg (Off-Campus); Sullivan (Freshman), second; Giorgio (Freshman), third. Time :21.4.
100-Yard Breast Stroke—Won by McCarthy (Freshman); Capter (Sophomore), second. Time 1.28.2.
100-Yard Free Style—Won by Kennedy (Sophomore); McClurg (Off-Campus), second; Nugent (Sophomore), third. Time 1:06.
Distance Plunge—Won by Nugent (Sophomore); Giorgio (Freshman), second. Distance, 41 feet, 6 inches.
220-Yard Medley Relay—Won by Sophomore Hall (Bressen, Capter, Koken); Freshman, second. Time 2:52.3.
KENNEALLY ASSISTANT AT MANHATTAN
Tom Kenneally, second string quarterback on Coach Rockne’s 1929 national championship football squad, has signed to aid Johnny Law, last year’s captain, in coaching the Manhattan College football team during the next season. Kenneally will take up his duties next September, after being graduated this coming June.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
799
4----------------------------<
Chemistry Notes
♦----------------------------♦
During the past week the Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., of the Department of ■ Chemistry, has been attending the 79th semi-annual convention of the American Chemical Society, being held at Atlanta, Georgia. The convention is being attended by over 1,500 chemists from all parts of the United States as well as by others interested in the field. A large number of papers on a great variety of subjects were presented, among which were two given by Fr. Nieuwland, the first being “The Action of Boron Luoride on Organic Compounds,” while the other dealt with “The Reactions of Organic Substances With Pyridine.” The American Chemical Society is the largest scientific society in the world, numbering some 18,000 in its membership.
Sixteen students of the Chemical department, accompanied by Dr.
Henry H. Wenzke, attended the fifth biennial student meeting of the Indiana section of the American Chemical Society, held last week-end in Indianapolis. After the students had registered Friday morning, several hours were spent in inspecting various manufacturing plants, each student having the choice of one of five trips. Luncheon was served at the Spink-Arms Hotel, while several papers were presented in the afternoon. A banquet, followed by an address, was held in the evening. The program for the next day consisted of an inspection trip, a complimentary luncheon given by the Eli Lilly Company, and a talk in the afternoon by Dr. S. C. Lind of the University of Minnesota.
The party returned to the campus on Sunday.
The annual joint meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society and the St. Joseph County Chemical Association was held last Wednesday evening in the base
ment of the Library, following a dinner in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
The speaker of the evening was Dr. Paul N. Leech, director of the American Medical Association Laboratories in Chicago. The subject of his talk was “Modern Chemotherapeutic Tendencies,” and dealt chiefly with the work done by the laboratories in checking drugs sold to physicians and the efforts which are being made to protect the gullible public. The development of drugs as well as the evils resulting from giving one firm a monopolistic license to manufacture a drug, were also discussed.
The meeting was well attended both by physicians and by students.
EASTER RECESS TO BEGIN WEDNESDAY
The usual Easter recess of the University will begin Wednesday, April 16, at noon, and end on W’ednesday, April 23, at 8:00 a. m. Triple cuts will be charged against those absent from classes immediately before or immediately following the vacation.
800
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RANAD
Starts Saturday, April 12
“No, No,
NANETTE”
with
ALEXANDER GRAY BERNICE CLAIRE LOUISE FAZENDA with Scenes in Technicolor
Bigger, Funnier Than Stage Show
All makes of typewriters rented
Special Student Rate $3.00 per month
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS 126-128 S. Main St.
Starts Wednesday, April 16th
“THE CASE OF
with
BETTY COMPSON CHESTER MORRIS
A picture that you will remember long after you’ve forgotten scores of others. ... It is as real as life itself!!
PRESENTING
A NEW SERVICE
By Notre Dame Men for Notre Dame Men
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING of
Suits, Overcoats, Dress Clothes, etc.
Unexcelled Workmanship Standard Prices Insurance Against Loss Satisfaction Guaranteed
See Our Representative in Your Hall.
The Student Tailoring Association
Phone 3-0580	Office, 128 Walsh Hall
Dan Halpin Jos. Thornton Dan Cannon
The-Notre Dame Scholastic
801
GLEE CLUB PLANS EXTEN- ♦ SIVE TOUR
(Continued from Page 785)
«& full dress wear of the evening concerts.
From New York the club will go to Paterson, N. J., where it will give a concert on April 23. Following this, concerts will be given in Bethlehem, Pa., April 24; Binghamton, April 25; Auburn, April 26; Niagara Falls and Buffalo, April 27. The men will return to the University on Monday, April 28.
Rehearsals are being held daily to smooth out the rough spots in the program. The Palace Theater in South Bend was the scene of a rehearsal last Sunday morning when the Club went through its program of songs before F. J. Carmody, talent expert and booking agent of the Chicago office of the Radio-Keith-0 r-pheum circuit. Other rehearsals will be held at the Palace Theater to allow the men to get the “feel” of the stage before appearing on Broadway. The last rehearsal will be held in the Hippodrome Theater in New York on the morning of the Club’s arrival.
The entire trip was arranged by H. Jerome Parker and his assistants, to whom credit for the extensive itinerary is due. They have contracted and planned all engagements, and are defraying all expenses of the trip with the money received from concerts. This is the first time that ' all expenses of any Glee Club trip have been met by the management.
When such a trip as the one of this year is arranged, credit should go to the managers who receive nothing in return for theii’ work except the realization that it is well done. Parker has been assisted by Peter J. Wacks, associate manager in charge of arrangements; J. Edward Phelan, Junior manager in charge of receptions and entertainment; and James K. Collins, Sophomore manager in charge of publicity. Parker will have complete charge of the Club during its entire trip except during the concerts, when Director Joseph Casa-santa will direct the singers.
DONAHUE TO VISIT N. D.
John A. Donahue, famous writer , for Colliers, national weekly, has planned to make a trip to Notre Dame for the purpose of writing a story with Notre Dame as the background.	♦
1 85 5 • SEVENTY.FIFTH ANNIVERSARY • 193 0
Cupolas controlled from the laboratory
White hot rivers of metal, pouring from big cupolas in Crane foundries, are even more thoroughly analyzed, more carefully watched, than the drinking water pouring from a faucet in a well-ordered city.
Because correct chemical ingredients in valve metals are as essential to absolute safety and right functioning of a piping installation as pure water to human health, Crane Co. has always maintained laboratory control of its cupolas.
This means that experts in the metallurgical and physical testing of metals are responsible for the quality of every valve and fitting turned out. It means that tensile strength, yield point, elongation, and reduction of area of test bars taken every hour of the day’s run are known to laboratory and cupola chemists.
It means that constantly, as the metals pour out, the proportion of silicon, manganese, carbon, phosphorus, calcium, pure iron, are known and uniformly maintained. It means immediate correction of any variation and rejection of faulty materials.
From specifications of raw materials to final installation, Crane Co. knows its products and what they will do. How Crane Co. developed the background for this knowledge makes an absorbing story. It is titled Pioneering in Science. You are cordially invited to send for your copy. Aside from its interest, you will find it a splendid reference book on the reactions of metals to high temperatures and pressures.
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM. LIQUIDS. OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICE: 23 WEST 44TH STREET
Branehet and Sala Offica in Ont Hundred and Ninety Cilia
802
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Engineering Notes
The special session of the campus branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineering, held last Monday, filled Washington Hall nearly to capacity. Another example of the progress of engineering, “The Electric Eye,” was demonstrated to a large group of engineers as well as to a representative group of nontechnical students. It was demonstrated how a burglar alarm might be set off by the proximity of a person to a glass ball coated with silver on the inside. When a human being approached this particular piece of apparatus, his body acted as one plate of a condenser while the glass ball acted as the other, thus completing a circuit which would' sound
the alarm. Another example of the sensitivity of the photo-electric cell was its ability to “detect” smoke or other visible gases. A fire was started in the vicinity of two cells which were set opposite one another. When the cloud of smoke interrupted the electronic stream which was flowing between the two cells, a fire extinguisher was actuated, which sprayed carbon dioxide on the fire thus extinguishing it.
Mr. H. B. Stevens, who represented the Westinghouse Co. of Pittsburgh, was obtained through the efforts of Edward C. Conroy, president of the Institute.
On Tuesday evening the Notre Dame Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held a joint meeting with the St. Joseph Valley Section of the Society, at the
Oliver Hotel. The occasion of the meeting was the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the society, and was one of the large number of meetings held on that night throughout North America. The talk by Mr. Charles F. Hamilton, on “Strip Coal Mining” proved to be of particular interest, as this method is comparatively little known to those not connected in some way with coal mining or manufacturing where coal is brought direct from the mine.
There is to be a joint meeting of the A.S.M.E. and the Engineers Club, next Monday evening in the North Basement of the Library. Mr. F. Murray of Battle Creek, Michigan, will give an illustrated lecture on “Direct Steaming,” as used in modern roundhouses.
Here is no bashful cereal
THIS is Kellogg’s Rice Krispies speaking — the cereal that tells the world how good each golden mouthful is! IPs a fact! When you pour milk or cream in a bowlful of Rice Krispies, these crunchy rice bubbles actually crackle out loud. And what a delicious flavor!
Eat Rice Krispies for breakfast — great for a quick lunch with fruits or honey added. And what could be better for a late bed-time snack at the campus restaurant? The world’s most different cereal! Have you heard it yet?
RICE
KRISPIES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Com Flakes, All-Bran, Pep Bran Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
803
LIBRARY ARCHIVES BEING
OUTFITTED
One of the most interesting places on the Notre Dame campus, one with which the students are not well acquainted as yet, is the University department of archives located in the Library. It is considered to be the. richest deposit for diocesan archives of the Church in the entire country. Worthy of special note is
an extensive collection of the archives of a group of the large dioceses of the Middle West, including those of the diocese of New Orleans. The date of this collection covers the early period from 1790 to 1870. All the material of the department was gathered by James F. Edwards after twenty-five years of effort.
The rooms occupied are now in the process of being redecorated and equipped with fifteen steel cabinets
for the keeping of the records. The documents will be listed and handled according to the system used in the Library of Congress in Washington. The'Reverend Thomas McEvoy, C.S.C., in charge of the department, states that a sum totaling two thousand dollars is being expended by the University in improvements. When completed, Father McEvoy announces, the material will be available to students doing work on theses.
Blow
the Whistle
Delicious and Refreshing
Drink
LISTEN IN
Grantland Rice "*•- Famoua Sports Champions Coca-Cola Orchestra —"Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T. —' Coast to Coast NBC Network ——-
9 MILLION A DAY - IT
forth*
that refreshes When you suffer from large and undiluted doses of your fellows. When the milk of human kindness seems to sour. Blow the whistle for a minute’s "time out” on your own account, to pause and refresh yourself. In other words, go into a huddle with a glass or bottle of refreshing, delicious Coca-Cola. It will make you captain of your soul again, ready to live—or die— for the dear old alma mater.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
6W-7
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
804
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Starts Saturday thru Tuesday
Starved mother love changing Sarah, the drudge, into Madame Sara, incomparable star! Determined to wreak vengeance for her motherhood betrayed even on the man she loves!
“Sarah and Son”
with
RUTH CHATTERTON FREDRIC MARCH A Paramount Picture
Four strange murders in rapid succession shatter the quiet dignity of Riverside Drive, in New York City. In each case a black chess bishop and a nursery rhyme are the only clues left. Even Philo Vance—gentleman, scholar and detective, is puzzled.
M. G. M. Presents
“The Bishop Murder Case”
An S. S. Van Dine story with
BASIL RATHBONE LEILA HYAMS
Wed., thru Fri.
fOLFAY
thiatrkVW
One of the Publix Theatres
palace
3	DAYS COMMENCING SUNDAY
AN EPIC OF FAR-FLUNG BORDERLANDS A GREAT OUTDOOR TALKING CLASSIC
Are you tired of song and dance revues, heavy drawing-room dramas? Then you’ll welcome with open arms this stirring action show filmed with all outdoors as it’s stage.
Rod LaRocque
With
DORIS KENYON—MITCHELL LEWIS in
AND AN EXCELLENT BILL OF RKO VAUDEVILLE.
4	Days Commencing Wednesday
HEY! HEY!
RKO Syncopation Stage Show with JACK KNEELAND AND HIS MERRY MAKERS EATON SISTERS—BENSON and CALLEN . STEVE WENIGER JEAN BOYDELL, the Unique Pepologist CLIFF CRANE
A Riot of Song, Dance, Music and Comedy entitled “Morn Till Night.” ---------ON THE SCREEN-------- MARY NOLAN in “Undertow”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
805
Popularity with the fairer and gentler sex depends upon personality and that calls for vibrant health' and a quick mind. The “senior most popular with the co-eds” will be the one who keeps a wary eye on the vitamins and proteins. Shredded Wheat gives you the magnetism that comes from glowing health and good
spirits—the fatal charm that lies in a brain that can work overtime without feeling the strain. It supplies you with all the essentials of a well-balanced diet and at the same time it aids digestion.
Try a biscuit or two for breakfast served with whole milk and fruit and see how it feels to start the day right.
$----------------------------—
Splinters from the Press Box
&-------------------------------
If there were ever two schools which hand strangle-holds on certain sports, Navy and Yale are the .ones. Under the expert tutelage of Spike Webb, the Middies have not lost a dual boxing meet since the war, rolling up a commanding total of some fifty-odd victories and three draws. In addition, during the seven years in which the Intercollegiate tournament has been held, Navy has won the title three times.
But Yale’s aquatic record is even more impressive. Bob Kiphuth, a dean of coaches at forty, has seen his natators defeated only three times in dual meets in the past thirteen years, all three of these defeats coming in 1924. In all, the sons of Eli have won 156 dual meets over this thirteen year stretch. In addition, during the twenty-four years which the Intercollegiate Swimming Association has existed, Yale has carried away the team championship nineteen times It is hard to say exactly to what Kiphuth’s success may be laid. Possibly one of the reasons finds a parallel in one of the reasons for Notre Dame’s success on the gridiron. When Kiphuth started coaching, he had a squad of some forty to work with. His squad numbered 275 this past season. He doesn’t get his men ready made, either; sixty percent of the squad never swam competitively before coming to Yale.
Today in keeping with the general materialistic trend, there is a pronounced tendency to discount such tilings as tradition and ivhat I will call for lack of a better name, “college spirit.” Oftentimes, people ask why it is that Notre Dame manages to put out teams far better than the average in three major sports, and fails so abjectly in producing a good track team. An the answer is,—that there is no track tradition here. John Nicholson has done wonders in the three years he has been here, but a school as large as this one, and with an unusually large amount of athletes in the student body, should be able to produce consistently great track teams that will gain national recognition as well as sectional.
806
The Notre Dame Scholastic
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
Men!!
New Spring Oxfords
Sizes 5 to 11
Dress, Golf or Service $2.95 and $3.85
hare ill
THE NEW
24 K. Gold Plate Gillette Razor, New Model ___________98c
50c package of Five Gillette Blades______39c $1.00 package of Ten Gillette Blades______77c
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Movie Reviews
Miss Hope Halpin displays rare judgment in all her comments on current theatrical offerings. Her writings ,	• are free of press agentry.
Bead her criticisms every day on the theatrical page. '	You’ll like them.
THE
NEWS - TIMES
The Notre Dame Scholastic
807
; Go Grade A ★ - -i tourist third
★	I
: cabin . . .
| LEVIATHAN
i This season, brand new Tourist > ThirdCabinontheLEVLATHAN, ★ World’s Largest Ship... the entire J second cabin assigned to "Tourist ic Third”... all its beautiful public ★ rooms and staterooms... its ele* gant, open upper deck social hall ★ which gives you a full sweep of ★ the sea... its charming cloistered smoking hall... its vast open and enclosed decks for play and prom-★ enades... luxuries and spacious-$ ness exceeding former standards * for this class. Second Class, as a ★ class, abolished ... new Tourist £ Third Cabin rated "Grade A” and the LEVIATHAN the only liner ★ to offer this peerless rating! Make £ haste in booking this new, luxu-riouswayonthemightiestfiveday ★ flyer to Cherbourg and Southamp* ton. Rates low.
Excellent Tourist Third Cabin Accommodations also on United States Cabin Liners . . • for as little as $10.25 a dayl
OFFICIAL FLEET OF 103 COLLEGE ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS FOR EUROPEAN TRAVEL
Consult your local steamship agent or ★ i UNITED STATES j I LINES : $ CHARLES KRCILEK, General Agt. J J 61-63 W. Jackson Blvd, Chicago, Ill. * ★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building, New York ^o-Educational Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes .
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2853
A track consciousness must be cultivated, similar to the track consciousness that is in evidence at such schools as the California Big Three, Georgetown and Cornell in the East,-and Illinois in the Middle West. A track tradition must be developed. There is a perfectly natural feeling that we have enough football laurels to rest on. The California schools are well-nigh as good on the football field as is Notre Dame, but the track tradition there is equally as pronounced as is our football tradition. California-Stanford dual meets have drawn crowds upon occasions excelling the average Middle Western football crowds
—o—
But until there is a track consciousness developed here, Notre Notre Dame will not have a great track team, despite several outstanding athletes and one of the greatest track coaches in the country. Some of the greatest runners in the world never ran until they came to college, but the track squad here continues to be the smallest one of all the major sports, proportionately speaking. Surely, the sport isn’t too tough for the men of Notre Dame? Is the tradition of Jewett and Meehan, Hayes and Desch, Murphj7 and Harrington—the tradition so nobly perpetuated by Elder and Judge and Della Maria, going to die? Notre Dame has produced great individual track men; can Notre Dame produce a great track team?
—o—
At the recent presentation of awards at West Point, ninety-one letters of various shapes and sizes were awarded to recipients who hailed from, in all, twenty-seven states. This is an unusually large number of awards for even a large school, let alone a small school like West Point, and speaks well for Army’s “athletics for all” policy.
- Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. EdgarS. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building
Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
Pipes save no midnight oil
ri' PIPES made the man, anybody at all could rise in the world just by smoking a few pounds of Edgeworth. But pipes do not make the man.
Men make the pipe—most men do. Somewhat depends on the individual, more on the pipe, and the tobacco is most important of all. Things must be congenial.
Edgeworth is a congenial tobacco, cool, slow-burning, fully flavored. Edgeworth has poise, kindly good nature, real tobacco personality — Edgeworth welcomes new friends. Many a good man has been pledged to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just ask with the coupon—and the postman will bring your first few pipefuls of the genuine, three years seasoned if it’s a day. Our treat, if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and quit their discontent.
So may it be with you!
EDGEWORTH
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos — selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere
— “Ready Rubbed” or
“Plug Slice”—15j£ pocket
package to pound humi-
dor tin.

Lams 8s Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
(Witness my seal)
(and my seat of learning)
Scholastic Advertisers Please Patrons
(and my postoffice and state) Now let the Edgeworth cornel	V
808
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SAWYERS RAINWEAR
Ask your dealer to - show you the very latest style in wet-weather garments.
TheSawyer“Forain” Zephyr-weifcht Rain Coat was designed for college men and women.
This new model, style No. 510, is made of ballooncloth, waterproofed by Sawyer’s famous process and combines greatest strength with zephyr - weight lightness.	'
This coat weighs only 20 ounces.
A great garment for summer wear.
H.M. SAWYER & SON
East Cambridge :: :: Mass.
THE
^SjMFANNUAL
MID WESTERN UNIVERSITIES TOURS TO EUROPE
FromMONTREAL ANDANIA
JUNE 20th
ATHENIA JUNE 27*
59 DAYS
52 DAYS 633“
Send Coupon below for Complete Free Information:
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.
70 E. Randolph St. Chicago, III.
Gentlemen : Please send jne, without any obligation on my part, complete details on the Third Annual Midwestern Universities Tours. ‘ Name--------- Street-------------- City_________State__
>--------;-----------4 A
On Down the Line | i 4--------------------4
. . . “The Iron Man” is the most coveted trophy in the American battle fleet . . . the U.S.S. Tennessee now is in possession of the prize which is awarded for prowess in all sports . . . The crawl stroke, now in general use by swimmers, is an importation from the Hawaiian Islands . . . it has been common there for many years . . . Although EARL WHITEHILL, Detroit Tiger southpaw, made but 10 hits last season, clouted three home runs and blasted out a pair of two-base hits . . .
. . . STANLEY COVELESKIE, for many years ace of the Cleveland Indians’ hurling corps, has decided to give up baseball for good . . . He believes his playing days are over and is now running a gasoline filling station in South Bend . . . All right— Battle Creek, White Bare Lake, and Natural Gas—start griping . .' . The first night football game to be played indoors by college teams has been scheduled for next Oct. 25 . . . It will be at Atlantic City, N. J., between Lafayette-W. and J. . . .
. . . One of the shortest golf courses in the world, located in Chattanooga, Tenn., is a layout of 1,000 yards . . . only a putter is used . . . Players are forced to shoot over concrete bridges, through pipes, around irregularly placed posts, and even through shrubbery . . . The Fai basketball team of Mexico City, Mexico, whom Notre Dame trounced here, recently completed a 10,000 mile tour of the United States . . . they played 49 games on the trip and won 23 of them ...	u
. . . SIDNEY FRANKLIN, the only American to enter the bullfighting game as a matador, had more than seventeen fights in Spain last summer . . . He filled the arena of Madrid to capacity three times and was paid a fee up to $1,000 a fight . . . HENRY H. (POP) LANNIGAN has been track coach for 25 years at the University of Virginia ...	.
WhenlbuAsk for Your First Job*
WILL you be able to say that you have had the necessary business training? Or will you have to admit a lack of practical knowledge and enter the “school of hard knocks”?
Every college man has wo roads open to him: the trial and error method of attaining business leadership involving years perhaps of delay; or the business education method which provides in much less time that training the business world demands.
Which road do you choose?
Babson Institute offers you die direct route. In a thorough and intensive nine months’ course, you can learn the principles of Finance, Management, Production, and Distribution. More than that, you can learn how to use this knowledge; so that when you apply for your first position you can say:
“Yes, I have had the necessary business training!”
Send for Booklet
We invite you to send for our booklet “Training for Business Leadership”. It tells how many other young men, like yourself, have been prepared for business at Babson Institute and how you, too, may be equipped to fill eventually an executive position. The booklet is free. When you have read the booklet, pass _ it on to your father and ask him what he thinks of this practical instruction in business fundamentals. New terms open March 29, June 28 and September 24.
Mail Coupon NOW! .
BABSON Institute
'	H301 Babson Park, Mass.
Send me, without - obligation, “Training for Business Leadership” and complete particulars about Babson Institute.
Name
College Address
Home Address
City
State
The Notre Dame Scholastic
809
-N ew... comfortable... smart...
guper-geat pajamas
A new sleeveless.
The same seat feature as in Super-Shorts
KEITH SHAW
WILSON BKOTHIKS Haberdashery
knee length model for summer
A great improvement in underwear is now applied to pajamas ... the Super-Seat!
An ingenious back panel banishes all that bunching, bagging cloth that is usually gathered at seat and crotch. Super-Seat
pajamas jit, yet allow generous room for every twist and turn of the body. They look right and feel as good as they look, whether you are in the arms of Morpheus or in the
depths of the easy chair in your study room. I Wilson Brothers Style Committee pre-I sents these new pajamas in smart colors, patterns, and styles; including a shortsleeved, short-legged suit for summer cool-
ness. Prices? You will find them most moderate at progressive haberdashers at school and in the home town. Ask also about the new patterns in Super-Shorts.
WILSON BROTHERS
Jia berdashery
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • SAN FRANCISCO - PARIS
GUARANTEE: If any article bearing the Wilson Brothers trade-mark is unsatisfactory for any reason you can exchange it at any Wilson Brothers dealer.
If your haberdasher does not carry Super-Seat pajamas we shall gladly supply them to you through the nearest dealer upon receipt of your chest measurements, color preference, and check. (S3, S3.50, S4, 35-) Address Wilson Brothers, 530 S. Wells Street, Chicago.
810
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FLORSHEIM SHOE
• -
Forsheim Shoes are smart when you first puf them on, smart after you have given them long months of wear. And when, finally, you set them aside, you do so with regret, because they are still good looking . . . still smart.
$10
ADLER BROTHERS