in nora Dcmc
SCHOLASTIC
mw (ompus ncuus mom
IN THIS ISSUE
COACH KLINE — Trots Them on Tuesday


NAME COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS SHEEDY BALL CHAIRMAN DEBATERS BOW OUT
BASEBALL OPENS TUESDAY RACKETEERS ELECT FALLON GOLFERS OPEN SEASON
THE WEEK INTRODUCING COLLEGE PARADE
APRIL 9. 1937
2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
Passport to Smartness by STETSON
For knocking about the country over a Spring week-end, there’s no brighter choice than this new Stetson with its bound edge, wide-sweeping brim with "pie-crust” ripples. Wear it with top coat or sport clothes.
Stetson Hats
At Stores That Lead in Style
STETSON
HATS for SPRING
are here in a wide selection of smart, new shapes and shades. . . .
SAM’L
SPIRO & CO.
South Bend s most complete Hat Shop
Youll find complete assortments of the new
Stetson Hats
at
South Bend’s Store for N. D. Men
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
April 9, 1937
No. 20
MONSIGNOR SHEEN. DENNIS KELLY, SPEAKERS FOR NINETY-THIRD COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES, SUNDAY JUNE 6
ENGINEERS TO SWING AND SWAY TONIGHT AT ANNUAL BALL
By Frank E. Larwood
Right Reverend Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, D.D., educator, writer and member of the faculty of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., will deliver the baccalaureate sermon, and Mr. Dennis F. Kelly, president of “The Fair,” Chicago department store, will give the commencement oration at Notre Dame’s ninety-third commencement, Sunday, June 6.
Monsignor Sheen is familiar to Notre Dame for his series of lectures on Communism which drew large crowds to Washington Hall during the week of November 9, 1936. He is also known for having preached on the Catholic radio hour over the National Broadcasting Company’s network from 1930 to 1935.
Since he was graduated from Spalding Institute, Peoria, Illinois, in 1913, Monsignor Sheen has received numerous degrees from five universities both in the United States and Europe. From St. Viator College, Kankakee, Illinois, he received an A.B. degree in 1917, and an A.M. in 1919. During this same year he was ordained a priest in the Roman Catholic Church.
Other degrees conferred upon Monsignor Sheen are: S.T.B. and J.C.B. from the Catholic University of America, 1920; Ph.D., Louvain University, Belgium, 1923, and also Agrege en Philosophia, 1925; D.D., Rome, 1924; LL.D., St. Viator College, Kankakee, Illinois, 1929; Litt.D., Marquette University, 1934.
Last Year’s Grads Hear Speech.
He was a student at St. Paul Seminary, St. Paul, Minnesota, in 1919, and at Loyola University, Chicago, in 1929. In 1925 he was a teacher at Edmund’s College, Ware, England, and he has been a member of the faculty of the Catholic University of America since 1926. During 1930 and 1931 he was preacher at the Summer School of the University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England.
From 1931 to 1935 Monsignor Sheen was preacher at St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York. In 1925 he was the winner of the Cardinal Mercier Prize of Philosophy at Louvain University, Belgium, and he was appointed a Papal Chamberlain in 1934.
In addition to being a contributor to Commonweal, America, and Nev: Scholasticism, he has written 14 books on philosophy and religion among them being God and Intelligence, 1925; Religion Without God, 1928; Seven Last Words, 1932, and The Mystical Body of Christ, 1935.
Mr. Dennis F. Kelly started his business career as a boy with Mandel Brothers’ department store, Chicago, in 1879. He was superintendent of the store from 1888 to 1901 when he was made general manager a position which he held until 1923. From 1923 to 1924 he was vice-president and general manager of “The Fair,” and since 1925 has been president and general manager of this same department store.
Educated at St. Mary’s School, (Continued on Page 8)
By Robert McEniry
It’s the Engineers’ Formal again.
Tonight at 9:00 o’clock 200 couples will ‘swing and sway5 to the rhythms of Lee Bennett and his orchestra in the ballroom of the Columbia Athletic club. With the stroke of 12 and the playing of ‘Home Sweet Home’ another annual event of the Engineers’ will have made history.
By presenting Lee Bennett, the committee feels it is offering a real attraction, because Bennett was formerly the vocalist with Jan Garber’s orchestra. He is now touring the country in a series of one night stands.
Tom Carney, president of the club, will have as his guest, Miss Margaret Greene, of Northwestern university Nashville, Tennessee. The guest of general chairman of the Formal, Edward Hickey, is Jane Hormberg of St. Mary’s college and East St. Louis, Illinois.
An unexpected demand for tickets at the ninth hour, cause somewhat of a surprise to Francis W. Burke, chairman of the ticket committee, but the demand was met. Formerly only an approximate number of 100 couples was anticipated.
Committees are: Music, Robert J. Francis, chairman, Raymond Fiedler, and Harry Swoyer; Tickets, Francis Burke, chairman, Melvin Lambrecht, and Joseph Mehring; Reception, Joseph Froning, chairman, Frederick Gast, and Thomas McKenna; Programs, Frank Frascatti, chairman, James Daly, and Joseph McIntosh.
Patrons: Raymond Cowles, chairman, Francis Pfaff and Eugene Cattie; Publicity, Walter Troy, chairman, Herman Griffin, and Bernard Hartz; Decorations, Reginald Morrison, chairman, Edward Kuth and Leo Willick; Floor, Bernard Keffler, chairman, Thomas Gillespie, and Robert Reilley.
The patrons are all professors in the College of Engineering and their wives. They are: Mr. and Mrs. Walter Shilts, Mr. and Mrs. Edward G. Mahin, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Kline, Mr. and Mrs. William J. Holton, Mr. and Mrs. Ronald E. Rich, Mr. and Mrs. Andrew J. Boyle, Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Horan, Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hennion.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
DISCUSSIONS ON CALCULUS OF VARIATIONS, DR. HAAS* NEW APPROACH TO RELATIVITY FEATURE MATHEMATICS SYMPOSIUM
RELIGION AND SOCIAL WORK AWARDS ANNOUNCED
By Harold A. Williams
Featuring talks by the outstanding authorities in the field of Calculus of Variations in America, the Symposium on the Calculus of Variations held at the University, Wednesday and Thursday, April 7 and 8, was climaxed Thursday afternoon with a paper on the theory of relativity by Dr. Arthur Haas,
of Notre Dame, in which he offered a new approach to the theory by combining recent physical and mathematical deductions.
The Symposium arranged by Dr. Karl Menger, of Notre Dame, opened Wednesday in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Wednesday’s meeting was devoted almost entirely to theoretical discussions. Prof. Marston Morse, of the Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton, made the introductory remarks.
During the morning three papers were read, all by professors from the University of Chicago: Professor G. A. Bliss spoke on “Normality and Abnormality in the Calculus of Variations”; Professor L. M. Graves, “The Reduction of certain problems in the Calculus of Variations to the problems of Bolza”; and Professor W. T. Reid, “Expansion Methods in the Calculus of Variations.”
Wednesday afternoon, Professor Tibor Rado, of Ohio State University, spoke on “The Method of Variations of the Independent Variable,” and Professor S. B. Myers, of the University of Michigan, on “Certain Aspects of Differential Geometry in the Large.”
Wednesday evening there was a general meeting open to the public in which Solomon Lefschetz, of Princeton university, president of the American Mathematical Society, discussed the question, “What is Topology?”
Thursday morning’s program was opened by Professor Marston Morse on “Abstract Variational Theory.” Professor E. J. McShane, of the University of Virginia, spoke on “Existence Theorems in the Calculus of Variations.” In the afternoon, Professor Karl Menger, of Notre Dame, delivered a paper on , “Metric Methods in the Calculus of Variations”; L. W. Nordheim, University of Purdue, “Variation Principles in Quantum Electro-dynamics”; and Professor A. E. Haas, “The Variation Principles of Maupertuis and Fresnel and the Relation between Wave Mechanics and the Theory of Relativity.”
Calculus of Variations deals with maximum and minimum problems. Important questions of this type are, for example, how to make the best
(Continued on Page 21)
Paul Sheedy Chairman Of Senior Ball Set
For May 7
•
Paul Sheedy, senior in the College of Commerce from Snyder, New York, will be general chairman of this year’s Senior Ball to be held in
Chairman Sheedy, Pres. Sullivan Ball Rollers
the Palais Royale on Friday, May 7.
Sheedy has been active in class activities for the past three years, is president of the Spanish Club and member of the Knight of Columbus.
Senior President R. Parker Sullivan and Chairman Sheedy will select committeemen to assist in arrangements for the dance. Committee names will be announced next week.
“We hope to keep committee appointments down to active, necessary workers,” Sullivan said this week. “Preliminary arrangements have gone smoothly and we are negotiating for a good band.”
U. S. Navy Air Reserve Offers Course
Opportunity for enrollment in the United States Naval Reserve Aviation Corps has been made available for Notre Dame students, according to a letter received by The Scholastic from Lieutenant C. F. Greber, commander of the Naval base at Grosse He, Michigan.
Professor Frank Brown, head of the aeronautical engineering school, is in possession of complete details of the course. Interested applicants are urged to get in touch with him as soon as possible.
The University of Notre Dame will give 20 or more scholarships in the fields of apologetics and social service, it was announced recently by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
A limited number of scholarships for Christian apologetics, covering board, room, and tuition, will be available for male graduates of American universities and colleges. Recipients of these scholarships must have completed an adequate training in scholastic philosophy before September 1937, and must show an exceptional ability in writing.
The candidate must present with his letter of application and character reference an original essay of not less than 1500 words on a subject of his own choice. Further demonstration of ability may be required. No application will be accepted- after May 1, 1937. AU correspondence should be addressed to the Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., secretary of the graduate committee.
The graduate courses in apologetics, first offered at Notre Dame in September, 1936, will be continued for the schoolyear 1937-38. These courses extending over a two year period, are given by well qualified teachers and lead to the degree of master of arts. Visiting members of the faculty for the next schoolyear will include E. I. Watkin, author of A Philosophy of Form, the most important recent work in this field; Christopher Hollis, and Arnold Lunn.
Twenty scholarships for the graduate program in social work will be offered by the University and the Knights of Columbus. In social “group” work, ten $300 scholarships will be awarded by the K. of C. In social “case” work, ten $300 scholarships will be given by the University. In connection with these scholarships there is an accompanying service requirement of an academic nature.
Prerequisite requirements for both group and case work scholarships are: a college degree, good scholarship, and adequate background in the social sciences.
Rangers Meet
At an . executive meeting held Tuesday night plans were made by the Rangers for a dance to be held the latter part of this month at the Columbia A. C. Present arrangements call for the music of Frank Barbush and the University orchestra. A general meeting will be held during the coming week. Detailed plans will be formed at this meeting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1987
NAME SCORE SENIORS FOR 1937 HONOR
'DOME' AWARDS
Twenty seniors, prominent figures in varsity athletics, student government, publications, club affairs, and scholarship, were nominated this week for the Dome scroll awards for excellence in extra-curricular activities.
Thomas J. Radigan, editor of the 1937 yearbook which is sponsoring the awards, announced that the list of nominees has been presented .to a
Editor Thomas Radigan
“Wants to honor seniors.
committee of final selection, which will make four awards. These will be made public at the annual publication banquet to be held early in May.
A qualitative average of 85% is necessary for eligibility to the prizes which are to be made in recognition for excellence in either one or many student activities.
Records of the 20 seniors has been forwarded to the committee of final selection. The records were prepared by a representative committee of selection consisting of 13 juniors.
This committee is composed of members of the Dome, the Scholastic, the Managers’ organization, the Students’ Activities Council, and one representative of each college of the University.
They are Louis J. Dunn, Edwin T. Kilrain, of the Dome staff; Harold A. Williams, Eugene Vaslett, of the Scholastic staff; Donald Fisher, William P. Condon, of the managers’ organization; John H. Wilson, John R. Kelley, of the S.A.C.
Representatives of the College of Arts and Letters, Commerce, Engineering, Science, and Law are John Buckley, Richard Scannell, Harold Norris, Daniel Boyle, arid Thomas E. Foy, respectively.
DEBATERS END ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL SEASON WITH RADIO WRANGLE AGAINST
ST. MARY'S TOURING SQUAD
By Robert McClain
Coached by William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech, the Varsity debating team concluded its debating activities last evening with St. Mary’s college of California in a non-decision radio debate from the campus studio.
Thomas Mulligan and Charles Osborn, defending the negative side of the
varsity question, “Resolved: That Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry,” met the St. Mary’s affirmative team. Upholding the affirmative side of the question, the Notre Dame affirmative team of Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle, debated the St. Mary’s negative team Thursday afternoon in the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend. This was a nondecision debate.
In a non-decision debate last Friday evening in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, the affirmative team of Swarthmore
Nation-Wide Broadcast To Climax Universal Notre Dame Night
•
The universality of the Fourteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night is assured by a nation-wide broadcast through the courtesy of the Studebaker Corporation and its Champions program, out of Chicago through the facilities of the N.B.C., Wednesday night, April 14, at 10:00 E.S.T. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and the University Glee Club will participate.
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will close the year under the presidency of Louis F. Buckley, ’28, and will lead the other 85 clubs in this country and several in other parts of the world. The St. Joseph Valley Club will have its dinner meeting in the lay faculty dining room of the Notre Dame dining halls.
Nine stations in Michigan, eight in New York, five in Indiana, three in North Carolina, Ohio, California, and Utah; two in Illinois, Colorado, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Virginia, and Pennsylvania; and one in Connecticut, Washington, D. C., Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oregon, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, and West Virginia have promised to cooperate in local recognition of the Night, together with some time of such programs where given.
college, Ardmore, Pa., contested the Notre Dame negative team. Professor Francis E. Moran, associate professor of English, was chairman of the debate.
Dual non-decision debates were held this week with the affirmative and negative teams of Indiana university. The Varsitv affirmative team argued the varsity question with the Indiana negative team Monday afternoon in the auditorium of Central high school. Monday evening, the Indiana affirmative team opposed the Notre Dame negative team in the Mishawaka high school auditorium.
Participating in the intercollegiate Delta Sigma Rho tournament at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, March 19 and 20, the Varsity debating team won four debates and lost two contests.
Upholding the affirmative side of the varsity question, Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle defeated Wis-
Professors Moran, Ronay Unravelled Wranglers.
consin and Western Reserve, and lost to Wayne. Thomas Mulligan and Charles Osborn, the negative team, won contests from Albion and Carrol-ton, and lost to Marquette.
In a non-decision debate at St. Mary’s college, March 17, the Varsity affirmative team met the negative team of the University of Alabama. The chairman of the debate was Professor Stephen H. Ronay, associate professor of English.
The Notre Dame “B” teams will debate over the air from the campus studio in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering Monday evening at 6:45 p.m. Frank Brame and Redman Duggan will uphold the negative side of the question, and Frank Fitch and Charles Osborn will defend the negative side of the question.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
Monogram Men Lay Wreath on Rockne's Grave As Simple Rites Mark Observance of Death
By Vincent DeCoursey
MONOGRAM MEN GET BOYD RAEBURN TO SWING AT BALL
The little group unconsciously braced itself against the strong April wind as it listened to the droning prayers. Finally, “In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,” and it was over. The group broke up slowly and moved away, voices lowered; behind them they left two frail wreaths to battle the wind—alone.
Thus had the Monogram Club paid
Knute K. Eockne “Father:’
its annual tribute to the most famous of the products of Notre Dame. The small square, unpretentious marker above the faint mound simply says: “Knute K. Eockne—Father.” Here, under these fluttering wreaths, was all that remained of the man ■who more than any other symbolized to the nation the living, breathing, “Spirit of Notre Dame.”
Knute Eockne! A magic name that summons up remembrances of slashing attacks, and bitter stands on football fields from coast to coast; that brings visions of triumphs emblazoned in smeary black ink on every sport page in the country. And here under this grey-green patch lies the reason for it all; a crinkled face and friendly voice that once directed, braced, steadied, lent unity and cohesion and sanity to the babblings of publicity and hero-worship.
But there are no glaring headlines here. The wind bends the branches of. the trees and shoulders the light shrubbery about. Does that wind too remember that other’ March day, six years ago? A stocky little man seated in airplane, glancing out from time to time through patches in the stormy sky. What new plans was he dreaming? For him there had been wonderful triumphs in the past; but the future held promise of even greater.
Yet it wasn’t much later that they came across the smashed wreckage of the plane—and in it they found the battered body of the man who had done great things and had dreamed of still greater things. Here died Knute Eockne of Notre Dame, far from the scenes of his triumphs, a man alone and uncheered. Today on the spot of the plane crash a slender gray stone monument points its slim shape into the dust-hazy air. But its symbolism of the loneliness of Eockne’s death dwindles into insignificance when compared with that simple little marker on the grave of the man whose death it commemorates. Poignantly it says: “Knute K. Eockne—Father.”
That is a glorious epitaph! Devoid of flowery praise and flattering ‘ rhyme it says simply, broken-hearted-ly: “Knute K. Eockne — Father.” Father! What more exact or beautiful word could we apply to the man. Father? Yes, truly Father to the sons of Notre Dame!
James E. Deery to Head Banquet Speakers
James E. Deery, Notre Dame Law 1910 and an incumbent on the board alumni association since 1934, will head the speakers’ list at the annual banquet of the Law Club to be held in the Bronzewood Eoom of the Hotel LaSalle next Thursday evening.
Each year the Law club and some, eighty legal alumni of the St. Joe Valley give testimony to the memory of the late Col. William Hoynes, founder of the Notre Dame Law School in 1893 and law dean until ’18.
Anthony W. Brick, senior lawyer from N. Tonawanda, N. Y., will deliver the eulogy, and Francis A. Dunn, senior lawyer from Joliet, HL, will serve in the role of toastmaster.
Other speakers of the program, to begin at 7:00 p. m., will be Dean Thomas F. Konop, Prof. Clarence E. Manion of the law department, and Paul Butler, Notre Dame, ’27.
The Notre Dame Monogram Club will present its annual Formal Ball on Friday night, April 16th, at 9 o’clock, in the newly-decorated Columbia Athletic Club. Boyd Eaebum and his orchestra will provide the music for this dance, and the committee, headed by Paul Barker, promises that he will be a sensation.
Eaeburn’s band has played the past three summers at the exclusive South Shore Country Club, in addition to many of the larger midwest hotels. . Last December he made music for one of the highlight affairs of the Chicago society season, Irene Castle McLaughlin’s Pooch Ball. Lorraine Anderson’s lovely voice is featured with the fifteen-piece band.
Tickets may be secured from all Monogram men during the next week until Wednesday afternoon, April 14. The pasteboards will be sold for two dollars, and students are urged to observe the deadline.
Foley Named Chairman Of Knights' Annual Spring Formal
•
William Eichard Foley, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Brooklyn, N. Y., has been named general chairman of the Knights of Columbus annual formal scheduled for April 23. The appointment was
Dkolla and Foley
Lead Knights in Swing.
announced by Joseph Drolla, Grand Knight of the Council.
One of the social highlights of the season, the formal is to be attractively featured by a novel grand march which is being prepared by Martin O’Connell, president, and Eobert Leonard, vice-president, of the fourth degree Knights’ campus club.
At the last meeting of the organization plans were discussed for the annual Knights’ picnic, tentatively scheduled for late May, and special attention was devoted to the Council’s golf tournament. According to Drolla, it will be under way in the near future.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
CONTINUE EXPANSION HERE; START WORK ON NEW HALL
By George Haithcock
Construction of a new §300,000 student dormitory at the University of Notre Dame was announced recently by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, as part of a building program that has been under way since 1929.
The new unit brings the total of new buildings since the beginning of the depression to 15, representing a construction cost of approximately §5,000,000.
Work on the new dormitory will begin within a few days. A one-story wing of old St. Edward’s hall that has seen fifty years of service is already being tom down, to provide for the new site.
The new structure, as yet unnamed, will be a duplicate of Cavanaugh hall erected last year. Of Collegiate Gothic architecture in harmony with the other new buildings, the dormitory will be constructed of brick with limestone trim and slate roof. Its three stories and basement will be completely fireproof. The structure will house 200 students, raising campus facilities to a capacity of 2,560.
Fourteen other major buildings have gone up at Notre Dame since 1929, totaling more than §4,500,000 in expenditures. This sustained program has been an important stabilizing factor in construction work during the depression in the area in which the university is located. According to estimates of construction firms and building trades union officials, 80% of the skilled labor employment in construction work in St. Joseph county received employment at Notre Dame.
Last month construction was completed on a §500,000 Hall of Biology that is now being equipped. Erected last year were Cavanaugh Hall, §300,000; student infirmary, §375,000, and §100,000 for converting Corby Hall into a faculty-priest cloister with new wing for refectory and recreation rooms.
Other construction has included Alumni Hall and Dillon Hall, both student dormitories, the Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce, the John F. Cushing hall of Engineering, the College of Law, the stadium, a new Novitiate,, a new post-office, and a steam plant and laundry.
"Front Row Gals" Back For Annual Frolic
In Absurdities
•
By Richard Riley
Co-producers Steve Miller and Larry Danbom announce the presentation of the Monogram Absurdities of 1937 on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday evenings, May 1, 2, and 3 at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Members of last year’s famous “2000 lb” chorus, these two great fullbacks have combined their energies in the production of what is heralded as the finest campus entertainment of the year.
Edward Casey of Portland, Ore., has been selected as the Master of Ceremonies for this year’s performance. Casey succeeds Bill Stein-kemper, who made such a hit in last year’s Absurdities. In addition to introducing the various skits and dances, Casey, a member of the Glee Club, will render several solos.
Frivolity and laughter will be the keynotes of the show with the comedy team of the campus, Jim Hack and Joe McNally, giving their various impersonations. Of course, the comedians need “stooges,” and the producers selected Fred Mundee, Joe Zwers, and Bob Ducey to act in. this capacity.
The entire program will be divided into two acts with a continuous show except for a short intermission between acts. The background for the first act will be set in a night club with Frank Barbush and his Absurdity orchestra providing the swing. The second act will be modeled after a Major Bowes program with the finest campus talent taking part.
Speaking of models, the most beau-(Continued on Page 8)
Floradora Freddies in ’36 Absurdities.
ARRANGE TO PRESENT 2ND PHILOSOPHY DISPUTATION
e
By Fred Sisk
Of general interest to the entire student body was the announcement made this week by Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., head of the department of philosophy, of-, the forthcoming public disputation in philosophy, scheduled for next month. The definite date and other details concerning the disputation will be announced later in the Scholastic.
The philosophical debate was inaugurated last year and met with such unusual success by the attendance and interest that a similar discussion of the same kind was decided upon for this year.
According to Father Brennan, the topic to be treated in this year’s disputation is “The Nature of Man,” and under this heading “The Spirituality of the Soul,” “The Freedom of the Will,” and “The Destiny of the Human Soul” will be included.
In addition to these discussions, one or two papers dealing with closely allied subjects will be presented and considered.
The participants will be mainly chosen from those students who are majoring in philosophy, although others not majoring in philosophy will also be selected.
Following the formal discussion by the actual participants, the general student body in attendance will be given an opportunity to express their views and partake in the general discussion.
Because of the general importance attached to the main topic of the disputation at the present time, it is (Continued on Page 8)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
CORRIDOR CROONERS TO ENROLL IN NEW AMATEUR HOUR
• _
Notre Dame’s clan of corridor crooners and all other entertainers of the fourteen halls on the campus will be given an opportunity to exhibit their talents in the second annual interhall radio contest, according to plans recently announced by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty adviser of University radio activities.
Plans tentatively call for the beginning of the contest on Monday, April 21st. The participants from each hall will be allowed a quarter hour, and the four finalists selected will appear in a full hour program to select the winner. To each of the members of the winning hall will be awarded Notre Dame keys, and a plaque to the victorious hall. All of the programs will be presented from the campus studios in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Preparations for the contest will begin immediately, and Monday, April 12th, at 8:00 p.m., a meeting will be held in the campus studio for all of the students who intend to take part in the contest. At the meeting final instructions will be given by Norb Aleksis, student radio director.
Absurdities
(Continued from Page 7) tiful and shapely manequins on the campus will display their charms in a special fashion show. The various ensembles will be draped about the exotic curves of such models as Joe Beinor, Paul Kell, “Jake” Kovalcik, Alex Shellogg, Joe Kuharich; “Chuck” Borowski, John McKenna, and John Murphy. Madame John Cavanaugh will point- out the salient features of the creations.
Numerous interesting skits have been included in this year’s repertoire. A Julius Caesar skit, with Paul Nowak, as Caesar, and Bob Wilke as that glamorous Egyptian princess, Cleopatra, will attempt to show exactly why Julius crossed the Mediterranean.
Commencem't Speakers
(Continued from Page 3)
Chicago, Mr. Kelly received an LL.D, degree from DePaul University, in 1923, and from Notre Dame in 1930. He is a director of the Kresge Department Stores, Inc., and was incorporator and trustee of the Century of Progress Exposition, Chicago, during 1933 and 1934.
Since its organization in 1918 he has been president of the Catholic Charities of Chicago. In 1920 he was made a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory, a Knight Commander in 1925, and was make a Knight of Malta by Pope Pius XI in 1931.
Joseph James Brien, one of a large contingent of Brooklyn Prep graduates of Notre Dame, is the man of the week, the name on the lips of thousands. Even though his father sells to the dining hall the stuff we laughingly call fish Joe is still popular.
Denies vehemently that his home is on stilts, but he has to admit that he lives in Bay Ridge, a territory under water during the “R” months. People have been known to enter Bay Ridge for a quiet visit and vanish forever more.	-
His drawing power is terrific; his current girl, a St. Mary’s pride, went
all the way from Ohio to New York for the Metropolitan Club dance. Joe’s girl troubles are the talk of alumni. He is continually leaving one girl for another.
Overnight he mushroomed as the president of the Met Club after the hottest and funniest election ever held hereabouts. He is the true metropolitan type, and scorns anything west of the Bronx. Rooms with George Lane, and the two are getting to look like each other from constant association. George, however, has the brains of the duo, at least regarding scholastic averages.
Joe isn’t much of an athlete now, and tries to hide the fact that he once sprinted for the midget track team at Brooklyn Prep.
His trips down town generally last about eight hours. Two shows and an hour on Walgreen’s comer appease him for the afternoon, but after supper he’s back for another session.
Despite his addiction to the South Bend bright lights Notre Dame has had a reforming influence on him. No more do his parents worry about his activities. Ask him about his operation sometime ; it has brought him back to summer school for two years, and he’s ready for a third attendance.
PAT BANNON ELECTED HEAD OF MISSION CRUSADE UNIT
•
Officers of the newly organized Notre Dame Unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade were elected recently at the first meeting of the group at which Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University was the principal speaker.
Patrick Bannon, Louisville, Ky., was elected president, and James Bernard, Los Angeles, Calif., was elected vice-president. Other officers chosen were Dennis Dineen, of Kittaning, Pa., secretary; Roger J. Huter, Louisville, Ky., treasurer; and George Haithcock, Nashville, Tenn., publicity chairman.
The next meeting of the C.S.M.C. unit will be held next Tuesday evening at 8:00 p.m’., in Room 117 of the Main Building. Brother Severin, C.S.C., who has spent ten years in missionary work in Bengal, India, will be the principal speaker.
Competition For Breen Medal Begins Soon
The preliminaries of the 35th annual Breen medal oratorical contest will be held about May 1, it was announced this week by Prof. William J. Coyne, head of the Department of Speech.
The Breen medal for oratory has been awarded for excellence in oratory each year since 1902. The donor of the medal, William P. Breen, LL.D., a Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1877, died April 22, 1930.
All students of the University are eligible to take part in the competition. Entrants are required to deliver an original oration of ten minutes length on a subject of his own choice. Speeches will be judged on their composition and delivery.
Those desiring to enter this contest should notify any member of the speech department immediately. April 20th is the final date for entry.
A freshman oratorical contest will be held immediately after the Breen medal competition. This contest is open to any freshman in the University. A prize of ten dollars is to be awarded to the winner of this contest.
Philosophy Disputation ____(Continued from Page 7) believed that there will be an abundant interest manifested in the general discussion.
The disputation last year defended the existence of God and His real distinction from the universe. It was held on April 29 in Washington hall and was under the general direction of Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., and Father Brennan.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
9
THE WEEK
This One’s on the House
True to form, three weeks late, we bring up the Bengal Bouts. Postvacation Scholastics have always meant inconvenience. These lines are being written on March 19. Others will be mustered during the holidays. But to get back to the Bouts. While selling tickets we met one of nature’s noblemen, a person with a supreme disregard for the utilitarian trend of the day. He doubted that he’d be able to attend the carnival—thesis work. Nevertheless, he’d buy a ticket for charity. The offer, so far as we know, was unprecedented. And to you Bengal men, thousands of miles removed, allow us to say that you should consider yourselves lucky to have such a draw. Most students want ten cents worth for a nickel, but this philanthropist gave freely, expecting and caring for no return. There must be a special niche someplace for him.
* * *
Boys in the Back Room
Tucked into a corner of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering is the campus radio station. Not a striking fact in itself, but when you go there, as we did, on a dreary Saturday afternoon in March to lend a couple of ears to a student orchestra, . you’ve got something. Vince Duggan and Hook Kerwin, two pioneering juniors, have assembled some of the University musical talent in an attempt (and a successful attempt) to enter a top-notch organization into the uncrowded field. When we heard them, they were practicing for broadcasting which, as Norb Aleksis can tell you, requires a different treatment from dance floor work. At first sight they were not even slightly impressive; only eight of the 12 pieces were on hand and some of those present would have been better off at a movie downtown for all the “pitching” they contributed. One by one, the missing teammates sneaked in and knitted the group into something approaching a unit. From the control room came the report that proportion between brass and saxes was poor. Aleksis changed the position of the men and obtained the correct “instrumental balance.” “Goodnight My Love” was thoroughly whipped and when we left “Love Will Tell” was raising its weary head for approval. Best of luck, boys—get in that groove and sock.	,
* * *
Local Yokels
Riding over the Watchung mountains (a vast New Jersey range, in-
By John A. Gillespie
habited by bears, wolves, and prosperous farmers) we speculated on the good time we expected to have, listening to Mal Hallett and his band. Our fellow-speculator, Frank Reilly, of Walsh hall and East Orange (say it slowly) was equally as excited. It had been a dull vacation. As we turned into the lighted drive we remarked on the plentitude of cars despite the early hour—nine o’clock. Inside, we checked our coats and hats and strode confidently to the gate. Large men in tuxedos blocked us with “Two dollars a couple.” “But,” we protested, “we are not, strictly, a couple. We have no dates. We just came to hear the band, not to dance.”
For a brief moment the problem was insolvable; only when we suggested politely that we would donate one iron man apiece did the sweat stop rolling off the head gate-keeper's fat forehead. We paid, wondering at the presence of middle-aged pairs instead of the usual wildly-clad eastern collegians. Above the band stand was a sign: “Essex P. B. A. Lodge 42.” Without too much difficulty we translated the P. B. A. into Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association. We began to wonder. The band tore into “Too Marvelous For Words,” revealing a brass deficiency. The leader was short, bald, and clean-shaven. Mal Hallett, we remembered was tall, thick-haired, and mustached. Feeling increasingly silly, we turned to a neighbor who looked like a desksergeant addicted to third degree tactics and tremulously asked “Is this Mal Hallett?”
“Naw,” he sneered, “it’s Jerry Johnson.” By this time the visiting policemen and their wives were whirling merrily on the floor. We rushed to the gate and explained our mistake. Hallett had finished his engagement two nights before, said the cashier, but we were refunded our money. All we gained from a sixty minute ride was the privilege of tipping the hat check girl and the parking attendant. Our visit had lasted exactly ten minutes. So what did the rampant college boys do then? They played ping-pong at Reilly’s home for two hours. Just a quiet evening.
Two Short Plays Set For U. Theater
Two one-act plays will be presented by the University theatrical group, under the direction of Professor Albert Doyle, on either Friday, Saturday or Sunday evenings, April 16, 17, or 18, at 8:15 o’clock in Washington Hall. Rehearsals began last Wednesday evening, and the plays are rapidly reaching perfection.
“Thread O’Scarlet,” by J. J. Bell, and “Hot Headlines,” by Bertram Hobbs, are two plays selected by Professor Doyle and the University authorities for the second legitimate theatrical productions of the year. Both plays are humorous and light with a surprise twist in their culmination.
The first play, “Thread O’Scarlet,” is set in an inn in rural Ireland, with appropriate dialect for that section. The five characters in this presentation will be played by the following: Midgeworth, by John Gorman; Smith by Bob Henegan; Butters by Harold Jablonka; Breen by Fructuoso Bar-reda; the traveler by Robert Blake.
Three of the five parts for “Hot Headlines” have been filled with the two minor parts of Bill and Jim still open. In this play, in which an interesting and novel use of a newspaper headline is demonstrated, John Bras-sell will play the part of Hastings, Frank Ciolino will again play a feminine part, that of Edith Hastings, and George Moms will interpret the part of Francis X. Cohalahan.
Villagers Throw Hats Into Political Ring
Stepping in full stride in preparation for the coming elections within the organization, the Villagers’ Club held their regular monthly dinnermeeting Monday night, April 5th, in the Columbia Athletic Club.
Ted Prekowitz, president of the city lads, started the political tempo by announcing that nominations for next year’s officers are to be made on May 3rd, when the group again assembles for its monthly gathering.
Following this announcement that fire to the campaign kindling, the Villagers settled back to their order of business. A financial report of the recent Basketball Testimonial banquet showed that the annual event enjoyed the same success of previous years.
A preliminary report of the Easter Dance, given at the Erskine Country Club on March 29th, was tabled temporarily. Richard Ganser, chairman of the dance, reported that approximately 150 couples danced to the swinging symphony of Zeke Shapiro and his orchestra.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL
9, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, April 9
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.;- Engineer’s Formal, Columbia Athletic Club, 9 to 12, Lee Bennett and his orchestra.
Saturday, April 10
Movie, Washington Hall, “Rhythm on the Range” starring Bing Crosby and Martha Raye, first show for freshmen only, 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, April 11
Students’ Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Chesterton club meeting, 10:30 a.m., Law Building; Meeting St. Vincent de Paul Society, 11:00 a.m., Knights of Columbus Chambers, Walsh Hall; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, April 12
S. A. C. meeting, basement of library7, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, Sacristy, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, April 13
Baseball, Chicago U., Cartier Field, 3:00 p.m.; Tambritza Band of St. Edward’s College, program, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, April 14
Lecture, U. S. Coast Guardsman, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Coming Events
The feature picture for Saturday, April 10, will be that popular production, “Rhythm on the Range,” starring Bing Crosby, Bob Burns and Martha Raye.
A representative from the United States Coast Guard Service will give a lecture in Washington Hall, next Wednesday evening, April 14. He will discuss the organization and the possibilities offered to young men by the Service.
April 17th will bring to the Washington Hall screen, the smashing G-Man hit, “Don’t Turn Them Loose.”
The week of April 25 will usher in seven days of musical entertainment. The Music Week program will start with a concert given by the Notre Dame Glee Club.- Throughout the remaining days, the Notre Dame Band and a select group of male singers from Minnesota will give concerts.
“My Man Godfrey” will be the last motion picture shown in the month of - April. May 1 will bring that Safety-First screen success, “And Sudden Death.”
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
What Other Colleges Have to Offer
How would you like to attend class on the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean? No fooling; we mean it. Students at Miami University studying zoology obtain data on sea life by donning the type of diving helmets used by William Beebe in his submarine exploration trips and submerging themselves in the Gulf Stream until they have collected all the information they desire on marine life.
Butler University inaugurated a course in the use of leisure time not so long ago and the school authorities were rather amazed to find how much leisure time some of their students actually had. The idea behind the course is to properly prepare and develop in the average working man and woman the more desirable cultural and profitable avocations. Among the subjects offered are public speaking, music, reading and the cultivation of trees, flowers and shrubs.
If new courses are any criterion, it is beginning to appear as though Hollywood is going academic; or, would it be better to say, college is going Hollywood? Anyway, here are the facts and you can judge the trend for yourself. . . . Students at the University of Illinois attend movies and write comparisons with dramas, nov- -els, biographies, or the histories upon which the pictures they see are based. . . . Then New York University has a motion picture course which studies the sociological rather than the literary aspects of the talkies.
A course for those interested in adventure and the scientific approach to exploration is now given at Michigan University. The first summer work was done in the 'Yukon where the students slowly travelled across the Alaskan terrain charting the unknown wilds, mapping the land, studying plant and animal life, and carefully estimating the natural resources and geological conditions of that country.
This Week’s Little Story
A negro janitor in one of the buildings at Pittsburgh University possesses an A.B. and an M.A., and expects to receive his Doctor’s degree during the coming June exercises. When questioned as to his plans for the future he replied that unless a better job turned up than the one he now holds he will be back for more education. The moral, of course, is obvious but the tragic tint to the story is what makes this column re-quote the story . . . and if you don’t think it’s tragic to have three degrees and still be unable to find suitable employment, “Hamlet” must seem like a farce to you.
CELEBRATED CHEMIST TRACES GROWTH IN USE OF DRUGS
By Robert Sheppard
Continuing the series of University lectures, Dr. Arthur Binz, well known chemist from the University of Berlin and former editor of the Zeit-schrift filr augewandte Chemie, spoke to a large audience last Friday night in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. The speaker was introduced by Prof. H. B. Froning, head of the department of chemistry. The subject of the lecture was “Chemical Progress and Medical Applications.”
Dr. Binz holds the honor of being the successor of Dr. Paul Ehrlich, world famed originator of chemotherapy—the science of treating diseases caused by specific organisms with specific chemicals.
Tells Discovery of Coramin
In his lecture Dr. Binz pointed out that in the past many drugs derived from plants were not used as medicinal agents for centuries after their discovery. Cocaine, which the Incas of Peru used for centuries as a stimulant, was not used as a local anaesthetic until 1884. Ether suffered a similar experience before its true value was learned.
The present aim of science is to eliminate this element of chance in the medical application of chemistry. To further this end chemistry and medicine must work together, he said.
Dr. Binz then described some of the recent discoveries in pharmacy. One of these, coramin, was found to be related in structure to nicotine. This drug has a pronounced effect on respiration and blood pressure. Only recently chemists have been able to extract from the hearts of animals a substance that closely resembles this drug.
Part of Dr. Bihz’s own work has been in the field of pyridine derivatives. - By injecting into the blood stream compounds derived from this substance better X-ray pictures of the urinary tract have been made possible. The new drug for the treatment of streptococci infections was also discussed. When injected into the blood stream this drug is charged with compounds which are toxic to the organisms.
“All this work is like shifting sand for a gold nugget,” said Dr. Binz. “You can sift for years without finding a thing. But one nugget laid bare is payment for a lifetime of labor.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
NEEDLE NOTES
With the current interest in the Metropolitan Opera’s Saturday afternoon broadcasts of famous operas, the publication of the Victor Book of the Opera is timely. It has been revised by Charles O’Connell and is the most complete work of its kind we have seen. About 140 operas are arranged alphabetically, illustrated lavishly with pictures of the artists and the scenes. There is a history of opera given and, for the uninitiated, a thorough education is available. All the music has been recorded by Victor. It should do much to spread and intensify the popularity of opera.
He Ain’t Got Rhythm; This Year's Kisses—Benny Goodman.
Usually a Goodman recording has many clever bits, but in this we can point only to the drumming by Gene Krupa and the unique bass phrasing in the first chorus. Despite the advantage of a good tune, James Rushing, one experiment in Benny’s search for Negro talent, fails to register. He trifles with the melody.
Opening in the typical style the release develops into a catchy tune with Margaret McCrae singing appealingly. Benny’s clarinet solo is mediocre and he puts nothing sensational into his “riding.” Not so well done instrumentally as we think the band capable of, but the tune itself and McCrae’s exceptional singing make it worthwhile. (Victor; 25505)
What Will I Tell My Heart?; The Lady Who Swings the Band— Andy Kirk.
A comparatively unknown band establishes itself with this record. Pha Terrell, a vocalist -with a most unusual name, has a refreshingly easy voice, much like Kenny Sargent’s, of Glen Gray’s outfit. He sings most of the record and sings it effectively. Except for a few bars of heavy bass rhythm the band stays in the background. Slow and sweet.
Another vocalist with an unique style steals the show in this number. The singer, who remains unidentified, owns an engaging nasal quality. Piano is played up and the brass does its best with a none-too-good tune. (Decca; 1085)
One In A Million; Who’s Afraid Of Love—Mal Hallett.
In the first chorus listen for the swell ensemble brass and sax work. After that there is nothing notable until the tenor sax and some distinguished piano passages in the third chorus. Jerry Perkins does a nice vocal, and the sock chorus, feat
uring brilliant trombone teaming and the inspired drumming of Charlie Blake is bound to make even the most rabid sweet fans feel that thing called swing.
Hallett opens the reverse side with sax background and open bass carrying the melody. The vocal, by robust “Buddy” Welcome, is especially good and smooth trombones again make you happy. (Decca; 61514-8)
Marie; Song of India — Tommy Dorsey.
“Marie” is a time from a movie of eight years ago, starring Vilma Banky, and it is not a credit to its writer, but under Dorsey’s handling it becomes remarkable. Starting with a mellow and soft trombone, backed by restrained brass, the record pleases. But the real kick comes in the vocal by Jack Leonard. He is supported by a male chorus, singing lyrics which are original. Their timing and volume has everything. The band gets a bit raucous toward the end, but you’ll want to play 'this over and over.
It takes courage to swing an old standby like “Song of India,” but Tommy’s arrangers have worked creditably. Again a beautifully clear
and sweet trombone carries the first chorus, helped by a rolling group of saxes. Unfortunately the band gets a measure noisy in the last chorus, but not enough to spoil things. (Victor; 25523)
Study in Brown; Whoa Babe — Glen Gray.
A neat trumpet introduction followed by the massed brass that distinguishes Gray’s offerings gets you interested immediately in this record and you are not let down. We liked especially the low-register clarinet parts. You won’t hear this tune much, but it has been treated smartly throughout. The ending is faded nicely, spiked by clean brass breaks.
This has a catchy rhythm that is hit sympathetically. The arrangement is unusual and Pee Wee Hunt is handed a perfect piano lead for his peppy vocal. His style suits the band to a fare-thee-well. In the release a heavy brass beat carries the tune to a fast finish. (Decca; 1159)
BRUNSWICK
The Love Bug Will Bite You, and I’m Just a Country Boy at Heart— Pinky Tomlin.
Pinky is back! He’s made two typical selections here, and both of them are his own compositions. He is accompanied by Joe Haymes, and the orchestrations are good. Those who have enjoyed Tomlin in the past will like this one. He hasn’t changed a bit. (7849)
September in the Rain, and You Are All I’ve Wanted—Jan Garber.
Both of these are typical of Garber and his predominating wood-winds. The only change from the old Jan is the vocalist, Russ Brown, and even that isn’t very different. (7850)
I’d Be a Fool Again, and There’s No Two Ways About It—Russ Morgan.
Two smooth numbers in the Morgan manner, with unusual vocals by a male voice and a female trio in the background, pleasingly blended. (7851)	-
When Lights Are Low, and If I Could Read Your Mind — Benny Carter.
“When Lights Are Low,” boasts of a fine saxophone solo and an interesting chorus or two by an unknown feminine vocalist. The other side is a rather good , arrangement of a not-too-good piece. Incidentally, both selections were written by Benny Carter. (7853)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
At The University »
By Robert Mullen
The winter semester of 1936-37 which extended from Nov. 1-Feb. 22, is officially dead, gone, and buried. This might he the official attitude, but the past semester still lives quite alive, vividly, and fascinatingly in my memories. And why so? It was so different, new and strange. Just how to paint the whole picture is no easy matter. But let me begin with a hard, cold and dispassionate analysis of the official system.
For the benefit of foreigners a special course in German was offered during the month of October. At the end of the month we took an examination, thereby receiving the official University recognition that we had sufficient knowledge of German to attend the lectures in the capacity of official students.
German Red-Tape
Then followed the usual “red-tape”. In America I had already submitted a formal application to the Rektor of the University. This being accepted, I was awarded a scholarship which, of course, released me from all fees and other pecuniary contributions required of other students. The next step was to obtain a “Studienbuch” (see below). This is given to the student only upon making a payment of 25 marks which serves as a type of insurance. This particular fee must be paid by all students regardless of what concessions they have been given. Turning in the receipt of this payment I was given a paper to fill out. This summed up one’s life history in a veiy brief but concise manner. Together with this document one is requested to submit a small picture of himself. After these various papers have gone through the official channels your “student card” is given you. Here we find the solution of the picture mystery, for this student card is at the same time something of an identification card. In this card the University seal is placed which, for once and for all, beyond all reasonable doubt, proves that you are a full-fledged student—at least for that particular semester.
To return to this odd little “Studienbuch.” About nine inches long and six inches wide with a pretty blue cover this little book plays a much bigger role than its size would indicate. After selecting the lectures one intends to hear, the student writes the name of each course and the professor teaching it on two separate sheets. We were allowed until Dec. 4 to “make up our minds.” At that time the University tears out one of the sheets for its references; the
student keeps the other—intact, of course, in this “Studienbuch.” From this date on till the close of the semester the student has time to get the signatures of his professors. This signature serves as a written proof that you have at least once attended his lectures, for one can miss as many times as one likes. Do you see now why this little “blue book” is so important? To sum it all up: Notre Dame does everything for the student. Heidelberg requires the student to do everything for himself.
Absolutely no exams are given during the semester. At the close one has to actually ask for one of these student plagues—and then they are sometimes grudgingly given.* There is no set number of “hours” required of the student during the semester. Everything is determined, so to speak, by his major subject.
Just what courses one should take is largely determined by his particular field of study. In medicine and other scientific fields the student must, of course, take a certain number of prescribed subjects. But in wider and more general fields the student is the lone judge of what courses he intends to partake. The attendance at lectures is not compulsory, and for that reason there are no “cuts” in the strict sense of the word.
Academic Freedom
The student is accorded all the academic freedom possible. In America, for the most part, students are not placed in any special social rank. In Germany, although the student no longer commands the high social rank of previous years, he is, nevertheless, accorded many favors and deferences. For instance: students are granted from 30% to 50% reduction on railroad and plane fares, theatres, operas, concerts, museums, etc. Almost everything is made as cheap as possible for the student. Quite a contrast can be found in many of the American universities. On the other hand students are forbidden to work—for a monetary compensation, I mean,—during either the semester or vacation. They reason—if a student can afford to study he has no right to work for money. There are plenty of other less fortunate mortals who deserve that work.
It took me quite a long time to accustom myself to the hours of the lectures. My first class was never held before 10:00. From then until 1:00 I was kept quite busy. But the really important and interesting lec
* German students take their one and only real “exam” when they have completely finished their studies. I happen to know several of these unfortunates.
tures are held from 3:00 until 8:00. Personally I am not very much in favor with this system as it isn’t always so easy to really concentrate upon a “weighty” lecture at 6:00 or 7:00—hungry and tired then. The fact that the student is not bound to attend his classes seems to have the same influence on many of the professors. This past semester the number of “cuts” the professors themselves took is almost notorious. Practically any excuse will work!
No “School Spirit”
The lectures themselves are very formal. The professor enters the room, makes his greetings, nevei’ thinks of making a roll-call, proceeds to discuss his theme and continues to do so until the bell rings. The students would never even think of interrupting him! All one does is write —and write fast! If the student encounters any difficulties he must see the professor during his special “hours for interview.” The famous “seminar courses” are entirely different. Often referred to as an “open forum” they are as informal as possible. Students prepare papers on some subject, read it to the class, after which a sometimes heated discussion follows. The professor acts as an arbitratoi* or guide—whatever the necessity demands. These particular courses demand a lot of research work, and can be, if one takes them seriously, one of the most thorough, complete, and difficult courses obtainable.
I am of the impression that the majority of the students do not take their university life so much to heart as we do. They have no idea what the word “school spirit” means. This is mainly due to the fact that a student rarely remains at one university for more than three semesters. I might add a note of explanation here: There are two semesters—the winter, from November to March; the summer from April to July. Special “vacation courses” are also held. The students here have absolutely no conception of a university as their “alma mater.” Outside of Berlin, the University of Heidelberg is the only other educational institution with a “Dolmetscher Institut.” Students in this department specialize in mastering—better, learning—several foreign languages, mainly English and French. For this reason it is quite difficult to learn German. Everyone understands English, and many can speak it quite well. At times one has to ask them to speak German!
The fact that Heidelberg is so cos-(Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
13
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.......................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_______________________ Anthony F. O’Boyle______________________
Joseph Rotondo__________________________
Netos Staff
Louis DaPra__________ Harold A. Williams___ Michael Mongoven_____ Richard Riley________ George Haithcock_____ Frederick Sisk_______ Thomas Marker________ Gregory Byrnes_______ Frank E. Larwood_____ James Dempsey________
Vincent W. Hartnett J Harold A. Williams J
__________The
______College Parade
.In The Juggler Pein
--------Netos Editor -Assistant Netos Editor --------Frank Reilly
Robert McClain .Vincent de Coursey ____John Callaghan ____James Hufnagel ____Graham Starr ____F. Barreda ____John Kohn
Literary Editors
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett_____ Andrew M. Crowe_. John Cackley_______ Allan Bride________ Frederick Digby____ Charles Callahan— Arch Gott__________ Francis Kroeger____
____Sports Editor —Assistant Sports Editor ____Mark Mitchell ____Nicholas Lamberto ____John Clifford .William A. Donnelly ____James A. Waldron ____Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, ’26____________
.Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	April 9, 1937	No. 20
RECORD BREAKER . . .
“FT1HE CHALK, my man, we must enter new records— ± the old are shopworn.”
But whether they are erased or simply boosted, all old records took a terrible drubbing on Friday, March 19 when the Sixth Annual Bengal Bouts hit new all-times high mark in every department.
More people jammed the gymnasium, better fights were produced, more tickets were sold, more money was made, more soldiers were made happy than in any previous year. And after scanning the records, that’s saying quite a bit.
It is nothing new to have students interested in the fights, neither is it anything new to have high-class performers in the local ring—but it is new to boost both these departments to the 1937 mark.
A complete audit of the finances cannot be given as yet until all prizes are delivered, all bills paid and all revenues in—but with reports nearly complete it seems safe to say that this year’s check to the Bengal Missions will be at least ?200 higher than last year’s banner amount.
No one takes sole credit for this showing. The Bouts
demand earnest and sincere cooperation and that was certainly not lacking this year.
We have already begun on our litany of thanks in a previous issue—we have no choice but the happy task of continuing the list.
Mr. Frank Lloyd was the chief “force behind the scenes.” His efforts did more than anything or anyone else to boost the Bouts. Rev. James Quinn, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Band, gave invaluable aid and suggestions.
We certainly hope no one has been slighted in enumerating our thanks. Before the Bouts we went through a long list—but had it been twice as long we might have missed some. Our thanks are none the less sincere because of being blanketed in one sincere “Thank You” to each and every person who in any way shape or form aided us in producing this year’s all-time record Bengal Bouts.
OPEN SEASON . . .
WHIRLS of the zodiac have brought the sign of the ballot box to the front again. When violets begin wondering if it’s sprouting time, when the first nature lover, in water-tight rubbers begins a tentative stroll around the lakes, it’s a safe bet that ballot box plans are hatching in smoky sub-rooms. “Chew Dento and Vote for Zilch”—“Ride the Gravy Train”—“Walk the Plank” —it’s just a question of time until we’ll have as many blotters as plotters and two straight tickets in every potbelly.
But the campaign workers don’t make the worst mistake, nor are they the most foolish figures—the really pitiful soul is the gullible voter who not only believes, but gets worked up about the whole unimportant procedure of class elections.
Observers, casual ones on the outside, lose the real blue-ribbon scene though. The high climax comes when one party is victorious and begins laying plans to “take care of the boys.” Then comes statesmanship of rare moment while the choice between Doakes and Hoehandle is debated and the Floor Chairman for a Tea Dance hangs in the balance!
But then there are worse ways of passing time—like collecting empty match books.
PAIR OF ACES ...
TWO ATHLETIC teams of the University which often go unheralded are fencing and the gymnasium team.
Both these groups deserve a better fate.' Both sports require ardent, consistent training, long practice and yet neither ever draws huge crowds to a modernistic stadium. If we measured the good a sport does by counting the heads of the spectators these two would be relegated— but numbers, even box-office numbers, are not necessarily the last word in criteria.
Professor Scannell and Professor de Landero have added very bright pieces to Notre Dame’s sport mosaic. Neither of these gentlemen is tearing his hair because of student apathy, but students are missing good entertainment if they fail to see these squads in action.
For the fencers the season is over, the gym team may still give an exhibition or two—but in any event, they have both turned in fine records and may successfully rest on their laurels.
14 .	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
ATHLETICS
IRISH BASEBALL TEAM STARTS HARD SCHEDULE ON CARTIER FIELD DIAMOND TUESDAY IN GAME WITH CHICAGO NINE
The spring sports season officially opens here, Tuesday afternoon, when the Irish baseball nine encounters Chicago on Cartier Field. It will mark the initial engagement of a 19 game schedule for Coach Jake Kline and his men. The Indiana weather usually hampers the outdoor squads to a large extent and this year has been no exception.
Thus far the baseball candidates have been able to play but one practice contest. Spring rains have forced
Captain Ennio Akboit
Leads team against Chicago the team to confine their activities mainly in the fieldhouse. Although the pitchers have been limbering up in the gym, along with a small amount of infield drill, there has been virtually no participation in any extensive batting practice.
Coach Kline is handicapped with the loss of practically his entire 1936 team. Returning monogram men include Captain Ennio Arboit, Lefty Rydell, and Johnny Goncher in the pitching department, and Chuck Borowski in the outfield. The heavy hitting array of Pilney, Fromhart, Gaul Velcheck, and Wentworth were all graduated last June.
Although no definite lineup has as yet been released, nevertheless a group of promising men have been working out for the past several weeks. Jim Carson and Doyle are fighting for the first base position. On second there will probably be either Joe Nardone or Ed Brennan. John Braddock and Andy Puplis are the principal contenders for the short stop berth. Tommy Wukovits and Joe
Scannell Announces Interhall Program
Speeded onward by the success of the winter sports program, the Physical Education department under the leadership of Mr. John A. Scannell, is preparing a newer and more extensive interhall spring season. Action will be taken when the weather is favorable in baseball, softball, soccer, and speedball tourneys.	.
The baseball league will be run as in previous years in the form of a round-robin, while the softball division will be carried on as an elimination tournament. Members of the different halls should begin now to organize teams so that when the weather breaks there will be no delay.
Soccer and speedball were started last spring on a small scale, but this year Mr. Scannell is making an attempt to stage regular interhall contests in these sports. The drawback at present is the lack of a regular soccer field because of the usurpation of the playing space by the construction near St. Edward’s Hall. During the next week all plans will be laid and interhaliers should watch The Scholastic and their bulletin boards for further announcements.
O’Neil constitute the two outstanding third base candidates.
The outfield men include Jack McCarthy, Austin, Joyce, Jim Nolan, Frank Kopzcak, and Borowski. The catching duties will be divided between Jim Waldron and Kozeluth. Arboit, Goncher, and Rydell are the probable first string pitchers. Bob Mohr, a sophomore, may break into the lineup for mound duty if his recent injury responds to treatment.
Chicago, led by Captain Robert -Shipway, the catcher, will present a formidable combine against the Irish. Coach Kyle Anderson has a nucleus of five lettermen, besides a member of the ’35 squad, from which to build his 1937 team. The first five all hit .300 last year in the Big Ten Conference. They will be bolstered up considerably by two minor lettermen and six sophomores.
The mainstays of the Maroon nine (Continued on Page 18)
BENGAL TILTS CROWN SEVEN NEW CHAMPS IN HARD FIGHTS
•
By Mark J. Mitchell
The gloves and the gong, the ring and the resin are all tucked away for another year. . Friday night, March 19, saw the completion of the sixth annual series of Bengal Bouts, but not before seven championships had changed hands and one man had retained a title.
Before a crowd of well over 3,000 spectators sixteen young athletes, aided by the appearance of Barney Ross as honorary referee, Race and Fogel as comic relief, and the once indomitable Jim Hack, put on a show which indubitably surpassed any and all of its predecessors.
The curtain raiser, in the 118 pound class, was a wide open affair between John Powers and Jack McGurk The latter’s experience and reach were too much for the little fellow, and McGurl was declared the winner late in the second round on a technical knockout.
At 126 pounds Russell Dolce, he of the windmill attack, outpointed the Filipino, Vince Gurucharri. Gabriel Velez, runner-up in 1936, won the lightweight title from Don Hanning on a decision after three rounds of hard, evenly-matched fighting.
Among the junior welterweights Jim Brown’s victory over Jack Mc-Nicholas was the occasion of another close decision. Oliver Helland, last year’s junior welterweight champ, moved up one class, and outboxed Slim Thompson for the 147 pound title. This being Barney Ross’ own event, the world’s champion acted as the third man in the ring, and awarded a special trophy to the winner.
A vicious scrap between Lou Purcell and Jim McGuire saw the latter victorious on a decision, and possessor of the middleweight crown. Tom Leahy put up a magnificent fight to win from Harry Marr in the light heavyweight division.
To climax an evening of thrills, Phil Dahar, defending champion, and Walt Runte, freshman challenger, put on what was acclaimed as one of the greatest heavyweight bouts in the history of the show. Runte, fighting an uphill battle all the way, neared the end of the third round needing many points to win. With but a few sec-
(Continued on Page 15)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
15
IRISH MEET RANKING TRACKMEN DURING BUTLER RELAYS
•
Coach John Nicholson’s track team closed its indoor season at the Butler relays Saturday, March 20, by placing eighth among the many schools that competed in the relays which? were featured by six new meet records and a new world’s indoor high jump mark.
Michigan, winners of the conference indoor track meet, won the relays by scoring 49 points. It was Michigan’s fourth successive Butler relay triumph. Indiana won the meet in 1933 but Michigan has dominated since. Two other Big Ten schools, Ohio State and Indiana followed the Wolverines with 31 and 28 points respectively. Other scoring was Kansas State Teachers of Pittsburgh, 27; Butler, 24; Kansas State Teachers of Emporia, 14; Michigan State, 12; Notre Dame, 11; Illinois, 9; Miami, 8; Ohio University, 6; Western State Teachers of Kalamazoo, 5; Michigan Normal, 3; and Purdue, 2.
Greg Rice, sensational Notre Dame sophomore, furnished the biggest surprise of the meet. Running against the famed Don Lash of Indiana in the four mile university relay, Rice ran the Hoosier ace into the ground, leading by twenty-five yards when he handed the baton to a teammate. Despite Rice’s brilliant effort, Indiana won the race in record breaking time.
Bill Faymonville and Chick Levicki finished second and third in the shot put to register seven Notre Dame points.
Walker, Ohio State Negro star, cleared the bar at six feet nine and three fourths inches in the high jump to establish a new world indoor mark for that event.
Watson, Michigan sophomore weight star surpassed the shot put mark previously held by Don Elser of Notre Dame. Watson’s new record heave was 50 feet 5 inches.
Other meet records were established by Ohio State in the two-mile university relay, Indiana in the university medley relay, and Michigan in the university one mile relay.
In a special one-mile open race, Archie San Romani of Kansas State Teachers of Emporia Kansas defeated Glenn Cunningham by three yards in four minutes 21.4 seconds.
Bengal Bouts (Con. from p. H) onds left, this stocky lad uncorked a terrific right hand punch which sent the champion groveling in the resin. However, before the referee could count Dahar out, the bell rang, ending the round, and the decision went to Runte. .
BILL FALLON ELECTED TO LEAD TENNIS TEAM THROUGH EIGHT MATCH NET SCHEDULE;
IRISH FACE DIFFICULT SEASON
WASH'TON GOLFERS MEET IRISH TEAM
IN FIRST MATCH
• .
The spring sport schedule will officially get under way to-morrow morning when the Notre Dame golf team, led by Captain Lou Fehlig, tees off against the visiting Washington University aggregation. As the Irish par-sters face the fairways for. the first time of the current season they seem well able to uphold the high golfing tradition built up by recent Notre Dame teams.
From St. Louis comes an all-veteran team to test the skill of Father Holderith’s 1937 edition. The invading team is composed of four members who have campaigned as a unit in past collegiate competition. Leading the brassie wielders from Washington is Jim Black, number one man. who has the reputation of being the longest driver in the Missouri section. It will take accurate shooting on the part of Lou Fehlig and company to overcome the advantage Black will gain by his distance-eating drives. In Jonas Weiss the Missourians have a golfer of no little ability, one who will cause the Irish swingers many uneasy moments. Weiss, at the present time, holds the Junior District championship. The team is rounded out by George Stamm and Jack Lich, two experienced collegiate golfers. Both play steady, low scoring games and are capable of breaking through with exceptionally low scores. The Washington aggregation has balance, driving power, and strength on the greens and should extend the Irish golfers to the limit.
At the present time Father Holder-ith is undetermined about his starting players. Competition has been keen, and at least eight players are eligible for storting roles. From recent scores it appears as if the starters will be picked fro ma list containing Captain Lou Fehlig, Tommy Sheenan, Bud Donovan, Gene Mil-■ bourn, Bill Castleman, Al Mailhes, Harry Baldwin, and John Marbach. Bud Donovan set a new course record in winning the annual tournament held last fall. Fehlig, Milboume, Castleman, Mailhes, and Baldwin all played under Irish colors last year. Several newcomers, especially Donovan and Sheenan, are capable of pushing some of the veterans aside and earning places on the team.
With their opening match scarcely two weeks away the plight of Coach Pedro de Landero and his netmen is beginning to assume .serious proportions. Unlike their nearby competitors on Cartier Field the tennis candidates cannot scurry back into the gym for their practice when the weatherman refuses to give them a “break,” and for this reason decent weather is practically a prime requisite for a successful tennis season.
But the weather is merely one of Coach de Landero’s problems. He has a score of others including such a vital and all important one as how
Wild Bill Fallon
The greatest show on earth.
to make a team out of a squad of candidates that includes but four players ’who have had intercollegiate competition experience, and of that four only one, Captain Bill Fallon, is a monogram winner. In porportion to its size no other Notre Dame team was so hard hit through graduation as the tennis team. Four monogram men received their degrees last June, while Joe McNulty, Indiana State Singles champion, failed to return after the first semester. And just to top the picture off in blacker colors we might mention the fact that Jim Waldron, one of the above mentioned “experienced four” is quite apt to be lost to the racquet squad because of Varsity baseball duties.
At the present moment only two things concerning Notre Dame’s 1937 net team seem to be officially definite and they are the publishing of this year’s schedule along with the appointment of Fallon to the captaincy. Both items appeared as official releases from the office of the director of athletics in last Sunday’s papers. The schedule, incidentally, is considered to be the toughest in the school’s clay court history since it includes four of the top flight teams in Big Ten tennis circles, while Kentucky (Continued on Page 23)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
ON DOWN THE UNE
Never let it be said that this column has a tendency to brag but this week we would like to do a little back-patting for the entire Junior class.
Notre Dame teams, usually dominated and captained by seniors, seems to be sadly lacking fourth year men and it has been the obligation of Juniors to step in and take over the work usually handed to Seniors. The basketball team was captained by a Junior and dominated by third year men, now we find our baseball team, is practically seniorless following the lead of the court squad and having, in the person of Ennio “Speed” Arboit, another Junior as captain and, incidentally, star pitcher.
Oglesby, Illinois (your guess is as good as ours as to where this town is) sent the Italian ball player here. Apparently Oglesby hasn’t much to offer in the way of schools for Ennio went to Peru, Illinois to get his education. He spent most of his time at St. Bede’s Academy there and a half year at LaSalle High school, also in Peru.
The job of being captain of this year’s ball team will not be a new experience for “Speed”
as he has 'had plenty of work along that line while in the Academy. He was captain of the baseball, football, and basketball teams there and played a little harder on the football team to win All-State mention as a guard.
There’s a funny story about his football playing days in high school. He started out as a halfback and seemed to be doing pretty well there until he was hit by inflammatory rheumatism. His coach decided he couldn’t run very well with a pair of rheumatic feet and it looked as though “Speed” was through with football. He couldn’t even get a pair of football shoes on to appear at practice but this didn’t stop him. He donned a pair of tennis shoes and tried out for the guard position and did some mighty fine ball playing. So fine that, tennis shoes irregardless, he was awarded that coveted state mention.
He can’t remember distinctly when he started playing baseball. He told us “it was a long, long time ago.” His first stab at organized ball took place on the Oglesby American Legion nine in 1931. That year with Arboit pitching the team went to the Legion sectional finals before it was eliminated. After that he played a little sand-lot ball and then took over his pitching duties at St. Bede’s.
A.University of Illinois man recommended Notre Dame to him as the school to go to and Ennio took his advice. Last year, his first of varsity competition, he didn’t play much football although he won himself a reputation of being one of the finest blocking halfbacks on the squad. However, when baseball season came around he won more than a reputation when he pitched the varsity to seven victories and allowed but one defeat to be chalked up against him. With that as a record his mates elected him captain of this year’s team. We asked him what he thought the chances for the ball squad were this year and he evaded the question nicely with one of these “time will tell” statements.
“Speed” rooms with Pat McCarty of football fame up in the attic of Howard. The roommates have a sort of double talk, or maybe its a bit of Lithuanian, that they lapse into every now and then much to the uninitiates mystification or what have you. They had our head going around for a few minutes while they jabbered away at each other in their queer jargon.
Coach RALPH YOUNG of the Michigan State track team will lose a man soon because of classroom brilliance. In order to accept a position, GEORGE McKENNA, star 440-yard runner, will graduate six weeks ahead of his class this spring. To finish quickly, McKenna will jam a term’s work into six weeks.
Washington and Lee’s FRESHMEN haven’t been beaten in a wrestling meet for the last seven years.
Northwestern will have another VANCE on its basketball team next year. AG VANCE -will replace his brother DUKE who was a Big Ten star for three years.
Coach BILLY THOM, of the Indiana University matmen, sometimes feeds his wrestlers fresh blood in order to keep up their strength. He thinks it is the best thing for an athlete who is in a run down condition.
Western Reserve promises to have a strong basketball team next year. Among this season’s FRESHMEN squad there were seven former scholastic captains.
Pennsylvania won’t be represented in the Poughkeepsie Intercollegiate regatta this spring and will be out permanently unless the distance is cut to three miles or drill facilities are improved.
GEORGE CORBETT, six years a Chicago Bear footballer, is attending insurance school preparatory to going into business in Peoria.
SAM JOHNSON will captain the 1937-38 Iowa cage squad. FRED HO-HENHORST, a guard from Chicago, was elected captain of the freshmen squad at the close of the season. ’
When LOU AMBERS began making big money in the prize ring, he bought three saxaphones. Since then his visions of a career as a musician have been blasted so the HERKIMER HURRICANE is giving his instruments away.
On cage trips the players of Marquette University get lessons on etiquette when COACH CHANDLER forces one of the squad to “eat wrong” so that he might correct him for the benefit of all.
CLIPPER SMITH, Villanova coach, firmly believes that all good plays are bom of dreams and he keeps a blackboard and chalk beside his bed at all times.
STEVE O’NEIL says that he will be well satisfied if his schoolboy sensation, BOB FELLER, wins eight games this summer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
17
Basketball Team Concludes Stellar Season
Keogan’s Products Are Universally Acclaimed National Champions by Sports Writers. The Irish Conquered the Outstanding Teams in the East and Middle West.
Notre Dame’s basketball squad climaxed what is believed to be the most successful season ever experienced by a Gold and Blue quintet, when they scored an impressive 36-18 victory over Detroit two weeks ago in the Auto city. Starting out with what appeared to be a mediocre but highly-potential cage five, the Irish team gained momentum with each additional contest — finally ending the winter schedule of 23 games with 20 wins and three losses.
It is truly a phenomenal record established by Coach George Keogan’s men, against the stiffest competition, which lasted from the first week in December' until the middle of March. Captain Ray Meyers and his mates rightly deserve the intercollegiate mythical national championship — their achievements are obvious enough to dispel any skepticism.
Kalamazoo, St. Mary’s (Minn.),
Paul Nowak All-American Center
and Western State were the first three, in that order named, to be defeated by the dazzling and shifty Irish offense. Northwestern came to the local fieldhouse with a fast-passing combine of accurate shartp-shooters, and gave Notre Dame its initial setback of the year, 38-19.
The Irish evened matters up a bit, during their Christmas “vacation” tour, when they took a close 24-23 decision from the Wildcats, on the latter’s home floor. Ed Sadowski led the attack for Notre Dame, with five field goals, while Earl Brown earned a starting position on the basis of his brilliant defensive play.
Illinois, helped considerably by two
sophomore stars, Boudreau and Nesbit, had little trouble beating the Irish, 44-29, on December 19. John Moir’s thirteen points along with nine
Captain Ray Meyer He led the national attack
contributed by Brown, enabled Notre Dame to edge out a 30-27 victory from the Chicago Maroons, on the second of January.
Heading south, Meyers, Wukovits, et al., clicked properly for the first time, in administering a 41-28 defeat to Kentucky, in Louisville. Paul Nowak was the individual standout, annexing a total of 18 points against the Colonels. Butler’s courageous band of Bulldogs almost nipped the Gold and Blue in the last few minutes, on January 9th, but finally lost by a 25-24 count.
After trailing 14-25 at the intermission, Pitt’s Golden Panthers staged a late rally to register a 34-31 decision over Notre Dame, in the Smoky
Tom Wukovits
Guarding Angel
City. Pepper Garcia was the main difficulty encounted by the Irish, as the lanky center sank six field goals and two free throws. The supposed-ly-terrible S-men from Syracuse were handed their initial loss of the year, 52-31, when they paid a visit to the campus in January.
Pennsylvania and Western Reserve were two more additional “victims,” on a pre-exam trip taken by the Irish. The Quakers were humbled 41-36, while Western Reserve bowed to a 55-20 score. Purdue, with the services of Jewell Young, sensational forward, suffered a 47-40 loss, when they tangled with Keogan’s five. In a revenge game, the Irish met and defeated Illinois, Big Ten co-champions, 41-33.
During their second eastern invasion, Notre Dame routed New York University’s Violets, 52-26, in Madison Square Garden. Two nights later
John Moir Rolled up a record
a fighting Canisius quintet held the Gold and Blue to a hard-earned 4036 victory.
Pitt-and Butler were incapable of checking the Irish whirlwind, as both squads experienced defeat by decisive scores. Marquette lost a pair of games to Notre Dame, here and in Milwaukee, while Minnesota, sharing the Western Conference title with Illinois, proved no match for the Irish squad, losing 44-18.
The Detroit finale was the 13th consecutive win for Notre Dame, and the 17th out of 18 starts. Johnny Moir established a new all-time scor-- ing record, while in addition, he and Paul Nowak were awarded places on the All-American team.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
Douglas Shoes Now Proved on
Torture Wheel*
No, Fellows, this isn’t a new “spinner play.” It’s a deadly serious machine that “walks” Douglas Shoes for miles, bending them, tugging at the stitches. And can they take it!
Douglas All-Leather Construction stands up in the lab, stands up on your feet as you go about your active days and nights. Style? Well, what do YOU think?
Come in and see what the well-dressed feet will wear this Spring.
Dcuqfai Short
■ $4-40	$5.00 $5.95
Men’s Normal-Treds,* - -	$7
*With patented, corrective, scientific features
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE IN SOUTH BEND
210 South Michigan Street
OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS
Victor C. Astone, N. D. Representative
Faculty Golf Pairing Made For Tourney
•
With the coming of favorable weather last week the qualifying rounds of the Faculty golf tournament under the auspices of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., and Professor Cletus Chizek were formally begun. These qualifying rounds will be run off during the entire month of April.	'
The tournament this year with over 60 entries is expected to be the most successful in many years. When interviewed Father Holderith said:
“The large number of entries this year indicates the increasing interest in the faculty tournament. This year, especially, there is more interest than usual.”
Every entrant in the tournament must submit at least three 18-hole qualifying scores by May 1 at the course club house. From these scores the three flights for match play will be arranged. Handicaps will be given so that all entrants will have an equal chance of winning one of the prizes. All contestants eliminated in the first round will be automatically eligible for consolation competition.
On May 2 the handicap match play will get under way. One match will be played each succeeding week until all the matches have been played. The winners in each of the three flights will be known by May 26, the last day scheduled for tournament play. Favorites in the meet are Father Holderith who placed first in flight A two years ago, and Tom Quirk who won the honors in flight B the same year.
Besides the faculty many students are showing very much interest in the tournament for they are desirous of seeing their favorite “profs” in the role of athletes.
Stop with GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, '02 at the
Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel
On U. S. 66 Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.
Filling Station and Cafe in connection.
de Landero To Hold Fencing Tourney
•
Instead of their usual run of dual matches, the Notre Dame fencers have been busy with tournaments during the last few weeks.
On March 27, a Notre Dame team consisting of Captain Telmo de Landero, Jack McAuliffe, and Bob Seco, entered the Divisional Championships of the Amateur Fencers League of America. They competed against the best fencers in the Middle West, represented by Hermanson’s Fencing School, Chicago University, Northwestern University, Lake Shore Athletic Club, and Edgewater Athletic Club. Each fencer fought five bouts in the tournament. Hermanson’s School, composed of two Olympic men and a former Big Ten champion, won ten bouts and lose five, while the Irish team, which won nine and lost six, placed second. Chicago, the present Big Ten champions, tied for third with Northwestern.
In the Varsity Squad Foil tournament, which was held on March 20, Pierre de la Vergne defeated each of his five opponents and took first place honors. Bud McEnearney was second, while Charles Colgan defeated Joe Leising and Bill Mahoney in a fence off for third place.
The competition in the Freshman Foil and Sabre championships was made keener this year by the added incentive of the first numerals ever to be awarded fencing; sweaters were given to the first three men in each of the two tournaments. Without losing a bout during the entire tournament, Lenihan won in the foil division, while Donovan also went undefeated in carrying off the sabre championship. In the foils Sayia and Crawford were second and third in that order; in the sabre Gavan was second, and O’Brien was third. Sayia was the only one of the six numeral winners whose not was not Gaelic.
Baseball Season
(Continued from Page 14)
are Roy Soderlind, right fielder, who led the league last spring in batting; Milton Bernard, left fielder; French White, outstanding conference shortstop; Joe Mastrofsky, pitcher; and Ed Thompson, infielder. The first year men include Bob Meyer, first base; Bob Reynolds, pitcher; and Harry Lawson, pitcher. Klass and Schuessler are rivals for the second base position. Another leading pitcher is big Paul Amundsen, star center on the Maroon basketball quintet. With improved pitching and better hitting the Midway nine will doubtless appear to be a severe test for Notre Dame, in the latter’s opening contest.
Tales of Rockne Told Memorial Audience
Thomas Hickey, South Bend contractor, and Elmer Layden gave interesting and some previously untold sidelights on the life of Knute Rockne when they spoke at the second annual Rockne Memorial program held in Washington Hall on Sunday, March 21.
The program was sponsored by the Kansas-Oklahoma club under the direction of Jim Downey, president. Bob Seigfried, general chairman of the program, introduced the speakers.
Then the house was darkened for a minute, and a spotlight was directed at a large picture of “Rock” while the audience stood in silent tribute. Afterwards, interesting movies of Rockne and his teams were presented.
At the meeting last night, John B. Shaw, of Tulsa, gave a talk on his recent trip to Bermuda. Elections for next year will be held in Room 117 of the Main Building, on Thursday, April 22, at 7:45 p.m.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
AS FREE AND COOL AS YOUR BIRTHDAY SUIT
0 Get into a Palm Beach suit or Palm Beach slacks for sportswear this summer and you’ll feel a nudelike freedom you haven’t felt since the day you were born.
PALM BEACH
clothes are ideal for sport, because their patented fabric holds its shape and doesn’t go sloppy on you in a few hours.
0 Even studying becomes a sport if you’ll go to it in one of the new cool Palm Beach a'arker-toned mixtures. They’re tailored by Goodall, makers of the famous cloth, and they’re a Grade-A investment for everyday town-and-campus wear. Don’t wait ’til college is over. Get yours now, while selections are fresh.
SLACKS $5 and $6.50
GOODALL COMPANY • CINCINNATI
SWEET AS HONEY
Sweet as a well-seasoned pipe, on the first smoke! And the honey-curing keeps it sweet. Special attachment supplies (1) automatic free draft (2) double action condenser. The best pipe you can*buy for $1. Nothing else has its flavor.	'
YELLO-BOLE
Phone 4-3601	Hours 10 to 5
Dr. Landis H. Wirt
ORTHODONTIST
- --  4002 Tower -Building"	- ■
Dewey School of	South Bend
Orthodontia 1919	Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
21
Calculus of Variations
(Continued from Page i)
of a given material. If cars and locomotives are stream-lined, this is an example of the application of Calculus of Variations, because it is done in order to meet with a minmum of resistance in the air when traveling. It is also used in Economics: in the theory of production where there is a problem of how to find the most efficient methods of distributing production efforts over a period of time.
As a preliminary to the symposium, Dr. Karl Menger, of Notre Dame, delivered a public lecture on “What is the Calculus of Variations,” Monday evening in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering auditorium. It dealt with the applications of this theoretical science to problems of everyday life.
In addition to faculty members from Princeton, the University of Chicago, Purdue, Michigan, Ohio State, Virginia, more than a hundred scientists from all sections of the country attended.
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
Rom Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
Blfiiimrtlfa
June 1, 1907—Monday, June 3 at 10 a.m., Mr. de Lunden, Room 92, Corby Hall, will bargain: Drawing instruments, gun and many different things.
MAX
ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner'
On the Fence
If you’re uncertain about fashion trends — follow Arrow and you follow the style. Seventy-five years of experience has qualified Arrow to give you a shirt that fits perfectly, wears longer, and looks better. Every shirt is cut by hand over Arrow’s exclusive patterns. Every collar is hand turned and shaped to fit. Be sure—Buy Arrow—Be smart.
TWO DOLLARS AND MORE
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
Mitoga^tailored to fit Sanforized Shrunk
ARROW SHIRTS
99
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
At The University
(Continued from Page 12) mopolitan—students are here from almost every country on the globe— makes it so famous and so popular. It is an education in itself to meet so many different nationalities in the environs of a university.
From this brief sketch I hope I have been successful in painting a somewhat accurate picture of university life here in Heidelberg. There
Take a HIKE through the
DUNES
Wear your old clothes and forget your books and studies — you’ll enjoy the Dunes this spring. Ride the South Shore Line to any of the stations in Duneland — there’ll be a convenient train for your return.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
"SOUTH^OR^
are still many student “locals,” and any evening one can find a lively crowd there. Pleasure together with one’s work makes Heidelberg a most delightful university town. And it is romantic!
ABOUT THIS AND THAT
Flash!!!—2,000 kilometers of bicycle “highways” are soon to be built for the huge percent of lighter than motorcar traffic. ... It costs exactly the same for students to fly home by plane as to travel by train third class. . . . The practise of demanding “satisfaction” is by means a memory, or a thing of the past. . . . Ladenburg, a small little town just outside of Heidelberg, traces its history back more than 2,000 years. ... A real native from the southern part of Germany can not understand his brother from the north. Such is the variety of dialects in Germany. . . . The girl children are some of the most beautiful I have ever seen, but, my, oh my! what does happen to them when they grow up??? . . . You couldn’t find one bubbler in Germany. But who wants
Government statistics show a decrease of IO5J among practicing dentists in recent years while thq number of professional men ii» other fields has increased. This can largely be attributed to advanced standards in dental schools.
Marquette University annually receives the highest rating —A— from the Dental Educational Council of America. The diploma is recognized in all states.
The close relationship of the Dental and Medical Schools at Marquette University is an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
SI WB mint INS* 1U 9MHS
lotypuclL
FINEST
* ■ BRIAR-■ MONET
CAN BUY
■RREARB BE VALBE
MILWAUKEE
to when you can buy a bottle of real vane for $0.25—to say nothing of the beer. ... In Mannheim, the American city of Germany, we have often heard excellent opera—and it cost us exactly fourteen cents to do so!!! . . . Instead of becoming a nervous wreck trying to figure out how much you should tip the man, a 10% charge of your bill is made and that’s that. . . . Relatively speaking, Germany has more radios than any other European nation. And the programs are excellent. ... I have signed more papers since I entered this country than I have in my entire life. . . . During March a group of us have travelled through entire Italy and Sicily. The railroad fare from Heidelberg to the end station—in Sicily—and back will total a little more than $20.00. . . . The three days before Lent are known as Faschings Zeit. Do they ever let loose then! An American Legion convention is tame in comparison. . . . There is a first, second and third class for almost everything. What got me though was to find they had that same system in the movies. On top of that they charge you for a program, which is nothing else than an advertisement for the next show... Everyone, men and women, shake hands every time they meet or part. It is quite a task when there is a party of ten or more. . . . Worst of all it is impossible to get apple pie a la mode—to say nothing of a cup of “good” coffee.
66 BAFFLES inside
FILTER-COOL SMOKE
tobacco.
MISO CIGARETTE ARB
HUOS
CIGAR
BAFFLES BREAK UP SMOKE STREAM - -FILTER REALLY FILTERS
NEDIUU
f A
lOMITHINO WONDERFUL OOH ON INSIDE
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interior keeps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves the taste and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, APRIL 9, 1937
23
Fallon Made Captain
(Continued from Page 15)
and Michigan State are believed to be about the best in their home leagues.
Along with Fallon, Coach de Lan-dero has Eddie Kilrain, George Feeley and possibly Jim Waldron as a nucleous around which to build a team. Fallon is the veteran of the squad having won his monogram for two successive years. Last year he paired with Joe McNulty to advance as far as the final round in the State Doubles tournament at Bloomington, while in the singles he reached the semi-finals. Kilrain has had experience both in the singles and doubles and will along with Fallon comprise one of this year’s doubles teams. Waldron and Feeley in the past have always been paired in the doubles.
There are at least six spots on the team that have to be filled. The field is open to all candidates and no definite selections have as yet been made
The John Marshall
LAW
SCHOOL
FOUNDED 18 99
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
METHOD
•
For Catalog, recommended list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet, "Studyof Lawand Proper Preparation'” address: Edward T. Lee, Dean.
COURSES
(40 weeks per year) Afternoon—3 years 5 days... 4:30-6:30
Evening — 4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
Post-graduate lyear..twicea week Practice courses exclusively.
All courses lead to degrees.
Two years' college work required for entrance.
New classes form in Feb. and Sept.
315 Plymouth Ct., Chicago, III.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
so it is by no means too late to still try out for one of the positions. Practice is held every afternoon on the asphalt courts between 3:30 p.m. and 5:00 and the courts are reserved during these hours for varsity practice only.
Just awarded his varsity letter ... and he’s proud too that the dgar he smokes is a LITTLE FENDRICH PANETELA ... the athlete’s smoke and the choice for college gatherings . . . because they’re milder . . . mellower . . . more uniform!
Little Fendric
The schedule:	-
April 21—Indiana at Bloomington
April 26—West. St. Teachers at Notre Dame.
April 28—Chicago at Chicago.	’
May 3—Purdue at Notre Dame.
May 6—St. Louis University at Notre Dame.
May 8—Kentucky at Lexington
May 17—Northwestern at Evanston.
May 22—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
May 27 to June 1—Indiana State tournament at Earlham.
,.	if cu
Com ^nfotf
Everybody enjoys refreshing mildness in a cigarette... everybody likes good taste and pleasing aroma. These are the things that make smoking a pleasure.

Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.