PROFESSIONAL CARDS
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.	M. J, THORNTON.
M. D.	M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d. d. s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST 314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone	Residence
3-2805	4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination hours by	609 J. M. s. Bldg,
appointment	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2S74
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-S989	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
bo much that’s important is happening today—in America, in Europe, Africa, Asia. And you know about it almost as soon as it happens!
Trace most any piece of news to its source and somewhere you’ll find the telephone or one of its relatives— radio telephone or teletype in the picture. These speeders of the news have either benefited from telephone research or utilize telephone equipment, or both.
In these days, the Bell System is proud that its facilities are helping in the fast and widespread dissemination of news—so essential to enlightened public opinion.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
803 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE == RAYMOND J. KELLY    ।	-
L'Envoi
After the Ball is over
Mary takes out her glass eye,
Puts her false teeth in cold water, Corks up her bottle of dye,
Throws her cork leg in a corner, Hangs up her wig on the wall,
Then what is left goes to by-low, After the Ball.
—Traditional Ballad
It is most fitting that this page be devoted, at least in part, to post mortem of the recent Seraglio Swing, staged by Messrs. Dillon, McLaughlin & Co. For the feminine portion of that merry throng which distracted the studious Lyonese was the best college parade of the year. Though the Sorin cynic claimed that true love which is very blind was responsible for the presence of most of the guests, we were still impressed by them. It would take more space than the Chicago Tribune gives to war news to mention the schools, colleges, and institutions of learning represented, so we’ll just drop it all and return to a mournful contemplation of our empty wallet and our wrinkled set of tails.
Concerning Engineers
It was unfortunate that the Scholastic did not come out last week for the Parade had a most appropriate poem, which it found in the Lehigh Brown and White, quite some time ago. We had planned to run it during the week-end of the Ball for the edification and instruction of those women who accompanied the boys from that sweat-shop next to the Law building. But better late than never—
Verily, I say unto ye, do not marry an engineer.
For an engineer is a strange being and is possessed of many evils.
Yea, he speaketli eternally in parables which he calleth formulae,
And he wieldeth a big stick which he calleth a slide rule,
And he hath 01 'y one bible, a hand book. He th;nl:eth only of strains and stresses,
.nd m5*l.out end of thermo-dynamics.
He showeth always a serious aspect and seemeth not to know how to smile.
And he picketh his seat in a car by the springs therein and not by the damsels.
Always he carrieth his books •with him, and he entertaineth his sweetheart with steam tables. •
Yea, he holdeth her hand, but to measure the friction thereof; and kisseth her only to test the viscosity of her lips, for in his eyes there shineth a faraway look that is neither love nor a longing look — rather a vain attempt to recall formulae.
Even as a boy he pulleth a girl’s hair but to test its elasticity.
Even his own heart flutterings he count-eth as a vision of flucuation,
And enscribeth his passion as a formula.
And his marriage is a simultaneous equation involving two unknowns and and yielding diverse results —
Verily, I say unto ye, marry not an engineer.
EN.O. BARBER SHOP ]
“1 want a haircut that won’t look as though I’ve had one.”
The Log Log
Like many another collegiate comic magazine, the Log comes out of Annapolis each week, with a particular theme. There has been an Annapolis issue, a Cruise issue, a Youngster issue,’ and so on. This last week the staff decided to give themselves a chance to cut loose and put out whatever they liked without the restraint of tying their articles and fea-utres in with a theme. So the Log issue came out.
❖
Words of Wisdom
Herbie, the mad wit of Detroit’s Varsity News, made the observation recently that there hasn’t been an atrocious, savage, uncivilized, barbarian insult to humanity like the burning of historic London buildings by the Nazis since the British burned the American capitol in 1814.
Crowd noises
In Sorin sub. . . . “That traffic slogan “Stay Sober or Stay Home” would make a good foreign policy statement if they’d use ‘and’ in it.” . . . From behind the Tribune’s entertainment section. . . . “Looks like Citizen Kane is coming out regardless of hell, Hearst, or high-water.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK___________________________________________
—" By GEORGE MILES —	। ~
Of course every thing now is an anti-climax, and there is no meaning to all the trivial acts that take place on the campus and in the universe. The Ball, with all the surrounding undertakings and sidelines, is over, over, over.
*
The dance brought with it joy and excitement and unusual color. During the week-end, feminine hearts gave teeny-weeny, pit-a-patters, and manly heads went swimming in delight, and everybody was oh so happy! But we weren’t. No; for while the campus walks were clustered with gay and light-hearted young people, while shouts pierced the warm, spring dusk, and while soft music floated from the ornamented Rockne Memorial, we, in bitter isolation, weeping the tears of lonely solitude and enduring the torments of the forgotten man, sat in our cell reading Vladimir Soloviev. True, we didn’t read him for long because we did walk to Leeper Park to watch the ducks. They were very nice. There were white ones and gray ones. The white ones were nicer than the gray ones.
*
Our most voluble cafeteria informant told us the other day that the counter girls have been clamoring for copies of the Scholastic ever since the time that the lady who collects used bones made print. There was a little difficulty, however, in understanding the request since the campus weekly became, in the cafe patois, “Scholarstick.” Which certainly proves nothing except that some one does read the magazine. The librarians may be able to spout out Scholastic without even going to the reference room, but they can’t flip cheese omelet or smear peanut butter and jelly on toast as the women in white.
*
Music Week was a complete sucess. The Augustana Choir was a big success. Or-mandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra was a big success. But Rose Bampton was the biggest success of all. When the conductor of the South Bend Symphony offered his hand in congratulations after Miss Bampton had sung, we had visions of a one-armed director. But he held his own.
*
There were, we must admit, things to be desired during the several concerts. If at any time it appeared that the guests were performing with pained expression, you must realize that it was not on account of a feeling of contempt for the body of South Bend music lovers, or unusual difficulty with musical tools; it was because of a foreign, inartistic aroma under, their noses. We don’t know whether to blame the University or the Symphony Association, but whoever slipped up on the job of hushing the ancient but pervasive odor of sweat-shirts is guilty of a major crime against culture. And there is no chance for excuse with “Mum” so inexpensive.
*
Not so long ago, when we were out communing with the stars we passed the small valley which is adjacent to the University Dining Hall and the golf course. Down in the pit, entirely preoccupied with his doings, was a fellow who wandered aimlessly while directing the beam of a flashlight over the ground. It seemed to us that he might be looking for golf balls or worms. But if that fellow was searching for worms, he was doomed to disappointment, because not a single campus worm is allowed out after dark. It is, according to a worm we know, one of the most important laws in the worm world.
*
Over in the Commerce Building last week, an instructor in one of the more complex subjects told, with some pride, how he had once saved the Manhattan Shirt Company from rum. A deed which is, we are forced to admit, no mean accomplishment in any world. In the realm of ledgers, however, it becomes as important as saving the world for democracy.
*
The old Ave Maria Building is undergoing repairs these days. It is a sign that pessimism does not entirely possess the University mentality. The restoration of the ancient place is, to us, a symbol of what man can do with a little faith, a little determination and a couple of good, loud cement mixers.
NEW DEAL IN NEWS By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Cavanaugh Hall, May 6—Joe Guilti-nan, the famous mailman of Cavanaugh Hall, who is known to his friends as Sam Gilhooley and is called other things by people who are not his friends, has been working for two weeks now training a flock of butterflies to help him deliver the mail. Joe has found that the sturdier ones are able to carry four letters each and he says that as soon as he can train them to read the addresses he will be able to cut the delivery time in half.
Evanston, III., May 3—Ray Pinelli, Notre Dame shortstop, who also plays baseball, used his head to break up a play here in today’s game with Northwestern. He was knocked out in the process by the ball which bounded merrily out to right field.
Chain O’ Lakes Country Club, May 6—(Special from Frederic B. Surlp, Sleepy Eye, Minn., correspondent of the London Times.)—Radio operators here today reported hearing faint SOS radio calls from Joe Glumpf, the famous Park Avenue sandwich man. The report said that Joe’s cake of ice was sinking fast from an explosion believed to have been caused by a submerged golf ball. It gave Joe’s position as somewhere in the waterhole near the fifth green, the position from which he directed his operations at last week’s tea dance. A fleet of planes searching the waterhole could find no trace of the missing cake of ice but it is considered significant that two ham on rye sandwiches were found floating near shore.
--	4
Sorin Hall, May 7—Dr. Walter N. Hartung, Jr., world renowned scientist who has his laboratories here, revealed today that he has been working for the past few weeks upon a project for the government. He has been asked to find out for what, if anything, the mystery balls served in the Notre Dame dining halls can be used. So far he has found that they can be used as centers for centerless golf balls and also as substitutes for door stops.
Notre Dame, Ind., May 5—Ambrose Dudley, ace right hand1 pitcher of the Notre Dame staff will be honored on next Saturday, which will be set aside as “Dudley Day.” In a ceremony at home plate prior to the game Dudley’s admirers from Ann Arbor, Kalamazoo, Philadelphia and Kiski Prep will present the big pitcher with a “bolivar.”

The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
MAY 9, 1941
Number 24
Review of Politics Sponsors Symposium; Theme-Changes in Contemporary World
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Opens Meeting
Changes in the contemporary world
that may eventually effect every person
in it were discussed in a symposium
Prof. W. Nutting
sponsored by the Review of Politics, quarterly publica-tion of the University, in the auditoriums of the engineering and law buildings yesterday.
The Eev. John C a v a -naugh, C.S.C., vice president
of the University, opened the symposium at 3:30 p.m. Thursday in the auditorium of the Cushing hall of engineering. The first paper was read by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics and a member of the department of
politics. His subject was, “Power Politics
Today.”
In his talk Dr. Gurian said there are two universal types of power politics. The first subordinates the necessary use of power to the welfare of the community and to its defense against threatening dangers from without. The second regards increases of power as the aim of politics. According to this latter view, everything that results in expansion of power is permitted.
According to Dr. Gurian the decisive question today is: If the totalitarian conquest’ policy is successful, will this victory be “localized” in Europe, permitting a kind of balance of power between the United States and the American Hemisphere on the one side, and the New Order, dominated by the Axis on
the other side, — or will the conquest try to set up an “order” embracing the whole world? The answer to this question, he believes, will determine the existence of the United States in the next generation.
Dr. Yves Simon, of the philosophy department, followed Dr. Gurian with a paper entitled, “Evolution of Conservatism in Contemporary France.” The ideas developed by Professor Simon may be summarized as follows:
Due to the political structure of the French nation as the result of changes during the past century, it was the inevitable task of the conservatives to guarantee national defense. During the first World War French conservatives, in spite of .their antipathy to republican institutions, fulfilled in a perfect spirit of patriotic selfdenial their duty as guardians of the city. The momentous change that took place between the two great wars consisted in an ideological evolution of conservatism toward fascism. Owing to strong affinities with the ideal, and mostly the hatreds, embodied in the fascist states, the French conservatives could not help feeling irresolute in their will to defend democratic France against her fascist enemies. According to Professor Simon, the defeat of France is to be ascribed in large measure to the defection of those whose historical duty was especially that of providing for the defense of the country.
At 8 p.m. the symposium convened in the auditorium of the law building with a talk on “Agrarianism and the American Future,” by Prof. Willis Nutting of the Notre Dame department of history.
Mr. Nutting pointed out that the majority of suggestions for the reforming of present-day society favor the changing of the economic system to provide a just distribution of the produced wealth. In addition they offer sociali
zation, or government ownership of economic production methods. Mr. Nutting asserted that there is a minority group, the agrarians, which believes that the majority who favor socialism completely miss the problem.
This group holds that collectivism will remedy neither the apparent evil of the contemporary economic system nor assure to any measurable degree individual freedom so imperatively necessary to a free operation of any economic system.
Mr. Nutting expanded upon the Agrarian belief that the home should become the center of as much production as possible and that production which could not be taken care of in the home should be done in the community.
The Eev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history and archivist at the University, delivered the final paper on “The Catholic Church in the United States Since the First World War.”
“The unity- and the purpose of the Catholic minority in the United States,” said Father McAvoy, “must be sought in its spiritual teachings and practices rather than in its social activities or political influence. The other special characteristic of the activities of the
Dr. Waldemar Gurian
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Church since the first World War is the great interest of the bishops in the social and industrial problems which affect so many members of the Church. This policy of the Church was expressed in the Pastoral letter’ of 1919 as well as in the Pastoral letter of 1940.”
Professor Yves Simon
Father McAvoy objected to those critics of Catholic education who fail to take into account the character of the
Catholic group, particularly the large number of lower class immigrants. The interest of the Church in the individual person is the chief glory of the Church’s activities in recent years. In conclusion, he said, “Catholic social principles offer the strongest and sanest safe-
Rev. T. McAvoy, C.S.C. guard of American democracy against subversive efforts of totalitarian and pragmatic materialism to make of man a creature of the state or of economic factors.”—Jack Sprague
EXAMS AS USUAL
Squashing all stubbornly contrary rumors it was officially announced that final examinations will be held as scheduled in the University catalogue: Senior exams, May 19-24; underclass exams, May 26-29.	'
Solemn Mass Will Mark
Encyclical Anniversaries
On May 15, 1891, His Holiness Pope Leo XIII released to the world at large a comprehensive explanation of the Catholic Social doctrines. He decried the selfish, unethical principles of a chaotic world of social injustice. Forty years later His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, repeated and expanded upon this great work in his commemorative “Quadra-gesimo Anno.” Next Thursday, May 15, fifty and ten years later respectively, the Catholic world will celebrate again the anniversaries of these pontifical works — the substance of all modern Christian social doctrine.
A solemn mass will be celebrated at 8 a.m. in the main Church by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., will deliver a sermon on the encyclicals. Father Bolger, well known author, professor and lecturer on Catholic social theory, fundamentally based in the encyclicals, has been a consistent crusader for their wider reception. It is possible that a pamphlet including summaries of the encyclical will be distributed at the end of the services. Members of the Colleges of Arts and Letters and of Commerce will be excused from 8:00 and 9:00 o’clock classes in order to attend the mass.—Mark G. McGrath
R. J. Kelly, Sr., Speaker For Seniors at Banquet
Six hundred members of the 1941 graduating class of the University of Notre Dame were guests of the Alumni Association at the annual Senior-Alumni banquet yesterday evening, in the University dining hall.
Guest speaker for the occasion, which marked the transition of the seniors from undergraduate to alumni status, was Raymond J. Kelly, ’15 of Detroit, Mich., distinguished alumnus of the University and past national commander of the American Legion, whose son is among this year’s graduates. Mr. Kelly addressed the group on problems which they must face during the coming years.
Other talks were given by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Charles E. Dillon, senior class president.- The Alumni Association was represented by James E. Armstrong, secretary, who served as toastmaster.
This banquet takes the place of the commencement dinner for the seniors, which this year, because of the huge crowd expected, will be for returning alumni only.—James V. Cunningham
402 Couples Attend
Senior Ball of 1941
Amid a glamorous, though somewhat synthetic Arabian setting, the Class of 1941 climaxed its social activities as Dick Jurgens and his orchestra thrilled 402 couples at the Senior Ball on Friday, May 2.
General Chairman Larry McLaughlin squired Miss Anne Benson as Queen. The favors, given to Ball guests, were satin evening bags decorated with the Notre Dame seal. The Arabian motif was carried out to meticulous exquisiteness. However, the turbanned figures standing guard at the entrance to the Memorial, looked suspiciously Occidental.
As an appropriate pre-Ball activity, a memorable candlelight supper was served in the University Dining Hall. Dinner music was provided by Howard N. Barbour and his orchestra. From there Class President Charles Dillon and Miss Annette O’Connell led the Ballgoers to the Rockne Memorial.
Saturday, Dick Anderson and his orchestra entertained the Ball couples at a tea dance at the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club. Sunday, after Mass in Sacred Heart Church, guests departed for different sections of the country after attending what was unanimously agreed upon as the most successful Senior Ball in Notre Dame’s history.
—Jim O’Loughlin
Charles Dillon, Miss Annette O’Connell, Dick Jurgens
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
MIDWESTERN EXECUTIVES SPEAK ON 'ADVERTISING DAV
Service, timeliness, proper selection of the media, and a thorough analysis of the market are all-important items in successful advertising, four outstanding midwestern executives explained at the “Advertising Day” program sponsored by the College of Commerce, under the direction of Dean James E. McCarthy on April 30. More than 300 Commerce students and others participated in the program.
“It isn’t how much you know about advertising, but what you understand that counts,” Joseph B. Wells, vice president of the D’Arcy Advertising company, St. Louis, Mo., cautioned the students in the windup talk of the day. Mr. Wells, one of the outstanding figures in the advertising business, emphasized that future advertising men must properly interpret their media. He spoke of the importance of the psychological and social sides of the work.
“I never saw an orange until I dug-deep into my sock at Christmas when I was a boy. But the coming of advertising brought about changes and made mass purchasing of oranges possible.”
“Advertising Day” speakers Paul Fulton, Homer Buckley, Lincoln Carter, Joseph Wells with Dean James McCarthy, the Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., and the Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.
For successful advertising, Mr. Wells suggested that the advertisement must look attractive and it must get around.
Homer Buckley, president of the Buckley-Dement & Company advertising agency of Chicago — a frequent visitor to the campus — lectured on direct-mail advertising. He prefaced his analysis of his specialized form of the direct by mail field by showing the relation of the different branches of advertising. According to statistics he presented, newspapers lead the way with approximately 5600,000,000 spent in advertising. Direct-mail is second with §463,000,000; followed by general magazines, §210,-000,000; outdoor, §90,000,000; and miscellaneous, §45,000,060.
According to Mr. Buckley, the essential basis of direct-mail advertising is a select list, one that eliminates all excess names. “There is great waste in the use of lists,” he recalled, “for some advertisers use great care in preparing the advertisement, yet the last thing they think of is the mailing list — which should be most important.” He pointed out the need for thorough investigation
of the nature of occupation and vocations of prospective buyers and to find the consumer when he was least busy — to such minute details as mailing so that ' it would arrive on “light” afternoon deliveries, preferably Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. Mr. Buckley showed how direct-mail advertising can be used to bring back old customers, promote good will, add new customers, and obtain more business from present customers — another item often overlooked by advertisers.
Manager of metropolitan advertising for the well-known Chicago Tribune, a newspaper having a circulation of more than 1,000,000 readers daily, is Paul C. Fulton, another guest speaker. He gave a detailed analysis of the newspaper field and pointed out that the daily circulation of newspapers in the United States amounts to 43,300,000. He showed that the basic purposes of advertising are to tell the story to the largest possible market; to reach the whole family; to serve the people; to avoid waste; and to tie up the copy with the news. He analyzed the work of the Tribune’s research department, its market data, and its study of radio listening habits.
Lincoln J. Carter, jr., of the Carter, Jones & Taylor Advertising Agency of South Bend, described the setup of a medium-sized agency. He pointed out that there are approximately 1,600 agencies in the United States. “We smaller units work on the theory that the service angle is important. We are close at hand to those we serve.” As the best way to break into advertising work, Mr. Carter suggested that young men first land a job on the editorial staff of a newspaper to gain an all-around appreciation of the manner of presenting news.
—Bill Scanlan
"Mercury" Offers $25
For Best Draft Opinion
Your opinion on conscription is invited by the American Mercury magazine. The opinion should come in a letter of not over 400 words and the Mercury is willing to pay §25 for the best letter. The contest was started as a result of a controversial article in the May article of the magazine by Professor Gaynor Maddox of Long Island University entitled “Conscription Hits the Campus.” Professor Maddox charges American youth with unrealistic thinking in the face of an avowed threat to American democracy. The contest closes May 21, 1941. Letters should be forwarded to the “Conscription Hits the Campus” Contest, The American Mercury, 570 Lexington Avenue, New York' N. Y.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BOOK REVIEW
By Michael Grace
Thunder from the Left, by the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph. D.: Our Sunday Visitor Press, Huntington, Ind. 338 pp.
Obscured by the smokescreen of international politics and personal prejudice, the long and bloody chapter of the late civil war in Spain has rarely been prop-perly inscribed into the documents of historj'. ’
Into Dr. John A. O’Brien’s hands, both by chance and by painstakingly deep perusal of the documents involved, has fallen the lot of being one of its first objective historians. Other books have made good personal biography, passing fiction and even excellent political analyses, but Thunder from the Left is the first book on the subject that really merits the dignity of being called a history both from the viewpoint of its documentation and the consistency with which it deals with causes and effects in ordered succession.
Except for a bit of sentimentalizing indulged in by the author both at the beginning and end of the book, the work is admirably impartial, real and effective. The greatest thing about the book is the way it marshals together a myriad of events, factors, atrocities, and figures into simple and unified whole. True, it might have been called The Thunder That Was Left, in that it presents from contemporary historical sources the whole story of how the Bolshevik lightning hit Spain and left behind it a trail of scars, suffering, and ruin. The illustrations alone in the book tell a story that is startling in its cruelty. That Dr. O’Brien could marshal all these facts and harness as much power redounds to his everlasting credit as a writer. Despite the appealing opportunities for producing just another horror story, Father O’Brien shows amazing and even unexpected restraint. He has let “the facts speak for themselves,” and their story is genuinely interesting and astounding.
Some of the methods Father O’Brien has used “to hold the mirror up” to Spain are scientific documentation of newspapers, verifying the link between Moscow and Madrid, and between the Asturias and Soltelo; and also a symposium of statements from great world-figures, non-Catholics, newspapermen, and even Communists and ex-Communists condemning communism alike. He presents in the appendix a list of all the dead or “lost” religion in merely one diocese. Leaning heavily on Dr. Waldemar Gurian for his analysis of world-communism as
that well-known scholar must have seen it in Russia, France, Germany, and Switzerland, Dr. O’Brien goes on to present its similar effects in Spain. Quoting the London Times and New York Times, M. Delbos, Elihu Root, Chief Justice Hughes, Bainbridge Colby, Walter Duranty, Dean Inge, W. H. Chamberlain, Allison Peers, John MacGovern, Sir Francis Lindley, Winston Churchill, and M. Daladier, he slowly but surely builds up a complete case against communism and its work in Spain.
In the history of how one revolution “has filled the sky with burning churches, schools and convents . . . caused Spain to run with rivers of blood,” and of how, to continue in the words of General Franco, “a deluge of Soviet propaganda lies behind the tragedy of Spain,” Dr. O’Brien has kept all in persuasive unity through seeing all things in a religious setting. In deep contrast to the Christian principles of love and sacrifice, Father O’Brien portrays, the neo-pagan, nihilistic Marxian dialect of Lunacharsky, Lenin, Yaroslavsky, and Stalin as one of hate and degeneracy, shedding the blood of humanity in oppostion to Christ, and breaking stones instead of bread, starving instead of feeding.
This book, in the words of St. John, “has judged the great harlot which corrupted the earth with the fornication and revenged the blood of His (Christ’s) servants at her hands,” and leaves one with the sense “of fine linen glittering and white,” washed fearlessly and publicly.
New Missionary Trailer
South Carolina Bound
The large silver trailer parked next to the post office on the edge of Badin bog last week was a traveling chapel of the Paulist Fathers of New York City. In charge of the 26-foot trailer was the Rev. Morris Fitzgerald, who was a student at Notre Dame in 1927.	•
The traveling chapel is destined for missionary work in the United States, most of its routine to be localized in South Carolina this summer. The trailer went to New York from here where the altar and stained glass windows are to be installed. The altar is in the center of the vehicle, closed off from the sacristy and living quarters for two priests.
George F. Chaplin, designer of the trailer, was accompanying Father Fitzgerald on this initial trip of the traveling chapel. The unit was built in Elkhart, the fourth of four such units to be constructed. The trailer is 26 feet long, about ten feet high, weighs about 5,000 pounds and cost approximately $3,000.
The summer missionary work will consist of three to five-day visits in towns which have no Catholic church. The trailer carries facilities for showing movies. Various films will be shown, such as “King of Kings” and “The Life of Christ,” Mass will be said every day for the Catholic group in the community.
—Robert LeMense
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
THE
Eugene Ormandy Enjoys Music Week Audience
Grand finale to the annual Notre Dame music week program ending last Friday evening was the now memorable performance of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra under the magic baton of Eugene Ormandy in the spacious University fieldhouse. Acclaimed wildly by a South Bend and a student audience of 5,000 enthralled listeners, Mr. Ormandy returned again and again to the applauding crowd and granted three encores. Caught back stage after his performance the famous conductor was not ranting at the prop men nor tearing at his thinning hail’ — as his movie counterpart always had done. Instead the gifted Hungarian conductor beamed happily while joking quietly with a small back-stage group.
In response to a question on his impressions gathered from his Notre Dame performance Mr. Ormandy responded, with genuine sincerity, “I can’t judge our performance but I always can judge my audience after the first selection. Do you know,” he breathed confidentially, “we were so tired when we began to play this evening we nevei’ thought we could finish. But as soon as our first selection faded away, we felt the enthusiasm of that wonderful audience out there. None of us said a word. We all felt it and played on filled with their spirit.”
Before music week had drawn to a close many brands of harmony had filled campus ears; every kind but that of the Notre Dame Concert Band whose performance on Sunday evening, May 27, was cancelled. On Monday evening Miss Rose Bampton, soprano, soloed with the South Bend Symphony orchestra in a joint program in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. On Wednesday evening, April 30, The Augustana College Choir, from ■ Rock Island, Ill., exhibited excellent work in a two hour program of chiefly religious songs. Thursday evening the scene shifted to Washington Hall with a twofold program — the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra under the direction of Mr. Frederick Ingersoll and a return to the campus of the much praised glee club presentation “The Song of the Free.”—Mark G. McGrath.
New Editors to be Named
At Banquet on Thursday
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the board of publications, will announce next year’s editors of the campus publications, Scrip, Scholastic and Dome, at the annual publication banquet which will take place in the Uni
versity Dining Hall next Thursday evening.
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism will be one of the guests of honor. In accordance with custom, the annual Dome awards to the four seniors outstanding in extra-curricular activities will be announced by the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty adviser for the Dome. Father Carey will also distribute Dome keys.
The Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty adviser for the Scholastic, will present Scholatic keys to senior contributors and members of the staff.
The recipients of prizes for the best contributions in poetry and prose to Scrip will be announced by the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C. Guests will include members of the board of publications as well as editors and staffs of all campus periodicals.
Ed Kelly, Independent, Becomes Law Club Prexy
Derailed at last was the Law Club political machine, which had engineered the victories of Steward Roche, Jack Deane, and the retiring president, Larry Petroshius. Responsible for the downfall
Edward Kelly
is Edward Kelly, junior lawyer from Seneca, Ill., who decisively defeated Verdonk in the finals last Monday.
Kelly’s victory was the more noteworthy in that he ran as an independent. Jack Barry defeated Allan Burns for the office of vice president; Bob Sullivan won over Charles Murray for secretary; and Bob Richardson, of Modernaires fame, defeated South Bend’s only candidate, Joe Miller, for the position of Student Council representative. Peter Alonzi and Dan Dahill, candidates for treasurer, ran a dead heat in the election, but Alonzi was the winner in the run-off. Elections were under the direction of Raymond Bower, the retiring Student Council representative from the Law Club.'
OUR DALY BREAD
LITURGY
“Have you ever read any one of the four Gospels in its entirety?” . . . We asked this question of some 30 seniors during the past two weeks. . . . They answered in the negative. . . . Some even had to be told what was meant by “the four Gospels.” . . . Those questioned, and quite casually as we met them, were from all the colleges, not merely Commerce or Engineering.
Surprise ana confusion marked the encounter. . . . Some expressed the resolve to correct the situation at once. ... The fact is that the world does not need so much to be taught as to be reminded. . . . Those brought up in the Faith are so likely to take things for granted.
Perhaps others on reading this may act on the inspiration. . . . The disquieting element is the readiness with which we see individuals and whole bodies of people, young people especially, succumb to materialistic motives and propagandists of error. . . .The worst weapons are not tanks and bombs but the sword of the spirit.... The only protection against this is deeper insight.
Catholic Action is the extension of the kingdom of Christ under the direction of the hierarchy. ... It is cooperation in their work. . . . Fundamentally it means a deepening of the spiritual life of the individual, a fuller enrichment on every plane of his being.
The American Hierarchy (the Bishops) have designated Sunday, May 18, as Biblical Sunday. ... It is to mark the introduction of the revised English translation of the New Testament. . . . This is the work of a commission of scholars appointed five years ago by the Hierarchy. . . The new revision is based on the one made in 1749 by Bishop Chal-loner of England.
Bishop Challoner’s revision was of the Rheims translation from the Latin Vulgate (1582). Simple, modern English was the aim in the new revision. . . . The project is non-profit so the book sells for one dollar. . . . We should not fail to pray for its wide dissemination.
(Mass Calendar on page 2^)
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FINAL ISSUE OF "SCRIP" ESPECIALLY EXCELLENT
The final issue of Scrip stands out as one of the best of this school year. Its contents are characterized by maturity o f thought and precise, carefully worked-over phrasing. Although the average length of each feature is considerably longer than in previous issues, the reading appeal still remains strong. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores are almost equally represented in the contributions, with the seniors (fittingly) having sub
mitted two more features than each of the other classes.
“Don’t Call the Police,” a pleasantly light short story by David Powers records the consistent failure of an amateur detective. There is humor here — of situation and narration — which does not dethrone Mark Twain, but which does provide ten, or so, enjoyable reading minutes.
A lengthy character sketch, “Lay of the Land,” by John Hunt, is made successful by the clever blending of seemingly small details. The full character which is the result of the integration, is powerful enough to bring others in the sketch into reflected light.
“The Barn,” a narrative sketch in the first person, by John Q. O’Connell, looks into the mind of a child who has seen tragedy. It reveals an excellent development from disinterested pathos to active introspection, and is written with simplicity and psychological exactness.
Emotional reaction to futile retrospection is the subject of “Memoranda,” a poignant short story by Robert Way. This is the most carefully written piece in this last issue of Scrip; fine sensitivity of mood, a valid economy of words, and sharply etched description mark this story as one of the best to be produced on the campus during the past year.
Noel MacCarry, grizzled Scrip veteran, has ended his long writing career at Notre Dame with a mood-producing sketch entitled, “The Woman from Donegal.” In this work an old Irish grandmother, Granny Muldoon, is revealed in all her charming peculiarities by the
musings of her young grandson. Although crowded at times with Irish folklore, the sketch retains enough vitality to be significant.
Edward Hogan, world citizen, has blithely plucked the mired universe to safety in his essay, “More Angles Than Euclid Dreamed Of.” This thin, but rapid piece, employs a dash of Hedonism and a sprinkle of Laissez-Faire to make the coca-cola and the beer companies happy.
The pessimism and futility of Joseph Conrad in a “dream” existence forms the basis of “With Wooden Ploughs,” a thorough and smooth prose article by Russell Harris. Conrad advocated a world of the individual ego, the selfsufficiency of a romantic existence. Despite his contention, Conrad’s intellectualism was far too great foi* him to accept his own system. The result of this indecision led to his pessimism in literature. Russell Harris elaborates learned. ly on these points in his serious article.
“Never So Happy,” by Phil Richards is a trim, easy-going sketch of a girl’s first ascent from adolescence. Frank Fitzpatrick in the “Big Boys”, attempts to capture the intricacy of a big-brother kid-brother relationship. The overcrowding of many characters into such a short sketch is detrimental to its complete success.
Other features contributing to the good quality of the issue are: “Second Place,” a narrative sketch by Richard Everroad; “Ruskin and Ruskin,” a thoughtful bit of writing by William Keenan; a biographical essay on Will Rogers by Joseph Rehage, C.S.C.; and “No More Squirrel Rifles,” a discussion of the adjustment of pioneering America to changing economic conditions — this last is by Gordon Gobel, C.S.C. Hlustra-tive drawings by William and Joseph Sherer, and book reviews by George Kelly and Charles Kirby complete the May issue of Scrip.
—George Thompson
Dr. Walsh Will Receive
Laetare Medal, May 20
Presentation of the 1941 Laetare Medal will be made by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to Dr. William Thomas Walsh of Larchmont, N. Y., in the auditorium
at Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart, in New York City, at 4 p.m., on Tuesday, May 20.
The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University, will represent the Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., Archbishop of New York, at the gracious invitation of Mother Grace C. Dammann, R.S.C.J., president of Manhattanville College.
The celebrated Manhattanville choir of the Pope Pius X School of Liturgical Music will sing for the program.
Dr. Walsh, professor of English at Manhattanville College and an author of several works which insure for him a pre-eminent position among Catholic historians, becomes the 59th winner to receive the award which is given annually by the University to an outstanding Catholic layman.
Given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement, the Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on a member of the Italian Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. Its modern counterpart was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., University founder, bestowed the first medal on the late John Gilmary Shea, eminent Catholic historian.
Commerce Forum Holds
Annual Banquet May 15
The Commerce Forum will hold its annual banquet Thursday evening, May 15 at 6:45 (campus time) in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel. Featured speaker for the evening is John Dwyer^ investment and realty receiver for the Midland United Corporation. Mr. Dwyer has lectured in the Commerce school on numerous occasions and is noted for his significant contributions to the field of investments. An entertaining program has been planned and all Commerce Forum members are urged to attend.
Election of officers for the coming year will take place before the banquet, and all candidates for office should submit their names to Dick Dora, 301 Walsh Hall.
Dean James E. McCarthy of the Commerce school will head the list of honored guests of the Forum.
—John Moriarty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Notre Dame Men Provided Inspiration For Mothers' Day! Says Frank Hering
Notre Dame men provided the inspiration for the establishment of Mothers’ Day, which is celebrated Sunday, the Hon. Frank E. Hering, N.D. ’98, world-renowned founder of the day, member of the board of University lay trustees, and prominent alumnus, revealed in a recent interview for the Scholastic. During the early part of his career as a teacher at Notre Dame, from 1896-1905, he found that “practically every boy had as his sweetheart his mother — and that the surest way to appeal to him for his best efforts in building his character and his grades — those things greatly to be desired — was to remind him of the deep happiness that his mother receives.”
On the walls of Mr. Hering’s office in South Bend are numerous mementoes of his very eventful civic and athletic career. He was once Notre Dame’s football coach, and he annually awards the medals at the end of spring football practice to the best punter, the most improved player, etc.
The campaign for Mothers’ Day began at the English Opera House, Indianapolis, on Feb. 7, 1904, when Mr. Hering, then a young Notre Dame professor of English and American Colonial History, urged that every Eagles’ lodge set aside one day each yeai- in which they remember their mothers. Later through the efforts of Conrad H. Mann, prominent executive of the Eagles, Mr. Hering spoke in Kansas City. The Eagles’ lodges rallied behind the plea and in 1908 a Mothers’ Day became universal. In 1914 President Wilson set aside the second Sunday in May as the official Mothers’ Day. Two women, Miss Anne Jarvis of Philadelphia, and Miss Mary Towles Sassean, Henderson, Ky., have also played important roles in the establishment of the day. Mr. Hering was the only civilian ever to receive the Victory Ribbon and War Mother’s Medal — an award given him at South Bend in 1929.
To settle all disputes as to the originator of the day, the American War Mothers conducted a thorough investigation and declared that evidence favored Mr. Hering. They invited him to speak at the first public exercises held at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery, Washington, D. C. Mi*. Hering was also invited to speak this year but declined in order that others might be honored. Instead, he will speak with “Father” Flanagan of Boys Town at Kokomo, Ind. On April 27, Mr.

Mr. Frank Hering
Hering dedicated a new §100,000 dormitory at Boys Town.
The Fraternal Order of Eagles, on May 10, 1931, erected a huge plaque on which is a likeness of Mr. Hering, at the English Opera House at Indianapolis. Inscribed on it is: “On this site, Sunday, Feb. 7, 1904, the first known public plea for a nation-wide observance of Mothers’ Day was made by Frank E. Hering, teacher, orator, humanitarian.”
Main speaker at the dedication was the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., formei- president of Notre Dame and a celebrated orator. In tribute to Mr. Hering, Father Cavanaugh said in part: “Not quite 30 years have sped since the clarion voice of young eloquence shook the vaults and ceilings of this beautiful house with a burning appeal for national honors to motherhood. Like the patriot’s shot in early Revolutionary days, that voice was heard around the world. It was heard particularly under American skies, and today the hearts of our country thrill in sympathy with the pleadings of the youthful orator who, remembering the beauty and holiness of his own mother, wished that all the mothers of America could be honored as he would honor his.” The event was recorded twice in the Congressional Record — once by Representative Louis Ludlow of Indiana, and again by Representative Morris Sheppard of Texas.
In a special message to Notre Dame
men on this occasion nearing Mothers’ Day, Mr. Hering said: “The most precious word in the English language is the word ‘mother.’ The mother is the keystone of the home. Throughout history the great men of the world have given their credit for their achievements to their mothers. Holy Church recognizes this, as does Notre Dame especially, and Our Lady who watches over our great instiution.—Bill Scanlan
Students Offer Varied
. War Issue Opinions
Conflicting viewpoints on the present world struggle were offered by several local students in an informal interview this week.
Jerry Killigrew, of Howard Hall and Hobart, Ind., said: “Because the United States will not declare war in time to save England, the Axis, will win. Hitler can win • without invasion by bombing England until only caves remain; the English people can’t live in caves.” But John Kane, who lives in Lyons Hall and comes from Galveston, Texas, named England the winner on the belief that “Hitler’s new lands require garrisons that will drain the striking power of the Axis forces.” Neil McCarty’s statement that “all facts point to a German victory” was strengthened by Jack Burke, president of the Student Council, who said: “England will be unable to dislodge the Nazis from the territory they now occupy. That amounts to a Nazi victory.”
Washington’s attack on Charles A. Lindbergh was considered next. McCarty, editor of the 1941 Dome'. “The attack is not a just one. Lindbergh might have been censured in a more tolerant way by someone other than the President.” Jim O’Donohoe, of Howard Hall and Grand Rapids, Meh., disagreed: “Lindbergh’s political principles are much like those of his wife, who holds that fascism and communism are inevitable for this country. That is sufficient justification of the President’s action.”
Burke registered the opinion that “Hitler will be content to hold what he now has,” while Charles Patterson, of Brownson Hall and Gretna, Neb., selected Turkey as his next objective. South Dakota’s Bill Meier nodded toward Africa and said this: “Hitler will move into Africa now in order to open the way for the capture of Gibraltar.”
Meier objected to the theory that the use of the French fleet would insure an Axis victory in Africa. “The British fleet has been supreme in the Mediterranean, and the Battle of Africa won’t be won on the sea anyway,” he said.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-In-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
THOMAS F. CARTY Photo Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor tit O?11egi»to Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 218 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
those who have the proper credits in education courses.
Students are facing reality in jobfinding these days more than they used to, however. The old idea of getting a soft, attractive, well-paying position immediately upon graduation is disappearing, and graduates are preparing instead to start at the bottom and learn a business thoroughly, before they expect to reach, high-salaried executive positions. As an example of this, many students are turning away from advertising as their choice of a career to personnel work. College-trained men are specially well adapted for dealing with other people, and insurance companies have been among 'the first to take advantage of this ability, by using them as claim-adjustors and claim-investigators. Large industries, more than ever concerned about labor relations within their plants, have begun to train college men for this delicate and important function.
The Scholastic regrets that the issue of April 25,1941, featuring Universal Notre Dame Night, confused the address of the Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago, with that of the Honorable Frank Walker, postmaster general of the United States.
William C. McGowan, Editor
The Lovefy Days Are Untrue
The balmy days of an Indiana spring have reached us early this year; the days are booming with bright sunshine, bursting blossoms and the noise of campus lawn mowers. Even the magnolia trees in front of the Main Building were hard pressed by the splendor of surrounding tulips, Judas trees, and white •and purple lilacs. Nothing could be more gorgeous than the last days of April and the first days of May — anyone who attended the Senior Ball could tell you that with ecstatic certainty.
So, it is true that while Nature at this moment is lush, resplendent and altogether serene —: it is.also misleading. There are big things being done in the world today — some good, some bad, and some indifferent. Most of them, however, signify that all is not well with us, here or elsewhere.
There is no hint in the sight and smell of magnolias and dogwood that war is being waged all over the world. But it is. It started in China five years ago, spread to Europe three years later, and today is destroying life and property in the Near East, in Asia, in Africa, and in the oceans that surround us. Nor is there
any promise in the things we are doing and the things men are saying that the limit of its devastation has been reached. Our own country is determined to be prepared for any eventuality and gigantic measures are being undertaken here to assure our strength in any eventuality.
There is one place on our campus where all is not lilacs and green grass and red and yellow tulips. That is in the Placement Bureau, where the demand this year is similar to previous years — mostly for engineers — only this time with increased emphasis. There is more than a hint in the vigorous seeking of employers after engineers of all kinds, architects and chemists that technological experts are assuming a larger control of this nation’s affairs than ever before. Just as there is a strong indication in the increase from 250,000 soldiers in the U. S. army last year to 1,250,000 today, that military men are going to assume a large share of that control.
The whole employment field has changed tremendously in the last dozen years. Journalists, who used to have a fairly easy time getting jobs, find that newspapers are dropping out of the picture every day, and that the consolidating of existing publications curtails the number of job opportunities even further. If local journalists are somewhat melancholy amid the full bloom of the campus there is substantia] reason for it.
One of the queer turns of the times is the increased demand for graduates who can replace drafted grade-school and high-school teachers. Arts and Letters students in general do not qualify for these positions usually, but only
Mr. William Dooley, who directs the affairs of the Placement Bureau, is not pessimistic about the situation. Employers, he finds, are taking men in spite of the threat of the draft, with the idea that if they are valuable now they will be valuable in the future, when their draft-term has ended.
Some pointers for students seeking jobs are given by Mr. Dooley, who thinks students ought to be serious and assiduous about looking for employment, even if they feel that a call to the colors is imminent. First, a student should examine his own abilities with an eye to finding what he can do, what his studies specially qualified him for, and what he has a genuine desire to do. Second, the available jobs should be classified and studied; information regarding this aspect of the situation can be found in vocational books and magazine articles, and in talks or correspondence with representatives of companies. Then, third, the results of the two studies should be put together and a definite company decided upon. All this should be done as soon as possible. Mr. Dooley suggests that it might be best done during the sophomore year, before the major subject is chosen.
If it is true that spring in Indiana is misleading, the search for a job and the imminence of draft duty should open many eyes to reality. For there are tremendous things being done and planned in the world, and even more tremendous things that must be done before the Class of 1941 can truly find the tranquility promised by these beautiful but deceptive spring days.
—William C. McGowan

THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
DRUMMER
boy
I think Philip liked the jail because of the regular life. He always explained his affection for the jail in terms of its wonderful discipline. He had the musicians’ soul and needed the discipline of the jail to keep his talent occupied in composing for an attentive audience. Otherwise, he explained, he might live the wjld and reckless life that has so often dissipated genius.
Philip practiced sternly his ideas of regular life. Saturday morning he would rise at nine and find himself a job. He liked to mow lawns or wash windows, but to earn his dollar he would empty ashes or paint porches. He left his accordion at the jail. He would never play for money, for no gold could purchase his art. Philip’s lofty ideals insisted that a musician must play when, where, and as he chose and not solely for fame or fortune. Understand, now, that Saturday was the last day of a long week of high ideals. Saturday night he kept open for drinking. Alcohol never was Philip’s master; that is, he never went blind. He could always walk, even kick. His head was always hardest hit. There it sounded like many drums, first just drumming, then pounding and booming until Philip became very angry about drums.
’ Events occurring, as they always do as Saturday wore on, Philip would wander up Main Street. The great trek of rustics having just witnessed the latest drama of the Golden West via the silver screen, would be pouring down Main Street, and the Salvation Army Band, drawn up resplendently at Four Corners, would be swinging into the drummer’s favorite, “Your God Is Night. ’’The crowd would pause just long enough to allow Philip time to associate the drum with the noises in his head. (There is no truth to the story that they had to point out the drum.) Suddenly, quiet Philip would release his ordinarily restrained inhibitions and throw himself and his kicking foot in the direction of that drum. Some Saturday nights he would go through both heads on the first' kick, other Saturday nights he would have to run around on the opposite side and finish the second head with another kick. That, of course, finished the concert and the crowd went home.
Sunday morning Philip would be playing his accordion with new vigor as though trying to repay in part his sin of the night before; a sin made even more horrible by having injured the cause of fine music.
Monday morning Philip would walk down to the police court and bow his head in shame as the voice of justice’ read the list: “Disorderly conduct, public intoxication, and wilful destruction of property. Five dollars or five days?”
“Five days.”
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Regular days with meals at the proper hours and composition to make life justifiable. If one of the guards wanted to take a day off he would just hand the keys to Philip and the routine would be preserved to the most minute detail. The captain of the Salvation Army would come to see Philip on Thursday. Philip would put the new drum heads in the frame while the captain pleaded with him never again to harbor the demon alcohol.
Friday Philip would look for a job and think. He had to think for he was meeting some opposition. After his. third Saturday night they had thrown a police cordon around the drum. Philip was short enough to sneak up through the crowd unnoticed, however, and once he sprinted into the open no flatfoot in the world could move fast enough to save that drumhead.
Philip became legendary. People who hadn’t beeen out of the hills in 50 years came down to see if he could do it again. Philip didn’t disappoint them.
The forces of good began to move in with ever-tightening circles. The Salvation Army appealed to justice for an eight day sentence which would release Philip at the beginning of one of his regular weeks and so disrupt his schedule that he might be stopped on Saturday night. The court frowned sarcastically and declared that it was still capable of reading the village ordinance which stated five dollars or five days. So the village board was requested to pass a new ordinance. But there was too much sporting blood in the board to destroy the best visitor-drawing institution Saturday night had ever seen.
By JERRY SMITH
The Salvation Army began to do some thinking after the fourth year of consecutive drum punctures. One Saturday the captain himself hired Philip and then promised to pay him Tuesday. This made Philip very angry. He went right downtown with the captain, helped him set up the drum, and then drove his fist clean through both heads with a beautiful straight right.
Another Saturday Philip couldn’t find a job. About four in the afternoon he walked into a liquor store and asked for a quart of Scotch. The clerk handed it over, Philip put it in his pocket and asked him to put it on the regular bill. The clerk jumped over the counter and got the bottle back. At least he thought he got the bottle back until a later customer who bought the bottle returned it with some angry questions about why should he get tea when he ordered Scotch. Philip got both heads that night.
After 487 drum heads a forlorn wanderer was given a warm meal by the Salvation Army. As soon as he had fin-inshed his meal they told him their troubles. When he suggested they leave the drum out of the band for one Saturday night they wondered why no one had ' thought of it before.
Saturday night Philip lay on the steps of the village hall and begged the police to lock him up for public intoxication.
’ They replied that he was too nice a fellow to put in a horrid old jail. Philip be-very angry. He went down to Blatz department store and gazed longingly at their plate glass window, the largest in town. Then he suddenly remembered that might be ten dollars or ten days. That would disrupt his regular life. He sat down to think, but alcohol, as the captain had warned, had fogged his brain.
Sunday morning he went up to the jail and got his accordion. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday he removed all of his clothes and furniture from his old cell up at the jail. Thursday he found a job. Friday and Saturday he worked at the job. Saturday night he got so drunk he joined the Salvation Army band. I never saw the village folk so sad as that first Saturday night when Philip picked up his accordion and played his own solo arrangement of “Your God Is Nigh.”
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
V ■	..... -	— -----
KLINEMEN FACE VENGEFUL SPARTANS
14 to 5 Irish Victory Ends Losing Streak
r
A Notre Dame team that may be primed for a comeback after their recent slaughter of Coach John Kob’s Michigan State nine faces the same Spartan outfit at East Lansing tomorrow in an effort to mark another victory on a schedule that is more than half completed.	■
Wednesday afternoon Irish bats exploded violently, and, coupled with poor defensive efforts on the part of Michigan State, drubbed the Spartans easily, 14 to 5. The locals more than batted around in the fifth inning to tally 10 runs.
Meanwhile Notre Dame’s Bob Fisher hurled effectively for the full nine frames to hold the heretofore dangerous visiting batsmen at bay. Don Hengel, Irish right fielder, depopulated the bases in the fourth inning with a tremendous home run over the center fielder’s head. He followed with a double in the fifth inning uprising.
The Spartans took two from the Irish last year and in 1941 have a gang of heavy hitters who will be seeking
A Spartan comes in standing up.
revenge against a not-too-strong Notre Dame pitching staff.
Until Wednesday’s victory, the team’s performance had been somewhat of a disappointment to Coach Jake Kline. In the coach’s own - words: “The pitchers haven’t developed as they should; the team as a whole isn’t hitting, and from time to time our lineup has been riddled with injuries.
Since the Easter holidays the team has won three and lost five games.
At Iowa City, last month, the Irish split two games on successive days with the Hawkeyes, 0 to 3, and 4 to 2.
Moving on to Ann Arbor the Kline-men triumphed over Michigan, 6 to 2, as Subby Nowicki, veteran, moundsman, held Wolverine batters in check.
Before returning home, Notre Dame bowed to one of the mightiest baseball aggregations in Western State history, 11 to 2.
Home again on the 26th of last month the locals again succumbed to Western State might. This time Curly Anderson pitched the Kalamazoo team to a 9 to 3 victory.
Thus far this month Notre Dame has twice clashed with Northwestern. The Purple Wildcats won 6 to 5 at Cartier field a week ago and repeated the following day at Evanston, 5 to 1.
Golfers Face Michigan
State on N. D. Links
With a three-point loss to Wisconsin as the only blot on a near-perfect record, the Notre Dame golf squad moves into the singles matches this afternoon against an equally strong Michigan State team on the University golf course. In their last match here with the University of Michigan on Monday, the Irish linksters, after losing the morning matches, rallied in the afternoon to take 10 of the last 12 points possible and win a slim 14-13 victory over the Wolverines.
It was not until Wolverine John Leidy’s putt, the last one of the day, balked at the cup, that the match was really settled. In the morning foursomes Michigan won over the Irish, 6-3, despite the 69 and 71 which Bill Fisher and Gene Fehlig, respectively, carded. Seemingly not able to snap out of their doldrums, the Irish dropped the first two afternoon singles matches, 5-1, with Fehlig and Fisher again carding lows of 70 and 73. Conroy then led the Irish revival, shooting a 74 for a 2% to % win over Osler of Michigan. Captain Neild kept up the spirit with a 2-1 victory over John Barr. In succession Wilson of the Irish defeated Fife of the Wolverines and Harrigan carded a 70 to beat Leidy with his 77 and subsequent last putt.
The summaries:
Doubles
Gene Fehlig (71) and John Conry (72). Notre Dame, tied Ben Smith (73) and Fred Dannen-felser, Michigan, 1(4 to 1(4.
Bill Fisher (69) and Bill Wilson (73). Notre Dame, tied John Leidy (73) and John Barr (71), Michigan, 1% to 1%.
Dave Osler (74) and Bob Fife (72) Michigan, defeated Jack Harrigan (75) and Milo Wolf (74), Notre Dame, 3 to 0.
Singles
Smith (69) defeated Fehlig (70), 2(4 to (4.
Dannenfelser (73) defeated Fisher (73), 2(4 to %.
Conry (74) defeated Osler (78), 2(4 to (4.
Capt. Sammy Neild (73), Notre Dame, defeated Barr (74), 2 to 1..
Wilson (70) defeated Fife (75), 2(4 to (4.
Harrigan (70) defeated Leidy (77), 3 to 0.
—J. B. Powers
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	15
THE
Irish Netters Win Four
Straight; Chicago Next
Traveling to Chicago tomorrow the Notre Dame tennis team will be out to defeat the University of Chicago, for many years the top-flight team in the Middle West. The Irish have never defeated their host, but this looks like a Notre Dame year and Chicago is not up to par. Michigan is the Irish opponent on Wednesday, May 14, in what should be the outstanding match of the season. Coach Langford said that his boys have a fine chance for victory, but Michigan has a truly great team.
The following day, Thursday, May 15, the Notre Dame netmen will play host to Michigan State. This is an old rivalry in which the Spartans have often come out best. Coach Langford said, “This should be our match after a long, difficult struggle. We should win.”
Victory has smiled on the netters in their first four matches and seems likely to follow them throughout their schedule.
Detroit
Detroit bowed to the Irish, 8 to 1, April 26 as N.D. swept the singles matches. Sole defeat came in the doubles as Hermes and Currott (D) downed Garvey and Dantel (ND) 10-8, 4-6, 6-4. Dan Canale aijd Capt. Joyce teamed to win a doubles match after each had won his singles bout. Parks, Heckler, Walsh and Biittner won the other singles matches while Erd and Pappas won a doubles match.
Western State
At Notre Dame on April 29, the Irish defeated Western State, 8 to 1. This was an unprecedented victory as the up-staters had taken every previous meet from Notre Dame in a series which began in 1929. Notre Dame took all the singles, but lost one doubles match. Captain Joyce was chief point gatherer with a singles and doubles victory.
Canale Trims Hoosier Star
On a week-end tour, May 2 and 3, the Irish won two meets. Indiana U. fell to N.D. racqueteers, 8 to 1, on May 2. Canale beat Wood, ace of the Hoosier squad, 6-2, 6-3. Wood had been previously undefeated. Notre Dame lost only one singles match and swept the doubles. In Louisville the following day, the N.D. team defeated Kentucky U., 6 to 3, as Joyce lost his first match of the season.—Bill Bogers
Splinters From the Press Box
—■i	■	JIM NEWLAND ■■■
NOTHING ABOUT SPORTS
Here’s a big splinter. It is estimated by several Notre Dame seniors that more than $18,000 was disposed of last weekend by Senior Ball goers. The slide on our slide rule tells us that approximately $4,000 was spent for tickets; $1,300 for flowers; $2,000 for lodging; $3,000 for automobiles. That leaves approximately $8,000 for necessary miscellaneous items.
♦
Potpourri: Congratulations to those who deserve it for the biggest and best Senior Ball festivities. . . . Somebody said the fish for the candlelight supper were caught by Father Tom Brennan and his fish commissioner Willie McJunkin. . . . After dessert had been devoured, Joe Papa, of Walsh hall and one of the better-known campus eaters, discovered he had eaten the battery instead of the ice cream. . . . (For those of you who missed the dinner, small light bulbs connected to an equally small battery provided added color. . . . Music by Jurgens made an interesting dance more interesting. . . . The engagement of Tom Gallagher, one of Elmer Layden’s best tackles last season, was announced . . . and his wasn’t the only one.....Jurgens, incidentally, was seen by some at the Chain o’ Lakes Country club Saturday afternoon partaking of a bit of golf. . . . He swings ’em left handed.
♦
Splinters primarily is written for and about Notre Dame athletes. Nevertheless, the amazing record established thus far by the St. Louis Cardinals and Brooklyn in the National League and by the Cleveland Indians in the American League is worthy of. note. The Cardinals, with one of the youngest and most efficient hurling staffs in the senior loop are hitting with unusual gusto and enthusiasm. Brooklyn likewise continues to satisfy Flatbush with a comfortable number of victories.
Meanwhile the Cleveland Indians have definitely turned on the steam and Bob Feller’s fire ball is making it all the hotter for American League batsmen. From all indications it appears that Phil Wrigley, Jr., gum making magnate and owner of the poor Chicago Cubs will learn he cannot buy a pennant. The Cubs, woefully lacking in power at the plate, have power dived to the lower section of the National League standings and ostensi
bly they will remain in that region until < Novikoff, Leiber, Myers, Nicholson, et al., start hitting.
Greg Rice continues to win. ... The little bugger, with a million dollar set of legs, and a far more expensive heart has definitely established himself as the nation’s outstanding distance speed king. ... Greg will apparently have only one chance of bettering Taisto Maki’s unrecognized world outdoor two-mile record of 8:53.2. . . . His performance of 8:51.1 in the recent Chicago relays is the fastest time ever recorded, indoor or outdoor. ... He is scheduled to perform in his home town, Missoula, Mont., May 16.
♦
The old-timers game tomorrow will give students their first opportunity of seeing the Notre Dame system with a touch of stream line. . . . Some football fans who saw Frank Leahy’s Boston College team perform say the present athletic director is a step ahead of everyone. . . . It’s a dead cinch there will be plenty of color in Leahy’s style. . . . The team next year will even wear gold helmets and sweat sox instead of natural leather colored helmets and white sweat sox. . . . Mr. Leahy wants to carry out the school’s colors all the way.
The loud commotion raised recently by some Boston sports writers over the appointment of Leahy to the Notre Dame post and the rumor that Boston College players are being urged to attend this school next fall is unfortunate. It is well known here that Mr. Leahy is urging no one to come to N.D. It would be well for Boston scribes to check up on what they write. Guessing is a bad thing, especially in the newspaper game.
We nominate Bob Osterman as the power softball hitter on the campus. . . . The other day on Badin Bog, Osterman lifted an opposing pitcher’s offering for an easy home run. . . . The ball landed on top of Badin hall . . . quite a distance for a softball to travel.
❖
On Sept. '27, when Arizona plays Notre Dame, two former Michigan State assistant coaches will hold a reunion. . . . Coach Frank Leahy, assistant to Jimmy Crowley at East Lansing in 1932, will shake hands with Miles (Mike), Casteel, former assistant with the Spartans for 15 years, and who is now head coach at Arizona....
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
=^= By AL DEL ZOPPO —. -
One of the best fielding baseball players in college ranks will graduate from Notre Dame this June without having had much of a chance to display his fielding wizardry. And the reason why we haven’t seen Don Maguire scooping hard-hit grounders out of the dust on Cartier field is because he has been unfortunate enough to be playing on a squad that needs punch at the plate. There is no denying that Don can field. In fact, those who have watched our infielders work out in spring practices concede Maguire to be the smoothest, smartest, surest defensive man on the squad. But Coach Kline has found it necessary to sacrifice defensive ability around second base in the hope of adding offensive strength to his ball club. And thus Notre Dame rooters have been deprived of watching a hustling infielder play the keystone sack as few other college ball-players can play it.
Don Maguire learned his baseball in St. Louis, Mo., having as a tutor his cousin, a fine athlete whose own baseball career was cut short by an accident, and who now is employed as a scout for the St. Louis Cardinals. Don learned enough baseball from his cousin to be classed as a schoolboy sensation in his home town, and his services were sought after by many of the strong independent teams playing in the St. Louis Municipal League. Don played fine ball in the Muny League, ranking .with the top-notchers in fielding, and managing to sport a respectable average at the plate. Since coming to Notre Dame, Maguire has found it difficult to keep up the pace he had set in • independent ranks, probably because of the tendency he has to put on weight. For the past several years Don has found it necessary to shed about
20 pounds in order to
show some of his old time speed and form. And the job has beeen doubly difficult be-
cause he hasn’t been able to see much action once the schedule has gotten under way. Ironically enough Don got into the lineup last year several times as a pinch-hitter, but he did start and finish the game played against Navy. This year Don’s performance has been limited to nine innings of play against Michigan.
Although Don would like to do nothing better than talk and play baseball, he does find time for other things. Besides his journalistic studies — Don is in the A.B. school majoring in Journalism — he cooperates with Bob Fitzpatrick in writing a column for the Scholastic. And with the spare time that he has left he practices impersonations of various radio and screen celebrities. On baseball trips Don’s teammates are'always pulling for him to come along because his repertoire of imitations seems to be sufficiently large enough to insure the traveling squad of plenty of entertainment. The impersonation most popular with Don’s numerouus friends is that of Knute Rockne giving his half-time pep talk. '
Maguire has a good job as publicity agent waiting for him when he graduates, but Uncle Sam has taken first call for his services. '	-
Interhair Track and Field Meet Scheduled for May 15, 16
Still smarting under the sting of the 74% to 56% shellacking administered here last Saturday by a powerful Michigan track team, the Irish thinlies left for East Lansing this afternoon, where tomorrow they will strive to regain some of their lost glory at the expense of the Michigan State Spartans.
Although not so strong in all-around balance as the Irish, State has a number of individual stars, notably Capt. Walt Arrington, who is expected to give Keith O’Rourke a battle in the high jump, and a number of other Spartans expect to offer a lot of competition for Coach Mahoney’s boys throughout the course of the afternoon.
In explaining the startling collapse of Irish against the Wolverines last Saturday, Coach Mahoney remarked, “We are not going to alibi. Our boys just didn’t have it Saturday, and Michigan with a great team had too much man-power for ' us to ward off. We still have to prove ourselves in certain field events, notably the javelin, broad jump, and discus, but I expect added strength in these departments when footballers Joe Prokop, Eddie Sullivan, Herky Bereolos, Paul Patten and Walt Ziemba return to action, following their spring football drills. The return of Jay Gibson, our star sprinter who has been out with a foot injury during the past two weeks, will also give the team a lift. The fact is, our prospects for the future look so encouraging right now, that I look forward to going through the rest of the season undefeated.”
Prior to the Michigan Waterloo last Saturday, the Irish had added to their laurels at both the Drake carnival with a total of 26 points. “Big Jim” Delaney won the shot-put event at the Penn contests with a winning heave of over 51 feet.
In annexing the team title at the Drake relays, the Irish won the mile relay, breaking the outdoor Notre Dame record with a mark of 3:15.9. Ray Roy, junior anchor man, proved his worth to the squad in this event as he drove from behind to break the tape just in front of his near competitor. The four-mile and distance-medley- teams placed second; the 440 yard team annexed fourth place. In the individual events Keith O’Rourke tied for first in the high-jump; Ollie Hunter won the two-mile run, and Ezra Smith tied for third in the pole-vault.
In recognition of their splendid achievement the members of the various championship relay teams, as well as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	17
the individual event winners, at both the Drake and Penn tournaments, were awarded handsome gold Elgin wristwatches with the letters Drake or Penn Relays taking the place of numbers on the dial while on the back is inscribed the event for which the watch was awarded.
Following tomorrow’s meet with Michigan State, the Irish will journey to Milwaukee next Saturday, to engage a strong Marquette team in dual competition.
In conjunction with local track activities, Coach Mahoney announced that the annual outdoor Inter Hall track and field meet will be held on Cartier field on the afternoons of Thursday and Friday, May 15 and 16. All potential track stars are urged to enter: sole participation requirement is that the competitor appear at the starting line at the time of his race. For complete details as to the time and schedule of events watch for announcements on the hall bulletin boards.—Jim Clemens
Softball Semi-finals
Set for Sunday, Tuesday
Semi-finals in the Scholatic softball tournament will be played Sunday afternoon when the St. Ed’s A.C., & powerful aggregation that has scored 46 runs in two games, meets the Breen-Phillips “Morning Checkers.” The other game in the third round competition will be held Tuesday afternoon, and will find the Subway Bulletheads matched with the winner of the Rogers Rangers vs. Zahm-bies games.
The Subway Bulletheads became the surprise team of the tournament when they edged out a 4-3 win over the potent Howard Recreational Club, despite the pitching of Bob Timmel. The Bulletheads broke a 3-3 tie in the last half of the ninth when Purcell scored on a triple by Lewis.
Excellent pitching by Eugene Trunk-ley paced the Morning Checkers in their 3-0 shutout of the strong Courtney’s Killers. The St. Ed’s A.C. displayed plenty of offensive power in their 18-6 and 28-11 wins over the Alumni Alibab-bi’s and the All Stars from Cavanaugh Hall.
Zahm’s entry proved to be well named when they upset the Kokomo All-Stars, 9-8. Other games played included the 16-1 victory by Howard Recreationals over Dan’s Flashes, the 20-3 win by the Rogers Rangers over the Cavanaugh Ranchers, and the Courtney Killer’s defeat of the Morrissey Mudhens, 6-3.
The schedule for next week: Sunday, Roger Rangers vs. “Subway Bullet-heads” at Freshman Field. Time 1:30.
Tuesday, St. Ed’s A.C. vs. Breen-Phillips “Morning Checkers” at Freshman Field. Time: 4:00.
McGuire Addresses Forum
On So. American Economy
A socio-economic description of South America was presented last Saturday in the auditorium of the Law building by Dr. Constantine E. McGuire of Washington, D. C., and Nicaragua, a member of the Notre Dame board of lay trustees, who addressed 300 juniors and seniors from the College of Commerce.
Dr. McGuire, a Harvard University graduate, has for many years been recognized as an authority on current economic problems and has written extensively concerning inter-American business relations. He is director of the Nicaragua National Bank and of the Nicaragua National Railways; he is a past president of the Catholic Historical Association and is a papal knight of the Order of St. Gregory.
In his lecture Dr. McGuire explained how the indigenous populations of Latin American countries are affected by immigration and traced the cultural history of Brazil, Peru, Chile, Ecuador, and Colombia. Dr. McGuire was introduced by James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce.
Debunks Reports About
Nazi Influence in South
Debunking reports of Nazi activities in South America, Lieutenant Commander Carlos Fallon, a reserve officer in the Colombian navy who is now stationed at the Colombian consulate in Chicago, addressed students and faculty on May 1 in Washington hall.
The South American officer called stories of fifth column activities in the southern hemisphere a “misrepresentation of the truth by well-meaning people who, nevertheless, are creating distrust between the Americas.”
Commander Fallon pointed out the South American countries are less concerned over the present European politi-can trends than are the residents of the United States. He explained that, with but one exception (Colombia) all of the South American countries went through a “Dictator” period before a practical republican form of government took shape. He added that most South American leaders feel that Italy and Germany are now going through this transition period, and that eventually the residents of these countries will reach a stage of development where they, are competent to govern themselves.
—James V. Cunningham
Dr. Perrine Will Show
Mechanical Voice Tonight
Washington hall will be a house of electrical magic tonight at 7:30 p.m., when Dr. J. Owen Perrine demonstrates the “Mechanical Voice,” which for two years thrilled thousands of visitors at the New York World’s Fair.
Dr. Perrine, head of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, is not a newcomer to Notre Dame. In 1939 he held his audience enthralled for two hours while he demonstrated the mysteries of telephonic communication by “talking back to himself” on a round the world telephone circuit.
The “Voder” (voice operation demonstrator), which he will explain tonight, is an electrical arrangement which corresponds to the human speech mechanism in its production of speech and in the completeness of control thereof.
In his talk Dr. Perrine will discuss speech sounds and their basic elements. The girl operator at the console of the “Voder” will perform some very interesting speech demonstrations to illustrate the points made by Dr. Perrine.
In addition to showing the elemental sounds and individual features of the apparatus the operator will electrically enunciate the letters of the alphabet, the numbers from one to ten, “Mary had a -Little Lamb,” and various interesting multiple syllable words. The “Voder” ensemble will be made to speak in very basso profundo voice, a high pitched voice, the shaky voice of an old man, and to laugh and sing. If you really want to see how your voice works, get to Washington hall early, because invitations to witness the demonstration have been extended to all electrical engineers in the St. Joseph Valley.
Frosh Dance to be Held
in Progress Club, May 17
Reeling from the Friday, May 16, “opening night” performance of Witkowski’s Bundles for Britain stage comedy, “It Never Rains,” campus romeos will spin right in to the Progress Club and, finding their dates have stuck with them, will enjoy and dance to the music of Jack Malloy and his orchestra in an informal Freshman dance, from 7:30 to 11:00, on Saturday evening, May 17, Notre Dame time.
The recently elected Freshman class officers — John Morrison, president; Jack Thornton, vice-president; Paul Lally, secretary; and Tex Schexnayder, treasurer, head the committee preparing the festivities. Bids will be one dollar per couple.—Mark G. McGrath
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1941 "Dome" Expected
To Come Out on May 21
A staff of approximately 60 members, led by Editor Neil McCarty, has been diligently working for the past schoolyear on the Dome, which will be issued about May 21. This year’s book will feature a ten-page photographic essay on: a typical Notre Dame student, University traditions, and Notre Dame in comparison with other nationally known universities. This section was edited by Joe Hillebrand and pictures were taken by Ed Steeb.
Other features of the 35th edition will be: poetic description by Charles J. Kirby; captions by Frank Wemhoff under all informal pictures on the Senior page. The last part of the book was written by Jack Garvey, depicting incidents and typical scenes of the past year. Included in this collection of informal snapshots will be pictures of the Rockne picture premiere, St. Mary’s college, and Rosie’s restaurant. A new type of index will also distinguish this year’s annual. Tom Atkins, Neil Quinn, and Art Mannion have separate indexes for the students listed and the contents of the annual.
Assisting McCarty in the publication of the Dome are: Junior Editor and Managing Editor Sam Boyle; Associate Editor Matty Byrne; Sports Editor Jim Burke; and Campus and Photo Editor Jack Garvey. Art editing was directed by Jack Birmingham.
Neil McCarty, a veteran of three years on the Dome staff, lives in Dillon Hall and is from Kaukauna, Wis. A member of the Wranglers, Bookmen, and Knights of Columbus, his experience dates back to his high school days when he edited his high school annual.
—Jack Shine
The Ebli Boys Are Big
A newer and bigger edition of Notre Dame’s own “Li’l Abner” is visiting the campus this weekend. He is Bob Ebli, younger but bigger brother and reasonable facsimile of Ray, who, in virtue of his remarkable physical similarity to the Dog-patch hero, is known to teammates and friends as “Li’l Abner.” The Ironwood, Mich., visitor has been occupying a spare bunk in the Jim Brutz residence in St. Ed’s.
Bob, a year or two younger than Ray, tops the newly-converted left tackle in both height and weight. He measures 6' 4" and weighs 225 lbs., two inches and 25 pounds more than his older brother. Ray had no football experience prior to his play for the Irish but he has worked his way to a high position on Coach
Leahy’s rugged squad. Bob, however, earned a high school reputation as one of the best tackles in Michigan’s upper peninsula and is considering filling Ray’s shoes — or some a size or two larger when his “little brother” is finished playing for Notre Dame.
Father O'Donnell Speaks At K. of C. Banquet
Climaxing the occasion of the exemplification of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus Sunday the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will address the banquet in the Spalding Hotel, Michigan City, Ind. Members of the Fourth Degree from all parts of the state including many state officers will be assembled to pay tribute to Hon. Timothy P. Galvin, Supreme Director from Indiana recently elevated to the post of Supreme Master of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus.
The Notre Dame Council will pay a
The Hound and Horn Suit__________________________________________$35.00
The Shoreland Shetland Suit ........  :________________..._______ 35.00
The Shoreland Flannel Suit _____________________________________ 35.00
The Lambak Topcoat ____________________________________'_________ 35.00
The Lambak Loom Topcoat _________________________________________ 35.00
Sport Coats ........................          ....?._________$ 16.50 - up
Ready-to-wear or tailored to your individual measurements.
PARKER-WINTERRO WD 115% N. Main Street (upstairs)	.
JOHN SIEVERT	JACK RYAN	MILT PIEPUL
234 Alumni	337 Walsh	337 Walsh
singular tribute to this distinguished knight, who received his early experience in knighthood in the campus council, by presenting him with nine candidates from his natal council. They are Rev. Gilbert G. Stack, O.S.B., Anthony M. Bernard, Elmer P. Chaput, Cecil E. Jordan, Robert E. Sass, James J. Fayette, John A. Sheedy and Thomas W. Tearney. Other fourth degree members from Notre Dame attending include Eugene J. Connolly, Eli M. Abraham, Thomas F. Carty, Robert E. Sullivan, Grand Knight of Notre Dame Council, Joseph B. McGeever, the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., and the Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C.
Confraternity Closes
Successful Convention
At 3:30 p.m., Sunday, April 27, Solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, celebrated by the Most Rev. Joseph H. Albers, D.D., closed the third College-sponsored Regional Catechetical
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
THE
Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. A general session with concluding remarks on the Confraternity theme by the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, propelled 500 national delegates to three days of study and practice of the Confraternity discussion technique. Many reports of individual confraternity progress were delivered. The following Notre Dame delegates delivered reports: Eugene Geissler, retiring president of the Notre Dame Catholic Action Group, explained its purpose and its work; February graduate Merdzinski outlined for an appreciative audience the work he is doing with Notre Dame student Julian Pleasants in their South Bend House of Hospitality; John Hennessy spoke on the work of the Notre Dame St. Vincent de Paul society; Jerome O’Dowd spoke on the Confraternity Activities in the college and the C.Y.O.; and finally the five-point Notre Dame plan for the distribution of Catholic Literature was explained by Walter Brennan, Thomas
in Search of Men
Statistics show a decrease ? among practicing dentists in recent years while the number of professional ? men in other fields has
' increased. This can large- r ly be attributed to advanced standards in = dental schools. -
, The Marquette University s . Dental School is one of the :
18 dental schools of the y
United States whose diplo- x mas are recognized in all of ? the states.	;;
’ The close relationship of the > ' Dental and Medical Schools < at Marquette University is •: ; an advantage to students. <
Entrance requirements: Two f years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, s-chemistry, and physics.
For complete information s ; concerning opportunities in * ' dentistry, write to the Secre- : ' tary, Marquette University > ; Denta! School, Milwaukee, v ' Wisconsin.	x
MARQUETTE
. UNIVERSITY
Milwaukee
Carty, Louis Kurtz and Robert Nenno.
During the congress the delegates were twice divided into groups of ten to practice the group discussion that is the essential part of Confraternity work. Each group was led by a leader with data on leadership technique.
—Mark G. McGrath
William Hanford Wins
In Oratorical Contest
“We can either give back to God His rightful place in the hierarchy of our values and in so doing re-establish Him in our social and political life, — or we can go on following the path which leads inevitably to the destruction of all personal and constitutional freedom — and then God help us!” — this was the concluding sentence in the winning oration of the 1941 Cavanaugh-Goodrich contest, delivered by ‘William J. Hanford, C.S.C., a junior seminarian in Moreau Seminary, who is from Chicago, Ill.
Title of the prize-winning oration was “The American Constitution and the Catholic Principle of Authority.” The theme of the $100 prize-winning speech was that ultimate authority and law must come from God, not from government which is beset with human frailties.
The Cavanaugh-Goodrich prize contest was founded in 1939 by the Hon. James P. Goodrich, LL.D., former governor of Indiana, in memory of the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University from 1905 to 1919. The three prizes, awarded each year, are $100, $35, and $15 for the three best orations dealing with the fundamentals of American government.
Second prize-winner was Robert W. Galvin, Cavanaugh Hall freshman, from Evanston, Ill., and third place went to John E. Walsh, C.S.C., freshman in Holy Cross Seminary, from Milwaukee, Wis.
Contest judges were Paul M. Butler and Clifford J. Potts, South Bend attorneys, and Cecil E. Birder, head of the department of speech at the University.
—Robert LeMense
1941-42 CLASS OFFICERS ELECTED THIS WEEK
Juniors	'
President ...........Bill Costello
Vice-President  Oliver Hunter Secretary.............Jim	Purcell
Treasurer.........Bill McCaughey
Sophomores
President ...........Bob Faught
Vice-President Bill McNamara
Secretary ........Dick Doenner
Treasurer ...........Larry Stahl
(Senior returns not available at publication time.)
Handmade white linen handkerchiefs ...........3	for	$1.00
Summer gloves—pastels	and
white ________________  $1.00
New Summer purses—white and pastels, stripes __________$2.98
Faberge-Chambray Colognes ______________________$1 to $3.50
Faberge-Chambray Colognes set with atomizer_____$2 & $3.00
Quinlan Forget-me-not
Cologne ___________50 & $1.00
Belle-Sharmeer stockings in her own leg size________$1.00 pr.
Coro Pearl necklaces....$ I to $5.00
Gift wrapped FREE — Packed and shipped for cost of shipping alone.
Ask for Miss "Lil" Manion if you want help.
WYMAN'S
Main Floor
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Students and Faculty: Haw’s your luck?
The Notre Dame Bookstore announces another Lucky Drawing—May 24.
2
Saddle-Leather Duffle Bags
18 inches long, Talon slide fastener — perfect for golf clothes or traveling.
Any two students or faculty members have a chance to win these bags by just registering at the BOOKSTORE between May 9 and May 24. NO PURCHASE IS NECESSARY — Just come in and sign your name.
See them on display NOW!
Last call to remember your Mother!
Greeting Cards_________..5c up
Nicely framed copies of old Masters' pictures of Virgin and Child.-—.........-25c	and 50c
SPECIAL OFFER! _______
Imported "Egg Tempra" Madonnas, rare and beautiful, framed, each..................—$2.75
University Trustees Hold
Annual Board Meeting
Members of the University Board of Trustees, many of them well known in industrial and civic activities throughout the nation, were present at one of the largest annual board meetings in the history of the University on May 2. They discussed matters referring to the endowment portfolio of the University.
Among those present were: Angus D. McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific railroad; the Honorable Frank C. Walker, Postmaster General of the United States; John Moody, of Moody’s Investor Service, New York; John H. Neeson, Director of Public Works, Philadelphia; William C. Potter, chairman of the Board of the Guaranty Trust Company, New York; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Grattan T. Stanford, vice-president of the Sinclair Oil Co., New York; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago; E. M. Morris, president of the Associates Investment Co., South Bend; P. C. Reilly, president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Co., Indianapolis; Dr. Constantine E-McGuire, Washington, D. C.; and Frank E. Hering, South Bend fraternal leader and editor.
Representing the University as ex
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaillalatlallllll|l|||laaall|iaall(||||a||||||||||aa|a|a||||||aaaa|||aaaa||t||||||||||t|||||a||a||||||||a||a||t|||||||||||||a|aa|||||a||QJ
REMEMBER
MOTHER
Next Sunday with a
■ Arden "Blue Grass" Cologne with Atomizer _______________________________$ | .25
Housecoats__________________________$3.00 up
Handkerchiefs ____________j.________...25c up
Gold Stripe Hose...._____ _________$1.00 pair
(And dozens of other smart things)
officio members were: the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president; the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president; Brother Albinus Butler, C.S.C., treasurer; and Francis W. Lloyd, comptroller.
The Board members were guests of Father O’Donnell at a luncheon, and later at dinner and at the concert given by the Philadelphia Symphony orchestra in the field house Friday evening.
New Lighting System
For Library in 1941-42
Though outwardly the same grey stone building, the University library will proudly display interiorly a modern brightness to soothe the eye, next fall when students return..
In the reference rooms new and larger desks will be installed and equipped with modern fluorescent desk units to supply a glareless light adequate for the exacting demands of the intensive reading done there. The new desks, seating six each, will accommodate 156 students in the two rooms.
Flourescent lighting will also be extended to the file, catalog and order rooms, as well as to the individual offices of the library.—Jack Spragtie
The NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
rom Ellsworth’s
111 North Michigan
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
N. D.'s Young Track Coach Has Other Talents Also
Less than a year after he received a law degree at Notre Dame, William Patrick (T-Bone) Mahoney enjoyed one of the greatest thrills available to members of the coaching profession when he watched his youthful and energetic track team capture the midwest’s leading track carnival, the Drake relays, on April 26.
Mahoney, coaching 2,200 miles from his home in Phoenix, Ariz., is the son of Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Mahoney, Sr. His dad was a gold miner and served for ten years as sheriff of Mohave County, Ariz., from 1918-28, where Boulder Dam is now located.
Born in Prescott, Ariz., the alleged cowboy capital of the world, on Nov. 27, 1916, Mahoney has never been a cowboy. The 24-year-old Irishman began his career as a general news columnist for the Prescott Courier before becoming a surveyor for the Santa Fe railroad in northern New Mexico and Arizona. Later he taught music — the clarinet — for two years at Winslow, Ariz. During summer vacations he was a U. S. Park Ranger at Yosemite National Park on the California-Nevada border in the heart of the Sierra Mountains — 200 miles due east of San Francisco. Mahoney didn’t know it at the time, but one of the greatest athletes in Irish track history, Jim Delaney, was just learning to throw the shot in San Francisco. Today Delaney is Mahoney’s brightest star.
The current Irish track mentor, successor to the late John P. Nicholson, believes Alumnus Greg Rice could hit 8:45 for two miles, “If the opposition is sufficiently good next year, Rice will run even better than now,” Mahoney predicted. “However, there is nobody in prospect, with the possible exception of Mel Trutt, former Indiana runner who is doing graduate work at Drake, who seems available to push Greg on to a greater record. I’m firmly convinced that Rice could beat any runner in the world at 5,000 meters, the Olympic distance just beyond three miles.” Mahoney
thinks three miles is Greg’s best race distance.	.
As he sat in the Breen-Phillips office he shares with basketball coach Ray Meyer Mahoney’s eyes brightened when he spoke of the mile relay team’s comeback victory at Drake. “The biggest thrill I ever got
Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt with a New LEE Water-Bloc*
THE
CASCADE
*5-oo
A 2-ounce hat by the famous LEE Water-Bloc process. The Cascade will wear longer because it takes three times as long to make. It’s rollable, foldable and super-serviceable.
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” §330.
Look for the Lee Hai signs
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
WHEN YOU GO TO COLLEGE THIS FALL
Take advantage of the "College SpedaP'
ROUND TRIP
REDUCED FARES
21
during a particular event was watching the team of Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe and Ray Roy come from behind over seemingly impossible odds to ■win,” Mahoney observed.
Coach Mahoney has been particularly pleased with the work of Hunter and
W.E.PETERS
(Over Clark's Restaurant)
WATCH REPAIRING JEWELRY REPAIRING
Resetting and general replacement work is our specialty.
These special school and college rail tickets, with their liberal ex- ’ tended return limits, are immensely popular with students and teachers. When you are ready to go to school this Fall, buy one. You may use the return coupon to travel home at Christmas. There are also reduced round trip Pullman rotes in connection with these “College Special” tickets. The ticket agent in your own home town, or any railroad passenger representative can give you full details regarding return limits, stop over privileges,' prices, etc.
Be Thrifty and Safe—Travel by Train
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Conforti in the mile, O’Rourke in the high jump; Delaney in the shot put; Roy in the 440; and Schiewe in the 440 and hurdles. “I also expect fine things from several sophs who will come into their best form later, especially Dillon, Nicholson and Gibson.”
The young coach, who has been admitted to the bar in both Arizona and Indiana, expects to enter law here “as soon as possible.” He received his A.B. degree, majoring in English, in 1939 and last spring got his LL.B, degree in law. During the first semester he substituted for Prof. Thomas Madden as English professor and at present is instructor in the track department of physical education.
Mahoney’s competitive track career featured many outstanding records, the top being: 15 seconds flat for the high hurdles; :23.7, low hurdles; :48.5 for the quarter mile; and :53.7 for the 440-yard intermediate hurdles, an event he ran in the Olympic team trials at Los Angeles in 1936. He finished fourth when three qualified. Mahoney was track captain in 1938. Notre Dame trackmen of 1941 have not yet achieved those times.
—Bill Scanlan
Two Notre Dame Alumni
Complete Army Course
Lawrence A. Barrett, Jr., Valparaiso, Ind., N.D. ’41, and Hugh B. Correll, Canton, Ohio, N.D. ’38, today became a part of a class of 350 Flying Cadets completing the basic flight training program at Randolph field, Texas, the “West Point of the Air.” Just four and a half months ago these young Americans were civilians, but now they’re only ten weeks away from commissions as second lieutenants and flying officers in Uncle Sam’s rapidly expanding Air Force.
IT’S 1 WHITE
Fill! IIEACH
dates, proms, parties...for mixing with odd slacks for sports... for casual and more formal eve-
TENNIS RACQUETS
RESTRUNG
GUT-SILK NYLON $1.75 up
Wilson-Dunlop or Wright and Ditson Balls____3 for $1.19
Wilson Racquets ...$1.95
KECC SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main	Phone 4-6731
“Look for the Log Front”
$3250 Prize Contest. See your clothier for details.
nings...for now and all Summer ...for coolness, comfort and style.
Washable, too. See them at your
clothier today. Pastels and deep tones, too.
$1775
Palm. Beach Evening Formats (white jacket and black trousers), $20. Palm Beach Slacks, $5.50. And by the same summer wear specialists—the new Goodall Tropic Weight—top value in lightweight worsted suits, $25.
GOODALL COMPANY - CINCINNATI
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
At Max Adler Co.
MAX ADIER
“ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
HISTORY DATES and BLIND DATES
Whether you’re learning what happened in 1066, or going out at 8:30—wear an Arrow shirt that fits the occasion. You’ll find the right Arrow in our vast stock.
"It's ADLER'S for ARROWS"
Raise your hand if you know what Gordon Dover is
South Bend’s Center for
Palm Beach Suits $1775
Every size in every important model that Palm Beach makes. Enjoy the advantages of ADLER’S Famous Fitting Service.
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
JT’S ARROW’S popular university oxford shirt A with the roll front button-down collar which transcends all other shirts in acquiring that casual "take it easy” lack-a-daisitude.
Your local Arrow dealer has these oxfords in white and solid colors. All Arrow shirts have the trim "Mitoga” athletic fit. They’re Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). A couple of fins will buy you a lot of smartness. Arrow ties —handkerchiefs 25c up.
ARROW SHIRTS
e
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
24	THE
"It Never Rains" Comedy
Scheduled Next Friday
After many weeks of talk, practice and near-practice, Vern Witkowski’s much wondered about Bundles for Britain stage comedy, “It Never Rains,” will launch an attack upon South Bend and campus humor, Friday, May 16, at 7:15 p.m., Notre Dame time, in the South Bend Central High School auditorium.
Standouts of the cast are Notre Dame students John Kelley, Bill Mulvey, John Kinnare and Bob Saggau. The female roles are being taken by several young women of South Bend. Caught by the irresistible draft the first three actors-named are swept into the arms of the U. S. Army and of Captain Bob Saggau. Wading through intrigue by foreign spies and competition for draft camp “Suzies,” the plot winds through a labyrinth of events. The script, produced by students John Coppinger and authoractor-composer John Kelley, is colored throughout by songs written by John Kelley and Dick Hines, and dances, in the usual musical comedy style.
Although written, produced and, in part, acted by students, the University is in no way connected with “It Never Rains.” It is purely a charity affair.
—Mark G. McGrath
Race Track, Steel Mills
Attract Notre Dame Men
When toothbrushes are flipped into trunks, pictures peeled off walls, South Bend Sue sings “After You’ve Gone,” and the squirrels and cottontails have the free run of the campus, the students will be preparing for their summer jobs.
Jim Murphy, of Lyons, will hang his college clothes carefully in the closet and don chaps and spurs. His summers are spent boosting bewildered dudes onto more bewildered horses on the Ox
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
8nrt—nr to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in onr own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Yoke ranch near Immigrant, Mont., where a cocktail lounge is still called a saloon.
• Jones (Red) Cahill, 138 pound St. Ed’s hall junior, will turn to wrestlin’ rails in a Youngstown steel mill. After nine months of tussling for his share of the Saturday night steaks with. roommate 260-pound Bill Fish, Red is in tipshape and looks forward to his steeltossing vacation as a well-earned rest.
Out of the wooden benches of the classroom and into the bucket seat of a tornado on wheels will go Bob Williams of Cavanaugh hall. He occupies his time in the summer by hurling bucking racing cars around the ovals in Chicago. Older drivers hesitate to enter a race Bob is in because of his reputation of being one of the wildest, most carefree drivers on the Chicago saucers.
A collector without a black moustache or a nasty smirk, Frank Groves of Breen-Phillips, collects rents for a Lowell, Mass., bank during the summer recess.
See these pace-setting Douglas Shoes . . the class of the thrift-price field in style and value.
Tan and white Ventilated Oxford .. . Sea Breeze Cool
ness. Perfect fit and comfort assured by Douglas "Down-To-The-Wood— Up-To-The-Arch” construction.
$4 and $5
Some styles $4.50 & $5.50
Custom and Normal-Tred Series $7.50 ’
k Treat your feet to their best-dressed Spring and Summer... by choosing from these superbly handsome . Douglas oxfords. Snappy, two-tone tans and eye-catching tans-~ and-whites ... ventilated mod-
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET _____Open Saturday Eveninn
SMART NEW STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS. $3.85 and $4.95
When asked for his unique occupation, Bill Fallon of Howard Hall settled back on the grass and began in his faultless English, “Well, my summer incum- , bency entails great mental concentration and the assumption of untold responsibility. . . .” When he finished we gathered that he sits on a golf course bench, collects tickets from the golfers, chats with the girls, goes swimming at 4 in the afternoon, and gets $25 a week.
Burly Jack Sullivan of Cavanaugh hall is a member of a drilling crew at the salt wells in Watkins Glen, N. Y. Tom McGuire, Breen-Phillips, runs a fresh-meat route to the-farms in Fowler, Ind. Another freshman, Lee Roohan of Breen-Phillips, is cashier in the bar of the exclusive Gideon Putman Hotel outside of Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Jim Purcell of Dillon officially records and stamps the windshields of the out-ofstate cars which enter Montana through the port of entry at Culbertson.
—Jack Sprague
AMERICA'S BEST KNOWN SHOES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Defense Program Must
Become More Efficient
Germany’s success in producing the world’s greatest war machine after less than ten years work was due to her industrial efficiency, declared Allan H. Mo-gensen, of New York City, engineering efficiency expert, when addressing students of the Defense Industry Program at the University last Monday, on the
"HAUD LONGIS INTERVALLIS”
You said it, Cicero,
There's a Train Every Hour!
Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and on through until 9:30 P. M., South Shore trains leave South Bend every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. Two early morning trains, leaving at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, leaving at 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. That’s frequent service!
Ticket office: 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
subject, “Methods of Engineering Work Simplification.”
“German efficiency is proved by the speed with which she regained production during the last ten years, and the United States has got to equal that efficiency very soon if our defense program is to be a success,” stated the expert, who is now engaged in stepping up the daily output of airplane parts and gas masks for the army.
“The best way to. gain efficiency in American plants is to get across to every worker the advantage of work done at high speed over work done in a hurry. Pep meetings and rallies are of no value, we’ve got to train every shop worker in ways of improving the speed of his work without hurting the quality,” said Mr. Mogenson.—James V. Cunningham
Marching Band Visits
Kokomo, Ind., on Sunday
The Notre Dame band, under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, will take part in the 1941 National Convention of the Eagles Club next Sunday in Kokomo, Ind., which has been declared Father Flanagan’s Day and Mother’s Day in Kokomo. Mr. Frank E. Hering, the inspirer of Mother’s Day, will be present and will introduce the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Flanagan, Founder of Boys’ Town, who will address the convention in the afternoon.
The band has been given the honor of acting as escort to “Father” Flanagan in the morning. It will also occupy a prominent position in the afternoon parade.
This one-day trip will be the first public exhibition of the band for this year. Work has already begun on concert numbers to be rendered during graduation week. “The Song of the Bayou” by Rube Bloom and “Mardi Gras” from the Mississippi Suite” by Ferde Grofe are two excellent musical scores that are now receiving the finishing touches. A new march, ‘Colonel Bogey” by Kenneth J. Alford, was introduced a few nights ago. Other new selections have been added to the band’s varied repertoire in order to make the approaching concerts more enjoyable.—C. S. Coco
"No Time for Comedy"
Tomorrow night in Washington Hall, Jimmie Stewart and Rosalind Russell will co-star in “No Time for Comedy.” It is about the amorous success of a humorous country playwright. A Merry Melody cartoon and a newsreel will complete the program. Last Saturday “Andy Hardy Meets Debutante” and a March of Time constituted the program for the evening.
Bulletins Now Available
On Summer Sessions
Dates of the regular Summer School session are June 24 to August 6. Courses in physics, mathematics and engineering will commence three weeks earlier on Tuesday, June 3.
Tuition fee for the six weeks is $30, and for the eight week session is $40.
Bulletins outlining the session are now available at the office of registrar.
You will always find a big stock of
FRANK MEDICO
and other leading makes of pipes at
IIO-Had* nun sum un m>mu
Opposite Oliver Hotel
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER. X.D., ’23. Prop.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
26	THE
Mass Calendar: May 11-17
Sunday, 11—Fourth after Easter. 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, for Peace.
Monday, 12—Sts. Nereus, Achilleus and Companions, Martyrs. 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 13—St. Robert Bellarmine, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. 2d prayer, for Peace. Credo.
Wednesday, 14—St. Boniface, Martyr. Mass: Protexisti (Common in Eastertime) . 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 15—St. John Baptist de la Salle, Confessor. 2d prayer, for Peace.
Friday, 16—St. Ubaldus, Bishop, Confessor. Mass: Statuit (in Common). 2d prayer, the Blessed Virgin, (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem.
Saturday, 17—St. .Paschal Bayion, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common) prayer proper. 2d, for Peace.
LOST—Ring; gold, imprinted, “St. Joseph’s Collegiate Institute, Buffalo, ■ N. Y.” Initials, R.E.B. Reward. Return to 204 Badin Hall.
A Variety of Pipes=-A Variety of Prices—
Law Club Banquet to be Held Monday Night
The Notre Dame Law Club will hold its annual Law Club Banquet on Monday, May 12, in the Oliver Hotel. Larry Petrosius, president of the club, announced that Al Van Huff el will act as chairman of the affair with William McVay as toastmaster.
03^





Talk about a swell treat... just sink your teeth into smooth DOUBLEMINT GUM
Ex-Attorney General Cassidy of Illinois will be the principal speaker. The Hon. John McGoorty of Chicago, a member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty, and other prominent lawyers will also speak.
The banquet will be in the Gold and Blue Rooms at the Oliver. Judges of the local Bar Association, and Notre Dame law students and faculty will attend.

TAKE YOUR CHOICE


Yes,
al teeth into delicions

^4
Dr. Grabow ............. $1.50
Yello-Bole Regular....... 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial______ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ......3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor_____ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran______5.00
Hollyclourt —------------ 3.50
Sasieni _________________ 5.00
Comoy ___________________ 5.00
gp
Buy several packages today • jna XydehciousDQUEl^^^L


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Charles J. Patterson Wins Frosh Contest
Charles Joseph Patterson, of Brownson Hll and Gretna, Nebr., won the annual Freshman oratorical contest last Monday. The finals of the contest were held in the basement of the Law Building. Patterson’s $10 prize winning oration was entitled “Behind the Flame and Smoke.” The speech was an approval of . the present “all-out-aid-to-Britain” policy of the United States. Other men surviving the preliminaries to the final round were James O’Dea, of Breen-
Phillips hall and Lowell, Mass., with “Houi* of Decision” and Eugene Slevin, of Zahm hall and Peoria, HL, with “Then and Now.”
The men who aided in judging the contest were: Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech; Professor Earl Langwell, head of the modern language department; Professors John Cronin and John McClurg of the sociology department; Professors James Withey and Francis Moran of the English department; William Dooley, head of the placement bureau; and William Coyne of the department of speech, who also directed the contest.
“Come On Chillun”
LETS DANCE
Late recordings of Dick Jurgens, Artie Shaw, Sammy Kaye, Larry Clinton, Gene Krupa, Kay Kyser, and hundreds of others. 20 and 25 cents each.
Largest stock of records in South Bend. List Free.
POP'S RECORD SHOP
232% S. Michigan St. Room 5
A fast game
finished
pause and
After exercise, nothing is more pleasant than a refreshing pause with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its taste is delicious; and a welcome, refreshed feeling always follows. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.

YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
ENGRAVED
Cards
Invitations
Fine Stationery
Slicks Engraving Company
224 West Colfax Avenue South Bend
WATCHES
GRUEN	HAMILTON
ELGIN	LONGINES
Fine Watch Repairing
•
JOE THE JEWELER
113 East Jefferson
J. TRETHEWEY
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS. O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
IN THE NAVY
Is Chesterf ield
the COOLER, MILDER, BETTER-TASTING cigarette that SATISFIES
Chesterfield has so many things a smoker likes that it’s just naturally called the smoker’s cigarette.
Because they’re made from the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, you’ll enjoy Chesterfield’s COOLER, better taste. They’re really MILDER too. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields.
EVERYWHERE YOU GO
Copyright 1941, Licgxtt & Myers Tobacco Co.
A
=?