Volume 73
October 20, 1939
Number 5
CLEVELAND is a Students off doomed city! Nearly For Cleveland 1,000 Irishmen will land in the Lake City before tomorrow noon, and by evening Erin expects to have the situation well in hand—including the Navy. The first student train leaves from the Power House siding at midnight. (See Page 5)
ON HIS LAST trip to Snite Gives	the University, Fred
Rare Relics	B. Snite, Jr., presented
to the Rev. John F.
O’Hara, C.S.C., and the University some precious relics which he had brought back with him from his recent visit to the Grotto of Lourdes. . . (See Page 7)
❖
IT IS QUITE ques-Campbell Sees tionable if Japan can Fall of Japan survive her imperial claims, political ambitions, and diplomatic blunders. Her position in the world today is highly problematical and it is quite possible she may destroy herself and sink again into a minor island people of no international importance..............(See Page 9)
❖
INTO THE Cleveland Irish Clash	Municipal Stadium to-
With Middies morrow will march the
Navy, its full fighting force intact. Following closely on its heels _ will trot the squad of Notre Dame’s Irish; It is to be a football game on land, not a naval engagement at sea. .
■ (See Page 12)
End of the Line — not a new record, but a commendable performance on a wet track. Campus trolley slides SO feet past usual stopping point. (See Page 6)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ENJOY THIS WEEK’S POST
SAIL HALF A SHIP
TO PORT? FANTASTIC!
On the nine millionth wave the freighter Flora Wyatt split in two, leaving John Orde with only the jagged bow of a ship to command!... If you like sea yarns, turn to Richard Howells Watkins' storj’, Half a Ship, in this week's Post.
w.
—at 64, is England’s Man of the Hour?
—scented the Nazi danger from the start and became the implacable enemy of Britain’s policy of “appeasement” ?
—was so feared for his brilliance they said, “There will hardly be room for him in Parliament at 36 or in England at 40” ?’
—fought in Cuba, India, Egypt and South Africa; became a world hero at 25 for his daring escape from a prison camp?
—bottled up Germany in 1914 by mobilizing Britain’s Navy, on his own initiative, before the official declaration of war?
—personally took the blame for Britain’s disastrous expedition against the Dardanelles?
—was once tabbed “too clever to be trusted,” and yet now is the one man in whom the whole Empire puts its faith?
For years he has been the greatest single force in English political, life. But how well do you know him as a person?
j .•	An American friend and noted commentator brings you a
memorable and intimate portrait of him in this week’s Post.
Olii Man in a Hurry
NEWEST TRICK
IN FOOTBALL
Are those kicks that suddenly bounce out of bounds in the coffin corneri sheer luck ? No, sir! Football’s slj-est trick is making ’em bounce out. Here’s the story of the system that is putting The Foot Back in Football. Franny Murray, former Penn star, tells the story.
A FIGHTIN’ PARSON GOES TO WAR
Roaring, red-headed Rev. Praxiteles Swan was in a mighty bad spot. Only the musketry stabbing red in the night showed him theposition of those Yankees. The Preacher Learns to Pray, a storj' bj- Col. John W. Thomason, Jr.
CATTLE ROUNDUP— 1940 STYLE
Don’t let the movies kid j-ou that cattle roundups mean wild-ej'ed steers stampeding ahead of yelping cowboj-s. Donald Hough, author of this article. Beef Comes From the Hills, takes j-ou with him on a roundup in Montana and tells you what a steer’s life is reallj' like before he becomes steak.
MR. ENOCH SETS HIS
CAP FOR REVENGE
Mr. Enoch, the gaudy gnome in Room 607, certainlj’ looked like a fugitive from a chaingang picture. So Mr. Caldwell, the new hotel manager, decided to oops him out. A riotous story, Clothes Make the Man, by Nunnallj- Johnson.
h VINCENT SHEEAN
Author of “Personal History” and “Not Peace But a Sword”
THE I SATURDAY
EVENING POST,

GENTLEMEN PREFER
HOOPSKIRTS
Della used enough chicken fencing in building her hoopskirt to take care of twenty brooders. But it was worth it. Wasn’t she ,to meet a polished gentleman —with a fine black beard and a gold tooth in his smile? M. G. Chute brings you the romantic storj’ of The Lady and the Guinea Hen.
WHAT IS A FOREIGNER?
What happens* when a.family comes from Europe to make its fortune in America? How do the children, and the children’s children, rate as citizens? Louis Adamic traces a significant history of one such family, in The Woman From Croatia.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Willmann
dither, Notre Dame seems to have overlooked scouting the Yellowjackets. In the hope that this could be fixed up in time a letter was written to the Tech-
Remarks in Review
A full mail-bag should make for a full column. We had a full mail-bag. We hope for a full column. In the mail bag was what might be a none too subtle innuendo in the form of a Rock Island time table which offers “first aid in planning trips anywhere in the U. S.” If it was a hint to take a walk we ignored it, and a Rock Island map now decorates room wall. Not a bad map, either—thank you, Rock Island.
Bad Draft
As the regiment was leaving and a crowd cheering, a recruit asked:
“Who are all these people and why are they cheering?”
“They,” replied the veteran, “are the people who are not going.”—Exchange
Gopher Goings-on
“What makes the grass grow green” is being investigated by a group of Minnesota scientists who seek the answer in isotopes.... Dr. Thomas Parran, Surgeon-General of the U. S. Public Health Service, will address the 50th Anniversary of the Medical School..... Gov. Stassen is also slated to speak... Coach Bierman warns “A Minnesota label doesn’t make champions”... .An investigating reporter found no amazons or muscle women when he checked the girls’ gym classes—rather he found good date-book material............. Fritz Kreisler will soon give a concert for the student body.—Minnesota Daily.
All Through the Night
Alpha: “Oh yes, he actually had the impudence to kiss me.”
Delta: “Of course you slapped him.” Alpha: “Yes, every time.”
—California Pelican
Hobby Hint
. Here’s something for dull Sunday afternoons—buy a can of crushed pineapple and try to fit the pieces together.
—Pitt Panther.
❖
Out of the Panhandle
When they changed their nick-name from the “Tigers” to “Crusaders” the men of St. Edward’s College decided to scrap their “Tiger Battle Cry” (sung to the tune of the N. D. Victory March) in favor of a new song. The S. A. C. is considering “Fight On, Crusaders”—to be sung in the rhythm of the “Beer Barrel Polka”.... Faculty approval is
pending.... For the hep-cats a swing band has been organized.... Among other books, Gone With the Wind has been purchased for the library.
—St. Edward’s Echo.
Asleep in the Deep
Plebe: “Well, what’s the matter, didn’t I do all right in the parade?”
2 P. 0. (sweetly)—“Sure you did all right. Didn’t you win it by half a yard?”
—Annapolis Log.
Oddity on the March
Your Scholastic is now on the exchange list of The Presidio which is edited and published monthly by and for the inmates of the State Prison at Fort Madison, la.... Mechanically the magazine is a neat appearing 32 pp. publication with many interesting columns and departments.... among which are “Pen Chatter”, “Madisonian Murmurings,” “Canned Chatter,” “The Sport Stir,” and “Points on Pens”.... Featured in the poetry section was a parody on Kipling entitled “Buncha Beans.”
Cooperation Won That Game
In response to the customary request for a pre-write story on the Georgia Tech team no answer was forthcoming, but the following appeared in the news column of the Technique:
“With the football world in such a
“Ask Her If She’s Gotta Match.”
nique asking for at least 300 words of unmitigated inside dope on what makes the Tech team tick. Ever willing to cooperate, the Technique forwarded the following:
“ ‘Captain Murphy and alternate Captain Gibson created a sensation at practice last Tuesday by appearing on a wet track in white and gold polka dot jerseys! Ector, Ison, and Beard all have sleeping sickness; the rest of the team are in the School Abattoir, or hospital, due to too much lemonade and cakes at Friday’s practice. So much to you Sitko! and may Shakespeare be with you on the 8th!”’
(Ed. — N.D., 17; Georgia Tech, 14. Thanks very much, but you didn’t warn us about that boy Bosch.)
❖
S.O.S.
Received this week was the L’Hebdo Laval published by the University of Laval at Quebec, Canada. No further report can be given until a linguist reinforces our high school French.
❖
Toonerville Topic
Two men were seated together in a crowded street car. One of them noticed that the other had his eyes closed.
“Wassamatter, Jazzwell,” he asked, “feeling ill?”
“I’m all right,” answered Jazzwell, “but I hate to see ladies standing.”
—The Log.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week by F. G. Barreda
OPINION
Top of the Week
The Southern Methodist swing band. Sorely missing was Martha Tilton in a white shimmering evening gown giving out with “Cooing in the Igloo.”
Idiots’ Delight
Over in the Commerce school they have a course that goes under the very impressive and practical name of “Business Man’s English.” This, of course, is pure sham—meant only to bring the boys to the box office at registration period. Upon a casual investigation of the text book the delighted reader can find a choice lesson on how to make a telephone call.
Copyright laws prohibit us from reproducing the passage verbatim, but we attempt in a haphazard way to give you the gist of how the wind blows under that topic:
If you desire to make a telephone call be sure to look up the number in mind in the directory. This accomplished, lift the telephone receiver, generally found on top of the phone, and pause until the operator inquires, “Well, what is it?” At this strategic moment, decorum decrees that you give her the number. If the operator responds with a “thank you” you are bound to counter with a courteous “don’t mention it.” If she fails to thank you then you are allowed, under law, to call up the chief operator and get your nickel’s worth of beef.
❖
No Blow
Ann Sheridan couldn’t come.
❖
Inquisitive Damsel
A certain fellow, bent upon making the student trip to the Navy game, happens to have a girl friend in Cleveland whom he has dated for the weekend. He is all set, as the saying goes. Yet he has a friend who also is making the trip. As is natural in the course of human events, the fellow had to write to his date and ask her if she, too, had a friend. The answer was, “Yes, I, too, do. Or, I do, too. But she wants to know what your friend looks like.”
The second fellow felt aggravated. So, pencil in hand, he took his spiral notebook and wrote a sprig or two about himself:
“What do I look like? Look, lady, what do Gable, and Taylor, and Power, and Ben Turpin look like? They wear pants, don’t they? Many years ago I
was born in a state of frenzy, and ever since then I have been a moron. Funny, but the folks still tie me ■with chains in a dark closet. Now are you or ain’tcha going out with me?”
He got the date.
Surprise of the Week
The Notre Dame band jiving hep-for-hep with the swing cats from Dallas. From now on it’s strictly:
Swing and canter
With Joe Casasanter
Pursuit
We’re still looking for the sequel to last year’s episode when a certain journalism professor asked the twins, Tom and John Ferneding, “Are you brothers?”
Peanut Gallery
Jerry Flynn, dean of the cheer leaders, is a man of many friends. Last Saturday when Clashmore Mike had fatigued himself jumping hurdles, Jerry rewarded him in the usual way with a piece of candy. A fellow in the stands, who had stayed up the night-before thinking up the crack, promptly came through with, “Now give Flynn one!”
Keeper of the Keys
We walked over to Cartier field to watch the teams practice. At the one-and only gate a freshman manager, producing a tone of authority, halted us momentarily.
“Where do you think you’re going?”
“Why, to watch the teams scrimmage.”
“Secret practice, Bud.”
“But Elmer said we could watch.”
“I take orders from Joe Hart and the mob.”
“Can’t we even watch through a peephole in the fence ?”
“What? And give away our razzle-dazzle, punto reverso, triple-lateral?”
“Oh no, never! We are true blue and gold through and through.”
“Well, what’s the password?” “Patty-cake, patty-cake, baker man.”
“Okay, you can go in.”
❖
Oddities
The runaway trolley with the sign, “This car to barn.” . . . And Pat O’Hara tells us about the fellow in the caf whose chums surprised him with a birthday cake—candles and everything.
❖
Bottom of the Week
The rains came—to Indiana.
This is the second of a series of ar-i tides concerning student opinions on s questions submitted by the students I themselves. The question chosen this week, entered by John Callahan of Freshmen Hall, is: “Would you. prefer the use of the honor system (no faculty supervision) in conducting classroom examinations?” Following are typical comments :
Carroll — Bill Olson: “I favor the honor system because it would determine an individual’s value of a college education.”
Lyons — Bob Burns: “I prefer the honor system, because after all, if you do cheat you’re only hurting yourself, not the university. It’s the student who would suffer.”
Morrissey—Walter Minder: “I prefer the honor system because it affords the opportunity for character development.”
Badin—Quentin Marshall: “I believe I’d rather have the honor system because the student is going to school for what he gets out of it other than a grade. So it would be the student who would suffer if he were to cheat.”
Brownson—Fred Hoth: “I favor the honor system because it puts the stu-The students appreciate being so trusted, and therefore are less inclined to cheat.”
Cavanaugh — George McQuiston: “I believe that the honor system should be maintained during examinations because the honesty of Notre Dame men should be something beyond question or doubt.”
Breen-Phillips—Leon Ochs: “I should prefer the honor system. It makes for greater self reliance and increases one’s sense of honor. I believe there is a smaller amount of cribbing done or attempted under the honor system. Most people have a high sense of personal honor which prohibits cribbing under the honor system, while they may not hesitate under the present system.”
Zahm—Bill Guy: “I don’t think it should make any difference which system is used. The student who studies hard enough should be able to pass an examination under any system.”
Freshman — Frank Holland: “The . present system seems to be the most effective, but I think we should give the honor system a try, anyway. I don’t think the student would be any more inclined to cheat than he is now.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Z 188
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 73
October 20, 1939
Number 5
THE MARCH IS ON — IN CLEVELAND TOMORROW
First Student Trip Train Leaves Campus at Midnight
Cleveland, Navy Varsity Await Irish Onslaught
Cleveland is a doomed city! Nearly 1,000 Irishmen will land in the Lake City before tomorrow noon, and by evening Erin expects to have the situation well in hand—including the Navy. Latest bulletins from Student Council headquarters indicate that 500 students will leave campus at midnight on the first section of the Navy Game Student Trip Special, and that a second section of 200 will follow tomorrow morning.
The midnight train will leave from the steam plant siding; the morning train will leave St. Mary’s siding at 7 o’clock; breakfast will be served at 6 o’clock in the Dining Hall,
An advance guard, two busloads composed mostly of native Clevelanders, left at noon today. Other students and fac
ulty members, making the trip by automobile, are expected to swell the Notre Dame contingent well past the thousand mark. The city, anticipating its doom, has given up all hope of resistance and is set to welcome its conquerors. Bands will salute the victors at every turn.
Among the chief welcomers will be the Hotel Statler, Notre Dame headquarters during the week-end. The Statler, in connection with the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Cleveland, is going to present George Hall and his orchestra as the chief tribute to the conquering Irish. However, there is the usual fee of $3.00 the couple before you will be allowed to dance. They will also offer you a complete dinner for $2.00 the pair.
Not content with what Cleveland will offer, Notre Dame will bring two bands with them. One will be the official Notre Dame University band, and the other will be Karl Hunn’s orchestra. Joie “Swing” Casasanta and his boys will provide incidental music while “Elmer’s
Boys” torpedo the Navy, and Mr. Hunn and his "gators” will set the pace during the evening. Hunn’s orchestra will be located at Wade Park Manor, at 107th St. and Euclid Ave., and the charge will be $1.50 per couple to dance to his music.
It has been said that an army travels on its stomach and Notre Dame’s army is no exceptiion. Taking this into consideration Mr. Connelly has put up boxlunches for those who will make the Saturday morning trip. There will be no charge.—Harry Penrose
Jitney Players to Open
Campus Theatre Season
The Jitney Players present the year’s first supplementary entertainment in Washington Hall when they perform the “Seven Keys to Baldpate,” Nov. 2. This melodramatic farce, by George M. Cohan is one of his really antic plays, and promises good entertainment.
A week later Dr. Francis G. Benedict, Ph.D., D.Sc., M.D., lectures on “The Science and the Art of Deception.” Dr. Benedict who says, “The art of deception is so perfect it far surpasses the art of. observation,” challenges us to learn the prime importance of distinguishing not simply essentials from nonessentials but the true from the false.
The art of deception will be treated in its relation to scientific research, showing the hazardous nature of faulty observation. This lecture is not offered primarily as entertainment though numerous magical effects are shown to illustrate unsuspected misdirection, and the false security placed in so-called “controls.”
The Rev. William Carey, C.S.C., also announced the following tentative engagements. Judge Malcolm Hatfield, of the Juvenile and Probation Court of St. Joseph, Mich., will give a series of lectures during the year to students of Law and Sociology. E. Allison Peers, Professor of Spanish, University of Liverpool^ will give a lecture series on Spain. Professor Bunge, of Buenos Aires, will give a series of lectures to Commerce students. Dr. Alceu Amaroso Lima, Brazilian critic and philosopher, will lecture during the second semester.
—Jim Brugger.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Linnets Reorganize
Once again the campus will resound to the stirring strains of “Stout-Hearted Men,” “Song of the Vagabonds,” “The Hills of Home,” and other typical men’s songs as the Linnets, Freshmen glee club, again swing into action. This year the Linnets will present a variety of music: besides the several examples of outstanding secular music, the group will learn the Gregorian Requiem Mass, embellished with special settings imported from Rome, which arrangements have not yet been heard in this part of the country.
This year the glee club will embody three or four smaller groups, with the possibility of more being added as the year progresses. There will be quartets, one specializing in concert numbers, and the other in old ballads. The third group rehearsing is an octet, the Sanctuary Singers, which group will later appear vested at the Sunday afternoon organ concerts in Sacred Heart Church. The concert quartet consists of Vail Pischke, James Byrne, William Scully and Carl Miller. The ballad quartet is composed of Henry Kane, Fred Crockett, John Hogan and John Kane. The “Sanctuary Singers” are James Madigan, Lawrence Williams, Ray Flynn, Frank Pachin, Steve Puffer, Tom Dorr and soloist Edward Duquette.
Although this year the Linnets will number approximately 40 members (a considerable decrease from last year’s 125), they will continue the attempt to keep the programs on the same high level as their first concert last year. The Linnets are a co-curricular activity of the Discipline Department. The Scho
All Through the Night — Express to Cleveland
lastic will carry a full membership list later, and also details of the concert programs which will begin late in the Fall.
Trolley Tries Hard But
Fails to Break Record
Morris Moffett.... Sat on a tuffet.... Driving car one-five-nine... He slammed on the brake... It just wouldn’t take... Crash! (He was at the end of the line.)
It was Monday evening, about ten minutes before eight o’clock, that one of those streetcars which run between the campus and downtown South Bend failed to stop at the end of the line, and crashed into and beyond the pole that supports the trolley wire and telephone boxes. The pole was sheared off neatly at the base, and the wire fell to the ground. Only two students were on the car at the time. They avoided injury by running to the rear of the car as soon as they and the motorman knew the crash was unavoidable.
A slight drizzle, plus wet leaves on the track, caused the accident, according to Motorman Morris Moffett. The sanding device also failed to give the wheels traction on the slippery rails.
It was nearly two hours before a repair crew came to the scene, the telephone communication between police headquarters and downtown having been disrupted by the accident. During that two hour period, the motorman estimated, every student on the campus must have been around to look over the accident. He had a task keeping them clear of the “hot” wire on the ground. This trolley wire carries 600 volts—enough to make one think twice!—John Casey
“Scrip” Deadline Set
Have you any essays? Book Reviews? Short Stories? Poems? John Meaney, editor of Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, will, consider contributions mailed to him at 126 Alumni Hall until Oct. 25—deadline for the first issue of Nov. 10.
A Scrip considerably altered physically, and broadened in content, is planned. Freshmen are especially invited to contribute to “Freshmen Sketches,” a popular section of the magazine for the past several years.
Try-Outs for Debate •
Teams to be Held Soon
“Resolved: That the United States should follow a policy of strict isolation against all nations outside the western hemisphere involved in international or civil conflict,” is the statement hall debate teams will soon be pondering under the guidance of coaches appointed Monday night from the ranks of the Wranglers, campus forensic society.
The question will later serve as the bone of contention when the varsity debate team engages in intercollegiate competition.
First round inter-hall tilting gets under way, Oct. 27. Each team will contest two debates in the first round and must win one decision to st*ay in the race for honors. The list of hall coaches follows:
Junior division: Zahm—Cotter; Breen-Phillips—Meier ;Cavanaug h—Funk; Brownson and Carroll — Hennessey; Badin—O’Dea; Lyons—O’Dowd. Senior division: Howard—Grady; St. Edward’s — Flynn; Dillon — Williams; Alumni — Barreda; Sorin — Mahoney; Walsh — McVey.
Professor William J. Coyne announced that try-outs for the varsity debating team will be held during the second or third week of November upon the above question. These try-outs are open to all undergraduate students of the University including Freshmen. Contestants will deliver a seven-minute main speech and a four-minute rebuttal. Those who survive the first preliminary will change sides and compete again in the finals which will be held about a week after the preliminaries.
These desiring to try out should hand in their names along with their choice of the side they prefer to defend in the first preliminary to some member of the Department of Speech before November 1. A short time after that date lists will be posted giving the schedule and place of the try-outs. As far as possible contestant’s preference as to choice of sides will be observed, but it may be
The Notre Dame Scholastic
necessary to ignore this in some cases.
A Bibliography on the intercollegiate question is now available in the library.
Father Miltner Writes
The second of a series of essays on religion begun last week in the Faculty Section by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., will be found this week in the column “Your Religion” which appears on page 17. The column will appear weekly.
Decency in Print Via
Radio is Council Aim
A pure press for America! That is the aim of the Notre Dame Student Committee for Decency-in-Print as it begins its second year. Thirty-five thousand more copies of the student No Smut pamphlet have been ordered. Distribution will start as soon as they are off the press.
Cheaper materials are being used in this fifth printing. Lower prices will allow for a wider distribution of the pamphlet. Orders have come in from various cities: two hundred pamphlets having been recently sent to Honolulu; and the largest single order thus far is 5,000, for the Antwerp Library in Detroit.
Any one interested in helping this campaign against smut is urged to get in touch with the Rev. Francis Gartland, C.S.C., 117 Dillon Hall. A maximum of three hours work a week is assigned to members.
A new angle this year is the advertisement of No Smut via the radio. A short dramatic skit will be prepared for presentation over the local station. Transcription will follow with recordings being sent to all stations who will cooperate in ridding this country of licentious literature.
A parallel pamphlet is also planned with publication scheduled for later in the year.—John McDevitt
Snite Gifts
On his last return trip to the University, Fred B. Snite, Jr., presented to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., and the University some precious relics which he brought back with him from his recent visit to the Grotto of Lourdes.
The relics consist of the following items: a letter by the hand of St. Bernadette on New Year’s day, 1859, only a few months after the last apparition; a group cf photographs of St Bernadette, one of which is now on display in the University Library; a piece of rock on which the Blessed Virgin stood
FRED SNITE, JR. — FROM LOURDES TO NOTRE DAME
during the apparition (this is a large piece, and was chipped off when the base was levelled for the statue that now occupies the niche); a small piece of rock from the grotto; and a piece of rosebush secured at the Grotto of Lourdes.
These are rare and interesting relics, and Mr. Snite’s generosity is deeply appreciated.
Extinct Daubers’ Club
Revived By Art Group
Prosperity may be still just around the corner for the rest of the United States, but it has arrived for Notre Dame, according to one omen observed during the past week. Last Monday evening the Art Club held an organization meeting which revived a body extinct since 1930. The boom year of 1929 saw it reach its peak, and then fold with the market crash. Now, under the patronage of the Prefect of Discipline it is under way again, and invites all- art students (B.F.A. majors) to enroll.
A constitution similar- to that of the old Daubers’ Club will be used, but the name is to be changed. Monthly meetings are planned, offering pleasant and informal opportunities for art students to discuss their subject with congenial club members. The first of these meetings will probably be a stag dinner or smoker. Tentative plans indicate sketching trips within a radius of ten miles or so, and perhaps a trip to Chicago to see some of the finer art exhibits there.
The club will be under the direction of Professors Hanley and Sessler, of the Art Department. The committee for organization is at present composed of Aloysius Redd, Elmer Kamm, and Joseph Rastatter.
Dome Data
The Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty moderator of the Dome, Thomas F. Carty, editor, and Bud Largo, art editor, went to Chicago on Tuesday, Oct. 10, to arrange the layout of the yearbook, and to plan a definite production schedule.
Associate Editor Kelly announced that the pictures of the Freshman and Sophomore Halls will be taken during the week of Oct. 23. The time at which each hall is to be photographed will be announced later.
Pictures of Junior Class members are being taken in Walsh Hall basement now.
Campus Capers Helped
Early Vaudeville Star
News of the revivial of student vaudeville at Notre Dame has spread even to far off New England. John Urban Riley of Cohasset, Mass., one of the star performers in our early vaudeville, heard of the new show being planned by the Knights of Columbus. In a letter to the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., he says, “When anyone here in the effete East asks me about Notre Dame, I always reply that I spent four- of the happiest years of my life there, and not the least of my happy memories are those of the Student Vaudeville we organized for Washington Hall.”
As proof that some valuable practical experience can be gained from participation in vaudeville, we again quote from Mr. Riley. “Six years ago, because of experience gained at Notre Dame, I was able to augment a depression income by managing what is now one of the most successful summer theatres in New England, and as a direct result, I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
am working on a project that involves the cooperation of a list of summer theatres selected from among the 152 to be found in the eight northeastern states.”
So if there’s anyone interested in valuable stage experience, not to mention one of those cash prizes, he’s asked to drop around to the K. of C. headquarters in the basement of Walsh Hall and sign up for student vaudeville.
—Sam Boyle
Bookmen Hold Elections,
Elect DeCoursey Prexy
William DeCoursey was elected secretary of the Bookmen at the meeting held Monday evening. DeCoursey has been outstanding in discussion and in his display of well-grounded knowledge in all contemporary literature.
The Bookmen laid plans for the semester’s program and selected the first books for the society’s library. These books were: God in an Irish Kitchen, by the Rev. Leo R. Ward; A Number of People, by Sir Edward Marsh; The Web and the Rock, by Thomas Wolfe; The Collected Poems of Gerard Manley Hopkins; and T. S. Eliot’s The Family Reunion.
Five students were admitted into the Bookmen. The new members are: Seniors, Ray Allen, Bob Stinger, and Joseph Ryan; Sophomores, Neel McCarty and Charles Kearney. The Bookmen will hold the next meeting at a local hotel; at this meeting new members will be formally inducted into the organization.
Extra! Freshman Hall
Edits Own Newspaper
The Town Crier of Freshman Hall moves into the fourth estate. Last week Volume 1, Number 1, of the Freshman Hall Weekly was hung on the bulletin board for an avid reading public. Under the editorship of Joe Stevens, the paper is expected to be an answer to the wailing need for communication on the northern front. Tending toward advertising, Joe has heavily spaced all of the pages with offers of personal services to its readers. Among the outstanding bargains are:
Freshmen!
Know the glories of your campus; learn of its lore and history; see the sunrise over beautiful St. Joseph’s lake. I personally conduct a cross-campus rim each morning, leaving Freshman Hall at 5:00 a.m. (Cavanaugh Hall at 5:01). Trip covers campus via both lakes. There is a small charge (10c) to cover this guide service. Enjoy a delicious shower upon return (no cover charge).
For further information inquire at Room 148.
Attention!
As you probably know all of us here at Notre Dame are not too blessed with the goods of this earth, namely funds for beer drinking. Now all of you men realize that beer drinking is a vital part of a Notre Dame man’s education and would not like to deprive any one of us from enjoying this so essential course. So I am going to ask each and every one of you to cooperate with me in helping me to obtain the money necessary for the purchase of great quantities of the amber fluid.
The plan that I have in mind is, in my estimation a good one, for I have something in mind that will be of interest to all of you men of Freshmen Hall. For the past eight summers I have been employed as a councilor in a girls camp. During this time I did considerable sewing and hem-stitching, with a little darning on the side, so if you men will be so kind as to bring me all your sewing it will enable me to pay off the remaining charges on my new electric sewing machine (and believe me fellows it’s a dandy) and of course enable me to participate in the festivities at Howell’s and like places. I sincerely hope that you, the men of Freshmen Hall, will help a fellow student who likes to have fun and etc.
148 .... Joe Stevens .... 148 Thanking you just loads,
I remain,
“Two Stitch” Stevens.
(Ed Note: “Runner Joe” Stevens is holding embroidery classes, evenings from 7:30 until 9:00 p.m.)
Freshman Hall — Freedom of the Press
Commerce Forum Fosters
New Placement Bureau
Do you want a job? That’s the question the Commerce Forum is asking Senior members; for this year, a placement bureau under the direction of A. F. Potenziani has been organized to se-sure post-graduate positions.
By contacting key industrial men, the Bureau hopes to arrange personal interviews for students. Both national and international firms are on the schedule, to assure that no fertile field will be overlooked. Close cooperation with the school placement bureau will be estab-, lished.
Questionnaires will be issued for general information. Since individual attention will be granted each student, a personal photograph is required for registration. These should be submitted before December 1.
An exchange of ideas between the Notre Dame Forum and other Commerce groups is being fostered, with an eye to the establishment of a National Commerce Forum. Work in this direction is in the hands of President Herb Connolly.
Academy of Science
On Monday evening, Oct. 9, the Notre Dame Academy of Science met for the 169th time. At this first meeting the following men were elected to office: Arthur D. Maddalena, president; William Clark, vice-president; Robert Fish, secretary; and Henry G. Armitage, Eugene Leonard, and John J. Gilrane were made members of the executive committee.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
FACULTY
Empire of “Rising Sun”
In Eclipse—Campbell
Japan’s political position among the nations of the world at present presents something of an anomaly. In the first
place her political philosophy is rooted in a mythological theology. The emperor i s divine and the Japanese people are the chosen of heaven, consequently the execution of
T. Bowyer Campbell an^ Scheme is conceived to be the direct wish and will of the emperor and the ordained destiny of the Japanese people and nation. It therefore behooves any clique, cabal, or political party to present their case and their aims as the fulfillment of the divine em
peror’s command. Superficially, this appears to be an evidence of national unity and solidarity, but as a matter of fact, it is the breeding ground of parties and groups struggling to achieve their own aims and discredit those of all other parties -within the nation, by claiming to represent exclusively the will of the
emperor.
(The writer, Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, was a member of the faculty of the University of St. John, Shanghai, for three years. From ttvo additional years of travel in China have come several novels and a deep insight into Far Eastern affairs.)
For instance, some years ago a group of naval zealots, declaring that they acted in the interest of the emperor, assassinated several members of the cabinet whom they declared to be traitors. Further, the war in China has been undertaken, perhaps blindly, to satiate the unquenchable ambitions of the army, and the diet and the cabinet were forced by this military jingoism to approve of the “China Incident,” although it impoverished the nation, involved Japan in a discreditable fashion with other nations of the world and jeopardized her best interests both economic, as the revoking of the American Treaty is an example, and diplomatically, as vitiating her position in the League of Nations and branding her as a treatybreaker. Yet inspired by her alleged divine ideology she plunges forward con
trary to her treaties and supposed international friendships and nobody knows whether she will attack undefended possessions of other people, such as French Indo-China, the Netherlands East Indies, or even Australia, as she attacked China.
In the second place, Japan claims to be a great political power, a great nation among nations, and has made every effort to associate herself diplomatically with the major powers of the world. She has been very proud to be able to boast of this accomplishment, achieved after an extraordinarily rapid emergence from a decadent feudalism less than a century ago. She allied herself -with the great powers in the punitive expedition against the Boxers in China in the summer of 1900. She engaged in a war with Czarist Russia from which she emerged the victor. She thrust herself, against the advice of the British Government, into the war of 1914, and sat at the Peace Table at Versailles. She became a member of the League of Nations, she signed the Open Door agreement with nine other nations, and also the Kellogg-Briant Pact. Yet she has jeopardized her good standing with other peoples by. jettisoning most of these agreements, thus beggaring her moral dignity. Here is seen the conflict between her religious political philosophy and her participation in the accepted international political life of the world.
Lastly, Japan is in a very difficult situation where her future is concerned. First, considering her maneuvers in China which brought her rather sharply up against Soviet interests, it yet remains to be seen what solution in the future Japan and Russia can work out. The present hiatus of active hostilities can not be taken as a settlement of the mutual problems of the two empires. Second, she has thrust her armies into China, and although occupying certain cities and lines of communication (chiefly utilized by western commercial interests rather than for the domestic necessities of the people of China), she has not conquered the Chinese people nor has she found a face-saving formula allowing her to withdraw.
In spite of her adherence with the Berlin-Rome axis she was plainly the cat’s paw of the Nazis and that has alienated her from her two most powerful and profitable potential friends, Britain and France, whose vast stakes in the Far East stood to serve her profitably. Whether her ambition, being a nation in raw products, to shift from peasant agriculturalism to industrialism can be accomplished without assistance from other nations is more than ever a question now that her treaty-breaking
exploits in Eastern Asia have lost her the sympathy and general commercial confidence of the powers possessing the raw products she so sadly needs and the added expense of a great and prolonged war paralyzes her economic and social life still further.' With all these things in mind, it is quite questionable if Japan can survive her imperial claims, political ambitions, and diplomatic blunders. Her position in the world today is highly problematical and it is quite possible she may destroy herself and sink again into a minor island people of no international importance.
—T. Boivyer Campbell.
Students asked to Join
South Bend French Club
The Alliance Francaise of South Bend has extended a sincere welcome to the students in French of the University of
Earl F. Langwell
Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College to take part in their activities, according to an announcement by Prof. Earl F. Langwell of the French department, who is also president of the Alliance.
The Alliance is an educational
organization for the study of French literature, culture and civilization. It is a member of the Federation of French Alliances in New York, a completely American institution, not subsidized in any way by outside sources. Meetings are held in the clubrooms at 228 W. Colfax Ave. (opposite the South Bend Tribune Building) on Wednesday evenings at 8:15, and usually consist in a short, interesting talk by French speaking residents of the community. Once a month a dinner meeting is held at 6:30 in the Hotel LaSalle, and an address delivered by. a distinguished visiting lecturer. This year the first dinner will be held next Wednesday, and the speaker will be Mr. Marius Jean of Chicago; his talk, Mon Grand-Oncle, Ma Soenr, et Mon Cinema promises to be whimsical and entertaining.
“The gracious invitation of the Alliance Francaise of South Bend to the students of Notre Dame,” said Mr. Langwell, “will afford our classes an excellent opportunity to hear spoken French and to complement the formal classroom instruction with outside programs of a most valuable nature.”
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1 I « 7
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
Donaid Driscoll, Art Editor
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Dos Angeles-—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall. Notre Dame. Indiana.
All-American fullback as a box-office attraction to lure Freshmen into the brotherhood of a particular fraternity house. On the contrary, the actions of the man who wears a monogram are usually weighed in the balance more carefully than those of the man who wears a plain sweater. From what we hear around the halls, and have seen at the games, John Kelly & Company have always taken things in stride, on and off the field.
But we were saying we admired the way Southern Methodist supporters absorbed what must have been a particularly disappointing defeat. If we have to render “Hail to Tech” or “On Northwestern” some five o’clock these Saturday afternoons, no honor will have been lost if we sing in the same jaunty style the Mustang band swung the “Victory March.”—William C. Fay
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff. 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
On a Saturday Afternoon
A GAME worth playing is worth winning. In intercollegiate football circles the term “good sportsmanship” often times covers up a multitude of half-effort and sham. The smiling loser is generally the consistent loser. But there was no trace of half-effort in the Southern Methodist team that blocked Harry Stevenson’s punt in the final seconds of last Saturday’s football game—and the jaunty Mustang band, which swung over to the Irish stands at the gun-crack, played the “Victory March” with no indication that a tough ball game had just been lost by the twitch of a toe.
The Mustangs can come back again, any time. They play hard football and they play to win. In two stadium ap- • pearances they have fought two of the most exciting games in Irish grid history. If, as we read in the papers, the Notre Dame football schedule is being narrowed gradually to a fixed card of “natural” opponents (Northwestern and Army and Southern California, for instance), it might be a good idea to find a permanent place for the Mustangs.
The senior class would elect them unanimously. No home game in the past four years—not even the 7-2 battle with Ohio State—built up to the climax that saw Jackie Sanders punch the tying point barely right off the posts.
Speaking of sportsmanship, did you notice Bob Saggau hopping along the sideline as the last 30 seconds ran off the clock? Instead of breaking for the dressing room he galloped onto the field to shake hands with Harry Stevenson— the man who had usurped his place at left half most of the afternoon.
In the Hollywood version of “The Spirit of Notre Dame” oui- left half was a prima donna with callouses on thumb and forefinger from scissoring press clippings. Saggau didn’t follow the script. He might have felt very sorry for himself The newspapers had elected him All-American in September. There it was the middle of October and a combination of injuries and Stevenson’s fine play had lost him his starting job—at least temporarily. But he was wildly happy the team had won—unperturbed by his own demotion . . . and in that he was already an All-American.
And speaking of All-Americans the senior class must be very well satisfied with its members on the varsity football team. Some of them may butcher a three-spade bid, or make too much racket in the showers, but they are no worse and no better than the fellow next-door. On a campus that has no fraternity houses a monogram can sometimes be more of a liability than an asset.
There is no tendency here to use an
The Flag, My Friend
WE WRITE this at the risk of being called a crank, a patriotic show-off, and a menace to the future happiness of all those who subscribe to “it’s a free country, ain’t it?” school of thought. But we feel that a regrettable situation has arisen in recent years, due solely to a careless and inconsiderate attitude on the part of many American people. The most glaring example of what we mean can be seen on any Saturday afternoon in the football stadia throughout the nation. Traditionally, at most schools, no football game begins until the national anthem has been played. At the first note the crowd rises, becomes fairly quiet, and looks around to see what all the commotion is about. Failing to discover anything exciting, our friends discuss punts and passes with their neighbors or beckon to the pop-corn vendor, completely oblivious of the fact that two or three policemen and a Boy Scout are standing at attention down on the field. The band stops, the crowd roars at something oi' other,, and the policemen and the the Boy Scout relax.
To put it briefly, there seems something mightly inconsistent in arguing peace, democracy, and liberty, while at the same time we fail to show proper respect to the most concrete symbol we have of these principles. Various veterans’ organizations have brought this situation to the attention of many people. We consider it our duty to remind •the students of their obligation.
—Donald A. Foskett
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
The Spirit of the Founders
A full text of the Founder's Day Sermon delivered by The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., at the Annual Founder's Day Mass, in Sacred Heart Church, October 13.
The thirteenth of October, the feast of St. Edward, king and confessor, is traditionally and solemnly observed at Notre Dame — that day being the pa-tronal feast of Father Edward Sorin, the chief founder* of the University. This solemn holiday would, however, be in vain if we did not think somewhat of its meaning, if we did not learn something of what it is meant to teach, if we did not take some inspiration from the heroism it commemorates.
It takes some effort for us to realize that less than a century ago there was no Notre Dame, to picture these grounds as being so recently a part of the primeval forest, in which the savage redmen roamed, as being such a short time ago a scene of wigwams and wilderness. The story of the transformation should be of abiding interest to the student of this school. From it he should learn to revere the memory of the men who, by the grace of God, have wrought the miracle of his Alma Mater. And in that story he may find for himself fine practical ideals of Christian life and Christian patriotism — ideals actually realized in the lives of the men who have founded and developed his University. Of course, in the few minutes we have we cannot do more than sketch the story in merest outline, noting chiefly the difficulties with which the founders had to contend.
On August 8, 1841, Father Edward Frederick Sorin, newly-ordained priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross, and six brothers of that religious community left France for America in response to a request made to the superior general of the Congregation by Bishop Helan-diere, of Vincennes, for missionaries and teachers for his vast diocese in the new world. In practice of the poverty they professed, these religious made the slow ocean trip as steerage passengers to New York and came thence by canal boat and stage coach to Vincennes, in Southern Indiana, spending in all two full months of weary and dangerous travel. They opened promptly two schools for boys near Vincennes, but a year or so later the Bishop offered them the tract of land here at Notre Dame, left to him by the pioneer missionary Father Stephen Badin, for educational purpose. The property would be given to them under condition that a novitiate
and a college be built within two years. The offer was accepted, and Father Sorin and his brothers set out at once, by ox-cart, braving for ten days the severity of one of the worst winters in the history of the State.
Arriving here toward the middle of the November* of 1842, they found nothing but a small log structure, in the woods to the south of St. Mary’s Lake, in which were a chapel and one living room. Their total wealth consisted of four hundred dollars and the promise of a thousand, with which to establish them-
Precursor
It is peaceful, too much so I say.
These fields have been quiet too long
And need to taste a bitter day
Before they greet another dawn.
Someone must prepare them
For fire and sword and shell.
Someone must tvarn them
Of the violence of hell.
So I rush madly about
And stamp and crush the grass And pierce the sky with frenzied shouts
To make the future pass.
—Jack Riley.
selves and build their college. They set to work at once, however, with as much spirit as if they had an abundance of
means.
For several months these seven religious had to sleep on the floor of their one poor room, with the winter’s snow sifting in upon them. During the whole first half of her history, indeed, Notre Dame felt severely the pressure of poverty. More than once the institution was on the point of being sold for debt. At one time the available operative capital of the community amounted to just fifty cents. At another time the horses were taken from the stable and sold to the highest bidder in order to satisfy an urgent creditor. Once after the college was built there was no food whatever for either the students or the community — a situation that was relieved by an
unexpected donation. Prejudice, also, was prompt in offering its discouragement. Some of the fervent non-Catho-lics of the neighborhood, alarmed at this sudden intrusion of Catholicity into their midst, threatened to burn the proposed college as soon as it was built.
In 1854 Notre Dame was visited by the terrible plague of cholera, which was then raging through the country and which for two months wrought death on the little community. Those who escaped the contagion were too few to serve medicine to the sick and bury the dead. Of those that survived, several were permanently disabled from active duty.
Through the Sixties and the Seventies the institution grew slowly, year by year, in numbers and strength — but just as the long, hard struggle for existence was relaxing into success, the fire of 1879 wrought in a few* hours the ruin of all that had been accomplished in the forty-six years. The destruction was practically complete and the insurance covered only a slight part of the loss.
The venerable founder, Father Sorin, then sixty-five years of age, had just started by way of Canada on a trip to Europe, in the interest of his Congregation. From Montreal he was called back to the ruins of his lifetime of labor. But Father Sorin was not the man to waste time in lamenting misfortune however dire. Reviving that splendid courage and energy of his youth, he set to work to build a greater Notre Dame on the ruins of the old. The fire occurred about the middle of April, and the students, who were loath to leave, were told that -a new college would be ready for them in September. When they returned they found the present main building awaiting them. Many other buildings have been added through the years since then, one by one as need required and means permitted, until we have the Notre Dame of today — humble in her origin, heroic in her days of trial, grateful in her present development, and hopeful that her future may be worthy of her past.
Surely we have reason to honor the memory of the men who with such odds against them have done so much in our behalf — the memory of Father Sorin, who as priest, dreamer, and builder was the genius of Notre Dame, the memory
—Turn to Page 22—
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Irish To Enter Navy Game With Full Strength Squad
Layden Warns Team Not To Give Middies Breaks
Into the Cleveland Municipal Stadium tomorrow will march the Navy, its full fighting force intact. Following closely on its heels will trot the squad of Notre Dame’s Irish. It is to be a football game on land, not a naval encounter at sea. Still, there are analogies to be made. The Midshipmen will use their dreadnoughts in the center of the line, their cruisers will guard the flank sector, the backfield can well take care of the aerial tactics.
Navy’s line has been built around Captain Allen Bergner, 220 pound tackle. As a running mate, Bergner has big Tom McGrath. The ends are Corbett and Burke. Last year Burke was responsible for many pass completions against Notre Dame. . He made Irish fans uncomfortable for four quarters until Notre Dame finally came through 15-0. Trimble, Witter, and Harwood stand ready in the center of the Navy line.
Short, stocky "Pumpkin” Wood, trouble-maker for the Irish these past two years, is again back, more adept than ever at slipping off tackle for first downs. Archie Mayo and Ralph Anderson return to harass opposition ■ with swift - exploding passes. Other prominent backs are Whitehead, Leonard, and Lenz.
The sailors never have been a team to consider lightly. During lean years down in Crabtown the great spirit of the corps overcomes lack of material. Remember 1937 — on a snow-covered field the Midshipmen fought the Irish to a standstill until Chuck Sweeney broke through to block the kick which spelled victory for Notre Dame, 9-7. Last year Navy opened up in the first half, threw 30 passes, and had Layden’s men running in circles for a while.
Against Southern Methodist, Notre Dame kicked too many extra points for the Mustangs. Although greatly improved over the previous two weeks, the Irish were inclined to give away some points. Coach Layden was intensely interested in cutting down on the charitable tendencies of his team during
practice sessions this week. Talking to the players, he stressed this point first:
“Charity is a wonderful virtue, granted. But, it is most virtuous when it begins at home. On the football field, two instances of our giving nature were displayed, not subtly, by a fumble and a blocked kick. Needless to say, those two misplays were potent factors in making up the final score.
“I think I have seen very few games comparable to the S.M.U. battle in clean, hard playing, sportsmanship, and spirit. We definitely want that kind of football, but we want a little less of the gift horse style of play.”
A little anxiety was expressed concerning the injured list. To any worries along these lines, Mr. Layden had this answer:
Last week Saggau, Hargrave, and Crimmins got needed rest. All three will be ready for all the action possible against the Navy. As for Zontini—he was shaken up last week, but will be in perfect shape for our coming game. The squad will go to Cleveland with every man ready to play ball. We will pit our full force against Navy.”
There will be a packed house for the big event in Cleveland tomorrow. Notre Dame’s Irish meet Navy’s Midshipmen. It’s a natural rivalry. Two fighting teams, two well-trained teams, two undefeated teams. Notre Dame goes out to turn back the plunging heavy-boat type fullbacks, to knock down the football bombs thrown by quick-moving halfbacks, to sink the Navy. Then we’ll think of the Scotchmen.—John Patterson
Jots between dots. . . .
Allen Bergner, Navy captain, has won awards in four Navy sports during the past two years. The big fellow has starred in football, wrestling, lacrosse, and boxing. . . . the Middies’ starting line will average 204 lbs., while the backfield will average 175 lbs. . . . Major “Swede” Larson, Navy coach, was captain of the 1921 Navy team and was center on Walter Camp’s 1921 second All-American team. . . . Harold Harwood, Navy center, is one of the best in the East.
Can Stevenson Run th
Navy stopped Harry Stevenson’s thrusts at tach scored touchdowns to win the Battle of Baltimore, li loose tomorrow?
The Starting
Notre Dame	Navy -
Kerr...........L.E.........Hansen Gallagher '.......L.T......Bergner (C) DeFranco ....L.G................. McGrath
McIntyre ...........C..........  Harwood
Riffle ............R.G.......... Trimble
Harvey ............R.T.............   Opp	,
J. Kelly (C) .....R.E............. Burke
Sitko ............  Q.B............. Wood	। C
Stevenson ........ L.H............ Gebert	f	j
Zontini ..........  R.H.......... Malcolm	la
Piepul ............F.B.............. Gray	C
Cleveland Municipal Stadium — 80
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
die Navy Blockade?
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
tickle last year, but Bob Saggau and Joe Thesing , 15-0. Will a harder-running Stevenson break
ig Lineups
-	Time—1 p.m. (CST).
Place—Cleveland Municipal Stadium.
Attendance—78,899.
Referee—L. Dilweg (Marquette).
Umpire—H. G. Hedges (Dartmouth).
Linesman—Herb Steger (Michigan. Field Judge—Dick Bray (Xavier).
Coaches—Elmer F. Layden, Notre Dame;
Capt. E. E. Larson, U.S.M.C., Navy.
Radio Broadcasts—WHK-WCLE, Cleveland and MBS; WTAM Cleveland; WGAR Cleveland; WLW Cincinnati.
• 80,000 Will Watch the Irish
Theoretically, a fullback is not the most important cog in a Notre Dame backfield. All action centers around the capabilities of the left-half whose performance is supposed to determine the fate of the team. Our l.h.b. post was ably handled last week by Harry Stevenson and Benny Sheridan, but the king-pin role was usurped by a fullback. Whether we needed a yard or five, whether’ the blockers had done a good job or not, whether there was a hole or not, we had a fullback who had the stuff to come through. There’s no secret to Milt Piepul’s success. Big, burly, and tough, he’s a typical bone-crushing back. But in addition, he runs with the niftiness of a 175 lb. half; he keeps that head up until he find a hole, churns through it, and then drives for the goal line. Once he was through that Methodist line it generally took at least two men to bring him down. It was almost like tempting Providence when Elmer sent Milt in during the last quarter with the count 4th down and one to go. There was no deception. The Methodists knew Milt would carry the ball, and they knew the type of play he would run on, but the couldn’t do anything about it. Milt made the yardage with the whole Southern Methodist team set for him.
Of course Milt didn’t do it all by himself. His effectiveness was enhanced by the brilliant running of our halves off the Methodist flanks. They kept the defense spread out to guard against sweeps, and meanwhile Mr. Piepul was slicing through the middle for chunks of yardage. While we’re riding this Piepul band-wagon it might be well to look around and discover the reason for all this grade A fullbacking. It won’t take long. There’s a fellow around here who was quite a fullback in his day and the chances are he was able to give Milt a few pointers. Back in ’24 Elmer was a different type of fullback—lithe and wiry, he depended on his speed for quick knifing thrusts through the slightest crevices in the enemy line. With Piepul as a pupil Mr. Layden must have had to use the Savoldi technique. He of the wrestling Savoldis had one favorite method of getting two yards which we haven’t seen Milt use as yet. Joe used to dive high over the pile in moments of stress, thus netting Notre Dame many a touchdown. As time goes on we may see a little more of this Savoldi influence creeping into the Piepul era.
We see that: — Ken Kavanaugh won
another ball game for L.S.U., and by the same method too. Ken took a pass over his shoulder while racing into Rice’s end zone. In this game as well as the Yale-Penn affair, the beaten teams lost because they fumbled into the end zone while in the act of scoring a touchdown. Ernie Lain performed the ‘feat’ for Rice, while Hovey Seymour obliged for Yale. — The outstanding performance of last week’s football saturnalia was the Merriwell-feat of Tom Harmon, Michigan’s All-American boy. As a running back Tom must have convinced lowans that he was the oft-mentioned irresistible force. Since Iowa, however, was not the immovable object, a possible solution to this age-old problem of logic was not attained. Thanks to Harmon’s four touchdowns and trio of points after, Michigan’s afternoon was not a total flop anyway. — This Harmonized Michigan team seems a shoo-in to win the Big-Ten title — bar accidents to Crisler’s bread - and - butter boy. The rub is that a player who’s on the spot like Harmon is more likely to get hurt than not. The great Fritz Pollard found this out while playing for Brown a couple of decades ago. In fact Fritz was the object of all the ‘accidental’ bumps dealt out by Brown’s opponents. In one early season game Brown was meeting a smaller school. The underdogs met in solemn conference before the game and decided that their chances of winning over the Bruins would be greatly improved if Mr Pollard didn’t remain in the game very long. Oh well, boys will be boys! So, when Fritz, got the ball and smacked into the line for the first time—. After that, the smaller school was very much in the ball game. —Let it be clearly stated, however, that this column does not condone such conduct. If you are playing a hard game of football and the urge comes to slug someone, just remember this: there are “eleven” men on the other team!
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Navy Alabama over Tennessee Army over Yale
Holy Cross over Brown Nebraska over Baylor Harvard over Penn California over Washington State Columbia over Princeton Georgia Tech over Vanderbilt Ohio State over Minnesota Northwestern over Wisconsin Tulane over North Carolina
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing by Pete Sheehan
Bud Kerr was a prominent figure on the Newburgh Free Academy football field every Saturday afternoon a few years ago. The fans enjoyed his exploits on the gridiron. But Bud did not rush down under punts, catch passes, or heckle the enemy wing backs. He marched behind the Newburgh drum major, clutched a gold-plated instrument in his hands, and saved his breath to entertain the spectators. Bud Kerr rode to glory on a trumpet!
After Saturday’s game Bud was tempted to linger awhile and listen to that S.M.U. jam session. He had always liked music. The high school band leader used to borrow him from the football coach every Saturday and Kerr will tell you that his grid mentor never raised any objections. The music lover, not the football enthusiast, was sad when Bud received his diploma.
A factory job was Bud’s first duty after graduation. He was forced to work for awhile before continuing his education but every day as he went back and forth from his job he used to think and talk football. The idea of emulating Clyde McCoy or Henry Busse had been discarded long since. Ever since Bud had first been able to read the daily sports page, Notre Dame football players had been his heroes.
When the hour of Bud’s
departure for Notre Dame arrived his fellow townsmen told him that they would try to spot his trumpet when the music of the Notre Dame band was broadcast between the halves. They never imagined that Bud would play football. If the Newburgh residents had heard of the Southern Methodist Swing Band they, no doubt, would have urged him to continue his education at the Dallas institution.
Unknown, Bud arrived upon the campus in the Fall of 1936. Shortly after Freshman practice had begun the coaches and students were watching this big blonde left end. When Spring rolled around they were talking about him.
Although he did not win a monogram in his Sophomore year, the Hudson River boy became known to Fighting Irish fans when he stood up like a veteran against the Army during forty minutes of the gruelling battle.
Last year he saw plenty of action behind All-American Earl Brown. In the Carnegie Tech battle, it was he who carried the ball over the goal line on an end-around play for the game’s only touchdown.
This year the experts are comparing Kerr’s defensive play to the sterling work of Chuck Sweeney, and his pass catching ability is rated as high as Millner’s and Brown’s. End coach Joe Benda has his fingers crossed but he
would like to have his third all-American end in as many seasons as end coach here.
Bud has not given up his music. He now plays the guitar and together with saxaphonist Mike Corgan, his roommate, provides plenty of entertainment for the dead end kids from Lyons Sub.
Bud played basketball and baseball back home but has not participated in these sports since he enrolled here He doesn’t mind the bumps he receives on the gridiron because he was Hudson Valley’s champion ice skater during his early high school days and took many a spill while practicing.
Statistics: Born in Tarrytown, New York. Now resides in Newburgh. Full name—William Howard Kerr. Weight 194 pounds; height, 6 feet 1 inch. An honor student in Physical Education, Bud hopes to teach the Notre Dame, system after his graduation in June.
Interhall Tournament
Started in Memorial
Entries opened today at the busy Rockne Memorial in two more tournaments, freshman handball and freshman foul shooting. A frosh swimming meet was concluded last night.
Entries will close next Friday with competition starting Monday, Oct. 30.
As far as could be learned, the intramural tournament in foul shooting will be the first of its kind in the University’s history. Each player may have as many practice throws as he wishes, but when he’s ready to go, his shots must be continuous. According to tentative plans, each competitor will be given fifty shots, twenty-five the first day and the same number on another day.
Memorial Director Tommy Mills urges all freshmen to compete in either of the two tournaments and if possible, both. The experienced leader said, “I’ve seen many boys who weren’t good basketball players, but whizzes at making free throws.”
There are a number of baskets available for practice. On the third floor there is a huge court for different games. Besides two basketball courts separated by cord backstops, there are two baskets at each end of the floor for practice shooting only. There are also two badminton courts, one large and one small volley ball court, and one regulation-sized indoor tennis court. There is also room on the floor for* ping-pong and archery tournament.
Competition in the handball tournament will be restricted to singles play.
Kelleher Vows It Takes
Practice to Placekick
Back in Lorain, Ohio, high school football coach Earl McCaskey told his players the art of kicking helped a lot ' in making up for lack of size. One of these hopefuls with no surplus of avoirdupois was John Kelleher, present 155-pound second string Notre Dame quarterback. Although the Irishman didn’t make the football team, he had started kicking field goals anyway. Four years ago he came to Notre Dame. He kept kicking. Last year he was on the fifth team. Moved up this year behind Steve Sitko, he continued his high school coach’s advice.
Came the Purdtfe game and the true “Frank Merriwell” reward arrived. With the score tied 0-0, a huge crowd of 40,000 in the overt stadium, John converted from the 15-yard line.
Down in his room in Morrissey sub,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
John admitted that kick was his greatest thrill. Even his game-winning point after touchdown in the S.M.U. game does not eclipse this thrill. But when he missed his first attempt earlier in the game, it made him mighty sad.
Asked how he gained his skill in the art of placekicking, the gum-chewing, pre-med generalissimo replied, “Practice.” He used the form Mr. Layden teaches his players: two steps and the ball should be travelling end-over-end toward the pay-off vacuum.
In the stands tomorrow at the Navy game will be another Kelleher, William A. “Bill” Kelleher, Notre Dame monogram man in football and basketball in ’12, ’13, and ’14. “Bill” is also John’s father, and exerted the proper Notre Dame influence ever since the second Kelleher was two years old—at least that’s the age John said he started wanting to come to the Notre Dame plains.
John practices about 30 minutes each Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday on his art and about 15 minutes before the game. He has played about 30 minutes this year and needs 30 more for his monogram. He’s hopeful, and so are we.—John E. Lewis
Unbeaten Navy Eleven
May Surprise Laydenmen
When “Billy,” Navy’s famous goat, leads the Midshipmen onto the field tomorrow at Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium, 80,000 fans will be looking at a team with a host of good backs, a very strong defensive line and a squad of ball players capable of upsetting anybody’s dope bucket.
The middies’ deception isn’t anything to brag about, nor are they noted for good secondary blocking, but Layden knows from experience that playing a Navy football team is like playing with fire in a big gasoline tank. They are apt to explode any minute.
Louis E. Burke, Jr., a senior tipping the scales at 190 pounds and a letterman from the 1938 team, will hold down the right end spot for the sailors. They say he is big and rugged and is a natural 60 minute player. All of which should keep Bud Kerr plenty busy.
Harold (Swede) Hansen, a former backfield man, is expected to use his 225 pounds to advantage at left end. He was outstanding in his pass defense work against all Navy opponents last year and his play so far this season has been commendable.
Richard Opp, Jr., will start at right tackle. He is reputed to be rangy and
rugged and is counted on to be a real tower of strength in the Navy line. He weighs 200 pounds and towers 6 ft. 2% in.
Navy’s only starting Irishman, Thomas P. McGrath, is said to be a real power on both offense and defense. He is reported to be at his best when the going is hardest. If that’s the case he should go like a house afire.
An Evansville, Ind., boy, Bex A. Trimble, Jr., will start at right guard. We’ve heard little about this man. but he is said to be big and strong and carries out his assignments well. Incidentally, he is the only Hoosier on the starting eleven.
Who’ll Be Goat Tomorrow?
Lois P. Gray, one of the Midshipmen’s hardest hitting and running backs, will probably give the Irish more trouble than they may want. He’s from Houston; Texas, and Texans always are tough on N.D. football men. He weighs 185 pounds and is 5 ft. 11 in. tall.
One of Navy’s few starting seniors will be Everett A. Malcolm. He is one of the least heralded backs who is expected to give a good account of himself tomorrow. He is a hard running wing back and throws ’em left handed.
The middies only starting sophomore back is Wesley R. Gebert, Jr., a fast stepping, shifty type runner as well as an excellent kicker. He weighs only 167 lbs., but dynamite still comes in small packages.
Emmett W. Wood, quarterback and spark plug of the Navy offense may view proceedings from the sidelines tomorrow. Injuries received in last week’s Dartmouth battle are not as yet healed. He is serving his third and last year on the Navy varsity.
Captain Allen A. Bergner, 215 pound tackle, will be on the firing line when
the whistle blows. Notre Dame teams from the past know this boy is mighty tough.
The cards are dealt. Who’ll garner the first trick?—James G. Newland.
THE SCORE BOARD

PUNTS
Player Punts Yards Av.
Saggau .......... 9	431	48
Bagarus ......... 1	33	33
Stevenson ...... 19	592	31
Piepul .......... 4	119	30
Zontini ........  1	21	21
RUNS ’
Player Times Yards Av.
Sheridan ...... 5	36	7
Piepul ......  21	126	6
Bagarus ....... 5	19	4
Juzwick .....   3	13	4
Stevenson .....17	64	3^
Thesing .......25	94	3%
Zontini .......33	115	3%
Crimmins ......12	29	2%
McGannon ...... 7	20	3
Leonard .....   2	7	Sis
Saggau ........32	65	2
PASSES (Throwing)
Player	Times	Comp. Av.	Yds.
Sheridan .... 1	1 1000	7
Stevenson ___11	5 .454	113
Saggau ...... 5	2	.400	41
McGannon .... 2	0	___ _______
RUNBACKS (Punts and Kickoff)			
Player	Times	Yards	Av.
Thesing 			 1	23	23
Piepul 			 1	18	18
Zontini 			 1	16	16
Sitko 						 7	78	11
Kelleher 			 1	7	7
Hargrave ....		 1	2	2
McGannon ...		 1	2	2
TOTAL YARDS GAINED
Player	Times	Yards	Av.
Kerr 			 5	85	17
O’Brien 			 1	11	11
Sitko 			 9	78	8^2
Hargrave ...		 2	16	8
Piepul 			22	144	7
Sheridan .....		 5	36	7
Thesing 			28	139	5
Zontini 			40	172	4
Bagarus .....		 5	19	4
Stevenson ...		18	66	3%
Saggau 				24	82	3
Kelly —......		 2	7	3^
McGannon .		 8	22	3
Leonard 			 2	7	3^
Crimmins ...		13	29	2
McIntyre .....		 1	2	2
16	The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The Liturgy of this Sunday is a practical application of the doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ. The Sunday is dedicated to the Missions, those “other sheep,” potential members of the Mystical Body. “That they all may be one, as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee; that they may also be one in us.” (John 17, 21).
Pope Pius XI declared the Missions to be “the greatest and holiest of all Catholic undertakings.” He gave the plan of operation in the encyclical Rerum Ecclesiae (28 Feb. 1926). He established the second last Sunday of October as Mission Sunday. Its observance was to take the form of a solemn votive mass for The Propagation of the Faith, the collect from the same mass to be added in private masses, (the Bishops so ordering); the sermon of the day, and a collection to be taken up for the work of the missions. Thus by prayer and good works all should unite to sustain both spiritually and materially the advance guard of the faith, the sowers of the Word.
This week the Liturgy further witnesses to our spiritual inheritance: Thursday, St. Raphael, Archangel, in his own words “one of the seven who stand before the throne of God”; Saturday, Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles,’ who preached the Gospel in the East, suffered martyrdom in the same place, and whose names are mentioned together in the first list in the Canon of the Mass.
Mass Calendar: October 22-28
Sunday, 22—Twenty -first after Pentecost. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers, 4th, For the Propagation of the Faith.
Mission Sunday. The Solemn mass may be the votive mass for the Propagation of the Faith. 2d prayer, of the Sunday. Preface of the Trinity. Last Gospel of the Sunday.
Monday, 23—Ferial Day. Mass of the preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d, the Faithful Departed. 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 2k—St. Raphael, the Archangel. Mass proper. Credo.
Wednesday, 25—Sts. Chrysanthus and Darias, Martyrs. Mass proper, 2d pray
er, of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 26—St. Evaristus, Pope, Martyr. Mass, Statuit (in Common) 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Friday, 27—The Vigil of Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles. Mass proper. No Gloria. 2d prayer, of the Blessed Virgin (Concede) 3d, for the Church or the Pope, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 28—Feast of Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles. Mass proper. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Met Club Prepares For
Annual Army Game Trip
A §300 treasury surplus featured the opening meeting of the Metropolitan Club, Wednesday night. Treasurer Larry Bracken reported that this was the first time since 1935 that the club has been in the black.
President Doug Bangert revealed that the club obtained the permission of the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, to run a student trip to New York for the Army game. “The cost,” he said, “is $24.85 for the round trip by coach, exclusive of game tickets.” The train leaves South Bend at approximately 5:30 p.m., November 2. It will return to Notre Dame in time for Monday morning classes. No cuts will be excused.
It was also announced that the club has given a $100 scholarship this year to a deserving member. This was the highlight of last year’s work and the . club will attempt to make two such .
awards next year.
Plans for the annual Christmas dance were discussed. Myles Walsh was selected general chairman, and John Martin.
’ financial head to guard the $300. The reports of the various committees will be heard at the next meeting.
Columbus Remembered
In Murals By Gregori
Columbus Day found ample exhibitions at the University: In the Main building, Brother Angelus, C.S.C., head guestmaster, and his corps of student assistants displayed the 12 outstanding works of Luigi Gregori, noted Italian painter, while the Library proudly exhibited a book once owned by Columbus.
The paintings in the lobby of the
main floor of the Main Building depict various stages in the life and history of Columbus—and are said to have the likenesses of well-known men in Notre Dame history. In the sixth portrait of Columbus discovering land, the late Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., president of the University in 1882 when the paintings were made, and Professors Stase, Lyons and Edwards are included. Father Walsh is Columbus in the mural.
The first portrait is of Columbus, the second depicts Queen Isabella, and the third shows Columbus and his son at the gate of the convent. Father Diez blesses Columbus in the next scene while another shows the mutiny at sea. The others shown are: Columbus taking possession of the new world; his presentation at the court (which includes a selfportrait of the artist); Bobadilla betrays Columbus; the death of Columbus; and individual portraits of the Father Protector and Treasurer of Aragon.
The Murals were painted in 1882 when Gregori visited Notre Dame; In the Library is the Opera of Giovanni Pico Della Mirandula, which has a spot of prominence in the main aisle. The book, once owned by Columbus, is believed to have been written in 1503.
Pittsburgh Club Plans
Carnegie Tech Special
A Pittsburgh rooting contingent 38 strong is expected to leave the campus at 4 o’clock next Friday afternoon bound for the Carnegie Tech game, Edward G. Huff, president of the Pittsburgh campus club, announced yesterday.
If present plans follow through, the trip will be made by bus, with departure from Pittsburgh scheduled for 11 o’clock Sunday morning. The round trip fare is $8.50. A limited number of $3.30 seats —perhaps one for each bus passenger— will be available. Reservations can be made with Edward Huff, in Room 1, Sorin Hall.
St. Louis Soccer Team
Wins Two—Record Intact ■ Norv Hunthausen’s St. Louis soccer team retained its undefeated status last week by defeating two more challengers. The La Raza Club was the first to go down before the St. Louisans, losing 5-0, while three days later the All Stars, a group of outstanding players from the various halls on the campus met the same fate to the tune 3-0.
Two more games are scheduled for the coming week with a return game against the strengthened La Raza Club a highlight.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
YOUR RELIGION
If religious questions, theology, lie at the basis of all controversies or discussions that get down to first principles and pre-suppositions, it can only be because something essential to religion is the final criterion of both truth and action. That essential element is God, Who brought all things into existence and stamped upon each its distinctive nature, gave to each its mode of activity and detemined the end of its being. While it is true that religions divide men, religion unites them. Men have been willing to fight and to die in defense of one or other form of religion. Religious wars have been of all wars the most fiercely fought, and quarrels over religious doctrine have ever been the hardest to heal. But what is all this but evidence that in the judgment of men religion is of supreme worth?'
Given man’s rational nature, it could not be otherwise. It so happens that human actions are not determined by the moral law, as are the actions of inanimate things and of brute animals by the physical law. The latter necessitates action by the agent; the former respects the freedom of the agent. The robin sings as it does because God made it so. Chemical elements combine as they do because such is the nature and mode of action given them by the Creator. In this sphere there is no choice. But whenever a man acts as a man, with foreknowledge of the end of his action and with deliberation upon the means to be used, he selects one in preference to another, he displays the possession of freedom of choice. He displays too his ability to make value judgments, to recognize that not all things are of equal worth. He knows things not only as they are in themselves, but also in their several relations to one another. He discovers that in the objective world there is an “order of things,” that its multitudinous individuals are so constructed and arranged that one ministers to another, one depends upon and is subordinated to another, so that while each fulfills its own function, it conspires with all the rest toward the reaching of some common end and purpose.
Next, he realizes that he too is a part of this order, related to other beings in certain definite ways. He learns that, whereas other earthly creatures serve one another, he can make them all serve him; that he is above them and so not made for them, but they for him. From such observation and reflection comes the realization, common to all peoples, that at the apex of this hierarchy of things there must be a Supreme Being
to Whom all owe their existence and toward Whom all tends. On this, as Comparative Religion shows, all the races of men agree; on this they are all united. It constitutes that irreducible minimum of belief in the supernatural which is meant by the term Religion. Religions, and the strife between them, result from the variant conceptions men have of the nature of this Supreme Being, and of how He may most suitably be served.
Religion, or as Belloc says, theology, the science of religion, lies at the basis of all controversy because God, its object, is at once the source of all being, and therefore of all truth—which is nothing more than a relation of conformity of the mind to being—and the ultimate end of human action and so of man. The supreme object of religion is also the supreme object of conduct. As it is needed to satisfy the mind’s craving to know the reason for the existing world, so it is also needed to satisfy the will’s craving for the possession of a good that can fully and finally justify its choices. He therefore who even raises the question about the importance of religion shows that he has not as yet apprehended the fact, which even the untutored peoples of the wilderness have done, that without it, life has no meaning, conduct no ultimate goal, and mankind no grounds of hope.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
L E M O NI fi E E S
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
Skate for Health... and Enjoyment... PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK (Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every Night Except Monday — Matinee Sunday and Thursday Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club”
At the price we sell Pipes, we can hardly afford to wrap 'em!
DR. GRABOWS
Everywhere else £1.00
Our Price Only a Buck!
jjruoonerV
• NEWS QjCORNER '
Maim amd
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Louie Bruggner, N. D. *23
"GOD IN AN IRISH KITCHEN"
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
“Readable and lively story of The Celt today ... a nostalgic charm at once contagious and delightful.” — Scholastic Review.
A story of the Irish at home in Ireland — and it has been said that “the Irish are good copy.” £2.50
You'll enjoy this book and remember it!
N. D. BOOKSTORE
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
VINCENTIANS
A typical phrase heard Sunday mornings through the Knights of Columbus lounge at about 11 o’clock and after is “May I suggest?” To this observer it is typical because it stands for the nature of the group meeting in Walsh Hall, a group of Vincentians in which each member contributes something to the functioning of the whole.
If we were to drop into the meeting Sunday we would find something like this: Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., spiritual adviser of the Conference, opens the meeting with prayer followed by the spiritual reading, President Joe Mul-queen (Sioux City, Iowa) calls upon Tom Kennedy of New Rochelle, N. Y. as secretary to read the minutes of the last meeting. These approved, the president asks for the report of the treasurer, Ed Corey (Skiatook, Oklahoma), who says that the annual report of the Conference has been made up and turned into the superior council. Mr. Corey will comment in detail upon the financial report next week.
Mr. Mulqueen then swings into the less formal part of the meeting with: “Now the Conference would like a word from the 'dean’ of the Healthwin group, Mario Peroni. Have you got some news of the boys this week, Mario?”
“Yes, I have Joe. Tuesday afternoon some of us in the Conference here went out to Healthwin and visited the men recuperating. We were driven out to the Sanatorium by one of the South Bend ladies who is so helpful in providing transportation and in bringing cheer to the fellows at Healthwin. I would like some magazines and the book section of the New York Times to bring to the men as we go around out there.”
Mr. Mulqueen, satisfied that one of the most important works of the Conference has been taken care of, turns his attention to St. Augustine’s, the colored parish of South Bend.
“Paul Hackman, what arrangements have been made to provide missals for St. Augustine’s? Does our Conference library need a new supply and will we keep up the work of furnishing Our Sunday Visitor to the parish? You have that information as conference librarian?”
Cleveland’s Paul Hackman reports that St. Augustine’s has the missals supplied as last year and that Our Sunday Visitor has been ordered. Mr. Hackman announces further that N. D. Vincentians are at ■ St. Augustine’s each Sunday morning.teaching catechism.
Limited space requires that this description of a meeting of the Notre
Dame Conference be continued next week.—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
THE BANDSTAND
Observation Department: The band of tomorrow is “Woody” Herman and his “Band that Plays the Blues,” to these eyes. The “blues” are not coming back; they are here. “Woody” is a Marquette boy and his Irish titled vocalist, Mary Ann McCall, is Jewish. Her favorite pastime is dyeing her hair to fit the surroundings. I saw her a brunette in Boston, and a redhead two days later at the Famous Door.
Notes: Did you know that Charlie Barnet’s father was vice - president of the New York Central Railroad? Bob
Chester, Tommy Dorsey’s protege, is skyrocketing to the top of the orchestra world. Glen Miller recordings are outselling Goodman and Shaw. Tommy Dorsey recently signed a contract with Victor to make 52 recordings within the next year. Tommy, by the way, will spend the winter season in Chicago instead of New York, because of the competition that Goodman, Shaw, Miller, et al, would present.
Addenda: “Teddy” Powell and his $23,000 orchestra made an auspicious
HOWELL'S CAFE
Notre Dame Headquarters for FINE FOOD
Your favorite Beer, draft or bottle.
211-213 N. MICHIGAN ST.
BERMAN’S
/or

SPORTJ GOODS!
Comlete line of Shotguns, Rifles and Ammunition for the hunting season.
108 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
getaway at the Famous Door last week. Now that Bunny Berigan has filed bankruptcy, it would not surprise this column if he joined Benny Goodman. Benny has been having his share of trouble finding men since his former stars have started bands of their own. The band of the mid-west: Dick Jurgens. The reason: vocalist Eddie Howard. The man
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
In The
SHOE DEN for MEN
In brown or black Scotch grain. Leather or crepe soles.
See our Campus representatve, Fio Lopardo, and ask him about these Fine, Sturdy SHOES for hearty campus wear.
120 S. Michigan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
packs that certain something into a song. Del Courney’s band is meeting approval everywhere they go. Their style is adapted for dancers and not the “Jitterbugs.”—George F. Grogan.
MUSIC NOTES
Karl Hunn and his band, a group of twelve swing artists who have dedicated themselves to the presentation of the best dance music, are now ready to be recognized. They will play in Cleveland tomorrow night at Wade Park Manor, located at 107th St. at Euclid Ave. Dancing will start at nine o’clock; admission is $1.50 the couple.
Those who attended the Victory Dances have been thoroughly pleased by their music, and the orchestra deserves great respect. It is more than just a good college dance band.
If any band is to raise itself above mediocrity it must be built around players possessing sound technical ability. Only in this way can an individual style be developed. Karl Hunn’s band is well equipped in this respect. Each member is qualified to play arrangements which give the band color and distinction.’
Karl Hunn is master. Besides playing first tenor, Karl writes all those arrangements which catch the ear so delightfully. The next time you hear the Hunn ensemble, take particular note
of Ravel’s “Bolero,” “Sea Breeze,” “My Prayer,” “South of the Border,” and “Man in His Dreams.” It is Karl who decides on instrumentation and all the details of interpretation. Members of the band seldom question his judgment in matters of swing!
The man with the baton is Bob Henegan. Besides being front man, Bob carries the vocal on the sweeter numbers. Stan Huff is a new and a powerful addition to the trumpet section. He and Bob Robinett, trombone, do the solo work in the brass department. Gene Quinn and Chunk Schmied, second and third trumpet, respectively, complete the brass choir. Julie Bercik and Bob Richardson on alto sax, to-gether with leader Karl and Chuck Kennedy, tenor sax, supply the reed support. Karl and Julie take the rides. The percussion section is made up of Carl Quinn, drams, Tom Delia, guitar, and Bob Sinon, piano. This accumulation of jive masters is capable of giving a very solid treatment to all the modern melodies.
RADIO
The October 7 issue of the Billboard, a weekly magazine of amusement trade news, contains an article which everyone interested in radio work should read. It deals with the difficulties experienced
in auditions by young actors, singers, and instrumentalists attempting to crash the gates of radio chains.
The chief complaints of audition heads, interviewed by the writer of the article, were that talent too often tries to outdo itself on auditions; comes without adequate preparation; doesn’t know its best metier; and, what is probably most important, doesn’t realize that, because of the tremendous supply of talent available to the network stations, being just good or even very good is not suffi-
LIFESAVER
FOR POOR MEMORIES
THE HUDDLE
Pipe Headquarters" on the Campus
South Shore Trains Leave Every Hour on the Hour, 6 A. M. to Midnight • (Exception — 6:50 A.M.)
hr" OANOWSK'
ED- DAN
A THRILL TO SMOKE THE
\ DESIGNED 8Y > PHYSICIAN -OR > 3E
JNKMAN =gQDU
For all star performance choose Dr. Grabow— the pipe of champions.
DrGRABOW
BREAKING IN • NO BITE • NO BITTER TASTE
6EMUMEBRUUI BOWL
~S.PAT.Oft-’ PIPE
nso
L * nnuj
—ONLY ___________________________________________ R. GRABOW Pipes are presmoked with fine tobacco (EDGEWORTH) to break them in by Linkman's Exos. SSMOWS elusive Pipe Smoking Machine-PATLNTU) CLUNES MADE BY M. LINKMAN * CO„ CHICAGO
For complete information CALL C. V. VEACH City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan Street Phone 3-3111
CHICAGO SOUTH SHDOA * SOUTH MHO WAIT SOAP

20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
cient. The really successful radio artist will first gain experience and learn his own limitations and strong points by work in a small station.
The large network stations in New York and Chicago are no place for the amateur, no matter how talented. For when the strain of the audition is on, the inexperienced actor or singer is usually too tense to give a good account of his talents. Often, he is a poor judge of what material will suit him best. Another fault that many managers find with those trying to break into the big time is that they are unable to take fair, constructive criticism.
Log for the Week of Oct. 22
Oct. 24: 7:00—Radio Stage
Oct. 24: 9:15—Music of the Masters
Oct. 25: 7:45—Faculty Talk
Oct. 26: 4:15—Academy of Politics
Oct. 26: 7:30—Sportscast
Oct. 27: 4:15—Periscope
Oct. 28: 7:30—Little Jamboree
—Ray Kelly
THEATRE
The cinema fare downtown these weekends makes us doubly thankful that we have home football games to keep us on the campus. After this past weekend we are at least triply thankful.
“Fifth Avenue Girl.” . . . Here is a
South Bend's Largest Selection of ARROW SHIRTS
Oxfords and Broadcloths in al! collar styles. Featured are Halyard stripes, at §2.25, and the Hitt, a fine white shirt at §2.
M'X ADLER Michigan at Washington
fairly new plot. You’ve probably only seen it a few hundred times. We wish we had one of Rockefeller’s dimes for each time we’ve groaned through the sad tale of the poor rich family who get no fun out of life till someone from the other side of the tracks shows them how. In fact we are thinking of nominating Mr Grimm as the prize script-writer of the year. His tale of Cinderella has been the most used story of the year. However, this picture is exceptional in that it has Ginger Rogers with new life and zest for this old theme.	’
“Thunder Afloat.” ... At a time when the Athenia disaster is still fresh in our minds, and while submarine attacks occur- daily this is a timely picture. Here the virtues of this submarine saga end. It is not only a poor melodrama which
Follow Arrow And You Follow The Style
His Master's Choice
N Arrow combination hard to beat is this AEROLANE feature . . . Arrow shirt ($2) and Arrow tie ($1) .. . both made precisely for each other. This distinctive spaced stripe broad-
cloth shirt, tailored by Arrow, will win many compliments for you. Get yours today, in colors, blue, tan and green— all sizes. Sanforized Shrunk (Fabric shrinkage less than 1%).
ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS . . . TIES . . . HANDKERCHIEFS . . . UNDERWEAR
builds up to letdown after letdown, but was also in bad taste. The only significant words in the picture were those of the German petty officer who, taunted by Wallace Beery as to the ultimate winner of the war, replied, “No one.” How this propaganda slipped into a picture is cause for wonder. It should be discouraged. We hope Hollywood can forget box-office and remember instead the preservation of American neutrality.
—Paul Vignos, Jr.
DISC - CUSSION
I could stand Bing Crosby’s “El Rancho Grande” with a few “cokes” but Tommy Dorsey’s version requires an out-and-out root beer binge for enjoy-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
ment. Hughie Prince sort-of sings the sort-of lyrics with a lot of other people shouting. You may like “Shoot the Sher-bert to Me, Herbert”; I didn’t. (Victor)
Benny Goodman, no longer king and not so swingy, has recorded two numbers from Rogers and Harts’ “Too Many Girls.” His “I Didn’t Know What Time It Was” is good. Louise Tobin’s vocal is pleasant and the accompaniment alone is worth the price. “Love Never Went to College” is not so good but more Goodman. (Columbia)
Ginny Simms, one of my favorite girl singers, has paired two of my favorite songs: “Sweet and Slow” and “I Gotta Right to Sing the Blues.” While that part of Kay Kyser’s Band that backs her up seems a little inadequate, the vocals are up to Miss Simms’ usual high standard. (Vocalion)
Glen Gray is still one of our top bands. His record of “Shadows” and “Beautiful Love” seems, however, to lack something. “Shadows” by Frankie (Sunrise Serenade) Carle, is a fair number done very well. “Beautiful Love”
—Bill Geddes.
AEROLANE!
Pedro, the Voder, speaks ...and HOW!
THE VODER, nicknamed Pedro, is an amazing electrical device which actually talks—the first machine in the world to do that!
D®. YOU see the big ad in the Saturday Evening Post about Arrow’s newest shirt pattern, AEROLANE? Well, this handsome shirt is right here on our shelves—in your size and sleeve - length and your favorite color. Come in today and get it—and win compliments for it all Fall and Winter. Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%!)
ELLSWORTH'S
By pressing keys, singly or in combination, a skilled operator can make Pedro talk in almost human fashion—with varying inflections and in either a man’s or a woman’s voice.
The Voder is an outgrowth of fundamental research in speech sounds, articulation and voice reproduction being carried on at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Such studies have led—and will lead—to constantly im-
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Founders Day
(Continued from Page 11)
of Father Granger, the lifelong companion of Father Sorin in his great work and for fifty years the favorite confessor of the students, of Father Cointet, one of the pioneers who succumbed to the contagion of 1854, of Father Lemonnier, founder of the University library, of the beloved Father Thomas Walsh, of the brothers that came with Father Sorin and their successors. I trust that I am not detracting from the credit that is due them when I say that the founders of Notre Dame were ordinary men who did an extraordinary work, men who by their faith and zeal and industry became heroes to the full measure of their opportunity.
In looking for the reasons for the success of these founders we find that the first was their invincible faith. Their faith in God was in reality their sole endowment, necessary and sufficient for their purpose. The love of God, which is bom of faith, is the most effective motive that can inspire the mind and will of man to great achievement. To recall at random just a few examples of its effect — it was faith which sent the Twelve Apostles forth to convert a very hostile world to the Gospel of Christ: it was faith that made the thousands of martyrs of the early Church; it was Christian faith that conceived, and planned, and executed the cathedrals of the Middle Ages, which are the despair of the faithless centuries of our modern times; it was Catholic faith that made the thirteenth century the most intellectual and creative in history; it was apostolic faith that sent Francis Xavier to convert the Mohammedan empire of the Orient. In like manner, it was faith that brought Father Sorin and his six brothers to America, then a very new world, that
prompted them to establish here in the wilderness of Northern Indiana a school for the Christian education of American youth; it was faith that sustained them through their years of struggle; it was faith which in 1879 inspired the aged founder to begin his lifework all over. In that hour of extremity, when there was so much need of means to rebuild the institution, a generous friend sent a letter of sympathy and a check for several hundred dollars, to be used as best it might. Father Sorin promptly sent the whole amount to an orphan asylum with request that Masses be said for Notre Dame. That act, altogether unintelligible to the unbeliever, was characteristic of the man and of his faith, characteristic of the faith that has made Notre Dame what it is.
From the beginning the founders of this school were sure that the work of God which they were doing here could not fail — unless it should be by their lack of faith. And yet, with all their reliance on the providence of God, they never for a moment believed that faith alone is sufficient for salvation or for any other purpose. They understood well that God helps those who help themselves, that whilst they could do nothing without God, God would do nothing at all without their most earnest cooperation. And so they prayed as if all depended on divine providence and then worked as if all depended on their own effort. Their faith was of the kind that can move mountains, and their works were worthy of their faith.
The second secret of the founders of
SPORT JACKETS
Wool, leather and gabardines in very newest patterns $3.25 up
THE "RECO" STORE 113 N. Main St. South Bend LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT
Notre Dame was their ardent devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary. They professedly and persistently relied on her intercession for the favor of Heaven and the success of their undertaking. You may observe that the highest point at Notre Dame is the cross of Christ and that second to it is the statue of the Virgin. The name Notre Dame is simply the French for Our Lady. The characteristic tradition of Notre Dame,
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
THINK OVER . .
THIS BARGAIN FOR $45.00!
• Free Trial Lesson • Guaranteed Solo Course • ^3.00 Individual Lesson • Free transportation to and from the airport
See your own hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni
INDIANA
AIR SERVICE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
shared alike by priests, brothers, sisters, lay professors, and students, has always been, is, and may it ever remain, a fervent devotion to the Mother of God. This sacred tradition is from the chief founder himself. Father Sorin was, as Father John Cavanaugh, former president of the University, in sketching the life and work of the founder, remarks, a true knight of the Blessed Virgin, if there ever was one. In the day of adversity and in the day of prosperity he said his beads with all the simplicity and confidence of a child. In 1865, against the advice of prudent counsellors, he founded the Ave Maria, the weekly family magazine devoted to the honor of the Blessed Virgin. Nearly everyone told him that his venture would fail, but Father Sorin knew that with its purpose it must succeed — and through all the years since 1865 the Ave Maria has gone every week to thousands of homes throughout the English-speaking world, carrying its message of religion and proclaiming the praises of Mary, its patron.
We had better not try to say how much of the success of Notre Dame has been due to the patronage of the Blessed
ose an
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
pliiiiiinimmmimiiimmmiiimiminmiiliiiinimiliimumiiril
OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
0)r. R. £ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND

CDr. 0. Cjrundy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
cel	———	. lew
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BEND
-------------- ----------------------------------------- " *aA-
1UUUUUUOUUUUUUUUUVCXXXXXXXXXK CDrs. Probst and Simpler DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend ■ Phone 3-1254
Mother, but none of us doubts that she had much to do with this very remarkable development. And well may we trust that under her protection the future will give still further proof of her favor upon her school and her children.
There are other good lessons in the lives of the founders, but the ones we have taken are sufficient for today. In fact, the others are implied in the two we have observed. These two are, in a sense, but one. Any reasonable faith in God inevitably prompts a special veneration of his Blessed Mother. In honoring the Mother, who is human, we are honoring the Son, who is divine. In neglecting her we should be sadly neglecting Him.
The Notre Dame of today, my dear friends, is our heritage. The ‘our’ does not refer merely to the Congregation of Holy Cross but to the lay faculty and students as well. The Notre Dame of today, with its wealth of tradition and inspiration, is our heritage from Father Sorin and from the priests, brothers, • professors, and students who helped him create it. In justice to them let us appreciate it, and appreciate it in a way worthy of such inheritance. Ours is not the work of pioneers, as was theirs, but it is none the less serious and responsible. It is ours to perpetuate in our lives and to transmit unimpaired to those who are to come after us the ideals which they established here — the ideals of faith in God and of devotion to the Blessed Virgin, the ideals of zeal, industry, courage, perseverance, patriotism — in short, the ideal of the complete Christian life. It is ours to preserve and extend the mission of Notre Dame, so that she may be able to do an ever larger and better work for the glory of God and the salvation of men.
“Apologetics?”
“Apologetics? It’s a Sophomore religion course, isn’t it?”
That is the answer nine times out of ten Notre Dame students would give if asked. However, we also have at Notre Dame a course in Apologetics which leads to the degree of Master of Arts in Apologetics It is a two year post-graduate course which allows minor sequences in History, Philosophy, English Literature, Politics, and Economics.
Admission to this special course is given to those who have received A.B. degrees; the University offers several scholarships. Competition is open to any graduate of an American college or university who has completed Scholastic Philosophy. Requirements for qualification include exceptional writing ability; and with his application, the student must submit an essay of 1500 words.
GOOD f
news/
We have been able to get another shipment and we are repeating our OPENING SPECIAL OFFER
While they last...
$14.95 RCA Victrola Attachment
and 12 Months Subscription to Victor Record Society
Save §10. This RCA Victor attachment plays records through your radio electrically. Its list price is §14.95. During opening you get it for §4.95—and the Victor Record Society membership, worth §2.00, absolutely FREE. But you must hurry, this sensational offer is limited.
FREE!
with every Record Purchase regardless of size RECORD BRUSH
Visit Michiands largest and most complete Record Department at RODIN’S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Open Tues., Thors, and Sat. evenings.
where People Live.Whrk & Achieve
Today there are about 1,000,000 cigar stores, drug stores, country and grocery stores where you can buy cigarettes in the United States. These re-
tailers, and the jobbers who serve them, have built up a service of courtesy and convenience unmatched by any other industry catering to the American public’s pleasure.
There are another million people who
are engaged directly or indirectly in the transportation of cigarettes to every town, hamlet and crossroads.
It IS ESTIMATED that there are 1,602,000 tobacco farmers raising tobacco in 20 out of the 48 states. Good tobacco is one of the hardest crops to raise and bring to market, requiring great skill and patience from seed-bed planting to harvesting and curing. The modem tobacco farmer has done well the job of constantly improving the quality of his product.
The AVERAGE LENGTH of service of the 13,230 people working in the Chesterfield factories, storage houses, leaf-handling and redrying plants is over 10 years. This means that every step in the making of Chesterfields, regardless of how small, is handled by people who have had 10 years of experience and ability in knowing their jobs.
Truly tobacco opens doors to fields
where people live, work and achieve, and Chesterfield takes pride in its ever increasing part in this great industry that is devoted entirely to the pleasure of the American public.
To SMOKERS, Chesterfield Cigarettes have always said, and now repeat, that in no other cigarette made can you find the same degree of real mildness and good taste, or the same high quality of properly cured and aged tobaccos. Chesterfield Cigarettes are made with one purpose only...to give smokers everywhere the MILDER, BETTER-TASTING SMOKING PLEASURE they want. You can't buy a better cigarette.
MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK
Copyrfeht 1959, Ikgettu Mras Tobacco Co.
CHESTERFIELD
Volume 73
October 27, 1939
Number 5
ATTENTION Sophs! Breese Signs Get out those tuxedos For Cotillion and polish up those dance steps, because on Friday evening, Nov. 17, handsome Lou Breese, a trumpet-tooting bango-buster is coming to town to provide music for the 1939 Sophomore Cotillion. The dance willbe held in the Palais Royale.
(See page 5) *
BARRING blowouts, Met Club Set broken axles, or busted For Army Trip windshield wipers, the
New York trip, sponsored by the Metropolitan and New Jersey clubs, will begin at 5:33 p.m. Thursday. Elmer Layden will speak Friday night at a rally at the Manhattan Center Club in New York City.
(See page 6) ❖
THE FIRST of a ser-Local Mission ies of weekly meetings Crusade Begins of the Catholic Student . Mission Crusade will be held Sunday morning at 11 o’clock. The Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., formerly in charge of mission activities, Congregation of Holy Cross, will direct the group.	. (See page 7)
♦
HIGH ABOVE the Irish Invade Smokey City stands a Carnegie Tech football battle ground.
Tomorrow afternoon, on that field, the turf of Pitt Stadium, an old feud will be renewed. The Scotch will face the -Irish. Carnegie Tech’s Tartans, on their own field, will be out to scar the unbeaten record of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish. (See page 12)
The Rev. President John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., with Archbishop Joseph Schremhs and Msgr. John P. Treacy, watches Notre Dame sinh Navy, 14-7.
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HOW MUCH ARE
PLAYERS PAID?
BATTLE STATIONS I
V
f-
(
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
GRANTLAND RICE INTRODUCES THE WORLD'S GREATEST GOLF TEACHER. Here he is, duffers, The Malignant Morrison, who has the whole exasperating game boiled down to eight simple words! ALSO... stories, editorials, cartoons—all in this week’s Post.	'
STEPHEN VINCENT BENET BRINGS YOU A MEMO* RABLE SHORT STORY... Daniel Webster and the Ides of March, a simple, moving story of how the history of the United States was changed by one casual visit of Mr. Webster’s with a hermit in the New Hampshire mountains.
DETECTIVE IN A WHEEL CHAIR. Rather odd that Aunt Sue was giving the detectives precise instructions for finding the kidnapers of her nephew. But even from her wheel chair she had a hawk-eyed way of noting trivia others overlooked. Read Miss Useless and the Underworld by Almet Jenks.
(• t-III-<V I-
SiSwSsSwif

HERBERT HOOVER OUTLINES PROGRAM TO KEEP THE U. S. OUT OF WAR. From his experience in the last war, Herbert Hoover speaks out in this week’s Post with an authority in many ways unrivalled by any living American. Read his five-point program for theU.S.in WeMust Keep Out.
"COO!" SAID THE SUBSTANTIAL BLONDE, ACCORDING TO P. G. WODEHOUSE. When Freddie Widgeon took Bingo’s baby to the beach to get a whack of ozone ___When the well-nourished blonde with golden hair flung her arms around Freddie... (It’s no use! We defy anyone to describe this plot! It’s 9944/100% pure Wodehouse!)
t-iiiit-t-r-f
<■
t (■
An explosion aft. The sound of rending steel.
Light bulbs broke in their sockets; men were
thrown off their feet.The conning-tower eye ports
wereunder. Shewasgoingdownfast,now. Seventy,
eightyfeet.Thedestroyerpasseddirectlyoverhead.
We promise you an exciting experience in this week’s Post. A pulse-thumping story of how it feels
to be in a U. S. submarine. Scouting the enemy.
In the heat of battle. Here’s a story of modern
submarine warfare told with photographic clarity
by a man who has seen service underseas.

COLLEGE FOOTBALL
• And when pay gets so high the blow-off comes, what happens to the school? Francis Wallace, sports authority, takes you through the complete cycle of pay, bigger pay, championship teams, then school explosion—as it happened at the University of Pittsburgh. Uncovering actual financial records foryou,he reveals startling facts. In two parts—both plenty hot!
Test Case at Pitt by FRANCIS WALLACE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Willmann
On the Editorial Side
The old cry has been resounded. In a letter to the editor of the St. Bonaventure, a student has the following to say:
“At Notre Dame they have a magnificent school loyalty and a faith in the football team that almost amounts to fanaticism, but here at St. Bona’s there is a spirit of fellowship and camaraderie, the like of which is not to be found at Notre Dame. At Notre Dame the ordinary student gets to know a few fellows in his own hall, and everyone else is a stranger.”
The obvious corollary of the above is that there must be no “ordinary” students at Notre Dame. We owe it to that Bona student to ban all inter-hall association—else we should be proving him to be a prevaricator. However, we believe that that writer was unwittingly deluded, or he was plucking from the vines of sour-grapes. The fundamental differences between a large and small school must be considered, but rash youths must be more prudent with universals and particulars. Should such statements be uttered in this vicinity, the perpetrator would find all halls united in a chant—“In the lake!”
Not in College
Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who has never turned his head and said: “MMmm-m-m not bad!”
Purple Pickings
A special feature of Dad’s Day at Northwestern had the fathers attending lecture classes—only pre-requisite course was Cradle-rocking 109.... Despite the movement to oust Chicago from the Big Ten, that member leads in unshared championships with seven.... Wildcat gridders like their evening training table.... Some 300 men on the Big Ten varsity athletic roster have academic scholarships.... Already Purple pulps are pointing for the Notre Dame game.
*
Headline Warranted
Frosh reporter: “I gotta scoop, chief.” Campus Editor: “What happened — man bite dog?”
Frosh: “No, a bull threw the professor.”
❖
Don’t Break an Arm!
“Today, Harvard, Yale and Princeton are firmly resolved to eliminate by means of close cooperation all possibility of athletic subsidization or any other practice unbefitting their position as the
nation’s leading universities. John R. Tunis to the contrary, the Big Three was, is and will be free of commercialism in athletics, thanks to cooperation and a mutual determination to preserve the highest possible standards of athletic conduct.”—Daily Princetonian
❖
Winner Take All
“Ah wins.”
“What yuh got?”
“Three aces.”
“No yuh don’t. Ah wins.”
“What yuh got?”
“Two eights and a razor.”
“Yuh sho’ do. How come you so lucky?”
❖	—Siren.
Bored With Lectures?
For those classes in which the prof talks too loud for comfortable sleeping, the Social Problems Institute offers these suggestions. 1. Doodling—with a knife or other sharp instrument. 2. Thumb-twiddling—try a change of pace. 3. Social Gatherings—refined conversation, black-jack, or bridge in large classes only. 4. Intellectual Method—debate
“But They Gave Us the Key to the City”
with speaker on a minor point, but beware of overdoing it. 5. Last Resort— Take a deep breath and hold it until you collapse. Your friends will carry you out, revive you, and send you on your way.—Ohio State Lantern
Test for A Good Cold Remedy
Connect 20,000 volts across a pint. If the current jumps, the product is poor.
If the current causes a precipitation of lye, tin, arsenic, iron slag and alum, the whiskey is fair.
If the liquor chases the current back to the generator, you’ve really got your money’s worth.—Pelican
❖
‘Swing Barometer’
To an enthusiastic audience of Wisconsin jitter-bugs “Duke” Ellington revealed that he is playing the same arrangement, note for note, of “Mood Indigo” that he played ten years ago. The ebony nobleman added that he does not arrange and compose for individual instruments, but rather for the characters behind the horns. While he is a featured piano soloist, he thinks in terms of brass. Of college students he says, “They are an excellent barometer of what will go over and what will not.”
—Daily Cardinal
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week by F. G. Bamda
OPINION
Top of the Week
Getting away from it all.
En Route
Belief runs rampant that the railroad people must have hauled that train out of the Smithsonian Institute for the student trip.... even Cro - Magnon man would call it an artifact.... wagon wheels never make good time.... Bulging coaches surrendered student mobs at all the stops.... Eight fellows, on one occasion, tried to sleep in one of the crude make-shift bunks.... they gave it up in Elkhart.... The late arrival.... neatness of apparel unknown.... and on to the conquest of Cleveland.
In Cleveland
The band in top form tooting to the cheers of 80,000 fans.... Yells from the student section heard far out into Lake Erie.... Clashmore Mike, ignoring the embarrassed pleadings of Jerry Flynn, abandoned hurdle-jumping to take a few chaws out of the Navy goat.... Bennie Sheridan took off from second base and came in all the way to home plate under the goal posts.... After the game, back to the Hotel Statler.... Most of the fellows got their dates on the Statler mezzanine... Room 1147 looked like Grand Central Station.... maybe that’s why Hank Collins slept on a bench in the hall of the 11th floor.... Breakfast next morning at $1.25 minimum... coffee, in the demitasse size, came in for 30 cents a cup.
❖
Returning
Karl Hunn and his quartet obliged with a red, hot, and blue jam session that was.... A fleet of men in blue taking inventory of light bulbs and stuff... The, mad scramble for the coach seats and the bunks-to-be.... A few card games in progress.... Tellers of tales and whatnots.... Making those eight o’clock classes Monday morning.
❖
Overheard from Two Purdue Men “What the heck is the Grotto, a movie?”
❖
Hummph
Highway sign in Cleveland along the lake front: “The Judge says: ‘This is not Daytona Beach! Ten dollars and costs’.”
Gullible
Jack (Yankee Doodle) Wilkinson, pride of Nick’s baton men, was minding his own business as he rubbed elbows with the crowd getting into the Municipal Stadium. A clever hawker quickly spied our New England boy and went after him for his bread and butter. Planning to reap a surplus profit from our boy’s innocence, the hawker pinned a miniature American flag on Jack’s lapel. The button - holing had been consummated.
“Oh, thank you, kind sir,” Yankee Doodle bowed, and walked away.
The hawker was stunned.
“Just a minute, bud,” he called, “We appreciate a donation for our auxil-liary’s skimmed milk fund.”
“OoooOh, I see.” Jack pulled out a quarter and a dime.
The man took the two-bits and vanished. It was not until the third quarter that the light finally dawned on Yankee Doodle dandy.
Two-Stitch Stevens:
“My Aunt Emma is certainly peculiar. She never could understand what she read unless she heard herself read. Now she’s deaf and can’t understand anything at all.”
Stumped
Over in one of the halls the telephone rang long and loud until a certain gentleman left his accounting sheets in desperation.
“Well, let’s have it—what’s his name and room number?”
“Will you please call Joe Snitch to the phone. I believe he lives in room 432.” The feminine voice was all milk and honey.
Four flights up went the fellow, without a murmur, and after canvassing the wings he finally found the room and rapped on the door. No one answered. The fellow came down again.
“Look, lady, Snitch ain’t in. Is there any message?”
“No, never mind.”
“Who shall I say called?”
“Helen Dillon.”
“You’re sure it isn’t heaven in Alumni?”
And he slammed down the receiver, complimenting himself all the way back to the room for the inimitable way in which he had handled the pun. People have more fun than anybody.
This is the third of a series of student opinions on questions submitted by the students themselves. The question this week, submitted by Bill Olson, Carroll Hall, is: “Would you prefer a change in the cut system which would reduce the number of cuts and lengthen vacations?” Following are typical replies:
❖
Sorin—George Milford:: “I feel that I’d prefer to extend the vacations and reduce the number of cuts. As it is now, there is too much time wasted before and after vacations. If the vacations were lengthened, this situation would be more or less remedied.”
Dillon — Eugene Ryan: “I think it would be an excellent idea to lengthen vacations and reduce the cuts I do feel, however, that at least one round of cuts must remain to the student. If the cuts • were abolished entirely, the first time a fellow slept in he’d be cut out of a class.”
Badin — Joseph Kirchoff: “I prefer that the present system be kept in practice. If a fellow wants a longer vacation, he can take his weeks of cuts and probably get a longer vacation than would be possible even with lengthened vacations. Then, under the present system, he would have some cuts left for the rest of the year.”
Howard — Bill Nagengast: “You can put me down as being definitely in favor of longer vacations and reduced cuts. A great many fellows live some distance from school, and require longer time in which to travel. I say reduced cuts and more traveling time would be a much better plan than the present system.”
Zahm—Hoyt Kirkpatrick: “I definitely prefer reducing the number of cuts and lengthening vacations. Take me, for example; I live about 1,000 miles from school, and as a result must take my cuts in order to have any time at all at home during vacations. A lot of profs are known to throw quizzes before and after vacations, so it isn’t very profitable to cut. I think, therefore, that it would be a swell idea to reduce the cuts and give us more time at vacations.”
Lyons — Joe Szikora: “I prefer the present system because as it is, a fellow can take a few cuts during the year and save the rest for vacations; or, if he doesn’t want to do that, he can save up and leave early for vacations Leave the system the way it is !”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
October 27,1939
Number 6
THE PALAIS — SCENE OF ALL COTILLIONS
Sophomores Sign Lou Breese For Annual Cotillion Dance
Event Is Scheduled For Northwestern Game Eve
Attention Sophs! Get out those tuxes and polish up those dance steps, because on Friday evening, Nov. 17, handsome Lou Breese, a trumpet-tooting banjobuster, is coming to town to provide music for the 1939 Sophomore Cotillion. Class President George Sobek showed extreme satisfaction at being able to get the services of this popular dance band.
Breese’s orchestra features, beside the leaderman’s antics, the very popular Don Huston singing ballads and Skip Morr handling the rhythm songs. The site of the dance is the ever reliable Palais Royale, the hours from nine to one.	•
Lou Breese and his ^orchestra carry on the tradition of top-notch maestros who have been invited to. play at the
Sophomore dance. Among his predecessors are: Mark Fisher and his Edgewater Beach Hotel orchestra; Ben Pollack and his orchestra; Carlton Kelsey and his Hollywood orchestra; Reggie Childs and his NBC orchestra; and, last year, Johnny Hamp and his orchestra.
Bids to the Cotillion, to be held on the eve of the Northwestern - Notre Dame football game, are available at three dollars a couple. If bought with two game tickets, the block price will be $8.20. A special section for Cotillionites and their partners has been set aside in the stadium, with tickets reduced to $5.20 a pair.
Further plans are in the hands of: Jim Magarahan, general chairman; John Birmingham, decorations; Frank Quinn, tickets; Ed Monahan, music; Bill Regan, program; Pat Fitzgerald, patrons; Martin McGowan, publicity; and Jim Carnes, arrangements. Formal invitations may be secured from either Jim Magarahan or George Sobek.—Bill Scanlan
Tense Days On ‘Iroquois’
Recalled by Fr. Carroll
The Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria and passenger on the threatened S. S. Iroquois revealed that Catholic prayers were plentiful on the ship throughout its voyage. “Ninety Irish-Americans who had been visiting Ireland,” he said. “Among them were two nuns, and 24 priests who celebrated Mass daily. This practice was begun on the first day, before the submarine alarms were sounded.”
He told of difficulty in finding a boat bound for the United States. “I already had reservation on one ship,” he said, “but that sailing was cancelled on account of the war.” Father Carroll then heard of the Iroquois over the radio and secured accommodations immediately. He boarded the boat at Cobh.
“After we were a few days at sea,” he continued, “the United States government notified the captain of the rumored danger, and he relayed the news to us. About the same time, a cable was received from Cobh stating that there might be a time bomb aboard. All luggage was inspected, but no trace of a bomb was found.”
“Many of the passengers were frightened by the news but none became hysterical. Later, storms rocked the heavily-laden ship, causing passengers to forget the ominous report for a time. The Iroquois is a coastwise steamer, not meant for trans-oceanic travel, and 600 passengers were far above its ordinary capacity. On Sunday, Oct. 8, a Coast Guard cutter and two destroyers met us in midocean,” added Father Carroll. “This, of course, relieved the minds of the travelers. These ships escorted us all the way to port where we docked on Wednesday.”
In the midst of all this tension, Father Carroll recalled a particularly humorous situation. Practically all of the passengers had English money, he related, but only American money was accepted on the Iroquois. About midway in the voyage, the American money supply vras exhausted and no purchases could be made. “A case of water, water, everywhere....” he smiled. ■
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
To ease the minds of those aboard, an Irish night was held at sea. Singing and dancing in true Irish style were enjoyed. This was an exceptionally apt diversion and helped marvelously to lighten spirits.. Father Carroll was especially impressed by the fine work of the captain and crew of the Iroquois. “There was plenty of food and drinking water; quarters were excellent, too, considering the large crowd aboard.”
Speaking of Ireland in relation to the present war, Father Carroll said, “Ireland is very much upset. They have blackouts like the rest of Europe, but the populace is noticeably in favor of neutrality. The country is now very prosperous anyway, and with the English trade increasing even better times should be had. Premier DeValera has the confidence of the people, and President Hyde is a most popular figure.”
“To sum it up: Ireland is as determined to stay out of the war as the United States should be,” concluded Father Carroll.—John McDevitt.
Students Follow Team
To Army Game, Thursday
Barring blowouts, broken axles, or busted windshield wipers, the New York trip, sponsored by the Metropolitan and New Jersey Clubs, will begin at 5:33 p.m., Thursday. The return will be made from New York on The Pacemaker, New York Central Lines, 5:00 p.m., Sunday, Nov. 5; this train will arrive on time for classes, Nov. 6. A round-trip rate has been fixed at §24.85, which does not include the price of a game ticket. This expedition to watch Army’s downfall is under the authorization of the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Mr. Elmer Layden, Captain William Wood, and Francis Wallace, and others, will address a rally and reunion Friday evening at the Manhattan Center Club, in New York City. The admission price of $1.25 per person includes rally, refreshments, and informal dancing later to the music of Bugs Walther.
Arrangements must be made in advance for the Army-Notre Dame Ball, at the Hotel Astor, Saturday night. Bids are $5.00, and may be had through the President of the Metropolitan Club, Doug Bangert, at 415 Walsh. Johnny Queen and his band will play at the Astor.
Tickets for the trip will be sold in lower lobby of the Dining Hall after supper from 6:30 to 7:00, and in 415 Walsh and 43 Sorin any time.
“Dome” Offers Prizes
Calling all lensmen I The pockets of some lucky camera shark will be fuller this year. The Dome is awarding cash prizes for the six best snapshots and art creations submitted. Snapshot Editor Jack Burke is anxious to secure pictures of campus life. In addition to the regular prizes, extra booty for the best pictures of special events will be distributed—as this week $2.50 is being offered for the top series of pictures on the Student Trip.
The prize money will be distributed as follows: Cartoons: first prize, $5.00; four second prizes of $1.50 each. Snapshots: first prize, $7.50; second prize, $5.00; four third prizes of $1.50.
Placement Bureau
Within the next few weeks each senior will receive from the Placement Bureau in the Alumni Office, a letter outlining the services of the Bureau for the year and specifying plans of procedure. This was announced this week by William R. Dooley, director of the Bureau.
With each letter will be enclosed a postcard on which the senior will be asked to indicate whether or not he needs placement assistance. Seniors desiring such assistance will later be required to appear in the Placement Office to fill out placement application forms. These will be used as basic references for placement contacts with industry in the second semester.
The Commerce Forum, headed this
Cleveland — Met Club Will See Packed Stands
year by Herbert J. Connelly, is already cooperating actively with the Placement Bureau, Mr. Dooley said. A. F. Poten-ziani is chairman of the Forum’s placement committee and will supervise the building of a list of suggested placement contacts with industry, with the assistance of all Forum members. Mr. Dooley will welcome similar assistance from like groups in other colleges of the University, he said.
“It is to be particularly emphasized,” Mr. Dooley pointed out, “that the Placement Bureau was organized only to help the student find a job, to offer suggestions and encouragement in a difficult process. The main burden of job-finding rests squarely upon the shoulders of the individual student. It’s up to him to get out and scratch. And this scratching must be done at once—not next May. I urge upon every senior the advisability of using the Christmas holidays, especially, to make initial contacts with prospective employers in his home community.”
Forum Seeks Members
The Commerce Forum membership drive has been proceeding satisfactorily, and within a short time every eligible Commerce student will have been interviewed by a Forum representative. A goal of 300 members has been set by the chairman of the membership committee, James M. Hufnagel, and a member has been assigned to every hall to insure the interviewing of all prospects.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Knights Will Initiate
New Members, Tuesday
Grand Knight Timothy R. King, announced at the third general council meeting of Notre Dame Council No. 1477 Knights of Columbus, that the council’s ritualistic ceremonies for the first class of the current academic year will commence with the conferring of the degrees on some 25 candidates, Tuesday evening.
Other dates for first degrees will be Nov. 21 and Dec. 5. By that date, the local Council, commencing its 30th year of continuous operation on the campus, expects to have nearly 100 candidates ready for the bestowing of the major degrees on Sunday, Dec. 10. This procedure is in line with the Council’s annual policy of conferring the major rituals twice during a school year. The second class is planned for mid-April.
Students, over 18 years of age, and possessing other pre-requisites for admission to the Order of the Knights of Columbus, desiring to join through the local council, may obtain information concerning the Knights either by inquiring from the 200 members on the campus or by visiting the Knights of Columbus headquarters in Walsh Hall, which are open daily from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
The K. of C. recreation room in Walsh Hall, containing bowling alleys, pool, billiard and table tennis facilities has been renovated and is ready for operation.
James P. Metzler, senior, Kansas City, was appointed chairman of the council athletic program consisting of a bowling league, handball tournament, possibly a swimming meet and the annual Spring golf tournament. Assisting Metzler are Dan Hushek, bowling and Bill Cotter, swimming. John Reed, senior, Fort Wayne, was appointed chairman of the council’s Catholic Activity committee; Harry E. Murray, charities; Bob Matthews, press; Art Selna, senior lawyer, Insurance. Several other appointments were considered and will be announced at the next council meeting.
Campus Student Mission
Crusade Begins Sunday
The first of a series of weekly meetings of the Catholic Student Mission Crusade will be held Sunday morning at 11 o’clock. The Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., director of the campus group, will announce the place of meeting— probably a Main Building class room— in the Religious Bulletin.
Father Mathis, formerly in charge of mission activities of the order, and this year a professor of apologetics in the
THE KNIGHTS’ NIGHT IN
department of religion of the University, taught scripture at Holy Cross Seminary from 1914 to 1921, and organized the Holy Cross Mission and the Bengal Mission.
“The greatest thing that the Crusade can do here,” Father Mathis stated, “is to cultivate the missionary spirit among the laymen. Every Catholic, by the name Catholic, is called to a specific missionary work—that of living out the principles of his religion in his professional life and carrying them to those within the zone of his influence.”
As a proximate example of this missionary spirit, Father Mathis cited the conversion of our own Knute Rockne, which was greatly influenced by the players of one of his national championship teams. Needing only the victory over Southern California to insure them of the coveted honor, “Rock” promised his “boys” a trip to any destination they cared to choose, if they were victorious.
For many weeks after their successful season, the players failed to announce their choice to ease the anxiety of the coach. After a huddle with Mrs. Rockne, the captain finally informed “Rock” that there was only one trip in which the fellows were interested — that of their beloved coach to the baptismal font in Sacred Heart Church.
Realizing the signficance of such a statement from those young men, Rockne was moved deeply; he agreed to take instructions, and was baptized the following Holy Saturday, making his First Communion with his own boys on Easter Sunday morning.
The greatest missionary conquest in
the history of the Catholic Church—that of the Graeco-Roman world by early Christianity—was largely through the efforts of the ordinary layman; the Roman soldier, in particular, was helpful in carrying Christianity throughout the Empire, Father Mathis explained. The Crusade will conduct a study and discussion club to consider Ramonull, the most distinguished lay missionary of all time.	'
Having traveled extensively in Asia in his missionary pursuits, Father Mathis has become familiar with many sections of India, and has taken several thousand feet of movie film, which he plans to exhibit at the meetings of the C.S.M.C.
In 1925, Father Mathis was the cofounder of the Society of Catholic Medical Missionaries, a community of sisters who devote themselves to professional medical aid in the foreign missions. This was the first organization of its kind in the history of the Church, and in 1936 the Holy See extended the privilege of studying medicine and performing medical work to sisters of all orders performing foreign mission service.
Campus Theatre Group
Selects Opening Play
“Brother Orchid,” a play adapted from the short story by Richard O’Connell which appeared in Collier’s magazine, will be the next dramatic production presented by the Notre Dame Players. The first production of this play was given at Catholic University.
The three-act tragi-comedy is scheduled for presentation in Washington Hall on December 14 and 15.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Military Club Elects
Wallace as Commandant
War in Europe had little effect on the Notre Dame Military Club, which recently held its first meeting with 40 members. The faculty adviser, Major Robert B. Riordan, spoke on Notre Dame military history, including in his remarks the interesting life of Colonel Lynch, of Notre Dame, who held the position of brigadier general in the Union Army during the Civil War.
Another colorful figure, Col. Sweeney, distinguished himself in the World War, and is now the only American officer in the French Foreign Legion. The club voted George Wallace, commandant; Jerry Donovan, vice - commandant; and Lewis Peck, adjutant. Organized in 1937, the Military club aims to promote interest in national defense, contemporary martial affairs and in military traditions of Notre Dame. It also assists students to obtain commissions in the Reserve Corps of the Army, Navy and the Marines.
Members have been attending meetings of the South Bend regiment, Indiana National Guard, to study such new military formations as the close and open order drill. Plans for the next meeting include movies of recent naval maneuvers.—Jim Brugger.
Law Club Smoker
A criticism of the stalling tactics used during the trial of law suits by the few unscrupulous men in the practice of law, formed a major phase of the interesting speech delivered by Paul Butler, South Bend attorney, last Wednesday night at the Law Club smoker.
Dilatory methods used to increase the client’s bill, not only frustrate the administration of justice but give the profession a black eye.
Mr. Butler listed a number of important rules of trial techniques and illustrated them by his own experiences on trials in the South Bend area. William Mahoney, Phoenix, Arizona, was toastmaster of the affair.
Eugene Zinn, head of the speaker committee, announced that he is making efforts to secure as guest talker for the next meeting one of the prominent attorneys engaged in the General Motors trial which is being held in South Bend. November 15 has been set as the date for the next smoker.
Third Order Meets
On next Sunday, the feast of Christ the King, an investiture will be held by the Third Order of St. Francis in Morrissey Hall Chapel at 11 o’clock. Any one interested is urged to see the director, the Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., or one of the following officers: Richard Cowling, prefect; Norbert Mer-dzinski, vice president; or Robert Sullivan, secretary-treasurer.
At the conference of Oct. 16, Father Craddick discussed the history of the Order, its value, and its possibilities here at Notre Dame. The Third Order is a fraternal organization seeking unity and mutual aid in perfecting the spiritual life of laymen.
Linnets Make Debut
The Linnets, freshmen choral group, will hold their premiere Wednesday morning, when they will sing a Requiem High Mass at Sacred Heart Church. The
group is composed of 32 members and is under the direction of Mr. Orville Foster.
The harmonized parts of the Mass will be sung by the entire chorus, and the plain chant will be done by the Sanctuary Singers, 12 picked members of the chorus. The group will be vested.
Dr. McMahon to Advise
Undergrad Peace Drive
What is the position of the United States in the present war? What would be the economic, social, and political results if we were to enter it? These and other pertinent questions of war and peace are under the scrutiny of a group of 35 seniors who compose the Commission of Peace. It is their purpose to arrive at a sound basis for Catholic Peace Action by a thorough study of the specific problem in back of the present European war today, and in wars of the past.
Under the direction of Harry Boisvert, three meetings have been held to discuss and initiate a systematic method of peace study. As a result, several members are now working on papers dealing with various phases of the topic. It is hoped that these papers may later be incorporated in pamphlet form, and published for general distribution. At the last meeting, Dr. Francis McMahon agreed to act as faculty adviser, and supplied the group with a number of pamphlets of great value in the search for information about peace.
When the Commission has become more securely established, membership will be opened to the other classes, and it is hoped that the entire student body will join in this effort for peace.
—Roger Behm.
The Linnets . . . Freshmen Choral Group Will Don Cassocks and Surplices
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
FACULTY
Professor Daniel F. Pedtke, head of the department of music, takes the stand to answer questions on the current craze, “Swing Music.” Edmund Butler, manager of the Linnets Orchestra which brought “Swing” to Washington Hall last year, asks the questions.
Q. How would you define “Swing?”
A. Swing is a new name for a type of dance music we’ve had with us for more than 30 years with perhaps, a few variations in rhythms; this music was formerly called “Ragtime” and “Jazz.” The additions of countermelodies or so-called “Take-offs” can be found in many old time “ragtime” arrangements.
Technically, we call it Discant, which has been used since the tenth century. Swing is primarily dance music and as such ranks with folk dances of other ages, including the sarabande, polka, tarantella, minuet and Vienese Waltz. Folk songs, however, were more sincere as they were the individual expression of the common people. Swing, sometimes referred to as the folk music of America, is built on more commercial standards. Swing, or modern “ragtime,” is dance music of strong rhythmical patterns with a variety of Discant.
Q. In your opinion, is swing music a valuable contribution to progress and experimentation in the field of music?
A. The contribution of swing to the entire field of music is very small since it can only affect dance music. As such, it is doubtful whether any contemporary swing tune will live as long as a Strauss waltz. This is due partly to too many repetitions and a form too simple to create enough variety to hold interest for any length of time. Some influence, however, of rhythms and harmonic progressions in modern concert music can be traced to swing. This is usually found in program music where the composer is trying to attain moods of local color. There is a possibility of development of present popular music under American composers of the George Gershwin or Ferdi Groffe type.
Q. Is this new, or rejuvenated, type of music here to stay—wholly or partially?
A. No. A look back over the last ten years will answer that. Even the past year has brought a considerable change in the style of performance, particularly in instrumentation of the orchestral arrangements. It will lose its identity in some new terminology just as “jazz” is now swing.
Q. Is it true that a musician must
have as much technical knowledge and ability to play swing as to play the classics?
A. It is true that a good technical equipment is as essential to play swing successfully as it is to render the classics. More than mere technique, however, is necessary for the classics. The classical musician is first of all an artist who feels and lives his music from the heart up. This is not true of any other type of music. (Watch the feet of the swing man in a “jam” session.) Swing music cannot change tempos because it is essentially dance music where regularity of rhythm is necessary. Many a good musician is driven to play in the dance band for financial reasons.
Q. Is Larry Clinton’s treatment of Claude DeBussey’s “Reverie” or his version of Tchaikowsky’s “Fifth Symph-
Daniel F. Pedtke
ony,” which is now popularized as “Moon Love,” a detrimental move on the part of such a musician?
A. Larry Clinton’s treatment of the classics has accomplished some good in bringing good music within reach of more people who ordinarily would never take the trouble to learn the original, partly because of fear of going “highbrow.” Now perhaps, many of the converts will search deeper into classic literature for even greater themes which were made with a higher purpose. I would advise anyone to listen to “Moon Love” and follow it immediately with the original “Andante Cantabile” of Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony. The many “terrific” performances of the swing arrangements are definitely detrimental to the cause of better music.
Q. To return to the question of technical ability—who do you think is the better clarinetist?—Benny Goodman or Artie Shaw?
A. Benny Goodman and Artie Shaw represent two individual styles of play
ing. Both have adequate technique for their purposes, although, technically, I believe Benny Goodman is much more competent.
Q. Does the popularization of swing music necessarily denote a lowering of public taste in music?
A. Any type of music built on a predominance of percussions and strong monotonous rhythm characterizes a low stage of public taste. Primitive music was primarily rhythm. More intelligent races and higher artistic people resort to more expressive forms of music built on a more melodic and harmonic basis with controlled free rhythms. A certain amount of swing in one’s diet, however, will offer variety and prove harmless.
Belgians Convert Homes
Into Garages—Fr. Riter
“Some of the people drive their cars through the front door of their homes and park them there for the night,” said the Rev. Regis Riter, C.S.C., of the University faculty, who recently returned from a year’s study at Louvain university in Belgium. But Father Riter amended this hastily: “This is because the houses are built close together, leaving no room for driveways. What formerly were vestibules, in some cases have been transformed into garages.”
This and many other interesting comments were made by Father Riter as he spoke about his stay in Belgium. One of the impressions which he got was the leisurely manner in which the Belgiums conduct their businesses. “One day I sent some clothes to be pressed and was told to come back for them the following Thursday. I returned to the shop Thursday and the proprietor told me the articles were not yet ready, but to come back the next day. It took nine trips to get the clothes!” laughed Father Riter.
Many of the Louvain buildings which had been demolished during the course of the last war have been re-constructed from funds supplied by the American people, Father Riter added. The library was rebuilt entirely from money supplied by Americans, and a great many houses of Louvain have small metal plaques above the door way with “1914” inscribed, indicating that the house was constructed with American contributions.
American movies make a dissimilar hit with the populace: Robert Taylor and Ginger Rogers give way to the hard-riding, fast shooting Westerns.
When asked his most interesting experience, Father Riter said that it was, without a doubt, the coronation of the Pope.—Don Heltzel
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
ViTUOAXL C. McGowan, Neivs Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelleher Art Editor
DONALD Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff. 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
and insulting phrase of all they held most sacred would the men be greeted on station platforms, in hotel lobbies, from the sidewalks and even from the side lines.
Recognition came slowly and, strange irony, from afar. The qualifier ‘Fighting’ quite naturally was prefixed to ‘Irish’ and so it remained. The epithet of opprobrium to one generation became one of distinction to the next. The link between them all but unconsciously melted away. It was reforged by a new set of circumstances.
The war and post-war hysteria among other things centered upon the hyphenated American. Attempts were even made to tone down recorded history. Bunker Hill, Lexington, Ticonderoga henceforth should be symbols of an unfortunate misunderstanding to be condoned instead of symbols of a principle to be safeguarded. Catholics in particular were suspect The frenzies that followed down to our own day need no recounting here. “Fighting Irish,” thought some, should be dropped. Not quite so simply, however, is the course of history or of tradition to be changed. The Americanism of Notre Dame needs no such subterfuge.
A Tradition Defined
THE SCHOLASTIC’S column “Splinters from the Press Box” last week carried what purported to be an explanation of the origin of the expression “Fighting Irish” as applied to the representatives of Notre Dame in the field of sports. Commenting upon an editorial in the Indianapolis News, the writer of the column placed the nickname as arising from an incident in the Michigan-Notre Dame game of 1909, and credited it to an alert newspaper correspondent.
(This editorial, which appeared in THE SCHOLASTIC, April 7, 1933, is reprinted for the benefit of this year’s Freshman class, and for those newcomers to the University who are unfamiliar with origin of the expression “Fighting Irish.”)
The fact is, the expression derives its origin from no such casual occurrence and antedates 1909 by many years. The spirit out of which it grew was typical neither of any one time, nor any one place in this country. This spirit manifested itself often in open insult, not infrequently in destruction of property anl almost invariably in social ostracism. Seared upon the pages of our history are examples of that spirit. Its concen
tration here in a name gave us a hallowed tradition. Indeed opposition to the founding of a Catholic institution in these parts found concrete expression in many ways. One of these still exists in the local town as a building which, intended for a college, is now part of a factory, and an adjoining street which is called “College.”
From the very beginning games played an important part in the life of the students at Notre Dame. The natural impulse was to seek outside competition At first this was reluctantly given. The events themselves were not always characterized by pleasantness. The receptions accorded did not always represent what we have come to know as sportsmanship. Advance notices referred to the “Notre Dame Catholics,” the “Notre Dame Irish.”
Even then, as now, the terms were not inclusive of the men on the teams. Dim-mick, Philbrook, and Edwards, to mention only a few, were not Catholics. Eggeman, Neizer, Miller, Davila, among many others, were not of Irish blood. In point of fact, “Catholic” and “Irish” in those far-off days—not to speak of more recent ones—were synonymous, and either one stood for something which, to say the least, should be avoided. So with ribald jest, derisive taunt,
The last decade might well be termed the era of slogans. Advertising experts stayed up nights to invent them. Manufacturers arranged contests to discover them. Sports writers tapped them out on the keys. Nor was Notre Dame immune. Dictionaries were bereft of adjectives to characterize the prowess of her men and, lo, there came forth the “Wanderers,” the “Vikings,” the “Nomads,” the “Ramblers,” and a multitude of others that had their brief vogue in the editorial rooms where they originated. Their justification was the fact that Notre Dame travelled so much, and that “Fighting Irish” was no longer appropriate since so many racial strains now composed her teams. We hope to have shown that the first was a contributing factor to the original name and the second as a determining element in the makeup of the teams never had any foundation in fact.
It has been well said that a people without tradition is already decadent. It is also true of institutions. No one can consciously sit down and say “let us create a tradition.” It is something that unconsciously identifies itself, grows out of what is adequately described as the genius of a people. As such it is a sacred thing. To consciously ignore it partakes of the nature of a betrayal. Because of this we treasure and defend “Fighting Irish”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
A Sunken Submarine
By Walter Desel
The heavy black fog deadened all noise. Still and calm was the water. The lookouts on the sub were lulled into quiet.
One of the men slowly got up from his squatting position and wheeled around on one heel; his eyes grew large; his neck craned out to starboard. He recognized a few lights.... then a ship.
“Look, lights.... a ship,” he murmured.
The ship kept in a direct line, almost headed for the sub.
“Surely they see us,” he spoke a little louder, nervously.
“Lord! our lights. . . . they’re out.”
The other men jerked up and stood behind him, motionless, like figures in stone, their feet glued to the iron deck, their mouths hanging open in an effort to yell, their wet, white hands frozen to the railing. Silence and then the droning of the huge motors of the ship, louder and louder till the looming sides of the ship were almost on top of them, like a gigantic sea monster coming for its prey. Then a deadening, screaming CRASH !
The hiss of rushing water echoed through the sub; the black water billowed through the wound in the side of the sub into the damaged torpedo room and through the conning tower. Suddenly three rooms were filled with water; the men in there were dead.
Two compartments were watertight and the men there were apparently safe, with about a half foot of water gurgling around their feet. But the sub lay helpless, 140 feet down in black, inky waters. Inside these two rooms lurked deadly silence; a book which one man had been reading lay on the floor under the water. Those two rooms seemed so safe, yet so uncertain. In the minds of the men there was a vacant spot where they were trying to solve the problem, a problem that was unsolvable, an idea that just weighed in their minds. There were eight men alive in the sub; only those in the engine room and motor room were still living... but for how long, for an hour, maybe minutes.
The rooms grew icy cold and the'inky
blackness of the swirling waters outside the sub poured through the walls of the two rooms. The air in the rooms was becoming heavy and acrid and at the least exertion a man would start to breathe heavily arid suck for air.
The air made the moods of the men dull and cold. Colby was trying to make himself believe that he was hearing the tapping of someone come to rescue them.
Impressions of a Street
Broad artery of the Motor City: Stretching like a piece of golden taffy From the river to the hills....
Neons like irridescent moths Describing sudden volutes Of green and red light.... Hazvkers whining commerce Below the unblinking cats’ eyes Of the Detroiter.__
The fat-flanked trolleys shuttling Monotonously across the steel warp of the street....
Tozvard the rivez' at the Circus
Pigeons float dowzi izi zvhite, dramatic spirals
To eat peanuts from floaters._ Gulls znoving in
Like passive clumps of snozv.___ Azzd Time as endless as the z-iver, As long and short as the street_ The'street as old azid zvise .4 s Tizne tonight.
Walter Hagen, Jr.
He was sitting still like a stone, straining for a sound; twice he jumped when one of the men clinked his foot against some metal. Once he put his ear against the wall of the sub but he sat down again with blank, desolate face.
Hayes dwelt over the death of his buddies in the flooded compartments.
“Think how lucky we are, fellers, to be still alive while all the other guys are floating around in that black water,” he smiled sickly. His gums were blackly blue.
“We’ll be 0. K.”
The other looked at him with sober,
dumb faces, trying to agree, but they couldn’t.
“I’d just as well be dead as waiting to die,” Fitz murmured in a monotonous tone.... silence.
Then a sharp metallic sound; heads jerked up; Chris was working with the clamps on the watertight door. Horror stricken, the men pounced on him and dragged him away from the door. Chris bleated.
“I gotta get out of here, I’ll go nuts if I have to stay cooped up any longer. Lemme go, lemme go!!!”
His eyes were glassy and his hands trembled, like thin leaves fluttering in a breeze; his face was drawn and pale blue. His knees sagged. His body crumpled and slipped to the floor.
“Dead,” said Evans so casually he frightened himself.
The men took this incident dumbly. Here was death and that was that. But not Hayes; he was sure that some help would come from above to them in the sub.
Three of the men were breathing like puffing engines and when Scott tried tn do something for them they refused, saying, almost soundlessly, that there was nothing that could be done. About a half hour later two of them, Colby and Hayes, collapsed; the third one, Fitz, went in about ten minutes. Four were still alive.
For another hour or so the four men sat still and motionless, merely waiting for it to happen. Twice the sub rolled -over on its side and then balanced itself again; the men huddled themselves together for warmth; they breathed like panting dogs. That was the only noise .... the stale air being sucked into their lungs in short gasping spasms and then being exhaled, like steam escaping .through a tight valve. They were breathing harder, harder, harder.
Scott murmured something to Evans, and then to the other two men.
Evans said, “O. K.”
The others nodded. Scott sloshed his heavy feet through the oily water to the watertight door and loosened the clamps. The black, murky water splashed into the room.
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Skibos Are Set to Spill Irish In Crucial Game Tomorrow
Hold Tight, Johnnie—
Muha and Condit Expected To Give Laydenmen Trouble
High above the Smoky City stands a football battle ground. Tomorrow afternoon, on that field, the turf of Pitt Stadium, an old feud will be renewed. The Scotch will face the Irish. Carnegie Tech’s Tartans, on their own field, will be out to scar the unbeaten record of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish.
Each week the Laydenmen face a team which is pointed for victory. Every opponent on the Notre Dame schedule is out to win, knowing the prestige that conies with a victory over the Irish. Carnegie is not the exception, but the real example of this rule. The Skibos lost last week to an underdog N. Y. U team. But that defeat, by no means, will make Tech a soft touch. On the contrary, the Tartans will be all the tougher. They are not counting on losing two in a row.
And Tech has the manpower to come through. Remember last year. From that powerful Carnegie club we saw in our stadium, only four men have been lost. Eighteen of twenty-two from the first two teams will be playing ball tomorrow.	•
A spectacular duo of halfbacks, George Muha and Merlyn Condit, will spark the running attack of Carnegie. Directing the maneuvers from the quarterback position will be “Whitey” Moersch; as an alternate Moersch will have capable “Chang” Dunn. Fullbacks are plentiful. Jerry White, Walt Ingalls, and Tony Laposki have shown plenty of stuff bucking the line.
The center of the Tech line is manned by brilliant “Tarzan” Schmidt, towering center, and two fast guards, Bill Reith and Bob Dominy. Pete Dobrus is a tackle second to none the Irish have faced this year. His running mate, Ted Pruger is a pillar of defensive strength. Five interchangeable ends will make it something of a feat to encircle the Carnegie flanks. Striegel, Betz, Howarth, Church, and Fisher can also snare passes with grace and assurance.
But the Irish have some fair-to-middlin’ football men in their own line
up. Each week finds the blocking progress, defense strengthen, and victories increase. There is a wealth of backfield material. Benny Sheridan found himself against S. M. U., and ran wild against the Midshipmen. Zontini is as steady as ever. As a whole, there has been great improvement shown.
All credit can not be given to the backs. Up front, blocking is picking up. Downfield, a little more wiping up could be used. But both lines progress with each game. And we cannot complaih about improvement.
Coach Layden has pointed out some significant facts about the team, facts that are known to few outside of the coaching staff:
“As these future games come up, more plays will come into use. It is our policy to use a minimum of plays at first, and to get those few down pat. But each week we bring out something new. In football the old saying, ‘quality before quantity’ is as fool-proof as along any other line of activity.
“We are getting our combinations set, using settled line-ups that have shown well in competition. Of course, that does not mean that the other boys have no chance. Ability, new stars, 'are always watched for. Changes are always very possible.”
Tomorrow, the Tartans will be eager to regain the prestige they lost against N. Y. U. last week. Notre Dame must win to keep intact a record of victories. Driving, slashing George Muha is Tech’s version of our own “Moose” Piepul. Let’s watch the “Moose” outdo Muha. Let’s watch the Irish outscore the Scotch.—John Patterson
Surprise! “B” Team To
Play First Game Sunday
Don’t look now, but a vicious rumor has just reached us. It seems that the Notre Dame “B” team has a game definitely scheduled for Sunday, October 29, at Loretta, Pa. Those who have followed the fortunes of Coach Cerney’s men thus far this season are inclined to scoff at such a suggestion, but it is true nevertheless.
At the start of the season, there were
Last year, as shoivn above, a strong Irish line k away from Touchdown-land, Kelly and C
handsome prospects for the “B” team. The biggest attraction was a game with an unnamed Eastern college. This game was called off. Well, that was all right. The boys started to point for the Northwestern game, but evidently they didn’t point enough, because that, too, was cancelled. The climax to such doings was reached when a scheduled game > with Illinois was dropped from the books because, with the Illinois varsity playing in Los Angeles, there weren’t • enough men on the Champaign campus to play the locals.
Now, however, things are looking up again. Not much is known about Sunday’s opponents who, if you are interested, are the men from St. Francis College. It will be Coach Cerney’s first chance to see his men in a real test. At the present things in general indicate a victory (if the game is played).
Frosh Outstanding In	:
Handicap Track	Races	(
A quintet of newcomers, Tony Malon-	£
ey, Bill Wood, Jim Delaney,	Gibson	1
Molt, and Dick Tupta, provided smiles 1 for Track Coach John P. Nicholson as first-year men took top honors in the t
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
—That’s Mr. Muha!
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
? kept George Muha, Carnegie’s great back, I Company must repeat tomorrow.
University fall handicap track races, last week.
Maloney turned in one of the outstanding performances of the event when he toured Cartier Field route in 4:38 for the mile—highly commendable for a fall mark for freshmen. Maloney finished second to Curt Hestor in the 880. Delaney, however, was the outstanding individual competitor when he upset Bill Faymonville in the shot put. Delaney, who has a high school mark of better than 59 feet for the 12 pound shot, heaved the 16 pound ball 46 feet, 4 inches to win. Molt won the broad jump, leaping 20 feet.
Wood captured the 100 yard dash in 10:1, followed by Gibson who came through to win the 220 in 23:1. Tupta displayed his versatility by winning the javelin with a toss of 127 feet, 6 inches, placed second in both the quarter mile and the 220. Ray Roy won the quarter in 51:2.
A group of veterans won the other events. Dave Lawrence led Bill Nicholson, son of the coach, across the finish line in the 75-yard high hurdles in :10 flat; Johnny Dean captured the pole vault at 12 feet; and Ted Leonas took the high jump at 6 feet.—Bill Scanlon
From now on we are no longer playing out the schedule, but in 18-point type “Notre Dame is marching toward a National Championship.” After four straight victories over anybody, a team must expect things like that; it’s the sports writers’ inalienable prerogative, that is, you can’t stop him. Thus, such a team becomes the favorite in every game; it is lauded to the skies in pregame puffery; and it is narrowly examined and picked-over in post-game critiques.
Once a team starts “marching” instead of playing, things begin to tighten up too. Game tension increases so that any little deviation from perfection in ■ play calls forth a sad shaking of heads among the cognoscenti of the press box, and a ringing chorus of razzberries from the bleacher section. When Jones who has been fumbling all year fumbles now that the “march” is under way, with mounting blood pressure we demand, “Judas Priest! What’s wrong with Jones today!” or words to that effect. Jones himself is mentally boiling Ipswich in oil for his lousy pass from center. Ipswich is calling upon Moses to witness the terrible blocking of Murphy on that last play. In short, the team morale approaches the jagged edge.
Of course, if we should lose a game then the scene changes. We begin to philosophize with an £I told you so’ attitude. The hacks remark dryly that poor old Jones is doing the best he can, so we shouldn’t criticize. . . . The bleacher fans sit back and break another label or else stay away from the stadium entirely. The team, with the pressure off, usually starts to play football again, as a team. All of which leads up to the moss-covered homily that ‘one swallow doesn’t make a summer,’ and therefore, despite the four birds we have bagged so far, we ought not to start “marching” until along about 5 p.m. on Nov. 25.
Yale, Harvard, and Princeton have reemphasized their ‘mutual assistance’ and ‘hunky-exclusion’ agreement. So, if you’re thinking of sending some worthy lad through Harvard to major in the art of football, you’d better be careful how you go about it. For instance, all checks must be accounted for, if sent to said ‘worthy.’ That means if you mail Wladeslaw his tuition fee or weekly pay, you must either send it as father to son, or else establish a bank account
in Wladeslaw’s name in order to throw crafty officials off the scent. From now on to play football in the Big-Three you must be one of three things: first, independently wealthy; second, a student who plays football merely for the love of the sport; or third, a smart ‘tramp athlete,’ and we mean smart; smart enough to get away with it, now that a special investigating committee is on the prowl.
The former All-American, Larry Kelley, recently took a blast at the Big-Three. Dollars to doughnuts Larry was not a magnate’s son or exclusively a ‘lover of sports’ while he played at Yale. However, it remains common knowledge that Larry’s playing brought more favorable interest and attention to the Big-Three than any other phenomena since the days of Albie Booth. But all this is distasteful to the powers that are; it smacks too much of professionalism. They want to take the game away from the promoters, so they say, and give it back to the—Indians, you guessed it.
With the imposition of this embargo on talent, it looks like hard times are ahead for Messrs. Ducky Pond, Dick Harlow, and Tad Weiman. Of course, if these gentlemen should devote themselves to ‘building character’ for a few years, the possibilities are enormous. We might be able to say in time that Big-Three footballers are the highest type of homo sapiens, and that is something to look forward to, gentlemen.
Suggestion to Mr. Flynn: Personally, we’d holler a lot more if some cute little girl out in front looked like she kinda wanted us to, than if the whole male student body turned a dozen handsprings. ... From the Carnegie Tartan we quote: “Notre Dame will undoubtedly be the toughest hurdle in. Tech’s race towards the mythical national championship. After this game the team will be given the week’s rest they’ll deserve, and probably need.” That was predicted before N.Y.U. need we add. Sic semper prognosticatoris.
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Carnegie
Michigan over Yale
Southern California over California Iowa over Wisconsin
Santa Clara over Purdue Cornell over* Ohio State Louisiana over Vanderbilt Georgia Tech over Auburn Oregon over U.C.L.A.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing by Pete Sheehan
“What a block!” These three words were on the lips of all the experts who filled the press box at Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium last Saturday afternoon. While 80,000 gridiron enthusiasts were going mad over the sensational running ability which the Irish backs displayed, the Gentlemen of the Press were raving about the finest blocker they had seen this year.
That blocker was Steve Sitko. Steve
not only is considered Notre Dame’s best interferer since Marty Brill but also is recognized as its greatest field general since Frank Carideo. Bob Zuppke, Illinois mentor, rated the blonde signal caller as the country’s number one quarterback last year—and Mr. Zupp7 ke saw quite a few.
Sitko attended Central High in Fort Wayne and made the first team in both football and basketball as a sophomore. The quarterback position was in his capable hands for three years and he won recognition throughout the Hoosier State when he was awarded a position on the all-Indiana team in 1935.
Right guard on the cage team was his position for three years and as a senior he was chosen on the all - State five. This is a much desired a w a r d, because Indiana is
known throughout the country
for its high brand of scholastic basket
ball.
Steve’s greatest individual feat was his last minute basket against Kokomo from the center of the court. This bucket enabled Central to win the regional tournament and go on to the state finals. Although Fort Wayne was nosed out in the final round her ace guard and our ace quarterback received the Gimbel Award for outstanding sportsmanship. We can readily understand why he was so honored.
The young athlete had two objectives when he entered Notre Dame—to study engineering and play football. That he attained them is easily seen when we look up Steve’s scholastic average and glance at the sport section of any newspaper.
He is not the man about the campus
type nor is he popular around the South Bend Drug stores. Steve goes his way quietly but his classroom and gridiron accomplishments tell more about his character than he could relate in thousands of words.
Last year many of the experts and curbstone quarterbacks denounced Steve when he called a running play against Southern California with seconds re
maining in the first half. The play failed
and the Trojans countered with a touchdown pass but Steve has no alibis. “I
still would call the same play in the same situation.” When we have a man of determination, such as Steve, at the helm of the Fighting Irish is it any wonder that they are marching toward the national title.
Bill McGannon and Bob Hargrave, Irish reserve backs, were Steve’s opponents in high school. Lou Wagner, varsity basketball forward, opposed Steve in the State regional tournament.
Fort Wayne is proud of Steve and several of his townsmen will be in the Notre Dame stadium when the Wildcats invade the den of the Fighting Irish.
Statistics: Born in Fort Wayne, Ind., Nov. 16, 1918. Full name—Stephen Joseph Sitko. Weight, 185 pounds, height, 5 ft. 11% ins. Will be graduated in June in Mechanical Engineering.
Gregory In Final Round
Of Fall Tennis Tourney
“It’s souring on us.” Coach Langford was bemoaning the turn of the local weather which has allowed but one round of the Fall Tennis Tournament to be played in the last two weeks. The pairing sheet, blown from the bulletin board with the arrival of the fall winds, shows Whit Gregory in the final round waiting to meet the winner of the Heckler-Fay match for the title.
Unexpectedly the winner of his match with defending champion Canale, Gregory upset the pre-tourney speculation by his march to the finals. The match Gregory played with Canale was a lengthy affair neither of the pail’ anxious to beat the other. The two Southerners who’d rather play on the same side of the net than on opposite sides, volleyed through an exchange of compliments ending finally with a 3-6, 7-5, 9-7 score. The scores scarcely show the proximity of a Canale victory, “Ace” having a 1-5 advantage in the second set and a 0-5, double match point chance in the final set. Both smiled when they mentioned this. Gregory said, “Then I began to serve,” and exchamp Canale claims, “Whit’s won so many cokes from me before that I couldn’t get out of the habit.”
Gregory played No. 2 singles and is ineligible for competition this spring because of his three previous seasons on the Irish courts.
Captain Fay’s many time postponed match with Heckler is scheduled for the first “break in the clouds.” Little counted on before play began, “Hecky” has taken all his opponents with an unusually steady, well paced game. Unless his game has cooled with the postponements, his chances are rated high in meeting Gregory in the title match.
—John Quinn
Owens and Doerr Shine
In Frosh Swimming Meet
In the years to come when Bob Owens of Brownson and John Doerr of Cavanaugh sit around the dinner table and tell of the feats they have accomplished, one they •will probably not shy away from telling will be that they jointly were high scorers in the first Freshman swimming meet ever held at Notre Dame.
The meet, concluded on Thursday a week ago, was rather warm insofar as competition was concerned, and the milky-green waters of the Rockne Memorial pool at the finish had been churned to a white, frothy mass by flutter kicks, scissor kicks, crawls, and various other strokes.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
Owens took first honors in the 50-yard breast stroke and the diving contest. Doerr was ahead in the 50-yard backstroke and 70-yard medley.
Since this was the initial freshman swimming meet, there is no basis for comparison of records. However, Ed Slezak, in charge of swimming, said the time in the various events compares favorably with other freshman aquatic meets throughout the country.
This meet was the prelude of other tournaments to come. Starting Monday will be the freshman foul shooting and badminton tournaments. Entries closed today.
Results of the swimming carnival follow: 100-yard free style: Robert Russell, off-campus; Lawrence McCarthy, Breen-Phillips; Bernard O’Connor, Cavanaugh. Time 59:7.
50-yard breast stroke: Owens; John Bosak, Freshman; David Fitch, Zahm. Time 37:7.
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
L E M O N T R E E S
Optometrists and Opticians 314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
50-yard backstroke: Doerr; Henry Priester, Breen-Phillips; Bob Pelton, Brownson. Time 32:7.
50-yard free style: Tom Miller, Cavanaugh; Lawrence McCarthy, Breen-Phillips; Jim Stagge, Zahm. Time 26:2.
Owens total points in the diving contest was 102 He was followed by Lewis Schim of Freshman with 97, and behind him with 87 was Richard Schiltz. Breen-Phillips. Doerr nosed out Robert Russell and Henry Priester in the special 75-yard medley.—Chuck Ferrell
Soccer League Starts
Paced by “Mack” McBride, leading scorer of the league, Freshman Hall was well on its way to the top of the standings until the team from Breen-Phillips handed them a 1-0 setback last week to put them into a tie with Brownson for first place.
An extension of the Freshman physi-
^^91=^=!^^
$	S
THE HUDDLE
"Pipe Headquarters" for the Campus
2	I
&
cal education program, the soccer league is this year under the supervision of Frank Gaglione, assisted by Norv Hunt-
SWEATERS
Sleeveless vests—button and slipover styles—02.50 up
GLOVES
Pigskins, all shades—02.50 up
Wratnrinattr
VMM MM M* » «,
RENFRANZ-RASMUSSEN
106-108 South Main Opposite the Court House
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
^^66 BAFFLE FILTER to™te
PIPES, CIGARETTE A CIGAR HOLDERS	**
ONLY filter combining 66 baffle interior and cellophane exterior, keeps nicotine, juices, flakes out of mouth. No breaking in. No tongue bite. Breaks up hot smoke stream, resulting in mild, healthy
MEDICO HLTERED SHOWN.
Most beautiful new styles—unheard-of-value

FINEST BAUR MONEY CAN BDT f m|||E FILTHS m suet rives ncsaaaiYMnas KB a SUCK BBS
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
hausen. The schedule of the forthcoming games is as follows:
Oct. 27—Zahm vs. Cavanaugh; Oct. 29—Breen-Phillips vs. Brownson; Nov. 1—Freshman vs. Zahm; Nov. 2—Cavanaugh vs. Breen - Phillips; Nov. 3—Carroll vs. Breen-Phillips; Nov. 5.—Zahm vs. Carroll.
Standings of teams:			
Freshman 		1	1	1	3
Brownson 		1		1	2
Breen-Phillips 		1	1	2
Zahm 		1	1	2
Carroll 			 Cavanaugh 		1	2	2
Scoring: 2 points for a		win;	1 point
for a tie.
YOUR RELIGION
G. K. Chesterton once said that “the most impractical of all ideals is the ideal of the immediately practical.” The obvious point he was trying to make was that so-called “practical” knowledge may turn out to be quite impractical, and that theoretical, or “useless” knowledge, may in the long run become the most practical. The question is of interest here because religion is notorious

AND HIS
MUSIC OF TOMORROW AT DINNER AND SUPPER DANCING A Varied and Captivating Program Continuous from 7 P. M. Until Closing ☆ . JOSKA DE BABARY and his Hungarian Gypsy Orchestra Play for Luncheon Daily and for Dinner on Sundays ☆
SPECIAL STUDENT ROOM RATES THE BILTMORE
1
a

ly a practical subject. Religious knowledge is acquired, as someone remarked “to get to Heaven, and not to learn how the heavens go.” To say that knowledge is practical means that it is useful or necessary in the perennial business of living, of carrying over into the order of doing the conclusions reached in our processes of thinking. Unless we are prepared to admit that we live in a world of anarchy, a chaos, and not in a world of law, a cosmos, we must presume that this process is governed by certain definite rules, and that presumption is all the more respectable because in fact there is order in the lives of men. In a general way, too, there is agreement as to what that order should be, for we find it rather easy to distinguish between order and disorder, between •wisdom and foolishness. The principle of that order, as stated in this column last week, is God, the formal object of religion and the supreme good in the moral order.
As a consequence of this double role of divinity as supreme object of human speculation and as supreme good in the order of action, religious knowledge becomes an exception to the Chesterton rule. For it is both immediately prac
tical and ultimately theoretical. It is at once an ideal in the speculative and the practical order. One wants to know religious truth in order to live rightly, and the highest form of intellectual life is found in the contemplation of God, Who is truth itself.
Very probably man’s first impulse to acquire a knowledge of God springs from the mystery which he is to himself. The sense of limitation, of helplessness in the presence of certain events, a vague feeling of dependence upon some higher power, though certainly not the adequate cause of religion, may well be the occasion for the simple forms of reflection which culminate in some conception of God. The questions: Whence? What? Why? Whither, impose themselves, as the French say, on our minds, and our minds are ill at ease until some ■ kind of an answer has been found for them. Karrer in his Religions of Mankind, says that “the religious attitude presupposes a native and substantial presence of God in man, a personal presence which pre-exists man’s consciousness of it.” And if that is true, as he continues, “religion is an invasion from without, the illumination of man’s consciousness, his mind and heart by an objectively existing divine Reality.” The serious-minded man must find God, or suffer perpetual bewilderment . We not only pursue religious knowledge, but it
Adjoining Grand Central
Madison Ave. at 43rd St. New York.

See BENNY SHERIDAN, Our “SPECIAL” Representative 2 Lyons Hall
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
also pursues us, in the sense at least, that the questions it raises and answers refuse to be ignored. In that sense, not only Christ, Our Lord, deserves to be called the “Hound of Heaven,” to borrow a title from Francis Thompson, but also the saving truth which He came to teach. The human heart must love, and it must find some object worthy of its affection, something which will not leave its hunger unappeased, which will bring
KAYWOODIE U
In this Kaywoodie pipe, called the Carburetor Kaywoodie, a wonderfully sweetsmoking pipe has been improved by the application of a neat little principle of physics. When you take a puff at one of these Carburetor Kaywoodies, you automatically draw air in through a tiny inlet in the bottom of the bowl. That incoming air keeps the smoke cool, sweet and serene, no matter how belligerently you puff. In fact, the harder you puff, the more air comes in. That’s why it’s called a Carburetor Kaywoodie. Everybody knows that a Kaywoodie is the most so-cially-conscious of pipes—gets itself admired everywhere. And the Kaywoodie Flavor is famous. But don’t let us urge you—Shown above, No. 22.
KAYWOODIE COMPANY
Rockefeller Center, Ne w York and London
So good looking and so practical!
$750
At Better Dealers
Other Alligator Raincoats, $5.75 to $25
because . . . IT’S SURE TO RAIN!
$14.73 $18.50
Samthur “Special Finish** Galecloth...............
The Alligator Co., St. Louis, New York, Los Angeles
ALLIGATOR
University Coacher Raincoat
BY
ALLIGATOR
Not style alone ... but guaranteed protection against rain, too! Yes ... this most handsome of raincoats with fly front, full sweeping lines, casual collar, smart brass buttons . . . actually keeps yon dry even in the severest downpour! The University Coacher by Alligator is one of those things where there’s no need to sacrifice style for downright practicability ... in fact, no coat equals it for either style or protection. Better get one today . . . IT’S SURE TO RAIN!
The "Coacber" by Alligator also available m
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
it that peace and serenity it spontaneously craves. This impulse to love, to find some object proof against ultimate disillusionment, is another source of religious knowledge. For if it is true that the will can love only what the mind has made known to it, it is also true that the will can and does spur the mind on to the acquisition of knowledge itself.
It was Schiller who said that “The man of his time is the man of all time. He has done his work: he has had a share in the creation of things which last.” With even greater reason may one say that the religion of his time is the religion of all time, for God, the object of religion, is above time, perduring throughout all time, even unto eternity. It has done and will ever do its work, and its work is to teach man the virtues, the practical arts of living, to elevate his mind and put it into intimate communion with the source of all being and of all truth. Thus it too shares in the production of all things which last, in the production of that which of all things lasts longest, Eternal Life.
—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C-
NOTICE
The Scholastic regrets the inadvertent mistake made on page 16 of last issue. The reference should have read “Reverend Thomas Walsh” instead of “Reverend Matthew Walsh.”
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
South Bend's Most Complete Hat Department
Features America's
Famous
STETSON HATS
$5 to $7.50
MUSIC NOTES
More than 80,000 people who saw the Navy game last Saturday cheered the work of the Notre Dame Band. The older members agreed that they had never marched before a more enthusiastic crowd. Each maneuver brought a roar of applause, and Director Joe Casa-santa can be proud of his boys.
The Navy band was not present, so it was the duty of the Notre Dame Band to entertain the customers both before the game and during the entire halftime intermission. The band marched on the field before the game forming a huge anchor in honor of the Navy. Be
STADIUM STAR
When spectator sports are the order of the day, the Stetson Tyrolean is the best hat you can wear. Rugged, yet casual lines and a graceful brim make this Stetson your ticket to smartness at any game!
STETSON
STETSONS ARE PRICED AT $5, $7.50, $10
tween halves the band opened with the “HELLO” formation playing the “Hike Song” which was followed with “Anchors Aweigh.” Then, facing the Navy stands, the boys spelled out, NAVY. In this position they played a concert medley of southern tunes. A quick change placed the band in a large ND facing the Notre Dame stands. During this change we heard, for the first time this year, “The Irish Washerwoman.” “The Victory March” followed and then facing a neutral corner the boys rocked out on that terrific arrangement of “Tiger Rag.” This fairly brought down the house.
The number one man in the band is Graham Starr who missed the train going down. Rather than allow the band
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
to go on the field horribly crippled without him, he chartered a plane and flew to Cleveland. That, friends, is without precedent.
A few of the band men, including myself, following Mr. Starr’s example, missed the return train and flew all over Cleveland Saturday night. Karl Hunn’s boys rocked and rode to a large and appreciative audience at the Wade Park Manor. Karl’s treatment of the “Victory March” was indeed sweet and low. The 100 men in the University Band will leave next Thursday for New York and the Army game.
—William Mooney.
VINCENTIANS
Healthwin Hospital and St. Augustine’s reports having been made (see the Scholastic, Oct. 20), President Joe Mulqueen turns to Executive Secretary Jack Reddy in charge of - the office at No. 23 Lyons Hall:
“Jack, have you something you want brought up now?”
“Yes, Joe. First, I want to remind you fellows that our office in No. 23 Lyons continues to serve as an agency for the purchase of bus and airline tick-
Headquarters for
STETSON
HATS
See the new Rustic Shades . . exclusive mixtures of Autumn Leaf hues, wx
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
ets. But added to this we now sell South Shore Railroad tickets.
“According to reports from the Vincentian Service Bureau, our Notre Dame Vincentians are doing excellent work on the Red Cross Safety Drive. After the request from the Bureau for volunteers in this Conference, seven fellows offered to help. They got their instructions at the Vincentian Service Bureau and went out and interested the principals of the Catholic schools in town and distributed the lists of questions concerning safety in the home and on the farm. The school children will bring the lists to their parents who are asked to answer the questions and have the children return them to the schools.
“Then there’s the matter of the talks before the religion classes. Permission has been granted for us to give these summaries of our work, and I’ll ask for volunteers later when we have the schedule of class hours.
“Bob Marbach and Jim White, have you a report from St. Joe’s Hospital?”
Keeper of the Wardrobe Jim White
WHY WORRY?
^HILLT
HAMBURGERS - PIES - CHILE 317 N. Michigan
216 W. Colfax 109 E. Wayne
THE TESTED INK
FOR EVERY PEN
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St, South Bend, Ind.
INA RAY HUTTON
and Her Playboys
HALLOWEE N DANCE Palais Royale October 31, 1939
Tickets on sale at Walgreen’s, Clark's or Palais Royale.
ADVANCE. 65c	AT DOOR. 80c
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
speaks for himself and Vice-President Bob Marbach:
“Bob asks me to speak for us, Jack. He and a few others laid the groundwork last year for my visits to the Children’s Ward. Tve been going down Friday afternoons and reading to the youngsters. Poor little kids are awfully glad to see someone come in.... I guess my reception equals those given ‘dean’ Mario and the Healthwin groups by the men out at the Hospital!”
Pat O’Neil is recognized and asks whether or not more fellows are needed to make the visits to St. Joseph’s Hospital. With perhaps a touch of paternal affection for the youngsters, Jim White says that there are only a few of them and that one visitor is enough.
With the business of the meeting completed, Mr. Reddy checks his meeting outline, then says:
“Ed Corey, will you take this copy of the annual report and read off a few of the interesting and enlightening items, please?”
Treasurer Ed Corey reports that 407 persons were assisted during the year, Oct. 1, 1938 to Sept. 30, 1939. Three hundred and ninety - seven visits were made. These include the homes of families assisted, hospitals and institutions, and incidental visits made during the course of the work. Such visits include those to families and institutions and the like. The poor in families and the poor in prisons, hospitals or other institutions received 1,240 religious articles, magazines, newspapers, and books.
The hall bell rings 11:50 a.m., some New Yorker remarks that it’s time for dinner, and the closing prayer is said.
—Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
BERMAN’S
Comlete line of Shotguns, Rifles and Ammunition for the hunting season.
SPORT GOODS
108 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
RADIO
most interesting that a man with great powers of imagination and an infinite amount of patience can enter. These two qualities are the prime requisites for a sound man. The sound depart-
To the average radio listener the sound effects department is one of the least important of those engaged in building a dramatic production. The clever announcer, the brilliant actor are heralded by the fans and deluged with letters of praise. However, the sound man is working all the time behind the scenes, often contributing much more to the success of a show than the actors, yet he is unglorified and unsung.
The greatest actors in the world have worked without benefit of scenery or any other aid to the imagination. In radio, too, they could perform magnificently without sound which after all is the scenery of radio, but how many great actors are there? The exceptional man in the exceptional play can consistently get along without any aids to his drama. But as a general rule we accept scenery on the stage and sound on the air as part and parcel of every production. We don’t stop to figure out how a certain effect was achieved but we do realize that it took place and added a certain amount to the whole show.
We Never Head the Ads Either!
JUST TO PROVE THAT YOU DON’T WE WILL GIVE AWAY ABSOLUTE. LY FREE ONE OF OUR SENSA-SATIONAL NEW AIRCLEAN PIPES TO EACH OF THE FIRST FIVE N.
D. STUDENTS WHO BRING IN THIS AD.
tyicu/vi a/nA
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
LOUIE BRUGGNER, N. D. ’23
The field of radio sound is one of the
Q
THINK OVER ..
Who is America’s No. 1 Men’s Stylist?

THIS BARGAIN FOR $45.00!
• Free Trial Lesson * Guaranteed Solo Course * $3.00 Individual Lesson • Free transportation to and from the airport
See your own hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni
Arrow—and Arrow has been for 78 years. But we’ve never seen smarter shirts than Arrow has tailored this year. Patterns their style scouts culled from the fashion capitals of the world. Fabrics as fine as fabrics come. Sanforized, (fabric shrinkage less than 1%) a new shirt free if one shrinks out of fit. Come in today and take your pick. $2 up.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE

ARROW
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ments of the larger stations especially are working all the time to develop new sounds and to improve the old ones.
The rise, in recent years, of shows on the order of “Lights Out” as well as the enormous number of afternoon and morning serials has increased the problems of sound and has lead to an increased interest in the subject. Too many, when they speak of going into radio as a profession, think only of positions as announcers, commentators, and similar performers, forgetting that, like every other large industry, there is a larger number working behind the scene, unknown to the general public, and contributing perhaps more than those in the limelight.
Log for October 28 Oct. 31 Music of the Masters ..7:15
Oct. 31 Radio Stage ...........9:00
OUT TODAYj
A new Arrow shirt with
A new Arrow collar
Nov. 1	Faculty Talk ..............7:45
Nov. 2	Academy of Politics_______4:15
Nov. 2	Sportcast ________________7:30
Nov. 3	Periscope ................4:15
Nov. 3	Little Jamboree ..........7:30
—Ray Kelly
Academy of Politics
The Academy of Political Science held its first meeting of the year yesterday, when a general program for the year was outlined and all committees appointed. The club will sponsor a radio discussion of current political ideas, every Thursday at 4:15 p.m.
The main paper, read by Harold Bowler, expounded the ideas on peace held by the last three “Popes of Peace.” War’s fruitlessness is the subject of the following quotation from the speech:
“The gain by a victorious nation in any wars is a conquered people hating the conqueror, and continually watching for an opportunity to revolt.”
Ted Kmiecek will deliver the main paper at the next meeting, on the important embargo issue. Attention is called to the fact that associate memberships are open to all juniors and seniors who-are not political science majors, but who wish to join the academy.
Notre Dame Headquarters for FINE FOOD
Your favorite Beer, draft or bottle 211-213 N. MICHIGAN ST.
THE Sussex type collar is the current favorite of students at Oxford and Cambridge, England. It is definitely a young man's collar, cut on a low drape template, the square points flare away from the tie knot and are moderately wide-spread, held rigid by a celluloid insert which may be removed if desired. Quick to discern the style importance of this smart collar, Arrow designed the Sussex particularly for American university men. It will strike hard on your campus . . . better get one today while they last. In white, colors, and striped patterns with French cuffs. All neck sizes and sleeve lengths.
ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS .. . TIES ... HANDKERCHIEFS ... UNDERWEAR
Headquarters for
Arrow Shirts
The Newest Style. Northern Indiana's Largest Stocks.
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington
92^ Sussex
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Engineering Notes
Professor F. N. M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering, and Dean Dugal Jackson will attend the Michigan-Life Conference on “New Technologies in Transportation,” at Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 1-3. This convention is sponsored by the University of Michigan’s college of engineering and Life magazine.
Glimpses into the future of transportation and allied scientific developments will be disclosed by university and industrial leaders.
Notre Dame’s Department of Metallurgy was represented at the national convention of the A.S.M., held in Chicago this week Monday through Saturday. On Thursday, Dean Jackson, Professors Shilts and McLellan and Messrs. Ferguson and Sheppard attended this
AVE
WITH US!
convention which has for one of its features the National Metal Exposition.
Frosh Show First Signs
Of Lusty Class Spirit
The Class of 1943 after lethargic days of indecision has finally cast irrevocable dice on this matter of class spirit. Swift decisive ruthlessness has been declared against all spiritless Freshmen. Two members, whose hearts were not yet shields of loyalty to the team, found themselves suddenly and imperatively lagooning in St. Joseph’s lake. Thus, the purge!
(What well-known Zahmite was seen recently slinking toward the Badin Cleaners with a suspiciously damp suit over his arm? Tsk. Tsk.)
New line of
Pennants, Triangles and Banners
4x9 — 9 x 24 Painted 9 x 24 — 15 x 36 Sewed 12 x 24 — 12 x 30 Banner 13 x 36 New Flag Design 30 x 24 x 36 Triangle
Sunday night, the night of peace, and parks, and cold suppers, found Breen-Phillips seething with a hidden undertow of intrigue. Seems that a certain callow lamb backed up his loyalty to S.M.U. with a little green and silver. Suddenly came the assertive yell of right over wrong. Freshmen streamed out of indignant rooms. A queue quickly formed. Well, to make the story short ... he also swam Thus, again the purge.—Sam Boyle
SERVICE
SHIRTS LAUNDERED 2 for 25C
SUITS DRY CLEANED Only 65C
Quality — Service — Economy and SPEED!
4 HOUR LAUNDRY
Colfax near Main
LAP ROBES 100 percent wool, waterproof Size 50 x 70 $4.75
Six Convenient Chicago Stations
• Make your plans hours or days ahead of time. A South Shore train is ready whenever you are. From South Bend, hourly service 6 A. M. to Midnight . . . Out of Chicago, service till 2:30 A. M. For detailed information call
N. D. BOOKSTORE
C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan St'.
Phone 3-3111
Skate for Health ... and Enjoyment... PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK (Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every Night Except Monday — Matinee Sunday and Thursday Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club”
CHICAGO MUTH SHO** A SOUTH MHD RAILROAD
50uthnsehorE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend
Office Phone 3-2574
FlmmmiiiuiiiiimmimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimtiiHiiiiimiiHiiiiHiiiiiiiPI
OFFICE 4-5661	RES. 3-4080
J)r. ^R.	j^ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
QaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiuiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiQ
3)rs. Probst and Sinqler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
gxancacacacaeacacacacaeacacacscacaeaeancaacacacaeac:
—.—.—.—.—.—.—-—-—-—-—-—■—■+
I	SOUTH BEND	|
1 X-RAY LABORATORY 1
!	825 SHERLAND BUILDING	»
1 L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON, 1
|	M.D.	M.D.	|
Prs. P^ose and ^Rose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
"■ ~l~*
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BEND nr ■ ■=======»»
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The word mystical, akin to mystery, became current in the thirteenth century to describe the Church as the Body of Christ. From earliest Christian times it was used of the sacraments and especially of the Mass as the “Mystical Oblation.” It distinguishes the Church as the Body of Christ from His natural, physical body glorified in heaven and His Body contained substantially in the Eucharist.
Mystical Body, then, expresses the spiritual, corporate relationship that exists between the member and the person of Christ, the head. This inward and spiritual nature of the kingdom of God is the essence of the Gospels.
The feasts of the coming week bring us concrete experience of this doctrine. They renew the thought of Pius XI that participation in the solemn celebration of the sacred mysteries is the most fruitful source of religious instruction: Sunday, of Christ the King, who by sole right rules over the minds and hearts of men; Wednesday, of All Saints, the unnumbered multitude that stands before the throne of the Lamb; Thursday, of All Souls, the members of the Mystical Body who are yet in bonds.
Mass Calendar: Oct. 29-Nov. 4
Sunday, 29—Twenty-second after Pentecost. Feast of Christ the King. 2d prayer, of the Sunday. Last Gospel of the Sunday.
Monday, 30—Ferial Day. Mass of the preceding Sunday. No Gloria. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis). 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 31—Vigil of All Saints. (Fast Day). Mass proper. No Gloria. 2d prayer, of the Holy Ghost. 3d for the Church or the Pope. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, Nov. 1—F east of All Saints. Mass proper. Credo Common Preface.
Thursday, 2—Commemoration of All the Faithful Departed. Three masses as in Missal, first place. Sequence: Dies Irae.
Friday, 3—Day within the Ortave. Mass of the Feast. 2d prayer, of the Holy Ghost. 3d, for the Church or the Pope. 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.	'
Saturday, 4—St. Charles. Bishop. Confessor. Mass: Statuit (in Common). 2d prayer, of the Octave. 3d, Sts. Vital and Companions, Martyrs. 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Visit Michiana's Most Complete Record Department
at
RODIN’S
Album of Lily Pons
M599___________________________$6.50
La Capinera (The Wren) Julius Benedict
Green (from Debussy’s “Ariettes Oubliees”)
Mandaline—Debussy
A Des Oiseaux—George Hue
Une Tabatiere A Musique—Liadow
Comment Disaient-ils ? (Victor Hugo— Franz Liszt)
Les Roses D’lspahan—Gabriel Faure
Les Filles de Cadix—Leo Delibes
Le Beau Danube Bleu—Strauss
Villanelle—Eve dell’Acqua
Lily Pons, soprano, with orchestra conducted by Ande Kostelan-etz. Flute obligato by Frances Blaisdell. Piano accompaniment by Frank La Forge.
3 ten-inch Discs 1 twelve-inch disc
36234—“The Rhinegold — Entrance of the Gods into Valhalla and the Rainbow Bridge” — Wagner. Victory Symphony Orchestra. Parts 1 and 2, Scene 4.
Hits of the Week
South of the Border
Victor 26373—Kenny Baker Victor 26337—Sammy Kay Bluebird B-10376—Shep Fields
Scatterbrain
Victor 26387—Sammy Kay
Bluebird B-10436—Freddie Martin
HERE AND NOW HE HAVE — JACK LEONARD VOCALIZING with TOMMY DORSEY recording “So Many Times”— other side, “Baby What Else Can I Do?,” with ANITA BOYER singing. Victor recording No. 26386.
FREE! with every Record Purchase regardless of size —RECORD BRUSH.
6ListeningBooths,ElectricMachmes Complete stock of Accessories Well-informed .Clerks
RODIN’S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings until 9 p. m.
MR. PAUL BTRNE* LIBRART, NOTRE DANE, IND eal Mildness
CHESTERFIELD’S RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

You’ll enjoy every Chesterfield you smoke because you’ll find them cooler, you’ll like the taste, and Chesterfields are definitely milder. There’s a big preference for the cigarette that really satisfies,
Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is the perfect blend to give you more smoking pleasure. Make your next pack Chesterfield...you can’t buy a better cigarette.
ensure
Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.
In this scene from Walter Wanger's current hit ETERNALLY YOURS DAVID NIVEN, as the magician, has put into the glass globe the right combination of ingredients to produce the beautiful LORETTA YOUNG... Just as the right combination of ingredients (the world's best cigarette tobaccos) are put together in CHESTERFIELD to give you Real Mildness and Better Taste.
of the worlds best
cigarette tobaccos