On the Campus—Notre Dame
May 9, 1958
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Ninth Year
“Jockey brand underwear made me Phi Beta Kappa!"
“ ’Amazing scholarship’, said the Dean. ’Cheating!* cried my fellow students. But I knew the real reason for my becoming an honor student. My tailored-to-fit Jockey brand briefs were so comfortable that naturally I found it easy to study better and get straight A’s.”
• 1,500 suits in stock
• All the newest styles
•Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•No Deposit for ND Students •See our New Colored Coats Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
. “ ‘If your brand is Jockey, you won’t need any ponies’, I tell my friends. It’s true, too. You see, Jockey—and only Jockey brand—uses thirteen separate pieces to provide a perfectly smooth fit. You feel better—and you study better—when you wear comfortable Jockey briefs.”
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including all accessories $59.95
Jockey briefs are the most copied underwear in the world. Be sure you get genuine Jockey brand— they're tailored to fit
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
JOCket!'brief
BRAND "
4
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
' *
* Vol. 99 May 9, 1958 No. 22
Diice Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Montura
THE ENGINEERS HAVE HAIRY EARS
Founded 1867
'	Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame,
» Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL "	Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
“	GEORGE CLEMENTS____________News Editor
HARRY McKEE _________________ Copy	Editor
a	BOB EARLY_________________Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK___________Sports Editor
BOB WILLIAMS_______________Photography
LORAN SHEFFER____________Business Manager MIKE KURAS_______________Assistant Business
a JOE DEZELAN__________Circulation Manager
WALT RUDGE ................Assistant	News
>	RON BLUBAUGH_______________Assistant	Copy
.	BILL CONWAY ....___________Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS____________Assistant Features
TOM LAMONT_____________Assistant Features
BOB SEDLACK __________ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH______________Assistant Sports TED THOMPSON ____________Assistant Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn , Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt ' ' Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang. -
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
k Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
f Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Press AsKcsatum aad Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for nsr-tional advertising by National Advertising Service, * Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and ——*?~r-tion periods, at the University of Notre Deane. Subscription rate, 34.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
• Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Vohsme 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct 2S; Nou 6, , Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9, Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17; No. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb 14; No. 14, Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 29; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
Today in this age of technology when engineering graduates are wooed and courted by all of America’s great industries, how do you account for the fact that Rimbaud Sigafoos, who finished at the very top of his class at M.I.T., turned down hundreds of attractive job offers to accept employment as a machinery wiper at the Acme Ice Company at a salary of $20 a week with a twelve-hour day, a seven-day week, and only fifteen minutes for lunch?
I know what you are thinking: “Cher-chez la femme!” You are thinking that Mr. Acme, head of the Acme Ice Company, has a beautiful daughter with whom Rimbaud is madly in love and he took the job only to be near her. *
Friends, you are wrong. It is true that Mr. Acme does have a daughter, a large, torpid lass named Clavdia who spends all her waking hours scooping marzipan out of a bucket and staring at a television set which has not worked in some years. Rimbaud has not the slightest interest in Clavdia; nor, indeed, does any other man, excepting possibly John Ringling North.
So how come Rimbaud keeps working for the Acme Ice Company? Can it be that they provide him with free Marlboro Cigarettes, and all day long he enjoys that filter, thatflavor,thatflip-topbox?
No, friends, no. Rimbaud is not allowed to smoke on the job. When he finishes
his long, miserable day, he has to buy his own Mariboros, even as you and I, to enjoy that estimable filter, that incomparable flavor, that crazy flip-top box.
greetings to his many friends.
• IMS Matotaa
• -
Ang time, ang clime, gou get a lot to like with a Marlboro, whoee maken take pieaeure in bringing gou thin column . '	<
through the nchool gear.	;
Well, friends, you might as well give up because you’ll never in a million years guess why Rimbaud works for the Acme Ice Company. The reason is simply this: Rimbaud is a seal!
Restarted asaperfonningseal in vaudeville. One night on the way to the Ed Sullivan show, he took the wrong subway. All night the poor mammal rode the B.M.T., seeking a helping hand. Finally a kindly brakeman named Ernest Thomp- . sonSigafoosrescuedthehaplessRimbaud.
He took Rimbaud home and raised him as his own, and Rimbaud, to show his appreciation, studied hard and got excellent marks and finished a distinguished academic career as valedictorian of MJ.T.
Rimbaud never complained to his kindly foster father, but through all those years of grammar school and high school and college, he darn near died of the heat! A seal, you must remember, is by nature -a denizen of the Arctic, so you can imagine how poor Rimbaud must have suffered in subtropical New York and Boston, especially in those tight Ivy League suits..
But today at the Acme Ice Company, Rimbaud has finally found a temperature to his liking. Heis very happy and sends
May 9, 1958
Thinking of Dining Out?
Think of EDDIE’S
Where Dining is treated as the pleasure it was intended to be.
1345 N. Ironwood
Reservations Call . . . CE 2-5861
ON THE COVER: Dick Fagon, a senior fine arts major from Mt. Vernon, N. Y., salutes “Oklahoma,” the University spring musical presently running at Washington hall. This is Fagon’s first cover for the SCHOLASTIC and he portrays "Curly” and “Laurey,” the romantic leads of the long-run Broadway musical. For a review of the play see page 17.
d*RWTURBOW
^OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JM.S. Bldg.
Storage for Winter Garments
ONLY $2.95
Plus cleaning charges
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
CALL CE 4-3188
or
Stop in for more information and further details at
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON Comer Lincoln Way East On the Bus Line
Ilie two fastest deodorants in the world!
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Old Spice Stick Deodorant is built for speed. Plastic case is applicator. Nothing to take out, no push-up, push-back. Just remove cap and apply. Prefer a spray? Old Spice Spray Deodorant dries twice as fast as other sprays! Choose stick or spray...if it’s Old Spice, it’s the fastest, cleanest, easiest deodorant -jrvri you can use.	Each
by SHULTON
The Scholasti
6
* -F '
r ... the home stretch
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
, The time of year has come to pass, When all of us in every class Start to wonder what to do, When “Uncle Sam" says ... “I
।A want YOU."
I Yes, even us.
I We mocked the guys in ROTC all year : • as they put on their hero suits and trundled off to drill. But on May thirty-‘ first, they step forward, receive their r commissions, become officers, and three I months later we receive an invitation to I	an ice cream social at Fort Leonard
I	Wood. Of course we’ll only have to
I serve two years compared to their three. I But what glorious years . . . cleaning | » grease traps, standing the midnight [ guard on Saturday night, forced marchI	es, and living on $78.50 a month, with
|	all the “K” rations you can eat. But
what the heck ... we can learn a trade.
LET’S ALL LIVE ON CAMPUS
* The other night we talked to a friend of ours living in the “Chrome Zoo” > (Stanford Hall). His name was Tony Cigar, one of the ex off-campus crew, who after three and a half years of living in town, was given an option . . . move on or move out! He was telling * us about his first night on, when he was at his desk and the lights went out. He , immediately ran to the prefect’s office to tell him that the fuse must have blown in his wing, and give him another so that he could finish his interlocking picture puzzle. While serving out his “campus’’ * for making noise after the lights went out, he made a survey to find out how the freshmen occupy the time after eleven o’clock. He claims most of it is spent stomping their feet, dumping wastebaskets full of water, and making themselves generally useless.
WANTED
Anyone having a fifty page thesis on the Machiavellian Tendencies of. the Red Ant, or the Sex Life of- a Bowling Ball, please contact, the AB senior in 132 Alumni Hall . . . before five o’clock today. •	.
LET’S REMINISCE ;
What ever happened to the' good old days when the seniors used to drink in the Strat, and it only cost 85 cents to see a movie on Saturday night. Or remember when we had a full week to take finals, and they were all in the daylight? Or what about the times when you could get off in front of Le Mans without having to hop over steam rollers and poured concrete? Sorry Mary.
AFTER THE BALL IS OVER
Since the Junior Class is holding their big shindig tonight, we’d like to extend a hearty welcome to all the imports that will be decorating the campus this week end. Being unable to keep our noses out of other people’s business, we’d lik6 to give you gals a few tips: first of all, there is nothing behind the laundry building, so don’t fall for the old “Let’s go sight seeing” gag. Also don’t call your date cheap when he won’t take you out to eat after the dance at 1:45 aan. It’s not that he’s cheap, it’s just that at 2 a.m. his tux turns to rags and the rector turns into something far too nasty to mention here. We’d like to go on, but half the fun is learning for yourself. (Anyway our Ball is next week).
PROGRESS
We understand that the Student Senate Social Commission is planning to erect a drive-in movie type screen in the parking lot behind Farley for the pleas
ure of the late Saturday night crowds which gather there.	-
QUESTION
What’s the current generation coming to? We read an article in the paper while in Joers trying to meet the new blond waitress, Jean, that made our alcohol-filled blood run cold. It seems that a little old grandmother lost control of her 1927 La Salle, and ended wedging it between a utility pole and a mail box. As the crowd began to gather around the smashed car and broken body, an amateur grease-ball about eight years old ran up, pried off one of the hub caps, and ran into the woods. What took the cake, was when he nudged her to ask for the keys to the trunk so he could look over the spare before he left.
POST TIME
For those of you who attended the Derby or saw it on television, we have news that might be something of a sur- -prise to the handicappers around cam- * pus. We hear rumors that Silky ran (or walked, as the case may be) around the oval, over the finish line, out the gate, and directly into the waiting semitrailer. of the ACME Glue Corporation.
OLD TIMERS
Best of luck to Al and Chuck and the group when the 1958 edition of .the “Fighting Irish” tangles with the Old Guard tomorrow in the Oldtimer’s Classic. Should be a Goodie! .	’
Well that about wraps it up for-. another two weeks. Be sure to read our other half next week, and then weTL be stumbling back to make* our farewells m . what will be our last column for the Scholastic.. (Sounds nostalgic, doesn’t it?) -	'	'
May 9, 1958
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAUB TRADITION
Here you'll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
CANOE TRIPS into Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.75 per diem. For complete information, write: Bill Rom, Box 717C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minnesota.
i1?
i g




I
from pur University Shop ATTRACTIVE SPORTWEAR FOR LATE SPRING AND SUMMER
Our Navy Blue Flannel Blazers, $40
Our Cotton Corduroy Odd Jackets, $30 Odd Jackets of Hand- Woven India Madras in Unusual Plaids or Strifes, $35 Tropical Worsted Odd Trousers in Oxford or Charcoal Grey and Olive, $19.50
Washable Dacron^-Rayon-and-Mohair Odd Trousers in Oxford or Medium Grey, or Brown, $17.50
White er Khaki Chino Odd Trousers, $ 10.50 Plain or Striped Lisle Polo Shirts, $4 Jacket sizes 35 to 42. Trouser waists 29 to 34
•Du Pont's fiber
ESTABUSMDW
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEWYORK • CHICAGO • AOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
EDUCATORS
Editor:
As you recently emphasized, and rightly so, a national association requested that its members boycott a certain magazine in retaliation for an “attack” perpetrated upon the American school system. You further emphasized that these people “are usually the same people who bray and prattle about ‘Civil Liberties’ and ‘Academic Freedom’.” This incident is generally considered common knowledge at this date, but it is not without factual precedent....
Currently and unfortunately for the association they have chosen to assault the Luce publications. They conceivably could have picked on Better Homes and Gardens (which also committed the “sin” of criticism) and emerged with perhaps considerable success....
A case which has received considerably less attention in the press is that of Holland Christian high school, in Holland, Mich. Recently Holland Christian has lost its regional accreditation as a result of a “curriculum deficiency.” The nature of the “deficiency” was that Holland Christian does not offer two courses: shop and homemaking. Now, no college or university in these 48 states requires shop or homemaking as entrance requirements; moreover, since the primary purpose of accreditation is the maintenance of “rigid” standards for admission to college, one may conclude that an accrediting organization should not (by definition) be bothering itself with subjects unrelated to college standards. In the case of Holland Christian, this seems all the more strange, since it is well known for its high academic standards, and percentage of college admissions, as well as for the receipt on the part of its students of nine National Merit. Scholarships in three years (out of an enrollment of 750 pupils).
“Life adjustment” courses, as ridicu-culous as they are, seem to be a focal point of our educational system, or at least on the part of those who fight for their establishment (and the latter are numerous). All of which brings us back to the fundamental question: Does the order exist for the individual or the individual for the order? Dare we address this question (or any application of this principle) to ourselves, or anyone else, without fear of “retaliation”?
Richard Allen, Graduate Student 308 N. St. Louis St., South Bend, Indiana.
The Scholastic


congratulations
Congratulations are due to all the students who have been selected to fulfill the important positions on campus next year. In particular, I would like to single out George Clements, the newly appointed Scholastic editor, and Denny Shaul, the recently elected student body president
George Clements was selected editor only after a highly competitive battle for the top post on this magazine. That he came out on top over some very capable meh is an indication of his ability. He has many good ideas about student publications and the energy to put them through. At the present time he is gathering a capable staff around him for
next year. I feel confident that all these men will work quite hard with Clements in putting out a topflight student magazine. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the men who were so diligent in working with me this year. Many of these people who have only had their names mentioned in the masthead deserve a lot of the credit for seeing that this magazine comes out each Friday.
Denny Shaul’s election as student body president was perhaps less competitive than might be desired. However, he is a highly qualified campus leader. Although he is only a sophomore he has already made his mark at Notre Dame. The support he has within his class is overwhelming and from the election results he has apparently won the confidence of the rest of the student body. Shaul will have to work hard to keep up student government here at Notre Dame. But it certainly seems he has the ability to do so.
These two men, as well as John Thurin, the Dome editor; Warren Albright, the station manager at WSND; and Bill McCoullough, the Blue Circle chairman, have a heavy responsibility on their shoulders. But the quality of these men indicates that next year will be quite interesting. They have all assumed positions which demand a lot of work, work which is not always appreciated. They have many obstacles to overcome. I am sure I speak for all of their predecessors in wishing them the best of luck.
-J.S.
now or later?
If there is one accusation which may be righteously leveled at college men, it is that they lade initiative.
The academic life of today is such that it fosters procrastination. The ordinary undergraduate may not live amid surroundings at all approaching the luxuries commonly associated with university quarters in the moving pictures, cheap novels, and moronic magazines. But he does lead a life of comparative ease. Little is required of him in the way of physical labors. He is assured of three healthy meals a day, and a comfortable room. An allowance provides him with pocket money and his clothes are usually the best.
The college man is typically nonchalant. Trifles never worry him. This would be decidedly in his favor were it not that he uses but little discriminat'on as to what trifles really are. He is too prone to adopt the attitude expressed in the words, “It will all be the same a hundred years from now.” Now such an outlook may be conducive to present happiness. It may make for peace of mind, and contentment, and a pleasant disposition but nevertheless it does not assure future happiness, and it certainly does not tend to develop a man’s abilities or progress him along die path of? life.
■ > Easy contentment is an insidious thing that poisons ambition. The human race has climbed upward through the ages because it has had to combat constantly antagonistic forces .which stand in its way. A mighty struggle, such as a war among nations, has always marked a significant forward step of civilization. A long period of world peace is rarely accompanied by unusual developments in science, the arts, machinery, or thought. Self-satisfaction, and the absence of a contending power delay progress.
Struggle and strife bring out latent powers that the widest stretch of the imagination had never discovered among human potentialities. On the other hand, a complacent mankind is a comatose mankind. The primrose path may be flowery with beautiful ideas, but it never leads to the actualization of them.
The college man cannot be balanced because he does not have to struggle for his existence. The fact that his life is an easy one is not an excuse to condemn him. But he should realize that strenuous competition awaits him in the world he is about to enter. He should therefore invite competition in his activities, curricular and extracurricular, while he is in school. He should not underestimate the importance of the work he is doing. He should strive for the perfection of his abilities and be determined to outdo, as best he can, the work that is being done by men about him.
—J.G.
'	9
May 9, 1958
Characteristics of a hypothetical model are studied in a dynamic simulator '
INVITATION
to engineering and science seniors
A
If you have any questions about space-age careers, this is an invitation to get in touch with us. We’d welcome the opportunity to answer your queries and to outline for you the exceptional future that dynamic, research-oriented companies like Boeing can offer you.
Boeing, for instance, is a leader in the fields of advanced scientific research and guided missile weapon system development. The Boeing Bomarc, now in volume production, is the Air Force’s longest-range defense missile. Research projects at Boeing include studies of glide vehicles and space flight, celestial mechanics, principles controlling space trajectories, drag and heating effects in high speed space flight and re-entry.
Boeing is also the nation’s foremost designer and builder of long-range multi-jet aircraft. Rolling out of Boeing plants are the eight-jet B-52 global bomber, the
10
KC-135 transport-tanker, holder of the world nonstop jet transport record, and America’s first jet airliner, the • famous Boeing 707.
These, and other expanding programs at Boeing, offer truly outstanding career opportunities to graduates in j engineering, science, mathematics, physics and related fields. Boeing’s continuing growth, moreover, offers rewarding opportunities for advancement.
We suggest that you get full details, by consulting your Placement Office, or by dropping a note, now, to „ Mr. Stanley M. Little, Boeing Airplane Company, Seattle 24, Washington.	<
Aviation Leadership since 1916	|
The Scholastic f
Gampui, Scum
JUNIORS TO DANCE IN ‘MODERN STARLIGHT’
t	---------- ---------------——    —........................    —......................
670 Couples Swing to .. Elgart Sound Tonight
Graduate Program in Theology Inaugurated; Course Open to Both Religious and Laymen
..
Some 670 juniors and their dates will fill the Navy Drill Hall tonight for the annual Junior Prom to be held from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.
The usual car permission and 2:30 a.m. curfew have been granted to those attending the prom. Miss Freddie Cartwright of Englewood, N. J., will be crowned the queen of the dance by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Miss Cartwright. a junior at Mount Mary College in New York, will be escorted by the general chairman, Hugh Murphy.
With “Starlight in Modern” as the theme, gigantic pastel panels of multi-
MISS FREDDIE CARTWRIGHT
Queen of Prom and . . .
i color abstract paintings will decorate the walls of the Drill Hall. The modern designs were painted by the students in
• architecture. On the stage a large pool and a waterfall will reflect the cool, starlit night.
Les and Larry Elgart, making their * second appearance at Notre Dame, will provide the music for tonight’s occasion. The Elgart band has a singularly noted
* style of the original “Sophisticated Swing.”
Formerly with Woody Herman, Harry James, and CBS, Les Elgart is a foremost trumpeteer in the country. His
A graduate program leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Theology will be inaugurated at the University this September. According to The Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, the three-semester program
brother Larry, who leads the sax section, is also noted for the wide range of his saxophone notes. The band has waxed seven albums for Columbia in addition to numerous records.
Approximately 150 couples will dance to the music of Gene Bertoncini’s Combo Saturday at the dinner dance to be held at South Bend Club. The dance lasts from 6:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Reigning as the queen of the dinner dance will be Miss Nancy Pugh from Toledo, Ohio. A junior at St. Mary’s College, she is the date of Duncan La Vigne, dinner dance chairman.
A Communion Breakfast on Sunday, following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, will formerly close the junior week end. The breakfast will be served in the New Dining Hall. The main speaker will be The Rev.. Glen Boarman, C.S.C. Father Hesburgh will also deliver a few words.
MISS NANCY PUGH
Queen of Dinner-dance
will be open to priests, Brothers, Sisters, and laymen.
While the Notre Dame religion department has conducted a highly successful summer graduate teaching-training program foi- eleven years, the new master’s degree sequence in theology is the first to be offered during the regular school year.
The program toward a Master of Arts in Theology is designed to give the student a thorough knowledge of the major areas of Catholic theology, and sufficient mastery of the spirit, method and instruments of theology to enable him to carry on research for a doctorate.
In order to assure integration of the courses with the sources of theology, emphasis is given to pertinent readings in the major books of the Bible and in the writings of the Fathers. Canon Law will be incorporated whenever relevant.
Contemporary theological issues are to be introduced into the courses, not with the expectation of making the student fully versed in them, but at least to give him a general awareness of current vital problems. Therefore, not only will noteworthy trends in modern Catholic thought be presented, but also the correlative positions of other than Catholic theologians.
Teaching the new program will be a staff of experienced graduate professors who have received advanced degrees from eight different universities in the United States and Europe. Moreover, there will be the advantage of association and cooperation with numerous members of other departments who have made important contributions in areas related to theology.
Notre Dame will be one of few schools to offer a graduate theological course open to laymen.
In addition to the general requirements for admission to the graduate school at the master’s level, the student must have completed at least three credit hours each in logic, psychology, and metaphysics. Sufficient knowledge of Latin to make possible the reading of such texts as the Vulgate and Summa Theologica will be expected.
Application blanks or additional information may be obtained from the Dean of the Graduate School.
May 9, 1958
11
McCullough Selected Blue Circle Chairman; Group Also Elects Halpin, Gleixner Officers
Bill McCullough was recently elected chaiiinan of the Blue Circle Honor Society for the coming school year. Mike Halpin was named the new vice-chairman while Barrett Gleixner has taken over the duties of secretary-treasurer.
McCullough, a resident of South Bend, is a junior history major who has had three years’ experience in the Circle. He has chaired the group’s vaccine, freshman orientation, and hall residence committees. For the last two years, he has been the manager of the campus book exchange. He also served on the A.B. Advisory Council.
Halpin is another three-year member who was chairman of the “Who’s Who” committee. He is presently the senator from Sorin and was the president of Lyons hall last year. He has also participated with the Navy drill team. Halpin is a junior history major from Rutland, Vt.
The third officer, Gleixner, is a mechanical engineering junior from Chicago, Ill., who is this year’s junior class secretary. He has also been on the Navy drill team for three years and is now on the Navy Council.
NEW BLUE OBOE OFHCEBS FOB NEXT YEAR Bill McCullough, Barrett Gleixner, and Mike Halpin
McCullough recently announced some of the major committee appointments. Tom Carroll has succeeded McCullough as freshman orientation chaiiman. Phil Sebold is running the freshman advisory program in Arts and Letters and Commerce.
Larry Wentz is in charge of pep rallies next year and Tom Scanlon is chairing the Concert and Lecture Series committee. The Student Trip committee is headed by Jim Short. This fall’s trip, as approved by the Student Senate, will go to Baltimore and Washington for the Navy game.
Twenty-two new members were recently admitted to the Circle out of a group of 130 applicants. Juniors accepted were: Warren Albright, Tom Cahill, George Clements, Bob Cox, Lou Manzo, John Reardon, Jim Reuland, and Jack Stewart.
Sophomores admitted were: Joe Clark, Jim Hirschfeld, Francis Kennedy, Jim Lekin, Emmet McCarthy, Len Muller, and Neil Stalter. John Burns, John Cahalan, Pat Hart, Armando Loizaga, Tracy Osborne, Tom Ryan, and Balfe Wagner are the new freshman members.
Campus ROTC Units Parade on Thursday
The annual Presidential Review of < the Notre Dame ROTC units will take place next Thursday in honor of The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
The Memorial Mass, held every year in honor of the men of Notre Dame who died serving their country, will be celebrated by Father Hesburgh that * morning at 9 a.m.
Beginning at 4 p.m., the review will be on the field south of the tennis courts.
Present at this parade in addition to Father Hesburgh, will be Lt. Gen. William H. Arnold, Commander of the Fifth Army, Major- Gen. Theodore S. * Riggs and Rear Admiral H. H. Caldwell, USN, Chief of Naval Air Reserve Training Station, Glenview, Ill. Also attending will be Mayors Voorde and Doyle, of South Bend and Mishawaka, along with other distinguished guests.
Assisting Father Hesburgh in the < Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church will be The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and The Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C.
Midshipman Second Class John Maloney will be presented the top Naval award, the University of Notre Dame > Navigation Award, by Father Hesburgh.
The Superior Army Cadet Award will go to Cadet Lt. Col. Gerald Genovese. This award will be made by Gen. Arnold.
Major Gen. M. D. Burnside, the director of Maintenance Engineers and Material Command, is presenting the awards from the Society of American Military Engineers. These will go to < Air Force ROTC cadets Paul Pikell and Jerome Trautschold.
Political Science Group Chooses Gonzales Head
«
Doug Gonzales of Baton Rouge, La., was elected president of the Academy of Political Science last week. Gonzales is also head cheerleader.
Next year’s vice-president will be John Moran. He has been a member of the Notre Dame Glee Club for the last i three years and is at present the chairman of the Junior Prom. Moran makes his home in Greenfield, Mass.
The positions of secretary and treasurer will be decided in elections to be held this fall.
Academy plans for next year include j a field trip and several informal facultystudent smokers. Plans are also being made to participate in the national midterm elections. The group hopes to . invite a distinguished political figure to the campus for several days during the election campaign.	.
12
The Scholastic <
GEORGE CLEMENTS
SCHOLASTIC editor . . .
Clemenfs Appointed
BOB SEDLACK . . . and associate
New 'Scholastic' Editor;
Sedlack Selected to Rd Associate Position
At the annual publications banquet held last Wednesday night at the Morris Inn, George Clements was named editor of next year’s Scholastic. The announcement of Clements’ selection was made by John Defant, director of University publications, who also revealed that Bob Sedlack would be next year’s associate editor.
Clements, a junior English major from Penn Yan, N. Y., has served as news editor of the magazine this year. He has had previous experience as a freshman reporter and as an assistant news editor last year.
Besides his Scholastic work, Clements has been on the Dean’s List, served as publicity chairman for the Knights of Columbus last year, and participated on the “Who’s Who” committee. He was recently admitted to the Blue Circle and will attend the NSA National Congress this summer as a Notre Dame delegate.
Sedlack, the new associate editor, is a junior English major from Chicago, Ill. He has been on the Dean’s List with a better than 90 average for five semesters. He is also a member of the Bookmen and on the staff of the Juggler. Sedlack has served as assistant feature editor this past year and has been on the staff since he was a freshman.
Next year’s news editor will be Ron Blubaugh, a sophomore economics major from Portland, Ore. Blubaugh is secretary of the Pacific Northwest club. He served as assistant copy editor this past year.
May 9, 1958
Blubaugh’s assistants will be Lyn Relph and Roy Rubeli. Relph is a freshman from Los Angeles, Calif., and is in A.B. engineering. Rubeli is from White Plains, N. Y., and will major in economics. He is also a freshman.
Copy editor for next year will be Walt Rudge, a sophomore communications arts major from Youngstown, Ohio. He was assistant news editor this past year and did some reporting his freshman year. Rudge has served as social chairman of the Youngstown club and also helped with decorations for the Sophomore Cotillion.
Rudge will be assisted by Ken Brown, Robert Maruyama and Charles Rieck. Brown is a freshman physics major from Rock Island, Ill. Maruyama is a freshman from Tokyo, Japan, and majors in science. Rieck is also a freshman. He is from Chicago, Ill., and will major in mathematics.
Ted Thompson, a sophomore English major from Kirkwood, Mo., has been selected as sports editor. Thompson is a member of the Army ROTC drill team and a Dean’s List student. He has had previous experience as assistant sports editor this past year.
Thompson’s aides next year will be Tom Rose, a sophomore A.B. pre-med student from St. Paul, Minn., and Bob Schaefer, a freshman from Rochester, Minn.
Next year’s feature editor will be Jim Yoch, a sophomore English major from St. Louis, Mo. He is a member of the Sodality, Wranglers, Bookmen, and on the staff of the Juggler. Yoch is also
Lynch Named Winner Of Fr. Steiner Award
William Lynch, a senior electrical engineering'major, is this year’s winner of the Father Steiner Award. This is the ninth year that the $50 cash prize has been awarded.
Since 1950, the Father Steiner Award has been conferred on an outstanding engineering student who has displayed qualities of leadership and scholastic achievement. The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., now retired, was a professor of civil engineering for many years at Notre Dame. From 1929 to 1939 he was Dean of the Engineering College.
His ex-students, the class of 1925, desiring to honor him, established the fund in 1948 to award outstanding engineers and encourage scholastic achievement.
Contestants are judged on scholastic average, extracurricular activities, qualities of leadership, and on the preparation and presentation of a paper. This paper may deal with any subject, not necessarily technical, that is concerned in some way with their education. ,
Lynch, who is from Dorchester, Mass^ presented a paper entitled “Leadership, Scholarship, and Recognition.” Among his extracurricular activities, Lynch is chairman of the student AIEE-IRE branch, and is on the Joint Engineering Council, and Engineering Honor Society. His 94.3 average has kept him on the Dean’s List for four years.
OUTDOOR MASS
The 100th anniversary of the papal recognition of the Congregation of Holy Cross will be celebrated at an outdoor Mass at the Grotto, Tuesday at 5 p.m.	-
The Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., will celebrate the Mass and deliver a short talk. The Mass will take the place of the regular evening Mass. -
a Dean’s List'student. He served as assistant news editor this past year and as a reporter his freshman year.
Pete Hasbrook, a sophomore finance major, will take over as business man- . ager next year. Hasbrook is- drum major of the Army ROTC band and is also a member of the University’s marching band. His assistant will he Bob Horn, a sophomore business organization major from Green Bay,Wis.
Clements, in assuming his new position, commented on his plans for the ' -coming year. “We hope to increase the .j students’ interest in the SCHOLASTIC, especially in controversial and thought- . provoking topics while also increasing ; our coverage of campus events and -activities.”
. i':/
. - •
Thurin Named Editor of Next Year's 'Dome1; Janoski, Maloney, Galvin Appointed '59 Aides
John Thurin, a communication arts major from Canton, Ohio, has been named editor of the 1959 Dome. His selection was announced at the annual publications banquet last Wednesday night at the Morris Inn. At the same time, Bob Janoski, a Chicago political science major, was elevated to the post of associate editor.
On the Dome each of his three years at Notre Dame, Thurin was acting activities editor last year as well as assistant senior’ editor. He is a Dean’s List student, was on the committee deciding the Dome awards, and is a member of the Third Order of St. Francis.
Thurin is president of the Canton Ohio club and it was his idea for the picture of the combined athletic teams of Notre Dame that appeared in a recent Sports Illustrated issue.
This year’s social editor, Janoski, is also a Dean’s List student, a member
‘DOME’ EDITORS
John Thurin and Bob Janoski
of the Academy of Political Science, and served on the committees for Dome awards and “Who’s Who.” Last year he was assistant sports editor for the Dome.
John Maloney, a chemical engineering junior of Fairless Hills, Pa., and Joe Calvin, a junior in the College of Commerce, have been named as assistant editors.
Managing editor for next year is Tom McHale, Pawtucket, R.I., junior commerce student. Business Manager Tom McBreen, is a junior in the College of Commerce. Bill Whalen, copy editor for next year, is a junior A.B. student from New Rochelle, N. Y.	■
Art Kanerviko, Syracuse, N. Y., A.B. sophomore, will be sports editor, and Pat O’Daly, sophomore science major from Brooklyn, will be social editor for next year.	.
Activities Editor Ken Murphy is a commerce sophomore, from Malverne, N. Y. Bob Good has been named as halls editor. Bob is from Wadsworth, Ohio, a junior in the College of Commerce. Dan Lyons, a first year science student from Brooklyn, has been named as senior editor.
Two new offices have been created by Editor Thurin: design coordinator, a position occupied by Mort Kelly, and personnel and public relations manager, to be administrated by Vito Nigreli, engineering junior from Gary, Ind.
The art staff will be composed of Art Editor Jerry Florent, Michigan City, Ind., an A.B. sophomore; and Ed Shay, engineering sophomore from Brooklyn, who will be the photography editor and head photographer.
When questioned about next year’s Dome, Thurin commented: “It seems that in the past the attitude of the students toward the Dome has been one of indifference. Next year we shall attempt to increase the quality, prestige, and reputation of the Dome by publishing a yearbook equal to the caliber of the University.”
The theme for next year will be carried out in a “flare” layout, not the conventional ideational theme. The contemporary to modem design and layout will be carried through all the six sections of the Dome.
Naval ROTC Council Elects Willihnganz '58-'59 President
The NROTC Council recently elected Paul Willihnganz, a mechanical engineering junior, president for 1958-59. Juniors Ralph Dangehnaier and Bill Whalen were elected vice-president and secretary; sophomore Ted McCourtney will be treasurer.
Others on the Council, whose purpose is to stimulate an espirit de corps in the Navy unit through extracurricular activities, and serve as the liason group between the midshipmen and the staff, are: Juniors Barrett Gleixner and John Kiefer; sophomores Charles Riehm and Marion Brown; and freshmen Tim Keough and Norman Girourd.
Two representatives from next year’s freshman class will be elected in the faU.
Ryan Picked to Head New 'Juggler' Staff
The new editor of the Juggler, Notre Dame’s undergraduate literary maga- * zine, is Joseph Ryan. He is an English major in the College of Liberal Arts and has served on the Junior Board for this year. Ryan’s home is in Bronx, N. Y.
The associate editors are Charlie j Bowen and Bob Vondrasek, both of f whom are on the Junior Board. Brown = is an A.B. English major and a member | of the Bookmen. He is on the Dean’s ' List and hails from Attleboro, Mass.
The other associate, Vondrasek, is in the General Program. He is a member | of the Wranglers and the Bookmen and , his residence is in Berwin, Ill. Bob W* Goldschmidt is the new business manager. A member of the staff for the last three years, he is also on the business staff of the Technical Review. Goldschmidt is in A.B. engineering and is from Cincinnati, Ohio.
Next year’s Junior Board members 4 are: Tom Banchoff, A.B. mathematics major; Jim Carroll, General Program; Andy Connelly, Paul Hundt, Marsh Pidgeon, and Jim Rose, all English majors, k There is also Dick Sampson, English premed; Chris Watters, engineering; and Jim Yoch, English.	<
The final issue of this year will be out in approximately a week. This issue is devoted to fiction with only one critical essay.	* ’
Among the stories is “The Black Earth” by Dave Karnath, a graduating < i senior. Another story is “Every Chang- | ing Shape.” This is a first contribution I by John O’Neill who is a junior major- f ing in English.
The Scholastic S
14
Two Seniors Receive Student Senate Selects Six Stay Senators; Annual YCS Awards Mardi Gras Funds Final Allotments Decided
At the annual YCS Communion \ Breakfast last Sunday, Martin Kominia-1 rek, Jr., and Richard Phelan received the 1958 St. Thomas More awards. The winners were picked on the basis of excellence in religious activity, leader-t ship ability, spirit of generosity and unselfishness, and academic merit.
' Kominiarek is a finance major in the ' * College of Commerce from which he will graduate magna cum laude this June. A Distinguished Military Student, he is also a member of the Knights of Co. lumbus.
During the year Kominiarek was novice master for the Third Order of St. b Francis. In this capacity he was in charge of the reception and profession of new members and the conduction of i all cell meetings for novices.
. As chairman of the Charity Chest, 1 * Kominiarek guided the group whose , responsibility it was to decide the allocation of some of the funds received from the Mardi Gras. He is also a member of the Student Senate Academic Commission. His home is Michigan City, Ind.
’ • Phelan is an accounting major in the College of Commerce. During the past ’ year he has been chairman of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. As leader of this group, he organized CYO groups in parishes throughout the city and helped them run basketball and softball games as well as parish socials. He also was responsible for teaching > religion classes to public school students in South Bend.
ST. THOMAS MORE WINNERS CONGRATULATED Marv Kominiarek, Dick Phelan, and Father John Wilson
The Student Senate elected the stay senators for next year at its meeting of April 30. These men will serve a second year in order to provide continuity to the senate.
There were six elected, among whom was Bill Graham, this year’s secretary. Herb Riband, Tom Lamont, Bill Scheck-ler, John Patton and Dave Offut were the others chosen.
Final allotment of the Mardi Gras funds was made. Though this is the third time around, there was a long debate on actual distribution of the
Next year, Phelan plans to go to Georgetown University to study law. He will work as a lay prefect in a residence hall there and will continue his work in the apostolate.
The award itself consists of an official scroll and a sterling silver medal of St. Thomas More. The award is named after St. Thomas More because, as a model of Christian humanism, he is considered the patron saint of the student apostolate.
Candidates for the award are nominated by a committee of juniors representing the major campus Catholic Action groups. The list of eligible seniors is forwarded to a faculty selection board which makes the final choice. This board is composed of priests who are moderators of Catholic Action groups or have otherwise shown a keen interest in the affairs of the student apostolate.
$33,500 finally netted. The initial discussion of division was just prior to the Mardi Gras while the second was to set policy once returns could be fairly safely predicted.
The Campus Charity Chest will receive $10,000 of which $4,000 is earmarked for Moreau Seminary. Amounts for the Student Center and scholarships were both increased from the totals set in the policy.
The Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president of Student Affairs, reminded the Senate of Joseph LaFortune’s offer to match any amount set by the senate for the Center. Harry Waseff, senate vicepresident, then moved to switch $1,000 from big name entertainment and $3,000 from scholarship to the Center appropriation. The motion was defeated by a 2 to 1 majority, so the final amount voted through was $10,000. The Scholarship fund is set at $9,000 with $3,000 slated for big entertainment and speakers. There is a $1,500 reserve.
The problem of “Oklahoma” ticket sales was brought up. Pat Rogers, social commission chairman, urged the senators to make an all out effort to promate sales.
Delegates to the NSA and NFCCS conventions were appointed. Traveling to the NSA meeting are: Graham, Mike Halpin, George Clements, Denny Shaul, Patton, Armando Lozaga, Jim Merz and Terry Smith.
Bruce Babbitt, Tom Green, Shaul, Jim Rose and John Hayward will go to the ? NFCCS as delegates. The alternates will be: Jack Stewart, Dave Offut and Scheckler.
Services Commemorate Anniversary of Fatima
Services to commemorate the 41st anniversary of the Fatima apparitions will be held next Tuesday at the Fatima Shrine at 8 p.m. The color guards of the three University ROTC units will join with the color guards of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus and Catholic War Veterans in these ceremonies.
The Rev. John Reedy, C.S.C., will preach the sermon and students from St. Mary’s Academy in South Bend will be in charge of crowning the statue.
It has been announced by The Rev. John O’Connell, C.S.C., a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band and director of the Fatima novena, that the annual outdoor spring novena at the Shrine has been postponed until September.
May 9, 1958
15
2OOZ0
I think it must have been when I was seven or eight that the song “Poor Jud Is Dead” first became a popular hit. It was just the sort of unusual song that is especially enjoyable to a child of that age, and I remember that I liked it very much, and knew all the words to it.
7 Later I learned that it was from the show Oklahoma, and was connected with the other songs from that show which were also so popular, but I could never *■ really imagine what it could have to do with the show. It was so different. It
0KL1H0MA
reviewed by Brian Woods
wasn’t till a long time later that I finally found out what the connection was. The mystery was finally cleared up, but, as I learned over at Washington Hall, the enjoyment and fascination remain.
The scene between Curly and Jud Fry down in the smoke house, during which “Poor Jud” is sung, was the high point of the show for me. Both Dan Ferrone (Curly) and George O’Donnell (Jud) played the scene with what seemed just the right amount of subtlety to bring out all the comedy in it.
That’s probably just personal preference, because there were five or six scenes which I found almost as enjoyable. Several of these latter involved the Will Parker (Dave Shanahan)— Ado Annie (Bobbie Benford)—Ali Hakim (Jim Cooney) triangle. Everyone who saw Good News last spring no doubt remembers Dave Shanahan’s dancing, which could only be called unusual, because I can’t think of a better word for it. Well, the dancing is back and with it those same unbelievable faces. (I think it’s the mouth that accounts for those expressions, but I’m not sure). Anyway he’s as funny as ever.
Bobbie Benford came as quite a surprise. She seemed the perfect Ado Annie. For a while I thought she was going to outmug Shanahan (though in her own way, of course). I think this is her first major role, and she’s worth having.
Jim Cooney was just as funny, though in still a third way. This, of course, was no surprise after seeing him play Algernon last winter- in The Importance of Being Earnest.
Perhaps the biggest and most pleasant surprise of all was Anne Rody as Laurey. In my opinion her voice is better than anything I’ve y8t heard around here in as many of the musicals as I’ve seen. She seemed especially good on “Many a New Day.”
I think the same could be said of the singing in general. I can’t remember a show where it has been better. The “Oklahoma” number. especially impressed me.
Jerry Dodge’s dancing in the dream sequence was excellent, as was that of his partner, Mai-y Laska. The whole number was' very well staged, and I think everyone enjoyed it.
I must admit that several of the more dramatic scenes were hard to take very seriously, though I found this also true of the movie version of the show, which is all I have to base a comparison on. I don’t mean that as a criticism of George O’Donnell, whose Jud seemed just about perfect. I found my feelings toward Jud varying between pity and revulsion, which is just about the way one should feel toward Jud. I don’t think the difficulty comes so much from the way the scenes were played, as from the fact that they require such a rapid switch from a light to a serious mood. And the flaw, if it is one, is not important.
It is hard to imagine a really bad production of Oklahoma. The songs alone, even if they were sung by drunks around a roller-piano, would be enough to make the experience enjoyable and carry the show. The show is just too good to be ruined. But I don’t think anyone could say that the Washington Hall production is a case of the show carrying the cast. Just about all the major roles showed imagination that added to the show and gave it a character all its own. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a play over at Washington Hall that wasn’t worth seeing, but this is one of the best. If the reaction of the audience was any indication, others agreed with me. At least, they applauded long enough.
Singing and dancing the cast of Oklahoma scores a hit in Washington Hall
17
May 9, 1958
“What?” said Dempsey.
SUDDENLY
by FRANK DASBC
“That Myerson,” replied Angersole.
“Forget it,” said Kinner. “He’s twisted.”
“Yeah, but?-”
“Forget it,” said Kinner again. “Just forget it.” He seemed tired.	r
The men had lapsed into silence now. The lieutenant still crouched in the sun staring down at his map. Angersole, Kinner, and Dempsey sat beneath the trees with their eyes closed, their hands loosely holding their Ml’s. Only . Myerson and the lieutenant had their *. eyes open, and Myerson watched Avery as the officer stared down at his map.
That afternoon they came from the woods, into the clearing, and felt the sun upon them. It melted down from the cloudless sky, against their brown, woolen uniforms, and then down further yet to the thick brown grass of the clearing, standing quiet and limp in the heat. Lieutenant Avery gave the signal with a nod of his head, and the five men sat down in the shade beneath the trees.
Off to one side, Corporal Myerson lit a cigarette and drew a mouthful of smoke into his lungs. The other men watched him quietly. They had long since been out of cigarettes, but they "knew that Myerson had an entire pack left. He didn’t offer them any. He never did, and yet they watched him smoking for awhile before they looked away.
“Philips!”
It was the lieutenant’s voice, and Private Philips got up and walked slowly over to where the lieutenant was kneeling in front of an open map. The other men watched the lieutenant as he traced a -line down the map with his . finger, and then looked up and pointed : across the field. Philips nodded and said something to the lieutenant. The , lieutenant' nodded, and then Philips got up and trotted across the field quickly with his Ml in the port position. His footsteps raised the dust of the field, and the men watched him until he disappeared over a small rise.
Private Dempsey turned to Private Kinner. “What d’ya think he said?”
“I don’t know,” replied Kinner as he picked his nose. “Maybe there’s a road down there.”
"Yeah, maybe,” said Dempsey. “But what if there isn’t?”
“Then there isn’t,” said Kinner.
: “We’ll find it pretty soon.”
:	“Yeah, pretty soon,” replied Demp-
■ aey- “IPs always pretty soon. I don’t think we’ll ever get out of here.”
Kinner was quiet for a few moments.
18
“It’ll be all right,” he said finally. “The lieutenant’ll get us back. He’s a good man.”
“Yeah, maybe. But I don’t like this. Lost like this. I never been lost before.”
“I was once,” said Kinner. “When I was a kid I got lost.”
Dempsey seemed surprised. “Yeah? How’d they find you?”
Kinner closed his eyes. “They never did. I’m still lost. But now I’m in France and we’re all lost, so it doesn’t make much difference.”
Over to the side Corporal Myerson lit another cigarette from the end of his old one. He didn’t smoke it long, though. He took a few puffs and then ground it under the heel of his boot. Private Angersole watched him and then pulled himself over beside Kinner and Dempsey. “Did you see that?” he said.
It was Myerson who first heard the noise, and then the others heard it too, and came to their feet. It was the sound of a machine gun, muffled and heavy in the heat. It stopped suddenly, then began again, then stopped and was still.
The lieutenant had already shoved his map into the mapcase at his side, and was starting to move across the field. The others followed him, spreading out then in a line to either side of him. The i heat pressed at them, and then the dust J rose about their feet, and there was the sound of their canteens bumping metal-licly in the stillness.
They reached the rise with their boots * covered with white dust, and they saw what it was. They didn’t like what they ‘ saw, and they dropped to the ground, and looked down at it in stillness.
It was a German tank squatting in the middle of a narrow, white-dust road. The tank was gray, and the treads and the front armor plating were covered with dust. It was battened down, and it <’i

tf
1

looked deadly there in the sun with its turret swinging around slowly, noiselessly. The barrel of a heavy, air-cooled machine gun revolved with the turret, and the men watched it as it swung back to point across the field for a moment before moving over to the left where a grove of trees stood quiet and blue of its own shadow.
“Do you see him?” said the lieutenant.
None of the men answered. They were scanning the ground to the side of the road. It was Angersole who spotted him.
“There he is,” he said and his voice cracked slightly.
“To the left,” said Kinner. “By the fence.”
The other men looked where Kinner’s hand pointed, and then they saw the helpless body of Philips huddled up with his knees drawn to his chest, the helmet off to the side. He was in the field about twenty yards from the tank, and he was either dead or dying. No one said anything, but they were all watching Philips and the tank, and thinking their own thoughts.
The. tank had started to move now. Its heavy front end went up slightly as the motor turned over and then dug in. The treads moved and the white dust poured down from the front of the tank and from the treads like sand when you let it spill out between your fingers. The sound of the tank was loud as it crawled down the road, and the men watched it, and then the revolving turret with its cannon in the front, and the smaller barrel of the machine gun sticking out straight like a tail in the back. They said nothing. They just watched it silently until it moved out of sight; down the road, with its turret still revolving, still looking. It was only then that they moved.
Philips was dead when they got to him. No one knew if he had died instantly or if he had lingered and suffered awhile. They all hoped that he had died as soon as the tank had caught him. There wasn’t much blood, only a little on his back where three shells had tom their way out. They turned him over on his back, then pulled him over to the side out of the sun. The lieutenant said a mumbled prayer, and then the men re-covered their heads and looked down at the body of Private Philips.
Philips was young and he looked like he was asleep there in the shade. There was no imprint of pain on his face, only his lips were drawn tightly together with a line of dried blood on the side. No one said anything. They wished they could have buried him, but they knew that there was no time for that. The tank might be back, and then they thought that it was too bad they couldn’t have killed the tank. If they would have
i.
HOTEL
May 9, 1958
*
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS
Prepared By ■ Our Prench Chefs
Call For Reservations CE 3-5606
MANHATTAN TOWERS
BROADWAY AND 76TH STREET PHONE: SUSQUEHANNA 7-1900
CABLE: MANHOTOWERSi, NEW YORK
tf^NEWYORK fdaaRy located—within miaafos of al
shopping, entertainment aad the business districH. Slops from Rirersido Drive and Central Park
Newest and largest on Upper Broadway —- 650 att»active, comfortable rooms each with radio and telephone. Coffee Shop—fine food moderately
had the armament perhaps they would have tried. But they had nothing, and so they just stood there looking down at the body of Private Philips until the lieutenant gave the order to move.
They walked quietly, silently across the road, and then to the other side of the field. They kept to the ditch, and in the distance they could see the edge of a small woods moving toward them slowly.
Corporal Myerson walked behind the lieutenant, and the other three behind him. Myerson lit another ciragette. The smoke flowed back in a blue stream over his right shoulder, and the men smelled the tobacco, and they watched the corporal as he smoked. They thought about Philips, and they watched Myerson with his cigarette, and they wondered why it couldn't have been him that had gotten it instead of Philips.
The edge of the woods was drawing closer now, and they watched it, thinking their own thoughts and not seeing the tank that had stopped several hundred yards behind them down the road. They were thinking their own thoughts and they did not see the cannon on the dust-covered turret telescope smoothly in its own oil before it fired. Private Kin-ner was just beginning to say something when the shell exploded. None of them felt pain. They all died immediately without pain. Everything happened too fast for pain.
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
RESTAURANT
127 N. Main Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Students
Smart Cocktail Loaago—eacaffmit food aad beverages. IV.
Personalaod. friendly service.
Baaqaet end Meeting fadfities — 25 to 750 persons.
25 stories of Hospitality from $3^0 per person, double
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
SENIOR ‘OKLAHOMA’ TICKETS
Tickets for the Commencement performance of Oklahoma will be distributed to seniors in the Alumni Office May 26, 27, 28 and 29, from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and 1 to 5 p.m. daily. During official distribution, only two tickets can be given to each senior, but remaining tickets will later be distributed until the supply is exhausted.
A matinee performance will be given at Washington Hall at 2 p.m. and an evening performance at 8.
\fou havefoDVtff |
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Ireland, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout. -
10 Special Tours ... 48 to 63 days ... via famous ships: United States, Liberte, Nieuw Amsterdam, Atlantic,
Italia, New York. $1,198 up.
Other tours available ... from 35 days ... $769 up.
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express!
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of
International Education and Council on Student Travel
.. or simply mail the handy coupon.
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. efo Travel Sales Division
Yes! Please do send me complete information about 1958 Student Tours of Europe!
Name................................
Address..............................
C16
Zone
State
H0IBT WB TMVEL HMDS WOB MKHCM EXHESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES—SHMMBLE PHU SHOE
Travel by Train means low fares...no cares!
COACH PARTY FARES save each person in your group of 25 or more 28% of regular round-trip fare.
Special for Married Students Use The Family Fare Plan— wives ride one way free.
WONDERFUL FUN FOR EVERYONE Have a "party” while you travel! Enjoy fine food... delightful refreshments... happy talk. Avoid worry about traffic congestion, highway hazards, and weather conditions. Ask your focal ticket or travel agent NOW about these great money-saving plans.
EASTERN RAILROADS
I
<c
Vi
<
4
20
The Scholastic
Hluik SdMt
OLD TIMERS TO TEST VARSITY IN STADIUM
VARSITY STARTING LINEUP	
Left End		 • 4. Left Tackle	 1 Left Guard			....Dick Royer or Monty Stickles ...Frank Geremia or Chuck Puntillo ...Jim Schaaf
Center 			....Bob Scholtz
Right Guard ...	...Al Ecuyer
i	Right Tackle ...	...Bronko Nagurski
-tV'	or Don Lawrence
’ Right End		...Gary Myers or Bob Wetoska
7* Quarterback ...	...Bob Williams
< Left Halfback ..	...Pat Doyle
Right Halfback	...Jim Crotty
1 Fullback 		...Nick Pietrosante
u
Tomorrow aftei-noon, May 10, at 2:30 £ p.m. in the Notre Dame stadium a squad of Notre Dame gridders of former years and last year’s seniors will test the 1958 Irish team in the annual Old Timers football game.
? I This year the Old Timers are loaded ; with past stars of Notre Dame squads.
Such all-time greats as Ralph Guglielmi at quarterback, Dan Shannon at end, Joe Heap at halfback, and Don Schaefer at fullback will be on hand to test next year’s Irish. All four of these men are still in the military service and last fall they helped Bolling Field (Washington, > D. C.) win the Air Force football championship.
The bulk of the Old Timers’ team, however, will consist of seniors from this
year’s squad. These include Dick Lynch, halfback; Dick Prendergast, end; Bob Gaydos and Paul Djubasak, guards; Frank Kuchta, center; and Chuck Lima, fullback. Also, Coach Brennan has promised to loan the Old Timers a few
RALPH GUGLIELMI
All-American quarterback returns
the second team competed against each other, and, when the first team was replaced by the third team, the fourth team came in for the second team.
The first team dominated play in the first quarter but was unable to score. In the second quarter the first team tallied on a pass from senior quarterback Bob Williams to senior right end Bob Wetoska.
The try for extra point was missed. The attempt was a place kick as were all the extra point attempts during the game.
At the start of the second half the second team scored as soon as they got then* hands on the ball. They marched downfield and junior quarterback Don White capped the drive by plunging over from the one. His kick for the extra point was missed.
Junior halfback Pat Doyle took the subsequent kickoff and went 90 yards for the touchdown for the first team. Again the kick after was missed.
Late in the game Williams was forced to run on a fourth down punt situation and was brought down on his own 20-yard line. From there the second team pushed across the deciding score with junior halfback Tom Bini going over for the score. White added the extra point on the placekick to give the second and fourth teams the victory.
Following this touchdown the first team drove to the second team’s 40, but four incomplete passes from there used up the clock to end the game.
JOE HEAP Fleet former Irish halfback
of his varsity reserves to bolster their roster.
In past games the Old Timers have been allowed the privilege of free substitution and have used the two-platoon system. It is expected that this policy will prevail in tomorrow’s contest also.
Spring workouts for the varsity began on April 15 and tomoiTow’s game will be the last of 20 practice sessions. Last year the varsity rambled over the Old Timers 43-14.
Students will be admitted to the game upon presentation of their identification cards.
In what was probably the last scrimmage before the Old Timers game, a team of second and fourth team members defeated a team of first and third team members last Sunday afternoon, 13-12. The game was a regulation 60-minute game.
During the game the first team and
DON SCHABER
Strong Air Force star
May 9, 1958
21
Irish Tennis Team Snaps Wolverine Streak To Cop Cherry Blossom Title, Stay Unbeaten
Irish Nine Faces Glenview, Badgers on Road This Week
Notre Dame’s tennis team extended its winning streak to 13 matches last week with wins over Michigan State, Kalamazoo and the University of Michigan. In upending Michigan, the Irish also garnered the championship of the Annual Cherry Blossom Invitational Tennis tourney. The Irish gained the finals of the tourney in Washington, D.C., at Easter, but 'because of rain the final round was rescheduled here at
RON SCHOENBERG
Helps run skein to 13
Notre Dame. Also, in beating Michigan, the Irish put an end to what was currently the longest winning streak in collegiate tennis. The Wolverines had won 48 straight matches over a four-year period until they lost to the Irish.
This week end the Irish will be in Bloomington, Ind., to meet Iowa, Purdue and Indiana in a quadrangular meet.
The Irish walloped Michigan State 8-1 last Friday. Max Brown easily beat the Spartans’ Bill Bisard 6-0, 6-1 while Ron Schoenberg, the team captain, knocked off Bill Hotchkiss 6-3 and 6-2. Sergio Garza won from Davy Smith by 7-5, 6-1 scores while Chuck Vanoncini .and Charlie Stephens won from their opponents, Ron Sassock and Jeff Green, by scores of 7-5, 5-7, 6-2 and 6-1, 6-2, respectively.
In the doubles, Brown and Garza took the measure of Bisard and Hoffman by identical 6-2 scores while Schoenberg and Cabello were forced to go to three sets to beat the Spartan combination of Hotchkiss and Smith 8-10, 6-0 and 6-2. Stephens and Vanoncini added the final Irish tally with a straight set victory over Sassock and Green 7-5, 6-1.
Last Saturday, the Irish met Kalamazoo here and defeated them 9-0. Brown gained revenge against Les Dodson, who beat him earlier in the season, with a straight set victory. Brown won by 6-1, 6-4 scores. Schoenberg beat Mike Beal 6-4, 2-6 and 6-1 while Cabello also went three sets to beat Bill Japinga 3-6, 6-3 and 6-2. Garza beat Bob Brice 6-3, 2-6 and 6-4 with Stephens beating Bob Yuell by 6-3 scores. Vanoncini walloped Alan Cho 6-1 and 6-4. Brown and Garza then teamed up to beat Dodson and Japinga 7-5, 8-6 with Schoenberg and Cabello beating Beal and Bruce by 7-5, 6-4 scores. Vanoncini and Stephens completed the shutout with a victory over Yuell and Cho, 6-1 and 6-4.
This past Monday, the Irish took the measure of the Wolverines by a 7-2 count. Brown found the going rough in the first set against Jon Erickson, losing by a 3-6 score but he came back to win the match 6-1, 6-0. Schoenberg was also forced to play three sets but won 5-7, 6-4, and 7-5. Cabello was beaten in two sets by Ron Sassone 7-5, 6-0 but Garza knocked off George Koval by 6-0, 6-3 counts. Stephens and Vanoncini beat Frank Fulton and Bill Vogt by 6-2, 8-6;
MAXWELL BROWN Star of unbeaten Irish
and 6-2, 5-7 and 6-3 scores, respectively. In the doubles Brown and Garza of Notre Dame defeated John Mards and Erickson 7-5, 6-4. The Irish captured the second doubles also with Schoenberg and Cabello winning in three sets 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. But the previously unbeaten doubles team of Stephens and Vanoncini were upset by Michigan’s duo of John Wiley and George Koval in straight sets 6-4, 6-4.
The Irish baseball team will travel f to Glenview, Ill., tomorrow to meet the Glenview Naval Air Station. In five > previous meetings between the two teams the Irish have yet to lose a game. Monday and Tuesday Notre Dame will be in Madison, Wis., for two games against the University of Wisconsin. •*
The team now has a record of ten wins and two losses for the season and < has gone 45 consecutive innings without allowing an earned run.
On May 1, sophomore lefthander Frank Carpin defeated Indiana for the second time this season as he hurled the Irish to an easy 14-2 victory over the Big Ten co-leaders. However, the d win proved costly, as junior centerfielder Gene Duffy severely sprained an ankle sliding into second base in the first inning. He will be out of action for about 4 three weeks.
Another sophomore supplied the bat- < ting power in the win. John Carretta had a single, double and triple in four trips to the plate and drove in four runs. Senior first baseman Jim Morris had a double and two singles while 4* catcher Ed Wojcik contributed a bases-loaded double. The Irish attack totaled twelve hits off three Indiana hurlers.
Chuck Symeon and Charles Scrivan-ich shut out Central Michigan with two fine pitching' performances as the Irish swept both games of a doubleheader last Saturday.	<1
Symeon scattered five hits in the first game as Notre Dame won 6-0. The game was highlighted by Morris’ home run in the seventh inning, believed by Coach Jake Kline to be the longest ball ever hit out of Cartier Field. It carried far over the fence in left field, about 30 feet ’ from the foul pole. Carpin, filling in for the injured Duffy in Centerfield, collected three hits in five trips to the plate and drove in two runs.
In the nightcap, Scrivanich allowed the visitors only four hits as the Irish improved on their earlier performance, winning this time 11-0. Two double plays, a force play at the plate, and a fine recovery of a wild pitch by catcher Wojcik in time to nail a runner at home all helped to pull Scrivanich out of trouble.	.
$
Morris, the club’s leading batter with a .417 average, slapped three singles in \ four trips to the plate to pace the Irish attack. Dick Selcer and Bob Senecal connected for home runs in the contest, driving in six runs between them.
The Scholastic
Golfers Run Record to Nine Wins, One Loss; ' Face Powerful Hawkeyes at Iowa on Monday
This coming Monday the Notre Dame A golf team travels to Iowa City for what should be one of their toughest encounters all season. Iowa has previously beaten Michigan State and Wisconsin, both Irish opponents last week.
K Notre Dame came through two triangular meets this past week with three . victories and one defeat. Their record o
is now nine wins and one loss. Michigan State handed the Irish linksters their first setback but Wisconsin, Indiana and Detroit all suffered defeats to Notre / Dame.
Last Saturday on Michigan’s State’s newly-opened University Golf Course at East Lansing, the Irish lost to the Spartans 23-13 but trounced Detroit 33% -2%. This was the second college match ever played on the 6778-yard par-71 course.
Otto Schubel of Michigan State won ‘ the medalist honors for the day with 70-77—147 and his teammate George Wokulsky was second with 76-73—149. :	Cocaptain Joe Grace led the Notre
; k Dame golfers with 75-78—153. Charlie [ Thurn, Lloyd Syron and Tom Garside all carded 36-hole totals of 156 for the 4 Irish. Sophomores Frank Hund and Christy Flanagan turned in 161 and 166 respectively.
The weather conditions were far from ideal. In the morning it was raining hard and the wind was blowing strong. During the afternoon round the rain stopped but the blustering winds conk tinued. Despite these conditions, The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the linksmen, said that his squad played their “poorest golf of the season.”
Father Holderith also mentioned that * the newness of the course might be one reason for the unusually high scores. The greens were fairly smooth but very hard and the new fairways were not as yet in good condition. But Father Holderith reminded that the other teams also had to play under the same circumstances.
Michigan State led the Irish by four , points after 18 holes. The first two Notre Dame golfers to finish in the afternoon, Syron and Garside, narrowed the margin to one point but a strong ■ finish by the four remaining Michigan State golfers clinched the match for the Spartans. Detroit was behind all the । way and never seriously threatened. | Then on Burke Memorial Golf Course, last Mondav the Irish defeated Wisconsin, 13%-13% and Indiana 24-12. Wisconsin is the defending Big Ten cham
May 9, 1958
pion and it was only the second loss of the year for the Badger golfers. They have nine victories to their credit. Indiana’s record is now eight wins, five losses and one tie.
The meet was scheduled to be a 36-hole triangular affair but Wisconsin had to quit after 27 holes to catch their train back to Madison. Indiana and Notre Dame played the full 36 holes.
In the morning round Jim Remmert of Wisconsin had a fine score of 35-34—69 to lead the field. He had a 36 on the first nine in the afternoon for a total of 106. Jack Allen, also of Wisconsin, had 73-37—109.
Cocaptain Thurn and Terry Lally led the Irish in the first 18 holes, each carding one-over-par 72’s. Other scores for Notre Dame in the morning were Frank Hund 75, Syron 76, Grace 78, and Garside 80. Lally’s round included an eagle three on the fifth hole followed by a birdie two on the sixth.
Indiana’s six men were all grouped together after the first round. Three team members had 77’s, two had 78’s, and the other had 79.
Notre Dame trailed Wisconsin 9%-8% at lunch but were ahead of the Hoosiers ll%-6%. The temperature was only 52 degrees but apparently the cold was no great handicap to the players because the scores were generally good.
The Irish teed off in the afternoon round with only nine holes to make up the one-point deficit to Wisconsin. After the first three threesomes had finished nine holes, Wisconsin was leading by four points. But Flanagan, Hund and Lally shot 37, 37 and 38, respectively, to win 4% points and victory for the team. The final tally was Notre Dame 13%, Wisconsin 13%.
Notre Dame and Indiana continued on and finished 36 holes while Wisconsin left to catch their train. The Irish all played well the last nine—the highest score was 37—and went on to down Indiana 24-12.
Medalist for the day was Thurn, a senior from South Bend. Thurn shot 73-72—145. Right behind him was Lally of the Irish with 73-74—146. Syron and Hund, both of Notre Dame, were next with 76-72—148 and 75-74—149. Two members of the Indiana squad, Ron Royer and Tom Coble, finished with 150’s. They shot identical rounds of 77-73. Grace, Irish finished with 78-80 —158. Flanagan filled in for Garside in the afternoon and shot a two-over-par 73.
Trackmen Meet Pitt After Loss to MSU
Notre Dame’s trackmen went down to their first dual meet loss of the season before Michigan State, 75-66, last Saturday at East Lansing. Previously the Irish had won three indoor meets.
Tomorrow Notre Dame faces Pittsburgh at Cartier Field. The time of the meet has been moved up to 12:30 so that the meet won’t conflict with the Old Timers football game.
Next Wednesday Notre Dame travels to Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind., for the annual Indiana State Track meet. Last year the Irish tracksters finished second behind Indiana in the meet. The Hoosiers scored 110 points to the Irish total of 94%. Purdue was a distant third.	-
Although the Irish dropped the meet to the Spartans, junior Mike Morando stole the limelight with a record-breaking toss in the javelin throw. Morando got off a throw of 223 feet 4% inches to break the Notre Dame varsity and the Ralph H. Young Field records.
Another junior, Pete Sheptek, took second in the event which proved to be the best of the day for the Irish.
Steve Dornbach was the only double winner for Notre Dame as he took firsts in the high and low hurdles. He won the 120-yard highs in 14 seconds flat and the 229-yard lows in :24.2.
Joe Foreman won the 100 with a time of :10.1 on the wind-swept track.- Foreman also picked up a second in the 220.
Jack Cote and Tom Sanfacon were both winners in their events. Cote won the broad jump with a leap of 23 feet 11 inches and Sanfacon took the high jump with a mark of six feet one inch.
Other point-getters for the Irish were Don Faley, .third in the low hurdles; Andy Crawford, third in the mile; and Frank Geremia, who took second in the shotput.
Dale VandenBerg and Barclay Ewart finished second and third in the 440, Marty Clynes was second in the half mile and Ken 'Scarborough took a second in the discus.
John Foote was third behind Foreman in the 100-yard dash, Faley finished third in the broad jump, Ewart was third in the 220 and John Burns second in the two-mile run.
Tom Reichert and Glen Cividin tied for second in the pole vault to round out the scoring for the Irish. Both cleared twelve feet six inches.	-
23
Be a Magician Write Dr. Meyer Bloch President
At the Movies
Eastern Magical Society
240 Rivington Street
New York 2. N. Y.
AQIH4S UBUlIui NIK SHF
Naw Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
PROM TIME ....
Louie’s Tuxedo
Rental
9 Blocks West of Bus Stop on Washington 222 LAUREL AT 7-0575 Lowest Prices in Town
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting . an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
AVON
The Bride is Much Too Beautiful: (May 9-15). A typical theme told in subtitles. Another liability to an already substandard production: Brigitte Bardot. You take it from there.
COLFAX
Fraulein: (May 9-15). “Fraulein” is German for “miss”; and the title fits. Mel Ferrer as der Boy und Dana Wynter as der Boy-Catcher.
GRANADA
Paris Holiday: (May 9-14). Bob Hope stars in his own picture. Anita Ekberg chases old Ski Nose around Paris in search of a mysterious manuscript, and there are some nice shots of the Eiffel Tower from a runaway helicopter. A pure farce with some dull moments, paiticularly at the beginning, middle and end.
PALACE
The World Was His Jury: (May 9, 10). The film which demonstrates the shattering fact that a ship with a hole in the bottom cannot float. A take-off on the Caine Mutiny court martial is also included. Edmond O’Brien.
Co-flop: The True Story of Lynn Stuart. Now there is something we all need to know: why Lynn Stuart (Betsy Palmer) traded in her dish washer for a .38 and went hunting dope peddlers.
Quantrill’s Raiders: (May 11-14). Steve Cochran and Gale Robbins.
Also: In the Money. The Bowery Boys stumble around London and help Scotland Yard expose a ring of diamond smugglers. This picture features a new twist: diamond smugglers.
RIVER PARK
Old Yeller: (May 9-11). The favorite fable of a boy and his dog, and of their encounters with all the barnyard and prairie creatures Walt Disney was able to find who could act.
The Story of Esther Costello: (May 12, 13). A soap opera on celluloid. Don’t waste your time.
Co-feature: Portland Expose. A detailed suiwey of the garbage disposal department of Portland.
May 14 only: La Forza del Destino. An opera by Verdi with the orchestra and chorus of the Rome Opera House.
STATE
Wells Fargo: (May 9. 10). Stars a host of goodies and badies and a horse named Gloria. Also running: Forest Rangers. The story of a clump of trees and how they got that way.
Pal Joey: (May 11-14). In this effort, gay rake Frank Sinatra is a night club emcee. Prudent fellow that he is, he decides to like straggling singer Kim Novak rather than wealthy widow Rita Hayworth. The show is also sparked by a few lively song and dance routines.
Co-feature: 3:10 to Yuma. Will Van Heflin finally put Glenn “Killer” Ford on the train to Yuma (a federal prison being there) and uphold his reputation for just plain guts? What do you think?
WASHINGTON HAU
ALL WEEK END: Oklahoma. Once again an all collegiate cast of local crew cuts and neighboring debutantes puts forth a traditionally fine performance. Don’t pass this one up.
24
The Scholastic
ASME Chapter Holds Convention on Campus
The region six chapter of the Amer-ican Society of Mechanical Engineers held their annual meeting at Notre Dame last Friday and Saturday. The - meeting was highlighted by plant trips, • a luncheon, and a technical paper competition.
Herbert Siewart of the University of Illinois (Champaign) took first place in the technical paper presentation with his paper on “The Consideration of Frost in Refrigeration Design.”
The schools attending the chapter meeting were Notre Dame, Bradley, Rose Polytechnic Institute, Purdue, Uni-f versity of Illinois (Champaign, Navy f Pier), University of Missouri, Missouri School of Mines, University of Kentucky, University of Louisville, Northwestern, Washington University of St. Louis, and State University of Iowa.
Plant trips were offered to the participants at Bendix, Indiana & Mich-* igan Electric Co., and the Dodge Manufacturing Co. Friday night an Honors Banquet for the competition winners was held at the Laurel Club. Featured speaker was Dave Firth, vice-president in charge of engineering at the Dodge Manufacturing Co. k -
Father Hesburgh to Address Dartmouth Graduating Class
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will deliver the commencement address at Dartmouth College, June 8. The announcement was made by John S. Dickey, president of Dartmouth College.
Addressing Dartmouth’s 189th graduating class, Father Hesburgh will address around 600 seniors, their guests and visitors. The combined commencement and baccalaureate exercises will be held on Dartmouth’s famous College Green.
Student Officers Named For Moot Court Board
The members of the Moot Court executive board for next year were revealed recently. The new director is James Durkin, while Jerome Lynes will serve as executive director. Kosma Glavas is the new chancellor; Robert Mone will serve as secretary; and Daniel Devoe assumes the post of publicity director. Prof. Edward F. Barrett will continue to serve as faculty moderator.
It was also made known that the four students who survived elimination in the semifinal rounds of the Moot Court are Milton Munk, Altero Alteri, Mone and Devoe. They are now qualified to compete in the final round to be held in the fall.
May 9, 1958
Institute Prize for Sculpture Presented to Father Lauck
The Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., a professor of art here at Notre Dame, was awarded the Leonard Center Memorial Prize for sculpture this past week in Indianapolis.
Father Lauck won the award in the 51st annual Indiana Artists’ Exhibition, held at the John Herron Art Institute.
The winning sculpture, entitled “At Prayer,” portrays a kneeling monk, and is done in patined terra cotta. Father Lauck has won three prizes in four years at the Indiana regional.
BOOKS DUE
The University Library announces that ALL BOOKS will be due the day before finals examinations, May 23. Special borrowing privileges will go into effect only during the examination period.
Smedley
Mermen Spray Deodorant for Men keeps on working all day long—working to prevent odor, working to check perspiration. For this non-stop protection, get Mermen!
6^ and ‘1.00
WIN $25! Fer each coNoge cartoon sMuaNon submitted and used! Show how SmorNey gets Hie brvshoff! Send sketch or description and name, eddrets and coNoge la The Mention Company, c/o “Sawdley”, Morristown, N. A
Rack Paift
by JOHN KEARNS
i
the rough road to salvation^
Do not imagine that I have come to bring peace to the earth; I have come to bring a sword, not peace. . . . He is not worthy of me, that does not take up his cross and follow me.
—Matthew, 10:34-39.
While almost any Christian can say that Christ saved us, very many will be embarrassed if called upon to say any more about this salvation. What does it mean to be saved? The first thing that comes to mind is the state that salvation terminates. To be saved is to be saved from something. And when we consider Christ’s saving, this something is a slavery, slavery to sin.
Man-before-Original Sin and man-after-Original Sin are almost two different animals; almost, but not quite. After the Fall, human nature is missing something. The unity of each individual tends toward duality—all men have a rational principle which “urges them aright and towards the best objects; but there is found in them also another element naturally opposed to the rational principle, which fights against and resists that principle." Because of Original Sin, “man falls short even of what he can do by his nature, so that he is unable to fulfill all of it by his natural powers.”
Following Adam’s sin, man lost control of himself and became prone to sin. But the most important effect of the sin was the separation from God. This was the chief hurt which man suffered. Because man was made for union with God, his nature was such that it would be perfected by this union. When Adam, whom God had chosen to transmit His favors to mankind, refused his role as mediator between God and man, there was no way to union with God; and man was deprived of that which enabled him to be so united. This loss involved all that was taken from him.
Christ’s salvation is the salvation from separation—this separation which leads to a life, of sin. Christ did not give back to man what Original Sin had removed from his nature, but he gave man the opportunity to overcome the effects of this sin. The means for accomplishing this is grace, which comes to us from
26
the sacrifice on the Cross. Union with God is once more possible, through Christ. And because of the nature of our salvation, we are better off than we would have been if Adam had not sinned. For now Christ, not Adam, is the mediator between God and man; and Christ is infinitely superior to Adam. Grace enables us to win our own salvation, through Christ.
Because man after the Fall is so prone to sin, his freedom is diminished. But with grace he is able to avoid sin. Thus Christ set man free by dying on the Cross. This freedom, however, is very hard to bear. “Man is toi-mented by no greater anxiety then to find someone to whom he can hand over the gift of freedom with which the ill-fated creature is born.” Man’s freedom brings with it that sword of which Christ spoke. Although he is able to reach great heights, overcoming the effects of Original Sin, man hangs back because it is difficult to achieve these heights. He looks for security, not opportunity. Slavery feels good to him.
The difficulty involved in being a Christian is quite apparent today when there is such a small number of people who deserve the title Christian. The Christian world possesses very few Christians. That freedom which Christ won by great effort demands too much effort on our part. It is so hard to be Christian; it is much easier to simply forget the Christian demand. And there are a great many activities with which one can fill his mind. There is so much to do in making a living that there is no time to think of Christ and his challenge. And sin seems much more attractive than Christianity; why not abandon our freedom?
Our contemporary civilization is not a Christian one. Man today is afraid of Christianity unless its true character is hidden. Our culture is a mass culture where individuality is discouraged. No one is able to accept the responsibility of freedom, and so each surrenders his identity to the group. With this refusal of responsibility there comes a move toward immorality, for this is - what “everyone” does. It is much easier to be bad than good, and also more acceptable. Today’s world has blinded itself to those
true values which Christianity holds up. Instead ideals are enthroned which are beneath man’s nature.
Our society is being transformed into a vast machine for production. Individuality is being sacrificed to this machine. And the only things which today’s man holds dear- are those which can be seen and touched. The greater part of the Christian universe is out of sight.
The chief reason for abandoning Christianity appears to be material wellbeing. We have it so good today that we no longer see what is truly good. Under today’s conditions very few seem to be on their way to salvation. The obvious solution to this problem is a return to Christ, but this answer says nothing 1 about the how of such a movement. And | the how is everything. If many are to be saved, something must change the | direction of our progress.	f
Perhaps the most effective way to dog this is by war. When everyone mustg fight and perhaps die, there is no room 1 for complacency. The phony aura of S well-being is dispelled, and man thinks 8 again in terms of absolutes. War also® involves a more primitive state of exist- g ence where the demands of morality are ® reduced—man is legitimately too busy to * ponder the right and wrong. His knowl- J edge of natural law is obscured by the | conditions in which he lives.	|
This is no attempt to encourage war —if it must come as a saving force, then g it belongs to Divine Providence. But ’ war has been used as a tool by God before, and may well serve this purpose ; again.	I
One other means of reform might be | through our educational system. It does -not appear possible to work directly on j the family, and religion is held too 1 lightly to be very efficacious. But if education were somehow reformed so that children were developed rationally ; as well as socially, and knowledge were j presented as a human perfection, there ; is a chance that the thirst for truth | might be awakened, and that this would | lead back to Christ. America—indeed, I the world—is in a very bad way, for the 8 purpose of all creation has been lost a sight of. Something must reverse, the 9 direction in which we are traveling. H
The Scholastics
CHARGE IT, THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
Every Notre Dame man has an open charge account at the Campus Shop . . . where you’ll find the suits, topcoats, summer formal jackets, sportcoats, shoes and furnishings you want — by America’s finest makers — at the price you want to pay. Select your clothes for spring and summer now and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay during summer vacation . . . one-third in July, one-third in August, one-third in September. No carrying charges, of course.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
You'll be siftin' on top of the world when you change io modem UM
Light into that
You get a
HU LiveModern flavor
FILTERS t i
more effective filter on today’s L&M
Look for the patent number...
on every pack... your assurance
LIGGETT t MYERS TOBACCO CO.

XiZZjS Best tastin’ smoke you’ll ever find!
Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos.
©Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
