CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
PAY 1/3 IN JULY...
PAY 1/3 IN AUGUST...
PAY 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER...
NO CARRYING CHARGE -
COME TO THE CAMPUS SHOP
NOW ... THE PERFECT SOUTHERN-WEAR SPRING VACATION CLOTHES BY
PALM BEACH ARE HERE ...
If you’re going south for spring vacation, stop at the Campus Shop soon and select the ideal clothes for a carefree trip. Palm Beach wash and wear fashions are cool . . . require so little care . . . keep wrinkle-free . . . look handsome for any occasion. When they do need freshening, just wash them yourself . . . they dry in a jiffy . . . need little or no pressing. Palm Beach wash ’n wear fashions are modestly priced, too ... see them soon!
PALM BEACH WASH 'N WEAR................... 39.95
PALM BEACH SLACKS, from.................... 9.95
PALM BEACH SPORT COATS, from.............. 29.95
March 25, 1960
On Camps MKfihuhian (Author of “I TKas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.}
"NO PARKING”
As everyone knows, the most serious problem facing American colleges today is the shortage of parking space for students’ cars.
Many remedies have been offered to solve this vexing dilemma. For instance, it has been suggested that all students be required to drive small foreign sports cars which can be carried in the purse or pocket. This would, of course, solve the parking problem but it would make double dating impossible—unless, that is, the boys make the girls run along behind the car. But that is no . solution either because by the time they get to the prom the girls will be panting so hard that they ■will wilt their corsages.
Another suggested cure for our parking woes is that all students smoke Marlboro cigarettes. At first glance this seems an excellent solution because we all know Marlboro is the cigarette which proved that flavor did not go out when filters came in—and when we sit around and smoke good Marlboros we are so possessed by sweet contentment that none of us wishes ever to leave, which means no gadding about which means no driving, which means no parking problem.
But the argument in favor
of Marlboros overlooks one important fact: when you run out of Marlboros you must go get some more, which means driving, which means parking, which means you’re right back where you started.
Probably the most practical suggestion to alleviate the campus parking situation is to tear down every school of dentistry in the country and turn it into a parking lot. This is not to say that dentistry is
* * *
Speaking of laundries reminds us of cleanliness which, in turn reminds us of filtered Marlboros and unfiltered Philip Morris—both clean and fresh to the taste—both available in soft pack and flip-top box.
4
unimportant. Gracious, no! Dentistry is important and vital and a shining part of our American heritage. But the fact is there is no real need for separate schools of dentistry. Dentistry could easily be moved to the school of mining engineering. Surely anyone who can drill a thousand feet for oil can fill a simple little cavity.
This experiment—combining dentistry with mining engineering—has already been tried at several colleges—and with some very interesting results. Take, for instance, the case of a dental student named Fred C. Sigafoos. One day recently Fred was out practicing with his drilling rig in a vacant lot just off campus. He sank a shaft two hundred feet deep and, to his surprise and delight, he struck a detergent mine. For a while Fred thought his fortune was made but he soon learned that he had drilled into the storage tank of the Eagle Laundry. Walter P. Eagle, president of the laundry,
was mad as all get-out and things looked mighty black for Fried. But it all ended well. When Mr. Eagle called Fred into his office to chew him out, it so happened that Mr. Eagle’s beautiful daughter, Patient Griselda, was present. For years Patient Griselda had been patiently waiting for the right man. “That’s him!” she cried upon spying Fred—and today Fred is a full partner in the Eagle Laundry in charge of pleats and ruffles.
© 19G0 Max Shulman
NEIGHBORLINESS?
Editor:
After reading Mr. D. Edward Chaplin’s rabidly patriotic “Back Page” on Latin American relations with the United States, one can easily surmise one of two things: that Mr. Chaplin has never visited Latin America; or that he isn’t worried about showing his naivete about certain aspects of the other half of the hemisphere.
He dismisses Latin American “questionable appreciation of the values of a free society” without trying to explain in plain words what these values do constitute.
Though I generally agree with his evaluation of the erratic foreign aid policy of the United States, I cannot fail to see drops of poison staining the “Back Page.” Such attack — peppered with words such as “mooching,” “shameless,” and “blackmail,” which are full of meaning even out of context — tells of an inherent lack of capacity for the subject.
In such critical articles, ignorance hides behind clever and ravaging deprecations.
Tony de Haro
382 Dillon
Editor:
Last week’s “Back Page” featured an article by D. E. Chaplin on U. S.-Latin American relations.
We agreed fully with Mr. Chaplin in that inter-American relations are a twoway affair, and that Latin America should make more positive contributions to the field. We disagree, however, in his claim that the way to improve relations is to discontinue them.
To judge Latin America by the statements made by a few officials is grossly unfair. But to claim that Latin Americans have lost their dignity and have become mendicants shows rash judgment and Mr. Chaplin’s lack of insight and historical perspective into the problem. He claims that the concept of dignidad is “pure bunk.” Anyone with any real knowledge of Latin idiosyncrasy knows that this is false, and that the attitude of the Spanish hidalgo still remains true.
Mr. Chaplin scoffs at the “hodge-podge of democracies and dictatorships” of South America. Yet the fact is that this “hodge-podging” is the clearest sign of the growing political maturity of the area. The last few years have seen the (Continued on page 32)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
Vol. 101
No. 20
MARCH 25, 1960
Founded 1867
\ editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI Wade Clarke . Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss .
features editor and staff
CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan . William Sweeney, ;	William Veeder
sports editor and staff -\	THOMAS ROSE
.	William Cary
J. (Jay) Kilroy copy editor and staff WALTER RUDGE George Casey	;
Peter Geniesse	?
. Thomas Marciniak art editor
JERRY FLORENT photographer
WALTER DALY, Jr. business manager and staff
ROBERT HORN Thomas Carey : Joseph Finnigan
circulation manager
LAWRENCE LEACH moderator	.	.
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.$.c.
>{ j
“•
news reporters
Philip Larrabee .
John Ohala z \ <: . Thomas Schlereth • . William Sparks .sports reporters} .:.
John Bechtold; > " Jerry Hewitt
George Voris poinds: Walsh
, RichardBallot .
* " r.


DEATH, AGAIN: For the thii’d time this year, it is our unfortunate responsibility to note the death of a member of the senior class. In a tragic plane crash in Southern Indiana last week, Jay Bachner of River Forest, Ill., was killed. After two of our classmates had already met death in tragic accidents since Christmas, few of us expected it to happen again. Nonetheless, it has. It is hard to know what to say other than that we extend our sincerest condolences to the family and friends of Jay Bachner.
r

i
NO PEP RALLY: The 1960 Marriage Institute is now more than halfway completed with only two more talks to go. As usual it has been handled very well and has been largely successful. There is, however, one important aspect of this series of talks which needs decided improvement. And this aspect is rathei- important: the audience. From the very look of the group that pushes into Washington Hall on Wednesday nights it appears that most seniors feel that they are attending a pep rally or at best a “dress down” party, and their- looks betray their actions. In the atmosphere created by sloppy-looking shirts, kahki pants, unshaven faces and the like it is not unusual to see some members of the audience stretched out in their chairs in an almost horizontal position. This appearance of the senior class before speakers brought to the University is indecorous enough, but this atmosphere also creates a certain feeling among the students which apparently allows them to interrupt speakers, laugh at their mistakes in speech and otherwise rudely treat the guests. Certainly this is not the idea behind the Marriage Institute.
It is not our intention to suggest complete formality at such a session. The fact that suits are worn to almost all other functions at Washington Hall, however, tends to suggest that at least some sort of “dressing up” (although not necessarily coats and ties) is in order. Many of the students who came to the first meeting dressed in this manner abandoned it because they could see that no one else apparently felt the Institute was worth dressing up for. Perhaps something can be done about this aspect of audience “participation” for the next two talks, and possibly this more serious attitude of dress will be reflected in the conduct of the audience. We certainly hope so.
3


*
THE UNIT-RULE AND DELEGATION PACKING: The unit-rule proposal, adopted by the Rules and Regulations Committee of the Mock Convention (in this case, the campaign managers of the various candidates), has afforded a further oppoi-tunity for the packing of state delegations that has been going on since before the first state meetings. The involved proposal stipulates that the number of votes needed to obtain the unit-rule will vary according to the composition of the delegation. If more than half the members of a state are native residents of that state, 90 per cent of these native residents must vote to install the unit-rule. On the other hand, if less than half the members are natives of the state, 90 per cent of the entire delegation, including nonresidents, is required.
This has encouraged the efforts of some of the campaign managers to load the undermanned state delegations with people who will vote for their candidates regardless of the delegation in which they serve. If a campaign manager can staff these delegations, especially those of Southern and Far Western states, with his people, he can swing a majority of the votes in these states for his man, even though the delegation would then be voting contrary to the way the state delegation would vote if it were true to the state’s preferences. As an example, if Kennedy backers were to populate the Alabama delegation, they could marshal the majority of the votes in the state behind Kennedy, something which is not likely to happen in Los Angeles this summer. Some of this packing is expected since certain states’ quotas of delegates were not filled by residents, but both the campaign managers and the individuals who join these undermanned delegations must use their heads in this matter. Otherwise the Mock Convention will turn into a mockery.

TOO LATE: On Thursday, March 31, students of the University will vote for their student officers of the 1960-61 school year. This is one of the few times during the year that students have an opportunity to do something about the student government of which they often complain, and we urge that they take advantage of it. Unfortunately, the Scholastic will be unable to carry the results of the elections immediately afterward, since the present student leaders have declined to move the elections up to Wednesday so that the results'could appear in the April 1 issue. The reason given for the Thursday date was that the candidates will thus have more time to present theii- ideas to the electorate. In view of the small number of ideas currently emanating from student government, we wonder if this extra day is really necessary.
—B. T. & T.
tfiMSNV*KDM
0"...............
I	Contents	j
|	At the Theaters_______23	News Briefs -----------12	|
|	Back Page_____________34	Odds and Ends----------28	|
I	Campus Scene _________ 9	L. David Otte----------11	|
f	Commentary_____________5	Our Cover--------------31	|
|	Critical Horizons ____15	Repercussions --------- 4	|
|	Escape _______________ 7	Sports Picture ________27	|
|	Feature of the Week___15	Time Out_______________30	|
KQDL KROSSWORD	No. 9
ACROSS
DOWN
1. Did 80 mph
5. The Swiss look up to ’em
9.	Yearning wood
10.	Place for defense mechanisms
11.	Indian VIP
. 12. Assert
13.	One (Spanish)
14.	Lions’ restaurant in Rome
15.	More icky
17.	Small island
18.	Unit for alley cats
22. Unappreciative date
24.	One of the Shah’s names
25.	&
26.	Winged
27.	Skipping, as t’my Lou
29.	Gin establishments
30.	Actor Alistair-------
31.	Given money
33. Hangout
35.	Hawaiian tree; an altered oak
36.	It’s ahead of West
39.	Poker money... from Unde?
40.	People who enjoy hot music (2 words)
42.	The Ps of Germany
43.	The Scriptures (2 words)
44.	What the lazy are big on
45.	They’re French
46.	“She’s just my n
1.	Neat tree
2.	Jazzman’s “box”
3.	What we hope you’re doing right now (3 words)
4.	Latin goddess, like Sophia?
5.	Kind of cry (2 words)
6.	Phone to your best gal? (2 words)
7.	Before you were bom
8.	AWOL cats?
14. Short argument
16. Where to find Kool’s filter
18.	What Kools are as refreshing as (2 words)
19.	You can depend on it
20.	Celestial arcs
21.	Smokers are 	for Kool’s Menthol Magic
23. Incursion
25. Tiny communist
28.	Communist’s end
29.	mouthed
32. They feel dean and smooth deep down in your throat
34. Robinsville
36.	Grand old name
37.	On your toes
38.	Italian family with much esteem
40.	Sigma’s last name
41.	Small hundredweight
YOU NEED
35
40
43
45
ARE YOU KQDL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?
26
THE
O1960. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER
18	19	20	21
24			
27			
30			
33			34
39			I
42			J
44			1
31
13
15
23
When your throat tells you its time tor a change you need a real change

ofKODL
K®1
11
6
The Scholastic

s
• by D. JIM AUSUM
sour grapes?
why not?
TODAY, as you walk about the campus, listen closely to the words that you and your interlocutors use. Sift out “ the particularly indecent ones, and you will probably find a good deal of silence; * this, however, is not my point, because
I am concerned with the words that re-- main. I am sure that you will find yourself getting along on “why not (or nawt; this is a matter of prestige, I think), “neat,” “What’s happening, ehhh?” “voo * voo, Boo Boo” (a statement, by the way, also done very well by my niece, who is, * like many of you, a fan of Yogi Bear.
She is three and a half), and two or three other cliches which don’t express anything at all. Now don’t misunderstand me, I don’t mind this in the least. Perhaps it is better that there is so little understanding; I suppose that a good deal of mental energy is thus prevented from useless waste. I do, however, see a good deal of humor in the situation. * For one thing, selection of these cliches seems to be entirely arbitrary, so that eventually you may find yourselves simply borrowing advertising slogans. If this should happen, I would like to be around to watch a boy meet a girl. ’ Probably the meeting would go something like this (for you people who are • really in, I just used a cliche).
A DRAAAA
Setting: the north bank of the St. Joe river, in the spring. To get there in the ’ ordinary way, you have to go out a little dirt road, then turn left at the end of ■? the pig pen, then follow the river west.
Some, however, go by broom. As you approach a large grassy space, you can see swarms of girls lying on blankets, listening to portable radios, playing cards, and sunning themselves. In fact, there would have been little difference if you had not turned left. The day is *?■ hot, and the sky is empty except for the sun. A boy can be seen walking toward the swarm, unseen to them; there is a girl walking out of the swarm toward the youth. Neither of them sees the
March 25, 1960
other. Both are singing. Her song is “Someday my Prince will come”; his song is the “Song of forty verses.” Some strange force causes both of them to break into a ran, and because they have their heads down, they do not see one another until their paths have intersected. They speak.
Ariovistes: Are you hurt?
Pauline: Nope, ah reckon ah ain’t.
Ariovistes: Why nawt?
Pauline: I was protected by this invisible shield.
Ariovistes: You kiddin’ me?
Pauline: I kid you not. But what about you, are you bothered by nagging backache and pains of neuritis and neuralgia?
Ariovistes: Naw, I’m just hungry.
Pauline: Are you going to dins?
Ariovistes: I don’t know, I’ve never dinsed before.
Pauline: Neatsy. You’re such a funsy time. But you won’t have to leave, just catch that little bird over there.
Ariovistes: Why nawt? I mean, why?
Pauline: Because relief is just a Swallow away.
Ariovistes: I can’t believe it.
Pauline: It’s so easy when you use Lestoil.
AND SO IT WOULD GO
and I am afraid that they never would reach any sort of communication. In fact, the only people who would be able to get along together would be the couples who were already together, like Helen and Harry Hart. But then, what about future generations? I don’t think you can get everything with Raleigh coupons. And what would become of the
sociables? They’d have to drink alone, and you’d have to call them Pepsicolics. Even in the present day, when the conditions are not quite as extreme as I have shown them to be, I can see situations like this one. The setting is San Quentin Prison, in the death row. Six guards come up to a cell, open it, and lead the prisoner to the gas chamber. The prisoner’s name is Caryl Chessman, known the world over. The warden is on hand, and he asks the prisoner if he has anything to say before he goes. The air is still. The guards flash quick, piercing glances at one another; then their eyes are riveted on Caryl Chessman, who turns, reaches in his pocket, looks down. He pauses. Then he looks up and he says: “Remember how great cigarettes used to taste?” He steps into the chamber, sits down, and inhales. Just at that moment the pellet is dropped, and in a matter of seconds he falls forward on the floor, then twists over on his hack, writhes a little for the audience and says: “Luckies still do,” and then he dies. The warden is very much moved, it is obvious, but when he is asked to comment, all he can say is “Gas is safe, clean, and economical. Use it in your house for all your cooking. I use it in mine.”
FORGET IT
to put it in your own terms, and . consider these two or three random observations. If the U. S. government really wants to cramp Cuban economy, it should forget about sugar quotas and kidnap Superman.
Even if that really is Ft. Lauderdale calling, I think it would be more accu- . . rate to point out the need for Phony I. D., Bromo-Seltzer, and penicillin.
Ron Blubaugh doesn’t sell his books so cheaply, either. In fact, he is a crook, . and I don’t care if he sues me.
Giving that good jazz to last Saturday night’s audience was like giving dancing \ lessons to a one-legged girl. Happy hop- X > ping, everybody.	‘
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
This is the B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first wargalleys of ancient Egypt...and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity7. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards...as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26/4—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant... and your Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s
leaders on the -y Aerospace Team. I I
Air Force
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
AVIATION CADET INFORMATION DEPT. SCUBA
BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C.
I am between 19 and 26Vz, a citizen of the U.S. and a high school graduate with______years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Aviation Cadet program.
NAME_______________________
STREET_____________________
CITY_______________________
COUNTY____________STATE____
Politics, politics, politics. In the “Land of La Follette” two veteran Democrats are beginning what promises to be the most exciting pre-convention contest of the 1960 election cam- H paign. The combatants are Hubert Horatio Humphrey and John Fitzgerald Kennedy—Humphrey a liberal, Kennedy a Catholic.
But Kennedy has more than his faith to bring in the votes. He has his family. The candidate has called upon no less than his wife, ' three sisters, three brothers, and his mother to help out. Add to this the golden tones of Frank (Everyone is voting for Jack/ ’Cause he’s got what all the rest lack. . .) Sinatra and Kennedy appears unbeatable. Summing up the LIFE an- u alysis: “He ain’t heavy, Father. He’s my brother.”	*
MODERN ART — RUSSIAN STYLE	'
If you think the cover of this week’s SCHOLASTIC is wild, LIFE has a treat waiting. It is “The Art of Russia. . .That Nobody Sees” (maybe with good cause, too). In a twelve-page feature on the contemporary Russians, LIFE reveals a hidden side of 20th Century culture. For the past 30 years, the Soviet government has dictated to Russian artists how they shall paint, write, and what type of music they shall compose. Art is to be rigid and realistic and the galleries are therefore kept free of “Bourgeois decadence.” But a revolt is underway and in the private homes of the Soviet Union, contemporary treasures are being stored. An interesting example is the work of . Pavlo Filonoy. This artist “was expelled from an art school for painting peo-pie any color that suited him.” LIFE this week publishes, in color, Filonoy and his admirers.
HANG THE JURY!
An article on the famous hung jury of the Finch-Tregoff murder trial is LIFE’S insight of the week. According to the magazine, “The chief cause [for the mistrial] was a feeling on the part of the holdouts, Jaimez and Lindsey, that some of the other jurors had a racial prejudice against them.” From what can be learned from the jurors, the debate was little more than a com- 4 plete mockery. It is said that the Mexican Jaimez was angry at not being elected foreman and from then on, was out to sabotage the rest of the jury. Lindsey, a Negro, said that the two had not received equal treatment. Before long the jury became literally “12 Angry Men.” On two different occasions, fights broke out and at neither time did they have anything to do with the verdict. After reading the article, one has an inclination to go along with one juror at the conclusion, who said, “I believe the state should go into their [the jurors’] personal lives, probe deeply and select people of intellectual ability to serve. . . .”
Elsewhere in this week’s issue are articles on Chicago’s recent triple murder, the town of Sasabe, college students in a Boston mental hospital, another juvenile fad, drinkable polio vaccine, TV to read, and the “Farthest-Gone Motorists.” In conclusion: ice hockey that is played underwater. That’s LIFE; March 28,1960.—Adv.
8
SCIENCE OPEN HOUSE TO BEGIN TOMORROW
‘ Plan Exhibits Around 'Pure' Science Fields
I
| “	by TOM SCHLERETH
f With exhibits ranging from a demonstration of the paleontology and strati-X gr-aphy of Indiana to an explanation of the evolutionary process of the human * body, the third annual Science Open House will begin tomorrow afternoon at 1 J 1:00 p.m. The affair will come to a close at 8:00 p.m. Sunday evening. The Open „ House will, in fact, be one gigantic campus-wide scientific exhibition with demonstrations taking place in the Nieuwland Science Hall, the Biology „ Building, and the Geology Building simultaneously. A shuttle bus will trans-i <- port spectators to and from the three buildings.
Scientific wonderland. Abandoning a general theme, the Open House committee, headed by General Chairman Claude ■ Ceccon, has set up a series of exhibits ’ and demonstrations that will illustrate , i the variety of accomplishments in the “pure” science fields of Physics, Chemis-„ try, Biology and Geology. The affair is designed to encourage high school students to learn about the science field and the opportunities that it affords, it The program will also serve to create interest among undergraduate students who have not decided on a major and are considering a scientific career.
Left to right: Ron Herm, Dennis Cantwell, Joe Beilina, Sallie O’Niel, Claude Ceccon, Roland Galindo.
To carry out their objectives, the committee has set up a special High School Science Fair. Students from the surrounding area have been invited to bring their exhibits which will be judged by several Notre Dame science professors. Top exhibits will be awarded prizes. Each participant in the fair will receive a certificate of participation. Awards will be made at five o’clock tomorrow afternoon and the students will be on hand to explain theii- exhibits on Sunday.
The physicist’s world. In the Nieuwland Science Hall the Physics section of the Open House will illustrate the “Land” effect. A demonstration by Mr. Land of the Polaroid-Land Camera Co. will show how a colored picture can be projected from two black and white negatives.
Also featured will be a demonstration of the properties of high voltage, wave length motion, and infra-red detection systems. Displays by R.C.A. victor and I.B.M., the physics department’s Van de Graff machine and an illustration of the use of guidance systems in mock sea battles will complete this section’s display.
In the Chemistry Building, a small Van de Graff machine will show the “Effects on Polymer Linkage” and atomic weights will be measured in the “Time of Flight Mass Spectrometer.” Additional exhibits will be shown in organic and analytical chemistry.
(Continued on page 13)
Dr. Wilder to Present Lectures March 28-30
Dr. Raymond Wilder, research professor of mathematics at Michigan University will be present on the campus of Notre Dame as a guest lecturer for three days next week.
Dr. Wilder will present two lectures: a technical lecture for the Mathematics Department Colloquium, entitled “Compactifications,” at 4:30 p.m. on Monday in room 341, Nieuwland Science Hall; and a nontechnical lecture entitled, “Study of Anthropological Development of Mathematics,” in room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall at 8 p.m., on both Tuesday and Wednesday.
Much has been said about the importance of mathematics in our technological age and about its position as one of the liberal arts. Dr. Wilder, a distinguished mathematician as well as a noted amateur anthropologist, is thus in a unique position to discuss the place of mathematics in our culture.
1, 2, 3 . . . offices. Dr. Wilder received his undergraduate education at Brown and his Ph.D. at Texas. He has been at Michigan since 1926 and has been a research professor since 1947. In 1933-4 he was a research worker at the Institute for Advanced Studies, and in 1940 he was a Guggenheim Fellow at Texas. His affiliations include the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Mathematical Society, and the Association for Symbolic Logic.
During the same week, Professor James Jenkins of Washington University in St. Louis, formerly a member of Notre Dame’s faculty, will give two lectures at the National Science Foundation Academic Year Institute. He will speak on the “Geometrical Approach to Area,” on Tuesday and Thursday, from 11 ajn. to 12:30 p.m. These lectures will be open to undergraduates interested in mathematics. On Wednesday, at 4:30 pun., Prof. Jenkins will lecture before the Mathematics Colloquium on “A Type Problem for Geometric Riemann Surfaces.”
CHOO-CHOO TRAIN
Railroad tickets will be put on sale by the Westchester club this coming Sunday at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. The group rate tickets will be valid for the N. Y. Central Pacemaker train which will leave South Bend on Tuesday evening. The round trip price will be $47. Tickets will be available to members and nonmembers.
March 25, 1960
Four Winds Bom From Bacchanalian Party; Group to Play at Lake George This Summer
Out of the bacchanalian revelry of the Morrissey Hall Christmas party came the inspiration for the association of The Four Winds, new singing group on campus. John Montgomery, Frank Pellegrini and Bob Watkinson sang as a trio at the affair, while Andy Burd sang solo on hillbilly songs. After several jam sessions, the four decided to form a group.
A four-week engagement at Lake George, the renowned summer resort, is in the process of being arranged. The group is still looking for work for the remainder of the summer.
A typical performance of The Four Winds includes folk songs, ballads and an occasional hillbilly song. Once in a while, they throw in a mock version of a current rock ’n roll tune. When doing a show, the group uses dialogue and jokes, providing their audience with a variety of popular entertainment.
Gaining experience. The first performance of The Four Winds was at a St. Mary’s function, followed by an appearance at the Cabaret Party here on campus. They also provided the entertainment at the Washington’s Birthday Party and the Sophomore Mixer at the LaFortune Student Center. They have turned down more jobs than they have actually done due to the time demanded by studies.
A record is going to be cut locally by The Four Winds on an experimental basis. One will be placed in the Huddle, while the other will be located in the Main Cafeteria. The song will be “The UND,” a take-off on the recently popular “MTA,” telling of the terrible plight of a freshman.
ANDY BURD, FRANK PELLEGRINI, BOB WATKINSON, JOHN MONTGOMERY
Plaudits and engagements scattered to the Four Winds.
Principal lead vocalist is Burd, an AB sophomore from Tulsa, Oklahoma. Watkinson is the tenor of the Four Winds group. Watkinson, enrolled in the AB engineering course, is from Andover, Mass., and is a member of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Engineering sophomore Pellegrini, is from St. Louis. He is the group’s accomplished player of the six-string guitar. Rounding out the Four Winds is Montgomery, another sophomore in electrical engineering. Montgomery hails from Baltimore, plays the guitar and banjo and arranges the music for the group.
NSF Awards Seven Grants For Year of Graduate Study
Seven Notre Dame students have been awarded National Science Foundation fellowships for a year of graduate study. Twenty-one others received honorable mention.
The fellowships won by Notre Dame students were among 1,200 awarded for the 1960-61 academic year. Notre Dame seniors who won $1,800 NSF grants and the graduate schools they will attend are Claiborne Johnson, Princeton; Stephen Pursley, Notre Dame; Charles Riehm, M.I.T.; and John Uebbing, M.I.T.
Graduate students at Notre Dame who won $2,000 NSF grants include Sister Antonio Handy, who is a candidate for a doctorate in biology; John Mantey, who will continue his engineering studies at Stanford; and John Polking who will continue graduate work in Notre Dame’s mathematics department.
Finance Club Sponsors Second Annual Forum 4
The Finance club of Notre Dame will sponsor its second annual Finance 4 Forum Thursday and Friday, March 31 and April 1, in the Morris Inn. Numerous personages prominent in the fields of banking and finance will address the 4 Forum, which will open with a luncheon at 11:45 on Thursday. George Mitchell, vice-president of the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank, will speak at the luncheon 4 on “Current Monetary Problems and Their Solution.”	q
Thursday afternoon will feature talks on business financing by J. Donald Me- • Millan of Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit and John Stodder of A. G. Becker & Co.
A panel discussion Friday morning , will discuss the relative merits of commercial banks and savings and loan associations. Members of the panel will be John Corrigan of the First National + Bank of Chicago; John Nash, First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend; 4 Arthur Shireman, Tower Federal Sav- , ings & Loan Association of South Bend ' and Frederick Hums, Mishawaka Build- , ing and Loan Association.	™
Banker on finance. Osmond Jackson, 1 Vice-President of Continental Illinois National Bank & Trust Co. of Chicago, will give an address on “International Finance and Trade” Friday afternoon. '
The Finance Forum will close with a panel discussion at 3 p.m. Friday on a consideration of the comparative ad- . vantages of life insurance and equity securities. Participants in this final , panel discussion will be J. Russell Townsend, Jr. of the Equitable Life Insurance Company of Iowa and Frank O’Donnell of Thomson and McKinnon securities J firm.
Luncheon tickets are $2.50, tickets for the other meetings are $1; they may be obtained from Bill Clamens, 258 Alumni < or in the lobby of the Commerce Building on March 28-30. Cancelled cuts will be given to those attending the meetings.
Chairmen for the affair are Mike Monahan and Bill Cashman.
THE CATS WILL PURR
All ye who would be Bohemian, don’t miss your chance. It’s coming . . . here ... at Notre Dame . . . a Bohemian party . . . Saturday, * March 26, from 8:30 to 11:30 in the , LaFortune Student Center. Appropriate costuming is optional, dress to ■ suit your own self-consciousness. Admission is $1; entertainment in the Rathskeller, songs and recited poetry > will supplement the recorded music, v The Dixie Shuttle will be operating £ for the affair.
10
The Scholastic
Senator Kennedy to Attend Honorary Dinner;
Demo. Fund Raising Banquet Set For April 8
Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts, aspiring Democratic presidential candidate, will be on the Notre Dame campus on April 7 and 8. The Senator will be here to attend a dinner given in his honor at the New Dining Hall as a fund raising event for the re-election of Congressman John Brade-mas from the 3rd congressional district
) .
SENATOR JOHN F. KENNEDY
Nomination-seeker stumps the nation.
Butler to Address Convention On Sunday, April 3, at 7 P.M.
Democratic National Chairman Paul Butler will address the mock Democratic national convention to be held here April 3-6. According to Larry Turner, general chairman of the convention, Butler, who is a Notre Dame alumnus, is scheduled to speak at the opening session which will begin at 7 p.m., Sunday, April 3. Other prominent Democrats will appear at later convention sessions and at pre-convention rallies.
Butler has been national chairman of the Democratic Party since May, 1952. He intends to resign this post after the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in July. In keeping -with this plan, Butler recently announced that he would not seek re-election as the Democratic national committeeman from Indiana when his term expires May 14. He intends to practice law, having opened a law office in South Bend, where he resides.
Thousands of students from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will participate in the mock convention. Among them will be 1521 delegates and 760 alternates, chosen from the student residents of the various states.
of Indiana. Congressman Brademas, a Harvard graduate and Rhodes scholar, was formally a professor of political science at St. Mary’s.
Senator- Kennedy will arrive late Thursday evening from Lafayette, Ind. and go directly to the Morris Inn. Friday’s itinerary will be initiated at seven in the morning at the Studebaker-Packard plant where the Senator wrlTmeet the workers. His party will then eat breakfast in Michigan City, after which receptions will be held in his honor in LaPorte and Plymouth. Following a lunch in Mishawaka, the Senator will greet a shift at the Ball Band Shoe factory, and then spend the~remainder of the afternoon making television appearances on WSBT-TV and WNDU-TV. Kennedy will then retire to the Morris Inn until the dinner at 7:30 p.m.
Last Saturday Dick Corbett, president of the senior class, met with Senator Kaizer, the chairman of the affair. Kaizer, who outlined this tentative schedule, feels that in all probability, somewhere between 5 and 7 p.m. the honorable Mr. Kennedy will hold an informal meeting with the students of the University.
Following his address, the focal point of the visit, the congressional dinner will be held. It will be run by State Senator Marshall Kaizer, the head of the Indiana Kennedy for President organization. Attending the dinner will be many political dignitaries from throughout the state, including the supreme and appellate court judges, along with the Indiana Secretary of State. Also in attendance will be the mayors from Marshall, LaPorte, Elkhart and St. Joseph counties, those which make up the 3rd congressional district.
^A Trustee of our University, Senator Joliir=Kennedy was the recipient of the Patriot of the Year award in 1957.
Ford Foundation To Grant $15,000 to Soviet Studies
For the sixth year Notre Dame’s Soviet and East European Studies Program has received support from the Ford Foundation. This year’s grant is $15,000. Inaugurated in 1953, the Soviet and East European Studies Program is interdepartmental and includes courses and faculty members from the departments of political science, philosophy, history and modern languages. Students in the program, most of whom are seeking advanced degrees, explore Soviet policy, its ideology, background and its method of operation, particularly in eastern Europe. The program is administered by the department of political science and is under the direction of Professor Stephen Kertesz.
Yes-Hei
Trying to be all things to all men becomes an endless project. There are too many around here who are either strongly pro - Senate or con-Senate, and to please both groups is a foolish task, and impossible. I think the best approach is a fair, objective, and accurate portrayal of what occurs at the meetings, plus some comment on what is
i-ight, or wrong, and how to better whatever exists.
An obvious bad thing is that the Senate is looking more and more like just another campus organization, with its joiners and working elders. It is not a lean and hungry bunch, but instead looks like a satisfied, hanging-on, yes-sing group. I speak only of too many of the senators considered collectively.
The overwhelming success of last week-end Collegiate Jazz Festival was happily put forth by SBV-P Naughton, and heartily seconded by Christen. And I enthusiastically third the well-done event. Good planning and successful exploitation assured the Festival a place as an annual thing.
Lawlor announced the next Student Forum being held in the Law Auditorium Sunday evening at 7:30. The subject is the coming national elections and tlie differences between the Republicans and Democrats.
Christen told how successful last Sunday’s mixer was. It even had a surplus of girls, a hard thing to find nowadays. He also foretold of tomorrow evening’s Beat record party and the ticket sales for the Louie Armstrong concer-t coming up April 2.	’
The $30,000 netted from the Mardi Gras was distributed this week as promised. The Charity Chest received $10,000, the Scholarship fund was allotted $10,000, $2,000 was earmarked for the Distinguished Speakers fund, and $8,000 put away for the Student Center fund, in view of the planned refurbishing of the fourth floor within the next few years. Three four-year $500 and two one-year $500 scholarships for incoming freshmen and $3,000 worth of upperclassmen aid makes up the $10,000 given for scholarships. It is hoped that the money given for scholarships will indicate to outsiders the students’ interest, and that even more help is needed.
■ A motion was made to reactivate and augment the now-defunct Student Enrollment Development Committee. The new outfit, called the Notre Dame Recruitment Program, attempts to bring in better freshmen by having^ mature students, not just gung-ho alumni, put a positive sell on promising prospectives.
Keegan made a motion regarding the (Continued on page 13)
March 25, I960
11
Feature Dr. McCready at Marriage Institute; Fr. Hesburgh to Close Series in Two Weeks
News Briefs
Returning for his third time, Dr. -Robert B. McCready, of Chicago, Ill., will conduct the fifth lecture in the present Marriage Institute Lenten series this coming Wednesday. Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will conclude the series the following week with a talk that was originally to be given as the opening lecture. Father Hesburgh was unexpectedly called out of town on the eve of the first lecture.
These two final lectures will complete the annual Institute, which is de-
DR. ROBERT McCREADY Presenting fifth marriage lecture.
Combined Groups Offer Gabriel Faure's Requiem
The combined glee clubs of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College will present Gabriel Faure’s Requiem during a pair of concerts on the two campuses Tuesday and Monday, April 4.
The 180-voice chorus will be accompanied by an orchestra composed largely of South Bend Symphony personnel. Prof. Rocco Germano, of the St. Mary’s faculty, will conduct the ensemble, and Dr. H. Bertold Dietz, also of St. Mary’s, will be the organist.
Under Germano’s baton the orchestra will play Samuel Barber’s Adagio for Strings and Music for Mourning by Paul Hindemith. Zeal Fisher will be the viola soloist in the latter work.
The first performance of the program will be in the Notre Dame Drill Hall Tuesday at 8 p jn. The program will be repeated at O’Laughlin Auditorium on the St Mary’s College campus Monday, April 4, at 1 pan.
The public is cordially invited to either of the performances. No tickets are required.
signed for those seniors who are contemplating marriage soon after graduation. The Institute was started in 1949 and began with a movement to recognize the fact that living fully as a husband and a father of a family is an important part of education today.
Dr. McCready is well versed in Marriage Counseling and Pre-Cana instruction, having been engaged in this activity since 1946. He has worked in the Pre-Cana section of the Cana Conference of Chicago under Monsignor John Egan, serving on the Lay Executive Board for two years, participating in the High School Marriage Courses and Lenten Forums as well as other branches of the Conference.
Man about town. He is a member of the Obstetrical Department of the Little Company of Mary Hospital- in Evergreen Park, Hl., the American Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology and both the Chicago and Illinois Medical Societies.
The following week Father Hesburgh will bring the Institute to a close with a discussion of “Courtship in Marriage.” In his talk he will stress the all-important need for the compatibility of the marriage partners. Beginning his survey of marriage with the factors of courtship, he will probe into the problems of “determining if she is the girl for you, winning her love and making it a permanent, good and holy thing.”
Normally, Father Hesburgh’s speech would be the opening talk, but this year the death of his father prevented him from initiating the series.
Final Casting Now Completed For "Most Happy Fella" Play
Now beginning preparations for the final production of the year, the University Theatre has completed casting arrangements for the musical The Most Happy Fella. Rehearsals have begun under the direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C.; assisting Father Harvey will be Gilbert Rathbun, technical director, Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., choral director, Allan Powers, choreo-. grapher and Charles Biondo, who will conduct the orchestra.
Frank Loesser’s The Most Happy Fella, based on Sidney Howard’s play, They Knew What They Wanted, was a Broadway hit during the 1956-57 season and had a successful road tour.
The play concerns a shy truck driver, Tony (played by Mike McKee), who is smitten with a girl he sees working in a restaurant in San Francisco. Tony’s note on the back of his check initiates a correspondence with the girl, Rosabella (Myrna Walker). The situation becomes more complex when Tony sends a picture of his good-looking friend Joe (Joe Harrington) in lieu of his own. A variation on the triangle theme swiftly develops.
Pete Hennigan, chairman of the 1960 St. 4 Thomas More Award Committee, recently announced that this year’s winner will be named at a banquet some time in May.
Established in 1956, the awards are an attempt to give special recognition to those seniors whose work in the student apostolate has been outstanding. Winners are selected by a committee of junior representatives of *1 the major Catholic Action organizations on campus and a faculty board of priests in- < terested in student apostolate.
— o —
Entries in the annual competition for the Meehan Medal for Literary Merit and for the Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting will be accepted by the Department ~ of English up to May 15. Both are awards long standing.	,
The Meehan Medal is awarded to the senior who writes the best literary composition in English, though the winner need not be an English major. The four best 1 bachelor theses submitted by senior English majors are automatically entered.	4
Submissions for both competitions should be made to the Department of English, 356 O’Shaughnessy.
— o —
University of Notre Dame graduates are among the leading alumni groups in the nation in the financial support of their alma mater, according to a survey taken by the American Alumni Council.
While a number of private universities * had a larger total of alumni fund donors, Notre Dame ranked fourth in “effectiveness of solicitation.” Of the Notre Dame alumni solicited for support, 45.9% contributed to the fund. This percentage was exceeded only by Princeton, 72.2%; Brown, 46.7%; and Yale, 46.2%.
Creighton University recorded the greatest average alumni fund gift of $84.03. Other private universities with high average x gifts were Harvard, $73.84; Chicago, $66.73; Yale, $64.86; Princeton, $62.24;	’
and Notre Dame, $60.20.
Notre Dame ranked third among private universities in total gifts to the annual fund. Counting alumni and non-alumni giving, Harvard reported $2,430,754; Yale had $2,140,131; and Notre Dame recorded $2,027,064.
— o —
His Eminence Gregory Peter XV Aga-gianian, Pro-Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith, 4 will be awarded an honorary doctorate during a visit to die University of Notre Dame May 16 and 17.
Father Hesburgh will confer an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on Cardinal Aga-gianian at a special convocation to be held in Sacred Heart Church. The Russian-born Prince of the Church, who speaks English , and eleven other languages, is expected to address the convocation.
In his Vatican .post Cardinal Agagianian helps direct the Congregation which has jurisdiction over more than thirty millinn Catholics in mission countries throughout tiie world.
12
The Scholastic
Open House
>	(Continued from page 9)
The Biology Building will house the Lobund, pre-med and Biology demonstrations. They include mosquito devel-* opment in genetics and entymology, the process of microscopic slide-making in > embryology and illustrations of anatomy in the dissection of simple animals. Also, ' there will be guided tours that will show the equipment and techniques used by the Lobund Institute.
The museum and library of the Geology Building will be open to the public on both days and slides will be shown ’ on general geology at 3:15. Instruments and maps used in field and photo displays, the uses of the microscope in geology and a structural display of minerals will round out the geology projects.
Featured as the special speaker of the Open House will he Mr. Marvin Hoehn from the Eli-Lily Eesearch Labs. He will speak on “Screening for Anti-biotics” Saturday afternoon in 123 Nieuw-land Science Hall.
Behind the scene. Members of the Open House committee under Ceccon include: Roland Galindo, assistant chairman; Joe Beilina and Jerry Wolfe, physics; Ron Herm, chemistry; Larry Miller, geology; Dennis Cantwell, pre-med; Robert Jensen, high school projects; and Sallie O’Niel, St. Mary’s representative.
Various scientific movies will be shown continuously in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall on both Saturday and Sunday and each science department will have various curriculums on display in their respective buildings.
Otte
(Continued from page 11)
NSA, including the procedure for the designation of the campus coordinator and the senior delegate, and their duties. The sum total, as it was with the recent NFCCS motion, was to officialize what was already being done.	-
SBP Babbitt told of the Interracial Conference going on in Chicago this week end and how Notre Dame was being represented. Similarly, the NSA Regional Conference at Oberlin College.
In view of the Senate’s fight to get the partisan political groups on campus, the group benevolently figured they would help get them off the ground by giving them each $50. Alas, only the Republicans filed a budget in time, so only they got the money this week.
This year,
fly home in the quiet comfort
of United’s DC-8 Jet Mainllner
There’s no better way to travel anywhere than a United Jet Mainliner®.
The DC-8 is fast, of course. It whisks you coast to coast in a few short hours. But it is more than fast. It is quiet and smooth . . . flies up where the air is serene and peaceful ... with hardly a vibration from the powerful engines.
The DC-8 Jet is comfortable, too. It has big, wide aisles that even a giant football tackle can roam in, casually. The DC-8 seats, largest on any jet, have air vent, light and
stewardess call buttons built right in—no reaching overhead. Your trip in this superb aircraft is topped off with United’s extra care service that makes you feel like a king whether * you fly de luxe Red Carpet® or economical Custom Coach Service.
Try the best—fly United’s DC-8. Fly it home; then for a really big treat, fly to Hawaii for a wonderful vacation. Economical Custom Coach and United tour prices make it possible on a moderate budget. See a Travel Agent or call any United Air Lines office.
BEST OF THE JETS...
PLUS UNITED’S EXTRA CARE
Jtr MINUNtr, UV DOiMiM
March 25, 1960

GENUINE SHELL CORDOVAN SHOES
SHOES FOR MEN AND YOUNG MEN
$7.99 8.99 9.95
GENUINE SHELL CORDOVAN
Many styles to choose from — black or brown
$12.95
BOYS SHOES (SIZES 2%-6)
$5.95 6.95
3 DAYS ONLY! THURSDAY - FRIDAY - SATURDAY! Yes sir, to celebrate the Grand Opening of our new Hardy Shoe Store in South Bend, we are giving this genuine KIWI Shoe Groomer absolutely FREE with each purchase of Hardy Shoes at the prices shown here! This offer is good 3 days only, March 24-25-26, so don't delay! Visit our new store, see our wide selection of campus and other styles including Genuine Shell Cordovan, pick out the style you like — and get this handsome KIWI Shoe Groomer absolutely FREE!
HARDY
GRAND OPENING-MARCH 24-25-26
112 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana
b
SHOES FOR MEN AND BOYS
Open 9:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.
Thursday and Friday—9:30 A.M. to 9.00 P.M.
Saturday—9:00 A.M. to 600 P.M.
14
The Scholastic
Clarification of the African political scene is the goal of this week’s feature article by Joe Taderero, senior from Southern Rhodesia. Instead of categorizing the political ideologies of new independent states in European terms, Taderero
* emphasizes the necessary revision of standard labels into concepts
> suitable for cultural realities alien to the rest of the world. Finally, he considers the African attitude towards economic systems — will Africa be an equivalent of Communism or Capitalism, or will it be neither?

African Political Ideology
by Joe Taderero
THE surge of African Nationalism is responsible for the dramatic sequence of events taking place in Africa today. It is a natural force aimed at accomplishing a natural objective — human national freedom. African nationalism has " manifested both unique and universal aspects of the histori-t cal nationalism which many other countries of the world have experienced. Its various manifestations have earned all sorts A of interpretations and alarm from both the interested and disinterested observers. Its overall objective is political independence under the time-long slogans— freedom, democracy, and justice.
| Ever since March 6, 1956, when 4 Ghana sounded the first independence drams in Africa, black nationalism has gathered new momentum each year, enlarging the list of African independent states. With this goal in sight the last F vestiges of colonialism are bound to disappear from the face of Africa in a matter of decades. This is not a farfetched prediction any longer.
' To the African himself here is an age of a crucial national political crisis as he spots for the first time the hand of history beckon him forward to assume among others his long-overdue position in the ranks of nations. Fully realiz-k ing what his goal is, he regards this as the prime challenge and supreme responsibility of his lifer time. To answer the universal saying that, “In times of great national crisis great men always arise,” time alone will tell whether this reference will be realized in i present African leaders like
' Nkrumah, Mkoya, Nyerece, Toure, Banda, and the many others stirring the course of events in Africa. The folly of writing off African nationalism as an imported exotic growth should be abandoned.
Of major significance is the strange fact that African nationalism has come into prominence only to add to the already existing world plague of West-East tension. This is a feature bound to influence to an appreciable extent the political evolution of groping Africa reaching for a political formula already misconstrued in many quarters.
* It is because of this already apparent confusion that it becomes necessary to establish what African nationalism is and is not. The basic question is; are independent African states going to be democratic Western, socialistic — Eastern, Christian, or totalitarian? Africa has a choice to make among
these political ideologies. An assertion of what African political formula is not, is perhaps easier to lay down since what it is or will be remains the riddle of the future. Because of the complexity of the situation an answer to what African political ideology is can never be found in clear-cut terms.
Being wooed equally by both sides, the adoption of either the democratic or socialistic pattern will largely depend on the Western or Eastern attitude towards this political explosion. And the economic policy, for obvious reasons, shall remain the most effective bait.
On the other hand, the present overemphasis attached to the possible economic purchase of independent Africa may be misleading, although in many aspects such a deduction may be justified. In plain terms, the present existing fear so predominant in the free world that, once obtained from colonial powers, African freedom will be on the market for the Red Ruble is far from being as simple as all that. Although the present African leader realizes the acute need for some vast economic basis to enable his dream project in all spheres, this should not mean the sacrificing of his freedom. For the current struggle is not a mere freedom mania. It is a struggle aimed at removing the shackles of colonialism along with the sting of exploitation and suppression once and for all. No substitutes or exchanges of masters (as the popular phrase goes) is acceptable. It is a struggle for the regaining of his human dignity, respect, stature and recognition. Besides, the Afri
can is very much aware of the imminent danger of being sacrificed to the ravages of the East-West political tension. While accepting aid, no importance is attached to where the aid comes from, for what we need is development, progress, a situation which is forcing the African leader to pursue a noncommittal policy.
The fact is that present African political ideology is neither of the existing systems. So what is it? This is a question native to the African himself^ also.
For a time, freedom, independence, democracy, and justice will be the vanguards of mass-following. This does not necessarily mean that the democratic pattern as known to the West, an ideology which happens to be so diversified from one western country to the next, will- be .the political mode in independent African states. The already independent countries
March 25, 1960
The Dante Library .
by Bill Sweeney
A FTER Dante’s death in 1321, scholars quickly perceived the illustrious quality of his writings. Leonardo Bruni’s biography of Dante in the vernacular and Giovanni Boccaccio’s commentaries and lectures are illustrations of the immense early interest in the Truscan master. Another wave of interest in Dante accompanied the Renaissance, and his greatest period of popularity arose from the Romantic Movement in Germany, France, and England; and the Risorgimento in nineteenth-century Italy. Since 1850 so many new commentaries, interpretations, polemics, and histories have been written about Dante that his bibliography far exceeds that of any other author, even Shakespeare or Homer. Dr. Moore, a noted Dante scholar, once observed about the Divina Commedia that “no work, probably, in the world, except the Bible, has given rise to so large a literature.”
After the celebration of the sixth centenary of Dante’s birth in 1865, many public, institutional, and proprietary libraries in America made liberal purchases of his volumes. In 1892 Willard Fiske began a Dante collection at Cornell, and at about the same time Charles Eliot Norton began what was to be the nucleus of Harvards’ Widener Dante Library. Much encouragement was given to the Dante movement by the Dante Society of America, which has numbered among its members several authors of national fame. James Russel Lowell, associated with the society for several years, once remarked: “Almost all the poets have their seasons, but Dante penetrates to the moral core of those who once fairly come within his sphere, and possesses them wholly. His readers turn students, his students zealots, and what was a taste becomes a religion.”
This penetrating quality of the great Catholic poet caused Rev. John A. Zahm, himself a profound scholar, to begin a private Dante collection. He searched the book-marts of America and Europe, purchasing many valuable editions of the Divina Commedia with royalties from his own writings. When Father Zahm died in 1921, he left a rare collection of Dante volumes to the University of Notre Dame.
The Zahm Dante Collection is now housed in the northwest corner room on the second floor of the library building. Over 4,000 volumes, including editions of the Divina Commedia, biographies, and critical studies of Dante, are shelved amidst a Florentine decor: portraits and medallions of Dante and painted scenes from his writings. Here, in this almost forgotten corner of the library, we might well look out over St. Mary’s Lake and accept Dante’s own advice:
“Now rest thee reader! on thy bench and muse Anticipative of the feast to come
So shall delight make thee not feel thy toil.”
THE Zahm Collection is one of the best in the world. Only the Fisk Dante Library at Cornell and Harvard’s Widener Dante Library contain more volumes, and it is believed by many that the Zahm collection surpasses both of these in quality. Of the fifteen Dante incunabula (works written before 1501) extant Notre Dame possesses eight. The earliest of these is a 1477 edition of the Divina Commedia printed in Venice by Vendeln da Spira. The first Florentine edition of 1481, printed by Nicolaus Laurentii, is perhaps the prize of the Zahm collection. It is illustrated with drawings by Botticelli and contains philosophical comment by Cristoforo Lan-dino. Estimates of its value range from $2,750 to $13,500. The library also possesses the first Aldine edition of the Commedia printed in Venice in 1502 as well as the counterfeit Aldine printed in Lyons the same year.
The Commedia most valuable to scholars is the edition begun in 1921 to commemorate the 600th anniversary of Dante’s
16
death. Sometimes called the elephant folio edition, it meas-' * ures thirty-three by twenty-seven inches. The three volumes are bound in leather over boards bolted with large bronze bolts. One hundred full-page paintings by Nottini accompany, j Dante’s text, which is printed in gold leaf. The three folios . are based on several extant manuscripts, and so extensive is; the commentary that on one page there might be six or seven .	'
lines of poetry and two columns of explanation.	;
The Zahm Dante Collection contains translations of the, ' Divina Commedia into forty languages, including Greek, Japa-, nese, Chinese, Croatian, Hebrew, Russian and Volapuk. One -/ curious edition is the Paradiso published in Russian in 1945.; English translations range from the early editions of Longfel-? low and Carey to those of Binyon, Sayres, Bickersteth, and ; Ciardi. Also shelved in the Dante Library are bound volumes
4
of the learned societies: Giormdle Dantesco, Societa Dantesca Italiana Bulletino, Deutsches Dante-Jahrbuch, and Studi Dan- ; teschi; as well as the proceedings and papers of the Dante So- • ciety of America.	,
The Zahm Dante Collection is a tribute both to its founder Z and to the great Catholic poet it commemorates. For any V scholar, student, or true lover of books, it will provide hours , of profitable browsing. If items of rarity, beauty, or scholarly g’Ji value are sought, they can be found in the collection begun by an author, biologist, and bibliophile, Father John A. Zahm.
The Scholastic
T> EFORE a small sprinkling of assorted priests, nuns, semi-U narians and various interested parties, St. Mary’s College , unveiled a genuinely remarkable production of The Mystery i of Mary, last Wednesday evening. The 14th Century Lincoln [ Cycle play will continue its run through March 27, with matinees tomorrow and Sunday. It is a production no one with even the vaguest interest in theater or literature should miss, | and not simply because it is a dramatic curiosity. Quite apart I > from this, it is an extremely compelling dramatic experience, one of the finest seen on either side of the Dixie in several > years.
Of course, one must go to the Mystery of Mary knowing • what to expect, and even then it will provide a somewhat startling jolt to the 20th century playgoer. There are perhaps f no western plays, not even those of the Greeks, that are further removed in concept and convention than the mystery, •t miracle and morality plays of pre-Renaissance England. Religious in theme, they were presented originally on movable ' wagons during the several festival seasons of the Church. On each wagon was mounted one sequence or tableau from the . Bible or the life of a saint. In the case of the Mystery of Mary, eight of these sequences tell the story of the Blessed J Virgin from birth to the Resurrection of Christ. The scenes were viewed successively as the wagons moved about the town square.
In concept, this theater was essentially presentational rather than representational, that is, no attempt was made, as in modern theater, to re-create a scene realistically or convince the imagination of the audience of its stage-reality. The Medieval theater was conceived as a simple medium in which people could view somewhat formalized enactments of stories they already knew, and to be reminded of moral precepts they A had already heard in the pulpit. It was a sort of picture book come to life and given voice, not a real-life situation into which we are privileged to peep through a transparent “fourth wall.” The plays of the period didn’t care a rap, moreover, about putting an event in its propel’ time and place. Quite to the contrary, it depicted long past events as they might have * taken place in the contemporary world, and all the characters were medieval Englishmen. Hence they showed bishops mak-t- ing the sign of the cross and chanting prayers in Latin to the Trinity years before the birth of Christ.
These may look like very peculiar goings on when set down on paper, but if one approaches them in the theater with an ■ open mind and does his best to adjust to the unfamiliar diction and structure, one can find it moving, and can perhaps even perceive some glimmer of the significance it had to the people of the times.
T'HIS is particularly true of the present production. To this duality of time, a third dimension is added by Mr. E. Martin Browne’s extraordinary adaptation to the modem stage. What he and his wife, the actress Henzie Raeburn, have attempted to do is to preserve as much of the medieval presentational aspects of the play as possible, while taking advantage of the technological advances of the modern stage. * In this blending of the new and the old, they so frequently succeed with brilliance that the occasional shortcomings are *■ hardly a detraction.
By far the area of best success is that of adapting the play from several movable stages to one stationary one. O’Laughlin Auditorium has drawbacks which are considerable in any dramatic production, but in this case they are remarkably well solved. Each tableau remains distinct, yet at the T same time the effect is smooth and unified. Part of this comes from a sound over-all conception of the drama as a cycle, and > a great deal from the excellent setting of Donald Rathgeb, one of the finest pieces of stage design the reviewer has seen in any theater. And the British couple make excellent use of what Mr. Rathgeb has given them. Action proceeds with ease and fluidity and the stage pictures show a striking range of imagination. Often a tableau bears a striking resemblance to a Medieval woodcut, while at other times modem blocking techniques and lighting are used to heighten or underline a ’ dramatic effect. Yet miraculously the two seldom clash. And in those instances when the effect is less than one might wish it to be, the fault usually lies in an intrusion of the modem rather than the archaic. The maudlin theatrical exploitation of baby Mary and her contemporary juveniles is a character-
A Review
‘MYSTERY OF MARY’
by Bernard McElroy
istically modern appeal to the audience. The use (or misuse) of the sound system often borders on the outrageous. There is far too much use of music for my taste, and it often seems superimposed upon the drama rather than complementary to it. It is moreover, played far too loud from any one of several directions, the singing is at very best undistinguished and the cuing is atrocious. Often the lighting becomes gauche and “showy,” particularly in the apparition scenes. But there are so many problems that are solved and solved brilliantly, that it is pointless to harp on the shortcomings. In all fairness, there are some things that just won’t go on a modem stage. The slaughter of the Innocents is an atrocity of a different kind, and though the Crucifixion is staged with excellent skill and taste, it is not sustained in effect throughout the last speeches of Christ. It is scenes like this that remind us this is a veiy different form of drama.
But even more shocking to modem sensibilities is the Medieval treatment of the saints. They are taken off pedestals and depicted as earthy, human beings of the time, with blood in their veins and not holy water. Thus Mary, is seen as a young, vigorous, strong-willed girl whose faith is evidenced more by its enthusiasm and trust than its mysticism. And St. Joseph is traditionally treated in these plays as a comic character, old and dottering, an essentially good man, but something of a fool who thinks he has been cuckolded. The mystery of the Virgin Birth is treated in a veiy different way, a quite valid rendition dramatically of human reaction perceived in terms of the simplicity of the men of the times.
MOREOVER, these plays do not stress character, and were not originally performed by professional actors, thus the range of expression is more limited in this sphere than we have come to expect. The huge cast gathered from St. Mary's, Notre Dame and community theaters acquits itself admirably in most cases and with great distinction in a few instances.
Gaynell Bordes has a style of acting all her own, and one may or may not be gritted by her peculiar voice and diction. But she acts with great spirit and considerable sincerity, especially in the closing scenes. David McDonald plays the unusual role of St. Joseph with exactly the right touch of humor, though he never allows it to obscure the well-meaningness of the character. Michael Ehrenreich plays the problematic role of Christ with great feeling, and with better effect that could possibly be achieved by anyone else. The acting of supporting roles ranged from excellent (Henry Frawley, Aphrodite Pappas, Howard Lord, Nancy Trohan, Carly Fitzsimons and Mary Armbruster) to awful, and just about evei-y shade in between. But the striking thing about all the acting is its smoothness, unity and spirit, another testimony to the presence of the hand of a master (or two masters) on the tiller. But unfortunately, the first showing bristled with technical flaws. The misdemeanors of the sound crew have already been mentioned, and the lighting department was not without its blunders. People fretted over flowing costumes and a barefoot angel wiggled its toes. It may be hoped and expected that these have been smoothed out, for they are a blemish on a truly beautiful job.
But as one theater-goer remarked, “The cast is larger than . the audience.” This is indeed regrettable, for not only does a production as good as this deserve support, but also there is the fact that good productions of this type play almost never occur on this side of the Atlantic. You will be doing yourself a disservice if you don’t see it.
March 25, 1960
17
A Critique:
Creation or Mimicry
JAZZ is essentially evolving. It depends on invention for its very life, and the only real creation is one that springs from an original style.
Tom Mustachio, a freshman from Fairmont State College in West Virginia, has been awarded a portable electronic piano, an engagement at Frank Holzfeind’s Blue Note, and a scholarship to the Kenton summer clinic at Indiana University. His group, the Dots Trio, was judged the finest combo, C.J.F. ’60, while Mustachio was named the festival’s best pianist and most promising soloist. Tom has been playing for half of his 18 years and has never received what is his due recognition. (West Virginia is still in the hillbilly stages of its musical development.) He is technically qualified but has yet to separate himself from what he has heard, liked, and has since been imitating. His style is controlled by Erroll Garner; his lines are dominated by Jamal and, again, saturated with sparkling Garnerisms. In jazz, this is the level of a musician’s first maturity. Mustachio is literally fighting for his musical life as an ambitious, resourceful, expressive pianist: he wants to invent. His personal battle with the past shows flashes of hope, flashes of Tom Mustachio; he is promising.
If a musician like Louis Armstrong has often repeated himself during the last few years, it is because he had already invented almost everything there was to invent in the field of his style. You can be sure that Armstrong is not the same musician that he was from the first moment he ever blew into a coronet; he, too, began by imitating his elders, Bunk Johnson or Joe Oliver. It is only little by little that the individual succeeds in disengaging his personal conceptions from the ideas he has picked up and the influences he has undergone. This is the evolutionary process that separates the one
from the millions. It is this flowering of the individual with something of his. . own to offer, something new to say that . still lies ahead for Tom Mustachio. The way to create is not by following narrow paths already trampled by genera- :
f Pete Herbert tions of creators and imitators. Here we have the basic problem of all true artl.
Jazz as an art form has had too few a number of au- . 4i thentic creators. What resulted in the wake of a Louis Armstrong or, later, of a Charlie Parker was just two of the ma-, jor periods in jazz history, and many a parasitic musician -has survived on the merits of these two men alone, achieving . a first level of maturity. This then for Tom Mustachio can. be only his point of departure. Erroll Garner has opened a.: door for him but the room is already filled.	--
It is tempting to think that there takes place in the ere- <) ator of jazz, without his being fully aware of it, a secret process of growth that does not become fully effective until the musician finds himself placed in certain favorable conditions. The effort must be made to search, expand, make the most of all possible musical experiences. The results are often ; more surprising to the capable musician than to an entire au-. dience. Mustachio is a capable musician.	'
- $
T’HERE were many excellent musicians at oui' festival who passionately desire to express themselves further. The Bob < Sardo Quartet had two such men. Gary Barone, a trumpeter? who has heard much of Miles Davis, showed perhaps more? ( potential than did any other young musician and it’s a shame i the group was not encouraged. Sardo, himself easily the finest : •< virtuoso to come to C.J.F. in either of its two conventions, has; the singular “misfortune” of being the finest jazz accordionist^ ,4 these ears have ever encountered. But the emphasis is placed? on the group sound and the individual creator, the very heartl of jazz, is slighted at collegiate festivals. The individual; . awards are of little consequence to the man who desires to: . perfect himself by being given more opportunities. Hampered by an inadequate rhythm section, Sardo and Barone returned .
(Continued on page 22)
GOD IS DEAD
AND we have killed him. Thus spoke Friedrich Nietzsche nearly a century ago, referring to the doctrine of man’s autonomy. The murder of God is the act of man’s becoming his own God, and autonomy predicates the complete freedom of man’s mind.
Theoretically a completely free mind can look upon all doctrines without being obfuscated by any one of them. But this is only theory, in which belief in a doctrine does not suppose fanaticism. Not all men separate fanaticism and belief, especially if that belief is the order of the day.
The amount of research that stands behind a historical work, some men reason, is there because history can be easily verified. Ideas of today, even if they are borrowed from yesterday, need no such backing. The result is that the world has too many bibles by which fanatics swear — sometimes without even knowing what these writings represent. This strange breed of fanatic is the pseudo-intellectual, and it is he who is murdering God.
This God, this Supreme Being, can be equated with all absolute concepts. Such a Supreme Entity, even if nameless, can therefore be equated with truth. And, in this sense, the pseudo-intellectual kills God. Religious belief as we have known it up to now is just not fashionable any more. At least, not while men are able, in all candor, to read a couple of unintelligible passages in Ulysses just a couple of times and come out of their monastic seclusion exclaiming:. “Eureka!” It is perfectly understandable how a person can read Ulysses or any other such work brimming over with erotica and find
18
£ 4 by Tony DeHaro A
within it something of meaning. I doubt James Joyce went i through all that waterfall of consciousness just to produce a £ picture explaining the lines along which his mind worked. But I do doubt that Ulysses would have become so popular V and fashionable to read had not the Supreme Court given it such a hard time.	<
Both the scholar* and the pseudo-intellectual are prone to J read the book, but the difference between them could not be M greater. The man who reads it planning to quote a couple | of passages at the dinner table during a banquet (hardly the | place for it) is the pseudo-intellectual. The scholar tends to,| be unassuming. There’s a tint of the showman in the pseudo-!i intellectual. As soon as he opens his mouth, a soapbox ma- U , terializes under his feet, placing him — as it were — above g his fellows. Suddenly, however, the soapbox transforms itself . into a pulpit, goaded by the speaker, and therein the danger^ lies. From then on, the pseudo-intellectual, a breed at onceji comical and ominous, doesn’t care much what he says, as long?? as it suggests a vast deposit of partially tapped cultural^ wealth within him.	ft..'
No pseudo-intellectual is a stereotyped character — that® is beneath him. The figure clad in oldish clothes, shirt slightly® f frayed at the collar, and a purely decorative pipe is a myth.g / What distinguishes the pseudo-intellectual is his halo. The|| * scholar, notwithstanding his habitual retreats from everyday^ f life, still retains a bit of worldliness. Not so with the pseudo-® ; intellectual. He is not prone to deny his worldliness or lack®/-of it forthrightly, but his generally condescending and offhand^.
The ScholastkSA
manner suggests a widening chasm between him and the world of everyday people. He preaches truth, irrevocable and ab-< । solute, and it is just one more step in the process of becoming godlike.
The preacher* phase has been reached by many men already, by the mere reason that what they said was said at an 4 auspicious time and to eager ears. The most notable example in the past few years is Colin Wilson, whose book The Out-4) > sidex came out at a time when men wanted to read something like it. At this point, it is wise to point out his present popu-4 > larity and the number of his faithful advocates, which is nil.
Once the pseudo-intellectual places himself at God’s side, all that is needed is a well-placed nudge and God — and truth — will topple from their place in the minds of men.
Passion clouds reason, and in the case of the pseudointellectual it seems to have replaced reason completely. His gospel is that of the opportunist: keep up with the times, no matter how. And, in keeping up with the times he seems completely unaware of the excellent concealment that radicality of thought without reason is for a deeper and more meaningful ignorance.
7 WHEN MARCH
J WINDS BLOW
4
4
' l
L i
i 5
= i
1

HUBERT HUMPHREY came upon the national political scene in 1948 as the freshman Senator from Minnesota. He quickly earned the reputation of a brash chatterbox. Since then he has mellowed considerably; and he long ago won the respect of Senators of both parties, while nevei’ ceasing to be one of the most long-winded men in politics.
Humphrey is basing his candidacy for the Democratic nomination on the premise that he is the only true liberal in the race, and only he can dramatize liberalism enough in times of prosperity to bring the principles of the New Deal back into our national government. Humphrey can lay strong claim to the title of “liberal.” He was the first president of the liberal Americans for Democratic Action. He favors high rigid farm supports. He opposes the tight-money policies of the administration and does not regard an unbalanced budget as important when national security is threatened. Humphrey also finds himself in the position of favoring disarmament while demanding that this country close the missile gap. His eight-hour talkathon with Nikita Khrushchev last winter enables him to speak with greater authority on these matters. He is closely identified with civil rights legislation, and he backs measures to create federal registrars of voters where voting rights are being denied. The recently-enacted labor bill contains too many restrictions on unions and should be amended, he feels.
LIBERALS: BRYAN . . . HUMPHREY
Humphrey comes by his liberalism naturally. His father was converted to those doctrines by William Jennings Bryan and raised his son to believe in them. As a boy Humphrey’s interest in politics was first aroused by hearing the issues of the day discussed in his father’s drugstore in Doland, South Dakota. The hardships of the depression led Humphrey to look upon Roosevelt’s New Deal as the only solution to the nation’s
by Mark Thompson
ills. Humphrey’s first job was in the heart of the New Deal as an instructor in WPA adult education classes. During the war he was state director of warproduction planning in Minnesota. The lure of politics was strong, and, to his fathers’ delight, he ran for mayoi’ of Minneapolis in 1943. He lost this election by a small margin, chiefly because the liberal vote was split between the Democrats and the Farmer-Labor Party. Humphrey’s great personal charm helped him to unite the two, and the combined parties have kept him in office since 1943, as well as gaining control of the state government of Minnesota in 1954.
FROM MAYOR TO SENATOR TO ... .
In 1943 Humphrey was elected mayor of Minneapolis on his second try. He introduced reform to all areas of city government. Even his opponents conceded that he was a good mayor. Having come this far, Humphrey was ready for bigger things. He conducted one of the most vigorous senatorial campaigns in Minnesota history and became her first Democratic Senator’ in 90 years. After living down his reputation as an o v e r 1 y-talkative freshman Senator, Humphrey has become probably the most popular man in the upper house. He has cultivated friendships with leading Southern conservatives, foes of his liberal policies. This has enabled him to act as a mediator between the two groups in the Senate on many occasions. For this he has been rewarded with choice posts on the Foreign Relations and Agriculture committees, as well as the chairmanship of a sub-committee on disarmament. This has enabled him to directly influence nearly every major bill to pass through the Senate.
Although he directs his campaign appeal to the “poor man,” Humphrey himself is poor only when compared to his millionaire opponents. Noi’ was he born poor, but he did have’ to withdraw from the University of Minnesota during the
DENNIS MURPHY
depression. After marrying a college coed whom he wooed over the counter of the family drugstore, Humphrey returned to Minnesota to graduate magna cum laude in political science. He got his master’s degree at Louisiana State University, writing a thesis entitled The Philosophy of the New Deal.
Here on campus Senator Humphrey’s campaign is being managed by Dennis Murphy, a senior Dean’s List accounting major from Grand Rapids, Minnesota. Murphy has political experience himself; he was elected Commerce Senator last year and was chosen a stay senator for this year. His father is a personal friend of Humphrey, and he has been in close contact with Humphrey campaign headquarters. Currently, Murphy is attempting to get the junior Senator from Minnesota, Eugene McCarthey, to address a pre-convention rally. Quietly confident of his candidate’s chances, Murphy states, “Humphrey is the only man who will be able to unite the Democratic Party after the convention this summer. He is the most energetic presidential aspirant in the party and will put on a vigorous campaign. His appeal for both the farm and labor groups can be expected to give him victory in November.” Anyone interested in Senator Humphrey’s campaign should contact Dennis Murphy in 234 Alumni Hall.
The Gadabout Gladhander's Guide to Campus Politics
THE GADABOUT GLADHANDER’S GUIDEBOOK TO CAMPUS POLITICS f
is a remarkably accurate setting-down on paper of the amazing ends to which the ; campus politician must go in his quest for the reins of student leadership. The Guide-; ; book is a short, but oh-so-essential account of the means toward the end of omni- / pleasance. It is based on one simple principle: Make Friends and Avoid Making/; Enemies. The principle has far-reaching consequences; for the campus political novi- t tiate the future can be rosy-colored so long as he follows the outline of the Guidebook.. ‘ Here’s what others have said about Guidebook:	.
U.	‘ t	*
L.	:
The future can be rosy-tinted for the candidate who follows the Guidebook outline—New York	Herald Tribune.	■
The rosy-tinted candidate is the one whose future- follows the Guidebook out- : line—Chicago Herald Tribune.	;
Following the Guidebook outline leads the tinted candidate to a rosy future—	,
Cincinnati Herald Tribune.	C
Preposterous — Chillicothe Herald Tribune.	;
soon to be released as a shocking motion picture in OTHEEVISION -
£
or
YOU CAN BE AS LONELY
AS THE NEXT FELLOW
IN THE CROWD, ONLY MORE SUCCESSFUL.
PREFACE
This is a monumental work about a particular breed of college student that has come into prominence within the past few years, particularly since the book, The Lonely Crckcd, was written.
We are concerned here with the characterological precursors of the other-diiected college campus/ These are the students whose ability to make friends and avoid enemies has made them campus leaders... They’re the forerunners of a race of hardy gladhanders soon to achieve optimum saturation of American' society.
As David Riestnan prophetically pointed out, the other-directed character type that is becoming the -rage in urban centers is the person whose only drive is the desire to please his peers. The self-contained. " gyroscope that guided his idealistic forebears (Inner-Directed Forebears) has been replaced by one salient prin-'-. ciple: please your peers. Since the leader of tomorrow will be the most-peer-pleasing it is well that her 1 study a plan of attack. In the few catchphrases and sociological techniques outlined here the goggly-eyed: college freshman can find at least a starting point for becoming a Beloved Man On Campus.
Pleasing all people is a difficult and risk-ridden task. Often it is thankless (if pleasing). As a’- . foremost exponent of the art once said, “You can please all of the people some of the time and you can please some of the people all of the time, but you can’t please all of the people all of the time.” This same figure is also said to have added, “What’s more, you can’t please me.” The battle among historians ^ as to the accuracy of the latter statement is largely an academic one. What is important is that the ponderous quote points up the kind of odds the Campus Other is working against.	' 4
To please all and alienate none is a task involving a number of highly-polished techniques, all de-’/ pendent largely upon the quality of a student’s memory. Those who have absolutely abominable memories// (such as the freshman who faltered at the registration table where he was asked his name), these people^ 1 are advised to forget political ambition now, before it becomes too firmly entrenched to be shrugged off./ The political roadside is cluttered with the shattered dreams of many an Unsuccessful Other who found % Memory Skirting too difficult.	£ 4
But for those many political deviates who, like most of us, have Simple Errant memories, success isj dependent upon a handful of principles designed to skirt about memory lapses and ingratiate the constituency.^
r
i-
Abridged by the authors F;
DAVID RIESMAN
I
NATHAN GLAZER
REUL DENNEY
JIM NAUGHTON


20
The Scholasi
I. MEETINGS FOR THE FIRST TIME
4 Obviously, the politician is helpless ' without the support of his peers. In order to enlist their support it is necessary • that he meet large numbers of them.
This is perhaps best achieved through a ‘ door-to-door canvass under some humanitarian guise, such as collecting used * typewriter erasers to send to India. In this way, the politician not only gets to shake innumerable hands; he also has his name associated with a highly-re-i spectable activity. What is more, he avoids having to kiss babies. It is inconceivable that anyone be asked to kiss , a baby in the course of collecting used ' typewriter erasers to send to India. It 4 is not, however, altogether impossible.
’ II. PASSINGS-BY ON CAMPUS
Once the political other has achieved some success at meeting and making ’ friends, he runs into the age-old problem of what to do when he runs across - them on campus. Obviously he can’t re, member the names of all the people he knows, unless he has a photographic A memory, in which case it might be more advisable to turn his hobby into some sort of profitable job. The normal other, ♦ though, is bound to forget some of the names of faces he has met in the crowd. And so, he uses several escape techniques for saving face, preventing apoplexy and the making of an enemy.
* For the less advanced other (we shall . avoid calling this type a beginner; most । people can’t stand being thought of as a .f beginner; it has too many overtones of beginning) there is the Downward Hang . and Mumbled Potluck routine. The stu-l dent who knows—in extreme cases fears i	—that he is forgetful about names often
! takes the precaution of walking about campus with his head drooped down upon his chest, as if looking for four-leaf clovers or avoiding stepping on j.. cracks. By so doing, he usually avoids । * having to say anything to anybody, J, thereby preventing the making of an ;• enemy and coming off with no worse 1 than a crick in his neck.
. Sometimes, however, he is jolted by ii. the passerby who nudges him with an exposed edge of his slide rule and shouts \ a merry, “Hey Reginald, howzit going?” - In this case, he strains his head upward i in mock surprise and utters the stock, i “Hi there, how are you-----?,” the last I word being a rather garbled conglomeration of Joe, Fred, Harley, Lloyd and !r other common names, intended to make the passerby think his name was pronounced.
f Some passersby, however, are not so !• shallow as to be taken in by this novice method. To convince these it is essential ’ to know the Sidewise Stare With Unex-; pected Convergence. To practice this, ’ the other walks across the quadrangle with his gaze directed at the architectural structure of a nearby building or the shape of an overhead cloud, thereby deliberately avoiding the glance at a coming friend whose name he has forgotten. Just as the two are about to
March 25, 1960
meet, the gaze is directed at the person, as if his approach had surprised the gazer. The subsequent, “Oh ... hi there,” gets one off the hook by causing the friend to believe the slip of memory was due to the unexpectedness of their convergence.
This wears. So, it is helpful to have at hand the third of the passing techniques, the Stocky Reply With Remembered Aftershout. This method comes into play just after there has been an Unexpected Convergence. To impress the person who feels somewhat slighted, getting a mere “Hi there, how are you?” from an old friend, it is necessary to bring his name to mind. This usually occurs anyway, once the opportunity for using it has just about passed. Once the name is grasped, one has only to wheel about and say something like, “Oh Fred! By the way, how did that meeting go the othei- night?” This is the ultimate in Name Evading.
III.	A COUPLE PARTICULARLY TOUGH SITUATIONS
Cow-Towing to Parents. Parents of students are an unusual lot. They are, for the most part, Old Style Inner-Directed, and as such must be dealt with in an entirely different manner. When meeting this type of person, the campus politician must try to exemplify Charity, Modesty, Temperance and Fortitude. (Fear of the Lord is also needed on rare occasions.) An unusual, “Allow me to open the door for you, Mrs. Rosenkrasz,” is a charmer. The value of such actions should be readily apparent. Visiting parents are easily first-impressed. They will be forever grateful and constantly refer to “that nice fellow” in letters to their sons. If nothing else, this serves to keep the constituent-prospect familiar with you.
Before the Batt is Over. Meeting someone whose name you cannot bring to hand at a dance can be particularly embarrassing. One elementary method of skirting the problem is to employ the Marathon Dance In Ecstasy technique. The politician simply convinces his date he is a fanatic on dancing. (This should be no problem in itself; most girls are fanatics on dancing anyway.) Then he
THE BOOKMEN
an undergraduate literary discussion group, meets every other Thursday to consider papers by members on such books as Lord Jim, King Lear, the Antigones of Sophocles and Anouilh, Babbitt’s Rousseau and Romanticism, Faulkner’s Requiem for a Nun. Send applications to James Yoch, 316 Walsh Hall. Deadline, April 4.
avoids meeting anybody by dancing every number, eyes shut as though entranced with the beauty of the music and apparently not wishing to be disturbed.
This method has its drawbacks. For one thing, there are corns. And this eyes-shut method of dancing could result in an occasional elbow in the rib. (This technique is particularly inadvisable for Polish church festivals in the neighboring town. The polka is best danced to eyes open.)
For the Advanced Other, the Bravado One-Act is a lifesaver. The politician merely makes a game of his memory lapse as though he had not really forgotten the friend’s name but were merely toying with him. (Football players, as a rule, do not like being toyed with. Most do not vote anyhow. Merely avoid them.) A suggested way of staging this game is to play the role of the Mock Jealous Lover. “I’m not going to introduce you to this innocent young maiden,” works fairly well. Care must be taken to assure recognition of the mockery in the tone, however.
21

IV.	BREAKING AWAY
At times, it is necessary to leave a friend to go about some important business, such as framing one’s clippings of “Peanuts.” The inexperienced other usually botches this up with an ineffective, “Well, see you later.” To be a really successful friend, one has to constantly be thinking of new and original (to say nothing of never-used phrases, such as “Well, Plato’s waiting for me back in the room,” or “Well, that fire I set should be just about getting a good start.” The use of “well” at the start of these phrases is inevitable. Some have even been branded well-wishers because of it, but that is one of the hazards of peer-pleasing.
V.	INGRATIATION EXTRAORDINAIRE
At several periods during the school year—and three times daily—the alert other can pick up more boosters with some friendly techniques.
Dining Hall Folderol. The dining hall is one of the best places to pick up friends. There is, to begin with, an atmosphere in the dining hall of slovenly cameraderie, heightened by the tactful use of the We’re All In This Together phrase. Here again, the inexperienced fall behind with something like, “The food’s terrible tonight.” Everybody knows that. The important thing here is to get the right expression. Much more advanced is “Boy, this crap is really lousy.” Superb is the ingenious, “This stuff isn’t half bad. . .(pause). . . it’s all bad.” This will evoke peals of laughter and an attitude of he’s-a-pret-ty-good-guyishness, even if the connnotion does result in disciplinary action.
Vacation Prattle. Before every vacation, there is the opportunity to make use of melancholy departures to evoke friendship. This is best done through the Admonishing Well-Wish. Gone by the board is the old, “Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year,” unless sarcastically intoned. Instead, there is the admonishing, “Stay sober.” This is even more effectively done with a pun, as in “Merry Christmas and a Happy Fifth.” The fact that most such phrases deal principally with alcohol is mere coincidence.
Every bit as valuable is the post-vacation period, when everybody is in high spirits and eager to tell of his holiday exploits. A casual, “Hi there, howza vacation?” can do wonders, although it usually involves listening to sometimes dull and often untrue accounts of the holiday. Perhaps most functional is the recollection Jab, involving a query such as, “Hiya Murph, how’s the wench in Wanamago?” This incongruous reference to the fellow’s best girl almost always strikes him as satirically funny and palsy. You do take chances with that phrase, though.
VI.	AVOIDING TRAPS
Some subjects are to be shied away from at all costs. One such is sports. The average politician knows little or
22
nothing about sports. When talking with collegians capable of quoting the starting lineup of the 1916 Havelock Eagles —Brownson Bears classic, be wary of topics that might lead to sports. Should such a situation become imminent, it is useful to have in mind some Obscure Sporting Immortal. The mere mention, for example, of Orville Doubleday’s stillstanding skeet shoot mark will send the best of them scurrying to the Gilette record books in shame.
Even more plaguing are Controversial Timely Subjects. The relative political newcomer usually goes into hibernation when discussion of such subjects is prominent. The expert other would choose instead the Double-Talked Streak With Authority. When caught in, say, a heated debate over the question of Whether Box Cards are Funnier Than Hallmark Contemporary Cards, a statement such as this, uttered in an authoritarian manner, should do the trick: “I feel the inconsequential limitations placed upon Hallmark and Box perfec-tioneers to be of pointless value.” Everyone will be pleased, if somewhat murky-minded. The safest bet when engaged in informal discussions is to concentrate upon the local girl’s school, the college town and the weather. Everybody agrees on them.
VII.	A FINAL CLINCHER
Simply offer the world. The wise politician makes it known, discreetly to be sure, that his supporters will certainly be numbered among his personal friends. And all students know the benefits accruing to personal friends of campus politicians. This, above all, will make the other-directed politico a CrowdPleaser.
Creation
(Continued from page 18)
to Purdue discouraged, visibly shaken by the announcement which gave the Brian Hardy Trio a fourth place slot. (Brian was conspicuous by his absence. He had already left for Purdue, knowing full well his inadequacies in the face of, at least, his fellow Boilermakers).
The system of judging is defective, if not incongruous with the nature of jazz. Take, for example, the Brian Hardy Trio as opposed to the Sardo Quartet and try to gauge theii- merits on a typical com
THE JUGGLER
1
is accepting applications for positions on next year’s staff entailing reading and criticism of manuscripts, sales and ' distribution. Address The Editor, 316 Walsh Hall. Deadline j '
April 4.	f ।!
Manuscript deadline for the final issue, March 31	|
The Scholastic J ;
ment sheet with ten categories and three possible grades, precisely the system employed here at C.J.F., not the only col- : lege festival to use these sheets. We have on the one hand a bass, drums, piano setup; on the other, an accordion, trumpet, bass and drums. Before a note J is played we check our faithful sheet: (1) tone, beauty and quality of tone. (2) instruments in time with one another. (3) Balance, even dynamics level , of one instrument against another. (4) Blend, similarity of tone quality and even sound level between instruments, so pleasing as to achieve blend. (5) Rhythm, , maintaining a steady rhythmic pulsa- 1 tion. (6) Precision, do the sections and i entire group play together precisely. (7) " Dynamics, does the group play with light expression, make the most of dynamic possibilities. (8) Arrangements, are the arrangements musical and well-suited. (9) Instrumentation: is the instrumentation a good one for this group? Do soloists fit in well? (10) Personality a and appearance, what is the general flavor of the groups entertainment. Already, the simple, smaller group (s) are at an advantage. In (3) and (9) they have a natural aid. In (4) and (7) jr they have much less difficulty. In (6) * and (8) the larger groups are inclined to be more daring, searching and exper- a imental; in short, they tend to be more creattive and suffer for it!
IF MEN like Sardo and Barone, Carwell Jones from Kansas, Steve Strider, the tasty drummer from Cincinnati, d overshadowed by the Kenton-aimed big ' band explosions of Bog Tagenhorst from J 4 Ohio, are to advance as inventors, crea- - ' tors, artists, whatever word you’d like, ? they must be individually encouraged, ; to become the individual. But, alas, and ? U to the dismay of we idealists, there I । doesn’t seem to be a movement in this • I I direction. Holzfiend couldn’t encourage I । Ron Blake, that is to the point of saying J j “. . . come play in my club. . .” Kenton I ‘ couldn’t encourage Dave Baker, that is to the point of saying “. . .come play in ; my band. . . .”
Jazz is still struggling along despite ; any external signs to the contrary. It wants recognition — it needs you and it can help you. Not the beer can mass of < i screaming humanity but the one in a • hundred with the sense to appreciate the j one in a million.
Jim Naughton is, at least, one in a hundred.
AT THE THEATER/
Once more, the absence of the Avon manager has caused confusion. The Mouse That Roared was originally scheduled for this week. Even though its showing is not confirmed, there is little else I can do but review what they should be showing, and keep my fingers crossed.
* The Grand Duchy of Fenwick, which in the 20th century still lives in medieval times, needs money. So, which way is there to get loads of money better than losing a war to the mighty United States? The Grand Duchess (Peter Sellers) is convinced by the Pi-ime Minister (Peter Sellers) that Fenwick has to lose a war to the U. S. to get money, and the leader of the Loyal Opposition, as always, concurs. Tully Bas-combe (Peter Sellers), peacetime director of forestry and wartime Grand Marshall, sets off for the U. S. with an army of about 20 men. Bascombe’s main trouble is that he is miserably seasick during the entire voyage. Entering New York harbor, they pick a fight with the “Queen Elizabeth,” showering the ship with arrows. They land in the middle of an air-raid alert and can’t imagine why the streets are empty. Entering a lab, they find a famous scientist and his daughter (Jean Seberg) working on the Q-bomb, thousands of times more powerful than the H-bomb. In the meantime, Civil Defense men (seeing the strangely-clothed men of Fenwick) report Martians on the streets of New York, and a general of the ai-my goes out to investigate. He is captured, along with four cops, the professor, his daughter, and the bomb, and j the Fenwick army heads home. During the trip back, everybody is afraid of the bomb’s delicate temper.
RICH JALOVEC for A.B. SENATOR
As it turns out, Fenwick wins the war (more or less), the head of their army starts making plans for the future with the scientist’s daughter, and Fenwick keeps the bomb as a powerful inducement to peace. Without question, this is the Movie of the Week.
At the Colfax this week (Mar. 25-31), A Dog of Flanders takes you on a tear-drenched tour of Belgium and Holland circa 1900. Starring in this lovely dose of nice material is David Ladd, whose father is famous for his cowboy movies and his endorsements for elevator shoes. Also starred are Theodore Bikel (currently of The Sound of Music), Donald Crisp, and Petrasche — the mangy Old Yellei- of a previous Walt Disney opus. Aside from the beautiful countryside, shown in full color, there is little else in this movie to tickle the intellect of people over twelve. And Petrasche definitely deserves a White Owl. Have a White Owl, Petrasche.
Who Was That Lady? Tony Curtis wants to think up an answer to his wife’s question, and Dean Martin helps him by making him an imaginary bonafide member of the FBI. As a farce, it turns out to be very funny, with Dean Martin definitely proving he doesn’t need Jerry Lewis whether’ or not they did make up. Tony Curtis and Janet Leigh are also funny, but they seem to have a hard time getting over and around the many meanings of the punch lines.
Close at hand at the Granada, following That Lady, is the screen version of Graham Green’s Our Man in Havana. This one shouldn’t be missed.
SAVE 20%
Use Your Student Discount Cord At
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFHtSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
WHDERNESS CANOE TMK
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wilderness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!) Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
few* WMUOofFIM!
For all of you interested in Eastman Color, stereophonic sound, 70 mm film, and various other gimmicks, The Big Fisherman (State: Mar. 17-30) is for you. Also thrown in as added attractions are such name stars as Howard Keel, Susan Kohner, John Saxon, and Martha Hyer. Howard plays Simon-Peter, the big fisherman. For most of this movie, however, the big fisherman is lost in a sea of gimmicks. All of you young teen-age girls across the Great Divide may be more interested in teen-idol John Saxon. He’s Hollywood’s answer to Stonty Mickles, but he can’t kick worth a golden toe.
At Washington Hall tonight, the Artists Series presents Rosalind Elias, a young mezzo-soprano from the Metropolitan Opera. Miss Elias not only has a good voice, but is not entirely unpleasant to look at — an accomplishment in this age of overweight, middle-aged Wagnerian mammoths. Curtain time is at 8:30.
As a closing note: an apology. Last week I mentioned that The Big Fisherman was a Walt Disney-Buena Vista production. Wrong. It’s a Centurion Films production, which I know means so much more to you. Disney has already accepted my apologies as a perfect gentleman.
Tony Wong
March 25, 1960
Political Ideology
(Continued from page 15)
campus character:
MANNING MOTION
Manning is fierce as a tiger on offense, strong as a bear on defense, and wise as an owl in the huddle. Everybody’s All-American selection, he makes the AllAmerican 'selection when he chooses his underwear.
He knows you can do most anything in Jockey skants brief. Jockey skants are cut high at the sides, low at the waist, and tailored of stretch nylon to provide maximum comfort with minimum coverage.
You can’t beat them for sports, for travel, for comfort in any pursuit Your campus store has them!
$1.50.
COOPER'S. INCORPORATED'KENOSHA WIS-
hockey
BHMD
SKANTS* brief
may serve to illustrate this point, but the white-controlled African countries are also good examples of Western democracy. Both sides of the picture leave a lot to be desired, besides causing enough confusion as to what exactly democracy is. Here, for the one side of the argument, the mistake people are prone to make is to expect these newly independent African states to operate on an inch-to-inch pattern of any one of the many types of the Western democracy. For such a measure would be far from being profitably practical. The African democracy like all other types also reserves the rights of being suited to the traditions, values, social and economic conditions now obtaining within the African community. Whereas difference for difference’s sake has never been the wise man’s measure, mimicry for mimicry’s sake may reduce the situation to that of a monkey over a looking glass.
What Western critics tend to overlook is the fact that democracy, communism, socialism, totalitarianism, etc., are political formulae which are products of education or an advanced civilization. Except for the negligible African elite, the generality of the masses are still far from able to understand what these ideas are. Nevertheless, this situation is no justification for the deprivation of the African’s birthright to rule himself. No one nation is naturally a freedom trustee of another.
The slur that African liberation movements are utopian and misdirected is no
(hannei H
FRIDAY, March 25	1
6:30 p.m.—Professor John Oesterle of J the Philosophy Dept, will review f Albert Camus’ The Rebel.	i
SUNDAY, March 27	f
1:00 p.m.—Rebroadcast of WFMT’s 4 “The Poet Reads”: Mark Van-Doren commenting on and reading J selections from his book, “A S Winter Diary.”	f
6:30 p.m.—The Student’s Pen will feature Lee Lagessie reading a se- it lection of his poetry.	p
TUESDAY, March 29	|
6:30 p.m.—The fourth in a series on “the Spirit of Thomism,” featur- § ing Professor Robert Joyce and sS moderator Charles Ladner. J
WEDNESDAY, March 30	S
6:30 p.m.—Professor John Logan of the General Program will read
, selections from his poetry. Jr
THURSDAY, March 31	O
6:30 pan.—Jerry Kriegshauser will dis- |g cuss on “Musical Discourse” Carl W
Orff’s Carmina Burana.	W
The Scholastic K'
I
more valid. The 1957 Accra Pan African Conference placed a landmark in i African united front calling for more
and more coordinated activity. The ex-■ isting front does not only have the enthusiasm and the vigor, it also com-/ mands the tempo of planned action. The present basis of unity is nationalism > which is a human emotional response that is not a political measure in itself. 1 Undeniably it has been a foundation stone for all nations — it is not different for Africa. Nationalism is not a political measure or the guiding principle of f a political entity. Some force more basic has to be super-imposed over and above > this emotional flare like materialism, socialism, etc. Apparently no one particular such ideology exists in Africa yet. But obviously such a political uniting force on which the African political community shall stand will bear signifi-' cant features of the existing systems, with the high probability that the force J will be far superior to that uniting any of the present systems. '
THE SCHOLASTIC is now accepting applications from those interested in the following posts on next semester’s staff:
ESCAPE WRITER
Send samples of work to 42 Pangbom or 319 Badin
—o—
BACK PAGES for this year’s magazine are urgently requested. Send to
42 Pangbom or 319 Badin
—o—
FEATURE ARTICLES—short stories; political, academic, and intellectual criticism; humorous essays; photographic and sketch work — should be submitted as soon as possible to
319 Badin

BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN *2.95 Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
•X.M.TteEalMMaklMCa.
March 25, 1960

You, she and they will like the way you look in a Campus S uit by H-I-S
Now!
SIR WALTER RALEIGH in a Pouch!
Keeps Tobacco
■
FRESHER!
New airproof aluminum foil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. Choice Kentucky hurley — extra aged. Get the familiar orange-and-black pack with the new pouch inside!
High-notched lapels, 3 buttons, flapped pockets and center vent make the jacket as authentic as it’s comfortable. Trim, tapered, pleatless Post-Grad slacks complete the picture. This easy-going outfit is yours at an easy-to-pay price_ $19.95 to $35, depending on fabric. And it’s washable! Try it on at your favorite campus shop.
f
No spills when you -Alljust dip'in I
Open the pack-Out comes ■Hie Pouch!
Sooner or Later— Your favorite Tobacco -
Tearproof—it's triple Carries flat in pocket, laminated. Really durable No bulge. Flexible, tool . . . won't spring a leak. ... it bends with you.
SIR WALTER RALEIGH

26
The Scholastic
£fMU Pich**
X	fflllT AKE THE)
; Homo w?
J	by BOB SCHAEFER
During the past four years many out-■ , standing athletes have competed for the * Fighting Irish teams. During the next few issues of the Scholastic this column will be devoted to tracing their careers from the time they graduated from Notre Dame to the present day, whether they have gone on to new ath-' letic heights or have forsaken the grid-□ irons, hard courts, cinders, diamonds, J etc., for business or further academic x, interests.
There are two incidents which speak so well of the ND athletic program that X they deserve first mention.
To begin with, three Irish eagers, all incidentally bestowed with the captaincy by their teammates, have graduated ' ' from Notre Dame and went straight into y the seminary. All three of them—John Smyth, John McCarthy and Bobby Devine—are members of the 1,000 point club. Smyth, a ’57 grad and Captain of the ’56-57 eagers, hit for 1236 in his . . three years, while McCarthy and Devine • J <■ — Co-captains in 1957-58 — scored 1108 and 1043, respectively. Devine, inciden-5 I tally, holds the all-time record for con-£ । secutive games started for an ND player J with 81. Smyth and McCarthy are now 3 ■ studying in the Chicago area and Devine I t is back in Pennsylvania.
; • The second incident is that three Irish t footballers have moved on from the un; . dergraduate level to enter medical : \ school. These three, Bob Williams, Norm Odyniec and Larry Cooke, all had the ,	(Continued on page 30)
i	----------------
. I
j Sachsel Travels to Maryland | To Compete in NCAA Match X /* Jerry Sachsel, 123-pound senior wrestler from Gaiwood, N. J., is the first No. tre Dame grappler ever to compete in X 4 the NCAA Championships. The NCAA tourney is being held this week end, j) March 24, 25, 26, at the University of „ J Maryland. Coach Fallon accompanied i I Sachsel on the trip.
In three years of varsity competition ,.p Sachesl never lost a dual meet as he • I	compiled a 27-0-2 record. As a sopho-
jJ	more he won eight, lost none and tied
0. one. In his junior yeai‘ Sachsel moved '. I, up to the 130-pound class where he ; b racked up a perfect 10-0-0 mark. This past year he returned to the 123-pound V class and added nine more wins and a i I tie to his incredible record.
Sachsel is a Dean’s List student and education major in the College of Arts |i ; and Letters.
r*
March 25, 1960
f i
BOXERS FINISH FINAL PREPARATIONS
WITH BENGALS SET TO OPEN MONDAY
On Monday night the Bengal Bouts once again take over the spotlight here at Notre Dame. The Bouts will be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings and once again promise to be a popular attraction. The Bengal Bouts are under the capable direction of Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano and sponsored by the Knights of Columbus.
Leading returnees. The 156-, 165- and 178-pound weight divisions will highlight the opening night program. Two standout boxers, veterans from last year’s fighting, will be in action Monday night in the person of Joe Anderson, a former champ, and Ray DeLuca. The program on all three evenings will start at 8 p.m.
In all, nine weight divisions will be used to classify the fighters. They are in ascending order: 125, 132, 139, 147, 156, 165, 178, 191 and heavyweight. The remaining quarter-final bouts will be held Wednesday evening along with the semifinal bouts. This means that some boys will be fighting twice in one night. The finals on Friday evening will see the nine individual champions crowned.
The Scholastic had hoped to publish a complete list of the pairings for the Monday night’s program. However, this proved to be impossible when it was learned that the fighters will not weigh in until the day of the fights.
Boxing’s good side. The Bengal Bouts
FIGHTERS ENTER FINAL STAGES OF PREPARATION
Daily workout in the boxing room upstairs in the Fieldhouse is part of the training routine.
are an outstanding advertisement for the sport of boxing which has been severely criticized in the last few years due to the unhealthy environment which surrounds its professional aspect. The man responsible for the high regard whic the public has for the Bengal Bouts is Mr. Napolitano himself. In 1955, Sports Illustrated's columnist Budd Schulberg visited the campus and reported in the April 14, 1955 issue of this national sports weekly what he observed of Notre Dames’ Bengal Bout program.
Here is part of what he wrote: “Out at Notre Dame this stocky, paternal little fellow “Nappy,” the genial coach and director for the bouts; the campus Knights of Columbus chapter which sponsors the bouts; and the boys who keep punching from bell to bell can show you what boxing can be like at its honest best. They have never lost sight of the fact that boxing, for all its seamy, nether side, is a great, basic, and undeniable competitive sport.”
The Bengal Bouts, which began in 1931, have been an annual feature of the Notre Dame athletic program ever since. The proceeds from the three-night program go to the Bengal Missions in India. The Missions are the big winner in this tournament. But the fans who pack the Fieldhouse see amateur boxing at its competitive best. For the price of $1 for all three nights, this is a worthwhile investment for all.
27
ODDS and ENDS
Frank Carpin, the Notre Dame lefthander who signed with the New York Yankees two years ago for a bonus of $35,000, is really impressing the veterans down in Florida this year. At the present time, it appears to most observers that Carpin is the rookie most likely to stick with the Yankees this year. Scheduled to play with Binghampton in the Class A Eastern League this year, Carpin has shown by his play that he desires a higher classification. Last year, with Greensboro in the Class B Caroline League, Carpin whiffed 143 batters and was one of the top pitchers in that league. Good luck, Frank! . . .
It looks like “Sports Illustrated” has quite a prognosticator. Jeremiah Tax’s column last week stated that Ohio State would go on to win the NCAA title. Tax also predicted that Cincinnati would fall to California because Paul Hogue would foul out (and this is precisely what happened). Tax pointed out also that Cincinnati would soundly trounce NYU in the consolation final. This also came true. Got any tips on the next race at Santa Anita, Mr. Tax? . . .
Bob McNeill, backcourt star of St. Joseph’s Middle Atlantic Conference champions, was recently added to the East squad which will play against the West All-Stars in the 13th annual Fresh Air Fund game tomorrow in Madison Square Garden. McNeill is a lefthanded 6-1 backcourt man whose 400-plus point total this year was tops for St. Joe’s. Sagacious Joe Lapchick of St. John’s has rated McNeill “as good as Cousy was in his senior year at Holy Cross”. . . .
Although Ohio State had what many termed “a young ball club that’s going to make mistakes,” they definitely proved this to the contrary in their championship clash against California. Hitting on 16 of their first 17 shots, the Buckeyes ended up with a terrific first half shooting average of 83 per cent. Cooling off a little in the second half, the Buckeyes still did not lose sight of the bucket and ended up the game hitting on 67 per cent of their shots, good in any man’s league. . . .
Who says that Wilt Chamberlain can’t be stopped! Tom Heinsohn and his Boston Celtic teammates proved that the impossible can happen. Heinsohn and Chamberlain had a small disagreement in the second game of the Eastern Division playoffs and the tiff resulted in a sore hand for big Wilt. In fact, so sore was Wilt’s paw that in the third Boston-Philadelphia battle, he was unable to shoot effectively and scored only 12 points, his lowest total yet in the pro ranks . . .
Three members of the 1960 Notre Dame track team come from outside the United States. They are senior Glen Cividin, junior Martin Every and sophomore Terry Jones. Cividin is a pole vaulter from Trail, British Columbia; Every is a hurdler from Lanarkshire, Scotland; and Jones, a middle distance runner, is from Dublin, Ireland . . .
28
MIKE GRANEY Catholic All-American
Graney and McCarthy Rate Catholic Laurels
Notre Dame seniors Mike Graney and Emmett McCarthy were selected on the honorable mention unit of the 1960 Catholic College All-America basketball team. The ten-man first team, picked by their coaches, features four repeaters from the 1959 squad, a three-time pick, two consensus All-Americans who were unanimous choices, the nation’s second and third leading scorers this season and two of the year’s brightest sophomores.
This brilliant array of talent was selected by a ten-man group of coaches from leading Catholic colleges and universities throughout the country.
The ten players selected are: Dennis Boone of Regis College, Al Butler of Niagra, Detroit’s Dave DeBusschere, Tony Jackson of St. John’s, Don Kojis of Marquette, Bob McNeill of St. Joseph’s of Philadelphia, Frank Sobrero of Santa Clara, St. Bonaventure’s Tom Stith, Hubie White of Villanova and Len Wilkens of Providence.
Boone, a 6-2 senior is a three-time pick. He was acclaimed by the coaches as “the best college player west of the Mississippi.” McNeil, called “one of the few little men the pros will look at,” Butler, the nation’s third leading scorer this year and jump shooting virtuoso Jackson are repeaters from last year. Jackson was a unanimous pick this year along with Tom Stith, second leading scorer on the college scene during the past campaign. The two outstanding sophs are White and DeBusschere. Kojis, Sobrero and Wilkens round out the dream team of four seniors and juniors and two sophomores with average height of 6-3 and average weight of 192.
This is the third consecutive year that the Catholic Digest, largest Catholic publication in the world, has selected an All-American basketball team from Catholic Colleges throughout the U.S.
Keglers Complete Pions For 1960 Award Banquet
With the end of the bowling season ; close at hand, the officers of the Kampus Keglers have completed the arrange- i ments for the annual Keglers’ award banquet. The banquet will take place in the Surf Club of the Palais d’Or theatre restaurant from 6 to 9 p.m. on Thurs- 4 day, May 19.
Besides the customary awarding of trophies and prizes to the top individ- । uals and teams in the Kegler and Classic a I Leagues, the banquet will feature Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C. as guest i speaker and Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., 1 Vice-President of Student Affairs, as moderator.
Those members of the Kegler or Classic Leagues desiring to attend the banquet must register with one of the Keg- 0 ler officers: Ed Silliman, Dan Halloran, Jim Flannery or Ron Dvorak, during the period of March 28-April 8. Since only	J
a limited number of people can be ac-	4.
commodated at the banquet, registrations after this period will be accepted ( only on a space-available basis.
Kegler members will be charged $2.00 « as a registration fee, while Classic bowlers must pay $3.85, the price of the dinner, in advance. It is hoped, but not promised, by the Kegler officers that the 11 Kegler registration fee will be returned in full or part to those who actually attend the banquet. The return of the fee wiH depend on the number attending the banquet and collection of all prize money -in the leagues. Consequently, only those members of Kegler teams that have paid -all of their bowling fees will be eligible to register for the banquet.	• ■
After the dinner there will be music ' j provided by a combo for drinking, ; j dreaming or dancing for those so fortunate as to have a young lady to join . ' them after 9 p.m.	< A
—Ed Silliman	'
“Can't stop eating them! Can’t stop i • eating them,” proclaims “Pants” I Walker, prominent resident of Walshj.. j Hall and two-time winner of the Beetles 5 | Award for Conspicuous Consumptionp < “Pants” divulges this interesting tidbit:] . 'j “Before I started eating Beetle sand-: f; wiches, I was a 220-lb. weakling^ $ j (even Ed Squire used to beat him up)’ ; ~ but now, after two years of Beetle^ j Sandwiches, I’m not! You ought to try|'f-them.”	f'.
t ■
The Scholastic] ;
Russomano Leads Fencers
In NCAA Title Competition
April 1-2 will find three of Notre Dame’s top fencers competing for the } NCAA Championship at Champaign, ‘ Ill. The three Notre Dame competitors, all seniors, will be Jim Russomano in the foil, Ted De Baene in the sabre and Pete Giaimo in the epee.
The NCAA meet places emphasis on individual strength rather than on team depth, since each school is allowed only . one entrant in each of the three weapons, whereas at least three men perform in , each event during the course of a dual meet. Thus such fine swordsmen as Notre Dame’s Radde and Johnson are excluded from the field because their records are slightly less successful than their competing teammates.
j The competition is a complete roundrobin, with each man facing every other u man in his event. With more than thirty men from different schools taking part, endurance naturally becomes a prime factor in determining the three individual champions. Thus, Pete Giaimo, who / compiled a 27-5 record during the sea-* son, may be required to fence as many matches in two days as he did during the entire season.
Coach Walter Langford looks for Navy, the defending champion, and NYU, last year’s favorite, to battle it out for top honors. Navy won the crown last year by pulling the previously un-• heard-of-feat of winning first place in all three events. Because of the one en-c trant rule and also because of the better development of fencing in the East (over the years four of the five top teams have come from the East), Mr. Langford is not expecting to cop the team title.
In the individual competition Jim Russomano, co-captain, is rated a fine chance of becoming a three-time All-» American in the foil. The top six men in each event are placed on the All-> American squad. Jim was fourth in 1958 and sixth in 1959. Pete Giaimo in the epee is conceded a better chance of ; finishing among the frontrunners in his event than is Ted De Baene in the sabre, ; although Ted will almost undoubtedly ; come up with a highly respectable performance.
i
I
Hurry Spring!
Due to the dogged persistence of winter and ice that refuses to melt until the temperature rises, the sailing team’s competitive opener was postponed last week. As soon as the weather realizes that it is spring, actual competition will begin.
Meanwhile, those who are interested in sailing and in the Notre Dame sailing team are encouraged to attend the Thursday evening seminars currently being sponsored by the team. They are held in 118 Nieuwland at 7:30 p.m. and will continue through March 31.
Irish Baseball Squad Awaifs Opening Contest; 10 Lettermen Form Strong Returning Nucleus
For the past month, the Notre Dame Fieldhouse has been filled with the sounds of baseballs smacking into catcher’s gloves and cracking off bats as the Irish diamondmen get themselves into condition as Coach Jake Kline prepares his Notre Dame baseball team for another season. Coach Kline, in his 27th year as the Irish baseball mentor, has ten lettermen returning to this year’s squad.
Mound strength. In the hurling department, four monogram winners, Jim Hannan (two letters), Nick Palihnich, Jack Mitchell, and Chuck Scrivanich, all with one letter to their name, return this spring to form the core of the mound squad. Support for these veterans should come from junior Mike Brennan, senior Ed Kirchmier, and a large sophomore crew composed of Mike Boehm, Jim Carey, Jim Fitzpatrick, Paul Petitclair, Roger Strickland and Hillary Mahaney.
Captain Ed Wojcik, a two-year letter-man, should handle the catching job, with able assistance from promising sophomore Walt Osgood. Other catchers are juniors Jerry McNamara and Bernie Dobranski, and sophomore Fred Nemek.
Reliable two-letter veteran John Car-retta should help out quite a bit at first base, getting assistance from soph Jim Krauser, and junior footballer Dick O’Leary. Second base should be ably handled by one-year veteran Jack Gen-tempo, and newcomer Bill Howard.
Bob Scarpitto, a well-known halfback, sophomore Bill Brutvan, and senior John Dorian will man shortstop in Kline’s infield. At the hot-spot, third base, Danny “one-hop” Hagan is returning, and will be supported by John Tarnowski and Ross Franco.
Only two letterwinners return to this year’s outfield, in the persons of Frank Finnegan and hoopster Mike Graney. Senior John Talamo, juniors Bernie
EDDIE WOJCIK
1960 Irish captain and catcher
DANNY HAGAN
Steady hitting third baseman
O’Neill and Chuck Lennon, and sophomore Tom Twardowski will all be trying hard to break into the lineup.
Batting power. Hagan, Carretta, Gentempo and Finnegan promise the Irish power at the plate. With a strong infield and good pitching staff, the Irish are a little short of experience in the outfield. Gene Duffy’s absence will be felt severely.
Coach Kline, who was himself captain of Notre Dame’s baseball team back in 1917, is fairly optimistic about the chances of this year’s squad. If the steadying influence of last year’s Cocaptains Duffy and Selcer can be retained in their absence, the 1960 Irish diamondmen should do well.
April 8-9 mark the season’s start with a three-game series at home against Indiana, weather permitting. A ten-game Spring Vacation Trip will be played against the following teams: April 13—Evansville College.
April 14—Murray State,
April 16—(2 games) Illinois.
April 18—Arkansas State.
April 19—Memphis State.
April 20—Arkansas State.
April 21—David Lipscomb College.
April 22—Austin Peay State.
April 23—Vanderbilt.
The regular season is as follows: April 26—Purdue University, away. April 27—Northwestern, home. April 29-30—Bowling Green, away. May 2—Michigan, away.
May 6—Western Michigan, home.
May 7—Western Michigan, away.
May 9-10—Wisconsin, away .
May 11—Michigan State, home.
May 18—Michigan State, away.
May 19—Michigan, home.
May 20-21—Ohio University, home.
May 25—Northwestern, away.
May 28—Kent University, home.
March 25, 1960
29
¥
I
Former Athletes .
(Continued from page 27) unenvied distinction of serving on the 1956 Irish squad which won only two of ten ball games. Cooke is currently studying at SMU, Williams at Pittsburgh and Odyniec at Georgetown.
The South Bend school system claims two recent ND monogram winners — pole vaulter Jack Cote and football end Bob Scannell. Cote is currently teaching physical education at Madison School in South Bend, while Scannell compiled a fine football record at Adams High School last season, his first as head coach after replacing Johnny Murphy who joined Joe Kuharich’s present ND staff. Both Cote and Scannell are three-year monogram winners.
Gene Duffy, co-captain of both the basketball and baseball squads in his senior year of 1958-59, recently stopped here on campus to see the Creighton basketball game on his way to spring training with the Charleston club of the American Association. Duffy played in both the Nebraska State laegue and the Northern League last summer, after signing with the American league champion Chicago White Sox. He hit well over .300 in both leagues to merit the chance at triple-A ball.
Tom Hawkins, a co-captain of the eagers along with Duffy in the 1957-58 season, is the only active ND grad in the NBA. He is currently helping the Minneapolis Lakers battle the St. Louis Hawks for the right to represent the Western Division in the League championships against the Celtics. “Hawk” incidentally holds the career scoring record for ND eagers with 1820 points in three years.
Relay Team Takes First In Cleveland Track Meet
Last Friday night in Cleveland, the track team was represented at the 20th Knights of Columbus track meet by a two-mile relay team, pole vaulter Tom Reichert and sprinter Jerry Fitzpatrick. This meet closed the indoor competition for the track team this year.
The two-mile relay team of Dan Rorke, Chris Monahan, Terry Jones and Ron Gregory won their section of the relay in the time of 7:40.2, beating Western Michigan and Penn State to the tape.
In the pole vault, Tom Reichert, continued with his fine performances in indoor competition by setting a new school record in his favorite event. The stocky senior who hails from Minneapolis soared 14 ft. 6% in. to place third in the event won by the redoubtable Don Bragg. This, Reichert’s finest performance, was a fitting climax to an indoor season that saw him win the IC4A title in New York earlier this month.
Jerry Fitzpatrick was entered in the 50-yard dash but failed to place in this event. Steve Dornbach, the captain of last year’s squad, took a fourth in the 50-yard high hurdles. Dornbach ran unattached.
30

TIME OUT
J
r
Ohio State and Bradley brought the NCAA and NIT titles back to the Midwest from the West and East where they had been held for a year by the California Bears and Joe Lapchick’s St. John’s Redmen. The NCAA final was particularly interesting in that it pitted two teams of opposite style against each other. Ohio State’s resounding victory perhaps convinced Pete Newell that a tough defense alone is not enough to stop a great shooting team, especially when they make 16 of their first 17 shots. In Darall Imhoff the Bears had another Bill Russell but they needed a Cousy, Sharman and Ramsey to go along with him.
GRANEY AND McCARTHY HONORED
Mike Graney and Emmett McCarthy recently were named to the Catholic All-America team selected by the Catholic Digest. Mike and Emmett were the two workhorses on the team this year. They both started every game and they finished one-two in scoring with 450 and 373 points respectively. The better-than-expected performance of this year’s squad is in large measure due to the marked improvement in these two seniors. Mike is not through playing yet. Tomorrow he will represent the West in the 13th annual Fresh Air Fund game in Madison Square Garden and from there he will travel to Denver, Colo., to try out for the United States Olympic team. Congratulations Mike and Emmett!
5
WINTER ENDS —SPRING BEGINS
With the winter sport season ended except for the NCAA fencing and wrestling tournaments, a recapitulation and summary is in order. There were no losing teams among the five winter sport teams at Notre Dame. The basketball (17-9), fencing (14-2), swimming (7-3) and track (3-0 for dual meets) squads all had winning records, and the wrestling squad broke even (5-5). Over-all, these five teams won 46 games, matches or meets, and lost but 19 for a winning percentage of .708. And for the fifth time in the last eight years of Johnny Jordan’s coaching reign here, Notre Dame received a bid to the NCAA.
The spring sport season is coming up soon with the baseball and tennis teams scheduled to launch their seasons on the April 9th week end. The golfers will not start until April 23, returning early from Easter vacation to face Northern Illinois at the Silver Lake course in Chicago where the National Public Links tourney was held two years ago.
Jake Kline’s baseball squad, minus the valuable services of bonus players Carl Yastrzemski and Frank Carpin who are both making strong bids for major league jobs this year, have been picked as potential NCAA winners by several preseason sources.
Of course the Irish tennis team is the defending NCAA champion and Coach Fallon has two of the four All-Americans from last year’s team back this year. The netmen should have another outstanding season.
Ron Gregory and Co-captain Tom Reichert will lead the track team into outdoor competition next month. The Wilsonmen were undefeated in indoor dual meets and Gregory and Reichert have been little short of brilliant. Gregory’s world indoor dirt track record of 1:50.5 in the 880-yard run, his recent mile time of 4:10.9, and his performances as anchor man of the ND two-mile relay unit have earned him a well-deserved national reputation. Reichert’s progress this season has almost been heroic. Handicapped by his short stature, the Irish pole vaulter from Minneapolis, Minn., has gradually worked his way up past 14 feet to a point where last week end in Cleveland he broke the school record with a 14'6%" vault.
<<

%
I r

id

TIME FOR THE BENGALS
Two other athletic activities are of interest at this time also — the Bengal Bouts which start Monday night in the Fieldhouse and spring football practice which gets underway April 1 (no April fool to the players). The Bengal Bouts are a popular three-night production in which the boxing enthusiasts here at school get a chance to test their talents against their classmates. The fighters are well-protected by a padded headguard but the action is furious and knockouts do occur as Dick Shulsen so heavy-handedly proved two years ago. If you are a freshman and have never seen the Ben-gals, don’t miss them. — T. R.


I
The Scholastic^
Campus Bridge Tourney Enters Final Round; Winning Teams to Receive Donated Trophies
The final session of the Team-of-Four Bridge Championship will be played on Sunday, March 27, at 1:30 p.m., in the Student Center.
Suitably engraved trophies, kindly donated by Mr. and Mrs. James Gerity, Jr., of Adrian, Mich., will be awarded to all team members of the winning groups. Winners will also receive Master Points of the Amercan Contract Bridge League in the amount of 3.00, 1.50, 1.00 and 0.75 for the first four places. There will be a special prize for the team showing the most improvement in the second session.
Duplicate bridge is played every Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in the Student Center
choose the protection of...
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
gkin protection, that is. Old Spice refreshes and stimulates, guards against the loss of vital skin moisture. Feels great, too. Brisk, bracing, with that tangy Old Spice scent. It does seem to attract female admirers, but what red-blooded
man needs protection against girls? 1.00 pi^tax	S H U LT O N
AVAILABLE AT
and all students and faculty members who like to play bridge are welcome to play. Partners will be arranged if necessary.
Standings after first session
1.	Zusman, Rice, Gray, Erwin_______________16%
2.	Donis, Carpenter, Bennett, Joyce._______15%
3.	Mack, A. Carpenter, Arnold, Butler______12%
3. Kristinik, Houston, Kelly, Wong__________12%
3. Mariner, Pelletier, Morris, Vandeveer____12%
6.	Kirby, Bauman, Peters, Marchildon_______11%
7.	Sacher, Showel, C. Kelly, Jones_________10
7.	Whalen, Kfoury, Kelleher, Heying________10
9.	Clark, Farley, O’Meara, Hanlon__________9
10.	Hickey, licker, Demetrio, Donovan______ 8
10.	Mark, Hutton, Oberkoetter, Christopher__ 8
12. Mudd, Miller, Brady, Blanchette_________6
OUR COVER: Spring, which was supposed to arrive five days ago, is often slow in coming to Notre Dame —to say the very least. Certainly John Martine’s fine cover is on the optimistic side, judging from the view we may behold outside. If you are on the verge of despair, just collect all the old SCHOLASTICS from the maid’s cart come next Monday and paste them on your window; we guarantee an atmosphere comparable to a Tarzan movie — in Technicolor, no less.
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS CONVAHt—March 28 and 29.	~
AH interviewi are held at tha Pha—t oMZ
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
March 25, 1960
31
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING YOUTH WORK, farming clerical work done bv Brothers are m great need today in the U S and foreign missions
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, GS.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
BLOCK BROS.
COR. MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON . . . IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND
•
Jewelers to Notre Dame Students and Faculty for Over 37 Years
Mist's 3 wrong r
yourdancing
Don’t let poor dancing steal your popularity. Come to Arthur Murray’s now and let one of his experts bring out your dormant dancing ability. Just a few lessons will give you the latest steps, thanks to Arthur Murray’s “Magic Step” Method. So don’t miss out on good times, come in or phone now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
CE 2-3339
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4) dethronement of dictators in several of our countries. That a new one has been able to rise is an indication of the long fight which lies ahead.
Yet if the changes which will occur in the next decade be for better or for worse depends on the United States. The economic problems of a poor nation trying to expand industrially cannot be solved without help.
But it is help that is needed, not charity. Help given without the arrogant and condescending attitude the United States sometimes likes to adopt. Latin Americans still remember bitterly the high-handed intrusions of the United States into their internal affairs some years ago. It is up to the United States to show them that this policy is no longer in effect. It is men like Mr. Chaplin who make you think that perhaps it still is.
Jaime Fuster
350 Farley
A. G. Hermida 116 Keenan J. Roberto Ramirez 303 Keenan
Editor:
I just have read the article on “Good Neighbors?” by D. Edward Chaplin which appeared in your issue of March 18. Since I was not sure of the meaning of the word “mendicancy,” which is used throughout the article, I consulted my dictionary, and I found “mendicancy,” to be defined as follows: to practice beg
BAD POSTURE
WEAK LEAD
OUTDATED STEPS
r<>
gary; to live by alms. Then I looked for the meaning of the word alms, and I read: “Alms, anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor; a charitable gift.”
Now, what I do not realize is why the word mendicancy is used instead of the verb to borrow. A bank makes loans to the public, a person lends — money to a friend, etc. Nobody in his right senses would speak of “the public begging from a bank,” or would call the friend who borrows money “a mendicant without dignity.” Why then does Mr. Chaplin apply terms like “mendicancy,” “abandonment of dignity,” and what not, to the Latin-American act of asking for money, lent at interest, (not gifts, as he, 4 himself, admits) from the United States?
It is in no way true that “understanding and appreciation of the United States will be found to increase only in proportion to the increase of loans.” When Mr. Nixon visited my home country, Colombia, he did find understanding and appreciation even though we had 1 been denied a loan just prior to his visit. A year ago, the loan was granted, and Mr. Stevenson, who was in Colombia last month, did not receive a bettei- reception than the one given to Mr. Nixon.
If loans were the only pattern of measuring Colombian friendship to foreign countries, a lot of understanding ‘ and appreciation would have arisen towards Russia, who has been proposing to buy our coffee at better prices than the United States. One cent more in the price of a pound of coffee represents 8,000,000 pesos more for my country, and in spite of that we have not accepted such proposals. Why not? Be- ' cause, believe it or not, Mr. Chaplin, we still have dignity!
Enrique Silva 121 Fisher
LESS EXERCISE
Editor:
What is jazz coming to? Last year’ I was mesmerized by the subtle sounds of -good jazz. The combos (modern) seemed to sense the need for unity and the display of musicianship as a whole.
This year the majority of the combos played eight bars of the song and used up 32 bars individually doing exercises. This may be musicianship for the individual — but it certainly doesn’t show < style, interpretation, contrast or even the music of the group. I’m one of those far-out creatures who yearns to hear something familiar yet new. I have a feeling I wasn’t the only one because the students seem to crave for more selections from the young vocalist with the Cincinnati group. They weren’t only i interested in hearing her sing but wanted to enjoy the unity of the group’s interpretation. Surely, this indicated that they longed to hear more than the monotonous riffs of the wind instruments. Even one standard selection from each set would do the trick in satisfying the crowd.	'
Could we have less exercises and more songs?
Carol Beth McNulty Foundation Office
32
The Scholastic
CANOE TRIPS
An exciting vacation of fishing and camping in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. For everyone —no experience required. Only $6.00 per day. Write now for complete information to Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota
EARN $300.00 CAMPUS AGENCY
We need an ambitious student to secure Easter and Mother's Day Orchid Corsage Orders. No investment. Free Sales Kit and samples. High commissions. Low prices. Free delivery of corsages to anywhere in U.S.A. Full money-back guarantee. Write immediately to: FLOWER GIFT SERVICE, 34 West 10th St„ New York City 11, N.Y.
we’re tops
for new and used books
You’ve reached the summit when you visit our second floor. See the widest selection of textbooks and books for reading pleasure.
Textbook companies will pay “peak” prices for your used books.
Stop in soon. We’re always happy to see you.
Save on the finest at the:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
RECONSIDERATION
Editor:
We are six graduate students who have been acting as floor assistants to the prefects in Farley Hall under a program, which has been in effect for the past two years. Basically, our duties are to assist the rector and prefects in maintaining order and a spirit of study in the hall. In view of our experience, we would like to comment on the Project Guidance proposal recently passed by the Student Senate.
We feel that the need for additional counseling is questionable. Ample spiritual and religious counseling is already available to the freshmen. In addition to the counseling provided by the rectors and prefects who are admittedly rather busy, but still available for counseling, and by Fr. O’Neil, the freshman class chaplain, a program was initiated this year to provide the freshmen with more
“personal” guidance. Under this program, two newly-ordained priests are placed in each freshman hall, their primary purpose being to provide counseling for the freshmen. We wonder if it was generally realized that this program was in effect when Project Guidance was passed by the Student Senate. Academic counseling is provided by Dr. Burke’s office and by the professors and various academic departments. It appears, therefore, that any merit of Project Guidance lies in the possible need for an orientation type of counseling, although we question this need over the full period of an academic year.
Even if the need for a full time program such as this could be shown, we believe that the Project Guidance proposal does not, as written, meet it. The separation of counseling and authority, even though the counseling is of an orientation and personal nature, appears to be impractical. Making the counselor “devoid of all outward signs of authority” and at the same time, “responsible for the general demeanor of the students” seems to be a practical contradiction.
Should additional counseling by students be considered practical and necessary, however, we believe that selection should be made by the hall rectors since they are most aware of those qualifications necessary for the position and are ultimately responsible for the demeanor of the students in the hall.
We also believe that the student counselor will find that he must devote a reasonable amount of time to his own studies and will not, therefore, “be available at any time for counseling and'advice.” There is a strong possibility that, if the conditions of the proposal are adhered to, the purpose of the counselor may degenerate into an attempt to solve personal problems for the student. The freshman year is precisely the time when the student should begin solving these problems for himself.
In conclusion, although the Student Senate has “unanimously” approved Project Guidance, we feel that the student body is not generally aware of the contents of the proposal. We suggest that the proposal be published in its entirety, along with its supplementary precis, in the Scholastic.
James W. Bond Paul K. Boyd Arthur F. Brown Stephen J. Dornbach John P. Mantey George J. McMurtry Farley Hall
MISTAKE
Editor:
In the “Odds and Ends” column of the March 11 issue it was stated that “ . . . Muncie Central . . . recently set a regional tourney record when they trounced Richmond 112-65 in the Indiana State tournament.” As a matter of record, it should be known that Muncie trounced Middletown and not Richmond.
Tim Jenkins 224 Cavanaugh (ED: Mr. Jenkins is correct.)
- 3J
March 25, 1960
Back Pap
a reply to time,
The author of this week's “Back Page,” James D. Rose, was awarded a 1960 Woodrow Wilson fellowship. He is a senior English major from Hamburg, N. Y. A frequent contributor to the Scholastic, he is also active as a member of the Juggler’s editorial board, the Bookmen and the Wranglers.
In this article Rose discusses the question of capital punishment with particular emphasis on the widely-publicized Caryl Chessman case. He brings out some interesting points which are not considered in the sensational treatments of Chessman's execution found in our. ■magazines.
BY ITS USUAL method of innuendo, ridicule, and evasion of issues, Time magazine presented its own case against Caryl Chessman. Convicted under California’s “Little Lindbergh Act,” of “kidnaping for robbery with bodily harm,” Chessman is scheduled to die in the gas chamber on May 2nd. However, there are several points which Time distorted or ignored which I would like to consider here.
Capital punishment is a penalty levied by society on persons for their misdeeds. Scholars and philosophers generally recognize retributive and utilitarian reasons for punishment. According to the retributive theory, justice is accomplished when the criminal receives punishment equal to the wrong he did. Roughly approximating the Old Testament Protestant ethic (and unfortunately prevailing Catholic philosophical position) dictum of “an eye for an eye,” the retributive theory has been held by Kant and Hegel.
UTILITARIAN REFORM
Utilitarian arguments include motions of reform and deterrence. Protagoras, in one of Plato’s dialogues, says that it is unreasonable for the community to retaliate against the criminal for an act that is past and irremediable. Punishment should be made to prevent the criminal or others from committing another crime. Socrates, in another dialogue, distinguished between those who are curable and could be improved by punishment and those who cannot. Plato believes in the punishment of death only for incurables and as a deterrent to others, combining both elements of reform and deterrence in his utilitarian argument.
Our present legal system attempts to achieve all three aims—retribution, reform, and deterrence, recognizing the possible rehabilitation of criminals. Modern advances in psychoanalysis and psychotherapy, though tenuous and inexact as the practical application of any
body of law, can support either retributive or utilitarian arguments.
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, in a syndicated column in the Chicago Sun-Times of March 12, observed: “Nowadays, the argument about the death penalty usually pits the two utilitarian aims against one another—deterrence versus reformation or cure. But some notion of objective retribution usually underlies the argument for capital punishment (italics are mine).” Time, after ridiculing the failure of reformatory methods in Chessman’s youth, concludes its article with a quotation from the vengeancedemanding Los Angeles Times. As there are no supportable arguments for the deterrent value of capital punishment, Time's underlying theme of retribution is contained in its appeal to a vindictive (conscious or unconscious) intangible of “common sense” — a vague Horatio Alger value suitable for the business world but hardly valid in the God-playing judgment of a human life. Another indication of Time's motivation of retribution is the prominence and juxtaposition of the confinement of one of Chessman’s female victims in a mental institution for schizophrenia, concluding with the implication: “Some psychiatrists think that the ordeal inflicted upon her by the gunman is partly to blame for her mental illness.”
Assuming his guilt, Chessman is apparently an example where reformation has not been successful, but his case sheds critical light on several disturbing elements of our system of capital punishment. Chessman has kept himself alive (after his first appeal, mandatory under the law) largely through his own self-taught legal knowledge. A competent lawyer duplicating his efforts would have cost nearly $100,000 during the nine years Chessman has spent on the Death Row in San Quentin. Certainly, a criminal lacking Chessman’s misguided and egocentric intelligence would have been executed long before, solely through poverty, while possibly being innocent. But assuming Chessman’s guilt, why has he been sentenced to death?
During the 30’s a rash of highly-publicized kidnapings occurred. During the “Prohibition Era,” it was demonstrated that local authorities were not strong enough or sufficiently free from corruption to enforce prohibition or bank robbing laws so frequently violated by well-organized gangs. The result was the development of the Federal Bureau of Investigation which cracked down on organized vice. Also, the federal law against kidnaping with its provision for the death penalty was copied by the states, including California. But kidnapings declined as a result of the more stringent enforcement of the law by fed-
by JAMES D. ROSE
eral authorities, and not because of the deterrent effect of the death penalty.
Chessman, if guilty as charged, violated the “Little Lindbergh Act” when he forced two women to submit to sexual assault (sodomy and attempted rape). Because he forced them to travel with him about a mile, and had “committed kidnaping for robbery with bodily harm (the sexual assault)/’ he was sentenced to death. It seems to me that this case shows a particularly onerous inequality of the “Lindbergh Act.” Also, I think it indicates a perverted and sexually immature emphasis on sexual perversity. Had Chessman merely beaten the women, though liable to the death penalty, I don’t think it would have been imposed. Because an act of sexual perversion was added to the technical kidnaping offense, the jury of eleven women and one man sentenced him to death. The legal irony of the situation is that if he had robbed and fully raped the women, California is one of the twenty-five jurisdictions (over half the states) which does not regard rape, or a sexually perverted act, as a capital offense. Another example of the sexually perverse nature of our laws (or their practice) is that only Negroes die for rape in the Southern states though white men are as liable.
UN-CHRISTLIKE
I think the inequalities of capital punishment must be eliminated by ending capital punishment. Death of a murderer, it cannot be shown, is a deterrent to others; in fact, all available evidence prove the opposite. Reformation or rehabilitation of the criminal, most often a man pushed beyond his emotional limit in a domestic situation, is impossible when the cure (capital punishment) eliminates the patient and the disease. Only a vague ideal of retributive justice, God-playing, by juries and judges (who decide with their own unconscious drives, desires, and recriminations), remains to condemn men to death in a most unNew Testament and un-Christlike fashion.
Poor and unintelligent men have not and will not receive the eight stays of execution of the hyper-active Chessman. A sexually mature and truly morally conscious world watches this American drama. However, no voice of protest (or affirmation) will be raised at Notre . Dame. Nowhere in America are stu- | dents more “unsilent” than at this University. But, if those entrusted with our intellectual and moral development shall not express themselves, should not their mental indolence be imitated by their students and the intellectual and moral void filled by something else: “There is still Time, brother.”
34
The Scholastic
I
I
A Campus-to-Career Case History	’
Ken Murphy meets with Revenue Accounting people to discuss a new statistical formula. This will be used to proportion the billing time spent on interstate and intrastate Long Distance calls.
He’s making math and telephones add up to a fine business career
During his senior year in college, math major Kendall T. Murphy had job interviews with several firms, but none of them appealed to him. “I wasn’t interested in doing pure mathematics,” he says. “I wanted to apply math and statistics to everyday business problems and have management responsibilities, too.”
At a professor’s suggestion, Ken talked with a Bell System representative and was “surprised to learn how many practical applications statistics had in telephone company operations.” The thorough and varied training program and opportunities to advance as a member of management also impressed him.
Ken joined the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company at Sacramento, Cali
Ken Murphy got his B.A. in Mathematics from the University of California’s Santa Barbara College in 1956. He’s one of many young men building interesting careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. There could be one for you, too. Be sure to talk it over with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus.
fornia, in June, 1956. Two years of rotational training familiarized him with company equipment, services and commercial procedures. Then he was assigned to the Chief Statistician’s Office in San Francisco.
Today, as a Staff Statistician, Ken is applying his math background to a variety of statistical studies dealing with: rates and revenue, inventory and obsolescence of equipment, customer opinion, personnel administration, quality control and auditing.
“This is a big, fast-growing business,” says Ken, “and I feel I’m helping it operate more efficiently every day. That’s a mighty satisfying way to put my college education to work.”
TELEPHONE
COMPANIES
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I f I I ■ I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I
There’s opportunity, challenge, and excitement at Convair!
The widest diversity of missile and aircraft projects in the U.S. assures Convair of a continuing program of research and development ... a challenging and exciting program that offers unlimited career opportunities to young scientists and engineers in many fields.
Talk with the men from Convair (see dates below). Ask about the extensive opportunities Convair offers for training . . . for continuing education . . . for personal advancement.
CONVAIR SAN DIEGO
As an engineering or science major, you will soon make one of the most important decisions of your life: Choice of Association. We hope you will choose Convair-San Diee:o, but whatever vour choice, the selection of association must be made with utmost care. Our representatives have a new booklet which describes the work of each group within the Convair-San Diego Engineering Department. After reading it. we believe you will be better equipped to make your decision . . . whether or not you choose our company.
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA
CONVAIR ASTRONAUTICS
Convair-Astronautics' great new $-10 million facility in San ; Diego was created solely for the purpose of putting America < first and farthest into space. Here, graduates will partici- !	!
pate in the program of the nation’s mightiest missile, the ! Atlas ICBM, which powered the biggest satellite into orbit. ' Other programs involve lunar and interplanetary explora- ; tion. Many members of our staff rank among the world’s < leading authorities in their fields — distinguished scientists ! and engineers to direct your career progress. We urge you 1 to discuss your future at Convair-Astronautics with us. J * I I
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA	: •
Undergraduate & Graduate Students Majoring in AERONAUTICAL, ELECTRICAL, ELECTRONIC, MECHANICAL, NUCLEAR, CIVIL ENGINEERING Plus Graduate Students Majoring In PHYSICS and MATHEMATICS
Representatives From Convair Will Conduct
JOINT INTERVIEWS MARCH 28 AND 29
Consult your placement office for details
CONVAIR
A DIVISION OF
GENERAL DYNAMICS