^he ZNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
...............................................nillllllllUMIIIIIltlllllltllllllttl
			
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
- Navy Editor
Feature Editor
News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT - ■ -	-	- . Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	-	-	- Campus Clubs
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL _	_	. Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA (Cover by Jim Ferstel)
¥
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BELL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX JOHNNY KRUEGER LEO BLABER JAMES JOHN
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -ARTHUR COUGHLAN, TOM GARGAN M. -E. VARGA .	.	-	.	.
Faculty Advisor
- Circulation
- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University . _ of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
fcawieA.
/	By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
GENEROSITY IS ITS OWN REWARD . . .
Whether or not this is Don Toker’s slogan it is definitely a major part of his philosophy. . . . There are perhaps only a handful of you here on the campus who know Don, but if you were told that he is the ever-smiling, sandy-haired boy that rides his bike in each day from the downtown YMCA yeu’ll probably all know whom we mean. . . . Don, like many other discharged V-12s, chose to finish his education at N.D., and this June will receive a Bachelor of Science degree with honors. . . . But that is not what makes him our choice as an outstanding but unheralded graduate . . . the real reason goes back to the beginning of his V-12 days here when his generosity to his fellow seamen was first noticed. . . . Don entered Notre Dame direct from the Pacific Fleet, but melted . into the melee of college military life, concerned mainly with getting his education mapped out for him by the Navy. ... In his spare minutes though, he could usually be found in the heavy apparatus room of the Rock coaching some of his less able buddies through the more difficult of the bar exercises ... at which he excelled . . . this he did, not with the idea of attaining any personal gain or recognition from his superiors . . . but because Don was the kind of a fellow who couldn’t bear to see a buddy miss the boat . . . and even now with all the hurried preparations for his finals, seldom a day goes by that he doesn’t by some act of kindness lighten the load for a friend ... to Don Toker ... a true son of Notre Dame . . . goes this week’s 21-gun salute . . . and our wish for a safe cruise through life. ... We know a certain professor who believes in starting his classes exactly at the stroke of the bell . . . last week at the familiar sound the prof immediately pointed to a student standing in the aisle and bellowed, “Who wrote the Canterbury Tales?” . . . the student looked blank and spluttered, “Er . . . well . . . I” . . . “Do you know or don’t you?” demanded the Prof. . . . “No, Father, I don’t,” the student said. . . . “Zero,” shouted the Prof . . . “what’s your name?” . . . “Riley, Father,” said the student, “and if it’s all the same to you make a notation next to that xero that I had Spanish in this room last period and. I just came in the room to get my book. . . .”
❖
HERE AND THERE . . .
Ralph Hayman worrying whether the color of the K.C. Scholastic cover would go with his girl’s hair . . . Chuck Perrin taking his morning sun bath on the steps of Washington Hall. . . . Ben Smith sneaking into the Huddle at 8 a.m. each day to do last night’s homework . . . several of Mr. Downey’s late evening Econ Class pupils going vertigo and falling off their stool at the turn of the hour. . . . Bill Wiley getting engaged over the weekend ... A girl at the St. Mary’s Horse Show making the jump when the horse didn’t. . . . Andy Kelley playing the train strike for an extra day at home. . . . “Itchy” Weber advertising in the S'outh Bend Trib as mother’s little helper. . . . Rocky McGrath being presented with a Fire Truck at a Saturday Night Banquet in The Oliver. . . . Staff Cartoonist Krueger finally getting a caricature that resembles his subject. .. . An ROTC platoon nearly trampling a youthful and admiring trio into the dirt on the Badin Bog during Saturday’s close order drill. . . .
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 10
MAY 31, 1946
NOTBE DAME. INDIANA
Cardinal and Senator Graduation Speakers
Distinguished French Visitors to Attend
Final Y.C.S. Meeting
Final Day of Recollection for the Young Christian Students of Notre Dame (International Student Catholic Action) will be combined with a general meeting this coming Sunday morning, June 2. Missa Cantata will take place in Cavanaugh Hall Chapel, and meetings will be held at the Rockne Memorial.
Mr. Andre Rauget, president, and Rev. Drujet, chaplain, of the Student Catholic Action of France will be visiting the local groups in conjunction with this Day of Recollection. Mr. Rauget and Pere Drujet are touring YCS organizations in Canada and the U.S.
Sunday’s YCS program will consist of general reports on all activities and organizational details of the local groups for the past semester, installation of officers for the coming year, and presentation and explanation of Notre Dame’s student CA program for the 1946-47 school-year. Sessions will be chairmaned by retiring president Ed Marshall.
Following the sessions here, the visitors from France will continue on the final leg of their American tour and then return to the Continent to complete preparations for the international YCS Congress to be held late this summer in Fribourg, Switzerland.
N.D. Given Evaporator For Experimental Work
A- specially designed evaporator built by Joseph E. Seagram, Inc., for experimental work in the manufacture of butadiene, important ingredient used in synthetic rubber, has been presented to the University department of chemical engineering, Mr. R. E. Rich, department head, announced recently. Delivered two weeks ago to the Notre Dame campus,
ALLOTMENT CHECKS
AU veterans who leave Notre Dame before July 1 must notify the Disbursing Office in St. Louis of their change of address in order to receive allotment checks for the month of }une, Jim Webb, president of the Veterans' Club, reported this week.
The Notre Dame postmaster advised the Vets' Club president that the postoffice is not permitted to forward the checks, but must return them to the Disbursing Office.
Allotment checks for May will be distributed as usual, on or about June 1.
Glee Club to Present
Last Event of Season
The University of Notre Dame Glee Club will present a concert, its last of the semester, in Washington Hall on Wednesday evening June 5 at 8 o’clock.
Many will remember the outstanding concei-t presented by the Glee Club with the South Bend Symphony in the Drill Hall on May 3rd. At that time the Glee Club sang with the orchestra Randall Thompson’s “Testament of Freedom.” The work was enthusiastically received by the huge audience. As a special request the Glee Club will present portions of this composition to the accompaniment of two pianos at next week’s concert.
The Glee Club will present a diversified program which null include religious, secular, and school songs. Among these will be Witt’s “Ave Maria,” Handel’s “Let their Celestial Concerts all Unite,” Kern’s “All the Things You Are,” “Loch Lomond,” “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” “The Hike Song,” “Irish Backs,” “This is My Country,” and “The Victory March.”—Gerard Hekker
the evaporator, which will be the largest at the institution, will be installed in the chemistry building during the summer.
Stritch and Vandenberg to Address Seniors
His Eminence Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, has accepted an invitation to preach the Baccalaureate Sermon at the 101st Commencement of the University on Sunday, June 30, it was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president.
At the same time Father O’Donnell announced that Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, Senior United States Senator from Michigan, has accepted an invitation to give the Commencement address. Senator Vandenberg is also a member of the United States Delegation to the United Nations, and a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United States Senate.
Both will be honored with Honorary LL.D, degrees at the Commencement, which will be Notre Dame’s first peacetime Commencement since 1941. This will be Cardinal Stritch’s first visit to Notre Dame since before the war. Senator Vandenberg will be making his first official visit to the University.
History Department
Publishes two Polish
Immigration Studies
Two studies prepared under the direction of the Department of History on Polish immigration and early pioneer accomplishments have been published in recent months. Father Joseph Swastelc’s “The Poles in South Bend to 1914” has been published in the December, 1945, issue of Polish-American Studies. Another study, The Polish Immigrant in Detroit to 1914 by Sister Mary Remigia Napolska, Felician O.S.F., has just come off the press as volume ten of The Annals of 'the Polish R.C. Union and Archives. Both studies are based upon a close examination of primary .sources, especially material in the Polish language, and were submitted to the Graduate School as part fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts.
3
World Needs Concept of Hope Based on Faith, Declares Fr. O'Donnell
“The world today, tainted with uncertainty and unrest following the war, needs a concept of hope based on faith if it is to successfully survive the basic conflict between the forces of God and the forces of anti-God,” the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, declared in Chicago last Sunday in a broadcast over the Catholic Hour on * the National Broadcasting Company network.
Yesterday’s address was the finale of a series of five lectures delivered by Father O’Donnell over the Catholic Hour on succeeding Sundays. His addresses were on the general subject, “Hail Holy Queen.”
“Without the steadying influence of hope,” stressed Father O’Donnell, “nerves become frayed, phobias are multiplied, and messianic complexes develop that make one think with Hamlet that ‘the time is out of joint.’ The end is useless despair, the escape of the coward. What is needed is a touch of humor based on faith in the divine.
“There is hope for the world, now torn by a basic conflict between the forces of God and the forces of anti-God. On the one side are those who believe in God the Creator. They accept the natural law which has its source in God the Supreme Lawgiver. They recognize as flowing from that law the natural rights of persons ; and they acknowledge the inherent dignity and integrity of the human person because of God-given rights.”
“On the other side are the forces of materialism which see man as an animal knowing neither God nor basic morality.
SPEAKING OF BOOKS By Joseph C. Ryan Here are several of the books we have been reading or hearing about the last few years. From the column on the right can you select the author of each book? If you can't get nine right out of twelve, you should become better acquainted with books and authors. You'll find the answers on page 19.
1	.—And Now Tomorrow__________________a.—William Saroyan
2	.—The Song of Bernadette b.—Robert M. Hutchins
3	.—Brave Men c.—Sumner Welles
4	.—Seventeenth Summer________________d.—Rachel Field
5	.—The Risen Soldier.______________„e.—MacKinley Kantor
6	.—The Screwtape Letters_____________f.—Ernie Pyle
7	.—The Human Comedy g.—James Hilton
8	.—Education for Freedom_____________h.—C. S. Lewis
9	.—Summer After Summer __________,___i.—Franz Werfel
10	.—The Story of Dr. Wassell----------j.—Francis J. Spellman
11	.—Time for Decision ________________k.—Richard Sullivan
12	.—Happy Land 1.—Maureen Daly
Materialism builds a bleak world of totalitarianism in which man exists for the state, and not the state for man as man’s agent for the protection of God’s gifts of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. This is the world of state-ism—the world of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Communist Russia.
“But there is hope for Russia,” emphasized the Notre Dame president, “and the hope is Mary who at Fatima, in Portugal in 1917, asked for the consecration to her Immaculate Heart and for Communion of reparation on the first Saturday of each month. ‘If my requests are heard,’ said Our Lady, ‘Russia will be converted and there will be peace; otherwise, great errors will spread through the world, causing wars and persecutions against the Church; the good will suffer martyrdom, and the Holy Father will have to suffer much. Different nations will be destroyed, but in the end my Immaculate Heart will triumph. The Holy Father will consecrate Russia to me and she shall be converted, and an era of peace will be granted to humanity.’
“There is hope for all the people of the world. Already there are signs that a purely sensate culture has run its course, as larger and larger* numbers of men and women, having found within man-made ideologies nothing but frustration and despair, turn from the worship of the things of the world to the all-important things of the spirit. Basically, the return to religion may be attributed in no small measure to the need of a nation and the people who constitute it, to have an anchor.”
Prof. Riley to Attend Mexico City Institute
Mr. Philip H. Riley, professor* of Spanish at Notre Dame since 1924, is making plans to attend a Spanish Lan
guage Institute to be held from June 25 to Aug. 15 in Mexico City. The purpose of this course of instruction sponsored by the American and Mexican g o v -ernments is to
Professor Riley familiar-
ize American-Spanish-teachers and advanced undergraduates specializing in Spanish affairs with the language and cultural background of Central America.
As in the two previous times the institute was held, professors from the National University in Mexico City will provide the instruction. The courses offered are in Spanish composition, archaeology, and modern Mexican literature.
Mr. Riley, who is among 100 American American teachers taking advantage of this opportunity, has had prior experience in Central America as a teacher in the public schools of Puerto Rico from 1922 to 1924.—James John
N. D. Scholarship Goes to Mishawaka Student
Richard D. Kempner, a 1946 Mishawaka high school graduate, is this year’s . winner of the scholarship to Notre Dame r offered annually by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley.	;
By winning the scholarship, Mr. ' Kempner, the son of Mrs. Gertrude 4 Kempner, became eligible to receive from J? the club a total of $880 ovei* a period of e eight terms as an undergraduate in the University.	Tj
The selection of Mr. Kempner was j? made by a committee of judges who last g week interviewed all scholastic appli- £ cants. This committee is composed of Kenneth B. Elliott, vice-president, Stude- 3 baker corporation; Herbert E. Jones, ;; business manager of the University; Otto J. Newman, county superintendent ; of schools; Judge J. Elmer Peak and ■ Otto A. Pfaff, president, American Foundry Equipment, Mishawaka.
The club’s committee handling the	,
scholarship is composed of J. Frank	i
Miles, chairman, William J. Broderick, Paul M. Butler, William R. Dooley, | James R. Meehan and R. Floyd Searer. §
K. OF C. SPRING FORMAL
Two Hundred Couples Attend Formal Ball
With over two hundred couples in attendance, the twenty - fourth annual Knights of Columbus Formal Spring Ball was staged last Friday evening in the Indiana Club. Dancing to the enjoyable music of Johnny Walker and his orchestra, the Notre Dame students and then- guests cast aside all their worries brought on by the recent railroad strike and joined in the full activities of a memorable evening. Most of the young ladies from the hinterland were able to get to the ball even though their escorts had begun to believe that the transportation situation had doomed their arrival.
Due to the ceaseless efforts of Decorations chairman Mike Hines, the affair was held in the lower ball room of the Indiana club, where the decorative motif was Knighthood rampant against a colorful setting of mediaeval days.
As a concurrent feature of the annual ball, the renovated Knights of Columbus clubrooms of the Notre Dame council were open to the dancers and theii' guests as they toured the campus on the Saturday and Sunday following the dance. The various facilities of the South Bend council were made available
The Knights and their ladies dancing to the music of Johnny Walker and his orchestra at the Indiana Club last Friday night.
Dance Dates Arrived by Bus and on Foot
Thursday, May 23, 1946, an eventful day in the history of the United States, will stand out in the minds of the present generation of Notre Dame students as the cause of much anxiety and an almost disrupted week-end.
The pains of the postwar reconversion were visited on some 50 or 60 Notre Dame students last Friday as the direct result of the railroad strike. The stoppage of trains Thursday afternoon came just as many of the nations most beautiful women were starting their journey to South Bend to attend the Knights of Columbus Spring Formal. Hair was flying and fingernails were splitting. Early Friday morning telegrams and long distance calls were received from stranded females. And the fellow students who had decided to transport local pulchritude were by no means sympathetic.
But no one will ever sell female ingenuity short By hook or* crook the lovelies arrived, and many a K. C. heart beat less like a threshing machine the rest of the week-end.—Gerard Hekker
to the members of the university council. —James Sullivan
Rare Mastodon Tooth
Found in South Bend
Two University of Notre Dame professors and one biology teacher of the South Bend Central High school have identified one of the best mastodon specimens ever found in the United States as the tooth of an ice-age elephant that became extinct between 25,000 and 50,000 years ago in the Midwest.
Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C.
The specimen, a rare type, is in an unusually well preserved condition. It was found recently by two South Bend residents, Leo H. Shafer and Ehrich W. Gustafson, while excavating for a house in the 200 block of North St. Louis Blvd. In South Bend.
Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology, who made an anthropological expedition to Alaska under the auspices of the American Museum of Natural History, in his conviction that the tooth might be a sole phenomenon of its kind in this region, pointed out:
“During the ice age a glacial river six to 10 miles wide flowed through this area accounting for the absence of hills and the abnormal amount of gravel. The tooth might have been washed down in this river and deposited here and so it is difficult to say if more bones could be found.”
Dr. Knowles Smith, geologist at the University, observed that mastodon bones at one time were on exhibit in the campus science museum and Arthur L. Smith, biology teacher in Central High school, who first established the identity of the tooth, said:
“Bones and teeth of the American mastodon are occasionally found in old lake beds and marshes of Indiana. The exact time of the era of the mastodon is not known although it dates back to the pleistocene or ice age which could be as much as a million years ago. Some authorities have stated that the mastodon lived as recently as 25,000 years ago.”
5'
Radio Club Banquet to be Held June 6th
WND, the Notre Dame Radio Club, will hold its annual banquet Thursday night, June 6, at the Oliver Hotel. Under the direction of Jim Kress, club moderator, the banquet will be one more step toward a full schedule of pre-war activities.
Besides approximately 30 active club members, guests at the banquet will include Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., club adviser, Mr. Francis J. Hanley, adviser, Mr. Cook, Artie Kaye, Mr. McCarthy of WHOT, and Mark Boyden of WSBT. The feminine voices of the four radio programs presented weekly by the club —Alice Hoover of the Veterans’ Affairs, Marguerite Varga of the Publication Office, Mary Monahan of the Athletic Office, and Madeleine Geiger of St. Mary’s Academy—will attend also.
Bob Hartman’s half-hour dramatization which he has been polishing up since the early part of April finally hit the air waves last Saturday at 2:30 p.m. The Life of P. T. Barnum was highlighted by the excellent crowd scenes, sound effects, and character portrayals by the cast of Walter Bieschke, Alice Hoover, Joe Sargus, Al McNulty, Joe Wilcox, Bob Duffy, Tom Dowd, George Murphy, Mary Monahan, and Mrs. J. V. Hinkel. Hartman’s next WHOT dramatization will be The Midnight Ride of Eustace Pennyfeather, and may be presented tomorrow afternoon. Watch the bulletin boards and local newspaper for the time.
Mr. Cook of WHOT spoke on radio executives and staffs at the last meeting of the club. He emphasised the “jack of all trades” quality required of a general manager, including knowledge of engineering, programming, salesmanship, audience, network and legal problems. He also discussed program directing, traffic, production, announcing, continuity, music, and technical heads and their departments.
Oklahoma Club
The Oklahoma Club, newly formed campus organization, held its second meeting last Tuesday in the Law Building. The club, open to all students who claim the state of Oklahoma as their home, has 19 members.
The club plans to have an informal dinner before the end of this semester and hopes to have a get-together this summer in either Tulsa or Oklahoma City.	.
Officers elected at the first meeting are: president, John Dierker, Oklahoma City; vice-president, Bob Jones, McAlester; secretary-treasurer, Bob Funk, Tulsa.
Savoyards' Four-Performnce 'Mikado'
Run Smash Hit, Play to Packed Houses
The Notre Dame Savoyards, under the splendid direction of Professor Cecil Birder, presented the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “The Mikado,” in Washington Hall Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday nights.
The theatre was filled to capacity with priests, brothers, students, and guests whose applause echoed throughout the hall and campus during and after the performances. The long hours of rehearsing paid off when the “first nighters” proclaimed the show to be excellent entertainment. The nervous tension which accompanies any show was evident in the first few minutes of the show each night but Ihe players soon relaxed and won the applause of the receptive audience.
The Savoyards, whose clowning around during the last week of rehearsing almost drove Mr. Birder insane, settled down and worked hard over last week-end and the show went on as scheduled. Ralph Thorson, as Koko, Lord High Executioner, proved beyond a doubt that he was “tailor made” for the role. His antics kept the audience in a panic most of the evening. June Anderson did a magnificent job in the role of Katisha, a difficult part. Her deep voice was suited to the role. The players which included Vincent Meli, as Nanki Poo, John Commerford, as Pish Tush, John Owen, as Pooh Bah, William Mills, as The Mikado of Japan, Jean
nie Papandria, as Yum Yum, Irene Kuz-mic, as Pitti Sing, and Patricia Czol-gosz, as Peep Bo, deserve loads of credit for their excellent acting and singing abilities.
The story is a love quadrangle centered around the Mikado’s son, Nanki Poo, and Yum Yum,’ a beautiful maiden. However, uproarious situations involving Katisha, the woman designated by the Mikado as his son’s wife, and Koko, guardian and suitor of Yum Yum, add to the audience appeal.
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra accompanied the operetta with William Gibbons at the piano. The mixed chorus presented a delightful musical background.
The Japanese costumes added color to the otherwise dull Washington Hall stage. Mr. Birder pointed out last week a common fallacy about “The Mikado.” Most people believe that it has a great deal of Japanese atmosphere, but this is not true. Only the costuming and staging is Japanese. Twidfe during the entire operetta Gilbert and Sullivan imported Japanese melodies; first to introduce the Mikado late in the second act, and secondly to bring on the chorus. Gilbert and Sullivan directed most of their digs at the English rather than the Japanese.
“The Mikado” will be presented again on June 29 for the parents and friends of the graduating seniors.—Joe Cheney

6
Bing Crosby Sponsors Family Rosary Crusade
An opportunity for American Catholics to provide spiritual help to the Catholics of war-ravaged Greece has arisen through the publication of an account of Bing Crosby’s Family Rosary Broadcast on May 15, 1945, in an Athens English-language newspaper.
The secretary of the Rosary Confraternity of Greece, Velissarios Freris, after reading that account, wrote to Mr. Crosby asking for his help in supplying Greek Catholics with rosaries, explaining that his country has been cut off from European Catholics and that most of the faithful in Greece, now without “chaplets,” have had to “count their Aves by means of their fingers.”
While shortages in the United States are nothing like those in Greece, Mr. Crosby has found it impossible to secure enough rosaries to take care of this request and has therefore arranged with the Family Rosary Crusade office in Albany, N. Y., to institute an appeal among American Catholics for contributions of old and new rosaries. He has promised a written acknowledgment to all ■who send their extra beads to the Bing Crosby Rosary Appeal, The Family Rosary, 923 Madison Ave., Albany 3, New York.
In making the request to the American movie actor, Mr. Freris declared that his organization would assure that all rosaries sent to Greece would be distributed through the diocese and the parishes of the country to the 50,000 Greek Catholics who need them. In his letter, the Confraternity official informed Mr. Crosby that because of his efforts in promoting the Family Rosary he had been chosen an honorary member of the society—the first honorary member to be chosen in 45 years.
The Family Rosary Crusade is directed by the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., who is carrying out a resolution he made in 1942, following a remarkable recovery from tuberculosis through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary, to bring the daily Family Rosary to ten million homes in America.	.
The SCHOLASTIC in cooperation with the Bin? Crosby Rosary Appeal will transmit to the Family Office all rosaries left at the SCHOLASTIC office. Room 118, Main Building. A worthy ideal would be a rosary from each student at Notre Dame.
K. of C. Features Three Initiations for June
Plans for the coming second and third degree initiations for the University council of the Knights of Columbus have been completed, according to a recent announcement by Grand Knight Robert Sullivan. With over 75 new candidates to be admitted, the facilities of the local council are being strained to the utmost, he said. Because of the number of candidates desiring to be admitted, the reception of new applications has been closed and no further nominations will be considered until next year.
The night of June 4 will be the occasion of the next first degree initiation, with the members of that class also forming the second and third degree group June 9. The address of Tim Galvin, Supreme Deputy Grand Knight of the K. of C. and recently appo’nted lay trustee of the University, will be the main feature of that initiation. A dinner at the Oliver Hotel in South Bend will be-held following the ceremonies of initiation in conjunction with the Mishawaka council. The title of the coming degree will be that of John E. Chevigny in commemoration of all the Notre Dame knights war dead.
Future events of concern to the local group which were stressed during the past week by the grand knight included the coming elections of next year’s officers June 1, and the annual K. of C. picnic, which will combine with the issue of the Santa Maria to finish up all of the formal activities of the Caseys this year.—James Sullivan
N.D's Payroll Saving Support Wins Scroll
Notre Dame’s outstanding work in operation and support of the U. S. Government’s Payroll Savings Plan during the National Emergency has been commended by the Treasury Department through a scroll signed by Fred M. Vinson, Secretary of the Treasury, it has been announced by William Broderick, comptroller of the University.
The exceptional record made by the University and its employees during the emergency is horns out by official statistics which show that during 1944, for instance, Notre Dame employees purchased $66,617.75 worth of War Bonds on the Payroll Savings Plan. In June, 1945, 375 employees of a total of 957 purchased $3,398.92, a record high for persons participating since the Payroll Savings plan was introduced at Notre Dame.
Dr. Gurion For Strong Policy Against Russia
The United States should insist on a
firm policy now against Russia in order
to help decrease the influence of those
Dr. Gurion
Soviet leaders who believe that a world revolution i s imminent, D r. Waldemar Gur-ian professor of Political Science and editor of the -Review of Politics at the University, de
dared in an in-
t e r v i e w last
Tuesday.	.
Dr. Gurian, an internationally-known authority on Russia, pointed out that during the war communistic propaganda was almost completely abandoned by the Soviet Union because Russia needed support from the democracies and particularly lend-lease from the United States. Since the defeat of both Germany and Japan, he stressed, those Soviet leaders have gained influence who believe that world communism has a good chance to succeed, and they are responsible for Russia’s present policies of expansion and of provoking conflicts.
“Attempts to appease Russia by new concessions,” emphasized the Notre Dame educator, “would have the same disastrous effect as the appeasement of Germany had. The USSR has obtained more than enough concessions, and Russia is most responsible for the present wave of world unrest. The United Nations would lose all prestige if Russia is always given her way.”
Dr. Gurian said that Russia herself is responsible if a front has been formed against her. Only after Russia has realized that her speculation on the fear of war is wrong, he added, can attempts be made to rearranging colonial empires.
Dr. Gurian emphasized that Soviet attempts to separate the United States from Great Britain must he rejected so that the united stand of England and the United States may have the effect of bringing to the fore in Russia more moderate elements who reali~e that the aggressive policies of the Kremlin are doomed to failure.
WRANGLER'S
Anyone interested in joinin? the Wran?lers should apply in writing to the chairman of the Membership Committee. 424 Zahm Hall before Thursday, June 6.	-
7
Fr. Cavanaugh Hi+s a+ Bir+h Control:
May Toll Civilization's Funeral Bells
Young women of America will have much to say about the peace of the next generation because they will help determine the intellectual interests, the moral sense, the esthetical appreciation and the
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
and charitable, that the sun may only sometimes shine on the outside of a house but it always must shine on the inside of the home.
“True culture is a world spirit rather than a village spirit,” Father Cavanaugh emphasized. “It never judges the customs of other people as being inferior, simply because they are different. The cultured man takes up a noble book and tries to rise an understanding and appreciation of it. Perhaps he meets at first with failure. But he comes back to it, remembering always that the fault lies in himself and not in the master.
“A queen is ever alert to the influences that strengthen oi’ weaken her throne,” Father Cavanaugh concluded. “They who are to be queens of Christian families must take Christianity to their souls as a dearest friend and ally. They must see that today in this modern world, certain foreign leaders are trying to dedicate whole nations to the destruction of Christianity. They must know that within the borders of this, our own beloved America, men in high positions are attempting to remove God and human rights and the precious postulants of
American liberty from the conception and practices of the government under which we live.
“They must sense the importance of the propaganda for divorce and immoral birth prevention, sometimes called control, that is circulating among young college girls and boys and among the young fathers and mothers of America. You know the workings of the principle of cause and effect. The ropes woven yesterday and today may tomorrow toll the bells at the funeral of civilization.”
Walsh, Morrissey Win
Walsh and Morrissey Halls scored their fifth straight victories during the week to continue in first place in their respective divisions in the Interhall Softball League. Walsh gained undisputed possession of first in the Eastern Division by defeating previously unbeaten Breen-Phillips, 13 to 5. Morrissey continued on top in the western section by defeating Howard, 4 to 1, and Alumni, 8 to 3.
Scores of games played during the week: Eastern: Walsh 13, B-P 5; Cavanaugh 7, Sorin 0; Walsh 8, Cavanaugh 0. Western: Lyons 7, Howard 6; Lyons 8, Alumni 7; Morrissey 4, Howard 1; Dillon 10, Badin 5; Morrissey 8, Alumni 3.
culture of the coming generation, according to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh made this statement in Covington, Ky., in an address delivered at Commencement exercises at Villa Madonna College.
“The main contribution which the home can make,” declared Father Cavanaugh, “to the greatness of the church and of the country, must come from raising tomorrow’s leaders, great Christian men and women of character and culture, thoroughly grounded in both the science and art of the total Christian life.
“There are, of course, dispositions and attitudes which are indespensable to the inception and growth of Christian culture,” continued the Notre Dame vice-president, “and these habits and attitudes are caught up most easily by the children from a cultured mother in the home. On many occasions in the training of her children she will find opportunities. . . . She will point out to her offspring, and sometimes to her husband, that on no occasion may one needlessly cause pain or embarrassment. . . . The primary lesson will be repeated again and again, that culture at its base is always kind
Father O'Donnell and Mr. Meigs shake hands hackstage at Washington Hall after Mr. Meigs' lecture last week. Mr. Meigs told members of the Veterans Club of bis world-wide tour as a representative of Secretary of War Patterson.

8
Scholastic Sports Section
Leahy's Star-Studded Backfield
Set for 1946 Touchdown Parade
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Old-Timers to Field Strong Team Tomorrow
By PETE BROWN
Behind the Irish forward wall next fall will be the glory grabbers, the lads who pack the mail on the express route to touchdown town, the heroes of the sports-writers and the fan’s fairhaired boys — the backs, sprinters, plungers, pass-catchers, signal-callers, fighters all. To follow in the path blazed by the Gip-per, the Four Horsemen, Elder, Niemiec, Carideo, Schwartz, Shakespeare, Pilney, Miller, Bertelli and other legendary pigskin demi-gods, Coach Frank Leahy and his backfield assistants Ed Doherty and Bernie Crimmins will have to pick a foursome without a flaw, because the backfields of some of the Irish opponents will be very capable of writing history of their own. Illinois, Purdue, Southern California, and need we mention Army, will field scintillating ball carriers' not seen since the heyday of Minnesota’s and Pitt’s wondrous dream-teams.
To name the four starting backs at this stage would be a tough assignment. From a host of talent, some tempered by previous experience, but for the most part green and untried, the Leahy high-
A teammate blocks for Bob Kelly in the 1944 Tulane game.
command will by fall have a fair idea of the probable regular starters, but right now each and every position is a toss-up, and newcomers are throwing a good scare into reputation-conscious veterans.	‘
At the quarterback spot, key man in the T-system, we have returning the pride of the South Bend bobby-soxers, George Ratterman, sometimes known as the Black Snake. A deft ball-handler and whip-armed passer, Ratterman will nevertheless have to step high to earn the job ahead of Frank Tripucka, an 18-year-old, who can knock a fly off Tom Potter’s golden-dome at 60 yards. Frank can boot ’em too and can yell that “one-sie-twosie” stuff so you can hear it as far as Rosies. Gerald Begley, a machinegun talker and another teen-ager, might develop, while Johnny Dee, despite his lilliputian stature, is out to prove his only talents aren’t on the basketball floor. Add Billy Heywood, a defensive stalwart, and George Dickson, the school’s lightheavyweight boxing champ and a clever (Continued on page 13)
(The Athletic Department announced that students will be admitted to the Varsity-Old Timers football game tomorrow by presenting their Athletic Certifications.)
With 23 ringers, members of the varsity squad, playing-coach Walt Ziemba will lead the Old Timers against the Varsity in the annual V-OT game in the stadium at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow. Because of the lack of Old Timers to fill an entire squad, Coach Leahy will lend the services of some of his players to Coach Ziemba.
Bob Dove, All-American end, will play against Varsity tomorrow.
Coach Ziemba suffered two blows to his well-formed plans Monday when Angelo Bellelli of hop-skip-jump fame notified the O.T. coach that he would be unable to make the game, and Coach Leahy announced his sleeper, John Lu-jack at quarterback. But even with these two severe setbacks, Coach Ziemba announced that his boys would play to the last man, even if he was Coach Leahy’s.
In the backfield Ziemba will start Steve Nemeth at quarter, Steve Juzwik and Fred “Dippy” Evans at the halves, and Corny Clatt at full. Nemeth, placekick stylist, played on the *44 squad.
(Continued on p.age 18)
9
INTRODUCING
By JIM CLEMENS
Ace of the mound staff on this year’s highly successful Irish nine is John Thomas Barrett, righthanded fastball artist from Louisville, Ky.
“Kewpie,” as he is nicknamed after Dick “Kewpie” Barrett, former star hurler for the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League, is currently in his third and last year of competition for Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline’s forces and with a brilliant record of four- wins against only one loss, is already assured of his most successful season.
The rangy redhead, who spreads 175 lbs., on a 6-ft. % inch frame, received his early baseball training in his home town of Louisville, where he was born the day after Christmas, 1924. Attending St. Xavier High School, which was the stamping grounds of Bernie Crimmins before he came to Notre Dame, “Kewpie” won two monograms in baseball, becoming the team’s ace hurler in his junior and senior years. He recalls as his greatest athletic thrill of those days the winning of the State Championship in his junior year, when he won all three games, two in relief and the one he started, in the final round of tournament play.
After graduation from high school, “Kewpie” enrolled in the school of Our Lady in November- of 1943, succeeding his brother George who had received his degree the previous December and is now a first lieutenant in the Military Police serving as a provost marshal in Borne, Italy.
When the baseball season of 1944 rolled around “Kewpie” put in a strong bid for a regular mound job with the Irish nine, and made such a profound impression on Coach Kline with his blazing fastball and almost threadneedle control that the youthful redhead clinched the number three stai-ting spot among the Irish flingers. He won only two games that spring and was charged with four losses, two of his defeats coming at the powerful bats of the Great Lakes Navy team which boasted such major league stars as Virgil Trucks, Clyde McCullough, “Pinky” Higgins and others too numerous to mention.
Last year the young fireball artist turned in four wins to go with his four losses, on an Irish nine that was none too powerful at the plate. He hurled his most brilliant ball in a 1-0 shutout of Great Lakes when he bested major leaguer Denny Galehouse in a scintillating pitchers’ duel by limiting the hard
hitting sailors to five scattered hits. When he wasn’t hurling, “Kewpie” patrolled the outfield and compiled a neat .294 batting average for his season’s work.
Pitching on the Notre Dame summer nine last season, Jack became known as “Hard Luck Barrett” as a woefully inept Irish team failed to support his brilliant hurling with any degree of hitting. In one stretch his mates failed to get him a run in 40 consecutive innings, during which time he hurled nine innings of nohit ball in one game before retiring, and followed that up with a heartbreaking one-hit game which his mates lost for him on an error.
Currently in Law School, Jack plans to play pro ball this summer, accepting the best offer tendered him by a numbei-of major league teams. The youth worked out with the New York Giants and Chicago White Sox on one or two occasions last summer and is familial-with big league surroundings.
Strictly an outdoor man, “Kewpie” likes all forms of sports. “I once made a futile attempt at collecting stamps,” he said, “and even made one model airplane.” However, indoor pastimes held no lure for him, and he soon forsook them for the multiple pleasures of outdoor life.
In the romance department, “Kewpie” will middle-aisle it some time in October with hazel-eyed, dark-haired Sue Anna Pfeiffer, his high school sweetheart to whom he became engaged last Christmas Eve. Sue is a dead ringer for movie actress Laraine Day, and the most ardent booster of Notre Dame’s hurling ace— Jack “Kewpie” Barrett!
Baseball Squad Plays Great Lakes Tomorrow
By DAVE WARNER
Lower the gang plank mates—here comes the Navy! Rained out the last two Saturdays, the Notre Dame baseball team will play host to Great Lakes tomorrow afternoon at Cartier Field in the first of a home-and-home game series. The two teams meet again on June 16 at the Naval Training Station. Bluejacket Coach Lieut. Commander Ed Ruffa and his gobs will probably wonder at tomorrow’s depleted attendance, for that is the day Notre Dame’s first love, Mr. Pigskin, takes over the limelight in the adjacent N.D. Stadium.
The sailor lineup is minus the top flight organized ball talent to which it had access in past years. But it still contains enough capable players to make an interesting ball game as the seven games it has already played testify.
At his disposal Ruffa has a reliable pitching staff in Dick Manville, Don Dietz, Dick Weik, who toiled for the Washington Senators last season, Stan Ostrowski, and Jim Suchecki. One of his ace fastbailers, Ray Louthen, was scheduled for discharge May 20. In the infield Sammy White on first and Mel Riebe on second are well known figures to Irish basketball players and followers. Operating on the left side Jerry Tutterow and Jim Robertson complete the infield. Tommy Tiefenthaler dons the catching paraphernalia. Jim Slavens, Ed Murphy and Johnny O’Connor guard the outer pastures.
Against the Bluejackets Jake Kliwe will pitch either Walt Mahannah or “Kewp” Barrett who worked under the lights against Wisconsin last Monday night at Madison.
Rain Washes Out Baseball Contest
An afternoon deluge washed out the Notre Dame-Michigan State baseball game at Cartier Field last Saturday. This was the third game of the season rained out for the Irish, both games with Western Michigan having been canceled. Robin Robei-ts, Michigan State hurler who was to have pitched here Saturday, hurled a no-run, no-hit game against Great Lakes on Sunday as his mates won, 8-0.
The train strike prevented the golf team from making their scheduled trip to Minneapolis to meet the University of Minnesota team.
10
No+re Dame Takes 3rd Place in State Track Meet; Purdue and Indiana Win
By MEL GODDARD
Purdue and Indiana shared team honors in last Saturday’s State Championship track meet to end Notre Dame’s six year domination. The Irish captured the final event, the mile-relay, to force the Hoosiers and Boilermakers into a tie for the title with 66 points apiece. Notre Dame was third with 61% points, Butler scored 14%, Ball State 10, Indiana State 6, and Earlham finished fifth 'in the mile-relay to score its only point of the day.
Indiana’s share of the crown was its first since 1939 when they won full claim while Purdue was successful for the first time since 1923. Butler University is the only school other than one of the Big Three ever to win the meet.
Bill Bangert of Purdue and Earl Mitchell of Indiana were the standouts of the day in individual competition, each winning two events. Bangert won the shotput to start the afternoon by setting a new record of 51' 4%". This toss replaced the six-year old record of 51' 2%" made by Cliff Brosey of Notre Dame. Bangert threw the discus 145' 10%" to lead Purdue’s sweep of six of the seven field events. Notre Dame’s Joe Pogue prevented a complete rout by taking the pole vault with a 12 foot leap.
Mitchell won the mile run, beating his teammate Tom Deal, and Bill Leonard of Notre Dame. Later Mitchell took the two mile by a 30 yard margin. Mitchell, who is just out of the Marine Corps, is the holder of the state two mile record, but he did not come close to his old mark in winning this time. He won as he pleased in 9:49.1.
Deal set the pace in the mile for two laps, hitting the quarter in 63 seconds and the half in 2:11. Mitchell ran second with Leonard third. On the third lap Leonard dropped back 15 yards and Mitchell passed Deal. Mitchell held the lead to beat Deal by a step and Leonard by three yards. Leonard, who still holds the best time for a collegiate miler this season, was running even though he had just recovered from a case of ptomaine poisoning which prevented him from doing his usual amount of running for a few days before the meet. Mitchell’s time for the distance was 4:22.9.
Leonard also finished third in the half-mile, which was won by Berrish of Butler in the very good time of 1:57.1. Leonard had dropped back to fourth on the first lap and was unable to make up
enough ground the final time around. Prifogle of Indiana took second place.
Ginther of Purdue won the 220 yard dash in a close finish with Mamala of Indiana, and Tom Mitchell caught and beat John Smith of Notre Dame in the high hurdles, another exciting race. Bill O’Neill and Bill Fleming of the Irish finished third and fourth, respectively, giving Notre Dame a total of nine points for the event.
Indiana scored 10 points in the mile run and Purdue scored 11 in the high jump in which Wally Blum pulled one of the surprises of the day, even surprising his teammate Dick Kilpatrick, Western Conference champion, by tying him at 6' 3%".
Bill O’Neill successfully defended one of his championships by winning the 220 yard low hurdles. Bill Fleming wound up third in that event. Othei- scoring for the Irish was done by Brosky and Johnson in the discus and shot put, Fleming in the high jump, Kenny in the 440, Thompson and Huntei- in the 100 yard dash, which was won by Thompson, Sa-bota in the 880, McCullough in the 220, O’Neill in the javelin throw, and Styers in the two mile ran.
Next Saturday, June 1, Coach Doc Handy takes the team to Milwaukee for a dual meet with Marquette. Ken Weisner, outstanding Hilltopper high jump
ing star, and Richardson, their shotputter, should be the only performers to give much trouble to the Ramblers who defeated Marquette three times during the indoor season. This will be the last dual meet of the outdoor schedule with only the CCC and NCAA meets remaining on the list.
B-P Ties for Lead
Held without a hit until the last half of the sixth inning, Breen-Phillips combined two hits with a base on balls to score one run in the last of the sixth to defeat Walsh Hall, 2 to 1, in the feature game of the week in the Interhall Baseball League.
As a result of this victory, Breen-Phillips tied the Zahm Hall nine for first place in the league with three victories and no defeats. In other games during the week, St. Ed’s was defeated by Alumni, 5 to 2, and Sorin Hall defeated Dillon, 6 to 2.
Married Vets Organize
Summer Softball Nine
A softball team for married vets planning to reside in South Bend or surrounding territory this summer is now in process of being formed. All married vets in this category who are interested and who haven’t signed up as yet are cordially and urgently invited to drop a card or phone Jim Clemens at 730 Cottage Ave., South Bend, Phone 3-2997, so you can be put on the roster and notified of future practice sessions and games.
11
&plinieM> tk& Pnedd-- -	- By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
IRISH SPORTS CALENDAR
Today, Friday, May 31—Golf, Michigan State and Wayne at East Lansing, Mich.
Saturday, June 1—Baseball, at Great Lakes
Football, Varsity vs. Old Timers
Track, at Marquette
Golf, at Detroit
Tuesday, June 4 — Baseball, at Northwestern
Thursday, June 6—Baseball, Purdue
KICK-OFF TIME
While the opening game with Illinois on Sept. 28 is still 119 days or 2,856 hours away, the first game of the season for all intents and purposes at Notre Dame will be played in the Stadium tomorrow afternoon. It will be Frank
IBOOKS
For your reading enjoyment: For One Sweet Grape Past All Dishonor Then and Now
— W. Somerset Maugham Wilderness Adventure Alexander of Macedon Wrath in Burma Famous American
Athletes of Today Great Horse Stories Burma Sturgeon Returns
NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington Street “In the J. M. S. Building"
Leahy’s varsity against the Old Timers in the climax game to the spring practice sessions. There’s plenty of high interest running over the game. Primarily, everyone is very anxious to get a look at the 1946 Irish football squad, as it is now, with many of its former stars back in the fold. Also, the Old Timers team will be composed of some of the brightest stars in Notre Dame football history. In the Old Timers backfield will be such notables as Benny Sheridan, ’41,. Dippy Evans, ’42, Steve Juzwik, ’42, Elmer Angsman, ’46. Benny Sheridan will be remembered for such startling touchdowns as his 58-yard trip against Illinois in 1938 and 60-yard goal line trot against Southern California in 1939. It was Steve Juzwik who broke away for a lengthy t.d. gallop to beat Army in 1940. Evans was always a standout and a constant threat to opponents. Juzwik and Evans teamed up in the backfield on the undefeated Irish of 1941. Angs-man’s pile-driving tactics that made him the leading ground gainer last fall are still fresh in the memory of all Irish fans.
The Old Timers’ line will be plenty strong. All-American Bob Dove will be at one end. Jim Brutz and Lou Rymkus, former Irish greats and present day pros, will man the tackles. 1941 guards Bernie Crimmins, All American, and Bob Maddock "will be on hand. Frank Szymanski, who needs no introduction, will be at center if he has recovered from the beating received from Muscles McAdams in the Bengals. Frank will play with the Detroit Lions of the National Pro League this fall. From the 1945 squad, Pete Berezney, Dick Cronin, Bruno Opela, and others will aid the real Old Timers. This team presents a
Ett.
1900
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogarduo—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Shoot Evenings by Appointment
gallant array of talent. The boys should be in good shape, too, for most of them are professional players or are entej’ing pro ball in the fall, which necessitates year around condition. The ’46 team will have a real test. In fact, where else could you find two finer, more star-studded opposing backfields than this game will present? Jim Mello, Gerry Cowhig, Bob Kelly, Bob Livingstone, and George Ratterman against Benny Sheridan, Dippy Evans, Steve Juzwik, and Elmer Angsman! It may be the first of June, but haul out those Blue and Gold pennants and put on a fur coat just to keep in the spirit of things. Oh, yes, somebody better bring Clashmore Mike! The South Bend Quarterback’s Club will go into operation with this game. They will charge an admission fee of $1.20. Profits from the game will go to pay for guest speakers at their weekly luncheons during the football season.
It's Mr. and Mrs. Klier
Leo Klier, erstwhile All-American basketball star for Notre Dame, gave up his single status Saturday, May 18, when he married Miss Nancy Maynard, 302 South Side Ave., Washington, Ind. The wedding took place in that city, which is also Leo’s home town. On behalf of the Notre Dame student body, congratulations and best wishes to Mr. and Mrs. Leo Klier.
Leahy Goes West
Frank Leahy will teach football tactics at the 20th annual Utah State coaching school on the Utah State College Logan campus, June 10-14. Two years ago Leahy signed to teach at the Logan clinic, but before the opening date came around he was called into service. Henry P. “Hank” Iba, Oklahoma Aggies basketball coach, will also be one of the teachers. Utah State athletic director E. L. Romney said, “We’re pleased, of course, that these two experts have accepted our invitation to be guest instructors at the 20th annual coaching school. We believe that the Utah State summer course, by bringing in prominent leaders from other sections of the nation, can contribute to intermountain sports welfare. The results in the past have been strictly satisfactory. Physical Education instructors and coaches on every level have expressed their appreciation of the coaching school program. Last year’s course had one of our largest enrollments despite war restrictions, which indicates that interest in school athletics continues to grow.” During the past 19 years, more than 1500 athletic leaders have enrolled in Logan summer courses, taught by such experts as the late Knute Rockne, Clark Shaughnessy, Pop Warner, Bernie Bierman, and Carl Snavely.
12
STAR-STUDDED BACKFIELD (Continued from page 9) ball handler, and don’t pass up Dick Friend or Tony Rocco or John Mendoza. Vito Popelka was coming along until an knee injury shelved him.
Notre Dame will have halfbacks galore come ’46, but whether the old-timers will be returned to their old forms or the neophytes come through under fire is still to be seen. Bob Livingston and Bob Kelly are back, but they will have theii’ hands full beating out 17-year-old Terry Brennan and Floyd Simmons. If Simmons ever sets his mind to play top notch ball, which he is capable of, he might set fire to a few stadiums, but he is being pushed by the lad who looked best during Spring drills, Mike Swistowicz, 17-year-old freshman who runs close to the ground and cuts faster than a dog. Bud Gartiser, sprinter and hurdler, promises a potential threat if he can keep his feet long enough to get out into the rolling prairie. In the way of pony-backs there’s McNamara and Agnone, two jackrabbits, and Emil Slovak, a vest-pocket torpedoe who doesn’t run—he just explodes. Bill Gompers shines in the open field, and McGee, Kenefick and Fitzgerald show definite possibilities. Dickman, Eikmeyer, Fehring, Helmich, O’Brien and Gay all lack experience but should make great
(Otetoortifg
Wette
Enjoy Your "Off" Hours More With Smarter Sportswear
Smart jackets in gabardine or leather.. 7.50 to 21.00
Sport shirts, long or short sleeved..... 1.80 to 5.00 Comfortable T shirts in white or stripes.... 1.00 to 2.00 Puritan swim trunks, made of gabardine.. 3.00 to 3.25
Men's Wear . . . Main Floor
strides by the time autumn rolls around.
In the fullback spot we have Jim Mello returning and Jerry Cowhig, both capable performers, who we hope will shiver’ opposing lines and jar tackler’s teeth. But they’re not all! John Panelli not only looks like a matinee-idol, but-does a fair job of line backing and ball packing. Jim McGurk, when he breaks himself away from that brown-eyed charmer at St. Mary’s, actually hits terrifically hard and is a defensive scrapper to boot. Ray lannacello, the tank that walks like a man, is surprisingly fast for all his heft, and provided he can keep his feet may prove destructive to the foe. John Sinkowitz has been hampered by injuries all Spring and Frank Spaniel got shelved with a snapped ankle, but both should be in there come chrysanthemum time. Ed Voll, Joe Yonto, and Bounotto and Boulous round out the backs.
Providing injuries heal and fortune smiles—and the boys stay away from the . belly-wash and Mac gets in some decent sox—Notre Dame might turn out a fairly representative team next fall.
PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER, 18 years experience. Will do typing of theses, term papers, etc. Call 4-8313 from 9 o'clock to 5. Mrs. Keller.
N.D. Golf Team Third
in Collegiate Tourney
Purdue won the Indiana Intercollegiate golf championship at Terre Haute Country Club, Friday, May 24. Indiana was second and Notre Dame third. Dick Whiting of Notre Dame won the individual championship with a 75-73 for 148. The last 27 holes of the meet were played in a driving rain which left the greens and fairways full of large puddles, thus making playing conditions anything but favorable.
In winning the meet, Purdue scored 620, while Indiana had 634 and the Irish 636. Nine teams and 57 individual entries participated in the meet.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., Irish coach, sent a composite A and B team to Terre Haute. The A team was scheduled to play a match on May 25 with Minnesota in Minneapolis but due to the unforeseen rail strike this match was postponed. Father Holderith sent Dick Whiting and George Stuhr as last minute entries to compete with Jack Quinn and Tom Conley of the B team. Stuhr and Whiting left South Bend late Thursday night to drive to Terre^Haute and as a result teed off Friday with less than two hours of sleep.
Pitcher's Hit Defeats
Wisconsin Team; 6-4
Jack Barrett doubled with the bases loaded in the tenth inning to win his own ball game for Notre Dame as the Irish defeated Wisconsin, 6-4, at Madison last Monday night. The game was one of few night games ever played in intercollegiate baseball.
Wisconsin scored three runs in the first inning but Barrett had the Badgers tamed the rest of the way. The two teams concluded their two-game series Tuesday.
For that "particular" card
on that "particular" occasion —
I. W. LOWER CO.
Decorators
128 North Michigan St.
13
“In everything the middle course is best; all things in excess bring troubles.”
—Plautus
So you think that you have troubles? Suppose the accounting laboratory manuals did finally arrive at the bookstore and you have to make up a month’s work. . . . Maybe your girl friend telephoned that she was stranded in Azuza and wouldn’t be here for the-K. of C. ball because of the train strike—look at the money you saved!. . . . Maybe you made a big date for last Wednesday night to see Victor Borge and then found out that your roommate was as broke as you were. . . . These are trifles in troubles according to Plautus who claims excesses produce the real troubles, and who are we to argue with Plautus, especially when we don’t even know the guy. But if that is true then Henry Stickle had troubles. It seems that Hank, taking advantage of the dim lights and the soft music at the Palais, had himself a “big” time one night two weeks ago. He had to leave in a hurry to get back in time for the room-check, but made arrangements to expand the friendship- in a meeting last Sunday at 2:00.
While en route back to Morrissey he met, as RO’S are oft prone to do, two very accomodating young ladies complete with car. During the conversation that naturally followed he was invited to attend a peanut butter sandwich picnic by the obliging young women. Now Hank
7he fyuMufo Nedt
is a very normal American boy and the thought of peanut butter sandwiches was enough to set his mouth watering. Thus having no control over the situation he very sweetly said. “I’ll meet youse babes Sunday at two, pick me up.” All thoughts of Palais Patsy had slipped his mind. (Moral: Girls, you need a car.)
Then last Saturday night Hank got into bad company. The two Smaldones (the one on the left is Paul—or is it Peter?) and Harold Solomon lured him into accompanying them on a hunting party. But things were bad so they finally headed back to Notre Dame because it was nearly 12:30, and all RO’s have to be in by 12:30. Four beautiful young Bob Whitcomb fans insisted upon driving them back, and rather than crowd the bus they agreed. Once again the conversation got out of hand when Paul Smaldone (oi* was it Peter?) suggested a meeting Sunday at two. Hank protested but finally was overruled. The club the girl held was too convincing.
And so Sunday dawned and with it came the realization that Hank had better do some fast thinking. The hours ticked by and still he had no solution. Did you spend a lonely Sunday afternoon wishing you had something to do? Why you didn’t realize how lucky you were!
Along came two o’clock and with it came seven feminine visitors, all to see “Hankie.” The batallion office was loaded with peanut butter sandwiches and women. We don’t know how it happened, or what is more important, how he did it, but his solution still has Morrissey agape with wonder. He took the peanut butter sandwiches which were formed so beautifully by the loving hands of two of his feminine friends and took the other four young damsels he met Saturday night on a picnic. A just compromise if we ever- heard of one, and truly a feat which justifies his selection as the “Navy man of the week” around this part of the campus.
❖
JOKE—“Be not affronted at a joke. If one throws salt at thee thou wilt receive no harm, unless thou art raw.”
—Junius O'Shanahan ❖
Ed Whitmore-. “This is great weather. Ought to make everything jump right out of the ground.”
Farmer-. “I hope not. I’ve got two wives buried here.”
OR
Harrn Johnson-. “I saw a car parked in Leeper Park with nothing but a back seat.”
Bill Tully. “Yeah that’s my car.”
Prof Johnson: “But how can you drive anywhere without a front seat?”
Bill Tully. “Don’t be silly, I got another car for driving.”
❖
Paul Findley: “The Doctor tells me I have Bloomington, Ill., blood pressure —Slightly below normal. Normal, Ill., that is.”
❖
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
Joe the Barber: “Haven’t I shaved you before somewhere sailor?”
Jose Fernandez: “Nope. I got that scar at Pearl Harbor.”
Mediaeval Research
Carried on at N. D.
Education should consist of a double process: the preservation and transmission of cultural products of the past, and secondly, research for* the advancement of man’s humanistic and scientific horizons. Not all that is old is old-fashioned and useless. There are still scholars who keep digging into the past to uncover its culture—not a good-paying job, it is true, but one in which humanists year after year put much of theii* leisure time. Some mediaeval periodicals are published to this end by various learned societies among which the Mediaeval Academy of America is a thriving organization, and to which several Notre Dame faculty members belong.
Research work consists mainly in editing manuscripts not yet printed or extant only in poor and inaccessible editions. This work in general consists of determining the original text from several varying manuscripts and in tracing the quotations. A scholar who makes a “find” here gets as much pleasure as “finders” in other* research, though no foundations are rocked by his discovery. Still other research is done by those who use the manuscripts and new editions for synthesizing and evaluating these cultural productions of the past. Research is about equally divided between the great Latin culture of the Middle Ages and the nationalistic cultures (Old English, Spanish, French, etc.) which came therefrom.
Notre Dame sponsors a Mediaeval Series, known officially as the “University of Notre Dame Publications in Mediaeval Studies,” — which consists of works edited from manuscripts by palaeographers, or books of historical research. This series is under the general editorship of Father Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. It began in 1936 with his treatment of the
(Continued on page 17)
AIN'T LOVE GRAND?
Theysitlikethisuponaseat
And now and then they kiss,
And then he says some foolish thing And then they sit
Like	this!
AND:
Father nailed his darling wife Fast against the parquet flooring.
He was loath to take her- life, But he had to stop her snoring.
CAMPUS QUIPS
Fat man (in theatre, turning to little man sitting behind him): “Can’t you see, little man?”
Al Bisese: “No.”
F. M.: “Then keep your eye on me and laugh when I do.”
Pat O’Meara notes that the average man’s arm is 28 inches long. The average woman’s waist is 28 inches. You can’t beat nature, can you?
Gerry Daigle says that a hick town (South Bend, that is) is one where there is no place to go that you shouldn’t.
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
LAUGH, WERE TRYING HARD
Unable to hire an experienced desk man, a hotel manager took on a man who said he just thought he would like to try the job. The next day the manager had to fire the clerk, and gave the following reasons: He insisted on calling all the guests by their first names, and shook hands with them whenever they entered the lobby. He recommended that the guests eat in the hotel coffee shop, but not in the dining room. He kept saying, “The eats is no good.” He snapped his fingers and swore apologetically when he had no mail for the guests. He threw ink all over guests who spoke sharply to him, and rang the desk bell and hollered “bingo” every time he saw one of the bell hops receive a tip.
❖
A patient who complained of digestive troubles was told by a specialist that he was drinking too much and would have to stop it.
“Well,” said the patient, “what am I to tell my wife?”
The doctor thought for a few minutes, then said, “Tell her you are suffering from syncopation. That will satisfy her, I’m sure.”
The patient did as he was told.
“What is syncopation?” asked the wife.
“I don’t know,” said the husband, “but that’s what the doctor told me.”
When the husband had gone out the wife looked up the word in the dictionary and found that it meant: “Irregular movement from bar to bar.”
♦
At last we’ve found a truthful guy. He’s a soph and he wrote his girl: “I received the cookies you baked for me, dearest, but I love you just the same.”
♦
Sweet Young Thing (to policeman): “That college man accosted me.”
Cop: “What have you to say for yourself, bud?”
College Man: “A buddy of mine asked me to come here and meet his sister. He told me to look for a lady with starry eyes, teeth like pearls, a smile like the Mona Lisa’s, a figure like Betty Grable’s, as charming as Greer Garson, with the grace of a ballet dancer, the dignity of a queen.”
Sweet Young Thing: “I apologize to the gentleman, officer. Anyone would have made the same mistake.”
♦
Then there’s the story of a little boy who returned from his first Sunday School class. When his mother asked him what he had learned he replied: “Oh, all about the ten commandos.”
♦
And so, Adios, and remember time tells on a man—especially a good time.
Pat Meenan: “Here’s a story about Apollo chasing a nymph and she turned into a tree.”
Jack O’Rourke: “Lucky, that Greek. Most gals I chase turn into a restaurant.”
“How about that book I lent you a month ago?” inquired Joe Kelly of Tom Hanifin.
“Why, that book,” replied Tom, “er— let’s see—I lent it to Dick Donahoe. Did you really want it back?”
“No, I didn’t,” said the first, “but the man I borrowed it from says the owner is looking for it.”
FALSTAFFS HERE (C. & P., That Is)
There was a young maiden—a Sioux— As tempting as any home Brioux.
She displayed her cute knees
As she strolled past tepees,
And the Braves all hollered, “Wioux Wioux!”
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.

15
((Ill (t IAIAII
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
Notre Dame men inviting this queen to the Senior Ball. . . . The question is, who would stoop so low? Is it because the inmates of “The Rock” won’t be with us?
Another weekend has come and gone and with it just about the last of the social functions for this year. Last Friday was the-date for the K. of C. Ball, and despite the train strike which interfered with the importation of dancing partners and the adverse climatic conditions, the majority agreed that it was a huge success. However, according to reports, the total time which the band did not play was ten minutes more than the time which it did play. ... Is it that the knights are just naturally lazy, or did they prefer to sit them out?
❖
Since the column this week is again without blood (we’re losing readers fast!) we have been reduced to quoting poems. The New Rochelle Tatler contributes this one, and we dedicate it to some of the monstrosities that we have observed lately.
Picture, picture on the wall, Quizzically I eye you.
Tell me, tell me, do you know, Whatever made me hang you?
❖
WJOTW Department
Dentist: Now this set will cost you fifty dollars.
Patient: Haven’t you any buck teeth?
. St. Benedict’s Rambler
❖
Since this is the last week that we shall be privileged to have the company of the sweet, young . . . (subject still taboo) from West of the Dixie, perhaps we had better pause here and pay tribute to those lovely . . . who have stood as the butt of our jokes this past year. Girls, you have been sweet about it, except for those who penned irate fan letters. We hope that you enjoy the Summer and that we shall have you back with us in the fall again. We simply can’t do without you. . . . See You!
♦
An Irishman inviting a friend to his wedding anniversary explained how to find the apartment.
push the bell with your elbow, and when the door opens, put your foot against it.”
“Why do I have to use my elbow and my foot?” asked the friend.
“Well for Heaven’s sake,” exclaimed the Irishman, “you’re not coming empty-handed, are you?”
—Colorado Mines Oredigger
According to the Indiana Daily Student, one of the campus beauties started receiving fan mail when her picture was printed in the Student. Two of the letters are reported to have been from
Another Headquarters for ARROW
Arrow Shirts in different collar styles to make all necks look handsome.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
Drunk: Give me a Horse’s Neck, bartender.
Second Blotto: I’ll have a Horse’s Tail; no use killing two.
—Auburn Plainsman
Among the many ways of making money are stealing, borrowing, taking or marrying it.—Creightonian
❖
He: I’m thinking of asking some girl to marry me. What do you think of the idea?
She: It’s a good idea, if you ask me.
—Annapolis Log
“Come to the seventh floor, and where you see the letter ‘D’ on the door,
16
PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS
MEDIAEVAL RESEARCH
(Continued from page 14)
works of Peter of Poitiers in theology. There are now eight volumes — four Latin editions and four in English. The chief content is philosophy and theology. One by Guido Kisch (now visiting Professor of History at the Jewish Institute of Religion) treats the influence of the Bible on Geramnic law. Another, by Francis J. Tschan (who has taught at Notre Dame in summer sessions), is on St. Bernwald, bishop of Hildesheim (V); one by Brother’ Edmund Hunt, C.S.C., of the University faculty is a 15th century summary by a Dominican, Joannes Do-minici, of all the arguments for and against the Church’s entry into the Renaissance movement in literature (IV). Volume VII is an edition of the first part of the Sentences of Peter of Poitiers by Father- Moore and Marthe Dulong; this work will be continued. Volume VIII is a study on a logical tract of Peter of Spain by Professor Mullally. But efforts are not limited to the Mediaeval Series. Various faculty members have small corners staked out.
Father Joseph Garvin, C.S.C., who is the associate editor of the University Publications in Mediaeval Studies, and Mr. James Corbett are preparing a work on the Albigensian heresy. Other works to appear are a thirteenth century cyclical Passion Play of Cyprus, and the works of Stephen Langton, Archbishop of Canterbury.
Father Paul Beichner, C.S.C., is preparing an edition of the Aurora of Peter Riga, a 12th century Canon of Rheims. The longest version of this poem is nearly 20,000 lines in length—about twice as long as Milton’s Paradise Lost. Some verses are in elegiac couplets, others in riming hexameters. The poem gives a paraphrase of sections of the Bible with allegorical or moral interpretations. It was in its day a best-seller, translated, plagiarized, and knowing no national boundaries. Over 200 manuscripts of the poem still exist. Of course, many of these are worthless copies. Father Beichner is using 16th century manuscripts photographed on microfilm. This use of microfilm with film readers (there is one in the Reference Room office of the Notre Dame library) has largely supplanted the use of originals or photostatic copies.
Brother Edmund, C.S.C., is preparing an edition of the Paduan Cardinal Baro-zius’ three books of poems, and an investigation of mediaeval Consolationes. Hundreds of the latter works remain unprinted. They were written to console others on the death of a dear relative or friend—and so Notre Dame continues the traditions of painstaking research which made the mediaeval university a byword for learning.
Ifs Adler s for ARROW'S
GedEel &
MW MNM... RKMMR < MMM
Why are Arrow Ties like
There’s real harmony in their patterns.
Their colors really sing.
And they’re so easy to conduct (into perfect, perfect knots.)
Together, you and these handsome Arrow Ties will make a beautiful composition.
See your Arrow dealer and arrange it today.
ARROW SHIRTS md TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
» -• H	1 '■
CAMPUS CLUBS
;	By JERRY OLWELL
The Knights of Columbus held their annual Ball last week, and even though there was a rail strike most of the guests arrived. The evening was an enjoyable one. . . . There was plenty of room on the dance floor. . . . The Fox Valley Club has been organized for all those students who live within a radius of 50 miles of Appleton, Wis. . . . The Married Vets held their Poverty Dance this past week. Each couple came dressed informally, very informally. The winner wore a large patch over the seat of his pants. The moderators of this organization, who is also the moderator of the Vets Club, claims that this group has more spirit and spunk than any other club on the campus. And why not father? Aren’t they married and off campus? . . . Incidentally many people are confusing the Villagers Club and the Married Vets. The Villagers is an organization made up of all those students who live in town.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. , SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
BEG PARDON: In a recent issue of the Scholastic this column said “finally the Central Illinois Club held a meeting and elected officers.” Since then we have discovered that this club had held many meetings prior to this meeting when they elected officers. Mistakes like this could be avoided if the club secretaries would issue press releases for this column. Then all information would be correct.
A new club on the campus is the Rural Life. The fellows will take hikes and enjoy out-door life. Next week we will have a number of announcements about this interesting group. . . . Many clubs are holding elections this June. The charters of many clubs state that officers for next semester are to be elected before the summer. Campaigning and power politics will be in order for the next few weeks. . . . Incidentally, many members of the Met Club are up in arms because this column patted Larry Goebler on the back last week. Larry is running for the Met Club presidency. If the other tickets also in the running would present their lists to the Scholastic Office, we would be glad to give them a plug.
In spectacular “Broadway Style” the Met Club announces their Summer Formal. It will be held at the Pennsylvania Hotel on July 13, a Saturday night. The officers of the club intend to make this Ball one of the best of the summer season. Ed Sullivan and many guest stars will be there to help make the evening an enjoyable one. Each of the three
Cement Mixer
Route 66
Painted Rhythm
Welcome to My Dreams
Come Rain or Shine
LATEST TUNES
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St
borough teams will be represented, if they are in town. Tin-Pan Alley also will be there.
To show you what the alumni of certain towns can, and will do, let’s look in on the Philadelphia Club. They sent a representative here to the campus to discuss plans for the Philly’s Club summer formal. This former student also gave the club members interesting and encouraging information on summer employment. The Club had a meeting this past week and the dance is to be held during July.
Dr. Manion Addresses Central Catholic Class
The false and growing conviction that religion has no place in the curriculum of present-day American schools is the greatest threat to the country’s existence, Dr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the law school at the University of Notre Dame, told 23 graduates of the ninth annual graduating class of- Central Catholic High school in St. Joseph’s parish hall, May 26.
Tracing religion in the history of the United States, Dr. Manion described the religious import of the Mayflower compact as drawn by the Pilgrims before stepping ashore into a strange land, presented William Penn’s conviction that “men who will not be governed by the laws of God are ruled by tyranny” and that early attempts to frame America’s constitution failed until Benjamin Franklin insisted that the lawmakers adjourn and reconvene with an opening prayer asking God’s assistance in helping them to frame the new nation’s governing pact.
OLD-TIMERS GAME (Continued from page 9) Juzwik and Evans were members of the ’40 and ’41 teams. Clatt played his one year in ’42.
The O.T. starting line will be Ed Mieszkowski and Bob Dove at ends, Lou Rymkus and Jim Brutz tackles, Bernie Crimmins and Bob Maddock at guards, and Coach Ziemba at center. Dove, Crimmins and Ziemba were AllAmericans during their college days.
Completing his list of legitimate Old Timers, Ziemba has Benny Sheridan, Elmer Angsman, Frank Ruggiero, Frank Szymanski, Pete Berezney, and Dick Cronin. Brutz and Dove will act as co-captains of the outfit.
Coach Leahy will field a team of Frank Kozikowski and Dave Lloyd at . ends, Bob McBride and Ziggy Czarobski at tackles, John Mastrangelo and George Tobin at guards, .Bill Walsh at center, John Lu jack at quarter, Bob Livingstone and Floyd. Simmons at the halves, and Jim Mello at full.
18
serves more than verbal criticism. A
Man About Town fylbuMf, and QUma
HITHER AND YON:	.
Jim Webb and Ralph Hayman crying in their milk? Why? The rail strike, of course. ... It is rumored that Joe O’Toole has struck gold in the form of a nice convertible. . . . Pete Berezney conditioning under cover of darkness. . . . What was it that Dave Lloyd was chasing in front of the Law Bldg.? A congregation of gnats or just his girl? . . : Frank Bakei- seems to have less trouble handling the local belles than he does handling line drives for the hall team. . . . Don Malthaner having considerable trouble finding Niles. . . . Somebody tell Bob Wood and Al Galla to stop teasing the PD with those cards. . . . Speaking of cards, Willie Meehan, they aren’t transf err able. . . . Were those decorations at the KC Ball or just large lapel buttons? . . . Which vice-president of what Vets Club is in a dither over one of the vets at SMC. S'he is an ex-nurse.
SPRING FEVER:
Students should leave the Dining Hall “kiddies” alone. Most of you are old enough to be their fathers. . . . For fond memories of Notre Dame 20 years ago mixed with a good meal stop in at the Victoria across from the Hoffmann. . . . Understand that Hollywood is clamoring for Gilhooley since they saw the picture of Frank in the Scholastic office. . . . It is good to see Phil Supple back after his victory over* an acute attack of yellow jaundice. . . . Many Campus Wheels chasing SMC seniors around Lake Paw Paw this past weekend. . . . Jack Mekeon off for Chicago to celebrate his birthday with his folks. Thought you had an SMC date, Jack? . . . Father Brennan taking on all comers on the links. . . . Barney Slater still remains incognito behind his
ANSWERS TO QUIZ ON PAGE 4
1	.—And Now Tomorrow ....-------------d.—Rachel Field
2	.—The Song of Bernadette  ..........i.—Franz Werfel
3	.—Brave Men _______________—  ------f.—Ernie Pyle
4	.—Seventeenth Summer ---------------1.—Maureen Daly
5	.—The Risen Soldier ________________j.—Francis J. Spellman
6	.—The Screwtape Letters _______..—h.—C. S. Lewis
7	.—The Human Comedy  ________________a—William Saroyan
8	.—Education for Freedom ............b.—Robert M. Hutchins
9	.—Summer After Summer  ...........—k.—Richard Sullivan
10	.—The Story of Dr. Wassell   -------g.—Tames Hilton
11	.—Time for Decision _______—....—...c.—Sumner Welles
12	. Happy Land  ...........      -....e.—MacKinley Kantor
horn-rimmed glasses. They are long distance glasses, Barney says. They can see all the way to Miami Beach for him. . . . Campus Club column received an unfair verbal lashing this week from the Illinois Club, through its President Slevin. If that club, with all clubs, would cooperate with weekly news releases then dwell et al. couldn’t make mistakes. . . . Herb McDade was seen in the Cafe with his mystery girl—again!
SCANDALS:
An investigation should be started to find out why a local Photo Shop destroyed (by acid) several rolls of film that contained poses of Admiral Nimitz with various students. Why shouldn’t there be pictures of the Admiral and students? We should like to know. . . . Also how about some one finding out why so many fine ideas are killed before they can do a lot of good? For instance, the Old' Timer’s football game could have become an annual benefit game for the . children of those football players of old who died in the war. The Athletic De^";. partment sure slipped up on this one.’. . f
TRIVIA:	.
Professor Madden quite fatigued after his nine a.m. drama class. He gives a fine performance each morning. . . . One of the final exam speeches for Mr. Sommer’s class is entitled, “Room for Improvement in Modern Education.” Notre Dame will be the students’ example and many University officials are going to hear it. . . . “Spark” Petillo, of Badin Hall, is writing a short story for Mr.’ . Madden entitled, “Wasting my Father’s Money.” . . . Police Officer No. 28 of the Local Green Hornet’s Association de
wedding party was joyously passing through town last week. It was a three-car caravan. Two cars had passed through a light and a third was passing just as the light was changing. It was then that No. 28 came into view. He stopped this car, which contained the bride and groom, and proceeded to give them a lecture about laws and regulations. I guess he is a bachelor, or at least he should be. . . . Our hats off to Johnny Walker who will be the editor of the 1947 Dome.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our twn laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
’ ' . 2-12 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251

Dr. E. J. Coil!
OPTOMETRIST >-

JZ3Z33333ZSS3333333Z3553Z333S33SS332333S533333333338S332
19
Copyright 1946. Liggett & Mms Tobacco Co.