

. . . .· . . . . . . .. . 
y • , • • • ' 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 

05 news 
06 Bengal Bouts 
Alexa Shoen 
Scholastic finds out how many of the initial Bengal Bouts hopefuls made it to the ring this year. 


09 culture 
1 O Artists Talk Back 
Kate Mullaney 
Your mother may have told you nqt to talk back, but this year the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is encouraging its visiting artists to enga~e with the student body, faculty and the community at large. 
14 Cover: Define .I/consent" 
Maddy Zollo As a group of students work to get the sexual assualt policy in duLac clarified, we take a closer look at the current policy, hearing procedures and the experiences of sexual assault survivors on campus. 


23 sports 
24 Irish Eyes On: Natalie Leopold 
Matt Formica 
Senior Irish cheerleader Natalie Leopold brings it on, talking to Scholastic about nerves, stereotypes and the time .she almost really gave the crowd something to cheer about. 

26 En Garde! 
Alex Hellmuth 
Scholastic explores the often misunderstood world of fencing at ND. 

28 humor 31 25 Things I Hate About You 
Natalie Kratz 
Before you give in to the new Facebook craze, read what our humor editor has to say about the things she does and doesn't care to know about you. 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I I 



EDNOTES 
WHAT IS "CONSENT"? 
"Crime Alert: Sexual Assault Reported on Campus." 
Amid the invitations to academic lectures, Facebook notices and e-mails from family members that flood my inbox, every once in a while a certain subject line catches my eye. 
It always comes as a shock, especially when the details of the message place the assault in a residence hall, committed by an acquaintance. After all, this is Notre Dame -supposedly, consensual sex doesn't happen here, let alone date rape. 
The goal of Notre Dame's Sexual Assault Awareness Week (Feb. 22 through March 1) is to raise awareness that sexual assault, especially in the form of date rape, is a problem on this campus. Events encourage dialogue on the subject, which is usually kept quiet, especially in the broader Catholic context of this university. 
On pages 14-19, Associate Editor Maddy Zollo examines sexual assault at ND, from the ambiguity of date rape involving alcohol to the mixed reactions of students who have gone through the ResLife hearing process. She also talks to a group of students that are working to change the sexual assault policy in duLac, which currently leaves "consent" undefined and does not mention what happens when alcohol is a factor. 
PARTING IS SUCH SWEET SORROW 
With this issue, we seniors must say goodbye and pass the torch to the remaining devoted and accomplished staffers. While we'll be glad to have our lives back, we're going to miss the hours upon hours spent each week in the bowels of South Dining Hall, debating the correct use of the semicolon and the respective merits of Britney Spears and Lady GaGa. Thanks for reading, and we can't wait to see where next year's staff takes this publication that we've grown to love so much. 
Best wishes, 

Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 26, FEBRUARY 2009 
Comeexplore the life ofzeal of the 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
with .an evening of prayer and conversation \!Vith Holy Cross religious and other discerning 

tnen. 
Have questions? call (574} 631-6385 or email vocation.1@nd.edu 
February 27 Education Fr. Tom Eckert, C.S.C. Fr. Tom Blantz, C.S.C. 
April 3 

Parish 
Fr. John DeRiso, C.S.C. 
Fr. NeirWack, C.S.C. . 
5-"30-7:3-0 p.m.. 
beginning at Log Chclpef 
wlth dinner to fo#owat the 
Colerr,.w-Morsf! C<!ntcr 


Blessed Brother Andre Bessette, 







Online Executive Education 
Mendo~a offers classes for aspiring professionals 
Daric Snyder 
If you see an advertisement promotng Notre Dame classes online, you should probably still head to your 10:40. 
As part of its Executive Education program, the Mendoza College of Business is offering online programs in leadership, negotiation and business administration. Executive Education launched the online program in 2005. These courses do not count toward a Notre Dame degree, but they provide students from around the world an opportunity to expand their knowledge. 
According to Christine Cushman, the program manager, the move to add online programs grew from the popularity of Mendoza's other executive education courses. "Our online program gives us a way to serve a greater population," Cushman says. For years, Notre Dame had been offering seminars and programs for professionals, but attendees were limited to those who could reach the Notre Dame campus or off-campus sites in Chicago; Kalamazoo, Michigan; and Davenport, Iowa. The online program was created in coordination with University Alliance, a company that works with several other universities, like Villanova and ­Dominican, to expand the availability of online education. University Alliance handles most of the operation of the program, managing enrollment, providing the software and Web site and running an online advertising campaign. "It's outsourcing, in a way," Cushman says. "It's a way to grow with a limited program." 
Each of the online certificate programs consists of three eight-week courses taken consecutively. The online classes are designed and lead by Notre Dame faculty. The classes include video lectures, readings, exercises, exams and the opportunity to interact with the instructor and other students. Unlike classes posted online via Notre Dame's participation in the OpenCourseWare project, Mendoza's online certificate programs are not free. Each of the nine classes available costs around $2000, though they are discounted when bought as part of the full three-class program. 
"You have to put some money on the line," Cushman says. "It encourages our students to be disciplined." Cushman also notes that the cost of the courses assures the quality of the instruction, covering the expense of providing multimedia lectures and access to the professor and other students. While the price tag may be high for some, many companies will reimburse employees for taking the courses, particularly due to the strength of the Notre Dame brand. The U.S. Department of Veterans' Affairs has also approved to pay for the programs for veterans through the G.I. Bill. 
Though the classes are not for a degree, they can be failed. When students complete the three classes that make up one of the online programs, they receive a certificate from the college, which can be used to bolster their resumes. At any given point, hundreds of people are enrolled in one of the programs. With the troubled economy, Cushman says that while the programs haven't seen a surge in new students, she's received more requests for proof of completion from former students seeking new jobs. @, 

. . "Poker Face" -= =-Best song written in the history of music. EVER. 
----Bristol Palin's views on abstinence ----..-----(or whatever) 
Notre Dame should adopt her philosophy. 
Joaquin Phoenix's interview with David Letterman 
We wish you could have been there too, Joaquin. 
Women's Appreciation Week at St. Mary's College 
Women are great and all, but does an all-women's college really need this? 


Strong Bodies Fight ... 
Bengal Bouts stay strong as a great ND tradition 
Alexa Shoen 
Try not to get caught in the stampede at Student Activities Night next fall. Ifthis year was any indication, there will be over 300 novice athletes pushing their way through the Joyce, ready to take their turn in the Bengal Bouts' ring. To the surprise of many, the sigh-up sheet is not simply a list of naive and confused freshmen. "We get a loi of seniors coming out for their last shot," senior Bengal Bouts captain Mark Weber says.• 
Bengal Bouts is the annual boxing competition that has supported the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh since '1930. 
No matter the age or skill level, Bengal Bouts training is no joke. Run by the captains, novice season begins "very conditioning-based," Weber says. "Ifwe have 300 guys that can make it through that rigorous training, that's awesome. We don't try to get rid of guys." Calisthenics and repetition help build the boxers' athleticism_ in preparation· for the February tournament. Higher-level fighters start out· on a similar schedule to get everyone back on the same page. Practices focused on sparring in the ring work the boxers toward the tournament brackets. · 
The team's philosophy is centered on building respectful relations among the fighters. The 188 men who fought on the first night.of the 79th Annual Bengal Bouts each prepared and supported each other for what was about to take place. "It's very much a brotherhood," Weber says. 
The finals will be held Saturday, Feb. 28, at 7:00 p.m. in theJACC. ti> 

r8+ night at Club Fever 
Right. The place wasn't sketchy enough already. 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I26 FEBRUARY 2009 

Dancing the Night Away 

A night offun and culture at SDH 
Kristina Cloetingh 
On Friday, Feb. 13, the east side of South Dining Hall was transformed into a Brazilian palace, with green, blue, yellow and white -the colors of tht,1 Brazilian flag -draped everywhere. Samba music piped through the speakers, courtesy of the band Chicago Samba, as dancers in colorful, exquisite costumes danced on stage, and a crowd of people danced below. The Carnaval had arrived. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies has been sponsoring Carnaval, its signature event, for 11 years. With its extensive history, this event is far from boring. "It's still fresh," Therese Hanlon, event coordinator for the Kellogg Institute, says. The costumes, she says, are always authentic and new every year, and though the band stays the same, the musicians bring palpable excitement. They even added some new events this year, including the "Bloco" parade and a costume contest. 
The best part about. the event, according to the organizers, was not the costumes or the contests. Rather, it was the people who attended. "We want to reach out to the community," Hanlon says. And reach out they did, for the people in attendance were a mix of students, local families and teenagers, all dancing up a storm and enjoying the atmosphere of the event. Freshman attendee Tatiana Spragins says, "It was a family kind of thing too, so it was different, but I think that just gave it another kind offeel and was a nice variation from the kind of stuff we normally have on campus." 
Many in attendance thought the night was successful and enjoyed their time. "We ·had people dancing fight up until we turned the lights on," Hanlon says. . 0 


Design for Change 
The Graphic /111perative:·lnternational Posters for Peace, Social Justice and 
the Environment, 1965-2005 
Sara Felsenstein 
The Statue of Liberty, digitally altered to include a veil over her face, peers down from one wall. On another, a child in a diaper is _perched on an unplugged television, reading a book. Across the way, a gagged figure looks toward the floor, with text that reads, "Don't Vote (and no one will hear you)." 
From every angle, the images that make up "The Graphic Imperative: International Posters for Peace, Social]ustice and the Environment" challenge and confront the viewer. The posters date from 1965-2005 and cover international issues like the Vietnam War, the harmful effects of smoking, the Holocaust and the war in Iraq. Some of the issues are contemporary, others are strictly of the past, but all show the passion of people working together for change. 
The 80 posters portray the social and political issues of many cultures in a single exhibition, hitting on major themes like human rights, environmental concerns, AIDS, war, literacy and sexism. The posters transcend cultural boundaries, culminating in a representation ofsociety's past struggles. All lined up, one after another, the posters serve as a startling reminder of the world's achievements, tragedies and revolutions that have led us to where we are today. 
The exhibition was organized by Elizabeth Resnick, ChazMaviyane­Davies and Frank Baseman in collaboration with the Massachusetts College of Art and Design. Because of the lack of gallery space, only 80 of the 111 posters acquired could be shown. Anne Knoll, associate director of the Snite Museum of Art, says "[We] tried to ensure we selected some from each of the three thematic sections defined by the curators of the show: peace, social justice and the environment." 
The posters are ironic and funny, shocking and powerful. They are simultaneously a form of personal and mass expression, as the graphic artist takes his or her own personal spin on a major issue. An anti-smoking poster shows blown up cigarettes positioned in the shape of a cross, the red lipstick on one reminding the viewer of blood. A poster protesting the war in Iraq uses the look of a traditional iPod advertisement with the word "iPod" replaced with "iRaq" with the words, "10,000 Iraqis killed. 773 U.S. soldiers dead," at the bottom. Another poster responding to homelessness shows a sketch ofJesus and reads, "How Can You Wonhip a Homeless Man on Sunday and Ignore One on Monday?" 
"As a unit of Notre Dame, we try very hard to balance the needs of all these audiences within the framework of the policies, goals and values of a Catholic university," Knoll says. For this reason a disclaimer is posted outside the exhibition warning ofmature content. In addition, the gallery tours are open only to high-school-aged students and above. 
The "Graphic Imperative" show opened on January 25 and will be on display until March 1. 

Kate Mullaney 
Throughout the year, students, faculty and members of the greater South Bend community have been getting up close and personal with world-class performers as part of the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's (the Center) expanded offering of residency activities. 
Out of23 acts appearing this season as part of the Visiting Artist Series, 12 have been contracted for residency periods, during which the a~tists give post-performance talks, work with a wide variety of classes and even incorporate community members into their performances. 
In the past, these activities were targeted primarily at the students studying the related art form. Director of Outreach and Guest Services Margot Borger says that for its fifth season, the Center is emphasizing greater campus-wide engagement in the arts, extending the artists' influence beyond those students whom she calls "the usual suspects." 
"The artists ... are interested in engaging with students [for some of whom] ... a performing arts discipline isn't part of their regular regimen and trying to help them decipher their performances a little bit 
10 j SCHOLASTIC j 26 FEBRUARY 2009 
better," Borger says. 
Pat Hazell, a critically-acclaimed playwright and an original writer for "Seinfeld," exemplified this vision when his show, "The Wonderbread Years," came to Notre Dame in September. During his residency, he spoke with creative writing graduate students, instructed seminarians on the art of using humor and visited Professor Tracey Thomas' college seminar, "The Self and the Family," to discuss the '60s-era family. 
"The conversation with Pat Hazell had prepared [the students] to experience the play as more than just entertainment, [so] that the classroom visit had functioned as a 'first reading,' which opened up for them a significant and deeper engagement with the 'text' of the performance," Thomas says. 
Post-performance talks,· or "talk backs," have been a staple of the Center's dance performances . this season as well. The information given by the director and company members functions as an extension of the performance itself, Borger says. 
"A lot oftimes, truly, there's a person in the audience who raises their hand and just wants to know every single company member's story. ~~ really just a way of getting the audience engaged with the artist beyond just what they're performing," Borger says. 
The· Center has also tried to integrate the artistic and academic missions of the university. Many theater productions have -featured pre-performance talks led by a faculty member. These discussions explore . academic issues :relevant to the performance. _.In February, after L.A. Theatre Works presented "The Great Tennessee Monkey Trial," a play based on transcripts from the famed Tennessee v. Scopes trial, anthropology 
_professor Agustin Fuentes gave a lecture titled, "What is Evolution and Why Do We Care?" 
"For audiences, seeing the transcripts from the Scopes trial come to life is truly important most current discussions 
· · about evolution a~e really about combating ignorance and supporting the ability to truly ask questions about who we are and why we do what we do," Fuentes says. Like Hazell, Tim Robbins' Actors' Gang. extended its stay to the classroom, working with the members of Mark Beudert's Opera _:Production ·class on their acting technique in January. Junior vocal performance major 

DANCING WITH THE STARS Local students join David Dorfman's professional dancers on stage at the Center. 
Madison Prieto, a member of the class, said the group's method ofeJraggerated physicality combined with emotional intensity helped the students focus on particular emotional states while performing. 
"As a singer, you don't really get too much training as an actor ... [The Actors' Gang] really allowed us to take· hold of the pure performance aspect of opera without having to sing, and [to practice] just focusing all of our energy,"_Prieto says. 
Professors have also used musical performances to enhance their course work. Professor Larry Dwyer's Introduction to Jazz course had a residency activity with the Grammy award-winning Turtle Island Quartet in February. "[The students] had no idea what to expect," Dwyer says. Dwyer describes their music as a fusion of classical technique and modern jazz with elements of several other· styles included. ­He also emphasizes the personal impact that residency activities can have on students. 
"The· immediacy of seeing th<:se four instruments (two violins, viola and cello) from just a few feet away was incredibly effective for our students. The setup avoided the stage/audience divide which is typical of formal concert settings," Dwyer says. 
In some cases, the . level of engagement with the artists has been extremely high. WhenDavid Dorfman brought his acclaimed dance company to campus in January, only eight other dancers accompanied him. The 23 remaining spots in the performance were filled after auditions by members of the Notre Dame, St. Mary's and South Bend communities. The newly-assembled company rehearsed all week and gave four successful performances. 
Senior Program of Liberal Studies major Lisa Floran was one of students who participated in the Dorfman show. 
"I was personally a little intimidated, because I don't dance much outside of the Backer, my dorm room and the racquetball courts," Floran says. 
Her experience allowed her a greater insight into the overall meaning of the performance. "Throughout the week, David was very vocal in telling us why he chose to choreograph certain parts in certain ways and how he made artistic decisions. So not only did we get to dance with his company and wear a lot of flannel, we also got to pick his brain a little bit," Floran says. 
The residency act1v1t1es also engage the artists themselves, reminding them of the positive impact their work has on its audience. 
"Providing direct access through residency activities, panels and talk backs, [community engagement] demands of the performers an · awareness of the issues behind the creative process," Anna Thompson, executive director of the Center, says. 
Borger also believes the performers · relish the opportunity to reach out to the community. She recalls a particularly busy day ofactivities with Dorfmanduring which he emphasized the importance ofimpacting others through his art. 
"[The artists] wouldn't want to come here if we weren't giving them the option to be able to do that," Borger says, 
Future artists contracted for residency activities are the Spectrum Dance Theater on Feb. 26-28, the Kronos Quartet on March 27-28, and the Luna Negra Dance Theater on April 24-25. 0 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 I SCHOLASTIC j 11 

/ . . Cc'.J·C • '"-'"." 




COVER STORY 
The Morning After . 
. • • • • . . • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • . • • . . . • : 
For Hannah*, there was no question about what had happened to her, despite the fact that she consumed alcohol on the night in question -she was raped by Jake*, a boy she had been seeing for only afewweeks.Aftershetoldherroommate the following morning, Hannah decided to seek medical attention immediately. 
Sister Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley for the past 16 years, has seen many girls go through ordeals similar to Hannah's. 
"I try to urge· them to go to the ER," Etheridge says, regarding her course of action when a sexual assault is brought to her attention. "It's their decision, but the evidence is only here for a short time. They may not know what they want to do down the road, but they should do what they can now." 
If Hall Staff is notified of a situation
I· 
in which the victim wants to receive medical care, they call the S-0-S of Madison Center. The S-O-S of Madison Center is St.Joseph's County's rape crisis center, and once the number is called, an S-O-S advocate will meet the student at the hospital. 
"Our women will go with the S-O-S person, ·so her privacy is maintained," Etheridge says. "We have · college students who are trained S-O-S advocates, and it's so nice to have someone to tell [them] what's going to happen ·and are with them throughout their hospital visit." 
Seeking medical attention doesn't require the yictim to file a police report or press charges, and many ofthose who have been sexually assaulted choose to do nothing at all. 
Heather Rakoczy Russell, director of the Gender Relations Center (GRC), believes that one of the major reasons that some Notre Dame students are scared to come forward is due to their Catholic faith. 
"The one thing that I think does make rape and sexual assault distinctive at Notre Dame is that we do hear survivors reporting that they feel this tremendous sense ofguilt or shame that is sometimes, for some people, complicated by their religious values," Rakoczy Russell says. "And because of that they feel perhaps an extra weight ... that they might feel 
hindered to share with friends or family or to share even with an anonymous 
otl1er." 
The university encourages those who have been survivors of sexual assault to reach out to Preacher. She can help inform survivors about the different options they have available to them. 
"I inform them of the processes they can engage in and what will happen if they do. For example, if they wish to file charges with local authorities (city or county police), I let them know how that process is initiated and how it will proceed. I do the same with the university disciplinary process," Preacher says. "My job is to provide information, not advice or counseling." 
The University Counseling Center, Campus Ministry, on-and off-campus support groups and Hall Staff members can also give survivors counseling or pastoral support. 

Seeking Justice 
For survivors who are considering filing a sexual assault case with the ORLH, the university recommends that he or she speak with Preacher beforehand to see what is involved in seeking disciplinary action against the assailant. Any survivor could also go anonymously to the ORLH and request information regarding the process without having to officially make a decision. The ORLH will give out all the information with no questions asked, and under no circumstances ­will the ORLH get a victim in tJ.".ouble. · for any sexual assault situation that . involved breaking parietals or underage drinking. 
After Hannah consulted with Preacher,·. she decided that going through the disciplinary process would be th~ best decision for her. She was hoping for a mediated conversation with Jake because there was a disconnect between their: accounts of what had happened · that night, particularly. because " they had been dating at the time. 
Hannah was told that she needed to write a statement for J~ke to read, and she also received an advisor to keep her posted on how things were going throughout the process. Because both Jake and . the board members chosen for the ORLH hearing had to read her statement, the hearing was not held for another three weeks . 
During the hearing, Hannah and Jake were each allowed to have their rectors and one peer present for -~upport. The only other people in the room were the three board members who were part of the hearing panel. Once the hearing began, Hannah was asked a number of questions while Jake sat listening. Much to her surprise, however, she. was not allowed to hear anything that Jake had to say about the incident. 
When she received the verdict of the case, she was startled to see that he was "not found responsible for any sexual misconduct," and she says she was troubled that there was nothing else for her to do :-the case was closed. Hannah says she was left clueless and frustrated about why this decision was made, partly because she had no idea what he had told the hearing panel. 
"None of this would have been this difficult had I just gotten to hear what he said in the room," Hannah says. . 
"Instead the system is set up for me to defend myself, and he was a victim· of circuhistari.ces." 
Hanbah had no idea whether Jake's story had matched up with hers, and· no oue, because of confidentiality agreements, could explain to her what factors led to Jake being declared innocent.· 
Although Hannah says that Jake privately apologized after the hearing, admitting that his sexual actions toward her were wrong, he still was not charged with any wrongdoing. 
· · "He is still living as he alwayi; has with no consequences because they did not [hold him accountable] for his actions," Hannah says. 
It is difficult to tell whether Hannah's experience is representative of the way most hearings are conducted. Confidentiality · issues prevent those involved from disclosing details on the process. 
"I've seen it bo_th ways," Etheridge says, about whether female students are satisfied after a hearing. "I've had women who went to a hearing for a healing 
· process. They needed to make sure' no -. one else would get hurt by this person, or they needed to take control again." 
16 I SCHOLASTIC I26 FEBRUARY 2009 *Names. have been ch9nged to retain confidentiality. 

COVER STORY 
"Then there are others who may cry foul play, but when it gets to the hearing and once they begin to get questioned and cross examined, it seems rrtore consensual than they lead you to believe," she says. "These people leave dissatisfied because it wasn't as easy as they thought it would be -it's pretty tough to prove it." 
Preacher agrees, saying that the majority of those who did seek disciplinary action said they were dissatisfied because they didn't get the result they had expected. 
The hearing process can create twin anxieties. To be sexually assaulted and not to feel that justice has been served is a devastating situation. To be wrongly convicted of sexual assault is equally devastating. 
Many cases are not reported immediately and lack any clear physical evidence, in addition to the fact that the two parties may have conflicting stories about exactly what was said and if clear boundaries were drawn. The best way to deal with cases ofsexual assault and rape at Notre Dame is still being determined. 
Changing Policy 
This semester, in response to a Student Senate resolution, Notre Dame's sexual assault and rape policy is in the process of being revised. 
The resolution came about when a number of undergraduate students brought their dissatisfaction regarding the sexual assault and rape policy at the university to the Gender Issues Committee. The Gender Issues Committee is an all-student board that is part of student government and is co­chaired by senior accounting and gender studies major Lauren Cummings and junior philosophy major Patrick Tighe. 
Many of the people who have come to the committee have experienced either their own or a friend's dissatisfaction with theway a sexual assault case has been handled. Much of their dissatisfaction comes from the unclear policy Notre Dame has regarding sexual assault and rape cases. 
Unlike many other universities, Notre Dame does not give any sort of definition of consent -duLac only states that sexual misconduct incluaes but is not limited to "sexual intercourse 



COVER STORY 
without consent." Without a clear are unsure about whether they did or did an official review of university sexual definition, the exact meaning ofconsent not have a female's consent will say that assault resources in three separate areas: is up for debate. they did in order to protect themselves. policy and procedures, resources for 
Ifsomeone gives consent to kiss, does "No one will confess," Cummings victims and survivors, and education he or she have to give consent again to says. "It's always one person's word and prevention efforts. , go further? Does a person still have versus another." One of the goals of the policy and to give consent if alcohol is involved, Not only is a "he said, she said" procedures committee is to give a even though he or she may be unable situation tricky to resolve in a hearing, complete definition of consent and to to state what they want? Because duLac but the lack of definitions about what is develop a gradation policy. A gradation leaves out specifics regarding the terms and isn't rape can also make either one policy sets in stone certain punishments of consent, these questions are left of the parties involved into a victim. for different degrees of offenses, so the unanswered, and the notion_ of implicit _ "With the absence of definitions, it system will no longer be so inflexible. consent is not ruled out. · ·creates a system that is black and white, "By having the gradation policy, there 
"Implicit consent is the misconception: and therefore, does not work very well," would be a more clear definition ofwhat that consent to one sexual act implies Hannah says. "For instance, if a young constitutes sexuaL.misconduct as well consent to other sexual acts. In addition, woman accrtses a young man of rape, as the punishments ·that accompany past occurrences of consensual sex do then there are.at least two conclusipns. a violation of the specific types of not gran~• implied consent for future First, it actually happened. Or second, misconduct," Tighe says. "Furthermore, sexual acts," Cummings says. "Consent the young womai\ is delusional arid lying the university can better educate is active; .not passive. The absence of by making quite an accusation: In either the students about what constitµtes explicit ; protest does not constitute case, the accusation is extremely serious, sexual assault if sexual assault is more consene' and severe damage has been· inflicted on clearly defined and articulated. And 
Accor4ing to· Hannah, because she · someone. In either circumstance, there the university can be held to more and Jake, were dating at the time and is a victim.'!•" consistency and accountability when there is \no clear definition of what The hope'fpr a cl;iange in sexual assault reprimanding students. That is, th~y consent is.in duLac, the decision to take and rape policy ari~ a clearer definition would have to reprimand studerits no discipliriary action against Jake was of consent wasn't initially part of the equally for all misconduct grouped/ in based on the'question of his intent and Gender Issues Cb~·lilittee's agenda, but the same level of severity." , not his physical actions. it grew in reactiorfto, the student body's The policy and procedures comm1ttee 
Hannah says sliefeels that even if he needs and pleas. Bef9re Cummings and is ~urrently compiling data frm~i/other hadn't intended to sex_ually assault her, Tighe knew it, the,r~~olution for change . majo~ colleges and universitJes, such it doesn't change the fact, that he-did so had been passe~(/ .-as Villanova and Boston ,College, to and faced no repercussions>.. "I th,ink tlie.• biggest thing with · compare sexual assault ap.d'rape policies 
Also, since the definition for consent passing thJ\ resolution was the in order to create a ..,coinprehensive and is so vague, some people worry'·-~at conversationlw~etween students and effective policy:at·Notre Dame -one perpetrators will believe what they have , the __ adminis#tion," · Cummings says. .that aims to-improve and elaborate on done is acceptable. '·«T~ey \\fere EB~\yare that· this policy th~ current sexual misconduct policy. 
"I don't think Notre Dame [students] wasn't. effectffet:~11d that there were ., understand many issues surrounding studen~~··w.1?:1.\:_W§~ght re~ourc~~---and/: • • • • · • • •. · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·. • • • : rape and sexual assault," Tighe says. "By policies were µi'a~'q~ate.".--· / . : Education and Prevention : having a clearly articulated policy that Once the Studep:f;."Senate passed the·. • •••••••••.•••••••••••••••••.. can better educate and instruct students resolution, tlie'Committee of · Sexual ._ Along with all its wotk towards about rape and sexual assault, I believe Assault Prevention (CSAP) got involved. changing the university's policy, CSAP we, the university and students, can CSAP is a committee made up. of · is also ma~ng strides to increase sexual prevent a male ND student from saying students, faculty and staff. -assault prevention and awareness. The that he didn't know that it was rape, that "CSAP offers advice and guidance t~ GRC is a programming office at Notre he was ignorant or didn't understand, or the Office of Student Affairs on how to Dame that is_ aimed at creating dialogue that he lacked the understanding about assist and support victims and survivors and promoting awareness about healthy the circumstances in which consent can of sexual assault," CSAP Co-Chair and relationships, gender and sexuality be given and that previous consent to Associate Vice President for Student within the student body, and the GRC some sexual acts doesn't imply consent Affairs Ann Firth says. "It also facilitates is working alongside CSAP and student to other sexual acts." collaborationandcommunicationa"mong government to further these initiatives. 
Failing to fix this blurry definition the different university departments Every year, the GRC puts on a Sexual 
.of consent perpetuates the difficulties and student groups. working to address · Assault Awareness Week which includes of dealing with sexual assault and rape sexual violence and spearheads a variety · -events ranging from Take Back the cases. Also, because duLac states that of rape education and prevention Night -an event planned to include a having sex without consent will result initiatives." prayer service, a march to Holy Cross in immediate suspension or expulsion, CSAP is now working alongside -Hill and a speak-out at a bonfire -to a Cummings says that most males who student government to help conduct dinrier that includes a variety of speakers 
18 I SCHOLASTIC I 26 FEBRUARY 2009 
--------------~­
. . 
on the topic of sexual assault and rape. The GRC is also planning to launch a Violence Prevention Initiative next fall, which would be a plan to incorpO'rate events and forums on sexµal assault throughout the entire school year, in hopes of bringing these issues out into the open and to increase the student body's awareness. 
"We believe in doing things from the 
bottom up," Rakoczy Russell says _in 
regard to the actions the GRC is taking 
to increase prevention and awareness 
around campus. 
By raising awareness, Rakoczy Russell 
hopes that the survivors of sexual assault 
and rape will come forward. She says 
she believes that the more these issues 
are brought up and talked about, the 
more likely it is that change will occur. 
Students can then become more aware 
that sexual assault and rape are issues 
that need to be addressed at ND and will 
learn what they need to do to prevent 
rape and sexual assault. 
Along with the GRC, the student club Men Against Violence is also making efforts to raise awareness on campus. Throughout the school year, the club hosts a variety of events, ranging from its poster campaign to a media literacy event. 
"Men Against Violence was created 
because rape and sexual assault are 
widely regarded as women's issues -this 
is simply not the case," junior history 
and psychology major Tim Latham, 
president of the club, says. "These are 
largely men's issues because over 99 
percent ofsuch crimes are committed by 
men." 
"The group's goal is to increase 
awareness of these issues and speak to 
men, the perpetrators of rape and sexual 
assault, about what is OK and what isn't," 
he says. "We as men are in a better 
position to speak to men about these 
things." 
Men Against Violence members hope 
to educate their peers about what consent 
is and how to make good choices. 
"Keep your eyes and ears open and challenge the social norm -don't be afraid to speak up if you see something you know to be wrong," Latham says. "When you're at a party, keep an eye on your buddies and have them do the same for you. As men, we are responsible for our actions, and we have to look out for 
each other and keep ourselves out of trouble." 

Moving Forward 
By the end of this school year, the resolution to change the sexual assault and rape policy at Notre Dame should be passed to Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs for final approval. Through the continuous involvement and dedication of student government, CSAP, the GRC and other student groups, the improved policy has the potential to lead to a greater awareness of what sexual assault is and the consequences associated with it. 
"Sexual assault and rape are very real problems on virtually every college campus, and Notre Dame is no exception," Firth says. "All of us within the Notre Dame community share responsibility for creating and maintammg an environment that promotes the safety and dignity of each individual. Sexual violence has no place at Notre Dame." 
Whether or not the passing of this resolution will actually decrease the number ofcases ofsexual misconduct on campus is yet to be seen, but everyone involved with the resolution seems optimistic. 
"It's members of our community raping and sexually assaulting members of our community," Rakoczy Russell says. "It's in our power; we can stop it." 0 
CULTURE 




Campus Chat:i:er 
DEPARTMENT OF FUNNY BUSINESS 

Last Saturday night I took a cross-country skiing trip over to Legends to interview that blond guy from "Best Week Ever." 
Remember that guy? \Vhat's his name again? He was that white guy on the "Mad Real World" sketch on "Chappelle's Show." Does "You stabbed my father!" ring a bell? What about, "I had sex with Katie, too!" 
You probably don't remember Christian Finnegan by name, but only by his face. He's an exclusive member of that nebulous type of celebrity known as "that guy," well-known more for who he plays on TV rather than who he is. 
Finnegan is the latest in the long line of "that guys." Previous "that guys" performing at Legends in the past couple of years have included the 7-Up guy, that guy from the game show "Cash Cab" and that Indian guy from the MTV sketch series "Human Giant," among others. Bonus points if you can tell me their names without looking them up. 
"I can understand a little bit more than I used to about the awkward moments that having some face recognition can bring," Finnegan tells me before his performance. "There are certain times where people see me on the subway, and I imagine it's the same way a woman feels when a guy is trying to decide whether he wants to have sex with me or not. Is it worth it? Do I care? Do I really care?" 
As a quasi-celebrity, Finnegan comes off as a relatively normal, unpretentious guy, although arriving late to our scheduled interview certainly doesn't help my impression of him. Having arrived in South Bend approximately an hour before show time, he says he didn't feel the need to over-prepare or go through any pre-show rituals. "I wish I did have a weird thing like, 'I need to have a chilled Capri Sun before every show, and then I need to touch my nose 14 times,' or something like that. I guess I don't." 
For many celebrities known exclusively in popular culture for playing one or two relatively insignificant roles, the task is to prove to everyone that you have much more to offer. Although Finnegan shares these feelings, he says he realizes that his role as the overly naive and well-meaning Chad on a "Chappelle's Show" sketch garnered him a panelist spot on "Best Week Ever," which subsequently made him recognizable enough that Legends would recruit him to perform. In some sense, he seems to relish his "that guy" role. 
"I relish any month that I don't have to temp to pay rent. Do you ·want more? Of course. Everybody always does. There's always this feeling of 'Well that's great, but what else can I make happen?' I constantly have to remind myself that there's been a lot of good fortune involved," Finnegan says. 
Finnegan says he often gets his most well-known lines yelled at him in public and in his performances, and he enjoys exploiting the absurdity of such practices. "Some guy actually yelled out in the middle of one of my performances, 'I had sex with Katie, too!' I actually called him out on it. I said, 'OK, now you've said that, what in your mind did you think was gonna happen next? In your mind, what came next after you saying that? Would people just stand up and applaud? Oh, my God! You've seen a TV show before!"' 
Though Legends was)~eked with students and parents eager to watch that blond guy from "Best Week Ever" perform stand­up, Finnegan downplayed his pop culture status. "When you're a college student, "CSI," "Hou~e," "Rock ofLove," "Best \Veek Ever," it's all TV in their minds. They don't understand that the people in "House" live in mansions with jacuzzis and things like that, and in "Best Week Ever," you're sitting in front of a piece of construction paper. It's a very different vibe." 0 
-Nfarques Camp 
The views ofthis authoi· are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. · 

20 I SCHOLASTIC I 26 FEBRUARY 2009 
:. -----' -• ~ --• • • -• ; •• ~ •}." • ,,~' ;-•..,. I , -. • , • , ~ •' • • 
CULTURE 
REVIEWS&PREVIEWS 
.. 

Responding to Rliythm.: ND S~phony Orohestrn. 'Winter Conceit 
Maria Sellers 
On Friday, Feb. 27, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will hold its annual winter concert. 
From the slowly changing harmonies of Aaron Copland to the melodic symphonies of Antonin Leopold Dvorak, attendees are sure to be rhythmically moved. 
The symphony orchestra, composed of both undergraduate and 
'•
'• 
::~r,.,.-.. ~ C ........ ,..~,
~ uu.er1uar om.es ·-.:u ~mpus 

~ Alexa Shoen 
I The Department of Film, Television and Theatre will present :: "Guernica" under the direction of FTT Professor Anton Juan this ~ month at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Both Juan and IPlaywright Yiannis Lymtsioulis are scheduled to present duringI"Darwin and Theatre: Migration and Evolution: An International :: Playwrights Conference." The conference takes place in McKenna IHall from Feb. 24 through Feb. 26. I The tragedy, a true story in which an Albanian shipwreck leaves Irefugees afloat off the coast of Italy, complements the university's ~ theme of "Darwin and Notre Dame." Searing in its immediacy ~ -the play is set in 1997 -"Guernica" will explore the impact of 
I: imperialism, irresolute politics and abandoned ideals of generations 
graduate students, will perform classics by modern and Romantic-Ipast. Because of its ties to the Darwin and Theatre Conference, the era composers. Junior trombone player Anthony Parrish will also :: director and playwright should have interesting comments to add perform a solo. Parrish, who won the concerto competition last !: during the conference. The theme of evolution is sure to come up in fall, will mix his talent with that of the orchestra to create an Isome remarkable ways -the question is whether or not the Notre unconventional and modern sound. :: Dame audience will be willing to listen. 
Even if you don't listen to much classical music, the expressive ~ Tickets are available for purchase ($15 general ·admission, $12 songs performed by the orchestra promise to be truly touching. Ifaculty/staff, $12 seniors, $10 students) at the DeBartolo Performing 
The performance will be enjoyable for the music lover, the orchestra aficionado and even the curious friend. 
Director Dan Stowe says, "This concert is a great way to hear wonderful music by talented musicians. Students are sure to be pleasantly surprised by the quality of music-making by their 
peers." ~ 

Birdsong 
Mike Benz 
In Andrew Bird, a composer's mind and minstrel's spirit meet, crafting flights of fancy alternately spare and lush. In his early band, Andrew Bird's Bowl of Fire, Bird mingled violin virtuosity with jazz · 
:: Arts Center Ticket Office or online at performingarts.nd.edu. IShowings are Tuesday, Feb. 24, through Saturday, Feb. 28, at 7:30 
i.I.. p.m. and Sunday, March 1, at 2:30 p.m. 9 
I
l~Just Not That Into This 

~ _F_ra_n_ce_s_T_h_u_n_de_r_____________ 
; Pros: An A-list cast of very attractive people that both sexes can :j enjoy viewing. Cons: Everything else. If men were afraid of women :j before, thinking that we were over-analytical, temperamental, ~ emotional stalkers/commit-to-me-now freaks, we just handed them Ievidence on a silver platter in the form of a Hollywood film. While 
and folk before starting a solo career now four albums deep. Weather ; the movie is based on a best-selling book, I was just not into "He's Systems (2003) and The Mysterious Production ofEggs (2005) featured IJust Not That Into You." Despite the stellar cast, the characters were Bird's quietly wistful voice accompanied by folksy guitar, violin ; obnoxious and over-the-top. Jennifer Aniston's character's situation and an irresistibly haunting whistle. In Armchair Apoc1ypha (2007), ; is the only one that is even remotely relatable. Unfortunately for the layers of guitar and string loops swelling behind violin, glockenspiel Iaudience, however, Ginnifer Goodwin's cringe-worthy character and and more songbird whistling give Bird's music a symphonic sweep, ~ ridiculous actions clouded any pity I felt for the somewhat normal brimming with bittersweet-melodies. On his new album, Noble Beast, ) women. I can't watch people embarrass themselves, and usually I just Bird blends composer and m1nstrel better than ever with intricately ; change the channel or walk away. Because I was in a movie theater and woven folk music. Each song is a new texture ofhis lonely resilience. j: paid $6.50, I wasn't going anywhere. Yes, I enjoy my chick flicks, but In "Fitz and the -Dizzyspells," longing transforms into whimsical j when I have to spend almost a quarter of the time looking away from energy, while "Natural· Disaster" lingers in subdued reveries. Bird j the screen, it's gone beyond the caliber of flicky-ness acceptable. On shines in daring moments of rare fervor -in "Anonanimal," his ~ the plus side, ifyour boyfriend sees this movie, and you're anywhere repetitive wordplay intensifies to a beautiful irresolution. The Inear more normal than the female characters, maybe he'll thank his 
album's characteristic tone, however, is a wonder that se.ems to meander through strangely peaceful curiosities, voiced in sinewy lyrics, Charming in its strangeness, Bird's emotional world seems to expand in honesty and inventiveness with each listen. 9 
. 
~ lucky stars and get you something nice. Or maybe he'll decide to ~ bail and dump you before the "inevitable" happens. One star for hot 
; actors. ; :: '  ,o  
26 FEBRUARY 2009 II SCHOLASTIC  II 21  



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
{Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources In 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

corecouncil.nd.edu 

•,•.,· 
.· .. ,,:, .'!, ·'.''·olieck1h~liSti~g.···•·••> 




r;;itfIi~i~JtTut~e~;~~~~i~sti 
ff.//·:;~·:·-·:i"·::;:/rt'.;"-· //\f_ ~~: :,..;:.=..i·)·.::.·. 
·;·::~I;~~/.::···'\:.-i;.J·,·:.:.··.-.::....;.,:..?.)~-{~~-_.~:.· ..
,·.-;, ' -. ;:-, ;; J/'(\;}",;:"/ '{::/\}-·'.:,•::::.". 'i-~-~,:·.. ,:: ·;: ·: :. 
lilltf~!f!l~!~i);~~~f~~!i*~Mir 
ir).?~;l~ ;•"[_:c•~,'.~,:-,, -~<:\•:·:::::;· '~ ·:•.-:'.: :_ >../ ·:•· -..:.-,·,·:·......·::.·.•.•.~:.:.:..::.. _;.•.:•.. :•.~.. :·:..•··•,,'•'.•<•.:·.•.':.'i·.....•.·.•.· .. , ', ' .. 
[{]'.':~ti;~;~{::;~:t~t"::;:~,:]:],;.,::,;~~_,"j2-{'.:.:/,t;} -·~-~-:-'.~;i'i \···: _·:_.:-~~// ·: _ 
Ice Ice Baby 
Notre Dame women take~to the ice 
Mary Kaminski 
The No. 1 Notre Dame men's hockey team isn't the only Fighting Irish team skating across the ice in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. The Notre .Dame women's hockey club, now in its seventh season, is comprised of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women with a wide range of hockey experience. Regardless of each player's ability, the women are finding ways to win. At 13-3 so far this season, they are off to their best start in club history. 
Led by senior co-captains Margaret Knoedler and Amy Wilhelmy, the club offers the unique opportunity for former high school, club and novice hockey players to continue competing on the ice. The club doesn't have tryouts, and this season 18 women came out for the team. The absence of a women's varsity team at Notre Dame makes it possible for players with a large spectrum of skill levels to participate. "We have a lot of girls who wouldn't be able to skate at [the varsity] level, and I think even a lot of the girls that can skate wouldn't want to put in that tinie commitment," Wilhelmy says. 
The Fighting Irish are members of the Women's Central Hockey League's South White Division, consisting of mostly Chic_ago-land teams. They are the only team in their division that is university-affiliated. The Evanston Tigers White, Romeoville Rampage White and Hoffman Estates Flash, who make up the rest of the division, are teams ofwomen in their 20s and 30s, some of whom are Notre Dame alumni and former women's hockey club members. The Irish also play Northwestern University and Loyola University Chicago. Notre Dame beat Northwestern in both meetings this season but has yet to face Loyola. The season runs from October through March, ending with a league championship tournament within the division. 
Coached by sophomore Conor Brennan, senior Mike Amenta and law studentJohn Meiser, the club practices twice a week with games on 10 weekends throughout the season. "It's nice that it's club because people's commitments vary. You really only put in as much time as you want to. But we have a group who loves to play, so it works out," Wilhelmy says. 
The team has performed well in its league, a testament to the hard work it puts in despite its sub-varsity status. "This is the first year we have had a winning record. We have a lot of girls that played in high school and five seniors, so we have good experience," Wilhelmy says. 
The club will graduate five seniors this year, so it will look to its young talent in the upcoming seasons. "It's exciting because we had to get a brand-new goalie this year, Elissa Cmunt, who has never skated before, and it's going really well. She's a freshman, so hopefully she'll stick with it," Wilhelmy says. 0 

t.rhe past several years, senior cheerleader Natalie Leopold has spent 0 1"lt,less hours pumping up Notre Dame fans, and she has loved everyond of it. Leopold, a finance major, has frequented the sidelines at a jktyofsporting events, ranging from football games to pep rallies, and }always finds a way to energize the crowd. Whether flying through the ·i: flipping across the field, Leopold is constantly entertaining students ,alumni on game days. After her cheerleading career ends, Leopold will fkfor Barclays Capital in New York City, where she says she will carry 
J1y of the lessons she has learned from cheering on the Irish. 
Jw didyou initially get involved with cheer/ending? 
}Jwingup, I was always really involved with competitive gymnastics, and I 
}i:Icheerleading more for recreation. But in high school I broke both ofmy 
''\i§ts, so the idea ofpursuing gymnastics in college went out the window, ··:t.~tarted to focus more on cheerleading. \Vhen I got to Notre Dame I Ji I'd give it a shot, and I tried out during my sophomore year. 
e-wrncking to perform i11front of80,000 screaming fans at '/"games? 
'aliy find the pep rallies and smaller events to be more nerve-wracking tii~ football games. I guess it's kind of like how people say it's harder gto one person than to a huge group. The excitement of the game p1,:Jo deter any nerves, and I can really feed off of the energy of large
~1Y~r --~ 
is tbe atmosphere like performing at an away game? 
}mostpart, it has been a great experience. But I think it also depends _.,re we are playing. Penn State was an especially hostile environment. 
•:·riles the fans yell fu~ny stuff at us, like "Jesus hates you!" at Penn 
{or "Oompa Loompa!" at Boston College. It's usually all in good ough. 
. . 
tbeerleadw,, do you feel as tbougb you are ever stereotyped 
.~heerleaders ·get stereotyped as being dumb, which is definitely not ome.ofthe smartest people I know at Notre Dame ~re cheerleaders. iBeople assume that we are happy and·peppy all the time, but there 
·tbe mos-t MWarmssing thing tbltt bas ever bappene,l to you ormingl' 
ened really recently, actually. For the basketball game against }He everyone received a camouflage T-shirt, but they were way too th~ cheerleaders. I did my best to tuck it in, but as I ran out onto the )1d st~rted performing, the shirt flew up over my head. The funny s; I was wearing a nude-colored bra, so I think some of the fans got 
1.me tbmg tltat mmlY people do not know about weer/ending? 
eason never really ends. We start with football,· then go right into Jball, and at the end ofthe year there are tryouts. Our only off-season irig the summer: There is one point during the year when football and ,t~all season overlap, so during that time we sometime_s put in 30 to 40 "'each week. I also think.a lot of people assume it is really easy to lift '.~p over your head, but there is a lot of technique involved. 

Tommy Krcmaric 

Lacrosse season is underway, and the Irish men's team opened the season with a 10-9 victory over Loyola University Chicago on Feb. 14. Junior midfielder Grant Krebs led Notre Dame with three goals and an assist, while senior goalkeeper Scott Rodgers made 11 saves in his first collegiate start. The Irish are ranked in the top 10 in the nation in all major polls and are loo~ing to build on last season's 14-3 record that culminated in an NCAA quarterfinals appearance. Notre Dame has bee~ selected by a poll of the Great Western League's coaches as the favorite to win the conference. The Irish return to their home field for a match against Dartmouth on Feb. 28. 
The Irish track and field teams put up a good showing at the Big East Championships the weekend ofFeb. 21-22. The men :finished in second place, only 4.5 points behind the victorious Connecticut Huskies. The women finished fifth. Several members ofthe team had outstanding performances. On the men's side, sophomore sprinter Miklos Szebeny finished second in the 200 meters with a time of21.65 seconds, good enough for all-conference honors. Sophomore shot-putter John Belcher also earned all-conference honors and a third-place finish with a toss of 17.71 meters, while senior Daniel Clark ran well enough in the mile to get second place. The women also had two runners receive All-Big East status. Sophomore Natalie Johnson placed second in the 500 meters with a time of 1:12.22. In the pentathlon, freshman Maddie Buttinger finished third with 3,922 points. The Irish next compete at home in the Alex Wilson Invitational March 6-7. 
The Irish men's swimming and diving team captured its second consecutive Big East title on Feb. 18-21 in Indianapolis. With a four-point lead after the first offour days ofcompetition, the Irish were poised to capture their fourth conference title in five years, an amazing feat considering that the Irish had never won a Big East title before 2005. The stars ofthe first 
~, . day were Notre Dame's 800-yard freestyle relay team of senior Danny Lutkus, sophomore Steven Brus, and juniors Mack ~ LeBlanc and John Lytle. Their time of6:27.19 set not only a school record, but a Big East record as well. The Irish I-meter diving team also contributed points by placing 4 ofthe top 5finishers in the field. The meet culminated ina showdown on the second day against top-ranked Louisville in the 400-free relay. The Irish team of Lytle, Lutkus, sophomore Joshua Nosal and junior Andrew Hoffman finished first to secure the title. The women's team also won the Big East Championship. 

YOU GOT SERVED The women's tennis team prepares for a match against Purdue on Feb. 18. • 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 

SPORTS 

Alex Hellmuth 
Fencing seems to suffer from some serious stereotyping. The sport is typecast in movies as elitist and leisurely.. One practice with the Notre Dame fencing team, however, suggests otherwise. The fencing gym is a blur of fast movements, and the space resonates with loud rap music and smells like sweat. It is filled with serious athletes meeting the demands of their sport, a sport that can hardly be classified as leisurely. Senior sabre team Co-captain Ashley Serrette attributes the lack of enthusiasm for the sport in the student body to popular misconceptions surrounding fencing. "I think students have certain negative notions about fencing that prevent them from possibly enjoying the sport," Serrette says. Many of these false impressions stem from limited knowledge about the sport. When you read that the men's foil team posted an impressive 99-24 mark on• the weekend, what does· it even mean? And what about the weapons? Understanding the. three different 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 26 FEBRUARY 2009 
weapons used in fencing is key to demystifying the sport and opening the door to appreciation. Each weapon is characterized by its length, weight and respective fighting style. The style employed by each weapon is determined by the target area -the area on the fencer's body that is identified by a metallic covering. 
The foil is a light, short blade, and foil fighters wear a metallic vest that illustrates their target area. The sabre is characterized by a thicker blade, and, unlike the other two weapons that score points by touching the opponent, the sabre slashes the opponent, whose target area is confined to the entire upper-body. The epee is the heaviest weapon, and fencers are able to score anywhere on the body; epee fencers are distinguished by their white body suits. Points are won when the fencer touches or slashes the target area. The electric impulse created by the contact of the sword with the metallic vest sends a signal to the scoreboard, and a red or white light is illuminated (red and white representing the different competitors). 
While one weapon cannot be classified 
as mote challenging than another, certain 
body types or athletic qualifications may 
contribute to a fencer's decision when it's 
time to take up arms. "While I specifically 
chose the s:jbre because I was attracted to 
how fast-paced the fighting was, I think I 
was probably predetermined for the sabre 
because I am a sprinter and. very quick on 
my feet,'' Serrette says. 
Sophomore Zach Schirtz chose the foil 
for his own reasons. "When I first started 
fencing, foil was the one that gave me the 
greatest long-term benefit, and from then 
on I stuck with it. I enjoy it because of the 
difficulty involved; it is the weapon with the 
smallest target area," he says. 
Though sabre fencers are typically faster, epee fencers generally possess endurance, and foil fencers tend to be taller. Regardless if they · were made to wield a particular fencing weapon, all fencers need to practice, practice, practice. "The best fencers are the ones who have experience," Serrette says. · "And experience is only achieved through practicing technical skills, improving your 
footwork and working hard." 


SPORTS 

Foil: light, short blade, touch for points, traditional fencing style 

Epee: heaviest blade, touch for points, for long bouts and endurance 
I ' 

Sabre: thicker blade, slash for points, fast-paced 
Irish fencers practice every weekday. 
Schirtz says, "Our practices are fun, 
but very intense. They include lots of 
conditioning and lots of fencing. Much 
of the conditioning focuses on muscular 
endurance, speed, agility and coordination 
drills." 
Although modern fencing is far removed from the dueling days of the Renaissance, tradition still prevails. When fencers step . up to the strip, they wait for the director (referee) to say, "En garde," and then they salute their opponent and the director. After the bout is over, they shake hands with the opponent. "As a sign of respect toward your opponent, you always shake with your non­
glove hand," Serrette says. 
Similarly, modern fencing has not foregone the importance of the mind. Serrette describes fencing as "a chess game on a strip," requiring the player to be extremely observant of his or her opponent and to plan moves beforehand. The mental difficulty offencing is what drew Serrette to the sport. "In fencing it's all you, all the time. You have to play both offense and defense. 
You are your own playmaker," she says. The absolute intensity and individualism of the sport push the fencer to take complete control. There is no coach on the sideline to make suggestions or teammates on the field to pick up the slack. 
Schirtz enjoys the adrenaline rush and high pressure. He says that his favorite part is "the fact that you are out there all alone. I mean, you are on a team but when you are on the strip, it all comes down to you." 
While the fencers are alone on the stFip for three minutes, battling over five points, their efforts are for the team. "Although it is a very individualized sport, in the matches that matter, like the NCAAs, it is a complete team effort," Serrette says. The NCAA team consists of six men and six women, each of whom have qualified in a regional tournament. 
Despite the factthatfencing goes relatively unnoticed on the Notre Dame campus, the Irish fencing team boasts one Olympian, an undefeated season for the men's team and an impressive record: Notre Dame fencers have placed in the top four at the NCAA 
tournament every year since 2005, the year 
they captured the championship. 
Notre Dame fencers know how to play this "chess" better than almost any other team in the NCAA. Recent graduate Mariel Zagunis captured the gold medal for the individual foil in Beijing this past summer. Freshman Gerek Meinhardt became the youngest U.S. Olympic fencer ever to compete when he walked the strip in Beijing. The national coach's poll for the 2009 season ranked the Irish men number one and placed the women second. So far, the men and women's fencing seasons can be classified as quite successful. 
· The fencing team is arguably one of the best and most consistent teams on campus. "Fencing is a great sport that encompasses athleticism, mental capability and persistence, and I only wish that it received a more positive reception on campus," Serrette says. I} 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 11 SCHOLASTIC 1127 



HUMOR 
I! r;P/
,;;.>· 
Aii!!!51iili:il~.;:;_t::;, 
.~( 
//' 

There comes a time in every young Gipp's life when he/she must leave the warm arms of majestic Mother Mary and move onto other, inevitably lesser endeavors. After all, my children, how can life ever trump this magnificent task of documenting your debauchery? For the past year, Gipp has laughed with you and cried with you, but mostly laughed at you while you were crying, in the corner, alone. But alas, Gipp must step down from the 2008-2009 throne and let the next king-queen Gipp ofNotre Dame shenanigans ascend. 
But first, Gipp must tell you one last tale. It only seemed fitting to end with a story starring some of Gipp's favorite characters: Gentle Blond Giant, Captain Chug and a new guest star, Buffy the Vampire. As always, this crew is up to no good, and in this latest story, no clothes. Our three lads, fed up with the overused Saran wrap and Twister board fads of alphabet parties, decided they would take the ABC costume directions to a more premature level. Desiring outfits that would not only show off their admirable physiques but also provide long-lasting protection, our boys invested in some Depends. Depends: because you deserve the best in absorbent products. Depends: you've probably seen their commercials while watching "The Price is Right." Depends: . the best way to make an entrance to an ABC party. So, following an hour of power that turned into two and certainly filled their bladders to near capacity, the diaper-bound triplets bounded over to the party. There, guests couldn't help but be impressed by the utility, style and confidence exuded by the Pee-Free Three -if you thought only Hulk Hogan could pull off the look, think again! As consumption continued, Gentle Blond Giant, Captain Chug and Buffy the Vampire found themselves faced with a gametime decision: to break or not to break the seal. The bathroom line stretched on for miles and miles, and America's most trusted adult diaper clung around their waists. Did they dare challenge Depends' claim of complete protection? Would they risk the feelings of inadequacy, shame and embarrassment that accompany leaky adult diapers? Were they ready to relive incidents they had not experienced in 15 years (or in the case of Gentle Blond Giant, probably a week or two)? Yes. Yes, they were ready. And only moments later, ecstatic praises rang from their lips! "I didn't even feel it!" the triplets cried. "Not even a drop befell my leg!" 
Gentle Blond Giant, always excited to flaunt his accomplishments, proceeded to change out of his diaper and proudly present its absorbent glory to all the party-goers. Buffy the Vampire, for his part, continued to challenge his pant-suit. As if embracing a half-naked man in a diaper wasn't already exciting enough, Buffy added to the experience by secretly continuing to test the absorbent capabilities of his costume as he hugged guests. Seems no one could read his poker face. So, yes, children, often when you go to parties, that warm feeling from your fingers to your toes is due to friendship, fleeting romance or excess of beverage. But other times, it may simply be an effect of the adult diaper you are wearing. 
But much like Gentle Blond Giant's diaper, it is time for a change. This Gipp sincerely thanks all of you for the disappointment, the regret, the shame, the mistakes, the disillusionment, the anger, the mysterious blocks of time, the broken windows, the broken wills, the broken bread, the injuries, the ill-fated romances and the awkwardly weird invitations that have been generously shared through e-mails and hearsay. The year is far from over -nay, your lives are far from over! -and Gipp hopes that you will continue to celebrate, revel and create general mayhem until the end of time. But before then, spring break. vVord to your mothers! 
Love, 
The Gipper 
o o 0 o o at gipper@nd.edu 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 




Natalie Kratz's Notes 
Natalie's Notes I Notes About Natalie I Natalie's Profile 



25 Things I ate bout You 
Yesterday at 11 :11 PM 
"Okay, okay, I've been tagged like 12 times, so I guess I'll give in ..." If this is how you are starting your Facebook note, you better make No. 1: "I can't say no to peer pressure, no matter how lame of a thing my friends are doing." Looks like D.A.R.E. didn't really work out for you. If anyone knows who came up with this brilliant scheme, please pass this information on to me. I'd like to send him hateful ­Facebook messages for filling up my news feed with reports of yet another person trying to impress her (yes, I am stereotyping) friends with "interesting" and "random" factoids. 
A common theme in these lists seems to be telling all of your friends what makes you completely unique from the average college student. "I HATE beer." Good story -more for me. You can also count on finding out how many pets a person has and just how much her family means to her. Approximately 74 percent of my friends have reported that they have become closer with their parents since going to college. There also seems to be some unwritten rule that you must include your favorite Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle and/or Disney Princess. As long as you are being cutesy and immature, tell me the name, description and origin of the stuffed animal you still sleep with. 
After getting 10 to 15 facts using the typical methods, things start getting a little weird. "My couch sells for $3,000 retail, but we got it for only $300!" Now, this girl had only 25 chances to wow the world of Facebook. And all I'm going to remember is that her couch, though stylish and fancy, probably glows more brightly under a blacklight than the bed of a seedy motel on "CSI: Miami." I doubt even Horatio Caine would want to touch that thing. Remind me to opt for the floor if I ever crash at her place. 
I think the best are the ones that don't really say anything about the person. "Johnny Depp, by far, is my favorite actor. He can change so much for every character." Now that I know your favorite actor, I've acquired so much insight into your complex personality. For instance, now I know that you are a girl, between the ages of 16 and 23 and think of yourself as artsy but not weird. Sort of a psuedo-indie. I bet you also love the "Juno" soundtrack. Hey, I guess it does say a lot about you ... if your other friends are as judgmental as I am. 
Speaking of being judgmental, let's be honest, most people are. So if you do decide to go through with this fad, maybe keep in mind that a Facebook note is not your sh rink's couch. Even if you only tag your closest friends, all of your friends can read your heartfelt musings and will probably mock you for using it as therapy. Kind of like what I'm doing right now. I now know which of my peers I can m.ake fun of for being afraid of growing up, getting a job, heights, commitment (yeah ... that's why you're single ...) and fish. On the bright side, I know which of my friends have bad relationships with their parents/siblings/exes/pet hamsters and can avoid awkward conversations. Thanks, Facebook! 
Sure, one could argue that I could simply refuse to read these notes and let everyone enjoy their trends in peace. But what if deep down in those tidbits of your life is a cry for help (aka the therapist's couch method)? I'm reading them because I care. Not about what you say or think, but about your general well-being. Also, I'm taking IT Management Applications this semester. I have about three hours a week to kill in front of a computer, and Excel is boring (or difficult when I'm hungover). Now, my already limited brain capacity and this valuable class time are spent reading and retaining this useless overshare. I'm begging you, please stop this nonsense. That way, I can get off Facebook and back to bigger and better things (i.e., fmylife.com and crossword puzzles on Yahoo Games). 0 
26 FEBRUARY 2009 J SCHOLASTIC. J 31 
in,ce his freshman year boxing debut, senior marketing major Kris ,~rez has won three consecutive Bengal Bouts tournaments. Now, he is reparing to defend his title one last time. Staff writer Claire Reising '•'.l:!t with the boxer (outside the ring, fortunately) to discuss his four 
f,olastic: How did you getyour 11ick11a11te (El Azteca)? ris Perez: I don't really know. I know I wanted something that would 
_present my Mexican heritage, so I think that had a lot to do with it ... I :'..'nk one day people were throwing nicknames around, and I guess that's . one that stuck ... I was going to change it to Twinkle Toes or something fe that, but then my friends were like, "Why? What are you doing? Don't 
0 
{what was it like actually fighting in a match for the first 
' ,: In practice, the closest simulation you get to a real fight is sparring, ,)t still doesn't compare to a real fight. The adrenaline level is really gh, you're nervous, people are watching. That pressure itself just makes }even more tired. Dealing with that and just wanting to perform -it's 
;![y exhausting. You don't think trying to keep your hands up is tiring, \t really is. That's the most difficult part -trying to keep your hands ;moving around and actually [fighting] the other guy who wants to win i:nuch as you do. 
,., .. 
How do you mentally prepare yourselffor a fight? · D·usually get there an hour and a half before my fight, just walk into 
·gym, relax, put on my music, jump rope, stretch and make sure I'm }m and ready for the fight. Music helps me a lot. I listen to everything, trap mostly. 
Do yo1e still get nervous before fights? 
: I don't think the nervous feelings are ever going to go away. I'm · :vous before every fight, but I think I use that to improve my fighting ,her than diminish it in any way. Ifl'm nervous, that means I'm always .,my toes, and that means I'm ready for anything that might come. Ifl ·_n't nervous, that means I'm a little too relaxed before the fight and I'm 
. taking it as seriously. I think it actu:illy helps me instead of hindering ··or holding me back. 
'What was your most memorable fight? . : Last year's championship fight. I think I was' at 149 [pounds] vs. Sully . wrence Sullivan]. He was a captain a11d a defending champion, and I 
.. also a defending champion. We met at that weight class, and I just ember everyone being excited before the fight. I was really nervous, that light's going to stay with me for a long time ... [After the fight], _. s exhausted. I just remember my lungs burning. I could barely walk. er I got out of the ring and went to have the doctors check up on me, I ·remember sitting there for 10 or 15 minutes because I didn't want to 
.ve. [Perez won the fight.] 
ic !fter college, do you plan to continue boxing? 
.j After graduating from Notre Dame, I'm not trying to find a job. I'm ·• ally going to pursue boxing as my career .... I've been thinking about _or the last two years, but I put some serious thought behind it this year. I ,lied Ed [Hernandez], my mentor, and he said that he'll help me do it. His :4 owns a gym in Lubbock, Texas, and I'm going to go down there and see }have what it takes. I think I'd first fight about half a year, a year [in an] ·: ateur [league]. That's Golden Gloves, so I'd fight at_the state level and en at thenational level ifI'm good enough. If Ed and his dad think I'm dy to take the next step; then I'd try to get a few pro matches. 0 






