

Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _____________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic rv1agazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years=$ 
SCHOLASTIC Cross-Class Talcing classes at "the school across the street" opens up new experi­ences to Saint M..µy's and Notre Dame students By Julie Scully/ Page 12 Sports Doing Fine, Thank You In less than two seasons, Barry Alvarez has created one of the most fearsome defense units in college football By Brian McMahon/ Page 15 Pure Pugilism With neither prize money nor promises of glory, Notre Dame Novice Boxing offers the chance to pursue a dream By Kevin T. Kerns/ Page 17 Sportsweek/ compiled by Jim Kuser/ Page19  
News So What's the Story? If the Office of Student Affairs follows through with its "War on Drugs," shat sort of drug culture will it find at Notre Dame? By Matthew Kienstra/ Page '9 Square Meal Legal department looks at University Food Service By Megan Hines/ Page 11  
Departments Week in Distortion/ by Chris Fillio/ Page 4 Music/ by Dan Fahey/ Page 5 On Other Campuses/ compiled by Chris.Fillio/ Page 3 Coming Distractions/ compiled by Karen Kenney/ Page 20 Final Word/ by Charlie Maher/ Page 23 Life In Hell/ Inside Back Cover  
Editorial/ Pa e 22 f Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed . The opinions expressed in Scholastic.are those he University of Notre Dame, its administration, anuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials ibited.  
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University oat The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542 The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at$ 1.00/copyof the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of tfacuhy or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Mbecoine the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in pan without permission is proh 

October 5, 1989 
Colman McCarthy 
"How to Radicalize the U.S. Media!" 
4:30 Theodore's, 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Friday--October 13th 

Washington Post Colum.nist 
-Founder and Director of the Center for Teaching Peace 

On Other. Campuses 



BEAR BUSTED BY BAND BULLY 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Bruno the Brown Bear Beaten And Bruised By Bulldog Band Boss. So went the headline of a recent story in The Brown Daily Herald. A seven-year feud involving the Yale 
marching band, the Brown cheerleaders and the Brown Bear became somewhat intensified during the halftime show of the Brown-Yale football game on September 16. Yale drum major Sam Evans blind­sided John Roberti, who plays Bruno the Brown Bear, with a flying tackle. "I was trying to get to the other side to fight with the Bulldog," explained Roberti; speaking of the choreographed sparring that tra­ditionally occurs between the mascots. "The Yale fans in the stands started yelling 'Kill the bear,' so I egged them on. The next thing I knew, I was flat on my back with the wind knocked out of me." Un­fortunately for Roberti-who admits that the bear suit provides him with a very limited area of vision-he had wandered approximately thirty yards on the field, in the middle of the Yale band's halftime show. 
It's called 'Condom Sense Week' at the University ofKansas, and the goals are to heighten awareness in regards to the AIDS virus. While certain colleges tend Lo skirt the issues of sexual activity and STD's, officials at KU have decided to tackle the problem head-on· by informing students of all the facts. An article in The University Daily Kansan detailed the week-long event sponsored by the Student Senate AIDS Task Force which featured lectures, panel discussions and free information packets with or without condoms, depending on 

· personal preferences. The week kicked offon a Monday with a mid­day 'condom launch' in which 200 helium-filled condoms were released into the air. 
Criminology 101 fieldtrip? Hardly so for University of Illinois student Joseph Mulcahy, whose latest trip to the bank was no walk in the park. It seems as if Mulcahy was the victim ofa clever prank that led to his eventual arrest According to the police round-up column in The Daily Illini, the student handed a bank teller at Marine Bank a savings withdrawal slip with a note on the back that said "Give me $10,000. I have a gun." The bank alarm was pulled and police responded to the scene immediately. "It appears that Mr. Mulcahy was a victim ofan unfortunate hoax," said one bank officer. Evidently, someone had previously written the note and slipped it back into the stack of slips. Mulcahy was handcuffed and spent the night in jail after submitting fingerprints and a mug shot. "I was too stunned to say anything," he said. 
Ifyou thought parietals were bad, how about mandated isola­tion? That's justabout the situation for a few hundred freshmen at the University ofSouth Carolina-Columbia. According to the National On-Campus Report, initially only thirty-six students signed up for the two restricted donns which have been desig­nated as off-limits to the opposite sex, except for the downstairs lobby. When registration for the rooms was not even close to capacity, USC assigned hundreds of other freshmen to there. Needless to say, "They aren't ecstatic," said student body presi­dent Marie-Louise Ramsdale. 


l • I 
.., .......'.,,
.·•·.....
If' • • 
) ....... 

tt 
I: 
Saying he is "sick and tired of all the garbage going on" in the Student Government Association, University of Illinois juniorTilmann Pickplans to announce his resignation from the organization. In a story published in The Daily Illini, Pick stated his dissatisfaction with the internal power struggles that have been keeping the organization form representing student interests. "All this has led to this big struggle in SGA,'' said · Pick. "People within the group hate each other, and that's not what we're here for. I'm resigning because I have no interest in SGA, and I've lost respect for the organization and the people in it" Beware, registered voters, ofIllinois politicians! 
• 

Week in Distortion/ Chris Fillio 

Live, From South Bend .. o It's Saturday Night 
Lighting up the night in Indiana's Center ofExcitement
W ell, Michigan State was one how about American Gladiators? It's a cross some spicing up. If I see another Casino hell of a weekend and that between Schwartzenegger's Running Man Night or Country Club SYR, it's vomit city. road trip to Ann Arbor was some-game and arena football. Undoubtedly, both High School Night, where scamming the thing else. But pretty soon those shows will give keen insight and strategy for malls gets everyone a date, while often sug­football weekends are in California and that interhall game on Sunday afternoon. gested, is rarely enacted. In the immortal Colorado, slightly out of reach for the aver-Even campus activities can be made more· words of that shoe company, "just do it, you age financially oppressed student. It's time socially attractive, with a little ingenuity. A bonehead!" The Armageddon SYR? Just do for the big slap-in-the-face-of-reality. On perfect example are the SYR's. These are it. Underoos SYR? Just do it. SYR in the these weekends, the action wm t1e;::; !:,;;.·_•.~; Ubriitt '? Jlll:.tdoit. Beach Party SYR? Don't Notre Dame. In South Bend. even think about doing it, you Some will say that a night in dork. South Bend is about as much Other suggestions include fun as wrasslin' with a bobcat the Beacon Bowl, where you in heat. But in sooth, there's can get a boss set of shoes for tons 'ostufftodo. Speaking of that semi-formal. If you like wrasslin', how about catching baseball, there's a couple of the WWF on one oftheir many minor league teams around swings through town? Then like the South Bend White when your parents call on Sun-Sox and the Chicago Cubs. day night, you can tell them Butdon'tgo toCovaleski Sta-about the great time you had dium, because there's no one with Ricky the Dragon Steam-there now except Pops boat and the One Man Gang. I McGee, the guy who works guarantee, the folks will be ~=""' on the grounds crew. speechless. Going to Kroger and getting 
For those of you with not A rockln' night In South Bend, wrasslln' with some of the guys. two carts ofstuff at the check-quite as much vim and vigor, there's always friends set them up with a pre-determined out and then running off to get that dental the movies. Nahh. That's boring. Plus you date (or one which is chosen by the datee floss that you forgot but actually slipping out have to mortgage a house to pay the outra-himself/herself, whereby the idea of Screw the door, well tha_t's a good one. Or pushing geous prices. Besides, the only good shows Your Roommate is somewhat moot, unless a Burger King employee's Yugo onto the these days are double features like "Inner-you get lucky before he/she does and are the drive-thru ordering platform is worth a few city Ninja Death Squad Machine/ Old Mil-first couple back in the room that night while guffaws. Or rewiring the traffic lights on a waukee Bongfest," the latter of course being the other schvantz is locked out, thus being an football weekend. Or playing frisbee golf in the homemade, audience participation type SYRtosomeextent,literally.) Then.several the Snite museum.· Or ordering Domino's film. Probably no academy awards in that couples hang out in the room for several pizza for all the Smiths and Joneses in the one. hours having several drinks and several student directory. The name of the game is 
For those ofyou with not quite as much vim more-interrupted by a 15 minute appear-MYOF-make your own fun. Like Albert and vigor and no car, shut up and stay home. ance at the dance floor-and then several Einstein once said, matter is neither created Or else steal the car keys from that kid down more drinks and several more until the nor destroyed, it merely changes form. Good the hall who's already asleep. But if you are night... slowly .. and ... fuzzily ...fades into times don't happen; they are created from stuck at home on the weekend nights, check oblivion..Sunday morning, and the uttering bad times, from boring times. But if you still out the late-night TV schedule. How about of the inevitable vow, "I'm never going to do insist on being a gloom-and-doom antisocial WAR-the World Alliance of Rollerderby? that again!" Well, at least not until next putz, you can always spend the night wras­It's like wrasslin' on wheels with a team weekend, eh holmes? slin' with that bobcat. ¦ concept. Or for you macho individualists, Even the themes of these dances could use 
.. 
Music/ Dan Fahey 




It Must Have Been The Roses 
Those-on hand at Alpine Valley were certainly grateful for the intense show by Jerry Garcia andfriends 
While many people were heading up to Ann Arbor on Friday, Sept. 15 for the Michigan-Notre Dame football game, a select few responded to a higher call and made the trek to Alpine Valley, Wisconsin, to see the Jerry Garcia Band with Bob Weir and Rob Was­serman. While the former crowd was driving RV's to Michigan, the latter was driving VW Microbuses to Al­pine Valley. While some donned plaid pants and Notre Dame sweat­shirts, others wore colorful tie-dyes and Guatemalan clothes. As some feasted on shrimp and cold cuts, oth­ers delighted in veggie sandwiches and bagels. And at both locales, people walked around, fingers raised, looking for that 'miracle' ticket. The atmosphere at Alpine Valley was festive as usual for a concert fea­turing Jerry Garcia and Bob Weir. The normal assortment of stickers, clothing, and jewelry was being sold by entrepreneurial followers. As choice soundboard tapes played in the background, several musicians took up their instruments to produce their own sweet melodies. We found one group consisting of electric guitar, wash­board, and a homemade bass to be exception­ally good. As eight o'clock approached, the anxious crowd began moving toward the amphithea­ter in anticipation of a hot show. The duo of Bob W eiron acoustic guitar and Rob Wasser­man on acoustic bass took the stage shortly after eight and proceeded to open their eleven song set with an excellent version of ''Walkin' Blues." The upbeat "Festival" fol­lowed and led into "He Travels Fastest Who Travels Alone." A brand new song ensued, which may referred to as ''Peaceful Road" until further notice. 
"Artificial Flowers" was next on the agenda, followed by the band's version ofthe 

Bob Dylan song, "When I Paint My Master­piece." Bob Weir then went on with "Shade of Grey", and "Easy to Slip." During the latter of the two, Bobby temporarily left the stage to allow Rob Wasserman to jam awhile on the bass. When Bobby reemerged, he led Rob into "Victim or the Crime." The con­certgrounds at Alpine Valley must have looked a peaceful place, orso Bobby thought as he wove "Victim" into "Throwing Stones." Bobby and Rob closed out their set a little over an hour after the very first jam with "Misty", a song from the movie "Play Misty For Me," featuring Clint Eastwood. A grateful crowd then settled down to wait for Jerry and his band, which tonight would in­clude saxophonist extraordinaire Clarence Clemons of the E-Street Band. 
Jerry soon appeared, opening his seven-song first set with a rocking rendition of "How Sweet It Is", im­mediately followed by "Stop That Train." The inspirational "Forever Young" was next, which set the stage nicely for "Run for the Roses." "Like a Road" and "My Brothers and Sisters" then preceded Jerry's final song, "Deal", which turned into an extended jam and featured Clarence Clemons wailing on the saxophone. 
Jerry's second set opened with the Jimmy Cliff classic ''The Harder They Come." "Mission in the Rain" then brought the mood down a bit, and gave way to ''That's What Love Will Make You Do." The Motown hit "Second That Emotion" kept the crowd grooving, and was followed up with "Wai ting for a Miracle." The next song, "Don't Let Go", could be 
considered the highlight of the show because the intense, psychedelic jam drove the crowd into a frenzy, lasting nearly twenty-five min­utes. Jerry closed the show shortly after mid­night with "Lonesome" and "A Long Way From Home." 
We waited around in the hope that Bobby and Jerry would come out and play together for awhile, but to no avail. Thus, we joined the crowd in bidding the band goodnight until Saturday's performance at Poplar Creek, Illi­nois.· ¦ 




Features 




Catholic Univ 
r 
ities and the 
atican 
Monk visits Rome to help defin~ the future of their relationship 
versial questions contradicted the offical Higher Education." As the name indicates,
BY FRANK BARLETTA 

teachings of the church. "Catholic Univer­this document was intended as a preliminaryFather Edward Malloy, president of sity is a different case from the schools af-overview ofa conference on higher learning, the University of Notre Dame, re­fected by the confer-===--,-===~.,,...,,,....,.._,..,.,,,..,....,.,.,,..._,...,.,.,.., and not as a cently participated in a series of ence, because it was final decree on conferences at the Vatican on the subject of chartered directly by the matter. Catholic education. After the last of the con­the Vatican," Malloy ferences takes place later this month, the said. The conference This early result will be a papal decree officially defin­dealt with schools version began ing the roles of Catholic universities within not established by with an essay the Church. canon law; Catholic on the nature University is unique of higher edu­While the document's stated purpose is in that it is the only cation, and its to define the relationship between the church institution of higher relationshi'p and the universities, the reasons why this education in the with the relation needs to be defined now remain United States which Church. The unclear. was established by second section the Holy See. consisted of a Malloy said that the purpose of the con­series of ference was not to provide an official posi­The process that "norms," or tion on cases like that of Charles Curran, a will lead to the de­regulations, professor at the Catholic University of cree began as early as 1985, when the that all Catholic institutions should follow. America in Washington, D.C. Curran's right Vatican's Congregation for Seminaries and to teach Catholic theology was suspended Educational Institutions circulated an early This document met· with widespread because his unorthodox positions on contro-version of the "Draft Document on Catholic criticism, particularly in the United States 
.. 

and Canada. "It was too long, it didn't re­flect the diversity of cultures, and it placed no emph~is on the importance of lay faculty," said Father Malloy. "Its picture of the univer­sity was more as a unit of the Church than as a human in­stitution inspired by Catholic teaching." Malloy also de­scribed the docu­
ment as "too juridical -that is, it focused on regulation and law rather than on inspira­tion." 
Over the next three years, the Vatican received many suggestions on improving the education document. These responses served to highlight the need for an interna­tional conference on the Church and higher education. 
In November of 1988, the Congrega­tion began circulating a second,-revised draft of the document. The new version was almost twice as long as the previous one, and it included some of the suggestions which the Vatican received. This second draft recieved less criticism; it was consid­ered less technical than its predecessor. Critics of the previous draft felt that the new document made more concessions to the legal realities in which many universities operate and that it also took greater account of the history of Catholic education. 
The document described the main functions of Catholic universities as schol­arly research, teaching, and community service. It noted, incidentally, that these ac­tivities contribute to the Church's mission to evangelize. It also acknowledged that in order to fulfill their scholarly purposes, schools must have full autonomy. How­ever, the responsibility for maintaining the Catholic character ofthe university was said to belong entirely to the university itself. 
The 1988 document was intended as 



Features 

the agenda ofa working groups separated one last time, in 
later world-order to make more specific recommenda­

tions. 
ence at the 

Vatican. Finally, a steering committee, consist­
Eventually the ing of the heads of the six groups, two bish­
week of April ops, and two representatives of the Interna­
18-25, 1989, tional Federation of Catholic Universities, 
was set for the met to review the recommendations of the 
working groups. Out of this meeting came 
ten summary recommendations for Catho­
lic universities. (See sidebar, next page.) 
tional Con­

of During the conference, fifteen mem­
bers of the congress were elected to form an 
Over two hundred delegates attended the con­ference at the Vati­can. Among them were eighteen rep­resentatives of American universi­ties, including the University ofNotre Dame's Father Malloy, and five American bishops. 
The delegates to the conference divided into six working groups, each of which dis­cussed a different part of the 1988 document. For the first several days, the groups worked separately on their sections of the document, sug­gesting various re­visions. Then the entire conference met to hear the re-
Allan Lim

ports of the six groups. On Friday,. Father Malloy was one of three U.S. educators on the panel of 15. April 21, the Con­gress again gathered in full, to allow any interim commission that would work member of the congress to comment on any closely with the Congregation in the crea­aspect of the document. On Saturday, the tion ofa final draft. Three American educa-


Features 


tors were elected to the commission: the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, president of Fordham University; Sister Sally Furay, vice-president and provost of the University ofSan Diego; and Mal­loy. 
The congress adjourned on April 25 after announcing that the interim commission would meet again in Rome in September, by which time a further draft would have been com­pleted. "A new draft of the recom­mendations was produced between April and September, and we reacted to this new draft when we returned," said Malloy. 
In September, the. commission returned to Rome to discuss further revisions to what was then the third draft of the document. "We made suggestions for further refinements, and voted on the items," said Malloy. "Each one passed by a virtually unani­mous vote." 
The propositions are now being edited in Rome. Later this month, the full congress will return to the Vatican to vote on the final version of the document. After the final version has been approved, it will be presented to Pope John Paul II, who may issue a final decree on the subject later this fall. When this happens, the exact re­lationship between the Catholic Church and its institutes of higher learning will be more clearly defined. 
How this final document will af­fect Notre Dame will not be known until the Pope's official statement. However, drastic changes in the op­eration ofthe university are not likely. "Ifthe final version is consistent with previous drafts, it will not have any great affect on us at Notre Dame," Malloy said. Hewenton to say that "It (the Pope's decree) will be consistent with the kind ofuniversity that we are trying to be and trying to become." 


II 



News 


So 
hat's the Story? 


If the Office ofStudent Affairs follows through with its "War on Drugs," what sort ofdrug culture will it find at Notre Dame? 
BY MATTHEW KIENSTRA 

Continuing on the theme of last issue's look into drug use and abuse at the University of Notre Dame, it is this author's intention to flesh out statements made concerning the ' problem. These statements were mainly based on facts regarding college age drug use which the Office of Student Affairs took from national figures. There is a large discrepancy between these figures and actual drug use at Notre Dame. 
It should be emphasized that drug use is not widespread at Notre Dame as com­pared to at other universities. This stems from multiple factors. The main one of these is the caliber and social background of most of the students. For the the most part, all of the students at Notre Dame are in the "success" category. High G.P.A.'s and S.A.T. scores, student government leadership, and participation in athletics are not the characteristics of the average drug user. Also, the lack of Greek life drastically cuts down on the number of "experimenters". By this tenn I mean the casual users who try drugs out ofcuriosity or only do drugs at organized drug parties 
held at fraternities or sororities. Greek in-last Week's Scholastic addressed the drug issue. 



News 

stitutions are the main way that stu­dents who are not hard users find drugs or come into contact with them. Lack of these institutions at Notre Dame takes away this avenue. 
To procure drugs here means know­ing others around who use them. Most of these seem to gravitate off-campus. My sources say that most drugs that come to Notre Dame come mainly from people bringing them back from their home towns. I tissupposedly very tough to find sources in the South Bend community.Forthesereasons, the drug supply here is not large or easily acces­sible. 
Marihuana seems to be the major drug of choice here, and is the main reason drug use is centered off campus. It is fairly difficult to use marihuana in a dorm atmosphere where the smell ofthe smoke is a dead give-away. 
Breaking into the category of "hard" drugs, the number ofusers at Notre Dame drastically falls off. Mushrooms, ecstasy, and L.S.D. are the favorites. It is hard to tell the actual extent of their use, as they are more discreet and people here are much more quiet about their use of these drugs. Notre Dame definitely has an anti­drug atmosphere. Last and certainly least as far as use at Notre Dame is cocaine. Most Notre Dame coke users brought the habit with them from high school, ac­cording to my sources, and there does not seem to be any kind ofsubstantial market for this drug among the student body. 


Drug users at Notre Dame do not· re­semble typical users at other schools. Here, they seem to still be very goal­oriented, with a view to life after college. 

Thus, they keep their use fairly quiet. These people do not have the "I-don't­give-a-damn" attitude common among drug users. This also is a factor in the low drug useatNotre Dame. The rigorous de­mands of the academics do not leave one with much time to indulge. 
No college is immune.to drug use and abuse. In fact, some college atmospheres · are conducive to, and even encourage, use and abuse. Yet, for the reasons out­lined above, drug use is not widespread at Notre Dame and certainly does not sup­port national trends in use among college age students. II 


Opinion/Megan Hines 
quare Meal 

Legal department looks at University Food Service 
The addition of the legal department to the student body cabinet was among the many changes in student government this year. This group functions to "fonnulate well argued positions on areas of student life and to use these positions to implement student-oriented University posi­tions," according to student body president Matt Breslin and student body vice-president Dave Kinkopf. The majority of time in our department is spent in research, discussion and formulation ofargumentation to be fol­lowed up in the appropriate forum. The department is divided into two main catego­ries; research and University documents. The initial focus of the group has been the Univeristy' s food plan. First, we began with the smaller issues such as the newly em­bossed napkins at the dining halls. (That is, the napkins were previously generic, but now they have a special Notre.Dame seal affixed to them.) Was the majority our Board plan paying for "ambiance" additives such as this? Do the boats displayed for theme din­ners in the dining halls account for lower sums ofmoney to be allotted for actual meals themselves? The correct answer is no. Because the University does such a quantity of business with various corporations, indi­vidual companies donate artifacts as "bo­nuses" of negotiation. For example, the Vice-President of Marketing for the fish company used by Notre Dame, operating out of Boston is a Notre Dame alumnus. Thus, we were given a display boat for whatever purposes we could find. In fact there are three tractor trailer loads full ofsuch novelty items to be used to enhance special evenings. Sim ilaril y, the em bossed napkins were a term of negotiation rather than an additional cost Hence, there was no deduction from the amount of money available to be spent on actual food. In this sense, the food committee could agree that the items were sincerely used to enhance the moment and make that meal a bit more special. 
Most important of all of our findings, dealt with the cost of the 21 meal plan. Each year a new body of student government gets elected/appointed, and each year this group targets a similar set of questions. But the problem lies in the fact that while this may be true, the answers to those questions have never been communicated to us-the student body. Thus, are findings are as follows: to detennine the price of our meal plan, the administrators take the number of academic days and multiply it by the number of avail­able meals per day. This number is then multiplied by the price per meal to come up with a subtotal. Then, however, between 30% and 40% of this price is subtracted because it represents the amount of missed meals. Thus, the grand total price represents the amount of meals EATEN, not available. Significantly, all 21 are available to any on­campus resident In addition, this helps to explain why there is a minimal jump in price from the ten meal plan for off-campus resi­dents to the mandatory twenty-one meal plan. In tenns ofcost efficiency, according to Mr. Bill Hickey, Director of Food Services, the twenty-one meal plan price could not necessarily be improved upon by an alternate meal plan for on campus residents. 
In our discussion with Mr. Hickey, several interesting points evolved. As a director, his domain covers the conduct of the meal plan, while thecontractural element rests with Mr. Mason, Vice-President of Business Affairs. The Legal Department sought to answer the double-payment question. We had been confronted by various students about the monopoly of University Food Services on the campus. In other words, if a student does not like what is being offered for dinner, he or she will go eat at the Huddle and conse­quently pay University Food Services twice. Thus, a transferability system would solve this problem. However, according to Hickey, each of the "Cash operations" runs on an independent financial sheet If one of 
the auxiliary units such as Decio were to be in  
the red, it would not recover itself through a  
borrowing of funds from one of the other  
units or our board plan. So while University  
Food Services, as an umbrella organization,  
profits twice, the profits are independent and  
not wholly related. Thus to incorporate  
transferability would be to develop an entire  
new system. And what's wrong with that?  
According to Mr. Mason, it would result in  
"administrative bureaucracy." -He saw no  
point in shuffling costs from Joe to Adam  
because Adam ate 18 meals per week and Joe  ·,i _,  
only ate 10. But in this sense, wouldn't each  
student be paying for what he is taking? That  
would not be bureaucracy; rather, it would be  
equality. He was quick to point out that Notre  
Dame's system is quite "efficient," espe­ 
cially because there are only two main cen­ 
ters of operation, North and South Dining  
Halls. His priority was efficiency, with  
quality and quantity offood as the end result.  
But how efficient is an across the board  
system with no specialization and individu­ 
alization? He responded, "tailoring to indi­ 
viduals is ofno benefit to us." I wonder who  
is supposed to benefit from the meal plan­ 
those who eat it or those who don't?  
In conclusion, we have developed a stu­ 
dent body survey on the issue ofthe food plan  
which should reach you this week. Contact  
your hall president for further information.  
There is also a food services committee de­ 
signed to work with students and administra­ 
tors to improve on the quality of the  
university's program. If interested, please  
get in touch with Karen Newlove. We ask  
you fill out the survey and return it to student  
government. Let us know how you stand on  
the issue-that's what we are here for. Let's  
make the total endeavor a success. ¦  
The opinions expressed by the author do not  
necessarily reflect the opinions ofScholastic.  
Megan Hines is the executive coordinator of  
the legal department.  


Features 



Taking classes at "the school across the street" opens up new experiences to Saint Mary's and 
T 
BY JULIE SCULLY 
he relationship between Saint 
Mary's College and Notre Dame is 

unique. Most college students do not have the advantage of almost unlimited access to another, vastly different institution. The advantages are numerous, but one of the most important is the opportunity to take classes at the other school. Many Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's students have heard in passing that they can do so, but choose to bypas_s the opportunity. Those who have tried, however, often consider it to be a bene­ficial and often enlightening experience that more students should consider when work­ing out their schedules in the coming semes­ters. 
In general, the reactions of students who take classes at the other school are over­whelmingly positive. Only a few drawbacks are mentioned. One of the most obvious is the hassle ofhaving to go a little further to get to class. This distance can be annoying, es­pecially for the Saint Mary's student who lives in LeMans and is accustomed to awak­ening at 8:50 for her dreaded 9:00 class. This presents a situation where time must be allot-
Notre Dame students 

ted to either walk, drive, or shuttle to the other campus. To students of small schools, espe­cially Saint Mary's, this commute seems to present a problem; but to any other college student who lives off-campus or goes to a larger school, it would be considered normal. The way in which a Notre Dame student 

comes to Notre Dame. The interested student waits in line and if there is room, he or she is put into the class of his or her choice. 
The words of students who "cross-class" are most effective in enlightening those who do not to its advantages and/or disadvan­tages. 
To begin with, it is always beneficial to familiarize oneself with the community in which one lives. There are many Notre Dame students who claim to never have a reason to go over to Saint Mary's except for the An Tosta! picnic, but there are reasons. 
Stacey Navidam, a Notre Dame student· was closed out of a history class and conse­quently chose to take the class at Saint Mary's. Only having been to Saint Mary's once prior to attending the class, initially she did not know what to expect. "I never had a reason to go over to Saint Mary's;'' says· Navidam. Since she has taken her class at Saint Mary's, however, she has met several people and enjoyed the experience. 
She describes her history course, called American Crisis, as very interesting. A few of her friends at Notre Dame asked, "What are the girls like?" "The girls are all the same as the girls here," served as Navidam's reply. 

1 ! 1' • • ,. ,., ... --, • • • • • • ~ 
.. 
Features 

There are many more 
service at Saint Mary's reasons Notre Dame stu­and at Notre Dame he is dents like to take classes at being pressured to serve Saint Mary's. "I like it a lot his professors. To him, because of the smaller that is unfair. classes and the emphasis on Professor Jeanne personal input, whether that Rhodes, who teaches be in writing, or orally in Short Fiction, is an ex­class discussion," says Geoff ample of why Kloska 
York, a senior English ma­prefers the teaching staff jor. He says of many of his at Saint Mary's. "She is a classes at Notre Dame, great teacher who spurs "They are overcrowded and I on much thought, gets the 
have found there is a deem­students very involved, phasis on the person. There and most importantly, she is not much personal contact cares," says Kloska of with the teacher at Notre this professor. "I am so Dame. I just get the informa­disgruntled with Notre tion, memorize it and I am Dame in the academic testedonit." Itisalsogoodto sense, and so impressed break up the pace and it is at with Saint Mary's," he least, a change in scenery, concludes. says Yark. Stu dents at Saint On the other side of the Mary's seem to share this street are the Saint 
sentiment Mary's students who 
Chris Hill, a senior market-Getting to class can be a challenge without a car~ 
ing major, also likes to "cross-class" because the classes at Saint Mary's are smaller and he finds that along with the increase in discus­sion comes an increase in class participation and interest level. He points outthat all of his classes at Notre Dame have at least fifty people in them and it is almost impossible to participate in the class on a daily basis. 
Peer recommendations are another pri­mary reason why students "cross-class." Amy Edinger, a senior pre-med student at Notre Dame, heard about her class at Saint Mary's from a friend. She takes Social Prob­lems and describes it as "a really cool class. Dr. Pressler is a great guy and a really great teacher." Through the class, she works on a crisis and suicide intervention line which exposes her to real-world problems. Her experience is "outside of the text book," something which she finds appealing. 
In her pre-med classes at Notre Dame there are around 200 students per class. In her class at Saint Mary's there are only thirty. It is a whole different atmosphere, which includes meeting a lot of girls from Saint Mary's as well as knowing and liking her teacher, says Edinger. · She is very happy at Notre Dame, but is glad she has taken advan­tage of the opportunity to take a class at Saint Mary's. 
Most of the Notre Dame students in this article are very happy with Notre Dame. Bob Kloska, a senior accounting major, serves as one exception. He has taken numerous classes at Saint Mary's, including Business Law, Theology and Short Fiction. His pro­fessors are there to teach and that they care about their students, according to Kloska. 
He is, however, unhappy with his classes in the College of Business at Notre Dame and is disappointed with his teachers. "I think my professors at Notre Dame are primarily researchers and secondly profes­sors. When they do not even bother to learn my name, I feel they do not care about me as a student In my classes at Saint Mary's the professor talks to and with you, not at you," said Kloska. He is "disgruntled" with his professors at Notre Dame and says that even though their resumes are impressive, they are not necessarily capable teachers. Professors, like any other professionals, are here to be of service to the students, the consumers, ac­cording to Kloska. He feels he gets better 
Paul Webb "cross-class" over to Notre Dame. The same disadvantages apply, but the advantages are a bit different. 
The change in scenery is a definite plus for the Saint Mary's student Notre Dame is a. much bigger and more "alive" campus, ac­cording to these students. 

Tracy Hayes, a senior at Saint Mary's, takes a sociology class at Notre Dame. She and a few other Saint Mary's students are in the class of sixty students, which she admits is large, but "still a good class." 
Features 


Students benefit from discussions that could not take place without the "cross-class" exchange. Paul Webb 
One big difference she notices is in the admits. She does, however, prefer the most appealing aspects of taking classes at attendance policy, which is quite liberal smaller classes at Saint Mary's. Notre Dame. On the whole though, they tend compared to that of Saint Mary's. Atten-She also likes the "more discussion, less to like their classes better at Saint Mary's dance is not taken in her class. Hayes also lecture" aspect of Saint Mary's. Her teacher simply because they are smaller and more finds it a bit odd that the professor does not at Notre Dame was very good, according to personal. Although they are happy at Saint know her name. Seggerson, but the class was less personal Mary's they find the co-educational experi-
Increased access to classes is another big and even in a class of twenty-five students, ence at Notre Dame to be a bonus because plus for Saint Mary's students. Senior Patty ------hearing from "both sides" is important to Haddad, takes Arabic at Notre Dame simply them. becauseitisnotofferedatSaintMary's. She For students at both schools there is a really likes to "get away" for a change. The strong feeling that the positive aspects of fact that her class is co-ed also provides her "cross-classes" far outweigh the drawbacks. with the chance to hear the opinions bf the The majority of students involved are opposite sex. She describes her current pro-pleased with their respective schools, but fessor, as well as the professor of an Italian find the opportunity to take classes at the class she took last year at Notre Dame, as other school appealing. The change of pace "excellent" Haddad finds the classrooms and scenery . is a common thread running too small, but on the whole, she is fully through everyone's list of benefits. satisfied with her class at Notre Dame and is Reasons may vary, but it is clear that the glad she has pursued this opportunity. students who "cross-class" have found the 
Another student at Saint Mary's, Betsy experience rewarding and often do it more Seggerson takes an anthropology than once. There are many students at Saint class,"Death, Dying, and Suicide" offered at Mary's and at Notre Dame who do not take Notre Dame because it is not available to her advantage of the unique opportunity ~is at Saint Mary's. Since Seggerson is an Ele-the professor did not bother to learn all of the community presents, but the students who mentary Education/Psychology double ma-students' names. Apparently, he was "into "cross-class" believe they open themselves jor, this class is particularly interesting to her. his research," comments Seggerson. up to a better and fuller education by taking 
Seggerson enjoys being at Notre Dame on Many Saint Mary's students find the "big-advantage of everything both Notre Dame a larger campus. "It is so different," she school" natureofNotre Dame to be oneofthe and Saint Mary's have to offer. It 

.. 

II

1ng 
Fine, Thank You 

Alvarez' hands-on approach helps him maintain a rapport with his players. 
In less than two seasons, Barry Alvarez has created one ofthe most fearsome defensive units in college football 

BY BRIAN MCMAHON 

Many football coaches would agree that the b.est offense is a solid defense. Thunderous tackles resulting in fumbles, picking the pocket of an opponent's receiver, a heavy pass rush forcing a good quarterback into un­common mistakes-any one of these circum­stances can change the momentum ofa game or season. Notre Dame's National Championship season in 1988 may not have been possible without some extraordinary defensive plays. Against Michigan State, Miami and South­ern Cal, the Notre Dame defense returned interceptions for touchdowns at critical points in each game. Pat Terrell's deflection of a Steve Walsh two-point conversion pass in the closing seconds of the Miami contest may well have been the play that saved a perfect season. 
While these plays guaranted the Irish defense time on the highlight films, even more impressive was the consistent play of the unit all season long. 
Much of the credit for the unit's suc­cess goes to Assistant Head Coach/Defen­sive Coordinator Barry Alvarez. Alvarez came to the Irish prior to the 1987 season as outside linebacker coach following eight years at Iowa, where he helped coach the Hawkeyes to six straight bowl appearances, including two Rose Bowls. In February 1988 he took over the defensive coordinat­ing responsibilities when Foge Fazio jumped to the Atlanta Falcons of the Na­tional Football League. 
When Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz first hired him, Alvarez expressed an interest in the defensive coordinator position. Holtz told him that he would be considered should the job open up. Upon Fazio's departure, Alvarez became an immediate candidate for the vacancy. Holtz met with him twice. 
"It was not a thing where we were going to hire him just because he was here," said Holtz. 
After conferring with Alvarez, Holtz noticed two things that stuck in his mind. First and foremost, Alvarez could operate within the philosophies of the program. "He runs the defense, but there's a philoso­phy we operate by," declared Holtz. "That had to be compatible." 
Second, Holtz felt the two would be able to work well together. "He's unselfish and confident but does not have a super­ego," said Holtz. "He's just a beautiful person to work with." · 
Alvarez' impact was immediate and profound. Three inexperienced starters on the defensive front (Chris Zorich, George Williams and Jeff Alm) complemented the outstanding play ofthe remaining unit, con­tributing heavily in holding opponents to a mere six rushing touchdowns on the season, less than half the total of the previous year. 
Sports 

As a whole, the defense gained high national rankings in scoring defense (third with 12.3 points allowed per game), rushing defense (tenth with 112.4 yards yielded per game) and total defense (280.3 net yards per game). 
This extraordinary turnaround reflects what Alvarez likes most about his job. "I enjoy most being on the field, coaching and teaching young people; working with them and watching the things I get across come out on the field on Saturday. I don't dislike any phase of coaching," he explains. 
Holtz admires Alvarez' teaching abili­ties and the rapport he has with his players, calling his relationship with them "excel­lent." Alvarez is positive and encourages them, yet employs a no-nonsense approach when the situation demands it He is intense, yet forgiving when a player makes a mistake. The problem is addressed and he moves on. 
"He makes it fun," says junior line­backer Donn Grimm. "He's a great teacher, not only with football but in life, too. I'd say he's taught me 95 percent of what I know about the game." · · 
With Alvarez, motivation is an issue all week long. He varies his handling of indi­viduals from player to player, doing what is necessary to get maximum perfonnance. 
"That's what its all about," he states. "Deciding how to handle players." 
Practice is of optimum importance as 

well in building for Saturday. "Everyone 
wants to play, (making it) easy to motivate 
on Saturday," he says. "Itis each coach's re­
sponsibility to lead his players in solid prac­
tices during the week so the players peak at 
gametime rather than on Wednesday or 
Thursday." 
When game day arrives, Alvarez 

makes sure his players are ready. "He 
definitely gets us cranked before the game," 
says Grimm. 
Holtz grants Alvarez tremendous lati­

tude with the defense, provided he recog­
nizes the "philosophical parameters" set 
forth. "We have to be fundamentally sound, 
flexible and multiple, too, because we play 
so many different types of teams," says Al­
varez. "The defense must adapt weekly, 
run, hit and be aggressive." 
From there, Alvarez ties the defense 

together, making sure everyone is "on the 
same page." During the game he calls all the 
defenses, coordinating schemes and making 
adjustments. He does so while in constant 
contact with John Palenno and Chuck 
Heater, defensive assistants who concen­
trate on the run and the pass, respectively. 
Holtz has been pleased with Alvarez' 

perfonnance in this capacity. "He's very 
organized," says Holtz. "He handles his 
staff very well, working together, accepting 
input and ideas. He's a communicator." 
Alvarez is quick to point to others when last year's success is mentioned. "Each coach got great perfonnances from his play­ers," he explains. "We had a great blend on our staff. The kids played hard for us. Tliey always knew what they were doing. We had good athletes who could run and when you put these things together, positive things are . going to happen. It was a combination of 
our staff and a good blend of kids." 
This year, Alvarez recognizes the need 

to find capable help for linebackers Grimm 
and Ned BolGar, who played exclusively 
against Michigan and Michigan State. He 
was wary of pushing the freshmen into ac­
tion too soon, knowing that doing so may 
have had a negative impact Nevertheless 
he is happy with the progress they've made 
in practice. 
Alvarez has been pleased with the play 

ofhis secondary, save the bomb surrendered to Michigan State resulting in an easy touch­down. While the completion percentage is a shade high, most of the passes have been short, control routes. He sees this as an indicator of strong zone coverage. 

"I have no problems with our secon­dary," says Alvarez. "We've made a com­mitment to stop the run, putting a lot of pressure on them. I think they've responded well." 
Alvarez does not sound as sure of him­self when asked about the re_maining slate of games. 
"I'm not smart enough to look beyond one game at a time," he says. "I tried when I first started coaching and I got confused." 
He remains noncommittal as well in discussing his future. Head coaching is a future goal, but one that does not dominate his thoughts. 
"Right now I'm worried about the Notre Dame linebackers and coordinating the defense," he insists. "A head coaching job will take care of itself." 
As the Notre Dame defense continues to shine in 1989, Holtz remains pleased with his right-hand man, to say the least "After visiting with him for the job I thought he deserved the chance," says Holtz. "It's one of the best decisions I've made." 
¦ 

• 
BY KEVIN T. KERNS 
'0 NE-ONE-TWO," com­
mands coach Sean 

McConnick. A group of 25 boxers responds by throwing two jabs and a straight right hand. 
These young men are not professionals, nor are they training for the Olympic Games. You would never know it, though, by the dedication with which they go about their work. They are members of the Notre Dame Boxing Club, currently participating in the Novice program. 
The Novice experience is considered a preparation for the Bengal Bouts held each winter, the proceeds ofwhich go to assist the Bangladesh missions of India. 
"Boxing, more than any other sport, de­pends on experience," says McConnick. "The vast majority of these boys have never put on a pair of boxing gloves in their lives. This Novice period allows them to gain the valuable experience which they will need in January." 
The Novice program consists of a five­week training period, culminating in a tour­nament to be held October 13 in the boxing room of the ACC. Boxers with no prior experience are instructed by coaches 
.. 
p 

re 

Pugilism 
With neither prize money nor promises ofglory, Notre Dame Novice Boxing offers the chance to pursue a dream 
McCormick, Walt Rogers, and Jack Mooney in the fundamentals of the sport. Working alongside the coaches are the officers of the club -seniors Doug Biolchini, Chris Balint, David Cane, and Vance Becklund, as well as junior Nonn Conley. 
The only way to become a proficient boxer is to box, as all these men will attest. A prospective boxer cannot decide one day that he is a fighter and then watch everything magically fall into place. Those approaching the sport with a cavalier attitude will not be very effective, nor will they last very long. 
"This is preparation for January, and that's why we take it very seriously," says Rogers. "We want to teach the fundamentals ofbox­ing and we do." Conley adds, "This allows the new people to get their feet wet in the ring." 
The late, great Sugar Ray Robinson often said that he did not like to fight, that he was in the game solely for the money. For Notre Dame boxers there are no lucrative purses, nor is there the possibility for-Olympic glory at the end of the rainbow. 
Nevertheless, there is something allur­ing about the sport that compels young men to come out every year. 
"I've always wanted to box, and now I'm getting my chance," says sophomore Mike Folgia, one of the novice participants. 

"Every guy has the desire to be a fighter at one time or the other," muses Balint, "to emulate the greats like Ali, Marciano, and Tyson." 
There is something else about the sport which makes it so attractive and pure to these young fighters, something that transcends outward appearances. A boxing ring can be a lonely and frightening place. Inside the squared· circle one need not look for help when he makes a mistake; no one else is there. 
"It's really basic, really elemental," says McCormick. "It's one-on-one competition at the most basic level." Adds Balint, "In a way, it's you against yourself." 
Being a member of the boxing club, how­ever, entails more than just learning how to properly throw and block a punch, slip and parry blows, and how to skillfully move around the ring. The camaraderie and friend­ships developed are just as important to the participants as mastering any techniques. 
. "You know, I hear a lot of people who are down on college students," states McCormick. "They say that they are only interested in themselves. But every year I meet a lot of boys in that boxing room who just don't fit that description." · 
"The unity that exists among these boxers cannot be matched on this campus," says 
Sports 



Balint. 
It is this unity and feeling for the program which makes the offi­cers of the club donate their time every day. "We (the officers) could physically get more out of it working on our own," explains Biolchini, the club's president. "But this gives us a chance to give something backto the boxing club." 
Perhaps the greatest example of the family atmosphere is seen in the smiling face ofJack Mooney. Mooney fought professionally in the 1930's, cam­paigning as a welter­weight and middle­weight in the Chicago area. Twice he fought on the undercard of heavyweight cham­pion Joe Louis. 


Mooney has been involved with boxing at Notre Dame for over 50 years, offering his expertise to anyone willing to listen and learn. 
"Jack is somewhat of a grandfather fig­ure to these boys," says McConnick. "He's a great person. When fonner boxers come back to visit Notre Dame, they stop in to see Jack." 
Mooney plans to be teaching the sweet science for a long time. "I'll keep going as long as I feel good," he says with a laugh. ''These guys keep me young." 
The greatest concern for the coaches is that ofsafety. The late Dominic Napolitano, father of the Bengal Bouts which will see their 60th year this winter, once had this to say on the issue of safety: "Boxing is a contest just like any other sport. When it ceases to be a contest, then stop it-don't let a boy get hurt." 
"Nappy always stopped it ifa fighter was in trouble," remembers Mooney. "No one ever gothurt." Nappy's spirit Iives on in the gym, as his painted -image overlooks the action in the sparring ring he once observed with great care during his living years. 
Fighters are evenly matched by weight and skill so that mismatches become a rar­ity. When one does emerge, the contest is halted. "At Notre Dame we stop fights quicker than anyone else," says McCormick. 
Many people have an incorrect notion of amateur boxing, falsely eqijating it with the professional variety which they see on tele­vision. Rogers is quick to differentiate the two. 
"There are no Rocky scenes occurring here," states Rogers, flatly. "That's just not what the deal is.Wegive stud en ts the oppor 0 tunity to give boxing a shot without being taken advantage of, and that's an incredible and unique opportunity." 
In a passage from an article once appear­ing in Sports Illustrated, Budd Schulberg effectively conveys the message that all the program's participants live by in their hours of dedicated preparation: 
"Out at Notre Dame ... they have never lost sight of the fact that boxing, for all ofits seamy, nether side, is a great, basic, and 
competitive sport." 
¦ 

J , , r l • ~ -. ' • • • • 
•, i , -• r ~• -• 
.. 
Sports 

COMPILED BY JIM KUSER .
sp rtsweek 


of Miami (Ohio) Redskins as it looks to extend its !:,:.;..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2..L2""-~~=~ home winning streak to 13 games. The Irish will 
Irish with a 15th-place time of 19:14.0, while~================~===============~ 
freshman AMYBLAISING and junior TERESE 
·t,g~~tsJ,GQJ;,E: / 

LEMANSKI finished 23rd and 24th, respec­tively. 
The Notre Dame women's golf team will On Friday, Oct. 6, the women's team will compete in the Franklin College Invitational onjoin the men as the Irish host the Notre Dame October 12. The Irish returned from the Spartan Invitational. 

Fall Invitational last week with a tenth-place fin­ish as freshman KA THY PHARES led the Irish with a 247 for the weekend tournament. She came 
,Oct.6,theNotreD -6) will play host to th face Tri-State on Tuesday, Oct. 10. 

Last week the Irish compiled three victories as they beat Lake Forest 3-2, Indiana 4-1, and Michigan 4-3. SUSIE ZIL VTI1S and JOY SISO­LAK played particularly well in the three games. 
The men's golf team opened its fall season last week week at the 1989 Indiana Intercollegiate Championships, finishing in fifth place with a team total of 615. Senior captain PAT MOHAN took second place overall with a total of 144 over two rounds, while sophomore MIKE 
The Irish will be competing in the Midwest­ern Collegiate Conference Championships Octo­ber 8-10. 
in 25th out of 77 golfers. I-=-=============~ 
F===============~ Oct. 14 when defending national champion match against Southern California. 
An important iC:HH.ii~N'SJsot:¢ERU 
memberofthe squad may miss the meet as sopho-1---------------=---------""'""",a;.,,;.;'----'-I 

more DA VEDiLUCIAhas been invited to partici­pate in the Volvo All-American, Oct. 19-22, in Athens, GA. 
Last week, the Irish won the third annual Tom Fallon Invitational here at Notre Dame. Four freshmen paced the squad to victory, including RY AN LEE, RON ROSAS, ANDY ZURCHER and PAUL ANTHONY. 
µ;;;;_.;..;.;.;;;.;..;.;.;;;::;;;;;,;~~.;..;.;,;;;~~::;;;;;,;.;..;.;,;;;.;..;.;.;;;.;..;.;,;;;.;..;.;,;;;~ 
Notre Dame will compete in the Hoosier Converse Classic, Oct. 13-15, in Bloomington, IN. The Irish look strong going into the tourna­ment as TRACY BARTON and KIM PACELLA 
Notre Dame snapped its nine-match losing streak against the Purdue Boilermakers last week by scoring a four-game victory, 8-15,15­12, 15-6, 15-5. Leading the Irish was freshman outside hitter ALICIA TURNER with 18 kills. Junior TRACEY SHELTON and freshman JESSICA FIEBELKORN each recorded 13 kills. 
The Irish open a five-match homestand on 
The Notre Dame men's socccer team (5-4­
1) lost two hard-fought games over the weekend to Indiana and Wisconsin. 2,741 fans were on hand for Friday's game against the Hoosiers, breaking the attendance .ecord at Krause Sta­dium. 
The Irish travel to California to play in the Metropolitan Life Classic Oct. 6-8 in Santa Clara, playing Cal. State-L.A. and Santa Clara. Players TOM CONNAGHAN, MITCH KERN, PAUL KAEMMERER, and JEFF RHODES are all Californians and hope to make a good show­ing in their native state. 




LECTURES 
Fireside chat, "Feminist Spirtuality," with Rosemary Houghton. 12:00 p.m. in the ISO Lounge. Sponsored by MEC. 
Slide lecture, Phillip Tennant, Furni­ture exhibit 12:00 p.m. in rm. 200 Riley hall. 
Lecture, "ArgoneseandCatalanJewish Converts to Christianity at the Time of the Expulsion in 1492," by Mark Mey­erson, ND Dept. of History. 4:00 p.m. in 131 Decio. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Committee for Western European Studies. 
Lecture, "Selected 20th-Century Art and Artists: Themes and variations," by Harold Zisla. 4:15 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Lecture, "Making and Breaking of Bonds in the Solid State. I", by Roald Hoffmann, John A. Newman Professor of Physical Science at Cornell Univer­sity. 4:30 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Sci­ence. Sponsored by the Dept. ofChem­istry and Biochemistry. 
· Lecture/Introduction, Conference on The Social Dimensions ofScience with Eman McMullin, Dept of Philosophy. 7:30p.m. 
LECTURES 
Lecture, "One Culture," by Roald Hoffmann, Cornell University. 8:00 
p.m. in rm. 127 Nieuwland Science. Sponsored by Dept of Chemistry and Biochemistry. 
Lecture "Academic Freedom in Catho­lic High Education," Rev. Charles E. Curran, visiting Firestone Professor in the University of Southern California's School of Religion. 8:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Spon­sored by Dept. of Theology. 
SPECIAL 
"Culture on the Quad" continues. 
12:00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall. Spon­sored by MEC. 
"Entertainment on the Quad" contin­ues. 4:30 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by MEC. 
Conference Continues: "Good Sci­ence is Bad History: From Order of Knowing to Order of Being," Thomas Nichels, Philosophy, University of Nevada. 8:00 p.m. 
Conference continues: Reception at the Center for Continuing Education. 9:30p.m. 
MOVIES 
"Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Fac­tory" Eng. Aud. 8:00 and 10:15. 
SPORTS 

Women's. Soccer. ND vs. Miami, Ohio. 1:00p.m. 
Women's Cross Country. Notre Dame Invitational. 1:00 p.m. 
Volleyball. ND vs Northern Illinois. 7:30 p.m. 
LECTURES 

Fireside Chat, "The Effect of Plant Clo­sures on the Third Generation Blue Collar Families," with Larry Regan. 12:00 p.m. in the ISO lounge. Sponsored by MEC. 
Lecture, "Making and Breaking of Bonds in the Solid State. II", by Roald Hoffmann, Cornell University. 4:30 p.m. in room 123 Niewland Science. Spon­sored by Dept. of Chemistry and Bio­chemistry. 
MOVIES 

Film "Tucker:The Man and His Dream." 
7:30 'and 9:45 p.m. in Annenberg Audi­otorium. Admission $2.00. 
Drive-In Nite: "Fletch" & "Better Off Dead" in the Eng. Aud. 8:00 and 10:15. 
CLASS NEWS 

Alumni-Senior Club open for lunch. 
OPERA 

Opera, "Madame Butterfly." Minnesota Opera Company with full orchestra. 8:00p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series. (Sold Out). 
..; 


· 

SPECIALSPECIAL 
SPORTS 

Conference Continues: " The Origins of Mannheim's Sociology of Knowledge," 
Soccer. SMC vs. Northwestern Univer­
Windy City Shuttle 
Fritz Ringer, History, University of 
sity. 10:00 a.m. Pittsburgh. Chair: Thomas McCarthy, 
Northern Indiana Gun Show; JoyceACC 
Northwestern University. 9:00 a.m. 
Football. ND vs. Stanford at Palo Alto. 2:30p.m. 
MOVIES 

Conference Continues: "C.S. Pierce's Social Conception of Science," C.F. 
Volleyball. ND vs. Eastern Michigan. 
Movie: "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adven­Delaney, Philosophy, University of 7:30p.m. 
ture", Eng. Aud. 
Notre Dame. 10:45 a.m. 
SPECIAL 

"Culture on the Quad" continues. 12:00, Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by MEC. 
Conference Continues: "Making Phys­ics and Making Physicists in Japan," 
Friday Forum, "Families and Our Wor­
Sharon Traweek, Anthropology, Rice 
ries About Them," by Joan Aldous, 
University. Chair: Robert Strikwerda, 
·coNCERT 

Professor of Sociology. 12:15 p.m. in 
Indiana University at Kokomo. 9:00 
room 124, CSC. Brown Bag or soup and a.m. 
Music Concert. Carolyn Plummer, vio­bread $1.00. Sponsored by Year of the lin, Victoria Chang, viola, and KarenFamily. 
Fire Prevention Open House. Safety 
Buranskas, cello. 2:00 p.m. in Annen­
brochures, videos, fire trucks. 10:00 
berg Auditorium. 
Conference Continues: "Practical Rea­
a.m. at ND Fire Station. Sponsored by 
son and the · Social Construction of Year of the Family. 
SPECIAL

Knowledge," Timothy Lenoir, History, Stanford University. Chair: Alasdair 
Conference Continues: "The Scientific 
MacIntyre, Notre Dame. 2:00p.m. 
Northern Indiana Gun Show, Joyce the Scientific Workplace," Simon Shaf­
Dimensions of Society: Tradition and ACC. 
Conference Continues: "Social Thought 
fer, History and Philosophy ofScience, 
and Social Action," Martin Hollis, Phi­CROP Walk -South Bend Community 
Cambridge University. 2:00 p.m. 
losophy, University of East Anglia, (Contact Hall Community Service Com­
England. 3:45 p.m. 
missioners for Details). CSC. Thinking: How a New Style ofScientific 
Conference Continues: " Statistical 
"Entertainment on the Quad" continues. 
Conference Continues: "Authority, Def­
Thinking Evolved During the Nine­
4:30 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall, Sponsored erence, and the Role oflndividual Rea­
teenth Century," Ian Hacking, Philoso­
byMEC. 
son," Philip Kitcher, Philosophy, Uni­versity of California at San Diego. 9:30 
phy, University of Toronto. 3:45 p.m. 
Reception for opening ofexhibit, Phillip 
Conference Continues: Dinner for Par­
a.m. 
Tennant, Furniture Exhibit. 5:00 p.m., 
ticipants at the Center for Continuing 
Isis Gallery. 
Conference Continues: Concluding Panel Discussion. 11:00 a.m. 
Edu~ation at 6:30 p.m. 
David Lippman, Folksinger and Come­
Taste ofNations, food and desserts from 
dian from Central America. 7:30 p.m. at Alcohol Awareness Week (Oct. 8 -14)
all nations together with entertainment 
Theodore's. Sponsored by MEC, 
from cultures around the world. 9:00 
GALA, GSU, CSC, ISO, ODN, Kellogg 
p.m. in South Dining Hall. Sponsored by 
Fire Prevention Week (Oct. 8 -14) 
Institute and Women United for Peace MEC&SUB. 
and Justice. 

Editorial 


Burned 

T he issue with regard to alternative meal plans, although old, remains unresolved. In an article appearing on page 11, the Legal Department formulates several effective arguments for the revi­sion of the current system. In this space Scholastic wo~ld like to review some of their findings as well as add some insights of its own. First of all, the simplest system is not necessarily the best. Perhaps it would take some work from the Business Office, but wouldn't it be nice to pay if everyone paid for what they ate? Even if the cost of a fourteen meal plan would only be slightly less expensive than the twenty-one meal option at least it would be that, an option. In terms of transferability, why should a student uninspired by stir-fry pay University Food Services twice when he or she buys a burger at the huddle? We should be able to have credit at all of the University Food Service operations around campus. Other schools are able to accommodate such a situation without difficulty. Scholastic applauds University Food Services for being one of the most efficient, but this argument is not relevant with regard to a switch to a meal plan that would allow for some transferability. The survey the Legal Department intends to conduct could be an effective means of generating student input. They obviously already have some definite ideas about what should be done. It is essential, however, that the questions remain objective. Phrasing can certainly alter responses. Further­more, the purpose of the survey should be to inform as well as to gauge student reactions. Then, and only then, will feedback from the survey be useful. The only people left to challenge are the students. People have put in a great deal oftime in researching this issue. The fifteen minutes it would take to fill out the survey does not seem like it would be too much to ask. The question ofa meal plan is an important one. Believe it ornot, student input would add a good deal of weight to the recommendations of the Legal Department. 
-Scholastic 
Final Word The World At Your Doorstep 
b Charlie Maher 

If you haye ever spent time in a British pub, you are acutely aware tl}at most pub-goers are quite an opinionated lot. n any given pub you are likely to find the traight-laced postal worker, still in his crisp niform, eye to eye with the Fleet Street antler, as well as the electrician who pays isrentwith the 'weed' thathegrowsinLiv­rpool, all arguing about Thatcher's latest ove to squelch the IRA. These friendly 
ebates, or 'Parliaments' as they are affec­ionately referred to, recall the age-old ten­ency of humans to seek new information nd question old beliefs through the free ex­hange of ideas. A university, after all is said and done, is an nstitution dedicated explicitly to the free xchange of ideas in every culture, and in emocratic societies especially. Notably, an xchange implies that the student must at­empt to learn with equal to the zest that the rofessor has for teaching. The ideal uni ver­ity would have students take an active role n the learning process. A student who sits ack and hopes that the completion of his 
raduation requirements will fulfill his edu­ational need does not contribute nor does he eceive as much from his time atNotreDame s does a student who aggressively pursues xperiences which will enhance his under­tanding of the surrounding world. The World Awareness Committee, under e auspices ofthe Intellectual Life Commit­ee ofNotre Dame's Student Government, is ommissioned to enhance opportunities for tudents to aggressively pursue their educa­·ons outside the classroom. As its name mplies, the World Awareness Committee ill focus on international issues in several egions ofthe world by dedicating a week of ectures, films, and discussions to each is­ue. This semester, the World Awareness eries will feature three one-week programs n China, the Middle East and tentatively orthern Ireland. The series will feature speakers from the otre Dame community, both professors nd graduate students who are experts in heir fields. This approach will highlight the depth and breadth of scholarship at Notre Dame which occasionally goes unnoticed by the community at large. Drawing upon scholars at Notre Dame as the foundation for the series will also allow students the oppor­tunity to follow up on the programs with individual contacts or by choosing corre­sponding classes in the future. Finally, the series will provide opportunities for Notre Dame students to meet foreign students who are visiting or studying at Notre Dame. Foreign students can share first-hand knowl­edge and experiences of the region in inter­est. In addition to drawing upon scholars at Notre Dame, visiting scholars and educa­tional films will be scheduled. 
The first week of the series is October 9th to 13th. The series will feature recent devel­opments in China and an examination of the people, the culture, the history, and the econ­omy which is determining the present state of affairs in that country. 
On Monday, October 9th there will be a showing of the movie, The Last Emperor in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:00 
p.m. Dr. Mia Wang, Professor of Chinese History, Indiana University at South Bend, will comment on the period from the reign of the last emperor through the Cultural Revo­lution and will answer questions after the movie. There is no charge for admission. 
The program for Tuesday, October I 0th will explore the fundamentals ofConfucian­ism and Chinese literature with a view to the manifestations of these in Chinese society. Dr. Gao Xian, professor of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and Gu Wenjuan, senior editor of the Chinese Cen­tral Television, will present the lecture in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Stu dent Center at 8:00 p.m. 
An investigation of the last ten years of political and economic reform in China will be conducted by Dr. Peter Moody, professor of Government and International Studies, and Dr. Kuan Kim, professor ofEconomics, at 7:00 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of the LaFortune Student Center on Wednes­day, October I I. 

The events of Tiananmen Square and the future of the democracy movement will be the topic for discussion on Thursday, Octo­ber 12. Dr. Su Shaozhi, former Chairperson ofthe Marxism-Leninism Studies Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and Mr. Li Lu, a student leader of the student democracy movement who was present at Tiananmen Square will speak and answer questions at 8:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. This program is co-spon­sored with the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government and the Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The final event of the week will be a special Chinese dinner in the Blue Room of North Dining Hall. The meal will begin with a live demonstration of Chinese cooking and an exhibition ofChinese objects d'art organized by the Notre Dame Chapters of the Chinese Friendship Association and the Chinese Stu­dent Solidarity Union.-Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will speak about his experiences in US-Chinese relations following the meal. The program will begin at 6:30 p.m. on Fri­day, October 13. Attendance at this function is limited to fifty (50) persons. There is no additional charge for the dinner for those who have a meal plan; however, students must make reservations at the Student Govern­ment Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune Student Center during the week of October 9th-13th. For those without a meal plan, reservations are still required and there will be a charge of $6.50 upon entry to the dining hall. 
This is just the first week of the series. Look for the next World Awareness week on November 13 through November 17, focus­ing on the Middle East Consider the World Awareness series as another means of ag­
gressively pursuing your education. ¦ 

DISTRIBUTION OF REMAINING 1989 YEARBOOKS 
I 
I 
,! Ifyou were overseas last semester or ifyou were too lazy to pick up a book last year, 
. here's your last chance to get the 1989 Dome. 
WHERE: THE DOME OFFICE 3RDFLOORLAFORTUNE 
WHEN: TUESDAY----FRIDAY 12:30-4:00 PM UNTIL OCTOBER 20, 1989 
--Questions? Call 239-7524 

T-SHIRTS .... $10.00 MEMBERSHIPS .... $25.00 
{checks only) 

WEDNESDAY, 9:00-2:00 A.M. Foreign Policy Nite 
D.J. --Mike Jennings THURSDAY, 9:00-2:00 A.M. Club Cup Nite 
D.J. --Brian McCarthy 
FRIDAY, 9:00-2:00 A.M. Help Stanford Sing the Blues LIVE --Blue Light Special 
SATURDAY, 9:00-2:00 A.M. Celebrate Success Over Stanford 
FRIDAY --LUNCH October 6th, 13th Noon-2:00 P.M. .(No cover for lunch) 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
50¢ off 
ANY SUB SANDWICH 
offer expires Friday the 13th, Oct. 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
· 25¢ off 
CHEESE FRIES 
offer expires Friday the 13th, Oct. 
24 

OUCkS
ARE 
HELL. 
A 1\?-0£.-\..\~ N ~"'N RE. 
AOvE.N\\J~E. • ~!\ITT 1 
B\IT \C\£,-J 1\-\E: (UTE l.t TT LE. 
~tU.Ou.l ouc.~c; BEG£W TO 
60o-.u. l=1RST 71-1£:t R Fu2 2. 
iUllivl:"D \,l~ lTE., Tl-{E.-.) T\-\E.lf Ge.'8.JJ BIG MQ E=ITT ArJD 
<;-C.l\Q."\'E.v QJAL\::1.JG Q8,JOll10V5l., 
W~l'.N~'-'Bl WE<t WERE lfu~i, 
WH.\C:H WA<;; A~on AL.l THE' 
Tl'-'1.1:. 
\T Gm" u)QRSE, nlt. CNC-.:.<; 
WOl.l\.,QI.J'T EAT <Ht 1,JE:l<PE,JStVE 
CP.A.c~ CDl2>-l :r 00T WEM-­
·nlELf frJS:•STEO c,..i 8R£At> A,JD 
BQ..EAl:'.FAST Cf:i!EAL. THE~ 
(.) LS O SE£M~ TO E...,Jo'f PEU:rw(, 
R.u..rr'-1 Ju,r FOP. Tt-11: 1-!Et.L 
OF 1r. Al'Jo TIIE.JR APPE:T1TE> 6oT BtGSER. Q 
Q\J P-lr-Q~ P..l r:,' /l'lCJ::. 
' 

POO{2. 1=ROS"T';1, l=\IJE: OF 1-\EQ. SE.VE.tJ BAB'::l 'DlJO:$ 
VR.OWIJEO l~ l"\-IE. \::\t;>'Q\E PoOL ANO ~OW ALt.. SHE. 0\0 WAs;' WAt-iOE.£. Aeo0tl'I) iW=-SAC.t::.':lAeJ:7 OA':1 A.JO 
N\OOt QvAcJ::1.IG OtsPo.iot.m':l R)R. 1-lE.'2. /1.1,\SS: 1rJG DUL\: L\>l (, S'. 
~9 
Tl-IA A'OE. A Bib 

l. ~ i:>Mt.D Tt-1£1-\ AL-L-uJ\I \ ,E"!. THE..'1 STA'2T1=-0 TO SUL.\...".) FR.OST':?, Ru"""1, ArJv BL.A~\£, STl:Ai..•rvG Au. "Tl{Ele. 1=0017 
A.iv CHAS:,N(, T\4£M ARou..iv. 
TH8-.J'T\-1.E. BooySUILOE.R. c.A½E. e,AUs:. P,l'J-C, Tl-\RfAtt=NED 'TO ,A~E. A PUtJt~ A, Mc. lT 1/JAS 
TIME. !=OR. THE ovti:.S71l Go. 
SO T\-\'t: ~tXi' VA':, I VR.ovE OJEQ. m 'TI-IE: RED Wt..;)G \.l~:, IN EAST !..-A., IJH-lt.'1.1:: I Bo<X:JITT A Bur-.lc.t\ OF 'THE: c.uTEST l,lm..Ec 'j£t.Ull,J BABt-1 OUC.'t=,<; 'fo,J bJEJ!. S:P,vJ l=-O12. 1 S ¢ EAc.H. 
V ---­
BIJT I V1'Qt,)'T 61llE. lJP. r E.\IE.>J'T\J A,L-L-'1 CAUG t-1.T AU.... OF "U-lt IJcJC.\::S fl,,lv Pt..JNE..V "'(l-{8v, 1rJ I\ C.012/'Jt.12 OF THI:. 
~f.lP.D St.Utr-!Q A BIG Pl'i:.O: o~ 
Pt,\jWQOt;>. 
V 

'T\-lf \,.)I;{\ \t.Lf <; l.O&J'C' 1-llJrS" 1..) ~MIDDLE.Of 'TH.E. 1,hGt-1.,1 Q0AU.::.1.JG TuE.\2. 1-ll:Au<; OFF, 
ANV 11-l€'1 Wov..viv'T St-il.JT uP TIL.L l. TilQ.c\,J A LOAF oF B/2..E.AD our TI-ltP.E. QvA 
4-Q 
vA 

I. oPEN€.o tl-1E C,ATE. At.JD F~OS1"11, RvtJ'f'1, Ar-Jo BL-Atl:\E 
IMMl:.1:7\ATEL') Fl£v TO TKE 

NEARB'1 CANAL. THE <JHITIC,S" 
/<(;FuSfo TO LEAI/E .0/JD I HAO TO SWEEP nlE"'1 OUT w l TH A ecz.00"1, BUT THE'! 1:EPr (OM,1.J6 
SAC\::. 11-lE Boo'1SVtvf7ER.WAnHEi) FROM HIS WE"'DOW, ~COWL hi(;.
I SCAT 
~OU, lluc1::5_ 
© lqB9 gy
6~t:zts6 
BAc'f:: AT WE. B~c.~ I J l~0OUQQ 'THE. BAB':1 OUC.t<; ~ 
TO 'Tl-\€.1e ,-.}£t,.) t\O"'\E., 
Aolu S\l~E. E,JouG~ W~£,J 1 \00~ "11-IE: 8OAl20 'AuJA~ t\ HAl-F-\-I0u2. LATT.e, TI-IE. ,J&,) ouU=L.t.JGS' ArJ"t> FROS"T'j 1-lAD AD0PTT:D EALK 011-IE/:2. 
Tl-(&.) 11\1<; Boo'-, BuI LOE.£. 
°Fl2oM ~E.)(1' ODOR. Po U,.)o€1) ON Kl.f OOOR. A"-'v OE"1A,.,vE.o TD ~.xiw l.lJH'1 1 WAS: ~IJ G 
-ro M~ N'f DIJct::<; QvAtt: SD ~u Cl-\. 
81.JT T!-\&J 1 ~ oveo Au.JA'1 A'-lD So FA2 me-, HAVE.J'T F0vtJD "1f. 


-


Saturday October 7, 1989 
9:00 P.M. -1:00 AeMa South Dining Hall 
Food and desserts from countries such 
as Europe, China, South America etc.... just 
waiting-to be tasted by you and your friends. 
FREE FOOD AND ADMISSION !! 
·\~. 

Don't let an SYR stop you from attending ·.Y' 
this spectacular event. Bring your date for some great foodand a real special atmosphere. The dress is casual e,legance so don't feel like you won't fit in. 
,., 
GREAT FOOD 

GREAT ATMOSPHERE 
GREAT DANCE MUSIC 
DANCE CONTESTS 
There's no doubt that 
you'll have a GREAT time.! 
Sponsored by Student Union Board and The Multicultural Executive Council 



