HASPEL
SUITS
Wash’n’Wear
»397s
On the Campus—Notre Dame
i k
Wherever you go —all summer long— you’ll find
So handsome, so comfortable, so practical too, for when you soil a Haspel wash ’n’ wear, you simply toss it in the washer, let it drip-dry, and it’s ready to wear again — little or no pressing needed. No wonder it’s the most popular suit on the Notre Dame campus. In deep tones of brown and grey.
“i
^GILBERT'S
•





Be a Magician
Write
Dr. Meyer Bloch
President
Eastern Magical Society 240 Rivington Street New York 2, N. Y.
^kWTURBOW \pPTOMKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces" EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-37/7
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS
CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“It Isn’t”
necessary to ship your winter garments home and
then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . .
Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don't pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional
amount.
CALL CE 4-3188 OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Gleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON
CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS UNE
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
it
Vol. 99 May 16, 1958 No. 23
Disce Quad Semper Victurus Vive Quad Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, " Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN ‘	Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS________________News Editor	r
HARRY McKEE_____________________________Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY__________________Features	Editor	,
MIKE FITZPATRICK____________Sports Editor
BOB WILLIAMS_________________Photography
LORAN SHEFFER___________Business Manager , .■ MIKE KURAS______________Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN------------Circulation	Manager .
WALT RUDGE ________________Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH________________Assistant	Copy
BILL CONWAY_________________Assistant	Copy	4
TOM EDWARDS______________Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT_______________Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK______________Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH_______________Assistant Sports TED THOMPSON _____________Assistant Sports ,
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob 4 Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn ' Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.	J
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim , O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer. Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg *• Rogers. Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, . Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.	1
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Prtss. Represented for ne- * tional advertising by National Advertising Service, j Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the * school year, except during vacation and ezamina-tson periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, 34-00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. . >
Kbficatiao Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Valaam 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. Il;	No. 4,	Oct.	18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6,
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9,
Dec. C; No. 10, Dec. IS (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Fob.	7; No. 13, Feb. 14; Ne. 14.
Fab. 21;	Ne.	15,	Fab. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, Msrch 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 18; No. 24, May 23.
The Scholastic
F
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
the end
The entire thing started innocently enough. Even to this moment I really can’t figure out how it all happened. There I was, a typical college bum and I liked it. It was a little over a year ago this month when the whole thing started. I was twenty-one at the time, and was using my real ID for only two months. It sure was great. Every Saturday night a crew of the boys and I would head down for the local pub. Then we’d sit around for a few hours and bend the merry elbow while toasting one dream after another. Each of us had our own private dream. Bob’s was a brunette, short, and a loyal Sox fan. Then there was Jim’s, she was a hole-in-one. (We called all our dreams female.) That’s all he ever thought about. No kidding, he’d never even look at a girl; he’d just imagine that dream-drive over and over again. We all thought he should show a little more variety in his toasts, but he was a buddy so we respected his dreams. That’s the kind of group we were; we never discriminated amongst ourselves. When Joey started thinking that Francois Sagon was better looking than Erin O’Brien, we just quit toasting Erin and started toasting Francois, without even a single question. There was a whole mess of different dreams to be toasted to every Saturday night. Sometimes some of us changed our dreams, and sometimes we sort of went steady with them for months. At the time I was toasting a rich old aunt. It wasn’t sentimentality or anything, it was just that her last gift to me had made these sessions possible, so I figured she deserved the position.
This was the situation when the thing ?ot its start. It was early one Sunday morning, probably around eleven, when Eddy came sauntering into the room waving a photograph like it was a tro-)hy from a panty raid. Hight off I igured it was of another sports car that lis father bought. Eddy’s parents have i -lot of money and besides, his mother ust won’t admit that she is as blind as i bat without her glasses. Sometimes I
Way 16, 1958
wonder how the recession ever got started with the way she drives. Anyway, I was mistaken because it was a picture of a real live toast, I mean, dream. That is, it was a picture of a girl who was beautiful. Due to the prevailing circumstances I will say no more, but you can take my description as grossly inadequate, to say the least. I immediately set down my quart of tomato juice and took a better look at this creature. Then Eddy told me that she was a distant relative of his. He wanted me to date her on the following week end. Now this was going just a little too far. I’m an easy going guy. I like girls and think they’re here to stay, but going out with them is another story. Dreams and pictures can’t cause any trouble, but get near the real thing and sure enough there’s trouble, real trouble like marriage. And I wasn’t about to give up my toasting days for a wife. That’s the sort of guy I am; I make mountains out of molehills, but I figure that with a molehill here, a molehill there, and all of a sudden that mountain hits you square in the face. Besides, I didn’t want to desert the boys just because some character’s relative wanted a date. I had az certain amount of allegiance to that crew. But then Eddy found my price; it was a beer stein that he had picked up in Europe. -It was worth missing one session to be able to finish the year with that thing at iny table. That’s how it all started, no kidding.
Taking everything into consideration, the date wasn’t bad at all. For the first hour or so I kept thinking about the boys; I just couldn't get them out of my mind. It was really bad. I didn’t hear her talking to me three times in a row. I guess this aggravated her a little because all of a sudden, right after the third time, she just leaned over and planted a big kiss square on my lips. Then she casually asked me if that made it worth giving her a little more attention. I could see those molehills starting to gather, but I lost my head and threw caution to the winds. I also liked the , taste of her lip stick and the feeling I had all over me like never before. After that the boys down at the local pub sort of left my mind.
She was really a powerful dream. The next Saturday night she was my new toast. And like I said before, we never questioned each other’s choices. The boys were glad to have me back, and I was . glad to be back. But things were different because this was the first time any of us had a dream that we’d even spoken to, and there I was with one that kissed . me.
I didn’t date her again until the sum- ~ mer vacation, but then I saw her more or less regularly. There wasn’t much else to do. The boys were spread over the nation, and I didn’t care much for the rah-rah frat boys around home. Septem-her came around and the toasting sessions were renewed, but I was worried. It was still as if something had changed., . I knew she didn’t mean anything to me ; and the boys kept telling me that-I was .. just building my mountains again. They said the same thing when I had her down -for a football week end, and again when . I gave her a miniature over the Christmas vacation. I figured they were right, ' < at least I kept telling myself so. The X-. whole thing was like a big joke with the . boys and we toasted her just like she ."'X was any other dream.	.	5
That’s just how it all happened. I-sure hope the boys will be able to make the reception tonight.	. X XX
Thinking of Dining Out?
Think of
EDDIE’S
Where Dining is treated as the pleasure it was intended to be.
1345 N. Ironwood
Reservations Call. .. CE 2-5861

Cramming for Exams?
‘Hockey brand underwear helped me get elected I"
“ ‘Me run for class president?’ I said with mockery in my voice, ‘why 1 can’t even run for a bus!’ That’s how uncomfortable my underwear was in those days. But my roommate solved everything. He got me to try tailored-to-fit Jockey brand briefs. What a difference!
FW “M Fatifae” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as au average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’dock cob-wd»." You’ll findNoDozgive* you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and ^it fatigue safely!
.-JjcSrcSKisM*
Dora*) SO fabUs—
“I felt so comfortable—so poised—and I acquired a trim, athletic look that I knew would impress the masses. Running for office was easy now, so I ran and won. And I owe it all to	i
Jockey brand briefs, , the only underwear that’s tailored from 13 separate pieces to provide a perfectly smooth fit”
NO[)OZ
A W A K ' N £ R $
SAM AS COMM
FOR COOPHI UNDERWEAR nsnssen rms snop MAIN AND WASHINGTON SIS.
Jockey briefs are the most copied underwear in the world. Be sure you get genuine Jockey brand— -they’re tailored to fit .
JockOlT brief
■ ' • ' BRAND0.	; // ;
The Scholastic
►
a movie
The subject of confining yourself to decent and wholesome entertainment is an old one; one that has > been entertained on the pages of the Scholastic many times before, and we are offering it once again for your approval and edification. The sermon this time is inspired by France’s * answer to Sweden’s answer to Marilyn Monroe. As you _ may be aware she is now being featured at one of the local . theaters.
‘ The phrases “be a Notre Dame Man,” and “remember, you are representing the University,” have grown pretty tiresome, but embodied in them are some pretty good reasons ’ for not going to this particular movie or for that matter any movie in which she or her counterpart appear.
The argument that the movie is far from being any k kind of art isn’t much good since most movies these days are all pretty far from this. Movies nowadays are little more than rather weak entertainment, and this is really about the k only reason we go to them. This movie, however, is simply the wrong kind of entertainment. It offers only one thing and to spend eighty-five cents for just this is just as degrading as holding-up a filling station to go to Calumet , City. It’s not on die same grand scale, of course, but it’s in the same category. In a way, robbing a filling station is better; better at least than going out and working for the » money or spending your father’s money to go debauch yourself. Let’s face it, this girl (I wish I could mention her name) doesn’t stand for anything that’s good.
, Another argument (It’s a shame we have to argue about it) that is as important as any of the others is that people do notice what we do.. I’m not saying the people of South ► Bend look up to us or even like us; I don’t think they do.
But whether they like us or not they do notice what we do and give it a second thought when we do something they r don’t approve of and invariably raise their eyebrows when we do something that we ourselves are not supposed to approve.
Lastly, and this is pretty significant since we do go to Notre Dame, it is really a desecration of womanhood as well as being pretty ironic when you stop to think what ►. the Blessed Virgin stands for. Your own mother is included in this too, since after all, she is a woman, and in many cases is sacrificing a lot to send you here. You could buy • a lot of hats for $10,000.	’
We are old enough not to have to be told these things, I know; but just let this serve as a reminder in this situation.
—M.F.
May 16,1958
a glance
ANOTHER academic year, has almost gone by the boards.:?.? jLX For many it has been a successful adventure, for others ? J it has only been boredom and wasted time. For some it will. be their last opportunity to experience the environments bf t the academic world. Looking backward many of these people could point out mistakes they have made during their four years at Notre Dame. But they can also point with delight at many of the fine things Notre Dame has brought -to them.	-	' . '
During the recent “banquet circuit” die point came up ? again and again how much we have all gotten from Notre Dame. Many people had a chance to reflecton exactly what they should have gotten out of their education. And all so frequently die fact was made that college is more than football games and bull sessions, more than / student government, student radio stations, and student 7. publications. All of these things have a place in college / but if they become the sole purpose of erne’s existence in college dien college is a waste of time. College is also a waste of time if all one gets is a trade school education. In die long run it does not really matter at all if one has learned die skills of engineering or bookkeeping. What . really counts is whether a person has grown during this four-year period.	;
College should be a period of an increasing awareness of what is important in life. It should be a time when we learn to think and to think properly about die proper things It should be a time when we discover ourselves, or at least , start to do so. The purpose of college should be to tram a / man’s intellect, and a Catholic college should train a mm J to think in a Catholic way. .	:
If some of die graduating seniors have failed to get the proper kind of education, this is too bad. Perhaps they stiU have a chance to learn on their own what should have been discovered in the last four years. Perhaps they came to college before they should have. Their failure can,however, serve as a lesson to those underclassmen who are still wasting their time and money. There is still opportunity for to start to reap the harvest which a Notre Dame edtac^m^ can bring. Perhaps it is too late this year, but at •leauit-^d^^ can begin to think about what .it really does mean togoito^B college. Then they will have to start orderi^.dm^M^^ around die. true purpose of this education. If they do :thiag| they will have started on a lon^ hard,'but rewarding p^NU of growth—a process aimed at developing theintelledualW talents which one has. -	•
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
AQUSAS UBUtYand INK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
ON THE ..COVER: A sophisticated senior dances to the music of Harry James at the annual Senior Prom. The cover is another creation of Ivan Osorio, that intrepid architect, and marks his final appearance of the year. Some time has passed since Ivan did his first cover of the year back in September. In the meantime he has built up quite a following, all of whom will be glad to hear that, all things being equal, Ivan will be back next year to once more delight his audience.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Attention Students
Interested in summer selling in your own home town? Unlimited earnings. Send brief resume to: TRACY-TUCKER CO.
2554 Edgewood Road East Gary, Indiana
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE

>•*-
+■
PROM TIME ....
Louie’s Tuxedo
Rental
9 Blocks West of
Bus Stop on Washington
222 LAUREL AT 7-0575
Lowest Prices in Town
4

1
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves...try Old Spice Smooth Shave!	JOO
ooch
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
The Scholastic
1337 GRADUATES TO RECEIVE DEGREES AT COMMENCEMENT
Labor Secretary Mitchell, Archbishop Brady Address
' Graduating Class at Exercises in Stadium on June I
Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell . and Archbishop William O. Brady of St. Paul, Minn., will be the principal speakers at the University of Notre Dame’s 113th annual commencement exercises ' here June 1. The announcement was made today by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. ■ Mitchell will deliver the commencement address at afternoon exercises in the Notre Dame stadium. Father Hes-burgh will confer eight honorary degrees and approximately 1,337 graduate and undergraduate degrees during the ceremonies which will be televised by ► WNDU-TV. Archbishop Brady will preach the baccalaureate sermon during a Solemn Pontifical Mass to be cele-k brated by Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne in the stadium at 9 a.m.
Honorary degree recipients, in addition to the Cabinet member and the Minnesota prelate, include Deputy Undersecretary of State Robert D. Murphy, ' Washington, D. C.; Raymond H. Reiss, president of the Reiss Manufacturing Corp., New York City, and president of • Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees; Paul Horgan, Pulitzer Prize winning author, Roswell, N. M.; Robert H. Gore, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., pub-1 lisher and hotel operator and a member of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce . Advisory Council.
‘ Other honorary degree recipients are Alfred P. Sloan, honorary board chair-
CENTER MANAGER
Upperclass students attending summer school who would be interested in the job of Student Center manager during the summer are invited to inquire in the manager’s office of the Center before May 21. The job will consist of maintaining the Center and coordinating activities that may take place. The job would require approximately 4050 hours per week. Residents of Vetville are especially invited to inquire.
man of the General Motors Corp., and president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York City; and Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner, president of Associated Universities, Inc., New York City, and a member of the executive committee of the U. S. national committee for the International Geophysical Year.
Following the Baccalaureate Mass in
ARCHBISHOP BRADY
To give baccalaureate sermon
the morning, Father Hesburgh will bless an American flag which the senior class presented to the University on Washington’s Birthday. Traditionally, the seniors’ flag is blessed and flown for the first time on their graduation day and then throughout the following year.
On the eve of their graduation from Notre Dame, 189 members of the senior class will receive commissions in the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marines during Class Day exercises in the University Drill Hall May 31. Prizes will be awarded to outstanding students at the ceremonies. Student speakers will include class president Don McNeill, Winnetka, Ill.; valedictorian John A. Kennedy, Tacoma, Wash.; and class orator John C. Hirschfeld, Champaign, Ill. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C.,
SECRETARY OF LABOR MITCHH1
Commencement speaker
Notre Dame’s executive vice-president, will preside at the class day exercises.
The senior class will also make its traditional “Last Visit” to Sacred Heart Church on the campus on graduation day. The ceremony, which is restricted to members of the graduating class, will be conducted by The Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
Secretary Mitchell was appointed to President Eisenhower’s Cabinet on October 9, 1953. Previously he served as assistant secretary of the Army in charge of manpower and reserve forces affairs. During World War II he was director of the Industrial Personnel Division of the War Department where he was responsible for labor and manpower problems affecting Army contractors and the administration of nearly one million civilian employees of the Army Service Forces.
Mitchell has also served as personnel relations advisor, industrial relations director, and operating vice-president of several industrial concerns. He is a native of Elizabeth, N..J.
Archbishop Brady was elevated to the hierarchy by Pope Pius XII in 1939 and named Bishop of Sioux Falls. He served as head of the South Dakota see until 1956 when he was named coadjutor Archbishop of St. -Paul with the right of succession. He became Ordinary of the Archdiocese in the same year.
Originally from the Fall River, Masa, diocese, Archbishop Brady has spent most of his priestly life in the St. Paul see. Awarded a doctorate in sacred . theology from the Angelicum in Rome, he served for six years as rector of the / St. Paul Seminary.	,
9
May 16, 1958
Graham Elected New Senate Vice>President; Babbitt, Scheckler Also Selected as Officers
Bill Graham was elected vice-president of the Student Senate for next year at the May 7 meeting. Bruce Babbitt was named the new secretary and Bill Scheckler, in the only contested election, was selected treasurer.
The new government commissioners were named by Denny Shaul, student body president, at the Senate banquet last Monday night.
The new social commissioner is Crane Day while the post of academic commissioner will be filled by Mike Halpin. The religious commissioner for next year is Don Gillies. Warren Grienenberger was named public relations director and Jack Stewart is the director of international affairs.
Jim Rose will be heading NFCCS on campus. He will also join with Tom Greene to direct the development of student enrollment.
Graham began his political career as a senator from Lyons and was subsequently twice elected a stay senator. He served as secretary this year and also on the commission for the extension of student responsibility.
The new secretary, Babbitt, has been in student government for two years. He was senator from Zahm his freshman year and a stay senator this year.
Scheckler, who defeated Tom Lamont and Dennis Murphy for the office of treasurer, is this year’s senator from Lyons hall. He was also a member of the finance committee.
Day, who supervised last week’s “Oklarama,” was assistant chairman of
NEW STUDENT SENATE OFFICERS
Bill Graham, Denny Shaul, Bruce Babbitt, Bill Scheckler
the Mardi Gras Ball and chairman of the AB Ball. Halpin is the Blue Circle vice-chairman and was chairman of the “Who’s Who” committee.
The religious commissioner, Gillies, is a member of the Third Order of St. Francis as well as president of the Naval Institute. Grienenberger is from Muskegon, Mich. He was in charge of running the “Student Government Speaks” show on WSND.
Rose, a stay senator, was also on the committee which drew up a report concerning an honor system. Stewart is a commerce junior from Los Angeles, Calif., and Greene is a sophomore in engineering from Detroit, Mich.
During the meeting three members were elected outstanding senators. They were Babbitt, John Dewes, and Shaul.
Legislative business for the night included the summer storage policy. The manager’s salary was reset from $400 to $350 while the assistant manager’s was lowered from $300 to $275.
The final exam schedule was likewise a topic of heated debate. Herb Riband, a senator from Keenan, had been sent by Jerry Brady to meet with Leo Cor-bachi, the administrative assistant of academic affairs. Riband reported that he presented many of the student complaints with which Corbachi sympathized.
However, Corbachi pointed out, the administration is not without its own difficulties. Senior grades have to be in by May 28 as a dry run for next year when the eighth semester marks will be
included in the graduating averages. On the other hand, the number of class hours are down to a bare minimum.
Any fewer hours and the University might lose accreditation; thus exams cannot start any sooner. Extending them into June is prevented by the r"- • Notre Dame tradition of graduation being on the first Sunday in June.
Riband argued that this indicated a lack of foresight and that it amounted * to placing a whole semester’s work into two hours since study time was greatly reduced. He suggested that there might r 5 have been some way of giving advance V notice.	!
The Senate then considered writing the department heads and asking them to allow instructors to value the final exam as low as 15 per cent.	1 j
This was rejected when it was pointed > . f out that this would be an ex post facto • action. In addition, it would amount to asking the professors to violate a University regulation.	* i
The discussion then swung to a censor- 1 ship of examinations on Sunday. Sev- j eral senators questioned the morality of I such action and pointed out the probability of scandal to those not acquainted with the facts.
The Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president of student affairs, then spoke in order “to show the tremendous problems facing the administration.” Father Norton agreed that Sunday exams are not ideal, but he did not consider the schedule a matter to be referred to the students.
Ultimate Senate action amounted to a motion, which passed unanimously, to have Shaul and Brady express the dissatisfaction of the students with Sunday examinations.
Saturday night permissions for seniors attending the Ball were extended until 1 a.m. This did not apply to juniors.
The Senate was told that there would not be midnight lights in freshman study halls nor would seniors be allowed to have cars until after graduation.
—Roy Rtibeli.
YEARBOOK CERTIFICATIONS
All students must pick up certifications for the yearbook next week from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m. Identification cards are required and must be presented at the Dome offices which are located on the second floor in the rear of the La Fortune Student Center.
Actual distribution of the yearbook will probably begin on May 23 at Stanford Hall. No student will receive a book without presenting his certification.
10
The Scholastic
Seniors Dance Amidst 'Dimensions' Setting; * Harry James Orchestra Entertains Couples
Amidst the gay and elaborate settings * t entitled “Dimensions,” the annual Senior Ball will kick off the senior week end tonight in the Navy Drill Hall. Close to 700 members of the graduating class with their dates will participate in what is to be the last major social event of this school year.
| * The dance will last from 10 p.m. to f 2 a.m.; those attending the ball will be ; granted a special 3 a.m. curfew. The usual car* permission from Friday noon * to Sunday noon will also be in effect.
F Crowning of Miss Ann Rodabaugh of ; Stewart Manor, N. Y., as the queen of the Senior Ball will highlight the dance. > The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the University president, will perform
ANN RODABAUGH
Senior Prom queen
the coronation. Miss Rodabaugh, junior '* at Mary Washington College, Va., will be escorted by the general chairman Robert Duffy.
। Harry James and his Music Makers will entertain the couples throughout ► the night. The 17 piece orchestra featuring James with the trumpet will be r accompanied by a vocalist.
As a special feature of the Senior Ball, 3500 orchids, to be formed into corsages, y will be flown directly from Hawaii. Each date will be presented with a corsage be, fore entering the dance floor.
Black, white, and blue in attractive * combinations will dominate the “Dimensions” decoration. Relying heavily on the versatile polyethylene material for ornaments, the decoration committee promises a few surprises to the guests at the dance. For the first time in the
Drill Hall, the orchestra will be featured on the central stage of the floor.
Parking service by a special crew will be available at the Drill Hall gate. The service enables the couples to leave their cars and pick them up at the entrance.
Parents of the committee chairmen and of senior class officers will act as chaperones at the dance.
Tomorrow evening at Erskine Country Club, a dinner dance will be held from 7 to 11:30 p.m. Music will be provided by the Gene Bertoncini Band. Residence curfew is 1 a.m.
Reigning at the dinner dance as the queen is Miss Mary Lou Hinchey of Rutland, Vt. A sophomore at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, she is the guest of Stan Lorens, chairman of the dinnerdance committee.
The seniors and their dates will attend the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday. A group from the University glee club will sing at the Mass. Communion Breakfast in the Old Dining Hall following the Mass will cap the senior week end. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president, will be the main speaker.
Committee chainnen, in addition to Duffy and Lorens, are: James Keough, business; Joseph McCue, Communion Breakfast; Patrick Kane and William Schaefer, decorations; Robert Wilhelms, entertainment; Robert Massman, ticket; and William Leninger, hotel.
Other chairmen are: Robert McHale, executive; John McMahon, publicity; John Flanagan, refreshment; and Jerome McNamara, special chairman.
—Bob Maruyama.
MARY LOU HINCHEY To reign at dinner-dance
McCartan Appointed New ’Lawyer’ Editor
Pat McCartan has been selected editor of The Notre Dame Lawyer for next year by a board composed of the seven out-going staff members. His associate editor, Richard Clark, was also chosen by this group.
McCartan, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1956 Magna Cum Laude, served as station manager of WSND, was a member of the Blue Circle, and was a recipient of the Dome Award in 1956. He was also a member of “Who’s Who in American Colleges.” His home is in Youngstown, Ohio.
The associate editor, a native of River Forest, Ill., also graduated in 1956. He was president of Y.C.S., a member of The Wranglers, and academic commissioner in the Student Senate. He received the Dockweiler Medal in Philosophy.
The five-member staff, composed of John Kennedy, lead article and book review editor; Norris Bishton, associate lead article and book review editor; William Harte, case editor; Daniel Hammer, note editor; and Richard Schiller, magazine and legislation editor, were chosen by the new editor and approved by last year’s staff. All are graduates of Notre Dame except Harte who graduated from Quincy College, in Quincy, Ill.
The Lawyer consists of an 800 page volume composed of four quarterly issues. Its concern is primarily with analysis of current decisions. Each issue is a composite of student work of an analytical nature. It features lead articles by professional men and teachers. The Lawyer has had continuous publishing existence since 1925.
WNDU Presents Production On Contributions to Aviation
The second in a series of two student-produced television shows, “Humble Beginnings,” concerning Notre Dame’s contributions to the field of aviation, will be presented Sunday at 5 pan. on WNDU-TV. The show was written by John Crilly, and will star Bill Chesson and Mort Crimm.
This is part of the semester’s work for students in the communication arts department.
The director, George O’Donnell, is known for his performance in Death of a Salesman last year, and more recently in Oklahoma as Jud Fry. .
This is one of the very few times in the United States that a commercial television station has presented a show in conjunction with the curriculum of a university.
11
May 16, 1958
Engineers Inaugurate Campus Honor Group
The College of Engineering has inaugurated its own honor society, which has gone into effect during this past semester. Within two years this engineering honor society is slated to become part of Tau Beta Phi and will assume the title of Nu Delta Epsilon.
To qualify for membership this year engineers had to have an 87.5 average as juniors and an 85.5 average as seniors. This was decided on a percentage basis in the engineering school.
In addition to maintaining the necessary average a qualifying student must present a paper, which will later be read at a meeting of the society. At the various meetings throughout the year guest speakers have given talks on general engineering topics.
The honor society has recently announced the election of next year’s officers. Jim Mullen will assume the position of president. Mullen is active in the Joint Engineering Council and is majoring in aeronautical engineeidng.
The vice president will be Denny Readey. Howie Prosser has been elected secretary and John Maloney treasurer. The past president, Tom Fogarty, and Bill Lynch have been instrumental in helping to organize the honor society.
Commerce Introduces Program for Graduates
A new one-week Summer Management Program designed exclusively for Notre Dame alumni has been inaugurated by the College of Commerce.
The twofold objective of the program is to help Notre Dame graduates keep abreast of new thinking in the area of business management and to prepare them for new opportunities in business.
The program will be conducted in the Morris Inn in weekly cycles beginning July 7, 14, and 21. Areas to be covered include marketing management, business finance, human relations and communications, and economic environment and control.
Staff members, in addition to the College of Commerce Dean James Culliton, will be Assistant Dean Thomas Murphy, director of the program; John Malone, head of the marketing department; LeClair Eells, head of finance; James Din-colo, accounting; and Vincent Raymond, assistant professor of business administration. Conducting a humanities discussion will be Professor Frank O’Malley, and Dr. Robert Caponigri.
TECH REVIEW STAFF FOR NEXT YEAR
Jim Lane, Roger O’Neil (editor), Joe Higgins, Denny Readey
Next Year's Tech Review1 Staff Announced; 4 O'Neil, Readey, McAdam Appointed Editors T.
Next year’s staff of the Tech Review was recently announced at the annual publications banquet. Assuming the position of editor is Roger O’Neil, a chemical engineering major from Susquehanna, Pa. The associate editors will be Denny Readey and Bill McAdam.
O’Neil, studying on a scholarship from the Erie Railroad, is the treasurer of the AICHE and a member of the Joint Engineering Council. He also was the chairman of this year’s Engineering Show.
Readey, a metallurgy major from
Dean's List Juniors Meet In O'Shaughnessy Tuesday
The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has announced that there would be a meeting of all the juniors on the Dean’s List-next Tuesday at 7:45 p.m. in room 104 of O’Shaughnessy hall.
The purpose of the meeting is to give information on the various national scholarships for which these students might compete in their senior year. Many of these scholarships, such, as-the Rhodes, Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, and Danforth awards, require application in the early fall. Students in other colleges are invited if they are interested. .
Aurora, Ill., is the present chairman of T the Metallurgist Society and a member r of the Joint Engineering Council. McAdam, the other associate editor, is majoring in electrical engineering and makes his home in Wilmette, Ill. He as- ♦ > sumed the chairmanship for next year’s Engineering Open House.	*
Next year’s business manager is Joe v Higgins, a chemical engineering major 1 from Flossmorr, Ill. Higgins is the chairman of the Metallurgist Society 4 and a member of the Joint Engineering r/ Council.	.
Jim Lane, from Columbus, Ga., has : been appointed circulation manager, -‘ r Lane is a civil engineering major and ' a member of the Joint Engineering ‘ Council.	J
Next year’s articles editor will be ■ Tom Shishman, a nuclear engineering ..M major from Norfolk, Va. Shishman is n a member of the Glee Club and sophomore class treasurer. Dick Sapp has i been appointed office manager. Sapp is majoring in electrical engineering and is a member of the wrestling team.
Jim Wulf, a mechanical engineering major from Rock Island, Ill., will as- ; sume the position of feature editor. The * position of copy editor will be filled by Jim Hayes of Larchmont, N. Y. Hayes is an engineering science major and is a member of the K of C and a Dean’s List student.
12
The Scholastic
Chancellor Raab Gives Address Next Thursday
Final preparations for conferring an r honorary Doctor of Laws degree upon
I Austrian Chancellor Julius Raab have been completed. Chancellor Raab will f receive the degree and deliver a major I address at the University next Thursday L at 3:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, f The Austrian political leader became > acquainted with The Rev. Theodore M.
5 Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre V Dame, during the conference of the In’ ternational Atomic Energy Agency in
Vienna last fall.
> Raab has been Federal Chancellor since April, 1953. He is one of the # founders of the Austrian People’s Party. [ Indiana Governor Handley said, “All informed Americans should be grateful for the spirit of independence which has enabled the freedom-loving people of i * Austria to resist the forces which would ! subjugate them.”
t The Chancellor’s May 22 speech will be in German, but written transcriptions
* of his address will be distributed among * the audience.
Other guests of the University for the I. academic convocation will include Austrian embassy officials from Washington v and Chicago, and South Bend residents of Austrian extraction.
Tickets will be distributed next Mon-
1 day night in the Washington Hall box office from 7 to 9 p.m. The convocation is open to everyone.
► Kertesz Granted Fellowship , To Study Diplomacy in UN
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science and head of the Committee on International Relations at the University, has been awarded a Guggen-
4 heim Fellowship to conduct research on multilateral diplomacy in the United
► Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
A total of 322 grants valued at $1,412,000 were recently announced by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial y Foundation of New York City. The awards have been made annually since ►	1925-to-men and women “who have dem-
onstrated the highest capacity for orig-f inal scholarly research and artistic creation.”
Professor Kertesz, who is a former Hungarian minister to Italy, has been granted a semester’s leave next fall to
i carry out the research project. He will . , conduct part of his research at the U.N.
* and the State Department. He also expects to consult with prominent statesmen and diplomats in Canada, England, France, Germany, Belgium, and other western European nations. His findings will be incorporated into a book.
May 16, 1958
Merz, Hayward Named YCS Co-Cbairmee; Adopt New National Program for Next Year
The co-chairmen for next year’s YCS will be Jim Merz and John Hayward. Merz will be in charge of the campus activities of the organization while Hayward will work with YCS away from Notre Dame.
Merz, a junior physics major from Teaneck, N. J., served as president of YCS and will be primarily responsible for the development of the apostolate on campus by coordinating and guiding group efforts to produce a more effective apostolate serving the Notre Dame student community.
Merz is past chairman of the YCS Student Government freshman program, and has attended the YCS Eastern Regional Study Week, as well as serving as the vice-president of the Physics club.
Hayward, a junior in English from Toledo, Ohio, will be concerned with an extension of the student apostolate to other campuses in the area as co-chairman of YCS and as chairman of the National Catholic Action Study Bureau. Hayward has served in the past as a vice-president and secretary of YCS. Besides being active in the Blue Circle, he is the senior class president for next year.
Joe Higgins, an engineering junior from Winnetka, Ill., will be the executive se'cretaiy and will be concerned with the administrative work of YCS in the coordination of the various YCS student services such as the Campus Press, B-X, and the tutoring service.
YCS CO-CHAOMEN AND EXECUTIVE SECRETARY John Hayward, Jim Merz, Joe Higgins
Higgins has served as group leader for the Engineering YCS Group and as YCS representative to the Joint Engineering Council. At present he is business man' ager of the Tech Review and has worked on the coordinating committee of the Engineering Open House. -
Next year the National Program of YCS will be concerned with a “Mature Student Voice,” and these and other men will be representing Notre Dame at the National Study Week which will outline an effective approach to this problem.
Storage Collection Dates Set: For May 24-27 at Fieldhouse
All articles for summer storage must be in the fieldhouse before 6 pun. on May 27. Anybody who has not been contacted concerning summer storage can get in touch with their hall salesmen. All sales will be made in the halls.
The fieldhouse will be open May 24 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., and will be open the next day from noon until 6 pan. Monday and Tuesday the fieldhouse will be open from 8 a.m. until 6 pan. ..
K. OF C. ELECTIONS
All third degree members in good standing of the Knights of Columbus are reminded by Grand Knight Bob Porst of the elections next Monday. Voting will take place in the council chambers from 1 until 7:30 p.m.
Photographic
Best
Of
C.S.C Centennial
by CHARLES LADNER
Rising out of the destruction and despair wrought by the French Revolution came an urgent call for religious to revive the French church. The need was, in part, filled by Father Basil Moreau, when he founded the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1857.
The foundations of the congregation were laid at Ruille, France, while Father Moreau was still in the seminary at Le Mans. This initial work was done by Father James Dujarie who founded an order of brothers in 1821. These were the Brothers of St. Joseph who were to teach in trade schools and schools of agriculture for destitute and abandoned boys.
While Father Dujarie directed the brothers in their work, Father Moreau completed his seminary studies and became a professor of theology. Seeing a great need for education in the parishes, Father Moreau gathered together a group of his fellow teachers at the seminary to devote themselves as much as possible to aiding the parish priests. These assistants became known as the Auxiliary Priests of Le Mans; they, along with the Brothers of St. Joseph, later formed the nucleus of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
By the spring of 1835 the aged Father Dujarie was too weak to continue his work with the brothers, so Bishop Bouvier appointed Father Moreau to head the group. Thus Father Moreau was able to unite the Brothers of St. Joseph and the Auxiliary Priests into the Congregation of Holy Cross. In the constitution written by Father Moreau, the brothers and priests existed as two distinct societies united undei* a common rule and Superior General.
In 1857 the constitutions were officially approved by Rome and it is this date, May 13, 1857, that we have celebrated this year. This is the date that the Congregation of Holy Cross became an official member of the Church’s family of orders.
Before the Congregation of Holy Cross was approbated by the Church, it had to prove itself worthy of the honor. This is why 20 years elapsed between the founding of the order and the time of its formal approval.
During this time, by its ardent missionary and educational work, the Congregation of Holy Cross clearly proved its value to the Church. In 1840 Father Moreau sent missionaries to Africa. The next year, men were sent to the United States; within the next ten years, mem-
FATHER MOREAU
bers of the congregation established themselves in Canada, Italy, and India.
The Congregation of Holy Cross received official approbation from Rome on May 13, 1857. Since then the order has greatly expanded its activities, especially along the three courses established by Father Moreau in the Constitution. He set up three special ends of the congregation: the sanctification of souls by the ecclesiastical ministry which is an expansion of the work of the earlier group of the Brothers of St. Joseph; the apos-tolate in the foreign missions; and Christian education, an object particularly dear to Father Moreau who began his priestly career in teaching.
Every day of the year Holy Cross priests, brothers, and sisters throughout the world, by sacrifice and love, endeavor to effect these ends. In rural parishes and through mission territories they work for the sanctification of souls.
There are Holy Cross missions in East Pakistan, India, Haiti, Chile, Brazil, and Africa. In East Pakistan the only K college in the entire area is the Holy Cross college for men. Notre Dame, of ¥ course, is the epitome of Father Moreau’s ideal for Christian education. Besides training the students at Notre Dame, Holy Cross priests, brothers, and sisters, instruct over thirty-five thousand stu- < dents in their schools and colleges across the world.	«
From this vast system of missionary and educational work it is easy to see how the spirit of Holy Cross has perme- ’ ated the world. At Universal Notre Dame Night in Rome, Father Chris- 4 topher J. O’Toole summed up poetically the spirit that has inspired Holy Cross ». religious through the years.
“In the beautiful mother Church of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Le * Mans, there is found in the crypt a magnificent marble tomb executed by a French sculptor, M. Charlier. In it rest the remains of the venerated Founder* y of Holy Cross, Father Basil Moreau, soon, we hope, to be raised to the honors * of the altar. In another vast church in ' Montreal, in a black marble tomb, lie the remains of Brother Andre, the Apos- 4 tie of St. Joseph. The cause of beatification of this humble brother is now before the Congregation of Rites in Rome.
“Both were gifted with great vision; the one foresaw a religious society the ' influence of whose fathers and brothers would penetrate throughout the world. His dream has come true particularly at Notre Dame. The other, Brother Andre, p foresaw, a great basilica rising on Mount Royal in honor of St. Joseph. S His dream has come true. Fathei* Sorin , // i foresaw Our Lady mounted on a golden ’ dome far above the tall willows that 4 bordered the banks of the St. Joseph river. His dream also came true.	r/
“But these dreams and these ac- • complishments were based upon constant < sacrifice and self-denial, upon humility. They would have been impossible had it J not been for the zeal and vision of Fa- 1 ther Moreau who wrote the charter of ? Holy Cross at Notre-Dame de Sainte-Croix over a hundred years ago. And 1 so the spirit of Notre Dame du Lac is the spirit of Notre-Dame de Sainte j Croix.
“Only because the pioneers of the | Congregation and of Notre Dame were I willing to stand at the foot of the cross <’1 in hardship and suffering and sacrifice, was it possible to raise the image of Our Lady to the glorious golden dome. 5 There that image stands serene, visible to those who travel by the highways of | air or land, a constant reminder to the | thousands	of	students and alumni who	I
tread the	quiet campus paths, of the	I
true spirit of	Notre Dame.”	s
The Scholastic	j
16
BOOKS
At the Movies
| A Gilson Reader, edited by Anton C.
Pegis. (Doubleday Image Books, 1957, «	95c).
|	Religion and the Rise of Western Cul-
;	ture, by Christopher Dawson. (Double-
; day Image Books, 1958, 85c).
These recent Image paperback books give the Catholic college student a fine opportunity to come in contact with two outstanding Catholic intellectual leaders of the Twentieth century.
In A Gilson Reader, Anton Pegis, a Catholic scholar in his own right and a } student of Gilson, presents selections from many of the works of Etienne Gilson. As are all such collections, the book is intended to serve mainly as an introduction to Gilson’s thought. The twenty-one essays cover a variety of fields in an attempt to demonstrate Gilson’s work as a scholar, historian, philosopher, and educator. Included are selections on * several important Catholic philosophers and theologians such as St. Augustine, St. Bonaventure, John Duns Scotus, and A St. Thomas Aquinas. Gilson is himself a Thomist and one of his main roles has . been to demonstrate that philosophy and theology should not be separated, some* thing which other purported Thomists have attempted to do.
Much of Gilson’s histoneal and philosophical work has been of the Mediaeval period, and this, in a way, provides > a link with Dawson’s book. Religion and the Rise of Western Culture was originally delivered as the famous Gifford lectures at the University of Edinburgh in 1948-49. In this book Dawson shows with vibrant style the influence religion had in shaping Western culture by trac-• ing, for the most part, the early Middle Ages. He examines the development of Christianity and culture through the Barbarian periods, the Second Dark Ages and to the Thirteenth century. In doing so he demonstrates the fundamental dualism of Christian thought in the early Middle Ages and the subsequent attempt to subdue the World to the Church. He shows what an important role religion has played in the development of Western culture, a role which as a creative force is of more significance in the relationship to man’s , final goal than the political and economic orders.
These two books are most important in gaining an awareness of the Mediae-। val thought which contained so many of the values which we have lost in the modern age. ' They bring home with force the fact that the past has a value i in the shaping of our present civilization, a value which we often neglect.
May 16, 1958
COLFAX
The Goddess: (May 16-22). Paddy Chayefsky turns a movie camera into a grave robber’s shovel and comes up with a sordid assortment of broken lives. A shabby story in three parts drawn together by nothing. Kim Stanley and Lloyd Bridges.
GRANADA
Too Much, Too Soon: (May 16-22). Diana Banymore (Dorothy Malone) was a bad girl, and she decided to reveal her misfortunes to the world only for the noble reward of money. This film follows the current trend of utilizing the troubles in popular people’s biographies. Errol Flynn is cast as John Barrymore.
PALACE
War of the Satellites: (May 16-18). Susan Cabot and Dick Miller zero in on South Bend and once again we are the center of inter-planetary activity. Also: Attack of the Fifty-Foot Woman. Sure. May 19 only: Auntie Mame. Sylvia Sidney heads the cast of live performers who bring to the Palace stage the long-time queen of last year’s best seller lists. One performance only, at 8:30. Don’t miss it.
Beginning May 20: I Married a Woman. The sky is blue, too. Codocumentary: Female Animal. A good bedtime tale for kiddies, especially stupid kiddies.
RIVER PARK
Sing, Boy, Sing: (May 16, 17). Lili Gentle is featured with Tommy Sands, who swings out with his own success story. One of the better treatments of popular singers and the sounds they create. Also: Kiss Them for Me. Slapstick, satire and sentimentality concerning unreal military-civilian situations in World War II. A fair production held together by Cary Grant, who, in tui-n, is kept from going to pieces by Jayne Mansfield.
The Seven Hills of Rome: (May 18-20). Beautiful Italy lends flavor to the powerful voice of Mario Lanza. Also: God is My Partner. Two nephews try to convict their benevolent uncle of incompetence because he gives away large chunks of his own money to needy folks. Walter Brennan, John Hoyt and Marion Ross carry the film which says that too much charity is a dangerous thing.
STATE
Twenty Million Miles to Earth: (May 16, 17). The Air Force makes a round trip to Venus and brings back a souvenir surprise package. Stars William Hopper, Joan Taylor, Several Space Ships and Merton the Monster.
Co-hit: The 27th Day. Five people have the whole world in their hands, and 27 days to decide what to do with it. Passing the ball from left to right: Gene Barry, Valerie French and Azemat Janti.
Return of Dracula: (May 18-20). The heart throb of witches the world over tries again. Must be full moon. And: The Flame Barrier. The story of filter tips.
WASHINGTON HAU
The Enemy Below: (May 16). Robert Mitchum, as the skipper of a U. S. destroyer, plays tag with Nazi U-boat commander Curt Jergens. The picture presents a skillful reproduction of the reactions of men under pressure, along with all the technicolor action you can pack into 98 minutes. Battle times: 2:00, 6:25, and 8:40.
—Terry Shea.
17
What does this fruit have to do with this cigarette filter?
THE VICEROY FILTER IS MADE
FROM A PURE, NATURAL
MATERIAL FOUND IN AIL FRUIT
—and it gives you Maximum Filtration for the Smoothest Smoke!
• From the same soft, pure material found in the rich pulp of nature’s healthful fruits, modem filter scientists have created the greatest cigarette filter ever designed . . . the Viceroy filter. For the Viceroy filter gives you the maximum filtration for the smoothest smoke of any cigarette. More taste, too... the pure, natural taste of rich, mellow tobaccos. Yes, Viceroy gives you more of what you change to a filter for!
<1
£1958, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
Viceroy PURE, NATURAL FILTER . .. PURE, NATURAL TASTE


New crusti-proof flip-open box or famous familiar pack.
18
The Scholastic
■t J
9>tiAk Scan*
Former PGA Winner Will Give Clinic Here
On Tuesday, May 20, “Chick” Harbert will play an 18-hole exhibition match with three members of the Notre Dame golf squad. Following the match, Harbert will conduct a clinic on golf fundamentals. The exhibition and clinic will be held on the Burke Memorial Golf Course.
The exhibition match will begin at one o’clock and the clinic will follow at about four o’clock. All are invited to attend. The program is being sponsored by the Gerity Golf Fund.
Harbert a well-known professional from Detroit, was the National PGA champion in 1954 and co-captain of the Ryder Cup team that defeated the English in 1955. He is regarded as one of golf’s longest hitters, having won over 40 major driving contests in his career. Many of his drives have traveled over 300 yards.
Besides the PGA, Harbert has won many tournaments on the touring circuit. His best 72-hole total came in 1953 when he shot 261 in the Michigan State Open in winning the tournament by twelve strokes.
Harbert is always a colorful perform-.er on the golf course. His powerful long game and gambling tactics attract throngs of spectators at major tournaments throughout the country. He is at his best in match play where his bold style tends to unnerve more careful professionals.	■
CHICK HARBERT
Former PGA champ to appear here
Fallonmen Meet Marquette, Detroit Netten After Hawkeyes Inflict Season's First Defeat
The Notre Dame tennis squad is at Milwaukee this afternoon to face Marquette University. The host school has never defeated the Irish on their courts. Today Notre Dame will be after their 13th victory in the series.
Tomorrow afternoon the Irish will play their last home match and their last dual match of the season against Detroit University. The netmen have also never lost to the Titans, winning 15 straight in the series. The match will be held on the tennis courts at the south side of the O’Shaughnessy Building, beginning at 1:30.
Number one man for the Irish, junior Max Brown, suffered a sprained left ankle in practice Monday and will be a doubtful starter for the Irish tomorrow. Brown, the seventh-ranked collegiate player in the country, won both of his matches last week end and has been beaten only once this year.
Should Brown be unable to go for the Irish, Coach Tom Fallon will have to call on sophomore Dee Stevenson to fill in.
Thirteen proved to be an unlucky number for Coach Fallon’s netters as Iowa University dealt the Irish their first loss of the season, 5-4. The loss came as Notre Dame faced Iowa and Indiana in a triangular match at Bloomington last Friday and Saturday.
Previous to the Hawkeye loss, the Notre Dame netmen had won 13 straight, including a 7-2 win over Michigan which snapped a four-year win skein for the Wolverines.
The Irish started out strong in the Iowa match last Friday. Both Brown and team captain Ron Schoenberg won their singles matches. Brown defeated the Hawkeyes’ highly ranked Art Andrews in three sets. Andrews won the first set, 6-1, but Brown came back to take the next two, 6-3 and 6-3.
Schoenberg had an easier time of it in his match, needing only two sets to dispose of Bob Potthast, 6-3 and 6-2.
But the Hawks bounced back to win the next two matches. Joe Martin dropped the first set, 4-6, to Notre Dame’s Hector Cabello but came back strongly to take the match, 6-3 and 6-4.
Don Middlebrook tied up the match for the Iowa team by beating Sergio Garza, 8-6 and 6-4 only to have Notre Dame’s Chuck Stephens put the Irish out in front again. Stephens defeated Bill Voxman of Iowa, 6-3 and 6-4.
Iowa made it an even split, in the sin
gles by taking the last match. John Stoy decisioned Notre Dame’s Chuck Vanon-cini in three hard-fought sets, 4-6, 6-4 and 6-4.
The Hawks sewed it up by taking the first two doubles matches. Andrews and Potthast beat Brown and Garza in a close match, 6-4, 3-6 and 6-4. Then Martin and Middlebrook clinched the victory by easily beating Schoenberg and Cabello, 6-1 and 6-2.
Stephens and Vanoncini of Notre Dame salvaged the final doubles match over Voxman and Stoy, 6-2 and 8-6,
MAXWELL BROWN
Singles star suffers ankle sprain
making the final score 5-4 in favor of the Hawkeyes.
Notre Dame bounced back on the winning trail again Saturday as they took the measure of the Hoosiers of Indiana, 8-1. The victory gave the Irish a 14 won-one lost record for the season.
Brown defeated Jerry Parchutte of the Hoosiers, 6-4 and 6-2. Schoenberg outplayed Bill Petrick, 6-1 and 8-6, for a 2-0 Irish lead.
The Hoosier’s Bob Gray picked up Indiana’s only point of the day as he beat ND’s Cabello, 8-6 and 6-3.
The Irish closed out the singles with three straight victories. Garza defeated Dean Dixon, 6-3 and 6-1; Stephens oat-pointed Jack Fitzpatrick easily, 6-2 and 6-0; and Vanoncini beat Harry Garnett^ 6-2 and 7-5.	•
In the doubles the Irish swept all three matches. The first and third teams won in straight sets while the second team was extended to three sets.
May 16, 1958
19
Heap Tallies Four Times to Lead Old Timers To a 37-36 Victory in Annual Spring Contest
Joe Heap and Ralph Guglielmi returned to the Notre Dame campus last Saturday to lead the Old Timers to a 37-36 victory over the Irish varsity. With 13 professional or former professional players, ten non-pro former players and ten seniors from last fall’s team, the Old Timers fielded a team which was, in the opinion of Irish Coach Terry Brennan, “The best I have ever watched.”
Heap led the offensive parade for the Old Timers as he scored four of the veterans’ five touchdowns, two of them on passes from teammate Guglielmi. Don Schaefer scored the other touchdown for the Old Timers as well as contributing four points-after-touchdown. Paul Hornung contributed the other three points to the total, also on points after the touchdown, one by a placement and the other on a three-yard buck.
In the statistics departments the “old men” outshone the varsity in all but one, rushing yardage. They had 20 first downs to the varsity’s twelve, 190 yards rushing to the varsity’s 231, 255 yards passing to 102 for the varsity, and ten out of 23 passes completed to four out of eleven for the Brennanmen.
The Old Timers took the opening kickoff and marched 74 yards to start the
JIM CROTTY BEGINS KICKOFF RETURN
Irish halfback avoids blocker as Cifelli closes in
first period. Heap scored the touchdown on a four-yard run, but the score was set up by a 25-yard pass from Guglielmi to Heap and a 21-yarder to Leon Hart. Hornung converted the placement for a 7-0 lead.
After the ball changed hands twice, the varsity drove 58 yards in nine plays, with Bob Williams throwing a nine-yard pass to Monty Stickles for the score. Williams then passed to end Gary Myers for two points and an 8-7 lead.
Following the kickoff, Guglielmi passed from his own 41 to Heap on the varsity 25 and he went the rest of the way to score. Hornung tried to run for the extra point but was stopped short of the goal, giving the Old Timers a 13-8 lead.
Don White then directed the No. 2 varsity team to a touchdown, moving 67 yards in five plays. Sophomore Bob Scarpitto took White’s pass for 44 yards to cap the scoring drive. White’s attempt to kick the extra point was wide, and the varsity led 14-13.
Guglielmi’s ten-yard scoring pass to Heap capped another Old Timer drive that reached pay dirt with only seconds remaining in the first half. Schaefer dove over for two extra points and the
LEON HART
Old Timer end snares Guglielmi aerial
Old Timers went off the field with a 21-14 half-time lead.
Jim Crotty, whose spectacular running highlighted the varsity attack all afternoon, intercepted a pass and ran it back 81 yards to score early in the third period. Williams again passed to Myers for the extra points, and once again the varsity regained the lead 22-21.
However, the Old Timers, acting like anything but that, came roaring back and Heap capped the drive, going over again, this time on a 13-yard run. Schaefer plunged over again for the extra points and a 29-22 advantage.
The varsity opened the scoring in the fourth period, marching 70 yards after recovering a fumble. Williams threw another touchdown pass to Monty Stickles, this time for 38 yards, and Nick Pietrosante went over for the extra points and a 30-29 lead.
The Old Timers came back once more, this time driving 80 yards in 12 plays. Schaefer bucked over from the one to score and Hornung added two more points, plunging over for the extra points.
The see-saw battle went on as Crotty continued his brilliant running, taking the kickoff back 64 yards to the 29-yard line, and in seven plays he scored from the four. With 1:28 remaining on the clock the Old Timers had a 37-36 lead, and the varsity had a chance to tie or possibly win the game with the extra point attempt. However, halfback Dick Lynch and tackle Ray Lemek clinched the victory for the Old Timers, spilling halfback Pat Doyle behind the line as he attempted to skirt left end for the two points that would have given the varsity the lead and, most probably, the victory.
The Scholastic
20
Twice-Beaten Golfers Face Two Indiana Foes
Tomorrow on the Burke Memorial Golf Course the Notre Dame linksmen go after their tenth and eleventh wins * in a match with Purdue and Indiana.
> Notre Dame lost to Iowa last Monday, 25-17, at the University of Iowa Golf Course at Iowa City. This was the sec* ond loss of the season for the Irish link-sters. They have won ten matches including a victory over Wisconsin, the » defending Big Ten champion.
Lloyd Syron and Frank Hund of Notre Dame led both teams in the 36-hole medal honors. Syron fired 70-72 for a * two-under-par 142. Hund was a close
TIME OUT
CHARLIE THURN
Co-Captain shows driving form
second. The Irish sophomore toured the I difficult Iowa course in 71-72—143.
•’ Despite the fine showing by Syron and Hund, consistency was the deciding factor in the final score. Six of the Hawk, eye golfers shot 151 or better for the day. John Liechty, number one man for Iowa, turned in an even-par 144 on
J rounds of 74-70 and Clyde Fettles card* ed 72-74—146. Other scores for Iowa I were Steve Showers 147, Bob Branden-j burg 149, Dale Hayes 151, Russ Schrage 151 and Bud Judish 158.
J The other five Notre Dame linksters all shot between 151 and 155. Terry Lally fired 76-75—151; Joe Grace and * Tom Garside both had 154’s on rounds of 78-76 and 79-75 respectively; Charlie Thurn had 77-78 for 155; and Christy
L Flanagan had 83-72—155.
Iowa led the Irish 14-7 after the morning round and even though the Notre Dame golfers played well in the afternoon, this margin was too difficult to overcome.
Several things can be said after last Saturday’s tussle in the Stadium. First the Irish are plenty happy that they don’t have to meet that kind of competition next year in regular season play. Coach Brennan stated that this year’s Old Timers team was the finest he had ever seen. They were in reasonably good shape and were deep enough so that they didn’t tire noticeably in the last quarter of the game. Most likely the Varsity won’t see a passer as good as Ralph Guglielmi all next season and certainly won’t have to defense receivers either as good or experienced as Joe Heap, Jim Morse and Leon Hart.
Coach Brennan said further that the result of the game was the best thing that could happen to his club, and indeed this seems true. The Varsity turned in a subpar performance, especially on defense. While it is excusable to let Guglielmi complete a good number of passes, the fact remains that the Old Timers were able to move the ball on the ground without too much trouble, especially in the second half. The Varsity looked sluggish and more tired than the “old men.”
The game proved conclusively I think that there is just no substitute for experience, something that the Varsity should have in comparison with other teams faced next year. The Brennanmen also showed good speed at halfback which should make a great deal of difference. If the Irish jell early, say in the first couple of games, they should have a fine chance of going all the way. Barring injuries and the unforeseen, the only thing that can keep them from the National Championship is a letdown somewhere in the middle of the season. And since most of the ballplayers on next year’s club were around for that 2-8 season, a letdown seems quite unlikely.
OUR FINEST HOUR
Last week at the Spring Sports Banquet, Father Joyce stated that this has been the greatest over-all year in the University’s athletic history. If one stops to think a moment, he will find that this is true. Never before have so many Notre Dame teams finished so near the top nationally. Even the rather new handball club won the National Collegiate Championships.
In the spring sports, the baseball, tennis and golf teams have a better than average chance of grabbing a chunk of the national honors.
These records should prove conclusively to the skeptics that Notre Dame is certainly not de-emphasizing intercollegiate athletics. In fact the picture is brighter now than it has ever been.
NO MORE GARDEN
The announcement was made last week that the Irish basketball forces will not be seen in Madison Square Garden next year. The reason given was that the Irish have not drawn as anticipated in the big city. This fact must fit someplace into the idea that New York is dying as a majoi* sports town. With no good local college football and the removal of the Dodgers and the Giants, one certainly must admit that sports-wise the good old days are gone forever* in New York.
CONTEST TIME
Footballer-trackster Aubrey Lewis has a problem and come to the Scholastic for help. It seems that a friend of his, one Miss Kay Walker, is a fashion designer in New York City. Miss Walker, whose work can be seen in the leading national fashion magazines, needs a professional name because there are many, many Kay’s who are dress designers in NYC. For the best or most suitable name sent in to Aubrey, Miss Walker will design an exclusive dress for the girl or the winner’s choice. Send all replies to 117 Walsh.—V.F.	.
May 16, 1958
21
Devine and Faley Honored At Monogram Club Banquet
At the annual Monogram Club banquet last week at Eddy’s Restaurant the club’s two awards were given. Don Faley, a broad jumper on the track team, and a junior from Princeton, Ill., won the Moose Krause Award for the person who has done the most for the Club. Faley ran the initiation program this year.
Bob Devine, a senior from Philadelphia, Pa., won the Hercules Bereolos Award for the ideal monogram man on campus. Devine was co-captain of this year’s basketball team, and set a new Notre Dame record for most consecutive games started. He broke into the lineup in the first game of his sophomore year and stalled in the next 81 games; he became one of the eight Irish basketball players ever to score over 1000 points in his career.
Frank Reynolds, a junior from Oak Park, Ill., was elected president of the
Worth cheering about!
Students and faculty members who need extra cash
for any good reason, have found they can borrow with confidence from HFC. At Household, loans are
made promptly, in privacy, with repayment terms
you select. So if a . loan is the answer to your money problems, phone or visit HFC.
Life insurance is provided on all HFC loans without extra cost to you
OUSEHOU) FINANCE
SOUTH BEHO H1K S. Birfcifi St, war Blxk ifn-gml 3-21M MISHAWAKA
Basebailers Return From Successful Trip: Baffle Glenview on Cartier Reid Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s baseball Irish return to Cartier Field tomorrow after a two week absence to face Glenview Naval Station of Glenview, Ill. The Irish already hold an 18-2 victory over the Navy gained last Saturday at Glenview.
Monday, Valparaiso University in-
Monogram Club for the ’58-59 school year at the Monogram Club’s meeting May 7. Reynolds was a first-string halfback on last year’s football team.
Gene Duffy, a junor from Davenport, la., was elected vice-president; Jim Rankin, a junior from Coral Gables, Fla., secretary; Steve Dornbach, a junior from Minneapolis, Minn., treasurer; Bob Wetoska and Dick Royer, sergeants at arms. Wetoska is a junior from Minneapolis, Minn., and Royer is a junior from Cincinnati, Ohio.
Cash You Got ♦	MONTHLY PAYMENT PLANS			
	24 paymts	18 paymts	12 paymts	6 paymts
SIM		$ 7.29	$10.07	$18.48
2M		14.42	19.98	36.78
£AA	516.92	21.06	29.42	54.63
4M	22.03	27.57	38.72	72.32
5M	27.10	34.03	47.97	89.95
Payments include charges at the rate of 3% per month on balances not exceeding $150 and per month on that part of the balance in excess of $150 to $500.
vades Cartier Field to close out a two-game home stand. Wednesday, the Irish are on the road again as they travel to Evanston to battle the Wildcats of Northwestern. Notre Dame whipped the Wildcats on Cartier Field on May 6, 22-2, as Frank Carpin hurled his fourth victory of the season without a loss.
Carpin pitched five-hit ball, walking eight and striking out 14. He also helped his own cause with three hits.
Dick Selcei* and John Caretta led the attack with three hits apiece. Selcer had a double, a home run and drove in four runs. Bud Trapp also homered for the Irish.
May 7 the Irish traveled to Michigan State and won 7-0 behind the pitching of Chuck Symeon. Symeon, in winning his fifth straight game, gave up only six hits, walked three and fanned six. He was in trouble only once, that in the seventh when the Spartans loaded the bases with only one out. However, he fanned the Spartans’ Don Gilbert and left-fielder Bob Senecal made a fine running catch of a long fly ball to get Symeon out of the inning.
Last Saturday the Irish unlimbered their big bats once again and smashed out 16 hits, nine for extra bases, to clobber Glenview, 18-2. Sophomore hurl-ers Jim Hannan and Chuck Scrivanich combined to hold the Navy batters to just one hit. Hannan got credit for the win, his second of the season.
The win was the tenth straight and number 13 in 15 games for Coach Jake Kline’s nine.
First baseman Morris led the attack
on the Glenview pitching staff with three homers and a double in four official trips to the plate to drive in six runs. Trapp had a double and a homer for four RBI’s. Carpin chipped in three hits; Senecal and Selcer each had a pair.
Irish Seek Midwest Sailing Championship
The Irish sailing team travels to Madison, Wis., today in quest of the Midwest Intercollegiate Sailing Championship. Notre Dame’s toughest opposition will come from Michigan, with both teams being co-favorites. This rating is on the basis of comparative performances during the spring season.
Last week end the Irish journeyed to Detroit for the Detroit Yacht Club Memorial Regatta. Michigan upset Notre Dame in this meet, edging out the Irish for first honors in a hard fought meet.
The Scholastic-
Track Team Overruns Pitt on Cartier Reid; . Move to Marquette for Last Meet Tomorrow
r Notse Dame’s outdoor track team, . once-beaten in dual competition, travels । to Milwaukee tomorrow to take on Marquette in the final dual meet of the year.
a Last Saturday in their only appearance at Cartier Field this season, the ► Irish thinclads defeated Pittsburgh 72 %-v 58%, winning eight of the 15 events.
In the 100-yard dash Jim Donahue of Pittsburgh won with a time of :09.9. Joe Foreman and Pete Salsich of Notre Dame captured the second and third - places.
i Melvin Barnwell of Pittsburgh tied the dual meet record in the 220-yard dash with a time of :21.4. Donahue of Pitt was second and Foreman of the v Irish finished third.
, A new Cartier Field record was set by Barnwell in the 440-yard dash with * a time of :48.2. The old record of :48.3 was set by Ward of Indiana in 1956. Dale VandenBerg of the Irish was sec* ond to Barnwell with Dick Doyle of the Panthers finishing third.
[ Dale VandenBerg copped first place t for Notre Dame in his favorite event, the 880-yard run. His time was 1:53.5. Marty Clynes of the Irish was second and Vincent Wojar of Pittsburgh came in third.
Dick DiCamillo and Andy Crawford of Notre Dame tied for first place in the mile-run with a time of 4:17.8. Galen Cawley of the Irish finished third to r give Notre Dame a clean sweep of the event.
The two-mile run was won by Pitts, burgh with Vincent Timon breaking the tape in 9:41.4. Dave Cotton and John Bums captured second and third respectively for the Irish.
Steve Dornbach was again the only double winner for the Wilsonmen as he won both the high and low hurdles. Dornbach’s time of :23.4 in the 220-yard lows established a new dual meet record. He ran the 120 highs in :14.5.
( Pitt’s mile relay team of Tom Dudas, Dick Doyle, Vincent Wojar and Barnwell won that event with a time of 3:21.2.	•
‘ Mike Morando of Notre Dame, one of the most improved tracksters on this year’s squad, set a new Cartier Field and a new dual .meet record in the javelin with a throw of 211 feet six and one-half inches. The old Cartier Field record was 202 feet seven inches set by Gene Oberst of Notre Dame in 1924. Pete Sheptak of the Irish was second
with a heave of 179 feet one inch and Jon Jalovich of Pitt was third with 152 feet two inches.
The discus and the shot put were won by Wesley King of Pittsburgh. King -set a new Cartier Field and dual meet record in the discus by hurling the platter 165 feet three and one-half inches. He put the shot 49 feet four inches. Ken Scarborough of the Irish was second to King in the discus with a mark of 148 feet ten inches. Third place went to Dick Chadwick of Pitt with a toss of
1
145 feet eight and one-half inches. Chadwick was also third in the shot put with a distance of 48 feet one and one-half inches. Frank Geremia of Notre Dame got second place in the shot put for his 49-foot one and one-half-inch effort.
Tom Reichert and Glen Cividin of Notre Dame tied for first, in the pole vault at 13 feet. Pittsburgh’s Max Kumer was third with a vault of twelve feet six inches.
The high jump and broad jump were also won by Notre Dame. Tom San-facon copped the high jump with a six-foot four-inch leap, and Don Faley earned first place in the broad jump with his leap of 22 feet eight and three-eighths inches.
PARAMOUNT PRESENTS
JAMES STEWART KIM NOVAK IHA1FRE0 HtltHCacKS MASTERPIECE
I
i in J i i if tt - s f f
£
f
E
[VERTIED' I
M ffl Ulmin	NS)iraiMNoaoeiKiBMm*raKnEMiMOMMSMa^	I I
May 16, 1958
25
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
PROBLEM:
How to get home for Vacation?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines fast Mainliners*!
Save vahMbla vacation fimo by flying fast, dependable United Air Lines Mainliners. Radar* equipped for smoother flights, greater on-time reliability. Coo-venient schedules, including luxurious Red Carpet* Service. Call United or your travel agent.
*RM ia aawww Mark mhM anil Md by MM Nr Um, M
Rev. Norton Releases ’58 -’59 Concert Dates
The 1958-59 Concert and Lecture Series schedule, which consists of nine music and drama entertainments, was released last week by The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice president of student affairs. The dates of performances have been settled for all but one, and the list of well-known artists and troupes promises the students high quality entertainment for the coming year.
The presentations with their dates of performance are: Nov. 7—Theodore Ullmann, a pianist returning from 1955; Dec. 5—Gay Tyroliers, returnees from 1954, featuring 16 musicians, dancers, and singers from the Austrian Alps in
theii’ native costumes; Jan. 9—Oedipus Rex; Jan. 10—Twelfth Night, a double performance by the Players Incorporated; Feb. 13—Andres Segovia—world-famous guitarist; and Feb. 26 (tentative)—Goss & Whetsei, a modern song and dance team.
Other shows include: March 6—Juil-liard Quartet, a highly polished string music group; March 13—Rosalind Elias, a brilliant mezzo-soprano of the Metropolitan Opera; April 19—pianist Leonard Pennario, with the South Bend Symphony, presented jointly by Notre Dame and the South Bend Symphony Association.
Season tickets for the series will go on sale in the fall shortly after the beginning of school. Special price for these tickets will be available to students, faculty, and staff of the University.
Most of the arrangements for the entertainment selections were made by the student concert and lecture committee, which included the editors of the Scholastic and the Dome, WSND station manager, and representatives from the Student Senate social commission and the Blue Circle.
French Priest to Teach Here in Fall Semester
•The Rev. Guillaume de Bertier de Sauvigny, C.J.M., of the Catholic Institute of Paris, will lecture in the University of Notre Dame’s history department during the semester beginning next September, according to The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs. .
Father de Bertier, who is a noted authority on the French Restoration, will lecture on that subject as well as on European diplomatic history during the same period. He will also give four public lectures on Metternich marking the centenary of the death of the great Austrian diplomat.
The French scholar taught at Notre Dame two years ago under the auspices of the University’s Distinguished Professors Program. His newest book, France and the European Alliance, 18161821, will be published by the University of Notre Dame Press this spring.

r^-
HELP!! HELP!! HELP!!
Students desiring to write for next year’s SCHOLASTIC “Back Page” and "Escape” must submit sample manuscripts of about 1,000 words to the Editor, Box 185, .Notre Dame, Ind. as soon as possible.
Along with the manuscripts, the writers are asked to submit their ideas on what these columns should be and what they would plan to write about should they be selected. A short outline would be sufficient.
**•<******«*«*****«**•**«»«**«**•***<•***«****«•
The Scholastic
!
Art Department Finishes New Expansion Project
The finishing touches are being put to p r a new study area in the art department during the month of May. They are the ’ last in a series of improvements, and * ' some expansion for the art classes, that began about a year ago. Professor Fred-» A erick S. Beckman is in charge of the project, which is for courses in indus, trial and advertising design.
The expansion project consisted in * opening up a large studio area in the third flooi’ of the O’Shaughnessy Building, over the Art Wing. There are three studio laboratories, as well as a display lounge, fitted with exhibition panels of r mahogany and display pedestals. The project was made possible, according to ' Prof. Beckman, through a $10,000 gift from the Chrysler Motor Corporation. Through the designs of Beckman and the fabrication by members of his classes, the gift was made to pay for considerably more in improvements and materials.
* Presently an associate professor at the University, where he was for some time acting head of the art department, k Beckman is in charge of courses in industrial, advertising, and automotive det sign. He has created works in these fields himself, as well as being a painter L in the field of the Fine Arts.
MOMENTS TO REMEMBER
For souvenirs of that BIG week end at Notre Dame VISIT THE CAMPUS BOOKSTORE.
Here you will find a wide selection of gifts and remembrances. All articles are of highest quality and reasonable price.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Three Institutions to Confer Degrees upon Fr. Hesburgh
11 The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the commencement speaker and re-r ceive honorary degrees at three colleges and universities during the coming month.
The institutions honoring Father Hes-’ burgh include Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.; Villanova University, Villanova, Pa.; and Saint Benedict’s College, Atchison, Kan;
Father Hesburgh will deliver the principal address and receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from St. Benedict’s College May 28. Villanova University will confer an honorary Doctor of Science degree on the Notre Dame president at its commencement exercises June 2. He will be awarded another Doctor of Laws degree and give a major address June 8 at Dartmouth College’s ' ' commencement.
CANOE TRIPS into Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.75 per diem. For complete information, write: Bill Rom, Box 717C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minnesota.
«NEW YORK
Ideally located—within minutes of all shopping, entertainment and the business districts. Steps from Riverside ■ Drive and Central Park.
Coffee Shop—fine food moderately priced.	~ “
HOTEL
25 stories of Hospitalit]
Smart Cocktail lounge—esceRent food and beverages. TV.
Personalized, friendly service.
Banquet and Meeting facilities —25 to 750 persons.
from $3>5® per person, double
MANHATTAN TOWERS
BROADWAY ANO 76TH STREET PHONE: SUSQUEHANNA 7-1900
CABLE: MANH0TOWERS.NEW YORK
May 16, 1958
I Rack Pa^t
by JOHN KEARNS
enthusiasmr
| Enthusiasm is a feeling particularly |	appropriate at this time of year, when
:	large numbers are preparing to assume
; positions in the real world. Graduation I from college marks the end of life’s beginning, and the beginning of life’s mid-।	die—all good stories (and lives) have a
beginning, a middle, and an end.
' In the past, enthusiasm has been a ■ characteristic trait of graduating classes. ■ In fact, a great deal of humor has been ' derived from their zeal to remake the ' . world. But this humor comes from the ' fanciful excesses in which this zeal ■ found expression. Enthusiasm itself ’ should not be denied—it is quite necessary to the graduates if they are to accomplish anything worthwhile.
Unfortunately, this traditional eni thusiasm is no longer so typical of college seniors. They no longer have any great desire to change the world. The goal of too many today is to find a comfortable niche in the vast apparatus for . production that is economic America. All . initiative is exhausted in the struggle to find security of position. This might not " be so bad if the economic side of American life did not constitute such a huge proportion of America’s culture. But - since man’s economic role bids fair to :	become his whole life, the search for
:	security signals a lack of any real am-
bition.
The goals of today’s graduates indi' cate a pitiful state of affairs. History, I except the history of declines, is made by doing. All progress that matters re:	suits from someone’s enthusiasm. To
trade your potential greatness for a comfortable position is to make a poor deal. This possible greatness is not necessarily a recognized greatness but is open to anyone who. strives to realize some genuine value. For this greatness -. is a greatness within, not without. And . it is possible for anyone who is genuinely enthusiastic about his future and who > struggles to achieve as much as he can. - Only through this process can one truly become an individual. What we do determines what we become, and one who does nothing becomes nothing. This is not to be understood. in terins of worldly, position but refers instead to . one’s value as a human person. One be;.' _ comes himsetfbyhis actions—the choices
which he makes in the various situations of his life exert a formative force upon him. To the degree that one accepts and seeks responsibility does he have value as an individual.
Responsibility cannot be legitimately avoided. Everyone is obliged to become someone worthwhile, and this is accomplished by accepting and seeking responsibility. Although one may err in his choices, it is better to make a mistake than not to choose at all. The Army principle that a wrong move is better than no move applies also to the concrete situations of life. Only through choosing responsibility—does one shape himself.
Without making valid choices, one remains anonymous. Such'a person has no character by which he can be distinguished. It is true of people like this that “No word of them survives their living season.” “These are the nearly soulless.” That such individuals can and do graduate from American colleges is no credit to our educational system. These individuals signal a failure of education and of 1 religion—both State and Church have fallen down. But though these products are typical in our culture, each man still bears the responsibility for himself. The praise or blame for what one becomes belongs to the one who does become.
When college is finished, life is just beginning. The excitement of one’s life is largely before him. No one should. seek a comfortable niche—a rut—where he is free from care. On leaving college, we should be filled with zeal for achievement. ■ The glamorous portion of our lives is not over—the period of youth is ending, but the greatest part lies before us. Life will become more serious, more real, but life is not to, become duller. The education we have received should serve instead to make life richer.
The life before us now is the area where we have to produce. Up to this time we have merely been preparing, but we must now begin in earnest. And the only way . in which we can give value to bur lives is by self-creation. By means . of the dioices one makes he must become .
someone worthwhile. We can never quit ■ in this .process—we are not done choos- 7
. ing until we are done living. Eachsit- 7 , nation of one’s life presents him an op-
portunity to choose so as to choose self. 4 To choose responsibility is to choose v one’s self.
The advantage to which we are to turn the concrete situations of our lives is not merely economic advantage. The 4 enthusiasm with which we are to meet life is not just the enthusiasm for mak- ' ing money. It is perfectly legitimate to 4 attempt to succeed in the economic sphere, but economic goals should not be elevated to the position of ultimate ends. To create a valid self by means of cor- h rect choices is far more important than it is to make any amount of money. .
However, the change effected by grad- < nation is chiefly a change in status. The student enters society as a participating member, and his entrance is most marked in the economic sphere. The possi- * bility of making valid choices is not introduced upon graduation, for it has " been present before. Since the graduate is assuming a position in society, he in- ' curs a responsibility towards society. He cannot morally be only “for himself.” The obligation to choose self demands of him that he demonstrate leadership in society.	1
The desire for leadership has traditionally marked college graduates, as evidenced by their zeal to remake the world. But to exercise leadership does not mean that one must pursue a career such as politics. In every area opportunities for leadership abound. No matter what one’s job, he can be a leader. Nearly every opportunity in life will give a chance for leadership, though not always of the direct, platoon-leading type. The only fear that one need feel is the fear of failing himself. The obligation to create self must be met by ' choosing validly both with respect to ourselves and with respect to others.
We must face life’s middle enthusi- , astically so that the ending will be successful. Everyone must exploit his abilities to the maximum—this is required if we are to become as we ought. Chris- 1 tianity demands that we utilize our talents, not bury them—that servant who buried his was cast , out into the dark- j ness. Every man is obliged to strive to । fulfill all of his capabilities. This world I is not merely to be endured—it must be I utilized,' for: man is required to earn his I salvation. .	/	1
Z" ,	The ScMestic I
Exchange areas served by General Telephone are shorn in dark tone.
We’re proud to be No. 2
The people who live in the United States have more of almost everything—including telephones.
Therefore it’s possible, in such a fabulous country, to be the No. 2 communications system in size—and still have a great opportunity for service and growth.
General Telephone serves, for example, more telephone customers than the total number of telephones in such a country as France.
And this list is growing—at the rate
of 1,000 new customers every working day—partly because so many of the areas we serve are suburban areas, which are the fastest-growing areas in this country.
All of which confronts us with many challenges.
If we cannot be the largest, we can surely aspire to be the finest—to do whatever we do better than it has ' been done before.
So we’re happy to be No. 2. It keeps you on your toes.
GENERAL TELEPHONE


SAYS
LIKE A
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD!
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!
Bright, clean flavor... pure snow-white filter...thats wiNSTOtf
3 “When it comes to
my Winstons, I go right along with the majority,” says the famous ‘photographer’ star of The Bob Cummings Show on NBC. “It’s America’s favorite filter cigarette — and mine!” To a rich, bright blend of prized tobaccos, Winston adds its own specially designed, pure white filter. The result is an unusually clean, fresh taste—the Winston taste! You’ll like it, too!
■ Kl^G c
^TER.

' R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
Smoke WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!