Every Thursday Night. Scholastic Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Join Scholastic as we celebrate our 125th anniversary and keep up with everything that happens on campus throughout the school year!
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
N ame:_________ A ddress:' City:State: ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine/ 303 LaFortune Student Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT ,
4	Soundgarden
5	Private Idaho
NEWS
6	A Silent SUFR?
CAMPUS LIFE.
8	It’s Showtime!
9	Writing with Pictures SPORTS
10	Leaping Forward
into a New Era
15	A Freshman in Name Only
16	Final Four Fever?
18 National Champions : 1949 DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	CampusWatch
12 Coming Distractions
19	On Other Campuses
20	Behavior Modification
21	Week In Distortion
22	Glancing Back
24 Final Word
NOVEMBER 14,1991
E D IT O R'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
7 . NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
K>rSSK'g:: November:!4,1991 <7^ 77'< <; p \ <-	*'	c ? ? < - '	b	\	j'v:’	" * \
r><: c^pbfcce QuastSemper Victuriis.' '; j5: fc: <5,V - '^e QuasiOras Mpriiurus,' :: 7 >;'? [<: Jy' —"- ,::7\:V;- ■<-.<VX?V" VV ^7^’: yFounded i867: 7 / j ?; /: <1 <
h|EDITOR IN CHIEF tv • laKM •• - V.
MANAGING EDITOR
■Man;d^ U .7 77
V; EXECUTIVEEDITOR	. >/<
^PatriciaDoyle:-X> . • ■ 'V / W
7^
gEditor^	7,: ?- ■, :a g -j.
p/vAssist^t7Denisse:&^
Kcamrus ueev>< tfgEdife Baytion 7?-SPORTS . |??^itortUon • Patil Potts'' j. fc'Asisiis^
iENTEFTTAINME^
'Edjtort:Elizabeth Graher
^7^SSist&t:'W^
AAAA-AA- A A.AA- '.
[BEditor^PsrulWobb -^:
[?/{'Assis ta^	^Spangler5
In This Issue
With basketball season starting this week, Scholastic takes a look at what we can expect from the Notre Dame men’s and women’s hoops teams this year. Assistant Sports Editor Jim Kuser previews the women’s team and Jonathan Jensen takes a look at freshman basketball player Michelle Marciniak. J. Bradley Keckpreviewsmen’s basketball.
Entertainment writer Pete McGillicuddy listens to Soundgarden’s new release entitled Badmotorfinger. On the Hollywood scene, Jason Winsladc reviews the movie Private Idaho starring Keanu Reeves and River Phoenix.
The news department takes a look at Students United For Respect. Writer Christopher Blanford investigates what SUFR is doing this year despite their prominence on campus last year.
Campus life writer Heather Rakoczy reports on the Notre Dame singing and dance ensemble, Shenanigans, and Anne Healey interviews Professor Steve Moriarty on his trip to El Salvador and photo exhibit at the Snite.
In “Glancing Back,” Managing Editor Mari Okuda and myself take a look at the history of basketball at Notre Dame.
Not New But Definitely Improved
Thanks to Scholastic's System Manager Kevin Hardman, Scholastic now has new and updated software to produce higher quality issues. In this issue, you will notice some of our redesigned layouts as well as new headlines. It will still take a few weeks to get all the kinks ironed out, but be patient — the end result will be a better magazine for you.
Climb Aboard
Scholastic is always looking for staffers in the following areas: advertising salespeople, entertainment writers and news writers. If you are interested in joining our staff call 239-7569 or stop by our offices in 303 LaFortune. If you aren’t interested in writing but have a great story idea or news item, let us know. If there is anything else on you mind, write a letter to the editor or a “Final Word.” We always like to hear your opinions about the magazine so that we can make Scholastic a better publication.
Along these lines, we would like to hear any input regarding last week’s course evaluation issue. Although it was our first attempt and not as comprhensive as we would have liked, next semester we want to expand the issue and if there are any ways we can improve it, we would like to know.
Patricia Doyle Executive Editor
EDITOR
^BAnrie Mary: Klem -a	: --:
Manager;
| J®Jeanne: Naylor'W
-'A' '? AAA AA
|f??/R§tec^'Arw^
feyKevih\Harclm
' Z :'v	''	'/	.>>7
'"A
pjADyERTISING7sg;f^g!?^ ggj^aiiagsrl^ j;;? ;7
B^Assiste^^^
/lAltAi.'i ,-'. '"■< '.A'"'-. -A-.'
< - .<<”^4.
jf;7Manager 7^	':;'
fcJgAssis.tantVpaul .Shtiga < -
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Noire Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rateis$25.00fyearandback issues are available at $125 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic, '
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include I he writ er *s name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in schoolandcollege. Facultymembersshouldincludetheirdepartment. AU letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right io reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, • Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence io;
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS COMMENTARY
CampusM/afc/?
B BY the g I ppe r
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Never Fear, the Gipper’s Here
Campus Watch hasn’t graced the pages of this publication since OcL 17. No, campus news and gossip haven’t ground to such a halt that the Gipp is planning to resign (close, but no banana). But Thursday, OcL 24 was during fall break, the Gipper’s ghostly haunting duties kept him away from the keyboard on Halloween, and last Thursday was Scholastic’s course evaluation issue. Junior CampusWatchers everywhere can relax; your crazy Uncle Gipp is back to pinch your cheeks, tell dirty jokes and give you treats that spoil your dinner.
Residence Hall Gender Switch
The Gipper has been misled. In the Sept. 19 edition of CampusWatch, a nameless worker in the office of student residences was quoted as saying there were “no plans to change over [from one sex to the other] any of the dorms in the near future.” Reassuring, but wrong. Or at least, plans are being debated. As the rumors of a dorm sex change persisted, the Gipp dispatched yet another Campus Watcher to get the straight scoop.
When contacted, Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life, said that there is talk of converting a men’s dorm to women’s housing. As a result of the lifting of the gender cap in admissions (which limited the male-female ratio at ND), more women on campus will mean that more housing for them will become necessary, he said.
While Kirk said his office has studied the
NOVEMBER 14,1991
issue, he added the decision of whether to convert a dorm (and if so, which dorm to convert) doesn’t rest with him. He said the officers of the university make the ultimate decision, and as far as he knows, it hasn’t been made yet.
“I really don’t have favorite candidates” for the conversion, Kirk said. The Gipper himself has heard a number of dorm names bandied about as candidates for the sex swap, some rumors coming from such reasonably-informed sources as hall rectors, but the Gipp hasn’t heard a consensus opinion.
“I think ideally it would be a decision we’d make as early as possible,” Kirk said, suggesting that if any changes were to be made for the 1992-’93 school year, they would probably be announced this semester.
So yeah, your dorm just might be converted to female housing next year. The Gipper doesn’tknow if anyone has seriously considered the idea of converting a dorm or two to co-ed housing, but one never knows. Perhaps that idea is under discussion. And perhaps the university is listening to student input on such matters. And perhaps donkeys will fly. You make the call.
Observer Accent Staffers Incapable of Original Thought
Or so it would seem. Let’s review: In the Oct 3 CampusWatch the Gipper asked for info on the library’s fourteenth floor. The next week the Gipper printed the responses from various Junior CampusWatchers. And on Oct. 17 the Gipp wrote that his “efforts to
penetrate the fourteenth floor of the Hesburgh Library continue.”
Well, just imagine the Gipper’s surprise on Halloween when he saw the story headlined “Movin’ on Up: The secrets of the 14 th floor of the Hesburgh Library are finally revealed” in that other publication’s accent section. Ha ha! Quite a coincidence, eh?
Funny thing, how that story was printed in the paper on Thursday, when it would be too late to change that evening’s magazine! Ho ho!
And say, if CampusWatch had appeared in the Oct 31 Scholastic and had, as promised, followed up the Library story, the Gipp would only have been repeating a story everyone had read earlier in the day! Ha ha ha, hoo hoo, boy! The Gipper’s laughing so hard over this one, he’s about ready to bust a gut. (Not necessarily his own.)
But seriously, the Gipper is always happy to have more Junior CampusWatchers join his team. In fact, he considered changing the CampusWatch subhead to read: “Today’s CampusWatch is tomorrow’s Observer story,” but he’s sure that true CampusWatchers already know where to turn.
Tell One to the Gipper CampusWatch never stops, but it needs your help to keep going. Become a Junior CampusWatcher—tip the Gipp! Leave the ghostly gossip a message: send it by campus mail (303 LaFortune), drop off a note in person at the office (third floor of LaFortune, 2-5 p.m., Monday-Friday) or call 239-7569. Loose lips may sink ships, but they also make great reading. □
3
MUSIC___________________
Soundgarden, successful spawns of Sub Pop, return with more grunge-o-rama
by Pete McGillicuddy
of the great Northwest, those con-M noisseurs of grunge, Soundgarden, are back and as raunchy and unbridled as ever. Their newest release, Badmotorfinger, is as down and dirty as its title implies. Soundgarden’s last album, Ultramega OK achieved limited success in the conventional sense of the word and gained them status in the alternative music world, but Badmotorfinger may have what it takes to give Soundgarden major billing in the today’s rock world. On their latest release, the band has managed to improve its musicianship without sacrificing its heavy sound.
The throaty vocals of band leader and singer Chris Cornell backed by the pumping guitars of Kim Thayhil, the driving bass of Ben Shepherd and the aggressive drumming of Matt Cameron make this Seattle-based quartet a rocker’s delight The Garden sets the pace for the album with the piercing guitar that opens “Rusty Cage.” Hold on to your seats, folks, as this cruncher will hit like a Philips’ screwdriver head into your brain. As the band breaks free from its cage and runs, Cornell belts out oodles of somewhat nonsensical yet intriguing lyrics and eccentric images of anger that are usually a given in hardcore music and that are prevalent throughout the album.
The next tune, “Outshined,” deals with self-examination and depression and even hints at spiritual renewal using more bizarre imagery like “I’m looking California and feeling Minnesota” (much to the disdain of
all Minnesotans I suppose). The listener can’t resist the thrusting beat of Thayhil’s distorted riffs and the epitomization of pain in Cornell’s gravelly screams. Next, the
Soundgarden once again gets down and dirty with Badmotorfinger
band slows it down a little as they take a stab at megalomaniacal politicians to the hypnotic melody of one of the more interestingly tided tracks “Slaves and Bulldozers.”
“Jesus Christ Pose,” the first release off the album, is one of the finest tunes that the band has recorded so far. The synchronized guitars and bass riffs combined with the rapid fire drumming make this song an emotional scorcher. The bitter lyrics along with Cornell’s tormented voice leave the listener feeling like he or she was taken by storm and has been hung out to dry. Cornell seems to be battling his bandmates in a war of decibel prowess as he releases an endless stream of
religious iconography.
Other songs like “Face Pollution” “Room A Thousand Years Wide” and “New Damage” are basically straightforward power metal songs chock full of violent images and thunderous guitars. These songs seem to suffer for their lack of originality, both musically and lyrically, but nonetheless effectively get the adrenaline pumping which was most likely the main intention of the band when they wrote them.
After the first four songs have passed, “Somewhere,” a restless ballad that is reminiscent of King’s X or Black Sabbath, is a nice break from all that angry distortion. Like most grunge and metal bands, Soundgarden doesn’t often toy with the subject of romance in their songs, but in “Somewhere” the band does take the plunge and does a very respectable job of it. The lyrics of “Somewhere,” written by bassist Shepherd, although no Shakespeare by any means, are poetically sound and show that these aggresive grungelords may indeed have a sensitive side.
In “Searching With My Good Eye Closed” and “Holy Water” the band again incorporates religous imagery and its hard to tell exactly what point the band is trying to get across, especially in “Searching With My Good Eye” Both songs are musically sound, although “Searching With My Good Eye” is rather long and somewhat monotonous. However, the pop quiz at the opener of “Searching” is quite humorous and seems to be poking fun at “devil-worshipping” bands.	□
4
SCHOLASTIC
MOVIE
your Own Private IdQho
Keanu Reeves and River Phoenix star in Private Idaho, the newest film from Gus Van Sant
What do a B-52’s song, a Shakespeare play, the star of Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, the star of Stand By Me, the bassist for the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the director of Drugstore Cowboy and narcolepsy have in common? A new film by Gus Van Sant, My Own Private Idaho, that recently had its American premiere at the annual Chicago Film Festival.
Keanu Reeves and River Phoenix star as two young men in Portland, OR. hustling their bodies for a buck to whomever will pay. Their backgrounds are, however, vastly different. Keanu’s character is that of the only son of the mayor, choosing to reject his family’s wealth and power for life on the streets. Phoenix’s character, on the contrary, is not on the streets by choice and is constantly in search of his elusive mother and the family life he never had.
Owing a debt to the plot of the seventies movie, Midnight Cowboy, the film covers their adventures with the homeless street kids led by the character of Bob, the old, fat and dirty man that Reeves sees as a second father. The first part of the film focuses on Phoenix’s more developed character, who seems to find himself constantly on the road from Idaho to Portland. What makes this character so strange is his narcoleptic fits in which he falls completely asleep without warning, that leave him in embarrassing situations, bizarre dream states and large time and memory lapses. Used more as a narrative and stylistic device to show the character’s sense of disorientation than for any realism, the narcoleptic fits provide for
some of the most visually interesting scenes in the movie, with long shots of open plains, cloudy skies and time-lapse photography, with a strange corruption of “America the Beautiful” on steel guitar. At several points in the film, Phoenix finds himself on the same road in Idaho, and the viewer wonders if this is supposed to be taken as real.
by Jason L. Winslade
Comparisons between Idaho and Van Sant’s previous work, Drugstore Cowboy, are inevitable. Starring Matt Dillion and beat author William Burroughs and dealing with a group of drug addicts who knock over drug stores, Drugstore Cowboy was critically acclaimed as one of the best films of 1989, ironically in the era of the Drug War and “Just Say No” mentality. Although both films deal with a particular underbelly of society, the only stylistic similarity is the use of Super-8 footage as flashback, whereas Cowboy was all a flashback with Dillon’s voice-over and shots of him in the ambulance as reference points.
Idaho has no such device. Rather, it must take major risks and rely on the disorientation of the main character to connect the film. What makes this connection more difficult is the combination of styles used in the movie. Besides having elements of avant-garde films, especially in the still life sex scenes, flashbacks and dream sequences and a documentary style of presenting the street kids and their dangerous lives, half of
the dialogue in the movie is lifted directly from Shakespeare’s Henry IV. With the arrival of the movie’s Falstaff, Bob, the film breaks into a Shakespeak which combines street language and Elizabethan dialect. Self-consciously drawing attention to itself, this dialogue gives the film an even more surreal quality.
The strange thing about all this is that it seems to work. The viewer is quite aware of the obvious transitions between the Shakespearean and the normal dialogue. The blending of Phoenix’s dream sequences into reality is a bit disconcerting, but somehow Van Sant pulls all of the disparate elements together and makes an excellent film. River Phoenix’s performance, is wonderful, and he plays especially well the vulnerability of the character and his infatuation for Reeves’ character. Reeves’ performance is a bit more wooden, but it works within the context of the film. Another noteworthy performance is that of Flea, the bassist for the Red Hot Chili Peppers, as a particularly flamboyant member of the young street hustlers.
LikeDrugstore Cowboy, My Own Private Idaho exposes a little-seen fringe of society and somehow makes its characters members of some strange form of Americana. Van Sant certainly has another success on his hands and scores another point for American independent directors. The film is currently playing in major cities throughout the U.S., and with a little luck, it will eventually hit South Bend.	□
NOVEMBER 14, 1991
NEWS
A SILENT SUFR?
A group that was in the spotlight this past spring has been virtually non-existent this semester. Or has it?
by Christopher Blanford
Last April, a group of 60 students bearing the name “StudentsUnited
For Respect” held an 11 hour sit-in in the Registrar’s office demanding negotiation with the administration. Throughout the spring semester they were a voice on campus expressing a desire for change. This year, the organization seems to have disappeared, so few freshmen are familiar with the name.
“What happened last year was a way to spark attention,” said junior Joe Wilson. “This year we have decided to do other things, to expand what we’re doing.” Wilson says that last year’s tactics have served their purpose, but “that confrontational ' mode, that confrontational style is not the way that you can hopefully come together and have some rational dialogue. That’s what we want”
; Natasha Filipski, a sophomore in the Col-: lege of Arts and Letters, describes last year ■ as a learning experience. “The goal hasn’t changed in the sense that we still want cultural diversity," she said, "but there are so many different ways of achieving it now.”
SUFR is now an official university-recognized organization. They have already had their first formal meeting this year at which the group assessed last year's events. Opinions were solicited from the group who attended to sort out their goals for this year. “This has been a big debate among SUFR now and since the beginning of the year,” said Filipski.
SUFR raised a series of demands last year, many of which have been addressed by the administration. For example, SUFR demanded a Racial Harassment Policy. A modified form of this policy has been writ
6
ten and is included in Du Lac . They also demanded the apppointment of an assistant director for the office of minority affairs, a request that was granted with the appointment of Maria Fuentes.
However, not every demand that was made by SUFR has been met. A source of much controversy is the multicultural center, which was requested by the group last spring. The center, as SUFR envisions it, would entail office space, an auditorium, congregational space, library space, lounge space and study rooms. Before the request for the center, they requested the use of Theodore's for multicultural events.
Iris Outlaw, director of minority student affairs, defends the multicultural center. She believes that it will be a good place to
File Photo
Joe Wilson said last year's tactics served their purpose.
“get rid of garbage.” If students feel uncomfortable sharing their frustrations with a rector or residential assistant, they could “share it with a group of people, meeting together, saying, ‘Yes, I’m experiencing this.’”
“The multicultural center is simply a euphemism for a party room,” said Paul. Peralez, a Hispanic who is not a member of SUFR. “There is nothing that these people want in the way of a multicultural center that they can’t find in the already-established departments of this university.” He said that having a separate room for minorities would only increase segregation, which he believes is wrong.
“I think there was too much focus put on that,” said Filipski about the multicultural center, “That particular issue really wasn’t at the heart of it.”
The hiring of minority professors is another demand that remains unresolved. SUFR suggested that minority professors be given immediate tenure and “incentives provided to recruit new ones.”
In a letter to the editor that was published in The Observer, Chris Kennedy made the point that “SUFR has not presented any support for their contention that offering immediate tenure would allow the university to retain more minority faculty." In addition, “There are simply not enough [minority faculty members] to go around,” according to Peralez.
“I am all for having black and Hispanic professors,” he said, but because of competition, “prestigious universities have to bid forblacks. It’s like slavery.”
Finally, SUFR would like to see improvement of cultural education. “It doesn’t just
SCHOLASTIC
have to be that you’re taking additional courses,” said Outlaw. Instead there should be “comparative history” where “you’re comparing what was happening for different cultures and be able to tie it all together... Living is a day-to-day learning experience, and you don’t want to deny yourself some of the richness you could have had.”
The SUFR coalition has been criticized because everyone has equal status within the organization. Peralez said this lack of “clear leadership” served a purpose, especially in a demonstration situation. “They were hoping that no particular person; no single person would be singled out ... They would essentially confuse the administration. Would the administration expel atonce40or 50 minorities?”
Natasha Filipski gives a different explanation. “It started off more as students speaking to the administration, rather than we arc ‘this group of minorities.’”
Some members of the group question the necessity of last year's demonstrations. “The perception of cultural diversity just wasn’t there in people’s minds. It wasn’t an issue at all. The thing was, to say we need cultural diversity to someone who had no idea of it, the response would be, ‘I don’t see the problem. ’ If any thing, it showed them, at least, that there was a problem,” said Filipski.
“I think one of the things that the demonstrations did do was, they also woke up the South Bend community,” says Outlaw. “I think those demonstrations brought to light to the community people what was going on. This became a perfect avenue for the community then to reach to the students, to help them.”
Peralez sees last year’s events less positively. “They [the SUFR group] don’t realize how much they hurt the feelings of the people who really believe in the traditions of this university and its Catholic tradition.”
One concrete result of the demonstrations and negotiations with the administration was the formation of a task force to reach an agreement between the administration and students. It is comprised of six administrators, six faculty members, and six students.
Joe Wilson is one of the student members of the task force. “Right now we are trying to find some concrete plans of action to address many of the issues that we have presented over the past few years.”
Kevin Warren, assistant vice president of
Paul Peralez feels that the actions of SUFR only increase segregation.
student affairs said, “We have to realize that this institution is doing the best that it can addressing these needs. I think that in due time that both sides will be pleased with what comes out of the task force.”
Outlaw suggests that minority students are “waiting to see what comes out of the Cultural Diversity task force. That, I think, is a sign of good faith.”
Neither Warren or Outlaw is a member of the task force.
Outlaw said that many support groups for minorities have been set up, including getting a directory of minority busi- -nesses in town and arranging for transportation to church services off campus for non- Catholic students.
At the heart of SUFR this year is multiculturalism, “being who you are, where you are, whatever your background,” according to Filipski. “Part of that can be through education, the curriculum, more faculty members who have some background in that type of thing, and also some way of legitimizing
niudgeteer motor inn^
SINGLE
♦LAUNDRY
minority cultures at Notre Dame.”
Warren said that he would like to see the administration here at Notre Dame become more sensitive in general to the needs of minority students. “I would rather for the administration to be concerned with the admission of the qualified minority students admitted more than thepercentageof minority students admitted... I hope that I am part of some programs that are implemented to help minority students not only to find Notre Dame a desirable place to attend, but also to remain.”
“I think that so long as the task force for cultural diversity continues to meet and stays within the deadlines that were set by Father Malloy, and all the parties continue working together, that by the end of this academic year we will see some things on the table, and some changes will be implemented,” said Warren.
“Having this administration here, a president who is willing to make changes, I think that is an opportune time for everybody to unite together to make the changes,” said Outlaw.	□
1-80 at Exit 77 $2825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
NOVEMBER 14,1991
CAMPUS LIFE
Shenanigans, Notre
Dame's show choir,
Your mom may have said more than once, “Stop those shenanigans!” Nevertheless, Notre Dame’s show choir Shenanigans has no intention of stopping as it celebrates its ten year anniversary this November. The 26 individuals involved in the club come from a variety of backgrounds—theater, choir, glee clubs and dance troupes.
Integrating both song and dance, this multi-talented group of show-men and - women is unique from other performing arts organizations on campus. Senior member Tony Bosco calls the group’s special characteristic the art of “visual appeal,” and after
seeing one per- formance it’s clear they ■ b	I have mastered B the art, with m voices as
III W I	| H	| lively as
It $ Showtime!
completely
sings and
dances its
student-run. Its members claim that the participation and commitment of everyone involved are crucial to the club’s success and primarily responsible for its longevity.	.
Though faculty advisor Chuck Lennon functions as their liasion with the administration, the members of the club are the organizational backbone of the group.
Shenanigans is not only the 18 singers and dancers way into ten and the “combo” — the drummer, trombone and saxophone players, two trumpet players and two
years of
N.D. history
pianists — but also the managers and technicians responsible for everything from “lights” to “action.” Students interested.in playing music join the combo while others offer their abilities in lighting effects, sound or organizational preparation.
The tradition of pride among the student entertain
.	Nick Spangler
An important tradition for the club is performing one and a half hours before every home football game In the J.A.C.C.
ers began in 1981-82 when three sophomores, Jenny Grantham, Rick Ward and Anne Wernimoet, founded Shenanigans hoping to provide a fun outlet for students interested in the performing arts. This notion of fun still holds true. Three-year junior member and general manager Dean Sipe said, “We’re out there to have fun. If it’s not fun, it’s not worth doing.” The group’s ultimate goal for every show is for the performers and technicians to have fun while the audience is having fun too.
Aside from the fun and a standard of excellence that Shenanigans embodies, the group also serves as a positive social vehicle between Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Junior Saint Mary’s member Jeanine Wing said, “It is an intimate group that provides one-on-one social contact. We have an opportunity to meet outside of the classroom and the party atmosphere and really know each other well.” Hoping to attract a variety of students from both campuses, freshmen through graduate students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s are encouraged to audition for the club. The time commitment involves three weekly two hour practices and the possibility of performing nearly five times a month. '
Because the alumni association sponsors Shenanigans, it is for the alumni that the club most frequently performs in pre-game shows on home football weekends. Nevertheless, the club also offers various on and off campus concerts. Three-year junior soprano Elie Reichelt said, “Shenanigans is rewarding as a close-knit group performing on campus, but it also branches out onto the community,” appearing al local charity events to benefit children’s hospitals.
Moreover, this gift of service extends beyond South Bend to include performances at the Ronald McDonald House for children, the Capitol steps, Disneyland, Disney World and the Pentagon. This year spring break activities may include traveling to California.	.	.
The group feels indebted to the university for the support it has given them throughout their ten-year history. Dr. Emil Hofman “has been especially helpful with the publicity of Shenanigans,” said Dean Sipe. While Shenanigans seeks to develop an independent group of motivated and enthusiastic student leaders, they also recognize their important ties to the university and the community at large.
An alumni reunion was held Friday, Nov. 8, in honor of ten years of power-packed performance. This explosive show choir is hosting a Christmas Concert at 8 pm on Sunday, Dec. 8, in Washington Hall. As ever, it’s apparent: you can’t stop the Shenanigans, but this time mother might approve.
□
by Heather Rakoczy
8
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
Professor Moriarty
Writing With Pictures... tells the
“There isn’t any such thing as objectivity,” said South Bend photographer and Notre Dame adjunct assistant professor Steve Moriarty. “People have come to think of visual arts as being neutral when they’re really not. I want to be convincing.”
Moriarty’s most recent exhibit, titled “Stories From Salvador,” opened Sept. 29 at the Snite Museum of Art, where it will remain on display until Nov. 24. The exhibit consists of forty black-and-white photographs taken during Moriarty’s seven visits to El Salvador. Moriarty, who has both an M.F.A. and a B.A. in theology from Notre Dame, has attempted through photography to represent a cross-section of Salvadoran society.
El Salvador, a Latin American country about the size of Massachussetts, has a long history of great tensions between the underprivileged many and the privileged few. Throughout the 1970s guerrilla violence from both left-and right-wing groups intensified, ultimately erupting in 1979 in a brutal civil war which has claimed over 70,000 lives. Among the victims of political violence are three U.S. nuns and a lay person who were murdered in 1980 by Salvadoran national guardsmen. Today, despite efforts to negotiate a peaceful settlement, guerrilla warfare and acts of terrorism continue to permeate Salvadoran society.
Moriarty first travelled to El Salvador in 1985 to attend the wedding of a Salvadoran friend who had lived in South Bend. Due to legalities the wedding was cancelled, but Moriarty said, “I met a woman from the archdiocese, a nun. My friends were going down to the beach for a couple.of days, and I was looking for something to do. Sol went out to a refugee camp.” That refugee camp is where Moriarty spent the Christmas of 1985, photographing the displaced Salvadorans who had befriended him.
“The next year,” Moriarty said, “a priest here (at Notre Dame) wanted some slides of El Salvador for a project he was working on. They paid me to go back, and I thought... it’s really not that hard to get back and forth.”
After his second trip to the country, Moriarty began to study El Salvador by
reading books on the country and trying to learn Spanish. “I just kept going back,” he said, “and each time I got to know a few more people here and a few more people there, and I got introduced around. I know enough people now where I can stay with friends... mostly either journalists or church workers. I really haven’t had much contact with my old friends—our politics began to diverge once I started seeing things ... outside the neighborhoods.”
Moriarty said that it was not originally his intention to create an exhibit of his work. “I would go out and bring my camera,” Moriarty explained. “Of course, this is a war zone, and sometimes cameras have been used as weapons... People would say, ‘What are you taking pictures for?’ And I’d say, ‘Well, I’m just very interested in what’s going on in your country... I use my camera to show people — it’s like telling a story. And if you let me take pictures, I will tell your story as I see it ’ Mostly, people would think about that, and they’d nod and say, ‘Go ahead.’ I almost never was refused permission to take pictures ... with that explanation.”
According to Moriarty, the exhibit has gotten “a lot of really good feedback,” both from experts on Central America and from the people who are the subjects of his photographs. “People (whose pictures Moriarty
Matt Cashore
In a photo In the exhibit, “Sister Eva” prays at site of Rutilio Grande's murder.
story of El Salvador in his photo exhibit at the Snite "Stories
From Salvador"
by Anne Healey
had taken) were very interested in looking at them. They love to see how an outsider sees them... Photographs of yourself, among the poor people, are very rare. When you don’t have money for food, you don’t buy a photo album. So, taking their picture is a big deal, and getting a print back to them is also important.”
Future possibilities for “Stories From Salvador” include making the exhibit into a book. “It really reads like a narrative,” explained Moriarty, who plans to continue his travels toEl Salvador. “My intention is to cany out the promise that I made to all those people when I walked around with my camera, that if they let me take their picture, I would go back to my community and tell their story as well as I could, as truthfully as I could. And that’s what I’ve tried to do.’Q
NOVEMBER 14, 1991
SPORTS
Levpin
^1 into agw
Under new coach John MacLeod, the Irish look to put their struggles of the past two years
behind them
J .	By J. Bradley Keck
1	ver the last twenty years basketball at
; V^Notre Dame has been synonymous with coach Digger Phelps. Those days are :	gone. Next week the Irish will take the floor
■ under a new coach and with a new approach i	to the game for the first time in two decades.
The John MacLeod era has come to Notre s	Dame.
j MacLeod is bringing a lot of good things ?	to the Irish program. He is bringing experi-
ence: MacLeod coached six seasons at the s University of Oklahoma in the late 60’s and early 70’s. There, he led the Sooners to an impressive 90-69 record and two trips to the i National Invitational Tournament which § used to be as important, if not more impor-? tarit, than the NCAA Tournament. He then < moved on to the National Basketball Asso-; ciation. Over eighteen years, fourteen with i the Phoenix Suns, MacLeod became the eighth winningest coach in NBA history j with 707 victories. In that time MacLeod i	had five seasons of 50 or more victories and
■ led his teams into post season play 11 times. |	MacLeod also brings a great Indiana bas-
! ketball tradition back to Notre Dame. He i	was bom and raised in New Albany, Indiana.
Here he learned the game of basketball — the man-to-man defense that he is bringing back to Notre Dame, the drive to win no j matter the schedule or the tournament. As a high school player, MacLeod was on hand at the Butler Fieldhouse when Milan High School, the tiny school which was the inspiration for the movie “Hoosiers,” beat all the Indiana powerhouses for the 1954 state ; championship.
MacLeod seems to be just the coach that
10
this basketball squad needs at the helm. He brings a philosophy and experience needed to coach the Irish through their toughest schedule ever. The Irish play ten of their first 12 games on the road. They play 16 teams that had post-season tournament appearances last year, including NCAA champs Duke, annual Final Four contender North Carolina, NIT champ Stanford, Indiana, Syracuse and St. John’s.
The rest of the games are all tough as well. Notre Dame plays all eight teams in the improving Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Xavier, Dayton and Evansville have all had impressive teams the last few years — Xavier has not missed the NCAA tourney in the last six years. Add to this list tough teams like Louisville and Kentucky and
the schedule is daunting. Does the rookie coach see a tough year ahead?
“It will be just like playing in the NBA,” said MacLeod.
Maybe not that tough, but Notre Dame must be ready. The Irish have, in essence,
four returning starters. That is a definite plus. Seniors Keith Tower, Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet are all returning with the now-academically healthy LaPhonso Ellis.
Bennett, who averaged 14.4,ppg last year, will be at the point guard position to start the
Senior power forward LaPhonso Ellis hopes to put his academic difficulties behind him.
Paul Webb
SCHOLASTIC
season. He is a great prospect for MacLeod’s pro-inspired style of play. Bennett has a good handle on the ball and is able to push it up the floor quickly. He must cut down on turnovers (91 last season) if he is going to be extremely successful at the point, but MacLeod sees him moving in the right direction.
“He’s shown a lot of leadership so far,” said MacLeod of his senior floor general. “He’s the type of point guard that will distribute the ball, run the plays, and with his offensive ability. I also want him to score.”
Daimon Sweet is the leading scorer from last season’s team. With a 16.3 ppg scoring average, Sweet is a weapon. He has a effortless jumper and amazing ability to get free near the basket. The senior from Beaumont, Tex., will probably be spending most of the year at the three-guard position, but he has the ability to play almost anywhere. Look for Sweet to be a big part of the offense. But for the Irish to win some of the big games he will have to be just as effective on the other end of the court.
The center of the MacLeod attack will be 6’11” Keith Tower. Tower had a good year in 1990-91 while filling in for the ineligible Ellis, averaging seven rebounds and eight points per game. His size and strength are a big plus for Notre Dame, drawing attention away from the other players on the floor, especially Ellis, and opening up the floor on the offensive side of the ball. On defense, this Swampscott, Mass., native’s presence will clog the lane and give the Irish a strong one, two punch under the boards.
Ellis is the right hand in that one-two combination. Ellis has struggled to stay on the floor because of academics over the last
two seasons, but when he is playing, Ellis is among the best rebounding forwards in the nation. So good, in fact, that he almost opted to enter the NBA draft earlier this year. MacLeod convinced him otherwise.
“I said (to Ellis) ‘Your best bet right now would be to stay in school, have a big year against the schedule we have and emerge as one of the top players. If you do that, which you’re capable of doing, then when the draft comes in ’92, you will be set,”’ said MacLeod.
This is great news for Notre Dame, basketball. In the past Ellis has averaged 16.4 ppg. and 10.1 rebounds per game. The pairing of this pro prospect and an ex-pro coach will only make this season better for both Ellis
and the team.
Beyond these four players, the team is extremely young and inexperienced. The Irish claim five freshmen and four sophomores on scholarship, as well as walk-ons Matt Adamson and Brendon Tully. Jon Ross is the most experienced of the sophomores. He will be a key player off the bench in the event of foul trouble, giving Ellis and Tower needed rest in the new up-tempo style of play. His twin brother, 6’ 10” Joe Ross, has been hitting the weights and should see time at center.
Paul Webb
MacLeod instructs two of his players at a pre-season practice.
Brooks Boyer and Carl Cozen are competing time at the shooting guard position. Both are pure shooters with skill behind the three-point line. Cozen is slated to start the first game of the year. Whichever player is at the two position has an important role, they must be ready to help Bennett move the ball up the court and shoot the rock at any time.
In the freshmen class there are many promising players. Just like the sophomores, they need to develop and mature as basketball players.
“Collectively, I like what they (the freshmen) have done from an effort standpoint,” said MacLeod. “But to make to make progress in practice and to compete against some of the top ballclubs in pressure situa
tions is a different story.”
Nathion Gilmore was a top recruit at center and should contribute posthaste. Lamarr Justice, a lightening quick point guard, should also see time early. He will be sent in as a defensive stopper, hounding playmakers with his quick hands. Billy Taylor, Malik Russell and Jason Williams round out the freshmen.
This is the team that will take the floor for Notre Danie. They have a tough road ahead. Older players must move into MacLeod’s system. — and newer players have to be
mentally prepared to step up into major roles. Everyone must get in shape in order to stand up to the rigors of the man-to-man defense and the fast break that are now step one and two of the Irish playbook. Added to this is a bear of a schedule and faltering fan support.
This year will be a big challenge to Irish basketball. They have a plan to meet this challenge that doesn’t include fluorescent jerseys or green socks. With a new up-tempo style in place and the players hungry to preform, Coach MacLeod may turn some heads and change the boos of the Joyce Center into the roar of the Thunderdomc.Q
NOVEMBER 14,1991
Coming Distractions
Make sure your event gets listed — send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Kim Cenedella at 239-7569. The next Coming Distractions calendar will appear in the November 21 issue.
Sunday
November 17 Opening and Reception: John Sherman: Words are Worth a Thousand Pictures, 2:00 p.m., Snite.
Play: "Hansel & Gretel,1 2:30 p.m., O'Laughlin. Performance: "The Miracle Worker," 3:10 p.m., Washington Hall. Concert: ND Brass Ensemble, 8:00 p.m., Sacred Heart.
Monday
November 18
Film: "Paisan," 7:00p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Rashomon," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: "MacBeth," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall.
Tuesday November 19
Film: "Comic Book Confidential," 7:00 & 9:00 p.m.,Snite, $2.
Performance: "MacBeth," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall. Concert: BoDeans, 8:00 pm., Stepan.
Wednesday
November 20
Book Fair: Sponsored by the Ladies of ND & SMC, Little Professor Book Center, Ironwood Plaza North, State Rd. 23 & Ironwood, 15% of. purchase goes to scholarship, through Sunday, Nov. 24.
Thursdj Novem
Lecture: De exhibition ci "White Swai Snite.
Take Back) 7:00 p.m., L Courtyard.
Movie: "Se\ 8:00 & 10:31 Cushing, $2, Play: "Hans 8:00 p.m., 0 Performam Miracle Woi p.m., Washi Novem: Panel Disci Morality, ar Do They Mi O'Shag. Gal Movie: "Str 8:00 and 10 Cushing, $2
November 24
Concert: ND University Orchestra, 8:00 pun., > Sacred Heart.
Concert: Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, 7:15 p.m., Washington Hall. Basketball: Women vs.
Stanford, JACC.
Performance: "The Buddy Holly Story," Morris Civic Auditorium, 8:00 p.m.
For More Information Call
On Campus • PT 7 fQ < ■ ■
LaFortune Information Desk: 23^8f^
Student Union Board: 239-7757 foDp;;OW SniteFil^SmesiHot^
News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110 }ACC Wet to^ti^^
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD p.Jp
:S'^QrQass:(&.9^
jitjn^Oas&^&5W^
Sophomore Class: 239-5225 4^^$^WWli
TouchFour i
ext.
■ext. ext. ext ext.
2101 for movie information 2114 for the music line D 2112forconcertinformation 2117 for theatre information
2525 for a list of college events
\ s		Friday	Saturday
ber 14 mg Bradley, irator for a," 4:15, the Night: ^Mans ^nth Sign," 6 p.m., el & Gretel," I'Laughlin. :e: "The rker," 8:10 ngton Hall.	November 15 Film: "Madonna: Truth or Dare," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Silence of the Lambs," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Play: "Hansel & Gretel," 8:00 p.m., O'Laughlin. Performance: "The Miracle Worker," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall. Hockey: vs. Kent State, 7:30 p.m., JACC	November 16 Football: At Penn State. Film: "Madonna: Truth or Dare," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Silence of the Lambs," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Concert: ND Chorale, 8:00 p.m.,. Sacred Heart. Play: "Hansel & Gretel," 11:00 a.m. & 2:30 p.m., O’Laughlin. Performance: "The Miracle Worker," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall. Basketball: Women vs. Australian Olympic Team, JACC
ber 21 ission: "Art, id Journalism: ix?"4:15 p.m leries. ange Brew," :30 p.m.,	November 22 Film: "Hamlet," 7:00 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Robin Hood," . 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Hockey: vs. Lake Forest. Performance: "The Buddy Holly Story," Morris Civic Auditorium, 8:00 p.m.	November 23 Film: "Hamlet," 7:00 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Robin Hood," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Performance: "The Buddy Holly Story," Morris Civic Auditorium, 2:00 & 8:00 p.m.
the Week:
Theatre, theatre, theatre!
Be it a play or a film, there's plenty of great drama to see on campus this week.
Check out "Hansel & Gretel" at Saint Mary's, or try "The Miracle Worker" or "MacBeth" at Washington Hall. If film's your thing, check out the Snite or SUB's Cushing movies.
MdvidTKeatred^'-:\T^<;^ lOOCenterCin^^
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583j:
Town&’Cpuri^
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
UniversityParkCinemaWest:277-0441

Puli out and save this page!
"SINCE
1981"
StK&Sl
An^/EdiZn UNO Parking Liwn
1412 South Bond Ave., South Bend, In
(219)	232-4244

*7he Italian Ristorante"
Parisi'i
Seafood Entrees
Veal
Chicken
Scampi
Carbonara - Eggplant Parmigiana Italy's Favorite Pasta's Pizza & Carry Out Cocktails - Beer - Wine
BANQUET ROOM
Regular Hours: Tues - Sat 4-11
Sundays 4 - 9. Closed Mondays
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a $1.00 discount off any footlong Subway sandwich.
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games.
For the next football game or your next party, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platter!
CALL 277-7744
nSUBUJRV*
IL^-. -.■■■ - - A -	* -	■
State Road 23 and Ironwood
SCHOLASTIC

0
SPORTS
Coach Muffet McGraw and her top recruit Michelle Marciniak.
Matt Cashore
The emerging women’s basketball program at Notre Dame has received a real shot in the arm. Her name is Michelle Marciniak, and she could be the best women’s basketball recruit to ever come to Notre Dame.
Marciniak was the highest-rated prep player in the country last
year. She was a first-team USA Today All-American and the Naismith, Street and Smith’s, and Gatorade Player of the Year. She averaged 23 points a game her
senior year with every defense geared to stop
her, and she ended up scoring an astounding	said McGraw.
3,000 points in her high school career.
The 5’9” guard has the quickness to lead a fast break but she also possesses the physical strength to be a rebounding threat. According to Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw, in addition to her scoring ability, Marciniak is also a, “... very unselfish player, she sees the floor really well, and handles the ball well.”
“Michelle’s an impact player,” added McGraw, “She’s really a marquee-type
player.”
So just how did Notre Dame come away with the most sought-after prospect in the
nation?
There were many factors contributing to the Irish winning over Marciniak, the first of which was the recruiting team’s perseverance.
“Notre Dame contacted me in the summer of my eighth grade, and they were one of the first schools that I heard from,” said the Macungie, Penn., native. “They definitely wrote me the most and corresponded with me the most. I think that had an impact in my decision because they stuck with it for four years and never gave up, so I knew they were really interested.”
Marciniak spumed offers from traditional women’s basketball powers like Stanford and defending national champion Tennessee in her decision to attend Notre Dame.
“For her to go to a place like Tennessee or Stanford that has already won a national championship... it’s not as appealing to her as being able to come to Notre Dame and
possibly build a program that was going to be a national champion for the first time,”
By Jonathan,Jensen
Another plus for Notre Dame was the challenge to redefine the its image by bringing publicity to the women’s basketball program, a challenge Marciniak accepts.
“I came here over Tennessee mainly because the whole image of both schools is different,” explained Marciniak. “Tennessee is called a basketball school and Notre Dame is known for its sports, but not for its women’s basketball.”
Since there is no professional basketball
league for women, top high school basket- women’s basketball.
ball players have to take a serious look at their future after college career is over. Thus,
the academic reputation of a school is very important to top recruits, and Notre Dame also topped Marciniak’s list in that category.
“She’s very talented academically as well as in basketball and was interested in going to school that was going to help her after she graduated,” said McGraw. “There’s always the question of playing time, and that did weigh heavily in Marciniak’s decision.”
Marciniak will certainly get a lot of playing time at Notre Dame this year, as she has been tabbed to be one of the Irish’s two starting guards. While she may have been expected to start, some highly-touted high school players tend to disappoint when thrust into college athletics. This has not been the case with Marciniak.
“She’s been everything we’ve expected and probably a little more,” said McGraw. “A lot of people were thinking that she was coming in as a scorer, but she really has turned out to be an excellent passer. She’s
made the adjustment from high school to college very well.”
I’ve just been trying to work hard and just play like I know how to play,” said Marciniak. “Usually when I do that good things happen, and they have so far.”
Gaining a top recruit like Marciniak will lend a lot of credibility to the Irish program, a fact that might help the squad get into the tournament this year. Now thatNotre Dameand Marciniak have arrived
on the college basketball scene, they arc looking ahead to their next goal: A trip to the
Final Four.
“The number one priority is to win a national championship,” says Marciniak. “And we have 12,13,14 players who have all have their heads in the same goal. Notre Dame really hasn’ t been in the Top 20 or Top Ten, and I think as soon as we start doing that, it will be a first for everything else.”
If Michelle Marciniak has anything to say about it, Notre Dame will soon acheive another first: A national championship in
□
NOVEMBER 14,1991
15
SPORTS
Matt Cashora
With an outstanding freshmen class and some savvy veteran players, Notre Dame women’s hoops are poised to crash the post-season party
By Jim Kuser
“We are going to be a tough team to beat. We are confident that we will make the NCAA Tournament, and we hope that we will reach the Final Four."
-Irish women’s co-captain . Coquese Washington
up alance” is a big word for the Notre JLJDame women’s basketball team this year.
Under the tuteledge of head coach Muffet McGraw, the 1991-92 version of Irish women’s hoops will blend the experience of 11 upperclassmen with the enthusiasm of
16
three freshmen. Gone to graduation is all-everythingKarenRobinson, lastyear’s team captain who led Notre Dame in assists, points and steals. However, new to town is Michelle Marciniak, a do-everything guard out of Macungie, Penn., who was the 1990-91 national high school Player of the Year.
“We will miss Karen dearly,” said McGraw. “She was a unique player who possessed not only the abilities to play the game of basketball, but also the abilities to direct a team forcefully. You can teach a player how to play, but you cannot teach a player how to direct. I think that Michelle
possesses qualities similar to Karen.
“For a freshman, she is very advanced in terms of hcrabilities to see the floor, to make the cuts, and to find the holes,” continued McGraw. “I am excited to have her among our freshmen. She will be in the starting lineup.”
But Marciniak is by no means the only freshman counted upon to make a contribution this season. Her two classmates have received as much praiseas she. Because they have not had the limelight thrust upon them, these two players could steal the show -secret weapons opponents will be sorry they overlooked.
Who are these secret weapons? They arc Letitia Bowen (a forward out of Buchanan, Mich.,) and Audrey Gomez (a guard out of Keyport, NJ.). Gomez is expected to be in the starting lineup at first due to an injury to Coquese Washington. Given that Marciniak is also in the starting lineup, Notre Dame will begin the year with a dynamic freshmen duo in the backcourt.
“Our other freshmen have been the source of great optimism, both for this year and for the future, because they are all very mature and wise players” said McGraw. “Although they do not have game experience, they are coming along al a steady pace. Their work ethic is excellent, and that will show this season.”
Taken together, the three freshmen for the Fighting Irish are seen as the best that McGraw has ever recruited, and college basketball analyst Dick Vitale rates them among his top ten recruiting classes in the world of women’s collegiate basketball.
To balance the three freshmen are the 11 dedicated upperclassmen. Leading the pack are co-captains Coquese Washington (a junior guard out of Flint, Mich.,) and Margaret Nowlin (a senior center out of St. Paul, Minn.).
“I cannot emphasize enough the importance of Coquese and Margaret to the success of this team,” said McGraw. “They pick up where Karen left off in terms of leadership. We need them to do the job for us at both ends of the floor all season long.
“Coquese will be paired with Michelle in the backcourt when she returns from her injury, and she will have to teach Michelle how to handle some of the pressure that a ball-handler faces,” continued McGraw. “Margaret willbe a pivotal player because of her outstanding rebounding skills.”
SCHOLASTIC
Joining Washington and Nowlin are upperclassmen Andrea Alexander, a sophomore forward out of Niles, Mich.; Deb Fitzgerald, a senior guard out of Watertown, Wis.; Comalita Haysbert, a senior forward out of Baltimore, Md.; Katura Jones, a sophomore forward out of Moore, Okla.; Kristin Knapp, a sophomore forward out of Santa Barbara, Calif.; Kara Leary, a sophomore guard out of Nashua, N.H.; Sherri Orlosky, a sophomore guard out of Columbia, Md.; MajenicaRupe, a junior center out of Big Rapids, Mich.; and Dionne Smith, a junior center out of Indianapolis.
“Whether or not they are on the floor, the upperclassmen know that we expect them to be leaders - to lead by example for the freshmen and for each other,” said McGraw.
The 1991-92 Notre Dame women’s basketball team will balance its attack. “We have all the ingredients for our style of play - the run and press - and we have options on offense with good perimeter shooting,” said McGraw.
After breezing through the Midwest Collegiate Conference competetion with a49-3 record in its first three years in the conference, this year raises some potential problems for Notre Dame.
The Fighting Irish were maligned for playing a soft schedule last year, and this came into play when they were denied an invitiation to the NCAA tournament despite being a Top Twenty team. But since last season, athletic director Dick Rosenthal has made amends by compiling a brutal nonconference schedule for the Fighting Irish this year that puts them up against four Top Ten teams in their first five games.
These games are matchups with No. 3 Penn State, No. 7 Stanford, No. 4 Georgia and No. 10 Purdue. Later in the season, Notre Dame will take on reigning national champions and unanimous
pre-season No. 1 Tennessee before taking on No. 13 Louisiana State.
“Our non-conference games are really tough,” said Washington. “But if we work hard in practice and take each and every game for what it is worth without looking too far into the future, we will do well. We have the potential to upset some people, but we have to play within ourselves and not allow the pressure to take control of the game.”
The conference schedule will be no walk in the park either because Notre Dame must play a vastly improved Butler team twice. Although it was expected that Notre Dame would be a runaway first place vote-getter in the MCC pre-season poll, Butler surprised everyone, barely being edged by Notre
The Irish women’s basketball team will be seeking the Midwest Collegiate Conference’s first ever automatic bid to the NCAA tournament.
Matt Cashore
Dame 4-3 in the votes cast for first place.
Nonetheless, Notre Dame has plenty of time to prepare for these two important games. Barring no unanticipated upsets by MCC opponents, Notre Dame will win the conference and get an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament for the first time in the program’s history.. It is a tribute to McGraw and her program that in only three years of belonging to the MCC, the pretige and power of the Notre Dame women’s basketball team has garnered the MCC an automatic NCAA tournament bid.
“We are really excited about that,” said Washington. “It gives us the "security of knowing that we can beat all of our MCC opponents and make the NCAA tournament whether or not things work out for us against teams not in the MCC.”
And so it is. Although the team faces many tough opponents, it will be ready for them. McGraw is slowly and quietly building a a basketball force here at Notre Dame. Never before has Notre Dame been invited to the NCAA tournament, but this looks to be the year for it
McGraw, always modest in describing her team, conceded a few fears about this season, “When wc first earned a national ranking, we got instant attention,” said McGraw. “National rankings magnify your program and your game-to-game performance, but rankings are not everything. We might be ranked in the Top 25, but we have to play like we are the top team in the nation. When you arc ranked, other teams will rise to the occasion.”
In the back of her mind, McGraw must be thinking that this is especially true when you are at Notre Dame. Also in the back of her mind, McGraw must be wondering, “Can this team play like it is the best in the nation?”
Time will tell. □
NOVEMBER 14,1991
17
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence:
1949 National Champions
1949 National Championship Team
Front Ho^v: Ck&iko, Ok.fc.-AM:, tJikhskJohrtsrsLCkKik M^k:, Han,
Si-com) Ruw: KriW.1!. Cwsjy. Spates.<x:/ Sa*»\»khUcj\ ikistf. itow. Gs.HMih Ih-iwip,
OjjfiMiK Liswy, Third Rxiu; Ki-juM*, Btm&y. John 'I' :;. >bhvr, Ftapt. O ksiLNKwlcw
Kc?pjx< Waybrsybi, CkM.at'*'. Waitor. Fourth R»m:	Smith.. ZwB::.0<K«wrAb. Bi.<;s > osmff. WfKSffhfe. X»x3ax.
IVnyt ffuBt.' > JS«kt.-, Otter. Pdito/ZHkjwsfci Baek Row Uwcfc., OhSbL Williams, iJiskf;, K:)piA. Bev*:'?. Prfhi'Vft. Gan&r G};k.kAisj.Z;m!b!i>?4. Iv'-vli.	.
Coach: Frank Leahy.
Captains: Leon Hart and Jim Martin.
Notes: Witha recordof 10-0-0, the 1949 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team was the third of coach Frank Leahy's four unanimous national championship squads ... Led by All-American end and 1949 Heisman Trophy winner Leon Hart, FB Emil Sitko, QB Bob Williams, and T Jim Martin, this team's offense exploded for 360 points while limiting its opponents to a mere 86 points ... The highlights of the season were shutouts of 40-0 against Navy and 32-0 against USC ... So popular was this squad, that it drew a season attendance total of 575,278 ... Also in 1949,.actress Irene Dunne was awarded the Laetare Medal by the University.
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
September 24	W	Indiana	49-6	H	53,844
October 1	W	Washington	27-7	A	41,500
October 8	W	Purdue	35-12	A	52,000
October 15	W	Tulane	46-7	H	58,196
October 29	W	Navy	40-0	N	62,000
November 5	W	Michigan State	34-21	A	51,277
November 12	W	North Carolina	42-6	A	67,000
November 19	W	Iowa	28-7	H	56,790
November 26	w	USC	32-0	H	57,214
December 3	w	SMU	27-20	A	75,457
N - at Memorial Stadium, Baltimore
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Lou Zadra: Zadra, a senior from West Roxbury, MA, has led the Notre Dame ice hockey team through its first four games in total points scored with three goals and three assists. When he was held scoreless against New Hampshire last Friday, it was the first time that Zadra had been blanked in eight games. Zadra's scoring streak of seven games had dated back to last season and was just two games short of the school record of nine games set by former Irish star and current Boston Bruin Dave Poulin in 1981-1982.
Cara Garvey: Garvey, a freshman from Vienna, VA, turned in a top performance for the Notre Dame women's swimming team by earning a first place in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:09.14 in the 139-64 wipeout administered by the Irish over opponent Western Ontario. Garvey just edged out senior co-captain Shana Stephens for the victory. Stephens recorded a time of 2:10.12.
18
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
The Perfect Resume Expert: Sylvester Stallone
She’s Trippin’
One Bowling Green State University student celebrates good grades by flippingout—literally—reports U, TheNational College Newspaper. VanessaHubertbether friends two years ago thatifshe ever received a 3.0 semester average, she would do cartwheels from one end of the campus to the other. Hubert never knew how to perform a cartwheel, so she trained with her brothers for several months in anticipation of a 3.0 average. When the time came, she performed 78 cartwheels in 15 minutes. After it was all over, Vanessa stated, “I feel very tired and I’m glad it’s over.” Ms. Hubert is reportedly back on her prescriptions and feeling much better.
Lessons From the Almost Literate
Movie star Sylvester Stallone gave some sound advice to students at the University of Virginia, according to the National On-Campus Report. When it’s time to get a job, Sly suggests, tell lies on your resume. “That’s very important, you must lie,” he said. One professor quickly countered Rambo’s claim stating, ‘That’s not what we teach them there.” One must wonder what kind of a school would invite Sly Stallone to speak on any intellectual topic, no less on a job search. More unbelieveable than Stallone’s deplorable advice is the fact that he included the tri-syllabic and complex word'important’ in a sort-of properly consturcted sentence.
Skull and Bones Admits Women
The prestigious Yale University secret society Skull and Bones has decided to admit women for the first time in its history, according to the Chronicle of Higher-Education. Six women were initiated in the club last week whose alumni members include none other than El Presidente George Bush. The controversy concerning admitting women began in April when the Class of 1991 voted in favor of the proposal, while its board of directors disagreed. The club will reportedly change its name from the masculine Skull and Bones to the more gender-neutral Suits and Skirts.
Chronicle of Higher Education
Water Disappears, Odor Exudes
?	Penn State University is having trouble keeping its water reserves
full according to the Penn State Weekly Collegian. Recent droughts in central Pennsylvania have placed the school under a water emergency. Residents are not permitted to water their lawns and limits on showering are being discussed. Students are being asked to cut down from their normal twice-a-week showers to the every-other-week system except for the occasional emergency hose-down.
Money For Nothing
Soaring college costs have created a variety of bizarre scholarships for the desparate student, reports the College Press Service. A new book entitled “Finding Money for College” by John Bear reports that more than $6.5 billion in assistance is not claimed annually. (Trust me, these are for real). Some of the weirder ones include scholarships for convicted Seattle prostitutes, scholarships for those named Baxendale, Borden, Pennoyer, or Murphy at Harvard. Other available scholarships include frisbee (State University of New York/Purchase) and raquetball (Memphis State University).	q
Edited by Mike Owen
NOVEMBER 14, 1991
BEHAVIOR MOD IFI C A TI O N
Cornell Over This Place?
They Play Football Like Girls!
Dear Mr. Manners:
I have an absolutely huge dilemma. My best friend on this campus, who happens to be my roommate, is seriously considering transferring to Cornell for the spring semester. She is making a decision that will affect a large portion of her young life, and so is mentally torturingherself and agonizing about this daily.
What I want to know is this—how can she be so selfish? It’s not just her life that’s being torn apart here. After all, I have no other friends and would be totally devoid of communication with other people without her. How can I make her realize the error of her ways tactfully and successfully?
Sincerely,
Feeling Betrayed
P.S. You’d better hurry with an answer. I’m thinking of locking her up in hall storage over X-mas break with some Laffy Taffy to keep her in good spirits.
Dear Feeling,
I always respond to questions as soon as possible, considering the large volumes of mail I go through, you’re getting a good deal. The way you carry on about your relationship makes me think that you two are actually Siamese twins, which could prove for some difficult studying and commuting between the two campuses. Assuming this is not the case, let’s consider your grievance here. Cornell over your friendship and the chance to remain Domerfied for two more years?. Gosh, that’s a toughie.
All kidding aside, I choose Notre Dame. Cornell is full of stresspots. Yes, even more so than this place. Add to that the ivy league routine and one of the largest greek systems in the country and you’re about to kill yourself. In fact, they’re good at that, too, sporting the highest suicide rate of any college in the nation .Bridge jumping is a big thing “Far Above Cayuga’s Waters," and it ain’t with a bungee cord. On a more personal note, Ithaca is pretty close to Mr. Manners' territory resulting in a high number of people from
my high school attending Cornell. If that isn't reason enough not to go, I don't know what is.
Butdon’tletmerantaboutND too much. Cornell offers a variety of people, the chance to freely express the other side of an issue without being shot, and a really good education. Let her decide what she wants.
If you don't have any other friends after she’s gone, I'll be a shoulder for you to cry on. (Then again, maybe I'll pay somebody).
Dear Mr. Manners:
I have a problem that I notice you do not cover too often in your column even though you seem to cover every gross and offensive subject possible. Well this gross and offensive subject happens to be my girlfriend. (Just kidding, snobkie). She has a bit of a problem with her exhaling. She doesn't have asthma or anything. It's worse — halitosis. For the less informed crowd, her breath stinks like Brontasaurus ca-ca.
Now, it wouldn't be so bad if she were shorter than I am, but she’s over six feet tall. Whenever she bends down in my face, I get those Ethanol blues. Help!
Sincerely,
Petruscha's Boyfriend
DearP.B.,
I would suggest first trying to subtley cure the problem. Bake her some Clorets cupcakes or the equivalent, (Tic Tac pie, Velamint milkshake, etc.) You can also just blow back in her mouth as she talks, but that looks weird. On second thought, just tell her she reiks. I'm sure she'd do it for you. I know I would.
Impress Mom'n'Dad and get your name in print! Simply write Mr. Manners at 303 Lafortune and you, too, may qualify for The Shirt (while supplies last/void where prohibited).’
20
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
*
Serving the Sophisticates
Tim Rogers tells a tale of hawking a wide variety of magazines
You can tell a lot about people by watch ing them buy pornography. I know r this because last summer I worked in a magazine store that had an impressive selection of pom. You name it, we carried it. If a magazine had nekkidness between its covers, we_made sure to have plenty in stock because pom sells.
My official job title at this magazine store, which I will call “The Mag Shoppe” to avoid । any legal action, was “Cash Register Guy.” My duties consisted of deciding what size sack to put stuff in, givingpeopleclose to the correct change and being helpful. For instance, somebody might ask, “Do you cany Guns and AmmoT’ And I would helpfully reply, “I dunno. Lemme ask the manager.”
"But if someone asked me if we carried Penthouse, I’d courteously say, “Uh huh,” because I knew we carried every magazine dealing with nekkidness. After all, pom sells.
We kept the skin magazines over in a comer by themselves. The rack was labeled “Sophisticates.” According to Webster, a sophisticate is one who is “wise to the affairs of the world.” I assumed, then, that there must be people who are foolish to the affairs of the world, people who don’t understand pornography. I did my best to keep those foolish people away from the nekkidness.
I suggested to.my manager, who I will call “Bob,” that we adopt a more up-front label for the pom rack. I offered “Smut” as an alternative. I think Bob was insecure and felt threatened by my forward-thinking idea because he told me to shut up.
So I mostly stood around and watched people buy smut. At first I was embarrassed
when some worldly-wise person would saunter up to the counter and plop down six or seven magazines whose covers featured nckkid women with tattoos of firearms on their bosoms. But I came to admire the bold people. These folk (and let’s be honest, most were men) seemed to have a healthy attitude about the whole affair.
“Hello,” they’d say.
“How’s it goin’?” I’d ask.
“Fine,” they’d say, “I’m just getting some smut. Think I’ll go home and look at nekkid bosoms.”
Other people seemed more timid. They would come in The Mag Shoppe and take a round-about sort of path to the pom. A guy might head over to the travel section, craftily misleading other shoppers to believe that he was taking a trip to France.
From travel, he might wander to the hob
bies section where we kept magazines like Field and Stream, Knives of Combat and Crossbow Hunting in Urban Areas. “Hmm,” other shoppers would start to think, “This guy must be headed to Paris for some big game hunting with a crossbow.” I could shortchange the timid people by four, sometimes five dollars because they were so anxious to leave The Mag Shoppe without being recognized by a member of the clergy.
Some folks were just too twisted to figure out. The twisted people would buy bizarre combinations of magazines. These guys would get a Hustler and three or four crossword magazines. They usually wore calculator watches and tucked their shirttails into their underwear. Some even had jangly key chains attached to their belt loops. They most likely ate lost children.
“Want to go out and see the new exhibit at the art museum?” their friends might ask.
“No thanks,” they would say. “I think I’ll just stay home, do a few crosswords and look at women’s crotches.”
These people would often pay for their magazines with only small change—$6.51 all in nickles and pennies. As Cash Register Guy, I had to take their change, though. My
manager, Bob, wouldn’t let me demand decentpayment in bills. He said we would lose business if I did. “After all,” Bob said, “pom sells.”	□
By Tim Rogers
Tim Rogers is an off-campus senior who hopes to some day run for public office on a platform of more nekkidness.
NOVEMBER 14,1991
21
The history of Irish hoops
By Patricia Doyle and Mari Okuda
SESQUICENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY
Contrary to popular belief, the history Notre Dame basketball did not begin in 1974 when the Irish broke UCLA’s all-time record 88-game winning streak. The April 17, 1897 issue of Scholastic said,
‘Basket-Ball has been played for many Fieldhouse was reconstructed just months
years in the preparatory schools of the University, but nothing like systematic work was done in this department of sport until last January when Mr. Hering [the school’s first football and basketball coach] started the game in real earnest. The students of Carroll Hall were familiar with the first principles of the game, but those of Brownson Hall and of Sorin Hall were the veriest novices in this branch of athletics. Three teams were organized—one in Sorin, one in Brownson and one in Carroll Hall, and a series of interaulic games was ar
ranged for the championship, the proceeds to go to the Athletic Association.”
In 1898 the Notre Dame team switched from playing intramural basketball to playing three teams outside Notre Dame. They lost their first two games against First Regiment and Clybomes and beat Rush Medical. In 1899 the Irish team won both its games against South Bend C.A.C. and Rush Medical. Although
The 1927 Helms Foundation National Champions.
Glancing Back
the team only played two games in 1899, this year was the first and only undefeated season in the history of Notre Dame hoops.
The first Notre Dame Fieldhouse, built in 1898, burned down in 1900, and a second
after this tragedy. In the early 1900s the Notre Dame basketball team played on a clay court that had to be rolled and watered daily. After 1925, however, the University used the proceeds from the 1925 Rosebowl (and the last performance of the legendary Four Horsemen) to construct an addition to the Fieldhouse with a wooden basketball court. Irish basketball was played in the Fieldhouse for 63 seasons and maintained a 474-91 record.
After the fieldhouse burned down, Notre Dame’s varsity basketball program was
nonexistent for the next eight years. Yet basketball was still enjoyed in interhall competition during the interim. In 1907 a group of students organized themselves into the All Collegiate Basketball Team. They held a 5-3 record against many of the top collegiate and independent teams in the area. The January 11,1908 issue of Scholastic quoted the Hartford paper as saying “The Catholic College team was composed of the best bunch of players that have ever been on the floor this year, and their conduct won favor with the audience.” The following year, many of the players returned when Notre Dame resumed its varsity basketball program under coach Bert Maris.
Although Notre Dame has never claimed an NCAA championship title, in 1927 Notre Dame was the Helms Foundation National
Champions. This was under coach George Keogan who, in his 20 seasons at Notre Dame, had a 327-97 record for winning percentage of .771. His 1936 team also won the Helms Foundation National Champion-§ ship.
| Inducted into the a. Naismith Memorial f Basketball of Fame | in 1976, Notre | Dame player, coach | and athletic director Edward “Moose” Krause was a three-
22
SCHOLASTIC
time All-American starting center for Notre Dame in the early 1930s. As an Irish player he scored 547 points and helpedNotreDame with its 54-12record. While attending Notre Dame, he also participated in track, football f and basketball. As the Irish head basketball coach he won 98 games during his six years in this position. In February, 1948, Krause f became the assistant athletic director and was appointed to head athletic director in March of the following year, a position that he held for 32 years.
1948. was the second year that basketball was an Olympic sport. Usually, an entire :	squad from one school was chosen for the
Olympics, but Vince Boryla was the first Notre Dame player to ever go to the Olympics. As a freshman in 1944-45 he led the Irish in scoring. He played at Notre Dame for two years and after enlisting in the Army, he earned his position on the Olympic squad while playing for the Denver Nuggets American Athletic Union team.
During the 1950s, coach John Jordan led the Notre Dame basketball team. A former Notre Dame player himself, he coached here for 13 yearsandhada 199-131 recordas well as leading four teams to the NCAA Tour-! nament quarterfinals.
Jordan was followed by coach John Dee, a former Notre Dame football and basketball player. During his first season in 1964 he led the Irish to the NCAA Tournament. During his seven years as coach he boasted four 20-win seasons. ,.
Coach Digger Phelps led the Notre Dame basketball team from 1971-72 to 1990-91. Phelps coached at the University of Pennsylvania and at Fordham before being appointed head coach at Notre Dame. During f his 20-season career, he had a 393-197 record. Fourteen of his 20 seasons were winning seasons. He is also credited with leading Notre Dame to its only Final Four . appearance during the. 1977-78 season. Every player who competed for four years under Phelps graduated, nine players were picked during the first round of the NBA draft, and five players received first team All-American honors.
The Notre Dame Fieldhouse was replaced by the J.A.C.C. which opened In 1968.
During Digger Phelps’ third season at Notre Dame, the Irish basketball team hosted the UCLA Bruins on January 19, 1974. At this time, John Wooden’s UCLA team was ranked number one with a 19-0 record and Notre Dame was ranked second with a 9-0 record. In the last three minutes of the game, Notre Dame came from behind to score 12 straight points and defeat the Bruins by a score of 71-70. The game-winning jump shot was scored by junior guard Dwight Clay. This win ended the Bruins’ 88-game winning streak that they held since Notre Dame defeated them on January 23,1971.
During this game, Irish guard Austin Can-scored 46 points. He holds Notre Dame’s career point-scoring record with 2,560 points. He also holds 27 of the 33 individual records involving points and field goals scored. In the NCAA tournament record book, he claims three out of the top five single-game scoring performances.
Second only to Carr as a scorer was Adrian Dantley. He holds a record 2,223 points. During his sophomore and junior years, he led the Irish in scoring in 54 of the 58 games he played. He went on to play for the United States Olympic team in 1976.
The team won a gold medal in the summer games in Montreal, and Dantley was the high-scorer with 30 points in the final medal-winning game against Yugoslavia.
During January, 1978, Notre Dame was scheduled to play the University of Maryland in the JACC. However, during the previous three days, 40 inches of snow had blanketed the South Bend area.-; Despite these adverse conditions and the snow emergency tfiafWas- in-effect, the airport opened just so that the plane carrying the Maryland Terrapins could land. The Irish went on to defeat them by a score of 69-54.
The Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center opened in 1968 and Irish hoops permanently moved from the Fieldhouse. Although the administrators wanted to tear down theFieldhouse, the art department was able to convince them that they needed a place for their offices. They stayed in the Fieldhouse until 1982 when they moved to their present home in Riley Hall. Since it would be too costly to repair the Fieldhouse, it was eventually tom down in March of the following year. The cornerstone from the Fieldhouse can still be seen on the “Mall” while Irish hoops continues to thrive under the A.C.C. dome.	□
NOVEMBER 14,1991
23
______________FINAL WORD
Taking Back the Night | by Catherine Sheehy
Concerned students no longer want to be afraid of the darkness
Catherine Sheehy is a member of Women United for Justice and Peace.
A s we sat one evening in the kitchen, by xjL the warm range-stove that served the dual purpose of baking my grandmother’s brown bread and keeping my toes warm, we
heard a howl rattle through the trees until it
Several organizations from SaintMary’sand Notre Dame are sponsoring the third annual “Take Back the Night” march in response to all aggressive violence, but particularly to the vio-
came to a halt outside the trembling window panes.
When my grandmother told me that it was the screech of the banshee that foretold of the ill fate of some unfortunate neighbor, I shivered not so much in fear as in the thrill pf wanting to think that there is such a thing.
Grandma had many more tales of the spirits that went aboutafter sundown. All the same, darkness never put me ill at ease when I was younger.
It was when I grew old enough to understand the ten o’clock news that I learned to be wary of and even afraid of the dark. For when I walk alone at night, it is not the thought of a spirit or goblin that crosses my mind when I hear the sound of footsteps behind me.
I’ve learned that the cloak of night can be made far more terrifying by someone I pass without a thought in the light of day than by any of the haunts in my
grandmother’s tales.
lence that puts women especially at risk, the
a4	. 1 f’’’ ■
I1-SBSqfw > W J
77^*677 777m/ ■
: 7 "C'J	:7 ;
yyy ■; - y-^	<
7" 7?7 77:7
reason why they are not at liberty to walk alone after nightfall with ease.
These sponsors, Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s); Women United for Justice and Peace (ND); Women’s Alliance (SMC); and Senior Board (SMC); with the support from Democratic Socialists of America (ND) and members of Feminist Forum (ND) have organized the march to bear witness to the fact that there have been assaults on both campuses, and that some people do not feel safe walking after dark. We invite all who can participate with us in our reclamation of the night.
“Take Back the Night” march, on Thursday, Nov. 14 (tonight), is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. at the Lemans Courtyard atSaintMary’s. (GetaCo-ex and hike to SMC for dinner before the march, or try to meet us at the Grotto sometime between 7:30 and 7:45; this is the halfway point. We will end our march in front of O’Shag.) Please come!!
‘The sleepwalkers are coming awake, and for The night belongs to all; the idea that people the first time this awakening has a collective
are in greater danger or feel threatened when they venture into the darkness is something that concerns everyone.
reality; it is not such a lonely thing to open one’s eyes.”
- Adrienne Rich □
24
SCHOLASTIC
REmemBER
SEVEHTH sigh
THURSDAY nox>emi3ER i<
SILEHCE
LqmBS
FRIDAY hr SATURDAY no\>emi3ER is h-


shocdd in
cusHina
qUDITORIUm
Remission is $2
e^eV’
I LU §0
O < Q
£ O < o-
o cl cl 0) g
Q>
8
8 pm hr 1030 Pm
STUDENT UNION BOARD
