VOL. LV.	May 20, 1922	No. 30
REV.FR.IRVING,C.S.C
Tsfte Now dame Scholastic
733
NOTRE DAME MEN ONLY
TEN PER CENT OFF
x On presentation of Athletic Card at the
Quality Shoe Repair Co.
130 North Michigan Street
“In Middle of the Block.”
“SOLE SAVERS”
Consult J. A. Mogle, Foot Expert, on your Foot Troubles.
MEAL
WRIGLiYS
Newest Creation
Peppermint flavored chewing gum with Peppermint
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket “melts in your mouth,” leaving the deliciously flavored gum center to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat.
Great

Treat!
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN T. CALVEY, Manager
Remington Portable Typewriter
TYPEWRITTEN MANUSCRIPT is a re quirement in. many courses.
NEATLY TYPED theses, examination papers, notes, etc., save your time and labor in the writing—and better still, they score “io” with the “Prof."
THE PORTABLE has a standard keyboard just like the big machines. Typing on the Portable will make you expert on any typewriter—a most useful accomplishment.
209 WEST JEFFERSON STREET
Main 620	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
734
Noure Same Scholastic
n—n—b—ra—n—ut—ot—n—<•
1 TTV — A	you will be pleased with our photo- I
। W “ xllv OUIC graphs. Special rates to students. ।
I E. E. MANGOLD !
|	_ THE LEADING PHOTOGRAPHER	|
| 226 NORTH MAIN STREET NEAR CITY HALL j *	tni^— ss^— mt^—mi—ts—mi—hh^—bb^—nn—ra—>t»—nn—bb—
i Nobile’s College Inn i
I HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES I [ FRUITS AND ICE CREAM |
I '7UDiNTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY I |	I
|	108 South Michigan Street |
I	Phones: Bell. 60a; Home. 96s	I
I	NOTRE DAME MEN
I	1
4	DO YOU KNOW THAT	|
| The Campus Shoe Repairing Shop ।
,	.	J
1 Is one the Most Up-to-Date in the State? f I	■
f Let us prove to you, our Quality, Service, Workmanship. I J	Town Prices.	I
« Notre Dame Shoe Repairing Shop and I j	Shining Parlor Candy^ore I
^ii!—Dw_n_H—n—H—H—n—iu—in«>"H*—>n—a—>n—
I THE WORLD’S LONGEST ELECTRIFIED RAILROAD- !
! 649 Miles of Transcontinental Une now Operated by “White Coal.” |
। If you want to enjoy every minute of your trip take | ? THE CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL | i|ii—la—n—ni—®—
^•n—nt—m—bc—bi—an—bb^—■—an^—bb—m—bu^—bh—an—m—
1 Ideal Laundry Company I
I “Get the Ideal Habit" I
I	I
I Three collections a week at Notre I 1	Dame. Leave your pack-	I
j	ages at the	I
I	Notre Dame News Stand	1
sg«u—its—«n—db^— mi—an—aa—— m—ns—na— bi^^bb— n—uo|o
•Jm^^bb^—ns—bi—bb^—an^—bs—as—bi—bi^—as—bi—ai—m—nn^—mt—m— *
I	LEAVE YOUR	’ !
1 AMATEUR FILMS |
I	AT THE	T
1	NEWS STAND	|
|	To be Developed and Finished.	j
---------	1
?	THE NATIONAL PHOTO SHOPS	I
।	CORPORATION	I
|	105 Lincoln Way East.	1
CALENDAR
Monday, May 22—Brooks assaults Summer, 1850.
Freshman contest in oratory, Washington Hall.
Tuesday, May 23—Settlement at Jamestown, 1607.
Sophomore contest in oratory, Washington Hall.
Wednesday, May 24—Queen Victoria horn, 1819. Junior contest in oratory, Washington Hall. Interhall track meet, Cartier Field, 4 P. M.
Thursday, May 25—Battle of Spottsylvania, 1864.
Ascension Thursday, a holy day of obligation.
Confirmation exercises in the Church, by Rt. Rev.
Rev. Edward J. Kelly, of Grand Rapids, at 5 P. M.
Presentation of Laetare Medal to Dr. Charles P. Neill, at 8 P. M.
Beloit at Notre Dame, baseball, Cartier Field, 4 P. M.
Friday, May 26—Last of the Confederates surrender, 1865.
Saturday, May 27—Fort Erie and Fort George abandoned, 1813.
St. Viator’s vs. Notre Dame, at Cubs’ Park, in Chicago, baseball.
Indiana State Track Meet, at Lafayette.
Brownson Hall vs. Walsh, in baseball, 4 P. M.
Sunday, May 28—Battle of Dallas, Ga., 1864.
Sermon, “Prayer,” by Rev. William H. Moloriy, at 8:15 Mass.
Badin Hall vs. Sorin Hall in base ball.
Carroll Halls vs. Corby Hall in baseball.
Noure SameSchdascic
735

Speaking of Men’s Clothes the Last Word in Quality i s Really Two Words— Hickey - Freeman

MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER
736
Norre dame S^choiasdc
No. 126
____ «
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel'Building)
Capital, $600,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 190,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, Jr., Vice-Pres.
C. L- ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier.
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass'u. Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES for RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES. .
We Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World
TRY OUR TRAVELERS’ CHEQUES.
“THE OLIVER’’
Indiana’s Finest Hotel
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS
Dining Room Open All Night

Don’t Spend It All!
Some day you’ll want to tell the world: “I’m in business for myself.” Then you’ll be glad you held onto some of your remittance money. This friendly bank will help.
SERVICE - STABILITY
JEfttRSON BLV a	NEXT TO POST OfflC E .
“ The Bank Ahead”
BERMAN’S
Sport Goods Are Reliable
125 North Michigan Street
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
MOW
SPFLD.	LIMA
ILL.	f OHIO
2 12 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg.
OFFICE PHONE	RES. PHONE
Main 689	Main 1162 and 1847
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
Dentistry.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Extracting, and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws.
J. m. S-3 building SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
617 J. M. S. Building, South Bend, Ind.
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTVRUSVIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Published Every Saturday During the School Year.' Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917 authorized, June 25. 1918.
Vol. LV
May 20, 1922
No. 30
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.*
I: 1842-’79.
TO chronicle the development of the University of Notre Dame is to indite a long list of heroic sacrifices by heroic men. It may be said in a word that the growth of the institution from a log cabin to a world-famed school is the gradual fulfillment of a great man’s dream, which we can appreciate best by acquainting ourselves with that great man himself and with some of his brave co-laborers.
We are interested chiefly in the history of Notre Dame from the time when Father Edward Sorin and his six devoted brothers began their labors here in behalf of Catholic education. The Congregation of Holy Cross, of which they were members, had been founded some years earlier at Le Mans, France, by Father Moreau, and when Bishop Brute, of Vincennes, went to France and made an appeal for men for his missions in Indiana, his call for aid was heard by the young Father Sorin.
To hear of the urgent need of men for missionary work in the wilds of America was to create in the youthful and zealous priest a desire to be of assistance. The realization of his desire was not long in coming, for soon afterwards, Bishop Hailandiere, the success-sor to Bishop Brute in the diocese of Vincennes, called upon Father Moreau for volunteers. Father Sorin and six Brothers of Holy Cross at once offered themselves for the work. With the consent of their superiors, they made quick preparation to depart on their distant mission.
The volunteers sailed for America early in the year 1841 as steerage passengers on
* Reprinted from the Golden Jubilee Edition of the South Bend Tribune, of March 9, 1922.
one of the slow boats of that time. After a short respite in New York they set out on their journey of twenty-five days to St. Peter’s, near Vincennes. Here they intended to establish a college, but the bishop disapproved of the plan because of the presence of another Catholic college at Vincennes. He offered Father Sorin and his companions the present site of Notre Dame, advising them that this section of the mission was more in need of an educational establishment. They accepted the offer, and arrived at Notre Dame on November 26, 1842, to continue the work of such men as Fathers Badin, Deseille and Petit.
WORK OF FATHER SORIN.
Father Sorin, forgetting for the time the more spacious building that had been planned, began the erection of a log structure twenty-four by forty-six feet. To this building was subsequently added a second story. A small chapel, a relic of Father Badin’s work among the Indians in northern Indiana and southern Michigan, was used as a dormitory for the Brothers. Their first winter at Notre Dame was most severe; trials were many, and money was scarce, but the brave missionaries suppressed every discouragement and hoped for better things with the coming of spring.
Spring came, but not the contractor with whom they had bargained for the construction of a brick building with better accommodations. This was but one of many reverses o‘f fortune that had happened to them since their arrival, and they made the best of it. They decided to erect a brick building of less commodious proportions than those contemplated in the original plan, and the result was a modest structure now known as the Mission House. This was the first col
738
Moure dame Scholastic
lege. Students were received in September 1843, and the enrollment list shows that Alexis Coquillard, a pioneer of South Bend, was the first pupil registered at Notre Dame.
The following year, 1843, the small community rejoiced in an increase of its members by the arrival of three priests, one brother, and four sisters from France. In midsummer of the same, year the architect came from Vincennes to begin work on the college building planned at first. There was, however, a serious obstacle in the lack of funds for the purpose, as the community budget was depleted. In this trying situation the fathers and brothers found a true friend in Samuel Byerley, a South Bend business man, who offered financial assistance. With further assistance from other quarters, the cornerstone was laid and the' building was soon well under way. Within a few months the students were moved to the new college, a building eighty by thirty-six feet, and four stories high.
CHARTER FOR NOTRE DAME.
In January, 1844, Notre Dame received its charter, through the efforts of John D. Defrees, a member of the legislature of Indiana, and thus became legally and fully established as a university. The college work was now begun in earnest. The first faculty included such men as Father Sorin as president, Father Granger, as vice-president, Fathers Cointet and Gouesse, and Brothers Gatien and Basil as professors. These men were ably assisted by four lay professors. The first catalogue of students was issued in 1848 and the first commencement was held in July of that year. It is interesting to note that from the first the personal merit of the student was looked to and not his financial and social standing—a disposition which has been characteristic of Notre Dame ever since.
Everybody went to work with a will and their efforts were well rewarded in the growth of the institution. Father Sorin was an inspiration to every member of the community. He was a tireless worker himself and his spirit was contagious. His exceptional ability, his vision and his 'inspirational personality account in great measure for the success achieved against • many and great odds.
Easier access to the university by the public was achieved by the completion of the Lake Shore division of the New York Cen
tral railroad to South Bend in 1851. The enrollment showed a steady increase and made necessary the addition of two wings to the college building. The year 1851 is remembered also as the date of the founding of the Notre Dame post office, for which Notre Dame is indebted to Henry Clay.
In the summer of 1854 the community was attacked by the plague of cholera, then devastating the west. The disease robbed Notre Dame of about twenty of her brothers and priests. This was indeed a staggering-blow to the infant institution. When the
students returned from their vacation the surviving members of the faculty were scarcely sufficient to undertake the work of another school year. But Father Sorin went about encouraging everyone and inciting new vigor into the less hopeful, with the result that the plague was soon forgotten and
plans were made for a lar; school.
>-er and better
ANSWER CALL TO WAR.
With the civil war came the call for Notre Dame’s assistance, to which she responded nobly. Seven of her best men served as chaplains, and the students volunteered in goodly number. Chief among the chaplains was Father Corby, C. S. C., who is remembered nationally as the “apostle of the field of Gettysburg.” Notre Dame is rightly proud of her civil war record. The chime of twenty-three bells in the university church was silent as the soldiers and chaplains marched away, but it gave them a cheery greeting when their valiant work at the front was done.
After fulfilling the onerous duties of president for more than twenty years, Father Sorin was succeeded in the office in 1865 by Father Patrick Dillon, C. S. C. The venerable founder did not, however, discontinue his labors, but continued for many years to take important part in every advance made by Notre Dame. Father Dillon was an active and progressive president and is to be credited with many improvements in the institution. Among other achievements, he tore down the college building and erected
Noure Same Scholastic
73d
in its place a larger and better structure. He is likewise responsible for the introduction of the commercial and science courses.
In 1865 Father Sorin established at Notre Dame The Ave Maria, the Catholic magazine devoted to the honor of the Blessed Virgin. The first two issues were printed in Chicago and then a printing press was set up at Notre Dame. This periodical, edited during the last forty years by the Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. S. C., has won a secure place of distinction among the Catholic weeklies of the world.
. CORBY BECOMES PRESIDENT.
In 1866 Father William Corby, C. S. C., succeeded Father Dillon as president of the university. The period of his presidency showed remarkable progress. The college of law was founded and the scientific department brought up to date. The Scholastic, giving publication to the literary efforts of the students, was first issued in 1867.
The year 1868 marks the erection of the Church of the Sacred Heart at the university. This Gothic structure has been called “the crowning glory of Notre Dame.” Later in the same year Father Sorin was appointed to the office of superior-general of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The society of the alumni of Notre Dame also dates from this year.
April 23, 1879, will always be memorable in the annals of Notre Dame. Late in the forenoon of that never-to-be-forgotten day a mysterious fire started on the roof of the college building. When the flames were finally subdued, the Church of the Sacred Heart, the printing office, and a few dwellings were all that stood uninjured.
II: 1879-1919.
On the morning after the fire Father Corby announced to, the students that a larger and better Notre Dame would open for them at the beginning of the following September. Father Sorin delayed a trip to Europe on which he had started and hurried back home from Canada to direct the work on his new school. An architect from Chicago, W. J. Edbrooke, drew the plans for the new administration building, and as soon as the remains of the old Notre Dame had
been cleared away, the new building began to take form. It was to be five stories high and surmounted by a golden dome on which
-del.
was to be placed an eighteen-foot statue of the Virgin Mary, the patron of the school. The work was pushed forward day and night and in the September of 1879 classes were resumed at the usual time.
The forty years that have elapsed since 1879 differ from the first period of Notre Danie’s history in that the progress of Notre Dame before the fire was due chiefly to the dreams and efforts of one man, whereas the progress since the fire has been due largely to the exertions of four or five men. Two years after the fire, Father Thomas E.
740
Walsh, C. S. C., became president of the university. Father Walsh was in any respects an exceptional man, a linguist of rare proficiency and a person of beautiful character. To know him was to love him and the charm of his personality drew to Notre Dame countless friends and numerous students. Sympathetic by nature and kind almost to a fault, he gave to his faculty, and students an example of the Christian benevolence that is characteristic of noble souls.
With such a leader the new progress of Notre Dame became a matter of course. During Father Walsh’s presidency of twelve years the administration building was completed in every detail. It soon became evident, however, that one building could no longer accommodate the increasing number of students and Washington, .St. Edward’s, Science, and Sorin halls were erected in quick succession. New departments were added to the various colleges and the best available professors were secured for the faculty. It was at this time that Charles Warren Stoddard, Maurice Francis Egan,-Col. William Hoynes, and Prof. Martin McCue, began at Notre Dame their long-careers as' instructors of youth. The growth of Notre Dame during the administration of Father Walsh was phenomenal. When he became president Notre Dame was a provincial school, circumscribed in its influence. Before his death, however, it had become an institution of nation-wide repute. During this period special attention was given to athletics, to the fostering of that spirit which later became famous throughout the country as the spirit of the “Fighting Irish” athletic teams.	•
DEATH OF FATHER SORIN.
The year 1893 was Notre Danie’s year of sorrow. Within a month after the commencement exercises on July 17, Father Walsh died at St. Mary’s hospital in Milwaukee. Just a week later, on July 26, Father Alexis Granger, for forty-nine years the companion and counsellor of Father Sorin, passed to his reward. The double shock was a death blow to the aged founder, who had been in ill health for more than three years. He died on Oct. 31, nearly fifty-one years to the day after his arrival at Ste. Marie du Lac.
Noure dame Scholastic
At the expressed desire of Father Walsh, Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., was chosen as the next president of the university. Father Morrissey was thoroughly familiar with the needs and the resources of the university. He had come to Notre Dame in 1872 at the age of twelve, and had spent the greater part of the intervening time at the university. He soon proved himself a wise, conservative executive and a remarkable financier. During'his administration Corby Hall, the gymnasium, and the old chemistry hall were erected. Many changes and developments were made in the cirricula of the various colleges of the university. Before the end of this administration, the student body included many representatives from South America and from other foreign countries.
GOLDEN JUBILEE OF NOTRE DAME.
At the very beginning of his presidency Father Morrissey conducted the celebration of the golden jubilee of the founding of Notre Dame. This should have taken place in 1892 or in 1893, but the sickness of Father Sorin and other reasons forced a postponement. In 1895, however, the Catholic church in America focused its attention on Notre Dame. Four archbishops, ten bishops, numerous monsignori and priests, as well as hundreds of alumni and old students came from all parts of the country to praise Father Sorin and his group of six Brothers, who had planted the seed of Christian education where Notre Dame was bearing fruit. “There may have been,” says a writer in the Scholastic of that time, “jubilees more splendid from the spectacular point of view and graced by the presence of a greater number of prelates and ecclesiastical dignitaries; but never before was there such a gathering of representative Catholic priests and laymen, the rank and file of the church militant, the men who bear the heat and burden of the day.”
During the administration of Father Walsh and Father Morrissey there lived and labored at the university a priest whose dreams of the Notre Dame of the future extended perhaps even beyond the limits of Father Sorin’s fancy, a man whose burningzeal for the development of the university was prompted by his deep love for knowledge

Tofe Moure dame Scholastic
and his thorough acquaintance with the work being done in universities both at home and abroad—the Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C. Early in the seventies Father Zahm became professor of physics at the university. He was a tireless worker, and it was due largely to his efforts that Science Hall was built in 1883. A few years later he was appointed vice-president of the university, and about a decade later was elected Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States. It was during his term as Provincial that Father Zahm did his best work for Notre Dame. He perfected the heating, and plumbing systems of the university by connecting all the buildings with tunnels for the steam and water pipes. A railway spur was laid from the Michigan Central tracks to the freight and steam houses. One of his greatest achievements was the perfection of the educational facilities for the seminaries of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 'Father Zahm was in several ways really a great man. His numerous books on travel, literature and science show profound erudition. He was a broad man mentally and could see at a glance and with rare precision the problems of the future and their solutions. To say that Father Zahm is the most renowned graduate of Notre Dame is to say much of his ability as a scientist and litterateur, but it does not suggest adequately his pre-eminence in either role. Several conservative judges of men have called him the genius of the last half century.
When the Rev. John Cavanaugh became president of Notre Dame in 1905 the university was indeed a flourishing institution. The colleges of arts and letters, law, engineering, and science were attracting students from all states and from many foreign countries. Nevertheless, a broadening of educational opportunities was necessary to make Notre Dame a real university. New departments were opened in each college during Father Cavanaugh’s administration, and at the time of the diamond jubilee of Notre Dame, in 1917, the attendance had almost doubled.
To accommodate this increase in enrollment new buildings were erected. Walsh Hall a thoroughly up to date dormitory hall, was built in 1909. Seven years later old St. Jo
741
seph’s Hall was partly torn down and wings were added. The building is now called Badin Hall. Early in September, 1916, fire completely destroyed the interior of the old chemistry building. To meet the needs of the department of chemistry, the present chemistry hall, three stories high and in the shape of a “T,” was erected. The Rt. Rev. Edward Kelly, auxiliary bishop of Detroit, blessed the corner stone at the diamond jubilee in 1917. The old chemistry building was rebuilt to accommodate the college of law and is now called after the genial deanemeritus The Hoynes College of Law. The crowning success in architecture at'the university in this period, however, was the library. The library accommodations afforded by the administration building were outgrown long before the present structure was built. At the commencement of 1916 the corner stone of the university library was blessed and the following year at the diamond jubilee celebration the building was formally opened. Every modern convenience is to be found in this fireproof building. Two large reading rooms, a bindery, cataloguing rooms, two large lecture rooms, and shelves to accommodate six hundred thousand volumes are but a few of the important features of the building. In it are found also the Notre Dame art galleries, containing many paintings of the masters, the bishops’ memorial hall, the Edward Lee Greene botanical library and herbarium, and the Catholic archives of America. .
_ The most important feature of Father Cavanaugh’s administration was the growth of the influence of Notre Dame. Undoubtedly the name of the university was spread far and wide by the superiority of its athletic teams, but the superiority of its youngmen in professional lines and in active service to country has been for Notre Dame a living advertisement. A few years ago a member of the board of bar examiners in one of our central states told the president of the university that Notre Dame’s graduates were more successful in passing the state examinations than the representatives of any other university. Nor is this excellence true only of the law graduates. Prominent journalists have told of the ability of the young journalist from Notre Dame and professional
742	'fefie Noure dame Scholastic
men have praised the superiority of Notre Dame’s students in other fields of endeavor. Seumas MacManus expressed his opinion of Notre Dame in the words: “Had I a son— for whom I should naturally covet culture of mind, wholeness of soul, health of body, wealth of memory—to holy, happy Notre Dame should I hurry him.”
HIGH IDEALS ESTABLISHED.
Nor have Catholics been the only ones to recognize the value and influence of Notre Dame. More than three decades ago, the Rev. John Buckley, the editor of the New York Christian Advocate, a Methodist journal, wrote of Notre Dame: “This institution does not possess one dollar of endowment, but it is supported by the amount paid in by tuition and board. If there had been anything to criticise, it would have been criticised.” Former Governor Goodrich, of this state, officially congratulated Notre Dame for instilling “into the breasts of loyal sons such high ideals and patriotic impulses.” Recently the Hon. Will H. Hays, postmaster-general, declared his admiration for the university: “The superb record of Notre Dame in the college world, her long service, her large contributions to the political life of the country and the generations of splendid men who claim her for their alma mater are all reasons why every American should be interested in Notre Dame.”
In 1917 Notre Dame celebrated its diamond jubilee. Hundreds of alumni and old students gathered under the shelter of the golden dome to do honor again to Father Sorin and the six Brothers for their sacrifices and labors in the interest of education and religion. His Eminence, the late Cardinal Gibbons, at the time more than eighty years of age, braved the fatigues of a long journey from Baltimore to honor Notre Dame by taking part in the celebration. His excellency, the Most Reverend John Bonzano, apostolic delegate, five archbishops, nineteen bishops, eighteen monsignori, and scores of priests left their duties and came to pay tribute. Catholic authors, jurists, and other laymen came to tell by pen and by word of mouth of their gratitude to Notre Dame for encouragement and inspiration. The affair was most successful in every respect. “Notre Dame
revealed in this celebration,” wrote a member of the Catholic hierarchy, “how well she has caught from her great-souled founder, and in turn taught, the solid lesson of devotion to one’s country and love of God, the two-fold bulwark of a nation’s strength and prosperity and happiness.”
STUDENTS GO TO WAR.
Among those graduated at the time of this jubilee were a number of students im khaki. War had been declared in April and Notre Dame had responded immediately to the call. To say that Notre Dame is proud of its war record is to express in a commonplace way one of its most cherished memories. On Memorial Day in 1918, the Notre Dame service flag in the rotunda of the main building bore the figure “293.” Not content with giving the best of its students, the university sent eight of its priests as chaplains, among them its vice-president, Father Matthew Walsh. The complete record of Notre Dame’s contribution to our government during the war may never be written, but the days of 191718 will always be remembered and linked with the day of ’61-’65.
HI: NOTRE DAME OF FUTURE.
The steady growth of the institution and the high quality of its work are facts which have always struck the observer of the University of Notre Dame. One very obvious reason for her steadily increasing enrollment has been the policy, constantly pursued by her officials, of adapting the school to the varying needs of the times; without ever sacrificing the character of the training given to its students. To-day, however, the growth of Notre Dame is such as it has never been before. Within the last five years the number of students in the university has nearly doubled. More than five hundred students have been turned away since last September because of lack of housing capacity and teaching facilities. Such a phenomenal advance is significant, and it may reasonably be taken as a standard by which to judge Notre Dame’s work in the past and her approved competency to train men for the present and future needs-of America. The officials now, as heretofore, are determined that Notre Dame shall be well abreast of the times and
Noure dame Scholastic
743
that she shall perpetuate her service to the nation and to humanity.
National gobd will, too, has at all times approved the work of this national institution. We quote three of the many sincere testimonials recently given to her. President Harding says, “I have long been familiar with the high quality of the educational work which you are aiding.” President L. D. Coffman, of the University of Minnesota, says: “Notre Dame stands high among the universities of America. Indeed, it is an inspiration to other colleges and universities. Its ideals are high and its traditions and purposes are noble. It is an institution that develops the type of manhood America needs. It has sent out thousands of young men to become intellectual and spiritual leaders of the communities into which they have gone.” Members of the general education board, founded by Mr. Rockefeller, critically examined the purposes and achievements of the university and were so well pleased that the board last year promised Notre Dame a quarter of a million dollars, as the initial fund for widening the scope and intensifying the character of her services to the nation. .
With such approval on the part of impartial Americans and such demand on the part of students, the authorities and the friends of the university feel the imperative need of a far more commodious institution. A larger and better paid staff of lay professors, they are agreed, is a prime necessity. A half dozen additional buildings, too, are needed to accommodate the growing numbers, especially in the departments of commerce and engineering, “Notre Dame,” says an official, “needs to grow ten years almost overnight.” It is not to be expected, of course, that the university will continue to increase at the remarkable rate which the past five years have witnessed; but that.it will grow continuously is almost certain, and even to-day it is of necessity refusing admission to hundreds of worthy young Americans.
MORE LAY PROFESSORS.
The first measure proposed for’the building of the Notre Dame of the future is a substantial increase in the number of lay professors. The policy, begun of necessity in the early days and continued as altogether
satisfactory, is to secure competent and devoted laymen for a large percentage of the faculty. It has been found not inadvisable to employ a number of non-Catholic teachers ; and the presence, of these men, as well as of non-Catholic students, has added to the democratic spirit of Notre Dame. The present plan, which it is hoped can be realized within five years, contemplates many more lay professors and instructors. For that purpose, the interest on the first million dollars of the endowment fund, of -which the gift of the general education board-forms the nucleus, will be used. If the near future should bear witness to no other change in Notre Dame than this addition to the lay faculty, there would yet result a decided increase in the usefulness of the university to the young men studying -within her halls; for with smaller classes more intense work can be done and more personal attention can be given, the personal element being rightly rated as one of the real advantages of the religious and boarding school over the public and day institution. Moreover, the lay professors themselves at Notre Dame are by tradition truly dedicated to their work, to the training of young men in the class room, and they have always exercised a potent and most commendable influence on the student body.
The religious teachers and the executives will, of course, continue to serve the university with their time-tried fidelity and wholeheartedness. The number of these can not perhaps be increased immediately to keep pace with the proposed accession to the lay faculty, but there is good ground for the prediction that an ever-larger number of religious men will be available for the work. These religious are men of the same profession as the founders and builders of Notre Dame; like them, they consecrate themselves freely and without compensation to the education of young men, and with them they form the “living endowment,” the richest resource which the university has had or will have— the richest indeed that any institution can possess.
Apart from this great living endowment of workers, the University of Notre Dame has passed the first eighty years of her existence with a total endowment of only $30,-
744	Norre $ame Schdassic
000. She has indeed grown, but the growth has been gradual, and until a few years ago was able unassisted to provide teachers, lodgings, and full • equipment for all applicants. But today a different situation presents itself. The demands of students for admittance, indicating at bottom a demand on the part of the nation for just that service which Notre Dame has rendered in the past, can not be met without permanent and large financial endowment. It is for this reason that Notre Dame today departs from her enviable tradition of being a self-made university, and asks her alumni and friends and all public-spirited Americans to aid her in intensifying and enlarging her services to humanity.
The gift of the general education board is offered on condition that the university raise the amount within Tour years to $1,000,000, only the interest of which is to be used, and that exclusively as salary for members of the lay faculty. To this initial gift the Carnegie foundation has added $75,000. Encouraged by these beginnings the officials of the university have launched a drive to raise a total of $2,000,000. The second million will be used to erect departmental buildings and dormitories on the campus.
ENGINEERING COLLEGE GROWTH.
The college of engineering is to be the first to benefit by the endowment. This important college, founded in 1873—just one year later than the founding of the 'Tribune—has expanded steadily from time to time, until the college now includes complete courses in civil, mechanical, electrical, architectural, chemical, and mining engineering. Its recent increase in enrollment, too—more than two hundred and fifty per cent in five years—has been striking. These giant stride^ demand a corresponding increase in buildings, equipment and professors. To meet this imperative want and to provide for a yet greater number of students, a worthy edifice, costing $300,000, will, it is hoped, soon- be in process of construction. Significant facts, in this connection, facts which friends of the school and of higher education are eager to perpetuate, are that Notre Dame has always led our Catholic colleges in the teaching of engineering and that students from South America,
Mexico, and the Philippines, making up no inconsiderable percentage of the total enrollment, have consistently maintained an enviable record in engineering work.
The growth of the college of engineering, however, has been slow and slight indeed as compared with that in the college of commerce. Ten years ago Notre Dame had no such college. Today the enrollment in the commerce courses is four hundred and seventy-six, nearly twice what it was two years ago. Three complete courses leading to specific bachelor degrees are already offered. These are subdivided into several departments, affording the student an early opportunity to choose a specialty in foreign commerce, banking, business administration, civic work, finance and accounts, or transportation.
A students’ organization, known as the Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce, something unique we believe in American universities, has been successfully developed in the college. This positive contribution to the teaching of commerce has attracted wide attention and has proved itself a most praiseworthy venture. The students in commerce, coming from every state in the union and from many of the great foreign commercial countries, meet once a week in the chamber to guarantee the exchange of commercial data gleaned from many lands; and at intervals averaging ten days, prominent business men address the chamber. An important step in the progress of this college was taken a year ago when an exchange of students was effected with several of the leading universities of South America.
Such intercourse will undoubtedly follow with universities in Europe and the far east; and a course in the trade problems of the far east is already being taught. Further, the Rev. Dr. John A. Zahm, who travelled much in South America and wrote several delightful and valuable volumes on our neighbor republics, gathered in his travels and studies a most select library on the history and the commerce of South America, and this treasure he gladly gave over to the college of commerce at Notre Dame.
NEED OF COMMERCE HALL.
All this progress in the college of com
Moure ^ame Schdasric
745
merce has been accomplished without the advantage of special lecture halls. But the college has now become so large that the prosecution of its work in several halls far apart involves serious drawbacks. A special building for the college must be erected, if the institution is to expand and at the same time retain that stability and integrity which have marked it from the beginning. The new structure, which will require $200,000 of the building fund, will provide facilities for a continuation of intensive and' extensive work and for the accommodation of the far greater number of men who are expected to enter this course.	.
The faculty of the university, in making provision for a larger and less-burdened lay faculty, new departmental buildings and equipment, wisely considers thoroughness in education a prime requisite. A second necessity at present is greater dormitory space. Without this any further expansion in enrollment will be impossible, and the university will be compelled to continue a course which even now she would gladly abandon, that of turning away young men seeking a higher education. At present the city of South Bend receives part of the overflow, about five hundred men; but another large number cannot be received even there. Plainly, then, such dormitories as will house every applicant is a pressing need at Notre Dame. These buildings will cost $450,000, leaving in the endowment fund $50,000, which will be used to enlarge the gymnasium and the stadium.
MORE ROOM FOR COLLEGE MEN.
Some recent changes in policy deserve attention. The preparatory school is no longer maintained, and thus more room is available for college men. A summer session, introduced in 1919, brings hundreds of teachers and mature students to the university every year. The director of studies has been relieved of the great burden of directing all courses in detail. He is now assisted by an able man at the head of each college as dean. This step secures a specialist to supervise the work in each department. Finally, a board of lay trustees, at present composed of ten men of proved business ability, five of them alumni, has been entrusted with the care, in
vestment and administration of all endowments.
“The course of studies has been methodized anew, has been greatly enlarged, and is, it is believed, rendered fully adequate to the demands of the advancing culture of the northwest; the corps of professors was never before so numerous and efficient; to which may be joined the scarceless important consideration that each succeeding year has witnessed large and expensive additions to the material facilities for imparting a thorough and complete education.” This statement, published in the catalogue of the university in 1858, at a time when the school counted scarcely a hundred students, well represents the purposes and trend of the University of Notre Dame. When in 1942 the centenary of Notre Dame will have been reached, she will very likely have doubled her present lay faculty and have added a large group of buildings; and she will have introduced, extended, and developed the several colleges and the numerous courses. Her past foretells such a future. Adaptability and service, traditionally characteristic of her, already mark out in a very definite way her future. But while all this external development is to be expected, it will be borne in mind that such growth must be in the future, as it has been in the past, guided by and ministrant to the inner, determining factor at the university, the spirit of Notre Dame. This forms for her, as the author, John Talbot Smith, says, “that great highway of the future which she must walk unafraid, in great glory.” Her magnificent tradition of service, an individual kind of service, must not change; indeed it can not change while Notre Dame is Notre Dame. Achievement must continue to be her glory.
THOUGHTS.
The cynic is a man who pours vinegar on the dainty morsels life serves to him.
Men who forsake the living arms of the guiding Past, usually return- to throw themselves at its dead feet.
The indolent define genius as God-given talent; the merely talented understand it to be the ability to do hard work.
746
Norre Same Scholastic
LV.
LftMiUtl
Metre Baw^Mtnhstit
Wart at (£9 iters
Bnsintss
Paul Breen
August Fipp
Robert D. Shea Harold E. McKee Karl Arndt
Leo R. Ward, C. S. C. Vincent Engei-c Frank Wallace
J. C.
R. M. Murch, C. S. C. Gerald Hagan Charles Molz Frank McGinnis Francis J. Kolars W. C. Gilchrist Brennan
Atotrftsitij
Charles HirschbuhlAaron H. Huguenard
isct tonjit Miriam toast	Maritum
H.
C.
W. Flannery
O. DeBarry
30
Iii the Ascension, Christ completes the work of our redemption,—“He has led captivity captive.” For a fitting observance of this festival, as of many the ascension, others, the Church asks men to pause, and to reflect upon the mysteries commemorated. It is well that she does so. It is well that with due ceremony she continually recalls to men’s minds and hearts the great events of the redemption. For the college man it is perhaps more than fortunate that the Feast of the Ascension and its octave, which prepares us for the coming of the Holy Ghost, come at a time when spring fever, social functions, time tables, and even class work conspire to divide his allegiance.	ward.
Last fall the first promise of the editors of the 1922 Dome was a pledge to have the book ready for distribution in May. Within a week the Dome will major, fire a salute, be off the press and the promise will be fulfilled. What this accomplishment has meant in work perhaps only the editors can say. Disregarding the precedent of previous years, they are publishing the book on time. Their achievement should be a source of satisfaction to themselves; it should be cause for congratulations from a waiting studentbody, whose springtime question is, “When will the Dome be out?” By the first of May
the question whether a snap-shot of himself has crept into the pages of the Dome begins to assume increasing importance for the student. This year the question can be answered early. Looking backward, the University may well be pleased with the array of volumes to which this year’s book is added, and the 1922 annual will compare favorably with the best. Considered as a whole, the volumes that have been published since 1907, when the first Dome appeared, present a well-ordered history of the many and various University activities. Their colorful pages have been a mirror of the grave and the gay, of the new and the old. The Scholastic, from week to week, is able to draw its pictures only in crayon; the Dome, like a true aristocrat, can show, in its annual appearance, the brush and oils.	MOLZ.
NOTRE DAME DRIVE BY RADIO.
Our readers will doubtless be interested in the following address of Rev. Dr. Burns, President of the University, which was broadcasted by radio from the Westinghouse Station in Chicago, at the opening of the Notre Dame Endowment Drive in the Chicago territory, on the evening of May the 8th. Those interested in the development of wireless communication were impressed by the speaker’s remark concerning Notre Dame’s part in some of the earliest experiments in
Noure &ame Scholastic
747
aerial telegraphy. It is estimated that- more than a hundred thousand persons heard this announcement of the Notre Dame Drive, by means of the radio receivers scattered throughout the country.
Many people were startled the other day when in a public statement Mr. Samuel Gompers called attention to the danger of Bolshevism in the United States, declaring that there are in this country many persons with Bolshevistic leanings and that some of these occupy places which offer very exceptional opportunity for influencing others. One of the leading articles in the current Independent has to do with the menace of Socialism. The writer maintains not only that the number of persons with Socialistic sympathies is much larger than is commonly supposed, but • that the power and effect of Socialistic propaganda are being constantly augmented, and he asks the very pertinent question as to what can be done about it. Force will avail nothing. Forcible repression only furnishes fresh material for the propaganda. For every Bolshevist or Socialist who is imprisoned, a new group of recruits will spring up. Education, and education only, the writer maintains, can furnish the remedy.
The remedy, in my Judgment, is to be found in higher education, in the education in colleges and universities. Higher education opens the mind, deepens the understanding, and matures the judgment. Knowledge supplies the acid test of what is true or false, and in the long run every fallacy must crumble and fall away before it. This is especially true of education in which the teaching and work of science is illumined by the teachings of Christian Revelation. The answer to many of the vexed questions that spring from social and economic conditions can be found only through Christian faith. Colleges and universities are so many bulwarks thrown up by Civilization to protect itself against the reactionary forces of ignorance and vice.
The leaders in higher education are well aware of the reactionary elements threatening the social and economic order which man has established as the result of many thousands of years of development and progress. All our institutions of higher learning are today calling upon the public for aid to enable them to perform their sacred task with increased efficiency and on a wider scale. They are only asking means to render the public a larger service.
What is true of colleges and universities in general is true in very special measure of Notre Dame. For several years young men have been turned away from Notre Dame by the hundreds, because of lack of adequate educational facilities, such as teachers, class rooms, living quarters, and equipment. These young men came seeking the training that is given at Notre Dame, because in thousands of American homes the training for Christian manhood and patriotic citizenship is felt to be a vital need of the time.
If the work done by Notre Dame had not been of
recognized merit, 'we should have no problem such as the one we now face. But there is a problem and it is one. with which the University itself cannot cope unaided. The University would have been able today, as it was able in the past, to meet any ordinary need of expansion and equipment, but the present need is unprecedented. Buildings have been erected, extensive equipment installed, new departments have been organized, professors and instructors have been added to the faculty, and yet the University is unable to meet the demands of its annually increasing enrollment of students. It needs to grow ten years almost overnight.
The phenomenal progress from its humble origin in a small frame building, 20 by 40 feet, to its present expansion of twenty-eight large buildings, has been accomplished by men whose consecrated lives have been devoted to the service of education. These men have served the youth of America for the satisfaction of giving to their country an anny of young men, well trained in sound economic, scientific, and philosophical principles. But this body of devoted men must be reinforced by a still larger corps of professors and instructors, and must be supplemented by financial assistance on the part of the public if it is to realize all its possibilities for service. Consequently, the University of Notre Dame, for the first time in its history, is inviting public attention to its needs. For the first time in more than three-quarters of a century it is now making a general appeal for financial assistance, through a nation-wide campaign for a §2,000,000 fund—one million for endowment and one million for new buildings and equipment.
It is peculiarly appropriate that this appeal should be made through the medium of the radio, because Notre Dame was the first educational institution in the United States to demonstrate the practicability of Marconi’s great discovery for commercial and general purposes. Soon after Marconi made his announcement to the world in 1897 the professor of physics at Notre Dame, Jerome J. Greene, after a series of experiments at the University, came to Chicago at the invitation of the Chicago Tribune. Wii;es were erected on one of Chicago’s skyscrapers, and Professor Green with the other wire went out in a tug several miles into the lake which the Tribune had provided. The experiments attracted general attention, and even the comparatively primitive apparatus used proved very clearly the wide practical possibilities of this new instrument of science.
Tonight, we are opening in Chicago an intensive campaign among alumni and friends of Notre Dame to raise five hundred thousand dollars of this fund. Headquarters for the campaign in Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Iowa have been established at the Congress Hotel in Chicago. As a large number of the Notre Dame alumni reside in Chicago and Cook County, the quota for this territory has been placed at $350,000. The sum of $150,000 is the goal of the alumni in the campaign territory outside of Cook County.
748
Noure dame Scholastic
Two gifts for endowment, totaling $325,000, have been pledged to the University by the Rockefeller General Education Board and the Carnegie Corporation, on condition that an additional $675,000 be pledged before July 1st of this year, making a million-dollar endowment fund.
Our only hope and ambition is that the University may be empowered to give today and in the days to come to an ever-larger portion of the public, the same kind of service that it has rendered for more than eighty years.
HERE AND THERE.
Jerry Hasmer’s Five invaded Fort Wayne last week, and, according to the Fort Wayne papers, pleased very much the dancers of that city. The occasion was a gallop staged by the Four Horsemen and the Chief Hostler of the K. of C. Council of Fort Wayne.
At a meeting last Tuesday the new Toledo Club elected its officers for the ensuing year. John Cochrane is to succeed Ken Nyhan, the retiring president, and Emery Toth will function in the vice-presidency. John Hurley was elected secretary, and Ben Resting treasurer. The club is working out plans for a semi-formal dance to be held about the middle of June at the Toledo Yacht Club.
V -I* *>’
Father Schumacher, formerly our Prefect of Studies, sends word from St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, that the “Notre Dame of the Southwest” was unfortunately in the trail of a recent cyclone, that one student was killed, and that several were injured. The damages done to the college buildings, particularly to the gymnasium and to a dormitory hall, can be repaired only at a considerable expense.	.
The following text of a recent letter from Rt. Rev. Edward J. McLaughlin, (A. B., 1875), of Clinton, Iowa, to the President of Notre Dame, shows the real spirit in practice as well as in theory:
“At the time of my last visit to Notre Dame, in attendance at the funeral of our lamented Father Morrissey, the campaign for a greater Notre Dame was just in the forming. I told you then I would gladly subscribe one thousand dollars when the fund was started. I am trying to redeem my pledge by enclosing a check for half that
amount. The other half will follow about this time next year .or earlier. It was my intention to respond at the.first note of the bugle calling the sons of Notre Dame to her aid, but I have been ill since the middle of January and am still unfit for duty. We are all aware that money can never repay the loving care and self-sacrificing devotion of a mother; but money can enable mother to carry on her work of love and care, and in coming from her grown-up sons it gladdens her heart, infuses new life and vigor into her beloved form as she realizes more and more that her sons do appreciate, that they are loyal and true. Notre Dame has mothered many sons. Other would-be sons are knocking at her doors and are being'turned away for lack of room and equipment. The old mother appeals for the first time to the sons who have gone out into the world to come to her assistance to enable her to broaden her field of labor and to continue on a grander scale her God-given work of training more armies of loyal sons for Church and state. May they respond with such wholeheartedness and generosity, that when all the returns are in, it will be not merely two millions but many millions.”
The first formal Junior Class “prom” at the University of Notre Dame is past. When President Gus Desch led the grand march for the first dance of the evening, on May 5, a very complete affair began to be a success. The Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel was the scene. Guests came from various states, as far west as Iowa, as far south as Texas, and as far east as farthest Pennsylvania. The ballroom was decorated in gold and blue, the ceiling lights were covered with inverted domes, and the side lights were softened by shades of blue crystal. During the figures of the grand march the dancers halted and formed before the decorative design emphasizing a great “23” above the fireplace. The last dance was a balloon dance, now popular. Leather card cases in greenish-blue and gold formed the ladies’ programs. The Tampa Five, recently playing for the Junior ball at Purdue, and wintering at Tampa, Fla., with the society there, furnished excellent music. Chaperons included Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Bryan, Mr. and Mrs; N. R. Feltes, Mr. and
Noure Same Scholasuic
Mrs. K. K. Rockne, Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. F- J. Vurpillat, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Mclnerny, Dr. and Mrs. John A. Stoeckley, and Mrs. C. M. Butterworth. Some of the guests from other cities were: Miss Jane O’Neill, Toledo; Miss Alice Wall, Chicago; Miss Jule Young, Toledo; Miss Thelma Hunt, Chicago; Miss Bernice Kelley, Chicago; Miss Dorothy Kelley, Chicago; Miss Helen Mills, Chicago; Miss Clara An-germeier, Louisville, Ky.; Miss Mildred Miller; Fort Wayne, Ind.; Miss Irene Miller, Fort Wayne; Miss Lois Williams, Chicago; Miss Mildred Kennedy, Des Moines, Iowa; Miss Thelma Condon, Des Moines, Iowa; Miss Kathleen Cook, Austin, Texas; Miss Helen Johnson, LeMont, 111.; Miss Mildred Cossman, Scranton, Pa.; Miss Eileen O’Connell, Wilmette, Ill.; Miss Ar-melia Helmuth, Chicago; Miss Helen Profant, Laporte, Ind.; Miss Leota Forchett, Louisville, Ky.; Miss Ruth Krathefer, Chicago; Miss Naomi Hull, Kendallville, Ind.; Miss M.Eckerle, Louisville, Ky.; Miss Bowen, Indianapolis; Miss Jeanette Fogarty, Indianapolis; Miss Josephine Fischer, Evanston, Ill.; Miss Elizabeth Gotschalk, Youngstown, Ohio; Miss Ethyl Stevens, Elgin, Ill.; Miss Helen Atmore, Duluth, Minn.; Miss Leota Forcht, Louisville, Ky.; Misses Ruth Flood, Kathleen Cook, Elizabeth Ryan, Zelda Burns, Lois Williams, Helen Johnson, Katherine Stack, Thelma Condon, Mildred Kennedy, Margaret Buckley, and Catherine Johns, from St. Mary’s. The South Bend guests- included Misses Virginia Guthrie, Dorothy Miller, Frances Hager, Ruth Stoll, Antoinette Crockett, Marigrace Crockett, Helen Miller, Eloise Kaufer, Lottie Gordon, Marjorie Sweet, Mildred Mitchell, Clarine Von Barandy, Marjorie Bryan, Mary Roberts, Marian Wuthruth.
WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS.
The Indiana State track meet will headline the coming activities of the week at Notre Dame. Coach Rockne will take a squad of fourteen men to Lafayette on Saturday in an attempt to win the State title for the third consecutive year. The baseball nine will meet Beloit college here on Thursday and will clash with St. Viator’s at the Cubs’ Park, in Chi
749
cago, on Saturday. The annual tennis tournament of the school will be completed about Wednesday. .
The track squad which Coach Rockne will take to the State carnival will include Captain Murphy, Bill Hayes, Gus Desch, and’ Tom Lieb, four of the big college stars of the country. Secondary strength will be supplied in Eddie Hogan, Paul Kennedy,- Fritz Baumer, King Brady, Luke Walsh, John Montague, “Red” Heffernan, Leon Moes, Carroll, Flynn, Dant, Cameron, Hamil, Barber, and O’Hare.
Murphy, Hayes, Lieb, and Desch are favorites in the high jump, the dashes, the discus, and the low hurdles respectively, but the Notre Dame entries in the other events will be pushed to a stiffer fight. Hogan, Brady, Kennedy, Baumer, Moes, Flynn, and Cameron will be strong contenders for places in the pole-vault, the broad jump, the half-mile, the two-mile, the javelin, and the shot-put. The Notre Dame mile-relay team holds the present State record and will go into the race a favorite for the first position.
The baseball club will meet Beloit in a return game at the local field. Halas’ men took a slugging victory from the Wisconsin collegians tnree weeks ago and expect to repeat the performance. The contest with St. Viator’s at Cubs’ park should develop one of the best battles of the season, as the Saints trimmed Castner, local pitching ace, in the meeting last year.	'
The annual tourney for the school championship in tennis singles began last week and will be completed sometime within the next few days. The golf tournament which has-been in progress for two weeks will.be completed tomorrow.
***
OUTDOOR TRACK.
Tom Lieb smashed Gilfillan’s Cartier Field mark of 135 ft., 9 in. in the discus-throw in. the feature performance of the dual meet with DePauw last Saturday with a new mark of 137 ft., 4 in. Bill Hayes, running for the last time on Cartier Field, got away to an exceptionally slow start in the hundred and faced defeat in consequence, but by a game fight avoided a track heresy and won the race by a foot. Moes threw the javelin 174
750
Noure dame Scholastic
ft., 1 in., which approximates the field record, of 181 ft., 4 in., made last year by Brede, of Illinois. The quarter-mile was the most closely contested of the runs. Montague held a slight lead from gun to tape, and Walsh, Heffernan, and Cady, the latter a slender runner of DePauw, forced him the full distance and beat his. shadow cross the mark. Cady also threatened Kennedy in the half-mile, but other races were not exciting.
Summary:
120-yard high hurdles: Haase, DePauw, first; Carroll, Notre Dame, second; Young, DePauw, third. Time: 16 flat.
220-yard low hurdles: Desch, Notre Dame, first; Dant, Notre Dame, second; Glenn Adams, DePauw, third. Time: 26 flat.
100-yard dash: Hayes, Notre Dame, first; G. Smith, DePauw, second; Desch, Notre Dame, third. Time: 10 flat.
Mile-run: Myers, DePauw, first; Maxwell, DePauw, second; Doran, Notre Dame, third. Time: 4:40.
Shot-put: Flynn, Notre Dame, first; Lieb, Notre Dame, second; Moes, Notre Dame, third. Distance: 41 ft., 10 1-2 in.
Quarter-mile run: Montague, hlotre Dame, first; Cady, DePauw, second; Heffernan, Notre Dame, third. Time: 51:4.
Discus: Lieb, Notre Dame, first; Kohin, Notre Dame, second; Flynn, Notre Dame, third. Distance: 137:4.
220-yard run: Hayes, Notre Dame, first; Desch, Notre Dame, second; G. Smith, DePauw, third. Time: 23 flat.
Two-mile run: Baumer, Notre Dame, first; Snoper, DePauw, second; Connell,’Notre Dame, third. Time: 10:191-2.
High jump: Murphy, Notre Dame, first; Jones, DePauw, second; Hogan, Notre Dame, and Hart, DePauw, tied for third. Height: 6 ft., 2 in.
Half-mile: Kennedy, Notre Dame, first; Cady, DePauw, second; Barber, Notre Dame, third. Time: 2:03.
Broad jump: Adams, DePauw, first; Jones, DePauw, second; Brady, Notre Dame, third. Distance, 22 ft.
Pole-vault: C. Smith, DePauw, first; Cameron, Notre Dame, second; Jones, DePauw, and Hogan, Notre Dame, tied for third. Height: 11 ft., 9 in.
Javelin throw: Moes, Notre Dame, first; Hogan, Notre Dame, second; Young, DePauw, third. Distance: 174 ft., 10 in.
***
While Notre Dame track men were efficiently swamping DePauw, an old team-mate, Billy Burke, who two years ago was breaking State records in the mile-run under the colors of Notre Dame, won fresh laurels by
taking the mile-run in the Yale-Harvard dual meet at Cambridge, and winning the 880 in 1:57. Incidentally, Burke, broke the dual meet record, running the distance in 4:19:4. He was running for Harvard, where he is now a student in the medical college.
Captain “Blieb’s” men won their thirteenth game of sixteen, on Cartier field Saturday, against Western State Normal, of Kalamazoo, but in doing so receded to the imperfect baseball which has marred a number of the
games. The outfield offered a weak exhibition in the early innings, and two two-sackers and a home run credited to the opposition should have been put-outs. Eddie Degree got a bad start in the hurling and Coach Halas jerked him in the first with one out and three on the corners. Falvey forced the first run over but pitched splendid ball throughout the remainder of the game, the only Kalamazoo threats following the occasional backward work in the field. We mixed
one hit with three errors, three walks			and a
balk, for our runs. Falvey’s		work 1	on the
mound and George Prokup’s		steadiness on	
first base were bright spots		in a gloomy	
afternoon. Kane, Sheehan, and Foley played			
good' ball in the infield and Paul Castner re-			
trieved some of the lost prestige of the gar-			
deners by making two nice catches and peg-			
ging a man out at .the plate.			
Kalamazoo	AB	R	H PO	A E
Walkotton, cf	2	1	1	0	0	0
Betzner, 3b.	5	0	0	0	0	1
Casteel, c. 	5	1	2	1	1	0
Spurgeon, ss.	__3	0	0	3	3	2
Petschulat, If.	3	0	3	0	0	1
Harder, lb.	4	0	0 12	1 • 0
Hinga, 2b.	4	0.	‘ 0	0	1	0
Morley, rf.	4	1	1	0	0	0
Graham, p.	4	0	0	0	6	1
34	3	7 24	15	5
Notre Dame.	AB	R	H PO	A E
Sheehan, ss.	4	0	1	3	2	0
Prokop, lb.	„	3	1	1	6	0	0
Kane, 3b.	4	1	1 1	1	0
Blievernicht, If.	1	2	0	1	0	0
Castner, rf.	3	1	0	3	2 "1
Kelly, cf.			:	2	0	0	1	0	0
D. Foley, 2b.	3	0	0	1	2	0
Murphy, c.		3	0	0 10	0	1
Degree, p.			0	0	0	0	1 1
Falvey, p.	3	0	0	1	2	0
26	5	3 27	10	3
Noire 6ame ^cbolascic
751
Notre Dame_____________________000	302 OOx—5
Kalamazoo______________________110	010 000—3
Stolen bases: Walkotton, Blievernicht 2, Castner, Kelly, D. Foley. Struck out: by Graham, 7; by Degree, 1; by Falvey, 7. Bases on balls: off Graham, 4; off Degree, 1; off Falvey, 1. Two base bits: Pet-schulat 2, Kane. Home run: Casteel. Double play: Foley to Sheehan to Prokop. Hit by pitched ball: Spurgeon by Degree; Blievernicht by Graham. Balk, Graham. Hits: off Degree, 0; off Falvey, 7. Umpire: Foster.
By singling to left field in the ninth inning and driving Dan Foley across the plate, Bill Sheehan broke up an exciting baseball game -between Notre Dame and Northwestern Monday, May 15. The Purple were unable to come back in their half of the ninth, and Notre Dame won, 5-4. Mageveny pitched neat ball. His curves were breaking sharply across the corners of the plate, and Northwestern had difficulty in hitting him in the pinches. The seven hits which he allowed were well scattered, but two errors behind him enabled the Purple to score.
Danny Foley’s work was a bright feature of the game, the second sacker scoring three runs, stealing three bases, and accepting eight chances in the field. Prokop and Sheehan led with the stick, each getting three blows.
Notre Dame.	AB	R	H	CH	E
Sheehan, ss.			5	0	3	4	0
Prokop, lb.			4	0	3	2	0
Kane, 3b.			4	0	0	3	1
Blievernicht, c.			4	0	0	10	1
Castner, rf.			4	0	0	4	0
Kelly, cf. 			2	1	0	1	0
Reese, cf.			1	0	0	2	0
C. Foley, If.			4	1	1	1 •	8
D. Foley, 2b.			3	3	2	8	0
Magevney, p.				3	0	0	0	0
	34	5	9	35	2
Northwestern.	AB	R	H	CH	E
Rembe, 2b.			4	1	1	6	0
Taber, 3b. 			5	0	0	6	0
Lynch, cf.			12	0	0	3	0
Watts, If.			2	0	0	1	0
Williams, lb.			3	0	0	12	0
Palmer, p. 			4	1	2	4	0
Johnson, rf.			3	1	0	0	0
Trautman, c.			4	1	2	8	0
Kelly, If., cf.			2	0	0	0	1
Bryant, ss.			4	0	1	4	2
	83	4	6	43	3
Score by innings—
Notre Dame_____________________000 030 101—5
Northwestern __________________011 000 020—4
Summary—Two-base hit: Prokop. Struck out: by Palmer, 6; by Magevney,,8. Bases on balls: off Palmer, 1; off Magevney, 5. Stolen bases: D. Foley, 3; Blievernicht. Sacrifice hits: Magevney, Johnson. Umpire: Roy, Illinois.
INTERHALL EVENTS.
Won Lost Pct.
Corby__________________________3	0	1,000
Carroll________________________2	1	.667
Sorin _________________________1	2	.333
Brownson ______________________1	2	.333
Walsh__________________________1	2	.333
Badin__________________________1	2	.333
Sorin Hall accomplished the unexpected in the Notre Dame Interhall League last Sunday by winning from Brownson, 10-7, after an exciting game. Corby maintained its perfect average by defeating Badin, 10-3, and Carroll whipped Walsh, 5-3. The Sorinites had difficulty in hitting the' ball, but poor support behind the Brownson pitchers put many men on base. Hanrahan in left field played a remarkable game, stabbing three long drives that were bound for the fence. Stuhldreher caught well, throwing out several men who attempted to steal. Sharpe pitched his usual splendid game. Score by innings:
Brownson________________002 101 210— 7 8 4
Sorin___________________212 300 02x—10 8 2
Corby’s hard hitting team found Olnock of Badin, for nine hits in the afternoon game, and the Badinites lost. Score by innings:
Badin __________________000 111 000— 3 9 0
Corby __________________000 141 22x—10 9 0
Martin and DeGurse, the two midgets, engaged in a hot pitchers’ duel when Carroll met Walsh in the morning game. Score by innings:
Walsh _____________________011 000 100—3 5 0
Carroll ___________________002 010 20x—5 5 0
FRANK WALLACE. .
752
Tsfie Houre §ame Sehdascie
CHANGE
By McGinnis.
SOMETHING HEAVY.
The Associated Student Body at the University of Oregon is going to lay things out flat. The Body has purchased a two-and-a-half-ton steam roller. The avowed purpose of the purchase is the levelling of the athletic fields and the tennis courts. We suspect that attacks are being planned on some of the “profs.” Evidently Oregon puts much faith in that old saying “Don’t argue with a steam-roller.” We should say that the project is flattering.
The sophomores at Harvard have decided to omit a smoker which they had planned, because a great number of the fellows are in training. Why not hold the smoker and pass out “cubebs”?
***
The Journalists af Colorado University will edit a complete edition of the Denver Express. This was decided after the proposal was made by the editor of the city daily. He will permit the class to run the paper entirely according to their fancy.
***
Indiana University has added to its schedule a class in child feeding. Impartially we can say it was not introduced for the benefit of the Freshmen.
***
George Bastian, Sunday editor of the Chicago Tribune, speaking before “co-ed” journalists at Northwestern, told them that if they wanted to be successful in newspaper work they couldn’t “flap or vamp their way through their assignments.” According to him, the girls will never make a success, because one of the chief essentials for good writing, we are told, is naturalness.	*
***
Within the four years of his athletic activity at the University of Iowa Aubrey Devine has secured nine monograms. Three of the “I”s are for football, three for basketball, and he has just obtained his third in track. Devine, in winning his last monogram, tied for first in the pole-vault and broke the university record by a vault of 11 feet, 7% inches.	'
The farmers at the West Virginia U. are original. The “Aggies” wished to give recently an unusual dance. They did. Deciding to have a “barn warming,” they sent out invitations in corn cobs, to which a shipping tag was attached bearing the address and postage. The dance-hall was decorated with crab-apple blossoms and the lights were supplied by a home-power plant system. Overalls and calico were , in order, and the primitive strains of
the orchestra filtered through a rustic wooden fence. Barns used to be “stormed”; now they are “warmed.”	;
The grand old political game of horseshoe-pitching is again coming into favor. All the universities of note have taken up the sport, and numerous notices of tournaments appear in the college papers. If there be anything in environment or atmosphere the boys of the present generation of horseshoepitchers should be presidents some day. At the University of Illinois a cup has been offered to the best team of pitchers. As long as it is a team, we should say that a bucket might be a bit more appropriate.
The notion which has become prevalent within the last few years that nothing but White Mule has a kick, was shattered by a recent happening on the Northwestern campus. That University gives an annual circus in which all the fraternities participate. The Thetas were all prepared. Their float was ready and all they needed was some sort of motive power. A horse was rented for the purpose,* but it proved to be but a saddle horse which refused to be hitched to the chariot. Persuasion was unavailing and when force was employed the horse proceeded to destroy the float and to demonstrate a new kick.
***
A camp has been opened at Columbia University, known as the Bluefield Camp, for the veterans of the World War who are attending Columbia. and other local schools and colleges. The purpose is to enable these men to obtain good food, recreation, and the advantages of healthful living at a low cost, without interfering with their school work. It is expected that five hundred men will be quartered at the camp in the near future.
***
Harvard is starting a student drive for funds in connection with the national Louvain Library fund campaign among the schools of America. The national drive is for one million dollars, and Harvard has set its quota at five thousand. The Harvard amount to.be raised is apportioned among the various colleges on the campus.	'
***
A CYCLONE IN KANSAS.
In the long-ago there used to be in Kansas a political club known as the Cyclones. They were Republicans and had the best drill-team in the state. At all the conventions the fireworks, which were then, along with the cigars, a necessary part of every political campaign, were always in charge of the “Cyclones.” The University of Kansas has recently received a uniform worn at most of the old conventions. It strikes us that the name “Cyclones” was very appropriate, when the geographical situation of the organization is considered. . One young gentleman recently defined a cyclone as “a big wind-storm that happens in Kansas.”
iofie Noure ^ame Scholastic
753
HOLY SMOKE.
Opening song: “It Takes a Long-Armed Child to Cling to Its Mother’s Skirts.”
•I' 'S'
ALL OFF.
“It’s all off for tonight,” Said the Chapin Street Ace, As she rubbed a rough towel Over her face.
“Why did you mail that empty envelope?”
“I’m attending correspondence school, and I’m not going to class today.”
Ike: Why is a freshman in engineering like a pent up river?
Mike: Because if he wants to get any place he has to change his course.	’
❖ * ❖ ’
FROM A STUDENT’S DIARY.
Got up at six a. m.
. Looked out the window,
And saw a
Robin
Catch a worm.
The worm choked him.
Decided that the old
Proverb
Is bunk,
And went back to Bed.
***
“This the latest thing out,” said the bum as an elbow peeked from his ragged coat-sleeve.
“Don’t you think,” said the artist La Squirte," “That this picture is really experte, But that there’s something lacking?”
Then said some one, wise cracking, “I think a few clothes wouldn’t hurt.”
-i* -i*
A PLAY IN TWO PARTS.
Characters, “Spike” and his pal, “Eddie,” at mountain climbing.
Scene One: Spike, who is some fifteen feet ahead of and higher than his companion, is singing as he laboriously, makes his way up the steel side of the canyon. His foot slips, he clutches wildly at the air for a second, then losses his balance and topples over backwards. He hurtles past Eddie and falls prone on the rocks twenty feet below. Eddie can hear groans. They torment him and he cannot hurry fast enough to the aid of his pal.
Scene Two: Twenty feet below: Eddie has the unconscious Spike in his arms, trying to bring him to.
Eddie (in agony) : Spike, speak: SPIKE, SPEAK.
Spike (coming out of it): Good Lord, Eddie, don’t tell me I fell that far.
Curtain.
STRAW TIME
You Should See Them
They are Very Nifty and Very Popularly Priced.
Come in and Let Us Show Them to You
Shop
“The Shop That Satisfies.” 116 WASHINGTON STREET
STRAW TIME
High Class Picture Plays are the Standard Features
AT THE
La Salle and Blackstone
754
rioure &ame Scholastic
WALK-OVER
SPORT OXFORDS
Correct in every detail.
See them -in our window.

PHOENIX SUK HOSIERY
//y Jo. Michigan St.
The John Hale Hat Store
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You. cS>»
Howard Schrop, THE HATTER
127 Washington Ave.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
A fool and his flannels are soon parted.
“Who was it that said “The first hundred'years are the hardest?”	.
“Methuselah, I suppose.”
We have day-dodgers, and let’s see—have we any endowment-dodgers ?
Headline in the Minnesota Daily: Prof. Lectures On As Flames Climb Building.
And still some of us think that we have all the tough luck.
***
Hubby: Why, when you came to me you didn’t have a place to hang your hat.
She: And, now I haven’t even got a hat.
***
“I hear our friend Alfred had quite a love affair with a Swiss girl.”
“Alpine.”	.
“I’ll say he did; she got two thousand of his dow.”
We all know that this modern slang
Must have its downs and ups;
But this will sure create a pang—
The .term called “Snuggle Pups.”
***
Rudy: I saw you get on the street car yesterday.
Ruby: Why, you horried old thing!
Bim: I guess Bill must have lost his cap.
Bo: How come?	'
Bim: ’Cause I can’t find mine.
sjs
“I didn’t see you in church Sunday.”
“I guess you didn’t: I took up the collection.”
While revising ■
Some of the
Old proverbs, We might mention That
A bird in hand	-
Is bad
Table manners.
Archie: Why do they call them bill collectors?
Reggie: I guess it’s because that’s about all they collect.	'
Hubby: What? Isn’t supper ready? Gimme my hat.	’	’
Wife: Where are you going?
Hubby: Down town and eat.	'
Wife:* Can’t you wait a couple of minutes?
Hubby: Will it be ready then?
Wife: No, but I’ll be ready to go with you.
KOLARS.
'efie Notre dame Scholastic
755
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
. . MAIN OFFICE
313 to 323 E. Jefferson Bld.
Call a Dependable Metered Yellow Cab. GET A RECEIPT .
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Authorized Railroad Transfer. Our Baggage Rates are reasonable. Students’ Trunks to or from Depots or Notre Dame—
First Trunk.................$1.00
Each Trunk additional........50
Suit Cases, Bicycles, etc. additional .25 City Baggage according to City rates. Show Baggage same rate.
Base Ball
GET INTO THE GAME
Spalding Equipment
with
Oar catalogue Is now ready. It’s yours for the uskinff.
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
211 S. State Street CHICAGO, ILL.
Cox Sons & Vining
I3i-i33 East Twenty-Third St.
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods, udwest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Price* Satirfaciion Gaarantetd DR. J. BURKE
OPTOMETRIST
I 230 S. Michi-, an St. South Bend, Indiana 1
A DAINTY EDITION OF A DELIGHTFUL BOOK.
HOLY MASS: A MORNING PARADISE.
By the VERY REV. R. O’KENNEDY.
There are innumerable treatises on the Mass, but this one is unique. Its title is some indication of its charm. In words honeyed with the honey of heaven and lightsome with divine light, the devout author comments upon every act of the Holy Sacrifice, from the Sign of the Cross at the foot of the altar to the Last Gospel.
This charming booklet is bound in red cloth, with stamp in white and gold on the front cover. There is also a marker of red silk.
107 pages. 32mo. Price, 50 cents, postpaid.
THE AVE MARIA, NOTRE DAME, IND.
§ 1
• If you want a Good Haircut J
1	Patronize	■
I	"
f The Campus Barber Shop ;
I	WASHINGTON HALL	I
§	I
I	PAUL WAMPLER, Proprietor	I
I	--------- I
|	TOILET ARTICLES FOR SALE	J
s	. a
I	I
tn—-na—»ra^— b«^—na— >is—hm^— mi—m—ra—
I	f	T M F	n A M F	OFFICIAL PORTRAIT	|	I
a	I	I rt E.	KZ V IVI E.	PHOTOGRAPHER J	|	|
I	1	McDO	N ALD/Cg	I	!
I	[	[2UJMAIN	STREET]	J	I
। * Opposite Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA I |
——-—_J—
756
^e Norre dame Scholastic
Get One of Our Straw Hats Between You and the Sun!
Now is the time to cast aside the old stuffy cool weather hat—done one of our new stylish straws and really enjoy this wonderful summer weather. We have the new straws in great variety. Specially priced at
$2.50 TO $5.00

“EVERY INCH A CLOTHING STORE”
I Kable’s Restaurants I
? 104-106 N. Michigan St.	119 W. Jefferson Blvd, f
| Isa W. Washington Ave.	206 So. Michigan St. g
*— • —nu—ct—itu^—tm—nu—no-im—nn—nn^—tm—nn—un—tm—na—
bu—-nu^—tm—un——nu—m——nn—un——tm^— mi^—«u—an—-nn—mi—
j Students’ Note Books j I Lefax Forms and Date Sheets at J j The Herr & Herr Co. Michigan St. | ijgu—nn^—ou—m—nu^—ire—nu—un—ns—ra—nn—tra—oc—wi—nc-^nn—u^»
-an——na—►nn-^—nu-^—tra—un—iw^—un—mi—mi^—mi—mi—nn—wn—•n«j» I GEORGE WYMAN 8 CO. I |	Come and See Ui	|
s The South Bend Home for Better Luggage. -!	N. V. P. Trunks—Indestructo Trunk*	1
I	Fine Hand Bags, Brief Cases, etc.	T
j	CLAUER’S	[
| Jewelers, Silversmiths and Diamonds !
।	Merchants 105 s. Michigan 1
•Jen—on—un—nu-^—nn—w—iui—an—nu—nu—•un— nn—mi—itn—tin—u — a*’*
•J»n^—*20—us—mi—mi—un—nn——nu—mi—nn—mi—mt—mi—Jf—ct—ir —— -
| National Grocer Company ] j	WHOLESALE GROCERS	j
j 402-8 South St. Joseph Street. South Bend. Indiana | f	“LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"	t
^en->—no—ct—ns—mi—mi—nn—tm—nn—nn-^—ua—-mi^—mi—nu—»jijt I For juicy Steaks and Chops J I	try	|
I	“THE GRILL”—“MIKES”	J
! 125 W. Wash. St. 105 E. Jeff. St. I J H. E. GROSS & SONS, Props.	|
*——-«*—mb—* uu—tot— nr— bb—su—hb—nn^—tm—nn—w—»eeji
^heNorre dame Scholastic
757
What’s this—
.-.o?): c ■; No .More Cuts?. ......
NOT CHAPEL CUTS,
.< NOT RECITATION CUTS. .'' :
But no more shaving cuts. Williams’ Shaving Cream has helped abolish them.
■ You can “go. into.high,” when you. cliihb your face with Williams’ Shaving Cream.
" It lathers instantly. And lathers right. Thick - and- creamy. It softens the meanest bristle.
Quick. Right down to the very base of every hair.
No need to cut chapel, recitation or face when you . use a keen razor and Williams’ Shaving Cream.
Be skeptical. Prove it for yourself.
Williams
Shaving Cream
Try it— tomorrow before chapel.
s
I I 1
COLLEGE OF DENTISTRY;
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS	|
i
The Reliance Pharmacy, Inc. f
Four year course* leads to D. t). S. degree. Six year course leads to B. S. and D. D. S. degrees. One year-in accredited college required. Write for catalog.
Prescription Specialists
I E
1
COLLEGE OF DENTISTRY
■ •——-Box-51,-ia3&-We«t-H*rri«on Streot-- - — . CHICAGO, ILL.

_ _230. W^ Washington Avenue.,,.


758
Now Some ^cholasuic

I
i
I
3
J
I I 3
I I I I I I I 3 | 3
I I I I
3
| 3
3 3 | 3 3
I
3
i
I
I i i

Young men’s ideas are Kuppenheimer ideas
The rapidly growing popularity of Kuppenheimer clothes among young fellows is easily understood. Kup-
tastes and preferences of the young men who are to wear the clothes.
Spring Styles for Young Chaps
Sport suits, 4-button models, single and double-breasted styles—include every new idea in smart styling—handsome fabrics and attractive patterns.
Perfect fit and long wear—the Kuppenheimer label makes that certain.
Extra Values
$35 - $40 - $45 - $50
LIVINGSTON’S
The House of Kuppenheimer Clothes

I 1
I I
£ £ | £
0 ij
8
£
I
£
I
