WINSTON

tastes good—like a cigarette should!
65
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Filters so effectively...yet doesn't flatten the flavor!
■ New, king-size Winston is the filter cigarette real smokers will enjoy! Winston’s got real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter. The Winston filter is unique, it’s different, it works so effectively — yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. Winstons are king-size for extra filtering action .. . easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons!
FINER FILTER!
FINER FLAVOR!
KING SIZE, TOO!
WINSTON -die,	(foa/iefteJ
famous
^GILBERTS BRAND
THE advantages are obvious, of buying 1 items identified by the maker with his name or brand, and on which he stakes his reputation. You find more "names you know" at Gilbert's than in most other men's stores, because through the years we have constantly stressed famous labels in men's clothing. We have specialized in bringing them to South Bend, selecting them carefully by performance and reputation. These Brand Names represent firms that stand solidly behind their products—your guarantee of satisfaction. We can list only a few, there are many more.
NAMES
—trademarks of QUALITY
F"	?
809-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
% December 10, 1954
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame
Indiana’s Newest and Finest
Open to the Public
All Outside Rooms
92 BATHS
92 ROOMS
e
•	TERRACE DINING ROOM — Air Conditioned
•	PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS — Air Conditioned
•	BEAUTIFUL PATIO
•	RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
•	GOLF PRIVILEGES
•	CIRCULATING ICE WATER
•	LARGE PARKING AREA
DELICIOUS FOOD
DELIGHTFUL DRINKS
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST
OWNED AND OPERATED BY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK Manager
The Scholastic AJ

New "Silvered-Tip" writes the way you do . .. fine* medium or broad ... without changing points. Re- ( fills available in blue, red, j green or black ink. Get a	a
Paper-Mate Pen today/ A
• Bakars apprava • M can’t sanar ar tnasfar
• Can't Irak
Silvered-Tip refills...491

TraSeO
Notre Dane
Bookstore

December 10, 1954
/Scholastic
TONE-ARM TEDDY WAS A
heed/e Doodnik
Vol. 96 DECEMBER 10, 1954 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Viet urns Vive Quasi Crab Morthurus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Danie. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
_ JOHN ADAMS ................   News
' ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE .........  Copy
Charles McKendrick ________________
____________________ Assistant Copy DAVE COHEN    ______ Features
KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER ___________ Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT ______ Photo Editor
PAUL FITZGERALD __________________
........... Photography	Coordinator JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
7/ you can9c remove needle send entire assembly.
TRANSCRIBER COMPANY
Diamond Stylus Manufacturers
70 Pine Street — Dept. XQ 1
.	Attleboro, Mass.
He had a 50 watt amplifier . . . two speakers in every room . . . but still his sound wasn’t up to snuff. Why?? He was using a hi-fi turntable with a no-fi needle. But Teddy learned at last. He sent his old needle to Transcriber and had us custom re-tip it' with genuine diamond.
If you are using anything but a diamond — or a diamond more than 12 months old — why not do the same. Remove your needle from its cartridge*, scotch-tape it to a piece of cardboard and mail to Transcriber. Our experts will straighten and strengthen the shank . . . re-tip it with a new guaranteed diamond. A real bargain at only S10.50 complete. 48 hour service.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weeklv during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185. Nolle Dame. Indiana.
Special Football Review Staff EDITOR: Paul Fullmer.
GAMES: Eiwin Alphonsus. Dave Davin. Bob Ruhl. Paul Fullmer. Dave Kilkeary. Joe Madigan. Paul LaFrenierc. Fled Eckart, Jack Gueguen. and Jack Mullin.
FEATURES: Dick Connellv. John Adams. Gary Gates. Jim Goethals. Joe Bride. Dave Davin.
BIOGRAPHIES: Paul Fullmer. Dave Davin. Bob McDonald.
PHOTOGRAPHY: Al Balmer. ’’Dutch” Hennings. Gerry Traflicanda. John O'Brien. Jim Guide. Mike Thompson. Armin Gummerman. Hy Peskin. Bob Mackey.
ART: Steve Rebora and Al Balmer.
ADVERTISING: Ken Woodward. Harry Conlon. Loran Sheffer.
Our Cover: The Irish carved the first page in a new Notre Dame era this year —the Terry Brennan era. The Fighting Irish romped through their tough schedule with the poise of a champion. “Dutch” Hennings of the South Bend Tribune, Al Balmer of Indiana Engraving, and Gerry Trafficanda pooled their talent to produce the cover—the IRISH ON THE MOVE.
December 10, 1954
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
OUR SPECIALTY
^2 Golden Brown Fried Potatoes Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls $1,311
JOE iWHT’s Restaurant
“Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main Open Sunday
For All-Weather Wear!
This dark cordo blucher oxford is made with the “all-weather welt” for added ■ protection in any kind of weather. Leather sole and rubber heel. Ideal for year around wear.
THE HANOVER SHOE
102 N. Michigan St.. South Bend. Ind-
The Huddle
Congratulates the 1954 Notre Dame football squad
■ ■ ■ STOP at the HUDDLE ■ ■ ■ for that little snack between classes
Congratulations to the
1954 Fighting Irish
from the
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, IND. Phone 7-1563 MISHAWAKA, IND.
ELKHART, IND.
MICHIGAN CITY, IND. Phone 6-6277 NORTH LIBERTY, IND.
LAPORTE, IND.
i
8
The Scholastic
I
Notre Dame
Publications
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, by Stephen Kertesz.
The story of the totalitarian conquest of Hungary by the Nazi and Red regimes is graphically told by the man who served in the Hungarian Foreign Ministry
Notre Dame, 100 Years, by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C. A complete and popularly written history of Notre Dame, filled with anecdotes and interesting stories. A
perfect gift for that friend back home:
$4.00
during the war and postwar years.
$4.75
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics, edited by Waldemar Gurian.
This basic text deals with the central question of the
Cold War: Is the enemy “Eternal Russia” or Communist aggression?	$3.75
The Review of Politics
A quarterly that provides in every issue a full range of articles which consider the problems of contemporary life within the historical and philosophical focus of the Christian world-view. Walter Lippman says, “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.” $4.00 a year
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology, by Hans Kohn.
The first attempt in English at a comprehensive sur-
vey and analysis of Slav Nationalism, from its begin-‘ after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and
ning after
The
World War II.
$6.25
Foreign Policy of the British Labour Govem-
ment 1945-1951, by M. A. Fitzsimons.
A lighting up of the major lines and development of the British foreign policy while the Labour Government held office.	$3.25
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism, by Waldemar Gurian.
A clear and cogent treatment that reveals the basic features of Bolshevism as a social and political re-
ligion.
$3.25
Christian Democracy in Italy and France, by
Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel.
A study of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP, the party of the Fourth French Republic.	$4.00
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Ferdinand A. Hermens.
An important volume on the effects of Proportional
Representation between 1918 and 1950.
$4.00
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest, by Mary Harrita Fox.
This is a biography of America’s first labor priest. As a pioneer champion of labor, Father Dietz worked alongside such men as Samuel Gompers, Matthew Woll, Daniel Tobin, and Phillip Murray in his attempts to find a desirable solution to industrial strife. $4.75
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. I.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers, by Clarence E. Manion.
The Natural Law and Pragmatism, by Ben W. Palmer.
The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy, by Mortimer Adler.
Natural Law and Positive Law, by Harold R. McKinnon.
The Eternal Law Background of Natural Law, by William J.
Doheny, C.S.C.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. II.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
Natural Law in the Greek Period, by Maurice LeBel.
Natural Law in the Roman Period, by Ernest Levy.
Medieval Conceptions of Natural Law, by Gordon Hall Gerould.
The Natural Law in the Renaissance Period, by Heinrich A. Rommen.	_
Status of Natural Law in American Jurisprudence, by Robert N. Wilkin.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. III.
Edited by
The The The The
Natural Natural Natural Natural
Edward F. Barrett.
$2.00
Law and Common Law, by Richard O’Sullivan. Law and Constitutional Law, by Edward S. Corwin. Law and Canon Law, by Stephan Kuttner. Law and International Law, by Carlos P. Romulo.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. IV.
Edited by Edward
The Source of Human
The Natural Law J. Brogan.
The Natural Law C. Hutcheson, The Natural Law
and
and Jr.
and
F. Barrett.
Rights, by the Right
the Right
the Right
$2.00.
George E. Sokolsky. to Liberty, by Hon. Thomas
to Property, by Hon. Joseph
of Self-Expression,
Morley.	_	.
The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness, C. Ford, S.J.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. V.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.
The Natural Law Freehof.
Thq Natural Law Sundaram.
The Natural Law
in in in
the Jewish Tradition, by Rabbi
by Felix by John
$2.00. Solomon
the Hindu Tradition, by Professor M. S. the Confucian Tradition, by Dr. Hu Shih.
The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition, by Dr. Khalifa Abdul Hakim.	_ _	.
The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition, by Daisetz T. Suzuki.
On Sale At The Bookstore
University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, Indiana
<e December 10, 1954
9
Notre Dame Victory March Musical Powder Boxes
Q Small size §6.75 plus postage and insurance ............-...................$7.25
Q Medium size $7.50 plus postage and insurance .......-.............-......-.. 8.00
0 Large size $8.50 plus postage and insurance .............................     9.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name..................................................................
Address...............................................................
City and State.......................................„..................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
Crystal Clear Glasses to Toast Notre Dame
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent
and they are made up in traditional colors.
SEND
□	6 oz. No. 1 Stem Champagne — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance ....$10.25
□	10 oz. No. 2 Pilsners — $7.50 Doz. plus postage and insurance............. 8.75
□ 9 oz. No. 3 Stem Goblet — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance.............. 10.25 □ 3%> oz. No. 4 Stem Cocktail — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance — 10.25 □ 3 oz. No. 5 Stem Wine — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance ................ 10.25
□ 14 oz. No. 6 Hi-Ball or Mint Julep $4.95 Doz. plus postage and insurance 6.20 □ 7/2 oz. No. 7 Old Fashion — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance ........... 6.00
□ 10 oz. No. 8 Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance ........ 6.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name......................................-............-..........-..
Address...........................-.............................................
City and State..................................................................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
Notre Dame Football Trophy Stein
Here is a complete three piece set. The mug contains a large blue, ND, gold trimmed monogram with a football player handle. The miniature stein can be used as a cigarette container or as a novelty along with the “Letter Man.”
Large Stein ..................  $4.25	□
Miniature Stein ........-.....   1.50	□
Letter Man ...............       1.50	□
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name.......................................................
Address.........................................................................
City and State..................................................................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
0
The Scholastic
THE SEASON IN REVIEW—TEN BIG GAMES j
I
* Greenshuts Rope the Longhorns. 21-0

Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 25—Notre Dame successfully opened its 1954 season under their new head coach Terry Brennan by gaining a 21-0 victory over the stubborn Texas Longhorns. Some ^57,594 Notre Dame Stadium fans looked on as the Irish handed the Texans their first shutout since 1946.
Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi scored two touchdowns and passed for a third, and also made three fancy pass interceptions. Fumbles hurt the game Longhorns considerably, as they twice fumbled the ball away inside the Notie I>ame ten when they were still in contention.
The Longhorns threatened early when they moved the opening kickoff to the
Irish seven in four plays.
Womack scampered 3-> right end to the ND 3.
I )elano
around
and Charlev
Brewer’s pass to Howard Moon was ruled complete on the Irish seven through pass interference by Guglielmi. However, on the next play Brewer fum-
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Was a Big Premiere
oft’ to two to


Guglielmi tossed one to Dan Shannon, who raced into the end zone unmolested
on a
added
The
19-yard scoring play. Schaefer the first of his three extra points. Irish made it 14-0 in the third with a 79-yard march in ten Buck Lansford of Texas kicked Morse, who returned from the
the
to Morse f ?Ioise and and "Gug”
a first
passed to
). and he
Guglielmi passed down on the 40. carried for four, Joe Heap on the carried to the 18.
After Morse, Guglielmi, and Heap had
moved the ball to the one, “Gug” oft’ tackle for the score.
Texas threatened again in the period after Hornung punted to
Simcik on the ND 39.

went
third
Chet
picked up
bled, and Frank Varrichione the ball for Notre Dame on eleven.
After three futile thrusts at
®'line, halfback Jim Morse punted out of
recovered their own
the Texas
Long punted out of bounds on the Notre Dame 17.
Texas was knocking at the Irish door again late in the first period, but Gug-
lielmi
snatched
Brewer to Moon
bounds for Notre Dame on the Irish 37. the ball traveling only 18 yards. The Longhorn offense bogged down, however, as Womack and Bill Long failed to gain through the line, and a Brewer to Billy
Quinn
pass gained only three yards.
aerial on the Notre Dame 21 to halt the threat. Then early in the second period ■‘Gug” intercepted a Dick Miller toss on his own ID, and scampered 42 yards down the sidelines to Texas’ 39. Don Schaefer blasted through the Longhorn line for 16 yards, and three plays later
four yards and Don Maroney nine for a first down cn the 26. M.TIer and Maroney combined again for five yards, and Simcik picked up a first down on the eight. Then Maroney slashed to the five, only to fumble and have Ray Lemek recover for the Irish on the six.
In the final period Schaefer punted to Maroney, who signaled for a fair catch, but fumbled, and Varrichione recovered for ND on the Irish 48. Guglielmi passed to Morse, who carried to a first down on the Texas 26. Schaefer ran
oft’ tackle for
yards to the Texas
three, and Guglielmi ran around left end for the TD. Schaefer converted, and the Irish led, 21-0.
First 1954 Touchdown
Pass And H s
To Easily Snare A Guglielmi
Shannon Moves Out
Purdue in Upset Victory, 27-14©
By DAVE DAVIN
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 2—An upset-minded group of Purdue Boilermakers cut short a Notre Dame winning streak this afternoon at 13 games, 27-14.
Len Dawson, six feet of sophomore quarterback, passed and kicked the Irish right out of their own stadium before some 58,000 open-mouthed spectators. Purdue couldn’t seem to make many costly mistakes this afternoon and as a result, young ‘Irish mentor Terry Brennan, suffered his first collegiate defeat.
Irish Rally in Third Quarter
The Fighting Irish battled right up to the final gun, but a stubborn Purdue line filled most of the holes of the Irish T attack with more defenders than the backs could cope with. Notre Dame came back strongly in the third quarter to tie the score at 14-14. But it was Dawson again who found his receivers dashing through the Irish secondary ready and willing for anything he could toss. Perhaps the heart-breaker came when big Lamar Lundy, a 6' 7" sophomore end, hauled in a Dawson pass and out-ran two ND defenders for 73 yards and the third Purdue touchdown.
Notre Dame received the opening kickoff on their own 34 yard stripe. On the first play a fumble gave the visitors from East Lafayette the ball. Junior Boilermaker fullback Bill Murakowski drove for eight yards to the Irish 26. Dawson’s first pass was good for 20 yards and Purdue had a first down on the six yard line. Again Dawson threw and end John Kerr took it in the end
zone for the first tally. Dawson kicked the first point and Purdue had a 7-0 lead with only 3:08 gone.
Notre Dame’s ground attack was stifled for three plays at their own 20. Don Schaefer punted to the 41. Then, another Dawson aerial, this time to halfback Rex Brock made the score Purdue 13; Notre Dame 0. Dawson’s kick was good.
Purdue couldn’t score in the second period, but Notre Dame did twice. A Guglielmi pass was intercepted by Dawson on his own 49. He directed the Boilermakers attack to the Notre Dame five, but Jackie Lee stopped the show by recovering Murakowski’s fumble on the Irish one. Two Purdue fumbles put the Irish on the Purdue 19 yard line. Again the visiting defense stiffened and Purdue took over on the 19. Phil Ehrman, who replaced Murakowski, gained eleven yards in two carries and quarterback Froncie Gutman passed to Brock for five more. Notre Dame held and Brock kicked to the Purdue 49. A running play and two incomplete passes forced the Irish to kick to the Boilermaker 16.	•
Boilermakers Hit for Safety
The Purdue running attack sputtered and stalled at their own 34 yard line. Brock dropped back to kick but center Don Fife passed the ball over Brock’s head into the Purdue end zone. Sam Palumbo and Ray Lemek nailed Brock trying to scurry out of the end zone for a safety. But Purdue still led, 14-2.
On the kick-off, sophomore quarterback Paul Hornung ran the ball 59 yards to the Purdue one. Nick Raich punched through for the first Irish touchdown. Hornung missed the point and the score at half time was Purdue 14; Notre Dame 8.
The first series of plays in the second half resulted in another Irish TD. Notre Dame began to play real Notre Dame football, grinding out small, valuable chunks of yardage. Senior Irish quarterback Ralph Guglielmi directed the running attack and passed his team to the Purdue 43. He then flipped a long one to Co-capt. Dan Shannon who was dragged down a scant two yards from pay dirt. Don Schaefer exploded across for the six-pointer but missed the conversion. The game took on a new light with the score knotted at 14—all.
Lundy Breaks Game Wide Open
On the first play after the kick-off, Dawson hit Lundy with a ten yard pass on the Purdue 37 and he went the rest of the way. Again Dawson’s toe was true and Purdue had jumped into the lead, 21-14, never to go behind again.
Purdue used six running plays and a ten-yard pass to put the ball on the Notre Dame 38-yard line.' With Dawson at the reins, he threw a five yard screen pass to Murakowski on the 33 and he scampered the remaining distance to score. Dawson missed the point for the first time, but Purdue didn’t really need it. Final score: Purdue, 27; Notre Dame, 14.
Guglielmi Moves Wide Behind Blocking
Schaefer Cracks Into Stone Wall
Witucki Barrels Up The Middle In Fourth Quarter
Irish Shutout Pitt. 33-0
By BOB RUHL
Pittsburgh, Pa., Oct. 9—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish drove over the ground ^and through the airways this afternoon “ to batter the hapless Pitt Panthers, 33-0. It was the second victory in three starts for the Irish this season.
The game, played before a capacity 62,000 fans, got off to a slow start in the first quarter. Notre Dame’s Don Schaefer* kicked off and Pitt’s Henry Ford returned the ball to the Pitt 26. A stonewall Irish defense held the Panthers, and Schmitt punted to Notre 0 Dame’s Joe Heap who brought the pigskin to the Irish 43.
Notre Dame’s heavy-duty backs began to move. Reynolds and Heap dented the Pitt forward wall for a first down on the Panther 47. Schaefer and quarterback Guglielmi sliced for six yards. Heap passed to Reynolds who fought his way down to the 28. But the offense stalled. Three ground thrusts were stopped just short of a first down. Guglielmi’s pass failed and Pitt took 11 over.
One ND Drive Fails
After Pitt failed to gain, Paul Reynolds took the resulting punt and ran it back to the Notre Dame 48. Again Notre Dame began to chop away at the Pitt line. Heap smashed to the Pitt 38 in two running plays. Sophomore Dean Studer and Heap combined for another first down on the Panther 25.
But the Pitt line stiffened, and the Irish couldn’t move on three plays. Guglielmi’s pass once more failed.
Tom Carey took over the quarterback reins from Guglielmi and engineered the first Irish score. Carey’s pitch-out to soph halfback Sherrill Sipes misfired and Sipes lost ground to the 24. Carey’s pass to Heap was no good. On fourth down Carey lofted a long aerial to Sipes who caught it in the end zone for the TD. Hornung’s kick was wide. ND, 6; Pitt, 0.
Palumbo Recovers Fumble
Pitt’s offense, completely stifled up to this point, made its bid for* a touchdown. After an incompleted pass and a penalty stopped a bid for a first down, Salvaterra faked a pass and swung wide to his left, getting a first down on the Irish 29. Salvaterra pitched to Ford in the end zone, but a penalty nullified the touchdown. The Irish held on three plays and took possession on the 28.
Notre Dame was on its way to another touchdown when Sam Palumbo recovered a fumble. Guglielmi threw to Heap who fell to the Panther 24. Schaefer pushed to the 20. Guglielmi kept the ball on the option play and raced to the 4. Studer rammed straight ahead to the 1. Guglielmi sneaked over for the touchdown. Schaefer’s kick was good. ND, 13; Pitt, 0.
Third-quarter action saw the Irish
capitalize on another Pitt fumble to score. Receiving the kick off, the Irish had their sights set on another land score. Studer brought the ball to the Irish 20 on the kick off. Guglielmi got a first down on the 23. Heap skirted end for another first down on the 44. Studer, Schaefer and Heap brought the ball to the Pitt 41. Salvaterra broke up the bid with an interception, but fumbled the ball back to the Irish.
The Irish battering rams couldn’t be stopped this time. Studer carried to the twelve, but the Irish were pushed back to the 17 for off-sides. Heap and Schaefer got a first down on the five. Studer took Guglielmi’s hand off and skirted Pitt’s right end for the touchdown. Schaefer made the PAT. Score: ND, 20; Pitt, 0.
Hornung Drives Over
The fourth period saw the Irish score twice. Midway in the period, Nick Raich recovered a Pitt fumble on the Panther 16. Notre Dame was off and running. Heap and Morse drove to the 10. Hornung shot over the goal line on a keep-it play. Hornung’s kick was no good. Score: ND, 26; Pitt, 0.
Pittsburgh failed to gain in three plays and punted to Irish halfback Jim Morse, who fumbled and Pitt recovered on the Notre Dame 29. Two running plays were stopped cold by an alert Irish defense. Salvaterra tried the airways, but Hornung intercepted the pass in the end zone and brought it back to the 22.
The Irish took over on downs on their own 26. Witucki got a first down on the Irish 41. Morse skirted his own right end to the Pitt 23. Carey passed to Scannell for a first down on the 10. On the last play of the game Carey shot a quick pass to end Jim Munro in the end zone for a touchdown. Morse kicked the extra point. Final Score: ND, 33; Pitt, 0.
Heap Bags Another
December 10, 1954
Irish Squirm Through On Dramatic Kick
Irish Trip	20-19
By PAUL FULLMER
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 16—The Fighting Irish fell short in their comeback attempt against Purdue two weeks ago on this same turf, but today they had the goods to storm from behind and nip a determined Michigan State eleven on a rain-soaked field, 20-19. The win was a much-needed tonic for the 57,000 homecoming fans.
A dramatic extra point attempt by Michigan State, with only a minute remaining, slipped wide of the mark, giving the Irish this long-sought victory. Six Irish regulars slogged their way through the entire 60 minutes.
The Irish fell behind 13-0 in the first quarter and had to bang their way back into the game in the next two periods. Halfback Joe Heap sparked Notre
“Gug” Clutches Muddy Ball
16
Dame’s offense with his best running day of the year, 110 yards in 22 carries and a five-yard average.
The Irish avenged the three straight losses that the Spartans had inflicted on Frank Leahy’s boys during his tenure and gave Coach Terry Brennan his first “big” win against an old Notre Dame foe.
Spartans Score First
Notre Dame elected to kickoff to the visitors and State moved the ball relentlessly down the field. It took the Spartans only 13 plays and five minutes before Clarence Peaks tore around his left end for the score. Fullback Jerry Planutis converted and MSC led 7-0.
Ralph Guglielmi fumbled the ball right back to Michigan State on the ND 35. Again State did not waste any time. This time the airways figured in the scoring. Earl Morrall hurled a strike to John Lewis who easily beat Heap and Dean Studer into the end zone to put the underdogs ahead 13-0.
The aroused Irish partisans roused the Brennan-men into action and ND drove to the State six before Jack Wi-tucki: fumbled.
A penalty set the Spartans back to their goal and a punt gave the Irish another chance. Heap and . Schaefer moved the ball down to the ten. Heap cracked off-tackle to the one and after two unsuccessful sneaks by Guglielmi, Heap dived in for his first TD. Schaefer
added the placement and the Irish trailed 13-7 as the half ended.
Heap stifled another Spartan rally in the third canto when he fell on John Matsock’s fumble on the ND eleven. Center Dick Szymanski put the damper on another Stater thrust when he intercepted a pass on the Michigan State 46.
Twelve Plays To Score
It took Guglielmi twelve plays to register the second Irish tally. The Notre Dame backs slid, skated, and'-^ rolled through the ever-deepening mud as they neared the goal. “Gug” pitched out to Heap, who circled right end to score from the 16 behind a nifty block by Schaefer. Schaefer got up and put the Irish ahead, 14-13, with his second conversion.
Guglielmi faced a fourth down situation and one yard to go at midfield in the early minutes of the fourth quarter. He sent Paul Reynolds knifing behind^ Frank Varrichione and the Irish had their first and ten.
Schaefer then wiggled behind Sam Palumbo and Dan Shannon for 30 yards and the day’s longest gain. Heap gained three yards to the eight before Guglielmi called the option and Reynolds ended up on the scoring end of the lateral. Schaefer’s kick this time squirted wide and the Irish led 20-13 with 2:30 remaining.
A long desperation pass from Morrall to Lewis put the ball on the ND 14 and gave the Spartans a chance to tie things up. Bert Zagers needled his way through the over-anxious Irish on the next play to make the score 20-19.
Jerry Planutis measured the distance for the kick and the Irish line dug into the slippery muck. The lines tensed, Planutis crouched, the ball was snapped, Pat Bisceglia sneaked through a hole, hurled himself horizontally at the ball,^) and the ball sailed high—and wide of the mark.
The full house went wild as the tired Irish trudged off the field with their third victory—and a sweet one it was.
Heap Slides Through Tackle
o
1954 Football Record
Won 9, Lost 1
Notre Dame 21
Notre Dame 14
Notre Dame 33
Notre Dame 20
Notre Dame 6
Notre Dame 42
Notre Dame 42
Notre Dame 34
Notre Dame 23
Notre Dame 26
Texas ...........  0
Purdue ...........27
Pittsburgh .......	0
Michigan State ....19
Navy _____________  0	0
Pennsylvania ....  7
North Carolina ....13
Iowa .............18
So. California ...17
So. Methodist ....14
Steve Rebora
Ji
Sink Middies9 Hopes9 6-0
By DAVE KILKEARY
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 31—Notre Dame racked up their fourth victory of the year before 60,000 people here today by out-lasting the Navy 6-0 on the rainsaturated turf of Municipal Stadium.
Irish Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi, flashing All-American form, threw a touchdown pass and recovered a Navy fumble in his own end zone to personally thwart the Middie’s hope for their first victory over a Notre Dame squad in ten years.
Guglielmi Passes For Score
Guglielmi rifled a 46-yard pass to sophomore halfback Jim Morse for the only score of the afternoon. The play came with striking suddenness in the second quarter. Morse gathered in the • ball on the dead run at the Middie 19, rocketed between Navy’s Bob Craig and Dick Guest, and rambled untouched into the end zone with only five minutes left of the second quarter. Fullback Don Schaefer’s try for the point was wide.
The 60,000 fans who braved this murky day saw the Notre Dames allow the Middies only six offensive plays in the first quarter and superbly dominate the entire first half of the contest. At halftime the 'Irish had nine first downs to the Midshipmen’s one. They had 114 yards rushing.to 14 and 72 yards passing to only six for the Easterners.
Schaefer Bulls For Short Yardage Near Goal
20
Notre Dame allowed many choice scoring- opportunities to slip by in the first half. Failure to pick up a few yards in critical spots hurt the Irish.
The Navy took to the air from the outset of the second half. The Sailors appeared to be a different ball club from the one that couldn’t get started in the first two periods. Similarly the Irish looked like they suffered a change too. The constant battering of the Irish at the Navy defenses lost its dynamite. Gradually it was seen that the Irish, who had been bothered all day by offside penalties, might be scored upon by Navy’s aerial bombardment.
Middie quarterback George Welsh started to hit end Ron Beagle with alarming regularity. Beaglebird-dogged-ly penetrated the Notre Dame secondary and hauled in pass after pass from the “hot’’ Welsh. At the same time the Notre Dame pass defense showed acute signs of sagging.
Navy Fumbles Chance Away
Aided by the beautiful pass catching of Beagle, Navy marched the second half kickoff to the Notre Dame twelve. It was the Middies first excursion into Notre Dame territory. However a Navy offside nullified a Welsh flip to John Weaver on the one and the Irish gained possession of the ball. This penalty was
Morse Eyes Goalline and Victory
the only one of the day for the Navy. ;;
Midway in the third period, Leonard Benzi recovered a Schaefer fumble on the Notre Dame 15. Welsh fired to ® Beagle and got the ball to the six. f| Immediately Navy pounded out a first down on the Irish one. Quarterback Welsh was stopped cold on two attempted sneaks and then Sam Palumbo belted the ball from Craig's hands, as =7 he hammered into the end zone. Gug- I ‘ liehni was the Man on the spot for the^ Irish; he fell on the ball for a touch-
back. This was the play of the day as far as the Irish were concerned. Had Craig not fumbled, it could very well have meant the second Notre Dame loss of the campaign.
Stop Two Late Drives
The Middies threatened two times in the final quarter but interceptions by Paul Hornung and Guglielmi kept the
lock off the door for the Irish. In this stanza Notre Dame made their only long march of the half when Guglielmi hit Heap for 39 yards and Shannon grabbed another good for 16. The drive was halted, however, at the Navy 17 and the Midshipmen threw the Irish all the way back to the 33 before taking the ball on downs.
Navy went to mid-field the last time they had the ball. They lost it with only-56 seconds to play as Welsh’s pass went out of the hands of Beagle. Beagle played one of his best games of the year, and was a thorn in the side of the Irish all afternoon.
The victory was Notre Dame’s ninth in a row over the Navy. The Midshipmen’s last win being here in 1944 by a 32-13 score. It was the Irish’s fourth win of the campaign as against one loss.
Terry's Boys Bomb Penn, 42-7
By JOE MADIGAN
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 6—The Fighting Irish fashioned their biggest offensive display of the season today as they routed the Pennsylvania Quakers 42-7 before 61,188 fans in Franklin Feld.
Quaker supporters watched Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi enjoy one of his finest days as he passed for two touchdowns and scored one himself. Besides this, Guglielmi anchored the Irish secondary that restricted Penn to 27 yards through the air.
It was the seventh straight loss for Coach Steve Sebo’s hapless charges, but they succeeded in giving the Irish line its toughest workout of the campaign. Penn backs amassed 224 yards rushing, most of them accumulated in the first half.
The Quakers started fast and appeared to be in command of the situation at the outset. They took Don Schaefer’s opening kickoff, and with halfback Walt Hynoski leading the way, marched 68 yards in twelve plays to the Notre Dame twelve. At this point, Guglielmi intercepted quarterback Jim Manley’s pass in the end zone to bail the Irish out of trouble temporarily.
Quakers Threaten Again
Shortly afterwards, the Quakers were knocking on the door again. From their own 47, they marched to the Irish three yard line in six plays. But Hynoski and Manley both missed passes in the end zone. Schaefer batted down the fourth down pass and the Irish took over on their own three.
After Guglielmi failed to connect with Jim Morse, Schaefer found a hole in the Penn left side and scampered 70 yards to the Penn 26-yard line as the first quarter ended. A few plays later, Guglielmi sneaked over from four yards out for the game’s first score. Schaefer booted the first of three conversions and ,the Irish led 7-0.
Ray Lemek’s timely pass interception set up the second Irish score on the Penn 37. ' Guglielmi hit Joe Heap with a long one on the Penn seven. A fifteen yard penalty moved the ball back to the 22, but Guglielmi pitched to Dan Shannon for the score. Schaefer again converted to give the Irish a 14-0 halftime lead.
Notre Dame took the second half kickoff and churned up 95 yards in seven plays. Guglielmi capped the scoring thrust by firing an 18-yard aerial to Shannon. Schaefer again kicked the point aftei- touchdown, and with the third period barely past the six minute mark, Notre Dame led 21-0.
Penn broke into the scoring column on the strength of Stan Chaplin’s 45-yard gallop to the Notre Dame 17. Hynoski sped over from the eleven and Manley converted to make the count 21-7.
The Irish bounced light back, this time for 75 yards. Guglielmi’s 40-yard pass to Morse sparked an off tackle slant from the seven. Paul Hornung split the uprights to run the score to 28-7.
Heap’s interception set up the fifth Irish tally, running the ball back 22
yards to the Quaker 22. With the reserves assuming the reins, Tom Carey pitched out to Dean Studer who rambled the remaining 20 yards to paydirt. Hornung again converted to stretch the Irish lead to 35-7 with the fourth quarter barely underway.
Hornung Notches Final TD
Later on, Hynoski, a brilliant performer all day, in a losing cause, fumbled on his own 21, and the ever alert Carey recovered. Sherill Sipes got five and Carey kept for 13. Hornung then bucked over for the final score, and added the point. The final score, Notre Dame 42, Penn 7.
Individually, the Irish showed to great advantage. Guglielmi connected on 13 of 19 tosses for 260 yards. The Irish star completed his last eight in succession, enabling him to come within one pass of tying a twelve year Notre Dame record of nine in a row set by Angelo Bertelli back in 1942.
Schaefer also enjoyed his finest of the year. The Irish fullback gained 135 yards in 12 carries, the majority of the yardage coming on his 70-yard first quarter jaunt that set up the game’s first score.
Nevertheless, the victory was a costly one for the Irish. Center Dick Szymanski was rushed to University Hospital in Philadelphia for an emergency operation later in the evening. Szymanski’s injury was diagnosed as a ruptured spleen, and the star senior was declared out for the year.


Morse Begins Long 77-Yord Kickoff Hike
ND Tops Tar Heels, 12-13
By PAUL LaFRENIERE
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 13—The decision was never in doubt today, from the moment that Jimmy Morse flashed a scintillating 77-yard opening kickoff return, as the Fighting Irish salted away the sixth in an all-winning series with the North Carolina Tar Heels, 42-13.
Perhaps it was their determination to present convalescing Dick Szymanski with a sincere get-well gift that prompted the squad to take all the wraps off a potent offense under a friendly November sun. At any rate, a hefty 213 yards gained via the air complemented by a 185 total on the turf coasted ND to victory over the distraught Tar Heels.
Ralph Guglielmi sat out the second half after he had unerringly piloted his mates to a comfy four-touchdown margin at the intermission with a combination of uncanny play-calling and seven successes out of twelve tries with his pitching arm.
Equal Guglielmi’s Output
Tom Carey and Paul Hornung, Guglielmi’s understudies, then took over where Ralph left off and together they equalled the 21 points registered under the All-American quarterback’s command.
Morse’s initial spurt carried him down to the Tar Heel 22-yard marker where he was overtaken by speedy Don Klo-chak. From there it took a pair of line
smashes, a delayed buck, a pass, a sneak, and a final short crack through tackle by Joe Heap until the Irish made a showing on the scoreboard.
The rest of the first period was played in Carolina territory, but not until the first minute of the following quarter did the Irish reach pay-dirt again. Heap did the honors for the second time to wind up his day’s scoring, after ND had used nine plays in a 50-yard thrust.
Guglielmi keynoted an 82-yard drive
Schaefer Slashes Off-Tackle in Tar Heel Victory
the next time he got his hands on the ball, tossing 42 yards to Heap and another time to Co-Captain Paul Matz who did a juggling act before grabbing the leather for keeps. In twelve scrimmages, Terry’s Terrors had another score, Morse neatly snagging “Gug’s” bullet pass in TD territory. Fullback Don Schaefer, besides doing some fine charging into the North Carolina secondary during these sustained attacks, toed the three extra boots after the six-pointers.
Carey Engineers Touchdown
Then it was Tommy Carey’s turn to display his wares as the first-stringers departed. Carey engineered a 75-yard maneuver which featured his pitch to Dean Studer for 47 yards. The pay-off was another Carey pass, this time to Jim Munro. Hornung kicked the PAT, 40 seconds before the half ended.
Hornung generaled the Irish for the next quarter and a half and his passing, running, and defensive work set up the
final two ND tallies. Frank Pinn and Jack Witucki brake into the scoring column for the first time in their collegiate careers to round out an enjoyable afternoon for Irish partisans. Hornung split the goal posts for the added
point on each occasion.
With less than half a quarter to go, the Tar Heels took some consolation by garnering two TD’s, the first on a pass from Al Long to Larry Parker, the other on a Doug Farmer-Larry McMullen airway combination.
In their successful preliminary to the Iowa game, the Irish put on a gridiron exhibition a la 19-54 for 55,410 customers and members of Knute Rockne’s National Championship undefeated and untied teams of 1929-30, who were introduced during halftime ceremonies.
December 10, 1954
23
I ND Clobbers Iowa. 34-18
I
By FRED ECKART
I Iowa City, la., Nov. 20—Tumid clouds S lifted long enough this bleak Saturday | afternoon for the sun to smile down on g an inspired Notre Dame football team | that revealed to a stadium-stacked crowd | of 52,756 a gridiron juggernaut that | could do no wrong as it ran and passed | to a decisive 34-18 victory over a stunned 5 Iowa eleven.
I
f Burned in effigy only the night before i by eager Iowa students at the pre-game 5 pep rally, the Irish machine, led by AllAmerican quarterback Ralph Guglielmi, i fullback Don Schaefer, and halfback t Joe Heap, amassed a wide statistical i advantage.
! Guglielmi himself completed nine of t 14 passes for 165 yards. Carey and ।	Reynolds added 68	on 3	out	of 5,
;	bringing total passings to	233	yards.
'	Heap averaged 7.2	yards	per	carry,
1	garnering 72 from	scrimmage	in 10
' tries. Schaefer gained 96 in 18 tries for a 5.3 average.
It wasn’t until the last quarter surge that brought the two final Hawkeye scores that the lowans could close the statistical gap which saw the Irish far-ahead in every department except punting.
The deception and deadly accurate passing of Guglielmi, the lightningquick thrusts of Schaefer, the breakaway running of Heap all were majorfactors in accounting for a total of 493 yards rushing and passing that made a jubilant delegation of 179 Senior Trippers and some 3,000 Irish TV-viewers back at Notre Dame forget the sorrows of last year’s stunning 14-14 tie.
Unable to generate their accustomed
Irish Crisscross Pattern—Heap
Receives and Morse Watches
momentum in the face of the rugged Irish forwards, the Hawks had the ball for only seven offensive plays in the first quarter, netting only eight yards.
After the Irish threatened in the first quarter, going to the Iowa 19 before losing the ball on downs, Heap set up the initial Notre Dame score, scooting 43 yards to the Iowa’s six. Morse, Schaefer, and Guglielmi moved the ball to the one-foot line from where Morse cracked over- for the score. Schaefer converted and the Irish led 7 to 0.
After an exchange of punts, Iowa marched to the Irish 39, losing the ball on downs as Reichow’s passes went astray. A Guglielmi to Matz aerial brought the Irish back and after a holding penalty delay, Shannon brought down another “Gug” toss for 20 yards. From the Irish 49 Guglielmi and Schaefer alternated to bring the pigskin to the Iowa 38. Guglielmi threw to Reynolds for 19 yards. Schaefer moved the ball to the five and Heap scored in two plays. Schaefer again converted, putting Notre Dame in front 14-0.
Before the fans had hardly seated themselves Iowa effectively struck back with Breeder going 17 yards from the Iowa 40. The next play, Reichow found End Frank Gilliam behind the Irish secondary on the 20, hit him with a pass on the run and he scored untouched. Right end Jim Freeman’s try for point was wide. The score, Notre Dame 14 Iowa 6.
The second half got underway with Schaefer kicking off to Sternes who returned to the Iowa 32. On the first play Broeder banged through the Irish
Kapish Pulls Down TD Pass
forwards for 18 yards only to fumble on the 50 where the Irish began their third touchdown drive.
In six plays the Irish scored with a 23-yard aerial from Guglielmi to Morse. However a clipping penalty nullified the score leaving the ball on the 28. Another pass to Shannon for 17 placed the ball on the seven. Three plays put the ball on the three yard line from where Schaefer knifed through right tackle for the score. Schaefer’s kick was good again and the score was 21-6.
Iowa failed to gain after the kickoff and punted to the Irish 43. After being set back to the 37 on 2 plays and holding penalty, Guglielmi found Matz for ; 34 through the air and Reynolds for an additional ten. Reynolds and Schaefer alternated to the nine yard line from where Guglielmi passed to Matz who carried two Iowa defenders into the end zone. Schaefer split the uprights for the fourth straight time and the scoreboard read: Notre Dame 28, Iowa 6.
Four minutes into the fourth stanza Notre Dame replacements led by rugged little Tom Carey drove from the Irish l? 19 to the Iowa 38 on runs by Reynolds, Hornung and Fitzgerald. On fourth down Carey faded behind excellent protection and pitched a 38-yard pass into the waiting arms of Gene Kapish who waltzed into the end zone untouched. Hornung’s kick for the point was blocked. Notre Dame 34, Iowa 6.
In two plays the Hawks had another score on a 76-yard TD toss from Quarterback Dobrino to Earl Smith who took it on his 40 and raced the remain- j ing 60 to paydirt. The try for point failed again and the Irish led 34-12.
Iowa’s last score came after a Carey fumble on the Notre Dame 43. Stearnes ran 20 yards and Dobrino passed 14 to Matheson. Sternes cracked across from the nine yard stripe with 4:23 left in the game. The try for point failed and the Irish ran out the game, holding Iowa on the 5. The final score: Notre Dame, 34, Iowa 18.
The Scholastic 3
24
,	Irish Tacklers Trip Trojan Runner in Mud
।
; Rally to Beat USC9 23-17
,	By JOHN GUEGUEN
! Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 27.—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish had not one but
■ two battles to fight in the Stadium today when the University of Southern California Trojans renewed one of the longest intersectional football rivalries 11(	in the nation.
j Besides a fired-up Rose Bowl squad i	determined to increase its prestige be-
fore squaring off with Ohio State in the ;	New Year’s Day classic, the Irish also
I	had to overcome their own miscues to
£ pound out a 23-17 verdict.
j Fumbles, intercepted passes, penalties, passing inaccuracy, and unimpressive kicking plagued the Notre Dame squad during most of the game, and the alert Trojans were quick to take advantage of many of them.
The Irish bobbled the ball nine times, losing it on four occasions. Two intercepted passes and eight penalties helped to stall the Irish attack, and Brennan’s j charges managed to complete only two ; 0 of nine attempted passes.
< The fifth home sell-out of the season, ,	56,438, watched the final game of the
i season in Notre Dame Stadium on a p damp, chilly day that saw the sun break V through heavy clouds in the second half. I A slippery ball and a soggy field i softened by several days of wet weather j hampered the afternoon’s activity.
' Notre Dame’s Jim Morse earned the !	game’s top individual	honors. Besides
’	a dazzling 72-yard run	that brought the
■	December 10, 1954
Irish from behind for- the third and last time near the end of the game, the sophomore left half gained 179 yards in 19 carries.
The Irish rushed for 373 yards in winning their eighth contest in nine starts this season. Coach Jess Hill’s Trojans suffered their third loss in eleven games.
On the first Notre Dame play from scrimmage, Don Schaefer fumbled on the ND 14 to set up the first Trojan score. It took four plays to shove the Irish back to the one-foot line, and Quarterback Jim Contratto did the honors on the next play. Sam Tsagal-akis’ boot gave Southern Cal an early 7-0 lead.
After a penalty-stalled Irish drive, the teams exchanged punts and Notre Dame launched an attack that carried to the SC 28. But Guglielmi’s passing failed to click, and the Trojans took over.
After two more exchanges and another Notre Dame fumble, Southern Cal pushed to the Irish 17 where Tsagalakis missed a field goal attempt. On this play, Ray Lemek, first string left guard for Notre Dame was carried from the field with a fracture and torn ligaments in the left knee, an injury that ended his 1954 season.
A Notre Dame scoring drive quickly got into gear. Heap sparked the drive with a 40-yard off-tackle sprint. With
Tom Carey in charge, it took the Irish only five more plays to strike.
Heap took a pitchout from Carey on the twelve and launched an aerial on the run to Morse, who crossed the goal. Schaefer converted to tie the score. ,
Aramis Dandoy, USC’s speedy halfback, led a Trojan drive at the beginning of the second half that pushed the Irish back to their 13-yard line. Here the drive stalled, but Tsagalakis sent the Californians ahead 10-7 with a field goal.
A 106-yard ground offensive, starting on their own 14, sparked the Irish third quarter play. This time penalties failed to halt the hard-charging Greenshirts, who ground out 20 successive plays in one of the longest sustained drives on . record.	.
Morse, Guglielmi, Heap, and Schaefer alternated in the see-saw downfield progress. Schaefei- plunged off-tackle from the two and kicked the extra point to put Notre Dame in front for the first time, 14-10, early in the final quarter.
But the Trojans countered with a quick 62-yard drive featuring Con-tratto’s passing accuracy. The final aerial was good to End Chuck Griffith for 21 yards and the TD. Ed Fouch converted, and the visitors took a late 17-14 lead.
Following the kickoff, Heap fumbled to the Trojans, but SC could not keep the ball. The Irish took over on their own 21 with a little over seven minutes remaining.
After two short gains, Morse, with key blocks by Guglielmi and Schaefer, unleashed his 72-yard TD run along the West sideline, the longest run of the season for Notre Dame. Schaefer booted the extra point to make it 21-17.
The Irish got two more points on a safety when Southern Cal took over, and three plays later the final whistle sounded with the Irish on top, 23-17.
Heap Throws The Hip
Irish Trounce SMI'. 26-14
By JOE
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 4—Millions via nationwide TV were impressed and 75,540 at the Cotton Bowl were amazed as Notre Dame finished the 1954 football i season with a decisive 26-14 win over j SMU.
But the score is a liar; it might easily have been 62-14, so soundly did the Irish shellack the Mustangs statistically. Terry Brennan’s offense rolled to 23 first downs to the opponent’s seven; his defense yielded an incredible - 34 yards on the ground until the fourth quarter. The Irish would have amassed over 700 yards had not penalties interfered, as it was they totaled 477 yards. Notre Dame was a selfish guest too, they ran twice as many plays and had possession of the ball most of the time. The real story is therefore, in the statistics.
SMU lost the opening flip of the coin and everything else. Notre Dame opened with a 60-yard touchdown drive sparked by Guglielmi’s passing and climaxed by a four-yard Heap bolt, but for the first time in 13 consecutive attempts, Schaefer failed to convert. The junior dynamo atoned for this by exploding for 129 yards for the rest of the game. After this 6-0 score, SMU then replied with their only identifiable effort—a 53-yard move that saw Roach crawl over from ten yards out. The Mustangs notched the point to lead 7-6 at the end of the first quarter.
Moments later the Ramblers retaliated with a relentless return to paydirt, 62 yards in eleven line crashes and one pass. The scoring play saw Ralph “the difference” Guglielmi fool the American Public with a weak-side skirt of three yards. The Irish went out front 13-7 •when Schaefer converted.
DALEY
This fellow Roach, a tall Texan if ever, kept ND pinioned for quite a while with his helium-hoofed punts. Finally, the Irish reseiwes found a defense for SMU’s punt attack. .With 1:12 left in the first half, Bob Scannell’s block, tackle, and touchdown run of a Mustang punt gave ND a 19-7 intermission lead.
Joe Heap highlighted second half action with a touchdown gallop of 89 yards. Taking a handoff from Gugli-elmi, Heap paused long enough to notice blocks by Schaefer and Reynolds, then continued down the sidelines, evading many Mustangs. Schaefer made it 26-7.
Save for a deceptive 76-yard scoring
Guglielmi Picks Up His Last ND Touchdown
run by John Marshall, SMU was never I heard from. Paul Reynolds, after chas-ing Marshall most of the way, returned^ the following kickoff 62 yards, but here the Irish surrendered the ball on penalties.
They kept following that procedure for the rest of the game. It got so bad at one point, that an ND drive started on the Irish 43 consumed 15 plays and four first downs, but ended on the SMU 42 thanks to three penalties. In all the officials awarded Notre Dame 175 yards in reverse.
The story the statistics told was a j fitting close to young Terry Brennan’s first season; he had coached a team, which had lost six All-Americans, to a 9 and 1 record. It was fitting too, because twelve seniors shook down the thunder for the last time and their valedictories were typical of great Notre Dame teams. There was Ralph Gug-lielmi, “the difference,” wearing out acres of Texas soil as he directed the charge. There was Joe Heap, faster than ever as he scored twice and doubled SMU’s yardage. There was Sam Palumbo chasing his last quarterback, Paul Matz spoiling another option, Frank Varrichione opening his last mammoth hole, Jack Lee leading his last defensive charge, and there was Shannon coming for the last time, and Tom Carey bursting out of his last impossible predicament. This was the last of the old gang of four year men, but they’ll be talked about for a long, long time. Bob Ready, Tony Pasquesi, Dick Frasor, Jim Bigelow, and Ed Cook left memories too. Dick Szymanski must have helped, he always did.
Even the penalties didn’t really matter because the Irish had finished a great season with a decisive 26-14 over a powerful SMU team.

1 1954 NOTRE DAME VARSITY ROSTER								
No. NAME		POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOME TOWN	HIGH SCHOOL	CLASS
2	***Carey, Thomas 		QB	21	5-10	180	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Carmel 			Sr.
3	***GugIieImi, Ralph 		QB	20	6-0	185	Columbus, Ohio 			Grandview 			Sr.
4	Bucci, Donald 		QB	21	6-0	180	Youngstown, Ohio _		East 		Sr,
5	Hornung, Paul 		QB	18	6-2	190	Louisville, Ky. 			Flaget 			So.
6	Cooke, Larry 	—	.	QB QB	18	6-0	185	Ennis, Texas 	 Glenshaw, Pa. 				So.
8	Bigelow, James 			2b	5-11	170			Shaler			Sr.
9	-Schaefer, Donald 	 FB-HB		20	5-11	185	Pittsburgh, Pa. 			Central Catholic 			Jr.
11	McDonnell, John 					HB	19	5-11	175	Sterling, Ill.			Newman Catholic 			So.
12	Sipes, Sherrill 			HB	19	6-0	185	Louisville, Ky. 			..	, _ Flaget .	-	- - 				So.
15	Callaghan, Leo ..	... 		HB	21	6-1	185	Passaic, N. J. 	 Chicago, Ill. 		Pope Pius XII _	Sr.
16	Rigali, William 				HB	19	5-10	175			Fenwick 	— 	—		So.
17	Morse, James 							HB	19	5-11	180	Muskegon, Mich. 	 Springfield, III. 			St. Mary’s 	 	Cathedral 			So.
18	**Reynolds, Paul 		FB	21	6-0	180				Jr.
19	Milota, James 						HB	19	5-11	170	Park Ridge, Ill. 			Fenwick 			So.
20	Witucki, Jack			HB	19	6-1	185		_		Cascia Hall		So.
21	Gerami, Gerald 		HE	19	5-9	178	Lafayette, La,			Cathedral			So.
22	Studer, Dean 			HB	18	5-11	180	Billings, Mont.			Central 			So.
30	Ward, Robert 		HB	19	5-8	160	Van Dyke, Mich. 			German Twp.	So.
								
32	^Fitzgerald, Richard 		FB	21	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			:	St. George			Jr.
33	***Shannon, Dan (Co-Capt.) 		E	20	6-0	190	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Carmel			Sr.
34	Gaffney, John 		FB	20	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.			St. Ignatius			Jr.
37	Raich, Nicholas 			FB	20	5-10	185	Milwaukee, Wis.			Marquette			Jr.
38	Wilson, George 				FB	20	5-11	185	Polo, Ill.			Community			Jr.
40	*Keller, Richard 			HB	19	6-0	175	Toledo, Ohio 			Central Catholic			Jr.
41	Pinn, Frank 				FB	19	5-10	190	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Carmel 			So.
42	***Heap, Joseph 				HB	22	5-11	180	Abita Springs, La. _		Holy Cross 			Sr.
43	Markowski, Joseph 		FB	20	6-0	185	Hamilton, Ontario _		Cathedral			Jr.
45	Kaiser, David 		FB	19	6-2	195	Alpena, Mich. 			Alpena			So.
47	Davin, David 			E	19	6-4	203	Chicago, Ill.			St. Ignatius			-So.
48	Bosse, Joseph 		T	19	6-2	205	Lawrence, Mass. 			Central Catholic 			So.
49	Hendricks, Richard 		HB	20	6-1	180	Danville, III. 			Schlarman			Jr.
50	Noznesky, Pete 		E	19	6-0	180	Lansdowne, Pa. 			LaSalle Military Acad. Oakdale, L. I., N. Y. 			So.
51	Mense, James 				C	19	5-11	205	Hamilton, Ohio 			Hamilton Catholic 			Jr.
.	52	***Szymanski, Richard 		C	21	6-2	215	Toledo, Ohio			Libboy			Sr.
53	Carrabine, Luke 		G	19	6-1	205	Gary, Indiana			Gary Emerson			So.
56	Cook, Edward 				C	21	6-1	210	Philadelphia, Pa.			S.E. Catholic 			Sr.
58	King, Jack 		 Regan, Michael 		G	18	5-10	200			So.
59		E	19	6-2	200	Buffalo, N. Y. 			Canisius 			Jr.
60	***Varrichione, Frank 		T	21	6-0	210	Natick, Mass.			Natick 	:			Sr.
61	McMullan, John 			G	20	5-10	200	Hoboken, N. J.			Demerest 			Jr.
62	*Bisceglia, Pat 		G	23	5-10	190	Worcester, Mass. 			Commerce 			Jr.
63	Frasor, Richard 		C	21	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel			Sr.
64	McCabe, Pete 		G	18	6-2	205	Wilmette, Ill.			New Trier 			So.
65	***Lee, Jack 					G	21	5-11	190	Medford, Mass.			Malden Catholic 			Er.
66	T’.ervas Thomas .		 		G	19	6-1	205			 Lakewood _ 	 - —	So.
67	***Palumbo, Samuel 	....	T	21	6-1	208	Cleveland, Ohio		 Collinwood		Sr.
68	Nakfoor, Patrick 		E	20	6-4	205	Lansing, Mich. 			St. Mary’s			Jr.
69	Stanitzek, Francis 		G	19	5-10	200 .	Grand Rapids, Mich.		Grand Rapids			So.
70	Martell, Eugene 			T	19	6-3	212	Midland, Pa.			Lincoln	;—		Jr.
71	Beams, Byron 		T	19	6-4	217	Ada, Okla.			Ada			So.
72	*Lemek, Raymond 			G	19	6-1	205	Sioux City, la. 			Heelan			Jr.
73	Mondron, Robert 		T	19	6-3	210	Charleston, W. Va. _		Charleston Catholic 			So.
74	**Ready, Robert 			T	21	6-3	212	Lowell, Mass. 			Lowell 			Sr.
75	Pasquesi, Anthony 			T	20	6-4	215	Chicago, Ill.			St. Phillip 			Sr.
76	Groble, George 			T	18	6-2	212	Chicago, Ill.			St. Ignatius 		
77	Nicula, George 		T	19	6-2	205	Warren, Ohio 			Harding 			Jr.
78	Kegaly, John 		T	20	6-3	207	Chicago, Ill. 			St. Ignatius			Jr.
79	Bihn, Joseph 		T	19	6-2	208	San Jose, Calif. 			Bellarmine Prep			So.
80	Munro, James 		E	18	6-0	195	Chicago, III.			St. George 			So.
81 82	*George, Donald 	 *Edmonds, Wayne 		E	20	6-4	205	Dunbar, Pa.	- _	Tbinhar	Jr-
		G	20	6-0	205	Canonsburg, Pa.			Canonsburg 			Jr.
83	Scannell, Robert 		E	19	6-0	190	South Bend, Ind. 			Central 		So
84	Zajeski, Benedict 			G	20	6-3	205	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel 			Jr.
85	Loncaric, Louis 	 ,	E	18	6-3	190	Battle Creek, Mich. _		St. Philip 			So.
86 87	Schramm, Paul 	 Dumas, Jack 		T	18	6-2	919				So.
		E	19	6-3	190	Grand Rapids, Mich.		Catholic Central 			Jr.
88	**Gabral, Walter 		E	21	6-3	205	Honolulu, Hawaii			St. Louis			Sr.
89 90	Kapish Eugene .	.	...	E	19	6-1	190	Barberton, Ohio 		.. Barberton	Jr.
	**Matz, Paul (Co-Capt.)		E	20	6-1	190	Chicago, III.			Mt. Carmel 			Sr.
91	Lasch, Robert 		T	19	6-3	212	Clairton, Pa.			Clairton		—Jr.
	* Denotes monograms won in previous	years						
43
December 10, 1954
Irish Trounce SMU, 26-14
By JOE DALEY
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 4—Millions via nationwide TV were impressed and 75,540 at the Cotton Bowl were amazed as Notre Dame finished the 1954 football season with a decisive 26-14 win over SMU.
But the score is a liar; it might easily have been 62-14, so soundly did the Irish shellack the Mustangs statistically. Terry Brennan’s offense rolled to 23 first downs to the opponent’s seven; his defense yielded an incredible - 34 yards on the ground until the fourth quarter. The Irish would have amassed over 700 yards had not penalties interfered, as it was they totaled 477 yards. Notre Dame was a selfish guest too, they ran twice as many plays and had possession of the ball most of the time. The real story is therefore, in the statistics.
SMU lost the opening flip of the coin and everything else. Notre Dame opened with a 60-yard touchdown drive sparked by Guglielmi’s passing and climaxed by a four-yard Heap bolt, but for the first time in 13 consecutive attempts, Schaefer failed to convert. The junior dynamo atoned for this by exploding for 129 yards for the rest of the game. After this 6-0 score, SMU then replied with their only identifiable effort—a 53-yard move that saw Roach crawl over from ten yards out. The Mustangs notched the point to lead 7-6 at the end of the first quai*ter.
Moments later the Ramblers retaliated with a relentless return to paydirt, 62 yards in eleven line crashes and one pass. The scoring play saw Ralph “the difference” Guglielmi fool the American Public with a weak-side skirt of three yards. The Irish went out front 13-7 when Schaefer converted.
This fellow Roach, a tall Texan if ever, kept ND pinioned for quite a while with his helium-hoofed punts. Finally, the Irish reserves found a defense for SMU’s punt attack. With 1:12 left in the first half, Bob Scannell’s block, tackle, and touchdown run of a Mustang punt gave ND a 19-7 intermission lead.
Joe Heap highlighted second half action with a touchdown gallop of 89 yards. Taking a handoff from Gugli-elmi, Heap paused long enough to notice blocks by Schaefer and Reynolds, then continued down the sidelines, evading many Mustangs. Schaefer made it 26-7.
Save for a deceptive 76-yard scoring
Guglielmi Picks Up His Last ND Touchdown
run by John Marshall, SMU was never* heard from. Paul Reynolds, after chasing Marshall most of the way, returned the following kickoff 62 yards, but here the Irish surrendered the ball on penalties.
They kept following that procedure for the rest of the game. It got so bad at one point, that an ND drive started on the Irish 43 consumed 15 plays and four first downs, but ended on the SMU 42 thanks to three penalties. In all the officials awarded Notre Dame 175 yards in reverse.
The story the statistics told was a fitting close to young Terry Brennan’s first season; he had coached a team, which had lost six All-Americans, to a 9 and 1 record. It was fitting too, because twelve seniors shook down the thunder for the last time and their valedictories were typical of great Notre Dame teams. There was Ralph Gug-
lielmi, “the difference,” wearing out acres of Texas soil as he directed the charge. There was Joe Heap, faster ] than ever as he scored twice and doubled SMU’s yardage. There was Sam Pa- I lumbo chasing his last quarterback, Paul 1 Matz spoiling another* option, Frank Varrichione opening his last mammoth hole, Jack Lee leading his last defensive charge, and there was Shannon coming for the last time, and Tom Carey bursting out of his last impossible predicament. This was the last of the old gang of four year men, but they’ll be talked about for a long, long time. Bob Ready, Tony Pasquesi, Dick Frasor, Jim Bigelow, and Ed Cook left memories too. Dick Szymanski must have helped, he always did.
Even the penalties didn’t really matter because the Irish had finished a great season with a decisive 26-14 over a powerful SMU team.
The 1954 Co-Captains ...
They Carried the Shillelagh
Paul Matz
PAUL MATZ was right end on the 1954 Fighting Irish i; team. Paul was a teammate of Co-Captain Dan Shannon > at Chicago’s Mount Carmel High School where both played under Terry Brennan. A defensive specialist under two ’ i * platoon football, Matz alternated as all-around wingman last year on Frank Leahy’s last Notre Dame team. This season completes his fourth year of varsity football. Paul has won three football monograms.
Since his switch to full time end, he has neatly mastered
the knack of pass catching. He averaged close to 45 minutes per game throughout the season, far surpassing his 1953 pass receiving record.
Defense-wise — 6-1, 190 lb., Matz was particularly brilliant in the Iowa game. He played a near-perfect game at end defending against the wide Hawkeye sweeps. He outsped the fleet Iowa backs repeatedly to nab Guglielmi’s tosses. Paul is a typical Notre Dame captain, capable of firing his teammates in the clutch. He has an uncanny ability to size up the situation as if he were sitting in the stands and not down on the field. Against Southern California his burning spirit helped bring the Irish from behind three times to go on to win, 23-17. Coach Terry Brennan singled him out several times as the spark up front in Irish victories. He is a senior majoring in Aeronautical Engineering.
DAN SHANNON is another product of Terry Brennan’s coaching at Mount Carmel in Chicago. He was a defensive line-backer in his freshman and sophomore years at Notre Dame. In 1953 besides being a LIFE magazine “cover boy,” he became first string left end, a position he filled for two years. Noted for his hard play, he made the “tackle heard ’round the world” against Oklahoma in 1952. This play resulted in a fumble that set up the winning Irish score in the famous 27-21 upset.
Irish backers have perpetuated this play by starting the now-famous Notre Dame chant, “Here Comes Shannon,” whenever the Irish kick to their opponents. And many the time Dan has racked up a halfback after- this warning.
Dan is also very adept as an offensive wingman. He caught two last second passes in the 1953 Iowa tie game that were the only Irish scores. Then, he caught another one for six points in this year’s Hawkeye tilt. Shannon was picked on various All-American teams this year, and has been termed a “ball player’s ball player-” by sport writers. Dan is one of the few Notre Dame gridders who has earned four football monograms.	'
For a shy and reserved person, Dan became completely fired with the “Irish spirit” when he stepped on the gridiron those ten Saturday after-noons this season. He graduates in June from the Notre Dame College of Commerce.
29
Ralph Guglielmi
RALPH GUGLIELMI ended his football career this year as a unanimous All-American quarterback. Against Texas in the opener, “Gugs” scored two touchdowns, passed for a third and intercepted three passes. He was awarded “Back of the Week” for his superb play against Iowa. Ralph earned his fourth monogram in football this year. He is looking forward to a few years of professional ball and a career in the FBI.
FRANK VARRICHIONE paced the big Notre Dame line in the blocking department this year. Frank picked up his fourth ND monogram this fall. He played offense his first two years under Frank Leahy, but easily switched to the one platoon system in his junior year. He was one of the “iron men” in the Michigan State contest, going the full 60 minutes against the opponent who had knocked the Irish off twice in his four years.
Terry’s
JOE HEAP, a standout in the Irish backfield for four years, capped his Notre Dame football career with a brilliant day against SMU. He racked up a ten-yard average and galloped 89 yards for the longest Irish run in five years. During his four years of play, Joe broke the all-time Notre Dame pass catching record. The “Heaper” was especially ■dangerous on kick returns and led the Irish in scoring with 48 points.
Sam Palumbo
SAM PALUMBO provided the savage defensive play and the laughs on this year’s eleven. Sam was the weekly topic of pep rally speakers and the downtown j quarterbacks. Sam also im-proved his blocking and both Heap and Schaefer ran behind “Sambo” in tight situations. He helped turn an attempted Purdue^ punt into a safety by trapping Rex Brock in the end zone. Sam has won four monograms at
Notre
Dick Szymanski
DICK SZYMANSKI, better known as “Szymo”, was the regular center of the Irish until he ruptured his spleen in the Penn game. Szymanski proved that he was a heads up ball player when he caught a deflected pass for a one-yard gain in that contest. Szymanski, up until his injury, had clocked more playing time than any other member on the Irish squad. He has won four monograms playing for the Irish.
JACK LEE was a tiger
guard
for four years. He was the number one defensive middle guard his first two years and this season was a first stringer. Stocky Jackie has done a stellar job at plugging up the center of the Irish defensive line. Along with Sam Palumbo, he was often found in the opponent’s back-field. Jack called Irish defensive signals for three years. He was also a fine blocker and received national mention.
30
Dame.
Jack Lee
The Scholasti
RAY LEMEK turned in another fit ^pffparkling year at left guard. Ray, jy*vho impressed in his sophomore year with his speed and agility, $1 proved that it wasn’t a fluke. His flaring tackles and fine downfield g blocking made him one of the I most respected Irish linemen. A | severe knee injury in the South-| em Cal contest ended Ray’s 1954 play and necessitated an operation. Many experts believe Ray [ x-will make All-American next T Vyear if his knee mends.
Ray Lemek
Don Schaefer
DON SCHAEFER was Notre Dame’s potent fullback this year. He was switched from quarterback during 1953 and has been a regular- all this year. Don was a standout linebacker, and did most of the Irish punting and conversion work. He added to the Irish rout of Pennsylvania with a 70-yard run from scrimmage. “Schaef” had a five yard running average this year. He kicked 13 extra points without a miss in one streak.
Tom Carey
TOM CAREY has spelled Ralph Guglielmi for three years. He took ovex- the quarterbacking reins in the Pittsburgh, North Carolina, and Iowa games this year. Tom had a very good passing percentage fox- the season and flipped one TD to Gene Kap-ish fox- 37 yards in the Iowa rout. He also ran fox- a long gainer against the Hawkeyes. Little Tom teamed with Jim Munro two times fox- a touchdown combination.
JIM MORSE took ovex* the right halfback spot at the season’s opening and shared punting chores with Don Schaefer. He was a fine breakaway x-unnex* all year. Jim stunned the crowd with his 77-yard gallop on the opening kickoff to set up the first score against North Carolina. He also had a 72-yard touchdown jaunt in the USC tilt. The lone tally in the Navy game was also Jim’s. He came into his own in the last few games.
Jim Morse
-----------First-----;-----
j GENE KAPISH was hampered 1 by injuries most of the year, but ' stood out at end when he did get j in the game. He was an aggres-I sive defensive player- and prob-I ably the best Irish pass grabber.
His nifty reception of Tom ‘ , Carey’s long toss in the Iowa ZJ) game broke the Hawkeye’s back. ■ Gene possesses fine speed and is a natural pass x-eceivex- who adds a constant threat to the team. He should be a first stringex- next I year if his leg holds up.
Gene Kapish
Pat Bisceglia
PAT BISCEGLIA filled in very aptly at guard all season. He alternated with Ray Lemek as the starting left guard mid-way in the season. “Patsy” is a fast man both ways and is noted for his hard driving, “shoestring” tackles. He thwarted a Michigan State score this year by knifing through to drop the ball carrier fox- a nine-yard loss. He also helped deflect the important try for point by Jerry Planutis in the State tilt.
Wayne Edmonds
WAYNE EDMONDS proved himself to be one of the quickest ND linemen this year. His slashing defensive thrusts knocked down many quarterbacks before they could get rid of the ball. He is a good blocker and should take ovex- from Frank Varrichione next season. Wayne sat out most of the Southern Cal. game with a sore ankle. He is one of the fastest ND linemen to come along in years.
PAUL REYNOLDS the speedy halfback, hampered most of the season by a knee injury, had his best day against Iowa, catching passes and x-unning through the Iowa defense. Reynolds is a junior- and he is expected to be the regular- right halfback next year. Reynolds had several long runs in the Pitt game and he sparkled in the Navy game. Paul is perhaps the most able pass defender- on the Irish roster.
Paul Reynolds
^^December 10, 1954
31
PAUL HORNUNG, sophomore sensation, saw action this year at both quarterback and fullback. He showed deftness against North Carolina in working the famous spread formation. He stunned the crowd in the Purdue tilt with a -59-yard kickoff return to the Purdue one. Paul filled in at the fullback slot very capably against Iowa and Navy. He also was a rough linebacker. Paul had the best punting average and was also a PAT specialist.
Paul Hornung
Don George
DON GEORGE played behind Dan Shannon this year at left^ end. Don stands 6-4 and is an*l adequate pass receiver and a rough defensive performer. Don should take over the starting chores next year. The coaches rate him as one of the best defensive ends to come along in quite awhile. Don seems to like it when the action is heavy. He has been coached on his offensive blocking and pass receiving for^ 1955.	*
Jim Mense
JIM MENSE a reserve center for most of the year finally got to prove his worth when he stepped in to fill the centering job left vacant by the injured Dick Szymanski. In the Iowa game Mense was outstanding on defense, repeatedly stopping the highly-regarded Iowa rushing game. Mense is a two letter man and he is looking forward to his greatest year in 1955. Jim’s speed made him a potent downfield blocker.
DEAN STUDER was one of the seatbacks that moved up from last year’s fine freshman team. Studer took over the right halfback job in the Pitt contest and impressed with his flashy broken-field running. Eastern writers called him “one of the best soph backs to appear in years.” Dean also enjoyed a good game against North Carolina when he broke away for a long gainer. He is especially adept at breaking clear on pass patterns.
Dean Studer
-Notre-;-
GEORGE NICULA saw a lot of action this year with the second team. George figures to be one of the top candidates for a starting berth on next year’s eleven. He has proven himself an outstanding two-way player. He has weight, size, and speed. George saw action in most of the Irish games and was particularly impressive against Penn and Iowa: All he needs now is a little more game experience.
George Nicu la
Bob Ready
BOB READY is another huge lineman who starred in occasional relief appearances for the Irish this year. Bob was an outstanding defensive workman under the two platoon system, but found trouble adapting himself to the one-way style. His play at tackle, however, earned/--him the number two left tackle* job after Wayne Edmonds sprained his ankle. He stands 6-3 and weighs 212.
Gene Martell
GENE MARTELL alternated between tackle and guard this season. He was a member of the second team that put on those stout goal line stands at Iowa in the fourth quarter. Gene also saw limited action at guard in the multiple defense. He was one of the biggest Irish linemen, carrying 212 pounds on his 6-3 frame. Gene played well both ways for the Irish and got his longest workout in the North Carolina rout.
SHERRILL SIPES filled in very capably all year- at halfback. He showed good speed against North Carolina, and had a 60-yard sprint called back. Sherrill teamed with Tom Carey to capitalize on a 24-yard pass play for one of the Irish touchdowns in the Pittsburgh game. His speed makes him an ideal pass receiver. Sherrill was a teammate of Hornung’s in Louisville where they teamed on many TD passes. Fans hope they team up again in 1955.
Sherrill Sipes
32
The Scholastic
। ED COOK, a bruising 210 pound-from Philadelphia, served as Brennan’s “elute h” defensive ; lineman this season. Brennan 5 called on Ed against Texas and he moved into the middle guard slot and stopped the Longhorn running game. Ed proved especially effective on defense, but also knew how to throw his weight around while blocking. Ed has performed at both guard and .^^center at Notre Dame. He is a / senior in Physical Education.
Ed Cook
Dick Fitzgerald
DICK FITZGERALD alternated between fullback and halfback this year. Hampered by a severe leg injury, Dick saw limited service in early games. He saw heavy-duty against the Tar Heels and impressed with his power running. “Fitzie” also is a solid line backer. His speed made him valuable against passing clubs. “Fitzie” had one of the most fabulous Chicago High School records ever compiled, and hopes to .come into his own in 1955.
Dick Frasor
DICK FRASOR split his playing time between guard and center. Shifted to guard early in the year, Dick moved back to his familiar center position when Szymanski was injured. A speedy linebacker, Dick is one of the graduating seniors. He is a “heady” defensive performer and usually calls signals when backing up the line. Most of Dick’s playing time came in the North Carolina game. Dick is another of Brennan’s charges from Mount Carmel.
JACK WITUCKI saw considerable service from the fullback post this season. He started the Michigan State game in his first big test. Jack is a sophomore who showed the coaching staff that he has football savvy. His offensive running power made him valuable in drives straight up the middle. With a year’s experience under his belt, Jack should see a lot of heavy duty in 1955. He has been drilled extensively on ball handling.
Jack Witucki
-------Dame-------
TONY PASQUESI took the honors for being the “Moose” of the 1954 Fighting Irish. Tony weighed in at 215 and stood 6-4. He liked his defensive play best and saw extensive action in the North Carolina game. Tony is another big player who found \ it hard to pick up the blocking in / the new one-way rules. Tony is a graduating senior who hails from Chicago. He is enrolled in Notre Dame’s College of Commerce.
Tony Pasquesi
Nick Raich
NICK RAICH is a rough house fullback who gave the opposition trouble with his off-tackle slants. Nick missed the last half of the season with injuries. He battled Don Schaefer- for the job in spring practice before dropping out. Built much like Neil Worden, Nick runs hard and close to the ground. He should be back in shape for 1955 duty. The Coaches were also impressed by his smart line backing and pass defense.
Walt Cabral
AV ALT CABRAL, Hawaii’s contribution to the 1954 Irish, saw most of his action at end. Walt, however, also drilled at tackle and was prepared to step in there if needed. He has always been an end here at Notre Dame where he has won two previous letters. A sturdy defensive performer, Walt was agile enough to break into the clear often on tricky pass patterns. Walt is also studying physical education at ND.
BOB SCANNELL, the only South Bend high school product on this year’s eleven, played spectacular ball for the Irish when he broke into the lineup. Bob crashed the headlines in the SMU game when he flared through to block a Pony punt and dash over for a ND score. He also recovered a fumble deep in SMU territory. He is also a fine pass receiver. Bob’s Dad, John Scannell, is head of the Notre Dame Physical Education Department.
Bob Scannell
December 10, 1954
33
JIM MUNRO was a fortunate player in the Irish ranks this year. Jim appeared to be the favorite target of Toni Carey this season. Although seeing limited action, Jim snagged a pair of TD passes from Tom. He scored on the last play of the game against Pitt and again against North Carolina. Jim is one of the many promising sophomore ends that Brennan has coming back. He needs defensive polish before next season.
Lou Loncaric
Jim Munro
Jim Bigelow
JIM BIGELOW impersonated the best quarterbacks in the country during the week as he directed' the opponents’ attack on Cartier Field. But Jim was a good Saturday afternoon quarterback too, as he proved when he ran the Irish eleven in the fourth quarter against North Carolina. Jim is a sharp passer and an alert defensive back. Jim is another of the g r a d u a t i n g seniors. He hopes to become a« lawyer.
LOU LONCARIC, hustling sophomore center prospect, played in the shadow of Szymanski and Mense. Lou got his big chance against the North Carolina Tar Heels and turned in a creditable performance. He was very sharp on pass defense, knocking down three Tar Heel attempts. The coaches called Lou a real “comer” who should develop with needed experience. With a little more weight over his big frame, Lou should be tougher in 1955.
JOHN GAFFNEY started the Texas game at fullback, but a recurrent ankle injury sidelined him fox- the rest of the season. John is a better than average punter and fine runner. He also stood out in defense. He suffered the same fate in his sophomore year. If his ankle mends, he will undoubtedly see much service in the Irish backfield in 1955. Exercises have been prescribed to mend the ankle. John is one back who prefers defense.
John Gaffney
Squad
FRANK FINN, a powerful little halfback from Chicago, gradually developed this year until Coach Brennan gave him his chance against North Carolina. Frank responded by blasting over for one Irish score and pilfering a Tar Heel aerial. Touted as the best Irish running back, Frank was especially dangerous around the ends. Brennan also coached Frank in high school. With additional defensive work in the spring, Frank will be ready in 1955.
Frank Pinn
JOHN McMULLAN is a very rough guard who hails from Hoboken, N. J. John suffered a shoulder injury in the middle of the season, but played his way back into contention with a great two-way game against North Carolina. His bruising open field blocking and tackling caught the^ crowd’s fancy and he received an ovation when Brennan relieved him late in the contest. John is a smart lineman, especially adept on defense.
IT TAKES MORE THAN FOOTBALL PLAYERS
Terry Brennan
TERRY BRENNAN wrapped up his first season as Notre Dame football coach with a sparkling- record of nine wins and < ' only one loss, the best first year effort turned in by an Irish(j^'| coach in modern football. Terry has dispelled any apprehension that his youth and lack of experience would hamper him in taking over from the “Old Master,” Frank Leahy.
The Purdue loss jolted him, but he bounced back to direct the Irish to a very commendable record. It seems now that the little halfback who ran back the opening kickoff in the	|
1947 Army-Notre Dame game 97 yards for a touchdown has	!
proved to the country that he can fill anybody’s shoes. f
Terry played his first football at Notre Dame under ■ , Hughie Devore in 1945. The next year, 160-lb. Terry leda -all the ball carriers on the field in the famous Notre Darne-A^^ Army scoreless tie. Included in the little war in Yankee Stadium that afternoon were such Knight greats as Tucker, Blanchard and Davis, and Irish stars Lujack and Sitko.
Brennan graduated from Notre Dame in 1948 with a Bachelor’s degree in Pre-Law. The following March he assumed the coaching reins at Mount Carmel in Chicago. While leading the Chicago team to a record three city championships in a row, he found time to get a legal degree from	J
DePaul in June 1953. He came to Notre Dame as freshman	J
coach the following fall.	I
Terry comes from a family that is no stranger to Notre^^l Dame. His dad, a Milwaukee lawyer, was Irish center in 1909 before transferring to Marquette. His brother Jim was a ND halfback in 1944, ’46, and ’47.
He is married to the former Mary Louise Kelley and they have two children, Terence Kelley and Denise Marian.
Head Coach ... Athletic Director^
ED KRAUSE, the man who was first called “Moose” at • Notre Dame, is athletic director of his alma mater. Edward Walter “Moose” Krause was bora February 2, 1913 in Chicago, and became director of athletics in 1951.
He entered Notre Dame in 1930 from De LaSalle High School. And before he left the Irish institution he was named to the All-American football team three years as a tackle and twice to the basketball honor team as center. And during his undergraduate days, he was voted a trophy by the student body as their favorite varsity athlete, the only Notre Dame graduate that can claim such an award.
Over the years as Notre Dame Athletic Director he has become one of the more popular and widely known sports figures in the country. “Moose’s” quick wit and pleasing manner have gained him admiration and respect of his colleagues.
Krause went to St. Mary’s College in Winona, Minn., as coach of all sports after graduation from Notre Dame. After five successful years there he became line and basketball coach at Holy Cross College. In 1942 he returned to Notre Dame as line coach under Frank Leahy. That winter George Keogan, basketball coach died, and “Moose” was appointed his successor.
In 1944 he joined the Marines as a second lieutenant. Discharged in 1946 as a first lieutenant he returned to Notre Dame as Leahy’s line coach and basketball mentor.
In 1948 Krause was named assistant athletic director and the following year assumed full time duties.
i
36
John Druze
"JOHN DRUZE handled two very vital jobs for Terry Brennan this year. He tutored the ends and concentrated on Irish foes in his chief scouting assignment. The sterling play of Dan Shannon, Paul Matz, and Gene Kapish proves
that John performed his coaching duties well. The stout Notre Dame defense and the shutout record speak well of his scouting.
John came to Notre Dame with Frank Leahy in 1941 and has remained except for* three years in the Navy. He was one of the “Seven Blocks of Granite” on the 1937 Fordham grid eleven.
John played pro football with the Brooklyn Dodgers before Frank Leahy called on him to coach the ends at Boston College. He man-ied the former Miss Rose Stocki on Jan. 24, 1942 and they have one daughter, Dorothy Ann.
BILL EARLY is the other coaching holdover’ from Leahy’s 1953 staff. He served as backfield coach under Brennan and did much of the game masterminding from the pressbox by phone.
This year the nifty play of promising newcomers Jim Morse, Don Schaefer, Paul Hornung, Dean Studer, and Sherrill Sipes carries Bill’s trademark.
Bill played under’ both Elmer Layden and Leahy at Notre Dame. He returned to his alma mater in 1946 as assistant backfield coach after serving in the Air Force. It only took Bill one year to
Bill Early
move up to the head backfield job here.
Bill married the former Miss Louise Katherine Schilling on Feb. 18, 1943. They have five children, Michael Henry, Cathy Louise, Mary Elizabeth, Patricia Ann, and Ann Elizabeth.
' • • • and Four Top Assistants
GEORGE DICKSON, the quarterback-coach, completed his first season as a Notre Dame assistant last Saturday. He had several years experience coaching in high school and college before hooking up with Brennan.
George Dickson
break in Paul Hornung in the intricacies of the Split-T formation that is peculiar to Brennan’s style.
He had a fairly easy time when it came to coaching his two senior signalcallers, Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey. Both, however, improved their passing percentages in 1954.
George entered Notre Dame in 1940, but enlisted in the paratroopers after his freshman year. He returned to Notre Dame in 1946, but only for one semester. He came back to finish up in 1948.
BILL FISCHER turned from the pro football wars to the comparative quiet of the college gridiron scene in 1954. Bill handled the linemen this year and tried to impart a few skills that he has learned along the football trail.
The biggest job Bill had this year was the lack of depth in the line. He had to rely on his first team to go all the way, but still trying to pick the spots to give the reserves the needed experience.
Bill was an All-American in 1947 and 1948 here at Notre Dame.
He captained the Irish in his senior year and led the Eastern All-Stars to a 14-12 victory over the West in the 1949 Shrine game. Sportswriters picked him as the most valuable collegian in the 1949 All-Star game. Bill manned the former Roma Kainer in 1949.
Bill Fischer
^December 10, 1954
37
They Turn the Wheels
By JOHN ADAMS
Some Armed Forces statistician once estimated that it takes 20 people behind the lines to maintain one soldier in the front line during a battle. Not to be outdone, ol’ ND has some 200 people backing up Brennan’s Irishmen who come charging out onto the field at the beginning of every game. This corps, plus a whole army of rooters in the stands, is the real answer to the terrible effectiveness of the Fighting Irish football team.
The men of this corps go about their appointed tasks silently and efficiently, unnoticed and unpraised. Two or three of the leaders of these men are before
Herb Jones
the public eye enough to have achieved some kind of recognition, but the others remain in obscurity years on end. Most of the people who follow sports, for example, have at least heard of “FieldMarshal” Brennan and “Commander-in-Chief” Ed Krause, but how many of them would recognize “Quartermaster”
Jack McAllister and the “Intelligence” man, Charlie Callahan?
To an amiable little man by the name of Herbert E. Jones falls the gargantuan task of managing finances and business for Notre Dame’s athletics. “Notre Dame’s athletics” is no term to be batted around lightly; it’s an enterprise that grosses several hundred thousand dollars a year, considerably more than just pocket money.
Herb not only knows where he can get the most for the least in equipment and supplies but also in transportation and accommodations the country over. He has charge of arranging the detail of Irish out-of-town games, no easy chore even under the best of circumstances, and the best is rare.
The ’27 graduate from Dixon, Ill., also has charge of the some 2,000 vendors, ticket-takers, parking lot attendants, ushers, and so on, who manage the enormous home-game crowds and keep them happy so they’ll want to come back again.
Some of the campus Romeos who kept tabs on exactly how many letters have come in to date would really have a heyday in Bob Cahill’s office which gets somewhere in the neighborhood of half a million requests for tickets every year. Len Kahler and Betty Walsh are Cahill’s top assistants.
Just reading the tremendous influx of mail would keep him and his 14 man staff busy throughout the year but the ticket office is also responsible for complying as nearly as possible with specific requests for seating, for securing tickets for alumni to away games, and for explaining patiently to disappointed fans why they are in the end zone or why there just aren’t any more tickets left for the Michigan State game. Fortunately for him, there are no pillars in the stadium.
Most of the troops here at ol’ ND naively think that all the articles ot^ Notre Dame athletics they see in the current periodicals “just happen.” Nothing could be farther from the truth, Charlie Callahan’s ulcer will vouch for that.
Anything that leaves the campus which even remotely concerns athletics passes through Callahan’s sports publicity office. He is deluged from autumn to autumn with requests for autographed pictures of the players, for answers4 to obscure sports queries (like who held' the ball for Anny on Brennan’s famous kickoff return), and for literally volumes of statistics and general information.
Tom Welly and Jo Papa head force.
Charlie also has charge of man press box in the stadium.
his office
the 300
It’s not
Charlie Callahan
just in it but also of seeing that
every-

one is comfortable and has all the data, he could ever want. This last includes^ complete player biographies and statis- -tics over the years from every conceivable point of view.
Joe Dierickx, stadium custodian, has not the time to sit around and watch
Left, Jo Papa and Tom Welly. Center, The Pressbox in Action. Right, Len Kahler, Bob Cahill, and Betty Walsh.
’ his pride and joy, the stadium grass, ^et chewed up every Saturday. He has r to be out riding herd on the some 66 stadium -phones to see that they are in running order throughout the game; in fact, he has to keep the whole electrical system ship-shape for the announcers, the radio-TV men, and the coaches’ phones, all of which can, and have, gone on the blink right in the middle of an exciting game.
At the Michigan State game this year, |$he field was reduced to a sea of mud in no time flat, hardly a green spot could be seen anywhere at the close of the game. But for the North Carolina tiff it looked like it hadn’t been touched by anything except manicure scissors all year long.
The 69-year-old veteran supervises the cleaning of the stadium after each game from which literally tons of rubbish are removed.
Someone has to keep track of all the "'gear that Herb Jones buys and for 30 years now, John W McAllister has been doing just that. This wizened old gentleman is the Notre Dame equipment manager, and manage equipment he does. Not only does he see that the gear is where it’s supposed to be tvhen it’s supposed to be, but he sees to it that very little of it “strays” after it’s been used.
While at home he makes sure each player gets a clean pair of whites for each practice session; this runs about *£our elephant bags’ worth a day. He also sees to it that the equipment is kept in repair and replaced if worn or broken.
For the road trips he outfits a caravan to make Farouk turn green. Fully 18 trunks are packed with 125 pairs of shoes, four changes of uniform for 36 players, 50 blankets and five changes of s. whites. Medical supplies and extra shoelaces, tape, and so on are also in-Ailuded.
Close behind “Mac” are the managers headed by Senior Ed Kelley and the two Associate Managers, Seniors Dick O’Rourke and Phil Stump. These men attend to the multitude of details that crop up at the even simplest practice sessions.
Bumps and bruises are inevitable in a sport like football and Johnny-on-the-spot for them when they occur is Gene Paszkiet, trainer. Gene is the miracle r vJman who patches up all the damage after each game and practice so that the team will be able to “play again another day.” The tools in his workshop include infra-red and ultra-violet lamps, diathermy machines, whirl-pool baths and the like. An artisan with tape, he wisely refers any serious or doubtful cases to the team doctor, George F. Green.
S, And so we have considered briefly a M few of the unsung heroes of the Notre
^'December 10, 1954


Dame gridiron. Ironically enough, many of them practically never see a game because of their duties, but they have the satisfaction of knowing that the Irish football machine would soon bog down were it not for their constant and loving care.
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
JEWELERS
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
D*KWTURB0W
\OPTOAAETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -----
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED --------
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2i-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
minis LIBRARY ail BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
4— Actual pipe hoi your own college Utter on bawl
NYLON BIT Guaranteed Bite-Proof
MEDICO JUmafflater FILTER PIPE*3*°&*5°° FILTERS
Medico’s filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace -with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
r„ D-ig Hu(jdle
For your College or Class Pipe
39
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish of 1954
4>
8
58
19^. 6S^ 87 $39 ^’9 3	17® 5 $^$50^85 ®55 %
4*   "	' /	r{ —• -	*
_	__ •" m	__ /
<SSs. 9Ex S?_ 5'-
88 63 9C 33
w rfl
liti
,	8F- 7^ 3',	7^
2 85 74 4g S7 58 w.	•', -y
Li IP is







First row (left to right): Dick Szymanski, Tony Pasquesi, Jim Bigelow, Walt Cabral, Dick Frasor, Co-Captains Paul Matz and Dan Shannon, Tom Carey, Jack Lee, Bob Ready, Joe Heap, Sam Palumbo, Ed Cook. Second row: John McMullan, Ray Lemek, Dick Hendricks, Joe Bill, Gene Kapish, Jim Mense, Mike Regan, Wayne Edmonds, Gene Martell, Don George, Nick Raich, Frank Pinn, John Kegaly.
Third row; Richard O’Rourke (manager), Jack King, Jack Witucki, Luke Carrabine, Joe Markowski, Jim Munro, Bob Salvino, Jim Morse,
Paul Hornung, Dean Studer, Pete Noznesky, Lou Loncaric, Bob Coyne. Fourth row: Edward Kelly (senior manager), Ralph Guglielmi, Tom Cunningham, George Groble, Paul Schramm, Larry Cooke, Gerry Gerami, Dave Davin, Jim Milota, Frank Stanitzek, Jack Dumas, Ed Murphy, Joe Bihn, Bob Lake, Frank Varrichione, Bob Scannell.
Fifth row: Sherrill Sipes, John McDonnell, Bill Rigali, Tom Zervas, Joe Bosse, Pat Bisceglia, Byron Beams, Dick Fitzgerald, George Nicula, Don Schaefer, Philip Stump (manager).
4
« The Freshman Roundup
By JIM GOETHALS
The freshman football team, coached by Frank “Blackie” Johnston, completed its fall practice period last Friday afternoon, marking the end of the first year of Notre Dame football for 48 candi-^lates.
Coach Johnston states that: “I am well pleased with the results but had expected more freshmen to take part in the practice.”
The chief purpose of freshman football, explained Coach Johnston, is to teach the newcomers Notre Dame’s style of play. Most of the practice time of the four-day week is devoted to the basic fundamentals and instructions on ^the Notre Dame Split-T. Occasional scrimmage sessions are held against the varsity.
Coach Johnston points out that the scholastic standings of the freshmen are closely checked to determine whether or not the boys are making the adjustment from high school to college.
Also, athletic eligibility of the freshmen is checked in order that they be available when the 20-day spring practice rolls along.
Starting with the end position, the standouts in this department thus far have been Bob Witucki, Dick Prendergast, and Tom Sanfacon.
Witucki, a 6-2, 200 pounder from Tulsa, Oklahoma, has shown both offensive and defensive ability with his size and spe.ed. Prendergast, a 6-2, 198 pound prospect from Homewood, Til., has shown skill in blocking. While Sanfacon, a 6-3, 198 pound end from Paterson, N. J., Akhas shown signs of developing into a solid flankman. Other freshman ends deserving special mention are Bill Owens of Lafayette, La., Bob McCarthy of Boston, Mass., Len Barbarisi of Everett, Mass., and Joe Killian of Akron, Ohio.
Middle Linemen Are Big
Among the promising tackle prospects are Pat Dolan of Scranton, Pa., Paul Djubasak of Cleveland, Ohio, and Jim ^Sullivan of Santa Rosa, Cal. All three " of these boys tip the scales at better than 200 pounds.
Bill Kantor of Carnegie, Pa., Bob Gaydos of Donora, Pa., John McGinley of Indianapolis, Ind., Dick Shulsen of Salt Lake City, Utah, and Tom Kane of Coeur’d’Alene, Idaho, all have made impressive showings as guards, while Al Francis, a 6 ft., 220 pounder, and Frank Kuchta, a 6-1, 210 pound giant are the top prospects for the center position.
Among the talented quarterbacks, Carl Herbert, a ’ sharpshooter from Lafayette, La., and John Mugford of Chelsea, Mass., are the top candidates. Close behind them are two other capable passers, John Kennedy of Tacoma, Wash., and Bud Trapp of Sycamore, Ill.
Outstanding left halfback prospects are Frank Scett of Glendale, Pa., Dick Wilkins of Duncan, Okla., Bill Hickey of Highstown, N. J., and Roger Kiley Jr., of Chicago.
Frank “Blackie” Johnston
Dick Lynch of Clinton, N. J., John Russo of Flushing, N. Y., Bill Quinlan of Mt. Pleasant, Mich., and Mel Larsen of De Witt, Iowa are the leading candidates at the right halfback spot.
The top-rated freshmen fullbacks are Chuck Lima, a 6-1, 200 pounder from Cincinnati, Ohio, and Jim Morris, a 6-2, 210 pound lad from Quincy, Ill. Both boys have shown offensive power.
Other outstanding prospects who are currently on the injured list are Aubrey Lewis of Montclair, N. J., and John Vokes of Harrisburg, Pa. Lewis possesses both speed and power, and although being sidelined because of a chest injury, he should be ready to go by next spring. Vokes, on the other hand, was injured in an automobile accident, and also suffered the loss of his parents, but he too hopes to be able to play in the future.
Coach Johnston gives this overall summation of his squad: “Good size and fair speed.”
I
&
a
&
Bl HOfftt IN HOURS'-

FLY UNITED
AIR UNES
I'"	You can travel ahoard
United’s luxurious 1st Class Mainliners at fares comparable to traveling by rail with berth.
AND
You get full-course mealtime service for no extra cost. There’s no tipping and | you enjoy many, many § extra vacation hours at if home.
^UNITE^
South Bend: for reservations, call 2-UO1 or an authorized travel agonf.
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
STEAKS and CHOPS
Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight Now Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.
537 North St. Loais
Five Minutes from the Campus
41
Stadium Shows Fete ND Greats*
Father Joyce Hands Carideo His Scroll
The half time entertainment of home Notre Dame football games this year was marked by more than unique marching by the famous Irish Marching Band.
Three times this season intermissions were devoted to honoring members of the Notre Dame family. Athletic Director' ■“Moose” Krause presented ex-Irish quarterback Frank Carideo with a plaque at the Purdue game as Carideo entered the Football Hall of Fame.
Carideo was field general of the 1928, 1929, and 1930 Fighting Irish. He is one of the most famous in a long list of ND greats.
The award, given for outstanding deeds and example as a football player, was received in a spirit of deep humility.
“Rock’s” Chief Assistant
The Undefeated National Champions of 1929 and 1930
Carideo praised his teammates and coach for his ability to receive the award. He said, “I am deeply grateful to every man on those teams of 1928, 1929, and 1930, and to our immortal coach, Knute Rockne, for if it were not for those men, I could not be here to receive this honor today.”
Twice named a grid All-American, Carideo took up coaching after graduation. He saw service at Purdue, Missouri, Mississippi State, and Iowa. He retired from athletics in 1949 and is now an insurance executive in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
The 1929 and 1930 Notre Dame National Champions were hailed on their 25 th anniversary on Nov. 13. These teams, Rockne’s last two, at Notre Dame, were introduced individually to the fans at the half of the North Carolina contest.
John Law and Tom Conley, the captains of these teams, spoke at the Friday night pep rally and represented the two undefeated elevens at the game.
“Moose” Krause, presented this star-studded group that included such Irish grid greats as Joe Savoldi, Bert Metzger, and Frank Leahy. “Hunk” Anderson, Rockne’s line coach at that time, then presented a bouquet of roses to Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, the “Rock’s” chief assistant.
Prior to this, the Notre Dame band saluted Joe Casasanta with the Irish
“Hike Song.” Casasanta is the former
band director at Notre Dame who wrote the stirring melody.	L
The chilly, gray, afternoon of the V Southern Cal game saw Joe Daley, President of the Notre Dame Students J Senate, present Frank Leahy, former Irish mentor, with a spiritual bouquet from the student body. The prayer parcel was in return for many years of faithful service to Notre Dame. \
This was one of the few public ap- > pearances by Leahy on the Notre Dame I scene this year, although he did attend I the games in his box.	I
• *
Leahy Exhorts “The Troops” I
42

i

							
1954 NOTRE DAME VARSITY ROSTER							
No. NAME	POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOME TOWN	HIGH SCHOOL	CLASS
2 ***Carey, Thomas 		QB	21	5-10	180	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel 			Sr.
3 ***Guglielmi, Ralph 		QB	20	6-0	185	Columbus, Ohio 			Grandview 			Sr.
4 Bucci, Donald 		QB	21	6-0	186	Youngstown, Ohio 			East		Sr
5 Hornung, Paul 		QB	18	6-2	190	Louisville, Ky.			Flaget 			So.
6 Cooke, Larry 			QB	18	6-0	185	Ennis, Texas				Ennis 				—		So.
8 Bigelow, James 							QB	2G	5-11	170	Glenshaw, Pa.			Shaler 			Sr.
9 *Schaefer, Donald 		 FB-HB		20	5-11	185	Pittsburgh, Pa.			Central Catholic 			Jr.
11 McDonnell, John 		HB	19	5-11	175	Sterling, Ill.			Newman Catholic 			So.
12 Sipes, Sherrill 		HB	19	6-0	185	Louisville, Ky. —				Flaget 			So.
15 Callaghan, Leo 	 			HB	21	6-1	185	Passaic, N. J.	 Chicago, Ill. 			Pope Pius XII	 	Fenwick 			Sr.
16 Rigali, William 		HB	19	5-10	175				So.
17 Morse, James 			HB	19	5-11	180	Muskegon, Mich.			St. Mary’s 			So.
18 **Reynolds, Paul „ 		FB	21	6-0	180	Springfield, Ill-	...	. Cathedral		Jr.
19 Milota, James 				HB	19	5-11	170	Park Ridge, Ill.	 Tulsa, Okla.		„		Fenwick		So.
20 Witucki, Jack 		HB	19	6-1	185					Cascia Hall 						So.
21 Gerami, Gerald	HB	19	5-9 5-11 5-8	178 180 160	Lafayette, La.	 Billings, Mont.	 Van Dyke, Mich. 		Cathedral	So.
22 Studer, Dean ..	HB	18						So.
30 Ward, Robert				HB	19					.German Twp.	
32 *Fitzgerald, Richard 		FB	21	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			St. George			Jr.
33 ***Shannon, Dan (Co-Capt.) 		E	20	6-0	190	Chicago, Ill. 			Mt. Carmel			Sr.
34 Gaffney, John 				FB	20	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.			St. Ignatius	 	Marquette	 	Community 			Jr.
37 Raich, Nicholas 			FB	20	5-10	185				Jr.
38 Wilson, George 			FB	20	5-11	185	Polo, Ill.			—	Jr.
40 *KeIler, Richard 			HB	19	6-0	175	Toledo, Ohio			Central Catholic 			Jr.
41 Pinn, Frink 					FB	19	5-10	190	Chicago, Ill.				Mt. Carmel					So.
42 ***Heap, Joseph 			HB	22	5-11	180	Abita Springs, La.			Holy Cross			-Sr-
43 Markowski, Joseph 		FB	20	6-0	185	Hamilton, Ontario			Cathedral			Jr.
45 Kaiser, David 		FB	19	6-2	195	Alpena, Mich.					Alpena 				_So.
	E	19	6-4	203 205	Chicago, Ill.	 Lawrence, Mass.			So.
48 Bosse, Joseph 		..				T	19	6-2			Central Catholic		So.
49 Hendricks, Richard 		HB	20	6-1	180	Danville, Ill.			Schlarman			Jr.
50 Noznesky, Pete 		E	19	6-0	180	Lansdowne, Pa. 			LaSalle Military Acad. Oakdale, L. I., N. Y. _		So.
51 Mense, James 		C	19	5-11	205	Hamilton, Ohio			Hamilton Catholic 			Jr.
52 ***Szymauski, Richard 		C	21	6-2	215	Toledo, Ohio	,				Libbety			Sr.
53 Carrabine, Luke 		C	19	6-1	205	Gary, Indiana			Gary Emerson			So.
56 Cook, Edward 	 „...	C	21	6-1	210	Philadelphia, Pa.			S.E. Catholic			Sr.
58 King, Jack 	 59 Regan, Michael 			G	18	5-10	200			
	E	19	6-2	200	Buffalo, N. Y.			 			 Canisius		 --		Jr.
60 ***Varrichione, Frank 	 -	T	21	6-0	210		Na tick	-		Sr.
61 McMullan, John 	 62 *Bisceglia, Pat 		G	20	5-10	200	Hoboken, N. J. 	 Worcester, Mass.			Jr-
	G	23	5-10	190			Commerce 				Jr.
63 Frasor, • Richard 		C	21	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel				Sr.
64 McCabe, Pete 		G	18	6-2	205	Wilmette, Ill.			New Trier			So.
65 ***Lee, Jack 					G	21	5-11	190	Medford, Mass.			Malden Catholic 			Sr.
	G	19	6-1	205	Lakewood, Ohio		 Cleveland, Ohio . 			So.
67 ***Palumbo, Samuel 			 			T	21	6-1	208			Collinwood	Sr.
68 Nakfoor, Patrick 				E	20	6-4	205	Lansing, Mich. 	.....	 Grand Rapids, Mich. „		St. Mary’s	 	Grand Rapids		Jr-
69 Stanitzek, Francis 			G	19	5-10	200 .				So.
70 Martell, Eugene 		T	19	6-3	212	Midland, Pa.			Lincoln			Jr.
71 Beams, Byron 		T	19	6-4	217	Ada, Okla.			Ada			So.
72 *Lemek, Raymond 			G	19	6-1	205	Sioux City, la.			Heslan			Jr.
.	73 Mondron, Robert 		T	19	6-3	210	Charleston, W. Va.			Charleston Catholic 			So.
74 **Ready, Robert 		T	21	6-3	212	Lowell, Mass. 			Lowell 			Sr.
75 Pasquesi, Anthony 	 76 Groble, George 			T	20	6-4	215	Chicago, Ill. ...	.. St. Phillip		Sr.
	T	18	6-2	212	Chicago, Ill.			St. Ignatius			So.
77 Nicula, George 		T	19	6-2	205	Warren, Ohio 			Harding 			Jr.
78 Kegaly, John 		T	20	6-3	207	Chicago, UI.			St. Ignatius			Jr.
79 Bihn, Joseph 		T	19	6-2	208	San Jose, Calif.			Bellarmine Prep 			So.
80 Munro, James 				E	18	6-0	195	Chicago, Ill.			St. George			So.
81 *George, Donald 		E	20	6-4	205	Dunbar, Pa.		,, ,	Dunbar		....	, 			Jr.
82 *Edmonds, Wayne 			G	20	6-0	205	Canonsburg, Pa.			Canonsburg 			Jr.
83 Scannell, Robert 		E	19	6-0	190	South Bend, Ind.			Central			So.
84 Zajeski, Benedict 		G	20	6-3	205	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Carmel			Jr.
85 Loncaric, Louis 	 .	E	18	6-3	190	Battle Creek, Mich. 			St. Philip 			So.
	T	18	6-2	919	Cincinnati, O. .	Purcell .	
87 Dumas, Jack 		E	19	6-3	190	Grand Rapids, Mich. 			Catholic Central			Jr.
88 **Cabral, Walter 		E	21	6-3	205	Honolulu, Hawaii 			St. Louis			Sr.
89 Kapish, Eugene 		E	19	6-1	190	Barberton, Ohio			Barberton 			Jr.
90 **Matz, Paul (Co-Capt.) 		E	20	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.			Mt. Cannel 			Sr.
91 Lasch, Robert		T	19	6-3	212	Clairton, Pa.			Clairton			Jr.
* Denotes monograms won in previous	years			■			
3 December 10, 1954
43
Plan Your 1955 10-DAY ALL-EXPENSE Football Tour NOW!
N. D. vs. U. of Miami
Miami, Florida
Leave: Sunday, Oct. 2,1955
Return: Tues., Oct. 11, 1955
6 Days at MIAMI BEACH!
Swimming, Golf, Fishing, Boating
(N.B. This tour will be limited to one train)
N. D. vs. Southern California
Los Angeles, Calif.
Leave: Sunday, Nov. 20,1955 Return: Tues., Nov. 29, 1955
For further details write:
EARL J. (Pete) REDDEN 1671 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Indiana
Five Irish Foes End With Winning Seasons; Navy and USC to May in New Year's Bowls
Half of the 1954 Irish opponents finished their grid seasons with better than .500 averages. But one team, Pennsylvania, failed to win a single game.
Purdue, Navy, Iowa, Southern California, and Southern Methodist had winning seasons, statistics-wise.
The Boilermakers beat Notre Dame 27-14, but lost to Wisconsin, Michigan State, Iowa and Ohio State, the number one team in the country. They had a season total of five wins, four losses and one tie, that with Duke.
Sugar Bowl-bound Navy lost only to the Irish and Pittsburgh. But the Middies were able to trip-up their traditional rival, Army 27-20. This victory alone usually makes Navy’s season a success.
Iowa was able to win one more game than it lost. They managed to beat powerful Wisconsin, 13-7, and Purdue, 25-14. But perhaps their biggest game, with the Irish, was almost a rout. ND won, 34-18.
Out West, Southern California’s Trojans, the Western Conference representative to the Rose Bowl, won eight and lost three. They were beaten by Texas Christian, UCLA, second rated team in the land, and the Irish. The Trojans defeated California by two points, upstate rival Stanford, 21-7.
After nine games, Southern Methodist has a tidy record of six victories, two losses and a tie. They have clipped Southwestern Conference champs, Arkansas 21-14, Rice 20-6, and Texas Christian 21-6. The Arkansas Razorbacks will be in the Cotton Bowl on New Year’s. Georgia Tech and Baylor are the only ones who have marred the Mustangs’ schedule.
The other five teams were not so fortunate. Texas lost to Southwest Conference champ Arkansas, 20-7, and the Rice Owls, 13-7. They also had a 13-13 tie with Southern Methodist.
Pittsburgh started the season with three defeats. The “Cats” rallied to beat Navy by three points following the Irish tilt, Northwestern, 14-7, and then strong West Virginia two weeks later, 13-10. Captain Tom Hamilton took over the Panther coaching reins from ailing Lowell “Red” Dawson, who resigned midway through the season. Even this was not enough and Pitt only won four while losing five.
Michigan State’s second year in the Big Ten was just the opposite of 1953, when they were conference champions and went on to win the Rose Bowl game. The Spartans, with' new coach Hugh Daugherty, lost six contests. Included
in these were losses to Notre Dame, Iowa, and Purdue.
Pennsylvania could not manage to win one. Under new head coach Steve Sebo, the Quakers lost to Notre Dame, Duke, William and Mary, Princeton, George Washington, Navy, Penn State, Army, and Cornell.
Down North Carolina way, the Tarheels won four, lost five and tied one. They beat North Carolina State, Wake Forest, arch-rival South Carolina, and Virginia. Besides losing to Notre Dame, Georgia, Maryland, Tennessee, and Duke, the Tar Heels tied Tulane 7-7.

The records:
w
Texas ................   4
Purdue ................. 5
Pittsburgh ............. 4
Michigan State ........  3
Navy .................   7
Pennsylvania ........... 0
N. Carolina ..........   4
Iowa ................... 5
So. California ........  8
So. Methodist (9 games).... 6
Totals: 10 teams .......46
Announce 1955 Card; Indiana, Miami Listed
Notre Dame will play four home games next season. The ten game schedule includes Indiana and the University of Miami, Fla. Indiana, the traditional downstate rival, replaces Texas and Miami takes the place of Pittsburgh.
The Hoosiers, coached by ex-Notre Damei- Bernie Crimmins, return to the Irish card after an absence of four years.
Miami, ranked throughout this year in the top ten, will meet the Irish in a night game in Miami. Not since 1951, when Notre Dame met Detroit, have the Irish played under the lights.
The 1955 schedule has no open Saturdays and the home games end on Nov. 19 with Iowa.
The rest of the schedule will be the same this season.
The Schedule:
Sept. 24—S.M.U. at Notre Dame

Oct. Oct. Oct. Oct. Oct. Nov. Nov. Nov. Nov.
1—Indiana at Notre Dame
7—Miami at Miami, Florida
15—Michigan State at E. Lansing
22—Purdue at Lafayette
29—Navy at Notre Dame
5—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia 12—North Carolina at Chapel Hill 19—Iowa at Notre Dame
26—So. California at Los Angeles
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Marching Band in Formation Under the Direction of H. Lee Hope.
They Make the Old ND Spirit
By DICK CONNELLY
The tramp of marching feet on the paved road outside the stadium heralds the Notre Dame Marching Band each Saturday afternoon of home football games. Down the concrete runway, through the goal posts at the northern end of the field, and out onto the green gridiron parade 90 marchers.
With their familiar “hike” step, the band puts on an exciting pre-game display as thousands rise in tribute to the spine-tingling Victory March, played only as a Notre Dame Band can play it—on a sunny Saturday afternoon in the Notre Dame football Stadium.
Two kettle drums, two glockenspiels, seven tubas, trumpets, trombones, flutes . . . all these instruments plus seven red kilted “Irish Pipers” add color as well as music to the thronged stadium.
Half-time ceremonies are built around a certain theme. A “This Is Your Life” theme, dedicated to Terry Brennan as he made his debut in collegiate coaching circles, delighted fans, at the season’s opener . . . and complying, the Irish trounced Texas.
Travel To Navy Game
When the Spartans from Michigan State came down from the north, the Band went south with a little dixieland: Muskrat Ramble, When The Saints Go Marching In, even the Bunny Hop. East to Baltimore and the Navy game, the Band parlayed a repeat performance of their jazz numbers for Navy fans.
The Tar Heels from North Carolina were entertained with Brigadoon selec
December 10, 1954
tions: Heather on the Hill, and It's Almost Like Being In Love. In a big finale, the Notre Dame Marching Band portrayed the “Spirit of Notre Dame” in an impressive half-time for Southern California rooters by playing the Victory March, The Lamp of Learning, and Bach-Gounod’s Ave Maria.
At the end of each game, as people swarm out of the Stadium, the Band assembles on the paper-strewn field.
The Cheerleaders of the Gold and Blue
More than often, they play the visiting team's alma mater and leap into a rollicking Victory March.
The Band’s “man behind the scenes” is Director H. Lee Hope. Jerry Gatto does the high-stepping as the dram major. Other Band officers: Tom May, president; and Don Bels, vice-president.
Along with the music, there’s noise. Making most of it are six leather-lunged (Continued on page 48)
45
Sixteen Seniors Hay Last Game for Irish; Eight Regulars Leave Big Gap in 1955 Ranks
Sixteen seniors, eight of whom have been regulars, closed out their football •careers last Saturday against Southern Methodist.
Some of these players have been three and four year regulars.
Co-Captain Dan Shannon, left end, and Frank Varrichione, right tackle, "were both, four year regulars. Shannon was a first string line-backer for two years and a regular wingman the past two seasons. He will always be remembered for his Oklahoma tackle on ■the fourth period kickoff that resulted in a recovered fumble. This fumble set up the winning touchdown in the 27-21 1952 Sooner upset. Shannon was the end who caught the two touchdown passes in the 14-14 'Iowa thriller in 1953.
Frank Varrichione was offensive right guard as a freshman, and offensive right tackle his sophomore year. Last season lie played both ways at left tackle and moved to right tackle this year.
Paul Matz, the other co-Captain has earned three monograms. He was first team defensive end in his sophomore year and an alternate regular last year. He has started and averaged almost 42 minutes a game this year.
Left tackle Sam Palumbo, another three year man, has been a standout on defense. He was first string defensive tackle in 1951 and 1952 and played behind Varrichione as a junior. He returned to the starting lineup this season.
Jack Lee, right guard, was defensive left guard as a freshman and sophomore and played both sides in ’54. Jack calls defensive signals and plays the ■middle guard position on defense.
All-American quarterback Ralph Guglielmi took over as first string signal caller in the 1951 Southern California game, the last game of his freshman year. He alternated with Tom Carey when both were sophomores and in the past two seasons has been ranked with such Irish greats as Angelo Bertelli', John Lujack, and Bob Williams.
Joe Heap, the Louisiana seatback at left half, has been a three year regular. A good runner, he also has become the greatest pass-catcher in Notre Dame grid history.
Tom Carey, quarterback, has been slightly overshadowed by Guglielmi. Among his great days at signal calling were the 1952 Oklahoma tilt and this year’s Southern California game. Against the Sooners he made most of the big calls and scored the winning touchdown himself. This year he replaced Guglielmi against the Trojans
46
and engineered the first score.
Tackle Bob Ready was a regular defensive right tackle for two seasons of two platoon football. He has been a guard and tackle the past two years.
Tony Pasquesi, tackle, has excelled on occasion on defense. An end and tackle, Walt Cabral, is the only Hawaiian on the squad. He has won two ND monograms.
Center Dick Frasor was a High School teammate of Shannon, Carey, and Matz, at Chicago’s Mount Cannel, where all were coached by Terry Brennan. Frasor has appeared as both center and guard.
Jim Bigelow has operated as the number three quarterback. He has done some of the punting this season. Leo Callaghan, a halfback, saw most of his service in the North Carolina contest.
Guard Ed Cook has played in almost every game. As a junior he ran 50 yards with a blocked Navy punt to set up an Irish touchdown.
Dick Szymanski, center, ended his career against Pennsylvania. He suffered a ruptured spleen and had an emergency operation that evening. Szymanski also was a three year performer. He played line-backer his first two years and was number two center last season. He had the most playing time on the team when he was injured.
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 South Michigan Street Phone 7-3630
rue
MAIN AT COLFAX * SOUTH BEND. IND
copHen
Home of:
KUPPENHEIMER
BOTANY 500
CLIPPER CRAFT and CAMPUS CLOTHES
WILSON and ARROW SHIRTS
FLORSHEIM SHOES ROBLEE SHOES
Rvs« s Katz
| X AO< MEN AND 1 \.VQUNC MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
Guglielmi Hits All-American; Walter Camp Award Winner
Ralph Guglielmi, the brilliant 1954 Irish quarterback, added many laurels to his crown during- the past football season. He was an unanimous All-American choice, making practically every team from coast to coast.
The Washington Touchdown Club voted the Walter Camp Memorial trophy to Guglielmi this year. This award annually goes to the outstanding college football back.
Guglielmi will receive his award at the club’s annual banquet in Washington on Jan. 8. Touchdown Club officials said Guglielmi was chosen “on the basis of his all-around ability, offensive and defensive, and his inspirational leadership that has prompted many to rate him with the school’s all-time football greats.”
Guglielmi also was Notre Dame’s 1954 cover boy. He appeared in or on the cover of nearly every national publication this year. In fact, the Notre Dame Sports Publicity Office ran out of Gugli-■ elmi pictures at the end of the season and had to send out a rush call.
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
V RENT A ROYAL TYPEWRITER ? FROM ROYAL
late models.
Adjusted for new machine performance. Immediate delivery. Special rates to students.
Free delivery, pick-up, and service.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO. 309 E. Jefferson, South Bend
READ THE SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame’s weekly student news magazine — $4.00 for a year’s subscription.
The SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic
The 1954 All-In ter hall Eleven
I ft,	r
By KIT ECKL
Badin and DillOn placed two men each on the Scholastic’s 1954 All- Interhall football squad. The champion Badinites placed two backs, Dick Rust and Jerry Ryan, while Dillon had John Raub, an end, and halfback Jerry Miller.
Lyons, St. Ed’s, Cavanaugh, Morrissey, Breen-Phillips, Farley, and Off-
Campus had one player each mythical eleven.
Badin’s Gene O’Connor from
N. Y., is the coach of the year.
on the
Buft’alo, In his
first year coaching, he led Badin to an undefeated, untied, and unscored on season. This is the first time that this .feat has ever been accomplished.
The backfield unit consists of Dick Rust, quarterback, Jerry Ryan, fullback; Frank Leahy, Jr., and Jerry Miller, halfbacks. Rust and Ryan hail from Badin, while Leahy played for Farley and Miller played for Dillon.
Quarterback Rust, a native of Greensburg, Ind., played at Subiaco Academy, Subiaco, Ark. He directed the high scoring “Boggers” with his timely passing and leadership. This is his second year on the All-Interhall Team, having been named in 1952.
Frank Leahy Jr., from Campion and Farley was a triple threat man and kicked the only field goal of the season. Miller from Park High School, Racine,
Wise., was the top rusher for and was a classy linebacker.
Dillon
Gene O’Connor—Coach of the Year.

Ryan, a native of Bunkie, La., is a repeater from last year’s team. He was the top breakway runner and leading scorer in both leagues. He also punted and kicked extra points.
At ends are Gary Zimmerman of Off-Campus and John Raub of Dillon. Zimmerman, a lean 175 lbs., played both ways for Pete Corra’s eleven and was equally adept on offense and defense. Raub, a product of St. Vincent’s in
Akron, Ohio, scored two touchdowns and played tailback in the spread. He passed for two touchdowns and starred on defense.
Lyons’ George Strake and Breen-Phillips’ Gerald “Butch” Hayes were named tackles. Strake, a repeater from last year’s team, played at Ball High School, Houston, Tex.
Weighing 210 lbs., he was a hard man to move and led the “Lizards” defense. Hayes, a rugged competitor, is from St. Benedict’s Prep, Newark, N. J.
Leon Clough of St. Ed’s and Moore McDonough of Morrissey anchor down the guard slots. Clough, a fireplug type guard, from Stafford Springs, Conn., was the rock of the St. Ed’s forward wall. McDonough, another Texan, comes from St. Thomas High School, Houston. He was an outstanding workman, going both ways in Morrissey’s setup.
The pivotman is Cavanaugh’s Bob Holland, a native of Pomona, Cal. He was picked by the coaches as one of the outstanding linemen in both leagues.
Other top vote getters for the All-Interhall team were: End, Ed Cosgrove, Badin; tackle, John Allan, Sorin; guards Pat Poynton, Sorin, Joe Kurze-ja, Badin, and Gene Brennan, Dillon; centers, Marty Rizzo, Morrissey, and Tom Kelly, Dillon; backs, Bob Costello, Badin; Bill Thees, Morrissey; and Dan Castro, Breen-Phillips.

McDonough, Hayes, Zimmerman (not pictured) backs, Leahy, Ryan, Rust, Miller.
(I. to r.) Raub, Strake, Clough,
Holland,
'H J
SAM

It’s the
HANS-RINTZSCH Luggage Shop
for “Personalized,, CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Michigan at Colfax
PASSENGERS WANTED
DRIVING FROM SOUTH BEND TO CHICAGO EVERY WEEK-END
LEAVE South Bend about 5:30 p. m. Friday night.
LEAVE Chicago about 9 p. m. Sunday night.
DICK JULIAN
311 WEST MARION STREET
Phone 2-9 249
DIRECTOR expansion band 13575
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Has all the National Makes of
Watches including:
BULOVA
BENRUS
GRUEN
LONGINE-WITTAUNER
and a host of other fine makes.
Also maintains expert
WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIR SERVICE
The Band Forms the Traditional Irish Shamrock
ND Spirit
(Continued from page 45)
young men dressed in dark blue—Notre Dame’s corps of cheer leaders.
Four leading the Notre Dame student body, two more for the shrill cries of the Saint Mary’s section, they “start the guys hollering” with cheer signboards and an amplifier which no one seems to hear anyhow.
“He’s A Man”. “Echo Cheer”. “Spell It Out”. “Go, Go, Go”. The chants of the Irish aren’t hard to get going when the green wave of jerseys comes across the field. Where else, but at Notre Dame, would the cheering drown out the voice of a quarterback calling signals?
Who else but a Texan, Joe Saunders, would be the most qualified for a head cheer leader. Along with another “Lone Star” holler guy, Ed Healey, the cheer leading squad includes Bob Keegan and his brother Bill, Ev Hatch, and Ron Rene.
Both the band and cheerleaders will move inside now and shift their efforts to the basketball team. But there will be no more halftime shows and megaphone yelling until next September when Terry Brennan again sends his charges galloping over the green Stadium turf.
The two “spirit” squads will follow Coach Johnny Jordan’s team through the hardwood schedule. Twice this year the eagers will play in Chicago’s Stadium and the band and cheerleaders will accompany “The Cheering Irish.”
at Christmas ...
The Bookshop
Incorporated
FOR
■	That Hard-to-Please Friend
■	That Special Gift
■	That Personal Touch
BOOKS FOUNTAIN PENS
130 N. MICHIGAN ST. South Bend, Indiana
Phone 4-3388
48
The Scholastic
I Injuries Plague Irish;
Fell Lemek, Szymanski
Two of the most serious injuries that have hit an Irish football squad in recent years darkened the success of Coach Terry Brennan’s first ND squad.
Senior center Dick Szymanski suffered a ruptured spleen that ended his playing career at Notre Dame and junior ly guard Ray Lemek injured his knee, / ' causing an operation for possible bone chips and torn ligaments.
Operate in Philadelphia
“Szymo” was injured in the 42-7 rout of the hapless Pennsylvania Quakers. Dick’s spleen was removed at Philadelphia Memorial Hospital the evening of the game. “Szymo’s” token appear' ance in the Southern Calif, game was his reward for the four years of outstanding football he played here at ND. If he wishes, Szymanski will be able to play pro ball next year.
Lemek was injured in the third period of the Southern Cal. game attempting to block “Sad” Sam Tsagalakis’s successful field goal. Although the results of the operation on Ray’s knee are still doubtful, there is a strong possibility that his playing days at Notre Dame AL are also ended. But, the Notre Dame student body will be looking for Ray Lemek’s big number 72 back at that guard slot next fall.
PAUL’S SHOE SHOP
Catering to Students and Faculty
SHOE REPAIRS
Heels and Soles
SHOE ACCESSORIES Laces and Pads
QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE
In Rear of Administration Building
Your Patronage 'will be greatly appreciated.
SOUTHERN COLONEL
I
Gift son
E
FREE*—WHEN YOU PURCHASE —FOR HANDSOME COPY (11”x17”) of THE INDEPENDENCE — EVERY AMERICAN
ALL ABOVE GIVEN ONLY $1.00 — A DECLARATION OF
6
FREE
of interest in Thomas Jeffer-
Land, 4 square inches —
Historic Thomas Jefferson Kit
"Southern Plantation” as described in Free Document (7%”x16”) your name Lettered on Document.
FREE
Handsome Colonel’s Certificate giving you the rank of Colonel in “The Confederate States.” (8V2 xll”) your name in Old English style letters.
FREE
Short history of the Life ana Works of Thomas Jefferson-with his picture (printed on back of Land Document)

HOME SHOULD HAVE THIS GREAT DOCUMENT FRAMED. Print Nome and Address and Send With $1.00 To Historical Properties. Inc.. P. O. Box 884. Charlottesville, Virginia. Your Kit will be sent to you promptly.
I
ORDER THE 1955 FOOTBALL PREVIEW AND REVIEW NOW!
The Preview is published in August and the Review in December—order now and be sure of receiving your copies.
Both for $1.00
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLICATIONS
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
December 10, 1954
49
Fisher Memorial Dormitory, University of Notre Dame
By
SHOPPING CENTER, University of Notre Dame
HOLY CROSS SEMINARY SCHOOL AND GYMNASIUM
ST. MARY’S CAMPUS SCHOOL, St. Mary’s College
OUR LADY OF LORETTO CHURCH, St. Mary’s College
Two-story addition to
FISHER MEMORIAL DORMITORY, University of Notre Dame
Also Builders of PANGBORN HALL
Peter Schumacher and sons, inc
General Contractors
50
The Scholastic
I
The Final 1954 Season Statistics
Notre Dame 261 ........ 181 ........ 120 ........
58 .......
3 .......
2393 ....... 546 ........
TEAM
Points Scored First Downs by Rushing by Passing by Penalties
\	4.4
V1458 7" 178
Yards Tinies Yards Yards
Rushing Carried per try Passing
89 .500 15 179 3851
32 1007 t 31.5 X 203 i 38
X) 22

. Passes Attempted ............ . Passes Completed ............ . Completion Percentage — . Passes Intercepted by ....... Yards Interceptions Returned ... TOTAL OFFENSE ............. . Punts	.......... . Total Yards ................. . Average Length .............. .... Yards Punts Returned ..... . Fumbles ..................... ..... Ball	Lost ..........
Opponents .... 115 .... 112 ......68 .....36 .....10 .... 1094 .... 374 .... 3.0 .... 1086 .... 187 .....79 ....422 .....10 .....81 .... 2180 .....50 .... 1852 .... 37.0 .....37 .....35 .....20
Heap .... Schaefer Morse .... Guglielmi Shannon Hornung Studer ... Munro .. Sipes .... Reynolds Pinn .... Witucki Matz .... Kapish ... Scannell
SCORING
TD ________ 8
_______ 3 _______ 5
_______ 5 _______3
_______ 2 _______ 2
_______ 2 _______ 1
_______ 1 _______ 1
_______ 1 _______ 1
_______ 1 _______ 1
PAT	FG	Pts.
0	0	48
22	0	40
1	0	31
0	0	30
0	0	18
6	0	18
0	0	12
0	0	12
0	0	6
0	0	6
0	0	6
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
6 6
6 6
Guglielmi Carey .... Hornung Heap ........ Reynolds Bigelow .. Morse ... \ Keller .... k Sipes ..... f ' Studer ....
Att. 127
17 19
3
2 4
3 1
. 1
1
PASSING
Comp. Hadlnt. Yds.
68 9
5
3
1
2 0
0 0
1
7
1 0
0
1
1 0
0 0
0
1160
172
36
32
20
28
0 0
0
10
TD 6 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
Pct. .535 .529 .263 1.000 .500 .500 .000 .000 .000
1.000
PASS
INTERCEPTION
* Scoring does not include safeties vs. Purdue and USC.			
	RUSHING		
	TC	Yds.	Avg.
Schaefer		:	 141	766	5.4
Heap 			 110	594	5.4
Morse ...		 68	345	5.0
Hornung		 23	159	6.9
Studer ... Reynolds . Guglielmi Witucki
Carey ..... Sipes ____ Raich ____ Fitzgerald Pinn _____ Milota ..... Gaffney ... McDonnell
30 29
79
9
19
10
11
13
5
1
2
1
151
113
95
39
25
28
29
26
15
4
3
5.0 3^
1JL
4.3'
1.3
2.6
2.0
3.0
4.0
1.5
1.0
Guglielmi Hornung
Heap ....
Carey ...
Lemek ....
\ Szymanski Pinn ........ ^Schaefer
No.
5
3
2
1
1
1
1
1
Yds. 51 94 22
3 3
2 0
5
PASSES CAUGHT
KICKOFF RETURNS
Heap -----
Matz ..... Morse ...._
Shannon Scannell ..
Kapish ...
Reynolds ..
Schaefer .. Munro —
Heap ... Morse ... Schaefer Carey ... Studer .
	Hendricks ■» Bigelow .... \ Guglielmi 9 J Shannon Reynolds ..
	Studer 	 Heap 	 Morse 	 Reynolds ..
	Fitzgerald Scannell Hornung ..
J	Guglielmi
1	Hendricks
	
PUNT RETURNS
No.	Yds.	TD	Sipes 	
7	143	0	Fitzgerald
5	166	0	Studer ....
5	82	0	Noznesky
2	68	0	George ....
2	46	0	Szymanski
1	31	0	Raich 	
1	18	0	Witucki ..
1	10	0	
1	8	0	
1	62	0	Hornung . Schaefer .
No.	Yds.	TD	Heap 	
6	62	0	Morse 	
8	37	0	Raich .....
4	31	0	Cooke 	
2	25	0	Witucki
2	20	0	
1	20	1	
1
1
1
0
0 0
6
4
2
PUNTING
No.
__________ 6
__________ 8
_________ 10
__________ 4
__________ 2
__________ 1
NC	Yds.	TD
18	369	0
16	224	1
15	236	3
11	215	3
5	63	0
4	79	1
4	51	0
3	60	0
3	32	2
2	38	1
2	37	0
1	47	0
1	11	0
1	1	0
1	1	0
1	—16	0
1	10	0
	Yds.	Avg.
	234	39
	217	27
	265	26.5
	124	31
	. 79	40
	24	24
	33	33
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED
Varrichione (4), Lee (2), Guglielmi (2), Raich (2), Heap (2), Matz (2), Szymanski, Bisceglia, Hornung, Carey, Schaefer, Scannell.
e
Delbert N. De Young received a B.S. in Chem. Eng. from the University of Wisconsin last June. Now he is working for an M.S. degree. By asking questions, he’s learned that many excellent industrial opportunities are passed over because they’re not understood by the average undergraduate.
Clarence "Ding"’Bell answers:
Del De Young wants to know:
What sort of work is involved in technical sales at DuPont?
Clarence D. Bell, B.S.. Chem. Eng., Univ, of Pitts. (1937), joined DuPont as a chemical engineer immediately after graduation. He began in the research group of the Ammonia Department, progressed steadily through assignments on nylon and a number of other products. Today he is an Assistant Director of Sales in the Polychemicals Department.

3
Well, if I said "All sorts,” it might sound a bit vague to you, Del, but it would be very close to the truth. That’s because technical sales work at Du Pont—bearing in mind the great diversity of products we have—is broader in scope than a lot of other technical assignments, and requires additional talents.
Let’s suppose that one of Du Pont’s customers is having technical difficulties—needs help in adapting "Teflon” to a specific gasketing application, for example. When our sales representative calls, he naturally must carry with him the engineering knowledge that’s the basis for sound technical advice—data on flexural fatigue, chemical passivity, and deformation under load. The customer is receptive. He wants to make a better product, increase his sales, reduce costs—or do all three. Naturally, he’s looking for reliable technical advice and intelligent actions that apply to his specific conditions. With the cooperation of the customer and help from our own research people, when necessary, the problem will sooner or later be “licked.”
We have found, though, that if a technical service
man is going to be truly effective in such a situation, he must possess certain human qualities in addition to his technical ability. That is, he must really like people and be sincerely interested in helping them solve their problems. He must—in every sense of the word—be an "ambassador” who can handle human relationships smoothly and effectively.
Take the depth suggested by this simple example, Del, and multiply it by a breadth representing all the challenging problems you’ll run into with Du Pont’s diversity of products. If your slide rule isn’t too far out of alignment, the resulting area should give you some idea of what I meant by “all sorts” of work.
Let me emphasize one more point. The importance of effective sales work is fully understood and appreciated at Du Pont! In the past, sales work has been one of the active roads to top management jobs. There is every reason to believe that this will continue in the future.
(flUPQIW
*EG U S PAT OFF
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . .THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
Are you inclined toward sales work? There are four main types of sales activity in the Du Pont Company—technical sales service, sales development, market research and direct selling. Information on sales, and many other facts about working with Du Pont, are given in “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” Write for your copy of this free 36-page booklet to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
f\Jo (VowliA. friQfoc (M WM&nq fo k/iu^foKj!
WINSTON
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
■ New, king-size Winston is the filter cigarette real smokers will enjoy! Winston’s got real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter. The Winston filter is unique, it’s different, it works so effectively — yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. Winstons are king-size for extra filtering action . . . easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons!
FINER FLAVOR!
KING SIZE, TOO!
WINSTON fk.	tiqartfteJ
e
•Scholastic
Vol. 96 DECEMBER 17, 1954 No. 10
Disco Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
-.JOHN ADAMS ................  News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ......    Copy
Charles McKendrick ...............
.................   Assistant	Copy DAVE COHEN ______________________„ Features
KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER .....   Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT ..... Photo	Editor
PAUL FITZGERALD ..................
@	______ Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. +20 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, John Boyle, Joe Connolly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Frank Dasek, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Glenn Sheldon, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, John Mullin, Joe Norton, Bob Parnell, Bob Ruhl, and Mack Stewart. BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer.
w Cover : Over nineteen hundred years ago Christ was born in a stable in Bethlehem, starting a life that would end in a redemptive death 33 years later. This is the true meaning of Christmas. Shown on the cover is a ; scene symbolic of the first Christmas; , it is the central part of the beautiful i tableau that is set up every year in । the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart 1 Church during Christmas vacation.
£ December 17, 1954
5
The ARROW points to
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Don’t be a somber hombre • •.
The best way we know for a bright change*of-pace is a colorful Arrow sport shirt. They’re brilliant in solid colors, keen in plaids; certain to drive your study cares away.
Arrow sport shirts give any wardrobe a shot in the arm for color and style. They’re outstanding in comfort and fit too . . . what’s more, these shirts can take a beating like nothing in the laundry. A man can ask no more of a sport shirt. But Arrow gives you more. Priced from S3.95.
ARROWCASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
LETTERS to-
Onions for Student Body
Editor:
Monday, Nov. 29, the Tyroliers from Austria presented a program of native songs, dances, and instrumental music of their country in Washington Hall as part of the University’s Concert and Lecture Series. Student turnout for their really terrific program was at an all-time low. The bulk of the audience consisted of clergy and South Bend residents.
The fact that the event was staged after the busy Commerce Ball-Thanksgiving week-end offers some explanation for poor attendance. However, poor student attendance at similar cultural and entertaining presentations and lectures has been evidenced throughout the fall semester.
The Student Senate has sponsored expensive lectures—one in conjunction with the Festival of the Arts (talk by Dr. Rhys Carpenter on “Greece the Undying”) and it has recently voted to spend another $200 to have a specialist in Political Science speak at an International Relations Seminar to be held on campus. Numerous other lectures and presentations have been presented this fall and all were afflicted with poor attendance.
The Senate and University have both endeavored to provide the student with knowledge and entertainment outside the classrooms in the form of these outstanding and interesting functions which are in no way “long haired.” They are, in a sense, just as much a part of the educational process as is classroom activity and are very entertaining and worthwhile to every student.
Let’s all support these functions as much as possible. They are presented as a part of our education and for our entei*tainment.
Roy C. Belknap 411 Walsh
‘Crum-Bum’ Patriots?
Editor:
While I was glancing through the Notre Dame Scholastic of Nov. 19, I came across the patriot of the year ballot. I looked down the list of names and saw such “crum-bums” as Nathan Pusey and Walter Reuther. To my surprise I wondered how in the world the .Senior Class could have left off such stalwart Americans as Alger Hiss and Paul Robeson. Here’s hoping the senior class will have a - write-in ballot for Senator Joe.
James T. Fegan, Washington, D. C.
Bothered and Bewildered
Editor:
I am what is commonly known as the bewildered freshman. I have experienced the usual problems of the incoming freshman in the past twelve weeks, and fully expect to experience many more in the future. May I say this: I am almost positive that it is far easier for the freshman to adjust on this campus than it would be anywhere else. This is, without a doubt, a good thing—very good indeed. But there is one theory that I would like to express. I would not do it if I didn’t think that it merited such.
As our grading system now stands, we do not receive a grade in any course until the end of the semester. I don’t think this is right. Those are my thoughts in a nutshell, and I now will tell you why.
It seems to me that mid-semester grades would prove an added incentive to freshmen (as well as upper classmen). They would be far more liable to be digging in from the start than saying, “Oh, I’ll wait ’til finals.” Nobody knows better than I that the latter theory never works. Secondly, when a man is putting in six to eight hours a day on a project (in this case the problem of getting • an education), he wants to know how he is doing. He wants to see the results in black and
Xmas Special -Ski Boots
ARMY SURPLUS $35.00 VALUE
ONLY $11.50 POSTPAID Order by shoe size
Enclose check or money order.
Beautiful, sturdy construction made by famous name manufacturers to adhere to strict government regulations. Goodyear rubber cleated traction outsole and heel. 2 extra heavy felt insulating insoles. Built in steel safety toe. Solid brass sole clamps. All sizes for men and ladies. Water repellent boot laces. Your Boots Rushed To You In Time For Christmas.
M & W Sales Co. P. O. Box 14283 Houston 21, Texas
white. And the long wait until semester grades is just that—a long wait. To the upperclassmen, this probably does^ not mean a great deal. But to a freshman who is unsteady, and looking for self-confidence, it means an awful lot to see “just how he’s doing.”
In the pink slip, we find nothing but discouragement. Certainly, a little encouragement wouldn’t hurt anybody. So why not have mid-semester report cards?	Jack Doyle
256 Farley €
Debunking Sorin Hall
Editor:
Harry Niemann’s story of Sorin Hall in the Nov. 12 issue was quite nostalgic for- me, as I dwelt in that hallowed place in my junior and senior years (1912-1913). I enjoyed reading Mr. Niemann’s well-written history of the hall, but I am compelled to say that his enthusiasm for his subject has led him to appropriate a bit of history^ which really belongs to Corby Hall.
The story of the “pay as you enter” basement window run by Rockne and Doras, R.I.P., belongs to Corby, as those two immortals never lived in Sorin to the best of my recollection. They were in Corby basement when I was in that hall in 1910 and 1911, and I find them listed in the directory for that hall in our 1914 Dome. I believe Rev. Thomas Irving, and Rev. Charles Doremus, both of whom now live in^ Corby, will check on these facts. "
Perhaps those days are so far in (Continued on page 16)
Now on sale in the Bookstore and Cafeteria
25c
Subscriptions still available for the 1954-55 school year at 75c for the year. Subscribe in room 205 or 407 Walsh, or:
Department of Publications Basement of Farley Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
4
The Scholastic Q I
the week
by Jim O’Shea
seeing the huge mob of
welcome the team at Angela Boulevard,
immediately decided it was some sort of lynch mob, and, showing true concern for the welfare of the public, ^teamed into the crowd at about 35 miles per hour. I’d give South Bend’s lawmen an “A” for effort in their attempt to wreck our last football rally of the year.
And then the fun began
The good officers didn’t succeed in spoiling everything, though. The troops were very exuberant, it seems, and ®they stonned back to the Circle and began seizing football players and carrying them all over the place on their shoulders. About this time, W. Patrick Byrne, one of Walsh Hall’s larger inhabitants, arrived at the Circle, having just completed a week-end in Chicago. The mob attacked Mr. Byrne and informed him that he was Jack Lee. Byrne was carried up to the fourth floor of Walsh before anybody found out his true identity. Then, when Sthey did find out; the boys didn’t even put him down. They carried him to the showers. Later, they carried everybody to the showers. It was a rather damp night in Walsh. It was also a pretty good rally.
Remark of the WEEK
One of my closer friends sent me this remark, which was made by an Ursuline nun who teaches English at a
Top of the WEEK
. And on earth, peace to men of good will . . .”
Bah! Humbug!
In case you’re wondering what’s happened to my picture this WEEK, the editor has given me the word that this is to be a very “Christmasy” column. I presume that means that I’m not supposed to jap any more people than I actually have to. This irks me very much, as you can see by the picture. In fact, it irks me so much that I’ve decided to ignore the order. ... So phooey to you, editor. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha.
The Ruination of a Rally
To begin with, I might as well take a healthy swing at those guardians of our fundamental rights, the South Bend Police, for the fine job they did in protecting the football team from all us students on the team’s return from the SMU game. The police, upon us waiting to _______________________________________
REGULAR ND ROGUES
nearby girls’ college. It seems the good Sister had never seen a copy of the Notre Dame “school paper.” So, the girls showed her the Nov. 19 issue of the Scholastic.
“My, my,” she observed. “Hammer Hawkeyes . . . what an odd name for a publication!”
Huzzah! And all that
Meaning, of course, that the WEEK gives a jolly three cheers to the group of Fisher Hall raiders who succeeded
in pilfering a completely decorated Christmas tree from the St. Mary’s campus. If you don’t believe it, please
see the picture, which shows the raiders with their tree behind them. The tree can be seen on the second floor of Fisher, if anyone wants to go look. Because of the fear of a counter-attack, however, no St. Mary’s girls will be allowed anywhere near the hall. This was undoubtedly a rather underhanded way to get a Christmas tree, but it certainly took a lot of gall, and it merits congratulations for courage, if nothing else. (Besides, the picture looks real “Christmasy,” and the editor will go wild over it.)
Fan Mail
I got a rather nasty letter this WEEK from a fellow who lives in Howard Hall. (This would make him a sophomore, I believe. The letter confirms this theory, too.) At any rate, it seems that he didn’t care for my last column. (Sad, isn’t it?) He objects to the fact that I don’t like polkas. He also objects to the fact that I don’t care for people who wear black shirts and pink ties. It seems that he doesn’t like me to jap people, either. He points out that I am “supposed to be educated enough to realize that each one of us has his own tastes.”
Well, old buddy, I think you’re right. I have my tastes and you have yours. You just go right on liking black shirts and pink ties, and I’ll just go right on japping them, and we’ll both be real happy! However, if you want to see your letters to me in print, I’d suggest you send them to the editor, and not to me, because I don’t print them. It seems I like to jap letter writers, too, old pal.
The Christmas Parties
Well, let’s get “Christmasy” again. Another round of congratulations to the people who did so much to make all the orphans and old folks happy last Sunday. My trans-Dixie correspondent, however, informs me that the SMC girls have ulterior motives in attending these parties. He says the girls, make use of the little kiddies to show ND men what great wives and mothers they’ll make some day. Tch, tch, tch. . . . What wiles these women have.
A Poem
A friend of mine, name of Duke Rank, sent a poem to the Scholastic editor this week. The editor didn’t know what to do with it, so he gave it to me. I’m going to print it, not because I’m especially crazy about poems, but because I have to fill up the remaining space in this column. Mr. Rank describes the poem as “rather witty,” and he remarks, “I doubt . whether this poem will ever be heard .
(Continued on page 17)
^December 17, 1954
Fish, Steaks,Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
☆
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
yi.se
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
A Favorite with College Men!
All white brushed leather in a smart plain toe blucher oxford. Thick red rubber sole and heel. Ideal for campus and plain or fancy loafing.
THE HANOVER SHOE
102 N. Michigan St., South Bend O	J
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
AQUINAS
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2i-How Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477

NYLON BIT Guarantead Blta-Proof
*■ *	- ■■ V * -
&~U(ISS
MEDICO JUmafflater FILTER PIPE *322 4 *522
Medico’s filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
4— Attunl pipa hoi your awn collage lattar on bowl
For Notre Ml. Huddle
For your College or Class Pipe
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
r' RENT A	~
ROYAL TYPRWRfTER FROM ROYAL
nu
biuvm
sama
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend Phone No. 2-3336
Late models. Adjusted for new machine per-
formance. Immediate • iHD delivery. Special rates to students
6
The Scholastics^
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 10	Notre Dame, Indiana	December 17, 1954
OS+raub Elected Mayor By Vetville Residents
Newly-elected Vetville administrative officials were sworn into office during the past week and will occupy the posts vacated by the outgoing appointees.
Joe Straub, the new mayor, replaces Vic McFadden as “boss-man” of the neighbors across the highway. Council-0nen representing each of the six wards of Vetville will serve under him. In Ward 1, Gene Johnson will undertake the former duties of Al Marrero. Lem Joyner, present councilman of Ward 2 will remain in office until February. Bernie DePrimo will give way to Bill Fraser as Ward 3’s official. Ward 4’s Bob Brown and Ward 5’s Frank Petrella, both of the past administration will also hold office until February. Jack Thelen will succeed Pete Donahue as Q?ouncilman of Ward 6.
Hold Posts Until May
Mayor Straub, along with Thelen, Johnson, and Frasor will not vacate their positions until elections in late May. The council will meet every Sunday to discuss the problems which have arisen during the past week.
Listed first among Vetville activities in the near future is the annual ^Children’s Christmas Party this Saturday, with one of Vetville’s rounder fathers filling in as Santa Claus. Mrs. Jim Sullivan has been named chairwoman of the party.
The customary New Year’s Eve party follows on the scheduled list of events. Both .parties will take place in the Recreation Hall.
The veterans and their wives are planning a bake-sale booth in the University’s annual Mardi Gras. Early in ^February the wives of January graduates from the University will receive “wives’ graduation” diplomas. On the social side, the Wives’ Bridge Party provides the women of the community with entertainment every other Friday night. Mrs. Dottie Swiercz is the current chairwoman of the group.
A perennial problem facing each incoming Vetville administration is the poor condition of roads within the community. Mayor Straub, however, ex-
Mardi Gras Festival Scheduled for Feb. 12-15; Desoto, Plymouth Cars Named Grand Prizes
The grand prizes for the 1955 nationwide Mardi Gras contest have been announced as a 1955 De Soto Firedome four-door sedan with radio and heater for the holder of the winning contest ticket, and a Plymouth hardtop convertible also with radio and heater which will go to the sellei- of the winning ticket.
Cash awards of 75, 50, 25, and 15 dollars will also be presented to those who sell the most books. The big festival will open Saturday, Feb. 12 and continue on Monday and Tuesday with the awards to be made at the closing, Tuesday night.
JOSEPH STRAUB New Mayor of Vetville
pressed a note of optimism concerning the problem, saying, “We have received recent encouragement from the University indicating that the situation may soon be alleviated.”
The primary function of the Vetville Council is consideration and admission of future residents. Applicants for residence are chosen on the basis of their individual applications and the number-of available houses open.
Mardi Gras General Chairman Tom Hayes announced that the books, which were distributed to all halls earlier this week, were to be sold for $7.50 apiece, with the student required to turn in only $5.00 of it, thereby entitling him to keep $2.50 for himself. “If anyone wants more books he may get them from his hall representative,” he said. “The success of this year’s Mardi Gras depends primarily on the sale of books by the students over the holidays. We urge the cooperation of all because the proceeds will be turned over to the Campus Charity Chest and the Student Center Fund. Mr. La Fortune’s offer should add to everyone’s incentive.
“One of the highlights of the Mardi Gras will be the Dixieland Jazz Concert on Saturday afternoon, Feb. 12 in the Fieldhouse.” continued Hayes, “besides Don Gels and his orchestra playing some great jazz, Chairman Chuck Collins has lined up some fine supporting entertainment.”
There will be two queens reigning during the three-day gala affair. The date of Hayes will be “Queen of the Mardi Gras Festival,” and the date of John Weithers, dance chairman, will be “Queen of the Mardi Gras Ball,” to be held in the Student Center on Saturday night. “The band for the semi-formal ball hasn’t been chosen as yet,” said Hayes, “but I can assure you that it will be a big name.”
The carnival which will be held from 7:30 to 11 p. m., each night in the Drill Hall will be open to all students and the people of South Bend, and will consist of concession stands and various other amusements. All halls were given an opportunity to enter booths in the carnival with the selections having been made this past week. Cash prizes will be given to the booths which return the most proceeds and to those with the best decorations.
Other chairmen for the event are Bob McAuliffe, business manager; Tom Armstrong and Jim Baker, carnival cochairmen; and Harry Edelstein, car contest.
' ^pecember 17, 1954
Schiller Probes Donald Duck, 'Killer Comics' To Take Medal in Breen Oratorical Contest
“Donald Duck, A Killer?” was Richard D. Schiller’s topic that took the gold medal for the Breen Oratorical Contest held on Dec. 6 in the Nieuw-land Science Hall. Judge of the contest, Prof. William J. Eisen, immediately hailed Schiller winner for his oratory on juvenile delinquency.
Schiller, an AB junior from Aurora,
Gurian to Be Honored In 'Review of Politics'
Editors of Notre Dame’s Review of Politics today announced plans for a memorial issue in honor of the late Waldemar Gurian, founder and editor of the quarterly publication, who died last May. The January issue of the Revieiv will consist largely of tributes to Dr. Gurian and evaluations of his life’s work by noted scholars in the United States and abroad.
Among those contributing articles to the memorial issue are Jacques Mari-tain, the eminent Thomist philosopher; John U. Nef, University of Chicago; Philip Mosely, Columbia University and Hans Kohn, City College of New York. Also to be included in the volume are articles by a number of Dr. Gurian’s Notre Dame colleagues including his long-time associates in editing the Review, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., and Prof. Frank O’Malley. A remarkable essay by Gurian himself on the nature and role of the journalist will be published for the first time in this country in the January issue.
Dr. Gurian joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937 and founded the Revieiv of Politics the following year. During the 16 years of his editorship, the Review became a highly respected voice in the cultural conflicts that centered about the conquest of Gel-many and the cold war with Russia. Gurian himself was an internationally recognized authority on Bolshevism and the background of Soviet policy. He was the author-of a number of books including Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism published in 1952. He was also co-editor of The Catholic Church in World Affairs published early this year.
In addition to his work as professor of political science at Notre Dame and editor of the Review of Politics, Gurian served as head of the University’s Committee on International Relations, a research group studying the ethical aspects of international problems.
8
Ill., is the coach of the freshman debate team, next year’s president of the mid-western regionals, and the Notre Dame candidate in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest. His talk pointed out the impressive facts of juvenile delinquency.
Through research he found that juvenile crimes had climbed 20 per cent since 1947 and that most of these youthful offenders had been given their bad ideas by comic books. By further probing he discovered that 36 per cent of the 61 million comic books printed present “low moral standards.” In an-
RICHARD SCHILLER
Cites Juvenile Delinquency Factor
swer to this problem he proposed that legislation, censorship, or editorial selfdiscipline be employed throughout the industry.
Also on the program was Charles V. Doherty who spoke on the education of children and the necessity of making the future generation “think.” Doherty was followed by John P. Bure, who defended Sen. Joseph McCarthy under the topic “Who is Really Courageous.” He stood up for the Wisconsin senator by expelling the general public’s fears and accusations through facts and examples.
“Intolerance and Americanism” presented by Jules E. Harris brought light upon the elements of selfishness and intolerance that “are creeping into the American life.” He was followed by Allan J. Riley and then ’ Gerald J. Garvey, both of whom gave their opinions on how to maintain peace in our generation. Last of the speeches was Thomas C. Hartzell’s “The Bill
of Rights” and its important role inQ the development of America.	fig
The Breen Medal for Oratory waA;
established by William P. Breen, of the^J class of 1877, and has existed as one W of the oldest and most honored awards 1 on the campus.
Registration Schedule |
J
Set for 1955 Semester r
Registration procedure for the spring®’ semester has been announced for un- £ dergraduate, graduate, law school, and ri transfer students.
The schedule of registration for undergraduate students is as follows:
From Jan. 4 to 24 students must pick up their certifications from the f; Office of Student Accounts in the east -f wing on the basement level of the :
Main Building.	:
Students are to get their class card^) by turning in their tuition certifica- y-tions and census cards at the Office of Academic Affairs, one flight up in the fl east wing of the Main Building. Failure to pick up the class cards by the £1 24th will result in a $5 fine.
Laundry certifications must be presented at the Main Laundry no later than the 28th. Board certificates must | be turned in for dining cards in the j basement office of the Dining Hall be- -
tween Jan. 24 and 29. Lodging certifi-^-, cations must be turned into the hall rector by Jan. 31 at the latest. ?
Graduate students should pick up their spring semester certifications between Jan. 17 and 21 at the Office of % - «.
Student Accounts. Class cards must be then picked up in the Office of the gj Dean of the Graduate School in the.| Main Building, from Jan. 24 to 28^/
Graduate engineers should pick up their?
class cards during the same period
the Office of the Dean of the College^: of Engineering.	.
Law school students who pay their
account before Jan. 7, should go to Room 108 Law Building to fill out;i|
census cards If they have by the 7th, certifications
and obtain class cards. not settled their account they may pick up their
in
Accounts, and
Room 108 Law
the Office of Student gJ finish registration inj. Building.
New students must register between^. 8:30 and 11:30 a. m., on Saturday, Jan^
29 in the Drill Hall.	’ll
Classes will resume on Jan. 31 au 8:30 a. m. Campus rooms for students] presently residing off campus will be ready for occupancy at 8 a. m. on Jan J 31. Students now attending the Univer-; sity who do not plan to return for the] spring semester should notify the Officej of Student Accounts by Jan. 14 at the latest. --	I
fol
The Scholastic!^
|j Manuscript of Bible
:j’ $ Willed to University
1 An early fifteenth century manu-'■*' script of the entire Latin Vulgate Bible has been bequeathed to the University j by the late Very Rev. Urban de Basque '.Il of Oklahoma City, Okla., the Univer-/ sity announced today. Father de Has-'j	que received an honorary Doctor of
q	Laws degree from Notre Dame in 1918.
’	Bible is written on very fine
k vellum and is in an excellent state of । preservation. Twelve painted initials i ornamented with gold, as well as many others chiefly in red and blue, are scattered through the manuscript at ij the beginnings of books. The volume has been rebound once in the last 500 years; its present binding is parch-; ment. It is protected by a modern, J	beautifully tooled-leather box.
'i A The text is that of the University .)■	of Paris recension. The new Notre
<1 Dame manuscript was copied in the i| Rhineland region of Germany and, ac-„! cording to the scribe, the last part of //	it, a glossary of names, was finished
j1	in the year 1417. The Gutenberg Bible,
| the first important book to be printed 1 from movable type, was made nearly forty years later.
i
li	i ,
■ • First Issue of New 'Juggler'
Aims at Wide Reader Appeal
। The first issue of the 1954-55 Juggler, the Notre Dame literary maga-
!	zine, went into circulation last Tues-
•	day.
i According to Editor Frank Maier, this year’s Jttggler is intended “to appeal to a wider scope of readers.” A Articles are aimed at all reading tastes.
Among the top stories appearing in the issue are “Stings” by Don Crowley, a senior English major; and a critique on the writings of Evelyn Waugh by Frank Newman, a law student.
> The backbone of the magazine is short story writing. In addition, essays, poetry, descriptive sketches and freshman sketches, and outstanding work done in freshman English classes are of prominence.
W A new cover design, different from that of last year, also is being featured.
All students are invited to send in
their literary contributions for publication in the two remaining issues, which will be published in March and May.
Subscriptions to the Juggler are $.75 for the three issues, or individual copies may be purchased at either the Book Store or the Cafeteria.
Student Prize For 1955 Mardi Gras
This 1955 Plymouth hardtop convertible, equipped with radio and heater, will be awarded to a student in the Mardi Gras contest. The grand award will be a 1955 DeSoto Firedome four-door sedan with radio and heater also. Both prizes will be awarded the last, night of the Mardi Gras.
Knights of Columbus Fete Father Tom Brennan On 25th Anniversary With Mass, Breakfast
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus held a Communion Breakfast last Sunday honoring the well-known Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., on the anniversary of his ordination as a Holy Cross priest.
An 8 a. m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, where over 130 K of C members and guests attended in a body, preceded the huge breakfast held in the Faculty Dining Room.
Father Brennan, almost an ND tradition in himself, is a philosophy and logic instructor here at the University, as well as trustee of the ND council. He was ordained in St. John Lateran Cathedral in Rome on Aug. 30, 1930. He is probably most remembered by the average student foi- his numerous pep talks at pre-game rallies/
Junior Bob Hilger, was the master of ceremonies for the event which featured Basketball Coach John Jordan among other speakers.
The big program for the breakfast got underway with a few words from Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, C.S.C. He said of Father Brennan: “Father Brennan is a students’ priest ... a priests’ priest—that’s Father Tom.”
An octet from the ND Glee Club then sang a group of songs, among which were: Ave Maria, Kerry Dances, Blue Moon, Clancy Lowered the Boom, Notre
Dame We Hail Thee, and Sophomore Philosophy.
There were short talks by Joe Doyle, South Bend Tribune sports columnist, and Eli Shaheen, trustee of the ND council.
Coach Jordan was subsequently introduced as the main speaker and termed Father Brennan “Coach Brennan.” He stated further, “He teaches philosophy ... in a practical way that all who come in contact with him can apply in life; we love him; I hope he is around for a long time.”
Lou Basso, after asserting that: “Father Tom always spoke straight from the shoulder,” presented him with a spiritual bouquet.
Father Brennan expressed his thanks by saying, “Anything I have done for the Knights of Columbus has been repaid a hundredfold.”
Among those attending, were the councils from Mishawaka, South Bend, and Elkhart. Other honored guests included: Rev. T. J. Lane, C.S.C.; Rev. Henry De Baggis, C.S.C.; Rev. William T. Morrisson; Rev. Wendel Corcoran; Rev. Edmund Murray; Mr. Carl Ful-nicky, ND graduate, and former grand knight of the South Bend council; -Mr. August Dossman, district deputy; and Mr. J. Smith, former grand knight of the ND council.	r
Q December 17, 1954
‘‘GENTLEMEN—AN ADVERBIAL CLAUSE.”
English 11-X With Senor Adelo
By TIM DEVEREUX
There is a great influx of foreign students into the United States each year. Repi’esentatives from countries all over the world are coming to America to fulfill their college education; many of them to Notre Dame.
The majority of these foreign students come from Latin America, where they have been prepared for university work in their mother-tongue, Spanish. Many of these Spanish-speaking students took English as a foreign language while attending high school.
These students have a definite handicap compared to the American-born student. They often do not have enough background in English to cope with their university courses.
By putting yourself in their place you can see the numerous problems and difficulties that confront foreign students, who enter English-speaking universities.
English 11-X
A special course is offered to foreign students here at Notre Dame. It is called “English 11-X”. It differs from the regular rhetoric and composition course taught to all freshmen in that it supplies special aids to these students.
10
“English 11-X” enables the student to use English faster, to be able to express himself better, to be able to grasp the texts and lectures quicker and to be able to write examinations and papers with more ease.
Adelo Teaches Course
Professor Abdallah (Sam) Adelo has taught English 11-X since 1953. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1947, received his LLB in June of 1954. Sam has also served in the United States Army as an interpreter, language teacher, and translator for military intelligence. He is still in the reserves.
Adelo’s bilingual background (he was born and reared in a small Spanishspeaking community in New Mexico) has made him the ideal man for teaching this special English course. He understands the multiple problems of his students because he experienced similar ones while attending a boarding school • in a northern state.
Ten Men In Class
This semester Professor Adelo has ten students in his “English 11-X” class. All of them are Latins: Ivan Alvarez,
Luis Castellon, and Alvaro Gurdian ® from Nicaragua; Wolfgang Anders and Galo Serano from Bolivia; Luis Gazzani^M and Guillermo Malaga from Peru; Gon-Wv zalo Hernandez from Costa Rica; Agustin Vera from Puerto Rico and Marco Asturias from Guatemala.	M
The text for “English 11-X” is a B handbook of grammar for foreign stu- B| dents. Periodicals, especially Time and K Newsweek, are also used in the course, g?
Other devices, besides reading matter, kJ used by Professor Adelo are films on ■ North America and its cultural back-^-’J ground, oral commentaries and visits to -|=|
factories and and business
other places of commerce in South Bend.
£
Pronunciation
Problems
Most of the problems the students have with the English language involve pronunciation. “It is a real challenge for me to teach it to them and for

them to learn pronunciations” says^ Adelo.

Besides pronunciation, another problem arises in the use of idioms. One of his students pulled a prize boner when he made an association out of a slang word. He thought “wise-guy” meant a very intelligent person. When Mr. Adelo introduced him to the Dean of a near-by college, the student confidently said, “I’m very pleased to meet you sir; I’ve heard you are a wise-guy.”

ft
to
Other problems of the students deal-with conversation, vocabulary, grammar W | and the word order in the English sentence.	O
Adelo says that the reason for much of the migration of Latins up north to & our colleges and universities is because ® of the excellent engineering and com- . S merce courses that United States schools ■ R offer. Most of the Latin Americans at ; Notre Dame are in the College of Engi- T: f neering. South America has many excellent liberal arts colleges so that > 3
few of them go to the United States to attend our Arts and Letters colleges.

Helps Latin-American Relations
“To learn English is another big reason why they come here,” says Pro-

fessor Adelo. Dame because olics and our reputation in tries,” he said.
“If we can
“They come to Notre most of them are Cath-university has a good Latin American coun-
make their engineering
and commerce courses at the university easier to learn through the application of ‘English 11-X,’ Latin American students will get the most out of coming to Notre Dame,” said Adelo. “They will return to their homeland as Catholic leaders . . . leaders that their coun

tries need in the struggle with the nist agitators.

present and future g infiltrating commu- S
The Scholastic
3
‘5 Meet the Lifting Irish
, Charley Meyer isn’t the biggest man j on the Notre Dame campus—he’s less than six feet tall and weighs a compact 165 pounds—but Charley is by • far the strongest. Charley can lift ; nearly 300 pounds above his head.
, Charley Meyer is a Korean vet from ‘ Columbus, Ohio. Before he started meI chanical engineering here at Notre ; Dame, Charley had never lifted weights. ■ Today, Charley is captain of Notre I Dame’s fifteen-man weight lifting team. He can lift more than any team :	member.
. Have Private Gym
' Few realize the small drab structure 1 ^behind the Main Building with “Keep j	Out” signs plastered on its front door
>	is the private gym of Notre Dame’s
1	weight lifting team. The gym, run by
i(.	Rev. Bernard Lange, C.S.C., offers lift-
i	ing facilities to all students in the
|	University. Complete with swimming
J	pool, showers, lockers and all sorts and
j	sizes of weight lifting apparatus, Notre
,	Dame’s body-building shop is daily
crowded with exercising students.
j Over 250 members are enrolled in I ^the Notre Dame Bar Bell Club. Mem-^bers may use the miniature gym six 11 days a week. Each new member join-• ing the club is weighed and measured. । Daily progress of his physical develop-। ment is kept and most gain ten pounds ■ the first month.
The gym has one of the best lifting (. floors in the country . . . oddly enough, the type of floor has a great deal to
By DICK CONNELLY
do with the weight lifter’s performance and his ability to lift.
Every member of the Bar Bell club may compete for the weight lifting team. Team members are selected for “strength, coordination and willingness to work.”
In an inter-collegiate weight lifting match, seven weight lifting classes are competed: bantamweight, featherweight, lightweight, middleweight, lightheavyweight, middleheavyweight, and heavyweight.
Each lifter has nine possible lifts. These are divided into three Olympic lifts: the press, the snatch, and the clean-and-jerk. Three lifts for highest total are allowed for each Olympic lift.
The three totals for each of the three lifts are recorded, the team with the highest total winning. If a tie, the lighter man in each class wins.
The weight lifting team holds both contact (actual weight-lifting meets) and non-contact meets with other colleges. In non-contact meets, weights and order of lifts are agreed on through mail before each team lifts. Totals are then exchanged and results tabulated. A.A.U. officials are required for all meets. The weight lifting season starts each January and runs until the beginning of May.
The average man weighs 165 pounds.
Because of this, there are more good weight-lifters in the 165 pound class than any other weight class. Since the team’s beginning five years ago, Notre Dame’s best lifters have been in this class also.
All Notre Dame records for the three Olympic lifts are held by 165 pounders: press, 245 pounds held by Jerry Adler; snatch, 225 pounds held by Charley Meyer; clean and jerk, 290 pounds, also held by Meyer. Lighter men are proportionately stronger than heavy men—Charley Meyer for instance. Mike McCarthy, a wee Irish lad of 148 pounds, can lift 235 pounds. Notre Dame’s heavyweight, John Timmins, can raise 260 pounds, and Dick Campbell, 198-pounder, can lift 270 pounds above his head.
Win U. S. Title
For five years, Notre Dame’s weight lifting team has been lifting inter-collegiately. Two years ago they won the national championship. Lack of facilities and cramped quarters have kept the team from expanding and improving as it might; however, there is strong hope the sport will achieve varsity status within the next year.
Varsity monograms would offer an inducement to the many more interested in weight lifting and body building. The material would be more plentiful and better teams would be the result. And Notre Dame wants a representative team every year in this fast-growing collegiate sport.
Players Incorporated To Appear Jan. 11-14
Players Incorporated will present Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar here on Jan. 11 and 12, and Moliere’s The Would Be Gentleman on Jan. 13 and 14, the Concert and Lecture Series Committee recently announced. Both productions will be staged in Washington Hall at the tentative time of 8:15 p. m.
Julius Caesar will be under the direction of Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P.; while The Would Be Gentleman will be directed by Leo Brady.
The date for the advanced ticket sale has not been set as yet, but ticket prices, at this time, will be, students, $.75; faculty, $1; and the public, $1.25. Tickets at the door will be $1, $1.25, and $1.50, respectively.
In the well-known Julius Caesar, Caesar falls before assassins and is subsequently defended by Anthony, a close companion to the murdered ruler. Later in the play Caesar’s assassins and his avengers meet in battle and the conspirators are killed.
Monsieur Jourdain, a well-to-do merchant, is the main character of The Would Be Gentleman. He greatly desires to be a gentleman but lacks everything necessary for his objective. His guileless stupidity makes him easy prey for crafty teachers who are supposed to be making a gentleman out of him. He loses much in this '‘learning” and all he gains in the end is a fake Eastern rank of “Mamamouchi.”
Players Incorporated presented Shakespeare’s Othello and Moliere’s The Miser here last year.
I 0er YOU DRUNK rll
YOUR YOU	S/^IRU.
friends, receive mail, write letters, lunch informally, have tea, and relax in an atmosphere of Christmas cheer. Also, they may learn about invitations to be with Americans in their homes, tickets for concerts, exhibits, social events, and tours to points of interest in the city.
Hours of the Center will be from 10 a. m. to 8 p. m. For further information write The Holiday Center, in care of Y.W.C.A. Student Department, 59 East Monroe Street, Chicago 3, Ill.
5 they sang in Hammond, Ind., and they
led the Student Senate Christmas caroling program Friday night. Last Sunday Club sang in South Bend at
sponsoredj® held lasWjg
the the
dren’s Hospital, the Orphanage, the Old People’s Home.
Glee®
Chil-1 and
Between semesters the Glee Club will Eg make a concert tour of the South, S visiting Louisiana, Tennessee, Florida, Virginia, and Ohio.
Last night the Notre Dame Marching . Band, under the baton of Mr. H. Lee Hope, held its annual Christmas conRjz cert in Washington Hall. The concert was also sponsored by the Concert and } Lecture Series.
Gorski Chosen to Play 'Cyrano de Bergerac'
is
Lt:
The cast for the February Univer-^^; sity Theater production, Cyrano de Bergerac, was announced last Sunday night at the Theatre Workshop meet- & ing by Mr. Edward Doyle, director of the play.
Gene Gorski, graduate AB student, !® will portray the title character. “La ||| Bret” will be played by Phil Donohue, while Mike Kennedy will take the part fy of “De Guiche.” Tom Neville will appear as “Christian,” and Bob Moran O
will be seen as “Ragueneau.”
Audrey Winicki, a sophomore St. Mary’s College, will play the of “Roxanne,” the female lead.
f from
part fe
Mr. Doyle, assistant to Rev. Arthur feg Harvey, C.S.C., in the University theatre, announced that rehearsals for the play will begin after the Christ-
mas holidays.
Mr. Fred Syburg
will handle the
Yule Center, Dance Planned For 'Campused1 ND Students
Holiday events are being planned for foreign students, other students unable to get home for the holidays, and students living in this surrounding area.
A Christmas dance, sponsored by the Junior Alumni Association of Indiana University, will be held Dec. 29 at the Progress Club in South Bend. Any and all students living in South Bend and vicinity are invited to attend. The Top Hats will provide the music foi' the semi-formal affair, from 9 to 12. Price of the tickets is $2.50 and they may be purchased beforehand at the Indiana University Center office in Room 220 of Central High School.
A Holiday Center for international students will be open in Chicago from Dec. 20 to Jan. 1. Students may meet
Choristers to Present
Yule Concert Tonight
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its traditional Christmas concert in Washington Hall tonight at 7:30. The concert is sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series of the University. Tickets may be obtained free of charge from the Glee Club hall representative; none will be issued at the door.
Tom May, president of the Glee Club, announced that soloists for the concert will be John Noland and Gene Gorski, who will sing “Gesu Bambino” and “O Holy Night,” respectively. This will be the last solo appearances on campus for Seniors Noland and Gorski.
The choristers have been giving many Christmas concerts in the South Bend area for the past two weeks. On Dec.
production end of the presentation. Mr.^y Syburg has issued a plea to all stu-S f
dents for any type
12
plea to all stu-
of old costumes.
felt hats, or gloves which were in style fcfc' during the French Renaissance. Tom
Kiernan has been named stage manager.
The play will run for four nights,
Feb. 17 through 20.
The University Theatre staff sponsor two courses in phases of drama next semester. The first
Ui

will | the B will—
be a class in theatre production taught^ by Mr. Syburg. The other will be a | course in acting. Mr. Doyle will be the | instructor. Times and dates for these | courses . will be announced later. The i
classes will meet two-hour period.
The classes will dents. There will
once a week for a Kf
ri
be open to all stu- Bf be no obligation to W
attend the classes, nor will any credit be given for the courses.	3
The Scholastics^
Si
Scholastic Sports
STEPHENS LEADS IRISH IN HOLIDAY SWING
*Grid Banquet Features NCAA's Moore;
Ray Lemek to Captain Fighting Irish in 1955
The shillelagh, symbolic of Notre Dame football captains, was handed over to hard-charging guard Ray Lemek last Thursday evening by departing Co-Captains Paul Matz and Dan Shannon at the annual Football Banquet.
Lemek, a 19-year-old junior noted for his defensive ability, was elected by vote of his teammates. Injured in the Southern Cal game, he accepted the shillelagh leaning on crutches.
Highlighting the evening, Rev. Ed-
RAY LEMEK Leads 1955 Gridders
mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president and chairman of the faculty boai’d in control of athletics at Notre ^Dame, took a swing at critics of college football.
Citing the cardinal principle by which the university conducts its football program, Fr. Joyce said, “What is good for the boy is good for football.”
Dr. A. B. Moore of the University of Alabama and president of the National Collegiate Athletic Association sidestepped the association’s television policies and confined himself to prais
ing the Notre Dame team and its coaches.
Hugh (Duffy) Daugherty, head coach of Michigan State’s Spartans, stole the show with his able wit and warm friendliness.
Closing his speech Daugherty called Notre Dame, “A school of 5,000 men ruled by a woman (the mother of God).”
Other speakers were Toastmaster Warren Brown, sports columnist for the Chicago American, Notre Dame Athletic Director Edward Krause, Head Coach Ten-y Brennan, South Bend Mayor John A. Scott, National Chairman of the Democratic Party Paul Butler, and Mount Carmel (Chicago) Football Coach Edward Mieszkowski.
Winners of monograms for the 1954 season were ends Paul Matz, Dan Shannon, Gene Kapish, Bob Scannell and Don George; tackles Frank Varrichione, Sam Palumbo, Wayne Edmonds, George Nicula, Tony Pasquesi and Bob Ready; guards Jack Lee, Ray Lemek, Pat Bis-ceglia, Gene Martell and Ed Cook; centers Dick Szymanski, Jim Mense, and Lou Loncaric.
Backfield recipients were quarterbacks Ralph Guglielmi and Tom Carey; halfbacks Joe Heap, Jim Morse, Dean Studer and Paul Reynolds; fullbacks Dick Fitzgerald, Don Schaefer, Paul Hornung and Nick Raich.
Special service monograms were given to Jim Bigelow, Leo Callaghan, Don Bucci, and Dick Frasor.
1954 ND ALL-OPPONENT TEAM
End....................Ron Beagle, Navy
Tackle.........(tie) Lou Palatella, Pitt
Herb Gray, Texas
Guard..............Tom Bettis, Purdue
Center..............  Marv	Goux, USC
Guard................  Cal	Jones, Iowa
Tackle.........(tie) Joe Krupa, Purdue Forrest Gregg, SMU
End...................John	Lewis, MSC
Quarterback........Len Dawson, Purdue
Halfback...........John Matsock, MSC
Halfback...........Walt Hynoski, Penn
Fullback........Bill Murakowski, Purdue
Best Team Played by Team Vote— Michigan State
Sugar Bowl Highlights Seven Holiday Games
The Notre Dame basketball team moves into the heart of their schedule during the holidays.
Johnny Jordan’s outfit has been functioning on only about three cylinders so far this year, and the Irish hope to snap together in this string.
Capt. Jack Stephens came within two points of tying Joe Bertrand’s Fieldhouse record of 35 last week against Wisconsin. “Junior” is currently averaging over 25 points a game.
John Smyth has been playing fine ball so far. The other Irish, John Fan-
CAPT. JACK STEPHENS Hotter Than a Firecracker
non, Bill Weiman and Lloyd Aubrey have caught some of Stephens’ fire despite their loss to Indiana last Saturday. Sophomore Lee Ayotte has been alternating with Aubrey quite successfully.
On Dec. 18, the Irish travel to Champaign for an engagement with Illinois. The Illini are off to a fast start this yeai- and are sparked by veterans Bruce Brothers and Paul Judson. Sophomore George BonSalle fills in the center position while Ron Altenberger and Bill Ridley round out the starting five.
Dec. 23, Coach Jordan’s quintet moves
\December 17, 1954
13
up to Minneapolis to play Minnesota, led by two All-American candidates. Dick Garmaker set eight school scoring records last year and is considered one of the best shotmakers in the business by Coach Ozzie Cowles. Mencel, the stellar guard, is an outstanding rebounder who can get up there with men much bigger than his six-foot frame.
First Sugar Bowl Bid
On Dec. 29 and 30, the Irish move into the Southland for the Sugar Bowl Tournament at New Orleans. On opening night, Notre Dame faces Loyola of the South while Holy Cross, which last year won the tournament and also the NIT, will meet Bradley. The two winners will meet the following night, while the losers play in the consolation game.
Coach Jim McCafferty is very optimistic about Loyola’s basketball season. Key men returning are Bob O’Donnell, who scored 32 points in a losing cause against the Irish last year, and Eddie Galvin, the team’s leading scorer.
Bradley, a quint that went all the way to the NCAA finals last year, handed the Irish one of their three defeats lost season. The team got off to a slow start this year under new coach, Bob Vanata, losing its first three games. Sparkplug on the Braves’ squad is their aggressive guard, John Kent.
Although weakened considerably by the loss of All-American Togo Palaz-zi, Holy Cross, a perennial power in Eastern basketball circles, has come up with another sound team.
The scoring burden has fallen on the shoulders of center Tom Heinson who
can hit from anywhere on the court and was second only to Palazzi in rebounds.
On Jan. 3, the Irish travel to Louisville to tackle the Red and White of Peck Hickman. This year’s ball club is big and capitalizes on a fast-breaking offense. Led by versatile Phil Rollins, they will be out to avenge the defeat handed them by the Irish last year.
Notre Dame returns home on Jan. 5 for a game with Butler. Coach Paul Hinkle’s squad lacks experience due to the fact that guards Jack Frayman and Dave Sheetz are the only returning lettermen. Hinkle will probably choose his remaining starters from the group of Bill Frohliger, Phil Jung, Bob Mu-maugh, Joe Ditmire, and Leon Redin-bacher. Last year Notre Dame beat Butler decisively in both games.
Another Eastern Tour
After Butler, the Irish make their annual trip East with stops at Madison Square Garden against NYU on Jan. 8 and at Boston Garden on Jan. 10 against Holy Cross.
The Violets of NYU were hit hard by graduation and the only returning starter is guard Dom De Bonis. The small, inexperienced team will rely on Joe Scarpenator, Ed Kramer, and Irvin Lawenthal. Art Tierney, a promising sophomore, may provide the spark needed to reverse last year’s defeat at the hands of the Irish.
Holy Cross, with Heinson and Co., will be out to avenge one of their* two defeats last year. Coach Buster Sheary’s Crusaders have taken two successive defeats at the hands of the Irish.
Name New Managers; McGoldrick Grid Aide*
Bob McGoldrick was elected senior football manager for next year in the elections held at the termination of the recent season. Jack Bowers was voted head of personnel and Mike Van Huff el was named the new boss in charge of equipment. Their duties will begin with spring football practice.
The other managers are: Bill Brou-cek, basketball; Sid Wilkin, baseball; Phil Cenedella, minor sports; and Sil
Resciniti, track.
The tasks these men perform are
varied and numerous. The head man
ager is in charge of all the other managers and it is his job to see that
everything runs smoothly. Also, he personally takes notes for the coaches | at the football games each Saturday i afternoon.	|
The personnel manager’s job is con-W| cerned with week-end trips mainly, and | this usually takes quite a bit of in- S genuity. He checks transportation sched- g ules and hotel reservations, takes mes- J sages for the players so that they ® won’t be disturbed before the game, s and handles all the necessary details > of the trip.
The equipment manager is respon
sible for all the equipment the team . may need whether at .home or on the r-j road.	^4.
Before each road trip the student managers are put on an expense account. With this account they take care of tips and other incidentals that arise Bl during the week-end.	fe
The three football managers receive p a monogram after their senior year.
IRISH ON THE MOVE IN WISCONSIN OPENER Morelli Lays One In	Stephens Pots Another
Wilson Readies Trackmen With Long Indoor Workouts
The Notre Dame track team, under the direction of Coach Alex Wilson, has been working out indoors for the last two weeks in preparation for a rugged season.
The Irish, co-captained by Al Schoen-ig and Jim Pitcavage, will open then* indoor season when they run against Purdue, Feb. 5, in the Fieldhouse.
Spike Daley and Bill Squires, two well-known Irish track stars, will be pacing the distance men. Al Schoenig and Bill Copeland are the men to watch in the middle distances. Showing the way in the sprints will be Jim Pitcavage, Frank Hall, and Alex Pest-richella. Jim Redmond and Jim Lynn are the two top pole vaulters. In the other. field events, Bernie Allard leads the high jump, while Ben Zajeski pushes the shot.

I
14
The Scholastic '
Eight Returning Veterans Pace Gymnasts 'In Crucial Season Opener Against Michigan
Having recently been strengthened by the addition of a host of newcomers, the Notre Dame gymnastics team will launch their season on Jan. 8. On this date they will begin their campaign against the University of (Michigan in the Navy Drill Hall at 2 p. m.
Last Saturday, a minor meet was .'held among the freshmen and sophomore beginners. This contest gave the newcomers a good chance to prove their gymnastic skills.
Freshmen Mike Cleary and Manuel Ochoa took individual honors for the
day, each copping a pair of firsts. Cleary won the trampoline and flying ring events with Bill Malek and Bill
Brunot grabbing seconds. Manuel Ochoa placed first in both the horizontal and , parallel bar contests. Harold Lavelle
and Bill Brunot placed second behind Ochoa. Bernard D’Almeida of Portugal won the sidehorse event, with Bruce Brown bagging second. In other con-
tests, Jack Cote edged out Don Faley for first place in tumbling, while Aubrey Lewis topped Harold Lavelle in the vaulting event.
Besides the boys placing in the meet, other promising newcomers were Bob Conrad, Dick Prather, Ron Casey, Paul —Leitzinger, John Collins, Hugh McGuire, Tom Moore, Roy Williams, and Al Al-
len.
Matmen Open With Victory Over Weak Illinois Tech, 24-8
The Notre Dame wrestling club opened its 1954-55 season by defeating —Illinois Tech, 24 to 8, in the Rockne Memorial recently. The grapplers, under their faculty adviser Mr. Fallon, swept six out of eight matches for the victory.
Notre Dame victories came on pins by Bob Gordon in the 130 lb. class, Jack Mulligan in the 137 lb. class, and Pat Williamson in the 157 lb. class; decisions by Buddy Day in the 123 lb. class, Terry Crowley in the 147 lb. class, and Jack Armstrong in the heavy-weight division.
Mr. Fallon also announced the results of the Notre Dame interhall wrestling tournament that was completed last week. First-place medals were awarded	to Jack Mulligan	in	the
137	lb.	class,	Terry Crowley	in	the
147	lb.	class,	Pat Williamson	in	the
157	lb.	class,	Marty Angelino	in	the
167 lb class, Mike Gleason in the 177 lb. class, and Jack Armstrong in the 191 lb. class.
^December 17, 1954
The veteran squad is coached by Ray Runkle.
Among the veteran performers is Rocco Tannone, a trampoline specialist and this year, his second year of competition, an aspirant to a position on the horizontal bar. Dan Healy, a performer on the trampoline, side horse, and parallel bars, will tumble this season.
Everard Hatch, a junior cheerleader, will display his talents on the trampoline, horizontal bar, flying rings, and in tumbling this year. Reggie Grimm, a three-year veteran, will compete in the side horse, horizontal bar, parallel bar, and tumbling events.
Others on the veteran squad are Charles Ollinger, a performer on the trampoline and side horse, along with Mark and Al Healy, a pair of horizontal bar and tumbling artists. Nick Raich, a horizontal bar specialist, is currently nursing a broken hand.
One of the main functions of the Gymnastic Club, to which these fellows belong, is to annually sponsor the Swedish Olympic gymnastic team for an exhibition in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. This exhibition is one of the finest shows offered to the Notre Dame students, Mr. Runkle said. This year, they will appear at Notre Dame on Feb. 2.
Cadets, Toledo Continue To Lead Kegler Leagues
The Air Cadet Club and the Toledo Club are cutting down the wood and with it the opposition, as they roll in pursuit of the Kegler crown in their respective leagues. After completing twelve sessions in the 45-game schedule, both divisional races are still in serious contention, with no more than three points separating first and fourth place.
In the Blue division, the Cadets have splattered 9,926 pins in rolling to a 10-2 record and hold a one-point edge. While the Rochester quintet provides a serious threat to the Cadet command, they in turn are being pressed by the Chemical Engineers and Detroit bowlers. Both these squads are deadlocked for third place and are but two tallies from the top rang.
The pennant chase is even more compact in the Gold loop where the Met Club crowds frontrunning Toledo, which is in the driver’s seat by half a length.
The leading individual kegler is Bob
Filipiak of the Toledo squad. Filipiak is currently spinning his ball at a 180 clip, and has posted the highest individual average in the triples by accounting for 596 pins. “Buz” Velotta of the Cleveland five ranks second with a 179 average, while Jim Haering of the AIEE is third, bouncing the wood at a 177 pace.
Irish Keglers Scare Leading DePaul, 3-2
The De Paul keglers spilled the Irish, 3-2, while scattering 4,159 pins last Saturday at the Palais Royale. The Chicagoans came into the battle with a twelve game winning streak on the line, and the Irish obliged by snapping the string in the third round of play.
The Blue and Gold charges upset De Paul again in the fourth event to lock the score at 2-2. De Paul however, emerged victorious in the final round besides eclipsing Notre Dame in total pins by a margin of 81.
A new format has been laid down by the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference, now operating in its seventh season. Two points are awarded for each victory, while a single tally is drawn for the highest number of pins. De Paul went home with seven tallies as compared to four for the Irish.
Going into the skirmish, the first on an eight-game agenda, the De Paul quintet had been blasting the tenpins for a team percentage of 190. Consequently, their afternoon’s effort proved a mild disappointment, as they slipped into the 167 bracket.
In De Paul’s abbreviated attack, Jim Eiffres’ ball provided the margin of victory, as he chopped down 906 pegs for the finest individual performance. Eiffres also staged the highest personal game, a 208 effort. For the Greenshirts, Jim Haering cleared the hardwood of 862 pins with a 205 as the pacesetter.
This season there are only two veterans returning to the alleys for Notre Dame, captain John Aquilla and Jack Battal. Last year Aquilla paced the Irish with a 181 percentage, while Battal averaged 179 pins per game. Rookies Jim McLaughlin, Frank Kwak, Bob Filipiak, and Haering complete the crew. These men were selected during the pre-season 15-game “roll in.”
The next match is slated for Jan. 8, when the Irish lock horns with St. Joseph’s College at Rensselaer, Ind. On March 26 the season reaches its high water mark at Valparaiso, the site of the annual bowling'tournament.
15
Commerce Forum Orders Group Discussion For Better Understanding of Business World
A select gathering of Commerce students meet every two weeks to discuss leading topics of importance to business and allied fields. To enable the student to gain a better understanding of business affairs not attainable in the classroom is the main objective of the Commerce Forum.
The Forum, consisting of 30 members, is moderated by Prof. Thomas Bergin, head of the Department of Business Administration.
At each meeting, a senior member of the forum delivers a paper on a subject pertaining to business. After- the paper, the speaker is open to questions by the rest of the Forum. The Forum is important to the speaker because it trains him to. express his ideas before an audience and to think under
Renowned Historian Will Teach in Spring
Rev. Philip Hughes, the noted English Catholic historian, will teach at the University during the spring semester beginning Jan. 31, according to an announcement by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president for- academic affairs. Father Hughes is one of several internationally recognized scholars who will be appointed to the Notre Dame faculty during the coming months under the University’s distinguished professors program.
An authority on Church history, Father Hughes will teach a course on “England, 1688 to the Present” and conduct a seminar on “The English Reformation.” He also will give several public, lectures.
Father Hughes’ three volume History of the Church is regarded as the outstanding study of church history in English. He has just published the third volume of his definitive work, The English Reformation. His other books include Rome and. the CounterReformation in England, The Continental Reformation, A Popular History of the Church, and The Faith in Practice. He was a contributor to The English Catholics (1850-1950) and has written many articles for The Dublin Review, The Tablet, and Clergy Review.
A native of Manchester, Father Hughes was educated at St. Bede’s, Manchester, at Ushaw College, the University of Leeds and Louvain University. He taught during 1923-24 at the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minnesota. From 1934-39 he was archivist at Westminster Cathedral.
pressure in answering queries from his audience.
There have been six meetings so far this semester, in which a diversity of subject material has been discussed. Ron Smith spoke on the “Economies of European Nations”; Roy Belknap on “The Commerce Graduate in American Industry”; Marty Culhane on “The Guaranteed Annual Wage”; Paul Murphy on “Big Business and Anti-Trust”; John Ryan on “Character, the Foundation of American Business”; and John Dwyer on' “Pressure Groups.”
Subjects to be discussed in the future include the Dixon-Yates power contract, the fair trade laws, international trade, and public relations in American industry.
An average of 85 or better is usually required to join the Forum but other interested students are permitted to join. This year there were between 50 and 60 applicants for the 16 vacancies caused by last year’s graduation.
The officers of the Forum are Don Lynch, president; Dick Cook, vicepresident; John Dwyer, program’ chairman; and Paul Murphy, publicity chairman.
New members of the Commerce Forum this year are Donald McKenzie, Edward Schneider, Jerry Higgins, John Murray, Jacques Fiehrer, John Kennedy, Ray Kraemer, Walter Peeney, John Hobbs, Eugene O’Connor, Ray Schlitzer, Robert Berschinski, Don Lieg-ler, Paul Walker, and Kiernan Phelan.
Letters
(Continued from page 4) the past that it has been forgotten that Corby Hall, under Rev. John Farley, of revered memory, was once the real center of the athletic segment of the E.S.B. (Entire Student Body), as we were referred to at that time. In other words, Corby Hall was not always the quiet and calm domicile of those who now dwell there.
In closing, a word of commendation for the Interesting and attractive makeup of the Scholastic—a far, far cry from the days when I covered “Personals” for it under Rev. Patrick Carroll !	Sincerely,
John M. Walsh, ’14.
Greetings From the Left Bank
Editor:
The other day I was sitting in a sidewalk cafe on the Left Bank sipping Cinzano and thinking. I had just finished another gruelling debate with
Jean-Paul, who, while still obstinate, was showing signs of losing faith in his abominable ideas. Maybe I could pave the way to his conversion after all. Gee, it’d be great to win the Lae-
tare Medal.
I thought these things and as soon
as the thought of the Laetare Medal ap
peared, so did thoughts of Notre Dame (du Lac, that is). And with these thoughts, thoughts of you gentlemen.
It occurred to me then that I should
send Christmas cards to each and every one of you to wish you well and to^ inform you that I have not forgotten I my friends in South Bend despite the I distractions of gay Paree.	1
My second—or was it my third?— | Cinzano oddly enough sobered me into | realizing that this idea of Christmas | cards, while pleasant, isn’t prudent, for | to be frank, should I send so many | cards, I would be francless, and this g wouldn’t do. For a francless state of af- ? fairs renders Cinzano and the like un-^ attainable, and after all. ...	W
So I looked for a more prudent ac- | tion. ’Twas then that I thought of our | beloved Scholastic. Surely Messrs.. f Brehl and Fullmer and their gentleman te colleagues of the press would be so g good as to print my greetings to my friends and colleagues.	g
So I bid you a holy and happy. g Christmas and New Year, and—need -I add? Yes, I must—a New Year’s |
Eve tempered with prudence. Amen Godspeed.	■
and.
T. Gavin King L’Eau Vive Soisy-sur-Seine S&O France

More Ex Libris	hl
Editor:	(J
O’Connor’s complaint about library S'.
service was the most legitimate we’v heard	'	- -	.	-	-
seems books edied.
in years (Nov. 12 issue). ThereW;5 no reason why our borrowing “sight unseen” cannot be rem-SS
To see and handle a book before ®!
deciding to borrow it has such advan-®! tages that all other considerations S should be ruled out.	W
I, too, go to the South Bend library ;|||
to avail of the open shelves. A large® percentage of these books are of recentE publication. This service helps particu-g larly my history and biography needs^j
Since the moving of the large art^
A

collection from the library to theR" O’Shaughnessy Building it was hopedWr that the extra floor space would save^pj the time of the student borrower. But, ft; actually, what was the hard way, has^j become harder.
Here’s a pressing problem for the KI Student Senate.
Bob Murphy Morrissey Hall
f
16
The Scholastic
-1
The Week
(Continued from page 5) of, two hundred years from now. . . .” Agreed. Here it is.
Mr. Touchdown
At Christmas vacation with homes scattered wide
And miles of travel with no friend at your side, ■
^{ere freedom of speech is practiced the most,
The Irish go home then to brag and to boast.
Oliver Frisby, en -route to the farm,
A book in his hand, and under his arm
A monogramed (sic) sweater so plainly to see,
With its modest blue background and golden ND.
Too light for the line, too slow as a back,
Not gifted in Tennis or Fencing or Track.
So Oliver earned his letter and fame By being a manager at old Notre Dame.
He sat in the train with a so-graceful air, ■ -
And modestly donned the blue sweater with care.
Lo, Fate had ordained that his neighboring seat
Would have a young lady, so frail and so sweet.
She worshipfully gazed at her hero so fair
wnd soon her siveet voice did envelop the air.	.
They chatted of college and of books and of things
While poor Oliver’s heart so quickly took ivings.
Then coyly she asked tvhat the monogram mean^,
He checked his surroundings and ) being content,
He casually mentioned his athletic fame:
)h me? Well you see. A little football. Notre Dame.
Well ... it is “Christmasy,” isn’t it?)
hate to say this . . .
But I guess I’ll have to, anyway, erry Christmas everybody. Have a
good time and all that. See you when January rolls around—but let’s hope it doesn't roll around for quite a while.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . Guess that leaves me out.
SEASON S GREETINGS
The members of the Scholastic staff would like to take this opportunity to wish the stu-
dents, faculty,
and their
families a very Merry Christ-
mas and a
most Happy
New Year.
Christmas vacation will begin tomorrow after the 11:30 class. Classes will be resumed on Jan. 3. The first issue of the Scholastic after the Christmas holidays will appear on Jan. 14.
Dr. Brambel to Head Biology Department
Dr. Charles Brambel, a noted Baltimore biologist and biochemist, has been appointed head of the Department of Biology, according to an announcement made Wednesday by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Dr. Brambel currently is directoi- of the Anticoagulant Clinic at Mercy Hospital, Baltimore, as well as a faculty member at the University of Maryland Medical School. He will assume his new post at Notre Dame next September succeeding Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C., who will continue as a member- of the biology faculty.
Internationally recognized for his research in dicumarol prophylaxis and therapy, Dr. Brambel presented a paper at the International Conference on . Thrombosis and Embolism at Basel, Switzerland, last July. He presented exhibits at the Swiss conference and at the Second World Congress of Cardiology at Washington, D. C-, in September. Dr. Brambel is one of several internationally known scholars who will be appointed to the Notre Dame faculty in the coming months under the University’s distinguished professors program.
Dr. Brambel was educated at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, receiving his doctorate there in 1931. He was an instructor at Johns Hopkins from 1932 to 1942 and during the same period was a consulting clinical biochemist at Mercy Hospital. He became assistant director of the hospital’s clin-
Ten to Enter Novice Finals; Prep For Bengals in Spring
Ten contestants in the annual novice boxing tournament, under the tutelage of Mr. Dominic Napolitano, earned their chance to enter the finals by going through the preliminary and semifinal bouts undefeated.
In the 137 lb. class, Frank Manning of Howard won over Tom Edwards of Morrissey on a decision. Roy Barnes of Farley earned the right to meet Manning by defeating John Reiss of Farley on a decision.
The winners of the fall Novice Bouts will be prospective Bengal contenders next March.
In the 147 lb. class, Ciro Tantillo of St. Edwards and Tom Queally of Morrissey won the right to meet in the finals as Tantillo decisioned Harold Al-wan of Sorin, and Queally scored the only knockout of the night by stopping Kevin Smith of Farley in the first round.
Both Maclyn Black and Ros Bottum of Zahm won their fights in the 157 lb. class. Black beat James McKeon of Sorin and Bottum defeated Tom Hugue-let of Morrissey.
Pete Noznesky of Lyons decisioned Jim Brunot of Zahm, and Bob Williams of Howard earned the right to meet him in the finals of the 167 lb. class by decisioning Bob Miller of Morrissey.
In the only heavyweight fight, Charley Connors of Howard defeated Mike Regan of Sorin. Connors is slated to square-off against Bryan Woods of Zahrti.
ical laboratory and training school for medical technology in 1936 and director of its’ anticoagulant clinic in 1943. He has been teaching at the University of Maryland Medical School since 1948.
A frequent contributor to professional journals, Dr. Brambel is a member of the American Chemical Society, the American Society of Zoologists, the Baltimore Medical Society, the Maryland Association of Pathologists, and the International Society of Hematologists.
LIBRARY NOTICE
All Library books withdrawn by students are due on Dec. 16. Students who remain in the city may withdraw books as usual during the vacation period but books may hot be taken home by students over the holidays.
December 17, 1954
the Mt page
by Don Yeckel
the Messiah. We are given the four® weeks of Advent to prepare ourselves % for the birth of Christ into our hearts^® We too often forget that Advent is arj season of penance second only to Lent. B-The Church does not forget. The purple S vestments of penance are used in the » Mass, and the Gloria in excelsis Deo O is no longer sung in the churches. We H wait for four weeks just as the Jews H waited for four thousand years for the ®
Let’s Put the X Back in Xmas
coming of Kristos, the Messiah.

They’re right, of course. We should put Christ back in Christmas. It’s a shame, though, that we can’t leave the X in Xmas.
The X has to go because we have lost its wonderful significance as a Christian symbol. We confuse X in Xmas with x, the twenty-fourth letter of the alphabet. Last Christmas someone even wrote a letter to the editor of my hometown newspaper, criticizing the use of X in Xmas because “x is the age-old symbol of the unknown quantity.” The X in Xmas is neither of these.
What Does X Mean?
X is the Greek letter chi. It’s the first letter of kristos, the Greek word for Christ. Long before the English word “Christ” came into use, the Greek letter X was being used as a symbol for Christ. Even today
it is used by the Church on her vestments and in her liturgical art as Christ’s own sign. Traditionally then, Xmas means “Mass of Christ” just as much as Christmas does.
And what’s so wonderful about using Xmas instead of Christmas? If they both mean “Mass of Christ,” why not use a good English word instead of fooling around with a Greek letter?
Because It’s Strange
I like the very foreignness of Kristos. Just because it isn’t an English word it makes us forget that we are Americans and makes us remember that we are Christians. Just because it is Greek it makes the association of “minced pies and plum-porridge, good ale and strong beer” with Christmas seem foolish.
Because It’s Old
I like the very antiquity of Kristos. It forces us to look back to a time when Christmas really meant Christ. It makes us think of those early Christians who saluted our Lord with that name, and who suffered so much for that name. It reminds us that the early Christians could not even have a public Christmas celebration, for “after all, the early Christians would not very well have had a ‘Christmas’ in their homes when their religion was persecuted and they were forced to hide in the catacombs.” (The Christmas Book.) Because of this the Church didn’t definitely assign December twenty-fifth for the celebration of the birth of Christ until after the last of the great persecutions, around the year 320.
Because It’s Christian
The use of this ancient Christian symbol also helps us to remember the reason for the Church’s selection of December twenty-fifth as the date of the Christmas celebration. The Pagans celebrated a feast on December twentyfifth which they called the “Birthday of the Unconquered Sun.” The Popes chose this day for Christmas to turn the people from the worship of the Sun to the adoration of Christ the Lord.
How ironic this is! The Church replaced a pagan feast with one of the greatest of all Christian feasts. Now people are replacing a Christian feast with one of the greatest of all pagan feasts. And what is the sign of their denial of Christ?—Christ’s own sign, X.
Because of Its Meaning
Mere age is not the only significance of Kristos, however. The word itself has a world of meaning for the Christian. Kristos means “the anointed one.” It is the Greek translation of the Hebrew word Messiah. Calling Jesus Kristos, or Messiah, reminds us of Christ’s fulfillment of the Messianic prophecies. For four thousand years the Jews had awaited the birth of the Messiah, He who was to be the King of Kings. For four thousand years the world was without the Savior. Long predicted, long awaited, He comes at last. No wonder we sing “Joy to the World.”	'
Penance
The world had four thousand years in which to prepare for the coming of

Peace	(
Kristos has even more significance. Among the Jews anointing was the seal of God’s favor on a king. In the coronation ceremony of a Jewish king, the essential feature was not crowning, but anointing. And so the Kristos
I
Who was to come would be the King | of Kings and Lord of Lords. It would K be He, more than any earthly king, g Who would bring peace to the earth! and to the hearts of men. He was th®J King of Peace.	g

Good Will
Not as an earthly king would Christ; bring peace, however. His was to be the peace of men’s souls—“peace oni earth among men of good will.” Good will doesn’t primarily mean the good

will of man toward his fellow man, but, the love, kindness, and mercy of GodK| toward man. What greater love, kind—&
ness and mercy could God have showi" । man than the gift of Kristos, the s King of Peace?
The idea of God bestowing his greatest blessings on us at Christmas is the origin of the expression “Merry Christmas.” When this greeting was originally used, the word “merry” did not mean “joyful, jolly, gay” as it does|| today. In those days it mean “blessed,p peaceful, pleasant,” expressing spirits’ tual joys rather than earthly happi-•’ ness. And so, the greeting “Mer Christmas” really means, “May God’s greatest blessings be with you todays the day of His birth.


ei
All of this is what Xmas means t me. It reminds me of the real meanin of Christmas, the early Christians, an of the significance of the date. It re minds me of the hushed expectancy a world awaiting the Kristos, and o the meaning of Advent. It reminds m of Christ the King, and the gifts tha he brought to all of us. Xmas has particular significance for me tha Christmas does not have. It’s a sham
that a forgetful Christ with the of the alphabet.
“Merry Xmas"
world has replace twenty-fourth lette
18
The Scholastic

Don’t Forget Your Kid Brother!
Get Him “THE CATHOLIC BOY” (We’ll take care of your gift card)
48 pages every month—chock full of sports, fiction, adventure, comics. Published at Notre Dame.
$2.50
THE CATHOLIC BOY Notre Danie, Indiana
Please send the Catholic Boy
□ 1 year —$2.50
□ 2 years — $4.50
□ 3 years — $6.00
To: ........................................................................
Name
Street and Number
City	Zone	State
□ Send Gift Card From.......................................................
Your Name
Your Address

New “Silvered-Tip" writes the way you do . .. fine, medium or broad ... without changing points. Refills available in blue, red,	i
green or black ink. Get a	|
Paper-Mate Pen today/ n
• Baiters mran
• Ink cart sms* •rtnMfar
• Cart teak
Silvered-Tip refills...49?

Traded
at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
Basement
Badin Hall