
editorial---------;---~ 
Twocenturies ago, when Patrick Henry said "Give me liberty or give me death," everyone listening knew that the latter was a distinct possibility. In 1986, when a typical Notre Dame student says "Better dead than red," it is unlikely he will ever be faced with an actual choice between the two. 
For Henry, his peers, and many of their descendants, patriotism was a commodity purchased at great personal sacrifice. Likewise, throughout most of our history, holding political convictions has meant having to take risks. On college campuses in the l 980's, however, we enjoy the luxury of costless con­victions. 
Examples of this privilege abound. Note the young man who says "Wipe out the Sandanistas," but is never faced with the prospect of a two year excursion to sunny Nicaragua. Observe the fiery socialist who laments the flaws of the market system while conspicuously enjoying the benefits thereof. Or consider the anti-abortion zealot who is unwilling to bear the cost of social programs necessary to support unwanted children. This is not to say that all Notre Dame students never back up their political passions with action. But most_ of us do talk a good game without ever doing much. 
While Notre Dame students will tell you they want to stand up for what's right and make the world a better place, in reality the Notre Dame student is a tremendously cautious animal when it comes to politics, and not entirely without rational reasons. We have much to lose in terms of money and pres­tige by placing our political convictions before our personal interest. In a slug­gish economy, political action is a luxury few us seem to feel we can afford. 
The bottom line is that we have lost touch with a very basic fact of politi­cal life: that ideas carry consequences. Wearing a "Feed the World" button doesn't actually put food in someone's mouth. Feeding the world is indeed a very· costly proposition which may very well take money out of the button wearers billfold. It would be cynical hypocrisy, to expect the end without accepting the means. 
The question remains, are we ready to accept the cost of our convictions? The rules of good citizenship and requirements of responsible government demand that we do. The secure atmosphere of a sheltered campus allows us to· sidestep these facts. 
·Scholastic 



contents-----------­
Editor-in-Chief James F. Basile 
General Manager Maher A. Mouasher 
Design Editor Peter D. Wowkowych 
Managing Editor Matthew H. Bradley 
Production Manager Barb Blanchette 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Mike Hoffman/ Asst. General Mgr. Michael Setzer/Circulation 
Editorial 
Pete Butler/Copy John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney /Student Life Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jim McGarry/Copy Jennifer Nied erst/Art Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 
Layout 
Tim Arnold/Nat. Affairs Sue Serrato/Departments Kathleen Lau/Notre Dame Phil Flesch/Sports Alfredo Marr /Student Life 
Art 
Jim Doerfler Emil McCauley Kate Hyder Reem Mouasher 
The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University .. of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority. of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts ~o RCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes. the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
Volume 127 Number 9 SCHOLASTIC February 19, 1986 

FEATURES 
2/Battle of the Sexes 
by Mary E. Hess and Doug Griffiths 
9 /From Radicals to Reagan 
by Tom McCaffery 
12/Swimming Against the Tide 
by John Affleck 
18/The Thoughts fhat Move a Nation 
by John McGreevy 
20/Money for Something 
by W.R. Mack 
25/ln Search of the Perfect Tear 
by Jean O'Bryan 
26/Corporate America Plays the Merger Game 
by Ginny Blissert 
30/New Area Studies Program -Explores Mid-East by Beth Taylor 
DEPARTMENTS 
7/On. Other Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 
16/Coming Distractions. 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 
24/Music 
by Tim Adams 
31/Cinema 
by Ted Mandell 
32/Final Word 
by Liz Siegel 
The Scholastic accepts letters from any interested reader. Please address all correspondence to: Letters, Scholastic Magazine, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Scholastic reserves the right to edit for clarity and space. 



by Mary E. Hess by Doi,g Griffiths 
. NOTRE DAME MEN ON ... 
The Ratio 
'}1e typical ND mal~ has a hard time quoting the exact ratio of males to females on campus. According ·· to two Dillon· sophomores, it's 5:2. A Fisher fr9sh . would swear on his mother that it's 6:1, "not including · the St. Mary's .girls." Three Keenan Knights argued whether it was 3:1 or 5:L No consensus was reached; A senior · Stanford business major put · it at 12:5 or,"more accurately, 65% to 35%." You figur~ it out. ·., 
. . . , . , . 
NOTRE. DAME WOMEN ON: 
The Ratio 

..·' Despite displaying other signs of intelligence, many , women fail to realize that there is a discrepancy in the · .: . ratio. One freshman hailing from South Dakota bac.ked up this viewpoint by asserting that the men of :r,l'D are merely lazy. "They complain about the ratio, thinking that each girl has three guys, .but that's ·n6t.true>There are lots. of cute girls who rarely go out/' Perhaps· tp.ese "cute girls" are too busy entertaining the me:Q's crew 
. team in their rooms. . , "" · · 
.............. 
. MEN... Whatever the exact Wall Street figures, ND men agree on one thing: the ratio is against them. The girls have it made. Call it the Law of Supply and Demand. Call it the wrath of God. Call it whatever you like. It makes these guys' lives hell, and the women's lives heaven. Mike from Stanford summed up the phenomenon: "They (women) get . here and get affected with the ratio. In high school, they may not have gone out a lot, but they get here, and it's like 'something -magic happened over the summer."' 
The president of the Windsurfing Club, a good­looking Alumni senior backed this up. He explained, "It's the way things are, because, if a girl is even somewhat attractive here, she has three times the attention as in the real world." 
Two Keenan sophomores commented upon the social whirl women have here: "The exceptionally good-looking ones have their noses up in the air--they all think they're models or something. It's because there's not enough. of them...so they know that if they didn't want to, they'd never have to spend a dollar 

19 FEBRUARY 1986 
WOMEN... 
While dismissing the issue of the ratio as a con­trivance of the tender male ego, women do admit to being uncomfortable with "the maleness of ND." An engineering major noted: "There are very few women in my classes. At times I feel uncomfortable with the 'males come first' attitude that pervades campus. There are few female faculty members, and as for the administration, it's like a men's club that begrudgingly let Sister Jean in." 
A junior from Lewis (who enjoys imitating Andy Rooney) mused, "Have you ever noticed that when a girl dates a guy here she dates all of his friends? You go to dinner with eight guys, you drink beers :rith his section, you go to Rambo. It's a bit much." Now hql~ · on there, maybe you can set these guys up with some of the South Dakotan's lonely friends. · 
The First Move 
You know that old Love Boat plot formula: boy meets girl, boy makes move on girl, girl poses no resis­tance, boy and girl hit requisite snag in relationship, boy leaves boat with girl on arm. Well, in these parts the reliable formula runs into one small problem ..."ND guys just don't ask girls out on dates." · 
"The most frustrating thing," according to a sopho­more busily toying with the longest of three earrings in her left ear, "is that certain things are expected of girls here. We're supposed to play our_ sex roles, but they also expect us to make the first move." Catch~22. Her friend momentarily desisted from her assault on a twinkie and added, "Men here can hide behind the SYR format. Their roommate does the dirty work, and there are so many dances in the . girls dorms that they're invited to. It just becomes an attitude.,of 'if she's interested, she'll call me for a dance."' 
Two seniors capitalized on their opportunity to throw salt in the wounds of the collective male ego. One said: "Most guys at ND are very good looking, intelligent, fun and athletic. They were at the top of the heap in high school, but once they move in fresh­man year, and they encounter 4,000 guys as successful as they were, their · confidence wanes, and they become apathetic and insecure." 
Her roommate, whose career objective is to srr.ead peace, happiness and folklore wherever the P_eace Corps will send her, noticed "...a lot of despair .among the upperclassmen. The ratio knocks a lot of guys down freshman year, and they never recover. But you know. it's hard to get to know each other without a viable student center, or coed dorms. There's a lack of association between the sexes in a normal social atmo­sphere. If .we can't get to know each other, w_e can't relate." 
WOMEN...
MEN... 

here. They could be taken out every night, and they know it." Take heed women. Stop throwing your bucks away at Bridget's. Buy bonds. 
Perhaps Ted, a sharp-di:esser from Cavanaugh assessed the situation most cogently. He explained, "When you're a freshman and you get lectured by the seniors about the 'so many of us, so few of them th~ng,' whether it's true or not, it sinks in ...." 
..Girls here don't bother to break out of the conservative stereotypes ... they complain about not being asked out. But when I say, 'why don't you ask him out?' they can't answer." 
The First Move 

. Perhaps the ratio plays itself out most obviously in that ever crucial "First Move." Don't blame the guys~ it's just that the odds are against them. They really 
· hate to generalize but, girls, you just don't know what it's like. 
Some foxy Dillon sophomores laid it on the line: "You go to a party and there's probably ten girls for twenty guys. Why should you go to the trouble? The girls play the ratio to their best advantage. It's too easy for them. They're complacent. They don't have to be "friendly because they're going to get the attention anyway;. They can wear sweats and eat five bowls of ice cream at dinner. Where else could they do that?" 
Moreover, women don't make it easy for guys to ask them out. The complaints are many: "Every time I go to. a party, every girl's got four or five guys around 
he~. They can pick and ·choose -I can't." A .tall; ·dark and handsome transfer lamented, "Every tini~ I go to the bars, the girls are all in this big group. What are they, siamese quadruplets? Like I'm supposed to go up to them?';· Take note women: cruise alone. As long as you're· desperate and dateless, flau~t it. 
The ratio problem aside, . the "Fil'st Move'' still . presents a problem. ND's. social life just _doesn't pro,­vide that many opportunities. Ted (the sharp dresser from Ca:vanaugh) said, "A big parf of the trouble<is· it's even hard to ask someone out--I mean~ what· do you do for a date? There are movies at the Engineer-. ing Auditorium or Trivial Pursuit. Better -wlien. you're a senior, you can go to Senio:i' Bar. BUT IS THAT A DATE??" Grimace. Shrug. Resignation... 

Come Out Virginia · 

JoAnn's button bedecked. back pack leaves no room for confusion over her political orientation. She pronounced the politics of the average ND male to be "just to the right of Ronald Reagan. Their opinions on social issues make Phyllis Schafly look like a moderate." But J oAnn, we've got to protect the current tax policy or else our accounting and PLS (probably law school) departments will be plagued by wholesale desertion. · 
Now here's the tricky part how to be liberal, but not too radical. . Got it? One Senior PLS major just wishes the women would stick with what they are. He complained: ."It's all so put-on, so cyclical. When the girls first· get here, th_ey're. still into all that football team motif from high school. Real conservative. Then they all of· the sudden.· get radical and want to look like: they're oft-the-wall. Everyone tries to be unique. Some white_ girls date black guys just for rebellion. Or 
· they wear those big <:>Id coats. Then, by the time 
they're seniors, . they tire .of it. They mellow. It's a 
_game." 
_In short, if the niajorify of ND guys questioned 

could call the shots, the , women here would ask them . ov.t a lot more and feel free to go dutch. But that's ---where role-reversal stops. No offense. Just don't · spend the whole date trying to show that you got in 
under higher standards of admittance than your date. It's superfluous.· Don't be too conservative, but be· , yourself. Don't be too radical, just act naturally: 
SCHOLASTIC 
MEN... 
And_ why, oh why women, are you waiting for the men to step forward? After all, the odds are in your favor. Even if they can't overcome the obstacles, you might at least try~ A Stanford stud admitted this is tricky. He explained, "There's a fine line between ini­tiating something and being forward. I hate forward girls." However, given his druthers, he wishes you'd risk it. Go ahead, initiate. Just don't be too forward. 
An attractive, blue-eyed crew team member backed him· up: "Girls here don't bother to break out of the conservative stereotypes...they complain about not being asked out But when I say, 'why don't you ask him out?' they can't answer." Good point, well-taken. 
Come Out Virginia 

The conservative gripe is both common and com­plex. The guys don't want to further stereotypes or generalize, but they really wish the women here would lighten up and stop being so "damn naive and provin­cial." This should be taken, however, in light of twen­tieth century South Bend standards. Ask them out, but don't go initiating bedroom talk. The guys don't care what you just read in Cosmo. 
Ninety percent of the men interviewed complained of ND women's conservatism, however, the degree of desired. liberalism varied. A senior government major stated: . "ND, girls come from such a single-sex, Catholic high school upbringing. The social thing is really foreign to them. It's still too unique for them to treat it as 'normal."' This bugs him. He• and his room­mate . long to shed the conservative male-aggressor role, yet at the same time would hope that their date would, "not be so · concerned about keeping up her ND intellectual image." As one Flanner frosh put it, "When I want to talk football, I want to talk football." 
WOMEN... "They're (men) shallow. and anti­intellectual. They're terrified by a woman who deals in ideas and con­cepts rather than Guess jeans and alcohol." 

A group of well scrubbed sophomores engaged in a quintessentially collegiate probe into the crushing issues of the day found "ND men totally unwilling to let people be the way they want to be. They won't listen to other viewpoints. Their backgrounds are so similar and their experiences so limited that they tend to reject· all that they haven't experienced...so they're rejecting a lot of ideas out of hand." 
A young woman sporting a turtle-neck and Faire Isle sweater is repulsed by the men "that try to be so radical. I'm so sick of tails, and earrings and molding trench coats. What's the cause this week?" Looks like it'll be quite a chore trying to satisfy all the women on campus. 
Cagney and Lacey Meet Rambo 

Ah yes, the battle of the sexes rages on at Our Lady's University. The battle fields are marked, there's fighting at the Dining Halls, the Rock, the bars and in that single down the hall. "So many guys here are · total sexists," affirmed a senior with 11 offers from the Big Eight accounting firms. "Many act like the liberated man, but they're actually looking for a woman who will cook, clean, carpool and bear 2.4 . children.'.' This complaint surfaced more often than any other, eventhe dating issue. They hate to general­ize but..."They're shallow and · anti-intellectual. They're terrified by a woman who deals in ideas and concepts rather than Guess jeans and alcohol." 

MEN... 

·· ..When you're a freshman and you get lectured by the seniors about the 'so many of us, so few of them thing,' whether it's true or not, it sinks in." 
Cagney and Lacey Meet Rambo 

Conservatism is just one of the stereotypes that ND men further against their female classmates. They really hate to beat dead horses, but what's true is true, y'know? ; 
Jim, an off-campus senior, is a sunny spot amid the slush ,of generalizing coeds. He succinctly expressed the opinion of many seniors interviewed: "It's all wrong. No guys really think that ND girls wear sweats and are fat. They're just teasing. It's an old joke -you say it to people you know, and you wouldn't say it if it were true...Women come in here with the attitude that we think they're inferior. They're presuming stuff. They're on this trip that · they · have to prove that they're equal. If you are, you don't have to tell people it. They start raising their hands in class a lot and ask stupid questions. It's all in their minds. My roommates call that type the Orgo-dykes, you know, the hyper pre-med ones. And . then they say that men resent them. Who started it then?" · 
But if Jim is quick to shrug off the stereotypes, underclassmen are all too eager to pick them up and put them to use. Even Jim's roommate furthered an old cliche: "They're ugly. I mean, in general, take the top two-percent -academically -of ,your high school class. Those are the ones who get in here. They're not 

· that pretty. I mean, they're not into beautifying them­selves' and stuff...! think ND gets stuff like that. I mean, . how many schools do you know of have 
. women's football teams?~' 
Some .Keenan sophomores had no · qualms about furthering campus banalities: "They overeat. They're 

. fat. They tend to wear sweats too much." Flanner freshmen agreed: "Come December -no, middle of November, the sweats go on. It happens every year." 
• How long have these guys. been here anyway? When asked ifthey : ever wear sweats to class, they admit that they oft~n do..."But that's different" Uh huh. 
The. most novel .· comment about ND stereotypes came-from.Jim, the off-campus senior. He.complained: "There is one thing I don't like. If I'm cooking some­thing, or vacuuming,' or doing my laundry, or what­ever~ and a girl cornes in and says, 'Oh boy, I can't believe YOU'RE · cooking,' or whatever. That really gets me. When we do it, which we do all the time, they make this huge joke out of it. You can't win. The ones who pull stuff like this deserve whatever they get." Amen.• 
6, 
WOMEN... 

Peg, a senior in Augusta eagerly generalized: "Guys at ND think that they know everything, and every time you have a conversation with them they try to be more intellectual than you. They• try to psych you out and make you feel inferior. There are exceptions of course, but they're all of' the same mold, you know, mama's boys." The . sacredness of "Mom" is also assailed by a gregarious junior entertaining half of the Pit. "They're looking for a woman iust · like 'Mom.' Well, l bet 'Mom' didn't invest $35,000 in her accounting degree.'' Times they is a changin' men! 
uHave you ever noticed that when a girl dates a guy here she dates all of . his friends? You go to · dinner with eight . guys, you drink beers with his section, you go to Ra1t1bo.. " · 
·' 

They've got the gali to attack rnother, and they're even brash enough to attack· that sacred institution opposite O'Shaughnessy. A petite .regular _of·. South Dining Hall vowed: "I will never eat another bite of ice cream or wear another pair of sweatpants IF the· men promise not to drip sweat all over me :at the din­ing hall." A frustrated . senior added, .''If you don'{ think there's a problem on this campus then why do' the guys spend so much time working off those frus­trations at the Rock?" · 1 
. The same senior who will be spreading harmony for the Peace Corps could also put dibs on Dr. Ruth's job. Now close your eyes; and imagine the. accent.."There's a real lack of touch among men here . It's · that macho thing. Everyone is so skin hungry...There's no healthy physical aspect of touch. 
. within their lives. They can get some physical contact out of sports, but it's not the same. There's just not a · healthy attitude towards· the demonstration of affec-, · tion between men and women;· This leads to a dis-· tarted image ofsexuality. Sex and touch are important aspects of our lives. We all have a need of touch. Here, this need is channelled· into more unhealthy· areas ...one · night stands; short ··term, artificial relationships; · sports ...in order to ease that · bitter attitude toward 
:women in general, but especially toward ND women. Women have more of a sense of touch, while men are. deprived of it. They suffer from the masculine stereo-_ types.'' The two-edged· sword of stereotypes rears its ugly head.• 
SCHOLASTIC · 

other campuses 

S tates will be able to confis­/A.1though nervous, a female fl' Compiled by Paul Aiello • cate the wages of students . who 
student . who was taking her Ph.D. oral exam at U.C.L.A. managed to answer all the ques­tions that the examination com­mittee put to her. However, when the ordeal ended, she 99 turned in relief to . leave the room to discover that there were two doors. She quickly chose the left and walked through it, only to find herself in an enormous utility closet. As she stood there pondering her choices -go back · in the room or wait until she heard the examiners leave -the door to the closet opened, and the entire committee joined her.• 
II 
· Pace University officials last week appointed a campus paper\ 
• · editor to r~place the one they recently pushed out of office for publishing a "vulgar" article about AIDS in November. Former editor Brian Sookram's article referred to anal inter:­
. course -which many hold responsible for spreading the_ disease -in what administrators believe to be pure "street language." According tb ·
' 
. Sookram; "It was not meant to be vulgar...! just thought that most people could relate to this sort of langua·ge." • 
• 
A.s the debate over apartheid continues, conflicts . between plack and Jewish student groups 
\I
throughout the country have ·o expanded in light of Israel's close relations with. the current South · African government. Demonstrations and even threats of violence have hit a wide spectrum of campuses ranging from P.itt to San J)iego State. • . 

sheets are often displayed at televised college football games with messages such as "Hi Mom, send more money!" or "Hi Dad, wish you were here!" Yet, this fall at a football game between the University of Michigan and Ohio State, one student's mes­sage read: "Hi Mom, send more sheets!" • 
Bed 

'Opus' 
do not repay their guaranteed student loans if a bill introduced in Congress last week becomes law. The bill, offered -by Representative Sam Gejdanson 
0 
(D-Conn.), would encourage · 
7 
states to collect money from defaulters by skimming up to 35 percent from their paychecks until a given debt is paid off. • 
0 
for Prez 



at Ole Miss· 
0 
0 

1\t the ~ 
University of Texas, students are organizing on a wide scale in the hope of abol­ishing "useless student govern­ment." Two of the biggest rebel groups, CRAP (Committee _to Retire Aspiring Politicians) and STOMP (Students Tired of Manipulative Politics) are currently developing strategies for ·_ campus elections in the spring. On a similar note, at Mis­sissippi, Opus the Penguin of "Bloom County" fame finished second in the student govern­ment presidential race, getting 778 votes to a human's 822. • 
¢ 
A study by University of Wisconsin professors· found that two out· of every three students who ·get aid earn enough extra money from part-time jobs to pay for college. About thirty percent of students who receive aid from work-study programs have second jobs. Middle-class students are working at higher paid jobs than their lower-class counterparts which makes the Government Accounting Office want to make sure that money is getting to people who need it most. In private universities, however,. students are having a harder time footing the bill, bor-. rowing 20 percent of the money needed to pay tuition. • · 
19 FEBRUARY 1986 




SCHOLASTIC 
is now accepting · 
applications for next year1s staff in the following positions: 
Editors: General Manager Production Manager Departments .. Managing Editor . Design Editor News AdvertisingManager Art Editor 
. I 

Sports . Circulation Manager Layout Editors Student Life 
I 

apply in Scholastic office 
Deadline: March 10 
8 . SCHOLASTIC 
FROM 
RADICALS TO REAGAN 

ARE THE EIGHTIES STUDENTS THAT DIFFERENT? 
by Tom McCaffery 
Much has been written -espe­cially during the presidential elec­tion year of 1984 -a.bout both the lack of on-campus political activ­ism and the change in students' political attitudes. Conventional wisdom holds that campus activ­ism in the 1980s is virtually non­existent. Moreover, a popular stereotype of today's average col­lege student is that of a job­hungry and socially unconcerned supporter of Ronald Reagan. But · are these views accurate? Are they valid analyses of the college student of the 1980s or merely oversimplified generalizations? 
An understandable tendency, when discussing campus political activism, . is to compare the campus unrest of the late 1960s and early 1970s with the a,pparent absence of activism today, At the University of California, . Berke­ley, a hotbed of activism in · the 1960s, the CIA can once again recruit without provoking mudh 

19 FEBRUARY 1986 
student protest. Berkeley also now supports twenty-two more fraternities and sororities than there were in 1973, making it one of the biggest "Greek" campuses in the country. 
Another one of the most activist campuses of the era was Columbia University. Previously the site of many violent demons­trations and the home of radicals such as Mark Rudd, one of the founders of Students for a Demo­cratic Society, Columbia today boasts one of the nation's most prestigious student conservative journals, the Morningside Review. The Rev. William Stan, Columbia's chaplain who sup­ported the 1968 student strike, believes that the school is now an "academic sweatshop where 
career panic outweighs moral questioning." 
Stephen Gillers, Professor of Law at New York University, starkly contrasts the students of the 1980s with their counterparts of two decades. He remembers the students of the 1960s as being heavily involved in campus demonstrations for civil . rights, 
against the Vietnam War, instru-. mental in the Presidential cam­paigns of George McGovern and Eugene McCarthy and dominant in marches on Washington. But he believes that since the resignation of Richard Nixon in 1974, "the campuses have been silent." Gill­ers feels that the · mood and atti­tudes of students have been altered drastically and that "con­cern for others has yielded to concern for self and the pursuit of personal gain." 
To fully understand the college student of today, however, one must examine that student not in the context of the 1960s or the 1970s, but in the context of the current environment In the late 1960s the U.S. was in a state of great social unres~. The country had just suffered the assassina­tions of John and Robert Ken­nedy and Martin Luther King; blatant violations of civil rights were an everyday occurrence in many warts of the nation, anc4 thousands of young men were being .drafted to fight in• 'an lmmensely unpopular war. The . 

Vietnam War galvanized-the opin­ion of not only students but also other elements of the populace. This galvanization led people to organize and protest for all kinds of change: change in foreign pol­icy, change in domestic social pol­icy, change in society as a whole. 
The situation in which today's college student finds himself is extremely different. Donald Cos­tello, professor of American stu­dies and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1960, points out that today, unlike in the 1960s, there is "no single crucial issue to force a kind of moral alignment, and therefore, the many forms of activism go on without coalescing into a single _overriding public movement." He goes on to -explain that today's major campus issue, apartheid, cannot compare with the galvaniz­ing force exerted by the V~etnam issue. Costello states that virtually everyone "is opposed to the apartheid system just as virtually everyone was opposed to the war, but what you do about the apartheid system is _much less unanimous than what you do about the war. What you do about the war is end it." 
There are financial considera­tions as well. Although the 1960s _ were turbulent politically, the U.S. economy was generally robust and productive during that decade._ College graduates were -confident in their future financial prospects. The same cannot be said of today's graduates. Not 

Magazine, _stated that today's economic situation "goes a long way toward explaining the new conservatism of the eighties -not a loss of idealism, but a genuine insecurity about the future of the American dream." 
Not only was the social situa­tion of the 1960s different than today's, but so too is the manner in which people voice their politi­cal concerns. The ,protests and demonstrations of the 1960s and 1970s . are famous because they were extremely -public and often violent expressions of discontent, not because they were displays of political activism. Demonstration participants often numbered in the thousands, and clashes with the police and the National Guard were not infrequent. ­
Today, large, raucous_ campus protests are clearly not the norm and thus, some conclude that campus activism is non-existent. As Costello points out, when it comes to the forms of student activism, "there has always been a great variety, but I think we tend only to see the more public kinds." Contrary to popular belief, student activism is not dead, it is just not as vociferous or communal as · it was in the 1960s. 
College students are still active in voicing their political· beliefs -and expressing their social .con­cerns. Throughout the spring of 1983, large numbers of students ­protesting the_ Reagan's· Latin American policies relentlessly heckled former United .Nations Ambassacl,or, Jeanne Kirkpatrick, at many -of her campus speaking engagements. At Berkeley, the demonstrators even forced her to cancel her speech altogether. Stu­dent journals of conservative thought have sprung up at almost forty major colleges and universi­ties throughout the country. 
entering college freshmen acrossIn 1984 Brown University stu­the nation. In 1984 over 182,000d~nts organized and publicized an students at 345 colleges wereelection in which . a majority of polled in an attempt to gaugethe · student body voted to campus political opinion. Onlydemand that the school's adminis­20.5 percent (2 percent less thantration stockpile cyanide tablets in 1968) labeled themselves c.on­
for use in case of a nuclear war. 
servative or far right. On . the At the University of Wisconsin opposite side 22.1 percent I
there are over four hundred offi­
I
labelled themselves liberal or farcial campus organizations left, continuing an increase for the :I 
involved in a wide' array of social [ I 
third consecutive year. The vastissues ranging from women's majority of students called them­I
rights tci the environment. I 
I

selves moderate. Alexander Astin, 
who directed the' survey, believes I 
Throughout the . 1984 election Campus protests were a familiar . 
that the results "show clearly that ii year, a concerted effort was made scene in the sixties. there is no monolithic · trend ron campuses across the country to toward greater student conserva­ilincrease voter registration among 
i:

tism." qstudents. Juan Andrade, then exe­
!i 

cutive · director of the Midwest In the final analysis, it seems q Voter and Ed.ucation Project, said implausible to set up one genera­at the· time of these voter registra­tion of students as the. benchmark tion campaigns, that "nothing · by which all other generations since the I 960s has approached must be measured. Thomas this level of interest and concern Werge, professor of English and a among students." member of the Notre Dame 
faculty since 1967, believes thatCollege students . · played _ an "to talk about one generation. asintegral part of Senator Gary . "Reagan's eighties" are a time of noble and sacrificial and altruisticHart's surprisingly competitive . watershed change in students' and another as materialistic . and 1984 Presidential campaign. Stu­political attitudes. Today's aver­selfish and preppy just makes fordents conducted over 90 percent age college student is said· to favor good copy. It makes for the easyof the Hart campaign's-canvassing Reagan's conservative political contrast, but it's terribly superfi­work duririg t!J,e New Hampshire agenda while rejecting traditional cial." When Werge compares theprimary. This canvassing proved · liberal orthodoxy, This view students of the 1980s with those. 
to be a key component in Hart's attempts to place students in of the 1960s; he ·concludes thatsurprise victory, · a victory -that superficial, easy-to-label "if you scratch the surface of apropelled him to national prom­categories which greatly underes­supposed yuppie, you don't have_inence .and made him a strong, timate the diversity of opinion to go very far before recognizing ·.·
viable candidat~. present on America's college cam­that the-:anxielies are ·there and 
puses.
There is a tendency to simplify . the concerns are there, and and generalize when it comes to Each fall the American Coun­they're ju;:;t as deeply grievous discussing students' · political atti-· cil on Education, in conjunction and just as moral as they have tudes. A common notion is that with UCLA, conducts a survey of ever been."• 
19 FEBRUARY 1986 11. 



SWIMMING AGAINST 
THE TIDE 
Political Organizations At ND Find A Cool Response 
by John Affleck 

Political activism at Notre Dame. That may sound like a contradiction in terms, but there are, in fact, several groups on campus which attempt to interest and involve students in national political issues. They include the Young Democrats, Young Repub­licans, the Anti-Apartheid Net­work, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Right-to-Life movement, all of which have had similar experiences in stimulating student interest in their causes. 
The Young Democrats and Young Republicans both bill themselves essentially as outlets for students who believe in the principles of their respective par­ties and who wish to put those principles into action: Informing and campaigning are the primary ways in which these groups take action. As one might imagine, they tend to be more active in election years. 
In 1984 for instance, both groups were given guest columns in The Observer a week before the N ovembe:r election to state their candidates platforms; both passed out partisan leaflets; and . there was a debate between Mike Bro­gioli, head of the Mondale/Ferraro campaign on campus and Bill Healy, who ran the Notre Dame Reagap./Bush re-election effort. The Young Democrats also had a big hand in organizing the 1984 Mock Con­vention for the DeI11ocratic Party. 
PeopJe want to help; but they also want to do something that is impor­tant. The people who put up posters don't always realize that what they are doing is impor­tant to us. 
Possibly the most effective pol­itical action group at Notre Dame during the past year has been the Anti-Apartheid Network, "a loose coalition of students, faculty and staff dedicated to raising aware­ness of the severity of apartheid in South Africa and to applying pressure on the University to begin a process of divestment," accOrding to John Dettling, a leading member ofthe Network. 
Through its' films, speakers, rallies, literature and general visi­bility on campus, the Netwd'rk 
has raised the status of the apartheid issue at the University from the peripheral to the central. Although the University has not begun a process. of divestment, · the Network was pleased with the attention the issue received from the University Board of Trustees 
this fall. "I think it shows a few people can make a difference," said Dettling. "The trustees may not have done anything if no pressure had been applied." 
The Anti-Apartheid Network was supported this fall, in part, by the Notre Dame Chapter of the NAACP, which also is new this year. Its president is Carlton West, a senior from Dorchester, Mass. The NAACP hopes to work toward improved race rela­tions at Notre Dame. 



12 



The Anti-Apartheid Network is one of the most successsful political groups on campus. 

An est~blished political group at Notre Dame is the Right-to­Life movement. Theresa Dono­van, a senior, leads the group whose goal is education. "We try to help young people make better, more informed choices about abortion," said Donovan. The Right-to-Life_group works toward this goal, both on campus and in South Bend, using films, speakers and literature. The group also supports a care center next to an abortion clinic in South Bend. At the center, free pregnancy testing and counseling are offered to clients. 
As a student body we are very apathetic ... What is scary is -the people at this school who will have power a~d status and are politically unaware. 
The Young Democrats, Young Republicans· and Right-to-Lifers all receive money from Student Activities, though they also depend on other sources for funding, whether that means private contributions or members' dues. The NAACP does not yet receive money from from the Stu­dent Activities Board, though it will in the next few years, while the Anti-Apartheid Network relies solely on p~ivate contribu­tions. 
19 FEBRUARY 1986 

In general, the leaders· of these groups find that their organiza­tions tend to operate with a core of hard-working individuals while other less consistent members 
offer their help on some projects, but not on . others. "It goes in waves," Donovan said. "After we show 'Silent Scream' or some.. thing, people are very enthusias­
. tic, but at other times it's harder to generate interest. People want to help, but they also want to do something that shows them what they're doing is important. The people who put up posters don't always realize what they're doing is important for us." 
Whtie some of the leaders of these organizations were reluctant to come out and call the student body at Notre Dame apathetic toward national political issues, there was a definite sense among them that Notre Dame students are often almost exclusively con­cerned with issues directly affect­ing them. 
"As a student body I feel we're very apathetic," Brogioli said. "What's scary is the people at this school will have status and power and are politically unaware. Not that everyone has to be a political junkie, but people should understand the positions of the candidates they support." 
"From what I've heard, out­side the University Notre :.Dame has a very distinctive reputation for student apathy, which is strange in a sense because Chris­tianity should make us activists," Dettling said. "The Gospels are some of the most revolutionary statements ever made." 
Given a somewhat uninformed, if not apathetic student body, do Notre Dame's political leaders feel their work is relevant, or that it promotes change? "Yes, it's relevant," _. _ said K.C. Culum, current prlsident of the Young Democrats. "It may be idealistic to say, but changes are made one person at a time. If we can change one mind then we've accom­plished something." 
"I think [these organizations] show ,you can work within the system," Dettling said. ''You don't have to throw . bricks through the window." 
Young Republicans president Jim Adrian had a slightly dif­ferent perspective. "I don't know if we change people's minds. It's more like a magnet; we bring peo­ple of similar -ideological beliefs together to decide how to put ­those words into actions." 
Widespread or not, political activity does actually exist at Notre Dame. Our choices may be somewhat limited, but the existence of these groups points to the fact that there is at least-some level of political commitment on this campus. • 
13 

THE THOUGHTS THAT MOVE A NATION 
THEY ARE OFTEN BORN IN AMERICAN 
by John McGreevy 

The names are innocuous: the American Enterprise Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the Center for Strategic and International Studies~ the Brookings Institution, the Committee for the Free World. The role of these research institutions, however, is becoming a matter of fairly intense debate among academics, legislators and journalists; Popularly termed "think tanks", these research institutions are viewed as either a threat to the democratic process or a positive alternative to state control over the development of public policy. 
The debate centers around this question: Who should formulate public policy in the United States? The ;mswer in any high school CIVICS textbook would include the obvious: Congress, the President and the federal regula­tory agencies. In the twentieth century, .· however, Americans have witnessed the extraordinary growth of ·formal, non-partisan think tanks . that advise members of Congress and the Executive Branch. Since World War II, think tanks have played an increasingly important role in the development of p_ublic poHcy and in the staff­ing of federal agencies. Both prominent cabinet members, like J canne Kirkpatrick and James Schlesinger, ahd lower-level bureaucrats have moved back anq 
"Popularly termed "think tanks," these research institutions are viewed as either a threat to the democratic pro­cess or a positive alter­native to state control over the development of public policy." 
forth from the institutions to federal positions. Each new administration now routinely plucks numerous employees from the hordes of eager think tank associates. 
Surprisingly, no other nation has think tanks. In the European democracies and Japan, state plamiing boards develop long­term economic and social policies. Despite the growing complexity of modern society, Americans have never established a similar state bureaucracy. Notre Dame history professor Donald Critchlow, in a 
THINK TANKS 
recent book, The Brookings Insti­tution (1916-1952), argues that America's traditional distrust of big government created a void in 
public policy -a void that the think tanks eventually filled. Think tanks were a "peculiarly American response" to the critical need for the "collection, evalua­tion and dissemination of infor­mation vital to public policy." 
The two most traditionally respected think tanks are the Brookings Institution and the American Enterprise Institute·. Both institutions were founded specifically as non-partisan groups that would objectively analyze policy options · in a scholarly fashion. Like impartial scientists, they would conclude their studies by simply recommending the best policy option. As Critchlow noted, such institutions saw them­selves "as standing above partisan politics, by operating outside the political arena...[yet] perceivmg themselves as a professional elite, the guardians of the Republic." 
During the last twenty years, however, the. Brookings Institu­tion has generally been perceived as relatively liberal on social and economic issues. Ironically, · Brookings' opposition to FDR's New Deal program created . a reputation as a reactionary back­water during the Great Depres­sion. ·By the 1960s, however, a clear tilt to the left was apparent. In particular, Brookings helped develop Johnson's Great Society 
SCHOLASTIC 

welfare program and also helped generate support in Congress 'for new federal regulations on pollu­tion controls and a host of other environmental issues. 
During the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, Brook­ings reached , the height of its influence. This power so annoyed President• Nixon that he once ordered aides to look into the possibility of actually bombing the Brpokings building in Washington. While · prestigious, the Brookings Institution has little influence in the Reagan administration. Perhaps consequently, many observers point to a recent swing to the right in Brookings' policy recommendations. 
Although not as trigger happy as President Nixon, the American Enterprise . Institute also responded to the influence of the Brookings Institution. Founded by corporate leaders in 1943, AEI has traditionally attempted to pro­mote a business perspective in public policy. During the past fif­teen years, AEI has dramatically increased its budget and pro­grams. As a result, AEI has a great deal of money and even more influence. Its budget is over $12 million and the masthead contains big names, and their respective egos, like Gerald Ford, Jeanne Kirkpatrick, Michael Novak and Herbert Stein. 
J list as Brookings often dif­fered from the Democrats in the 1960s, AEI 1s not simply a mouth­piece for the Reagan administra­tion in the 1980s. In fact, AEI remains a bit of a sore point with the New. Right. In 1980, it sup­ported George Bush and it has recently issued a series of scath­ing reports on the Reagan budget deficit and the intellectual falla­cies contained · within supply si_de economics: .According -to . its President, William Baroody, "We. aim to.be in the.mainstream." 
In . the same fashion, Brookings scholars· terid to 'scorn the more 
"This power so annoyed Pres~ent Nixon that he once ordered aides to look into the possibility of actually bombing the Brookings building in Washington." 
radical wing of the Democratic party, and often propose economic -programs strikingly similar to those developed at AEI. In the 1984 campaign, for exam­ple, Brookings jumped the Mon­dale · economic ship, terming Mondale's industrial policy "a solution in search of a problem". Ultimately, both institutions claim a certain non-ideological objec­tivity that results from a belief in practical solutions to government problems. 

During the past twenty years, however, a number of think tanks on both the left and the right have essentially abandoned the non­partisan approach. In other words, things have gotten nastier. As Critchlow notes, the Institute for Policy Studies has taken a consistently leftist (Marxist in the opinion of the New Right) stance on policy issues. Jt has sponsored studies investigating the collusion 
-between the federal government and corporate capitalism, with particular emphasis on the mili.., tary industrial complex and American intervention abroad. In the 1960s, one memorable insti­tute fellow authored a "Call to Resist" urging widespread demonstrations opposing the American involvement in Viet­nam. 
More significantly, conserva­tive groups have created a vast array of well-funded, ideologically 
_continued on page 18 

.Prof. Donald T. Critchlo}v 
19 FEBRUARY 1986 



eonl!ng Distraetions 
Men's Swimming -at Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
Championships

1 1 ¦ 1 1 l*I 1-1 1 1 1 
_1_1_1~-~~I_n I I fol 1 1 IXI 
-f:,hl.,,/y-. / {"eh. 2-0 

FILM: "Sophie's Choice" Engineering Auditorium, 7,9:30 pm, 12 am, $1.50 SPORTS-Varsity: Women's Swimming -at North Star Conference Meet February 20-22 
-tu~s. / ret,. /8 

FILM: "Union Pacific" Snite, 7:30 pm SPORTS-club: Men's Volleyball -at Ball State University 
7:30 pm LECTURE: Moshe Davis Memorial Library Auditorium, 7:30 pm 
ART: "Mauricio Lasanaky: A Retrospective Exhibition" The Snite Museum of Art February 16 -March 30 
ART: "Modern Drawings and Watercolors From the 
Permanent Collection" O'Shaughneasy Gallery East January 19 -April 20 
ART: "Urban America" O'Shaughnessy Gallery East January 26 -April 13 

ART: "Artists and Models: Portraits From the Hirahhorn Museum" Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery February 2 -March 9 ART: "Richard Stevena: Recent Photographs" O'Shaughneaay Gallery East February 23 -April 13 NOONTALK: "Artists and Models: Portraits From the Hirshhorn Museum" Stephen· B. Spiro Paint, Drawing and Photography Gallery, 12:10 -12:55 SOPHOMORES: Advisory Council Meeting Grace Hall, 7 pm 
FILM: "Joyless Street" Social Concerns, 7 pm 

FILM: "Sophie's Choice" Engineering Auditorium, 7,9:30 pm, 12 am, $1.50 
SPORTS-Varsity: Men's Basketball -at Manhattan 
(MSG) 9 pm NVA: Interhall Track Meet NVA: Deadlines ­
Water Volleyball Open Racquetball Floor Hockey 

February 20-22 (Evansville,IN) 
LECTURE: "African Art as a Symbol in the 20th Century" .A.nnenberg Auditorium, 8 pm $1.00 -students 
PERFORMING ARTS:"Theater Ballet of Canada Concord High School, Elkhart, 7:30 pm SOPHOMORES: Study Break at Azars Big Boy 
12:00 -1:30 am TRIP: See "Falstaff and Hal" in Chicago, contact Connie in 309 O'S-20 
~ri. 1 -reh..2./ 

FILM: "Death Watch" Snite, 7:30,9:30 pm FILM: "St. Elmo's Fire" I Engineering Auditorium, 7,9:15,11:30 pm, $1.50 SPORTS-Varsity: Track-indoor -at Indiana TAC (Bloomington) Track-indoor -at National TAC 
Women~~~~~~~::North Star Conference Meet 
Men's Swimming -at Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
Championships Women's Basketball -at Loyola Hockey -at Northern Arizona 
7pm 
JUNIORS: Junior Parents Weekend February 21-23 MUSIC: Tim Woolsey, piano recital 
Recital Hall 8:15 m 

FILM; "St. Elmo's Fire" Engineering Auditorium, 7,9:15,11:30 pm, $1.50 SPOR'J.'S-V arsity: · Fencing -at Michigan State/Illinois/Wayne State/ 
Michigan/Oakland (East Lansing) Women's Swimming -at North Star Conference Meet Men's Swimming -at Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
Championships Men's Basketball -at Miami (Fla.) 7 pm Hockey -at Northern Arizona 
7pm SPORTS-Club: Women's Track -at University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) Men's Volleyball -at Ohio State University 
7:30 pm 
L 
1 1 fi I] 
.sun.1 -Feb. 
ART: "Richard Stevens: Opening and Ii SPORTS-Varsity: Women'sBaskE PERFORMING ARTS: Morris Civic C 
PERFORMING ARTs: O'Laughlin~ MUSIC: Annual Pianot Recital Hall, f JUNIORS: Junior Par$­SOPHOMORES: Chicag Minority Awareness We 
Events TBA February 23-2 

,,,,.,,~n . ., {e 
FILM: "Once Upon a1 
Snite, 7 pm Minority Awareness WE Theology Faculty Meeti 
I '61 I I I 

6ues.j fe 
FILM: "The Locket" Snite, 7:30 pm SPORTS-Varsity: Men's Basketba 
7:30 prr LECTURE: Moshe Davi Memorial Libra NOONTALK: "Richard O'Shaughnessy MUSIC: James Welch,gu 
Sacred Hearl C Minority Awareness WeE 

Social Concerllll FILM: "Road Warrior" Engineering Au SPORTS-Varsity: Women's Baskel 
NVA: Lacrosse entry dea MUSIC: Sonneries QuintE

Beginner's Squash Clinic MUSIC: Karen -Buranskas, Cello 
8pm
Morris Civic Center, 8:15 pm 

Enrollment Reservations ¦--..-----~-------•-------MUSIC: Notre Dame Jazz Band Concert 1 pm (thru March 6)
I l@I I l<>I I I I I I• I JUNIORS: 
Junior Parents Weekend

_________..__.______._..,._ _._ SOPHOMORES: Chicago Trip $28.00 Minority Awareness Wee 
leave main circle 11 am Saturday, return 6 pm Sunday AROTC Parents Reception 

1¦ l*C 



~.--.-.........-.--...11.l--al@,;:::;.,i11-..&..1.....1+-_._1_,a1___1____a____1i.......:.:,1_
~1 1;~~1 1 I 1 

FILM: "Road Warrior"
.23 
Engineering Auditorium, 7,9,11 pm, $1.00 
:Recent Photographs" SPORTS-Varsity:teception, 2 pm Women's Swimming -at Midwest Invitational 
(Chicago, IL) itball -at DePaul 
February 27 -March 1 Chuck Mangione 
PERFORMING ARTS: "The Tempest" :sun . YYJar-. :Z 
:enter, 8 pm 1
Washington Hall 
"Great Expectations" SPORTS-Varsity:
ND/SMC Theater 
1ditorium, 8 pm Fencing -at Midwest Qualifier
February 27,28 March 1,6,7,8
;ompetition Finals (Appleton)
LECTURE: Moshe Davis 
pm Wrestling-at NCAA Western Regionals
Memorial Library Auditorium, 7:30 pm
its Weekend MUSIC: "Big Band Sounds"
LECTURE: "Ego and Dream: The Personalization of 
:o Trip Century Center, 7:30 pm
Symbol in 19th and 20th Century Art" 
ek MUSIC: South Bend Youth Symphony
Marjorie Kinsley Campus Auditorium, 4 pmAnnenberg Auditorium, 8 pm 
8 MUSIC: Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra
$1.00 -students SOPHOMORES: Ice Skating at ACC 
Sacred Heart Church, 8 pm SOPHOMORES: Class Mass -11 am
Minority Awareness Week Class Brunch -12 noon -"A" line NDH Sophomore Literary Festival
_._1_1_1_1@1_-r1 11#1 ¦ 11+1 I 1101 
,Library Auditorium b.2-4 -fri.' -feb..:z.s Times/Authors TBA 
March 2-8
'ime in the West" FILM: "Life is a Bed of Roses" 
Snite, 7:30,9:30 pm
iek FILM: "Madmax -Beyond the Thunderdome"
ng-CCE Engineering Auditorium, 7,9,11 pm, $1.5o' SPORTS-Varsity: 
rr,on7 mar.3
Women's Swimming -at Midwest Invitational Women's Basketball -Evansville Hockey -North Dakota State FILM: "Strangers on a Train" 
7:30 
pm Snite, 7 pm SPORTS-Club: 

FILM: "Red Desert" Men's Volleyball -University of Alabama Snite, 9 pm 

7:30 
pm SPORTS-Varsity: NVA: Broomball deadline Men's Basketball -at New Orleans


,11-DePaul 
PERFORMING ARTS: "The Tempest" 7:36 pm ND/SMC Theater Sophomore Literary Festival 
8 Minority Awareness Week ry Auditorium, 7:30 pm Financial Aid Form (FAF) of the College Scholarship Stevens: Recent Photographs" Service deadline 
I lfY-1 l@I I I I I l~I*I 
Gallery East, 12:10 -12:56 pm P-ir-""'lllilllllll"_"l'"_r-,r-""'l~"'l"-'1'1"'11""-,1"""""'1'_1;_.._..._...1_:a..,.,1_i,_..a__...,_.__.__..__.._ _.___ 
::!;~~~n::cital ,11i.......a1_... ___,a _.l l_

!llllll!lla....lll-.._l__l._....lt?.__l ___ __ 
ik C', 
:sat. .1 mar. I 

FILM: "The Nun" FILM: "Madmax -Beyond the Thunderdome" Snite, 7:30 pm 
Engineering Auditorium, 7,9,11 pm, $1.50 SOPHOMORES: Advisory Council Meeting SPORTS-Varsity: Holy Cross, 7 pm 

:1IPIXI 1 1 
b. ..2Co Track-indoor -Depaul/Marquette Sophomore Literary Festival Fencing -at Great Lakes Championships Indiana High School Basketball Sectionals (Appleton) ACC Arena 11 7pm Women's Swimming -at Midwest Invitational March 4,6,7,8 Men's Basketball -at Marquette 7:30 pm 1ditorium, 7,9,11 pm, $1.00 Wrestling-at NCAA Western Regionals 
(Springfield, MO) Marci tball -Butler 
Hockey -North Dakota State 7:30 pm
1dline 
SPORTS-Club:

it Gymnastics -at Purdue Compiled by Karen Dettling men and women 
for the Fall Semester 1986-87 
PERFORMING ARTS: "The Tempest" ND/SMC Theater
k 
1 1¦ 1

ART: "The Creative ProceBS,. Fiber .Arts Exhibition" Moreau Gallery March 1-22

I 1 1 1 I 1111 
ART: "Redbud Show" 





Ii 
: l 
"Few  individuals  
within  think  tanks  
operate  independently  

of partisanship. Even fewer, one suspects, do not aspire either secretly or openly to some sort of political appointment.'' 
continued from page 15 
rigid think tanks. As the January 1986 Atlantic Monthly pointed out, "conservative commentators have their liberal counterparts out­gunned by a wide margin.,. 
The most prominent example, the Heritage Foundation, cares little about objectivity. Heritage officials maintain a non-partisan 

facade for tax purposes but Vice President Burton Pines admits-in the Atlantic Monthly that "Our role is to provide conservative public policy makers with argu­ments to bolster our side." Heri­tage strongly supports an increase in military spending, particularly Star Wars and eagerly backs most . anti-communist guerilla forces. Support for Secretary of State George Schultz .1s taboo; his establishment past makes him an untrustworthy convert · and a potential moderate. Within the United States, it basically favors the dismantling of the welfare state by replacing government programs with market alterna­
tives. 
Heritage still causes a few red faces in the Reagan administra­tion with its social policy recom­mendations. Recent policy state­ments have concluded that the handicapped "...falsely assume that the lottery of life has penal­ized them at random..." and that prayer in the public schools is "perhaps the most powerful action the federal government could undertake to enhance the art of teaching." 
Fifteen years ago, Heritage spokesmen were laughed out . of everything from serious journals or Senate subcommittee meetings .. In 1986, Heritage is possibly the most influential Washington think tank, a testament to both the national shift toward a conserva­tive viewpoint as well as Heritage's unique marketing and organizational skills. Although not as prestigious as Brookings and AEI, Heritage makes a .seri­ous effort to analyze the nuts and bolts of the federal bureaucracy. Recently, Heritage claimed that over 60 percent of its recommen­dations had been adopted by the Reagan administration, a. claim no other think tank would dare make. 
The emphasis on marketing, not simply ideology, may be· the key to Heritage's· success. All reports are short and clearly writ­


lS 


ten, \1/ith snappy persuasive argu­me11ts. · As Atla11tic Monthly noted, legislators are much more likely to doze off while reading the pon­derous Brookings Review. If any­one in the Federal government requests one of their reports, Her­
itage  guarantees  ·  same  day  
,delivery.  
Heritage  also  feels  less  of  a  

need .to create an academic veneer· for its work. Perhaps this is why every professor inter­viewed for this article disparaged the products resulting · from the Heritage approach. Government professor Peri Arnold noted that, "Heritage possesses a clear popu­list agenda and is not interested in social science per se. I've never seen anything technically interest­ing in their work." Arnold con­trasted Heritage with AEI and the Brookings Institution. "AEI and Brookings are diverse. For exam­ple, they are both increasing the amount of technical, mathematical analysis of policy issues. They may not be neutral but their interests are broad and their results are not predictable." 
But does ideological objec­tivity exist? Some analysts argue that Brookings and AEI's claim to non-partisan objectivity is a preposterous facade. Alan Brink~ ley in the New Republic, noted that "Few individuals within think tanks operate independently of partisanship::-:' Even fewer, one suspects, do not aspire either secretly or openly to some sort of political appointment." Many observers, on both the left and the right, agree. Ultimately, they argue, all think tanks have .. an ideological agenda. Despite the objective rhetoric, AEI and Brookings recommendations are just as politi'cized, only more subtly, as those of the most r,adi­cal extremist group. 
For government professor· John Roos, the American· system fails when it grants any think tanks some sort of special access or deference. "It is dangerous for 19.FEBRUARY 1986 
. 
----~----~ --~
~-~~ 

democracy to allow this claim of special expertise. On technical issues, such as esoteric nuclear strategy or government finance, the think tanks may assume too much control because no broad 
.. Regardless of their nature, think tanks in American politics are here to stay. Without an enormous state bureau­cracy to develop policy internally, think tanks provide a needed service for busy politicians." 
public interest exists to oppose them...The duty of democracy is to carefully scrutinize their ideas." 
By contrast, Critchlow argues that AEI and Brookings do deserve special attention. "Objec­tive knowledge and non­partisanship do exist. AEI and Brookings may not be completely neutral but they do make a cons­cious effort to maintain a certain objectivity. It is ludicrous to give the <Heritage Foundation equal weight simply because of a cyni­cal distrust of all such organiza~ tions.'\cSuch a view, Critchlow concludes, is the · real threat. "Eventually, this view denies the existence of legitimate expertise. People who claim that everything ·is political, on both the left and the right, ensure thatonly the best politic~l organizations, not ideas, 
will prevail." 
· Regardless of their nature, think tanks in American politics are here to stay. Without an enor­
mous state bureaucracy to develop policy internally, think tanks provide a needed service for busy politicians. This is no tragedy. Few policy-makers would replace American think tanks with the rigid and static bureaucracies of Western Europe. By their sheer number and ideo­logical diversity, think tanks create a vast variety of ideas. "Politicians,"· according to Arnold, "are only expert at run­ning for office -not at policy for­mulation. They need someone to turn to.'' Ideally, politicians will simply choose the best alternative. 

Critchlow's new book examines the history of Brookings . . 
Unfortunately, this presup­poses that think tanks are looking out for the "public interest," not the interests of the corporations or individuals that pay their bills. If think tanks become ideological fronts, or are perceived as such in Washington, their usefulness is 
· limited. Without some aspect of non-partisan scholarship, think tanks are simply intellectual lob­byists. In this climate, one can rest assured that political power, and not the public interest, will determine public policy. o 
HI 
-



CAN PACS PURCHASE 
Harry Truman once said, "Some people like government so much that they want to buy it." While this statement seems humorous, a deeper look into the realm of political financing in the 1980s proves President Truman to be quite prophetic. The latest weapon wielded by those seeking political influence is the political action committee, better known as the PAC. Through the PAC and its ·various fundraising activities, interest groups are able to fin;mce campaigns of favored candidates, . and use the media of newspapers, radio, and television to spread their particular political ideas. The enticement of PAC money is a force most politicians find very hard to resist 
•;; ··ip·.:;;
··•··•··.·.·.·.1n

Ks~tii 
J:neff 
that;\a 


f~9iji~' 

POLITICAL POWER ? 
A PAC is defined by law as a committee, club, · organization, association, or group which receives political contributions in excess of $5000 in any calendar year or makes political expendi­tures of $1000 in the same period of time. If the organization receives doriations from fifty or more individuals or makes contri­butions to five or more candidates for federal political office, it is also considered a PAC. 
Another federal stipulation a PAC must fulfill is its registration. It must be registered for· at least six months in order to publicly involve itself in the political arena. Finally, every PAC is required to have a treasurer. He is personally liable by . law to report the accurate intake of con­tributions and must see that all expenditures are handled accord­ing to federal law. If the PAC has no visible treasurer or the posi-· tion is vacant, no collecting or spending of money is permitted. While · these initial regulations seem complex, the major PACs have little difficulty fulfilling them. 
The major law governing the operation of PACs is the Federal Elections Campaign Act or FECA. In general FECA seeks to require full disclosure of all · donations and contributions made in the name of candidates who are running in· primary and/or general elections. "Receipts" are defined as "any direct or indirect payment, distribution, advance, deposit, or gift of money, or any service, or anything of value, to any candidate or campaign com­mittee in connection with any election." "Contributions" to can­didates include services, property, actual loans, guarantee of loans, paid endorsements, and extension of credit. 


The act also requires candi­dates and PACs to disclose accu­rate records of their contributors and the amount or money they contribute. This is done through a complicated set of reporting pro­cedures. These figures are r.eadily available for public scru­tiny; ·in this way, PACs and their candidates can hide nothing from the public. 
The last goal of FECA is to impose limits on campaign contri­butions. These limits depend on the size or. type of contributor. PACs are allowed to contribute $5000 per election to any candi­date or his committee, while up to $15,000 can be given to the party's national committee in a given year. In the end, PACs are limited-as to how much they can give to a particular candidate but they are free to spend as much as they . want in any particular· elec­tion year. 
· FECA is far from foolproof. For example, it is perfectly legal to make indirect contributions to 

·• i! 

Jesse Helms elected to the presidency, they can make hun­dreds of commercials supporting his candidacy. If Mr. Helms or his authorized committee do not see the money, he does not have to claim it as an expenditure. 
Legislation passed in the 1970s allowed PACs to increase at a 
. rapid rate. Ironically, it was the labor unions, who already had a broad base : of political experience and fundiaising abilities, who pushed· for relaxed regulations regarding:the formation of politi­
0, 

..... if a certain PAC wishes to see Sen.Jesse Helms elected to the presidency, they. can make hundreds of commercials supporting his candi..:. dacy. If Mr. Helms or his authorized committee .do _not see the money, he does not have to claim it as an expenditure." 
a campaign; there is no limitation . cal action committees. While seek­.on these donations. As long as the ing to further their causes in poli­candidate or his election commit­tics, the labor movement inadver­tee do not personally handle the tently allowed the restrictions on money, PACs . are within their corporate PACs to be lessened. rights to do as they wish. So, if a Since 1976, PACs of all types certain PAC wishes to see Sen. have . greatly expanded. Being the 
19 FEBRUARY 19136 
land of freedom and opportunity, every American wants his own PAC. Now that it is the politically chic thing to do ,everyone can find a PAC to suit his own tastes aild style. Beer distributors, feel­ing the itch of the political pro­cess, have formed SIXPAC. For those persons who are inclined toward their "old world" 1· nationalities, groups such as the Concerned Rumanians for a Stronger America are ready to take donations. For those who are 
. politically motivated and live 
across the Pacific, the Hawaiian Golfers for Good Government (no 
kidding) have one of the more influential PACs in the western United States. These are perfect. examples of the variety of the 3,149 registered PACs filed with the Federal Elections Commission· as of mid-1982 . 
There are five major categories of PACs. The most prolific in numbers are the corporate PA Cs (1,327 in 1982). While individuals 
in corporate PACs have never 
bee_n ones to spend tremendous amounts of money, their sheer collective advantage allows them to contribute more PAC money to candidates· than any other group of PACs. Moreover, sixty-six per­cent of this money was given to 
_-----­
business oriented Republicans. 
Other types of PACs are much 

. smaller in number. Those formed through industry or professional associations are referred to as "trade/membership" PACs. They numbered 608 in 1982, and 
include powerful PACs such as the Realtors PAC and the Ameri­can Medical PAC. There are 41 P ACs for milk producers, farm­ers, and so on,and these are clas­sified as "cooperative" PACs. Labor PACs now total 25 percent of the total number of corporate PACs-318inall. ­
The last of the groups is the so-called "ideological" or "non­connected" PACs. These PACs are formed by voters who are not affiliated with any corporation, union, or other existing organiza­tion. They are registered under names such as the National Con­servative Political Action Com­mittee (NCPAC) and Americans for an Effective Presidency. These four categories of PACs, when combined with the much larger corporate PAC structure, make up a formidable source of campaign funds for federal politi­cians. In just ten years, PAC funds· have accounted for. one­fourth of the money raised by all · candidates. and one-third·. -cif the money raised by incumbents.· 
The most interesting aspect of the PAC game is the tactics used to get legislators . to vote the "right" way. One method fre­quently used is letter-writing. The National Rifle Association has used this tactic successfully in the past, but many Congressmen are not swayed by this method. If the letters are handwritten and use 
. . 

the language of common people, voting responses of legislators have a better chance of matching up with the desires of the PAC. Those that are written. in a formal style on a computer have a "form-letter" look legislators easily pick up and disregard. 
A second and relatively new tactic is the "negative campaign." It first appeared in the 1980 federal elections. NCP AC and the Moral Majority's National Right-to-Life groups were the two major proponents of this attempt to change politics. These ideologi­cal PACs targeted selective incumbent liberal Democrats who opposed the groups' ideologies. Instead of contributing to the campaign funds of their opponents, thus promoting the challenger's strong points, they funded actions designed to discredit the incumbent. Although it is hard to say how inuch impact these ideological PACs had on the outcome of these elections, four targeted office holders lost in their reelection bids: Birch Bayh of Indiana, Frank Church of Idaho, John Culver of Iowa, and George McGovern: of South Dakota. 
The results of the 1982 mid­term elections brought the effec­tiveness of "negative campaigns" into further question. ·After boldly · proclaiming their New Right victory in defeating the four incumbents previously men­tioned, ultra'-right ·PACs . were forced to eat a little ·c~ow. NCP AC turned out to be the big~ gest loser of all when 16 of i7 incumbents targeted for. defeat all won reelection. In 1982, about $1.1 million was targeted against the reelection of Ted Kennedy alone. This plan had little effect, and Kennedy defeated Ray Shamie by a 61 to 39 percent count. Senator Paul Sarbaries of Maryland also incurred the wrath of the New Right to the .tune of $700 thousand; he won by 26 per­centage points. 
"In 1982, about $1.1 million was targeted against the reelection of Ted Kennedy alone." 


Nevertheless, nonconnected PACs (mainly ideological ones) have an· enormous amount of financial resources, and this must be reckoned with by all candi­dates. In 1982, nonconnected PACs reported spending almost $65 million. They vastly outspent other PACs, giving $22 million more than the corporate ones. 
The ideological groups have drawn much criticism from all over the United States. Some do not like their . negative tactics. Still, in a late '82 Harris Survey, public 9pm10n · about PACs appeared mixed. Big business and union PACs were looked upon as "self-serving," while ideological PACs .. were viewed somewhat more favorably. 
The most effective PAC tactic is posing as a "watchdog," com­bined with threats of campaign fund cutoffs for uncooperative candidates. For example, the Realtors PAC (RPAC) publishes a "report card" for members of Congress. They monitor certain important votes and give each member a rating based on a number of criteria. If RPAC's interests suffer, the Congressmen who caused the decline will be given a lower rating. In election years, the "report card" is sent to the 605,000 members of the National Realtors Association. The realtors, in turn, send this 
·information to,-. customers and associates, who }ust happen to be voters. · 
Also common are monetary rewards for voting the right way. In 1981, the National Automobile Dealers As~ociation gave $40,750 to -members. of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The result was that a. proposed Federai Trade Commission rule requiring car dealers. to inform buyers of known · defects in used cars _was killed _in Congress. For some poli­ticians, P ACs are a great influ­ence on their policy planning. 
Critics have sought to curb PAC influence through legislative 
. 19 FEBRUARY. 1986 
ACE IS THE PLACf WITH THE HELPfiJL HARDWARE MAN



FIIEE PARKING 
FRONT & RF.All 
219 DlllfE WAY NO. IN RC::."Et.~D 
means. Election reform groups, such as Common Cause, have proposed extending public financ­ing to congressional campaigns. This, they feel, would ultimately lead to diminished PAC power. Unfortunately, strong opposition to these efforts has kept any laws of this nature from being enacted. 
. What is the future of PACs? There is no doubt that they will continue to grow. Corporations especially cannot ignore the tremendous influence their PACs can have on the political process. 
U.S. Senator Carl Curtis sums this up· best when he says, "Somebody is going to operate the politics of our country. If those people who are devoted to our Constitution 
LAMP SHADES• LAMP REPAIR• LAMP PARTS GLASS PARTS• LAMPS• LIGHTING FIXTURES 





Village Lamp Shoppe 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 52577 US 31 NORTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 (219) 272-0600 
Custom Lamp Shades 
and to our way of life, to our sys­tem of free enterprise and the preservation of the blessings of freedom are not involved in poli­tics, somebody else will be. If businessmen shun politics, others who may not understand qr agree with the businessman's view of government . will be making the laws under which the business_ community will have to live." 
These sentiments can be easily applied to _all groups who use PACs to their political advantage. If it is necessary for a group to keep its interests in the minds of our federal politicians, PACs will continue to be an effective means of influence. PACs, for better .or worse, are here to stay.• 
. • GARlli::N SUl'PlltS 
• 
HC'!Sf.W ARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPOR [ING GOODS 

• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PIUMBING & Elf.CTRICAL C:llf'PI tr.:; 


272-7535 
I


music-------~---,---, 
0 
/~\©~ 11 liil~ 
by Tim Adams 
I bet that if any of you have been to a concert in Chicago, you ventured · to one of the larger venues in the city: The Rosemont Horizon, the UIC Pavilion or the Auditorium Theatre. 
Perhaps your experience with the music scene in Chicago is lim­ited to the bands that Mppen to be performing at the · Rush Street bars. Hey, that's fine, but Chi­cago is also home to a wide variety of clubs, halls and bars which should satisfy each and every musical taste. 
South Bend may call itself "the city that rocks," but I think Chi­cago holds a slight edge over our beautiful campus town in terins of how much it rocks. When the "biggie" tours hit the Windy City, they invariably stop off at one of the major stadiums. The Rosemont Horizon (6920 Mannheim, Rosemont) is not located in Chicago, but it· is close enough to merit mention here. With excellent stage shows, the Horizon has seen monolithic acts like Bruce Springsteen, the Who, Prince and others in its cavernous confines; 
The Pavilion (Harrison and Racine), located on the campus of the University of Illinois at Chi­cago, and the Auditorium Theatre (70 E. Congress) are the two other major venues in Chicago. Because of its young age and rela­tive cleanliness, the Pavilion pro­vides a better concert atmosphere than the Auditorium Theatre. Shows of a larger magnitude, such 






~lUl~I~ 
Alternative 

as Madonna's 1985 tour stop and the highly successful Fresh Fes­tival II, appear here. 
For those Domers who prefer a smaller setting for a rock con­cert, Chicago provides plenty of places to enjoy. Without a doubt, the Cabaret Metro (3730 N. Clark) is the most active club in the city. Metro is Chicago's underground musical vanguard; almost no other hall in town will feature popular, non-mainstream bands. Since it opened a few years ago, Metro has featured concerts by New Order, Guadal­canal Diary, the Ramones, Husker Du; Billy Idol, R.E.M, X, and a slew of other worthwhile underground bands. 
A larger-scale version of Cab~ret Metro is the Aragon Ball­room (1106 W. Lawrence). While Metro's capacity approximates 1,000, the Aragon holds at least 3,000 people; which makes for · some pretty sweaty shows. Though it doesn't put on very many ·concerts,. the Aragon still snags quality popular acts. In the past few years, the Clash, the Pre­tenders, the Thompson Twins and other big-name acts have per­formed here. I recommend this venue, but it does have some drawbacks, like the echo-filled acoustics and the sometimes dangerous mass of bodies on the floor. 
There are a few more small­scale rock halls of note. Park West (322 W. Armitage) is a nice, clean club that features jazz and folk acts, as well as rock. The Vic Theatre (3145 N. Sheffield) usually puts on less mainstream shows than Park West, like Run­
S>ltn=~~lt 

Music Venues in Chicago 
D.MC. and the Del Fuegos. 
OK, I've talked enough about the rock halls, but what about other types of music? You name it -blues, jazz, folk, reggae -and Chicago's got it. For the blues­loving Domer; there is B.L.U.E.S. (2519 N. Halsted), which con­sistently showcases local and national acts; Kingston Mines (2548 N. Halsted), located very near B.L.U.E.S., presents quality. acts like Koko Taylor, Lonnie Brooks and Sugar Blue; Biddy Mulligan's .(7644 N. Sheridan), which also features rock acts; and Fitzgerald's ·. (6615 Roosevelt), which probably puts on the wid­est variety of acts of any club in the Chicago area. All of these are recommended. 
As for jazz, the Rush Street bars usually fe;:i.ture it in ample supply, but the Bulls (1916 Lin­coln Park West) and the Wise Fools Pub (2270 N. Lincoln) are 
the most popular places to find a strictly jazz fare. Orphans (2462 
N. Lincoln) mixes in· jazz acts with local rock and country acts. 
Reggae is not predominant in Chicago, but it can be found at Roots Rock Reggae (3530. N. Clark), open seven nights a week and featuring national as well as local reggae acts. And last, for you folkies, Holstein's (2464 N.· Lincoln) showcases almost solely folk acts. 
If you can't find what you're ~ooking for in Chicago, then it probably can not be found. Each. of these venues is worth a visit, if just to sample the charismatic atmosphere of a big-city club. • 
Opinion ••• 
In Search of the Perlect Tear 
by Jean O'Bryan 

As we sit in front of our televi­sions and watch the evening news replay the scene of the Mct,.uliffe family watching in horror as the space shuttle bursts into flanies, we must pause for a moment and wonder, "What the hell is the 
· matter with the American media?" 
I 

What do journalists think they are doing for the American public when they broadcast such senti­mental sensationalism? And. better yet, why do viewers watch it? Granted, after the broadcast, we know for certain that the McAu­liffe family is greatly distressed by their loss, but, obviously, we could have figured that out for ourselves. If the McAuliffe family had_ not been upset· with the out­come of the mission, perhaps .that would have been grounds for a 
•human interest, story.· As it stands, the . broadcast was of no . newsworthy value. This. coverage of the shuttle tragedy was not an · isolated · event, ·rather it was merely the most glaring and 
· recent manifestation of a growing trend among the media to exploit the human·interest story. 
When television reporting becomes unbearable, the thinking viewer may tum to the periodicals which can allow for individual discretion. Sadly, though, the newspapers and magazines appear to compete with the television to present the public with the ulti­mate in human interest fluff. Even the ·New York Times couldn't 
19 FEBRUARY 1986 
resist a front page story on the life of the Klinghoff er family after the loss of a loved one. 
Since mass media both reflects and shapes public opinion, the blame for this trend toward cheap sentimentality belongs to both the broadcasters and viewers. Low­quality journalism is the easy way out for all concerned. It ·takes considerably more effort for reporters to research a news story, uncover new developments and present a balanced report on a controversial issue than it does to jam a mini-camera under the nose of the victim's bereaved and record their grief. For the audi­ence, as well, an emotional response to the tears of Leon K.linghoff er's .widow is more easily generated than an ed~cat~d respon_se to the compJex problem of international terrorism. 
. Thus, if the discriminating viewer can gain little substantial information about national and world events from the exploita­tion of the human interest story, he . can at least learn something about the condition of those fol­lowing the news. When any loss . or . endangerment of life results in 
a. media blitz, the general public 
. looks to the media for entertain­ment rather than information. 
Certain events may naturally lend themselves to_ sentimental sensationalism. When public interest ·is high an_d available information low, like in kidnap­pings, hijackings and shuttles explosions, the media looks for any source to feed the public interest, ·instead of responsibly admitting the inability of report­ers to provide more substantial information. As a result, the American public· sobs along with the congregation of the Concord, New Hampshire church as cam­era crews rove in search of the perfect tear. Following clips from the service, we are presented with interviews on the tragedy from Concord high school students. Clearly the media will continue to pump the story as long as the public is listening regardless of whether or not the topic has been 

exhausted. 
No doubt, the discriminating viewer may feel helpless and at the mercy of the media in the face of this trend toward sentimental­ity, but at the very least, he can be aware of the problem. If the mass media aspires to mediocrity, that's their business, the viewer has the freedom to remain skepti­cal and unreceptive. The media knows that sentimentality sells·· and will continue to sell until audience respon:se demands otherwise. Therefore, the only way to reverse the trend is to reject such sentimental outbursts in the media. Turn off the televi­sion, switch to another periodical and hope that the editors get the message. And if it takes them a. while, at least you wili lose noth.:. ing in the meantime. • 




MERGER GAME 
by Ginny Blissert · 
Corporate America is playing its own version of Monopoly. The game is a bit more complex and· virtually any company can play. If there are not enough tunds to buy the corporate Board­walk, junk bonds will provide more capital and greater returns. Just don't land on "poison pill," "shark repellant," and "lockup" ­or else it's do not pass go, do not collect $200. 
During 1984, mergers and acquisitions totaled $124 billion as the result of 2,999 deals. With an average of eleven acquisitions, whole or in part, per day, the level in 1985 is expected to top $125 billion. Essentially, diversifi­cation, expansion, and long term investment are the aims of the game. 
Many of the recent mergers and acquisitions are spinoffs of deals made five to ten years ago. According to Professor John Hal­loran of the Notre Dame finance department, managers have real­ized the complexity of their origi­nal intentions. Having invested in highly diverse lines of business, they have discovered they do not have the experience to efficiently and profitably run their acquisi­tions. They are n9w opting to sen some oftheir unrelated divisions, profiting handsomely in the pro­cess and fueling the takeover trend. 


Players in the takeover game range from large corporations to "takeover entrepreneurs" such as Ted Turner, Carl Icahn and T. Boone Pickens. This year wit­nessed the largest takeovers in history: General Electric acquired RCA for $6.3 . billion, Philip Morris bought General Foods for $5.1 billion, and Beatrice, the maker of Tropicana and Samson­ite Luggage, went for $6.2 billion in a leveraged buyout. No take­over seems too · large and no cor­poration safe in this age of billion dollar buyouts. 
Financing these megadeals are "junk bonds" -high risk, high yield debt instruments. Useq most frequently in the leveraged buyout, the raider issues: such debt to raise needed capital to purchase the target company. Like any loan, lenders are paid at regular intervals. And if the com­pany is resold or . goes public, investors are repaid principal plus a substantial· profit. Over $27 bil­lion in junk bonds have been issued during the past two years. Companies like Drexel Burnham Lambert have been responsible for most of this type of financing. Recognizing the profit potential of these securities, junk bonds have become a favorite tool for arbitragers. Arbitragers quickly snatch up the majority of these issues and when they side with the raider, reap generous profits. 
Revlon, the cosmetics and health care giant, is one example of a large corporation that fell vic­tim to ·takeover after five months of . complicated struggle. Interested in. Revlon's potential earning power, Ronald O. Perel~ man, Chairman of Pantry Pride sought to acquire the company. Through th·e use of junk bonds and the help of arbitragers and a court ruling,· the small . Florida-· based supermarket. chain was able to acquire. Revlon for $2. 7 billion in November." 
Perelman~ a takeover· entrepreneur, · built his conglomerate -cMacAndrews & . Forbes Holding, Inc. -by selling. off divisions and using the capital to buy other companies. Revlon was one of 25 companies of interest to replace supermarkets that w.ere . being sold. The plan was so secretive . that · Perelman and his advisors used. the code name "Nicole" .when discussing the interest in Revlon. 
Though Perelman's. first off er was a friendly proposal, Revlon's chairman, Bergerac; asserted that no such acquisition would · take 
On the positive side, merger activity promotes internal efficiency within corporate Amer­ica. 


place. In August, a public offer 
for $47.50 per share was made. 
Bergerac declined. accusing Perel­
man of covertly raising $700 mil­
lion ·in junk ·bonds to:. purchase . Revlon. · 
To·avert this hostile takeover, 
Junk Bonds $20 


Revlon enacted a "poison pill", a . device used to make a potential target less attractive and too expensive. In Revlon's case, its pill gave holders the right to swap $65 shares for one-year Revlon notes. It would be activated if an · unwanted suitor acquired 20 per­cent of Revlon and would remain in effect until the transaction was over or bidding exceeded $56 per share. The pill became nicknamed the "suicide pill," since it could potentially eliminate equity while 
raising the level of debt. 
Revlon was protected by the fact that the company was inherently worth more than Perelman's offer price. To sell its share at $47.50 would be detri­mental to its stockholders. Within two weeks, Perelman raised his bid to $50 per share and Revlon's time was running out. They had six days to find an alternate plan or "white knight" to financially rescue them. Instead, they opted to settle for a complex breakup, in which the company's assets would be divided and sold. One group, headed by Forstmann Little & Co., a New York management buyout firm, agreed to buy the health care division for $1.7 bil­lion. The cosmetics divisions would sell for $900 million to Adler & Shaykin, a small invest­ment company. Shareholders would · receive $56 per share. Forstmann · Little would finance the purchase through a leveraged buyout in which Bergerac would use part of his "golden para­chutte" or severance pay and remain the company's chief. He later withdrew, however; due to criticism about the use of this pay. 
The • bidding war · was on. Perelman, meanwhile raised his bid: to $56.25. Just a few days later, Forstmaiui Little's bid reached ·$57.25·. In addition, Revlon also granted Forstmann Little a "lockup", the right to buy company assets at an extremely 
19 Flj::!3RUARY 1986 
Many of the recent mergers and acquisitions are : spinoffs of deals made five to ten years ago. 

low price. Perelman responded in two ways. First, he upped his bid to $58 which served to bypass Revlon's poison pill provision. Secondly, Perelman brought Revlon to court on charges that, in granting a lockup, Revlon was not acting in the best interests of its stockholders. On October 23, Judge Walsh of the Delaware Court System ruled Revlon breached the fiduciary duty to their shareholders with. the sale of their assets to F orstmann Little. Such a sale was detrimental to both its own interests and those of the stockholders. By November 5, the victorious Perelman was the company's new chairman and chief executive. 
Cases like the Revlon aquisi­tion are not uncommon in the often hostile takeover environ­ment. Thus the question naturally arises: are such deals justified or is corporate America getting out of hand? The most popular argu­ment for merger activity is that takeovers promote internal effi­ciency. Proponents contend that corporations become more diverse and therefore more competitive through expansion. Companies are forced to become leaner and tougher, as the number of cor­porations is essentially decreasing. The threat of a takeover often results in a massive restructuring ­one that may have been necessary yet would not have otherwise been undertaken. It can extend from the selling of unprofitable assets to the reshaping of manage­ment to widespread layoffs. Analysts believe that many com­panies may be better off with these changes but with a high price for victory. They also cite examples of. target companies whose stock continues to trade at prices in excess of the raider's bid. 

And Wall Street couldn't agree more. News of a takeover target sends the price of its stock way up. For instance, RCA jumped from $10.375 to $63.50 per share · before its· deal· with General Elec­tric was closed. With the fuel of 
merger activity, the Dow Jones 
Industrial average level of the 
stock market had peaked above 
the t500 level mark. Goldman 
Sachs reports that 70 percent of 
the market's rise has been 
charged· by the merger craze. In 
addition, financial advisors, such 
as Drexel Burnham Lambert 
receive· phenomenal compensation 
-$50 million was the figure in the 
Revlon-Pantry Pride battle. Trad­
ing on. a corporate takecwer can 
mean quick financial gains· for all 
its participants. ­
Other proponents of the mega­deals say some deals just make good, plain business sense. Often, it -is cheaper for a company to move into a product line through acquisition rather than develop­ment. Such was the case with Pro_ctor & Gamble when they acquired Richardson-Vicks, maker of Oil of Olay and NyQuil. 
It cost less for P & G to purchase such product lines than attempt­ing to produce similar ones in­house. It also means less competi­tion. Or, . perhaps, consolidation compliments existing companies. Take, for example, General Motors' acquisition -of Hughes Aircraft last June. The car manufacturer is gearing up to enter new areas of technology with backup assistance from Hughes and their other acquisi­
tion Electronic Data Systems. In their Saturn project, EDS is designing computer software. while Hughes is creating electron­ics systems. 
Opponents feel that corporate objectives are getting hidden behind the opportunities . for quick profits. Companies seem distracted from -their main con­cern of productivity and are shift­ing resources to · the search for possible takeovers. The focus is on short term gambling instead of long term strategic investing. This opinion is extremely evident in · leveraged buyouts. Professor Hal­loran recognizes essentially two sources of motivation for lev·er­aged buyouts. The first is based on economic-rational in which 


Adopting · a "let -them 
eat  each  other''  
approach,  the  Reagan­ 
Administration  tends  

not to interfere with corporate takeovers. 
managers of a small firm buy out their. company's assets with the intention of improving operations. He feels this is not the case, how­ever, in buyouts as large as ones like Beatrice. When stakes are this high, buyouts are primarily a financing vehicle. Quick profit is the incentive when ·purchases can be financed with 90 percent debt and sold again 2-3 years later. 
Moreover, the threat of an economic downturn weighs heavily on the minds of econom­ists and analysts. · The current merger mania is occurring in a period of economic recovery. Financing · these deals is debt in the form of below investment grade junk bonds. Salomon Broth­ers estimates that the debt of cor­porations has risen to $1.6 trillion. In addition, as the level of debt has skyrocketed, . so too has the amount of equity plummeted. Companies whose balance sheets have shifted in this way could face seriously depressed cash flows in the event of a recession or a rise in interest rates. Subse­quently,' a corporation's ability to repay debt would be impaired. Today's buyout could turn into tomorrow's bankruptcy. 
Limited in the past, legislation for mergers is becoming a concern of regulators who fear this trend has gone too Jal,".. New York State recently passed a biil which pro­tects potential target. companies. It would give,·: .managers· of New York based firms the . right to block an unfriendly takeover for up to five years. Delaware has also played · an integral part in takeover fights since so many firms are incorporated in that· state. The ·Revlon-Pantry Pride decision set aprecedent, giving a raider the possibility to circum­vent such . barriers as poison pills ana lockups. Adopting a "let them eat each other" type philo.:. sophy; the Reagan administration seem~ in favor of this growth. It is 
19 FEBRUARY 1986 

· In the rules, ·of the merger game no take­over is too •1arge and no corporation is safe~ 


not in violation of anti-trust laws and analysts believe that almost any deal will be ~pproved. Volker, on the other hand, feels it 
is time for the merger game to erid. He ·views the rise in debt financing is alarming. As a step to limit such financing, Volker has imposed a 50 percent margin requirement on takeovers. That is, a firm wishing to acquire another can finance only half of the bid through the use of junk bonds. Uncertainty regarding new tax · laws also has Wall Street nervous. A temporary lag on merger activity ·has resulted and analysts fear that the new legislation could 
sufficiently slow further deals. 
Whether the merger trend is beneficial to American business remains a question. Certainly, every merger is different and must be judged in that · respect. There are, however, certain ele­ments . which are evident. Busi­ness, including Wall Street, has become wrapped up in the activity. Focus must. once again be placed on productivity, cost effectiveness; and the consumer.. Secondly, the level of debt is far too high. While leverage can sub­stantially multiply profits, losses do not escape amplification. Business failure rates are estimated at 80 percent of what they were during the depression ­and these recent occurrences were during a cyclical expansion. Unfortunately, we may have to wait for the trend in mergers to simply run its course, for even tighter legislation will not be com­pletely effective. Somehow Wall Street's masterminds will discover a way. to bypass these laws or develop new ·products -they always do.o 
New Area Studies Program Explores Mid•East 
Modern civilization has its roots in the Mediterranean and Middle East region. Throughout history the region has had a tremendous impact on the world. While today the area is a center of economic growth and political upheaval, behind the modern growth and change remains a rich cultural tradition and ancient reli­gious. past. In recognition of the importance of this region for study in a variety of fields, the College of Arts and Letters has introduced the program of Medi­terranean and Middle East stu­dies. Last year the program received final approval to become the Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration. 
The idea for this program ori­ginated four years ago with Rev. Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C., of the anthropology department, and Dr. Evelyn Early, research associate in the Center for· the Study of Contemporary Society. They were aware of many Middle East spe­cialists within the College who were offering courses on a variety of topics. Gaffney and Early aimed to consolidate these 
· courses under a unified heading so that interested students could develop a systematic approach to Middle East studies. Professor Kenneth Moore, then chairman of the anthropology department and a specialist in Mediterranean stu­dies, saw the growing Middle East program as an opportunity to introduce students to the world of the Mediterranean. While the two regions are methodologically dif­
so 
by Beth Taylor 

ferent, geographically they over­lap. The goal in combining the two in a single concentration was to present them as a cultural whole. 
Today, the concentration is coordinated by Gaffney. He and three other professors working as a committee run the course under the aegis of the anthropology department. Students wishing to begin studies in this concentration must have some training in a Mediterranean language. Two courses in the cultural traditions of the region are required and the remaining three electives can be chosen from a broad list of courses. offered in various depart­ments. This Hst was originally drawn frciin; ·courses already in existence;. Now, however, cour~es are being created specifically . for this concentration. For the · truly · interested student the concentra­tion offers programs . of study abroad in Cairo and Jerusalem. 
Within the concentration the 

focus of study is entirely up to the student. The flexibility of this program makes it adaptable as a 
1-... 

supplement to any major, or merely as a chance to learn about an area very much in the public eye. Gaffney believes in a guided 
· course of study rather than a haphazard selection· of random topics. Concentrations allow the college experience to be an integrated whole. To achieve the greatest benefit from the program, however, Gaffney stresses the need for guidance. A student enrolled in the program can go to any of the twenty-five faculty members involved for advice in his course of study. 
Since the concentration is fairly new, changes as well as growth are anticipated for the future. Gaffney hopes for the con­centration to split into Mediter­ranean studies and Middle East studies. Such a split would allow each area to narrow and define its separate range· oftopics: For now, however, tlie program emphasis is on offering relevant courses· which fit the design of represent­ing the region· as a .cultural unit. The program also hopes to. con­tinue to extend. beyond the class-. room. During . the past fall it sponsored a lecture series and an Egyptian fiim. series host<;:d by Egyptian film critic Zakiro Abaid. Throµgh su_ch_ efforts, the .pro­gr;un hopes to introduce students to. a .culture which is a~ new as it is ancient.•,· 
j 
SCHOLASTIC 


cinema 



Patriotism at fhg Movigs 
COMBATING THE RAMBO MENTALITY 
. by Ted Mandell 

. Film reflects society. Since the days .. of early film when the Lumiere · brothers recorded work­~rs leaving a factory in France, motion pictures have mirrored the social. surroundings from which the,y are created. 
In the early forties, Americans flocked to theaters across the country to see patriotic heroes pledge allegiance to their country by overcoming various foreign enemies; During · World War II everything red, white and blue was hallowed. After the war, 
·films reflected the pessimism of returning soldiers whose stories contrasted sharply with those told in Hollywood. War wasn't fun and games, beating up the bad guys, kissing the flag and celebrating victory with ari · ice-cold brew; Instead, the films of the late for-' ties and early fifties reflected a dark, • cynical ~orld. No one was safe in the movies where everi an innocent protagonist could get caught in a web of deception, crime and imminent demise. 
In the late sixties and early seventies, the theaters were filled · with a different kind. of war film. Easy Rider, Midnight·. Cowboy and The Graduate .· presented a socially : defiant anti-hero; a deliberate reflection of the nation's state of . mind. After Vietnam, ~ovies cap­tured the futility and pessimism of 
the post-war mood. The Deer Hunter, Coming Home and Apo­

calypse Now showed a · true pic­ture of war's effects on the human being. 
Today's trend in film reached Notre Dame's Engineering Audi­torium in late January. The Stu­dent Activities Board elected to show Sylvester Stallone's one-two punch for patriotism; First Blood and Rambo: First Blood-Part II. Undoubtedly, the SAB packed the house and raised some money by showing these popular misrepresentations of war. Unfor­tunately, too many people pay to see the U.S. blow up; mangle and eliminate anything, especially the Soviet Union, in order to boost a 
false sense of American superior­ity. Even sadder is the notion that this type of mentality prevails across the nation. The box office grosses continue to grow for Rambo, Commando, and Invasion USA, and all the other ·movies which I put into a category: fake patriotism. 
Instead of spending our money on falsely patriotic movies, like Rambo, we can spend our movie dollar learning what hap­pens to countries with xenopho­bia. Go see Shoah, a nine hour documentary which talks to sur­vivors of the holocaust in Ger­many and to some of the people responsible for the tragedy. It is scary to realize that the Nazis sound like they were reading 
from the script of Rambo: First Blood Part II. • · 

19 FEBRUARY 1986 
final word 

Leisure and Education 
by Liz Siegel 
"Are you going out tonight?" 
"No, I've got a lot of work to do." 
In a conversation between stu­dents, "work" means class-work, that is-study. This typical student response reveals a societal distinc­tion between intellectual work and leisure. We view studying as a rigid and often alienating activity. Studying, we have decided, must occur during the week; weekends are reserved for playing and recreation -leisure. 
Education, however, has not always been equated with the toil of work. The word school derives from the Greek and Latin words skole and schola both of which mea,n leisure. The classical under­standing of leisure differs greatly from the idleness, or non­intellectual activity which often comprise our notion of the term. 
According to Aristotle, we work in order to have leisure; a leisure to devote to learning. A necessary relation, therefore, exists between the servile and the liberal arts. Leisure is understood as an integral part of one's development as a human being. As Joseph Pieper points out in his book, Leisure, The Basis of Cul­ture, leisure is "a mental and spir­itual attitude -it is not simply the result of external factors, it is not the inevitable result of spare time, a holiday, a week-end, or a vaca­tion." Leisure is, in fact, a "con-
ONE AND THE SAME 

dition of the soul." By this defini­tion, going to senior bar, or watching television may not be classified as leisure at all. 
What, then, is genuine leisure, and what kinds of activity are included in it? Pieper suggests that leisure is a celebration, an affirmation of life, not merely a · respite from work. Leisure, an essential element of full . human growth, enables each person to develop his nature and faculties to his potential. It is not surpris­ing that for the Greeks, education was a primary source of leisure. 

At a university, we are confronted with a choice of atti­tudes towards leisure and learning which will shape the rest of our lives. As students, we either lead fragmented lives of work (study) and play · (non-intellectual activity), or we enjoy a period of perpetual leisure, to the extent that we are free to devote our­selves to learning. 
This education, of course, extends far beyond O'Shaughnessy and Cushing Halls. It exists wherever we take the opportunity to examine, to exchange and to test the ideas which daily explode in our minds. It may be found in the smoky 
.. f I .

. . . as possessors o e1­sure, we are conse­quently the creators of culture.'' 
booths of the Commons, in the study rooms of Memorial Library, in the Oak Room at night, occa­sionally at Senior Bar and often in the dining halls where students linger past seven o'clock, engrossed in conversation. When­ever we open ourselves to dif­ferent people and different ideas, whenever we gather to celebrate our discoveries -there is, simul­taneously,. education and leisure. 
Before we once again stereo­type Notre Dame or· South Bend as a cultural desert and social wasteland, we must recall that as possessors of leisure, we are con­sequently the creators of culture.· 
SCHOLASTIC 


BULK RATE 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 10 




