Cbc^~
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCe-QVASI-SCmPGR-VICTVRVS- •VIV6-9VASI<RAS-MORITVRV5* . ‘
Vol. XXXVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 20, 1904. No. 20.
Rondeau.
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, *02.
'J’HE sweetest far, some way, you see, She always did appear to be:	.
The reason might be hard to show,
Unless you, too, herself could know, And then perhaps you’d not ask me.
Her eyes were bright, her heart aye free, Her actions blent most pleasingly;
In smile or tear she was e’er so— The sweetest far.
We two were playmates once, and though To me that now seems long ago,
I fain would think in old-time glee That she still cares as tenderly.
She reigns in youth’s rare afterglow,
• The sweetest far. •
Andrew Jackson.*
MAURICE F. GRIFFIN, ’04.
N the roll of those whose glory illumines our history is the name of one — a son of the people, a self-made man; who struggled through the obscurity of poverty to the place of highest promi
nence; whose name once resounded as the trumpet of battle, inspiring the people with their new-born power; whose clear conception and indomitable will outlined the; policy and
* In the annual oratorical contest at Notre Dame this year Mr. Griffin won the Breen Gold Medal with this oration, having received the highest total on thought and delivery. He delivered the- same at the late Indiana- Intercollegiate oratorical competition held in Indianapolis,, in which he represented Notre Dame.
arrayed the forces of the first great people’s party: the patriot, warrior, statesman, Andrew Jackson.
When the War of the Revolution broke forth, there was living in a little settlement of North Carolina the seven-year old orphan, of an Irish immigrant. Before the conflict ended that boy had shouldered the musket of a Continental soldier. When Cornwallis surrendered he returned, racked in body, ruined in health, to see home plundered and every living relative destroyed. Thus was his very cradle rocked by the-tempest of the Revolution; thus was bequeathed to him the single heritage—an independent, republican spirit, born of persecution and tempered by oppression.	-
Thirty years later his name resounded; throughout the land. His victory electrified the nation. He had stayed the tide of invasion. He had saved the “Queen of the South.” Against the conquerors of Napoleon, Andrew Jackson had been called. With the eye of. the general, 'with the genius for battle, he drew up his line of defense. And what a.line was that! Of bold embattled yeomanry,'impregnable to the onslaughts of the conquering host of the Iron Duke; a compact row of unerring rifles, keen eyes, stern hearts; a bulwark against the last and greatest armament to invade American soil; a battlementsurmounting, guarding, preserving that fair empire of the Southwest.
In 1824, General Jackson received the’ popular vote for President. The House chose Mr. Adams; and for the first time in the history of the country the will of the people was subverted, and-a man of the people was denied the presidency. Then began that great struggle between aristocracy and democracy. The country had reached the second stage of its development. Hitherto the contests had been between the landed aristocracy of the = South - and that’of the merchants and pro
33°
WOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fessional men of the North. The people, though possessing political power were but the units with which the leaders figured, were only the soldiers with whom the generals fought their battles; but those struggles had taught the commoners their power. They had learned that the very foundation of the state depended on their exercising their political rights. Never before did public affairs so entirely occupy their attention. The country was completely divided into two great parties; the most intense excitement prevailed; the most violent electioneering was done; the contest.was the bitterest ever waged- in the United States.
Jackson, the standard-bearer of the commoners met on the .platform Adams, the scion of America’s cultured class. The builder of the West, in whom was combined more of .strength than gentleness, more of shrewdness than wisdom, more of courage than culture, stood; out against a background of the most elegant society of our nation. The soldier politician, whose boyhood had been passed amid the partisan warfare of the revolution, who had grown to full manhood among the camp-fires of the frontier, now struggled for political supremacy with the refined statesman who had been reared in comfort and trained in the great institutions of learning and the diplomatic cabinets of Europe. Now was the first great experiment in true democracy made, and the sceptre passed from the Virginian dynasty of aristocrats to the first great democrat—Andrew Jackson.
On his banner was written “Reform,” and he took his overwhelming majorities to mean the people’s warrant for that course. The nation had demanded of Adams that he take the initiative in this reform movement; but he refused, and was swept aside. Jacks'on , heard the voice of the people calling for a change and he accepted the issue: To him this was not a mere caring for hungry politicians; it was not a system of spoils; for in the supplying of vacancies he rose above the party spirit as becomes the head of a great state. Why should we think that this -simple man had a longing to rule and be surrounded by political vassals because he refused to pass over his tried arid deserving friends to give office to some strariger under the hypocritical pretense .of :a public svirtue that no. inan ^eyer'.possessed?. Jackson only released the =. floodgates that .had long;: been damniedj^andi-he^op.enedi them: .as: thee rep
resentative of that great principle that was dominant at the time of his election. Call that the spoils system if you like, but it was the will of the people, and Andrew Jackson personified that will. .	.
He believed the Bank was fundamentally wrong. It had never thrown off the suspicion of its legislative birth. It had failed in its one great object—to unify, the currency; it had promoted the. issue of promissory notes. All recognized what a. powerful influence it could, wield, what a. potent factor it could become in the political and in the commercial world. The people feared it, and under their banner, Jackson led the fight for sound money and unhampered circulation. This victory in civil affairs was comparable to the victory of New Orleans.
In ,1833 the first stage of state-rightism came to an end. Jackson was. just the man to have at the' helm at such a crisis. With all the intensity of his great devotion to the Union, he gave the words of Webster a mighty import; he made the work of Lincoln a possibility: for thirty years he silenced the tongue of treason... During the War of 1812 he had said that he would hang the members of the Hartford Convention. In 1832 he told John C. Calhoun to stop preaching his nullification doctrine or he would shoot him for treason. And now when the first dark cloud of secession hovered above the horizon he scattered it with a thunderbolt in its midst: “The Federal Union—It must be preserved.” Jackson, a Southern democrat born and bred, told his native South that he would enforce the Federal law. if it took the whole United States army to do -it. Foremost he stood like a rock against the opposition, and upon that rock the billows of secession broke, only to seethe in foam around the base of the column that he preserved unharmed.
With the election of Van Buren he retired successful and triumphant. The voice of a powerful people lauded his greatness. He had honors beyorid, what, heart could wish, success that outran ambition. No other public man ever retired with such, an abiding mastery over the affections of his people; He was one of them—their .characteristic representative. No other man of his time so embodied all the traits of the American character, and with true instinct conceived the American ideas and expressed them so completely and so,-boldly;? Education, .would have:saved him many? errors,• cu.ltufer. WQuld?. have jsoftened 7h is

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nature; but untrained, uncultured, imperfect .	as he was, not one of his great contemporaries
;	had so good- a right to stand as the typical
; American.	..
He was the. representative of the new American spirit, born of the Second War for . Independence. He had awakened the people | to the realization of their own power, and as .4 the standard-bearer of the masses- he had .	crystallized that whole great power within his
:	grasp. He had fashioned the political ideas
f of the nation in the mould of his own? His J = gigantic conception had outlined the policy; .J his mighty will arrayed the forces of a party J:	more perfect in its organization than any
- before in our history; a party that'had a j:	greater influence for the increase of wealth,
population and prosperity than any yet exerted. He had found a confederacy of J ’	aristocracy, he left an empire of democracy.
■;	Andrew Jackson was a thoroughly honest
; man. Straightforward in action, simple and : ! direct in thought. His faults, like his many ; , virtues, were such that the people best ;	understood them. His temper was violent
and his quarrels were frequent, but his recon,	ciliations were cordial and lasting. Many had
:	superior talents and were less affected- by
prejudice and passion; but in all history no ; I	man had combined in such ample measure
i •	the gifts of personal and moral courage and
’ :	resolute will. No suffering or disease, no
!:	danger or disaster could -ever make that
.	fearless man tremble. His magnificent spirit
i	mounted giantlike with every blow. He rose
[	from the obscurity of poverty; in the perpetual
i i	presence of death he overcame the wilderness
;.	and the savage; he awed the rough vanguard
IJ	of American civilization arid conquered the
;:	bravest veterans of the battlefields of Europe;
I'	he triumphed over all his enemies in' diplo-
।;	macy, the aristocracy, the Bank, the South—
e	all by the majestic energy of his indomitable
I	will. And to that will was joined a heart
i	:	. capable of the purest and most . devoted love,
|	overflowing with generous emotions, ever open
| to benevolence and charity. The sorrows • of j 1 those about him went deep into his soul; few men in private life ever so possessed the . hearts of all around them.
And now as we look back over his life we see that few have journeyed so hard a road. |!	Few have endured the privations of his youth
11	and the constant struggles-of his manhood,
r We see the sickly-r child in • the V’povert-y-| stricken settlement-- of- the ’ frontierand; then
331
the boy-soldier, now trudging in the ranks of the Continental army, now captured, maimed by a redcoat’s sabre, wasted with foul disease in a prison pen; and then the young man of twenty years struggling for an education amid the rough pioneers of the new west. Then we see the warrior on the bloody field of the Horseshoe, striking a mighty blow that-ends forever the power of the Southern Indians; then in his mercy stooping'to save an infant on its dead mother’s breast. Next we meet “Old Hickory” at Natchez pledging his whole estate to pay his troops, giving his own horse to a sick trooper and marching1 five hundred miles on foot at- the- head of his men. Now we see him in a mutiny; one arm, disabled, is bound to his side; in his free hand is a loaded musket; his eyes are blazing a terrible daring; every line of’his: face speaks invincible power, as he swears “By the. Eternal, he will shoot down the man who dares advance.” He cows a rebellious column. Next, the gaunt figure, of the victor rises above the parapet at New Orleans, before him is the flying remnant of England's soldiery. We see the statesman in the stormy scenes of the presidency, riow pausing *to counsel a suppliant, now concentrating • the whole gigantic energy of his genius to crush the Bank, because the people willed it. so; We hear the patriot threaten with the thunders of war his native South for the sake of the Union he so dearly loved.	’
Like Jefferson at Monticello we find Jackson at the Hermitage, directing and guiding with his counsel the great party he had formed; And last, the grand old man bowed and gray, we see him enter the little chapel he- had built in memory of his wife, and there profess Christianity and make his peace with God. And then we say with all his • faults, with all the wrong he did, untrained, • uncultured, imperfect as he was, he stands as the" type of the true American, and: this land of odrs had been a better land for every struggling boy, for every toiling man, because Andrew Jackson lived, and fought, and conquered, and blazed the way from the obscurity of poverty to the place of highest prominence in this the greatest of the nations of the earth.
Flowers are but leaves grown fragrant and many-tinted, so genius is but the bloom ■of- the common-sense, filled <with a- nfore
Celestial lightr and sweetness;—Spalding Nr
33?	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The. Affair at the Inn.
ROBERT E. PROCTOR, ’64.
It was nine o’clock on the morning of July 15, T775» when we sighted Boston Harbor from the decks of the swift sailing packet, Witch, which we had boarded at Norfolk almost two. weeks before. Our voyage had been perilous in the extreme; for when but a few days sail from New York, a storm had come, up and had carried the Witch far out to sea and many miles out of her course. But here we were at last despite these obstacles, and as we swept into the Harbor and came to anchor, both Phil’s heart and mine thrilled with enthusiasm at the thought that soon we would be battling for our country’s liberties.	.
“Are-you ready to ,go ashore, sirs?” asked Captain Grey, commander of the Witch.
“Yes, captain,” I replied, speaking for both of us.	•	.
Five minutes later we were standing on the wharf, bidding the captain, who had accompanied us ashore, a warm farewell.
As he shook my hand in parting; he said: “I would join the Colonial army, Mr. Carver, but I ,fear that I would make a poor soldier. My place, is on the sea.. Who knows; I may get a chance to strike a blow for freedom' before this.war is over.”	.
“Most assuredly,” said I. “The .colonies will .have need of staunch vessels and brave seamen; and the Witch . will be of great service Ao the cause.”
.“I hope so.. ’Tis .my intention to offer the,, services -of myself and vessel to the Continental ; Congress.” .
“Bravo! captain,” exclaimed Phil Winfield. “That is the proper spirit.” .
“’Tis.the spirit ,that actuates all true Americans,”, spoke Captain Grey:. “Ah unselfish devotion to their cause.”	w _	,.
A few. more-. words . and. we parted, the captain returning to his ship, and we.making our way toward the central portion of the city.
‘.‘ Where are our.forces encamped, Rupert?” asked Phil, as we stood on Market Street, not far from Faneuil Hall, between whose walls liberty-had been-born not many moons past.
'“Between - the. Mystic and ’Roxborough rivers/’ I answered,- ‘having taken pains to* inquire~ of-5 Captain? Greys* “But- before' we go
thither we will enter yonder inn and have dinner. I am almost famished.” .
“Agreed,” said Winfield. “The ocean breezes give one a ravenous appetite.”
We entered the inn which was two doors from where we were standing, and taking seats at a table near the door called, loudly for some one to tend to our wants.
A big, portly-man with florid features, whom
I took to be the landlord, answered the call and- bowing awkwardly to us said:	.
“What will you have, young gentlemen?”
“Dinner for two,” said I gruffly, “and mind you, the best you’ve got—and say,” as he was making off, “a bottle of ale. Now look alive, for we’re desperately hungry.” I winked at -Phil and he stifled a snicker.
“Your pardon, young gentlemen,” said the host, apologetically, “I am the proprietor of this inn, and—”	:
“What the devil do we care,” I blustered, ' resolved to have a little sport. “Come now, be sharp, or we’ll look somewhere else for our meal.”	-
He made off with an alacrity remarkable for one of his size, and disappeared behind a screen in the rear.
Phil leaned back in his chair and laughed till the tears came. Mine host stuck his head around the end of the screen with a scared look on hisj countenance.
“What now?” I cried. “D’ye think we’ll make off with the silverware? Never fear, it’s not worth carrying away. Look alive with	j
our dinners! ”	.‘	,
This sent Winfield into another fit of laughter- in which I joined; and the head I bobbed- back into the room behind.	1
Soon: the- inn-keeper- reappeared, bearing | the steaming viands on a large tray,- and when	I
he had deposited the burden and set forth	I
a bottle of ale: and two decanters, we fell to | with great -relish. The worthy host hovered I around our table supplying our every want.	I
Between mouthfuls Phil and I kept up a	I
conversation with hint .
“Stirring times these, Mister — Phil paused; looking at the landlord questidningly.-
“ Goodby, sir, Andrew Goodby; Yes indeed, sir, these are exciting times, and the end is ■ not yet.” s .	;	•
“Iitake-it: that you are a loyal king’s man, ; Friend Goodby,” said I. :	.
Ther man smiled cunningly, but did not answer- my question.	- /■’
“ Perhaps you - are of the other partyfthe
NOTRE DAME
patriots? Know you a certain John Hancock?” j	“Indeed yes. -There never lived a braver
•	man—”
‘	“A friend of Hancock’s can be naught but
a rebel,” I interrupted. “That speech betrays you, landlord. Come now, confess. You are
.	a rebel.”	.	-
j,	“What are you? What side do you favor?”
'1 - asked our host, anxiously.
I laughed. “Do we look like king’s men,
•	Goodby?” I returned. “Can’t you recognize
= , a loyal patriot when you see one?”
•1	"Then you are patriots?”
:	“To the core. Now, Friend Goodby, tell
• us of the state of affairs in Boston—”
The landlord was staring towards the door with a frightened look on bis face, and „	breaking off	my speech	I turned in the same
’	direction.
,	A party of five scarlet-coated troopers, all
.	rather the	worse for	liquor, were noisily
j	entering the inn.
;	“God save us!” ejaculated	Goodby,	shaking
' with fear. “They’ll rob me of everything I ;	possess,” he moaned.
.	One of the redcoats,	whose	flushed	face
bore the unmistakable marks of dissipation,
! espied Goodby, and cried out:
।	“Eh, there is the pot-bellied rascal. Come
£ here, old bag of wind. Dinner for five, and <	mark you, the best there is in this old shell,
;	or I’ll spit you on my sword’s point.”
:	His hand went to his side, but he found
J no sword there.
\	“Lucky for you landlord, I have not my
. sword,” he blustered. “Be off , with you, and
•	be quick with our dinners, or—”
•	But Goodby was hurrying towards the
’ kitchen; and the Britishers lurched into seats ’	. at a table opposite us, and sat glaring at Phil
( and myself, who returned their insolent stares. :	The inn-keeper came bustling forward with
his tray laden with dishes of food. One of the troopers called loudly for a bottle of ale.
■	“I am sorry, sir,” replied Goodby. “My last
; bottle of ale was sold to yonder gentlemen,”
.	indicating us.
!	“What! those boys,” said one king’s man,
j a big, burly fellow, with black hair £nd a dark, lowering face, made more repulsive-looking, by a deep, wide scar on the left
i	cheek, no doubt caused by a slash from, a
’	sword. “What do they want with ale? They’re'
too young to drink liquor.; Bring that bottle of ale here, landlord, and make haste. , My , throat is dry.”
SCHOLASTIC.	333
The landlord hesitated, looking appealingly at us.	'
“Did you hear, fellow?” thundered the trooper, rising to his feet.	-
The poor publican, much affrighted, moved toward our table.	-
“ Never mind,- Mr. Goodby,” said impulsive Phil. “If the gentlemen want the bottle of ale, let them conie and take it.”
“Be careful, Winfield,” I cautioned in a low voice.	.
“That we will, my young bantam!” cried he of the scarred face; and rudely pushing the shivering Goodby aside, he made for our table and the coveted bottle. He reached forth a hand; his fingers closed around the neck of the.bottle, and he started to lift, it from the table. Now thoroughly aroused, Phil grasped the fellow’s wrist with the fingers of his right hand. One sudden, sharp twist brought a howl of pain from the bully’s lips, and he dropped the bottle onto the table.
“Learn to ask for things when you want them,” said Phil, coolly seating himself, but keeping a watchful eye on the redcoat who stood nursing his injured wrist.
With a cry of rage, he of the scarred face struck at Winfield with his big fist. But the blow did not fall; for I rose quickly to my feet, struck up the fellow’s arm with my left hand, and hit him a crack behind the ear with my right that toppled him over. He fell like a log to the floor and lay there bellowing for his comrades to come to his aid.
“Bravo! Rupert,” cried Phil. ’
The other four troopers jumped to their feet and came at us with a rush.
“The pistols, Phil,” -I panted, and drawing my weapon, I presented it full at the head of one of the troopers. ‘.‘Not-a step further,” I cried placing the table between them and myself, “or I’ll shoot.” . .
Phil came to my side; and the bold front we presented evidently awed the troopers, for they fell, back with inarticulate mutterings of baffled rage.
“No shooting,. gentlemen,” implored the landlord... “’Twould ruin me.”
“Out .oL.the, way, Goodby,” I returned. “If these redcoats attack us, we’ll fire, and you may be hit. What—”
I felt the clasp of hands around my ankles. ’Twas he of the scarred face! .	.. .
Over I. fell, and was locked in a desperate struggle, with the big trooper. : I heard, a cry of triumph, and out of the corner of my eye
334
NOTRE DAMESCHOLAShC
saw the four British ruffians launch themselves at Winfield, who I was sure would fight hard. But my opponent engaged my entire attention; and exerting all my strength I tried .to gain the mastery. I believe I would have succeeded; but suddenly I received an awful kick in the head and lost consciousness. . . .
When I regained my senses, Phil and another, whose face seemed strangely familiar, were kneeling by my side bathing my temples. ..	“Ah,” said the man, as I opened my eyes
and stared questioningly into his, which seemed to have something in their depths 7 that I had never seen in mortal man’s before, “he’ll soon be all right. . Here, Mr. Carver, a - pull at this will set you right.”
■ I accepted the proffered flask, and quaffed . a long draught of its contents. Then much restored, I arose to my feet and cast my - eyes about the room. .
■ . “Where are they?” I asked Phil.
. “.Who—the redcoats? The last I saw of 1 them they went flying through the door.
Generals Morgan and Sullivan were too much -••/ ' for them.”
.“Where?—” I began.	.
-. ...“Behind yonder screen with Friend Goodby,” ' . interrupted the stranger. “We shall join them and hasten from here before our British friends f . return;.: ’Tis dangerous to enter the ■hornet’s r t.l nest and disturb the inmates, and Boston is i «. a>-.hornet’s nest for patriots in these times.
Come, young sirs.”
Mi’s:- ..“But my.dinner,” said Phil who was unwill. ing to give up. a good meal.	-
5«r^<./‘Tut, tut, Phil,” said I. “Stay here and you / would riot eat another meal, would he-Friend / ;;	”-.I looked at the stalwart stranger expec-
tantly, eagerly, for I had an idea that he was none other than— .
■ .‘‘Washington is my name,young sirs, George Washington of Virginia, your own state. Come, follow me,” he said with that smile which-I afterwards came to know so well.
. And .we obeyed that, the first command, as we obeyed everyone that fell from His Excellency’s lips during the long years that followed after the affair at the inn/before the surrender at Yorktown ^gave to our-country her freedom. .	..
' The mind is like a flower;: the roots that nourish it being hidden. Our . thoughts unfold in the upper air, not in the depths , of being which Jie beyond / our;; power to: penetrate.—Spalding. . y ■■■■-■ .cr; CE
Varsity Verse.
.	GERALD GRIFFIN. •
IN distant Eire one hundred years ago, Was born a bard who sang in numbers sweet
As ever nightingale from its retreat
Poured forth upon the enraptured ear below.
His youthful heart with passions strong aglow, • He cast unmindful at Ambition’s feet;
O’er him the cruel waves of fortune beat, And only raised his hopes to cast them low. .
But in him faith, that treasure of his land,
Lived to encourage him in every strife,
' And when his genius reached its prime, and fame Had raised to him a temple stately, grand, He.flung aside the fleeting things of life, Retirement and peace and God to claim. .
A. B.
’	’ CUPID’S GAME. '
' I hung May flowers at her dobr For years on every May day night;
,	■ I squandered all my little store
. To buy the flowers and ribbons bright.
I’d steal up softly, ring and run,
. And watch her from behind the fence, While she peered out in merry fun
And of surprise made great pretence.
. RUSSIA AND JAPAN.
There once was a bear big and strong, Who with face sanctimonious and long, ’ Proposed peace to all others,
' Called all bears his brothers, And begged them to do no more wrong.
Then he went to a little bear’s cave,
And says he: “Let me see what you have, Why your larder’s quite big, •
.-	. You’re a glutinous. pig, .
So much food for your cublets to save.”
. So with conscience in nowise .uneasy, He started to make his paws greasy;
.	.. But the small bear showed fight, .
Saying “ though you have might,
. I’ll soon prove that I’m not so easy.”
' /	.	‘	’	B. A.
■ THE BELLES.
Hear the laughing of the girls,
.	' Silly girls, ’
As they shake their haughty heads and naughty curls; How they giggle, giggle, giggle, .	Everywhere that they may go; .	•
, (Teria bargain sale they higgle .
* “And amongst the crowd they wiggle
. And you wonder is it always so.
How they smile, smile, smile,	,• •
; . /. . When you lift your glossy tile, •	.. -
And they show a row of teeth as., white as .pearls;
. , . " Oh, the girls, girls, girls, girls, ‘	.
Girls, girls, girls— -	-
Oh/-the'naughty, haughty,*haughty, naughty 'girls!'; 5
-k	G.5H.;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
335
The Utility of a Classical Training.
JOSEPH H. BURKE, ‘04.
Among a large number of intelligent people nowadays we find the mistaken idea prevalent that students go to college only to acquire a limited knowledge of a. few branches that will fit them for a certain profession. But while the knowledge got from text-books is all right as far as it goes, there is something else of far greater importance, and that is the mental training that' is acquired; It is not because the collegiate student has had a smattering of Greek or Latin, or that he knows his Mathematics and English, that he outstrips his rivals in the. commercial or political world; he owes his greater success not to his superiority in knowledge but to the fact that in his college: days he has acquired the habit of labor. He succeeds, not because he is quicker at figures, not because he is glib of tongue, but because he has learned to labor with an end in view and has learned to concentrate his whole energies upon the accomplishment of that end.
Success is not a free gift to a bright and noble intellect, but more dften it is the reward of diligent, painstaking and careful attention, sometimes of laborious and -even painful application. We read in history of men who raised themselves from humble beginnings through tedious stages of .promotion to the very summit of fame. Such men as Lincoln and Horace Greeley by steady application brought themselves from obscurity to the very height of popularity and power. And so on, if we inquire into the lives of great men we find this one common characteristic—they were men of application and devotion to duty. Hence we argue that it is. not the knowledge got from text-books that makes great men, rather it is the habit of labor that is acquired.
This love of labor, this desire to do something and to have something to do, is often characteristic of the individual. Some men are so full. of energy that they seem to be almost driven to work; their energetic disposition forces them to seek employment for their minds and muscles. But by far the greater part of mankind , have not this energetic turn of mind. Most-men do not seek work because they find j it'J a pleasure, but rather ; because it is a -necessity, and thusrwe.; find;In Ta majority of cases the little seemingly
superfluous jobs are left undone; we find the little niceties neglected, the so-called fancy touches omitted. Trifles are passed unnoticed and only the more important matters are attended to. Yet how often do we find that it is a mere trifle that has been the making or undoing of men. The old saying is always true:	.
For the want of a nail the shoe was lost... ' ’Twas all for the want of a horseshoe nail.
This is true not only of business men but also of professional men. It is some little trifling job, some extra attention to duty or fidelity to business that brings them into notice and gives them a chance to display their talents, and from that time forward their • path leads upward to fame and power. The number of men. that fail through lack of knowledge is small compared with those who meet disaster through want of fidelity to duty and power of application. Hence while a certain amount of knowledge is essential for the successful pursuit of any business or profession, no one can attain to any high degree of success in his calling unless he has been trained to* concentrate his energies upon the accomplishment of an enterprise that requires persevering labor; he must either be of a naturally energetic disposition, or else he must have acquired the habit of laboring patiently and perseveringly, and if a student passes through college without acquiring this habit his collegiate course will have been a failure. His education will be of no use to him unless he has the power of application, and hence we find that those students who are graduated from the classical course, as a rule, surpass their rivals in business pursuits, and especially in the professions. During their long pursuit of the study of Latin and Greek and the other branches that go to make up the curriculum of the classical course, they learn to cultivate almost every faculty of the mind, and go forth from their college well fitted to undertake the apomplishment of a difficult enterprise; for they have learned to overcome obstacles and to apply themselves steadily and energetically to uninteresting and often disagreeable tasks. Thus when a classical graduate undertakes the pursuit of any business or. profession he will not be apt to shirk the more tedious labors incident to his calling,.- which labors^-though often unattractive, are. the first requisites for a» successful business man.
We can not imagine that- a' man with
336	NOTRE DAM!
commercial education placed in any department of business would achieve equal success with another of an equally energetic disposition who had pursued a regular classical course. The first might know all the ins and outs of a business life, while the second would have much to learn by way of experience. But after a short time the man who had had his mind developed by his classical studies would pick up every scrap of information likely to be useful to him in his business dealings, while his commercial-educated friend would hold what knowledge he had, but would not be so quick to take advantage of the opportunities offered to better himself.
In the professions the difference would be still more marked. The habit of grouping similar facts and systematizing his knowledge, which is acquired and is even necessary in the study of languages, stands the professional man in good stead and will so develop his mental faculties and cultivate his memory that the pursuit of his professional duties will be comparatively easy and successful.
The fact that time spent at college is not altogether thrown away is becoming recognized more and more every day. Business men are looking for college graduates for their employment, and it has been found from actual experience that collegiate men advance faster than others in acquiring the ready knowledge pertaining to their daily • occupation. One of the greatest drawbacks that has hitherto stood in the way of the college boy is now being done away with. Often the financial question has been of the most serious annoyance to the new graduate who when he has finished his course, and as a consequence is almost bankrupt, has not been able to obtain a sufficient wage to enable him to live respectably. A few business corporations have begun to realize this fact, and so anxious are they to secure college graduates that they have determined, merely as a business proposition, to pay the new employees such a wage that they may be able to continue work without any serious embarrassment. What greater tribute could be paid to the superiority of the college man? Another fact that is proved by experience is that college men receive preference in promotion, and qften overtake others who have been in the. company’s .employment for several years.
If we study the biographies of the men who have risen above the ordinary heights of fame we will findvthat'a large percentum;of them
SCHOLASTIC
were men with the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and a very large percentum of them have delved somewhat deeply into the study of the languages. Milton was a thorough classical student, and this sort of learning together with a knowledge of the accompanying mythology, has done much to lend a charm and force of expression to his writings. Kant—one of the world’s greatest intellects, certainly one of her deepest thinkers — was the best classical scholar in his University.
Though it does not necessarily follow that it was the classical training that developed these men, yet it seems that it must be more than a mere coincidence that classical training and after-success have so often gone hand in hand. And indeed history seems to testify to the truth of our argument, for -during the time when more regard was had for the study of the ancient languages, we find that great minds were not such uncommon phenomena as they have been of late years.
The society that can boast of more great intellectual lights among its members than can all similar societies the world over is an institution that has always been noted for devotedness toward mastery of classical learning, and that society is the Catholic Church. Let the mind dwell but for a moment on the almost inexhaustible number of doctors and theologians of the Church, and ask yourself what cause has contributed to place such a large number of great intellects within the membership of a single society? There is St. Thomas, St’. Augustine, St. Jerome, St. Cyril, and a large number of others whose writings have been the delight and wonder of succeeding generations. So well known is this statement that some writers have attributed the success of the Catholic Church in establishing her power over the. world to the superiority of het; learning.
The Good Folk.
QH pray, keep clear of the fairy ring, For that’s where the good folk dance and sing;
Beware of the dance of these merry sprites, Fop it’s full of eerie wild delights. • •
For. on festive nights the fairy glen
Is filled with the.good folk’s dancing men
.Who carol and caper all. the'night
, Till dawn puts, the revellers to flight. .	|
;	. Herman Selden,.	|
NOTRE DAME
Prince Labrador ski, Factory-Hand.
LOUIS J. CAREY, ’04.
The evening of Mrs. Van Peltner’s reception in honor of Prince Labradorski was at hand. The great stone mansion that generally bore a most lonely aspect now shed a flood of light from every window. The scent of rare flowers seemed to be wafted to the outside on the subdued strains of the orchestra,-while carriage after carriage brought scores of men and women in evening dress.
The prince’s appearance surprised everyone, for he was not the conventional newspaper type, but a broad-shouldered, clear-eyed, athletic looking fellow who would have passed as the hero of many a football battle. Nor was the reception a failure as so many remarked, for he met beauty and millions in the person of Alice Carthington, daughter of the great factory owner. However easily it may seem that American heiresses fall in love with titled nobility any observing eye could have told love existed between these two from the first moment of their acquaintance. It seemed to lack the study and conventionality that would have been in harmony with their surroundings that evening. At any rate each succeeding day found the two more deeply devoted to each other. People began to talk; newspaper men began to write until one evening Carthington called his daughter into the library for a fatherly talk. The practical old man declared that “the grafter. never, did a day’s work in his life, and I haven’t brought you up to educate the nobility of Europe. If he’s in the drawing-ro.om tell him to leave.” Some say that love, will find its way, but this iron-willed old head promised to set romantic love theories to the winds.
The prince not only left Carthington’s but suddenly disappeared. However, he had made a deep impression on the young girl.^and as . the days flew by it seemed to grow deeper. Sometime afterward the daily papers contained an account of the suicide of a certain Prince . Labradorski at Niagara. He had left a coat, hat and cane on the shore which led to his identity, but all efforts to find his body were useless. On that very day Alice Carthington became a woman. The startling news had changed a girlish infatuation into a. sorrow more befitting an aged widow. .Her voice grew cold, the color vanished from her. cheeks,.
scholastic.
and it was evident that she was fast declining.
This condition, of affairs; soon began to tell upon the stern spirit of her father: whenever he beheld her wan .face and sorrowful eyes • a mingled feeling of remorse and guilt would take possession of him. In the dead of night her sobs struck his ear like awful accusations. Near friends noticed his change of demeanor; some even went so far as to say he was unbalanced. His former sympathy toward his daughter curdled into meanness. Nor was she the sole object of his cruelty. News spread throughout his factories that there was a reduction in wages.' A meeting of all the hands resulted in which threats of violence were uttered. Upon hearing th.is the old man issued an order to close the doors on the faces of all laborers; then he locked himself in his house refusing to see anyone.
Discontentment grew to fury; groups of laborers formed into great crowds denouncing the actions of the owner and even threatening his life. At last the infuriated rabble started in the direction of his house. Faster. . and faster they proceeded as irresistible as an avalanche. Police were trodden under foot, caretakers dared not raise a voice. As old Carthington beheld this awful line rushing on from his window he became his former self in an instant. Now for the first time did he realize what havoc he had wrought. His proud spirit rose within him. Would. he be caught in a closet and butchered like..an animal, or meet death as he had ever- met men? In an instant he was downstairs, on the porch. Nearer and nearer came the mob like so- many demons.	.
At last one of their number emerged from the ranks. He motioned- to halt but was unheeded. Finally his voice rang out—a miracle seemed to have been performed. Mounting a curb near by he addressed :them in their native tongue. Confusion gradually gave way to order, the din of voices subsided into a quiet while he swayed the multitude by his impassioned words. ^Hardly had he finished when a servant grasped his arm.
“ Mr. Carthington wishes to see you at once.” The laborer accompanied the messenger to the .door where Carthington awaited them. Carthingtpn was about to greet the newcomer, but suddenly restrained himself. He looked at , the messenger, then to the laborer and scanned him closely. Their eyes met, and after a moment’s.hesitation, Carthington exclaimed: “My God! this isn’t you—Labradorski!” ;
NOTRE- DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana, February 20, 1904.
Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University.
Entered sis seeondrcla$s matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind. -
Terms* $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid!
'Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC* Notre Dame. Indiana.
Board of Editors.
PATRICK J. MacDONOUGH, 1903.'
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, 02
BYRON V. KANALEY, ’04
LOUIS J. CAREY, ’04
•MAURICE F. GRIFFIN,’04 ' STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04
ROBERT E. PROCTOR, ’04
JOSEPH H. BURKE, .’04 .. ERNEST , A. DAVIS; i’04.
'ERNEST E. HAMMER, ’04 •
GEORGE GORMLEY, ’04
- G; , A-. FARABAUGH, - 04 THOMAS D. LYONS, ’04 GEO. J. MACNAMARA, ’04 -WALTER M. DALY, ’04 THOMAS P. IRVING, ’04 G. " T. . STANFORD, ’04 . '
• L. M. FETHERSTON, '04 MICHAEL/ J. SHEA,’ ’04 -
- WM. , K. GARDINER, , ’04 JAMES R. .RECORD,J 05
JOSEPH P. O’REILLY, 'o6.'
Many and conflicting are the opinions about the stage. The. pulpit arid press-have argued the. question over and over and :stilb the battle', rages and the critics wax. wroth. Undoubtedly the; stage has a lofty purpose,1 but- like many other institutions it may be degraded by those on whom it depends. Are the situations - and climaxes-.suggestive .of• shady -interpretations? , are - there pretty, and bold actresses? and is the music catchy-?. Such are the'questions-put by many: persons: young-and‘ old when: the merits.of a play are .being discussed! 'They are. questions to which.. too few theatre managers. and playwrights have the sense of decency to answer in>the.negative. Last; vacation a boy of ten or twelve told us - he was “ going' to a play to-night.” We asked- him the reason for his: going and he promptly and candidly’ replied,, as no doubt-thousands of others might, that it was to see-“ form.” Most modern plays have bodies-but' no souls. Dazzling .scenery, diaphanous : cos-; tumes, bacchantic dances and - smiles, : interspersed with trifling dialogue; arid a sprinkling of:songs that,- were itmot for the musi.c, would be 'positively ridiculous — these are the : chief' stbek-in-trade: of the stage nowadays..When will ithe "public .aspire: to something: higher, and^insist on igettingirit?.\’ Only? wexsuppose; 3 when the: individual realizes diisd moral : oblL; gations i andi responsibilities:) ad-5 : .osi
—An interesting discussion in regard to professionalism in college athletics has been provoked by the recent action of Brown University in declaring that the members of its athletic teams may receive compensation for their service during vacation months. Some authorities approve heartily of Brown’s attitude,,.while, others,, just as competent, regard the movement as decidedly retrograde. This daring stand, which. Brown University has taken, would_f indeed be commendable were it-not that.many collegesjtake advantage of such a..rule to .strengthen their .weak teams by obtaining the services of professional athletes. The sentiment of the Eastern colleges with which Brown, is most intimately connected in athletics is varied, according to one of .the most representative Eastern papers. Some regard Brown as an “athletic pirate,” while at Harvard the:graduates and old players, whose judgment certainly carries weight with if; say that Brown deserves to be commended for abolishing regulations “that are
a farce generally and an open invitation to legal.fraud.” Brown’s action comes as an anticlimax to the-movement for absolute purity of athletics which .has been-at least preached if not practised throughout the college world in;the last few years.
—Once more -the fact has been brought to our notice thatpopular opinion is easily swayed;’that its likes and dislikes are difficult to satisfy, that to the press is-due, in a large degree, the formation of the judgment of the people. ' Note! the -xhange in its expression that has taken , place :with the death of the Ohio Senator. ■ Since .he figured prominently in.national politics, and was ranked high in Republican circles it was natural enough, according to the mode of action in political affairs especially, that he should have been made the butt of the opposite party’s criticism. It is probably well remembered how cartoonists represented: Hanna when he first entered politics; That alone may have been the means ofmisleading many. The Senator has died, and how the feeling arises “that he was not such; a bad man after all.” It is deplorable that the press should ever be the means of ^creating a , wrong.impression about any man. Many readers believe too much and too;readily, their reason being that they.: “ have seem it in the^aper.” It would be better if they based! theirbpinion on the information-furnished by-thoughtful: and;xoriservative5men , : 1
I
NOTRE LAMP SCHOLASTIC.
339
Lecture by Dr. Spalding.
The Debating Team.
One of the lecturers whose annual visit to Notre Dame we look forward to with most pleasurable expectancy is Dr. James Field Spalding of Boston. Each year his scholarly addresses on English men of letters have been listened to with ..profit .and delight by the students of the. senior English classes. A gentleman of deep learning and culture and an ardent lover of literature, his critiques have a peculiar grace and excellence. His reputation at Notre Dime was heightened still further by the lecture which he lately delivered in the Law room on that good and great Englishman, Sir Thomas More.
Dr. Spalding briefly described the Reformation, andsaid thatThomas More was undoubt-edly.one of the greatest men that participated in the movement. More’s early life and the influences that affected it were vividly portrayed. This was followed by an account of his years at college, his legal and theological studies and his acquaintance with Erasmus,' who was probably the most learned man of his time in Europe. The lecturer gave some apt impressions of More’s beautiful home life, his strict adherence to the commandments of God and of the Church, and his enduring love for his wife and children. Engrossed with many serious cares, More found time to attend Mass daily and to perform numerous works of penance and charity. He was in the world but not of the world. Dr. Spalding emphasized the statement that More was the pioneer of higher education for women. The lecturer next reviewed More’s literary labors, and indulged in an appreciative criticism of his best-known work, “Utopia.” The well-deserved advancement of More by Henry VIII. and the latter’s later ingratitude, cruelty . and lustful disposition- were also described. In glowing terms the lecturer eulogized the statesmanship, integrity and steadfastness of More who gave up his life for his faith in 1535-The lecture was given the closest attention which, indeed, it fully deserved.
We learn that further lectures of the series by Dr. Spalding have been cancelled. Tuesday he was notified of the death of his son in a snow-slide in Idaho. The sad news caused sincere and general regret at Notre Dame where Dr. Spalding is justly held in high esteem. We extend to himself and . family the respect- ’ ful sympathy, of the student tbody. \j I
The final try-out for the Varsity Debating team, which is to represent Notre Dame against Oberlin College, some time during the latter part of March, was held in Washington Hall last Saturday evening before a large and enthusiastic gathering-of students and friends. The debate also decided the successful contestants for the Studebaker Debating Prize. The question discussed was, Resolved, That municipal’ control. of- public utilities is undesirable. This same question will be debated by Notre Dame and Oberlin. Messrs. Maurice Griffin, Walter M. Daly, and Thomas D. Lyons upheld the affirmative side of. the question; the negative side was defended by James Record, Gallitzin Farabaugh, and B, V. Kanaley. The Hon. Timothy E. Howardf.the Hon: Lucius Hubbard and the Hon. George E. Clarke, acted as judges and the Dean of the Law Department, Colonel William Hoynes, as moderator. The final decision of the judges gave first place to Mr. Maurice Griffin, ’04; second place to Thomas D. Lyons, ’04; and third place, to Byron V; Kanaley, ’04. Mr. G. Av Farabaugh was chosen alternate/	.
As expected, the debate was a hotly contested one, and unusual interest was centred in it by the student body -because of the strong field of candidates. The preliminaries, which were begun in December, were the.: hardest fought in years, and the six men who were left for the finals got there only after' the hardest kind of work. In the debate of Saturday night each speaker received the strictest attention—something unusual at such debates — and the standard of excellence reached by some of the young Ciceros, was agreed to by some of those present as being far ahead of .any. previous, efforts of our debaters. The earnestness and zeal shown by the candidates for the team, both during, the preliminaries and the finals, show well the marvelous growth of interest in public speaking at the University. .
The gentlemen who lost out Saturday night after such a gallant fight are deserving of the. highest praise. There is no humiliation in such defeat, rather is it victory.' The honors that their successful team-mates may win will redound to their credit as well, for.it was their, efforts that helped to bring, the Varsity team -up to such’a’high standard.. This is true also-of those who were defeated.in„the preliminaries.
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
34°
And now a few words about the winners. Mr. Maurice Griffin, .the-choice of the judges for first place, is well known to our readers. Last December he won the Breen Gold Medal for oratory against a large field. Last year he won third place on the Debating Team, and created a very.good impression. He possesses a pleasing stage .presence, is a strong, forceful talker, and Jays down his arguments in such a sincere and earnest manner, that he secures , attention at the very start.- He will captain the , team in the coming Oberlin - Notre - Dame .Debate. Mr, Thomas D. Lyons, the winner of second place, is. a new man in the debiting field, although an orator, of ability. Last year he won’the Breen Gold Medal for oratory. . He .has ,a strong, pleasing voice, splendid - arguments, and an excellent flow, of words which^assures the attention, of the ( .spectators. Mr.. B,.„V. Kanaley, winner of third place, is vyell known to Scholastic readers. Mr. Kanaley has; been the leader .of Notre Dime’s debating team for the past two years, with victories over Oberlin and Butlerr colleges. During, his speech last Saturday evening, the timekeeper made an unfortunate mistake and. cut him short four minutes. This time was allowed to him during the rebuttal talk, but of necessity he was compelled to change the order of his rebuttal. Mr.-Kanaley is. a very convincing speaker, and has a most commanding stage presence. His voice is clear, and ringing, and his arguments are usually concise and to the point.	.	.
The man chosen for alternate,. Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, is well known in debating circles at. the college. He was second man <of the team that last .year won such a splendid victory from Oberlin. He is just the man to fill any of the regulars’ places in case- of necessity.	.....	<
The question discussed is not one that permits of any brilliant outbursts of oratorical effort, but rather one is forced to confine himself to dry facts. For this reason the debaters are to be all the more praised for their clever handling of such a dull question. Ten ;minutes- were allowed, each speaker-for. his main , effort, and then five minutes-for, rebuttal. As Js customary in. such; try-outs there.was no attempt.at. team-work, and rthe:, contest was decided solely on the-merits;and-abilities -of, each contestant., ..M.
, To. the victorious,^gentlemen,,who^ entrusted .twjthJ ^
Dame’s honor on the intellectual field, we offer congratulations, and hasten to assure them that they will receive all the support - possible from the. student body on the night .of the contest. Then they will meet worthy rivals, ones that will test the Notre Dame team to the utmost. May success be ours.
~	■ Joseph P. O'Reilly.
Marcus Alonzo Hanna.
In the death of Senator Hanna the nation loses one of its shrewdest financiers, one of its great captains of industry, one of its broadminded statesmen. His life had been one long series of struggles .and achievements. Success had crowned his efforts; and.at the end of his career he was urged to accept the highest gift in the hands of the American people.
He was born in Ohio sixty-seyen years ago. He attended . school in Cleveland and the Western Reserve College in Hudson, but left before his course was completed. He went into the grocery business. with his father. In connection with this t grocery trade a small steamer, plied on Lake. Erie. The young man soon realized the possibilities of the Lake carrying trade, and from this small beginning grew the greatest - steel ship - building and owning company of the Great Lakes, which practically controls the transportation of coal from Ohio and Pennsylvania and the development of the iron and copper interest of the Lake Superior region.	•
The handling of this.trade was only a step toward the .assumption of the-greater indus-	।
tries themselves.- His shares in coal, iron and	]
copper, increased . until, he became one of the	|
dominating factors son the. market. He was a	I
large-owner in fstreet-car systems, and was	I
interested, in a number of banking institutions.	f
The ..people of the country in general did	I
not know of. Mr. Hanna as a. political leader	I
till the. campaign of iSgS.when by his very successful, management he>secured the nomination >and?,election of President McKinley. His rise in the world of politics had been gradual.-;He had been busy in state politics for thirty years; he had taken an active, part in ( .nominating conventions and national campaigns, but1 his own business affairs had always.beep uppermost; he had never been. befpre?-the .people for.:office. [When McKinley ranJprCongress the first time in 1870 Hanna supported him.;- ? i.	;	;

NOTRE DAME SCHOLAS'IlC.
In ’95 he decided -for McKinley for president and undertook the personal management of the campaign. To his aid he' brought the political experience of more than a quarter of a century — the skill, shrewdness, and thoroughness that had made him successful in his every business ‘ venture. He applied himself untiringly to his self-appointed task. His end was constantly in view. He kept in touch with responsible .men in every state of the Union. With his own hand he wrote almost every letter of that campaign. He did more than any other one man to make the nomination of the Great Ohioan a certainty, and under ,that gallant Standard-Bearer to. bring victory to the ranks of his party.-Since then he has been its • acknowledged leader: the stairway of its national'committee. He has also held an important seat in the national senate.	’. ’	' .
But as a man is Senator Hanna most to :	be ’admired. He was kind to all. Charitable,
large-hearted and noble-minded, a masterful man in many waysr He had great force of :	character as well as great intellectual powers.
He was an honest political manipulator and a,.shrewd manager. He was a competent, :	practical.business man; thorough, earnest and
।	intense in his - every effort.. He made the
|	best of all circumstances; he developed his
i opportunities. His success was hard earned ?	and well deserved. ‘	\ ; ■'	_
‘	In.politics he had no ambition for himself
• His altruistic generous nature- is seen by his friendship for our martyred President; .Seldom. .;	in public life is-witnessed’the affection that
, Marcus Hanna extended-to William McKinley, s	During thirty years he had supported him in
$	his, state. He . had put forth the best efforts
I . of his manhood’s strength; he had. labored |	incessantly-to place him on that high, pinnacle
j . whereon he rests. He had been;, his closest j counsellor and dearest friend through all.his f	public service. He was tenderly solicitous
|	during that awful period when: the life of
|	our President hung :by a .slender thread. And
|	then;, when, that vigil ceased, he ..retired from
|	the bier of, his friend, disheartened, dispirited^
I	his interest in politics gone.; .Since then ;he
has worked harder;-if. possible, in ‘ public service, but it was not with his wonted vigor; his toil was now for, other motives. He hai| labored for his, friend and with him, and .now, r that friend was gone...	.... :
i	Senator Hanna was. a <trues.friend-..,of. the;
i	workingman. He -tried \to- harfnonize ; the1
34*
interests of the laborer and the employer. He had advocated a more kindly relation between them; he had urged arbitration. He had acted in this capacity to settle many labor troubles. His own' men never struck; whatever differences he had with. them were settled .peacefully.
His-death is a severe loss to all his relatives and personal friends. The workingmen of the land will feel this loss too, for he had given his'best thought and much time to the settlement of the’ labor troubles. The entire community feels with deepest sorrow this loss of one of its greatest captains of industry; of one of the most forceful leaders in public life; of one of the representatives of that best type of politician and statesman—a man whose influence has always been a powerful factor for good in the councils of his country; and one who stood foremost and stalwart in the vanguard of his party for fidelity to constitutional principles and patriotic conservatism.
.	' Maurice F. Griffin.
Athletic Notes.
The Brownson Hall basket-ball team meets the crack team of Michigan City in the new Gymnasium next Saturday night in what promises to be the hardest - fought game played at Notre Dame in some time. The Michigan City team is composed of stars, and thus far they have successfully defended their claim of Champions of Central Indiana against all comers. This game was arranged only.after'a great deal of expense and labor, so it is hoped the rooters will turn out and help Brownson-win the. proud title. ' ■- *
• * *
The Varsity baseball candidates are still plugging, away at their daily practice. There have been: no additions to the squad, during the week, but Capt. Stephan is highly, pleased with the.;.present aggregation, and says that for this early in the season the work of some of the men is of a high-class order. Mclnerny and. O’Neill of the new men are. making, a very favorable impression by their manner of “scoopin’ ’em up.”	■	.
* , * * . .
The crack Brownson Hall team- of last season has several representatives amon^ the--ca.ndidates“ .-Kinney; McDermott, Medley,
342
NOTRE DAME SCHOLAR .C.
Gray and- Opfergelt, are out and doing clever.- work. •
- ' * * *
Two weeks from to-day we meet Indiana’s fleet Tunners and .crack field men in what should be a very close and interesting contest. Reports from the State School say that Horne and his men are training hard for the contest and expect to win. Notre Dame’s athletes are rounding into shape under the careful eye of Coach Holland and will, no doubt, give the Indiana men a hard fight.
Eddie Hammer, Sorin’s famous twirler of last season, joined- the pitching staff during the week.	'
’ 1 ’ * * -
Indiana University will send twelve meh to compete on March 4.
Rooters, remember the 4th of March.
-
* *
- The ex-Minims’ basket-ball team defeated the Minim Specials last Sunday afternoon by a score of 8 to o. Only two ten^minute halves were played. The ex-Minims’ team-work was too much for their opponents. McDermott’s playing was the feature
Brownson and Corby will meet in the - second game of the series one week from next Wednesday. The two teams are evenly matched and should put up a pretty interesting game.	’
’ - .. ■ . *
. * * . •
Those wishing to compete for the prize offered by Manager Daly to the one composing the best baseball song, had better hand in their compositions at once, as the season tickets will be out within a week.
* • * * . .
Coach Holland announces that the entries in the I. U. Meet will probably be as follows:
40-yard dash—Silver, Koehler.
Hurdles—Captain Draper, O’Connor.
220—Silver, Koehler.	<- .
; 440—Daly, Keefe.
' 880—Murphy, Gormley. ' :	• ■
-Mile—Murphy. ■	:
2 Mile—Parrish.	' ;	;
Shot Put—Draper. 7
High Jump—Scales.-T c
Pole Vault—Pryor,
These. g^	-have;. -jiot Tbeen definitely
decided upon yet, as there are still places to be filled, also changes to be made here and there. Very promising work has been done by some of the men during the past' week, and the coach, who was inclined to be rather dubious concerning our chances some weeks ago, how prophesies a close meet. We expect to see a couple of surprises turned on the visitors, especially in the runs. A' couple of these events were run in record time lately.	J. P. O’Reilly.
The Sophomore Smoker.
The Sophomores tendered a very enjoyable smoker to the Seniors on Tuesday evening. Sorin’s dance hall was tastefully decorated for the occasion in Gold and Blue intermingled with American flags and large class numerals. Judging from the Sophomore and Senior spirit manifested at the Smoker one might be led to believe it merely an interclass affair. But such was not the case; for while the Sophs tendered it as a testimonial of esteem to the Seniors, their big hearts overflowing with goodnature invited all collegiate students to participate, in . the evening’s enjoyment. It is needless to' state that all were royally entertained.
Mr. Laritry, spokesman for the Sophomore class, in a very eloquent address of welcome, greeted the Seniors and extended the hospitality of his class. Among other things he said that, as his classmates would only enjoy the Seniors’ company for a few more short months it was their intention to make the occasion a red-letter affair in the student life of Notre Dame, and asked all present to co-operate in making the smoker a success. Concluding he called on Mr. Kanaley to make a few remarks in behalf of the Senior class.
“Kan” responded in a few well-chosee words, and besides springing a few of his usual humorous stories also complimented.the Sophomore class on their choice decorations, and said he felt confident that the goodfellowship manifested by the class.of nineteen hundred and six was ’ not only appreciated by the Seniors but also by all present.
During the evening’s festivities Col. Hoynes made his appearance in the ballroom and was greeted with an avalanche of applause and cries for a speech. ' The genial Colonel responded in that characteristic manner which has always made him famous as an entertainer. “I thank you, gentlemen, for the kind reception accorded me this evening, but in being called upon* for a speech I think I am taken at an unfair advantage, for, in the well-known jwords of-the poet,‘ T came not here to _ speak.’ Yet I. think:! should say a few words, for- when I look/about <meJ see ..so I many youngimendancing—Edon’tknow.whatyou
NOTRE DAME
call it. What’s that?—oh yes! two stepping— ' why it makes me think/of old .times. I have never been opposed to dancing/in .fact I was once a good dancer myself away- back in the sixties. Let me see, .1 think Charles Dana defined dancing as hugging set to music.. Of course personally I do pot kno.w how true that is (laughter and great applause). I had the pleasure of being present at a dance in one of the other halls last week, and taking that with
• this for a criterion I am inclined to think that these sociables tend to inspire good-fellowship during your college life, and in after years will bring back, pleasant-recollectibns of happy days spent at Notre Dame.” (Applause.)
Conspicuous among the other pleasant surprises of the Smoker was a well-arranged program consisting of a piano solo by Mr. Lomelin, baritone solo by Wm. K. Gardiner, duet by Messrs. Trevino and Canedo, buck and wing dancing, by Mr. Geoghegan,' and excellently rendered declamations by Messrs,. Griffin, Proctor and Lyons’. After the entertainment and midst the strains of orchestral music—thanks to Messrs. Dukette, Carey , and Steiner—fully seventy-five couples’ fell in line behind Bill Brooklyn and Daisy. Dillon . for the Grand March. The promenade’in" itself, even . overlooking the other good things, would have bee'n sufficient to make the affair a social success, for the many . pretty and difficult figures gone through and the blushes-of many of- our fairer members served 'as a source of great enjoyment to the “ older folk” seated about the hall, many of . whom had never witnessed such, an event before. The March broke up into a two step and dancing vyas indulged in till the “wink” summoned all to rest.	William K. Gardiner, ’04. -a
Personals.
'	—Miss Gertrude Schwab of Loretto, -Penn.,
i is visiting her brother, Edward, of Cdrby-HalL t	—Visitors’ registry.:— Allen Dirian, Dr.
; William G. Knick, South,. Bend; Edward j Hannan,. Niagara Falls,' N. ,Y.; Mrs. .A. G. • ‘ Schneider, Chicago,■ Ill.; -	.
;	- —Seumas MacManus, whose visit to Notre
|	Dame is pleasantly , remembered, sent us a
I	letter from Cincinnati where, we are sorry to
|	. learn, his lecturing tour has been interrupted
| by sickness. He generously enclosed some I	verses for the Easter-. Scholastic /and- sent
|	his regards to the. members ,.of the staff;
|	We. gratefully .acknowledge his .kindness and
;	thoughtfulness, and we. hope, his recovery will
I	soon be complete. >	■ . .. ,'v . ;:
,—We learn that! another graduate/of’ Notre Dame and a former Scholastic- contributor-, Peter:P; McElligott,.very<creditably- passed the examination forThe<New^ork“Bar lasbmbnth'i
SCHOLASTIC.	343
He was a student at Notre Dame from ’95 to ’02 and left a splendid record for .classwork and conduct. It is' always a pleasure to us to chronicle the success of. a Notre Dame alumnus, particularly so in such instances as the present, for we know -through personal experience- of his many’ estimable qualities. We wish him the honorable success to which he aspires, and, we congratulate Col. Hoynes; Dean of the Law Department at Notre Dame, on the latest testimony to .his thorough and efficient methods of instruction. . /'	.
—We note with pleasure in the Hartford Times that at the recent 'convention of the Connecticut Civil Engineers which was held in Hartford, John, Harte, a former, student of Notre Dame, was elected a member. During _ the three years he spent here ’ he was incius-trious and popular and was a frequent! contributor to the Scholastic. After' leaving .Notre. Dame he entered the employment.' of a prominent Hartford civil engineer,, and while thus employed won the highest commendation for the very efficient manner in which . he superintended certain important municipal improvements. In the spare time at his disposal he improved, his opportunities by ’ attending ’ Trinity College,’ Hartford, and is now fully qualified to practise his profession; We cordially wish him success. !	-
'•—During the week'we had the pleasure^of meeting Jesse W. Lantry,-A. B. ’97, who was visiting his brother Joe, of Corby -Hall; and’ renewing his acquaintance.with the old friends of his undergraduate-days at present at the University. Mr. Lantry is a very successful . railroad official. Soon after his graduation he entered the service of the Santa. Fe RR. Co;, ahd soon proved his worth and won.promotion. For years past he has been superintendent of repair work of the road, and in that capacity has had much travel’ and experience. He has been two years in the Southern States and is-now on his way to Los Angeles, California; being, transferred to the’western division-,of the system. It will be no surprise, to those who knew him as a student .to learn that, he ' is a genial arid unusually well-informed-gentleman and very devoted to Notre Dame.
Card of Sympathy.
Since it has pleased God to. call from 'this world Clement Paul, the son’of our respected friend and colleague; Professor' Damis- Paul; we, on behalf of the latter's/associates.^ at Notre Dame, tender to Prqfesspr._Paub and his bereaved family our sinceretsympathy;;
Sherman Steele ",	- N -
' R. J. Green 'r ' J '
W. L. Benitz
344
NOTRE DAME SCHGLASTIt
Local Items.
—Lost:—A Waterman Ideal fountain-pen. Finder, please return it to Room 97, Sorin Hall.
—Quarant’ Ore, or the Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament for. forty hours to commemorate the forty hours our Saviour’s body is said to have" been in the grave, was begun at Notre Dame last Sunday and closed on Wednesday. The attendance and conduct of the students in church was most edifying which justifies the belief that their, observance of Lent will be no less creditable.
.—Corby Notes.—If-you can’t find it in the Chicago papers look up “Cyclopedia” Fox.
Funk is saving “Gero Fruito” coupons for a furniture set. Address donations to Room 64.
Miss “Eva” Diebold takes advantage of the leap year by inviting Mr Montmorency Healy to the Corby Minstrel Show after Easter.
For Sale: One Carrigan motor cycle; good as new; used but a few times. Apply to Ethelbert McCaffrey, Admr. Carrigan of Estate.
—At the very enjoyable party given by Mrs. E. M: Brown of South Bend on the eve of the departure of her daughter, Miss Agnes Ewing Brown, for the University of Michigan where she will take up post-graduate work, the following gentlemen from Notre Dame were present: J. J. Meyers; B. Enriquez, M. F. Griffin, W. F. Daly, G. T. Stanford, F. F. Dukette, G. A. Farabaugh, F. McKeever, A. Steiner, B. Daly, F. J. Kasper, F. J. Barry, H. E. Brown, A. Stephan, :T Holland, W. Mahony, W. McInerney, B. V. Kanaley, S. Steele.
—Among the many happy appellations that might be ascribed our good-natured editorin-chief is the “Munching Genius.” It is shocking to relate that* on several recent occasions the junior members of-the board have unexpectedly come upon some big, juicy, delicious-looking ^apples stowed away in the darkest recesses of his overcoat pockets. In explaining, he even went so far as to say that” his tendencies- sometimes called very distinctly for the .sacrifice either of an inspiration or of an apple, and that he chose both. Serious, religious introspection would be most helpful in such advanced degeneracy.
.—Last Monday night Carroll Hall students were entertained for two hours by the Philo-patrians. Recitations were well rendered by Messrs. Joy, Knox, McDermott and Symonds. Jose! Gallart’s piano solo was heartily applauded. Music for the evening was furnished by the Philopatrian Orchestra. At the conclusion of the program everyone went to the Corby refectory where, through the kindness of Father Morrissey, refreshments were served. Fathers French, Regan, Scheier, Professors Maurus and Powers were present and
were much pleased with the entertainment. Many thanks are due the arrangement and decorating committee for the admirable work they did. The following was the program: Selection—“Dixie Girl”......‘Philopatrian Orchestra
Recitation: “How We Licked the Teacher ”—McDermont Violin Solo -“The Coquette”.......W. A. McKearney Recitation—“The Enchanted Shirt”..L. Symonds Selection—“Tell Me the Way to Go”.....Chottaivay
. Philopatrian Orchestra Recitation—“ Half-Way Do’ins”............D. Knox
Trio-Gallart, Piano; Ziebold, Violin; Knox, Mandolin Recitation—Our Guides.   ...............C. H: Jay
Duet—“Bedelia”....G. Ziebold, Violin; J.Gallart, Piano Piano Solo—The Philopatrian Patrol......J. Gallart Selection—“ Dixie Land ”................Philopatrian Orchestra
—A Corby Local.— Last Tuesday night James Doubleday rolled and tossed in a light, troubled sleep. The fellow directly over him on the flat above had remained up with the intention of improving the appearance of his room. In drawing a truck across the .floor the noise awakened Doubleday below; He bolted up in the bed, reached for his watch, and striking a match saw that it was but five minutes of being midnight. Getting out of bed and noiselessly stepping across the room he procured his “gun,’’ and deliberately, loaded it. He then walked to the window and slowly raised the lower frame until, even with the top one, picking up his trousers he searched them diligently, but failed to find that which he sought; with an ejaculation of disgust he 'threw them down again and continued the search in the pockets of his coat and vest. At last he found it, and quickly drawing it out, walked again to the open window.
Without all was darkness, save for a few dim stars that were vainly trying to pierce the dense night. Doubleday had barely commented to himself on the perfect silence of the night when the heavy sounds of approaching footsteps in .the corridor fell upon his ear. Doubleday waited until the walker had passed and the sound of his deliberate tread had died in the distance—for by the same deliberate tread he knew the walker to be somebody of authority, else he would step more lightly at this hour of the night. Once more he turned to the window muttering the words: “It will be the last.” Then there was a flash of light, followed by very many small delicate clouds of smoke that floated fantastically out on the chill night , air. Some will condemn the act as being contrary to all ruleSj while others will say that under the circumstances it was justifiable. For my part, I am glad to opine with' those who held the latter view. To pledge oneself against the use of tobacco during Lent, then, luckily, to wake up five minutes before your pledge went into effect, load your “gun” with some mild “ weed,” as Doubleday did, flash a “civilized” match as he did, and Mpull” the farewell puff with but ten seconds to spare, as he didj; why—wouldn’t you?	.