This book is not to be taken froB the Library
The Notre Dame
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
M A R C H 23 Nineteen Thirty-four
Start Your Vacation via SOUTH SHORE Line
Our South Bend
Office Will Make
Reservations for
Connecting Trains
the SAFEST QUICKEST moitCONVENIENT
Nobody wants to waste any precious minutes of vacation time. Let us make your reservations for you, planning to save you delay and bother. You can leave South Bend via the frequent, regular South Shore Line Service, and travel to Chicago the safest, quickest and most convenient way. The low cost round-trip fares
save you money and your ticket is good for ten-days. Let us make your reservations today. There is no charge for this service. Call our South Bend office at 3-3111.	:	:	:
ROUND TRIP
WAY TO
10-Day Return Limit
from
SOUTH BEND
Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad
For complete information, ask or phone
C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent Telephone 3-3111

THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Daine. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive . Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns____ Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chiej
.Managing Editor
Associate Editors
News Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_____________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN__________________JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD_____________.MICHAEL F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH--------------------------The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.--------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL________________________Staff Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY Graduate Manager
THOMAS G. PROCTOR^ JOSEPH A. BUCCI j ’ ROY 0. SCHOLZ_____
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY. GEORGE P. LEYES___ FRANK KELLY
---------------News Editors
--------ROBERT F. ERVIN --------JOHN W. WALKER
--------LOUIS R. HRUBY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE____________i
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSEUNG____J-----------Sports Editors
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR------------HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
March 23, 1934
' No. 20
GRATEFULLY YOURS
The Bengal Boxing Show Wednesday evening was, we feel, well conducted. Editorially and personally The Scholastic wishes to give assurances of gratitude to the many persons who contributed to the success of the project:
To Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden for consistently generous permissions and assistance in the original planning of the show, in the eleventh hour change of dates, and in every detail of the arrangements.
To Studebaker’s, and especially to Mr. Ralph Hecka-men, for the use of the ring. To Mr. Frank W. Lloyd, University Comptroller, for generous support that greatly mitigated the mental anguish of the ticket-sale period.
To the officials who contributed their services on the night of the final bouts—referee Albert Tellson, Judges William Sheehan and Chet Grant, Timer Tom Conley, and Announcer Harry Rockett.
To Trainer Eugene Young, who attended the boxers; and to Equipment Manager John McAllister who supervised the erection of the ring and the bleachers, and both of whom were at all times interested and willing cooperators.
To Tom Gorman, Joe Sullivan, Tony Andreoni, and Reuben Grundeman, who handled the preliminary eliminations during the week preceding the final bouts. And to the official seconds on the final night: John Michuta, John Fisher, John McLaughlin, and Frank Schiavone.
To varsity coaches John P. Nicholson and Jake Kline who cut their practice periods short on Wednesday in order that the stands and the ring might be erected in time for the fights.
To Clyde Lewis and George Demetrio and their managers, who gave expert help on details, in a manner consistent with the organization’s reputation as the most efficient of student groups.
And finally, and probably above all, to Howard Waldron, who was, more than any other individual, responsible for the staging of the bouts; who found no inconvenience too great, no detail too small, or no assign
ment to big in the month of planning and preparing, and in the last minute rush.
To the boxers, and to the patrons: thank you, and we hope you found the Bengal Bouts up to standard.
SAVE THE BALCONY
Borrowing a paragraph from “The Week” because we wished to add a word of agreement with the reaction expressed, w’e present:
G-r-rr-
“We went over to hear Mr. Thompson read Cyrano de Bergerac, which play is a favorite of ours. But before he was half through we were annoyed to tears. Not with Mr. Thompson, a gallant gentleman whom we had heard before, and who performed a difficult job well; but with that infernal clacking that proceeded from that mysterious chamber in the rear of the building. It happens quite often in Washington Hall that performances are disturbed by that familiar noise which sounds like the clicking of giant castanets. Everybody says, “Oh, it’s the ventilation” which gets us just nowhere. Something ought to be done about it before some perfectly justified gentleman goes berserk and tears down the balcony.”
Someday, by some modern miracle, one of the grass-trampers is going to be inspired to try travelling on a sidewalk. It is hard to say who will be the more surprised, the onlookers, or the lawn-walker himself on finding that there are paths intended for the pedestrian traffic, and that they are really as convenient as the short-cut through the shrubbery.
•
•
Outstanding among the items in the new code of conduct for students using the golf course is the one, “Decorum in dress must be maintained at all times.” The same stipulation might be applied with equal appropriateness to students attending church exercises, and evening lectures.
March 23, 1 9 3 Ji-
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Matters Liturgical
It has always been a matter of some amazement to us that a campus so generally religious as this one should follow the Mass so indifferently. We know that nearly everybody in the Church Sunday was rightly disposed, since nearly everybody went to Communion; why, then, didn’t they follow the Mass by standing and sitting at the proper times? Once or twice we put out one foot to stand, but, as has happened so often before, we didn’t have the nerve to carry it through.
It is to rise at the Collects (that is, at the first “Dominus vobiscum”), then to sit during the epistle. Everybody stands for the gospel anyhow, so we needn’t go into that. At the offertory sit, though in Masses of Exposition, like Sunday’s, many prefer to kneel out of respect to the Blessed Sacrament. Then, of course, kneel at the Sanctus. But the most flagrant violation comes at the Pater Noster, during which everybody is supposed to stand, though over here nobody does. Rise, then, at the Pater Noster and remain standing until the “Pax Domini Sit semper vobiscum.” In return, you may sit while the priest is cleansing the chalice, standing at the Postcommunion, i. e. the last “Dominus vobiscum).
Surely we don’t need a traffic signal for people who cheer at basketball games as well -without a cheer leader as with one. All we do need is a little self-assertion.
Rat Revolution
Something terrible has happened over in Science Hall. Perhaps you’ve seen its menagerie—the collection of guinea pigs, white rats and such they raise and tend to experiment with. They feed them certain, things and take such excellent care of the animals that they grow to be enormous —some of the white rats look like ponies. Well, there was a hitch in the biology department some place, and the rats got a bit out of hand. Sex met sex, arid the brow and bead of being asserted itself: the rodent race multiplied and spread over the face of Science Hall. There was a class in philosophy the other afternoon, and right in the middle of “Natura non facet saltum” a white rat about the size of Primo Camera scampered across the floor. It being a philosophy class all was sane and calm, of course; but just think what would have happened if some of those emotional, excitable English majors had been present.
T iv o
The rats’ strange behaviour jimmied up the experiment, of course; but what worries us more is where it will all end. We’ve more than a suspicion that one has already been lain to rest between the floor and the ceiling of 205 and 305.
Come One, Come All
So the Alumnus wants the old grads to come back and pay us a visit anytime, eh? Well, that fine; welcome, alumni, employed or not. And stay right here on the campus with us, yes sir. But make sure you go to the right place. Go to Dillon, go to Brice’s or Rockett’s room in Sorin, but get it straight: don’t come to ours, or any of these strictly single rooms. How would you like to pop in some night and see Jim Carmody sleeping in your bed—your only bed ?
•
Reward
This story was told in a Commerce class last week, and we think it’s good enough to be reprinted any place:
Back in the money era, when you could spend two bucks and not feel like a criminal, two brothers went to college. Their father was wealthy, and they could afford to have a pretty good time. By nature the brothers were at the ends of the opposite poles. One was a model boy: he studied hard, saved his money, was sane, sober and industrious, kept his accounts and had a place for everything. The other was his diametric opposite: he was a rounder of the first water, a jolly spender, and above all a drinker of capacity and taste. When they came to graduate they were presented with $50,000 apiece on which they were to live. That was in 1928. The model boy put his patrimony into the giltest-edge stocks and bonds he could find, and settled comfortably to watch the interest flow in. Well, you can imagine what the other brother did with his; but he had one fetish: saving the bottles in which his splendid distillates were imprisoned. He saved all his own and all he could get his hands on from his friends.
Well, in this year of grace and grog the brothers looked around them and took stock. The model brother, who had lived frugally, sold his entire investment in stocks and bonds for the sum of $5,600. The waster had spent every nickel of his fifty thousand, but he had his collection of bottles. Repeal was accomplished, and he sold his bottles for $19,000.
The story is based on fact, gentlemen. QA
Fr. O’Hara Answers Criticism of U. N. D.
In the Commonweal of March 2, 1934, there appeared a letter calculated to do harm to the University of Notre Dame. A reply to this letter was sent to' the Commonweal under date of Feb. 28. Since the Commonweal has neither published this reply nor acknowledged its receipt, the University feels justified in making public, through The Scholastic, the objectionable letter and the Vice-President’s reply:
Washington, D.C.
To the Editor:
Friends of the late Charles Phillips, a gentleman and a creative scholar, will read the letters in your column with a degree of sorrow. There is an unconscious criticism of Catholic universities. Dr. Phillips should not have been allowed to correct school boys’ themes. That laborious work should have been done by a reader and his time husbanded for creative work. Our universities are penny wise and pound foolish. Able men are made administrators, and much of their work could be done by a capable stenographer. In every university there are a few men who by training, inclination and laboriousness are able to do research ; work, but their time is devoured by routine labors, a heavy schedule of hours, and a restricted salary which makes it necessary for, them to undertake supplementary work to support their families. There is no retirement fund, there is no clerical assistance, there is no sabbatical leave. Small wonder there is so little output in the exact or social sciences and in literature. Small wonder there are so few known scholars in Catholic universities.
When one compares the position of the scholarly professor with that of the fourth assistant coach, one wonders if some drastic reform is not necessary. The head coach has a lavish salary, traveling expenses, a high powered car, a stenographer, and a reputation. He has built up a tradition of athletics — as character-building, as increasing enrollment, and as giving the college publicity. Of course his tenure is insecure unless he can satisfy the alumni. The present generation of students is disillusioned with subsidizing athletics. It comes to college to learn, to sit under able professors, and to prepare for the hard struggle which life is again offering. It wonders why the de-(Continued on Pa.tfe 9)
The Scholastic
Friday, March 23
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Catholic Action Club meeting, Engineering auditorium, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, March 24
Rockne Memorial Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 6:25 a.m.; Movie, “One Man Journey,” with Lionel Barrymore, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.; Track, Notre Dame at Butler Relays, Indianapolis, 8 p.m.
Sunday, March 25
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m.; Glee Club Concert, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.; Band to march in Haller Parade, South Bend, 2:00 p.m.; Basketball, Interhall Championship, Gymnasium, 2:00 p.m.
Monday, March 26
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4:00 p.m.; LaRaza Club meeting, 7:45 p.m.
Tuesday, March 27
Symphony Orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Debate, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., Notre Dame affirmative vs. Western Reserve negative.
Wednesday, March 28
Easter Vacation, March 28 to April 4, begins.
Thomas Gately Is Selected Chairman of Lawyers Ball
Joseph Laughlin, president of the Law Club, announced at the last meeting that Thomas Gately will be the chairman of the Lawyer’s Ball to be held April 27, at the Palais Royale.
The price of the tickets will be $2.50. The orchestra has not yet been selected.
The various committees which have been appointed will be announced in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Barrymore Film Tomorrow
Lionel Barrymore has the lead in tomorrow evening’s show at Washington Hall. The picture entitled “One Man’s Journey” has to do with a country doctor who does his work without worrying when he will be paid.
Mr. Barrymore has a supporting cast of May Robson, David Landau and Joel McCrea, who plays the part of Lionel’s son, a young doctor.
March 23, 1 934
Nationwide Broadcast To Feature Glee Club’s Easter Vacation Tour
On behalf of the entire student body, The Scholastic wishes to express to Mr. and Mrs. F. T. Graham and their family deepest sympathy on the death of their son, Bruce Graham, a universally respected and admired member of the senior class of 1934.
Announce Plans For The Breen Oratory Medal Contest
The annual Breen Medal Oratorical Contest, sponsored by the Speech Department of the University will be held the week after Spring Vacation, it was announced today by Professor Frank Kelly. There will be two contests actually, the first being the tryouts or eliminations for the final competition.
Any undergraduate student is eligible to enter this prize-winning contest. Orations are to be ten minutes in length and may be written on any subject the student chooses. Students who intend to enter should hand in their names to any professor of the speech department immediately.
Banquet Attracts Club
At a meeting of the Cracow Club held Monday evening, March 19, in the Law Building, it was decided that the club attend the South Bend Civic dinner, Sunday, March 25, in honor of the Polish General, Josef Haller.
The remainder of the meeting constituted a talk given by Al Orzeow-ski, reviewing the life achievements of the Polish Army Commander Haller.
CONTENTS
News Answer to Criticism .......... 2
Baseball Schedule ........... 13
Boxing Show ................  12
Butler Track Meet ........... 11
Engineers’ Ball .............. 8
Faculty Golf ................. 7
Football .................... 11
Glee Club Tour .............   3
“Gold in the Hills” .......... 5
“Music’s The Thing” ......r... 4
F e a t u r e s College Parade ............   10
Conspectus ................... 4
Introducing ................. 14
“Man About Campus” ........... 8
“News of the Week” ........... 7
“On Down The Line”........... 16
“Splinters” ................. 15
“The Week” ................... 2
FORTY MEN TO MAKE TRIP
Forty members of the University Glee Club headed by Director Joseph J. Casasanta will leave the campus Easter Sunday morning to begin their vacation tour of eastern cities.
Although no trip was made last year, the spring tour has been an annual event in the Glee Club roster of activities.
Broadcast Easter Monday
The Gleesters will go by rail directly to New York City. Here on Easter Monday, April 2, the singers will present via the radio a fifteen minute program for the Columbia Broadcasting Company. The broadcast, which will be a coast to coast hook-up, will begin at 5:15 p.m., Eastern Standard Time.
Arrangements for the broadcast -were made by William D. Ayres, business manager of the Glee Club, in negotiations with the Columbia System.
The following day, Tuesday, April 3, the Club will journey to Hartford, Conn., where a concert will be presented . under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of Hartford and the St. Joseph Alumni.
Sing In Utica
Utica, N. Y., is to be visited on April 4. The concert in this city is to be sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Utica and St. Joseph’s Parish.
The Glee Club returns to the campus on Thursday, April 5. Prof. Casasanta announces, however, that another concert will.be given in Detroit on April 20, under the auspices of the N.D. Club of that city.
The last Easter tour made by the Gleesters occurred in 1932 when the singers appeared in Boston, Milford, Mass., Utica, N.Y., and Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Personnel Selected
The program to be sung by the Glee Club on their appearances in the East will be identical with the one to be given this Sunday evening in Washington Hall.
The following men have been selected by Prof. Casasanta to make the trip:
First Tenori : Adamson. Schleuter. E. Butler. Casazza. Fromm. Feferman. Corrisran. Gervasio, Vogt, Cassidy. Carey. Bolerjack. Ffrench.
Second Tenori: John Ryan. Gill. Devine, Lynch, Henry. Jahr. John Esan. Wenz. Stemper, O’Brien.
First Bassi: Quinn. Brett. Tompkins. David Ryan. Robert Butler. Menard. Ott. Fino-cchario. Schenkel.
Second Bassi : Ayres. Marohn. Scholz. Flynn. Cordaro. Kirsch. Miller. Terry Austin.
Three
“Music’s The Thing” Title of Linnet Show
“Music’s The Thing” has been selected as the title of the brand new Spring revue being planned by the Notre Dame Linnets. Rehearsals are in full swing under the able direction of the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C.
The show, a revue in two parts, consists of a combination of two distinct musical units. Part One will be executed in a background of a Southern plantation with minstrel singers and a minstrel band. The second part takes place in a metropolitan night club catchily called “The Not-A-Dame-Inn.”
Acts varying from solos, quartet singing, song interpretations, and tap dances will be featured in both acts. An especially clever scene is planned for the currently popular ‘Black Moonlight.” Novel lighting effects and instrumentation will feature the number.
Forty Linnet voices comprising the newly organized Linnet Choral Singers will participate in the revue. A Linnet Musicians’ Club will form the orchestral background for the production. The new club is under the direction of George Como, senior.
The new show will be heavier in nature than the immensely popular “Thanks For the Blow” presented in December. The music for the revue has been carefully selected by student assistants to Father McAllister.
The cast of the new song and dance revue is still open to students. All who are interested in any phase of the production are urged to communicate with Father McAllister.
TO TOUR EASTERN STATES
University of Notre Dame Glee Club
Forty members will leave the campus Easter Sunday. (Story on Page 3) Four
Band Will March In Honor of Polish General—Hero
The University Band of sixty pieces will march in a parade Sunday afternoon, March 25, in honor of General Josef Haller, former commander-in-chief of the Polish World War forces.
The parade and also a reception tendered General Haller are being sponsored by the Polish - American Central Civic Committee of South Bend. Included in the parade will be the Culver Military Academy, several South Bend American Legion Posts, the Studebaker band, and local downtown military organizations.
Notice Of Bulletin
The Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, announced that bulletin for the scholastic year 1934-35 will be available sometime around the middle'of April.
Ideas for acts or numbers will be welcomed. The position of master-of-ceremonies, handled so well by John Henry in the last show, is still open for competition.
“Music’s The Thing” will be given in Washington Hall Thursday, Friday, and Sunday, April 26, 27, and 29. It will close the year for the Linnets and will mark the final appearance of many seniors who have made hits in the other Linnet productions.
The cast and managerial personnel of “Music’s The Thing” will be complete before the Easter recess and will be announced in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Sociology
By Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C.
It is unfortunate that the Notre Dame student who selects sociology as his major must of necessity do so without having taken a single course in this subject, which is not taught here until the junior year. However, most sophomores have, at least in a vague form, some idea of the subject matter of sociology. Sociology is the study of society, the word “society” here being used to generalize social experiences which are always present when people live together and associate.
Common sense suggests that sociology must be considerably different from history, economics, politics, and other subjects which the sophomore has already taken, even though in these courses the social phases may have been emphasized. Sociology studies human beings, not as mere individuals, but as members of groups. While sociology studies such social situations as poverty, crime, disease, divorce, personality conflicts, and race conflicts, it must not be thought that sociology is nothing more than the investigation of social problems. Nor should the study of sociology be regarded merely as a utilitarian pursuit.
While it is true that the student who has majored in sociology will usually possess a better understanding of human conduct, including his own, he may have neither aspiration nor opportunities to make a practical use of this information in civic leadership, either as a community leader or a social worker. Nevertheless, just as men with questioning minds have studied botany and astronomy with no thought of becoming horticulturists or savants of the stars, so there is a fascination for many men in the study of people in association, as afforded in the general sociology major.
Among the subjects recommended to students expecting to study law, perhaps none has been urged more often in recent years than sociology. For the convenience of students who wish to enter the College of Law in the senior year, the department of sociology has arranged a special pre-legal program which has attracted a large percentage of the combined-course students each year. And these pre-legal courses are so arranged that the student may change to the general sociology, or even to the probation work major, should he later decide to enter the College of Law.
While sociology is not to be confused with social work—a rather recent profession using a special technique in helping people out of trouble—it may be said that, for the most (Continued on Page 17)
The Scholastic
Dean McCarthy Talks On Labor Difficulties
Speaking on the labor difficulties arising under the present national administration, Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, addressed the regular meeting of the Commerce Forum Tuesday evening in the Law auditorium.
In treating the various regulatory acts proposed by President Roosevelt and applying to the strife between workers and employers, Dean McCarthy stated that the broadsides of threats hurled at both factions by Administrator Johnson have failed to stem the tide of opposition that arose soon after the entrance of the government into business, and that labor difficulties were the inevitable result.
Cites Hurley’s Forecast
As recently as last summer, the speaker pointed out, the late Edward N. Hurley struck a prophetic note with his statement, “Labor will be in . the saddle before long; and labor will ride hard.” Dean McCarthy continued that “the impending strikes are but evidences of labor’s riding hard.”
He went on to cite mutual greed as the underlying cause for the employer-employee difficulties, and characterized as a serious indictment of industry as a whole, the necessity for the government to step between the workers and their employers and to tell them that they have both been wrong.
Dean McCarthy concluded with the opinion that, in the future, industrial leaders will leam to regard their subordinates as associates, rather than as so many “hands.” Such a change in attitude will come, he held, from a recognition of the human element of the worker-employer relationship.
John P. Hess, president of the Forum, closed the meeting with a brief discussion in which he outlined the plans for the annual club banquet to be held in May.
Modern Language Groups To Postpone Joint Banquet
Owing to unforeseen circumstances it was found advisable last Tuesday afternoon to postpone the banquet of the Allied Modern Language Clubs scheduled for Thursday evening, March 22. This decision by the committee in charge of arrangements was occasioned by a regrettable last-minute reversal of the key plan for the union.
For later announcements concerning the banquet it has been determined to reveal nothing further until after the Easter period.
April 9th Is Registration Deadline For N. D. Voters
Mr. Frank N. Nevins, county clerk of St. Joseph County, advised The Scholastic this week that the deadline for registration of voters at Notre Dame is April 9.
“All members of the faculty, seminarians, Brothers, as well as members of the student body, who reside on the campus must register in order to be eligible to vote in the May primaries and the November* elections.
“Any member of the faculty, seminarian, Brother, or any student, who has resided at Notre Dame since last September and who is 21 years of age, or who will be 21 years of age before the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November, 1934, is entitled to register and thereafter to vote at Notre Dame. Those who have not been registered should immediately see Dominic Vairo, Badin Hall; Don Elser, Lyons Hall; and Mike Layden, St; Edward’s Hall; who are commissioned to take registrations on the campus.
“Members of the faculty, and students who live off the campus should apply at the County Clerk’s Office for registration and assignment to their proper voting precinct.”
Student Employees for ’34-’35 Must Preregister in April
The attention of all students interested in having University employment during the next schoolyear is specifically directed to the recent bulletin of the Director of Studies concerning Preregistration. Unless his preregistration deposit is made within the time prescribed the student will not be assigned employment, and any pending application will be voided. This rule will be adhered to strictly, and applicants are urged to note carefully the provisions of preregistration.
The periods for making the preregistration deposit of §5.00 with the Secretary of the University are as follows:
“Students now in the College of Law between the 4th and the 7th of April (inclusive of both dates); juniors of this year within the school week of the 9th to the 14th of April; present sophomores within the week of the 16th to the 21st of April; and present freshmen within the week of the 23rd to the 28th of April.”
Reserve Officers
Spring elections will be held at a meeting of the Reserve Officers Club in Carroll Fee at 8:00 o’clock to-. night.
Cast Announced For “Gold In The Hills”
The colorful cast of “Gold in the Hills,” popular 1890 melodrama by J. Frank Davis, to be produced early in April, has been announced by Pro-
John Henry
He’ll be cursed.
fessor Frank Kelly, director of the University Theatre.
Eugene Blish throws aside his sword and shrew for a moustache and mortgage. He will pox-tray Rich-ary Murgatroyd, the villain, who was so capably played by William Walsh in the production two years ago. John Henry plays Jack Dalton, the hero, who strives to keep his sweetheart’s home intact. Robert Ward will be seen as the honest-to-Pete farmer, Hiram Stanley. Hiram’s two life ambitions are to take care of his daughter Nell, and his mortgage.
Jahr To Be Slade
Charles Jahr as Sam Slade, the slick individual, will assist Murgatroyd in all his villainous doings. Jim Boyle stands behind the counter as Big Mike Slattery, the bartender and dance hall proprietor.
Miss Irene Pyle takes the part of Nell Stanley, the heroine, who was formerly portrayed by Miss Theresa F. Chisholm. The pai*t of Barbara Stanley, Nell’s younger sister, is to be played by Miss Charlotte Mourer, a frequent performer for the University Theatre.
The role of Lizzie Jones, Nell’s aunt, fidgety, leave - it - where - it - is housekeeper, will be played by Miss Helen Peterson, who appeared for the first time last year on the University stage.
The remainder of the cast constitute numerous Bowery characters, such as, Mamie, the Queen of the Bowei*y; Pete, the Rat; Jenkins, a constable; Chuck Conners, a Bowery guide, and many other characters and New York sightseers.
Mitchell C. Tackley will act as head make-up man for the production.
Mass For Rockne Tomorrow
There will be an Anniversary Mass for the repose of the soul of Knute K. Rockne tomorrow morning at 6:25 in Sacred Heart Church.
March 23, 19 3 4
Five
Newberry Wins Prize For Design of Church
Foi- the second time within a month, William Leo Newberry, of Alliance, Nebraska, senior Architectural engineer, has won recognition in a nation-wide competition. Last week he was awarded a fourth place, a first medal and a fifty dollar prize for his design submitted to the Illuminating Engineering Society, the sponsors of the competition.
The problem proposed by the society w’as a design of the interior and the lighting of a church for an Episcopal congregation. Newberry’s prize winning entry was entitled “The Interior of A Church, class ‘A’ project (advanced design).”
New York Student First
First place, consisting of $500 and a first medal was awarded to a student at Atelier Licht, New York. Second place brought $250 and a first medal to a student at the Catholic University of America, while third place, $150 and a first medal went to a student at the University of Pennsylvania. Other awards consisting of $50 in cash and second medals were given to students from Illinois and Yale Universities.
Less than a month ago, Newberry was awarded first prize in the Warren Competition conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design. At that time he won a $50 prize when his entry, “A World’s Trades Mart,” was judged the best rendered esquisse in advanced group planning completed in three days.
“Population” Is Discussed At Catholic Action Club Meet
Last Friday evening the Catholic Action Club began the discussion on the subject of Population. Father Bolger conducted the meeting and restricted the discussion to the trends of population and the causes and results of these trends. Statistics of the various countries of the world as well as of the various states were presented and from these numerous conclusions were drawn.
In order to complete the discussion on the advisability of the child ' labor amendment, a paper, summarizing the club's conclusions, was assigned and will be read at the next meeting, Friday, March 23.
Science Movie
Last night, in Washington Hall, a movie entitled “How Science Aids in the Control of Infectious Diseases” was presented by the Pharmacy Club for all Science students. This film was loaned to the Department, of Pharmacy by E. R. Squibbs and Sons, manufacturers to the pharmaceutical and medical professions, Chicago.
Six
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The Communion breakfast held last Sunday morning following the 8 o’clock Mass was the most successful the council has had all year. Fifty-three members attended. They were addressed by Professor Davis of the College of Commerce, who spoke on the relationship between the professors and students at Notre Dame. He said that this relationship is closer here than at any other school he knows. Even here there is a tendency on the part of the students to consider the professors as simply classroom acquaintances, fearing the ridicule of others if they develop anything more than a speaking relationship with the professor outside of class. Because of the success of this breakfast, there should be one in each of the next two months we are in school. It is one of the finest features of the Knights of Columbus on the campus, and a very exemplary display of a lively faith. The Mass Sunday was offered for the repose of the soul of Professor Phillips.
85 Present For Picture
The council picture of the Dome was taken in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall Sunday morning, following the Communion breakfast. About eighty-five members were present for the picture.
Next Monday night in the council chambers the first degrees will be exemplified in place of the regular council meeting. It is requested that as many members as possible attend this exemplification, in ordei' to install the candidates in a manner befitting the impressive occasion.
The second and third degrees of the order will be exemplified Sunday afternoon, April 15, in the chambers of South Bend Council. There is no need to urge attendance at this exemplification—you will be there. The initiation will be followed by a banquet.
Summer Session Registration
Will Be On Tuesday, June 19
The 1934 Summer Session will commence Tuesday, June 19 with registration for courses and will terminate Wednesday, August 1, on which date as on Tuesday, July 31 examinations for students not being graduated will be held. The session will open formally Sunday, June 24 with a solemn Mass in Sacred Heart church.
Although no changes in the scholastic program are intended, the University is negotiating with several prominent professors from other schools. The usual number of visiting teachers will be on the summer session faculty.
“Arc-Welding” Topic At Engineers’ Meet
At the last regular meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held on Monday evening, March 19th, in the Engineering Building, fifty electrical engineers were treated to a diversified lecture bill of fare. William Fromm, chairman of the local branch, presided.
The principal speaker of the evening was Mr. R. D. Layman, Michigan District Manager of the Lincoln Electric Company, whose subject was “Arc-Welding.” Mr. Layman, who accompanied his lecture with lantern slides, explained how the construction of a great many pieces of machinery is now being done by the arc-welding of steel rather than by the machining of iron castings; and he demonstrated the startling savings that may be achieved by the former method. The speaker pointed out that in addition to its economic advantages, arc-welding produces lighter, stronger, and more resilient structures, which are capable of carrying greater loads than cast-iron structures of the same size.
Ed Kenefake, senior, presented a highly technical paper on the reproduction of sound entitled “Loudspeaker Efficiencies.” He discussed the relations between the quality of the sound and the radius of the speaker, the function of the baffle-board in increasing the quality of the sound, and the advantage of building speakers so that they have comparatively high natural frequencies of vibration.
In a second student paper, Mitchell E. Saleh, junior, delivered an extremely interesting talk on the subject “Precise Timing of Sporting Events.” He explained the photographic device controlled by synchronized motors that is used to secure timing of sports events correct to one-hundredth of a second. He mentioned that so much faith is placed in the ability of the apparatus that during the last Olympiad several close decisions were reversed after the film record of the finish had been developed.
The fourth speaker on the program was Jack Whittaker, sophomore, who spoke on the early life of Thomas A. Edison, laying stress on certain factors in the tender years of the great genius that were to bring him eventually to the heights he attained. Whittaker’s talk was both informal and entertaining.
Publication’s Notice
The next issue of The Scholastic will appear April 13. Scrip, literary quarterly of the campus, will be issued Friday, April 6.
The Scholastic
Pharmacy Club Plans Trip To Indianapolis
William J. Kenney, president of the Pharmacy Club, this week announced the plans for the forthcoming Pharmacy Club trip to Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis. Those eligible to make the trip are all students in the Department of Pharmacy and seniors and juniors in the College of Science.
The group will leave South Bend Monday morning, April 16 and return Tuesday evening, April 17. A special cai' has been reserved on the Big Four Railroad, and the roundtrip ticket will be $5.00 per student.
Each year, the club arranges a journey to some outstanding pharmaceutical manufacturing plant. Last year the club went to Detroit as the guests of Parke, Davis and Company. The Eli Lilly Company, this year’s sponsors, is one of the largest and most prominent of pharmaceutical and biological products in the country. Lilly’s will finance the entire trip except for transportation. This includes hotel accommodations and meals as well as other expenses while in Indianapolis.
It will be necessary for those contemplating going on the trip to see W. J. Kenney, room 321 Sorin, and make reservations with him before Easter vacation.
Leonard to Announce The Senior Ball Plans Soon
Russ Leonard, general chairman of the 1934 Senior Ball announced this week that preparations for the dance, to be held May 11, are going forward slowly. Announcements regarding the price of tickets for the Ball and the tea dance the following day will be made, Leonard stated.
The list of chairmen and committeemen as well as an announcement of the places of the Ball and the tea dance and the selection of an orchestra will be published shortly in The Scholastic.
WLW To Broadcast Tribute to K, K. Rockne on March 30
Station WLW, of the Crosley Radio Corporation in Cincinnati, will broadcast a special program March 30 at 6:30 p. m., Eastern Standard Time, in commemoration of the death of Knute K. Rockne. Bob Newhall, sports commentator for the station, in cooperation with John M. “Botts” Crowley, ’28, Cincinnati, is arranging the broadcast.
The program will feature several of the memorable exploits of George Gipp. Although March 31 is the actual anniversary of Rockne’s death, a conflict in broadcast schedule prevents the presentation on that date.
News of the Week
By George Leyes
Capital and labor are at arm’s length this week in the automobile industry, which threatens to start a tidal wave of strikes all over the country. A showdown on the company union issue may decide whether industry will jamb the purpose of the NRA or whether Senator Wagner will realize what he has been trying for years to achieve.
Since the experimental stage of the U.S.S.R. is over, Russia appears to be getting a New Deal. Greater liberalism in government and a sweeping change of attitude in regard to social life is promised. Dance halls, baseball, tennis, golf and white collars are some of the innovations that will soon be popular in Russia.
In this age of plans Italy’s new 60 year plan makes the others look like small stuff. With typical gusto, Mussolini announced a program of internal improvement and expansion in Africa, which will make Italy the leader of the world in the 21 century. He refers not to expansion by conquest, but to natural expansion, and like Japan in Manchuria, he demands that “other countries which have already arrived in Africa do not block at every step Italian expansion.” England and France, who now control this part of Africa, may not agree with what he calls natural expansion.
While Italy and Japan are faced with the problem of finding more land to provide sustenance for increasing population, United States is faced with a problem resulting from cutting, by 50 million acres, the amount of land devoted to farm crops. Farm relief to 600,000 idle families, who are stranded on this land taken out cultivation, promises to cost the government 350 millions.
Most of this idle farm acreage is in the South, held by landlords in fairly large tracts. Actual start is being made by the AAA on a program to take the place of the Civil Works Administration. This program of the government includes acquiring the land or using land it already owns to give these families a new start.
The government intends to provide the families with a plot of ground, shelter, a cow, and a pig or two, a mule and some chickens. It will let them have tools and provide them with seed and the necessary groceries while getting started.
N. D. Faculty Club to Sponsor Golf Tourney
The Notre Dame Faculty club will sponsor a golf tournament to be held late in April or early in May, it was announced today.
Professor Pedro de Landero, president of the club, has appointed a committee of three to handle details of the tournament, the first of its kind at Notre Dame. The committee is composed of the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., Professor D. L. Campbell, and Professor C. F. Chisek.
Entries for the tournament may be filed with any one of these three and are to be in before April 12, a tentative date set by the committee. It is planned to run two qualifying rounds of 18 holes each before April 25, to make pairings and flights, and to run the tournament during the next two weeks.
A trophy and prizes will be given by the club.
There are a number of good golfers on the campus, particularly among the priests. Entries will not be limited strictly to faculty members, but members of the administration will also be allowed to play. An entry list of 50 or more persons is expected.
All matches will be played on the 18-hole William J. Burke-Notre Dame course.
McDevitt Announces Rules For Interhall Rifle Match
Chairman James McDevitt announced this week the rules which will goven the interhall shooting match. All scores must be turned in by next Monday. Suitable medals will be awarded to the members of the winning team. The complete rules follow:
1.	The course of fire will be: 20 shots per man, prone position. ‘
2.	Teams to consist of two men. Halls can enter as many two man teams as they want.
3.	All scores must be shot and turned in before March 26th.
4.	Shooting must be watched by range .officer, targets signed and turned in to committee by the range officer in charge. Shooters and range officers are not to make any attempts to score targets.
5.	Targets will be issued by range officers on the request of teams. They must be shot at once. Five sighting shots allowed.
6.	Iron sights, and NRA rules to govern all disputed points.
7.	Range will be open every afternoon from Wednesday to the end of the time specified.
8.	Suitable medals will probably be awarded to the members of the winning teams.
M a reh 2 3, 19 3 4
Seven
Glee Club Will Give Concert On Sunday
The University Glee Club will present its first concert of the school year Palm Sunday evening, March 25, at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall. The Gleesters, 42 in number, will be under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta.
The program, consisting of two parts, is to feature Russell J. Stem-per, John Henry, Justin Tompkins, John F. Ryan, and George Menard as soloists. Following is the complete
program for the evening:
Part One
1.	Motets (a)	“Laudato Patrem" ............Gounod
(b)	“Ave Maria” (1545-1611)....Vittoria
(c)	“Ecee Sacerdos Magnus” .........Witt
2.	Songs for Tenor Voice (a)	“At Dawning” ................Cadman
(b)	“The Song of Songs” ...........Moya
Mr. Russell J. Stemper
3.	Part Songs (a) “June Time” (American) .........Browne (b) “Song of the Volga Boatmen”
(Russian) ..........Arr.	by Bantook
(c) “John Peel” (English) —......Andrews
4.	Songs for Tenor Boice (a) “Until” ...................  Sanderson
(b) “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling” ....Ball Mr. John Henry
5.	Part Song
“The Mascot of the Troop” .Herbert Intermission
Part Two
1.	Part Songs (a) “The Night March” .............Kountz
(b)	“Mosquitoes” ................ Bliss
(c)	“Why Don't You Try” ............Yon’
Baritone Soloist—Mr. Justin Tompkins
2.	Songs for Tenor Voice
(a)	“Your Song From Paradise” ....Brown
(b)	“Sunrise and You” .............Penn
Mr. John F. Ryan
3.	Part Songs (a)	“Hike, Notre Dame!” ......Casasanta
(b)	“In Old Nassau” ..........Murchison
(c)	“On Down the Line” .......Casasanta
4.	Songs for Baritone Voice (a)	“Kashmiri Song” ............Finden
(b)	“Giannina Mia” .............. Friml
Mr. George Menard
5.	Part Songs
(a)	“When the Irish Backs Go Marching
By --------------Burke-Casasanta
(b)	“Victory March” ------------Shea
The Glee Club was active during the week both in South Bend and at St. Mary’s, appearing in a short concert for the Knife and Fork Club of South Bend last Tuesday evening in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. On the following night, a full concert program was presented in St. Angela hall for the students of St. Mary’s College.
(General Haller To Visity
General Josef Haller, famous commander-in-chief of the Polish Forces in the World War, will visit Notre Dame Monday. He and his party are to be the guests of the University at a luncheon Monday noon in the University dining halls.
’^ycibout the camPus
</ \y
Joseph Eugene Condon came to be known as one of the campus’ wildmen while he lived in Howard, and
ganization plus him in office.
then in Lyons. As the time for class elections drew near in J o e’s sophomore year, the campus political bigwigs went into a huddle and emerged to announce that Joe Condon was the ideal man for the Junior Class presidency. The race was close for a while, but a well - knit or-Joe’s popularity put
With Jimmy Dunnigan, one of his principal backers, Joe lived in Alumni last year and reigned over the class of ’34. They are devoted room mates again this year in Walsh, and Joseph Eugene is certainly a much-reformed lad. He’s deeply interested in his law books and slightly less in the belles of Chicago and vicinity. It’s hard to say just which will keep him here for at least another year—the law books or the belle (s).	-
Anyone who happened to see Joe wheel up to the campus in early September must have been shocked. He was steering the closest thing to the original Covered Wagon that Notre Dame men can ever hope to see on their campus. The thing had come under its own power from Brocton, Massachusetts on a mere carload of gasoline and a few barrels of oil. Now Joe wants to sell the it — and we don’t blame him.
Joe’s dignity while in office, and even the Covered Wagon, didn’t tend to remove his sense of humor. He writes the cutest poems ever, and his imitations are classics. Clad in rain-ment both scanty and brilliant, friend Joe puts his own interpretations on the antics of some of the better known strong men and weight-lifters. When he imitates a Knight of the Bottle (and it is an imitation, mind you) his act is almost too convincing: rectors prepare to swoop.
Joe gets a big kick out of spreading the news to the boys on the first floor of Walsh. He belongs to the Roach ‘Tights after eleven” club, having been admitted only after the recitation of 500 mother goose rhymes.
As chairman of the S. A. C. dance
Mickey Isley To Play For Engineers’ Ball
Mickey Isley and his orchestra, Gary, Indiana, has been named by General Chairman Frank Shapiro as the dance band for the Engineers’ Ball to be held in the Palais Royale, South Bend, April 13. Isley and his music made a hit at the Junior Prom dinner dance last month and has been popular at campus dances throughout the country.
Novel programs of blue metallic covers are being made for the Ball. The Engineers’ seal will be etched on the cover. The interioi- of the program will have a drawing of the lobby of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. Co-chairmen Martersteck and Wiele planned the program.
The ticket sale for the Ball will open Friday, April 6th, and will close on the day before the dance. Two dollars is the price of the tickets. Special permission from the Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., has been secured for students who attend the dance. The Ball begins at 9:00 and continues until 12:00. Students must be in their place of residence at 12:30 a. m.
Chairman Shapiro announces that all profits of the Ball will be turned over to the local St. Vincent de Paul Society. The sale of tickets is limited to members of the Engineers’ club and two guests of each.
Father Miltner, Coach Boland
Will Speak at Cleveland
The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Joseph Boland, assistant football coach, will be the guests of honor and principal speakers at the Annual Father and Son Luncheon sponsored by the Notre Dame Alum-nn Club of Cleveland. The affair will be held on Saturday, March 31, at 12:45 p.m. in the Chamber of Commerce clubrooms in Cleveland. Joseph L. Sweeney, ’27, is chairman of the Luncheon committee.
The purpose of the luncheon is to acquaint prospective students and their fathers with members of the faculty and alumni of the university.
committee, Jo-Jo has accomplished wonders. He even breaks himself away from those law books to make every dance, but that’s because it’s his duty to see that things are run off in the first order. They say though, that beneath it all Joe is a zealous lad and has high hopes of tearing loose the profession of barristry. Attorney Joseph Eugene Condon, Coun-sellor-at-Law, doesn’t sound so bad at that!
E ig ht
The Scholastic
Fr. O’Hara Answers Criticisms of U.N.D.
(Continued from Page 2)
partment of athletics has more equipment than the department of English and why the head coach has a salary equal to any . four men in that department.
Possibly Catholic letters and scholarship would benefit if the arts and sciences in our universities were as elaborately endowed as football. Possibly we would have professors whose reputations would cause them to be drafted as brain-trustees or as instructors in secular institutions. Possibly we would have scholarships and research fellowships instead of athletic scholarships disguised in euphemistic phrases.
Adolphus King, Jr.
Notre Dame, Ind., Feb. 28, 1934 To the Editor, The Commomoeal, Dear Sir:
My attention has been directed to a letter by Adolphus King, Jr., in the current issue of the Commonweal, in which the writer makes a tribute to the humility and zeal of the late Charles Phillips the occasion for an unwarranted and ungracious slur on the University where Professor Phillips spent what he described as the happiest days of his life.
Mr. King assumes, apparently, that since Professor Phillips corrected freshman themes from time to time the University set him to the task. That assumption is, of course, necessary to his thesis that the University is “penny wise and pound foolish”; that “it is small wonder that there are so few known scholars in Catholic universities”; that “when one compares the position of the scholarly professor with that of the fourth assistant coach, one wonders if some drastic reform is not necessary.”
That the assumption mentioned is incorrect may be news to Mr. King; it is not news to anyone familiar with the internal life of Notre Dame. Abundant clerical assistance is provided for professors who need it, and no one at the University had better assistance than Professor Phillips. But you could not keep Professor Phillips from encouraging boys by correcting their themes any more than you could keep the late Bishop Chartrand from his self-imposed duty of hearing confessions from 5:00 until 9:00 every morning. And many of us would not have had either of them otherwise. Time will tell how much scholarship and sanctity was inspired by the humble
March 23, 1934
Korzeneski Gives Outline of Poland at Wranglers Meet
Something new and different was presented to the Wranglers by Arthur Korzeneski, junior member, who spoke to the club at its regular Tuesday night meeting in the Law Building. Korzeneski developed “The Fallacy of the Partition of Poland.”
The speaker, who has gone deeply into the question of Polish history from Medieval times until now, pointed out that there are certain popular misconceptions about the partition of Poland in the 18th century. “Catherine the Great of Russia was really responsible for the partition,” said Korzeneski, “though all surrounding nations grasped the chance to seize territory. The offending nations excused their actions by saying that the Poles were not fit for self-government.”
Korzeneski then went back into Polish history to prove that the Poles were and had always been able to selfgovern, showing that Poland had been the “res publica” of the Middle Ages, a land of tolerance, deep religious belief, and organized government.
ministrations of these two men.
I have no time to waste on the shabby, outworn comparison Mr. King drags in, and which is based, again, on false assumptions.
I do take issue, however, with another assumption of his, which has been made quite commonly of late to the unjust disparagement of Catholic colleges and universities. I refer to the assumption that it is the duty of these insti-titions to pay substantial salaries to men who will teach an hour a day and do research work the rest of the time. Not only is it not the duty of the colleges to do this: I doubt if it is their proper function, unless they are endowed with funds which will enable them to turn certain of their departments into institutes for research. I can'find no justification for turning the tuition fees of undergraduates over to men who neither teach them nor minister to them in any way. Training men for research work is certainly a proper function of a graduate school, and there is always an incidental research product from this, but it seems unjust to charge to the unendowed university the support of the research worker. Endowment for work of this sort may come in time to Catholic universities as it has to secular institutions, but until it comes it should not be considered reactionary to hold that the chief function of a teacher is to teach.
Respectfully,
John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Debaters Win Again;
Clevelanders Next
. Defending the affirmative side of the proposition, “Resolved: that the powers of the President should be substantially incerased as a settled policy,” Hugh Fitzgerald and Joseph Becek outwitted and outpointed two speakers from Michigan State to win a debate last Friday evening in Washington Hall. Fitzgerald spoke first— Becek closed the affirmative case. Professor Berolzheimer of Northwestern gave the critic decision.
What may be the last debate of the current season has been scheduled for March 27th, says Coach W. J. Coyne. This is a debate to be held in Washington Hall next Tuesday evening at 8:00 p. m. with Western Reserve from Cleveland; Notre Dame will have the affirmative of the President’s powers question. There is even a rumor that Veteran William Kirby will “emerge from hiding” to speak for Notre Dame with Hugh Fitzgerald or Joseph Becek. Professor J. H. McBurney, debate coach of Michigan University, will be critic judge for this debate.
To date, Notre Dame teams have engaged in fifteen debates with major colleges and universities. Of these fifteen, ten have been decision debates — and Notre Dame has won eight of these, losing one to Michigan University and one to Wyoming. Of these eight the affirmative have won three and the negative five. Thus far the negative team is undefeated. The men who have engaged in decision debates to date are William Kirby, Hugh Fitzgerald, Joseph Becek, John Locher, John O’Connor, Thomas Proctor, and Robert Schmelze.
Andre Maurois Is Subject of Paper-Read to Bookmen
The Bookmen held a scheduled meeting in the Law Building last Monday evening to listen to a paper delivered by Al Loritsch on Andre •Maurois. Maurois’ versatility was pointed out because Americans are familial* with his chiefly through his biographies. Maurois believes in making his books readable and a source of interest to the readers rather than a compendium of facts and statistics. The result of his outlook is shown by the popularity of his tomes. Curiously, he has written only of Englishmen, although an English wife was his only connection to Britain.
Following the paper reading a discussion of a new ruling to expel club members for too many absences from meetings ensued. Suggestions for forthcoming speakers were made. The next meeting will be Monday, March 26th.
Nin e
Fr. Carrico Releases Registration Notice
The following is the bulletin on preregistration issued by the Director of Studies:
Concerning Pre resist ration
Any undergraduate student now enrolled in the University who wishes to continue his course at Notre Dame in the first semester of next schoolyear must preregister for attendance, according to the instructions given in this letter. The students now at the University receive first consideration in the enrollment and in the choice of rooms in the residence halls for next year, provided they express, in the matter and within the time here prescribed, their intention of returning to Notre Dame in September,
The student now in attendance who wants a place in the University in the first semester of 1934-35 must, as a guarantee of good faith, make at proper time between the 4th and 28th of April a preregistration deposit of $5.00 with the Secretary of the University—students now in the College of Law between the 4th and the 7th of April (inclusive of both dates) : juniors of this year within the school week of the 9th to the 14th of April; present sophomores within the week of the 16th to the 21st of April; and present freshmen within the week of the 23rd to the 28th of April.
When the student makes his preregistration deposit he may at the same time make reservation of room for next year, with the Secretary, according to his choice of available rooms in any residence hall for which he is qualified by class-rating. Sorin, Corby, and Walsh Halls are reserved for students in the College of Law and the seniors of next schoolyear; Howard, Badin, and Alumni, for the juniors: and St. Edward’s, Lyons, and Morrissey, for the sophomores. Dormitory space in Brownson Hall or in Carroll Hall may be reserved by a student of any class-rating.
The receipt for the preregistration deposit, given by the Secretary, admits the student to assignment of courses for the first semester of next year. The preregistration of students in the courses, by the deans of the colleges, will begin on the 16th of April and will end on the 1st of May. Each student who has made his deposit with the Secretary and has arrangetl his residence for the next schoolyear will receive from the director of studies a notice of the hour at which he is to i eport to his dean for preregistration in courses.
Failure of the student to make the preregistration deposit within the time prescribed or to report to the dean at the time appointed for him will result in immediate cancellation of his room reservation (and in the voiding of any application for employment in next schoolyear), and there will be a fee of $10.00. payable in advance, for registration at any time after that fixed in the notice. There will be (in addition) the usual fee of $5.00 for late registration in September and in February.
The deposit for preregistration is credited on the student’s account for the first semester of next year. In case the student who has preregistered does not come to school in September the deposit is retained by the University, to cover the clerical expense involved in his preregistration.
Signed: J. L. Carrico, C.S.C.,
Director of Studies.
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
President Walter Dill Scott of NORTHWESTERN has substituted a plan of cooperation for the proposed merger with CHICAGO UNIVERSITY. The students of both schools are still a bit dubious, however, as this excerpt from the Daily Northwestern proves:
John P. Barden, editor of the University of Chicago Daily Maroon, suggests that perhaps the Chicago Tribune’s yen for simplified spelling may have some connection with the deletion of the word “merger,” from all conversations between CHICAGO and NORTHWESTERN. Says Mr. Barden:
“Now that Rev. John Evans on the front page of the sphere’s best daily (Sunday too!) newspaper has righteously disposed of all harmonious relationship between the Methodist college (we’re a university too, John) we must refrain from all idle talk of merger.
“Merger is a nasty word. From now on we must call it cooperation because Reverend Mr. Evans and his Tribune says so at the request of University Presidents Scott and Hutchins and Trustee Presidents Hardin and Swift.
“This move falls in line very well with the new word campaign by which the Tory dictators of the democratic Tribune hope to demonstate that, while they oppose changes in everything else, they want to improve the language. From no on the Tribune will spell merger: c-o-o-p-e-r-a-t-i-o-n. Everyone will hail this remarkable innovation with praise and adulation.”
Via The Indiana Daily Student:
The agricultural department of the University of WISCONSIN is attempting to discover whether an intoxicated hen will lay more prolific-ally than a sober one.
From the Chicago Tribune, we are enlightened by a Montreal, Quebec release :
An attack on campus activities which prevent college students from becoming learned was made here today by Prof. Stephen Leacock of M’GILL UNIVERSITY, well known writer and lecturer.
“Learning for learning’s sake,” he said, “cannot survive amid a tumult of students’ clubs and students’ activities, a fierce and continued excitement of contested games, enthusiastic politics, student elections and mimic journalism.
“Student activities are destroying the student. Soon we must set up in the campus a monolith, to the unknown student.”
Tour Itinerary For Politics Trip Given
Three days after the students return from Spring vacation a fortunate few will set out via the Pennsylvania Railroad for a four day tour to Washington, D. C. under the personal supervision of Professor Paul Bartholomew, Department of Politics.
The itinerary as outlined below is the result of experience gained during the years that these University sanctioned tours have been conducted :
The group will leave South Bend Saturday, April 7, at 5:00 p. m. from the Pennsylvania station. They will arrive in Washington 4:10 p. m. Sunday. Upon arrival there the party will board special buses for a visit to the Franciscan Monastery and Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. Dinner Sunday evening will be at the Arlington Hotel, where the students will stay.
On Monday, the Pan-American Building, the White House, the Bureau of Printing and Engraving, and the Washington Monument will be visited. A general tour of the city including visits to the Embassies and Legations of the Foreign . Governments, Rock Creek and Zoological Parks, Georgetown and Fort Myers, Arlington National Cemetery, Mount Vernon, and Lincoln Memorial, will be made.
Tuesday, Smithsonian Institute, Museums, and the U. S. Capitol will be visited; sessions of the U. S. Senate and House of Representatives as well as of the Supreme Court.
The group will leave Washington Tuesday evening at 6:45 and will arrive in South Bend Wednesday afternoon at 3:05 p. m.
Students who wish to make the tour must remember that cuts will not be excused, though work may be made up. Those who are going and have not as yet completed arrangements should communicate with Professor Bartholomew at once.
Hochreiter Tells Patricians About Roman Economics
Franklyn Hochreiter delivered the paper at the Patricians regular meeting, Monday evening in the Law Building. The topic discussed by Hochreiter was “The Economic Structure of Rome.” He described economic system of the period, and pointed out the relation which existed between the laws of Rome and the economic order.
At the next meeting of the organization, Monday, April 9 at 7:45 in the Law Building, John Burke will present a paper entitled “The Tax System of Rome.”
Ten
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Weather Handicaps Spring Grid Practice
Spring football practice during the past week has been hampered by poor weather. During the first part of the week, Coach Layden was forced to move his squad indoors to the gymnasium. A soggy, wet field prevented strenuous workouts when the grid-sters were finally able to get outdoors.
The Irish grid candidates have devoted most of their time during the past two weeks to the mechanical perfection of a few plays. During the first few days sets of backfield men, aided only by a center, ran through the plays. Later guards were added, and during the past week full teams have been working out together.
Coach Layden has shifted two more of his veterans to new positions. Dan Hanley, erstwhile fullback, who was recently shifted to guard, is now working out at center. Captain Dom Vairo has been shifted from left end to right end. Vairo’s blocking ability will be even more valuable here for the majority of Irish end plays are sent in this direction.
Don Elser and Marty Peters laid aside their basketball suits and reported for football this week. Elser is working out at the fullback position and is likely to remain there although persistent rumors have had him shifted to center, guard, quarterback, and right halfback.
Coach Layden expects to have line scrimmages next Monday and Tuesday before allowing his charges to rest over Easter vacation.
Conley Signs One Year Contract As End Coach
Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, announced last week that Tom Conley had signed a one year renewal contract as assistant football coach. Conley’s present contract expires in June.
At the same time it was announced that Tom will take over the duties of freshman basketball coach next year. In this capacity he succeeds Clay Johnson, a guard on the Irish quintets for three years. Johnson has been teaching the yearlings for the past two years and will graduate from the law school this June.
Conley, the only coach remaining from the Harper-Anderson regime, captained the Notre Dame eleven in 1930. Later he coached at LaSalle College in Philadelphia before returning to Notre Dame last spring to take up his duties as end coach of the Fighting Irish.
March 2 3, 19 3 4
Irish Track Team To Close Indoor Season Tomorrow At Butler Relays
Golfers —
The following code of conduct for players on the University golf course was drafted this week:
1.	DECORUM IN DRESS MUST BE MAINTAINED AT ALL TIMES.
2.	Always start at No. 1 tee, unless advised otherwise.
3.	Play winter rules. Improve lie in your fairway.
4.	On par three holes, please signal following players to drive when you reach the green.
5.	Play only in foursomes on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
5.	Lost ball: — signal following players to go through; then wait until they have holed out.
7.	Practise:—Use regular driving fairway and putting greens.
8.	Don’t loiter on fairways.
9.	Don’t lay clubs or bag on green.
10.	Don’t walk through sand-traps. t
11.	Don’t cut in ahead of other player.
12.	Don’t use regular greens for putting or practising pitch-shots.
13.	Please replace divots.
Irish Rifle Club Loses
Match In South Bend
The Notre Dame Rifle team was defeated by the South Bend Rifle Club last Monday night, 853 to 844. The local gunmen made a remarkable showing when it is considered that the South Bend team used telescope sights on their guns. The Irish were not that well equipped and consequently began shooting with what is equivalent to a 50 point disadvantage. Before the firing had ceased Gunner McGrath and fellow gunners had whittled the handicap to nine points. Individual scores for the Notre Dame men were: Minorick 180, Hostetler 179, McGrath 167, Deschamps 160, Leiser 158.
The interhall rifle matches are now underway with teams from Howard, Corby, Lyons, Dillon, Badin, St. Edward’s, Freshman, Alumni, and Off-Campus competing. The winning team will be awarded appropriate medals.
ENTER THREE RELAYS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Three relay teams and seventeen individual members of the Irish track squad will participate in the Butler Relays at Indianapolis tomorrow evening. Despite the fact that the field will be of better quality this year, Notre Dame’s chances of returning with the team trophy are much brighter than in 1933 when the Nickmen finished tenth among the universities. Earlier in the week Coach John P. Nicholson figured his men for at least third position with Michigan State and Michigan University as the teams to beat.
Layden Will Run
The local tracksters will be represented in the relays by a one, two, and four mile team. The furlong and two mile quartets have scored for the Irish this year but the four mile crew has not tasted competition as yet.
Mike Layden will celebrate his return to the track tomorrow when he glides over the sticks for the first time since the Marquette meet here on February 10. Fagan and Link will accompany the Irish and team with Layden in the hurdles.
The Irish pole vaulters earned a trip to Indianapolis on the strength of their performance in the Armour Relays in Chicago last week when they looked down on the cross bar at 12 feet. The shot put trio of Don Elser, Jim Sullivan, and Charlie Finkel may also be taken.
Murphy May Win
George Meagher will make his fourth appearance of the season in the broad jump. George has consistently bettered 23 feet and should be the favorite to make it four straight in the Butler fieldhouse.
Vince Murphy will take skill, reputation, and perhaps a clean pair of track trunks with him tomorrow to do battle with Willis Ward, the Wolverine high jumper. The colored Michigan star defeated Vince in the Butler meet last year. With Murphy rapidly reaching his peak the jump ing tomorrow will be closer than last year.
The Butler Relays have been enlarged this year to include nearly two hundred schools and will represent the best track material in the United States. The list of invitations (Continued on Base 15)
Eleven
Seven Boxers Win Championships In Third Bengal Show Wednesday
Trackmen Score In Armour, K.C. Games
MAREK GIVES EXHIBITION
Before a wildly cheering crowd which enthusiastically approved the most thrilling of all Bengal Boxing Shows, seven boxing champions were crowned on Wednesday night in the fieldhouse. Four knockouts furnished the fireworks for this boxing show.
In the initial bout of the evening for the featherweight championship, Anthony (Bud) Marcy, of Lyons hall, took a decision from Tommy (Tex) Durkin, of Dillon. Opening fast, the young freshman counted several times to the face before his more experienced foe smashed across a terrific hook which slowed down the battling Dillonite. Boring continually in, Marcy stalked his prey and pounded Durkin’s body with a barrage of hooks which had the gallant Tex groggy at the final bell.
Gooden Scores Knockout
Hal Gooden, of Alumni, successfully defended his lightweight championship by technically k a y o i n g George Nauta, of Carroll, in the first round. Across the ring like a panther at the bell, Gooden shot a beautiful left hook to Nauta’s jaw. Nauta came back strongly and whaled away with both hands. His rally was shortlived, however, as Gooden in workmanlike fashion hammered the reeling Nauta. The final blow was a terrific right to George’s solar plexus that ended all his thoughts of coming back.
The honors in the junior welterweight division went to Bill Whitman, of Dillon hall, who knocked out Mark Kerin, also of Dillon. Both men opened cautiously and felt each other out. Then Whitman leaped in pumping rights and lefts, hitting short, deadly punches until Referee Tellson stepped in as Kerin stood helpless in his corner.
McKernan Defends Title
In a bout packed with action, Lou Purcell, of Morrissey, knocked out Kevin Kehoe, of Lyons, to win the welterweight title. Neither man wasted any time but flung leather from the start with the shorter Purcell getting the better of the sharp exchanges, which had Kehoe groggy at the bell. In the second round, Purcell went in to finish the job he had started with the redhead, who pawed futilely at his slashing opponent. A hard left hook to the body put him down and out toward the end of the second round.
Bart McKernan, of St. Edward’s hall, knocked out Walt Powers, of Howard, in less than twenty-five sec-
Twelve
Featherweight Bud Marcy beat Tommy Durkin, (3).
Lightweight
* Hal Gooden stopped George Nauta, (1).
Junior Welterweight Bill Whitman stopped Mark Kerin, (1).
Welterweight Lou Purcell stopped Kevin Kehoe, (2).
Middleweight
*Bart McKernan stopped Walt Powers, (1).
Lightheavyiveight Harry Marr beat Bob Conlon, (3).
Heavyweight
Reno Zarantonello beat Pete Paul, (3).
* Defending Champion.
onds to retain his middleweight championship. The sound of the gong had barely faded when the burly Bart feinted ■with his left and crossed a roundhouse right that floored Powers. Stumbling to his feet, Powers rocked shakily as McKernan whipped over a punch that stretched him out for good.
Harry Marr, of Freshman hall, defeated Bob Conlon, of Carroll, to capture the light heavyweight title. Conlon set a terrific early pace throwing punches from all angles while the cool, collected Harry was content to bide his time. In the second, Marr opened up with a straight left hand that couldn’t miss Conlon’s face and gradually began to wear Conlon down. The third was all Marr’s as the weary Bob tried to land a haymaker that just couldn’t reach its mark.
Reno Zarantonello, of Morrissey hall, took a decision from Pete Paul, of St. Edward’s. Working a long left to the head, which constantly kept Pete off balance, Reno kept Paul from coming too close with his rushing tactics and wildly aimed punches. Pawing at the fading but ever present Reno, Pete bounced all over the ring, ropes, and canvas but he couldn’t catch or touch him to any extent.
Max Marek, Chicago Golden Gloves heavyweight finalist and former International Champion, and Julius Coussens, South Bend light heavyweight champion, put on a very interesting exhibition bout. Both men showed their willingness to trade punches and furnished a lively setto.
The Notre Dame track team met with varying degrees of success last Saturday when it competed in meets in Chicago and New York. Led by Coach John P. Nicholson, two relay , teams and Vince Murphy won places for the Irish at the Knights of Columbus meet in Gotham. Meagher, Farrell, Gilfoil, Howard, Edwards, and a makeshift two mile relay team gathered points in the Armour Relays in Chicago.
Vince Murphy turned in his best performance of the indoor season in New York when he tied for first place in the high jump with Threadgill of Temple and Woodbury of Dartmouth. The winning height of six feet, five inches was two inches better than the best that George Spitz, the favorite, could do. Murphy’s injured leg is getting stronger, but Saturday he did not have enough reserve strength to better his opponents -when the tie was jumped off.
Young Runs Well
Boston College won the one mile relay race in which the Irish were involved. The Notre Dame crew of McGrath, Rubly, Bowdren, and Bernard finished second. The Irish quartet steamed into port and docked at 3:25, little more than a second slower than Boston. The victors, using their fastest man for the first quarter mile, jumped into a commanding lead and were never headed after the first curve was passed. St. John’s College and Fordham finished three, four behind the local crew.
The Irish two mile team also placed second. Manhattan led the boys across the finish line in 7:53.2 while the Irish train arrived in 7:55. Joe Young ran a fast half mile as did Clyde Roberts and Ray Shiels. Ducassa, making his first appearance as a member of the relay team, was not fast enough for the company. Roberts and Shiels were both clocked under 1:58.
Meagher Wins Again
The high spot of the meet was the sensational performance of Glen Cunningham in the Columbian mile. The University of Kansas star set a new world record of 4:08.4 in the eleven lap race to better Gene Venz-ke’s mark of 4:10 set in the Baxter mile of the New York A. C. in 1932. Ray Sears, winner of the C. I. C. mile run here this year, established a new low in the two mile grind in the Gardens. He led Joe McCluskey to the tape in 9:07.4.
In Chicago, George Meagher did some high class leaping to outdistance a classy field of broad jumpers in the Armour Relays. Conley of Notre Dame also placed with a jump of 22 (Continued on Page 15)
The Scholastic
Interhall Champs To Be Crowned Sunday
' The finals of the interhall basketball race will be played Sunday in gymnasium. Brownson and St. Edward’s teams will clash in the heavyweight final. Carroll will meet the Saints in the final of the lightweight division. St. Edward’s heavies and Carroll’s lights won the championships of their respective divisions at the end of their regular schedule, but the Saint’s lights and Brownson’s heavies ended up in a tie for the leadership of their groups and had to win the playoff in order to enter the finals. Brownson defeated Off-Campus, 40-18 and the Saints defeated Lyons 21-12 in the playoffs held Tuesday night.
St. Ed’s Defeats Corby
Lyons and Morrissey, in Group I of the heavyweight division, waged a merry battle with no holds barred and Lyons emerged the winner by a 30-22 score. Cannon, of Lyons, was the high scorer of the game with eleven points. Dillon’s freshmen displayed a well-organized and well executed attack to smother Badin 356. Neofotis, of Dillon, poked in five baskets from the pivot line to lead the scoring. Aided by the rather rough and unique basketball methods of Joseph “Cy” Connor, St. Edward’s romped to an easy victory over Corby, 34-12. Matt Thernes once again played an exceptionally fine ball game and swished the net for twelve counters.
Brownson kept itself in the running for the Group II honor post by sending Howard back with a 16-12 loss. The other leading contender, Off-Campus, fought with its back to the wall but finally emerged with a close decision over Freshman hall by a 22-20 score. Frankie Vitt has his shooting eye tuned and Walsh hall won from Alumni, 14-10. Vitt made ten of his team’s fourteen points.
Howard Crushes Brownson Lights
A playoff has been necessitated in Group I of the Lightweight division because both leading teams won their final contests to still remain in a deadlock for first honors. Lyons crushed Morrissey to the tune of 2511, and, not to be outdone, St. Edward’s stalemated the Corby offense to run a 26-8 victory. In the other divisional game the mites from Dillon hall were beaten by the close score of 21-19 by the Coryites.
The Group II Lightweight championship was taken by Carroll hall, which drew a bye on Sunday. Howard displayed the most powerful offensive attack of the interhall season by giving a sound thrashing to Brownson hall by a 47-4 score. Set-
Baseball Squad To Play 18 Games;
Open Against Buckeyes April 16
Crowds---
Fifty-three thousand people watched the Notre Dame team play on its home floor during the past season. 50,800 people saw the games which Notre Dame played on other floors. 4,500 people, the largest crowd ever assembled in Detroit for a basketball game, saw Notre Dame defeat the University of Detroit. 7,000 people watched Minnesota defeat Notre Dame in the last game of the season. Two days before, 6,300 people saw Marquette win over Notre Dame. 7,000 people saw Notre Dame defeat Butler at Indianapolis. 5,000 people saw Pittsburgh hand Notre Dame the only defeat received on its home floor this season. 103,000 people saw in action the team that established two modern records for Notre Dame. Coach Keogan’s charges won 22 consecutive games and 16 consecutive home games.
ting an individual high scoring mark, Joe Bucci, of Howard, accounted for nineteen of his team’s points with John, of Howard, ably assisting him with fourteen markers. The Alum-nites won the bottom rung in the standings by losing to Walsh 12-10.
INTERHALL STANDINGS Heavyweights				
Group I	W	L	T	Pct.
St. Edward’s 			 6	0	0	1.000
Lyons 					1	0	.833
Dillon 			 3	3	0	.500
Badin 		.— 3	3	0	.500
Morrissey 			 3	3	0	.500
Sorin 				 1	5	0	.166
Corby 			 0	6	0	.000
Group II	W	L	T	Pct.
Brownson 			 6	1	0	.855
Off-Campus 		...... 5	2	0	.714
Carroll 				.— 3		0	.500
Walsh 		„			 3	3	0	.500
Freshman 				 2	•1	0	.333
Howard 			 2	4	0	.333
Alumni 				 1	5	0	.166
Light	weights			
Group I	W	L	T	Pet.
St. Edward’s 			 6	1	0	.855
Lyons 				2	0	.714
Badin 				 1	2	0	.666
Corby 					 3	3 4	o	
Sorin 				 2		0	.333
Dillon 			1	3	0	.166
Morrissey 				 1	5	0	.166
Group II	w	L	T	Pct.
Carroll 				 6	0	0	1.000
Howard 			.— 5	1	0	.833
Freshman 					 3	o	0	.500
Off-Campus 				 2	4	0	.333
Alumni 				2	4	0	.333
Walsh 				 2	4	0	.333
Brownson 			 0	6	0	.000
MEET 7 BIG TEN TEAMS
By Cy Stroker
Playing under the guidance of its new mentor, Coach “Jake” Kline, the Notre Dame baseball team will meet seven Big Ten clubs during the course of its 18 game series, according to the schedule announced this week by Athletic Director Elmer Layden. The Irish open their season April 13 with a game with Ohio State on the home diamond.
Besides the game with Ohio State, Notre Dame will play five other games during April, one each with Chicago, Northwestern and Western State Teachers and two with Purdue. The Irish broke even last year with both Chicago and Northwestern, winning and losing one game to each. Purdue was not on the schedule last year but its team ranks among the best in the Big Ten league. All four games promise to be severe tests of the Irish ability.
Kline Is Optimistic
May 2 the team travels to Madison to meet the Wisconsin nine which defeated them twice last year. A return game with Ohio State and a tilt with Michigan State at Lansing follow Wisconsin. May 18 and 19 Notre Dame will meet the Iowa Hawkeyes in two games to be played on Cartier Field. Iowa is another team which broke even with the Irish last year in two close games.
Although bad weather has prevented any out-door practice by the team, the infield has been warming up in the gym for some time. An abundance of good pitching material has reported for practice, but Mr. Kline intends to develop an entire new out-field in view of getting greater batting strength. Although the team is still in the formative stage, “Jake” looks forward to a banner season for his boys.
The complete schedule for 1934 follows :
April 13—Ohio State, here.-
April 17—Western State Teachers, here.
April 21—Chicago, there
April 23—Northwestern, here.
April 27—Purdue, there.
April 28—Purdue, there.
May 2—Wisconsin, there.
' May 5—Ohio State, there.
May 9—Michigan State, there.
May 10—Western State Teachers, there.
May 12—Indiana, here.
May 15—Northwestern, there.
May 18—Iowa, here
May 19—Iowa, here.	*
May 22—Chicago, here.
May 24—Purdue, here.
June 1—Wisconsin, here.
June 2—Michigan State, here.
March 23, 19 3 4
Thirteen
Corby Team Captures Interhall Track Crown
Introducing...
Four Veterans Will Lead Irish Golfers
Corby Hall won the championship in the annual Interhall Track Meet held in the gymnasium last Friday evening. The winners amassed a total of 17 points, being closely followed by Carroll Hall with 15 1-3 points and Sorin with 13 1-3 points.
The Corby tracksters can thank Carey for their laurels. This individual track team collected a mere 13 points to practically clinch the meet single handed. He placed first in the broad jump with a leap of 21 feet, 9 inches; won the 60 yard low hurdles in eight seconds flat, and copped a second place in the 60 yard dash.
Mahoney Wins Dash
No interhall track records were broken but Charlie Huisking of Lyons Hall came within a half inch of tying the shot put mark. His heave of 41 feet 10% inches was just six inches short of the record. Mahoney of Brownson in winning the 60 yard dash in the remarkable time of :06.6 proved himself to be varsity timber. In the mile run Van Petten of Sorin reached the tape first by reason of a great sprint on the last lap to nose out Hackner of Morrissey in the fairly good time of 4:50.5. The most thrilling race of the evening was the final event on the program, the three quarter mile relay. The lads from Sorin jumped off to a sizeable lead in the early stages of the race through the fine running of Jim Leonard and Frank LaBorne. On the fifth lap, however, McLaughlin, the runner with the baton for Sorin, reeled and collapsed on the final turn. Pupilis of Freshman Hall shot to the fore on the last lap and maintained the lead to the finish line. Huller of Sorin picked up nine yards on the anchor leg of the race but could not overhaul Pupilis.
Three Teams Go Scoreless
The scores of the respective halls: Corby 17; Carroll 151-3; Sorin 13 1-3; Alumni 10; Lyons 9; Freshman 8; Brownson 7 1-3; Morrissey 5; Off Campus 3; St. Edward’s 1; Dillon 1; Walsh 0; Badin 0; Howard 0. Summary:
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Van Petten (Sir) ; Hackner (Mor), second; Else (Cor), third. Time 4:50.5.
SHOT PUT—Won by Huisking (Ly) : Walsh (Cor),' second; Michuta (St. Ed’s), third. Distance 41 feet 10% inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Carey (Cor) : McNulty (Ly), second; Boyle (Cor), third. Distance 21 feet 9 inches.
440 YARD DASH—Won by Riley (Car) ; Mulligan (Fr), second; McGinley (Cor), third. Time 55:2.
60 YARD DASH—Won by Mahoney (Bro) : Carey (Cor), second: Flood (Dil), third. Time 6:6.
By John D. Carbine
Charlie Howard, Coach Nicholson’s senior pole vaulter, has been improving rapidly this year. In the first meet of the season against Marquette, he vaulted 11 feet, six inches. The following week against Illinois, he did 12 feet even. Against Ohio State, he topped the bar at 12 feet, six inches. In the C. I. C. meet he made the best vault of his career when he soared 12 feet, nine inches.
Charlie came to Notre Dame in 1930, and won his numerals in both football and track. After his freshman year, he confined his activity to track.
Wins Pittsburgh Meet
In his sophomore year, he pulled a tendon right after the Christmas holidays and when the muscles failed to respond to treatment, Nick advised him to lay off track for a year.
Last year Charlie did not report until after the second meet of the season. Two weeks later he tied for second place in the Ohio State meet. During the outdoor season, he won the Pittsburgh meet and tied for second place in the Army and Michigan State meets.
Howard suffered another injury in his leg in the State meet last year. The day before the Nickmen left for the meet Howard, who is enrolled in the Department of Physical Education, was forced to take his tests in swimming. The water weakened his muscles and, as a result, his leg failed him after the first vault.
Second In C.I.C.
This year Howard did the best vaulting of his career to wind up in a second place tie in the C. I. C. meet. He won the Ohio State meet and took second in the Illinois meet.
Charlie prepped at Springfield (Illinois) High School and South Bend Central. At Springfield, he did the pole vault, and the dashes for the track team and also played football and basketball. Howard did not compete for Central.
880 YARD RUN—Won by McDevitt (Al) ; Powers (Or), second; Hammer (Ly), third. Time 2:09.2.
60 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Carey (Cor) ; Smith (OC), second; Megin (Bro), third. Time 8:
POLE VAULT—Won by Caweiller (Al) ; Tie for second, Newbold (Sor), Megin (Bro), McCarthy (Cr). Height 11 feet.
THREE QUARTER MILE RELAY—Won by Freshman; Sorin, second; Morrissey, third. Time 2:32.2. (Bartley, Walton, Nienaber, Mulligan. Hickey, Pupilis.)
HIGH JUMP—Tie for first, Caldwell (Car), LaBorne (Sor) ; Jordan (Mor), third. Height, 3 feet 7 inches.
Reverend George L. Holderith, faculty advisor of the golf team, announced this week that the members of the 1934 team would be selected on the basis of performances in a tournament to be held immediately after Easter vacation. All members of the three upper classes are eligible to compete in this tourney. Each candidate must turn in five complete cards for 18 holes before April 11. The team will be formed after these cards have been carefully scrutinized.
Notre Dame’s golf teams have had remarkable success in recent years and this year’s team promises to carry on the winning habits of the Irish teemen. Vince Fehlig will captain this year’s team. Fehlig reached the quarter finals of the National Intercollegiate Tournament held at Buffalo last year. Other returning veterans include Johnny Montedonico, last year’s captain, Bill Veeneman and Johnny Banks. Banks was co-medalist in the National Intercollegiate Tournament last year and, at one time was the Western Junior Champion.
Tbree Sophs Are Promising
Coming up from last year’s strong freshman team are Win Day, Herman Green and Charley Nevils. Green won the Western Pennsylvania Junior Tournament last summer and promises to make a strong bid for a place on the Irish link team. Day, the present school champion, will cause plenty of trouble for the other candidates.
Other promising candidates are Bob Donahue, who competed in the national tournament, Ray Martin, member of last year’s squad, Bob Alberts and Fran Dunn.
Brancheau To Coach New Mexico State Gridders
Announcement was made last week that Ray Brancheau, right halfback on the 1931, 1932, and 1933 Notre Dame football teams, had accepted an offer as Athletic Director and head football coach of New Mexico State Teachers College in Silver City, New Mexico.
Ray won a berth on the varsity squad in the fall of 1931 after making a creditable showing in reserve ball the previous year. He climaxed his career last fall when he received the most valuable player award.
On April 2, Brancheau will marry Miss Hidagarde Olson of Battle Creek Michigan. Ray is a native of Monroe, Michigan.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
BOOM
What with the pipe man and his dog showing up in the caf this week, it looks as if spring is almost bound to come now. And with it will come the big sports season of the year on the campus. Some forty-one contests are scheduled for the Notre Dame outdoor spring sports squads: track, baseball, golf, and tennis.
The track team, in view of its recent showings, will be a consistent point-scorer in any sort of collegiate competition. Coach Nicholson’s mile relay team should be able to crack 3:20 when they reach their height. If Nick produces as he has in the past, the mile team may hit that mark in time for the Drake relays in late April.
Just what other relay event the Irish will concentrate on is problematical. The two-mile team looks natural with Clyde Roberts, Joe Young, Jim Shiels, Jerry Farrell, Sal Ducassa, and Eddie King (providing that he regains his best form) available. We’d like to see the two-mile quartet get going, as it has always been a strong event here, and the Irish need but one more leg on the Drake trophy, having won the event in Des Moines in 1930 and 1932.
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball team should be good. He has a number of reliable veterans. Probably he could use a couple of more pitchers, for April is usually cool around here and nine innings are inclined to use up a block of hurlers while the chill weather holds.
As to golf, we give you Captain Vince Fehlig, quarter-finalist in the national intercollegiate; Johnny Banks, medalist in the same tourney; ex-Captain Johnny Montedonico; the veteran Bill Veeneman; and a couple of threatening sophomores: Win Day, twice fall open champion of Notre Dame and holder of the Notre Dame course record; and Herman Green, western Pennsylvania junior champion.
The tennis prospects as we see them: Captain Jack O’Hanlon, and Dick Kelly, leading the veterans, and a bunch of new material of varying degrees of promise. We’ll plead a bit of ignorance on the tennis situation, but we’ll watch it with interest. The boys will have handicaps: poor courts, bad weather, lack of practice time, and a stiff schedule.
There you have it—as we see it.
Sorin Renews Challenge
The six-man Sorin Hall relay team (200 lbs. per man) renewed its challenge this week to any other squad, composed of 200-pounders, for a three-quarters of a mile race.
March 23, 1934
Large Squad Reports For Spring Fencing Practice
Spring fencing practice is now under way and a large squad of men has reported for action. An elimination tournament will be held in the first part of May to detennine the makeup of the varsity for next year.
Many of those who reported for spring practice had never fenced before, but they are making a strong bid to contend with this year’s veterans for a place in the lineup.
Coach deLandero expects a successful season next year with the veterans of this year as a nucleus for the team.
One match remains on the schedule for this season. The University of Cincinnati sabre wielders will journey here to clash with the Notre Dame squad on April 7. The Irish hope to close their first season of competition with a victory over the highly-touted Cincinnati team.
BUTLER RELAYS
(Continued from Paste 11)
to the meet was prepared by Herman Phillips, Butler track coach and manager of the relays, on the basis of track records established by various schools. Each college or university invited represents at least one outstanding event.
A number of state schools as well as the Big Ten and schools from the Missouri Valley conference have been invited. It will be the proving grounds for the cream of the crop, with practically every national title holder on hand to do his specialty. Five hundred athletes will compete for individual and team trophies.
The relays will be presided over by a queen, selected from the Butler student body. Governor Paul V. McNutt, and judges, timers, and starters attired in formal dress will add color to the festival.
TRACK MEETS
(Continued from Pasre 12)
feet, 4% inches. Meagher’s winning distance of 23 feet, 3% inches bettered that of Dreusicke of Elmhurst College by an inch and a half. Hollis of Purdue, Conley, and Good of Pittsburgh finished in that order behind the first two.
Jack Edwards and Chuck Howard, the greatly improved Irish pole vaulters, tied for fourth with a height of 12 feet.
Other Notre Dame points were scored by a two mile relay team which netted a fourth, a fifth by Farrell in the 880, and a fifth by Gilfoil in the 440 yard dash.
Prof. Phillip’s Book
Is Now In Library
Of special interest to the student body is the announceemnt this week that Padereivski: The stori) of a Modern Immortal by the late Professor Charles Phillips can now be obtained at the library. Professor Phillips spent more than ten years in collecting material for his work, while the actual writing was done during the summer of 1932 here on the campus. The New York Evening Post acclaimed it as “The first really important biography of the year” and Tempo declared it was “By all odds, the most exciting, most elevating biography of the year.”
Other Fields
Another biographical work which should interest many is Huey Long’s Every Man a King. Other additions include:
History—Beale, Mrs. Marie, Flight into America’s Past; Bond, Beverley, The Civilization of the Old North-ivest; Madelin, Luis, The Consulate and the Empire.
Psychology—Husband, Richard W., Applied Psychology.
Archeology—Sayce, Roderick U., Primitive Arts and Crafts.
Economics—Ayres, The Economics of the Recovery Program; Lewis, Ervin, A Primer of the New Deal; Prendergast, William A., Public Utilities and the People; Kremmerer, Edwin W., Kremmerer on Money.
Biographies
Sociology—Best, Harry, Blindness and the Bline in the United States.
Literature—Johnson, Francis Rar-ick, A Critical Bibliography of the Works of Edmund Spenser; Moore, Cecil A., English Prose of the Eighteenth Century.
Bibliography—Brewer, Reginald A., Six Hundred American Books Worth Money.
Biography—Barton, Sir Dunbar P., Timothy Healy; Howard, John Tras-ker, Stephen Foster, America’s Troubadour; Jones, Benjamin M., Henry Fielding; Long, Huey Pierce, Every Man a King.
NOTICE!
For the convenience of those leaving for Easter vacation the BARBER SHOP will be open after supper on Saturday, Monday and Tuesday, until 8:00 o’clock.
We will be open all next week.
F i f t e e n
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
TED HUSING announced last Saturday night that the fastest indoor mile of each year has always been run in the K. of C. games; the Kansas flyer, GLENN CUNNINGHAM, certainly did right by the knights running in the world record time of 4:08.4. . . . The 12,000 track fans had hardly stopped cheering the great victory of Cunningham’s when RAY SEARS of BUTLER, set a new record in the two mile, by running in the record time of 9:07.4, but the accepted record for this distance is held by PAAVO NURMI at 8:58.2. . . . Because of his interest in sailing, PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT has been asked to act as guest skipper in the fifth annual international sailing race from ST. PETERSBURG to Cuba. . . . MAJOR JOHN GRIFFITH, commissioner of the BIG TEN conference, will be head starter and referee for the BUTLER relays that are being held in Indianapolis tomorrow. . . . JIMMY FOXX announces that he is after big dough. Mack likes smart ball players but maybe he’ll figure there is too much in a name like FOXX. . . . Hockey has made rapid strides in Britain, but they play the game with nine men on each side. . . . During the past 35 years, JOHN McHUGH, A.A.U. starter, has sent about 3,500,000 athletes on their way in various contests.
COACH USILTON of Temple is of the opinion that C.C.N.Y. would easily beat Notre Dame in basketball, and he gives the following reasons for his statement: 1.) They are a faster team and by far the smarter;
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
2.) Their passing game is better. Every man handling the ball; 3.) Goldman would get the majority of tip-offs from Krause; 4.) Their reserves are superior to Notre Dame’s; 5.) Notre Dame has only two scoring players, while C.C.N.Y. depends on all her players for points. According to dope from North western’s spring camp, DICK HANLEY is showing a distinct tendency toward new plays, less of the Warner system. Until now Hanley has been a 100% WARNER coach. But they do say he is getting awfully tired of not being able to score on Notre Dame. . . . Probably the youngest basketball coaches in the country is RALPH JORDAN, 23 year old mentor of Auburn. . . . GORDON HINKLE, the Boston Red Sox new catcher, had a brother who played pro football with Boston last fall. . . . BEATTIE FEATHERS, former U. of Tennessee grid star, is in. the camp of the Cincinnati Reds seeking a tryout. . . . Don’t be surprised, SORIN, if one of the halls on the campus takes you up on that six man relay challenge of last week. . . . Do you know that LEO MCFARLANE was born in Canada where the many Notre Dame record holders have been born and reared? Other Notre Dame track stars hailing from the neighboring country are ALEX WILSON, FRED MACBETH, BRANT LITTLE, and EDDIE KING.
Visitors at the recent INDIANA state tournament ate over six tons of food during the six sessions of tourney play. . . . The most popular sport in the PHILIPPINES this season is indoor baseball. . . . Members of the Purdue basketball team have chosen RAY EDDY, honorary captain of the 1933-34 team. . . . LEFTY O’DOUL claims the golfing championship of the National League.
Lefty shoots consistently in the low 70’s and holds a record of 65 on the par 68 Lincoln Park course in San Francisco. . . . Even though he was ineligible, JOE FEFFARA, Columbia tackle, did a lot of studying en-route to California, in the hope of passing off the demerits, which proves that there is a certain amount of good in football. . . . Ice hockey customers won’t get the thrills out of the game if the players are helmeted, padded and strapped up to prevent injuries. The customers won’t be thrilled when a player laughs every time a stick is wrapped around his head. . . . MISS SONJA HEINE has been acknowledged the world’s figure skating champion for the past eight years. She won her first Norwegian title when she was 11 years old. . . . Here is something new: The AQUA CALIENTE race track now has a money book where you may place a wager that a horse will finish fourth.
There are four women’s indoor polo teams in the NEW YORK district—representing the Saxon Woods, Ramapo, St. Moritz, and Ridgewood Riding Clubs. ... There were two triple plays pulled in the National League last season—both of them by the Cardinals with FRISCH starting them. Once the Pirates were the victims and the other time the Dodgers. . . . RABBIT McVEIGH, veteran forward of the New York American hockey club, eats a steak for dinner every day but Sunday. • . . CONNIE MACK fooled the Philadelphia people, waiting until after the elections to sell his stars, but they may have the last laugh by refusing to spend their Sunday afternoons in the ball park. ... In the BUTLER FIELDHOUSE you can start walking up from the basketball floor and be 80 feet high when you step on the last seat. . . . Another musical athlete is JOE MANGAN of Cornell, a famed track man who worked his way through school by playing a tenor banjo in an orchestra. . . . According to reports BABE RUTH has been offered about every kind of employment there is known. . . .
Monogram Club Makes Plans For Annual “Absurdities”
“The Monogram Absurdities,” long a fixture in campus entertainment, will take place this year early in May, announced President Thomas Roach today.
Students are asked to submit original skits ’ for the production, arid there will be a prize given for the skit drawing, the greatest applause from the audience. Skits should be turned in to Tom Roach, at 109 Walsh Hall.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
CONSPECTUS
(Continued from Page 4)
part, social work rests upon sociology. Although Notre Dame offers no general course in social work, on the assumption that most of the positions in this field, especially those open to newly graduated students, are held by women, it has recently selected for emphasis two specialized fields of social work in which college men are indispensable. These fields are recreational or spare-time leadership, and correctional work. While the courses in both of these fields, known locally as Boy Guidance and Probation Work, are organized chiefly for graduate students, a few Notre Dame undergraduates of outstanding scholastic ability are permitted to take up the latter at the start of the last semester of the junior year. Students who wish to try for this privilege should register as general sociology majors for the first semester of the junior year.
Sophomores with a good class record are urged to investigate probation work as a possible career before choosing a major subject, especially if they foresee that they will not be able to extend their formal education beyond the senior year. Several Notre Dame graduates who had entered this new field with the idea of taking up the study of law later, or even while engaged as correctional workers, have since decided to make probation work their life profession. The success of graduates of this curriculum who now occupy positions with such agencies as departments of public welfare, children’s aid societies, and Catholic charities, indicates that the Notre Dame training equips the student for- many other positions requiring a knowledge of social case work technique, in addition to the special field of delinquency. Since the establishment of the new curriculum the demand for its graduates has been greater than the supply.
Sophomores who are giving serious consideration to sociology as a possible major subject, are urged to read carefully the section devoted to this subject in the University catalog, and to consult in addition the material posted upon the sociology bulletin board at the entrance of the administration building. If it is felt necessary to consult the department head, he may be found in Walsh Hall, after 7:30/ on any evening except Thursday.
History Seminar
The History Seminar at its regular Monday night meeting in the Library discussed, “The Catholic Church and Immigration,” treating particularly with the Irish and German immigrations. The Reverend Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., who was in charge, announced that at the next meeting, “Orestes A. Brownson, The Rejected Cornerstone” will be discussed.
March 2 3, 193b
WAKE UP that hibernating appetite 1
TIRED of winter and hot, heavy foods? Keep pace with spring! Try Kellogg’s Corn Flakes for breakfast tomorrow. Crisp, light, delicious. Just the thing to bring a winter-weary appetite out of its den. One taste and you’ll be “hungry as a bear.”
Kellogg’s Corn Flakes make a grand “nightcap” too. Enjoy them after an evening of entertainment, or a heavy siege with the books. Kellogg’s are so easy to digest, they encourage quiet, restful sleep.
Always oven-fresh in the red-and-green package. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s All-Bran, PEP, Rice Krispies, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee— 97% caffeine free.

CORN FLAKES
O • OVEN-FRESH • O 0 FLAVOR-PERFECT 0

waQE av KELLOGG
FOR CRISPNESS
Seventeen
Include a
SNAP, CRACKLE, pop course in your diet
Spring “Santa Maria” Released By Kennedy
The Spring number of the Santa Maria, publication of the local council of the Knights of Columbus will be issued this week-end by Editor Walter Kennedy. Marked improvements have been made in the magazine both in size and make-up.
The cover of the current issue is of light egg-shell blue, symbolic of the season. The paper has been enlarged to 16 pages. A new set of headlines and a balanced make-up add much to the attractiveness of the Santa Maria.
Contributors to the issue include the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and the Reverend Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department of Economics and Politics. Each of the two articles are given full page spreads. Joseph Petritz, publicity director of the University, writes the sporting news.
Dining Hall Manager Eugene Connelly has written an article on the University Dining Hall system. Registrar Robert Riordan contributes an article, “Notre Dame as a Training School For Catholics.” Prof. Louis Buckley is the author of an article on the proposed Knights of Columbus
union center for students on the campus. Included in this is an outline of the building fund plans. Graduate Student C. Glynn Fraser wrote an article on “Catholic Leisure Time.”
Editorials and other small features carried in past issues have been cut out to make room for the new arrangement of articles. An announcement is made in the magazine that it is now a self-supporting vehicle and will continue on independent lines in the future.
Editor Kennedy is to be congratulated on his progress with the Santa Maria. In three issues he has turned the almost bankrupt, four to six-page organ, into a sixteen page financially successful magazine.
The Santa Maria is mailed to K. of C. councils throughout the United States. The paper has a circulation estimated to be the greatest of any campus periodical in the country.
French Club Meets
At a short meeting of the French Club held last Monday evening in Carroll Rec it was decided by the members present to forego the proposed union with the other clubs of the modern language group indefinitely. This conclusion was reached after an announcement was mode regarding adverse conditions which had changed the former plans.
There is nothing easier “to take” than a bowl of Kellogg’s Rice Krispies. So crisp and tafety. And the way those toasted rice hubbies snap, crackle and pop in milk or cream just tells you to “Listen •—get hungry!”
A great breakfast cereal. Ideal for lunch with fresh fruit added. And after a hard evening of study, Rice Krispies satisfy hunger and promote sound, restful sleep.
Listen!—
created it



From leading college campuses came a call for a new kind of hat—a hat that felt as if it wasn't there. Stetson stylists have built such a hat. Light as a feather. It’s made of fine, soft fur—every inch a Stetson. Crush it —roll it—pack it in a week-end bag—it still keeps its cavalier smartness.
We present, gentlemen, the new Stetson Mity-Lite, in perfect-fitting sizes and alluring new colors, at $5.
Other Stetsons, $6 (unlined), S6.50, $8, $10 and upward.
JOHN B. STETSON COMPANY
AT THE BETTER STORES
A SIZE AND SHAPE FOR EVERY HEAD

STETSON
Eighteen
The Scholastic
Corrigan Elected Chairman of Economics Seminar
Office Phone 3-2674	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6364 Shoes
As its chairman for the year 193435 the Economics Seminar selected John Thomas Corrigan, A.B. junior, at the weekly meeting in the Law Building last Tuesday night. He will assume the duties of his office beginning with the first meeting after the Easter period.
In vacating his office, the retiring president, Francis L. Linton, A.B. senior, expressed his appreciation to Professor William H. Downey for his advice and assistance in the execution of the organization’s affairs and policies. Linton also thanked Charles G. McNichols for his support and service as well as every member who had given his cooperation and faithful attendance at meetings. The incoming administration was then extended a welcome and a firm wish for its success during the 1934-35 term of office.
Linton Gives Paper
Preceding the election, the president-to-be delivered a paper on the “Public Utilities in Ontario” in which he traced the history of municipally owned hydro-electric companies in that province, from its origin in 1903, up to the present day.
“More than 600 municipalities acting cooperatively,” said the speaker, “have invested more than three billion dollars for distributing electrical energy to their citizens.” These figures, together with the evidence that rates per kilowatt hour are in public utilities from four to five cents cheaper than in a privately owned American plant employing the same source of power, he showed, refute the arguments of government ownership antagonists, who say that industry tends to stagnate under public ownership.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
"WHEN A FELLER
NEEDS A FRIEND"
Campus Clubs Plan Dances During Easter Holidays
Easter dances will be held by the following clubs:
Villagers Club—April 3; Erskine Country Club; Al Jackson’s Orchestra; 9:00 until 1:00; bids $1.10.
Auburn Club—April 2; Club Dickman; Club Dickman’s Orchestra; 9:00 until 1:00; bids $2.
Rochester Club — April 2; Powers Hotel; Pat Pethick and his College Club band; 9:30-1:30; bids $1.25.
Chicago Club — April 2; Congress Hotel; Joseph Urban Room Orches tra; 9:00-1:00; bids $3.
Buffalo, N. Y., Alumni — April 2; Hotel Markeen; Bobby Measer’s Orchestra; bids $1.50; 9:00 to 1:00.
Cleveland Club and Alumni—April 2; Union Club; John Beljohn’s Orchestra; 9:00 to 1:00; bids, $3.
If you’re forced to go chorine in the interests of art, let a pipeful of BRIGGS restore masculine poise. BRIGGS Pipe Mixture has a rare and Rabelaisian gusto that’s tempered, by long aging ’til it’s genial, mellow, biteless. When a feller needs a friend there’s no blend like BRIGGS.
Nineteen
March 23, 1 9 3 i
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
Mr. L. F. Hughes of the Butterick Publishing Co. will be at the Oliver Hotel until Monday to take applications from Notre Dame men for summer- employment with his company. This company employs college men every summer to advertise Butterick patterns and in return pays a mini. mum weekly salary, expenses to and from the territory, and other earnings as a scholarship direct to the University. The period of employment lasts eleven weeks. A number of Notre Dame men have engaged in this work in previous summers.
Established 30 Years
lemdntrees
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
They pick you up every 50 miles
Without vacuum tubes, Long Distance telephony would hardly be possible. But with these little tubes placed in “repeaters” or amplifiers at 50 mile intervals along the line—even a whisper carries from coast to coast!
With many tubes used in tandem, individual performance must be almost perfect—or cumulative distortion would render speech unintelligible. That today’s Long Distance connections are so reliable and clear, is a tribute to the skill used in making Western Electric tubes.
Manufacturing nearly all Bell System apparatus, Western Electric contributes much to the quality of telephone service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
WHY NOT TAKE A TRIP HOME BY TELEPHONE?
—TONIGHT AT HALF-PAST EIGHT
Now If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR
. OWN LABORATORY.
Twenty
The Scholastic
@ P. LonlUrd &>
IN A CARLOAD
NOT A COUGH
No better tobacco grows than is used in OLD GOLDS. And they are PURE. (No artificial flavoring)
A LADY writes:—“I like your candid way of asking me to compare OLD GOLDS with my present brand... instead of bombarding me with brazen claims. I have been wedded to another brand for five years. But your sporting approach has persuaded me to try OLD GOLD.”
We claim no special credit for
being fair to the other fellow. We’ve simply found that the best way to make an OLD GOLD convert is to invite him to try OLD GOLDS a few days and smoke out his own facts.

AMERICA’S	CIGARETTE
Tunc in on Ti:i> Fio-Itrro’s sensational Hollywood < >rehestra every Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
Bactically untouched by human hands
VX/'E’D like you to see Chesterfields made. We know you’d be impressed by the absolute cleanliness of our factories.
The tobaccos are the best that money can buy.
Expert chemists test for cleanliness and purity all materials used in any way in the manufacture of Chesterfield cigarettes.
The factories are modern throughout. Even the air is changed every 4% minutes.
When you smoke a Chester-fieli.you can be sure that there isn’t a purer cigarette made.
In a letter to us an eminent scientist says: ”Chesterfields are just as pure as the water you drink.”
Chesterfield
the cigarette that’s MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BETTER
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.