Diamond Jubilee
1867 - 1942
Volume 76 Number 4 JULY 3. 1942
"Old Glory" Goes Up;
An Impressive Ceremony With The Navy
At Notre Dame
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing ’	at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
Vol. 76
JULY 3, 1942
No. 4
NAVAL OFFICER - TRAINEES WEIGH ANCHOR AS LARGEST CONTINGENT OF V - 7 SEAMEN ARRIVES
BOB DUNNE
It was anchors aweigh Thursday night for the last of Notre Danie’s 1,100 naval officer trainees who have just completed a six week’s indoctrination course at the University. The exodus began Saturday and by last night the entire group had departed for parts unrevealed.
This Monday, July 6, the University welcomes its third and largest contingent, a unit comprising 1,300 V-7 apprentice seamen, to the naval station. This will be the second V-7 group to come to Notre Dame, the first contingent having trained here from April 12 until May 18. There were 800 men in the first indoctrination course.
Radio, engineering and Diesel specialists, business executives, trade experts, factory chiefs, and key men in all fields made up the personnel of the commissioned specialists that departed last night. Some were sent to shore stations and some to ships to relieve experienced war ship officers.	.
According to Capt. H. P. Burnett, commanding officer, members of the outgoing class will be stationed on ships and bases throughout the world in six months. Lt. F. C. Dugan, training officer at the station, has stated that the men are anxious to get in the fight.
Captain Burnett has been at Notre Dame since the past September when he received his captain’s commission and took charge of the University’s R.O.T.C. contingent. During his 32-year naval career, the commandant received the Victory medal of World War I, the second Nicaraguan Campaign medal, and expert rifleman’s badge, as well as the submarine insignia. •
During their course here, the khakiclad officer-trainees carried out a thorough physical as well as mental program. Eleven physical instructors directed the men’s sports and daily exercise period.
Already Notre Dame appears to miss reviewing the thrice daily procedure of
the navy marching to meals, marching to classes, and marching to the exercise ground in crew-neck black sweaters.
The drills will be missed only until Monday, however, when the larger detachment of incoming trainees arrives. The navy will then be occupying four halls here: Lyons, Howard, Morrissey, and Badin, which was recently evacuated by students.
Should the arriving apprentice seamen follow the same schedule as the first V-7 unit did, an average day for the future deck and engineering officers will be on the following order:
Breakfast at 7 a.m. From approximately 8 a.m. until noon and afterwards until 4 p.m., the various platoons will alternate
liitiiuiiiiiiiiitMiiaiaiiaitHiiiittiiiiittiiitiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiittitiiittiiaiiiiiHiiiiininiiiiiaitaiiiaiiaiaiiiaiitiiiiiiiaatiaiiaaaaaiaaiiiaiatiiiiiiaaiiatiaaiitiiiia
At first they look like this.
periods between lectures, drilling, gunloading, rifle-range performance, first-aid, and mathematics. This ordinarily is the every-day schedule for V-7 men except that on each day one platoon will have an athletic period rather than a lecture.
The 1,300 coming July 6 represent many colleges- and universities and every section of the nation. Shortly after they arrive, the men will receive inoculations of all types.	.
Upon leaving the local station, those men who qualify will receive midshipmen ratings and depart for additional training at one of three other training centers. One deck officer crew will transfer to Abbott Hall of Northwestern University at Chicago, while another deck group will go to Columbia University at New York. The engineering class will proceed to a designated training battleship.	-
Conducting an inspection tour of the station Monday was Admiral E. C. White, of the naval medical corps. .
3
I EDITORIAL I
vat============================a®*’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 18 6 7

"God and Democracy"
The following article is reprinted from conclusions compiled by the Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish members of the 1941 senior class in the College of Law. The Notre Dame student commission had 100,000 of these pamphlets printed and copies have been sent to the president, vice-president, and members of the Congress of the United States as well as army and navy camps. Because of its particular significance at this time, the Scholastic reprints it here:
“Is God necessary? Yes! Without Him, there can be no real American democracy.” That was the unanimous conclusion o f a symposium conducted by Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish members of the 1941 Senior Class in the College of Law, University of Notre Dame. A digest follows:
“1. The founders of American democracy officially declared that the justification for their work was to be found in the ‘laws of nature and of nature’s God?
“2. The whole philosophy of American democracy is contained in the following quotation from the birth certificate of American liberty, namely, the American Declaration of Independence:
" ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.. ..’
“3. Our rights, therefore, come from God and not from the government. Our Federal and State Constitutions, Bills of Bights, and all laws, are not the source of our rights but simply a recognition of and protection for rights that God has given to each man. Our constitutions and laws are fences built around the sacred domain of our God-given inalienable rights.	, *
Walsh .Hall or to bring the story to the Scholastic offices which are located up-God rather than from the state or gov- stairs in the old Ave Maria press build-ernmentis the main reason that dictator- , ing behind the Main Building. In either ship is inconsistent with Americanism. case, the information must be handed in 1
“4. The fact that our rights come from
> 2.	* i n	. , - by the Monday night of the week m
“5. The fact that ‘all men are created	x	,
■which the story is to run. Club news' -
equal,’ that is, equal in the sight of God,
is the reason why all persons," regardless of race," color, of condition, are equals before the constitutions and laws of the	, . ~
TTni+oH	SCHOLASTIC is advised to contact one of
unirea orares. ..	the	as possible Assign.
“6. When the world -at - large learns	ments are given out each Wednesday .
how to interpret and apply this lesson of	evening in the magazine’s offices.' , .
the God-created equality of men, then, and only then, will the war-making dictator doctrines of super races, super classes,, and super men be permanently uprooted. These doctrines will be replaced by the peaceful and democratic solution rooted in the principle of the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of God, so clearly outlined in the American Declaration of Independence. (No. 2 above).
“7. The American Declaration of Independence was an act of faith in God. Its principles were acknowledged to be self-evident truths by men of all religious beliefs who fought to make America free and independent. .
“8. According to the American concept of democracy, liberty is a necessary consequence of God’s creative purpose. Without God and the eternal responsibility of each man to his Creator there is no excuse, no justification for human liberty. This is the reason that all forms of dictatorship are essentially atheistic.
“9. Because God is the Author of liberty, faith in Him is an indispensable requisite for the life of America and American democracy.
“10. Is God necessary? Yes! Without Him, there can be no real American democracy.
“Printed in tribute to our older brothers — originally discussing democracy, now fighting for it.”
Copies of this leaflet will be sent you if you enclose a self-addressed stamped envelope in your request to: /
Notre Dame Student Commission University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Ind.
NOTICES ■
All campus organizations desiring publicity in the Scholastic are advised to . hand in. their information to Dan
Downey, campus editor, in- room 220
. handed in later than this date will -not be accepted.
Any student desiring to write for the
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr....Managing Editor
Daniel Downey_________Campus Editor
Bill Reynolds_________________Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker____Admin. Editor
Robert' Lonergan___________Promotion
Ted Weber............: Photo Editor
George Thompson___...... Art Editor
James Chrisovergis....Sta# photographer Gail Fitch, Jr..........Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.C., .Faculty Advisor
. Member of .Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is - published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
New V-7 Group______________  3
"Dome". Date Announced....... 5
Senior Ball Controversy'____ 7
ADMINISTRATION
Valuable Papers In Archives_10
. . Alcayaga Presents Degree ..10
SPORTS
.Golf Tourney Finals_...________19
. \ Boxers Train for Tourney_.-.___19
FEATURES
. .The College Parade____________ 9
.- The Week	L..„1.„12
' The Clubs	_______13
: The,Navy at Notre Dame .....„...l...-.15
•- ‘-f Introducing
. ; Pressbox Splinters_____________21
GamnuL
"Dome" Distribution Date
Ten Days from Today
So far this year, in view of the Dome’s tardy and in definite, date of appearance, - the Scholastic has treated the Notre Dame yearbook rather lightly. In justice, however, to the Dome staff it wishes to announce the date on which that publication will likely be released and the reasons for its late appearance.
Editor Joseph Hillebrand announced, after receiving word from the company, that the Dome’s printing has been completed this week and is now ready for binding, a process which' takes three or foul' days. Allowing for the holiday week-end, this, together with the necessary drying, should be finished early next week. The remainder, of the week will be used in shipping the Dome here and arranging by the publicity office for its proper distribution to the students. The Dome, therefore, should be ready for release a week from next Monday, 10 days from now.
Editor Hillebrand explained why the Dome is late. First of all, the shortened last semester allowed the staff limited time in which to compile the same amount of data as was always required by the Dome. With final exams to prepare for, the members of the staff found it difficult to cover such important activities as the arrival of the Navy, the Senior Ball, and the. successful baseball season, all of which occurred only six weeks before the end of school. With - vacation at hand, many of the staff members left for home, and Editor Hillebrand had the job of correcting many faulty pages and proof-reading the entire manuscript returned by the printer. All of this took time. With preparations finally completed, , at a date later than was expected, it was necessary for the company to delay the printing so as to finish several high school yearbooks ordered previous to the Dome. A few unforeseen occurrences, such as a necessary change in the print, also took their toll of time.
Though regretting the late appearance of their publication, the Dome staff feels the long period of expectation and patient waiting will certainly make the student body appreciate the yearbook more than ever.	.	.
Priest for 33 Years;
Welshmen Honor Fr. Ryan
anniversary of
FATHER RYAN
‘ A week ago today, when Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C., celebrated the thirty-third is ordination to the priesthood, 185 Juniors from Walsh Hall rolled out of bed at 6 o’clock to attend mass and receive communion for their rector. With the assistance of the CA. and Student Council men, all sleepy - heads turned
out for a 100 per cent attendance on this great occasion. Father, Ryan, who conditions many a Notre Dame student through his hiking club, acknowledged the spiritual gift of his boys and promised to remember them this week in a special mass.
The Juniors from Walsh, who now walk the traditioned halls of the former senior residence, are living up to the fraternal atmosphere the upper classmen always fostered. Last night, in the. extensive Walsh basement, over 100 of them turned out for a hall smoker arranged by themselves. The purpose of the get-together was to acquaint every man with every other whom he did not know. As that objective was achieved, with the aid of entertainment and many refreshments, the smoker proved a huge success.
' Among the entertainers for the evening were Tan Tomsic and Phil Clark, piano players, and Bud Tkach and Jack Woelfle, both band members. Rev. Cornelius Hooyboer, C.S.C., prefect of the third floor received a round of applause for his favorite 15-minute skit which he put on for the students.
Second Villagers1 Dance To Be Held Tonight
Continuing their series of informal activities, The Villagers’ Club has announced that the third “record-and-coke” dance will be held in St. Patrick’s Hall this Friday evening, July 3, between the hours of 8:30 and 11:30. As in the past, admission will be "35c to all Notre Dame -men. The girls will be admitted free as . usual.. ■ -
Continuing their efforts to make these dances more. successful aand enjoyable,
President Vail Pischke and his commit- -tee have announced that for the remaining dances a cooling system has been in- -stalled so the connoisseurs of jive will be kept cool. More room will be had by keeping the stag line off the dance floor.
Those who were in attendance the week before last no doubt noticed the . authority with which Paul Lillis and company kept order and gave 30 second . Conga lessons on the side. These same instructors will probably be on hand again. Making an attempt to suit all musical tastes, a repertoire of some 200 . of the latest records has been borrowed from the better campus collections. Since the first affair aroused so much enthusiasm, it has been necessary to install a more powerful amplifier and it is now ' guaranteed that the dancers will be able to hear the music.	.
Catholic Army Chaplains
Receive "Bulletin Digest"
Eight hundred and eighty-five Catholic Army chaplains this month received a 15-page mimeographed Chaplain’s Bulletin Digest, which, with the approval and recommendation of Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., will be sent monthly to chaplains by the Notre Dame Student Commission and the campus council of the Knights of Columbus.
The purpose of the Digest, as stated in the first issue, is “to make available to all of you some material from chaplains and
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.
. 5
other sources for your own Bulletins, sermons, and conferences.” The first issue consisted largely of excerpts of the Notre Dame Religious Bulletin, but succeeding issues will feature suggestions and articles sent in by the chaplains themselves. Even the first issue, however, contained material from such widely scattered encampments as Norfolk Naval Air Station, Langley Field, Camp Grant, and Great Lakes Naval Training Station.
Inter-American Relations
Club Begins Discussions
The Inter-American Relations club, an organization of campus students which discusses problems of, and fosters relations between, the Americas, met last week in room 116 of the Main Building. The purpose of the meeting was to elect officers for the year, and establish a definite routine of discussion for the semester.
Mark McGrath of Ancon, Canal Zone, was chosen as chairman of the group, and. Frank Repeilado from Cuba was named vice-chairman. A unanimous vote approved Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., as faculty advisor for the group.
This year the club is well qualified to treat of Inter-American problems due to the extensive representation of its members. Nine of the old men have returned. They are: Sam Adelo, New Mexico; Frank Repeilado, Cuba; Mark McGrath, Panama; Pat O’Neil, Puerto Rico; Robert Millet, Mexico; John Cashman, Canada; Lee Raymond, Chicago; and Robert Corrigan, Pennsylvania.
Anyone is welcome to any of the meetings and any student who is interested in inter-American problems and would like to join is requested to communicate with Father Cunningham, Mark McGrath, or any member of the club. The next meet ing will be held Thursday, after grotto prayers in 116 Main Building.
Bookmen Hear Wilmer's
’’Problems of Novelist’’
With club president, H. C. Adams of El Paso, Texas, presiding, the Bookmen held their first meeting of the summer last week in Seminar A of the Law Building. Ray Wilmer, Toledo, Ohio, presented a paper on the “Problems of the Modern Novelist.”
The club, a small group of students interested in literature, both contemporary and classical, will meet every other Tuesday evening during the summer. Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell of the department of history is faculty moderator. .
6	'	.	■
Rev. Leo R. Ward Speaks At Student-Prof. Meet
“In the insignificant fishing village of Little Dover in Nova Scotia a modern economic miracle has taken place. From one of the most poverty stricken fishing towns in the world, it has in less than 15 years become prosperous. The why and wherefore are simple. Two men imbued with the Christian principles on
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C.
social conditions put those principles into practice.” The voice was Rev. Leo R. Ward’s, C.S.C., Ph.D., Louvain and Oxford scholar, addressing the Student-Professor meeting last Monday night in the Rockne Memorial. His talk centered on the Nova Scotia plan of cooperation.
Fr. Ward said that Nova Scotia has, in some parts, such as Little Dover, become 100 per cent cooperative—cooperative production, consumption and distribution. All this was brought about by two translators, men who translated the foreboding economic abstractions of the Holy Fathers into practice. They propagated the Christian ideas on economics through study clubs. The force of Christian economics seeped through Nova Scotia,, said Fr. Ward, till other villages adopted the plan of their neighboring village and found themselves transformed from. destitute communities into prosperous villages.
; “Nor must we reject this plan as. foolish for our country. With adaptions and minor changes, the Nova Scotia plan will work here. Then can we say we have Avon the fight for democracy. Vain is a fight for political democracy, unless accompanied by an equally vigorous fight on the home front for economic democracy. Our instruments in this fight are the encyclicals. Our aim is Christian ; democracy. Our success depends on the zeal of those conversant with; Christian -principles on economic justice,”
Mr. John H. Sheehan, assistant profes-. sor of economics, will be the guest speak-, er next week. The meeting will be at 7:30, on the first floor of the Rockne Memorial.—Al Sommer
Mid-Term Examinations
To Be Held July 13-14
The Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, reminds the students that mid-semester examinations will be held Monday and Tuesday, July 13-14. The University’s accelerated program has given the mid-term exams more significance in the academic plan. They are now compulsory in all courses "during the regular class periods on the 13th and 14th. Those classes meeting later* in the week will have their exams during their first class period.
According to this plan the semester exams are divided into two parts, those given in July and the final exams given in September. Together the exams shall count no more than 50% nor less than 25 % of the semester grade. The individual professor determines how much of the semester grade each part of the exam shall count. It is also up to the professor to decide whether he shall include the work of the entire semester in the September exams or just that material cov-- ered since the July exams.
Former "Scholastic" Editor
Enlists in Army Air Corps
John F. Dinges, of Downers Grove, Ill., sports editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic the past two years, recently enlisted in the Army • Air Corps Ground School at Fairfield, 0.
‘ Priva^e Dinges, a journalism major, Sraduated May 10.
While at Notre Dame, Jack earned —	his freshman numer-
JACK DINGES	. .	-	n ,
als m football, and played a major role on St. Edward’s and Carroll Hall interhall football and basketball teams. His last athletic endeavor at Notre Dame was the Bengal Bouts last spring, in which he was eliminated in the semi-finals of the light-heavyweight division.
. Dinges was the instigator and pilot of the special football issue of the Scholastic last.fall. Its 44 pages, principally sports,, comprised the largest edition of the ; Scholastic in. its 75 year history which was indeed a sterling achievement.
His friends bn the Scholastic staff .and many friends on the campus wish ■ Jack continued success in his new venture.—Jack Denniston
A FALL BALL
There are two good reasons for wanting the Senior Ball this summer: a brand new summer set of tails (sell ’em cheap right after the ball!) and an immanent notice from three of your closest neighbors that the boys need some help over in Egypt. We can sympathize deeply, with those who are using the latter reason.
There are also a number of good reasons why we shouldn’t have the Senior Ball this summer. First we have the heat. Do you remember that wet cloth you unwound from your neck after St. Mary’s first formal last September? The one that once was a stiff starched collar? Nice cool September. And these madmen are daring to mutter into our sunburned faces: “Last two weeks in July. It may get cooler along towards the end of August.” The lake may freeze over, too. Perhaps our fair weather friends have some fantastic scheme by which we could get permission to use the raft down on St. Joe lake for a dance floor. Now that might not be a bad idea. We don’t know though how some of the boys would feel if their fragile models of everything beautiful were kicked in the face by a bare foot as they tried to climb aboard. We had that experience when we tried to climb aboard this afternoon. Seems as if gallantry died at Notre Dame the day this hot weather began. Besides, the 50 Tarzans on that raft have determined looks in their* eyes and they must have earned squatter’s rights by this time.
Now let’s take a look at the fairer sex in sweatshop weather. First, it’s just little beads of perspiration on the fair forehead where you love to rest your affectionate jaw. Soon it’s red rivers of rouge running down her neck and threatening her white formal. We hope your girl is just naturally brown and doesn’t have to cover her back with that artificial sun tan. Otherwise your white coat will look like a soda jerker’s who has just fallen into the chocolate syrup.
Let’s not forget the classmates at home. For various reasons, financial for instance, many of them have to spend the summer at home. If we stage the ball while they’re gone they will feel as if we’d smoked their cigarettes .while they were out finding someone who had tomorrow’s ‘money and banking’ done.
While we’re on the subject of studies (money and banking reminded us), think what little seniors have to worry about in their last semester. For seven semesters we’ve been anticipating that “just 70 per cent” heaven when we can afford to spend a few nights worrying about such man-moving, questions as: “Who’s (Continued on page 30)
LAST SENIOR BALL CAME IN BALMY SPRING
ON THIS PAGE
In the two adjoining columns the SCHOLASTIC presents both sides of one of the popular controversial subjects among the seniors at the present time. Like all controversies, this one has strong arguments on both sides. The SCHOLASTIC here presents the arguments of both sides as written by two competent seniors.
The SCHOLASTIC takes neither side in this controversy; offers no suggestions; merely attempts to reflect student opinion. Final decisions will rest ultimately with the class officers, the Senior Ball committee and school administration authorities.
However, because the Senior Ball is the apex in the social life of the Notre Dame student, the SCHOLASTIC feels that these pro and con articles will be ' of great interest to the members of the senior class.
Plans for the other two big school dances are still in a formative stage. As_ yet no news has been obtained on the Junior Prom. The date for the Sophomore Cotillion has been tentatively set for a fall football week-end. .
A SUMMER BALL
The Seniors faced with the barren and disheartening prospect of six months of classes with no relief except for the promised four days in September have found considerable consolation in the idea . of holding their Senior Ball this Summer. No longer will the lads be moaning wistfully about the balmy Summer evenings complete with moon, lakes, and other essentials, for here they have a chance to -show the One-and-Only the campus at its best, to throw off the saddle of continued -and unremitting routine for a bit of all-out relaxing, and to wrap into one big weekend all that they remember of other Summers in the pre-war days. Banished, too, from the campus is the spectre of Harold Ickes holding a gas ration card in one hand and a railroad transportation permit in the other. The Senior Ball would be a rathei* dismal affair with gasless cars and a date stranded because the . proposed plan of rationing railroad transportation has caught , her in a whistle stop in the middle of nowhere. And those * who boldly predict that there will be no rationing could read the accounts of the . failure of the scrap rubber drive and its probable repercussions.	.
Of course there is an objection that a . few of: the lads who started with the class in September 1939 will not be on ' campus to enjoy - a Summer weekend, but all those who will graduate with the present Senior Class are now on campus, and, in fact, the Secretary’s Office reveals that while less than 50 Seniors, not now on campus, are expected to return in September, at least 150 Seniors with us now will have joined the armed services before the Fall session begins. That’s not sentimental prating about being considerate of those not with us: those are the actual figures clearly showing just how many of the Seniors will be able to enjoy the Ball whether it is held in Summer or wistfully postponed to the Fall. Remember, lads, c^est la guerre, and anyone who attempts to plan anything, much less a huge affair like this, for more than two months ahead is biting off quite a sizeable hunk of some- . thing. Dance, drink (coke), and be merry, for tomorrow—the Draft!
Then if we consider the merits of a Summer dance against one in the Fall, - who would not prefer a Summer night . dance to gambling .with Indiana weather . -in. the Fall? And besides the first few days of heat, everyone will realize that -there have been very few nights since we have been here that would not be ? perfect for a dance—perhaps on the terrace, and how about the afternoons for', the country-club tea dance? In the question of dress who can beat a Summer . , (Continued on page 26)	.
' ' \	-	.	7	•
CAMPUS MOVIE FANS FAVOR COMEDIES, CARTOONS;
SELECT GARY COOPER AS FAVORITE SCREEN STAR
A campus movie survey, conducted by the Catholic Action Students at the close of last semester, indicated definite trends in the movie likes and dislikes of the Notre Dame student body. The poll proved that comedy is the most popular in the full-length variety, that cartoons are desired over all other shorts, that Gary Cooper is the students’ favorite movie star, and that most of the students ■were more or less satisfied with the general run of movies shown in Washington Hall.
An accurate cross-section of campus residents was contacted during this survey. Of the students attending last -semester, a total of 575 were interviewed on this topic,, the number being equally divided among the four classes.
The question given most consideration was the type of movie the students enjoyed most. The choice was predominate
Donald. Duck and Gary Cooper.
ly comedy: freshmen, sophomores, and juniors were unanimous on the decision, while the serious seniors were inclined to favor musicals. Mystery pictures were found to be third on the popular list, with the historical and serious types fol- ’ lowing in that order. Westerns, featuring such rough-riders as Gene Autry, Two-gun Pete, and The Lone Ranger, were given last place by all, except freshmen, who favored them over those in the serious vein.
Vying for first place on the theatrical appetizer list were cartoons and news- , reels. The former, when featuring Don
ald Duck, the Bronx Rabbit, Pluto, or Goofy, were given the edge over the photographic newspapers.
Third on the “short” list were reviews of Dance Bands, which have become more popular among fans the last few years. Students chose this type over the Pete Smith and Bob Benchley comedies. “Information Please,” the movie quiz with Clifton Fadiman and his four pedagogical wizards, was selected in desperation over the “March of Time.” Students preferred to save the latter’s over-emphatic dramatizations for a rainy day.
When asked if they favored amateur entertainment by students once a month in place of movies, those interviewed responded 60 per cent “No” and 40 per cent “Yes.” When asked if they would be willing to participate in such entertainment, which they desired, the latter group responded 82 per cent “No” and
18 per cent “Yes.” This shows that a very small percentage of students would even consider the stage as life work, for themselves.	.
Residents last year were not enthusiastically satisfied with the general run of movies shown in Washington Hall. Those dissatisfied entirely comprised only 21 per cent of the student body, while those who enjoyed fully the programs given totaled 20 per cent. The remainder, 59 per cent, were passive, sometimes agreeing, sometimes disagreeing. Since the movie committee has improved the programs greatly this summer, these
percentages would no doubt be altered considerably coming from the present campus residents.
Students often complain that movies shown here seem to have made a four-year round of the entire country before being presented here. Actually, no comparatively old movie is ever shown in Washington Hall unless it is an exceptionally good one. For obvious reasons, the committee cannot book movies straight from Hollywood, but can show them here only after they have run three times in South Bend, which usually takes about 90 days.
When questioned about foreign productions, that is, British pictures, the student stated very firmly “You can have them!” -As to what particular movies they would like to see on the screen here, a majority seemed to choose anything - featuring Gary Cooper, which is another way of saying the lank, homespun actor is most popular among the campus residents. '	'
William Scully Guest
Soloist in Michigan
William H. Scully, an Alumni Hall senior from New Rochelle, N. Y., will be the guest soloist at a concert to be given at St. Joseph, Mich., tomorrow and Sunday. He is also soloist and active member of the Glee Club.
Scully, who became famous as a boy soprano before entering Notre Dame, will appear with the St. Joseph Muni1 cipal Band, directed by Franklyn L. Wiltse. Mr. Wiltse is serving as guest conductor for the Notre Dame band dur-the summer absence of Director Joseph Casasanta.
The New Rochelle youth was also the featured soloist at the band concert on the campus last Tuesday evening. The latter concert was of a military nature . and was dedicated to the Naval Training Unit.	‘
Farewell Mass is Said
for the Naval Trainees
Approximately 60 members of the Naval Officers’ Training Unit that was transferred this week attended a Mass said, for their intentions last Friday morning in the Lady chapel of Sacred Heart Church.
The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, spoke briefly to the Catholic naval men present.
Only ten per cent of the 1,100 officertrainees stationed here were Catholics.
.	—Bob Dunne
S
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
The Fairest Flower
We respectfully dedicate the following gleanings to college girls the country over, and especially to the memory of our many friends who once populated our own Sweetbriar on the St. Joe.
A woman is only a woman, but a good cigar is a smoke.—Kipling
Regard the society of women as a necessary unpleasantness of social life, and avoid it as much as possible.—Tolstoy
No fiend in hell can match the fury, of a disappointed woman.—Cibber
Woman is always fickle—foolish is he who trusts her—Francois I
I hate a dumpy woman.—Byron
Women have many faults, but of the many this is the greatest, that they please themselves too much, and give too little attention to pleasing the men.
—Plautus
Of all the wild beasts on earth or in the sea, the greatest is woman.
—Menander
Woman is the lesser man.—Tennyson My only books were woman’s looks— and folly’s all they’ve taught me.
—Thomas Moore
I am very fond of the company of ladies. I like their delicacy, I like their vivacity, and I like their silence.
=—Samuel Johnson.
She had no principle, but how she drew interest.—Kokomo Joe
A woman is always changeable and capricious.—Vergil
Women marry because they don’t want to work.—Mary Garden
The life of a June bride an’ a three-dollar straw hat seems to be about the same, both lookin’ purty well done for by September.—Kin Hubbard
I expect that woman will be the last thing civilized by man.—Meredith
Women are never what you expect them to be.—Arthur Brisbane	. _
Frailty, thy.name is woman I
—Shakespeare
Woman’s at best a contradiction still.
—Pope
Were there no women, men might live like gods.—Dekker
She came from Pilgrim stock, but she sure made progress.—John Alden
Are women books?, says Hodge, then would mine were an Almanack to change her every year.—Ben Franklin
You can lead a horse to Vassar,“but you can’t make her think.—Yale Man
Coastal Chatter
The following conversation between two bath house intelligentsia was overheard on the West coast recently.
“Who was that submarine I seen you swimming around with?”
“That was no submarine. .. . That was my wife.”
Pome
All around us is the skin
Helping keep our bodies in.
—Cornell Widow
The Met
Two students of Indiana University have recently been' accepted for the Metropolitan Auditions of the Air program following try-outs in New York City before Edward Johnson, president of the Metropolitan Opera Company, and his associates. The students, Naomi Bosworth Pryor, senior, and Inge Bransen, sophomore, are at present studying under Mme. Dorothee Manski.
'Nuther Pome
Ring around the bathtub
Fourteen inches high;
Four and twenty boarders All as sore as L-
When the door is opened, The bird that leaves a ring Is going to be as sad a sight As the guy who used to sing.
—U. of Baltimore Maroon Bee
Around the Clock
University of Michigan student organizations gave 637 parties during the 1940-1941 school year. . . . Longest biography in Who’s Who is that of Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia University —129 inches. . . . Classes in military science and tactics will be conducted during the summer sessions at the University of Minnesota this year for the first time.... Colgate University students picked Veronica Lake as an honorary queen for a school festival, describing her as “an ocean of emotion, not a lake.” ... Sixteen Iowa State College women are now qualified to drive ambulances in the service of the United States. . . . Twenty-six University of Texas students, all 6 feet, three inches, or taller have formed a club whose only qualification is height. ... By a rate
of 323 to 51, students at Catawba College have voted to change the name of their yearbook, The Swastika. ... A special scholarship is maintained at Dartmouth College for a “religious man from Missouri.”
St. Joe Valley
New Yorkers and Californians are said to be the most self-satisfied classes of Americans. They should be—they can’t get any further away from Indiana and still stay in the country.
Mellow Drama
Daughter' {greatly warned) : “Mother, I can’t marry Jack after all.”
Mother: “Why dear? I thought you loved him.”
Daughter: “I do, but he doesn’t even believe in hell!”
Mother {relieved) : “Never mind, dear, go ahead and marry him and we will convert him in a few months.”
Serenade
One hundred and sixty university and college newspapers voted Glenn Miller their favorite orchestra leader and Helen O’Connell their favorite vocalist, in a survey by Billboard magazine. Tommy Dorsey was number two man among the bands, followed by Harry James, Benny Goodman, Jimmy Dorsey, Vaughn Monroe, Sammy Kaye, Kay Kyser, Charlie Spivak, and Woody Herman. The second most popular vocalist is Ray Eberle, who is followed by Frank Sinatra, Bob Eberle, Marion Hutton, Ginny Simms, Helen Forrest, Harry Babbitt, Peggy Lee, and Vaughn Monroe.
The Ancient Mariner of N» D.
There is an ancient mariner, And he is one of three
Who get the chaps that shoot the craps, And all the guys that be
About to watch the naughty game; “I knozo their place” quoth he; Another pass, and then, alas!
The point is two plus three.
The game is queered, the room is cleared, And players scatter free;
He is an ancient mariner Who’s never found at sea.
Forbidden Fruit
“I got hold of a rotten date last night.” “Really.”
“Yes, but I spit it right out.” •
MV

v»e
ssv
Senor Alcayaga Praises
N. D. Pan-Americanism
“In the future should anyone attempt to narrate the events of the good neighbor movement, he will have to consider that for many years Notre Dame has interested itself with the problem, and that its recognition of the problem has been manifested in actions rather than in mere woxds.” Thus did Eduardo Alcayaga, graduate student from Chile, praise Notre Dame’s part in strengthening the good neighbor policy toward Lati. America.
Senor Eduardo Alcayaga (Sola)
Occasion of the address was the presentation of honorary doctor of philosophy and letters degrees to the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Uni-versity, and the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of faculty, by Senor Alcayaga . on behalf of the Catholic University of Chile. The degrees .were conferred at a special luncheon in the president’s" dining hall on June 24. Guests included students representing nine Latin American nations.
The Pan-American program finds a particularly interested,patron in Father
O’Donnell. As president of St. Edward’s	_	.
University in Texas and as vice^presi- . Hon. Edward P. Carville, governor of
Nevada. Both were on the campus last :	other, chapters take up the value
O’Hara, Fr. O’Donnell developed a sin-	Friday. Mr. Van Wagoner was the guest	of a good scoutmaster and troop chap-
cere interest in the nations to the south	of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., pres-	■ lam, bringing out that they are.the key-
and in their people! Today this interest	ident of; the' University, at lunch in the	stones of the entire structure.
has a fertile field; in the ever growing	president’s dining hall. Mr. Carville is a : , Throughout:the rest of the book are
importance ■ of Pan-American unityand graduate, ofNotre Dame, having received . imP°rtant chapters dealing with every its expression at Notre-Dame.	his. LL.B, degree here in 1909.	. type and kind of troop possible to or-
dent of Notre Dame under 'Bishop
Operating behind the scenes in most of the Pan-American activities at the University is Fr. Cunningham who has • had considerable experience in dealings with South American countries and their people. He has visited the continent on three occasions, first as an American tourist in 1937 and twice as a convention dignitary. The first of the latter occasions was his report to the education see
tion of the Social Service Commission to Venezuela in 1939, and the second was in 1941 when he accompanied.Notre Dame’s Pax Romana student delegation to the Inter-American Pax Romana convention at Bogota, Colombia. He speaks Spanish and has been active in interesting University faculty members in the study of language through the medium of nightly conversational Spanish classes. These classes have been conducted here for the past two years. Student enrollment in Spanish courses for the past semester was well over 700, with six full time instructors teaching the sections in the department of modern languages.
One of the most concrete examples of Pan-American cooperation at the University is the presence of four Latin-American students in the graduate school on full scholarships. Operative since the first days of Notre Dame’s interest in the countries of the southern hemisphere, these awards are at present held by students from Brazil, Mexico and two from Chile. Two of the schoalrships will be left vacant at the beginning of the fall semester.
Not only individuals but all the persuasive authority of the University has been behind this work. Primarily the relationship between Latin America and Notre Dame has been non-political, ultimately based on the deeper signficance attending religious and cultural sympathy. Probably no other ties between the Americas bind as strongly as those that underlie the Pan-Americanism at Notre Dame. '
Governors of Mich., Nev., Visit Campus Recently
Among the recent visitors to the University were the Hon. Murray D. Van: . _	.	- -- .
Wagoner, governor of Michigan, and the . members of the troop to spend a week
Book Translated Into
Spanish by Prof. Corona
Scouting For Catholics, a book written by Fr. Louis R. Barcelo, C.S.C., has been translated from English into Spanish by
PROF. JOSE CORONA
Prof. Jose C. Corona of the N. D. depart-ment of modern language.
At the special request of Fr. Barcelo, Prof. Corona began translating the book four months ago, completed it and had it published by May. The purpose of this translation is for
the book to be circulated throughout Spanish - America that the peoples of these countries might have the opportunity to read and study its contents, too.
The book defines just what scouting is, its organization and plan. The main purpose of Scouting For Catholics is to show the value of a Catholic Boy Scout organization and its connection to the church, since there are throughout the world over one-half million Catholic boy scouts.
Author Barcelo, who is special national field scout commissioner, points out in his book just how this scouting program can be used by the church and the success it has enjoyed in various parts of the country.
Included in Prof. Corona’s translation is a chapter on “How to ..Organize the Parish Troops.” This chapter brings out . the fact that it is well to have the troops sponsored by some men’s organization in the parish such as the Knights of Columbus. .
Another section discusses the Parish Troop Committee. .This tells of the re-sponsibilites qfthe chosen committeemen . and mentions their specific duties which are:, a) “Selection and supervision of troop leaders and consultation with them . on questions of program and administration and management of the troop; b)
•’ to provide the necessary faculties -for meetings'of the troop; and c) to endeav-"or to provide an opportunity, for the
or more in summer camps.

ganize, from rural troops for the farm boys to Cub programs for the younger boys between the ages of 9-11.
In each chapter of Prof. Corona’s translation pictures are used for illustration.—Richard Kisgen
Second Week-end Laymen's Retreat Opens Tonight
The second in the series of seven weekend laymen’s retreats, which are being held in Holy Cross Seminary, begins tonight at the University with a large group of laymen from the Calumet area in attendance. This is the only group for which the retreat starts on Friday instead of Thursday, in recognition of the demands of the industrial program in the Calumet district. The retreat closes on Sunday,.July 5.
The initial retreat held last week-end included laymen from St. Joseph, Benton Harbor, Cassopolis, Jackson, East Detroit and Detroit. The services Saturday night consisted of a holy hour, after which the retreatants marched to the grotto for their act of consecration to the Blessed Mother. The retreat closed Sunday morning with mass and holy communion. The Rev. Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas E. Hewitt, C.S.C., Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Callahan, C.S.C., were in charge.
The new type of retreat replaces the former annual single retreat which drew as many as 1,400 laymen from all states of the Middle West. The change was • necessitated by the University’s accelerated war program. -
Father Hart, retreat director, invites all students and navy men to attend any part of the retreat services that fit in with their schedules. Students should be particularly able to avail themselves of the evening conferences.
Lay Retreatants at Calvary.
Notre Dame Presents
Glider to Air Force
The American war effort received another contribution on July 1 when the college of engineering at the University handed over to the army air force its year old soaring glider. The machine was designed and built by Robert S. Eiken-berry, assistant professor of aeronautical engineering.
Army air instructors will use the craft for training purposes at the glider pilot school in Twentynine Palms, Calif., where over a thousand men a year are being trained under the government’s expanding sailplane program.
The engineless aircraft is a one-place open monoplane, having a single wing span of 36 feet. It won third place in its class at the Elmira, N. Y., glider meet last July, just one week after it was finished, by staying in the air for almost six hours.
The ND-1, as the Notre Dame ship is labeled, has been in the air for over 90 flights under the guidance of Prof. Eiken-berry. The flights have ranged from a few minutes to the six-hour Elmira performance. The sailplane is kept aloft by slope winds found rising from hills and by rushes of air found under clouds.
The glider is principally a weapon of offense because of its silent movement. At present government plans call for the building of giant gliders which can carry several dozen men or a great quantity of war material. Large amounts of supplies can be transported by stringing out a group of large gliders behind a four-motored bombing plane. This technique has been employed by Germany in getting men and material to Libya. .	*
The ability to land in space about twice its length is one advantage of a glider. A heavily loaded craft loses altitude slow
ly and lands at about 35 miles an hour, -coming down on skids insteads of wheels " which bring it almost to an immediate stop.
Men between the ages of 18 and 32 are ; eligible for. army glider training.. The physical qualifications are slightly below ' those required for army combat flyers. The course takes about 10 weeks.
N. D. Archives to House Valuable Parish Records
Historically important records from . the archives of the parish of St. Angus-. tine, Fla., probably the oldest parish in
• the United States, were received this week by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History. These records, which will be kept in the library
Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C.
at Notre Dame for the duration of the war, include 15 volumes of the baptismal, - burial and marriage records of the St. . Augustine parish from 1594 to 1763. Also
included is the “Golden Book of the. Mi- . norcans”- which contains the records of. the baptisms, marriages and burials of the Minorcan Colony which came to New Smyrna, Fla., in 1768 and then went to St. Augustine as a refugee group in 1777. . In addition this book contains the records of the church wardens of the parish of St. Augustine in the 1820’s and 30’s. A -micro-film copy of these documents has . been retained in the diocesan archives in -
. Florida. .	-	-	- .
Other items acquired for the N.D. ar- ' chives were some 200 letters addressed to - . Father, later Bishop, Simon Bvute'of ; Vincennes; These letters, which have been-missing for over 50 years, contain invaluable material on the history of the-Cath-,	'
olic Church in the Middle West. The ar- . chives have also received a valuable col- ,. lection of letters of Mrs. Ellen Sherman, ’ written to her husband, General William . . Sherman, and some of the other Sherman -heirlooms. Mrs. Sherman and^clnldren had their home in South Bend during the ;. Civil War. The children attended'Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. -	’ ••	.
- •. --
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
Top of the Week
“Whose worried? My dad’s on the draft board.”
❖
Observations
Have you ever watched the Navy lads getting ready for inspection? It looks like a mass infection of the St. Vitus dance. It seems that the proper Navy etiquette for shining shoes is to balance on one leg while rubbing the shoe of the other briskly up and down the balancing one. It has the appearance of a fleabitten sailor’s hornpipe. There’s been much speculation over what the ground crew is constructing directly behind the Law Building. Well fellas, it’s gonna be an airport for a new batch of flying nurses who are to be trained here. It will be the duty of each student to see that these young ladies are made to feel at home (Oh don’t you wish it!). Do any other people travel to South Bend on the morning buses besides the patients of the doctors Probst and Singler? Someone should caution the young ladies who work behind the cigaret counter against smiling too much. If they insist on laughing so hysterically when we ask them to cash a fiver we may start thinking they are trying to belittle oui- big moment.... Do you use the rear entrance to the dining hall? If not you have a treat in store for you, but bring your sun glasses. It seems that a number of sympathies in white, well nearly white, persist in showing themselves off to the boys entering the dining hall. (Some of the fellows believe it’s a conspiracy intended to divert our attention at lunch). The young ladies really are stunning though in their size 59 pup tents. Like the Harpies of Greek legend they climb upon the rocks and serenade us with familiar old ballads like, “The Strawberry Blond,” their theme song.
*
Famous Last Words
“I don’t care what you say. I’m gonna tell those people at the head table that they better give me more milk or else.”
❖
Out of the Frying Pan into the Garbage Can
Since lamb chops are being served this summer it could very well be said that the Notre Dame boys are “living off the fat of the land."	-
12
This One’s the Truth
A young lady came strolling in the main entrance the other day. The hitch hiker’s brigade claims she was rolling in. Anyway she was seriously breaching one of the rules of etiquette here at N. D. You see, she was sporting slacks, yes, sporting them. Bill, the watchman, intercepted her before she got very far, (he always does), and politely informed her that she couldn’t go in. Politely means he didn’t point his gun at her. He just waved it under her nose. She was very nice about it though, Bill told us when they were able to remove the bandages. She walked, or waddled, back to her car, rolled up the slacks, put on a coat, and with a sneer on her face she defiantly walked up the main path.
They Call ’em "Tiger Sharks"
Do you ever stop and in a moment of happy memory, wonder about the St. Mary’s girls? Gruesome isn’t it? Seriously though, those girls take an awful ribbing and take it with a smile. There are places for those kind of people. An Associated Press dispatch informed us the other day that “girls from a certain midwestern college were doing their bit to frighten the Japs.” Just to be facetious we presumed that it meant our neighbors. It seems they’re posing for the faces drawn on the front of the , P-40s now being used in China. One Jap upon hearing who was responsible for the faces was heard to remark; “Must take honorable hats off to most honorable -Notre Dame men. Sure can take it. Ugh!”
But then, “Similia Similibus!” .
Stop Me If....
Bart Ramsar was visiting his girl friend in South Bend, the other night. She lives in a two story, ten room, gopher hole. Bar had his new knee pads on for the special occasion ’cause she lived in one of those modernistic 18 inch coal mines.
“This is awful toothpaste, Bart dear,” she said coyly as her plates dropped to the floor with a clatter. “It just won’t make my plates stick.” Bart made a motion as if to turn out the lights, after all, even a Notre Dame man can stand looking at just so much. “Don’t turn out the lights Bart honey,” she said; “don’t you know love is blind?”
“I know,” said our hero, “but your old man isn’t in love.”
Note to Mr. Henderson
Jack (just call me “Bayou”) Watters has been wearing his arm in a sling the past few days as the result of an unfortunate accident. Jack was hitching on the Dixie Speedway last Sunday without wearing his glasses. He stuck his thumb out to flag a passing auto and got it caught in the propellor of an American Airliner. To add results to injuries he was thrown into the path of an onrushing vehicle. South Bend Cabs, Inc., have extended their apologies. It seems that Jack snapped a picture just before the cab snapped his legs and arms. In the picture showing prominently on the rear of the cab was, “I am helping conserve rubber by not exceeding 30 miles.”
Once a Year
Sophomores are getting jumpy (time to burn those old corduroys) about the Cotillion date. We have it on very good authority that it is to be held next Monday morning immediately after the guests finish washing the breakfast dishes. A variety of entertainment is being planned for the lucky lads with all the money. Greenba Nana and his eight hot avocados are going to give out with the low down rhythms. What I mean really low. It’s sort of a sympathy band that gets you down here. No that’s wrong, you’re pointing to your heart. His theme song, “Send Me Grandma,” has been weeping the nation.
Listed here are some of the treats in store for the Sophs and their dates. “Date” is synonymous with “I know she • doesn’t look like the picture on my desk but she hasn’t been feeling well.”
A special bus race will be staged by those two daredevils of the cracked macadam, Wendell Summers, (just call him “Windy”) and Mr. Paul Fenlon. The idea of the race will be to see how many times in a row they can knock over the watchman’s shack, then the watchman. Gory but amusing. Guests will have the privilege of trying out the famous Notre Dame line, and brother some of those Sophs have quite a line.
Ah! it willbe a bully week-end. The bulliest part is when the boys get together after the dance and tell what they did.
No matter what happens though, it’s always fun trying to remember how those 40 iron men disappeared, and nothing to show for them.
♦
Bottom of the Week
“They’re making an example of me.”
¥	5%e CUi t
i	. . J
Academy of Science
Elects Summer Officers
Last week in the lecture room of the Biology building, the Academy of Science assembled for the first time this semester. Comprised of 50 select students, this organization is one of the most exclusive on the campus.
At this, a special meeting, Harry McGee, a Walsh Hall junior from Saginaw, Mich., was elected president of the Academy. The vice-presidency was won by Albert Michels, also a junior from East Liverpool, Ohio, and Frank Tenczar, from Chicago," was elected secretarytreasurer. Comprising the executive board are three newly appointed Juniors: Bill Kellow, Bick Bodie, and Bill Clarke.
To gain admission to the Academy of Science a student must have at least an 87 average, and must be approved by the dean of the College of Science, as well as the executive board. Members .who have been active in the organization for two semesters and who can qualify for membership a third semester are awarded the Academy of Science keys by the club.
Jos. Rud Gives Paper;
Father Hoff At Meeting
Rev. Norbert Hoff and Joe Rud shared the spot-light at the Wranglers meeting. Rud presented his paper on “Reconstruction After the War” in which he sketched three conditions. of the peace. First, he said, political policies must take precedence over economic problems; second, that the political activity will
father hoff anj must depend on. the activity of the people; and third, that some sort of international cooperation backed up by. force must be defined.
Father Hoff, until last year moderator of Wranglers, returned from Butte, Montana for a visit to the campus and a Wrangler meeting. He spoke about his present duties as a parish priest and summarized and evaluated the paper and discussion of the evening. While on campus Father Hoff was a professor of philosophy and lived in Dillon Hall.
Club president, John Ryan of Denver, Colo., named Bill Lawless, Mark Lies, and Bob LeMense to the membership committee and announced a membership
meeting for this week. Papers will be presented by club members at two week intervals through July and August.
Radio Club To Present
Three New Programs
A variety of shows worthy of a metropolitan station was assured the Notre Dame Radio club this week when President Pischke announced three new pro-■ grams which will appear on WSBT within the next three weeks.
Foremost among these from the student point of view will be a musical show written by Tom Cooney, of Yonkers, N. Y. The program will feature three or four appearances per show of the 12-piece Cavaliers Band. The script will be outlined only, and most of the announcements will be “ad-libbed’ along the lines of Club Matinee.	.	-
With Jim McDonough tentatively slated as director, the Radio Stage will shortly make its appearance as a regular program. '	.
. The Notre Dame Forum of the Air will make its summer debut under the guidance of Mark McGrath, Ancon, Canal Zone.
The schedule of programs already being broadcast follows:	.
9:00-9:15	Monday	Newscast
3:30-3:45	Friday	Sportscast
5:00-5:20.	Saturday	Quizcast
Italian Club Seeking
Members for Active Year
Though the Italian Club of Notre Dame was completely reorganized last year, accomplishments were few. Events such as joint meetings and social activities with the Mishawaka and LaPorte Clubs were unsuccessful as the plans never materialized. This year, however, joint meetings with these clubs will be again attempted, and in addition frequent dinners will he held at the local spaghetti rendezvous.
Many of last year’s members are not attending the summer session, but there seems to be indication of a sufficient number of Italian students present now to make the club membership extensive. Membership is open to all students of Italian descent and to those taking Italian as. a credit course.
To compete against other organized teams on the campus, the club will sponsor a baseball or softball team for members. Plans for this, and for summer activities, will be discussed at a meeting to be held in room 117 of the Main Building next Tuesday.
New Federation Unites
Campus Organizations
A new campus federation, born in the closing" weeks of the abbreviated spring term," made its initial summer appearance on the campus this week when representatives of six Catholic activity clubs received notices of a “Notre Dame Federation of Catholic Activities” meeting for Tuesday in the Main Building.
The Federation, designed to aid the member clubs and act as a connecting link between Notre Dame students and the National Catholic Federation of Catholic College Students will be guided by Louis Kurtz, student president, and Father William Craddick, C.S.C., faculty moderator. Member clubs include the Speakers Bureau, Server’s Club, Catho-
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C.
lie Student Mission Crusade, Catholic Action,- Student Commission for Decent Literature, and Student Commission on the Liturgy.
Heretofore, the scattered activities of the separate clubs have created problems in distributing communications from other colleges and national commission releases. One of the functions of the new federation will be to act as a clearinghouse for such mail. Through the new club, the National Federation -will be in direct contact with Notre Dame; previously, the National Federation had maintained connections with Notre Dame through the Student Commission.
Last term each of the member clubs elected two delegates to the federation; these representatives in turn elected Kurtz, prsident, and John Lynch, secre--tary.	.	-
13
s
Dr. Francis E. McMahon
Quoted in Wallace Book
Included in the book The Price of Free World Victory are comments by Dr. Francis E. McMahon, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame and president of the Catholic Association for International Peace. The Price of Free World Victory, written by Vice-President Henry A. Wallace, was first delivered last May by
him as one of the outstanding addresses to the Free World Association. It is this organization that has now printed the address in book form. Others who voiced reactions to the speech and who are. quoted in the volume are Dorothy Thompson, Raymond Clapper, Major George Fielding Eliot and Raymond Gram Swing.
Said Dr. McMahon: “If we are to win we must ourselves be dynamized by a positive ideal, stronger, truer and more enduring than theirs.... I liked Mr. Wallace’s grim determination to win the peace as well as to win the war....”
Dorothy Thompson characterized the widely heralded address as “the first statement from a high American personality giving this war a real sense....” -
The keynote of the Free World Organization is “to aid in the cooperation of the democratic forces of all the free peoples in the war.against the Axis, and in the preparation of a post-war system of general security.”
Fourth Week-end Extended
Through S. A. C. Efforts
No sooner had the “Notice” made its appearance on the Bulletin Board when Walt Jones, president of the Student Council and the various other members were swamped by their fellow students to appeal the July 5, Sunday midnight announcement.
In an effort to prove that they intend to take an active part in representing the student body in its dealings' with the administration, they immediately drew up a letter to be submitted to the Prefect of Discipline expressing the wishes of the students that they be allowed to return to campus at any time before their first class on Monday morning.	.	■	.	.
The letter was drawn.up, a committee submitted it to the Prefect of Discipline’s office, and soon after a new announcement demonstrated the effectiveness of their work.	'
14	.
President Jones declared later that this procedure can and will prove just as successful in the future if the students will but take their troubles to the Council instead of merely discussing them among themselves.
Latter Part of August
Scrip, the Notre Dame literary quarterly, is scheduled to appear the latter part of August, announced Editor Gilligan. Several changes are to be made in this semester’s publication, in order to appeal more to the student body as a whole. Foremost among the modifications are the inclusion of more art, more ’ poems, and less emphasis on long stories.
As the magazine is to come out only once a semester, due to the shortened periods, the editors are going to do their best to make it such that it will receive wider acclaim than ever before. Students have generally received Scrip most favorably or not at all. Editor Gilligan plans to increase the former to a maximum and the latter to a very minimum by popularizing the included material.
The late Edward J. O’Brien, famous literateur and short story writer, numbered Scrip among the ten best literary quarterlies in this country. Such a compliment from a noted man should tend to increase the appreciation for the publication on the campus.
Under Editor Gilligan, who hails from Cincinnati, Ohio, are two associate editors, George Kelly, from Richmond, Va., and John Hunt, from Brooklyn, N. Y.
Commerce Forum Plans
Summer Student Dance
With all the discussion of the proper .times to hold the class dances students have suddenly become dance-minded. The announcement by President Gail, Fitch of the Commerce Forum concerning a semi-formal summer dance has therefore come at an opportune time. This dance will, no doubt, mark one of the highlights . in summer activities, at Notre Dame.
Permission for the dance has definitely been granted by the Prefect of Discipline, - though the. present plans, that is, the date and other incidentals, are subject to. final approval by him. -	~ "
Tentatively, the dance will be held Friday night, July 31, in the air-conditioned . Palais Royale Ballroom. Bids will prob-
ably be three dollars for Commerce For- . and- “I Am An American” sung by Wil-um members and four dollars for all , liam Scully; “Anchors Aweigh”; “Pan-other students. These prices are not defi- American” by E. De Lamaets; “Spirit of , nite, but at least approximate the final America” Zamecnik; “Pomona” E. E. price. ...	‘ Holmes;* “Air Corps” L. Fogleberg; “El
The Forum plans to conduct the affair- Capitan’’ Sousa; “The Victory March”;
somewhat like the regular class dances . “Star-Spangled Banner.’,’	7
usually are, with more than just the. dance Friday night. Among other, plans, a picnic is being discussed for the following Saturday afternoon.
The Commerce Forum is open to any suggestions or comments which any student might wish to make relevant to making this a very successful activity both from the Forum and student body point of view. Such should be addressed to President Gail Fitch, room 140, Alumni Hall.	’
*
3

§
5V

Band Presents Its First
Summer Twilight Concert
Dressed in their summer uniform of white pants and dark coats, the Notre Dame Band, undei- the direction of Franklyn W. Wiltse, presented the first concert of this semester. The twilight program, given in the dusk hour from eight till nine, marked a new idea for campus summer activities. The spacious . lawns of the quadrangle served as ample seating capacity for the many visitors from South Bend as well as students and members of the community.

$
Mr. Wiltse, the first in a series of guest conductors, had the 50 members of the band arranged in semi-circular form under two large trees overlianging the side steps to Washington Hall. Varying the band music with vocal solos and ; a featured baton twirler, the guest con- . ductor presented a most enjoyable pro- . gram.
.	.	J
Starting the evening’s entertainment ‘ was the presentation of the colors by -four members of Mr. Wiltse’s St. Joseph = Municipal Band. The standard and gun ’ bearers were Charles Roberts, Robert j Emery, John Dalzel, and Clair- Hanover. ;
William Scully, Notre Dame’s number = one soloist from New Rochelle, N. Y., was ] the vocalist for two selections, “Mar- I cheta” and “I Am An American.” Scully, 1 whose splendid voice won him first prize 1 in last year’s Knights of Columbus ■’ vaudeville, is also a member of the Notre Dame glee club.	.
Exliibiting remarkable ability with a baton was Brice Dressier, from Elkhart, 3 Ind. The young twirler, who is only nine 3 . years old, has as many tricks as a mas-	j
ter at the art and has won many medals	|
and contests for his outstanding perform- | ances. ■	,	:	.	.	I
I
Following is the program*presented:	।
American Flag Ceremony; “Marcheta” |
’'s®=^^=^^=^=^==^=^^^==^^^====^==^=^=^==^^=======^=^==!^=36* -
, , ^ne. Nawf at Notte. ^bante. , , , ,
«H ■	'■	■	=^^=	-	—	„J 1 —	■^_J6V .
WORD OF WELCOME
from
CAPT. H. P. BURNETT. U.S.N., Commanding Officer
You men have been given an opportunity which few in this great Democracy receive. You have been made eligible for training to become commissioned officers in the greatest Navy in the world. I hope you have come here with a full realization of your responsibility. The more effort you put into your -work here the more you are going to receive from your training.
The Naval Training School (V-7 Indoctrination) here at Notre Dame is to the Navy what a stethoscope is to a doctor. It is the “testing ground” for future officers. Upon completion of your training here and at advanced Midshipmen schools, you will be sent where you are needed on the sea or at shore bases.
There is no room in the Navy for men who are not willing to make every sacrifice for the Democracy our Navy defends. There must be no such thing as a “fairly good” officer. Every man must be qualified to do an expert’s job in any duty in which he is placed. That’s the only way this war will be won.
The officer personnel aboard this school
stands ready to help you start immediately to become top-notch naval officers.
Remember every minute you are aboard this school you are helping America win this war. Remember, too, that some day you may have the lives of the men under your command hinging upon your judgment. Most of all, remember that you have already taken an oath to defend this country and its ideals with your lives if that be necessary.
It’s full speed ahead from now on.
CHART YOUR OWN COURSE!
THE FLAG
(Capt. H. P. Burnett, U. S. Navy, believes that the following article, printed in the June 13 issue of the “Ave Maria,” is worthy of being reprinted. Read it and you’ll agree.)
“The Stars and Stripes symbolizes our commonwealth, and expresses our national perpetuity. Presidents, good, middling or below normal, come and go; so do members of our highest judiciary, and the manifold types of senators and congressmen. The flag remains above every party, every deal, new or old. It ' remains because the nation does. It is not likely to be changed or supplanted while this government is a republic of, for, and by the people.
“We do not, of course, show honor to , the flag itself, but to what it symbolizes. And because the nation is now at war. the honor shown the symbol is visible and emphatic. In peace only an act of disrespect may call for rebuke, or punishment; in war even an expression of neglect will likely receive a sharp reprimand.	si
“These thoughts were stirred by witnessing the patriotic sacrament of lowering the flag performed every: evening below the flag pole of the University of Notre Dame, situated some furlongs from here. In peace days this ceremony was performed by reverent hands in civilian rubrics. Since the advent of the Navy, however, ten or so of the Navy V-7 boys, vestured in white or blue uni-' forms, depending on the weather, express the sacrament of raising and lowering . the colors every morning and evening.
“These Navy postulants marched in . unified step from Morrissey hall, where 3C0 nuns used to fret over scholastic credits during peace time summer schools. They swung down that wide pedestrian walk, at the north side of . what lovers of Spanish culture call the plaza. They carried rifles, and came to a quick “halt” below the flagpole. Relaxed somewhat, they awaited the bugler’s call. to attention. The bugler sounded his mes-
IM
sage after an interval and the squad in white or blue became erect and aware. Those who were to enact the ceremony of lowering the colors stepped smartly to position below the pole. Another interval of erect position, silence and attention.
“The bugler sounded the salute proper to the act of lowering the symbol. The squad presented arms and stood rigid and silent as a mailed knight in a museum. Down came the colors in an impressive tempo, the bugler sounding his salute.
“The reverent care with which these apprentices folded the symbol, meticulously careful that no part of it should touch earth, was an object lesson to sacristans and others who put away church vestments. They were solemnfaced and serious. Nor did any untoward thing bring a ripple to their sober surface. One evening the bugler, new perhaps at the business, blew out some discords from the instrument. The squad at attention kept their faces within the solemn cast of thought. They re-formed and marched back the way they came, guarding the privileged comrade who carried the folded flag on his supporting arms.	‘
“If you are ever present at such a ceremony anywhere—stand still. Do not talk; do not look around. If you have ■ your hat on, take it off and hold it with your right hand over where your heart is said to be. If you do all that you will
V-7 Men eat in West Hall.
indicate you have not happened in from the open spaces on a haywagon. Well, these Navy apprentices are gone to a new station, but a new group carries on the traditional service of lowering the colors.”
Twenty-one N. D. Alumni in Officer-Trainees Unit
Among the 1,100 Naval men who were here the past month enrolled as specialists in the deck, engineering and ordnance divisions were 21 alumni of the University. After completing the course in Navy tradition, these Notre Dame graduates along with their fellow ensigns and lieutenants (junior grade) left the campus to go direct to active duty in their respective fields.	.
The 21 Notre Dame men were: Lt. (j-g) John . J. Kelly, Eau Clair, Wis.; Ensign Earl J. Dean, Cristobal, Canal Zone; Lt. (j-g) Joseph P. Hartnett, Pelham, N. Y.; Lt. Harold F. Haynes, Kansas City, Mo.; Ensign P. J. Lynch, Jr., New Castle, Ind.; Ensign James R. Ray, Kansas City, Mo.; Lt. (j-g). Leland P. Kramer, Des Moines, lo.va; Ensign Jerome P. Ledvina, San Antonio, Tex.; Lt- (j-g) Arthur R. Dutt, Akron, Ohio; Ensign John E. Costa, Saginaw, Mich.; Ensign Girard E. Besanceny, Columbus, Ohio.
Ensign Ralph A. Gerra, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Ensign Eugene S. Hutmacher, Quin
cy. Ill.; Ensign Walter J. O’Brien, River Forest, Ill.; Ensign John F. Gill, Minot, N. Dak.; Ensign William P. Cass, Buffalo, N. Y.; Lt. (j-g) Donald T. Ryan, Queens, N. Y.; Ensign Herman T. Griffin, Tulsa, Okla.;.Ensign Frank E. Metzgar, Seattle, Wash.; Lt. (j-g) John T. Murray, Jr., Oak Park, Ill.; and Ensign Charles H. Becker, Tulsa, Okla.

U. S. Navy Needs 1,000
Officers for SC - V(P) ]
The Navy- heeds 1,000 officers from , accredited colleges as ensigns in class ] SC-V(P) of the United States Naval 3 Reserve, according to an announcement ] issued by Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N. i
Qualified seniors who will receive de- • grees in business administration, ac- i counting or commerce and who will be = graduated either in December, 1942 or ; May, 1943, may apply now and receive their degrees before being called to active duty. Following their graduation, those accepted will be sent to the Harvard School of Business Administration for a course of instruction at the Navy supply base there. .
Duties of these officers range from the procurement store to the issuing of material, food, clothing and operation of commissary and. will be stationed as supply officers and assistant supply offi-. cers of small naval activities, such as small air bases.
Applicants. must be from 19 to 26,	:
must meet the requirements of a naval board of medical examiners and must have ability in the field of industrial ' management, business administration or i other allied occupations.	.	i
Interested students are invited to con- : tact Chief Gunners’ Mate Williams in the j Rockne Memorial Field House from j 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. ..	|
Admiral White Inspects
Medical Corps Facilities
Admiral E. C. White of Washington, j medical corps inspector for the entire j East coast and the ninth naval district, ] was on the campus Monday afternoon to । inspect the medical corp facilities of the j • naval training school here. With Admiral | White on the inspection tour were, the . | Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., adminis- I trative assistant at the University; Capt. < H. P.. Burnett, station commandant; ; Capt. George P. Shields, senior, medical i officer at the station.	1
- Cargo—Comes directly from Latin car- < go or carga, a load, freight. . Old com- J mercial. document Anglo-Saxon “cark,” ■ : meaning a load. .	\ . 7	'
18
Nobie	, . , , , , , ,
.   ~	- " I” — 1 1	—	■"
GOLF TOURNAMENT BROUGHT TO THRILLING CLOSE AS STANFORD'S "SANDr TATUM TAKES FIRST PLACE
rounds as did Ensign Wade Knipp, Purdue representative who has been stationed at the Notre Dame Naval Training School.
The time was nearing five o’clock on Sunday afternoon when Frank Donovan Tatum, Jr., and Manuel De la Torre halved the 14th hole of the Chain O’ Lakes golf course with par fours. Tatum was the last to sink his putt. As the white spheroid plopped into the cup, Tournament Chairman “Chick” Evans grabbed the smiling Stanford boy’s hand and said: “Congratulations, Sandy.” This was the cue for the huge gallery to give out with the largest- applause of the week-long meet in tribute to a really great champion.
The 45th annual National Collegiate Golf Tournament had ended. Frank Donovan Tatum, Jr., of Stanford University, had won the championship by beating Manuel De la Torre, 20-year-old Northwestern sophomore, 5 and 4.
Frank Tatum, Captain “Sandy” to his teammates, shot beautiful golf throughout the tournament but his showing Sunday was an exhibition of true championship form. For the 32 holes. that he worked he was even par. He had really to work the 32 holes too, as De la Torre, a Spanish-born bushy-haired youth, rose to the occasion and played the best golf of his young life.
The match was really much closer than the score shows as Tatum had to shoot par golf to stay in front. At the. end of the first nine holes of the morning round the match was all even; Tatum led 3 up going into the final rdund. On the 13th hole his lead had been cut to 2 up. Then on the 14th the Stanford ace began to take par and De la Torre apart. With nine holes left Tatum led, 6 up and the gallery, the largest of - the seven-day . event, was ready to concede him the match. But not. so young De la Torre. He began a counter offensive and forced the match five additional holes. .
The tournament was brought to an official close a little later as genial “Chick” Evans presented the two finalists with -their trophies. “Sandy” Tatum, the new champion, De la Torre, the-vanquished, “Chick” Evans, N.C.A.A. Golf Committee chairman and the man who is chiefly re- ; sponsible for these great collegiate golf matches, Ted Payseur, Northwestern coach and secretary-treasurer of the collegiate golf association, Rev. George L.
Holderith, C.S.C., coach of Notre Dame’s midwestern champions and tournament chairman, and Eddie Twiggs, the Stanford coach, were the -whole show of the closing ceremonies.
“Chick” Evans praised both boys as he gave them the trophies which they had so deservedly -won. He also praised the whole contingent of golfers on their fine play and great sportsmanship throughout the tourney. Tatum and De la Torre each held a high opinion of the other as competitors when they -were introduced to the crowd by Ted Payseur.
Eddie Twiggs, Stanford’s 63-year-old coach, was too choked up to say very much, but, with his arms around the boy who came through so admirably for him, he thanked everyone, the contestants, the officials, Notre Dame, and the people of South Bend, who had showed him one of the most wonderful times of his life.
Tatum in winning the championship defeated in turn: Stan Wronski, Minnesota; John Steckle, Ohio State; Keith Welts, Washington; Dale Morey, Louisiana State; Harold Gjolme, Washington; and De la Torre, Northwestern. In fighting his way up to the final round De la Torre gained decisions over Bob Rose, Minnesota; W. R. Kuntz, Yale; Paul, Navy; and.R. W. Kuntz, Yale.
Probably the biggest upset of the tournament -was the 5 and 4 .defeat handed defending champion Earl “Bud” Stewart, Louisiana State ace who shot a qualifying round score of 141, by Johnny Hol-strom,: Illinois captain. Many persons were disappointed by Stewart’s defeat. The . pre-to'urnament favorite Ste-wart was" easily the most colorful ’ golfer in the tournament. Holstrom, undergraduate president of the Intercollegiate Golf Association, was unable to continue the hot pace he set in beating Stewart and fell by the wayside in his quarter-final match with Yale’s R. W. Kuntz. Ray Brownell, Stanford’s runner-up to Stewart in last year’s tournament, lost out to Harold Gjqlme in the third round.
Grover Poole, Duke’s Southern Confer-, ence champion and another of the favorites, lost his second match to John Stoltz, Northwestern. A. C. Williams, Yale, the Eastern champ, also lost out in the early
Of the four Irish qualifiers, only Captain Bill Wilson was able to survive the opening round of match play. Wilson beat Ted Gwin, 2 and 1, to reach the second round. R. W. Kuntz, Yale semifinalist, was forced to play an additional hole before defeating the Notre Dame captain, 1 up. Bill Moorhead, who qualified with 154, lost to Spero Daitas, Minnesota, in the only match of the tournament between two lefthanders. Bill Fisher fell before W. E. Beckford of Yale and Paul Malloy lost to Harry Simpson, Pittsburgh.
Boxers Training Hard
To Begin Fights Soon
As time for theii* first bouts draws near, members of the interhall boxing crew stepped up their training schedule this week, with actual sparring slated soon.
Boxers wait for this.
Although many more are expected to participate, when the fistic frays begin, 40 men are diligently training daily in the light apparatus room of Rockne Memorial. Taking roadwork around the lakes, stiff mat exercises, and other training prescriptions, the ringsters are steadily improving in general condition.
The second heavy punching bag and the speed bag were installed this week as the number of prospective pugilists grew.
Coach Dominic Napolitano paced the mitt men through the first week’s workouts. Since John Peasenelli of the Physical Education school has been appointed by “Nappy” as his assistant, the first fights should start within two weeks.
19
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
maneuvered Fred Doutel and Nick Pappas of the Irish, 6-4; 9-7.
Complete results:
Biittner (ND) defeated Sorensen
(E)
6-4; 4-6;
6-1.
The first man of the week for Introducing is the mighty mite of the golf team, Bill Fisher. Being so rude as to wake up Bill (in the middle of the daytime) your columnist started in on him. First of all, Bill was born in Kansas City in 1920 but now resides north of the border, up Canada way in Toronto.
same time doing a little job at shortstop for the school’s nine. Evidently this team was quite a cracker jack winning the Eighth District Championship during Fred’s senior- year. The summer months saw him up north again in Mundelein, Ill., playing in the city league. A change of place now had him guarding third base.
Troup 3-6; 6-4;
Doutel 9-7; 6-2.
Pappas 7-5; 6-3.
(ND) 6-4.
(ND)
(ND)
defeated Lansche
defeated LeFevre
defeated Kalkofen
(E)
(E)
(E)
Quinn (ND) defeated Myers (E), 6-3; 6-4.
2A


fl
It was at the ripe old age of eight that Bill first started to play golf, and it took him little or no time to show everybody interested that he wasn’t out just to use scrap rubber. The year 1937 brought Mrs. Fisher’s son William to the quarter finals of the American Amateurs and made him a qualifier for the Canadian Open. Bill was quick to relate that he was ousted from the former tourney by the final champ, one up.
Two years later he went upward to the winning bracket by taking the Ontario Junior Championship and with the assistance of the elder Fisher, won the Ontario Parent-Child play-offs.
While here at Notre Dame, Bill is majoring in Business Administration and is a senior. The type of business which Bill is most interested in upon graduation is reaching Tokio via the seas aboard one of the ships of Uncle Sam’s Navy. This is supposed to add up to the fact that "V-7 has claimed his services.
Accounting is Fred’s major while at N.D. but duty with the Army Air Corps is in line upon graduation. Registration for the draft is already an old story but no further word has been heard. As far as baseball is concerned here, Coach Kline has put our questionee back again at short, which is his first love, and in appreciation Fred hit a lusty .365 during the spring season.
Baseball, however, does not constitute all of Fred’s talents as Band Director “Joe” Casasanta will tell you that one of the meanest clarinets was played by one Frederick Gore during the football season. For his listening pleasure Johnny Long dishes it out -best.
The Gore family has, is, and will be well represented here at Notre Dame. Three of his brothers can now be called alumni, another ..is here now and there is still one to come. That’s what we call “all out” cooperation.
Grumbine (ND) defeated Ebersole (E), 6-1; 6-2.
Biittner-Troup (ND) defeated Soren-sen-Lansche (E), 6-3; 4-6; 6-3.
Kalkofen-Myers (E) defeated Doutel-Pappas (ND), 6-4; 9-7.
Quinn - Grumbine (ND) defeated Le Fevre-Ebersole (E), 6-2; 3-6; 6-4.
E s 3 I
I
I
I
In answer to a bit of questioning about the immediate family, Bill says that “the young sister” is next in line for Fisher golf fame. It seems that she is considered one of the best junior- golfers at the age of 18 and also holds the record for a certain course in New York state after but one time over it.
Net Team Wins Eleventh Consecutive Dual Meet
Johnny Holstrom of Illinois is Bill’s choice for the best intercollegiate golfer-in this part of the. country, and he should know. As to his favorite, the title goes to Gene Sarazen.
Fred Gore. Is Florida Yankee
The second man on Introducing’s parade is the slugging shortstop from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Fred Gore. Fred first saw light in Terre Haute,-Ind., 21 years ago. After a few years in Oak Park, Ill., the family moved down where the tall palms grow.
Baseball first caught his fancy while at Oak Park in grammar school, namely, St. Edmond’s.' He got his high school education at Fort Lauderdale,JEIighf'at the
Winning tennis meets is most certainly not a disease, but it does look as though the Irish have caught the contagious habit. Last Sunday a strong Elkhart squad fell victim to Coach Langford’s machine, 8-1, to record the 11th straight win for the^ Irish squads of 1942.
' The feature match of the day pitted George Biittner, Irish
Although the varsity men of the past season have completed their journey to the Texas Sectionals and National Championships several days ago, it is believed that the results will be found interesting, even if they are not exactly the most enjoyable.
At the Texas Sectionals all of the Irish “Big Four”—Dan Canale, Olen Parks, Bob Faught, and Bud Ford—won their first round matches. In the second round Parks and Canale were, the only Irish survivors. The next day Parks upset Ireland’s champion, George Lyttle-ton-Rogers. Canale defeated Walter Driver. The luck of the draw placed Canale ] and Parks against each other in the quarter - finals. Canale took the match j 6-3, 6-2, but lost his semi-final match to | Roy Gladman of Rice. Both Irish doubles | "teams failed to survive the second round 1 competition. Stanford’s team, headed by I Schroeder and Dee, captured both the 1 singles and doubles championships. I
=
1
In the National Championships at New Orleans,' the only bright spot in the. showing of the Irish were the doubles teams . which advanced as far as the quarter-finals. Most important Blue and _. Gold wins were at the expense of two of the toughest doubles teams in the . . country.. Canale and Faught defeated Culver and Pratt of Kalamazoo College,
number one man, against Coach Soren- while Parks and Ford upset Fowler and
sen of Elkhart High School. The Irish ace went all out in winning the first set 6-4. Mr. Sorensen came back strong with a 6-4 win. Biittner again found his range . in the third set and. ran away with it, 6-1. Elkhart’s lone victory, of the day was .scored in the number two . doubles match when Myers and Kalkofen out-
Wyatt of Navy in a long three set duel. Stanford men again eliminated the Irish in the quarter-finals and went on to win the championships. Ted Schroeder won the singles championship by defeating Larry Dee, 6-3; . 0-6; 6-2; 6-3. The two ; Stanford aces then paired to take the doubles title.—Phil Keen
20
Bud Biittner Takes Title
In Campus Tennis Tourney
Meet the champ. Meet the fellow who defeated all comers in a quick decisive manner. Meet George Biittner, tennis champion of Notre Dame.
Alumnite Biittner from Schenectady, N.Y., had his hands full in battling John Troup, transfer student playing his first tournament under the Irish banner. Troup matched many of Biitner’s scorching line drives, but could not withstand the constant pressure that the champ poured on and succumbed in straight sets, 6-2; 6-2; 6-1.
This proved a fitting climax to a season in which George played some of the best tennis of his four years at Notre Dame. Playing in the number five spot of the varsity during the past season, Biittner won five and lost three in a position where the pressure was always great. His steady support considerably aided in providing the Irish with their first all-winning season in 15 years.
Interhall competition began this week as eight hall team's, including a team composed of members of the Naval R.O.T.C., will battle for the honor of “King of the Campus.” League play will continue throughout the summer semester. At this 'writing, there are no results available. However, in the next issue of the Scholastic complete results as well as schedules will be published.
In addition to the regular competition ladder tournaments will be held among the members of the various halls. The weekly standings in these tournaments will determine the individual rankings in each hall.—Phil Keen
Ensign Tatum is Champ Of Collegiate Golfdom
Ensign Frank Donovan Tatum, U. S. N. R., a graduate of Leland Stanford University is the 1942 intercollegiate ■ golf champion. Better known as “Sandy,” the musty-haired coast lad played the best golf of a ten year career over, a ten day stand to smash all opposition and finally down Manuel de la Torre of Northwestern to claim the 45th National Intercollegiate links crown.
The California boy, a native of Los Angeles, completed his four year cruise on the Indian campus last month and is now ready to take a long cruise with the United States Navy. A former high school football captain “Sandy” neglected grid assignments at the Palo Alto institution and struck out on the long grind (Continued on page 24)
Another Dykes?
Ken Gempel has become the most colorful figure in the softball league beyond . a doubt. By a careful use of his tongue in describing the persons -of the umpires he has managed to keep Alumni up near the top. He exhibits characteristics peculiar to baseball men like Dykes, etc., as the R.O.T.C. team knows full well, eh boys? . . . The power man at the plate is undoubtedly Bob Neff who has hit so many homers that he ought to have a room full of Wheaties by now .... The prize for showing the most interest goes to Zahm. The Brothers and priests have three full teams and all of them good.
4s *	*	-
Bits in the News
The four outstanding men in last year’s track have all been given 4-F ratings. They are: Greg Rice, world top distance man; Al Blozis, world champion, weight events; Barney Ewell, Penn State’s speedster; and Les MacMitchell, N. Y. U.’s indoor miler.... Talking about track, Coach Handy is accumulating quite a track team for the summer session and more are on their way.... AI Lismez, from Breen-Phillips, looks like a good miler...; “Nappie” tells us that there are over 100 boys out for boxing . this summer representing every hall.... There are big plans for a late summer boxing show which should be something worth seeing. There will be six of last year’s champs back plus much new good material, such as Clint Watkins, Jack Leahy’ and Bob Dunn....
•	■ * * *
Tees and Divots
Elmer Layden, dean of pro football, attracted as much attention teeing, off as the quarter - finalists did out at last week’s tourney.... Governor Van Waggoner of Michigan was out for the afternoon matches after a morning of golf with Coach Leahy and Herb Jones.... The governor of Nevada was also out for the afternoon round to add to the list of celebrities.... For the finest sportsman of the tourney we nominate Grover Poole of Duke. In his last round of the quarter-finals Poole found his ball in the rough covered with a leaf. He picked up the leaf and accidentally moved the ball a little but the judge who was supposed to be following wasn’t near. Instead of . passing it up he reported the matter to
“RED” LONERGAN
the judge who penalized him one stroke and caused him to lose the hole and the match.... Emanuel de la Torre, the runner-up in the tourney, played an exhibition match before the king and queen of Spain at the age of 12.____He has had ten years of experience.
*	* *
Faculty vs. Students	'
Interest in the Faculty-Alumni volleyball game has come to a high pitch with mention of it being made in class. The Phy. Ed. department has deserted Biittner, Brock, Neff, Lanahan, Murphy, and Commisa after three years of training till the big game is over.... The softball league’s only left-handed pitcher is Bob Logan, the. spirited southpaw of Breen-Phillips. Beware, all volleyball teams, when playing Sorin. Some day Dudley and Evans will get out to play and new rules will be in order. Anyone wishing to get better acquainted with Dud can start by purchasing a box of Kroger’s Wheaties. There is a picture of Dud on the side in his Villa Nova outfit.
*	* * -
Jake's Boys
Jake’s (Jake Kline) picked varsity nine—the one selected from the intramural hardball league lost its first game with Hoosier Beer. Hoosier’s pitcher Hickey is a student here but he is. out till Fall. Barney Pyne led our. boys in the hitting department with two healthy clouts. — Hardball League Commissioner Chlebeck tells us that the league must be pretty tough when Fred Gore, varsity man who" usually hits around .360, is unable to get his initial hit.___Larry Sullivan; Cavanaugh’s coach, thought so little of his pitching staff that he once went in. Before he entered the’game he warned the opposition of his pfowess lest there be room for complaint. There was no complaint, for Sully yielded six or seven homers and an assortment of lesser hits.
- . * * *
Stanford's Supermen.
While “Sandy” Tatum was winning the 45th National Intercollegiate Golf tournament at Notre Dame, Ted Schroeder was winning the 58th National Intercollegiate Tennis tournament at New Orleans. Schroeder defeated Larry Dee, a ' teammates in the finals; it’s getting pretty bad when you have to beat your own teammates in national competition.
21
fl.
Navy Men
TAXI FREE
TO THE MODERN GILBERT'S
Hail any Cab—Tell the driver “Gilbert’s. We pay upon arrival.
i
You'll enjoy shopping in this air-conditioned store for men
EVERYTHING FOR THE NAVY MAN
THE MODE ftH GILBERTS
23
TATUM WINS MEET (Continued from page 21) which was finally terminated when he received his degree in mechanical engineering this month. Tatum has an older brother, Don, who was a football star on the Stanford eleven a few years ago.
Amiable Eddie Twiggs, 63 year old Stanford mentor, overjoyed after trying for nine years and finally getting a collegiate champion was showered with praise for his bespectacled protege. “The kid’s a genius,” we were told, “Ke was valedictorian of his class, president of his fraternity, one of the best liked fellows among his classmates, both male and female, and a member of the honorary Phi Beta Kappa society. ‘Sandy’ also accumulated a straight ‘A’ average while at school. He’s my boy and I am very proud of him.”
“Another thing I don’t want you to forget,” averred Twiggs, “if it hadn’t been for ‘Sandy’ we probably wouldn’t have been here. With the war and everything money is scarce on the coast. The athletic board couldn’t finance our jaunt out here so ‘Sandy’ organized the team and started the fund drive that finally enabled us to make the trip.” So saying Twiggs dipped his nervous fingers into his pocket to grab another cigarette. A large tear knocked against his eyelid but he brushed it aside and smiled proudly.
In real life “Sandy” is the modest, conservative lad that he is on the fairways. He was extremely happy, naturally, to win the title but when it was over he was full of praise for those who had made it possible for him to win. “I was awfully lucky to win,” he smilingly whispered, “I’ve certainly had a wonderful time here and this is a beautiful course.” He paused to wipe his moistened forehead and then continued, “I was lucky in one way or another to win this match. The pressure -was.on in many instances and I was fortunate in coming through as I did. . This Kid, Manuel, is a .very good golfer in my estimation. He’s only a sophomore now and I certainly would hate to have to play him when he’s a senior.”
Manuel de la Torre, the vanquished, was a little shaken after the match but it didn’t take him long to come back and flash his white teeth, smooth his crinkled brown hair and speak. “I played the best I’ve ever played? ! tried the hardest I ever tried. I fought the hardest I’ve ever fought. The better man won today. ‘Sandy* made no mistakes; I made three or four myself but that’s golf.”
The old master, “Chick” Evans, was elated after the completion of what he termed one of the best tournaments yet.
24	" - /. /	■’.	.
“It was a very successful meet,” smiled Evans, “the city of South Bend and Notre Dame should be proud of it. The match between Manuel and Sandy was a great match full of great golf shots.”
—Bill Boss
Harrigan Shares Honors
In Consolation Tourney
The great red flame of Irish golfing which burned brightly in the early stages of the Intercollegiate Golf Matches only to be snuffed out when the strong winds blew came back to glow anew on his home course. Red-headed John Harrigan after flashing a smooth 68 in a practice round at the Chain O’ Lakes course and then failing to qualify a few days later came back last week on Notre Dame’s William J. Burke layout to smash out a two-ovef-par 73 and share honors with Jim McCarthy, Western Conference leader, of Illinois, and Bob Higgins of Georgetown in the consolation Tournament.
The consolation trial was held last Thursday on campus course with 16 of the men who failed to turn in qualifying cards in the Intercollegiate tournament taking part.
McCarthy, Big Ten champion, and prize disappointment of the spectacular affair was paired with Higgins. They both finished with identical scores, 73. Harrigan finished a little later, in the same number of strokes. Jack McElwain, of Syracuse, and Notre Dame’s captainelect, Gene Fehlig, were next in line with a pair of 75’s.
Scores:
J. Harrigan, Notre Dame.......36-37—73.
J. McCarthy, Illinois..........37-36—73
R. Higgins, Georgetown.........36-37—73
E.	Fehlig, Notre Dame..........39-36—75
J. McElwain, Syracuse_________~38-37—75
M. Steel, Williams.............39-37—76
J. Daley, Syracuse.:...........40-37—77
R. W. Fischer, Minnesota.......39-39—78
W. T. Ludolph, Michigan________41-39—80
R. Lindall, V. M. 1...........41-39—80 ;
F.	. Minor, Bradley......;.....43-38—81
W. L. Lewis, U. S. N............43-38—81 -
B. Carney, Bradley.............44-38—82
Three Michigan contestants withdrew . after playing nine holes.—Bill Boss
Irish Grid Card Revised;
U. S. C. Tilt Set for Coast
Even at this early date, with, the blis-. tering summer days ahead of us, many T are making plans for the coming football. season which should prove to be the most -exciting, in Notre Dame’s history: “The Fighting Irish”-schedule will be tough, . .
NAVY MEN Stop at
WYMAN’S
MEN'S SHOP
Across Michigan Street from the Bus Stop . . . next to the bank.
White neckband shirts......$2.25
Arrow collars............... 25c
Black ties....——.........  $1.00
T-Shirts...................  65c
Black socks.........39c	and 55c
/White shorts....:........  .55c
White undershirts..39c	and 55c
WYMAN’S
MEN'S SHOP
it is the heaviest since 1921 when 11 games also were played. Several new clubs are on the card and will no doubt give our boys a run for their money. The team, as other Notre Dame teams have done in the past, will do all in its power . to end this greatest of all seasons undefeated.
The 1942 Notre Dame football schedule which was revised and revised again due to war conditions, calls for five games at home and six away. The home schedule, including some of the best teams in the country, appears to be not only the toughest in many years but also the most interesting. The games in the stadium will be played with Georgia Tech, Stanford, Iowa Naval Cadets, coached by Minnesota’s great mentor, Bernie Bierman, Michigan and those troublesome Wildcats of Northwestern.
According to Herb Jones, business manager of athletics at Notre Dame, the traditional Southern California game originally to be played in Los Angeles has been reassigned to that city. The fact that this game is not scheduled to be played on the home ground may cause a little disappointment among the student body but to those sturdy members of the best of football teams, much joy will prevail, for it is the dream of every Notre Dame football player to be able to make the trip to the coast.
The statement made by Mr. Jones of the Athletic Department was made ■with the hope that the army will rescind its order barring crowds of more than 5,000 in that area. News from the West Coast is to the affect that the Coral sea and the Midway Island victories of the American Navy have eliminated any fear of air raids or invasion of the coast by the Japanese. It is the opinion of many Californians that this army restriction will be lifted. If this does not come to pass by August, the game will be transferred to the Notre Dame stadium, where it will be played on Nov. 28.
The revised schedule follows:
Sept. 26—Wisconsin at Madison.
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 10—Stanford at Notre Dame.	v
Oct. 17—Iowa Naval Cadets at Notre Dame. Oct. 24—Illinois at Champaign.
• Oct. 31—Navy at Cleveland.
Nov. 7—Army at New York. . Nov. 14—Michigan at Notre Dame. Nov. 21—Northwestern at Notre Dame. Nov. 28—Southern California at Los Angeles. Dec. 5—Great Lakes in Soldiers’ Field, Chicago.
INKOGRAPH pen found by St. Mary’s Lake back of Lyons Hall on the evening -of June 22.. Name—R. Edahl. Pen is now in Publicity Office in Main Building.
Irish Stars Lose 5-3
To Hoosier Beer Nine
An unorganized band of Irish Stars, the summer varsity, faltered in the path of South Bend’s Hoosier Beer nine on Cartier Field last week and was trampled, 5-3. The brewery squad barreled through to win the six inning fray after being held hitless for the initial three frames by big John Creevy, the Michigan mountain.
Each nine collected a total of seven bingles but untimely errors by the campus squad allowed five enemy runs in the last three innings of play. “Bucky” O’Connor hurled the closing stanzas for the Irish but was unable to check.the charged bats of the downtown team.
Stoweski worked the entire six chuk-kers on the slab for the Hoosiers, allowing seven hits and whiffing three Star batsmen. Cusick crouched behind the plate for the Irish and Pierce was on the tailend of the visiting battery.
Hindered by darkness and inclement weather the contest was called at the end of six innings.
Coach Jake Kline is devoting the current week to pepper games, a study of batting technique, and the promotion of intelligent all - around diamond play. Many of . the aspirants haven’t been schooled too well in the fundamentals of the game but frisky practice sessions and competent instruction from Coach Kline and Andy Chlebeck will soon eliminate these inevitable difficulties.
The contest scheduled with the Hoosier Beer squad late last week was a hastened show and came so quickly and unexpectedly that the Stars weren’t prepared. Some of the lads .hadn’t seen a bat since early June and were, a little unsettled at the plate.
The complete schedule for the.summer' semester hasn’t been completed as yet. There will be a tentative lineup arranged shortly. Meanwhile play will be. limited to downtown competition and intrasquad tussles.—Bill Boss
Hello, V-7!
The
NOTRE DAME
BOOKSTORE
Welcomes you to the campus. We invite you to visit our shop at your first opportunity..
Souvenir Jewelry
Compacts Necklaces Bracelets Pins Novelties
Toilet Articles
Toothpaste
Shaving Creams Lotion
Soap
Postcards and Stationery Pens and Pencils
GREETING CARDS
25
St. Edward's and Alumni II Share Lead in Volleyball
Jack Denniston
Yes, something new has been added and it’s not only to that yellow-packaged cigarette, but also to the Interhall sports program. Nightly, on the field south of the Biology Building, one can witness four six-man teams squaring off against each other—slapping, pushing, and spiking a volleyball across the net with amazing skill.
CHICAGO DATE?
Take the South Shore!
Get there on time, without worry, fuss, or traffic jitters. No parking problems, either—South Shore trains breeze right into the Loop. Step off your train and onto Michigan Ave. Five other convenient stations in Chicago.
Remember—there’s a South Shore train leaving for Chicago every hour. Similar frequency of service from Chicago, too, with a late train leaving at 12:20 A. M.
Welcome, Novy Men! Ask about special furlough rates
We have all heard murmured, "Yea, but that’s a sissies’ game.” “Well, that’s where we’re all wrong,” attests Vincent Commisa, head of the current Interhall Volleyball League. “Volleyball,” he continued, “is rapidly becoming one of the most important interhall attractions. That is one game you can’t play enough.” Commisa cites George Murphy, captain- . elect of Frank Leahy’s 1942 Irish footballers, Johnny Lanahan, football center, and George Biittner, of varsity tennis fame, as three examples of fellows who have taken to the game. “They guard the volleyball field, ambushing all comers for a practice game,” added Commisa.
Team work and plenty of practice are the essentials for a successful volleyball unit, as can be seen by the results of last week’s games.
Ed Krupa and “Jumpin’ Jack”- Ford sparked a brilliant St. Edward’s Hall team to its third straight win, keeping the A.C. in first place. The Navy R.O.T.C. team was the victim. Lieutenant Zimmer and Chief Petty Officer Jablonski’s boys, led by fightin’ Jim White and Ed Ghigli-otti, kept the Navy within shooting distance all the way..
Cavanaugh Hall piloted by Bill Amen presented the most balanced outfit in the ' circuit this week—with Cy Desmond, Dan Casey, Joe Rigney, and Dave McLaughlin —as they defeated a stubborn Dillon Hall quintet 15-7, 15-10, and 15-12. Dillon coach, Stan Murray, can well be proud of Jerry Cowhig and Joe Shea, who helped push the juniors into a real scrap.
Alumni Hall team II, commanded by Vince Commisa, sprouts some of the big-guns of the league: George Murphy, Bob Neff, Tom “Rufus” Brock, Jolin Lanahan, and George Biittner. A scrappy Walsh Hall squad led by Jim Torpey, Dick A’Hearn, and Bill Amen tangled with Alumni Hall forcing the “gold coasters” to go four sets before succumbing 15-7, 15-6,12-15,15-6.
Alumni II		2	0	1.000	Wish
Faculty 		1	0	1.000	
Alumni I		1	0	1.000	
Cavanaugh 			2	1	.666	
Walsh 	2.		1	2	.333	
N.R.O.T.C. ...J..........	1	2	.333	
Dillon			0	2	.000	
Sorin 	-	;		0	2	.000	
Breen-Phillip’s		0	3.	.000	^9
				
s
SUMMER BALL
. (Continued from page 7) formal? And-a white coat is certainly a lot cheaper to buy or rent—and an awful lot more comfortable—than the old soup and fish. Then too, the gals won’t be running into the difficulties of getting out of classes and getting weekends to make the dance this Summer. And finally, who can look at what remains of the Summer session, thinking of all we’re missing, without baying at the moon: “What is so rare as a date in June, — or July, — or
August?”
—John Gilligan
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
- DENTISTS 503 Sherlahd Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
■ L. E, Fisher, M. D.
M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Results for week of June 22: Cava- _phone 3‘2S0°
Residence 4-1544
For information call
C. W. VEACH, Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan Street Phone 3-3111
naugh, 15-15-15—Dillon, 7-10-12; Alumni II, 15-15-15—Breen-Phillips, 5-3-12; Cav-anaugh, 15-15-12-16 — R.O.T.C., 7-13-15-
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
14; Alumni II, 15-15-12-15—Walsh, 6-7- X-Ray Examination 609 J. M. S. Building
15-6; St. Ed’s, 15-15-13-15—R.O.T.C., 8- Hours by Appointment South Bend, Indiana
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
SOUTH^HORE
10-15-8; St. Ed’s won by default from Sorin. ’
Schedule for games the week of July 6: July 6 (Monday) Alumni I vs. Alumni II and St. Ed’s vs. Breen-Phillips; July 7 (Tuesday) Cavanaugh vs. Alumni II and R.O.T.C. vs. Alumni I; July 8 (Wednesday) Dillon vs. Sorin and R.O.T.C. vs. Walsh; July 9 (Thursday) Faculty vs., Dillon and Walsh vs. Sorin; July 10 (Friday) Cavanaugh vs. Alumni I and Walsh vs. Dillon.	-	2 .
Standings:	k'
• Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
- Registered Podiatrist - FOOT AILMENTS
St. Ed’s......
2 3
0	1.000
406-408 Tower Building
. Phone 3-2574
26
Sorin Leads League
Sorin slipped to the lead in the interhall baseball circuit this week as the parading R.O.T.C. unit was torpedoed by a rejuvenated Alumni nine and undefeated Breen-Phillips forfeited a scramble to Sorin.
Alumni’s spirited gang limped away from Cartier Field after whipping the Sailors in thorough style, 10-2. The south campus lads were halted with two ties last week but it seems that Coach Vince Commissa has injected a handsome show- . er of victory fluid into the combine.
Cavanaugh and St. Edward’s are still deliberating trying to decide who will finally mop the basement floor and it looks like a long argument. Cavanaugh felt the sting of the Walsh wasp as Fr. Ryan’s guests tripped their* fellow juniors, 7-2. Cobwebs are. twisting around the bats in St. Eds. The suffering Sophomores couldn’t muster a team to represent them at their scheduled fray with Dillon and had to forfeit the tilt.
League Results
Week of June 22: Sorin 7,'. Breen-Phillips 0 (forfeit); Dillon 7, St. Edwards 0 (forfeit); Walsh 7, Cavanaugh 2; Alumni 10, R. 0. T. C. 2; Walsh 6, Dillon 3.
Schedule of Games
Week of July 6: July 6—Sorin vs. Cavanaugh; Walsh vs. Breen-Phillips; July 8—Alumni vs. St. Edwards; Dillon vs. R.O.T.C.; July .10—Sorin vs. St. Edwards; Walsh vs. R.O.T.C.
Leag	ue Standings			
TEAM	WON	LOST	TIE	AVER.
Sorin 		2	0	1	1.000
Alumni 				 1	0 .	2	1.000
Dillon 			 1	0	2	1.000
Breen-Phillips ...	..... 2	1 .	0	.666
N.R.O.T.C.'			2	1	0	.666
Walsh 		..... 1	. 1	1	.500
Cavanaugh 		..... 0	3 -	0	.000
St. Edwards 			 0	3	0	.000
—Bill Boss
We carry the regulation
NAVY SHOES
Florsheim’s $10.50 up Freeman’s $6.95 up

MAIN AT COLFAX
IdJelconte, U-l Men
We are happy to have you with us . . . and we look forward to serving you.
ORDER YOUR OFFICERS' UNIFORMS NOW!
Complete Navy Equipment
House of “MIp Whites, Blues and Khaki
Rvst s K«TZ
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN
IT
Correct for
NAVAL CADETS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
Bostonian Service Shoes — £8.95
M'X
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
NOTRE DAME DIARY
Phil Keen
The students have all heard of Notre Dame’s glorious past, its color, excitement, impressiveness. But few of us have really taken time out to check on some of the interesting facts.
Let us magine today is Nov. 9 and take a look into history as recorded by the Scholastic.
75 Years Ago
A prize was reported offered for the young lady at St. Mary’s who gathered the most nuts from the hapless squirrels. . . . Football is a very good game and can be hugely enjoyed by anyone in heavy boots, if he is not afraid of his shins, and if he could sleep later than half-past five o’clock to rest himself and to “dream his battles o’er again”. . . . Last Wednesday about sixty or seventy boys proceeded to a field to have some fun kicking the ball and, occasionally, each other’s shins. No blood was shed, but many a fellow was seen to be picking himself up and vowing vengeance against the one who tripped him. But when the ball came around, he would utterly forget who it was who had “brought him low.”
50 Years Ago
We have been requested to announce that there will be no interruption of classes during Thanksgiving week though the day itself will be duly observed as a holiday. The authorities desire also that no boxes of edibles, except fruit, be sent to the students.... The varsity eleven is meeting with a healthy opposition and it is hoped the good work will continue. Thursday’s game showed the boys in good trim and all that was lacking was practice. . . . Those iron bars spanning the road leading to the Infirmary are suggestive of the primitive days at Notre Dame when bears and ivolves had to be kept at bay.
25 Years Ago
Without a single substitute Notre Dame pranced through four quarters of dazzling football, while the Army, rushing substitute after substitute into the fray as defeat seemed imminent, tried desperately to forestall the final result of 7 to 2. . . . Brandy and Gipp were the outstanding stars of the Irish. . . . No wonder Congress voted the Army dry. Look what Brandy did to West Point.
10 Years Ago
Freshman Hall wins S-.A.C. award. ' Decoration plus stunt give the Frosh the
loving cup. . . . Lionel Barrymore and Joan Crawford were selected by the students as their favorite movie stars. One debt paid: Irish 21, N. U. 0. Melin-kovich races 98 yards to first touchdown. . . . “B” team loses, 24-6, to St. Thomas at Scranton.
Spalding & Goldsmith
GOLF AND TENNIS
EQUIPMENT
“T” Shirts
Tennis Shoes £1.69 to £3.50
Bathing Suits £1.95 to £2.95
Gym Equipment
SONNEBORN'S
121 West Colfax
Dining Room
6^ Ike Jl&iel
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and-6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
28
Another Record for Rice
Greg- Rice, the Missoula mite, never fades. His thrilling- racing victories are taken as a matter of course now and not as outstanding- events.
Skittering around the oval some 50 times without defeat in the two-mile event is the continuance of a record that the little cinder star started late in his career at this Irish institution. Adding to a great string of flashy record-breaking times Greg has now set another distance record.
"Missoula Mite"
Short days ago, with darkness shading-the Passaic School stadium, at Passaic, N. J., the little chuggei- ripped around the odd distance of two and a quarter miles in 10:38.6 to erase the record set by the Finnish phenomenon, Hannes Kolehmainen, in August 1913. Kolehmain-en had paced the distance in 10:45.
Commerce Forum Holds
Initial Summer Meeting
The Commerce Forum held its first meeting of this school year last Monday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building. Like many other campus organizations, the Commerce Forum has never before been active during the summer months.
Last year this club was the largest on the campus with a membership of 325. The club’s main purpose is to bring in a practical application of the theory learned in the classroom through lecturers. '
The speaker for last Monday was Mr. E. A. Smith, also one of the faculty advisors. Mr. Smith stressed the importance of every member’s participation in the club’s activities. “You will be under able leadership this year,” he said, “but no organization can function through able leadership alone. The members, themselves, must take an active part in the affairs.” Mr. Smith also pointed out the advantages gained by membership in the club.
Fitch is President
The president of the Commerce Forum this year is Gail Fitch from Oak Park, Ill. Gail has been quite active in other activities on the campus. He was secretary of his class during the freshman year and is now serving as vice-president of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. He is also a member of the Knights of Columbus and the Propeller Club.
The other officers are Blair McGowan, vice-president; Jim Madigan, chairman of the board; Jim O’Donnell, executive committeeman; J. Tom O’Reilly, secretary; and Ted Toole, treasurer. Those on the director’s board are Jim McElroy, Bill O’Neil, Bill Moorhead, Ed Keelan, and Dick Murphy. The faculty advisors are Mr. Smith, Mr. McMichael, Mr. Eells, and Mr. Calkins.
A good program with emphasis on recreation is planned for this summer. A golf and a tennis tournament are going to be held and there is also to be a baseball team which, according to President Fitch, “Will beat any other team on the campus.”—Bob Sinkle
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend's Leading ■	Barber Shop
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS: 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St..
Phone 4-8251
29
Softball Most Popular Of Interhall Athletics
Bill Boss	-
Interhall sports are finding many new competitors each day hut softball is backed by more enthusiasts than any other of the campus athletic activities. Director Vince Commissa has found it necessary to enlarge and form a second league to take care of all the new participants. The interest is running especially high in Zahm, occupied by priests and Brothers, where three teams have been organized. Dillon and Alumni each have two squads and the Law School, with Andy Cherney and Jim McVay at the helm, is represented.
The N.R.O.T.C. unit which seems to be monopolizing the intramural athletic program is now on top of the mush ball league having batted out two victories. The sailors eclipsed Sorin, 17-2, and Breen-Phillips, 15-7. They were set back, however, by the Alunmi nine, 12-7.
Pity poor Sorin, dejected sons of fate. The seniors who were once the most effervescent group on the campus are now leaning on the wooden steps or plopped in the softness of one of the porch swings. One thing is certain—they aren’t playing ball. They have been able to play only two of their scheduled games and then the team had to be made up of outsiders. Director Commissa is hoping ’ for a revolution that will awaken the drowsy upper classmen.
One of the better known participants in the softball league is Father Jerome Healy. who palys first base for the Zahm squad. Father Healy comes from Holy Cross Abbey at Canon City, Colo, where he is coach of the baseball, football, and basketball teams. His quintets have often played a prominent part in the National Catholic tourneys.
John Peasenelli’s Breen-Phillips team has snapped out of its slump and seems to be on the way to a successful campaign. The freshmen started out weakly but are making up for any-deficit with wild-hitting contests.
The campus Sultan of Swat is likely to be footballer, Bob Neff. The West .Virginia lad belted out three homers, last week. One of the blows banged up against the Biology Building which is visible proof of Neff’s long distance swatting. .
Vince Commissa, the leader of the softball campaign, has one plea to make to all contestants. “I wish all games would start, if possible, before seven o’clock because the days are getting shorter and there will not be time enough to complete the game if they are not started early.”
Results: R.O.T.C. 17, Sorin 2; Breen; Phillips 11, Alumni 7; Walsh 15, St. Ed’s
4; Dillon 6, Cavanaugh 5; Alumn R.O.T.C. 7.
Walsh 9, Sorin 0; Breen-Phillips Dillon 10; Cavanaugh 7, St. Ed’s R.O.T.C. 15, Breen-Phillips 7.
12,
16;
5;
League II results: Alumni 19, Zahm I 5; Zahm I 12, Dillon 9.
Schedule
Monday, July 6: Breen-Phillips vs. St. Edwards; Law Club vs. Zahm II.
Tuesday, July 7: R.O.T.C. vs. Dillon I;
Zahm II vs. Zahm III.
Wednesday, July 8: Walsh vs. Cavanaugh; Alumni II vs. Zahm II.
Thursday, July 9: Alumni I vs. St.
Edwards; Dillon II vs. Law Club.
Friday, July 10: Sorin vs. Breen-Phillips; Zahm III vs. Zahm II.
League Standings
TEAM
R. O. T. C. .....
Walsh .......... Breen-Phillips Cavanaugh ...... Dillon ......... Alumni ......... Sorin .......... St. Edwards .
WON
.. 3
. 9
2
.. 1
.. 1
.. 0
.. o
0
LOST 0 0 1‘ I 1 2 2 2
AVER.
1.000
1.000 .666 .500 .500 .000 .000 .000
Law Dean Manion Speaks At Special Club Meeting
Mr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law at the University, spoke before the Kiwanis Club of Hammond, -Ind. at a noon luncheon on Wednesday, July 1.	'
Dean Manion’s address at this special holiday meeting of the Hammond organization was entitled “The Fourth of July.” In it he stressed the significance of this date in these troubled times. .
. This was Mr. Manion’s second recent speaking appearance, as he delivered the commencement address at Mount Mercy Academy, Grand Rapids, Mich, on June 10.	’
New Calendars Available
. in Religion Offices
The Prefect of Religion announces that 2,000 new Eucharistic calendars are now available to the students for the 1942 summer and fall semesters. These ; may be obtained at the three prefect of religion offices in Dillon, Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips.
The calendar always stresses the special theme of the year. This year the theme chosen is “Think with Christ.” Implied in it is the idea that Notre Dame students should become conscious of the Christian attitude toward all things, both material and spiritual.	-
Several new books are expected in the '
offices of religion. The Song of Bema-dette by Hans Werfel, author of Embezzled Heaven, has. already been re-
' ceived.—Francis Kearns
SENIOR BALL
(Continued from page 7) got a pair of black shoes?” (Yes, black, not white which no one would have anyway) , “Could you loan me five bucks for the week-end?” “How’m I going to meet that , train when I don’t get out of class until three-five?”. .
Now let us take a closer look at the fall week-end. She can wear that fur coat and glamorous black wool dress that she wanted to wear anyway. Leahey’s tough men will wear their golden helmets and run a group of vicious opponents right into the ground. The band will toot their best. We might even decorate the halls and have another of those wonderful bonfires.
Let’s use our heads, seniors. Smother these madmen!
—Gerry Smith
111 North Michigan
REGULATION
SHORTS
designed
for action!
ARROW KNITS
Knit to fit ... . yet creep-resistant!
60c
ARROW BROADCLOTHS White with Arrow’s re- • markable seating plan.
75c
MUNSINGWEAR KNITS
. No hitch, no bunch, no twist. Porous. Lasting fit.	.	.
60c
MEN’S SHOP ENTRANCE ■ Across from Town Club
30
A hearty welcome also awaits you at the OLIVER HOTEL .	Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years
-	-	Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshments moderately
priced, in delightful environment and pleasantly, but efficiently,	.	\
• served.
We wish you success in your new career and hope that through your efforts glorious victories will accrue to the U. S. NAVY.
Oliver Coffee Shop	Oliver Emerald Room
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc.
Corner Washington and Main Streets
31
Important Notice!
NAVY V-7 WELCOME!
Important Notice!
We are proud and happy to greet you .	.	. Future Officers of the greatest
Navy in the world
For Your Convenience .
We have purchased more than
500 PAIRS
of Regulation Dress Oxfords . . . available in all sizes, 6 to 12, in B, C and D widths, SPECIALLY PRICED to Navy V-7 Men at
Black
Blucher, Plain Toe Oxford
The Boston Shoe Store is justifi-
per pair
(Our regular $5.85 quality)
To facilitate handling we have developed the following method: Come into the store and be measured and fitted in the correct size. Then obtain a receipt for payment. Your shoes will then be made available from the warehouse stock and delivered to you on the Notre Dame campus.
shoes properly! with emphasis on Quality Merchandise, sold at Popular Prices. We back each sale with a 43-year reputation for Integrity and Honest Value. To serve you will be deemed a privilege.

THE BOSTON SHOE STORE
124 South Michigan Street	South-Bend
Fashion Footwear .... Always Properly Fitted H