FEBRUARY 28, 1941
Volume 74
sta
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867





Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., who delivered two sermons on The Divine Life of Grace,” during Forty Hours’ Devotion in Sacred Heart Church.

Number 17

2
THE NOTRE

ScHot

^<^51
MW

Heres the refreshing treat you really go for... delicious doublemint gum

wgl
aft



Right in step with campus life— that's DOUBLEMINT GUM. Plenty of refreshing flavor. Swell fun to chew every day. And DOUBLEMINT fits all occasions—"bull sessions/' after class, during gym. Chewing helps sweeten your breath. Helps brighten your smile, too. And it costs so little you can enjoy DOUBLEMINT GUM daily. Buy several packages today.
V-58


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
= RAYMOND J. KELLY.
The New Order
The editorial page of the Daily Northwestern in a recent issue was devoted to the proclamation of the New Order. The entire page was written as the editors feel that it would be written under a totalitarian regime. Notice was served on all persons of Russian, German, or Italian origin to register at the nearest post-office within 24 hours. All members of the faculty who would continue to teach doctrines that were not completely in line with the ideas of The Leader were to be banished from the University. Pacifism was declared to be a capital offense, punishable by hanging. All able bodied men between the ages of 16 and 65 were ordered out for compulsory military training, with further explanations of this move forthcoming when The Leader would see fit. Ma Schramm’s, Ben’s, the Little Club and all such dens of iniquity were to be destroyed at once and all young men forbidden to enter such body and morale-destroying places.
The salute of the New Order, the index and little fingers extended from a clenched fist, was given a place of honor. The subjects of totalitarian America were told; “Every true American uses this salute when (1) greeting inferiors, (2) greeting superiors, (3) greeting professors.... Remember, ‘Don’t give a hoot, give the salute!”’
My Dooery
Every few days, Helen Weatherwax brightens the columns of the Indiana Daily Student by giving us a glimpse into the lives of the great and the people they are always meeting. “My Dooery” written, supposedly, by Mrs. U. S. A. relates the day-by-day adventures of the First Lady. In the latest article, Mrs. U.S.A. tells that she had tea with the God-Bless-America League. This group of distinguished people voted to promote the wearing of tiny bowknots, featuring our country’s colors—the red of western sunsets, the white of driven snow on eastern mountains, and the blue of southern skies. Lest the northern delegates be offended, it was also voted to add the green of northern pines. Mrs. U.S.A. addressed an underprivileged group later in the day on behalf of the Bundling for Britain campaign that she is personally sponsoring. Unfortunately, those people did not respond to the plea, even going so far as to ask “What about us?”
She was so stirred by their lack of concern that she immediately added two silk blouses, a wool bathing suit and an almost new evening gown to her own private bundle. Her most interesting experience of the day came when a republican dropped into visit her husband. It is not often that even one who gets around as much as Mrs. U.S.A. has an opportunity to see one of these. When he met the First Lady, he very politely offered her some peanuts but, as politely was refused. After all. peanuts do not come -wrapped in tin-foil and so there is nothing to save. However, Mrs. U.S.A, offered the republican half of her candy bar and they were both able to make contributions to the tin-foil barrel and conclude a most happy day for the most famous wife in the country.
Well, You See—
The Dean’s office at Loyola in Chicago keeps a file of cut excuses and during the course of the last semester gathered more than enough material to provide an enterprising student newshawk with a story. A student was forced to stay home one Monday so that he could fix the car in order “to come to school Tuesday.” Another young man showed that honesty is still alive in this sordid
Grandma’s got the D.T.’s, the chowder factory ain’t making money, Willie smashed ap the Lincoln, and now yon want to major in English.
world of ours when he admitted he had not come to class the previous day because he “didn’t know the lessons.” Though triple cuts were given those absenting themselves after the Christmas holidays, some of the lads didn’t
show up. One complained that he was “ill from overwork.” Another was “prevented from attending class by freshmen—kidnapped and clothes taken.”
Personal Piffle
Though the Parade usually allows the department on the next page to chronicle the happenings hereabouts, while it goes far afield in search of material, the recent Prom cannot be allowed to pass into history without comment. Messrs. Fayette, McDonald, et al made things uncomfortable for past dance chairmen by revolutionizing ND social life. The introduction of dice and the two-band system into our revels is a move so radical that the hearts of all campus conservatives are chilled for these things bespeak a reversion, perhaps, to those halycon days of the late 20’s when the campus was only a place where Juggler editors hung their raccoon coats and kept whatever textbooks they happened to own at the time.
Wisdom
Alex, the philosopher of Sorin, says: “College is like the laundry, you get out of it just what you put in—but you’d never recognize it.”
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF=
NEW DEAL IN NEWS
By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Top of the Week
After four years;...
Reflections of a cap & gown
Charlie Dillon counted the house, multiplied by 1.50 and beamed . . . he could well afford to give a flag away . . . Don Tiedeman, his date beaming from the balcony, soloed beautifully in the delayed cymbal version of the national anthem . . . Bob Fitzpatrick acted as the front man for a sphinx . . . It is comforting to know that Bill Cotter will return in 1966 and quote Bill Cotter ... It was merely a case of going out and getting the next one for Uncle Sam. . . .
Dear Cudgelthong
Let me take this earliest available opportunity to extend warmest appreciation to you for a remarkably enjoyable Prom. I was pleasured to experience a weekend so devoid of physical attractions and devoted to the sustenance of spiritual values. Equally grateful am I to that soulful person with whom you share your cell. His was a most generous heart. Literally speaking, I could hardly tear myself away from him. Friday was interesting. The gymnastic gyrations of the dance were pleasantly transcended by those profound conversations about the rise and fall of the harpsichord. And those other lovely girls were divine. They are so courageous to brave pneumonia and goodness knows what for the sake of fashion’s dictates. I understand that Doctor Walsh’s guest got appendicitis, the lesser of two evils, the other one being him. Saturday’s stroll through the library was especially stimulating. It was enthralling to walk among the engrossed students. I could almost feel the thought waves hurling themselves against each other in reckless disputation. And then your hallowed traditions. I like immensely the one that urges the students to refrain from placing their pedal extremities within the proximity of nature’s shrubbery. Sunday, that one last lingering stroll through the library, the Indian relics under the golden dome, looking for those first signs of spring in the flower beds. What a- heavenly weekend!
Intellectually,	Masculina.
The Gestapo System
Some professors give out grades, some give out, and some just give. One professor is a composite of all three. His grades are given out on cards resembling Christmas greetings in a remote, distorted sort of way. With each grade is a cryptic comment such as:
“93—And on his right hand was Mary Green.” .
“82—Plaited neat to catch applause.” “85 — in silence — Even without a whisper.”
“23—And skiddoo.”
Students in the class speculate wildly as to whether these comments are the keys to success, inscriptions from the rathskeller of the Taj Mahal, or subconscious insights into the brain of Edgar Guest. Deciphering these messages is more fun than anything, even better than going to class. If the student manages to interpret the message his grade is doubled, as might well have happened in a few instances without anyone noticing an appreciable gain. Let us take one of these brimming little messages and squeeze from it its truths.
“And on his right hand was Mary Green.”
As any fool can plainly see, the student is up against it. The person who received this comment did not know “Mary Green.” But then, perhaps the professor was crystal-gazing, maybe it was “the farmer takes a wife” idea. Again, the professor might have seen the student down at Walgreen’s attempting to take leave of some young lady and saying, “Pardon me, but that’s my hat you’re sitting on.” Maybe Mary Green was going to heaven. But then she wouldn’t be in Walgreen’s. Maybe Mary Green was the name of a wart on his thumb. Hardly. Well, perhaps the first letter of each word in the sentence might unfold the message. Let’s see . - . A-O-H-R-H-S-M-G. Not exactly English. It could be jumbled in anagrammatical fashion. SHR, GO HAM might be Gaelic for telling the student to take it on the 5:15. Ah, we have it! MARSH HOG. It fits perfect. It undoubtedly means that the student has been wallowing in intellectual mire. It is all clear now.
“93 . . . Marsh Hog.”
In other words, this is a Grade A student, suitable for framing, and his grade is now raised to 152, probably because somebody couldn’t add.
Berlin, Feb. 25—Adolph Hitler, addressing two million German troops stationed at strategic points along the English Channel in preparation for the final death - dealing blow against England, said tonight, “Soldiers of the Fatherland, you have nothing to fear—Durocher has . admitted that ‘Peewee’ Reese can’t go to his right.”
Baden Bog, Feb. 26—D. G. Sullivan, flying editor of the Santa Maria, piloting a giant Sunderland flying boat destined for Britain, made a forced landing today in the mud of Badin Bog. After looking over the Catholic Press Exhibit he got his laundry (without a card), refueled his plane, and took off immediately for England.
Sleepy Eye, Minn., Feb. 30—With the Sleepy Eye-Granite Falls axis tottering on the brink of disaster, Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy-Eye correspondent of the London Times revealed today that Chiang Kai-Shek in a recent message to the American People voiced the opinion that, “If Strinkevich can win 30 games, it looks like the Bees in the National League.”
Somewhere in Indiana, Feb. 23—Lt. James E. McNulty, Indiana air school ace, while flying high through downtown South Bend today was reported to have downed two Messerschmidts, three Stu-kas, and about six Budweisers. Needless to say, the lieutenant came in on the beam.
Chicago, III., Feb. 26—J. Rodney Gil-hooley, internationally known banker and investment expert, speaking at a convention of the American Securities Society, tonight said, “The stock market is in a dangerous slump and there’s only one solution: choke your bat and hit to the right.”
New York, N. ¥., F5b. 24—Joe Glumpf, a prosperous Park Avenue sandwich man fell from the Brooklyn Bridge into the ice-choked waters of the East River last night with $20,000 worth of sandwiches. He landed on a cake of ice. j When last seen from the banks, he was | floating past the Statue of Liberty waving a lettuce and tomato on rye, the lettuce of which fell into the murky waters of the Atlantic.

The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
FEBRUARY 28, 1941
Number 17
Class President Dillon Presente Flag to University on Washington Day
"History Repeats Itself," Says Galvin
The gloom of impending war hupg over Washington Hall on Feb. 22, 1898. Seven days before, the battleship Maine had been sunk in Havana, harbor. For a week newspaper headlines streamed out denunciations of Spain; “war talk” filled the air. In such an atmosphere was held the third annual celebration of Washington Day.
Last Saturday morning another senior class filed into Washington Hall to commemorate another Washington Day. A span of 43 years separated the two observances, but time had only changed the personnel of the senior class and substituted the “Star Spangled Banner” for “Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean.”
Charles Dillon who reminded his classmates that “Washington founded a nation; Father Sorin founded a university. . . . Both left a living monument, the one, a great nation to which we pledge our allegiance; the other, the university which is our alma mater.”
Father O’Donnell thanked the class for the flag and then spoke of Washington and the early beginnings of the United States, and the part Notre Dame is playing in the present preparedness drive. His speech will be found on page 13 of this magazine.
The principal speaker, Timothy Galvin, a Notre Dame alumnus of 1916, compared the contemporary crisis with that current before the World War. To illustrate the similarity, he quoted from a speech he had made during the Washington Day exercises the year he was
graduated: “The happenings of the last twelve months have made us realize that no matter how much we love peace, nor how zealously we may strive to be neutral, we may still be drawn into the vortex of struggling nations, there to experience all of the horrors of war.” He concluded by saying that “So long as this America to which your class pledges its allegiance today, the same America to which my class pledged allegiance twenty-five years ago, shall live, history can and will repeat itself upon this stage, for each succeeding Washington’s Birthday will find another Senior Class coming here to present our country’s flag to Notre Dame.”—Don Heltzel
Dean Crawford Speaks
To Engineers Today
Dean D. C. Jackson of the Notre Dame College of Engineering announces that Dr. Ivan C. Crawford, dean of engineering at the University of Michigan, will address the senior engineer students in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering at 4:15 today. Dean Crawford’s subject is “Professional Ethics.”
In 1941, as in 1898, the speakers sought solace for contemporary events in the life and .words of George Washington. The speakers were William Cotter, class orator. Charles Dillon, senior class president, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and the Honorable Timothy P. Galvin.
Cotter, the first speaker, recalled Washington’s Farewell Address and the importance it placed upon enlightened public opinion. Said Cotter, “Public opinion must be strong and forceful enough so that when the time comes it may ward off suppression. To do that it must be thorough.” And again, “Enlightened public opinion ... is the thought of the nation based upon Religion and Morals, educated in the Natural Law, the natural rights of man, the relations of God, man and the state; thought which understands the meaning of liberty and is tolerant of other thought. . . .” He concluded by stressing the significance of public opinion at the present time, when faced “with the problem of possible war.”
The tradition of presenting a flag to „ the University was continued by Mr.
Father O’Donnell accepts class flag from Charles Dillon, as Mr. Galvin looks on
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Debate Team Victors
In 19 of 22 Matches
The Notre Dame man’s ability to talk his way out of almost any situation — ask any hall rector or the prefect of discipline — came to the fore at North Manchester and Huntington, Ind., last Friday and Saturday. The Notre Dame “A” and “B” debate teams compiled the enviable record of 19 wins in 22 debates at the 11th annual Manchester college tournament.
The first team affirmative, Milt Williams and John O’Loughlin, won all of its six contests; negative, William Meier and Thomas Grady, took the decision in five out of six debates. Second team affirmative, Fred Holl and Edward Meagher, made it a clean sweep for the Irish affirmative teams by out-fact-flinging all five of their opponents; the negative team, Mark Lies and Thomas McGee, came out on top in three out of five.
The question was, “Resolved, That the nations of the Western Hemisphere should enter into a permanent union.”
The Manchester tournament this year had 59 colleges and universities entered with 192 teams in all. This large entry list meant that the Notre Dame debaters had two debates on Friday afternoon, one Friday night, and three Saturday morning. The first negative team debated teams from Western State Teachers (Kalamazoo), Olivet, Indiana Uni
Debater* William Meier, Thomas Grady, Milton Williams and John O’Loughlin
versity, DeKalb, Murray, and Manchester, losing to the latter. The first affirmative swept over Doane, Illinois, Normal, Wayne, Hope, Cincinnati, and Oberlin. The second affirmative squad defeated Calvin, Manchester, Indiana State, Prin-cipian, and Huntington. The second negative beat Indiana, Illinois Normal, and Manchester, and lost to Wabash and Calvin.
At Manchester the Notre Dame affirmative team was the only one undefeated in that division; on the negative side the farthest-away-from-home team, Pasadena, California, Goshen, Wayne, Huntington, Manchester, and DeKalb were unbeaten. At Manchester the Notre Dame and Wabash first teams were the only ones winning 11 out of 12 debates. At Huntington, Muskingum and Wabash were victorious in 11 out of 12. There is, however, no official winner declared at the tournament.
William J. Coyne,Notre Dame coach, judged “A” debates at the tournament. Charles Dougherty, graduate student in English, attended the tourney as a judge in the “A” division. John MacCauley, senior, attended as a judge in the “B” division.
Yesterday the Notre Dame negative team, William Meier and Thomas Grady, met the affirmative team of Emory University of Atlanta, Ga., in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The debate was non-decision.
—Robert LeMense
Senior Party Rivals
New Orleans Mardi Gras
Last Tuesday night the citizens of New Orleans and several hundred thou
sand invited but paying guests wound
Charles Dillon
up their annual pre - Lenten celebration known as the Mardi Gras. Because of blackouts and other restrictions which stymied its one big rival, the New Orleans fun - fest undoubtedly has surpassed all that happened this year in the city which holds the grand-pappy of them all — Marseilles. But
in another tiny part of the country steeped in French tradition, Notre Dame, Ind., the class of ’41 started something new by holding a pre-Lenten party for its 600-plus members that same evening.
The party, which was held from 7:30 to 11 p.m., featured a talk by the University president, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. A buffet supper was served by the dining hall staff. Only seniors with their A.A. books were admitted to the west dining hall that evening, and all attending acclaimed the get-together as a big success socially and financially. No charge was made, but a pass-the-hat collection was taken to help the class treasury pay for food, prizes, and service.
Home talent entertainment vied for 12 prizes in the form of senior ball tickets or merchandise credit slips at downtown stores. First prize went to Bill Dunham for his solid drum work, second to Joe Kaltenbach, hillbilly to end all hillbillies.
Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., famous T. E. B. of “Wake of the News” column, acted as master of ceremonies. Among the entertainers he introduced his brother, Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
General chairman in charge of all arrangements was Henry Schrenker, Elwood, Ind/s second-leading political figure. Chairman Schrenker was aided by Ray Bowers of Sorin, Charlie Dillon and Jack Burke of Walsh, and J. Hennessy of Alumni. The Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., prefect in Sorin hall, served as chairman of the food and refreshments committee. The entertainment was rounded up by Chuck Schmid and Bill McJunkin in Sorin, Frank McKenzie and Joe Kaltenbach in Walsh, and George Zeller and Red McGovern in Alumni.
—John Casey
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
THE BOOKSTORE STAFF: BROTHERS MEINRAD, CONAN AND MAYNARD
Brother Meinrad is not a Jesse James
When campus historians compile a folklore of Notre Dame, certain to be included are those myths connected with the bookstore. Because it is the most satirized of campus institutions with the possible exception of the Dining Halls, one expects to see a quick-triggered Jesse James behind its counters instead of the urbane Brother Meinrad, C.S.C., or one of his assistants.
Anyone even faintly connected with books is generally thought to be stuffy, but Brother Meinrad is warmly human. He “dabbles” in a little logic and French, admires Msgr. Sheen, and mixes his own pipe tobacco. Rumor to the contrary, he does not make money disappear by sleight-of-hand, and every customer retains his shirt. His pet peeve is high-pressure salesmanship.
Roughly, the bookstore grosses between $60,000 and $65,000 a year, but Brother Meinrad has devised several ingenious methods to keep down the profits so that no one will get round-shouldered carrying the loot to the treasurer’s - office. Varying shipping costs, special concessions to the faculty allowing the purchase of reference texts at cost, the yearly phenomenon of overstocking occasioned by student failure to buy books ordered, all help in commensurate degrees to reduce profit. So, although the store operates on a margin of between 15 and 20 percent, the actual profit is much lower.
In Badin Since 1930
The bookstore has been in its present location since 1930. Previously it was cramped into the small room next to the Alumni office in the Main building,
and students walked the plank single file, instead of being “taken” in large numbers. There were no cash transactions in those days, and books were charged to the account of the student. The early home of the bookstore resembled a modern shoe store, for a balcony ran around the wall of the high ceilinged room and bookstore employees had to be adept at climbing. Some of the texts for which the demand was small were stored under the supports of the Dome. This led to disaster once when the water tank on the Dome overflowed and ruined the books stored there.
First Manager
First manager of the bookstore was Rev. William Maloney, C.S.C., who was assisted by Brother Joseph, C.S.C. Other managers were Brother Raymond, C.S.C., Rev. Angus McDonald, C.S.C., and Brothers Prosper and Gabriel, C.S.C.
Expansion of the store has been gradual, and stock on hand varies from soap to medals. Most profitable of the commodities is jewelry, and the shelves are cleaned out periodically, especially before Christmas.
Products from some 100 firms are on sale in the shop. The bulk of the paper comes from Indiana, and four or five publishing houses produce the majority of textbooks.
Thus far, the war has had no affect on prices, but salesmen anticipate a rise next fall, as wood and rag pulp are being utilized in the national defense program. Importation of drawing sets from Germany has ceased, but this has proved to be no hardship as several American companies produce sets of comparable quality at a lower cost.
Offer Fellowships For
Economics and Sociology
Economists and sociologists are aware of the future need of trained men who will help find a solution for the very difficult problems of readjustment and reconstruction in industry with which the world is to be faced after the present war is ended. In an attempt to meet this need, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has announced a new graduate program in Industrial Economics, starting next year, which will lead to a doctor of philosophy degree in economics.
Dr. W. Rupert Maclaurin, director of the department of economics and social science at M.I.T., has already written Professor D. C. Jackson, dean of the College of Engineering, and Professor William H. Downey, head of the department of economics, concerning Notre Dame students and graduates who may be interested in his program. Some fellowships up to $1,200 will be offered. Besides taking students directly from college this new program will take men who have been out of school several years and who would welcome an opportunity to work for a Ph.D. degree on a fellowship.
Admission requirements for the course are a B.S. or A.B. degree from a recognized university and three full-year college courses in social science. The social science course may be economics, psychology, sociology, and history. Economics is absolutely required, and the history course must have stressed economic and technical developments. Also required is a knowledge of English comparable to that of the M.I.T. undergraduate curriculum, and full-year courses in college mathematics and college science.
There is also an opportunity for any student who is interested in the role of invention and of technological change in our economic system to participate in the M.I.T. research program now under development.
Students or graduates interested in trying for these fellowship offers may contact Mr. Downey or Mr. Jackson at the University, or they may obtain application blanks by writing to Professor Ralph E. Freeman, department of economics and social science, M.I.T. Cambridge, Massachusetts. Applications for 1941-42 should be made before March 15.
—John Casey
Through eight years as manager of the bookstore, Brother Meinrad has managed to retain both his wavy hair and his good disposition. Indispensable helpers and just as cheerful are his assistants, Brother Conan, C.S.C., and Brother Menard, C.S.C.—Bill Welch
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By James Meaney
on a blue-eyed coleen in far-away Manhattan, which is probably the reason he doesn’t go in for South Bend society, because John has eyes for no other. More power to him, as the Irish say.
John S. MacCauley, of the Sorin Sub philosophy Mac’s, is a Manhattan product. Specifically, it was under the Christian Brothers at La Salle Institute in lower New York that h e received his early training. It gave him the urge to higher learning, and for two years after high school he worked in a print-John S. MacCauley establishment to get his chance at Notre Dame, where he has become a top-flight philosophy major of ’41. It is not known what gave him his love of argument, but politics, thick New York City politics would be a safe bet.
John is “Essence” of the pair, “Essence and Existence,” of wide fame and familiarity. Why he should be “Essence” and Tom his buddy “Existence” is a pure whim of some unknown nicknamer. John can be easily identified—he’s the one who talks through his teeth, as if he were angry. But his grin, and twinkling eye, belie that. Though they say, the few that have survived it, that his anger is as sudden and as blasting as a blowtorch.
The Irish in Mac also comes out in his tenor voice, which has been performing for Mr. Pedtke and the Glee Club for several years. Friends say that four good beers will produce in him one of the sweetest Irish tenors a decent saloon ever heard. We couldn’t say.
As a follow-up of much experience in high school debating, John broke into the Wranglers, where doggedness in argument and precision in thinking characterize his work. And this year’s Philosophic Disputation will see him philosophizing. . The Schoolmen and Catholic Action Students also form part of his activities.
His most recent flash of temper was over an affair with a hotel manager on a Glee Club trip. We haven’t been able to get the straight of it, but whatever it was, the manager came out second.
John’s ambition is to get a.law degree, probably by working at it nights, back home in New York. And he has his eye
Plan "Progress of Song" Program Before Easter
With Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, working on the lyrics, and Jack White and Felix Pogliano writing the script, the Glee Club’s project, “Progress of Song,” is nearing completion. The “Progress of Song” is developed from the folk songs of America, the music of the general public. It consists of parts or complete numbers of every period since the founding of our country, including songs of the pioneers, plainsmen, gold miners, railroad workers, war songs from the Revolution, the War of 1812, the Civil War and World War I. This project will be used as the third part of the program of the Glee Club on its eastern tour during the Easter vacation. The “Progress of Song” will probably be presented on the campus sometime before Easter.
Fifty men will make the Eastern trip, leaving the campus on April 11 to give a series of nine programs in principal eastern cities. Although plans are not complete at the present there is a possibility of an appearance at the Roxy Theatre in New York City.
Because of the wide demand created by their last trip, the Glee Club will make another trip to Vincennes and vicinity sometime before Easter.
At present the orchestra is working on a piano concerto in B-minor by Tschaikowsky. The solo piano part will be played by Mr. Pedtke.
—Bob Fitzpatrick
N.D. Symphony Orchestra — To Play at St. Mary’s
Catholic U. Players
Appear Here March 9
The play, “God’s Stage,” will be enacted by the University Players of Catholic University of Washington, D.C., on the stage of Washington Hall Sunday, March 9 at 8 p.m. The Catholic University contingent is one of the top collegiate dramatic groups in the country.
Symphony Orchestra Plays at St. Mary's
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, conducted by Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, will present a concert at St. Angela’s Hall, St. Mary’s College on March 5, at 8:00 p.m.
Assistant director Frederick Ingersoll has aided tremendously in the past few weeks, getting the boys in shape for this important appearance. The main attraction of the evening will be a solo by Joseph Hruby, well known trumpet player of the campus. A specialty number prepared for the occasion is a medley of Victor Herbert’s Favorites which is composed of some ten of the favorite numbers of this great composer.
The complete program is as follows:
1.	Fantasie __________________________ .Mozart
2.	Symphony No. 12-----------------------Haydn
3.	Ballet Music from	La	Giaconda___Ponchielli
4.	Wagner’s Operas	(Excerps)-----------.Wagner
5.	Sounds from The Hudson ----------H. L. Clark
A trumpet solo hy Joseph Hruby
■	INTERMISSION
6.	Ballet .Egyptian_________________A. Luigini
7.	Spring Morning Serenade._________:P. Lacombe
Pizzicato Serenade.________K. Muller-Berghaus
8.	In A Persian Market-------------------Ketelby
9.	Medley of Victor Herbert’s Favorites....V. Herbert
Future plans of the Symphony orchestra include one in Washington Hall the latter part of. the month and one for South Bend during April.—C. S. Coco
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Father Hebert, Expert, Discusses Nature Lore
“There are about as many squirrels on the campus as there are seniors,” joked the Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., and added ambiguously, “all kinds of them.” And so began a promising interview.
Father Hebert, head of the department of classics at the University, first became interested in things botanical in 1926 and adopted botany as a hobby. Now he is recognized as an authority on trees, plants, and birds of Indiana and Michigan. He has merited this place through years of study and direct observation of nature’s many phenomena. With the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., and alone, he has spent many hours tramping the fields in quest of new knowledge about nature. Never does he return without a new oddity to add to his variegated collections of leaves, flowers, butterflies, and plants from around South Bend and Mt. Clemens, Mich.
We caught Father Hebert as he was leaving a class. Nervously he fished for a cigarette. Lighting it, he stepped out the door and started down the walk, talking as he went. He complained, “Notre Dame students have no interest in nature. They should be awakened to the fact that they are surrounded by a wealth of nature lore — trees, birds, shrubbery, squirrels, stars, and planets in the heavens.” But then as he gazed about him, eyeing snow-covered shrubbery, he rambled on, “There are birds and trees around the campus that only a few persons know about. In a week’s time I could show you things around here that you never dreamed existed. The campus is full of trees and plants of every description from all over the world. Many of them are marked so that tho. casual stadent may appreciate what he is lookinjpat.”
His obsession, for nature grasped him as he continued excitedly. “There is so much to be known about nature. The students should form a club on campus to arouse an interest in these things. Why there’s a tree behind Corby hall called the “Indian tree”; it’s probably the most interesting on the campus and as the name suggests it has a wealth of legend attached to it. The island also has several rare interesting trees on it. Some of the sycamores on the campus are as old as the University itself.”
With this startling statement Father Hebert relaxed his enthusiasm on the subject and exhibiting his intense interest in persons and things, turned the tables upon his interviewer and commenced to probe into his secrets, public and private. Here I stop!—Robert Uhle
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
Over in the library last week a young man in a T-shirt walked to a table where another young man sat, and pushing some sheets under his nose, said: “You corrector for my prof?” The young man at the table shook his head. “No,” he said. “You sure you ain’t his corrector?” repeated the fellow in the T-shirt. “Cross my heart,” was the reply. The young man in the T-shirt frowned, then walked away, filled with doubt and annoyance. The fellow at the table was (of course you knew all the time) the red-haired professor of the English Department. We think a moustache might help to avoid this perennial problem.
* * *
’ For a long time now we have been debating with ourselves the merits of the Philosophy Department. And we must admit, that we were fighting a losing fight in trying to justify that department’s existence. But now we have no doubts. Only the other day we were given convincing proof for the validity of philosophy at the University. It all happened when we asked the mailman for our mail. With that slow, incomprehensible shrug which is so characteristic of good philosophers, he looked at me, and said: ‘Nemo dat quod non habet.’* And he meant it.
* * *
One day last week, our maid told us that we would have to makey our own beds the next morning. We were willing to let it go at that, being old hands at roll pillows and hospital-turned blankets, but she went right on to explain why she would be absent on the following morn. She was going to help control one hundred and fifty guests who had been invited to her nephew’s wedding. We might explain that the Bendix Soft-ball team was included among the mob. When we expressed surprise at the size of the wedding party, our maid told us that it is the usual thing to have that many people. ‘And,’ she said with a confidential wink, ‘It’s all free for nothing.’
* * *
A friend of ours told uS about a vigorous conversation he listened to recently. Two young men in their first year at the University were going toward their hall, waving arms and bobbing heads, as fast as they walked. Finally one of the young men stopped short, slapped
♦ Translation: ‘Truth is so.’
his companion’s back and groaned, ‘Oh, for gosh sakes, let’s keep in the realm of the material!’ Our friend swears that neither one wore a halo at any time during the conversation.
* * *
When it was announced that the president of the school across the road was to lecture in Washington Hall, we felt sure that her visit was prompted by either of two motives. We thought that the president had come over in order to cement good neighbor relations, or to demand a stop of emigration from this territory; but although she did neither of these things, the president promoted quite a commotion by her re-■ marks. She may even (without knowing it) have made some enemies. You see, all the young men of the University who attended the lecture were told that they were poets.
* * *
We cannot say that we have the slightest interest ourselves, but some one wants to know what became of the snow-tractor that fell into the lake several weeks ago. This fellow says he is willing to salvage it, if the authorities will allow him to race the new streamlined model down the main quadrangle.
* ♦ ♦
After many years of inquiry, we have found how to put old shoe-boxes to use. Last week, in their thesis class, the seniors in English were told that one of the best ways to store notes for future reference is to arrange them in a discarded shoe-box. We expect any day to learn how to employ broken shoe-strings and second hand blue-books. And when we do, you may be sure that we will pass along this information to you.
♦ ♦ *
All our cautioning about defense preparations has had little effect on the campus mentality, we are convinced. In the Caf a few days ago, when a news report began to come over the radio, a fellow shifted the dial until, he could hear the horse racing results.
• « *
The indestructible editor of a local journal has had his hat sat upon. This fact alone is hardly worthy of mention, but it was a two hundred pound woman . who did the sitting, and she sat on it for the duration of the world’s longest movie, Gone etc. The editor looks like a newspaper man, now.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Pax Romana Group
Studies Spanish History
The Pax Romana study group is carrying on its endeavors in a glorious manner. Each Monday evening from 6:30 to 8 o’clock Professor Eduardo Al-cayaga fills Room A of the law building with elevating bits of knowledge on South American history. Their text is well thumbed. The “charlas,” or small talks in Spanish, given by Alcayaga-delegated students are intriguing. Last Monday Luis Flores completed a summarization of the history, economic, political and literary, of his country, Peru. Next class Roberto de Romano will lead the class in an interesting study of the ancient Inca city of Cuzco, Peru.
Meanwhile the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., spark of the movement at Notre Dame, returned from Washington, well fortified with details of the Pax Romana South America sojourn. The group, leaving New York on the Grace Line steamer, Santa Elena, will arrive in Buenaventura July 25, and will proceed by rail to Bogota, Colombian capital. The CIDEC, or Ibero-Americano (including Spain, the Philippines, all of South and Central America) Confederation of Catholic Students, will close a week of conferences the day the Pax Romana conferences begin, July 31, so that the councils will have one joint session. On Sunday, July 31, both groups will attend mass in the Cathedral and in the evening the Pax Romana envoys will be formally received by the archbishop and several government officials. The following two days will be spent in conferences.
Then travel is resumed. The group will travel westward by rail to Mani-zales, northward by river-boat and by rail to Medillin, and by similar transportation, southward to Papayan. Thence it will enbus and sally into Ecuador, proceeding to Quito, national capitol. Here the group will split.
Some will entrain to Guayaquil, large Ecuadorian seaport, and there board the Santa Elena for the return voyage, arriving in New York on August 25. The other, more adventuresome half, will proceed southward from Guayaquil by boat and having explored into Chile, holding conferences in every town from Guayaquil to Santiago, Chilean capital, will likewise head northward, arriving in New York in the middle of September. Three St. Mary’s College girls have already signed up for the voyage and several others have expressed a desire to do so.
A sound picture telling “The Story of
Notre Dame,” will acquire a Spanish narration and will be demonstrated by the group in the various cities that it visits.—Mark G. McGrath
Bishop O'Hara Chats With Notre Dame Men
Speaking to the 300 questioning Notre Dame students who are draftees, already and potentially, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Milasa and Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese, parried the question, “Is it better to enlist than get caught in the draft?” with “Your guess is as good as mine.”
Bishop O’Hara met the students Monday evening in the basement chapel of Sacred Heart Church. He spoke of life in the Army camps of the States, Puerto Rico and the Canal Zone, from where he has recently returned. The Canal Zone is the present home of 25,000 soldiers in training, one-fourth of whom are Catholics. They have only four chaplains, yet one of the camps there, of 1,500 men, impressed him most deeply. Despite a decided lack of religious facilities, 80 percent of the Catholics in the outfit are weekly communicants. This, Bishop O’Hara added, is seldom found in even the best supervised parishes.
In his travels through the nation’s camps, Bishop O’Hara has found many Notre Dame students, and he praised the good influence they are having on their acquaintances. Catholic boys in the camps have led to many conversions already by their edifying example of right living. The stories that have come from the camps of dissolute life are rumors to which little attention should be paid, the Bishop said. Good companions are to be found in every camp and draftees should not be unduly worried about leaving ‘the best outfit I was ever in—Notre Dame.”—John A. Lynch
See Industrial Movie
At their meeting on Feb. 17, the Notre Dame Student Chapter of the American Institute of. Chemical Engineers witnessed the premiere showing of an industrial movie taken and arranged by Hubert Schlafley, Walsh hall senior.
The film showed in interesting detail the process involved in crushing limestone trap-rock and burning limestone to form chemical lime. The setting for the film was the France Stone Company of LaPorte, Ind.—Jack Sprague
"Navy Log" Uses Drawing of Scholastic Cartoonist
Smooth and suave are the Peter Amo-ized cartoons of the New Yorker and there’s a bit of deviltry in the cartoons of Marge of the Saturday Evening Post, but collegiated-humor is the aim of Scholastic cartoonist, Bernie McKay.
Bernie’s first cartoons were published in his high school paper down in Indianapolis, Ind., his home town. When he came to Notre Dame as a freshman he continued to draw but only for his own amusement. As a sophomore last year, however, he did 20 cartoons for the Dome, six of which were finally accepted. Last year he also made his initial appearance in the Scholastic. And by the way, not limiting himself entirely to cartooning, he drew the mask for the “Juggler” page of last year’s Dome.
Sketch of the artist—by the artist
Recently the Navy Log reprinted one of Bernie’s cartoons used in the Scholastic of Oct. 4, showing a curve sign at the edge of a road along a steep precipice. Ideas for Bernie’s drawings seem to pop at all sorts of odd times so he jots them down or makes rough sketches at the moment, and then makes pen-and-ink drawings at his leisure.
He is a Saint Edward’s hall junior, sharing a fourth floor room with com-• merce students Joe Rogers and Jim Hurley. He was out for the “B” football team all fall. Although he started in engineering he switched to Arts and Letters and intends to continue as a commercial art major until he receives his degree and then will take two years’ extra work in mechanical engineering and secure a bachelor of science degree.
Bernie is experimenting with water color cartoons this year and intends to contribute again to the Dome. He hopes some day to contribute to a national magazine, but so far school work has kept him too busy.—Carl Rohrer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Fr. Corby Gave First General Absolution To Irish Brigade at Battle of Round Top
On the Gettysburg Battlefield, amid the rigid obelisks and monuments and statues, there stands a blackened bronze figure. Any Notre Dame man will recognize the long beard and outflung hand. It is “Faircatch” Corby, third president of the university and chaplain of the famous Irish Brigade that fought Civil War battles from the First Bull Run to Appomattox.
In the late afternoon of July 2, 1863, Meade’s Army of the Potomac lay embattled along a three and one-half mile front stretching from Culp’s Hill to Little Round Top, in the vicinity of Gettysburg, Pa. Around Devil’s Den and The Peach Orchard fighting was the fiercest; Longstreet was charging Round Top in an effort to dislodge the northern forces. About four o’clock that afternoon the Irish Brigade received orders to stop Longstreet and it was at this time that Father Corby, clad in the uniform of a cavalry captain, gave his famous general absolution.
His act was commemorated 47 years later when Sculptor Samuel Murray struck the familiar pose into bronze and left it near a small wire fence on the battlefield. The statue in front of Corby Hall, here on the campus, is an exact duplicate.
Father Corby was one of seven Notre Dame priests who served as chaplains in the war between the states. The others were Fathers Peter Cooney, Joseph Carrier, Paul Gillen, James Dillon, Joseph Leveque and Father Bourget. The latter two died of yellow fever in the South while Father Dillon, weakened by the war, passed away a few years later.
Father Dillon left a name for himself when he took charge of a regiment at the Battle of Malcolm Hill. On another occasion he formed a “temperance society” among the men of the 63rd Regiment. In his official capacity he was chaplain .of “Corcoran’s Irish Legion.” Father Gillen wandered about the battlefields on his own initiative. He was once captured and later released by Mosby’s Men and on another occasion was ordered to be taken into custody by General Grant, on general suspicion. He was released when his identity became known.
However, Father Corby remains the most famous of all these. He followed
the fortunes of the Army of the Potomac through the battles of Fair Oaks, The Wilderness, Fredericksburg, Gettysburg, and Petersburg always with the green battle flag of General Thomas Meagher and the 69th Irish Brigade.
From Notre Dame also came two generals for the Northern Army. They were William F. Lynch and Robert W. Healy. General Lynch was a student at Notre Dame in the year 1859 and was appointed by Father Sorin, president of the school, to form a group of cadets. Lynch formed the Continental Cadets, composed of members of the senior class, with himself as captain.
The Junior class were later made members of another company, the Washington Cadets. With the outbreak of the war almost every member of the Continentals enlisted, with them Lynch. He was appointed by the governor of Illinois to recruit the 58th Illinois Infantry. This he did and was immediately made colonel of the outfit. He fought through the South with Sherman and in a few years was appointed brigadier general, commanding a division in the southwest, the youngest general m the Northern forces. He was fatally wounded in the Southwest campaign and died a few years later.
When General Lynch was forming the 58th Illinois infantry he sought out the services of Robert W. Healy, a schoolmate. Healy enlisted and was appointed captain. A few years later he was a major, fighting with Sherman in the Red River Campaign. Before he was mustered out of service he had been appointed brigadier general and at the close of the war was recommended by General Grant to the position of United States marshall in one of the southern states.
One of the most famous of Civil War figures was dark little William T. Sherman who marched from “Atlanta to the Sea” in one of the most devastating campaigns of the war. While Sherman marched through the South his wife and children were living at Notre Dame, two of the boys being enrolled in the minim department of the University. The other boy, a baby, died during the course of the war and was buried in the community cemetery. After the Battle of Shiloh, Sherman sent for Willie, his eldest son. The boy died a little while later of yellow fever.—Don Heltzel
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY ♦
Matins Hymn for Lent
Ex more docti mystico: Roman Breviary
The fast, as taught by holy lore,
We keep in solemn course once more: The fast to all men known, and bound In forty days of yearly round.
The law and seers that were of old In divers ways this Lent foretold, Which Christ, all seasons’King and Guide, In after ages sanctified.
More sparing therefore let us make The words we speak, the food we take, Our sleep and mirth,—and closer barred Be every sense in holy guard.
Avoid the evil thoughts that roll Like waters o’er the heedless soul;
Nor let the foe occasion find Our souls in slavery to bind.
Thy grace have we offended sore, By sins, O God, which we deplore;
But pour upon us from on high, O pardoning one, thy clemency.
Remember thou, though frail we be, That yet thine handiwork are we;
Nor let the honor of thy name Be by another put to shame.
Forgive the sin that we have wrought; Increase the good that we have sought: That we at length, our wanderings o’er, May please thee here and evermore.
♦
Attributed to Pope Saint Gregory the Great (540-604). Translation by J. M. Neale. Stanzas selected from Hymns of the Breviary and Missal by Father Matthew Britt, O.S.B. Benziger Bros.
(Mass Calendar on page 24)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-In-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distrinuror of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Aim of Graduate Philosophy
Throughout the past two years we have been reading interesting sketches in the Student Forum, of the various departments of study that flourish in our University. Various sciences such as Journalism, Sociology, Accounting, Marketing, Apologetics, Engineering and other specialized studies which constitute the foundation of our University’s academic structure have each been described as to their programs, purposes and future. It seems fitting now to turn our attention to that higher university study which is above and includes all these, the father of sciences—philosophy.
It is a well-known fact that education is a two-fold process, analytical and synthetical First, it necessarily consists in the collecting of facts and data, which is the work of the various particular sciences, and then secondly, in the correlation of these facts into a synthetic whole or Weltanschauung which is one of the purposes of philosophy. The relation of philosophy to the particular sciences in education has often been described by picturing the various individual sciences as pieces of a universal jig-saw puzzle which it is the function of ’ philosophy to put together in their proper relations and according to their teleological purposes.
The aim of the Notre Dame graduate work in philosophy is the two-fold one
of reposing itself completely on its own scholastic tradition and. then to present this tradition in terms of the problems of today. Catholics have the greatest intellectual tradition of the western world, a tradition expressed for the most part in theology and philosophy, and the crying need of American society today is just for that vital Catholic philosophy. However, if philosophy is to be a real and living thing and if it is to avoid the decadence that crept into later medieval scholasticism, this tradition must be ever directed towards the • present problems of mankind and all the wealth and good of the old must be made one with all that is true and good in modern tradition. This can be done only in modem idiom, by way of modem problems and approaches, and this is the work of the Catholic school and of any valid study of philosophy.
In Notre Dame’s endeavor to do this the important part of the work is centralized around what is known as the Aris-totelian-Thomistic tradition which when mastered, acts as a point from which to judge other traditions. These latter include certain minimum required readings of the texts of Plato, St. Augustine and all the lesser lights of the GraecoRoman era; acquaintance with the vast wealth of thought of the 12th and 13th centuries in addition to the emphatic and detailed study given to St. Thomas Aquinas; and finally contact with the chief moulders of modem thought— Descartes, Hume, Kant, Hegel, Karl Marx, and Comte. It is true that Plato, St. Augustine and Descartes may justifiably be studied in themselves but they do not necessarily lose anything being studied in relation and subordination to
the Thomistic tradition. Furthermore, a center is necessary and besides being one of the greatest traditions in the west, Thomism has many advantages especially in a Catholic school.
Since her first class nearly one hundred years ago, Notre Dame has always included courses of philosophy in her curriculum, and with the urging of Pope Leo XIII’s famous Encyclical on Philosophy, she has anxiously pushed her development in philosophical studies until now she is indeed one of the greatest centers of vital thought in this country and in the world. One example of her youthful growth is the presence of the Institute of Medieval Studies founded here in 1936 and which has been active in translating and publishing medieval studies taken from every field of medieval learning, but particularly from the theological and philosophical works of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. The purpose of this institute is to make available the knowledge of the intense intellectual life which characterized that period in human history and which contains a wealth of wisdom that could be readily studied today. Another example is the several symposiums on social and politi-cal philosophy and on the philosophy of religion held here in the past few years, to which came scholars famous the world over. Also there have been several groups composed of students alone, and of students and professors organized on the campus to discuss pertinent philosophical problems, and criticize matter not yet ready for publication.
In a world that sorely needs people to interpret its many problems in the light of sound philosophical principles, Notre Dame is sending forth every year men alive both to the richness and depth of the old Catholic tradition and to modem difficulties. If Notre Dame’s graduate work in philosophy continues to grow as it has in recent years it seems not too much to predict that the future shall And Notre Dame radiating the greatest intellectual force in our country and . thus truly fulfilling her dedication to our Mother, the Seat of Wisdom.
—Burnett C. Bauer
“SCRIP” FOR MARCH
The March issue of “Scrip,” campus literary quarterly, will appear next Friday, March 7, according to Editor Felix Pogliano.
The SCHOLASTIC will next be published on Friday, March - 14. There will be no issue next week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
1776 IN RETROSPECT
.	Address delivered at the Washington Day Exer-
cises, oh February 22, 1941, by the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
No non-religious event at Notre Dame is so characteristic of the spirit of our Alma Mater as that in which we are taking part this morning. Today is ours in a very special sense. We observe it within our own family circle with a ceremony peculiar to Notre Dame, in an auditorium named for him whose memory we honor.
This flag is a symbol of Notre Dame’s unswerving loyalty to our country, and the patriotism that is commemorated in the familiar symbol of the Memorial Door to Sacred Heart Church, which so beautifully expresses our triune loyalties —to God, to country and to Notre Dame. Their indivisibility in the heart of every son of Notre Dame will be given another manifestation on Commencement Sunday, when this flag is blessed before it is raised over the campus for the first time.
In accepting this emblem on behalf of the University, I am tempted to speak of Notre Dame’s record of patriotism in war and peace, and certainly to say something of Father Sorin, an adopted American, who gave to this country a loyalty and devotion second only to God and His Blessed Mother.
Yes, I would like to talk about the past. But you and I must live in a tumultuous present and prepare for an uncertain future. The past has only a sentimental interest, unless it can teach us lessons that will guide us through troubled times.
A few days ago I finished reading Oliver Wiswell, by Kenneth Roberts, the much-discussed best seller. The author presents the loyalist viewpoint in connection with the American War of Independence. I do not think he belongs to the “debunking school” of American history. I do not care to impugn his motives for writing the novel. It is a coincidence, however, that the book was published at this time. Perhaps the author knows how to time publication to suit a market. It is his privilege to do so.
What I am concerned with is the impression that such a work is liable to make on those unacquainted with the
true beginnings of our country. The War of Independence was only a link in the chain of the American Revolution, which began about 1760. It was an important link, but only a link. Oliver Wiswell is the historian of the loyalist party in that war.
Let me review for you briefly the events of that revolution and the part that George Washington played in that memorable drama.
The fathers of our country left the Old World to escape religious and civic persecutions. They came to America to carve out of the wilderness a sanctuary devoted to the basic principles of man’s right to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,” as found in the dignity and sacredness of man’s personality. The land along the Atlantic Coast was the immediate sanctuary for such, but the frontier was the ultimate repose for the adoption of these sacred principles. The American Revolution, singularly, became a conflict between the tidewater and the frontier. The common people would have nothing to do with the high-mindedness and haughty spirit of the aristocrats of the tidewater. They came to this new land not to be slaves of any group; they wanted independence, and would fight for it as occasions arose—and the great occasion finally did arise.
The historic Declaration of Independence, of 1776, did two things at once; declared a philosophy of government, and independence from England.
More important, however, was the recognition given to God as the source of all authority and the fountainhead of these natural rights. As a brilliant speaker said recently: ‘The document might be truly considered as a Declaration of Dependence—dependence on God.’ And that, my dear friends, is just another way of saying that the principle of true democracy rests on a recognition of God.
We all know that it is one thing to declare and quite another to act. But nascent America was not slow in acting. In the successful prosecution of the War of Independence, there is the char
acter of Washington that shines brilliantly, like the evening star, throughout the entire period. At Valley Forge and elsewhere, when the outlook was dark and discouraging, the army of patriots rallied around Washington as men always do around a true leader. Hungry and in rags, the soldiers never doubted his sincere leadership. They had faith in him, and he in turn had faith in God. Under his leadership they would not lose, they could not lose, because their cause was just and victory must be achieved.
Exhausted by the rigors of war, but happy at heart, Washington sought retirement at Mount Vernon after victory at Yorktown. His retirement, however, was short lived, because he was needed to preside at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. The weeks there were very critical. At times the Convention was on the verge of being dissolved. But with Washington present it was bound to succeed, and accordingly the spirits of both delegates and citizens were buoyed up with hope, and at last their hope was realized. The Constitution in its final form—an extension of the principles set forth in the Declaration of Independence—provided for a government “of the people, by the people, for the people,” to use the words of the immortal Lincoln.
Again seeking rest from his labors, Washington repaired to his home on the Potomac, but soon he was recalled to become the first Chief Executive under the Constitution, which he had helped to mould and the people had ratified. He accepted the call, and the American Ship of State was launched. There were troubled waters ahead, but under God he guided the bark through to a safe landing. American historians are practically unanimous in declaring that it was his strength and nobility of character that made the impossible possible during what has been termed the “critical period of American history.”
Washington did not have the speculative mind of Jefferson, nor the homespun philosophy of Franklin. John Adams was his superior in education,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
14	THE
and Patrick Henry excelled him in eloquence. But in any great crisis it is the ’ character of the leader that counts, and Washington had that character—formed as it was on the frontier, ripened during the hardships of war, and climaxed by his faith in God and love of country. He would brook no opposition when it came to what was best for his beloved United States.
As James Truslow Adams so well says, in his Epic of America:
“When we think of Washington it is not as a military leader, nor as executive diplomat. We think of the man who, by his force of character, held a divided and disorganized country together until victory was achieved, and who, after peace was won, still held his disunited countrymen by their love and respect and admiration for himself until a nation was welded into enduring strength and units’.”
On this, his birthday, so faithfully commemorated throughout the United States, let the modern Wiswells reflect on the wisdom of his Farewell Address. Let our leaders read and re-read the precious legacy that that address contains. Let all true Americans gain courage and strength from it in the critical days that lie ahead. In my judgment, his words savor of prophecy:
“Friends and Fellow Citizens: Observe good faith and justice towards all nations; cultivate peace and harmony with all. Religion and
morality enjoin this conduct... . passionate attachment of one nation... . produces a variety of evils... . The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is in extending our commercial relations, to have with them as little political connection as possible.... Here let us stop.”
At present we are facing another critical period in the history, of our country. Notre Dame, as in the past, is cooperating with the government in the emergency and will continue to do so as occasions arise. A Defense Council has already been established, and the various departments of the University are responding in accordance with instructions received. Plans are also under way for the formation of a Naval Reserve unit, which we hope to have in operation by the fall term.
Moreover, I know that a number of seniors have already received notification for service after graduation, while others are planning to enroll in the different government units. It is assumed, however, that such activity is to be restricted to the “defense of the realm” act. May God forbid that it ever be extended to the grim horrors of war. Like yourselves, I abhor war in any form. But I yield to no one in my desire to see our country strengthened and protected so that it can meet any future emergency. And I find comfort in the fact that the president of the United
States has declared that no American will be sent to Europe to participate in the war there.
Well can I appreciate how you feel about the future. The horizon is quite different from that which confronted the senior classes of the last 20 years. Yet I exhort you not to despair, not to become discouraged, and above all not to cultivate the pagan philosophy of fatalism.
Never was it more important for the true Christian to take the supernatural view of events than at the present. With most of the world at war and a pagan philosophy of no-God or anti-God permeating even the nations at peace, it behooves you, it behooves all of us, to look beyond this earth to our true home in heaven.
Buoy up your spirits, then, with this Christ-like philosophy! Intensify your faith by renewed prayer and mortification! Revive your hope by reflecting on the emptiness of this world and all worldly goods! And may the charity of Christ enkindle in your hearts a real love of fellowman, in contrast with the hate and prejudice existing in so many countries abroad.
In a word, become supernatural-minded. Then you can face the future with clean minds and strong hearts. If God is with you, man can not defeat you.
To Washington from Valley Forge, 1941
This is no time as yours was, of Stamping frozen feet, but of Teaching them to walk a different Way. You had no time to teach With mock maneuvers. When your men Were dead they were not playing games. We do not stand, waiting for spring, In the frozen middle of a war, And yet we hold our breath, as if There were no sky, no air around Us, but snow growing silently And sliding from a tree, the burst A smothered puff, and seen only. Despite the scream and grind of tools In the heat of overtime, we wait And wonder, questioning the cold. We make no red footprints, nor watch A few rag round wrapped soldiers stare At others trailing home. Our tanks May stain the snow with gasoline, But all our men are dressed alike In uniforms of winter weight.
We have no trouble kegping them In camp to gain the quick degree Of bachelor of war. But still
We wait, unsure. The marks we make Are drawn up by the leaden white And we no longer look behind. Our lashes blurred with flakes of it. Things change so quickly that we lose The pointing forward of our past With each new step. Your ears were still Alive with cries of running men, With flat, quick slaps of musket fire. With the rumbling of the cakes of ice— With all the homely sounds of war. We do not hear those sounds. We hear The hissing of the snow on oily Water stretching to a shore Two thousand miles away. You knew The things you had to do. They were Before you — things that you could touch. This is no time as yours was, but Remembering knee prints in the snow We do not have to ask what you Would do. We only hope, when the sun Has swept the sky of snow, to find Red footprints of an army that Has fought a war upon its knees And learned to walk a different way.
'	—Felix Pogliano

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Central Conference Indoor Track Meet
To be Held at Notre Dame March 7, 8
Notre Dame Victor Ten Times; Marquette Present Champs
Notre Dame’s fieldhouse will be the
scene of the 15th annual running of the Central Collegiate Indoor Track and Field Meet, to be held next Friday and Saturday, March 7 and 8. Started in 1927, by the immortal Knute Rockne, Ralph Young of Michigan State, and Con Jennings of Marquette, this meet has rapidly gained in popularity until it now ranks as one of the outstanding sporting attractions in the Middle-West.
Ray Roy
Michigan State, at East Lansing, was host to the meet last year.
Every major university in this sector (with the exception of the Big-Ten schools which are holding their own indoor meet on the same dates) will compete. The spotlight will fall on such track powers as, Marquette, the defending champion; Pittsburgh, runners-up last year; Notre Dame, ten-time champions and runners-up twice in the 14-year-old classic; Michigan State; and Michigan Normal.
Going over the field, it is easy to see why this meet will attract nation-wide recognition, for some of the country’s greatest track stars will be on hand to give the show the color and glamour expected of big-time competition.
Starting with the 60 yard dash, spectators will find such men as Harold Stickel, defending champion, and Bill Carter, both of Pitt; Walter Shelton and Howard Millen of Marquette, and Bill Buenger and Jay Gibson of Notre Dame. Ray Roy, also of Notre Dame and
another defending champion, leads the quarter-milers with Larry Trigonning of Pitt, last year’s runner-up, Don Vos-berg of Marquette and Dale Kaulitz of Michigan State other outstanding men in this event. Del Anderson of Pitt, who recently did 1:56.6 in the half mile, is the favorite, with Tom Quinn of Michigan Normal, Gene Grochowski of Marquette, and Max Lenover of Loyola (Chicago), close behind. The same Lenover, defending champion and record holder at 4:15.8, is favored in the mile, with his closest competition coming from Ollie Hunter of Notre Dame, Dick Wickersham of Marquette, and Quinn. Ely Francis of Marquette, who finished second last year, leads the two-milers. Charles “Whitey” Hlad of Michigan Normal, who had been pressing Fred Wolcott in the East all year, dominates both the high and low hurdles.
Turning their attention to the field events, fans find that Jim Delaney, Notre Dame sophomore shot-put star, who has bettered 49 feet in two meets this year, appears to have that event all to himself in this meet, and might conceivably break Don Elser’s meet record of 48 feet 11% inches. Keith O’Rourke, another Notre Dame soph, is favored over Dave McDowell of Pitt, last year’s co-title-holder in the high jump. The pole vault presents the greatest field ever assembled in this event, with no fewer than seven men who have done 13 feet or better this year entered: they are, Doyle Rhoades of Pitt, defending co-champion, Maurice Jessup also of Pitt and former Riley High of South Bend start, Ted Wonch of Michigan State, Ezra Smith of Notre Dame, and Don Bertsch, Ralph Gelbar, and Harvey Baerwald all of Marquette. It appears certain that one of these seven boys will break the meet record of 13 feet 5 % inches.
Notre Dame and Pitt are favored in the mile-relay which will be the final event on the program. The trials will be held Friday night, with the finals scheduled to start at two o’clock Saturday afternoon. '
Added features of the meet will be two special half-mile relays; one between the finalists of the annual Notre Dame Inter-Hall Indoor Track Meet, which includes teams from Cavanaugh, Zahm, Breen-Phillips, and Lyons halls; and the other between four Fighting
Irish varsity football players, and four freshmen pigskin speedsters. Probable line-ups for the latter event are: varsity —Steve Juzwik, Owen “Dippy” Evans, Al Lee, and Joe Prokop or George Ras-sas; freshmen—Bob McCall, Russ Ashbaugh, Mickey McConnell, and Erwin Wroeblewski.—Jim Clemens
Marquette Risks Record Against N. D. Trackmen
A Marquette track team that has crossed the finish line in front in 14 successive dual meets, invades the Notre Dame fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon, to
Track Capt. Joe Olbrys
match itself against an aroused Irish squad that is still smarting from the 56 2/3 to 47 i/3 defeat it suffered at the hands of a powerful Indiana outfit last week.
Particularly strong in the sprints, hurdles, and quarter-mile, Marquette will be out to repeat last year’s 63-41 victory over the Irish thinlies, but if recent indications of the home guard’s strength is any criterion, that phenomenal winning streak of the visiting force is due to be snapped.
Headlining for the Hilltoppers will be Shelton and Millen in the sprints; Foster, Schwope, and Egbert in the hurdles; Baerwald and Mertsch in the pole vault; Ely Francis veteran two-miler; and Capt. Don Vosberg in the quarter.
To offset this array of talent, the Irish will stand pat on virtually the same lineup that came so close to toppling the great Indiana track team last Saturday. This team includes: Bill Buenger and Jay Gibson who ran one-two in the 60 yd. dash; Ray Roy who annexed third in both the quarter and the half; Ollie Hunter who ran second in the two-mile event; Bill Dillon, winner of a first and third in the low and high hurdles respectively; Ezra Smith who tied with team- . mate Jack Wietoff for first in the pole
(Continued on Page 18)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
— By AL DEL ZOPPO	■■
In the world of sports Pennsylvania’s anthracite coal region enjoys a greater reputation as a producer of athletes than as a producer of hard coal. Shamokin, Pa., in the heart of the anthracite belt, is just an Indian name to most people, but sports followers recognize it as being the high school stamping-grounds of such football heroes as Stebbins and Souchak of Pitt, and Eshmont and Filipowicz of Fordham. On the Notre Dame campus, however, the Shamokin district is known not because it has been the home of some football greats, but chiefly because it has been the birthp 1 a ce of Hal Langton, N. D. track star of several years past, and Florian Sam Yezerski, senior forward on this year’s basketball squad.
Yezerski is one of many college students who had no intentions of ever going to college when in high school. But jobs were scarce in the mining region when Sam graduated from Coal Township High. And three years of idleness were boring enough to create in him the desire to continue his education. So Sam came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1937, enrolling in the Phy. Ed. school.
Yezerski’s next move was to become familiar with the fundamentals of as many sports as were offered at N. D. He had played a lot of football in
high school, but the size of the Irish squad deterred Sam from participating in any active competition here. So he did .the next best thing and watched football practices from the sidelines, hoping to learn enough about that sport to teach it when he graduated.
When basketball season got under way in Sam’s freshman year, he abandoned his side-line observation plan of learning, put on his basketball trunks and shoes, and won a position on the freshman squad. Sam was recognized as one of the best shots in eastern Pa., high school circles before coming to N. D., leading his Township team in
scoring, and winning all-star honors in the city and Eastern Conferences. As a freshman here the Pennsylvanian was immediately recognized by Coach Keog- • an as a man with plenty of scoring ability. Keogan noticed that Sam had a good pair of hands, and a pair of springy legs which enabled him to leave the floor when he flipped his shots, and the cage mentor gave him a fair share of attention.
Sam’s offensive work has been above par ever since he came to Notre Dame, but his greatest misfortune as a varsity man has been his understudying one of the best and most rugged basketball players in N. D.’s basketball history— Ed Riska. Consequently, his playing opportunities have been limited. Whenever he has been called upon to give an account of himself, however, Sammy has done everything that was expected of him. As a sophomore, Keogan started him against Cornell, and the Irish forward, besides playing a neat defensive game, managed to toss in three of his specialty shots—one-handers from quar
ter court.
Yezerski expects to transmit his technique to future college athletes when he graduates with his Phy. Ed. degree and he is now seeking a coaching job. The draft has already put a crimp in Sam’s immediate plans, however, and it’s very likely that June will find the name of Yezerski listed among Uncle Sam’s future airplane pilots.
Fencing Team Boasts
Southern Gentlemen
The boys from the “you all” and “amigos” country have invaded Notre Dame! Unlike other Irish athletic teams, dominated by boys from the Middle West and East, the fencing team is loaded with sons of the South,' Southwest, and West.
Of the five men on whom Coach Langford relies to win matches, Capt. Jack Gaither is from Louisville, Ky.; Herb Melton lives in Paducah, Ky.; Russ Harris summers in Little Rock, Ark.; Mike Humphreys hails from Fullerton, Calif. The only trespasser, Jim Corbett, is from Elmhurst, N. Y. Supporting these fencers are the geographically - balanced quartet of Jim Madigan of Little Rock, Angel Gonzalez from Dallas, Lou Peck out of Montepelier, Vt., and Frank Veit from Grand Rapids.
Both Capt. Gaither and Harris seem certain to surpass the total number of bouts won by last year’s high scorer, Joe Smalley, who had 28 wins. Harris has 19 % and Gaither has 19. Coach Langford feels—and hopes—that they will top 30 wins. If they do, they can stab at the record of Kevin Kehoe, who won 38% bouts in 1936 and set the Notre Dame all-time high number of bouts won in one season.
Forty-five freshmen fencers of the 80 who reported are still on the active list. Practice for these boys ends in the first days of April with a foil and sabre tournament, when Coach Langford will be able to observe their progress and note any prospects for future fencing.
—Kelly Cook
Bill Padon, Bengal Coach,
Says Boys Improve Yearly
“Training these boys for the Bengals each year has taught me more about this boxing business.” So confesses William F. Padon, Dillonite hailing from Tulsa, Okla., and who for the past four years has been Nappy’s right hand in the training and conditioning of Bengal bouters. Yet, Bill knows quite a lot about the ring, since back in his prep
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
school days at Cascia Hall in Tulsa, he fought in the 160 pound division and when he entered in the Golden Gloves in 1937 he got as far as the finals. There he met his equal, and the outcome? “I smelled resin for six weeks,” explained Bill. Father Driscoll, an Augustinian priest who taught at Cascia
Bengal bouters mix it up
Hall, and who at one time was president' of Villanova College, is the man whom Bill says “taught me all I know about boxing.”
When Bill enrolled at Notre Dame he did not try out for the Bengals since a shoulder injury which he suffered in his last year in high school, prevented any further strenuous competition in the ring. However, beginning that year, his possibilities as a boxing instructor were spotted by Nappy, and Bill has been imparting his fistic prowess to others for these four years. Every afternoon, with the exception of Sunday, from 3:15 to 5:15 o’clock and each night from 7:30 to 9:00 o’clock, Bill instructs a class of beginners in the boxing room of the Memorial.
When asked for his opinion of this year’s crop of contestants as, compared with those of previous“years, W-had this to say: “I’ve noticed a distinct improvement in each crop of boxers fr.om year to year. The boys seem to come smarter and faster on their feet. I enjoy working with them because, in a way, it is an advantage to me because I learn more about boxing from continually trying to answer the questions they put to me each day. But whenever I’m stumped I send them to Nappy and he straightens them out.” Bill thinks the 135 and 155 pound divisions are the cream of the crop in this year’s Bengals.
—John Powers
Splinters From the Press Box ~ JAMES NEWLAND”
It’s pathetic, that’s what it is! Would you believe it, there is a gentleman on this campus who apparently doesn’t know who our new coach is!
❖
You will recall, two weeks ago Splinters offered to divulge the name of Notre Dame’s new athletic director to our readers on Saturday, March 1. Due to a combination of circumstances over which we had no control, University officials revealed the news Friday afternoon, Feb. 14. The individual about whom we speak, in case you do not know, is editor of The SCHOLASTIC’S comic section — appearing weekly on page 4. Regarding publication of the new coach this individual last week told his readers he could hardly wait to find out the name of the new head man of Notre Dame athletics.
❖
You will pardon us, folks, for taking up your valuable time with this sort of material, but we think you will agree that any student who reads the newspapers at all — especially an English major — would have learned by this time the name of our new coach. Be that as it may and just to be a good ’sport about the whole thing, we ask your cooperation in helping us keep this news a “secret” —just for this poor fellow who writes that column about the month, or the wink, or the year, or something. Sure, we would hate to be the one to spoil the apparent tremendous anticipation built up in the mind of this person.
William F. Fox, Jr., a Notre Dame graduate and one of the best sports writers of the day, last week told readers of the “Saturday Evening Post” why Indiana basketball could not be matched — anywhere. On the opposite page Tom Meany, a New York scribe, told the same readers New York’s basketball is better basketball. Meany, the convincing writer that he is, almost had us sharing his thoughts until Saturday night. ----
❖
Splinters went to Fort Wayne last week-end to see the Indiana Catholic High School Basketball Tournament. There we saw phenomenal consequences.
It so happened that the favorites, Central Catholic of Fort Wayne, took the count from Evansville Memorial, and from that point of the tournament the wrath of local fans took the form of a raging fire. We saw people scream, cheer, cry, faint, pray, growl, and throw threats at the referees that would make your ears tingle. A waitress in a Fort Wayne restaurant while waiting on three gentlemen threatened to “Scratch the ref’s eyes out.” After she discovered the three gentlemen were the tournament officials — she still threatened to scratch their eyes out.
♦
Hotels were jammed with thousands of rabid fans who traveled several hundred miles to cheer, brag, argue, and even fight for their favorite team. There was basketball talk on every street corner and most every radio in town carried play-by-play description of tournament games. Out-of-town fans drove Fort Wayne police crazy after a victory by driving through downtown streets with horns blaring, pennants waving, and “cow-bells” clanging.
♦>
JNotre Dame graduates now coaching high school basketball were well represented in this tournament. Among others present were Joe “Red” Gleeson, of Hammond, Max Burnell and Don Hennessey, of South Bend, Leo Crowe, of Huntington, and Gene Ely, of Michigan City.
♦
Maybe we’re wrong, but we believe even the convincing Tom Meany would change his mind if he lived through an Indiana high school basketball tournament.
*
NOTHING ABOUT SPORTS
LENTEN FORECASTS—First Week: 1000 students will- swear off smoking entirely. 500 students will cut down to half a package a day. 500 students will not swear off and will still smoke their usual package a day.
Second Week: 1500 students will be smoking half a package a day. 500 students will be smoking a package a day.
Third week: 2000 students will be smoking a package a day.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Irish Cagers Invade
Spartan Lair Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s basketball forces will invade the Michigan State lair at East Lansing tomorrow evening to resume the oldest rivalry in the Irish record book. The two teams have met 51 times in the past, the Irish winning 37 games. In the first game played between these two teams this season, Notre Dame won a spectacular ball game, 46-39.
The Spartans come up to their last game with an impressive list of victories against only five defeats. State’s scoring punch is wrapped up cluefly in the persons of Max Hindman, Gary senior center; Bob Phillips, Gary guard; and Joe Gerard, North Webster, Ind, forward. Gerard was hampered by a cold the last time out against the Irish but is reported to be in the pink of condition for this contest.
Michigan State has been poison to winning streaks all season: first, Creighton had a brilliant winning chain snapped; then Long Island U., and Temple. No doubt, therefore, Coach Ben Van Alstyne saw the Irish stumble over Butler, the other evening, with a touch of disappointment.
Assistant Coach Meyer pointed out that Notre Dame’s woeful inability at the foul line Monday night — which saw the boys capitalize on only six out of 18 charity tosses -— was largely responsible for Butler’s 54-40 surprise victory over the locals which snapped their string of 11 consecutive victories.
Mr. Meyer found a great deal more satisfaction, however, in the Georgia Tech game of a week ago which saw the Southern razzle-dazzle aggregation lose, 53-42,in the finest contest played on the Irish hardwood this season. Better reserve strength was the factoi’ which brought victory to the home team but individual scoring honors fell to Captain Carleton Lewis of Tech. This sharp-shooter scorched the mesh for 21 points, the second highest total made by ■an individual opponent since 1923.
The Tech game also marked Captain Eddie Riska’s return to competition after more than a month’s layoff occasioned by a fractured foot.—Frank L. Kunkel
Marquette Risks Record
(Continued from Page 15) vault; Jim Delaney, victor in the shot put; and Keith O’Rourke who. won the high jump and has yet to be defeated in that event this year. Added help is ex
pected with the return of sprinter Bob Saggau who has had trouble with his ankle and two-miler Tony Maloney recently released from the Infirmary.
The team as a whole made a splendid showing against the Hoosiers last week, with the exception of the middle distance runners, who fell down miserably when they were only able to total five points in four races, namely, the quarter, half, one, and two miles. The failure of these runners to come even close to previous performances, cost the Irish the meet.
Reflecting on this loss, Coach Mahoney philosophized: “The meet was a toss-up and they won. The mile relay anchored by Roy Cochran proved to be the deciding factor. The sophs made numerous mistakes, but then that is to
N.D. men will battle Michigan State tomorrow
be expected. We hope the shoe will be on the other foot tomorrow.”
—Jim Clemens
Interhall Cage Standings
With the Interhall basketball schedule almost completed, the following standings were current Monday evening.
Heavyweight Division
LEAGUE	1		LEAGUE	2	
	w	L		w	L
Alumni 		... 5	0	Walsh 		.. 5	0
St. Edwards —	... 4	1	Badin 		.. 4	1
Zahm 		... 4	1	Morrissey 		.. 3	2
Carroll 		... 3	1	Off-Campus 		.. 3	2
Lightweight Division
LEAGUE	1		LEAGUE	2	
	w	L		w	L
Morrissey 		... 4	1	Howard 		... 3	1
Off-Campus 		... 4	1	St. Edwards ....	... 3	2
Dillon 		... 4	1	Lyons 		._ 3	2
Zahm 		... 3	2			
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
THE
Irish Swimmers Lose
First Meet to Chicago
Although out-numbered and out-practiced, Notre Dame’s swimmers gave their all before conceding a 47-28 victory, to the University of Chicago, last Saturday afternoon, in an unofficial swimming meet, the first inter-collegiate competition of any kind to be held in the Rockne Memorial pool. Chicago took every race except the final, the 400-yd. relay, in which N. D. sprintmen united- for one last effort.
Posting sufficient entrants in only the sprints, the small Irish squad had to be contented with granting Chicago most of the points in the other events. The thrill- race of the afternoon, from an Irish standpoint, was the final relay, but close to it came the 50-yd. dash. In almost the flicker ’ of an eyelash two Chi-, cago and two N. D. entrants slapped the wall. Momentarily puzzled the judges finally chose Chicago’s Luckhardt as winner and gave second and third place to Tom Miller and Frank Haninger of N. D. Busy Miller returned to capture a third in the 100, behind teammate Lee Hastings in second place, and again, later, to anchor the victorious relay quartet. Baugher of Chicago, clearly the star of the meet, captured firsts in the 100, the 220 and the 440, a gruelling 17^ lap marathon. Bob Russell, N. D.’s distance boy of the aquatic squad, followed Richardson of Chicago in the 440 for a third, and Baugher* of Chicago for a second in the 220.
Coach Gil Burdick was well pleased with the performance of his makeshift squad. Said he, “For boys not in condition, they showed plenty of pep and go.” While keeping a weather eye and a ready welcome for new team material, Gil has returned the regulars to daily practice in which they’re increasing their distances and endurance. By Friday March 21, Notre Dame should have a well-knit squad awaiting a University of Indiana invasion into Rockne waters for another informal aquatic tussle. Indiana boasts a “pretty fair team” led by Benedetti, sprintman and state 150-yd backstroke champ (time—1:49.6), and Kuko, all-around ffee-style flash.
For this meet N. D. will have Tom Hoyer and Bill Cotter, divers and sprintmen, back into the fold. Frank Haninger must fill the breach left by Tom Miller, already lost to spring football. Bob Doerr seems to "be the Irish threat to Indiana backstrokers. Meanwhile until March 21, other. informal meets with local clubs may be arranged.
Results and times on Saturday’s events:
300-yd. medley relay—Won by Chicago (Moore, Betke, Luckhardt). Time, 3 minutes 6.7 seconds.
220-yd. free style—Won by Baugher (Chicago) ; Russell (N.D.), second: Richardson (Chicago), third. Time, two minutes, 25 seconds.
50-yd. free style—Won by Luckhardt (Chicago) ; Miller (N.D.). second : Haninger (N.D.), third. _ Time.' 25.4 seconds.
100-yd. free style—Won by Baugher (Chicago) ; Hastings (N.D.), second; Miller (N.D.), third. Time. 55.5 seconds.
150-yd. backstroke—Won by Moore (Chicago) ; Doerr (N.D.), second; Finneran (N.D.) ; third. Time, one minute 55.4 seconds.
200-yd. breast stroke—Won by Belski (Chicago) ; Mathison (Chicago), second; Pollnow (N.D.), third. Time, two minutes, 41.2 seconds.
440-yd. free style—Won by Baugher (Chicago) ; Richardson (Chicago). second : Russell (N.D.), third. Time, five minutes. 41.3 seconds.
400-yd. relay—Won by Notre Dame (Haninger, Kuntz, Hastings. Miller) ; Chicago (Luckhardt. Thomson. Boobjarg, Robinson), second. Time three minutes, 51.5 seconds.
—Mark G. McGrath
Rod Maguire Set to Win
Third 145 lb. Bengal Title
To any upperclassmen the very mention of the name, “Rod Maguire” calls up phantasmagorical images of clusters of jarring fists, swirling around a couple of anguished and slightly distorted faces. The fact that Rod Maguire is an individual and like all normal individuals has only one face should indicate that only the jarring fists belong to him, and that the anguished faces belong to individuals with whom he has come into contact, which in this case happens to be those unfortunate persons upon whom he has wreaked fistic havoc for the last two years.
Rod Maguire is the defending champion in the 145 lb. division of the Bengal Bouts. When he won the title from a three-year champion in 1939, sports authorities of long experience with the Bouts, called him “one of the hardest hitters ever seen in the Bengals.” Their praise was renewed last year when Maguire ran through an impressive row of technical knockouts to keep his title. “Nappy” Napolitano, Physical Education professor at the University and director of the Bengal Bouts, claims that Maguire is “one of the most capable boxers in his division” that he has coached during his years of work in the intramural sport.
Boxing has literally been a “household word” to Rod. His father, a doctor in
Canton, Ill., starred in intercollegiate boxing at Gonzaga and St. Louis University. Rod has pretty well duplicated his father’s success in boxing and hopes to do the same in the medical profession.
In high school at Canton, Rod became acquainted with a former lightweight professional named Hal Clark, who taught him the fundamentals of boxing. In 1937, Rod entered Golden Gloves competition and won the championship in the Novice division at Peoria.
—Tom Powers
Rice Returns to N. D. Track
Joseph Gregory Rice, Notre Dame’s most famous luminary in the track world, and the greatest distance runner ever to be developed in this country, will he the principal attraction when the Indiana A.A.U. holds its annual track and field meet in the fieldhouse tomorrow night, following the Notre Dame-Marquette dual ‘meet to be held in the afternoon.
The “Toy Bulldog,” fresh from his triumphs in Madison Square Garden where recently, in the space of eight days, he lowered his own world’s indoor records from 8:56.2 to 8:53.4 and from 13:52.3 to 13:51,. in the two and three miles respectively, will head the South Bend A.A. in this meet, running in a special three mile race against such stars as Don Lash and Tommy Deckard, if these two gentlemen can be found available for the evening’s activities. Missoula, Montana’s gift to the track world set his three mile record Saturday night in the presence of his parents who had never before seen their famous son run indoors.
Freshmen from every leading school in Indiana will be entered in the meet, with local interest naturally, being centered on the Irish contingent. Admission . will be “gratis,” and a banner turnout is expected to see J. Gregory perform.
Squash, Handball Tourneys
Leaders in the campus squash tournament being played in the Rockne Memorial are holding their own in the daily games. Bob Sallows is still No. 1 man with Bill Hannon, Jack Barry, Tom Carroll and Tom Walker following in the order named.
A doubles handball tournament was begun last Monday night. Most of the stars of last year’s competition have graduated, thus leaving the field of honor open to new entrants. -	.
Jerry Zeher, Northwestern swimmer, almost bought a 1928 model car until a four block trial spin consumed three gallons of gas.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
University Archives
Lists 400,000 Items
There are 400,000 letters and documents in the University Archives, 15,000 of which have been “calendared,” the technical term for summarizing and putting other pertinent data on cards which correspond to each piece of Archives material. Principal work of the Archives is to preserve these facts and make them available to interested persons.
For the past 12 years this work has been under the direction of the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history at Notre Dame. Father McAvoy, prefect of the second floor of Lyons, is a distinguished looking man of medium size with a head of thick, iron gray hair. At the time of this interview he had just finished reading his Office in his room, a comfortable place liberally decorated with photographs of friends and relatives and well supplied with books.
Father McAvoy completed his work for his doctorate from Columbia University last summer. His book, required for completion of this work and entitled The Catholic Church in Indiana From 1789 to 1834, was published Nov. 29 of last year. Father McAvoy received his early training in archives work under the late Dr. John Fitzpatrick of the manuscript division of the Library of Congress.
The Archives were founded and col
A watercolor which has found special favor with visitors to the exhibition of watercolors by Francis J. Hanley, currently held in the Wightman Art Gallery of the University library. Mr. Hanley is an instructor in'the department of fine arts.
lected by James F. Edwards, former University librarian. Mr. Edwards, who died in 1911, exhibited great perseverance and ingenuity in collecting material, much of which has increased greatly in value since it was obtained. Most of the University collection was made about 50 years ago but it has grown to become what is said to be the richest aggregation of American Catholic archives.
While most of the documents are written in English, scores are written in Latin, French, German and Italian. Most of the Latin documents represent episcopal correspondence with Rome. One article considerably older than most, a French legal document, is dated 1576. Other early items include papers from the Carroll-Brent Collection dated 1717. This same collection includes four autographs of Charles Carroll of Carrollton.
The majority of collections range from the years 1800 to 1870. Archives of Jesuit and Franciscan activities of the early West are present but most of the material concerns the Middle West. Father McAvoy remarked that a study of these archives reveals more early Catholic missionary activity in this region than most persons realize. Correspondence and business agenda of past University presidents are maintained in special cabinets for future reference.
A valuable collection of “Brownson Papers” is also kept in the Archives. The papers are the personal correspond-
Dr. Francis McMahon, philosophy professor who has received threats against his very life from supposed isolationist sources.... AND HIS BODYGUARDS.
ence of Orestes Brownson, 1803-1876, who was known as the “American Newman,” and was a Laetare Medalist, and of his son Major Henry Brownson.
Information valuable as evidence in the process of canonization of proposed saints has also been found in the Archives.
When asked about the condition of the material with which the Archives works, Father McAvoy replied that the handwriting was just about what one would expect; the paper was usually of good quality and the ink endured quite satisfactorily. Incidentally, in referring to the Archives either the singular or plural verb may be used correctly. It is not proper to add the suffix “department” in referring to the University Archives.
While the Archives are chiefly a source for workers in ecclesiastical history, they attract a wide variety of others engaged in research of various kinds. One investigator from Columbia University found valuable information for his work on “Thoreau” in the Brownson Papers.
Father McAvoy has well termed the Archives, “A storehouse of American Church History.”—John Dinges
"Boomtown" Scheduled
For Washington Hall
Tomorrow evening in Washington Hall a raft of MGM stars, including Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert, will combine their talents in the Metro presentation “Boomtown.” An MGM cartoon and an RKO news will complete the program.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Decent Literature Group Sponsors Press Exhibit
In conjunction with a countrywide observance of Catholic Press month, the campus Student Commission for Decent Literature, under the general supervision of Mr. Paul Byrne, head librarian, has sponsored an exhibit of representative Catholic periodical literature in the recreation room of Badin Hall, Feb. 16-22.
Practically all Catholic diocesan newspapers and magazines published in the United States, as well as some from England and Ireland were on display inasmuch as the Commission considered these the most popular and effective organs of disseminating the Catholic spirit and temper among readers. Arresting and unusual were the Catholic Digest in braille, and the latest issues of the London Tablet.
The importance and timeliness of the exhibit had been emphasized in view of the fact that several organizations have come en masse to examine the varied display of periodicals, pamphlets and posters. On Wednesday, Feb.. 19, the Student Commission held a joint meeting with a similar group from St. Mary’s in the exhibit room. The Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., and Sister Magdalita, C.S.C., sponsor of the St. Mary’s organization, presided.
The motive behind the local Catholic Press Month exhibit was the stirring appeal voiced by the late Pope Pius XI to all Catholics to support their own press since it “as the word is the ruler of the world,” and spreads the knowledge and dispositions necessary for a full and productive Catholic life.
—Bob Nenno
"The Electrical Line"
Appears for Engineers
The first issue of The Electrical Line, a scientific bulletin edited by Notre Dame students, members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, was presented to the department of electrical engineering on Feb. 13.
The publication is to be edited monthly for the members of the A.I.E.E. by a staff including Joe Hughes, Louis Reis, and Jack Shafransky. Its purpose is to acquaint the electrical engineering students with the staff and facilities of their respective departments; and to keep them abreast of modern developments in their field.
The paper contains significant contributions by undergraduates, graduates, and the faculty of the department of electrical engineering, a technical paper
contributed by the General Radio Co. of Cambridge, Mass., and a department describing events of technical interest to the electrical engineer. Whenever necessary, diagrams clarify the articles.
The. publication is but one of the achievements of a campaign initiated by the chairman of the organization, Walt Kristoff, to increase activity in the club. To accelerate interest in the meetings the club is sponsoring a speech contest. Two members have been assigned to give a talk at each of the meetings. A prize of $5 will go to the best speaker. Whenever possible guest speakers will be invited to address the group.
—Bill Herzog
When feet say “bend” do your shoes obey? That’s the exclusive plus of Bostonians’ Flexible Brogues. The Flex-more sole puts life in your stepwithsure-footed comfort. Yours to command in Fall’s best styles. $7.85 - $11
Bostonian Norwogian Moccasin . . . Goldtn TwoodU^, Buimdur Fitiitb, Slant [ItxiHt Salt, ft.u
MANSFIELD
$5.00 to $5.85
130 West ■ Washington
Student "Bundles for
Britain" Present Show
“It Never Rains” may be an odd title for a play, even a musical comedy; but this is an odd musical comedy. Under the initiative of front-office man Jack White, and Director Vern Witkowski, that dynamic senior pair, “Bundles for Britain” is sponsoring this play, to be produced in the John Adams High school auditorium shortly after the Easter holidays.
Scriptmen John Coppinger, John Kelley and Frank Wemhoff have concocted a potpourri of events; in the story’s tangling web are three boys in a draft
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
camp, the colonel’s daughter, three dictators (that even beats Charlie Chaplin), and a little ingenue called “Lolita.” It is said that John Kelley and Dick Hines have turned out eight or nine songs well worthy of discing, the best of which is “The Gal with the Blues.”
Marie Buczkowski will leave her downtown dancing studios long enough to coach the 12 girls and six boys in the dancing chorus. Mrs. Gaumer will direct the singing chorus of 12 males and females. Auditions have been made for the various parts but a definitive cast has not been announced.
The show, although it has the approval of Notre Dame officials, is a private -venture in no way connected with the University. It will be the first organized “Bundles for Britain” in South Bend and is purely a charity affair.
—Mark McGrath
Juniors' Monte Carlo
Pulis Into Dry Dock
The S'. S. Monte Carlo is in dry-dock —330 couples enjoyed the Notre Dame Junior Prom cruise last Friday, Feb. 21. General Chairman James J. Fayette and Queen of the Prom, Miss Cathie Rutherford, led the Grand March, with Eugene J. Schumaker, junior class president, and his guest, Miss Mary Gertrude Leidgen.
Much credit is due to the general chairman and his subsidiaries for one of the most novel and enjoyable of Notre Dame dances. Ray Herbeck and his orchestra won the praise of all, while Jose Miguel’s Rhumba Band injected a necessary note of variety. On Saturday, the Indiana Club accommodated a capacity crowd, which danced to the delightful music of Jack Russell’s orchestra. Punch and cakes were served and blue and gold souvenir matches were distributed.
The Notre Dame basketball team proved victorious over Georgia Tech by a 53-42 score Saturday night, as prom-enaders watched. And on Sunday morn
ON YOUR TOES, STUDENTS!
Learn the Rhumba, LaConga, Lindy Hop and the New Waltzes
New Class starting Tuesday, March 4, 8:30 p. m.
Join your class now — call 3-3396.
Marie Buczkowski School of the Dance
Palais Royale	107 W. Colfax Ave.
ing, the week-end was appropriately ended with attendance at holy mass in Sacred Heart Church.
—James P. O’Laughlin
GENERAL UMBERTO NOBILE
General Nobile, former director of aeronautical design for the Italian government and present head of the department of aeronautics at Lewis Holy Name Institute in Lockport, Illinois, last week concluded a series of six lectures on “Performance Estimation of Airplanes” These lectures were delivered before juniors and seniors in the department of aeronautics, in the Engineering Building auditorium.
Music War Continues
While AS CAP and BMI continue to shout names at each other, and while BMI music still continues to hold the spotlight on most U. S. air waves, Notre Dame students shrug their shoulders and say, “What’s the difference, we still hear good music?”
And a tour through any residence hall will show just as many radios play
ing today as there were before ASCAP • music was banned from the major* networks January 1. Students still continue to hear some ASCAP music in afternoons from small independent stations which signed with both ASCAP and BMI because most of their commercial programs depend on recorded tunes, but even these ASCAP products are not popular any more, for as one sophomore said, “BMI has all the new and popular stuff. All the ASCAP licks are stale.”
SHOE DEN FOR MEN
CAMPUS STYLES
for the men of
NOTRE DAME
Whether your footwear needs are for heavy campus brogues or spring dances soon to start you'll find them at Kuhen's to suit your particular needs . . . Priced $3.28 to $16.50.
•	NETTLETON
•	CROSBY-SQUARE
•	WALK-OVER
•	Q-N
120 So. Michigan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Music Director Speaks at Indianapolis Meeting
Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, left this morning to deliver a pre-concert lecture in Indianapolis at the regular Friday afternoon concert series of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra.
Mr. Pedtke will speak on the psychology of music, basing his analogies and illustrations on the music to be presented at the concert. An Artistic Tripod will be included in Mr. Pedtke’s discussion. “This classification, first presented by Eric Clarke in 1938, and directed to me by the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is an enlightened treatise that may be applied toward a sincere appreciation of the entire field of music. The treatment deals with a three-fold view of music: activity, study, and enjoyment. Emphasis will be made in reference to the work of the audience as intelligent listeners,” Mr. Pedtke said.
“Illustrations of themes will be given as an aid to prepare the audience for the program to follow.
“I hope,” said Mr. Pedtke, “to classify music in the regular habits of a full, cultural life by giving a detailed account of its purpose and an insight into an intelligent understanding of its form.”—C. S. Coco
McDonough-Maloney Duo Reaches Bridge Finals
Cards flew across tables for the 20th day this week in the upperclassmen bridge tournament, promoted by Frank Pollnow and Bob Finneran, and but three of the original 19 double teams still remain in the running for championship contract honors.
Frank McDonough and John Maloney made themselves eligible for the finals match when they defeated the Dan Canale-Don Connors combination Sunday.
Howard Macintosh and Walt McCourt will chance their play against Max Hill and Charles Oliveros to decide who is to meet McDonough and Maloney in the championship match.
—James V. Cunningham
A Variety of Pipes^ A Variety of Prices—
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION )
SKATING V
CHECKING j
25c
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
Get Your
BASEBALL GLOVES now!
•	Baseball Shoes
•	Gymn Shoes
•	Gym Socks
Sonneborn's Sport Shop
121 W. Colfax Ave.
W. E. PETERS
(Over Clark's Restaurant)
•
JEWELRY REPAIRING Resetting and general replacement work is our specialty.
DrGRABOW
I THE KKt-Smhd FIEE
smoking it... Only Dr. Grabow pipes are pre-smoked with fine tobacco (Edgeworth) . onLinkman'smechan-icalsmokingmachine.
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
There’s only one correctway to“break in” a pipe... that’s by
M LINKMAN 4 COMPANY
NO BREAKING IN NO BITE
NO BITTER TASTE
DR.GRAB0W*$ PATENTED CLEANER -tr
Dr. Grabow ..............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular........1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial...... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ..... 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor..... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran ---- 5.00
Hollyclourt .............—	3.50
Sasieni ................. 5.00
Comoy ____________________5.00
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Snreiwnr to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repar service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
24
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“The MEN’S Store”
Home of Kuppenheimer
Smart Spring Styles Now Ready at
THE
NEW STORE
| Mass Calendar: March 2-8
| Sunday, 2—First Sunday of Lent. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints, (A cunctis), 3d the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens), 4th, the Pope.
Note: Each day in Lent has its proper mass, called Ferial Mass. Purple vestments will indicate that the priest is saying that mass instead of the mass of any feast assigned to that day.
Monday, 3—Feria. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead, (Omnipotens), 4th, for Peace. Requiem
Tuesday, 4—Saint Casimir, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common). Prayer proper. 2d, the Feria, 3d, St. Lucius L, Pope, Martyr, 4th, for Peace. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial Mass: 2d prayer, St. Casimir, 3d St. Lucius, 4th, for Peace.
Wednesday, 5—E m b e r Wednesday. (Fast and Abstinence). The Ember Days consecrate to God the new season. The mass has one extra prayer and lesson before the regular ones. 2d, 3d and 4th prayers as on Monday.
Thursday, 6—Sts. Perpetua and Felicitas, Martyrs. Mass: Me expectaverunt (in Common). Prayer proper, 2d, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel of the
•	WALL STREET
•	VARSITY TOWN
•	CUPPERCRAFT
SUITS $25 - $35
• STETSON and LEE HATS
$3.50 to $10
PEN and PENCIL SETS Nationally advertised brands — all prices.
Missals — rosaries — other religious articles to aid your Lenten devotions :	:	:
NOTRE DAME SOUVENIRS
CARDS for EVERY Occasion STATIONERY
• Florsheim and Freeman Shoes
MAIN AT COLFAX
Visit die
BOOKSTORE
A good place to buy large and small items you need and want.
Feria. Ferial Mass: 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Friday, 7—Ember Day. St. Thomas Aquinas. Confessor, Doctor. 2d prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Credo. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial 'Mass: 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
Saturday, 8—Ember Day. St. John of God, Confessor. 2d prayer, the Feria, 3d, for Peace. Last Gospel of the Feria. Ferial Mass; 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d, for Peace.
CHICAGO STATIONS
•	Three South Shore stations in downtown Chicago, and three on the south side. You can get off or on at 115th St., 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St.
•	The South Shore takes you to the heart of things in Chicago, is near museums, Soldier’s Field, and other famous attractions. Van Buren and Randolph Street stations are right on Michigan Boulevard.
•	Fast service, frequent schedules. Ride the South Shore. For complete information phone ticket agent, 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
Fr. Mullahy Begins Lent Program With Two Sermons
As a preparation for the Lenten season, the University conducted the traditional forty hours of adoration of the Blessed Sacrament Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday of this week. Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., instructor' in philosophy, preached on “The Life of Grace” both Sunday and Monday evenings at the 7 and 7:30 services. Solemn Benediction on Tuesday evening brought the Forty Hours to a close.
On Wednesday morning Lent was opened with the distribution of ashes in the Sacred Heart Church. That evening, the first of the weekly Lenten sermons was given by the Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C. Father Robinson, former professor of dogmatic and ascetic theology at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., is now master of novices at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind. His conferences will be on the Mystical Body of Christ, illustrating special applications of that doctrine to the problems confronting the college student now and in his future place in society as a Catholic leader.
Stations of the Cross will be held in the various residence halls at times convenient to the rectors and the students. There will be adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in the Sacred Heart Church from 7:30 a.m. until 5 o’clock Benediction on every weekday except Wednesday, when it will close with Father Robinson’s conference after the 7:30 Benediction, and on Saturday morning when it will close at 11:30. There will be no adoration on Sunday.
—Mark G. McGrath
s MAX ADLER x
for college men!
We especially recommend these three extremely popular Arrow White Shirts: Arrow Hitt; Arrow Gordon; Arrow Trump. See them here, where yii’ll find the largest collection of new Arrows.
Adler’s for Arrows!
Frosh tips off Senior!
Breen - Phillips Sweeps Interhall Track Finals
60 yd. dash: (time :06.5)—McCall. Zahm; Rowbottom, Lyons; Brisbois, Carroll.
One Mile: (time 6)—Brehmer, Off-Campus; Reilly, Zahm; Smith, Carroll.
60 yd. High Hurdles: (time :08.6)—Hogue. Breen-Phillips; Payne, Zahm; Kort. St. Ed’s.
440 yd. dash: (time :53.2)—Jones, Breen-Phillips ; Dexter, Cavanaugh; Henry, Lyons.
Two Mile: (time 10:49.5)—Carver, Carroll; Zielinski, Off-Campus; Talbot, Breen-Phillips.
65 yd. Low Hurdles: (time :08.5)—Kort, St. Ed’s ; Payne, Zahm ; O’Brien, Carroll.
Shot Put: (41 ft. 2% in.)—Brock, Brownson; Smith, Carroll; Murphy, Badin.
Broad Jump: (20 ft. 11 in.)—Hogue, Breen-Phillips ; Murphy, Breen-Phillips; O’Brien, Carroll.
High Jump: (5 ft. 10 in.)—Murphy, Morrissey; Hogue, Breen-Phillips ; Keelan, Cavanaugh : Murphy, Badin.
Pole Vault: (10 ft.)—Schalyer, Walsh; Owens, Lyons; Murphy, Morrissey.
880 yd.: (time 2:049)—Kelly, Breen-Phillips; Jones, Breen-Phillips, Brehmer, Off-Campus.
HALL POINTS: Breen-Phillips, 30; Zahm, 14; Carroll, 12 ; Off-Campus, 9; Lyons, 7 ; St. Edward, 6; Morrissey, 6; Brownson, 5; Walsh, 5; Cavanaugh, 3^6; Badin, 1%.
—John P. Shine
goes with everything!”
YOU’RE never stuck when you have an Arrow white shirt at your elbow, for whites are correct with every suit. We especially recommend these three extremely popular Arrow white shirts for college men: Arrow Hitt: whose starchless collar is as crisp at night as it was when you put it on. $2.
Arrow Gordon: looks sporty for classes and dressy for dates. Fine oxford cloth. $2.
Arrow Trump: a hne broadcloth with a long wearing soft collar. $2.
Arrow shirts have the Mitoga, shaped to your torso, fit and every refinement of expert shirt making. Send a frosh out for these today.
ARROW SHIRTS
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
For reasons which I think ought to be quite apparent, anything written on music for the Notre Dame Scholastic — a publication which exists for news about Notre Dame — is quite liable to seem out of place and far off the point. It is impossible for me to give this column — most of the time, at least — even the faintest touch of that element (the life-blood of a campus news magazine) known as “local color.” But, this week I can perhaps draw things somewhat closer to our small world by writing a. few lines about the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra. Obviously, I am eager to make my bit “local.” One soon feels quite out of the picture if he has to speak of the organ at Harvard (instead of the organ at Notre Dame, for example), or if he has to write about the New York Philharmonic (instead of South Bend’s orchestra). This week, I feel within the circle, writing, as I am, about Indiana’s own orchestra.
First, if you have any interest in symphonic music and in symphony orchestras, I urge you to listen to the Indianapolis orchestra’s half-hour concert each Sunday morning at 9:30 over South Bend’s station. Don’t get the notion that this concert comes from Indianapolis to South Bend and stops there. The program is broadcast on all Columbia’s stations in the eastern half of the country. That ought to be endorsement enough for those who require it.
Second, some facts about the orchestra are interesting. (All these are found in The International Cyclopedia of Music and Musicians, edited by the New York Sun’s music critic, Oscar Thompson.) The Indianapolis orchestra, was founded in 1930 by Ferdinand Schaefer, who
^GLASSES CORRECTL^FITTED^
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
conducted it until the 1936-37 season, when Vladimir Bakaleinikoff and Fabian Sevitzky were engaged as guest conductors. In 1937, Sevitzky was appointed permanent conductor of the orchestra.	•
This man Sevitzky would be interesting if for no other reason than that he is reported to have given many doublebass recitals after his arrival in this country in 1923. Moreover, he is privileged to have as his uncle the famous conductor of the Boston Symphony, ' Serge Kuossevitzky. I had meant to say, a line or two above, that the idea of
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Delicious and Refresh i n
Here's a drink that is unique. It never loses the freshness of appeal that first charmed you. You drink it and enjoy an after. sense of complete refreshment.
So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
It's part of the game ...to pause and
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company b»
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend. 1107 Beyer Avenue
double-bass recitals is extraordinary to the mind of the average American interested in music. Serge Koussevitzky played the double-bass too. It would seem that the Russian finds this instrument unusually suitable for the expression of his art. (For further strange Russian characteristics, I refer you to Dostoievski; you will be astounded at these Russians if you’ve not already come to know them through him!)
Space is becoming dangerously limited, so I must come to the point of this column and quit wandering. The point is, that the Indianapolis Symphony Or-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR, NOSE, THROAT PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2374
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-89S9	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5561	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST 314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
chestra and Fabian Sevitzky are among the redeeming features of this state. It seems to me to be lacking in none of the essentials that we expect to find in a great orchestra. There is, of course, much room for a refinement of these basic qualities. The orchestra is but eleven years old, a fact which lends uncommon importance to the excellent character of its present performances. If it is able to continue its development under Sevitzky, one will soon be able to rank it with the other great and much older symphonic organizations of this country.
ALBUMS
Bolero — Ravel — Boston Symphony Orchestra conducted by Serge Kous-sevitsky — §2.50
William Tell Overture — Rossini — Arturo Toscanini and the NBC Symphony Orchestra — $2.00.
Album of the Week
Brother Mauritius, C.S.C., Recalls Theatrical Past
“Years ago, most of the theatrical presentations at Notre Dame were put on by the Phillipatrons,” said Brother Mauritius De Gan, C.S.C., custodian of Washington Hall, in a recent interview.
At that time, Brother Mauritius said, Notre Dame had a larger enrollment in its preparatory school than in the college itself. The Phillipatrons were a group of prep students under the direction of Brother Cyprian. The college men did not take a very active part in dramatics until the preparatory school was discontinued.
In former times Washington Hall was not used so much for entertainment. Plays, operettas and vaudeville skits were put on now and then but the hall was more often used for lectures. Every student in, the school was required to attend all lectures.
Brother Maurilius said he did not know at the present time if the Monogram Absurdities would be renewed this year. “The Absurdities were very fine productions years ago,” he said. “One of the best of these was a monogram show directed by the late Knute Rockne. In those days there weren’t so I many outside interests such as movies | and the radio. Everyone connected with a campus theatrical movement did his best to make it a success.”
—Fred Fowler
Symphony No. 4 in E .Minor — Brahms — Boston Symphony Orchestra with Koussevitsky conducting — $5.00.
VICTOR
Popular Recordings — 50c
“Dancing: in the Dark” and “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes” — Artie Shaw and his Orchestra.
“Oh! look at Me Now” and “Ton Might Have Belonged to Another” — Tommy Dorsey and Orchestra.
South Bend's Greater OUTDOOR AND BOAT SHOW Added Attraction RABBIT SHOW
•
Mar. 5-6-7-8-9
Granada Building
METRONOME ALL STAR BAND in their recording of the year "Bugle Call Rag" and "One O’clock Jump"
“I’m Always Chasing Rainbows” and “Keep An Eye on Your Heart” — Joe Reichman and his Orchestra.
BLUEBIRD
Popular Recordings — 35c
“Nighty-Night” and “My Prodigal” —. Albino Key and Orchestra.
“You Stepped Out of a Dream” and “Ring, Telephone, Bing” — Glenn Mil- • ler and his Orchestra.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas WeD-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES.. THURS-, SAT. EVENINGS
nonius
Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES
Take out a Chesterfield
Chesterfield's own PATSY GARRETT of Fred Waring's "Pleasure Time’"’ with PAT O’BRIEN America's popular screen star
. . . and light it. You’ll like the COOL way Chesterfields smoke.. .you’ll like their BETTER TASTE . . . you’ll find them
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Odefinitely milder—not strong...not flat
lesterfield
You can*t buy a better cigarette,.. /nUfifaXSi