
October, 1983 

Whatever Happened to Idealism? 


ACE 

ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN
•~=== 
:'~~~'1ft, 272-75 3 5 


BAKER'S BIKE SHOP 

Parts, Accessories & Service 
Schwinn Bicycles 

--HOURS-­
7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Closc-d Sunday 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL SUPPI.IES 


t'7!:·. 
/J 


• 
GARDEN SUPPLIES 

• 
HOUSEWARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 


FREE PARKING 
FRONT & REAR 
219 DIXIE WAY 
NO. IN ROSELAND 
"N.D. You Are~1,, Good Luck Fighting Irish! 
HOUSE SPECIALITIES INCLUDE: 
Fe//uccini •Lasagna• Veal Parmigiana 
• Bucatini Con Broccoli• Pizza 
• sandwiches 

Lunch -Dinner -Carry-Outs
TRADITIONAL ITALIAN CUISINE 
Complete Wine and Cocktail List Ph. 277-0578 Closed Sunday & Monday 1103 South Bend Ave. (1 Mi. East of Notre Dame] Reservations Accepted 
L..----H--------J<<----H----'lf----'---------'t<-----4'""---'1F---4l-----l,__-M-_--II 

Vol. 125, No. 2, October, 1983 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 

8 Thomas More: The Man Who Combined Christianity With a Career 11 Who Is Your Hero? 16 The First Time ISaw "Duck Shoes" 17 The Media and You IS Volleyball at SMC 19 The ND Rowing Team 20 The Notre Dame Women's Caucus: The Concern Against Sex Discrimination 2 / Green Alex 
REGULARS 

2 The First Word 3 Culture Update 4 Notables 6 ND Focus!Galuin Life Science Expansion 7 SMC Focus!"The Nuns Are Coming!" 
14 Gallery 22 Cinema/Casablanca 24 Fiction/Fool's Gold 26 Poetry 28 The Last Word 
Daniel Groody Mary Ellen Arn Fred Zimmerman Kathy McGarul!y Elaine Seuss Richard Green 
Lynn Cassella Sharon Houk 
Kathy Curran Keeuie McCarthy Keuin Donius, Mary Ann Potter Amy Stephan Jayne Kenny Elizabeth Carlsson Bud Macfarlane Barbara Steuens Melita Schaum, Sharon Houk Jim Ganther 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the Univer• sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vaca• tion and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the prop• erty of Scholastic. · copyright © 1983 Scholastic/ all rights reserved/ none of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
The First Word 
by l{athy Curran 
St. Mary's Editor 
Generally, my summer jobs have not been intel­lectually stimulating. This summer, for instance, while my friends were researching for law firms and oil companies, I was singing the alphabet with six children under three feet tall. The summer before that, while my sister determined budgets for a transportation firm in Lexington, I was supervising the bucket-bearing public at a blueberry patch in Osceola. But I am not com­plaining. Actually, I learned a lot amidst that one­hundred-acre blueberry lot. 
My prime responsibility from 8: 00 in the morning until 4:00 in the afternoon was to talk to everybody. Granted, I did have to check the inside limbs of the bushes to make sure they were "·picked clean," and I did have to weigh berries once in a while. But overall, I 

simply had to portray the "friendly blueberry girl" ·image so people would want to come back. Thus, I 
managed to get paid for socializing, and I met amazing 
people tha:t way. 
Engine Bob came four mornings a week and picked ten gallons of berries every time. To quell the rumors that he and his wife lived on extremely restricted diets, he explained that he gave the fruit away. Because he was a train conductor, he was able to bring baskets of berries to his invalid friends in various towns. Engine Bob had never left the Midwest; he had never received a college degree; and he did not have any relatives who were foreign dignitaries. Yet, I learned one of the most valuable lessons of my life from him-the art of giving without expecting anything in return. 
A fifty-year-old woman came out one afternoon and because she had such a pronounced accent I devoted my energy to conversing with her. Her husband had been a political prisoner in the Soviet Union for ten years because he "had led Christian meetings." She re­counted the hardships her family had undergone because they were Christian -the surprise raids on their home, the frequent arrests for no apparent reason, and :fue physical and mental abuses that were inflicted upon them because they were not communist. In 1978 Presi­dent Carter, through political maneuvering, was able to grant the family asylum in the United States. And somehow, in 1982 they were picking fruit in one of Northern Indiana's finest blueberry patches. 
As I had anticipated, she reminded me of the blessings of our country -the freedom to participate in government and the promise of individual liberties, especially the right to worship God. But concrete things which I take for granted thrilled her -the sales in grocery stores, the availability of transportation, and even the thousands of blueberry bushes. She forced me to take a fresh look at all that I have. 
Many more pickers influenced me. that summer. I 
learned not only about which blueberries are good for 
pies and which for freezing, but also about life. I am 
not advocating that we turn down our internships to 
supervise fruit farms -just that we try to grow in 
every way possible in everything we do. D 
2 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 




Culture Update 

The original clown-delivered 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
1983-1984 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
James S. Ganther 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Thomas M. Sapp 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR 
Kathy Curran 
Photo Editor 
Michael P. Leary 
News/Sports Editor 
Kevin Donius 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Laurel Ann Dooley 
Copy Editors 
Kathleen· Doyle 
Janet Drobinske 
Art Editor 
Keevie McCarthy 
Advertising Manager 
Jeannie Euch 
Business Manager 
Jim Dever 
Distribution Manager 
Stephen Busk 
Advertising Staff 
Reginald V. Daniel, Rich Cameron 
Production Staff Joe Dant, Maura Mandyck, Jim Keyes, Diane Emard, Sue Fischer, Mary Arn, Fred Zimmerman, Kathy McGarvey 
Advisory Board Dr. James McDonnell; Prof. Elizabeth Christman; Mr. Michael Garvey; Prof. Marjorie Kinsey; Prof. Robert Schmuhl 
Photo Credits: Chas Phillips, p. 2; John Kompare, p. 7, IO; Bob McMonagle, p. I I, 12, 
13, 20; Mike Leary, p.17, 28; John O'Connor, p. 19 
Illustrations: 
Information Services, p. 6; Mary Scheeman, p. 16; Kevin Zaccone, p. 21; Mary Roe, p. 23; Betsy Burke, p. 
ART 
at Notre Dame 

Oct. 30-Dec. 31-Photographs by Fritz Kaeser. Work covering from the 1930s to the present. O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Nov. 6-Dec. 31 -The Artistic Process: Ideas and Techniques. Basic work­ing techniques and funda­mental concepts in art will be investigated in a variety of media. O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Nov. 6-Dec. 18 -Douglas Kinsey -Paintings and Graphics -A selection of recent work by Associate Professor in Notre Dame's Department of Art. O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Nov. 14-Dec. 13-The Esimark Collection of Currier and Ives. P·opular prints by classic American lithographers. O'Shcugh­nessy Galleries. 
Nov. 8 -Stephen Spira, Curator of the Callec­
tians,  The  Snite  Museum  of  Ari  - 
Noantalk-The  Neoclassical  (deal.  
. at Saint Mary's  

Nov. 9 -National Theatre of the Deaf.. Magi­cal mixture of music, dance, speech, and sign language used in the pro­duction of "The Hero with a Thou­sand Faces." 
Nov. 7-10-Portfolio Review. In all galleries. 
Nov. 18-Dec. 15-Giuseppi Gattuso from Flor­ence, Italy. A collection af prints -"Made in Italy." Hammes Gallery. 
Nov. 18-Dec. 15-"Traditions of Innovations." Four Saint Mary's photogra­phers: Joseph Jachno, Jim Raymo, Barbara Blondeau, and Douglas Tyler. 


256-0062 
(formerly Halloou Bowkay) 
2812 Lenson Drive Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• 
ARMSTRONG CEILING Tll.E • POW~ TOOlS 

• 
CABINETS. • LUMBER 


• 
PlYWOOD • HARDWARE 

• 
OlYMPIC STAIN. • PIUMB/NG & 


• PANELING ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE •.. 
We make "'doing 1t yourself' 
·EASY 
magazine. 
Let your fr.iends and Jamily know what's going on at ND. 



Send them a subscription to Scholastic magazine. Only $9.00 per year. 




272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAV NORTH ROSELAND 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 





Notables 
University of.Notre Dame 
by Kevin Donius 
News/Sports Editor 
Research Grants 
In the month of August alone, the University received $1,188,411 in grants for support of research, fa­cilities, equipment, and instructional and service programs. 
A grant of $255,000 from the U.S. Department of the Army for photo­chemistry research on the nature of absorbed species of colloidal clay systems by Dr. J. Kerry Thomas, professor of chemistry, headed the research awards, which totaled $774,918. 
Other research awards include: $88,606 from the National Institute of Health for nuclear magnetic res­onance studies of metals in kinases 
Catholic Lay Persons 
Sixty lay people from diverse pro­fessional, geographical, and cultural backgrounds will meet with a com­mittee of American Catholic bishops at Notre Dame's Center of Continu­ing Education October 23-25 to ex­plore the role of the Catholic lay person in American society. 
The conference, entitled "Work and Faith in Society: Catholic Per­spectives," is sponsored by the Na­tional Conference of Bishops' Com­mittee on Laity in cooperation with Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
According to Bishop James R. Hoffman of Toledo, chairman of the Bishops' Committee on Laity, one purpose of the conference is "to highlight the Christian value of secu­lar life: in the professions, in fam­ilies, in areas of civic .and social concern, in leisure pursuits." In addi­tion, Bishop Hoffman hopes the con­ference will "gain a clearer under­standing of the kind of Church minis­try which will best empower the lay person to be a transforming presence in the world." 
and related enzymes by Dr. Thomas Nowak, associate professor of chem­istry; $84,562 from the U.S. Depart-. ment of the Navy for research on the boundary layer characteristics on low Reynolds number airfoils by Dr. ThQmas Mueller, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing; and $63,000 from the Twentieth Century Fund for studies of contem­porary emigration policies by Dr. Alan Dowty, professor of govern­ment and international studies. 
Noteworthy grants for facilities and instructural programs included $295,000 from the U.S. Department of Energy for its on-campus Radia­tion Laboratory and $100,000 from the Houston Endowment supporting. the Jesse H. Jones Professorship in management. 
Champion Products 
In a move that changed the Uni­versity's policy which limited the marketing of goods bearing its pro­tected marks solely to its own book­store, the University has named. Champion Product's Licensing Man~ agement Division as its worldwide licensing agent. . . 

University vice-president for busi­ness affairs, Thomas J. Mason, said an internal committee will work with Champion licensing executives in de­fining licensing objectives, market planning, and quality control. Cham­pion, which · has been supplying. goods to the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore for more than 40 years, will be marketing Notre Dame prod­ucts overseas as well as in the United ·. States. 
"Notrl:! Dame standsfor quality and integrity," commented Richard M. Geisler, chairman and chief execu-. tive officer of Champion. "We have respected those values in our long relationship with the University, and we look forward to a fruitful part­nership in the new licensing pro­gram." 
President Hesburgh 
University President Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has re­cently been elected a member of The Conference Board, a global network of public and private sector leaders who exchange information on man­agement, economic, and public policy issues. 
The Board, which draws much of its support from multinational busi­nesses, stimulates the sharing of ex­ecutive experiences through research and discussion. Founded in 1916, the Board and its affiliate, The Confer­ence Board of Canada, have offices in New York, Washington, Ottawa, and Brussels. 
Father Hesburgh also received his 97th honorary degree from the Im­maculate Conception Seminary in Darlington, N.J., and accepted the Liberty Award of.the Hebrew Immi­grant Aid Society at ceremonies in New York City. 
Universal Workstations 
Two 3004 universal workstations, high-performance automated office systems, have been donated to the University by Philips Information Systems of Dallas, Texas. 
The systems, which normally re­tail for $10,000 apiece, will be used in the offices of Rev. David Tyson, executive assistant to the president, and Timothy O'Meara, University provost. There are currently twenty­one Philips systems installed on campus for student and administra­tive uses. 
Notre Dame was chosen to receive the systems, according to Philips' President John Clark, because of its reputation as a leader in the field of higher education and "its commit­ment to offering its students the lat­est in technologies as a way of pre­paring them for today's competitive job market." 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 

The Saint Mary's College endowment is the largest among Catholic women's colleges. The endowment has increased 10 million dollars since 1975. 
Saint Mary's College by Mary Ann Potter 






Focus 
Galvin Life Science 
The new two-story addition will provide 24,000 square feet for f acuity and students 
by Amy Stephan 
Pending zoning approval, construc­tion on a $3 million addition to Galvin Life Science Center should begin in January, according to Di­rector of Physical Plant, Donald Dedrick. 
This addition will house the ani­mal research center and has been planned over the past four years. It will meet expanded research needs and "constantly changing govern­ment guidelines," said Dr. Paul Weinstein, professor of biology. 
The planned animal research cen­ter is "absolutely incredible," said Weinstein, noting that the .building will have special units for change of air, temperature and humidity con­trol. "The physical environment will be given very sophisticated atten­tion," he said. The two-story addition will provide 24,000 square feet of space -nearly a 20 percent increase in space for the Galvin Life Science Center. One story will be under­ground and the other above ground, said Dedrick. 
The building will be used for teaching purposes and research, said Weinstein, but will be completely re­stricted to authorized students and faculty members. The addition "will meet the demands of changing fac­ulty and student interests," he said, stressing that the research center will be built for "absolute flexibility." 
In the past few years there has been a "flood of legislation with re­gard to the use of animals in ;re­search," said Weinstein. Under the constraints of the current facility, "we just don't do certain kinds of research," said Weinstein. 
A renovation has allowed the cur­rent facility to be used without vio­lation, but with constantly changing guidelines. Weinstein said, "We can no longer use the current facility without risking violation. If we are to continue as a modern research and teaching facility, we must meet guidelines. 
"There is a lot of nationwide in­terest in animal research . . . there are many different approaches in terms of legislation. Some legislators want to do away with ali animal research with obvious implications to the health of this country." 
Much of the building will be de­voted to small isolation units, in order to meet regulations that each breed of animal be housed in sepa­rate quarters, said Weinstein. 
The building will include, accord­ing to Weinstein: an automatic wa­tering system; special, easily sani­tized floors; cage and bedding wash­ing facilities; a quarantine area for newly arrived animals; and an air filtering system that will allow for 15 changes of air per hour. 

The planned addition, which will be built onto the east side of the building, extends too near to Juniper Road to meet current zoning regula­tions. Said Dedrick, "We didn't be­lieve as the building was designed that zoning would be a problem, but the road curves there (near the planned addition)." 
The request · for zoning variance · will be.considered early this month, said Dedrick. If the zone variance is not approved, Dedrick said, "We will have to go back and redesign the building and settle for less than opti­mum." 
Dedrick said that the addition 

should take 14-15 months to com­
plete. The addition was designed by 
Ellerbe and Associates who also de­
signed the Galvin Life Science build­
ing and the new faculty office build­
ing. D 
Amy Stephan is a sophomore elec­trical engineering and English major from Piqua, Ohio. She is a copy edi­tor at The Observer and the paper's official Cap'n Crunch correspondent. 
Thi.s is her first contribution to Scho­lastic. 


-·c·


CFo us­
-
-

"The Nuns are Coming!"
Will the presence of si~ters in the dorms make life at Saint Mary's tnore difficult? 
by Jayne Kenny 

Maybe you've heard the latest rumor on Saint Mary's campus: the nuns are coming! the nuns are com­ing! The nuns want to live in the dorms with the students! The stu­dents immediately envision hordes of black-robed nuns invading the vari­ous dormitories. Reactions range from "I wouldn't mind living near a nun, I just don't think she could stand it" to "How can they expect to put nuns in dorms with so many people still living in temporary hous­ing?" But it's not just a rumor any­more: Sister Elena Malits and Sister Veronice Fisher moved into an apart­ment in the basement of Holy Cross Hall at the beginning of this se-. mester. 
Many students feel that the pres­ence of sisters in the dorms would be just another administrative tactic to make life at Saint Mary's a little more difficult, the rules a little harder to break with a clear con­science. It would be a long time be­fore I could run across the hall to ask "Sr. Maria" if she had a bottle opener I could borrow because Molson Golden doesn't come with twist-off caps. And maybe I wouldn't crank up "D.M.S.R." by Prince quite so loud because knowing a nun was nearby might make me realize that the lyrics don't exactly espouse the Christian ideal. Students feel that such proximity of the sisters_ might restrict their behavior and inhibit the true expression of their person­alities. The last thing we were look­ing for when we left home was an­other guilt trip. 
But upon reflection, it may not be such a bad idea after all. This is Saint Mary's College, owned and operated by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Unlike many Catholic colleges and universities, the religious come munity here is almost invisible. The sisters are not part of the residence hall staff, few are teachers; the vast majority of the students have no regular contact with the founding order of their school. 
This was not always the case. Up until the early 1970s, there were al­ways a few nuns living in the dormi­tories; Sister Elena was one. What students see as a radical change in residence life is actually a return to traditional policy. Why did the sis­ters move out in the first place? 
During the early 1970s, Saint Mary's enrollment increased dramat­ically. To handle the increased num­bers, a professional residence hall staff was hired to supervise and pro­vide counseling for the students. Pre­viously, there were hall directors ­Holy Cross sisters -but none of the resident assistants so familiar today. With the higher enrollment, hall space became scarce and it was felt that if the sisters living in the dormi­tories were not a part of the resi­dence hall staff they should give up their rooms to incoming students. A picture comes to mind of mass evic­tions of teary-eyed nuns from Le­Mans and Holy Cross. In reality, there were three sisters living among 500-plus residents of LeMans at the time. Concurrently there were changes in the lifestyles of the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross. Small groups of sisters moved off campus or to the western fringes of the college. 
Sister Elena and Sister Veronice pointed out that there were never many nuns living in the dorms to begin with, and only a very few are considering returning to resi­dence hall life. The convent won't be emptying out overnight, and fresh­men won't find themselves with a candidate for the novitiate for a roommate when they first arrive in South Bend. But as Sister Elena said, livingsolely with one's peers for four years isn't necessarily such a good idea. Students must learn to com­municate with mature adults; maybe this sort of regular casual contact could be a plank in the bridge across the generation gap. The sisters also provide a link to the past, a reminder of why we're here. It's easy to lose perspective among all the blown-off reading assignments and kegs at tail­gaters. · 

Sister Elena and Sister Veronice reiterated that they are not part of the hall staff. They are not running a twenty-four-hour counseling service, and they certainly are not spies for the administration. Holy Cross Hall is their home, where they can inter­act with diverse members of the Col­lege community. D 



Perspective 


s. 
YEARS' TIME." 



"BLESSED THOMAS MORE IS MORE IMPORTANT AT THIS MO­MENT THAN AT ANY MOMENT SINCE HIS DEATH, EVEN PERHAPS THE GREAT MOMENT OF HIS DYING; BUT HE IS NOT QUITE SO IMPORTANT AS HE WILL BE IN ONE HUNDRED 
by Daniel Groody 
"I AM WELL CONTENT TO Go IF Goo SHOULD CALL ME HENCE TOMORROW." 

What did Thomas More do yester­day that makes him so praiseworthy today? Was it his career as Lord Chancellor during the reign of King Henry VIII? Or was it his strong Christian beliefs? Actually the an­swer lies somewhere in the middle: It is his ability . to integrate his de2ply rooted Christian values into his career ambitions that makes him such a remarkable character today. Now that we have a greater aware­ness of the importance of ethics in one's career, his example is being looked on more than ever; for many he has become a ·role model. 
Thomas More believed in Faith, Family, and Career, in that order. Above all, faith came first. God was his source of strength; his rock of Gibraltar, so to speak. With God on his side, he knew he could endure any struggle and bear any suffering. So strong was his -trust in God that he could laugh about the world around him even on; the day of his execution. This unwavering faith served as a foundation for all other aspects of his life. 
G. K. CHESTERTON 

More's devotion to his family was second only to his devotion to God. He loved and was loved by his family as he was an exemplary father and husband. As Thomas J. McGovern put ft: "More lived his Christian vocation as a family man with exqui­site care and effectiveness, despite the exceptional demands made on him by professional and state affairs." To instill fine qualities in his children, More stressed "virtue, learning, piety toward God, charity to all and Chris­tian humility in themselves." Very often the poor from town would come to eat at the dinner table with his family; he did not shield his children from the harsh realities of the real world. 
Most remarkable of all was that 
·Thomas More kept his faith, valued his family and still maintained a suc­cessful career. Star-ting off as a scholar, More progressed to lawyer, then to ambassador and finally to Lord Chancellor of England. Along with these positions, he made money, -lots of it. But he did not let it spoil him or his family. Instead, he gave 
"Sir Thomas More'' by Ham Holbein the Younger (1497-1543), The Frick Collection, New York. 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
"MORE LIVED HIS CHRISTIAN VOCATION AS A FAMILY MAN WITH EXQUISITE CARE AND EFFECTIVENESS, DESPITE THE EXCEPTIONAL DEMANDS MADE ON HIM BY PROFESSIONAL AND STATE AFFAIRS." 
generously and became a respectful friend of many, even his lowly ser­vants. He saw his career as an op­portunity to serve others, not him­self, and he attributed his success to God. Because he was not selfish with his prosperity, he was not tied down to his career or his money and there­fore did not fear losing it; "I am," he said, "well content to go if God should call me hence tomorrow." 
Many of the problems of Thomas More's time are still around today, but now these problems exist on a much larger scale, because there are many more variables to contend with. Issues like the morality of abortion, for example, prompt a va­riety of opinions from different peo­ple, each claiming that he knows "what is right." But exactly who is right? Although no answer is certain, we should not give up the ship. May­be it means that we have to reeval­uate the way we look at the world, and maybe while we do this we More. Do we make judgements based on our moral consciousness or do we not think much about the problems at all and make judgements based more or less on what everybody else thinks? Are we strong enough to stand on our own, as Thomas More did, if our opinions differ from the majority, or do we find it easier to just "go· with the flow"? These are questions to ask ourselves, keeping in mind that Thomas More said "you can't get to heaven on a bed of feathers." · 
In the October 3, 1983, issue of 
U.S. News and World Report there is an article entitled "Success." The article mentions that getting ahead in the world often means stepping over others. Some may interpret this as meaning that we should have two disjunct sets of ethics: One set for our career and one set for our Chris­tianity. Ideally, as Thomas More's life proved, career ethics should be a subset of Christian ethics. After all, will getting•. that better grade, receiving that promotion, or making that extra buck make us happier in the long run if we get it by cheating or taking advantage of others? Of course not, but I feel that the ideals of Thomas More are better in tune with what happiness is all about. 
This reminds me of a conversation I had with my father this past sum­mer when we were vacationing at the Jersey shore. My dad loves the shore because it is so relaxing, calm and peaceful; it makes him happy to go there. While there we saw some big, beautiful beachfront houses. "How would you like to live in one of those?" I asked him.· "I wouldn't mind," my father repliedi~iso long as I earned the money for it honestly. You know, it's not so muc}-;. if you make a buck in life that's important as how you make it." He explained that earning an honest living made him feel good inside, and that is why he felt so good when he looked at the shore. He went on to say {hat if you did not live according to sound eth­ical principles, you would feel im­balanced inside, meaning that you could not appreciate the ocean's beauty or life itself, for that matter. 

In order to get a better view of this concept of integrating our Chris­tian values into our career, it must be said that simply understanding Thomas More's ideals is only half the battle. If we only understand about his goodness and make no attempt to apply it to our lives, it is virtually useless. But without a doubt, living up to Thomas More's example could possibly be one of the most difficult challenges of our life, especially sin1::e it is much easier to conform to a lower form of ethics. In other words, in our quest to become successful in our career in this world, we should not compromise our values to. get ahead. Rather, inspired by Thomas More's example, we should seek pros­perity in our career through a grow­ing trust and faith in God, and Notre Dame provides us with the oppor­tunity to mature in both of these areas. If we have the will, we can use the time we spend at Notre Dame not only as a chance to strengthen the foundations for a future career, but also to strengthen the founda­tions of our faith. D 

Dan Groody is a sophomore Arts and Letters major from Basking Ridge, New Jersey, who works extremely well under pressure. This is his first contribution. 
Statue of Thomas More staring west above the south portal of the Law Building. 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 

·by Mary EUen Arn 


.. if. 

\,\t ' ~.... ·-.\ ·,·;i 


Gallery 
I 
J ; 
I 
: 
I 




Progress? 

Paintings 
by 

Elizabeth Carlsson 
Elizabeth Carlsson is a second year graduate student working towards a Master of Fine Arts. 


··-}~: )!ff 
._\~L: 
·•·<}}l.• 



1 •.:uii,
J 
....-::.; ~ 
-~' ~~ 
; . 
.. .,,.. ·~~ 
\· 
~"",'~
, . 
.:.,--...: 
I~'<.._ 

l 
[ 
Oil Voluntary or Not? 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
. . , ~­
~ ~-~-~~ ~ 


The First Time I Saw ''Duck Shoes'' 
by Fred Zimmerman 
The first time I saw a pair of "duck shoes" I was shocked and befuddled, perhaps even a bit traumatized. "What are these bright green pieces of rubber doing on that girl's feet?" I asked myself uncomprehendingly. They didn't even look real. They looked fake. "I see you have some new shoes," I remarked stupidly, pretending nonchalance. 
In the weeks that followed, I found myself hemmed in by those wonders of processed petroleum. Everyone seemed to be sporting that cheeky glisten of a newly purchased pair of duck shoes. They even made sounds like ducks as the rub­ber soles, wet from the autumn slush squeeked across tile floors. I felt like telling the whole flock of them to go jump in a lake. · 
Docksiders soon became the next solution in the Quest to make Feet Attractive. In Minneapolis, where social Nirvana is a place called Lake Minnetonka, docksiders made their debut on the feet of those who were 


"The world is my playground, and life is a cinch. But it was a casual motto, taken for granted by its followers, and only ­secretly envied by those it exclu(led." 


"known to have a boat on The Lake." In fact, the first raison d'etre of docksiders was that they pro­vided a sure footing on the slippery decks of a sailboat caught in a sudden squall. When you're out on The Lake, you never know when a sudden squall might blow up, making it just you against the elements, and by God, you'd better have the proper footgear. And, of course, many's the time when you're out sailing and you just don't. have the time to change footwear before sauntering in to a class. That's how docksiders began to show up around our high school. Owning a pair of docksiders was 
16 

SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBE:R 1983 
like membership in an elite club, and the motto of the club was: "Nothing causes me strain." The world is my playground, and life is a cinch. But it was a casual motto, taken for granted by its followers, and only secretly envied by those it excluded. 
Docksiders quickly spread from "those who were known to have a boat on The Lake" to "those who were known to wish they had a boat on The Lake," which was practically everyone. Jaunty nonchalance be­came the fad, with docksiders as its trademark. 
The current trend seems to be wearing exceedingly old and scruffy­looking docksiders. This has the de­sired effect of making the wearer not only nonchalant about life's worries, but is in effect a sort of deliberately nonchalant nonchalance. I can just see these people waking up and say­ing to their roommates, "Well, I've no shoes to wear-guess it'll have to be these old docksiders again. I really should pay more attention to what's fashionable in shoes and go out and buy some, but I just don't feel like it." Unconsciousness of fads has be­come the fad. 
If the original message of dock­siders was: "Nothing causes me strain," then the message of another fad of that time, Al Jarreau, was: "Life is grand and the future is bright." Perhaps because of one of his early hits, "On Broadway," the image associated in my mind with Al Jarreau is one of bright lights, fine automobiles, and above all, smiles, everyone, smiles. It seemed as if Jarreau could bring Broadway to the entire nation "... there's magic in the air ..." 

Somehow it is very fitting that Jarreau achieved popularity at about the same time as rainbows began to proliferate. There we.re rainbow shirts, rainbow socks, rainbow post­ers, rainbow sheets. Anything with a rainbow on it would sell. Although Jarreau and the rainbows were never embraced by the same group, they were both symbols, or perhaps symptoms of the same syrupy opti­mism. 
At about that same time, Annie came back from the 30s, telling us the sun'll come up tomorrow, and Journey added its opinion, urging, "Don't stop believing," and ELO ad­vised "hold on tight to your dreams." 
Just as I was about to suffer from a case of "optimismitis," an acute swelling of optimism, it all sort of died away and was forgotten. No more dreams, no more stars. En­couraging lyrics have had to make way for an admonishment to "beat it," and instead of hearing that there's magic in the air, someone named "Sting" informs us that there's a little black spot on the sun today. Even the rainbow shirts have dried up, replaced by a revival of jean jackets as well as the intimida­tion associated with them. It's enough to make one schizophrenic, if taken seriously. 
Fads, to be properly enjoyed, should not be taken seriously. But neither should they be totally es­chewed, for that would be admitting their importance. Fads are, in fact, a form of entertainment. The wealthy put on the show, and the rest of us watch with amusement. "So if you're blue and you don't know where to go, why don't you go where fashion sits...." D 
Fred Zimmerman, veteran footwear observer, is a junior from Minne­tonka, Minnesota. This is his first contribution. 


Editor's note: Scholastic assigned Kathy McGarvey to investigate the 

The Media and You 
values of the student body as re­flected in their consumption of mass media offerings. The following is her report. 
by Kathy McGarvey 
This article is supposed to be about you. Somewhere, tucked between these lines, you exist, carrying a backpack full of the values and be­haviors that distinguish you from every other member of this Univer­sity. 
My mission was to find you, cap­ture you, and hardest of all, write about you. I failed. Where did I look? Why, in the movie theaters and their box offices, and by the television set in the lounges. Supposedly, being the children of the almighty screen as our generation is pegged, television and motion pictures present an ac­curate reflection of what students value. 
On the contrary. The media affects people and not the other way arourid. Because of the diversity and quantity of television programs and movies, it is impossible to evaluate whether a particularly popular show represents one common value or attitude among students. Hill Street Blues is a good example. First of all, not everybody watches this TV show. For every cafeteria line interview victim I asked, who enjoyed the show, there was one who had seen it once, if at all. Steve Wimmer, a junior from Sorin and a fan of Hill Street Blues, described the program as "down to earth." He explained that the show is about real people living fairly complicated lives. Sound familiar? 

Maybe students watch what re­minds them of their own lives, with all of the ambiguities, turmoil, and decisions facing youth today. Maybe. 
. Not all the data I collected bears this media mirror theory out, though. Plenty of people loved Star Wars. This box office hit rocketed to suc­cess by staging intergalactic wars that don't exactly resemble room­mate conflicts. This summer, Flash Dance and Fanny and Alexander en­tertained moviegoers now back on campus. With motivations ranging from, "I love Ingmar Bergman," "I live in Pittsburgh," and "it was a date," students watched both these flicks with popcorn instead of their values in hand. 

Movie watchers, like cereal lovers and Mikey who'll "eat anything," pay to see many different kinds of films, foreign, funny, and philosophi­cal. No two students seem fo have a favorite flick for the same reason. 
"The media affects peo­ple and not the other way around." 
Perhaps students value a smorgas­bord of outlooks, behavior, and per­ceptions. Perhaps. 
As far as television viewing goes, however, most people I talked with here are on a drastic diet. No one seems to watch TV anymore, with any kind of regularity. The "boob tube" with its mental junk food of sitcoms and violent copper/caper programs is defunct for most dom­ers. Those who have cable television do turn ori their set, though, for (you guessed it) more movies, health shows about nutrition, first aid, or sexuality, and the increasingly popu­lar music videos. 
Here, at Notre Dame, the god of media is definitely dead. Or at best, undefined. The almighty screen changes face with the latest film or TV show, so that it is not worshiped but tolerated by the majority of stu­dents whose values, as reflected through the media, are individualis­tic and conflicting when forced into the cage ·of generalities. · 
Next time they send me out with net in one hand and pen in the other, I'll know better~ Elusive as a photo­graphed ghost, you exist, somewhere, silent, tucked between these lines. O 
Kathy McGarvey, an experienced write1· for Scholastic, is a junior Arts and Letters major from Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania. 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
17 





Volleyball at SMC 
Bump. (Hey, nice pass.) Set. (That's perfect!) Spike. (Another kill. Good job!) 
These terms are the major com­ponents of volleyball, whether they be practiced in the backyard, on the beach or in the gym. At Saint Mary's they are practiced in the Angela Athletic Facility, but this was not always the case, just as there has not always been a varsity volleyball team. 
In the past, when there were fewer than 600 students attending Saint Mary's College, each student was re­quired to take two years of physical education. During those two years, students participated in at least eight different sports. 
"Volleyball was one of the more 
popular sports of the day," said Mary 

I! Lou Thompson, Director of Physical 
! ' Education at Saint Mary's. The Angela Athletic Facility has not always been available for the Belles to perfect their athletic abili­ties though. In the "old days" the intramurals and the physical educa­tion classes were held in St. Angela's Hall which used to stand to the left of the Church of Loretto. When this building was torn down, anyone in­terested in playing volleyball had to set up a net in the north lounge of Regina Hall and be careful not to hit the ceiling. Although the basic idea of the sport has stayed the same, the uni­forms and rules of the game have changed dramatically. The old uni­form donned by the . women of Saint Mary's was a one-piece blouse and skirt with blue bloomers underneath -quite different from the long­sleeved shirts and "bun hugger" 
18 SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
shorts worn today. The rules too were noticeably different. In the past, sixteen girls took to the court -eight on each side of the net. The conventional three-sequence bump, set, spike, was not allowed then. Al­though, as today, only three people could touch the ball during one play, each person was allowed two hits rather than one. Usually, the re­ceiver set the ball to herself on her first hit then passed it to a team­mate on her second hit. The team­mate then repeated the action, pass­ing it next to a front-row player who would attempt to set herself up for a "spike." Use of the hands to push the ball and use of the palms wer-e both perfectly legal. Six hits were always encouraged, but not manda­tonr. 
Today, the Saint Mary's volleyball team combines the new and the old. First-year coach Brian Goralski has much experience behind him. He came to Saint Mary's having coached at Olympic development camps throughout the United States for five years. In addition, a Junior Olympic team coached by Goralski finished fourth in the nation. At this writing, the volleyball team has a record of four wins and six losses, but coach Goralski is very positive about the team's chances for the rest of the season .. 
"I expect a lot of improvemnt from the team in the future," said coach Goralski. "The veterans and the newcomers alike are showing improvement." 
Two of the veteran players on the team are senior Loret Haney and junior Ann Boutton. Loret has been nominated for All-American and as­sumes the setter position during play. 
by Elaine Suess 

Ann, another strong returnee, is 
middle hitter. "These two are pretty 
much running the show," stated 
Goralski. 
Assisting these two veterans are 

freshmen starters Ann Brown, who 
plays middle blocker, and Patty Wil­
liams playing outside hitter and 
setter. The Saint Mary's team has 
many specialty players, which makes 
for a very strong offense and de­
fense. The offense which the team 
runs is a 5-1 (five hitters, one setter). 
This allows for a large number of 
quick plays at the net, which if 
worked correctly, throw the oppos­
ing teams into a state of confusion. 
If the members of the team im­prove the way their coach feels they will, Saint Mary's can look forward to a successful season. The pre­tourney for state will be held on October 29 pitting Saint Mary's against Marion and Goshen colleges. Playing each of these teams during the season will give the Saint Mary's team an iµea of how well they can expect to do. If they do as well as Goralski expects, the team will then take part in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics State tournament at Anderson College and continue on to Nationals. 
Comparing the new and the old, one can see that Saint Mary's has come quite a long way: From bloomers to bun huggers, from Re­gina North Lounge to Angela Athletic Facility. 0 
Elaine· Suess is a Saint Mary's stu­dent from Grand Blanc, Michigan. This is her first contribution to Scho­lastic. 
The ND Rowing Team 
At present, I find myself coaching a very vibrant, very large, and very good novice rowing team. Together with Greg Devero, I have spoken of the endless hours needed to prepare for our first race, which is fast ap­proaching. Michigan and Lincoln Park loom on the horizon as our first 
challenge.· On that day this year's fifty-two 
novice oarsmen will appreciate the sacrifices they have made. With 
shouts of "Richardson, raise your head, get some real air," "Mark, 
feather your blade earlier," "paper clip, paper clip," and "backs before butts," the novice team is gradually 
being molded into a unit. "We need 
a machine here--you go up together, back together-no accordians here." 
This is precisely what crew is-a team. If just one .person turns a head to watch his paddle, the set goes off and jeopardizes the entire stroke. Perfection is strived for in every 
motion, as everyone must do things 
in unison. Sometimes it's very frus­trating. However, that just makes the first race seem all the more worth it. 
The 1983-84 novice team will never know of pushing the ill-fated crew bus at 5 a.m. to get it started. They 
may not realize the years of plan­
ning it took to build the new boat­house. Two things, though, are com­mon to all oarsmen: pain and frus­tration. My only wish is that all could experience the joy of overcom­ing that pain and frustration in an eight-oared shell that is finally put­ting it all together.... 
The grey riverbank slips by slowly Poised at a brief instant in prepara­
tion, each drop of sweat .drips from 
an oarsman's chin, each twist of the rudder handle speaks of the long 
training that has preceded this mo­
ment. The differences visible to a stranger are small, the symbols meaningless: this boat· or that is longer, or made of some strange sub­stance, or the clothing, or the oars. The Notre Dame blue blades and yellow shamrocks are a world of 
separation on this day. Words of en­couragement or curses come through 
a megaphone to place the unwieldy sixty-foot-long shells into position. And like the oars, thcise who grip them are of a singular breed, to­gether in the private understanding and appreciation of this time, alone in their dedication to a sport where perfection is the only motivation, and the shirts of conquered foes the only personal gain. 

The oarsmen in the Notre Dame eight are staring at their oar han­dles, waiting, poised to swing the first stroke of the race. At any mo­ment commands will be shouted. They practiced their start fifteen times this morning. First, a half stroke, then three-quarter, then full. At the first stroke their bow will jump out of the river, biting the wa­ter, leaping ahead. 
The · novice oarsmen in their first race wait stiffly, coiled and tense. Despite the cold, they are already sweating. Half. Three-quarter. Full. At thirty-six strokes a minute, they will have no time to use their legs correctly. Their arms will do the work until the pace has settled. They all concentrate on what is to come. 
One pauses to re-grip his handle, while ... Now! "Ready all ... Row!" And at once, that silent moment dis­appears, and as each face reieases the anticipation the body has stored, the excitement drains away, replaced by a pain that rushes in and threat­ens to overcome them all. In their initial straining, each oar separately, and yet in grand unison, violates the placid face of St. Joseph River. A half-dozen voices respond in sharp commands of assault. Their wrists by Richard Green 
snap instantly, oars jabbing the 
water. The coxswain shouts. "Half!" 
Missed strokes. Flailing oars. White 
foam. "Three-quarter!" Frantic mo­
tion. Jerking forward. Grunting 
chests. "Full!" Wild spray. Power 
flows from their legs to their backs 
through their hands to their blades. 
Two hundred more and they'll be 
finished. 
It is good to see that they are 
ready. 
This bit of drama unfolds every 
year at Notre Dame ori the St. Jo­
seph River. And almost magically, it 
is nearly always a tight race to the 
end of the 2,000-meter course. These 
races have conjured many images in 
my past-the shaved heads of the 
Michigan State novice eight looking 
despondent as their loss sank in, 
while wondering if our stroke man 
was ever going to stop vo_miting over 
the port side, after my first race. 
Many people do not realize the 
staggering amount of time the Notre 
Dame crew will put in as the year 
progresses. I can guarantee all, how­
ever, that it will be more than worth 
it in the end. O 
Making his debut as a Scholastic writer, Richard Green is a senior 
Arts and Letters major from Middle­town, Delaware. 

!'! 

Notre Dame Women's Caucus: The Concern Against Sex Discrimination 

by Lynn Cassella 
Feminism addresses political, eco­nomic, and social equality of the sexes. While some thinkers perceive this theory as a skewing of reality, feminists argue that the traditional male-controlled images need changes to meet women's increasing personal expectations. Sexist views, to femi­nists, work to deny all people the education, opportunities and power to develop themselves and to help direct society. 

Even though some women obtain ! a limited portion of equality with men, most rarely have equal access to similar educational, occupational, financial, or social benefits. For ex­ample, the Notre Dame admissions quota policy makes women a mi­nority and ignores obvious forms of sexism. This insensitivity reinforces the existing struggle for equality in the "real world." Being part of this tributions. He remarks that an equalized university admissions pol­icy will not automatically solve this problem. He thinks, however, that this policy would improve women's status and encourage their overall academic partkipation. Furthermore, this professor believes that men would benefit from such an admis­sions system. It would help to alle­viate the threats of female success in the classroom. 
In the meantime, he stresses .the need for a more supportive environ­ment in which the concerns of under­graduate females could be compas­sionately discussed. Likewise, he rec­ognizes need for a more sensible at­mosphere to address women's issues and roles. He thinks women under­graduates and faculty are often "chopped down," and encouraged to fulfill stereotypes. He thinks these attitudes stem from family upbring-all students and faculty of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. Their services include informational distribution and referral . services. The Caucus utilizes educational me­dia and can refer women desiring more individualized attention to sup­port groups. In addition, the group has informal social gatherings which reinforce its philosophy of mutual respect and encouragement. It sup­ports efforts to address and improve existing inequalities and social prob­lems which all students face in a society of shifting roles. 

The Women's Caucus agrees that interaction as equals at Notre Dame will more fully prepare both sexes to face the "real world." Most im­portantly, this quest for justice will benefit not only the minority of fe­males, but all members of the com­munity. D 
"For some female students at Notre Dame, however, this unequal quota of male to female students can be inhibitory. This leads to social tensions which affect their motivation, self­esteem, and educational performance." 
student inequality does not imme­diately exclude women from certain educational or.social opportunities on campus. Neither is it fair to say that women are held in lower esteem or 
. are objects of severe ridicule. For some female students at Notre Dame, however, this unequal quota of male to female students can be inhibitory. This leads to social tensions which affect their motivation, self-esteem, and educational performance. Certain Notre Dame professors are aware of and sensitive to this prob­lem. One professor (who prefers to have his name withheld) notices an unequal participation of undergradu­ate females, as compared to males, in his classroom. Even in cases where a 1:1 male to female ratio exists, he observes females still participating less in class. In comparison to his teaching experiences at other uni­versities, the professor noted a dis­proportionate lack of female stu­. dents in the upper end of grade dis­
20 

SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
ing and the position women· occupy in their family structures. 
He advises that any change, which will occur between men and women, must be positively accepted by both groups. Although Notre Dame may be labelled as a patriarchal environ­
ment he does not agree that it shouid foster male dominance. Fe­male status at Notre Dame, to him, further poses the question: What is Notre Dame's mission? Does the Notre Dame environment passively accept or does it actively challenge our stereotypes? 
The Notre Dame Women's Caucus, founded in February of 1982, works to raise the consciousness and status of women at Notre Dame by provid­ing pertinent services which respond 
_to their needs and concerns. Since 1972, there have been five or six groups which have worked to re­spond to these same needs. The pres­ent group is a student-sponsored, undergraduate organization open to 






Green Alex 
by Sharon Houk 

Let me tell you about Alex. Alex was green. He was a dragon: A green dragon. In fact, he was the mightiest dragon that ever lived. Sort of. You see, Alex was only three inches long. But Alex had a goal. It seems that Alex discovered very early in life that he 
had a universe inside himself. He found there the potential to destroy what he could riot build. He found there more questions than he ever imagined existed. He found there answers to questions he had not even 
found yet. And most of all Alex found there a vast potential to love. And he loved. Alex loved everything that was and everything that 
might be in the future. He loved until his ears hurt. Which was strange because I don't think he had ears. But in all this, Alex grew sad. He had one terrifying problem. Alex couldn't talk. As a matter of fact, he couldn't move. He had no way to communicate his love to anyone or 
anything.· Alex still loved and loved, but he grew sad all the same. His goal was to somehow corrimunica te to the universe 
how much he loved all that was in it. He devised a plan. Since Alex couldn't talk, And neither could he move, He decided he would do what he could do. And he would do it as best as he possibly could. But what could Alex do? He could be green. So Alex decided to try to be the best green he could be, 
twenty-four hours a day.· And that's just what he did, in hopes that the universe 
would recognize his great love. Did anybody no-tice? I'm not sure. But I do know that He was green And he was Alex. 
Sharon Houk is a junior Arts and Letters major from rural Purcellville, Virginia. This is her first contribution. 
I 


SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 21 
I' 


Cinema 
The Fundamental Things Life 
It's still the same old story 
a fight for love and glory, 
A case of do or die. 
The world will always welcome 
lovers, 
as time goes by ... 
"Casablanca" is like Italian ice cream. Italian ice cream is an in­tense experience. A small spoonful on the tongue dominates your senses. One treasures each sensation upon each taste bud. Everything about it is more: more sweet, more delicious, more flavorful. And, while still re­maining ice cream, it goes beyond ice cream into that supersaturated Land of Ineffable Ice Cream. The only way to enter the Lan·d of Ineffable Ice Cream is to actually eat some Italian ice cream (preferable in Italy, during the summer, on a Sunday afternoon). Casablanca is like that. 
To give away too much of the plot of Casablanca would be utterly ir­responsible. It is enough to say, for those of you who spent your life locked in a closet, that it is a story set during World War II in Casa­blanca, which was controlled by the Third Reich under the auspices of the Vichy French government. Humphrey Bogart plays Rick, "sa­loon keeper" of Rick's Cafe Ameri­can. Desperate refugees from all over Europe have flocked to Casa­blanca on the slim hope of escaping to America by obtaining exit visas to neutral Portugal. Ingrid Bergman plays Ilse Lund, -the lady of under­ground patriot Victor Laslo, both of whom end up at Rick's. A powerful love triangle ensues. 
A witty script, flawless directing by Michael Curtiz, and tight editing are all part of this classic movie's beauty. Solid performances by Peter 
22 

SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
Lorre and Sidney Greenstreet are icing on the cinematic cake. 
Like all great art, it transcends time and speaks to us about life. It tells us the same thing about life that Italian ice cream tells us about the Land of Ineffable Ice Cream. Casablanca tells us that life is more. I am reminded of the book by C. S. Lewis, The Great Divorce, where the characters find out that the grass in heaven is grassier, and that our ex­periences here on earth are just shadows of the real things. Why do I say this? Let us look at the main characters of Casablanca. We meet Rick, a man who is afraid of his past. He has built walls around himself and fanned the fire of hate that burns within him. He is untouchable. He is a person who thinks he can say never. "I stick my neck out for nobody." But we. can still pull for Rick because we know that there is also something very good behind the walls. And when he does break down the barriers, and when we do ex­
perience the intensity of his hate, and of his love, we realize that it is more. He is a human being, and caught in moral situations that make him reach his limits. And only hu­man persons can do what Rick is doing more of: being human. Rick is not going through motions, or play­ing_ roles or using his human capital to deal with practical problems. Rick is more. 
And when two lovers woo They still say "I love you/, on this you can rely ... 
The good that is in Rick is that he still loves Ilse. And Ilse loves Rick. Yet the sweetest,. most incredible thing about their love is that they 
. know there is even more. There is 
by Bud Macfarlane 

something even richer, with more texture, "grassier" if you will, than two people saying "I love you." This ineffable more I keep writing about is much more eloquently expressed by Rick himself in that famous line: 
Fm no good at being noble, but it 
doesn't take much to see that the 
problems of three little people 
don't amount to a hill of beans in 
this crazy world. 
Think about it-an entire movie 

jam-packed with these incredible 
characters, whom we love and ad­
mire and pull for and wish we could 
be like; characters who say "I love 

you•·•; and even they don't amount to 
a hill of beans compared to the more. 
Apparently, the more is even more. 
On this we can rely. 
For most of us, it is most unlikely 
that we will ever get a chance to ex­

perience the more that is Italian ice 
cream in Italy. If you missed Casa­
blanca this year at Notre Dame, then 

I recommend that you wait until 
next year and see it with someone 
who is more to you in the Emil 
Theater. Seeing Casablanca on tele­
vision is like eating Italian ice cream 
in the Memorial Library pit. 
Yoii must remember this, 
a kiss is just a kiss, 
a sigh is just a sigh. 
The fundarnental things apply 
as time goes by . . . . 

Known to his friends as "William Noble, Jr./' Bud is now somewhat less gregarious than he somewhat was last month now that he is an ex­perienced laid back movie critic. This is his second contribution to Scho­lastic. He is from New Jersey. 




1(3tl()fl 

Fool's Gold 
by Barbara Stevens 


DIONNE TRAVIS, read the sign in bold neon 
letters, and underneath, slightly smaller, Three Nights 
Only! People crowded and jostled each other in an at­
tempt to keep their places in line. The doors wouldn't 
open until 7: 30, but already a fair-sized crowd was 
waiting. 

Inside, Dionne sat alone in front of her dressing 
table. The room was warm and close and the line of 
bright, hot bulbs framing the mirror made it worse. 
Dionne leaned forward and brushed at her eyelashes. 
With swift upward strokes the lashes became darker 
and thicker until they were almost heavy enough to 
close her eyes. 

In the mirror, Dionne could see the door open. It was 
Walt. Walter Campbell had been her manager for three 
years now, ever since she had first begun singing. 
"Hi, honey." Walt shut the door quietly. "We've got 
quite a crowd out there tonight! You all set?" 
"Ellen ran down to press my dress. Other than that 
I guess everything's ready." 

Walt stretched out on the couch along the opposite 
side of the room. "You have to do especially well 
tonight. There's going to be someone here I want you 
to impress." 

Dionne laughed. "Another girlfriend?" 
Walt grinned slyly. "Why not? Actually she's my 
niece. You know my sister Lena?'' 

"Of course. Conservative, boring Lena." Dionne 
began to brush her hair. It stood out in a wild orange 
mass around her head. She fluffed it up on top so that 
the dark roots hardly showed. 

Walt was laughing. "She's not that bad, and her 
daughter Kate is a real cute kid. She's my favorite 
niece." 

Dionne snorted. "She's your only niece." 
"That's true." Walt sat up and propped his feet on 
the table. "But even if I had a dozen, she'd still be my 
favorite." 

"Well, I'll try to give her a good show." Dionne's 
voice was noncommittal. 

"Just do the usual, honey-you're always sensa­
tional." 

"Speaking of sensational, how's my new song 
doing?" 

"Well," Walt's voice was reluctant, "we've got to 
give it time. It wasn't released that long ago." 
"In other words, it hasn't moved up." 
"Songs don't get to be a hit overnight. Things go 
up and down slowly." 

Dionne lit a cigarette. "Has it moved at all?" 
"Here." Walt emptied an ashtray and stuck it on the 
table next to a half-full Coke bottle, a vase of withering 
flowers, and a pile of magazines. 
"Has it moved at all?" 

"I heard you, honey. I'm just thinking. I don't 
believe so." "It went down, didn't it?" Dionne's voice was bitter. "I should have become an airline stewardess after all. · I'll never make it as a singer." 
24 SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
"It doesn't matter, Dionne. You have sellout crowds all the time." Walt swung his legs around and sat up. He leaned forward, his elbows propped on his knees, and pushed one hand through his thin brown hair. "The important thing is that you do draw the crowd." 
"Sure. At a dinky little theater, or a nightclub nobody's ever heard of." "This place isn't bad." Walt looked around. "And you've got the audience coming out every night." "Maybe they're coming to hear the band and not me." 
"No, it's you they come to hear. We wouldn't sell out all three nights if they were just coming to hear your background music." 
"If they want to hear me, why don't they buy my records?" "They like seeing you in person. You're a gorgeous woman." 
The door opened, and Ellen came in, Dionne's glittery dress over her arm. "'They're opening the doors now." 
Walter stood up. "I'm going to watch the show with Lena and Kate. I better go look for them now." "You should have arranged to meet them some­place," said Dionne. "You may not be able to find them now." 
"Didn't think of it," said Walt briskly. He ran his hand across Dionne's bare shoulder and bent to kiss the back of her neck. "I'm bringing Kate back here afterward to meet you. Then I'm taking you to dinner." The door opened briefly and· the faint buzz of the crowd could be heard. Then the door shut and Walter was 
gone."He never thinks," muttered Dionne caustically. ·"He never uses his head." Beside her Ellen slipped the dress from the hanger, her face impassive. She stood up, and Ellen helped Dionne pull t?e skimpy dress over her head, then struggled to zip her. "Whew! I shouldn't have drunk that Coke," ex­claimed Dionne holding her breath. "I can hardly breathe." "You look nice," said Ellen automatically, and began to str.aighten up the rumpled room. Dionne sat at the dressing table and finished putting on her makeup. "There," she said finally, applying a bright pink mouth. "I guess I'm ready." She leaned over to pull on her sparkly shoes. 
The show was a success. Dionne gave it all she had, and the crowd responded well. For her finale she sang her new song, and the crowd went wild. Dionne could feel the spotlight racing up and down her body, and the floor shaking from .the vibrations of the band behind her and the crowd clapping in front of her. Afterwards, she collapsed breathlessJy on the sofa in her dressing room and people crowded in to see her. A drink in one hand, a cigarette in the other, she laughed and talked and received more flowers than she had ever gotten before. Gradually the crowd thinned 


. .. 
. ' 
..• : 
, . 
. .. 
;...·-~.·

~l~· :. 
.... 
• • : •. ·=·:-•• 
... 
. .... 

.... :,:.·~. . .. . :_: ·: -. 
·.ff:• ....
.·: .:.: 
=.... ·:, ' 
.-·
.. ·:::~ 
•• .:.=

···.··. . . 
• ".'!.',

·,:-:~ :-.:·.: .. 
··::. -·:;\-: .: ... 
. .... 
..
~ 

u1t."t.l:
•.. 


25 





"The show was a success. Dionne gave it all she had, and the crowd responded well. For her finale she sang her new song, and the crowd went wild." 

out, then dispersed completely under Walt's persistent urging. 
"I'm going to bring up Lena and Kate now," he told Dionne. "They decided to wait in the lobby rather than try to fight the crowd." Walt returned almost immediately drawing a reluctant Lena by the arm, with Kate following behind. 
"Hi." Dionne's smile took in both of them. "Did you enjoy the show?"
! ; 
"Oh, yes. It was wonderful! You were fantastic." Kate's blue eyes flashed -in remembrance. 
Lena glared disapprovingly at Kate. "It was an interesting show," she told Dionne with assumed politeness. 
"Well, thanks," said Dionne. "Won't you sit down?" "No, thank you," Lena clutched her brown handbag tightly to her chest. "We can't stay long." 
For a moment silence reigned, then Dionne spoke again. "So you're Walt's niece. I could have guessed. You're as good-looking as he is. I just love your hair." 
Kate's hands flew to her smooth brown-head. "You like my hair? I think it's plain looking. I've always worn it like this. I think your hair's beautiful," she added. But up close, Dionne knew, it was no longer the bright, stunning mass it had been on stage. It looked · stiff and orangey. If you looked closely, you could see a dark streak down the part. 
"Do you write your own songs?" inquired Lena. "Some of them," replied Dionne. "I still borrow most of the ones I use, but I do write some." "Kate's a writer," explained Lena, looking fondly at Kate. "She won a fiction contest last year." "Oh, Mother," protested Kate. "It was just for kids -not a real contest." 
But ifChloe seems toact indifferently it's not her vanity or her pride, ifssjmply that at some point we, the flowers sent to Chloe, have died. 
And i(she-keeps her men elusively it's merelythaf Chloe can't decide whethe(we flowers wear less miserably than choices that are cut and dried. 
· -· · by Melita Schaum 
"I think that's marvelous," Dionne told Kate. "I'm 
surprised you have time to write, being in high school 
and all." 

"She uses her time very efficiently," commented 
Lena. "Speaking of time, we'd better be going. It's 
getting late." 

"I'll walk down with you," said Walt. "Be right 
back, Dionne." 

"All right," said Dionne. "Bye now." 
"Good night," said Lena, and Kate added, "I'll never 
forget your show." 
"Wait!" said Dionne suddenly. On the stool next to the dressing table lay her record. Walt had written Solid Gold on it in Magic Marker. Dionne hesitated a moment then scratched out Solid Gold, and underneath scrawled "Dionne." 
"Here." She handed the record to Kate. 
"Thank you very much." Kate took the record 
eagerly studying the cover. 
"Yes, that's very nice of you," added Lena, putting her hands on Kate's shoulders and steering her out the door. 
Dionne listened to the hollow sound their feet made on the stairs and sighed: She went over to the dressing table and stared into the mirror. She rubbed some blush onto her cheeks and fluffed up her hair, turning her face to the left, then to the right. 
"I've really got to give up smoking," she murmured. In the glare of the harsh light around the mirror, her teeth were faintly stained. D 
Barbara Stevens is a junior Arts and Letters major f'rom Pitman, New. Jersey. This is her first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 

l'l'.'I: Orjtitled--;-· < 
.,·-~:-:c :-~-=-?\}=;~/'; , 
,. --and:waddled ··o·ff into the night 
H_e left no card oraddress; ­
He isn't in the book. 
(The operator laughed at me ·_ 
when I asked her piease to look.)· 
So I do not have his number ' 
Though no on.e.is to blame. 
I really think myliUleJoc1d 
Just hasn't got a name.· 
. ·• . . 

by Sha~oh Hollk 
26 

SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 



BRUNO'S II PIZZA (Across from Big "C" Lumber) Mondays Only Bruno will deliver a 16" with any toppings 277-4519for $6.95 to campus FREE Open 4-11 7days a week  

Good Thru Nov 83 Wife QLnlnnial l)lancakl! :lflmtsr , ~ $1.00 OFF T::!hAd~ OUR SPECIALTY Limit 1 OVEN-BAKED per person APPLE PANCAKES U.S. 31 North in Roseland (Across from the Holiday Inn) 272-7433. Open 7days a week at6:00am ·  

. -· -· ---~-~~ WE THE HUDDLE 239-7157  ~~i ~ UR PIZZA IS A DELIVER SURE OAK ROOM CAFE 239-7518  



CANCER 
CAN 
BE 

BEAT 
Like almost2 million people, Tom Harper is living proof your contributions count. 
Please support our efforts. Amencan 


Can~er Sq~ietv 

i 
I 
SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 
27 




When I arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 1980, I was a believer. As the son of an alumnus, [ .had grown up on a steady diet of Fighting Irish.propaganda; I probably knew the story of the Gipper before I had ever heard of Santa Claus. I entered the freshman class certain that all I was told was true: that Notre Dame was the P•romised Land, flowing with truth and fairness and all that was right about America. Had I been shot that first year, I would have bled green. I was Our Lady's faithful son. I believed. 
And there was much in evidence to support and fuel that belief. The campus itself was (and remains) a thing of beauty. How could a less than noble place be blessed with such flowers, trees, and lakes? The ducks, squirrels, and geese which abounded seemed to be an imprimatur from above, a stamp of approval on all which this place stood for. The Golden Dome rose proudly above the entire scene, supporting its Pro­tectress; the Dome itself resting securely on blocks of solid stone. 
The physical beauty of the campus was balanced by the character of the people I encountered. Our rector always had time for a game of backgammon, or to just listen while a freshman tried to express his homesickness. My instructors were.all friendly, and seemed genuinely concerned for my welfare and adjustment to the fast-paced life of a college student. 

All that was three years ago. As I grew older, my 
perceptions of this place changed. Since my vision of 
Notre Dame was so high to begin with, it was in­
evitable that such change would tend to be in the 
negative direction. 
Much of the tarnish I see on the Dome comes as a 
natural result of growing up. If the idealism which 
accompanied me from Oshkosh, WI to South Bend in 
1980 hasn't died, the naivete sure has. Friends have 
married, some have died, and suddenly the pressures 
of the senior-year job search are upon me. All that 
contributes to a dampening of enthusiasm; my point of 
view has gradually shifted from the gung-ho believer 
to the pragmatic young man who wants to know why 
he believes what he believes. 
On closer inspection, it became obvious to me that 
my changed perception was not the result of changed 
values so much as a more realistic view of the world 
surrounding me. Indeed, my time at Notre Dame has, 
if anything, strengthened my values by daily challeng­
ing them. 

This has not all come without cost, however. When 
I look around I no longer see 1,200 acres of perfection, 
but an institution as imperfect as the men and women 
who comprise it. And this perhaps helps to answer 
the question posed on the cover: idealism, on this 
campus at least, is not dead. It has merely been · -tempered by the disillusionment which inevitably 
follows the young as they mature. 
The Notre Dame I perceived as a freshman was a 
bastion of traditional Catholicism, The Notre Dame I 
now see claims (in the 1982 PACE Report) to be a 
Catholic university that is "dedicated to moral and 
religious values." The same institution which publicly 
espouses "A Christian and, more specifically, a Catholic, 
sense of values," this month embraced Christie Hefner 
as a speaker for the MBA program. That she is the 
president of Playboy Enterprises, which among other · 
things deals in pornography and gambling, seems not to 
conflict with those values. 
A'"nd so it is, I find, with the world we live in. All is 
not as it seems: the Dome is not solid gold, but leaf; 
it is supported not by stone, but by tin-covered wood 
formed to look like stone. 
But all is not lost. In such an environment idealism 
can survive, as I have discovered by the lives, of those 
high-minded people I still encounter every day. The 
Ideal which propelled Thomas More to martyrdom and 
sainthood is still alive, even in this world where all 
is not as it may atfirst seem. And that the tainted world 
we live in has thus far failed to bury that Ideal is 
reason enough for optimism. O 
28 

SCHOLASTIC/OCTOBER 1983 


New Hours: 
Monday Thru Friday 9-8 
Saturday 8-3 
277-0734 


Personalized Hair Design for f Men and Women Who Want to Look Their Best. .. 
Visit our location at 417 Dixieway North 
In Roseland across from Wendy's 
FULL SERVICE ChPck CJ.,hing Convenience 
POSTAL SUB-STATION 
-M.,x 520 ­
Postage Stamps Pmel Post with v,1/1d SMC or ND ID. Registered Mail Posbl Money Orders Certified Miil Posbl Cards DiilJ 5 p.m. Pickup 
Sub-station Hours: 9 o.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Sat. 
STORE HOURS: 9 AM-9 PM MON.-SAT. 9 AM-12 NOON SUN. 


405 Dixieway North (U.S.) Roseland 
ROSELAND WPHARMACY 
I 272-6060 


Roseland Aquatics 
'1110 percent off Fish and dry goods with this ad.., 
&'
li. i~ i ,1 ® e , (excluding feeder.aoldtish) ~ 1)L 1 ) .., 
Feeder Goldfish 10 for $1.00
,-if iv~~ 

·with ND/SMC Student /.0.
\/~Fresh and Salt Water Fish ', \J { Live Aquarium Plants 
' T \ 

, ~ "--' Aquariums and Supplies 
t~/
i ~ 
. 0; 
V ' 

415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 
277-4862 
j 
! 


"I die the king's good servant, yet God's first." -Sir Thomas More 
on the scaffold, 6 July 1535 

L 'ON l!WJad BUB!PUI 'awea aJlON 
Ol'v'd 
3811.LSOd ·s·n 









