
792
'Sfie Noure ^ame Scholastic
Everything for QUALITY
nothing for show
blend
HAT’S OUR IDEA in making CAMELS—the Quality Cigarette.
Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! . It’s the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper outside—secure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp over theend to seal the package and keep it air-tight.
And note this! There’s nothing flashy about the Camel package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the smoke. Not a cent of needless expense that must come out of the quality of the tobacco.
Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on merit alone.
Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness and their freedom from ciga-retty aftertaste.
Camels are made for men who think for themselves.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Nocre Same Scholastic
793

S
2
I
I
5
w—mt—mi—mi'
a I a a a a | a
4“ —sni—nn—n—n—aa—»n^»
Society %rand Clothes
FOR. YOUNG MEN AND MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
g I I | [ II
g
|
b a a a I a
Commencement
fl i i
]\/I AY we take this means of expressing our hearty *** appreciation for the patronage extended to us by the boys of Notre Dame. It has been our greatest desire to serve you at all times, and our association has brought about a sincere friendship long to be remembered.
We extend to you our wishes for your success on your first adventure in the commercial and professional
world.
Adler Brothers
i if i i i i li li li
li If i
El
i I If
a | a
3
i
ii
Jewelry, Pennants, Pillow Covers, Blankets, and a host of other good things as souvenirs of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will be found in our “College Department,” main floor.
i
ADLER BROTHERS
107-109 South Michigan St. 108 West Washington St.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
i
I i li
K
as
794
Notre ©ame Scholastic
Base Ball
GET INTO THE GAME
Spalding Equipment
with
Our catalogue is now ready. It’s yours for the asking.
Gloves, Mitts, Bats, Balls, Etc.
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit"
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the
Notre Dame News Stand
o—mi—• mi—mi—mi—un—nii-^nn^—m—im—— mi—on—
—■tm——ra—im—nn—nn——mt^— mi—mi—nu—<mi——an—an——nu—tm—m—n»J« THE WORLD’S LONGEST ELECTRIFIED RAILROAD- ! 649 Miles of Transcontinental Line now Operated by “White Coal.” |
A. G. Spalding & Bros
211 S. State Street CHICAGO, ILL.
If you want to enjoy every minute of your trip take |
THE CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL I
syc _ii itn ~tm । -nn- ~nn—mt-net-mi ?"	- -«u-■■■■-
I TTT- A	you will be pleased with our photo- 1
| W “ xjLLC Oulu graphs. Special rates to students. J
1	E. E. MANGOLD	i
J	THE LEADING PHOTOGRAPHER	|
f 226 NORTH MAIN STREET NEAR CITY HALL f
| Nobile’s College Inn |
g	8
1 HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES J y FRUITS AND ICE CREAM y
I STV DENTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY I £	8
y 108 South Michigan Strbet y
=	g
I	Phones: Belk 602; Home, 965	{
tJta—mi—mt—Jnt—re—nn—ra—nn—nn—nn—no—an——mi<—tm—mi^—nn—im—
1 NOTRE DAME MEN |
8
DO YOU KNOW THAT
The Campus Shoe Repairing Shop
Is one the Most Up-to-Date in the State?
Let us prove to you, our Quality, Service, Workmanship. Town Prices.
Notre Dame Shoe Repairing Shop and Shining Parlor cafesure
8 I
I £ I E I E
•Jsu—nib 1 I	mi—nn—an-.—nu«—mi—mi^—nn—tin—nn^—.nn—an-tm—nn*—nn—nn—Llji		
	TUF D O M F official portrait ■ n C. U U Ifl C. PHOTOGRAPHER	1 1	1 ■
| |	McDonald	1	a 1
I J	211 MAIN STREET		1
1 5 1 1	Opposite Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	1	1
s 1 •jin—in-	'Ca« ■ ng^—aa^^»gg»—cc^—na^—	T • 0S«M	.4
-nn—tm—nn——mt—ra—tm^—mi—nn^—im—un^—>,n—nn—na—m—nn—e ♦
I	I
|	LEAVE YOUR	I
I AMATEUR FILMS |
I	AT THE	?
g	I
1	NEWS STAND	[
1	To be Developed and Finished. I
f	---------- . 1
I	THE NATIONAL PHOTO SHOPS	i
J	CORPORATION	I
=	105 Lincoln Way East.	I
1	।
.nn—-ra—tm—ra—’tm—mi—ra—un—mi—na^—-nn——nn—nn—nn—mi—
Cox Sons & Vining
131-133 East Twenty-Third St., New York
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
>nij»
Moure dame Scholastic'
795
On the Corner
The Quality Shop

MAX ADLER CO
These Are the Days of
REAL SPORT
Our Sporting Goods Section will supply you with the best of Baseball and Tennis needs.
Base
Bats, Balls, Masks, Mitts, Gloves, Bag:
Tennis Goods
Rackets, Balls,
Nets, etc.
Bathing Suits
A great variety of one and two piece All Wool Suits, the nobbiest of the season.
N. D. Jewelry
Pins, Rings, Brooches, Cuff Links, Cigarette Cases and a big line of N. D. Pennants and Pillow Tops.
THE CAMPUS STORE
796
Norre dame Scholascic
No. 126
The First National Bank - South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $600,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 190,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, Jr., Vice-Pres.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier. .
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier.
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass'u. Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES for RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES.
We Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World.
TRY OUR TRAVELERS’ CHEQUES.
Don’t Spend It All!
Some day you’ll want to tell the world: ‘Tm in business for myself.” Then you’ll be glad you held onto some of your remittance money. This friendly bank will help.
SERVICE - STABILITY
JEFFtRSON BLV D.	NEXT TO POST OFFICE
" The Bank Ahead*9
“THE OLIVER”
Indiana’s Finest Hotel
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS
Dining Room Open All Night
—ini—na—-nn—ra—nn—rm—mi—nn—mi^—nn^—n
EYES EXAMINED I
OImms Fitted *t Moderate Prieee I Satirfaciion	?
DR. J. BURKE i
optometrist ’	J
I 230 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana I * s—na—-an—hc—rm——nn^—mi^—nn—nn—nn^—na^—nn^—ra—an—ii|
OFFICE PHONE	RES. PHONE
Main 689	Main 1162 and 1847
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
Dentistry.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS Extracting, and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws.
J. M. S.0 BUILDING SOUTH BEND, IND.
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
DR. F. W. VAUGHN DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
617 J. M. S. Building, South Bend, Ind.
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS-VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Published Every Saturday During the School Year. Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October3, 1917 authorized, June 25. 1918.
Vol. LV.
June 3, 1922
No. 32
AND GLORY GUARDS WITH SOLEMN ROUND....
W AY thirtieth has come and gone. To Xl some it meant nothing more than a Of fl day without the drudgery of classes; to others it presented an opportunity to play thirty-six holes; to real men it was the day for giving homage to heroes in a very practical way. America has not been lax in paying tribute to her heroes. Throughout the year she gives numerous days to hero-worship and heroic deeds. Birthdays of great men, decisive struggles, revolu-' tionary steps in government: all these she remembers. But the most worthy and most sacred day of all is not the natal day of a president, nor the commemoration of the Declaration of Independence. Rather it is that day which she sets aside to decorate the graves of those men who made it possible for her to have an organized government or a noble president guiding that government.
There is no venture in which results come without effort; success is the conclusion of enterprise. In the task of preserving a country, the supreme effort is paid in the price of heroic sacrifice. A beautiful mind once wrote, “A poet is the master work of God’s intellect; a soldier—a. fighting man, is the darling of His Heart”. It was not without thought that such an observation was penned. The horrors of war may be described so powerfully that even the staunchest mind will be tempted to prefer peace to the relegation of principle. But despite all the devastation that -the most destructive invention of man can produce, despite the fact that savagery in all its hideousness supplants civilization, despite the sorrow that sears the all-sacrificing heart of a
mother, there is a redeeming beautiful side to war in that it brings out all that is noble and staunch in man. On the pages of his
tory are not written the captains of industry who died from overwork, or the politicians whose hective lives led them to insanity. The ideals of those men were tainted with desire for material gain. In historical annals are found the soldiers, the men who laid down not a part of their tune to accumulate wealth, but their very right to existence to maintain the country’s honor and integrity.
Surely, a worthy deed was done on May 5, 1868, when Commander-in-Chief John A. Logan of the Grand Army of the Republic issued a general order designating May 30 “for the purpose of strewing flowers or otherwise decorating the graves of comrades who‘died in defense of their country during the late rebellion.” To his order we may add the heroes who paid the supreme price in the Spanish-American, and in the World War.
Of especial interest is Memorial Day to Notre Dame, for the deeds of Notre Dame men form a glorious page in the Book of Valor. The record of the Catholic in American history has always been an enviable one; the record of the Notre Dame Catholic is indisputably so. How could it be other wise when the very men, whose task it was “to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to shoot,” were the first to volunteer their services to their country? It is just a year ago now that the last member of the Notre Dame Post, No. 569, G. A. R., died. That post’s enrollment included twenty-two men of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, twenty-two men, whose lives were literally given to God and Country. Among them were such men
Norre frame Schdascic
798
as Father Corby, past president of the University, whose bravery at Gettysburg marks one of the brightest pages of the Civil War, and Father Olmstead, Brigadier General in the Army of the Potomac.
The impressive exercises of last Tuesday marked Notre Dame’s devotion to these heroes. The Field Mass, the addresses in Washington Hall, the decoration of graves, the military honors: could not but thrill the heart.	A. E. H.
THE CONFERRING OF THE LAETARE MEDAL.
The formal conferring of the Laetare Medal on Dr. Charles Patrick Neill took place in Washington Hall on the evening of Ascension Day, May 25. Long before the appointed hour numerous friends and admirers of Dr. Neill had assembled in the hall to do him honor. At eight o’clock, headed by the President of the University the formal party, composed of the Right Reverend Peter J. Muldoon, D. D.; the Right Reverend Edward J. Kelly, D. D.; the Very Reverend William J. Kerby, Ph. D.; the Very Reverend James French, C. S. C.; the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.; and Dr. Neill, took their places on the stage. After the overture by the University Orchestra, Bishop Muldoon, the presiding officer of the evening, introduced a life-long friend and adviser of the Medalist, the Very Reverend Dr. Kerby, of the Catholic University, as the principal speaker of the evening. Dr. Kerby’s masterly and pertinent address was as follows:
If Charles Patrick Neill were now on trial, and knowledge as to his character were considered an important factor in his defense, I would be permitted to speak in praise of him without restraint or apology. But since Mr. Neill is not on trial, our social conventions seem to forbid me to praise-him in his presence. I am compelled, therefore, to move a suspension of the reticence with which we treat one’s good qualities in one’s presence, in order that we may proceed to the business that has brought us together.
Notre Dame University confers the Laetare Medal upon laymen and women whose achievements and character In the service of Church and Country invite attention and reward. It is impossible to carry out this purpose of the University in stimulating effort and rewarding accomplishment unless
we interpret both on an occasion like this. The occasion commands me then to speak directly about the character and work of Mr. Neill.
I am not afraid of any harmful effect on him. It is certain that these proceedings distress him. It is certain that they will on the whole, humble him, because they will force him to stand in the presence of great purposes and to measure his career by them. His mind will dwell tonight, not upon what he has accomplished, but on the extent to which he appears, in his own mind, to have fallen short of his ideals.
I shall speak of Charles Patrick Neill with the advantage of intimate knowledge of him, of profound affection for him, and of a reasonably accurate understanding of what he is and of what he has done. If my words take the form of eulogy, I do not so intend them. My purpose is to show to you the type of man who realizes in many ways the ideals that inspire this University, the type of man that church and country need; the type that everyone of you should aim to become, if you are to fulfill the promises of life as God’s great gift.
Charles Patrick Neill was at one time a student of Notre Dame. He came and went as did others. It is probable that he worried his teachers, invited dismal predictions as to his future, and that he entered into a fair variety of the adventures which break the monotony of college life. Yet he will tell you, as he has told me countless times, that the outstanding inspirations of his life were received here. I would love to think that many among you students who witness this scene may, decades of years hence, receive similar honor from your University and vindicate in your day the teachers and the lessons that enter your life now. (
Charles Patrick Neill took life seriously as a University student. He took the University seriously when he came here for his education. He carried with him a correct sense of values that made the law of distribution of his energies and recreation. He had caught the vision of great truth. His grasp upon it was improved while he was a student here. His return tonight vindicates his teachers, corroborates his youthful outlook on life; compensates the efforts he brought to the service of his ideals; and vindicates with glory, those who love him and count him as friend in the, fullest sense.
If you are conscious of the sustained urging of youth toward great action and unselfish service of God and Country, I have a message that will help you. Charles Patrick Neill never permitted the irresponsibility of youth or the gaiety of college life or the allurements of legitimate recreation to obscure his vision of the great purpose which directed his life, the discovery and service of which was his chief business.
If you are confused in these, your younger days, when you see ideals scoffed at, baseness triumphant, and sin apparently unpunished, I have a message that will bring to you, assurance and strength.. I have stood often side by side with Charles Patrick Neill when he saw baseness triumphant, ideals outraged, and coarseness, insolent and triumphant. But
Noun& dame Schdasdc
799
I never knew the strength of his hope to falter. I never knew the mysteries of evil to serve him as an excuse for lazy discouragement. The stable balance in which his life was held was sustained by invisible hands whose touch brought steadiness and determination to him in every decision that determined his ways.
If you are high-minded and eager to serve well both Church and Country, yet timid in the presence of opposition and without the resources that main' tain one in it, I have a message that will serve you well. I have seen Charles Patrick Neill face every kind of opposition when he was in public service but I never knew its continental magnitude to frighten him. I never knew threats to intimidate him. I never saw him brought to doubt himself or yield to timidity through fear of failure.
If you are young men of refined feeling and sensibility, who seek sheltered ways, who shrink from the assumption of great responsibilities, I have a lesson which you need. I can bear witness to the refinement of feeling that has marked the life of Charles Patrick Neill, to the high courage that he brought always to the making of stern decisions; and to the serene sense of power drawn from the reservoirs of great purpose and great consecration that enabled him to accept responsibility, to execute it, and never to evade or to pass it on.
If you are willing to explore the full amplitude of your powers and undertake anything that is possible; and at the same time if you are humble in the presence of your own limitations and brave enough to respect them, you will be glad when I tell you that this man whom we honor, one of your alumni, never neglected a task that came within reach of his powers; and never consciously undertook one that was beyond them. He made a survey of his forces as situations presented themselves, he respected his limitations, he kept his motives pure, his courage dauntless, and he placed his compensations in the safe keeping of his God. Therein he found glorious emancipation from the meaner tyrannies of life that bring disaster to many who otherwise might have done great things for their fellow-men.	.	.
You university students are the tabernacle of our hopes for Church and Country. You have life in your hands. The wisdom and providence of God await your decisions and. act in obedience to them. I remind you again that Charles Patrick Neill was once a student here in days when the University was less- perfectly organized, far less rich in resources and prestige than now. I am attempting to make an interpretation that will reach into the recesses of your hearts; an interpretation that will go down beyond the frost line of doubt; one that will be deeper than any mistaken attitudes toward life which misleads you. I ask you to believe me, to trust me, to respect the appeal that I make to you, and to give glad obedience to the lessons that I endeavor to lay before you. Give me this trust, and you will be glad, in your mature days, that you did so.	'
Unity and force came into the career of Charles
Patrick Neill from devotion to a clearly defined purpose that was with him as a guardian angel throughout the days of his youth. Service to
VERY REV. WILLIAM J. KERBY, Ph. D.
Church and Country, preferably in the field of Catholic education, was the inspiration that filled the heart and mind of Charles Patrick Neill. This purpose was conscious. It was expressed in a hundred ways. It was a source of immediate power, a constant presence, a determining factor in every day life. He used this clarified purpose to resolve all doubts and fix all values that governed him, to control decision, and to measure the direction and progress of life itself.
This prevailing purpose saved Mr. Neill always from opportunism, that attractive crime of the young. It gave him the habit of judging things by principle and not by their utility. It gave him the habit of long outlooks from which he derived a wisdom, found unhappily in only exceptional men.
The next quality revealed in the character of Mr. Neill is a habit of quiet determination which freed him altogether from selfishness in serving that purpose. It developed an unflagging industry which never knew fatigue and never counted any effort excessive if it furthered the large purpose that gave united direction and force to his career. Fortunately for Mr. Neill, the circumstances of his early life were a challenge to his character and incentive to his determination. Great purpose is the parent of great industry. The industry that marked Dr. Neill’s life was never warped, never one-sided. He retained always a wholesome interest in the relaxa
800
Noure Same Scholastic
tions that ease the strain of things and in the recreations that promote health and buoyant companionship. But these lesser values; were held in their places. They never enslaved him nor did they disturb the deeper serenity that was one of the foundations of his life. ■ -	.	. ■
The next quality that I note is courage in assuming responsibilities, in making decisions and in standing four-square by them regardless of misunderstanding, opposition, threat, timidity among his friends, or dim prospects of success. When conscience and intelligence buttressed Charles Patrick Neill in any attitude, he could not be overcome. He did not fear to make enemies in public service. No magnitude of opposition or misrepresentation ever caused him to doubt himself when he had thought out a duty and had taken an attitude. No probable adverse bearing on his fortunes or future ever caused him to deflect from the path .that led straight to the high prevailing purpose of his life. The poet says:
“I am strong in what I seek.”
Charles Patrick Neill was strong in what he sought.
Mr. Neill never took a flippant attitude toward life. He was capable of hard work. He gave his best under the noble impulse of service and his thinking was not clouded by the prospect of compensation. The intangible compensations of life, a good conscience, service to others, duty, were the most powerful stimuli that his behavior knew. Every kind of good work’ won his sympathy and gained his support. He gave his leisure and his energy to the public, to the poor, to the prisoner, because human sympathy and divine faith urged him, and no selfishness or calculation held him back.
Perhaps the most notable single tribute that Mr. Neill has received in the course of his career is that implied in the confidence that he has enjoyed among contending leaders in industrial conflict. I have been near enough to him to have observed this and to be able to speak of it with authority. During many years when intense industrial struggles threatened widespread damage, and every kind of resource in battle and strategy was resorted to, ■ there was no moment when Charles Patrick Neill did not enjoy the fullest confidence, respect, and prestige among leaders who had not one interest in common except their unerring trust in the integrity, force and wisdom of Charles Patrick Neill.
I am insisting on personal qualities rather than on achievements because of the purpose that I have in mind in speaking to the students of Notre Dame. It may be that not many of you may take a Doctor’s degree in a great eastern university. It may be that not many of you will become distinguished university teachers. It may be that not many of you will ever be made Federal Commissioner of Labor, or most efficient recorders in a critical and long.-drawn industrial conflict. It may be that not many of you will ever be appointed by three different Presidents to an office of high honor and responsibility. It may be that not one of you will ever
become Welfare Director in one of the great industrial corporations of the United States. It may be that not many of you will become central - figures in promoting industrial peace and in advancing peaceable methods of settling industrial struggles. These opportunities of service are distributed by processes that we cannot forecast or control.
But there is not one among you who may not organize his young life in a way to meet these opportunities should they come. There is not one among you who may not install a great central pur- • pose as a law and interpretation of life. There is not one among you who may not foster a spirit of determination and the habits of industry that are born from the devotion to a great purpose. There is not one among you who may not possess the spirit of high courage, who may not found his behavior on exalted principles, who may not conquer every kind of timidity and shyness for the sake of duty and service. There is not one among you who may not cultivate a habit of taking responsibility with reverence and carrying it through with intelligent courage. There is not one among you who may not safeguard himself from the hurt caused by flippant views of life and who may not seek security from deeper attitudes that rest on the foundations of truth and wisdom.
Charles Patrick Neill brought character to meet opportunity. I ask you to learn from his life the wisdom that comes from high principles, the docility that will enable you to believe and trust your teachers, the habit of personal insight that will protect you instinctively from the characteristic mistakes of youth.
I would love to believe that this gathering may not have been in vain; that the occasion may furnish what my interpretation lacks: a profound appeal to what is noble and solid and right and true in each of you. I ask you to rise to the occasion, to open your hearts and minds to the inspiration that it furnishes. Believe me when I tell you that your future is in your keeping and that we aim but to serve you in the splendor of this occasion. God awaits your choices. Make them wisely.
You witness this evening the conferring of a signal honor on a man of rare courage, idealism and achievement. Be glad of this. Take your part with enthusiasm and joy. The qualities which we commend in Charles Patrick Neill are the qualities which this University commends to you. Believe your teachers. Trust their wisdom, their, interpretation of life and duty; mistrust your own wisdom and hesitate to give supremacy to your own thoughtless inferences. The faith that inspired Dr. Neill awaits your call to inspire you. The will and industry that he brought to the tasks of life are possible to you. Realize this. Rise to your opportunity. Respect your advantages’. Keep God in . all and you will speak victories.
President Burns then read the formal greeting of the University to Dr. Neill.
Nocre dame Scholastic
801

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME TO
DOCTOR CHARLES P. NEILL Greeting '
In this, the thirty-ninth year after its establishment, the LAETARE MEDAL comes to you in token of the most generous homage which the University of Notre Dame can renderi There go with it joy and gratitude: joy for your enrollment among those who have, in the past, given lustre to this decoration by the eminence of their lives, and gratitude for the present opportunity to carry on the stalwart tradition. The LAETARE MEDAL is bright with the treasured aspirations of American Catholic life. Men and women whom you have known and held in veneration for their service and their Creed join in lending significance to this award, which is thus twice blessed by giver and receiver.
It is especially pleasant to know that you will accept the LAETARE MEDAL as a valiant Son of the school which offers it. During many years of public life, your resolute manliness has been devoted, as she wished, to the love of God and man. The laborer whom you have aided as United States Commissioner of Labor, the child whom you have helped to rescue from murderous social injustice, the soldier in whose behalf you were active during the War, all have reason to rejoice that you were mindful of the high purposes which your Faith arouses in man. With these things have gone a wis-,dom and benignity which shirked no opportunity and ' looked steadily in the direction of beauty and of peace. In hours of darkness you have never hid the light under a bushel.
In consequence whereof, the University of Notre Dame, in this year of grace, Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-Two, looks upon you as a favorite son and welcomes you, Doctor Charles P. Neill, scholar, public servant and social emancipator, to the host of honorable men and- women who have lent the . years their inspiration. Profoundly mindful of the radiance of the Faith which leads more safely and gloriously than the stars, she confers upon you the LAETARE MEDAL.
On the conclusion of the address,-Bishop Muldoon arose to present the Medal. He hesitated for a moment, however, and, after looking about in the audience, said: “My friends, when the President of your University asked me to present the Laetare Medal to Dr. Neill, I rejoiced at the thought of such an honor. But as the moment arrives, I feel that there is one more worthy than I to pin this medal upon him—one whose inspiration-has made his great achievements possible— his wife. With the permission of the President I shall ask you, Mrs. Neill, to share in this triumph”.
For nearly ten minutes Washington Hall resounded with the applause of the assembly as Mrs. Neill arose from her place in the audience, went forward to the stage, and pinned the medal on the breast of her husband. After a short selection by the University Orchestra, Dr. Neill made the following reply, addressing his remarks chiefly to the young men in the audience:
Right Reverend Bishop, Very Reverend President," Reverend Fathers, Students of Notre Dame and ' Guests:-
•
If 1 have ever had courage it has never reached as near the vanishing point before in all my life as it has tonight and I suppose I need not say. to you that I never before stood before an audience under such weight of embarrassment as I feel as I look out upon this audience this evening. And yet it would be idle for me to attempt to say to you that feelings of embarrassment are the main feelings that I have. All my deeper feelings and emotions have been profoundly moved and touched. I cannot believe and see myself as Doctor Kerby has seen me, I cannot believe that I have earned the honor which this University has conferred upon me as completely as Father Burns believes I Jiave, and in my own heart I have a feeling that this honor is rather a token of affection from friends of many years standing than anything else; and yet I will make to you this confession, which the younger men in this group will not appreciate until later in life; but as you go on through life and as the milestones increase behind you until they far outnumber those that are before you, you begin to place a higher and higher value upon the tokens of affection; and upon the evidences of the affections of friendship than upon any other one thing in life. And when that evidence of affectionate regard endures through a life-time it becomes priceless beyond expression.
As I stand here tonight surrounded by men, some of whom were my classmates and some of whom were my teachers nearly forty years ago, I feel that the tribute of affection that they have bestowed upon me is a thing of value that nothing in life can
802
Noure dame Scholastic
surpass and no words of mine could begin to express to you the depths of feeling it has aroused in my heart and soul.	‘
I said, nearly forty years ago, young men,, for it was in 1885 that I first came to Notre Dame; and since I have been away for what would represent one generation perhaps I can say in legal parlance, as Colonel Hoynes might say, I can qualify as a witness before you upon the influence of this University upon life itself and upon its students after they have gone out into life. And I am going to address myself to you my younger brothers;—I use that term advisedly for wherever I find a man from Notre Dame, whether he only left last year, whether he is still here or whether he left in my day or before my day, I think of him as a brother because he and I are children of the same intellectual and the same spiritual mother. I use • the term intellectual and spiritual deliberately and after thought, for it is at once the foundation and glory of the Catholic system of education that it has never divorced the intellectual from the spiritual and after nearly a life-time spent in testing out in actual life what I received here, that which I prize most highly has been spiritual and not intellectual. Much of the intellectual training that I got here has been supplanted and much of it has I	evaporated. (Turns to Father Bums) For example,
;	Father Burns, v;hen my own boys come to me now I
■ discover that much of the chemistry that you and I learned has gone in the discard. Of course the principles of mathematics are eternal truths. The ■	binomial theorem is still respected and the truths of
f	Geometry are as true today as in the days that
E	Euclid formulated them, or in the ’ days they were
»	taught us. But when the boys come to me for help
=	in Trigonometry and Geometry I find that that
i	knowledge has evaporated; but that is not so with
i	the spiritual things that you and I learned and
J	which these men taught us. They cannot be sup-
planted because they are more enduring, more profoundly tree than the laws of mathematics. They i	cannot evaporate because they were absorbed into
our very beings and they will remain with us as long as the soul inhabits the body.
. And what is more, as I look back on the years spent here and the influence which they have had |	in the struggle of’life for those of us who were
here in the early days, I find that the spiritual . teaching differs from the intellectual in that it was .largely absorbed unconsciously. We learned then, as I said, by absorption. We learned from the daily life around us, for as I look back now and recall it, ‘ the humblest lay brother was teaching the sublimest truths and the great realities of life. He represented in a concrete and direct way the fundamental, powerful and sublime thought of all spiritual life and the teachings of Christ. No one could live here then or live here today, in the midst of that atmosphere without receiving into his being a seed - that later will germinate and make us begin to realize the influence that was working for the formation of our characters. If that very simple life of that humble lay brother had such an effect, how
much more inspiring when you see that same spirit exemplified by men of such intellectual, ability, superb character, high spirit and great courage, who are living that same life and with the same devotion to duty that they might help you and me to realize in our own souls and in our own lives the eternal truths that Christ came to teach the human race.
As I go back to think of those influences to me there stands out one figure. To you that figure is simply one name in the lists of the Presidents of Notre Dame—Father Walsh. To me that name stands as a vital, living force, an influence that has never ceased and that lives today, over a quarter of a century after the man has been laid to rest. I remember him first as an inspired teacher, a sublime exponent, a magnificent embodiment of the spiritual Christian life; and yet united with that was one of the most benignant, sympathetic and kindly souls, not merely our President and teacher, not the strict disciplinarian who made us live according to principles of right living, but the kindly sympathetic soul, . who even in our trouble and wrong-doing, we found always sympathetic, always helpful, always beautiful. As I recall those days I remember how in his dying as well as in his living the wonderful example he set for us. For in the days when he was perfectly conscious that a fatal disease had marked him for its own, as the flush of health left his checks, and as the figure shrunk, he never lost his courage and never lost that beautiful faith he taught by example and precept; and in the last months just before he left here for the hospital, we went to him with that insincere human attitude and said, “We are going to see you back before long.” He smiled and said “Oh no, I am going to my rest. When I come back you will see me, but I will not know you.”
Not only is he an outstanding figure but around him are other names and other figures, for he was only in a marked degree the living embodiment of the spirit that represents the organization, the congregation and to I that extent, the University itself. To me in all my days however long they may be the name and influence of men like Father Walsh, Father Morrissey, and Father Zahm will be the abiding and eternal things that we of our days brought from Notre Dame and will keep until the last breath leaves our bodies.
And so, from time to time, we of a generation or more ago, have to come back to Notre Dame as visitors, not merely to re-visit the scenes of pleasant days of college life, but we come back to refresh the soul. We come back to renew the inspiration that as young men we carried out from here into the grinding struggle of life. We need to come back to renew that inspiration and courage. We all went forth then with high hopes and strong confidence that we were'going to master and conquer the world. But young men, my brothers, the world has a way of mastering and conquering us. It is a sad grind and an insidious, wearing temptation, and the heart sickens, and even the body wearies of the struggle, and when you feel in the heart that may-
Noufe Same Scholasuic
be it is hoi; worth While; arid when you wonder whether ybu can keep it up, if you come back just once; only for a day, and go to the Church and see the life that is around you, let me tell you that you will leave fiext day refreshed in soul and with that spirit, determination and vigor that you had years ago when you went out into the world for the first time from the University. Notre Dame, of course, has grown. You have much better conditions intellectually than we had, and as good conditions spiritually as we had. You could not have better, but they are.influencing you today as they influenced us, and the students before us, and will influence those that follow. This institution stands here as the living embodiment of the spiritual force and spiritual life that the Catholic Church represents in the world ,of today.
Some of you may feel that you are not quite conscious of all those influences as they affect you, and to be frank with you, neither were we. It is very true that often times the superficial things for the moment impress us the most and we are more conscious of these superficial things than of the more profound things that affect our being. If you scratch the surface of the hand and merely tear the skin, you know it and suffer keenly. But you may, for many, many years, go on with a wound in a vital organ and never know it; at last it makes itself known, and then you realize that you are in the clutch of something that means the end. You can look back and see how it came about, and how it progressed, and you see its history. And sim-iliarly if my own experience is typical, that is what happens to us who were here in the early years at Notre Dame. We were not always conscious of the influences that surrounded us, and which we were absorbing. But in later years in life when we faced the tests of life, we found strength that we had not expected, and when we analyzed ourselves and found from whence it came, we traced its origiri and found it went back to our days at Notre Dame and the influences that sank then into our very beings, and which later gave us the strength and courage and hope to go on in the struggle through life to maintain the ideals of right and the value of-the things of the spirit which we had learned here.
You come here for the opportunity of having developed in you at the same time not only mental technique, not only all that may be given in tae way of intellectual development, but the opportunity of getting that development of the personal character, that flowering of the soul, that appraisal of values, that moral perspective that will enable you to go out in life with a strong probability that if you have been fertile ground upon which seed has fallen, then in all the years that follow, you will not get a distorted perspective, you will not place value upon things in life which are ephemeral and proven in the end only vain. You will find the things of the spirit, the things of the moral life, are the things that bring success to character, that mark success in life, that mark you out as a product of the University and the successful son of hers.
• .And so, young men, go forth with the feeling I
803
suggested to you a moment ago that wherever you find a man from Notre Dame, whether he be in the older group with Fathers Cavanaugh, Burns or Connor, or in the younger group with Father French and Colonel Hoynes, wherever you find a man that has spent his days here, that he and you and I are children of the same intellectual and spiritual mother, and that we all represent a group that have had opportunity such as comes only to the comparative few, and for which you ought in these days at University, and in every day that follows, go upon bended knees and thank our God that we have had the opportunity to prepare for real success in life.
The audience then sang “The Song of Notre Dame” by Francis Schwab, ’02, and Bishop Kelly imparted the closing benediction.
VARSITY VERSE.
DREAMS.
At the end of the day
My thought-ships come tacking
Into the bay,
Then during my sleep
Bold foreign galleons
Pillage the deep.
c. s. CROSS.
REDEMPTION.
God
Made man:
Man loved Him
And was happy then.	'
But man, when tempted, fell;
Offended God, his maker, who closed
The gates of Heaven against
Him, until Christ’s holy
Sacrifice led man
Back to
God.	J. A.
’ TO G------------, IN THANKS.
How, in this struggling world of ours, the strong Turn parent to the weak! Too often, true, The mighty crush the frail when they construe
Their own existence license for their wrong.
Yet violets, feeble mites, their lives prolong
In their grassy fastness hidden from view,
And the ivy vine, seeking strength anew,
On some wall’s crannied bosom creeps along. •
And thus strength to my faltering soul is borne When in my need I turn to you for aid.
Like Antaeeus, by great odds undismayed,
My strength renewed, all craven thoughts I scorn: Then aid me lest some Hercules at length Destroy me as he holds me from your strength.
.	L. V. B.
804
Moure dame ^cholasuic
H. W. Flannery
C. O. ’DeBarry
VOL.
LV.
Nntn BamtSthahstit
Wart »f efMtors
^nsintss
Paul Breen
August Fipp
Robert D. Shea Harold E. McKee
Karl Arndt
Leo R. Ward, G. S. G.
Vincent Enges j-Frank Wallace
J. C.
R. M. Murch, C. S. C. Gerald Hagan Charles Molz Frank McGinnis
. Francis J. Kolars W. G. Gilchrist Brennan
Aiuerttsinj
Charles HirschbuhlAaron H. Huguenard
isce ®n»si Bictnrus
Bint ^nasi ®ras Bert funis
Like all good things, the college year comes to its end. And yet the sighs are few. It is not the manner of the student to weep at the end of his laTHE PLAY IS OVER bor. His philosophy is one of optimism and as the closing days of the year approach, he is happy. The examinations that cloud the horizon are disconcerting, but the gloom they cast for him is only temporary. A rainbow looms just behind them. Freedom from books, instructors and classrooms is not far away.
Days before’ he is ready to depart, the student is anxious to hear the question, “When are you going to leave?” He plans the day and the hour weeks in advance. Books are thrust aside in the hopeful belief that final exams will not be difficult. Packing, sacred rite that it is, begins early, until a bare room, stripped of everything that has made it tenantable, shows its nightmarish walls to his eyes. There is a vim about this business tnat the student puts into nothing else. His days are nervous and tense like the moments of a racing steed just before the heats. There is restlessness everywhere. Old barriers between’men are broken under the weight of a common rapture. Thoughts of travel and of home and its ties are uppermost.
Thus the halls that guard the quadrangle . see the old finale repeated. The play ends
in a swift climax and leaves the actors tired but happy.	MOLZ.
Many an age-incrusted rule, at Notre Dame has in the last. year or two been abrogated or revised because of the risinggeneration, our gen-
THE OLD ORDER tiemen “R. 0. T. C.” CHANGETH And the end is not in sight. Such changes are sometimes dangerous but always necessary.’	-
In line with this program of changes can . easily come a change in the class schedule. Off-campus men, alighting from the daily eight o’clock Hill Street puddle-jumper have ten minutes in which to get to class, a period too long by five minutes. Conversely, these men on leaving classes have only a minute at the most in which to get from'class back to the puddle-jumper/ This minute is not enough; it lacks four minutes of beingenough.
Now. if classes were to meet at five minutes after the hour and be dismissed at five minutes of the hour, our itinerant students would inevitably have fewer tardinesses, and possibly absences, marked against them. We need not resort to any daylight-saving-foolishness to realize this idea. The world. need not come to an end to allow the. change in class schedules. Even afternoon classes .
Moure- Same Schdasuic
805
which begin at fifteen minutes ^.fter the hour need not be upset. They can begin at twenty minutes after the hour and be dismissed at ten minutes after the hour.
On such a basis, day students would not find it so convenient to come late for classes, students residing on the campus would not be inconvenienced in the least and the faculty, especially the potent committee on absences, would be benefitted.
To bring the plan to perfection a system of bell signals in all buildings on the campus would be indispensable. Yet while we are in the flurry of a drive it is well that we do not hitch the horse behind the wagon but that instead we bide our time.
BRUGGNER.
Upon all good youths who have acquired eleven unexcused absences and who have smoked in their rooms not oftener than once a.day, the HYMN NO. 506 WILL’ its blessing. As an BE SUNG SCHOLASTIC bestows humble interpreter of campus life, it has a warm spot in its heart for all. In bidding everyone its wish of “Here’s luck”, it speaks sincerely. For those who break their necks making the 10:16 or the 10:38 after that last exam, it wishes that the village band may play on their arrivals home. It hopes that those who are compelled to use Yellow Cabs to get to the Lake Shore depot may find that papa’s Ford still runs on three cylinders; may it hold out all summer. There are some who shed tears in parting with the fair ones’ of South Bend; it expresses the wish that Maggie may be faithfully awaiting them back in Grasshopper Corners or Snake Run Gulch. May the dear freshmen (bless their hearts) grow up during the summer to be honest-to-goodness sophomores. And may the dome look brighter than ever three months hence. September 13th is not a long way off, to be sure,—but in the meantime, “Here’s luck”.	MOLZ.
IN MEMORIAM
John Kirkpatrick, nephew of Brother Florian, C. S. C., died in Pittsburgh, last week after a long illness. The prayers of all are requested.
ENDING THE CAMPAIGN.
The student drive for one hundred thousand dollars to swell the total for the endowment fund has practically coine to a stop, a halt and a windup. Much activity has been developed and much enthusiasm has come to the surface, but it must be admitted that a considerable amount of both remained under the cold, cold ground. As we go to press the sum registered at the Main Office approximates twenty-five thousand dollars, which is quite a bit better than nothing. A number of cheques remain to be cashed in and a quantity of books await the fatal affirmative or negative. Officially the drive closed on May thirty-first.
Those students who have been four-square with the enterprise deserve the homage -of the University and of the student body. There are many who have not succeeded in doing what they should have liked to accomplish. It is not easy to raise money everywhere in these times. All in all we may as-, sert that the campaign has been successful beyond the average expectations and that the aggressive loyalty of the men here now has been demonstrated. That is as it should be for the year has meant very much to every one of us—our athletic and academic contests have been resplendent with hard fought victories; our student activities have developed to a very high standard; and our friendships have been legion. All of this will appear to better advantage, when viewed from the perspective of vacation. ’
Next week the Studebaker will be somebody’s to ride in. We can’t all have it but we do hope that whoever gets it will remember Notre Dame when the fenders are battered and fifteen sets of tires have worn out and the carburetor has the asthma incident to old age.
Some men are like sailboats—waiting for the winds of praise to stir them to action.
806	Notre ^ame Scholastic
FELICITATIONS. .
The Very Reverend Father General of the Congregation of Holy Cross celebrated his golden jubilee amid the friendly enthusiasm of his fellow religious and numerous admirers. We present here two messages of congratulation which came for the occasion.
SECRETARY OF STATE TO HIS HOLINESS
The Vatican, April 25, 1922. Very Reverend Father:
Upon me devolves the pleasant duty of sending to your Paternity the precious Autograph Letter with which the Sovereign Pontiff has deigned to favor you for the happy occasion on which you will soon celebrate your Golden Jubilee in the priesthood. I gladly avail myself of this opportunity to assure you of my sincere esteem.
Affectionately yours in Our Lord,
P. Cardinal Gasparri.
To the Very Reverend Gilbert Francais, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy ■ Cross.	•
ROME.
(With the Pontifical Autograph)
Dilecto Filio
Sac. GILBERTO FRANCAIS Moderator! Congregationis a S. Gruce PIUS PP. XI
Dilecte Fili
Salutem et Apostolicam Benedictionem
Tibi, Dilecte Fili, non ita cotidianis distinemur curis, ut huic tantulae epistolae scribendae tempus non habuerimus. Eripuimus ceteris occupationibus, qui hanc gratulandi tibi. quinquagesimum sacerdotii natalem senserimus iucundiorem. Novimus enim opera tua: novimus diligentiam, quam plurimam ac diuturnam adhibuisti, adhibes cum in educendis alumnis qui pietatis et exquisitioris doctrinae laude commendentur, turn etiam in iuvandis sacrarum expeditionum muneribus Bengalae populis. The-saurizasti tibi thesaurum non deficientem in caelis; cui ut nonniliil accedat etiam ex pontificia benevo-lentia, Apostolicam Benedictionem, caelestium con-ciliatricem gratiarum, tibi, Dilecte Fili, omnique religiosae familiae tuae peramanter in Domino impertimus.	•
Datum Romae apud S. Petrum die XIX Aprilis MCMXXII, Pontificatus Nostri primo.
.	Pius PP. XI
. ***
(Translation)
To Our Beloved Son, the Very Reverend Gilbert Francais, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Beloved Son, Health and Apostolic Benediction.
We are not so engrossed by Our daily cares as to lack time in which to address to you, Beloved Son, this letter, however brief it may be. We have
set aside Our other occupations that We may give Ourself the pleasure of congratulating you on the fiftieth anniversary of youi- ordination to the priesthood. We are acquainted with your works: We know the zealous and continuous diligence which you have long displayed both in educating youth who are commendable for piety as well aS for* the higher learning, and in furthering Foreign Mission work among the natives in Bengal. You have laid up for yourself a lasting treasure in heaven; and that out of Our Pontifical Benevolence We may add something to that treasure, most affectionately in Our Lord We impart to you, Beloved Son, and to your entire religious family, that guarantee of heavenly graces, the Apostolic Benediction.
Given at Rome at St. Peter’s the nineteenth day of April, 1922, in the first year of Our Pontificate.
Pius XI.
POLITICAL GLEANINGS.
According to reports from those concerned the local class, office races held last week outstripped in thrills and excitement the event held in Indianapolis on Memorial Day. Among the next year’s Seniors Maurice Dacy of Caldwell, Kansas, played the part of Jimmy Murphy by crossing the line ahead of the other contestants. The result of three years of skillful political maneuvering has caused great elation in the Day Dodger camp, and President Dacy promises to lead his class to greater things.
Joe Nyikos was placed in the office of vicepresident in one of the closest contests of the election, while Edward Lennon, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Edward P. Kreimer, of Duluth, Minnesota, convinced the voters of their worthiness for the offices of secretary and treasurer respectively.
Sophomore elections for Junior offices resulted in the election of Jimmy Swift, of Waseca, Minnesota to the presidential chair. His assistants in the arduous tasks of the coming year will be Hugh Magevney, of Memphis, Tennessee; Eugene A. Mayl, of Dayton, Ohio; and Norman Smith, now of Corby Hall and late of Youngstown, Ohio.
The advantages of united action were further demonstrated by the triumph of the consolidated Brownson and Carroll Hall machines. Sheehan, Dever, Ashe, and Graham were carried into office by the • effective work of their campaigners in the Main Building, much to the consternation of the Badin Hall politicians.
y	- .
Norre &ame Scholastic	807
The elections held by the Juniors for the positions on next year’s Students’ Activities. Committee gave to Corby Hall an opportunity for securing unto themselves some representation. That the opportunity was not lost is shown in the election of Henry Barnhart to represent the Commerce Department, Vincent Brown for the Engineers, Karl Barr for the Arts and Letters men, and Ed. Shea for the Lawyers. The support of two-thirds of the Science men proved sufficient to elect Buechner to represent this department in the future councils.	HAGAN.
UNDER THE DOME
Last Saturday morning the Chemical Engineers, accompanied by Brother Denis, C. S. C., went to Niles to go through the mill owned by the French Paper Company. The courtesy of the officials shown the engineers was much appreciated.
¥ V
On Monday evening the Chemists Club held its regular meeting, the last of the year. Plans for a banquet to be given in the near future were discussed. Lawrence Rombaut gave an interesting talk on Dye Chemistry.
The activities of the Knights of Columbus so far as meetings are concerned, are over for the year. The final meeting, at which Professor David Weir spoke on the “Disadvantages of College Education,” was held Tuesday night. A dance is to be given some time next week although the exact date has not been determined.
❖ * ❖
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C. S. C., Dean of the College of Commerce, is now registering Commerce students for ’next year. Father O’Hara’s purpose, which is to do away with some of the evils of registration just before the dead line in the fall, is a laudable one. All Commerce students who have not registered are urged to do so at once.
Tim Rauh, of Corby, has proclaimed himself the horse shoe pitching champion of that hall. Mr. Rauh has proclaimed his willingness to take on anyone at the university
who would take the bam yard golf championship from him.
On the afternoon of Ascension Day, the Sacrament of Confirmation was administered by the Right Reverend Edward J. Kelly, D. D., of Grand Rapids. A class of fifty received the sacrament.
The Journalists’ Banquet, according to those who attended, was altogether a memorable affair. It was held in Kable’s Banquet room on the campus. Among the speakers were Richard Lightfoot, Vincent Engels, Louis Bruggner and Robert McAuliffe of the South Bend News-Times. McReady Huston of the South Bend Tribune gave the journalists some very valuable pointers. John Rourke rendered several piano solos.
A dance was given at Elks’ Temple Wednesday evening for the benefit of the American Committee For Devastated France. A great many Notre Dame men attended the affair thus helping a worthy cause.
The Chemists’ Club held its last smoker of the year Monday night at Kable’s. Each of the graduating chemical engineers gave a short talk. Chief among the speakers of the evening were Leo Lovett, president of the club, and Lawrence Rombaut, graduate student.
***
The Notre Dame Band under the capable direction of Mr. Charles Parreant gave the first of a series of outdoor conceits on the steps of the Main Building last Wednesday evening. Both the band and the University Orchestra are remaining to play at the Commencement exercises.
‘ It was announced Wednesday that the members of the Glee Club are to be guests at a dinner dance to be given at the Country Club on the evening of June 9. The men will receive Glee Club pins and officers will be elected for the coming year on this occasion.
The ’22 Dome, a publication which the Hon. Harold McKee, known to these columns
808
Zfie Moure dame Scholastic
as a rare and scandalous contributor, Walter Matthes, expert artist, and Paul Schwertley, authority on the collection of kale, have thought of until three in the morning during the year, has appeared amid the unanimous plaudits of the Notre Dame reading public. We wish to declare, in a critical vein, that excepting for Paul Fenion’s * portrait and Bob Shea’s writeup the volume is a most veracious and artistic chronicle of life during the past annum. Old students will agree that the book is the best since—well since you graduated.
W ¥
August Stange ’25 was elected S. A. C. representative for next year at a meeting of the Freshmen class held Wednesday noon in the gymnasium. Stange made a name for himself in freshman football.
On Monday afternoon weird whistlings and wailings from within the Electrical Engineering building made known the fact that the new radiophone equipment was in operation. Before the radio concert began John Huether made plain to all those present the principles of radio.	-
Notre Dame sporting circles last week witnessed one of the best played games of the season when the crack Mining Engineers’ baseball team overwhelmed the Chemicals 14-4. Sheehan did the hurling for the victors, and although his effectiveness was diminished by his mortality list, he was enabled by the Heroic work of his team mates to outshine DeRoulet, second best-built man at Notre Dame and pitching ace of the Cherns. Scintillating fielding by Robert Peck of the Miners, and the work of the umpires were features of the game.
The Memorial Day exercises last Tuesday were begun with a Military Field Mass, celebrated in front of Walsh Hall by Father Edward Finnegan, C. S. C. After the Mass the exercises were continued in Washington Hall, with Father Finnegan as chairman. The first speaker was Mark Nolan, who delivered Lincoln’s “Gettysburg Address.” Mr.
Frank E. Hering then presented the Notre Dame Post, Veterans of Foreign Wars with a Post Banner and an American flag. In his presentation speech Mr. Hering reflected upon the patriotic spirit of Notre Dame and spoke of the symbolism of the flags. Lewis J. Murphy accepted the colors in behalf of the Post, and the flags were given a military salute. Dr. Charles Lippincott, of South Bend, gave the address of the day, and in a very eloquent manner voiced the sentiment of the occasion of Memorial Day. The audience then marched to the cemetery, where the graves of the veterans of the Civil War were decorated with military honors.
The long-awaited announcement regarding the selections for the summer transpacific trips has at last been posted, and includes the names of twelve men as follows: George Koch, Freshman Commerce; Charles Donoghue, Freshman Commerce; John Conway, Freshman Lawyer; Henry Barnhart, Junior Foreign Commerce; Rodney Sullivan, Sophomore Commerce; John Reddington, Junior Foreign Commerce; Plin Swanson, Junior Commerce; Ted Huether, Sophomore Commerce; Ed. Keating, Sophomore Commerce; John Cavanaugh, Ph. B.; Melvin Rohrbach, Junior Lawyer; and E. Merlin Rolwing, Junior Litt. B. The men are expected to leave for Seattle late in June, and from there will sail on the Admiral Line for ports in the Far East. The men selected are all students of foreign trade and will undoubtedly do much to spread the fame of Notre Dame’s Foreign Commerce Department, which is represented in the group of select sailors.
HAGAN—BRENNAN.
PERSONAL
Students of the old days will be glad to know that, at the request of Bishop Schrembs, Father Edward Mears of Youngstown has been raised to the dignity of a Right Reverend Monseignor. Monseignor Mears was a student here years ago; he has been- in the sacred ministry for fifty-three years, and is the oldest priest in the diocese of Cleveland.
Nocre Same Schdascic	809
CHANGE By McGinnis.
The aesthetic sense of the Indiana University student body has been offended. On the new commerce building which is to be erected there will be a gray slate roof. This did not appeal to the student’s idea of beauty and they therefore appealed to the board of trustees that the plans be changed, and a red tile roof substituted. The petition, however, came too late and the contract had been given out.
LITTLE WHITE DUCKS.
Some of the young ladies of Arizona University were lax about attending the outdoor athletic meets of the varsity teams and some of the stronger sisters took them in hand. The backward young ladies were given an undignified ducking in an adjacent lake. Now they behave and attend all the meets and baseball games as good little co-eds should.
A very interesting suggestion has been made at the University of Kansas. In a recent student body meeting it was suggested, and seemed to be generally approved that the students should grade their profs even as they themselves are graded. It is planned to pass out cards to the students and have them name their professors and give them all Ds or Cs or whatever they feel like giving them. Yea Kansas!	’
ENDURANCE.
The University of Michigan Daily, the student paper, is to continue throughout the summer school. This is an innovation in that it is the first summer daily newspaper in the history of college journalism. The new paper will bear the name “The Summer Michigan Daily”. This change of policy is due to the fact that summer enrollment at Michigan this year is expected to reach three thousand.
In looking over the nicknames of various colleges we have unearthed some interesting data. Our note-book affirms that there are seven colleges calling themselves Bulldogs, five assert that they are Tigers and two resign themselves to Coyotes. The students of the University of North Dakota are know as the Flickertails, the Tar Heels come from North Carolina University and the students of Washington University revel in the name of Pikers.
-I* 'i*
The guy who hasn’t shaved since the faculty gave him a square deal is now tripping over his beard. —The Depaw.
The Big Ten schools recently held a contest to determine the man who takes part in the greatest number of college activities. The winner is a student at Ohio State University and his activities embrace athletics, dramatics, music, publications and a
number of minor positions. It was held as significant by the judges that this man is not a prominent athlete, but he is a Journalist.
The young lady students at the University of Colorado are getting very athletic and very rough. A cartoon on the front page shows all the young men in the role of cake-eaters in the stands watching the young ladies in a baseball game and the drawing is headed “Are We Coming To This”. More tangible proof of the. situation is the report in the same paper that one of the young ladies broke her nose while acting aS’ catcher for the ladies team. The poor males have not a refuge left, even their favorite sports are being invaded. It is the sacred right of a man to break his nose.
The engineers at the University of Michigan believe in being practical in their initiations for would-be Triangle members. With pail and soap and water the initiate must labor long and diligently to make the spot around the Engineering Arch spotless. One can never tell what these Engineers will come to. Almost anything may prove practical.
PREPARING FOR THE RUSSIANS?
' Those Russian prodigy chess champions had better look to their laurels as the hackneyed expression has it, for the young ladies of the University of Illinois are brushing up on the game and intend to have a tournament soon. Also the Russian champs will have to learn to keep their eyes on the chess board.
The first painters’ fraternity in the United States is to be organized at the University of Kansas and is to be known as the Alpha Rho Theta. The plan is to nationalize the fraternity and approval has been expressed at a number of the other large schools. Please understand us correctly this is a “fraternity” and not a sorority.
The University of Kansas football team is to go to West Point next year and the Ku Ku Klan, pep organization of the campus, is making arrangements for a goodly share of its members to be present at the game. It is expected that during the summer the arrangements will be completed and when fall comes all Ku Kus ■will be on deck and ready to sail. A national organization of university “pep” societies is contemplated on the Pacific coast, the University of Washington being the sponsor of the idea. This is another idea that.is meeting with general approval among the larger colleges where such societies exist.
*1* X"
The University of North Dakota has a large number of organizations on its campus. There are seventy-eight separate and distinct bodies, nineteen of them being formed within the last two quarters. Four of this number have been given national charters.
810
Noure dame Scholastic
THE WEEK.
Vvitli a record of 18 victories in 22 games already played, the best record made by a Notre Dame baseball club since 1908, the local diamond nine will complete its season with the fina| college game against Northwestern today and an exhibit contest on June 8 at Fort Wayne in the interest of the endowment drive.	-
Captain Jerome Blievemicht, who will complete his eligibility this season and who has received offers to play in major league baseball from Detroit and Cincinnati, heads the following list of players who have received monograms for their efforts: Gene Murphy, Paul Castner, Dick Falvey, Hugh Magevney, Bill Sheehan, Dan Foley, George Prokup, Micky Kane, Frank Reese, Ted Kelly, Frank Thomas and Charles Foley.'
The regular track season ends at the Big-10 meet at Iowa City today, but Coach Rockne will retain 10 men to represent the school, at the national college meet at Chicago, June 17. The selections will be made from the following 14 men who have earned monograms: Capt'ain Johnny Murphy, Bill Hayes, Gus Desch, Tom Lieb, Leon Moes, John Flynn, Eddie Hogan, Alex Cameron, John Montague, Luke Walsh, Russell Barber, Fritz Baumer, John Heffernan and Paul Kennedy.	-
If present plans .materialize the football games which the Notre Dame eleven will play away from home next fall will be filmed and exhibited before the student body after -each game. The project is being sponsored by the senior class of 1923 and has the endorsement of Coach Rockne. Out of town games have been scheduled with Georgia Tech., at Atlanta, Nebraska at Lincoln, Army at West Point, Carnegie Tech, at Pittsburg, Butler, at Indianapolis and Purdue, at Lafayette.	•
Coach Rockne and the following men are
at Iowa City today, where the local boys will compete in the Big 10 meet: Captain Murphy, Hayes, Lieb, Desch, Moes, Cameron, Kennedy, Barber, Walsh, Heffernan and Montague.
WALLOPING THE WOLVERINES.
Notre Dame defeated Michigan for the first time since 1919, at Carter Field, May 30, and Coach Halas’ nine will now finish the season with the best record of any very recent Gold and Blue baseball team. The final score was 5 to 0 in favor of Notre Dame and Paul Castner allowed the Wolverines only six scattered bingles.
It was a big day for the Irish, and the circumstances of Castner’s victory are typical of the circumstances of the game, for it was a great day for the under dog. The recognized luminaries of the outfit played good baseball but those boys who don’t break into the public eye so often came through with the best that was in them—and that is why Notre Dame won the ball game.
Danny Foley, who has not been rated highly as a hitter throughout the season, drove in the first Notre Dame run after heavier hitters had failed in three preceding innings. Dick Falvey, occasional member of the much-maligned Notre Dame outfield, scored that first run after one of the best bits of base running we have seen all year. Chuck Foley, who became a regular member’ of the team only in the last four games, socked two healthy blows in the two big innings. Ted Kelly, who has labored under an unusual strain throughout the year, but whose fielding ability has caused Coach Halas to keep him in the line-up. despite weak hitting, justified that confidence in the third inning by a running catch of a wicked line drive which would have scored a runner and might have started a dangerous rally. In the next inning he came up two men on and nearly knocked the shortstop down with a ringing hit that scored the second run of the game.
Kane and Sheehan fielded nicely throughout the game and Captain Blievernicht nipped two men on the sacks , and allowed but one stolen base. Dan Foley took care of six chances although he played the final five inningls with a broken bone in his throwing hand.
Behind such support Castner pitched a clever game of ball. Neither of his two walks was dangerous, only four men reached second base and two of these saw third. On four occasions he fanned the
'Sfie Notre ^ame Schdascic
811
last battei' when runners waited on the sacks. Kelly’s circus catch saved the day in the other inning. Michigan looked weak and only the ninth inning rally which the Wolverines staged last year kept up interest until the final.
Notre Dame after the game from the beginning. Sheehan got to third in the- opener on a hit, steal and out but died when Blieb went out. Castner saw the same station in the second on a hit and two outs but expired. Kelly walked in the third and went to third on Kane’s hit but both men died. Then it came.
The crowd had a great deal of fun with Vick, Michigan’s luminary catcher who nevertheless hit the ball with surprising case and accuracy. “Umps” himself provided amusement by getting tip fouls on the end of his mask with much grace and profanity.
Castner started things again in the fourth by singling healthily to left but was forced by Falvey. Hits by Chuck Foley, Dan Foley and Kelly resulted in three Notre Danie runs.
In the fifth Blieb hit and stole. Castner beat out an infield clout and-stole second. Vick’s throw was bad and Blievernicht scored the fourth run. Castner counted the final on Chuck Foley’s hit.
Summary:
Notre Dame.	AB. R. H. O.A.	E.
Sheehan, ss			 3	0 12 1	1
Prokop, lb			 4	0 2 12 0	1
Kane, 3b			 4	0 113	1
Bleivernicht, c			 4	116 3	0
Castner, p			 4	13 0 3	0
Falvey, rf.			 4	1 0 1. 0	0
C. Foley, If			 4	12 2 0	1
D. Foley, 2b			 4	112 4	0
Kelly,. m	.•			 3	0 110	0
	■	—'«	—	1	»	—
Totals 			 34	5 12 27 14	4
Michigan.	AB. R. H. O.A.E.	
Uteritz, ss			 3	0 113	0
Mimbles, 2b			 4	0 0 2 2	0
Knode, lb			 3	0 0 12 0	0
Vick, c			 4	0 3 5 0	2
Shackleford, rf			 4	0 110	0
Paper, 3b			 3	0 111	0
Kipke, m			 4	0 0 1 0	1
Roby, If			 3	0 0 1 0	0
Elliott, p			 3	0 0 04 6	0
*Blott 			 1	0 0 0 0	0
Totals 	 32	0 6 24 12 *Blott batted for Elliott in ninth.		3
Michigan ....................... OOOOOOOO	0—0
Notre Dame . 00032000	*—5
VERSUS BELOIT.
Notre Dame marked up its sixteenth win of the season, Thursday, May 25 against Beloit, the score being 5r2. It was a fast game, despite the wet condition of the diamond, Notre Dame’s infield especially showing to good advantage. The stellar work of George Prokop at first base brought the Irish out of several tight holes. George made plays unassisted, scooped 3 mean bounders out of the dirt, and handled his 15 chances without an error.
Beloit sent down a scrappy bunch of players to Cartier field, but they seemed inexperienced, allowing- the Halasmen to run bases almost as they pleased. Red Mageveny allowed them but two hits until the ninth inning when they combined two more for their second run. Blatt pitched a heady game for Beloit, giving the Irish nine hits, only five of which, however, went into the outfield.
Notre Dame was unable to score until the sixth inning when a single by Kane, an error, a double by Castner and Dan Foley’s bunt brought three runs across the plate. Beloit came back in the seventh when Irvine doubled, and scored op Dawson’s sacrifice fly. The Halasmen bunched three hits in their half cf the seventh for two runs.
The score:
BELOIT (2)	AB	R	H	PO	A	E
Leffin, ss 			 4	0	0	2	5	0
Fosse, -2b 		....... 2	0	0	0	3	0
Schlocht, c 				 4	1	• 1	5	1	0 .
Irvine, 3b 			 4	1	2	0	1	1
Winkenwirder, If 			 4	0	1	1	0	1
Dawson, lb 		....... 3	0	0	14	0	0
Rossebo, cf 			 4	0	0	0	0	0
Schraeder, rf 				-3	0	0	0	0	0
Blatt, p 			i...... 3	0	0	2	5	0
•		 »	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 		.......31	2	4	24	15	2
NOTRE DAKE (5)	AB	R	H	PO	A	E . . - /
Sheehan, ss 					 4	1	2	3	5	1 '
Prokop, lb 				 4	1	1	15	0	o . ; 4
Kane, 3b 				 4	•1	2	0	1	0	.	'
Blievernicht, c 	.-.			 4	1	1	1	1	0	/-
Castner, rf 				 4	1	2	1	'0	0 7
Kelly, cf 					 3	0	0	0	0	0 • V'
Murphy, c 			 0	0	0	3	1	o -• :
Foley, 2b 				 3	0	0	1	4	o ’
Reese, If 				 3	0	0	2	0	0	./.V
812
Moure Same ^chdasuic
Thomas, If .................. 10	0	1
Mageveny, p ............. 3	0	10
Totals ................33	5	9 27
Score by innings—
Beloit ........................... 000 000
Notre Dame  ...................... 000 003
REVENGE IN CHICAGO.
0	0	ST. VIATOR’S	AB	R
4	0	McClain, ss ................. 5	0
— — Donovan, rf ...............'.... 3	0
16	1	Farrell, rf ..............   1	0
Winterhalter,	3b ..........  4	0
Clancy, lb ...........,.....4	0
IQ!__2 Standaert, c ................ 4	. 0
Connors, cf ............... 4	0
20x—5 Healey? ]f ________ __________ 4-	0
Lyons, 2b ................. 4	0
Sweeney, p ................ 4	0
Totals .................37	0
H	C	E
2	3	0
6	0	1
0	0	0
0	. 4	0
1	10	0
3	7	0
0	5	0
0	3	0
1	5	0
1	2	0
8	39	1
May 27.—Notre Dame wreaked sweet vengeance on St. Viator’s college at Cub’s Park, Chicago, Saturday, May 27. Coach Halas’ proteges winning from the Saints, 5 to 0. It was the second defeat suffered by St. Viator’s this year, and the first defeat for Sweeney, their pitching “ace.”
The game was played in the interests of the endowment drives which both schools are staging.
Sensational fielding featured the game, Micky Kane doing flashy work at third base, handling six difficult chances without an error. Kelly for Notre Dame and Connors for St. Viators made beautiful throws from the field to catch runners, while Dan Foley’s steady work at second base cut off rallies by the Saints on two occasions.
Sheehan began by singling. P.rokop sacrificed him to second. Kane was safe on a fielder’s choice, go-;ng to second while Sheehan was being thrown out at third. Blievernicht doubled over the center fielder’s head, scoring Kane. Blievernicht then scored on Castner’s long drive to the fence, but Paul was thrown out while trying to stretch his hit into a triplex
In the third'inning, Sheehan beat out a bunt, and Prokop was safe when the shortstop dropped his hit. Kane laid down a perfect sacrifice, advancing the runners to second and third. Blievernicht hit a long fly to deep center which was caught after a hard run. Sheehan scored on the play, and Prokop followed suit when the third baseman missed the .return throw from the field.
NOTRE DAME	AB	R	H	c	E
Sheehan, ss —		5	1	2 .	4	1
Prokop, lb 			 4	1	0	13	0
Kane, 3b 			 3	1	0	6	0
Blievernicht, c 				 4	1	3	7	0
Castner, cf 			 4	1	3	1	0
Falvey, p 			 4	0	1	1	0
Foley, C.; If 				L- 3	0	0	1	0
Murphy, If 			 1	0	0	0	0
Foley, D., 2b —			 4	0	2	7	1
Kelly, rf 			 3	0	0	2	_0
Reese, rf 			 1	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 	——		.36	5	11	41	2
Score by innings—
Notre Dame St. Viator’s
.......:........  203	000 000—5
..................000	000 000—0
THE STATE MEET.
Notre Dame again proved supreme in the annual state intercollegiate track and field meet at Lafayette, May 27, scoring 58% points and establishing four of the six new records made. Purdue finished second with 29, with DePauw nosing out Earlham for third place. DePauw counted 25 5-6 against 25% for Earlham. Butler was fifth with 17, Indiana with 5 was sixth and Wabash with 4 was seventh. Franklin failed to score a point.
Notre Dame won eight out of 15 events and failed to score in only the 120-yard high hurdles, and mile events. First and seconds were taken in the 100-yard dash and 440-yard run. The Irish team took away two large shields as honors for winning the meet and relay race. Gold medals were given as first individual prize. Second place vanners received silver medals and third and fourth placers, bronze.	.
In the 440-yard race, Montague of Notrfe Dame jumped into the lead at the start and gained the pole at the end of the 220-yard straight away. Heffernan held second place when Harrison of Purdue, who overtook him on the turn could not stand the pace and fell back to third place at the finish.
Murphy of Notre Dame, after clearing the bar at 6 feet, 5 inches tried for the world’s record but failed. The Notre Dame relay team had an easy time romping off with their event, besides lowering the mark three seconds.
Hayes, after winning the 100-yard dash in 10 flat, stepped in the 220-yard dash and lowered the former mark of :22 set by Dice of Purdue to :21:3.
The time in the 220-yard low hurdles was lowered by Desch of Notre Dame but it was not allowed to stand as he knocked over two hurdles.
Lieb took first in the discus and shot put.
Summaries:	'
100-yard dash—Hayes, Notre Dame, first; Desch, Notre Dame, second; G. Smith; DePauw, third; Rohrer, Purdue, fourth. Time .10.
I
Wie Notre Same Scholastic
813
WALK-OVER
SUMMER OXFORDS
A New Shipment Just Received. Brown or Black Calf.
See the Sport Models in Our Window.
t Clouse’s <
fyafa-Quer m Boot Shop ns So. Michigan St.
120-yard high hurdles—Ivey, Earlham, first; Haasee, DePauw, second; Griggs, Butler, third; Harker, Purdue, fourth. Time 15:3.
One-mile run—Furnas, Purdue, first; Dalton, Earlham, second; Murphy, Purdue, third; Myers, DePauw, fourth. Time 4:22:1.
440-yard dash—Montague, Notre Dame first; Heffernan, Notre Dame, second; Harrison, Purdue, third; Robinson, Earlham, fourth. Time 49:2. New state record. Kasper held former record of 49:3.
Discus—Lieb, Notre Dame, first; Miller, Purdue, second; Beasley, Earlham, third; Brown, Purdue, fourth.. Distance 130 feet, 11 inches.
Shot-put—Lieb, Notre Dame, first; Miller, Purdue, second; Griggs, Butler, third; Beasley, Earlham, fourth. Distance 41 feet 3 inches.
220-yard hurdles—Desch, Notre Dame, first; Ivey, Earlham, second; G. Adams, DePauw, third; Dant, Notre Dame, fourth. Time 24:2.
Javelin—Hanney, Indiana, first; Moes, Notre Dame, second; Miller, Purdue, third; Hogan, Notre Dame, fourth. Distance 174 feet 4 inches.
880-yard run—Harrison, Purdue, first; Robins, Wabash, second; Walsh, Notre Dame, third; Kennedy Notre Dame, fourth. Time 1:56:2. New record, breaking mark held by Meehan of Notre Dame of ■ 1:57:3.	•	■	'
High Class Picture Plays are the
S| t a n|d a r d Features
AT THE
La Salle and Blackstone
220-yard dash—Hayes, Notre Dame, first; Rohrer, Purdue, second; Emslie, Earlham, third; Stewart, Butler, fourth. Time 21:3. New record breaking mark held by Rice of Purdue.
Pole-vault—C. Smith, and Jones, DePauw, tied, first; Mercer, Butler, and Hogan, Notre Dame, tied for third. Height 11 feet 6 inches.
Two-mile run—Doolittle, Butler, first; Dalton, Earlham, second; Baumer, Notre Dame, third; Furnas, Purdue, fourth. Time 9:45:4. New record, breaking mark set by Furnas of 9:47.
High jump—Murphy, Notre Dame, first; Woods, Butler, and Jones, DePauw, tied for second; Ivey, Earlham, Wildman, Earlham, and Haasee, DePauw, tied for fourth. Height 6 feet 5 inches. New record, breaking mark set by himself of 6 feet 1% inches.
Broad jump—Jones, DePauw, first; Ivey, Earlham, second; Adams, DePauw, third; Brady, Notre Dame, fourth. Distance 21 feet 9% inches.
Relay—Won by Notre Dame, (Barber, Desch, Montague and Heffernan); Butler, second; Earlham, third; Wabash, fourth. Time 3:26. New record, Notre Dame lowering their own mark of 3:29.
Totals: Notre Dame 58%; Purdue 29; DePauw 25 5-6; Earlham 25%; Butler .17; Indiana 5; Wabash 4.	FRANK WALLACE.
814
Noure dame ^cholascic
The John Hale Hat Store
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You. <4?
Howard Schrop,
THE HATTER
127 Washington Ave.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MAIN OFFICE
313 to 323 E. Jefferson Bld.
Call a Dependable Metered Yellow Cab. GET A RECEIPT CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
. Authorized Railroad Transfer. Our Baggage Rates are reasonable. Students’ Trunks to or from Depots
or Notre Dame— First Trunk.....................$1.00
Each Trunk additional..............50
Suit Cases, Bicycles, etc. additional .25 City Baggage according to City rates. Show Baggage same rate.
HOLY SMOKE.	•
ANOTHER OF THOSE PROHIBITION “JOKES”.
A Boy: My mother tells me to make hay while the sun shines.
Same Boy: My father tells me to make corn while the moonshines.
❖ ❖❖
Honky: What were you worrying about on Friday, the twelfth. It wasn’t the thirteenth?
Tonky: I know, but it came darn near being the thirteenth at midnight.
***
Pow:. How was the circus?
Wow: Pretty cagey.
***
SAID THE RIVER:
“I suppose I’ve no right to look at such things, But I’m curious, I’m curious, I vow.
They say such sights melancholia brings,
But I’m going to sea anyhow.”
***
“Eddie ran across a new drink the other day. He calls it the mixed declension.”
“Why such a name?”
“Because it gets you all bawled up.”
■S ¥ ❖
She’s one great kid. I like her much.
I took her to’ the Senior hop.
She looks a little pale?
Oh well, her father runs a bucket shop.
***
It is said that Ring Lardner got hold of a few of the freshman exam, papers from last quarter and wrote to the faculty accusing them of stealing his stuff.	’
***
Dick: What’s in a name?
Jack: I don’t exactly know, but when you call some one it’s best to make sure that he’s a little guy.
***
“It says here: ‘Student Wanted at the Cafeteria.’ ”
“Is that an ad. or a reward notice?”
Dolores: Bill is just like a sturdy tree, he is so bashful.
Gloria: I don’t follow you.	'
Dolores: He always leaves early.
*** .
FIGURE THIS OUT.
A young-man who lived in the South Experienced a terrible drouth.
His mind in a blur, He swallowed some fur And now he feels down in the mouth.
KOLARS.
I
Moure Same Scholastic
815
NOTRE DAME MEN ONLY
TEN PER CENT OFF
On presentation of Athletic Card at the
Quality Shoe Repair Co.
130 North Michigan Street
“In Middle of the Block.”
“SOLE SAVERS”
Consult J. A. Mogle, Foot Expert, on your Foot Troubles.
EVEfW ■ MEAL
WRIGLEYS
fla-gum
with Peppermint Sugar Coating.
Peppermint vored chewing
Newest Creation
“melts in your mouth,” leaving the deliciously flavored gum center to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat.
Great
5<t
Treat!
Auditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.	,
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN T. CALVEY, Manager
Remington Portable Typewriter
TYPEWRITTEN MANUSCRIPT is a requirement in many courses.
NEATLY TYPED theses, examination papers, notes, etc., save your time and labor in the writing—and better still, they score "10“ with the “Prof."	.
THE PORTABLE has a standard keyboard just like the big machines. Typing on the Portable will make you expert on any typewriter—a most useful accomplishment.	’
209 WEST JEFFERSON STREET Main 620	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
816
^fie Novre dame Scholastic
Get One of Our Straw Hats Between You and the Sun!
Now is the time to cast aside the old stuffy cool weather hat—done one of our new stylish straws and really enjoy this wonderful summer weather. We have the new straws in great variety. Specially priced at
$2.50 TO $5.00
“EVERY INCH A CLOTHING STORE”
_jni—ms—on— w—rm—nu—m—nu—uh—nn—on—an—mi—nu—— un—
j Kable’s Restaurants I
| 104-106 N. Michigan St	119 W. Jefferson Blvd. J
1 lea W. Washington Ave*.	206 So. Michigan St =
^•7—on—nu—eb— ta^— un—na—nu—im—mi—nn—-mi—uu—nn—on—on—n«Ji
an*— un^— B8—nu^— nn——un^— an—-nu—nu—mi—an—-an—mi^— m—no—
j Students’ Note Books j I Lefax Forms and Date Sheets at [ j The Herr & Herr Co. Michigan St. j
.3®^—na^—an—bi^—au^—ua^—au—ua^—an—nn^—ra—nn—»nE^—n«J» na——nn—nn^— an—jm^— mt—an—nn—a«^— nr—an-nn——an— mi—mt—m»—
I GEORGE WYMAN 8 CO. I
I	Come and See Us	|
I The South Bend Home for Better Luggage. §
|	N. V. P. Trunks—Indestructo Trunks	I
i	Fine Hand Bags, Brief Cases, etc.	j
us-ku—m—im—UU'^—tffl—ra—mi—ua^—uu^—iw^—uu^—an—on—au^—
^•n^—ttu^—on——ks^— an—nu^— nn—mi—nu—mi—— no—nu^— cu—>mi——w—»m—
I For juicy Steaks and Chops J
I	try	|
I “THE GRILL”—“MIKES” I
g	s
i 125 W. Wash. St. 105 E. Jeff. St. I
|	H. E. GROSS & SONS, Props.	I
nn——mi—nn—on—an—na—na—ku—mi—* an—»ua—mi—m—*
| Special Attention to the Furnishing of Students’ Rooms. T i THE “GIFT SHOP” OF THE BETTER SORT. 1 ”J*4i mi—-nn—mi—tm—un—nn—mi—un—an—nn—mi^— an^— an—nu—mi—nu—u«|$
CLAUER’S
| Jewelers, Silversmiths and Diamonds 1
|	Merchants 105 s. Michigan
'**nT '■ nuBnun• ia —““unsnnnan“anun«■— unuqim.minu•
| National Grocer Company j
|	WHOLESALE GROCERS	|
J 403-8 South St. Joseph Street, South Bead, Indiaaa j f	“LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"	I
Noure dame Scholastic
817
Alumni Recall That
Annual Physics Joke
DEFINE electricity” said the Prof. The class was mown down, one by one, like so many whiskers. And then—“no one has ever been able properly to define electricity since its discovery.” And the smile dried on his face!
Since 1840 Williams’ Shaving Soap has been defined by hundreds of thousands of college men with one word — perfection. And it doesn't dry on your face.
Example—Williams’ Shaving Cream. At 7:50 you can whip up a creamy mellow lather that softens the heart of the toughest stubble. Your snickersnee slips along to a glovetime to
catch chapel at 8.
. And the satisfaction afterwards is almost indefinable at that.
Williams
Shaving Cream
a slick job and smooth face—in
tomorrow before chapel.
................... =	B
[ If you want a Good Haircut 1
I	Patronize
B	: 1
| The Campus Barber Shop [
I	-	=	■
|	WASHINGTON HALL	I
a	?
|	PAUL WAMPLER, Proprietor	I
3	S
|	TOILET ARTICLES FOR SALE	I
I	I
Xi—ac—ra—an—>im—<nj^—in—oA

The Reliance Pharmacy, Inc; j
Prescription Specialists
230 W. Washington Avenue
3
3
I
3
818
Noure dame ^cholascic
fe
fe fc
\V-fc s£
\3 g
I
£
iS
g I I I I
I 1 I
3
I 11 ll
l®l
i
i i i fl
g
s
We know men’s tastes as well as men’s wear
IN ORDER to serve you intelligently we must clearly understand your likes and your dislikes.
And to supply your wants satisfactorily we must know merchandise thoroughly.
We take pardonable pride in our ability to meet both requirements, completely.
LIVINGSTON’S
The House of Kuppenheimer Clothes


r8\^ifra<ifravfravT?a^^
F r | I
g
g g I
K
|
I
£
p I I p F
-I 8
9 s
13
