SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORTCOATS
at savings of
1/4 - 1/3 ■ 1/2
Save up to one-half on America’s finest clothing, suits, topcoats and sportcoats from our regular stock ... in sizes to fit all men. Stock up now while selections are complete. . . . Charge it the Campus Shop way.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
PAY 1/3 IN JULY...
PAY 1/3 IN AUGUST...
PAY 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER...
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Finest Quality
SPORT SHIRTS
at savings of
Here’s an exceptional opportunity to buy fine quality sport shirts at savings of one-half. They’re all famous makes ... in solid colors, handsome patterns, popular Ivy stripes. Brand new 1960 fall and winter styles in sizes from small to extra large. Stock up now!
February 12, 1960
On Campis Max Shulman
{Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THREE WHO PASSED IN THE NIGHT
Last year, as everyone knows, 1,210,614 undergraduates dropped out of college. 256,080 flunked; 309,656 got married; 375,621 ran out of money; and 309,254 found jobs. As you have, of course, observed, this accounts for only 1,210,611 out of 1,210,614. What happened to the other three?
Well sir, to find the answer, I recently completed a tour of American campuses where I interviewed 40 million students and sold several subscriptions to The Open Road for Boys, and it pleases me to report that I can now account for those three elusive undergraduates.
The first was an LSU junior named Fred Gaugin. He was extremely popular, always ready with a smile, fond of folk dancing and pralines, and last semester his Chi Psi brothers unanimously elected him treasurer of the fraternity. This proved an error. Gaugin, alas, promptly absconded with the money and went to Tahiti to paint. The fraternity is bending every effort to extradite Gaugin, but Tahiti, alas, is currently observing the feast of Dipthong, the Sun-God, a five-year ceremony during which all the islanders wear masks, so nobody, alas, can say for certain winch one is Gaugin.
The second missing undergraduate is William Cullen Sigafoos, Oregon State freshman, who went one day last fall to a disreputable vendor named A. M. Sashweight to buy a pack of Marlboros. Mr. Sashweight did not have any Marlboros because Marlboros are onty sold by reputable vendors. However, he told Sigafoos that he had another brand which was just as good, and Sigafoos, being but an innocent freshman, believed him.
Well sir, you and I know there is no other brand as good as Marlboros. That fine filter, that flavorful flavor, that pleasure, that joy, that fulfillment—are Marlboro’s and Marlboro’s alone. All of
* * *
And how about the rest of you? Do you have plenty of Marlboros? Or if you like mildness but you don’t like filters, plenty of Philip Morrises? Hmm? Do you?
this was quickly apparent to young Sigafoos and he flew into a terrible rage. “As good as Marlboros indeed!” he shrieked, kicking his roommate furiously. “I am going right back to that mendacious Mr. Sashweight and give him a thrashing he won’t soon forget!” With that he seized his lacrosse bat and rushed out.
Air. Sashweight heard him coming and started running. Now Air. Sashweight, before he became a disreputable vendor, had taken numerous prizes as a crosscountry runner, and he thought he would soon outdistance young Sigafoos. But he reckoned without Sigafoos’s stick-to-itive-ness. At last report the two of them had passed Cleveland. When they reach the Atlantic Seaboard, bad Air. Sashweight will get bis lumps from Sigafoos, you may be sure, and I, for one, am glad.
The third missing undergraduate, also named Sigafoos, is a Bennington sophomore named Celeste Sigafoos and, ironically, she never intended to leave college at all. She was merely going home for Christmas on the Natchez, Mobile, and Boise Railroad, and during the night, alas, her upper berth slammed shut on her. Being a Bennington girl, she naturally did not wish to make an unseemly outcry, so she just kept silent. The next morning, alas, the railroad went bankrupt, and Miss Sigafoos today is lying forgotten on a siding near Valparaiso, Indiana. Fortunately she has plenty of Marlboros with her.	© weo mu shuinum

ENDURANCE CONTEST	r
Editor-:
For five months we have endured in : silence your digs concerning the students at Saint Mary’s. We agree there is some ♦ humor in your “cracks,” but it does become tiresome. We trust you are capable of some variety.
It is a widely established fact that t whenever any female over 12 and under 70 dares to venture onto your campus, she is subjected to a deluge of crass remarks and insulting inspection. We un- * derstand you consider the girls of Saint Mary’s snobs, but who wouldn’t maintain some reserve in such a situation?
Furthermore, the majority of such y vague criticisms are expounded by gentlemen whose closest contact with * Saint Mary’s girls is seeing them pass through your campus.	*
Confident that men of your intellectual and moral stature will come up H with a solution, we remain,
Three Saint Mary’s Students x (ED: Apparently SMC girls are consistent in their reserved attitude. The letter is anonymous.)
BEST LISTENING?
Editor:	*
We would like to commend WSND on the music it presented during finals and * throughout the semester break. What are the chances of having music of this sort replace the superabundance of progressive jazz, which is now presented? *
Herb Moeller 220 Fisher Galen Cawley 201 Fisher
FOOTBALL FAVORITE	<
Editor:
Please accept my congratulations on the general excellence of the 1959 [Football] Review. In my humble opinion, it is the best to date, and yourself and your entire staff are deserving of high commendation for your accomplishment.
I am particularly pleased to see at last the inclusion of the statistics in the account of each game. This feature makes the Review much more factual, and adds greatly to its value for reference. I suggest that you go one step further and show the score by quarters.
Joseph M. Walsh, ’14 West 707 5th Avenue Spokane 4, Washington (Continued on page 24)

The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, .New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic

The Notre Dame
I Vol. 101 No. 14
FEBRUARY 12, 1960
. Founded 1867 i* -	'	'	•	•
editor-in-chief
*	. RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
ASPIRANTS AND ATHLETES: In this week’s Scholastic there are two features which we would particularly like to point out. The first is an article by Walter Trohan of the Chicago Tribune. This piece was written especially for the Scholastic by Trohan, a Notre Dame graduate, who is the director of the Tribune’s Washington Bureau. The initial article in a political series, it discusses the importance of the upcoming election and weighs the relative merits of the various probable candidates. The other feature which we would like to point out is a pro-con senes on major- football at Notre Dame. We believe that it is a cun-ent topic and one deserving of discussion. The authors are the editor and an associate editor of the Scholastic. They write as individual students and not in their official capacities as editors of the magazine. Both of these features have been carefully planned by the members of the staff and we feel that they will be most beneficial to our readers. We invite your comments about each.
> ■


u- -

4
I" .
I
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI
Wade Clarke .
Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff -CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan
~ William Sweeney -.William Veeder
sports editor and staff THOMAS ROSE ; William Cary .
J. (Jay) Kilroy ; .
copy editor and staff ' WALTER RUDGE George Casey .. Peter Geniesse ' .
•. Thomas Marciniak .
art editor .	'
JERRY FLORENT
photographer
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager, and staff
ROBERT HORN
< Thomas Carey . Joseph Finnigan .
FIVE STAR “FLUKE”: Last Friday on WSND’s -5 p.m. news program, Commentator-News Director Joe Geary made the assertion that over 60 free bids were being distributed by the Mardi Gras Committee to various friends of theirs about the campus. Upon checking into the situation the Scholastic learned that this insinuation is unfounded. The facts are that 15 free bids are being distributed. Ten of these go to persons designated as recipients of complementary bids in the dance constitution; the other five go to the Mardi Gras chairmen. The remaining 45 bids are not free but are distributed on a preference basis to persons working directly on the committees and to the hall presidents who have had the responsibility of passing out the chance books and collecting the money. It seems to us that everyone receiving such a bid certainly deserves one and that it is a rather serious accusation to state that the committee is guilty of favoritism. We have observed the Mardi Gras rather closely this year and we would like to take another opportunity to congratulate them on the fine work they have accomplished.
LESS TEN PERCENT: Students passing through the lines at registration last week were no doubt handed a student discount card and a list of places where this card can be used. The student discount service, recently inaugurated by student government, will entitle students to reduced prices for products and services from certain South Bend merchants. At the present time the number of participating business concerns is rather small, and these merchants have placed quite a few reservations on the. use of the card so that only a portion of their products or sei-vices can be had at reduced prices. This in itself is disappointing. But when one considers the size of such a project and the possibility of its potential value to the students, it must be realized that complete results cannot be achieved in such a short period of time. After the success (or failure) of the venture is measured in South Bend, the project will grow or pass out of existence. We hope that with the more active cooperation of a majority of South Bend businessmen, it can become a permanent aid to the student consumer. And perhaps even the bookstore and Badin barbershop can be induced to join in the project. Who knows?


circulation manager
LAWRENCE LEACH moderator	'
:	REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c
news reporters \ c A.C;? V-AA;
-;a ,i .A Philip Larrabee A \
Af"John Ohalq A; -'A V. A < ■ Av Thomas Sphleretli A
William Sparks A:’’'-AAAiA' A sports	'
JohnA'B^foH^^^ JenyAHow^ GeorgeVoris Thomas Walsh
'5

$
RichardBallot...
ARbb«rf|BgkfeyA‘

4
MANNERS AT HOME: Reports from those attending the recent student ski trip to Caberfae, Mich., have been indeed favorable. The weather was good and the snow matched the expectations of the travelers. One particularly good sign was the excellent behavior of the students making the trip. Their conduct seems to have been presentable and representative of the University. However, we sometimes wonder why the behavior at school should be any different than it is away. Although an old subjet, it is an ever-current one: Washington Hall movies. It is a healthy thing to let off a little “steam” now and then but why do it at the expense of everyone else? The vice president for student affairs has threatened to stop the movies if the mobs don’t quiet down a little. He means it.
A VERITABLE BREEZE: Once again we must congratulate the University for the better-than-evei- registration. The new multi-copy pre-registration form eliminated the last drudgerous task of the process at the Drill Hall. New records were set as some students registered in less than five minutes. It seems impossible to seniors that the former nightmare at the Drill Hall ever existed. Students can easily remember waiting in line for several hours just to be admitted to the building. And admittance was only the first step in a long, complex and confusing process which took too much time away from everyone concerned. Thanks to IBM and academic affairs these days will never return. In the future the walk to the Drill Hall may be the longest part of the entire procedure.
— B.T.&T.
0QBQBS QSSSBE5 Hannan ananna nEsans BHEuna □EE BEEBE BBS bbbs hob nSDEBBB □
□□□H0E
IBBBfflE SEB □□ns BBS EBB BEEBE SEE BEESED BEBEBE SBBBHE

BEEBES SHEESH

M3MSNV10DM
QiiiiiuimmiiitimnnnnnnnmiinnHiiiimHiiiiiiuitiiiiuittiiiitMiiiiiimiHiiiimuitiiuimiiimiitimimiimmiiiiiuimmiimiimiiimitQ
I	I -
Contents	j .
|	At the Theaters __________________22	Odds and Ends _____________________31	|
|	Back Page ________________________34	L. David Otte_______________________11	|	„
I	Campus Scene _____________________ 9	Our Cover _________________________25	|
|	Commentary _______________________ 5	Repercussions _____________________ 4	|
|	Critical Horizons ________________15	G. P. Scarpia_______________________15	f
I	Escape __________________________   7	Sports Picture ____________________29	j
|	News Briefs ______________________26	Time Out __________________________31	|
K3DL (CROSSWORD No. 3
ACROSS
DOWN
1. It’ll have you in stitches
7. Earthy term papers?
13.	Noise from an ebullient riser?
14.	Reapply the make-up
15.	When it’s time for a________, make it Kools
16.	Close relative of a heel
17.	May’s last name
18.	Popular dance of the 40’s
20.	O'er which the lowing herd winds
21.	Have dates with
22.	It puts a crimp in things
23.	Bog
24.	Foods for the birds
25.	She’s almost astride
27. Leander's religion?
31.	Item for sleep-overs
32.	It follows a snicker
33.	The pertinent part of Sheba
36. Plaintive song of the 20’s
38.	Roman god, partly larcenous
39.	A cool Kool bird
41. Rue de_____, in Paris
43.	Fly
44.	It has 3 legs and goes to pot
45	Marco Polo
46.	Cuts with finality
1.	“— have mercy on_______as we”
2.	Weight of a reconditioned heap
3.	Put your arms around
4.	Electrified particle
5.	What ponytailers mature into?
6.	Slips a little money to
7.	Indian dub
8.	Gal in the end arena
9.	Small accounts
10.	Rice-paddy cat 11. Kind of scout 12. What the
Packers play for?
19. Kind of Magic Kools have
22.	Glory
23.	Kooling kontraption
24.	Loin of the 12 Down dept.
26. Answers from the chemistry lab.
28.	Famous 2-word state
29.	He’s in a skin game
30.	Changed mister is deserving
31.	Yell your head off
33.	Made like
Esther Williams
34.	You’ll find your honey here
35.	Yale men
36.	Quote
37.	Colleen country
40. It’s dose to Vegas
42. Miss Leigh, for short
1	2	3	4	5	6		9	10	11	12
13					
15 17 *ARE’ ENCM KRAC 1 33	34 39	VOUKODL UGH TO X THIS?' 5 35 ■ 40	_________	—□■‘L-	Jr. 26 ■ ■-	\22 28 32 ■■38 42	29 30
43			■1-		
45			MJ		
4
KGDt
When your throat tells j you its time for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE
°KGDL?
'	C I960, Brown * Williamson Tobacco Com.
V
X
.4
6
The. Scholastic

a comedy of airers, earers,
by D. JIM AUSUM
and other catchy things
HAVING come back from Niles, Michigan at nine-thirty Sunday * night to find a note on my door telling me that this column was due one-half 1 hour later, I decided to go from room to room asking people for things to put in it. The first guy I saw lived next door, but my interview with him didn’t turn out so well, because I asked him for something funny, and he said what for, you’ve never been funny before. So I reminded him that I saw his name on the r flunk list, and I told him that I thought it was pretty funny that he was even in school here; and then he reminded me that he was bigger than I, only he didn’t exactly say anything, he just grabbed me and broke my arm. Well, needless to say I left his room as soon as possible.
THE PERFECT SYSTEM
Down the hall a little way I found a guy who seems to be affected with a pre-middle age paunch, remarkably like the paunch I have noticed on nearly all seniors who are naturally fat. He , seemed to be having some difficulty controlling his language, but he managed to spit out his story. From the safety of my umbrella, I transcribed what he said. “I was talking to my folks,” he said, “not that I particularly wanted to, but they called me up. Some-thnig about my grades. Now my old . man got on the phone first, and right away he wanted to know who I was, and • not only that, but if I were a son of his, what was I doing with only forty-eight credit hours in four years of school. So I tried to explain the new grading system to him, and that they didn’t transfer credits from the first two years, and . . . “And what about your religion grade?” “But Dad (I think) everybody got a C. That’s the only grade he gave, and. . .” “A ‘C’? What’s a ‘C’? It says
February 12, 1960
3 here. I don’t see any ‘C’.” “Dad,” I said, “a -3 is a ‘O’, and a 2 is a ‘C’, and a 5 is an ‘A’, and a 6 is perfect.” “Well, what’s this 560028 down here in the corner? What do you mean, that’s your student number? They don’t number anybody except prisoners, and you haven’t been in jail for years, if you’re the son I’m thinking about. You’re the one who cashes the checks at Joer’s, aren’t you? Sure, I remember you, you’re the ugly, stupid one who’s way overweight. Gaaah!” Now ordinarily I have quite a bit of patience, but that was going just a little bit too far. I am not overweight, I’m just a little bit plump, so I got mad, and I shouted, “Now look Dad, I didn’t have to come here, you know, I was doing you a favor when I did it.” But it didn’t have any effect, because he came roaring back with “Whaddaya mean, a 6 is perfect. What’s so good about a 6?” “Dad,” I said, “I don’t know why a 6 is perfect, I just know it is. Maybe Harvard only goes up to 5, and we want to be 6/5 as excellent as they are. Maybe Father Hesburgh just likes 6’s, how should I know?” Well, this didn’t set too well with the old gentleman, but there wasn’t anything I could do about that, so we said goodbye. “Hey, can you lend me a dime for a candy bar?”
A FABLE, LIKE IN THE CHILDREN’S BOOKS	.
I had seen enough of my compatriots to realize that they weren’t going to do me much good, but I knew I couldn’t sneak over and steal Chris Foley’s next column, because he hadn’t written it yet, so I thought I would try a guessing game. I would write a fable, and the readers could try to guess what it meant. To add to the excitement, I decided to write it myself, so that it would be even more unintelligible than if I had
done it my usual way, i.e., to tape record the utterings of the parakeet on the third floor. This would have been difficult anyway, since the bird died during Christmas vacation, and as a result he hasn’t said very much since.
Once upon a time, there was a group of people at the University of Notre Dame (see, already I’m confusing you by throwing in impossibilities), and these people decided to produce some good clean fun over the wireless (another lie). Since it is always fun to pick on other people who have no way of defending themselves, they decided to jump upon the members of the Mardi Gras committee while remaining under the security of anonymity. This is very much like stealing a blind man’s cane, and not too unlike stealing an old woman’s pension check, and we all can see the harmless merriment to be found in this sort of thing. After this took . place, it was offered as a fairly common opinion that these men would be punished. One man said that they should be thrown out of school, while another laughed and said it would be better to simply shoot them, lest they do even more evil. Neither of these solutions was accepted, however, because an even better one was found. It was decided to spread about campus the rumor that these men liked repulsive and ugly girls. This would immediately cut them off from all the girls around the northern Indiana region, since nobody really wants to be liked for what she is. Then, some potassium sulfate and some potassium chloride would be sprinkled on their ears, and they would be confined to their rooms. '
MORAL: Modern science is wonderful; it is possible^ through mutation, to produce many strange things. Here, obviously, we would have the world’s first jackasses with horns.
7
fromSHEAFFERS FOR STUDENTS
ENGINEERS
The Bureau of Ships
Offers Civilian
Opportunities In Challenging
Fields
Tkis is your chaace to start writing with a mw Sheaffer Cartridge fontaia pea at a big saviag!
The Bureau of Ships of the U. S. Navy has opportunities for engineers in the following specialties: Electrical, Electronic, Mechanical, Civil (for training as Naval Architects), Marine and Naval Architecture.
You will participate in programs involving new concepts and advanced studies in ship, machinery and electronic design including hydrofoil craft ... air cushion ships . . . motion stabilizers ... thermo-electric power generation ... thermionic power conversion . . . fuel cells . . . magneto-hydrodynamic propulsion . . . missile environment . . . noise reduction . . . radar, sonar communications.
Training programs are tailored to individual assignments, and job-related graduate study is sponsored by the Bureau of Ships.
Positions are available in the Headquarters Office in Washington, D. C., and in the naval shipyards and laboratories throughout the United States.
INTERVIEWS ON YOUR CAMPUS
Arrange with your Placement Officer to meet the representative of the Bureau of Ships, who will be on your campus on
February 18th
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Department of the Navy
8
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PRESENTS ‘TIGER
• To Give Benefit Show * For Chicago Scholars
*	by ROY RUBELI
First-nighters were treated yesterday t evening to Notre Dame’s premier performance of Tiger at the Gates, a comic t allegory of the Trojan Wai- which managed to merit the statement, “one of the ' most shocking of our times.”
Although this is not 1935 and there is no rising Hitler, the theme of war’s inevitability seems just as ominous in * Christopher Fry’s (Ben Hur screenplay) English adaptation of Jean Giradoux’s * original The Trojan War Will Not Take Place. But the debunking of classic f Greek figures prevents the whole thing from becoming ponderous.
* Hector, played by sophomore John Smith of Boyfriend fame, is given the rt task of convincing his brother Paris (Michael Ehrenreich) that the thousand-t ships-face of Helen (Elizabeth Young) L is just a mask for a shallow and petty * spirit and that their romance is strictly a la Hollywood.
Arbitration. But success at this merely gives him time to face the larger prob-1 lem of nationalistic Trojan warmongers I « and Greek bullies such as Ajax. Finally a conference with Ulysses (Dave Mc-Donald, son of union leader McDonald) produces the agreement that “the Tro
JOHN SMITH, MARY ARMBUSTER, DIANE CROWLEY Lead controversial “Tiger" to Notre Dame
jan War will not take place.” But history says it did and the audience is left to wonder if it is fools, fate or just plain human destiny that should be blamed.
Money makers. Following the double week-end run on campus the problem of this New York Drama Critics’ Circle Award winning play will be presented to Chicagoans. In a benefit performance at Chicago’s Eighth Street Theater on Feb. 22, the group will make an appearance that is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Club. The proceeds will go to the club’s scholarship fund.
Besides tonight’s performance there will be one tomorrow night as well as on Thursday, Friday and Saturday of next week. All shows will begin at 8:30 p.m.
This play marks the debut of three new thespians. Besides Bill Barth (Priam, King of Troy) and Dick Kavanaugh (Demekos, the poet) there is eight-year-old Nancy Syburg, the daughter of Director Fred Syburg, in the role of Polyxene.
Other major roles include Diane Crowley as Cassandra; Mary Armbruster, Andromache; Carol Finn, Hecuba; Hank Frawley, Busiris; Bob Love, the Mathematician; Charles McCarthy, Ajax and Dennis Shaughnessy, Leo Gorman, Norman Ornellas and Frank Vitro. Stage manager is Bill Flaherty.
The box office in Washington Hall will be open on the days of performances from 4 to 9 p.m. and on Tuesday and Wednesday from 4 to 6 p.m.
COED STUDY DAY
Tomorrow is “International Study Day” for YCS and a varied program is promised. Mass will be said in Lyon’s Hall Chapel at 11 a.m. At 1:15 p.m. Father Robert Brooks will talk on “International Responsibility — Essential to Members of the Mystical Body.” Following this will be a lecture by Mr. D’Antonio of the sociology department on the “World Population Problem." Completing the day will be a Pizza Party with singing and dancing held in the Vetville Recreation Hall. The talks will be held in the LaFortune Student Center. Further information may be obtained at the YCS office under the Huddle.
Dr. Calkins Gives Third Talk For Cardinal O'Hara Series
“Decision Making in Administration” will be the title of the third Cardinal O’Hara Lecture of the school year, delivered by Dr. Robert D. Calkins, president of The Brookings Institution, Washington, D. C., on Monday at 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Dr. Calkins will also conduct a faculty seminal- on “Research as an Aid to Administration” at the Morris Inn at 7:30 p.m. Monday evening. The Brookings Institution, which he has headed since 1952, is an independent, non-partisan organization conducting research in economics, government and international relations.
Awarded a doctorate by Stanford University in 1933, Dr. Calkins joined the economics faculty at the University of California at Berkeley, 'becoming chairman of the department in 1935 and dean of the College of Commerce in 1937. Four years later he was appointed dean of the School of Business at Columbia University. In 1947, Dr. Calkins left Columbia and became vice president and director of the General Education Board of New York. He has also served as a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The Cardinal O’Hara Lecture Series was established in 1949 by Notre Dame’s College of Commerce to honor His Eminence John Cardinal O’Hara, C.S.C., Archbishop of Philadelphia. Cardinal O’Hara was first dean of the college and served as president of the University from 1934 to 1939.
February 12, 1960
9
Dr. Smelser Appointed As History Dept. Head; Fr. Hesburgh Selects American, Naval Expert
Dr. Marshall Smelser, a Notre Dame history professor since 1947, has been appointed as new head of the history department. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, announced the appointment of Smelser, a specialist in early American history and naval history, to take the place of Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., who recently resigned.
Professor Smelser graduated with his bachelor’s degree from Quincy College in Quincy, Ill. in 1935 and finished his specialization with a master’s degree
DR. MARSHALL SMELSER
New hand at History helm
from Harvard and a Ph.D from Harvard in 1948.
Prior to his association wdth the history department at Notre Dame, Smelser taught at the University of Dayton, University of Detroit, University of St. Louis and the College of St. Thomas. He was on active duty in the U. S. Army for three years from 1943 to 1946, serving as an assistant Red Cross field director in the European and Mediterranean theaters of war.
In 1956-57 Dr. Smelsei- was recipient of the James Forrestal Fellowship given by the U. S. Naval Academy, allowing
THIMK
The “Back Page" is meant to be the voice of intelligent student thought. The SCHOLASTIC would like to receive articles exemplifying this ideal. Any student interested in writing for the “Back Page” is urged to submit manuscripts as soon as possible. All manuscripts should be typed 40 characters wide and should include title and sub-heads. Send all copy to the Back Page Editor, 207 Fisher, Notre Dame, Ind.
him one academic year of full support while doing research in Naval history. While conducting research on this subject he wrote two books on naval history. These were The Congress Founds the Navy, 1787-98, a history of the U.S. Navy, and The Campaign for the Sugar Islands, which describes the British assault on the Sugar Islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe in the Carribean during the French and Indian War. His latest work, in which he is co-author, is an American history book designed expressly for use in high schools, Conceived in Liberty. He is co-author with Dr. Harry W. Kirwin, of Loyola College in Baltimore. Dr. Smelser is currently writing a history of the U.S. from 1801-1817 which will be published as part of Harper’s 40-volume New American Nation Series.
Membership and awards. Besides being an author of books and many magazine articles, Dr. Smelser is an active member of the American Association of University Professors, being Notre Dame chapter president in 19531954. He also has membership in such academic and professional groups as the American History association, the U.S. Naval Institute and the 95th Infantry Division Association. He was awarded the Walgreen Lecturer award in 1955 by the University of Chicago.
Father McAvoy will continue in his positions of University archivist and managing editor of the Review of Politics. In addition to this work he will teach courses in American history as he has in the past.
Science Open House Set To Open at End of March
Variegated lectures and demonstrations as well as the elaborate facilities of the Notre Dame science department will be open to public appraisal during the annual Science Open House next month. The affair, which is headed by Claude Ceccon, a junior in the science school from White Plains, N. Y., will be held on March 26 and 27.
The purpose of the Open House is to acquaint area high school students with the purposes and aims of pure science. Invitations have been sent to all high schools in the area and to develop interest a contest will be held. Students who submit the best scientific projects and experiments will be rewarded prizes.
Events scheduled will include lectures and movies in all subject areas, also tours of Lobund and the various department displays. In addition to the department demonstrations and experiments, there will be demonstrations sponsored by local industry.
Much scientific equipment and experimentation will be on display. Included will be the mass spectograph of the chemistry department.
Allot 509 Ball Tickets As Students Luck-Out
For the first time at Notre Dame, 1 the lottery system was used as a method of selecting the fortunate students eligible to purchase tickets to the Mardi Gras Ball. Exactly 1036 persons submitted their names, in the form of IBM cards, to a barrel from which 509 lucky students received the opportunity to purchase a bid to this major campus affair.
Although the submission of names had to 'be stopped slightly early, due to difficulties arising in arranging an official and regulated drawing, the new lottery system was generally accepted with enthusiasm throughout the campus.
Re-sale procedure. Jim Wysocki, general chairman for this year’s pre-lenten celebration, reminds everyone purchasing a ticket, who afterwards decides not to attend the ball, they are obliged to resell the bid only through the Mardi Gras committee. This must be done on or before the 24th of February at the Mardi * Gras office, 1A of the LaFortune Student Center. In this event, the first person appearing on the waiting list will have the chance to celebrate the opening night festivities.
Presently, $24,925 had been collected A for raffle books sold. The last date for returns will be February 17. Hall presidents will make their final collections on that date. It is necessary for all returns to be in then since the last computing of hall percentages will be made and the prizes given accordingly. If there is anyone who has last minute returns, he should give them to his hall president or at the raffle booth at the carnival.
A new high was set this year when 192 ambitious students hustled at least ten raffle books. For this, they were given a well deserved free bid to the Mardi Gras ball.
Josh White Appears Tonight -At St. Mary's in Folk Concert ,
Josh White, well-known folk singer from Greenville, South Carolina, will be featured tonight at 8:15 in O’Laughlin Auditorium. He is being presented as part of the St. Mary’s Student Council’s “American Culture Week” program.	,
Known as “The Great American Trou- a badour,” White started his career at the age of seven by touring the country with a blind evangelist whom he had helped across the street. During these travels he saw the life, met the characters and heard the stories out of which he was to compose his own songs.
A 1950 European tour through Eng- • land, Scotland, Denmark, France and Italy proved to be so successful that he has since incorporated a three-month tour of Europe each year into his schedule. White has recorded for almost every major American recording company in the country and has been received hardily in nearly every state in the union.
10
The Scholastic
Law School to Hold Civil Rights Conference: Midwest Dignitaries to Participate February 14
JL Otk

1’
r

Members of Congress and law school deans from Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, Wisconsin and Michigan are among those who will participate in a Conference on Civil Rights to be held at the Notre Dame Law School on February 14. As head of the Notre Dame Law School, Dean Joseph O’Meara is one of the principal organizers.
Representatives of several federal agencies and departments also will take part in the sessions which will explore the recommendations of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and study civil rights measures pending in Congress. The one-day conference is designed to stimulate discussion and an exchange of views among legislators, members of law school faculties and other persons professionally concerned with civil rights problems.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame and a member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, will be the principal speaker at the conference. Representative John Brademas of Indiana’s Third Congressional District, and Dean O’Meara of the Law School will lead the several discussion periods.
Tri-area exploring. Three major civil rights areas will be explored during the conference. “Protecting the Right to Vote,” will be the subject of the first session. An opening statement of the problem will be presented by Professor Harris Wofford, Jr., of the Notre Dame Law School and former legal assistant to Father Hesburgh on the Civil Rights Commission.
The second conference session will be devoted to the subject of “Assisting School Desegregation.” Notre Dame law
DEAN JOSEPH O’MEARA Convoker and Discussion Leader
professor Bernard Ward will outline the problem in an opening statement.
“Equal Opportunity in Housing” will be the third major subject of the conference. Discussion will be preceded by a survey of the problem presented by Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr. of the law school.
Governor G. Mennen Williams of Michigan and Senator Paul H. Douglas of Illinois will be among those participating in the conference. Members of the House of Representatives who will be at Notre Dame for the event include Representatives William Bray of Indiana; Charles Diggs, John Dingell and Thaddeus Machrowicz of Michigan; Walter H. Moeller and Gordon Scherer of Ohio; and Sidney Yates of Illinois.
Administrator and counsel. Assistant • Deputy Attorney General John D. Calhoun will be an administration representative at the conference. Also expected to attend are William Foley, general counsel of the House Judiciary committee, and Charles Slayman, chief counsel of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights.
Juniors Set Finol Plans For Parent-Son Meeting
Parents of Notre Dame juniors will get a taste of college life next month during the eighth annual Junior Parent-Son Week End. The Week End, which will be held March 11, 12, 13, is sponsored by the members of the junior class and the University.
According to Chuck Schuler, executive coordinator, the purpose of the Week End is “to provide the parents of the Juniors with an opportunity to come to the campus, meet the members of the administration and faculty, and feel the true spirit of Notre Dame.”
It is difficult and ineffective to describe the various elements of Notre Dame life — the community of students, guidance of priests and religious atmosphere, academics, etc. To fully realize their value one must experience them personally.
An extensive program of activities has been planned for the parents. Registration will be held in the Morris Inn followed by a luncheon in the Old Dining Hall with the sons. Receptions will be held with the individual college deans and faculties. Parents will also be treated to a movie on campus life. Evening activities will consist of dinner in the new North Dining Hall followed by an open house in the LaFortune Student Center.
Chairman Chris Lund is being assisted by Executive Coordinator Chuck Schuler. Heading the various events are: Stan Meihaus, reception; George Bott, dinner; Pat Hickey, luncheon; Don Rice, ROTC; Andy Lawlor, AB; Bernie Craig, commerce; Dave Balane, engineering; Marty Decree, science; Dick Dargan, tickets and John May, accomodations.
If it is any consolation to the readers, you are not the only people having difficulty getting going this semester. The Senate too has been dormant for a while, and they are still resting. Take, for example, last Monday evening’s session: it was a nice, calm, peaceful, and friendly gathering. Hardly a voice was raised, or a nay vote heard.
Nothing was presented that required more than an affirmation.
Jim Naughton, who is chairman of the Collegiate Jazz Fertival 1960, submitted a list of group and individual awards that have been donated for presentation to the winners. They are valued at approximately $5000. John Christen reported a satisfying profit from the social commission’s doings of the first semester, and presented a list of events for the coming term.
International Commissioner Charles Ladner told about a forthcoming lecture program under his jurisdiction. Andy Lawlor- discussed the recent Student Forum, and future fora. The SDS project of John Keegan is working well, the Senate heard, but it took a bit more money than anticipated. After a brief consideration of the time of presentation of the Hall Presidents’ Council, trophy for interhall sports, the subject ended up just where it started, nowhere.
A motion clarifying the term of office of elected Senate members was passed unanimously. Another motion mandated the Academic and International Commissioners to plan and execute a schedule for informal visits and discussions on the part of four international students, including the Foreign Student Leadership Project Joe Taderera from Southern Rhodesia. SBP Bruce Babbitt was authorized to establish a Student Library Committee. It will determine, compile, and evaluate student suggestions and opinions concerning the new University Library. In order to circumvent conflicts with the Mock Convention, the spring election dates were moved again, this time to March 31. Bill Scheclder explained his progress as chairman of the Washington Day Exercises. .
Two important considerations'-, promise to present themselves before the Senate in the near future. Next week, the budget for the second semester will be hashed over. For another, the loyalty affadavit required for scholarships resulting from the National Defense Education Act has raised numerous questions. The Senate would like to seek students’ opinions on this, and is now considering the best way to do it.
There was nothing controversial discussed at Monday’s meeting, but who wants anything to disrupt hibernation.
February 12, 1960
11
Dance to Mark K. of C. Fiftieth Anniversary; Lettermen to Provide Musical Setting Tonight
Tonight 125 couples will help Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus Council 1477 celebrate its fiftieth year of activity here on campus when they attend the fifth annual K of C. Ball to be held from 9 pan. to 1 a.m. in the South Bend Knights of Columbus Hall.
Miss Helen Funch, a senior from St. Mary’s and Miss Reggie Ryan, a junior from across the Dixie, will reign as twin queens over the evening’s festivities. Miss Ryan is a nursing major from Warren, Ohio, while her fellow Ohioan, a history major, hails from Cincinnati. The two girls vull be crowned by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Double escorts. Co-Chairmen Chuck Sawicki and Joe Jansen will escort Miss Ryan and Miss Funch respectively. An economics major in the College of Arts and Letters, Sawicki is from Fort Monroe, Va. and presently the president of the Economics Roundtable. Jansen, enrolled in the College of Engineering, is seeking a mechanical engineer’s degree and makes his home in Kokomo, Ind.
Providing the dance music for the ball will be Wally Jones and the Lettermen. No stranger to Notre Dame dances, the Jones contingent will also include its featured female vocalist.
An added attraction of the evening will be the debut of the “K” Combo during the intermission of the dance. The group composed of members of the K. of C., has performed at several of the Knights’ meetings. James Doherty, Rick Salmon, Mike Dalzel, Steve Kiley and Wally Jones, the group’s members, will display their talent in their first public performance.
Handling the publicity for the affair is Terry Martin, while Mike Sweeney is acting as refreshment committee chair-
HELEN FUNCH
. . . Rule Knights’ night
REGINA RYAN
Pair of queens . . .
man. In charge of all ticket sales is John Cassidy and Ken Bourgon is act-ting as business manager of the dance.
Tonight’s dance will also be honored by the presence of several Knights of Columbus dignitaries. Among the honored guests will be: Mr. and Mrs. Edward Rademaker, Indiana K. of C. State deputy; Mr. and Mrs. James Armstrong, Notre Dame Alumni Association secretary; Mr. and Mrs. John Rocap, supreme director; and Mr. and Mrs. Fred Geissel, Jr., District K. of C. Deputy.
Whitney, Powers Collaborate To Take Miami Debate Meet
The first two forensic engagements of the spring semester added another first place trophy to the numerous others won this year by the Notre Dame Debate Team.
On Jan. 28-30, Jay Whitney and Guy Powers participated in the University of Miami’s Invitational Debate Tournament in Coral Gables, Fla. After six rounds of preliminary elimination, they defeated the University of Floi-ida in the quarter-finals, the University of South Carolina in the semi-finals, and Duke University in the final round. This is the second time in three years that Notre Dame has won the Miami tournament. Powers and Whitney ranked fourth and fifth respectively among individual speakers.
This past week end, Feb. 4-6, Joel Haggard and Jen-y Goudreau won four* and lost four debates at the Harvard University Invitational Debate Tournament. First place went to Brigham Young University who defeated Ohio State University in the final round.
DOUBLE BLAST
Two week-end social activities have been arranged by the Senate Social Commission. Tomorrow evening, from 8:30 to 11 .-30, the LaFortune Student Center will be the scene of a cabaret party featuring a floor show in the Rathskeller. Tables and hurricane lamps will add to the nightclub atmosphere of the affair, and music will be provided by the Dixie Ramblers, popular campus group. Tickets are $1.50 per couple and will be available at the door.
Also planned is a mixer to be held Sunday afternoon in the Student Center from 2 to 4:30. Girls from several local and neighboring schools have been invited. Admission is $.50 per man.
««


£8
Research Grants Given ft For Advanced Projects ®
Research grants totalling $193,821 £ ? ' have recently been awarded to the Uni- ’i|?-versity for the support of research in^Q the departments of physics, chemistry, mechanical engineering, the Radiation Project and the Lobund laboratories.
The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission has made a grant of $34,500 to the ^5 physics department for research on W! “Nuclear Spectroscopy of Rare Earth K Nuclides” under the direction of Dr. J.; S
W. Mihelich.
nuclear physicist.
Mihelich was associated with the Brook-f i haven National Laboratory before com-? I ing to Notre Dame in 1954.	* |
Another AEC grant of $23,500 will un- - | derwrite equipment for Notre Dame’s j I Radiation Project headed by Dr. Milton i| Bui*ton. He will also serve as principal 11 investigator for a study of “Radiation I Chemistry of Organomettalic Compounds” with the support of a grant of H $14,780 from the Wright Air Develop-1 § ment Center.	| g
The department of chemistry and the | £ University generally will benefit from a i | $7,500 giant awarded by the Shell Com- 11
panies Foundation, Inc. Two-thirds of I the fund has been allotted to the department for fundamental research in chemistry with the balance made available for general University operations.
ACS comes across. This department has also received a grant of $16,900 from The American! Chemical Society for “Studies in Conformational Analysis” to be conducted by Dr. Ernert Eliel.
Two grants to scientists at Notre Dame’s Lobund laboratories has been made by the National Institutes of Health. A fund of $47,351 has been allotted to Prof. Philip Trexler for the development of plastic isolators in germ-free animal research, and Dr. Thomas G. Ward has received $12,390.	®
The department of mechanical engineering will purchase nuclear engineering equipment with a grant of $36,900 from the Atomic Energy Commission.
The Scholastic

*

B

12
__As an RCA Engineer
Receive your MS in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering or Physics at RCA’s expense, through the RCA Graduate Study Program. At the same time, you’re beginning your RCA career as an engineer on a fully professional level, getting a head start in the field you prefer. RCA pays the full cost of your tuition, fees and approved texts while you take graduate study part-time at the University of Pennsylvania or Rutgers University. Or, you may prefer a different path ahead ... RCA Design and Development Specialized Training. Here is another of RCA’s programs for careers, in which you begin by working full-time on planned technical assignments. Experienced engineers and interested management guide your progress. You may receive assignments in design and development
Right now, see your placement officer. Get squared away on a specific time for your interview. And get your copies of the brochures that also help to fill you in on the RCA picture. If you're tied up when RCA’s representative is here, send a resume to the address shown at right:	.
Tomorrow is here today at RCA
RADIO CORPORATIONafAIIIRRICA
of radar, airborne electronics, computers, missile electronics, television, radio and other .equipment fields, as well as in electron tubes, semiconductor materials and devices, and space electronics.
Your experience or advanced education may point your way to direct assignment. Dozens of RCA engineering fields lie open to the man who’s thoroughly acquainted with the direction he wants to take and whose qualifications open this path to him.
There’s a lot more that’s extremely interesting about an RCA engineering career. You should have these facts to make a wise decision about your future. Get them in person very soon when an RCA engineering management representative arrives on campus—
February 15
Mr. Robert Haklisch, Manager College Relations, Dept. CR-2 Radio Corporation of America Camden 2, N. J.
February 12, 1960
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
ARE YOU SUFFERING, FROM ITCHY PALMS ??	'
STUDENT DISCOUNT SERVICE saves youthat paiN in the pain whcN you trade . AT.
Reco Sporting Goods Nicola's Pizza
Eddie’s Restaurant Simeri’s Cafe Louie’s Tuxedo Rental Sheehan TV Sales and Service William’s Furniture Store Portage Sunoco Service Station
Rubin Cleaners Palais Royale Bowling Washington Shoe Repair Walgreen’s Drug Store (Michigan and Colfax)
14
DO
...—------p...........
you I
I \SitMCwokj
redeem
I that 32 /1
/•••—---'"'""1
t POINTS!/ you may ||
interchangeable |
Just $2.95.
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN
Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
S&Jiiwoli 9bnA
*T.M.—The Ettobnnli Pea Co.
THERE’S A POINT CHOICE OF 32-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU!
The Scholastic
Qfutical
What’s Wrong With the Student Forum?
by Jim
T'HE subject of Sunday’s Student Forum discussion was Fidel Castro and Cuba. An air of authenticity was added by the student moderator who grew a beard for the occasion. After an inordinate to-do over the Manichean wording of the signs advertising the Forum (Mr. O’Neill was described as “GOOD” and Mr. Norling as “BAD”), the program opened with Mr. O’Neill.
He began by calling Mr. Norling “a reactionary,” thereby dividing the audience along partisan lines. Castro is the figurehead and the personification of a genuine revolution in the classical pattern, Mr. O’Neill proposed. Because of economic inequalities perpetuated by the Battista regime, the Cuban Revolution was made in the name of social justice. Adequately describing the background of Cuba, the nature of an economy dependent on sugar and tourists, Mr. O’Neill noted the unequal distribution of land owned for the most part by large foreign corporations or aristocratic manorial families. But his argument that the Cuban Revolution was primarily the result of a classical uprising by landless peasants is dubious, as well as unsubstantiated by his evidence. Mr. O’Neill accounted for the current outbursts of anti-Americanism from Cuba by historical attitude, the invasion of Cuba during the Spanish-American war, and the Platt Amendment, but especially by our economic control over their economy which amounts to a type of “colonialism.”
Mr. Norling, in reply to Mr. O’Neill’s charge of being a reactionary, didn’t exactly say he wasn’t. His circumlocutions were so elaborate that the charge stood, and thus, he won to his side the greater part of the audience. Mr. Norling, subtly combining economic fact with polemic fiction and U. S. News generalization presented a dramatic and humorous attack on Castro as a statesman. As no one could possibly believe that Castro is a statesman, Dr. Norling’s speech was successful,
Rose
though evasive. By innuendo, semantic association, and generalization, Mr. Norling attempted to label everyone connected with the Castro government as Communist or Marxist. His comments on Castro’s personal egotism and undisciplined leadership were well dramatized and well taken. When economic fact could be separated from such platform colorations as “the poor man’s Patrick Henry of the Caribbean” and “a bargain basement Robespierre,” Mr. Norling’s criticisms were genuine. The facts of reduced foreign investment, lowered peso value, decline in tourist business, and Castro’s diminishing support among upper classes in Cuba, were difficult for Mr. O’Neill to minimize.
However, at times, Mr. Norling’s platform polemics, though amusing, obscured his points. The villain image he attempted to create for Castro (as opposed to a father image occasionally used in election campaigns) wore a bit thin, as Castro was accused of being opposed to American Christmas trees; and doing such Fascist things as organizing military groups which young men could join (not wholly unlike military units found on American college campuses).
At times, the discussion came to nothing more than an American liberal attitude vs. an American conservative attitude imposed on the squirming reality of the Cuban situation. The platitudes of New Deal “social justice” were arrayed to soothe the “Babbitt” fears of nasty foreign intrigue against good solid businessmen (Communist-inspired, of course).
Questions from the floor were generally good. Students wanted to know what positive steps, if any, the Castro government had made in their 13 months of power. The role of the Church in Cuba was examined, and Archbishop Cushing’s import as commentator on the Cuban situation was placed in doubt by Mr. O’Neill.
The “Beat Generation” is the subject of the next Forum.
l
DISUNITED WE SIT
T'HE South Bend Symphony, for the most part, survived the holidays admirably. The first portion of their last program, presented last Sunday in O’Laughlin Auditorium, consisted of Schubert’s OVERTURE TO “ROSAMUNDE” and the Saint-Saens PIANO CONCERTO IN G MINOR, OP. 22: it showed the wonderful cello section intact and the woodwinds as beautiful and smooth as ever. However, taking the bitter before the better, I’ll begin this week’s comment with the last number on the program, Rimsky-Korsakov’s CAPRICCIO ESPAGNOLE, brilliantly orchestrated by the composer and brutally executed by Edwyn Hames.
The failing in last Sunday’s interpretation was disunity, due to the absence of precision and the seeming disregard for the relation that must exist between the soloists and the orchestra as a whole. This seems to be the greatest pitfall the Symphony encounters, and unity happens to be the most essential quality of a first rate orchestra.
It is hard to determine which the South Bend Symphony lacks most, good direction or competent personnel. Judging from the consistently excellent performances of George Opperman, Joseph Goodman, and Irving Block, to say nothing of the aforementioned sections, the potential for the desired unity is evident. One is therefore led to believe that with inspired conducting, this potential could be actualized.
Had the program ended at the intermission as it should have, this article would be filled with nothing but praise. The
opening number, the Schubert OVERTURE TO “ROSAMUNDE” was refreshing and delightful. Well-rehearsed and precise, it sparkled with the gaiety and charm which Schubert injected into his abundant melodies. The oboes and clarinets balanced the accompanying orchestra in weaving the graceful melody which is stated immediately after the opening chords. The violins follow in an allegro portion which never ceases to enchant this listener. The work was pleasing in its entirety and was a beautiful opener.
Jean Casadesus, the youngest of a family of gifted musicians, displayed his magnificent talent by performing the Saint-Saens PIANO CONCERTO IN G MINOR, OP. 22. The first movement which can be deadly, was directed and controlled with a force and beauty seldom found in young artists. The orchestral accompaniment complemented the pianist in such a way that he was able to draw from this portion both the melody found in the inner voices, and the grandeur provided by the big, crashing chords which explode throughout the movement.	*	'
The last, and most exciting section of the concerto, is the s composer’s greatest display of his own virtuosity. It challenges the pianist to a technically trying duel with the orchestra and ends with a run of double octaves in syncopation, which was played perfectly by Casadesus. It was for me the most rewarding experience of sheer virtuosity that has come to either campus in the past three years.
February 12, I960
15
MEN AND ISSUES:	।
I960 PRESIDENTIAL	I
S-!
CAMPAIGN	I
u f?,
by Walter Trohan	I
With this article the Scholastic inaugurates its spring political series. This first article by Mr. Trohan attempts to throw into relief the problems that the summer national conventions face, and how these problems will affect their choice of presidential candidates. With the relatively stable Republican situation being what it is, Mr. Trohan concentrates upon the Democrats Messrs. Kennedy, Humphrey, Stevenson, et al.
If politics is a science, it would seem to be one largely of vocal and visual deception. Too often citizens find themselves, like Alice at the tea party, joining a political cause with the best of intentions, only to be subjected to rudeness, insults to the intelligence and clouds of confusions. Perhaps it is because politicians all too seldom say what they mean or mean what they say in a world where men profess to live in glass houses, but become outraged if you open their closet door.
The confusion, becomes worse confounded in those years when the electorate sets itself for selecting a new President. The next President will decide, if circumstances do not dictate, whether the cold war will be intensified or eased, because the United States must assume the burden of leadership among the Western powers, not only because of its strength, but also because Western civilization would seem to have entered upon a fallow period as far as production of leaders is concerned. The next President may make the decision between peace and nuclear war, although it is to be doubted whether any of the potential possibilities or either party would differ on the decision.
And the next President will have to assume the scarcely less fateful problem of steering the ship of state through economic waters with the Scylla of inflation on one hand and the Charybdis of labor-management struggles on the other. It would seem to be so wild a tiller that we should choose our pilot with utmost care, instead of becoming enamored of men we do not know and whose principles we do not clearly understand.
NARROW MINDS
It has always struck me as nothing short of wondrous strange that men should flush with anger or glow with vision, and grow hoarse in argument or limpid in ecstasy, over candidates they have never met, who too often specialize in pious incantations or abortive promises. It could be because men’s minds are not so wide as a church door and men’s understanding is not so deep as a well that they give religious fervor to a party where they might, at times, better echo Mercutio’s dying phrase, “a plague o’ both your houses.” Or, it could be another manifestation of the curious streak of hero worship which led men to set certain of their fellows above them as kings, clothe them with divine right and even to deify them.
Party worship is no less strange because it is a fact, as Arthur Krock, the distinguished commentatoi' on the American political scene, observed recently that both major political parties, like statues of Janus, the Roman keeper of heaven’s gate, have two faces which look in opposite directions. There is
16
more difference between the two faces than there is between the two parties as is demonstrated when we place the voting face of Sen. Hany Flood Byrd of Virginia opposite that of Sen. Richard L. Neuberger of Oregon in the Democratic party, and the voting face of Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona opposite that of Sen. Jacob Javits of New York in the Republican party.
GREAT DIFFERENCE, AN ILLUSION
The difference between the Republican and the Democratic parties is less apparent than the chasms yawning between each of the two pairs of men. If there is great difference between the two parties, then it escapes most voters, although here vocal and visual illusion work their best or worst, as you prefer to look at it. In the twenty long years they were out of power, Republicans screamed denunciations and protested that whatever it was they could do it better. Under seven years of Republican rule foreign policy has changed not at all and domestic policy very little, so that it is most questionable whether anything has been done any better. Now Democrats are doing the denouncing and promising betterment. With this in mind, it might be well to examine the candidates and issues for the coming campaign, one which both parties have launched with torrents of trumpet-tongued oratory at $100-a-plate dinners, with about $90 dollars going for vocal or visual illusion.
On the Republican side of the political coin, the identity of the nominee is as certain as anything can be in politics as a result of the withdrawal of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York. The track is clear and the signals are set for Vice President Richard Milhous Nixon, a veteran of 14 years of political wars at the age of 47. The young “old” Nixon fought far on the G.O.P. right in his first Congressional campaign in 1946; the older “new” Nixon has shifted toward the left, but insists he is now fighting in the middle.
Democrats began blasting at Nixon in his 1952 campaign for Vice President, but it must be borne in mind that political parties reserve their heaviest fire for opponents who are effective. Nixon is now a Democratic target because he is the candidate-designate of the Republican opposition. Make no mistake about it, Nixon is a formidable campaigner. Few* men know all the angles of politics any better. He makes few mistakes and those he has made he does not repeat. He gives the impression of knowing what it is all about even when he is most relaxed. There is something cold and calculating in his glance when his manner is at its warmest and friendliest. Perhaps all this can best be summed- up in the sigh of the wife of a pro-Nixon professor — and may it be said their number is few — “Sometimes I wish Dick would do something • inexpedient, just once.”
Nixon is too good a politician to get overconfident. He is running scared even though he is the only man in the field. He can see traps ahead in any spiral of inflation resulting from the part he played in the settlement of the steel strike, from the role he has played in formulation of foreign policy on White House missions and from administration strategy in
The Scholastic
the space age as developed in the National Security Council of which he is a member. Still, Nixon is unquestionably the best fitted Republican candidate by experience, ability and dis’ position. If he has made enemies, some of his supporters love him most for these. Voters will not forget — if they do Nixon will remind them — that Russian Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev delivered his first thrust at Nixon on his visit here last fall. This fact demonstrated that Nixon was as effective on his tour behind the iron curtain as he was in the political campaigns.	.
‘ DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES: ANNOUNCED
On the Democratic side of the coin, there are two announced candidates, both facing great odds, Sen. Hubert Horatio Humphrey of Minnesota and John Fitzgerald Kennedy of Massachusetts. Humphrey is tireless, able and informed, if talkative. His mouth is seldom closed so that it is easy to measure his energy although difficult to measure the depth of ’ his mind. Had he conducted himself when he first entered the Senate in 1948 as he has in the past four years, he would still find the going rough but easier to bear than the brand of wildman he stamped on himself. And Humphrey has a draft board record that would haunt him in any campaign. He will be 49 years old in May.
Kennedy has a host of problems which make the designation of poor little rich boy most apt. He comes from an area, " New England, that hasn’t produced a President, except by accident of death, in more than a century. He has a fabulously wealthy father, who served his country well as an administrator and diplomat, but who is distrusted by Democratic political leaders who suspect him of nurturing lofty ambitions for his son in order to work vengeance for past slights. Kennedy looks boyish despite his 42 years. His accomplishments, although considerable for one of his years, have not been such r ’ as to make him the Democrat’s indispensable man.
Finally, Kennedy is a Catholic. It is doubtful that Democratic leaders want this added hurdle in a race which appears, at least in recent polls, to favor Nixon. No doubt a Catholic will, in time, be nominated and elected to the presidency, but on a life of statured accomplishment and not merely because he is a Catholic.
It might be noted parenthetically and with a begging of the reader’s pardon, that Sen. Wayne Lyman Morse of Oregon, whose party affiliation has bounced as erratically as any foot*' ball, has announced that he will enter a number of primaries, so that he might be considered an avowed candidate. However, no one regards him as a serious contender, although he may take on the role of spoiler for any of his fellow candidates he may not like and at this writing there doesn’t appear to be anyone he does like.
AND UNANNOUNCED *
The unannounced candidates are commonly regarded as , three in number — Adlai E. Stevenson, 59 years old, who was decisively defeated in 1952 and overwhelmed in 1956; Senate Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson of Texas, who is 51 years old, and Stuart Symington of Missouri, who is 58 years old. Stevenson was a reluctant dragon in his first campaign, a hesitant candidate in his second and has said he is not now * a candidate, although there is a possibility he may be drafted if the convention should deadlock at Los Angeles next July.
, Former Democratic National Chairman James A. Farley has publicly declared a third Stevenson nomination would be “a tragedy.” This view is shared privately by Mrs. Anna Rosenberg, shrewd observer of the political scene as a manpower expert in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations and as an industrial consultant in private life. Many Demo-t crats, aware of the three defeats of William Jennings Bryan, agree that aloof Stevenson doesn’t have political sex appeal. A study by the University of Michigan Survey Research Center, undertaken by professors, who can be assumed to be friendly to the man who has been styled as the leader of thinking Democrats, has concluded that he is “not electable.” Nonetheless, it must be recognized that circumstances may arise that could bring him the nomination so that he might change his luck or join Bryan in dubious immortality.
Johnson is superbly equipped by leadership experience and governmental knowledge for the White House. Yet, he is han
dicapped by the fact that he is a Southerner and that his voting record has been denounced by self-styled Democratic “liberals,” such as Americans for Democratic Action. Johnson has been striving to identify himself with the West, a strategy that might conceivably pay off with the nomination.
Many informed observers agree that a ticket of Johnson and Kennedy would be the strongest the Democratic party could put in the field and one which might defeat Nixon and any running mate, including Rockefeller. Kennedy has said he would not take second place, but he was fighting for it only four years ago, and the spot could have its attractions if Johnson, the man who suffered a massive heart attack almost five years ago, should be the nominee. If Kennedy should be denied a place on the Democratic ticket, Republicans could go further and do worse than to name Secretary of Labor James Mitchell, a Catholic, as Nixon’s running mate, because
(Chicago Tribune photo)
Chief of the Washington Bureau of the Chicago Tribune for tivelve years, Walter Trohan has just returned from, President EisenhoicePs World Tour. Himself a graduate of Notre Dame, Mr. Trohan is now a member of the Liberal Arts Advisory Council. A former president of the White House Correspondents’ Association, he is the author of Jim Farley’s Story, and The Roosevelt Years.
such a move could be expected to attract dissident Democratic Catholic votes.
Symington will evidently sit it out with Johnson, while the announced candidates beat each other’s reputations and chances in primary contests. While Johnson is quietly gathering strength — his supporters claim 500 of the 761 votes necessary to nominate — the distinguished appearing Symington would seem to be staking his hopes on a deadlock. As a man born in Massachusetts of an old Baltimore family, now representing a border state, Symington appeals to many party leaders, reportedly including former President Truman, as the man most likely to heal the yawning north-south split at the convention.
FAVORITE SONS
Democratic prospects do not end with the men briefed above. Behind them is a veritable host of favorite sons, including Gov. G. Mennen (Soapy) Williams of Michigan,whose fiscal troubles have set him back; Gov. Robert Meyner of New Jersey, who didn’t come out of his last state election any too well; Gov. Edmund G. (Pat) Brown of California, who started dreaming of the White House before he got into his own state house, and Rep. Chester W. Bowles of Connecticut, who has a distinguished record in federal agencies and as a diplomat, but who would seem to be from the wrong state.
(Continued on page 22)
February 12, 1960
17
PRO:
Football-the true perspective
by Ted Thompson
THE introduction last year of a football coach who obviously was determined to develop his players into as proficient a unit as possible has given rise to a volley of criticism leveled against the compatibility of high academic ambitions and athletic prowess.
Before football can be breezily dismissed, though, one must consider the relation that football has to our particular University.
Notre Dame has a tradition that is built on superior achievement in athletic contests. Just because now Notre Dame is conscientiously engaged in developing itself into an ever finer academic institution is no reason for maintaining that football on a large scale must be abolished.
If the game is going to be played at all, it must be played to win. If a team wins, it will strive constantly to engage better and better opposition in order to improve itself. The goal of any team in sports is to be able to be the best, to put forth its best effort in every contest and to emerge first from every contest.
If the University is to field a football team, or a basketball team or a debate team or any team at all for that matter, she naturally wants the best representation she can have. Notre Dame wants to produce, not just minds, but men. Surely, she wants to send forth developed minds but she wants more to send forth people, developed people, who have convictions that are based on training that extends beyond the classroom and the credit hour. Just as she wants to produce the best scholars that she can, Notre Dame wants to produce the best doctors, the best political leaders — the best in all areas of life. In order to do this Notre Dame realizes that the development of the athletic ability is certainly a part of the education of her students. The University also realizes that a healthy respect for athletic achievement is not incompatible with a respect for progress along academic lines.
Consequently, there is nothing incompatible in Notre Dame’s pursuing both the path to academic excellence and the road toward better representation in the various fields of athletic endeavor. The better the teams in the various sports, the better it is for the University.
ON A PRACTICAL LEVEL
As far as I can determine, football supports all the other sports in Notre Dame’s large intercollegiate sports program. This program, entirely on the basis of football usually remits a financial profit to the University at the end of each year. The Department of Athletics, which operates independently of the University in financial matters, pays for all its own scholarships out of its profits and football pays for all the other sports, all of which operate at a loss.
The argument that the scholarships that are so given should not be given fails to hold water. A survey taken at the University about three years ago revealed that the scholastic average of athletes was slightly higher than the general is
average of all students. The Athletic Department has consistently screened prospective athletes carefully for both academic and athletic abilities. This survey proves the stringency of the Department’s and the University’s requirements.
Now those who complain about “big-time” football exclaim that the spectacle in the stadium should be reserved for professionals. They are sure that football on this scale is not a part of the University since 60,000 people come to watch football, many of whom don’t care about the University’s academic proficiency.
It is clear the good that can be accomplished simply by thrusting the name Notre Dame before these and other thousands of people. Having been introduced to Notre Dame, even though (shudder!) by football, they may inquire further about the University. At least in this way they have heard of Notre Dame. Many would not hear at all if it were not for football and I would venture that Notre Dame has turned out many a graduate of whom she is justly proud who never would have come to Notre Dame were it not for the influence of football.
Concerning the fact that the interest of so many is football and not the University, it is strange that a hue of cries did not arise over Notre Dame’s participation in the College Quiz Bowl last year. That is clearly little more a test of academic excellence than a football game and probably attracted many thousands of viewers but did anyone hear that competition in the Quiz Bowl was not compatible with the pursuit of well-rounded education, which certainly implies more than what is elicited from the Quiz Bowl participants?
It is clear, then, that seeking the best representation in football is not incompatible with seeking the best in every other- phase of activity at the University. No one complained when the cross-country team won the NCAA championship two years ago. This victory meant they were the best in the country and a number of the members of that team are here on athletic scholarships. Was the cross-country championship incompatible with academic excellence? No. And neither is a winning football team even though it will draw larger crowds and attract more interest.
To maintain that “big-time” football detracts from the study habits of the students is foolish. It detracts no more than dates or any other commonly accepted interest in most students of university age. And an interest in football is certainly more healthful than many of the interests of our neighbors at many state schools and the like.
The attackers of football seem to be greatly worried about



K

y


the reputation that Notre Dame has acquired and will acquire in the future. They feel that being known as a football power precludes being known as an institution of significant academic stature. They evidently feel that one of the most effective ways to bolster Notre Dame’s academic reputation is to eliminate football as a headline-controlling force.
It seems much closer to the truth, though, that the way to enhance the academic reputation is by constantly striving to improve the University’s academic condition. Those who are sincerely interested in Notre Dame will be much more concerned with the quality of the school than its newspaper reputation.
A much more constructive reply to those who are so worried that the University’s reputation lies in football alone would suggest that the answer rests in Notre Dame’s incessant striving to better itself academically. It does not lie in trying to tear down the factor so prominent in her past growth in both the academic and athletic spheres and which portends future greatness in both spheres in the future — Notre Dame’s major intercollegiate football program.
£
CON:
♦
Trapped
• at the peak
L
4 '7
by Ron Blubaugh
IN THE years immediately following World War II, eight of the nation’s .finest and foremost universities went through a painful process called “de-emphasis.” These, of > course, were the Ivy League schools. Preceding them by about a decade was the University of Chicago. In each of these cases ( the reason for this drastic step was about the same: the tail was wagging the dog.
> After the Ivy League eliminated the major intercollegiate team, the problem of collegiate athletics was hushed and somewhat forgotten. No major universities have since de-empha-sized and those that have dropped football have done so for ? largely financial reasons. The contradiction between academics and athletics has been muddled over and the whole topic seems to have become a moot one.
But at Notre Dame the problem grows with each succeed-*■ ing season and the change in coaches last year has only served
to accentuate it. We are caught on the jagged peak of our * own successes. Football is entrenched and the academic life j must compete with it in what is becoming a straggle for sur-vival.
| At a first glance this “straggle” might appear to be a little I far-fetched but analysis will bear it out. For years this Uni-' versity was admittedly a rather easy school. It had the repu-tation of being an athletic club and even something of a reform school. Tales of the “good old days” at Notre Dame are * enough to petrify the modern student. Our predecessors lived a rough and physical life and the winning teams of the Rockne era seiwed as a reflection on the University’s own straggle for existence.
' In time, things changed. The football money was wisely J	used and fame in sports put the University on the map. In
I	the 20 years after Rockne, the caliber of student changed and
the quality of the academic life at Notre Dame began to shine.
> With the resignation of Frank Leahy in 1952, the football era ‘ at Notre Dame ended.
But at the present time we seem to be in a campaign for
.1
more winners. Nevertheless, most of the well-informed at Notre Dame cannot help but feel that were it not for the financial pressure that a losing team puts on the University, Terry Brennan would still be coach. If the University can ever get out from under this scourge, the future may well hold something entirely different.
CONFLICT EXPLAINED
But wherein lies the conflict between academics and athletics? Just this short look at the history of Notre Dame certainly suggests that the two find it hard put to co-exist. When we had teams we didn’t have students and since we have students, we don’t have teams. But what is the underlying contradiction that this fact suggests?
The contradiction is inherent in the divergence of goals that big time academics and big time athletics strive after. The goal of the one is truth and knowledge; the goal of the other is victory. The one is permanent; the other is temporary. The first is crucial; the second is inconsequential.
Were modem universities geared to athletics in the Greek sense of a sound mind in a sound body, it would be different. But in a football game 60 men from each side do the acting, 60,000 the watching. The 60 develop the sound body; the 60,000 develop a sore throat. And to what avail? Do sound minds in sound bodies result? As a matter of fact, it is even a question whether any sound bodies result since the overwhelming majority of the participants had sound bodies long before they saw the college gridiron. In fact, that is the very reason they were brought to it.
And what good does it do the spectators in the stands? It gives them a few hours of relaxation that could just as easily be afforded by watching the Chicago Bears or the Washington Redskins. At best, the game is an interesting sideshow connected with a university. What is the necessity that it be attached to a place of learning? It is neither important nor significant nor lasting and the harm that it causes is hardly out-weighed by the value of a few hours of relaxation.
But to be specific, wherein lies the harm? Essentially, football is a distraction. It pulls students from their books and blots out the decisions they should be making. It throws its sphere of influence over the entire University and drowns the sounds of intellectual discussion under the din of cheers from the stadium.
Football hides the true reason for a university’s existence. In all the glamour of a winning season, the real purpose behind the school loses its nearness. The whole campus becomes game orientated. Student talk turns to A. P. polls and national rankings while attendance at pep rallies supplants attendance at lectures, concerts, and plays. “Meet the team” becomes the call word of student groups and the “Spirit of Notre Dame” drops from the classroom to the stadium.
ACADEMIC SPIRIT
If this is a university, the “Spirit of Notre Dame” must always remain in its academic life. At best, football spirit should be a reflection of this deeper and more purposeful spirit. Yet we find that -at Notre Dame, spirit is measured in terms of noise and hollering. The mark of a student’s interest in his University is a big, flashy Notre Dame jacket with “Irish” on the front and a shamrock on the rear.
It is a shameful thing when about all that outsiders think of your school is that it has football teams and fires coaches who lose ball games. Certainly this is not a proper opinion of the University but it is surely a widespread one. And it is all so unnecessary. If this sideshow, interesting though it may be, interferes with the aims of a. university, it should be eliminated. What is the reason behind keeping it? What good comes from a winning team?
Serious evaluation of the situation at least leaves the critic with the doubt that any solution other than de-emphasis is possible. Granted that Notre Dame is a special situation because of its long background in athletics, particularly football. It is probably valid to say that football went a long way toward building this University. But Notre Dame is here to stay.
February 12, 1960
19
A
On these two pages, three facets of the new National Defense Scholarships are examined. First, Jim Goodwin discusses the scholarships as such, the academic requirements, and their financial details. Professor Journet Kahn provides a dissenting opinion on the loyalty clauses, and Student Body President Bruce Babbitt brings into focus the problems the students signing such clauses face.
JIM GOODWIN
SOME weeks ago the University of Notre Dame reportedly spoke out against the controversial loyalty proviso attached by Congress onto the National Defense Education Act of 1958. The provision requires some 151 Notre Dame students, along with others across the nation, to sign an affidavit affirming their loyalty to the United States as a condition for receiving a federal loan. In opposition to Notre Dame’s view, Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of Saint Mary’s College, said that “St. Mary’s is proud to present the affirmative oath of allegiance to the United States and the accompanying affidavit to the students.” The local scene was an example of the opposing views held by our educators: some denounced the proviso, others spoke in favor of it.
On the national level, the American Council on Education called it “discriminatory against students as compared .-h othei- persons, such as farmers, dependent people, etc., who receive federal assistance. . . .” The Council said also that the proviso was “unfair” because of its “un-American effect of placing the swearer in possible jeopardy on account of his private beliefs. . . .” Sixteen out of 1,386 schools refused to participate in the federal loan program: fifteen because of the proviso and one because of opposition to federal aid in education. Some schools as our own did not withdraw from the program but expressed disapproval over the affidavit. Those educators in favor of the proviso believed it right that students seeking federal money should support the Constitution and should be required to swear that they are not members of any subversive organization.
TIME FOR ANOTHER LOOK
At present most of the controversy has died down. More discussion, however, is expected later this year when Congress again votes to appropriate more money to the loan program. There was talk that Congress might tighten measures, and talk that Congress might drop the proviso altogether. But right now there is little discussion. It is a good time, therefore, to look again at the federal loan program — its origin
and its advantages which Notre Dame students now receive. ■ In 1958 the “Rockefeller Report” on Education asserted .
that traditional state and local support of education was lagging considerably. The result of the lag was being felt. There	■_
were fewer classrooms, fewer teachers, and more uneducated	s
students. The report said, “we need quality (among our stu- J dents) and we need it in considerable quantity.” If the situation is to be remedied, continued the report, “there is no	=
chance that we can turn the clock back and eliminate federal	i
support of education.” To correct past errors and to insure , a brighter future for America “the federal government must itself be the pacemaker.” And so the National Defense Edu-	;
cation Act was passed and signed into law on Sept. 2, 1958.	A
The federal loan program is only a part of this Act, but	&
it is from this part that the Act got its name. Recognizing	’
that “in a free society the individual is the first line of de-	;
fense,” the Act provides funds for students who cannot afford the cost of a good college education. The loan program is an ‘ effort to develop needed talent which would otherwise go un- ' developed.
At present $61,000 in loans are working for 151 Notre r Dame students; 136 are undergraduates, and 15 are graduates. Students may borrow up to $1000 in any one year (if funds are available) and as much as $5000 over a five-year period. No securities are needed to post on the loan and no person . other than the borrower need sign the agreement if he is a resident of Indiana.	*
EASY REPAYMENT
I
Terms of repayment are easy and the interest rate is low. The student is given 10 years to pay back the loan at an interest of 3%. When the borrower ceases to be a full-time student, whether a graduate or undergraduate, he is granted < one year’s grace before the first payment is due on the loan. . As long as he is a full-time student he is not obliged to make S payments. Again, if the student is enlisted into the armed ( services after completing his studies, he is not required to m make payments during that three-year period. Once his first payment is made, after the one-year moratorium, the student pays a 3% interest on the rest of his debt. It is possible that : twenty-one years may elapse between the time the borrower 1 receives the loan and the government receives final repayment on the loan — four years undergraduate work, three years grad, three years in armed service, one year’s grace, and ten years allowed for the actual settlement of the loan. However, ■» such an extended time limit will be improbable.
A student may make payments in ten annual installments, <1 or he may arrange to repay in graduated periodic installments. If the student finds that his debt can be settled earlier than the allotted time, he may pay as he wishes and the interest rate will be reduced accordingly. On the other hand, < if payments cannot be met as arranged, some adjustment may be made in accordance with the policy of the United 4 States Commissioner of Education. In case of the borrower’s death or total disability, his debt will be cancelled.	A
Students who receive loans must fill certain requirements. The borrower must be a “full-time student in good standing,” and he must show a need for the loan. If these qualifications are met, then “special consideration” is to be given to (1)	'
those who intend to become public elementary or secondary school teachers, (2) those of superior capacity who intend to * enter science or engineering or math, and (3) those who intend to master a modern foreign language. For students who s-become teachers up to 50% of their loan is forgiven them. Such preference is due to the present-day shortage and need of teachers.
According to the University’s representative on the federal ‘ loan program, funds have been sufficient to satisfy all requests up to date. It is expected, however, that preference will be * shown later as the number of applicants increase. The University determines what the need of the applicant is and has * the power to make adjustments suitable to each student. |
Despite the controversial loyalty provision, Lawrence G. i Derthick, United States Commissioner of Education, has this I to say about the National Defense Education Act: “We see , it as a source of technicians in an age of automation; as a source of ambassadors in an age of world responsibility; as a way for making the average citizen at home in an age of science. We can see it as a boon to our colleges a decade hence.”
20
The Scholastic
From the Faculty:
A COUNTER-OPINION
i Dear Sir:
I would like to state my agreement with your editorial V concerning the defensibility of Notre Dame’s position when the University publicly indicated its disagreement with the , f oath requirements of the National Defense Act while not returning federal funds. The University must have decided that the good to be achieved by a policy of non-cooperation with ,	the Government did not outweigh the self-damage that would
1	have resulted from a refusal of funds. I do not agree with
this position, but it is a respectable one and presumably has 4 been taken by most of the institutions involved.
But the Scholastic’s defense of the University is marred ■y by 1) a failure to state the facts involved and 2) a specious ethical reasoning that leads to a distorted interpretation of the situation.
The objection of many schools (and that of the American • Association of University Professors as well) is to the disclaimer affidavit connected with the positive loyalty oath, - which affidavit requires that the person swear that he is not a subversive nor a member of any subversive organization. ' * This singling out of the American student as suspect by the very fact of his scholarly intent is not obnoxious. It is odious and vicious, and it reflects the general low esteem in which the intellectual life is held by influential segments of American > society.
The second point relates to your statement, “. . .in itself » the oath is not so obnoxious.” Surely you must be aware that ethical decisions are not made in some abstract world of things-in-themselves but under concrete conditions of human existence where circumstances play a vital role. In a recent article in the Times Magazine Section, Mr. A. Whitney Griswold pointed out the manner in which such oaths for the most f part have been used in history, as an attempt on the part of those in power to control and dominate the individual and to invade the privacy of his will and intellect. Only for a deeply
serious reason, perhaps of the sort involved in immediate and present danger, can these historical facts be ignored and the risk of abuse taken. Not the slightest shred of evidence for the existence of this serious reason has ever been established by the Government.
Thus a student should not be happy, as your statement implies, to take such an oath voluntarily, but should do so with great reluctance and misgivings and only out of practical necessity. The meaninglessness of the oath is clearly evidenced if one considers for a moment that any subversive would voluntarily and cheerfully sweai- to as many such oaths as might be presented.	.
Today the University of Chicago joined approximately thirteen other colleges and universities that have either refused or withdrawn their cooperation with the National Defense Act. I believe that the coming Congressional repeal of the disclaimer requirement, expected soon, is due in large part to these courageous institutions.
To my knowledge, the most widely publicized position of a Catholic institution of learning was to the effect that such oaths have a beneficial effect upon the development of the virtue of patriotism. The danger involved here is less that of capitulation to irrational authority as it is the betrayal of a fantastic political naivete on the part of representative American Catholics.
I think it is a matter for serious thought that of those educational institutions dedicated to the religious spirit that has for some thousands of years asserted the transcendence of the human person over the claims of the State, not a single one had the courage to say no to Caesar.
Sincerely yours, Journet Kahn -Associate Professor The General Program
‘ The Oath:
The Studenfs Problem . . . by Bruce Babbitt
I rT'HE rising controversy over the Loyalty Oath Provision :	-I of the National Defense Education Act has carried the de-
/ bate from the floors of the U. S. Senate onto every college :	campus. Student concern is far from unwarranted — in the
:	words of Senator- Kennedy, “. . . it is vital that there be a
firm and resonant expression not only from a few college fa. culties, but also from students to whom this Act applies directly.”
j The Defense Education Act, passed in 1958 under the pres-I	sure of lagging defense efforts, authorizes federal aid in vari-
ous forms to students. A student applying for this federal aid must take a loyalty oath and execute an affidavit to the effect that he does not believe in, or support any subversive groups.
( False statements or misrepresentations make one liable to fine or imprisonment.
The area of most immediate controversy is the loan pro* gram, whereby universities receive matching funds in the ra. tio of nine to one to loan to students at low interest. The ' controversy has centered here because, 1) the university must administer the loyalty provision for the government, and, 2) in doing so, it is requiring an affidavit and oath foi- some of its || own funds.	.
' In opposition to the oath and affidavit, these points have j	most consistently been raised: 1) The special character of a
I	loyalty oath has historically made it subject to misuse and
abuse; the government should not use it indiscriminately, but : only in cases of clear necessity. 2) By being required to take
Hr February 12, 1960
a loyalty oath and sign an affidavit, students are being discriminated against and singled out as a group particularly susceptible to disloyalty. No similar payments or loans, such as Social Security or farm payments, require a loyalty oath. 3) The Loyalty Provision would not deter communists from the program. At the same time, those who object in conscience to the requirement would be left out, or worse yet, implied to be disloyal. The affidavit has received much criticism because of its uncertain legal interpretation and the fact that there are already provisions under U. S. law to deal with those who conspire to overthrow the government thru illegal means.
A number of schools, while approving federal aid, have returned their funds, protesting the loyalty provision as unnecessary federal control and a dangerous impingement upon academic freedom. Some men have expressed opposition only to the disclaimer affidavit; others would like to see the entire provision repealed. Other schools, including Notre Dame, have accepted the funds as a financial necessity and at the same time expressed opposition to certain features of the Loyalty Provision. Contrary to the opinions of those who view this stand as a compromise of principle, this approach may be a necessary and acceptable approach for at least some schools. Other schools have committed themselves wholeheartedly to the Loyalty Provision as a necessary and patriotic gesture which is in no way detrimental.
(Continued on page 22)
21
AT THE THEATER/
Presidential Campaign (Continued from page 17)
As the campaign year opened in oratorical pointing with pride and viewing with alarm, it was evident that the Republicans will make their election pitch on the issues of peace and prosperity. President Eisenhower set the stage for the peace issue by his dove of peace flight to Germany, France and England last summer; his flying carpet trip to Europe, Asia and Africa in December; his projected visit to South America late this month; his projected plans to attend the summit conference in Paris in May, and his proposed return visit to Russia, which will carry him around the world on a return by way of Japan and Hawaii.
The spectacle of a victorious soldier crusading for peace after a severe heart attack, an abdominal operation and a mild stroke, has fired the imagination of the world and it can be expected to attract votes to his party at home. If the drama should end for him on one of these flights, it would be all but impossible to defeat his successor in the White House and the election might not bring a new President.
Prosperity is a more intangible issue at the moment. No one knows what the months ahead may bring to our economy, although prognostications are generally favorable. Voters frequently vote their pocketbooks election day. If the voter has money in his pockets and sees a regular pay check ahead, it is likely that he will vote endorsement of the party in power as many did in Truman’s surprise victory in 1948, no matter what the pollsters or opposition orators say. Conversely, if the voter’s economic outlook is cloudy, he can be expected to vote the administration out of power whether or not it is responsible for his dark skies.
Paul Ziffren, California National Committeeman, has warned his party that '‘Peace and Prosperity” constitute a slogan that will be difficult to beat. Democrats hope to counter by insisting that the peace is shaky and unsound. They expect to attack GOP prospei-ity by arguing that the rate of economic growth is slower than it would be under Democratic rule. They will blast at defense as inadequate. Finally they expect to make much of farmer discontent, the housing shortage, the classroom shortage and similar lesser issues.
It is recognized that there are more Democrats than Republicans. It is likely that the Democratic arguments will find much appeal on the Congressional, gubernatorial and lower levels as they did in 1956, but it is likely that they will be less effective at the White House level, again as they were in 1956. A personality issue has arisen in American politics. Candidates concentrate on glamor. There are more smiles and charm than principles and differences. Many voters have come to mark their ballot for someone they know because his name conjures up a personality. Here, again, Nixon is favored over any candidate that the Democrats must build up between the convention and the election.
22
This you probably won’t believe, but Isle of Levant and Doctor at Sea. are entering their sex-th week. This has been caused by the reports that it is so terrible you ' have to see it to believe it, like one of Ziggy’s Sunday night specials. The student body must have been reassured twice ovei’ of the quality of Isle of Levant by now, so please don’t go again. Let them get lid of it.
Clifford Odets has directed and written the screenplay for his own original play, i The Story on Page One (Colfax: Feb. 11-17). It stars Rita Hayworth, Gig Young and Anthony Franciosa. The theory behind the movie is that if you put a courtroom scene on film you have a box office hit. By this standard, Story will outgross Gone । With the Wind in a month or so. It seems Rita and Gig are carrying on a wonderful relationship together until her husband finds out and gets shot in the process. A murder charge brings in Anthony Franciosa as a struggling young lawyer. He struggles with his facial expressions so much they finally acquit the lovers and let them legalize their devotion. Rita is the recipient of a brand new award this week: the El Ropo Award. Have an El Ropo, Rita.	, .
Presently showing at the Granada is a really unusual movie which collects all the best of Tennessee Williams’ talent. The name is Suddenly, Last Summer and it stars Elizabeth Taylor, Katharine Hepburn and Montgomery Clift. In giving it a separate classification, the Legion of Decency has said that “this motion picture is judged to be moral in its theme and treatment, but because its subject matter involves perversion it is intended only for a serious and mature audience.” Liz Taylor is finally established as an actress in the role of a supposedly insane girl who doesn’t want to remember what happened to her cousin last summer, when he died. A couple of Academy Award nominations may very well be forthcoming for Liz, Katharine Hepburn and the man behind the camera. This reviewer feels it is deserving of the Movie of the Week title.
The River Park will be coming up with some pretty good movies from now until well into next month, culminating with the showing of Diary of Anne Frank. At the present time (Feb. 11-14), they are showing Ask Any Girl and Holiday for Lovers. The first one is about that favorite topic of Madison Avenue: motivational research. David Niven is an expert at it, and Shirley MacLaine is his secretary. She falls in love with Gig Young, playboyish younger brother to David, and retains the services of Niven to find out what Gig likes in each of his steadies. She combines all of the characteristics, and from there on the laughs pile up faster than you can dispose of them. Holiday for Lovers stars Clifton Webb, Jane Wyman, Jill St. John, Carol Lyn-ley and Gary Crosby, the only Crosby boy to have resisted the fatal Las Vegas charm thus far. It all adds up to a lovable comedy which ends up happily for everyone.
4
<
A funny thing happened to me when I called up the manager of the State. The conversation went something like this. Me: “What will you be showing around the eleventh?” Him: “Toby Tyler.” Me: “How long will it run?” Him: “Until April.” He was dead serious about it, too. Well, you can never tell about Walt Disney, since Tonka stayed around for six weeks. The story is pure circus, and to grown-ups it may leave a taste of sawdust in the mouth. But the younger set (mainly SMC freshwomen) will enjoy it to no end. Ken Corcoran, of Shaggy Dog and Old Yeller fame, shares top billing with one Mr. Stubbs, a resourceful chimpanzee who’s very handy with a six-shooter.
The University Theater is presenting this week end (Feb. 12-14) the Christopher-Fry translation of Jean Giraudoux’s Tiger at the Gates. John Smith, Mary Armbruster and Richard Kavanaugh are seen in starring roles.
See you next week, and let me hear from you. Up to now, one favorable letter has reached me from a fan, and it came all the way from Chicago from Miss Alicia Rogers.
, jr
Tony Wong
The Student's Problem
(Continued from page 21)
It is becoming increasingly clear that articulate expression from those concerned < — students — is urgently needed and has been almost nonexistent. Individual student	11
opinion on national issues is always to be encouraged. However, there are times	H
when an issue faces us in such a direct way that it is imperative that oui- organized	i $
voice be heard above the clamor of uninformed debate. Various national student	,
groups pretend to be voicing our thoughts — at the very time that we are not really	[
aware of the issue. It is my hope, indeed my responsibility, that the issues will be	!
presented to you in the coming weeks. The ultimate outcome will be determined to a I great extent by the student voice — a voice that has yet to be heard.	I
The Scholastic I
Summer jobs often lead to rewarding careers at Du Pont
THIS SUMMER...
ON-THE-JOB TECHNICAL
TRAINING AT DU PONT
Pictured are a few of die many DuPont plants and laboratories across the country where selected technical students roll up their sleeves during summer vacation and put their college training to practical use.
Most of the assignments are similar to work the employees are likely to do after graduation. Next summer, for example, a chemical engineering student may go to work on a catalyst recovery project. A mechanical engineering trainee may become engrossed in a challenging hydraulic study. A promising young chemist may tackle a problem in organic chemistry.
In short, each man is given a regular plant or laboratory assignment commensurate with his education to date. And, as with permanent employees, the student’s training is personalized and tailored to fit his background and interests ... even to the location he prefers, as far as practical.
This program has proved of benefit both to students and to Du Pont. It gives stu
dents an opportunity to increase technical knowledge and to learn how to put college training to use in industry. It gives Du Pont a chance to observe men who will soon be graduating in science and engineering. Many of these summer associations are stepping stones to rewarding careers with this company.
Juniors, seniors and graduate students will be given technical assignments. Opportunities are in chemical, mechanical, electrical and metallurgical engineering; also in physics and mathematics. Candidates should write at once to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2420 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware. Openings are, of course, limited.
There are opportunities also for men who have completed their freshman and sophomore years, as laboratory assistants or vacation relief operators. They should apply direct to the DuPont plant or laboratory location of their choice.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING... THROUGH CHEAUSTRY
February 12, 1960
23
SCHOLASTIC office hours ore from 7:30 to 11:15 p.m. on Sunday and Monday evenings. At other times call or see Roy Rubeli, news editor, in 42 Pangborn;Chas Rieck, features editor, in 319 Badin; or Tom Rose, sports editor, 337 Walsh. Important matters may be taken up with the University Press, phone 416.
GO WHILE THE GOING IS GOOD on a 1960 American Express Student Tour!
THE SCHOLASTIC would like to take this opportunity to extend birthday greetings to those whose birthday falls in the month of February. Happy birthday to Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and to you too, Mom. We hope that this year will be a pleasant one indeed.
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
A DEFENSE
Editor:
We hope you will permit us to correct a misunderstanding which has developed concerning the University Film Society.
First, concerning the use of Washington Hall. Due to an agreement between * the University and the film company that supplies the Saturday entertainment to the students, we are unable to use the hall to show our films, as long as we charge admission. Thus, without becoming subsidized by the University or some patron we would be unable to continue showing good films.
We are a nonprofit organization. None of our officers or representatives receives financial compensation. Our profits will enable us to continue to rent films of the highest quality (on the whole, the best films are more expensive) and to lower admission costs for the following season. Beyond this there is no financial ’ aim.
Student and faculty response to our program has been highly gratifying, and while there is always room for improvement, we feel that oui- season has been successful. Apparently people are willing to forego air conditioning, double projectors, gimmicks and gadgets in order to see good works of art.
Arthur Condon Joumet Kahn University Film Society
MISTAKE AT SMC
Right now, while you can still look forward to a long summer vacation, may be your once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see, enjoy and study Europe. And the “going is always good” on an American Express Student Tour... where experts arrange everything perfectly for your travel convenience. Tours are comprised of small groups, conducted by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries can include England ... Belgium... Holland... Germany... Austria.'.. Switzerland ... Italy . •. The Rivieras .. . and France. Ample time allowed for full sight-seeing and leisure, too.
Choose from: 10 interesting, educational Student Tours ... from 14 to 54 days ... by sea and air ... from $765 and up. Member: Institute, of International Education and Council on Student Travel.	•
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service. Or simply mail the coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE	I
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. c/o Travel Sales Division I
Please send me complete information about	J
1960 Student Tours of Europe.	I
Name................................................ [
Address............................................. J
City.....................Zone.....State............. |
______________________________;_____•__________________j
Editor:
With regard to your article on The * St. Mary’s Christian Culture Series, I am not on the series — Patric Sweeney, 1 graduate student at ND, is performing the role you attributed to me, and furthermore I am not on the English faculty. I have been in the General Program for ten years.
John Logan	*
General Program
(ED~. The article in question was written by a St. Mary's student. We mistakenly assumed that she was well-acquainted with the facts concerning her । own school’s production.)
LAUS
Editor:
You are to be congratulated on the high quality of the Scholastic this year. Both last year and this year the maga- 4 zine has been markedly better in nearly every department than at any previous < time in my twelve years here. You are at last getting some contributors who 4 write about serious matters and who possess both ideas and some literary skill. You have only to think of the magazine as recently as your own fresh- ; man and sophomore years to recall that this was not always the case.
Bernard Norling Department of History
24
The Scholastic
EYES EXAMINED ♦ GLASSES FITTED ( OPTICAL REPAIRS “JUST BRING IN THE PIECES” I CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
mltWTURBOW
\pPTOMITRIST
207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel) Phone CE 4-5777
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
OUR COVER: Cast in the part of Helen of Troy in this Week’s University Theater production of Tiger at the Gates, is Elizabeth Young, who is portrayed on this week’s cover. Included also is a portion of the thousand ships for whose launching Helen was supposedly responsible; and as Miss Young and her colleagues launch this week’s play, we wish them every success. Our cover was arranged by Jerry Florent; the photograph was supplied by the University photographer.
mims UBUBYand BOOK SHIP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
7
Renew Your
Scholastic Subscription Now!
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves... try Old Spice Smooth Shave!	100
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
1
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
February 12, 1960
25
Now!
News Briefs
SIR WALTER RALEIGH in a Pouch!
Keeps Tobacco
FRESHER!
New airproof aluminum foil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. Choice Kentucky hurley — extra aged. Get the familiar orange-and-black pack with the new pouch inside!
No spills when you -fill-Just dip in I
Open the pack-Ouf comes ■the Pouch!
Tearproof—it's triple laminated. Really durable . . . won't spring a leak.
Corries flat in pocket. No bulge. Flexible, tool . . . it bends with you.

Sooner or Later— Your favorite lobaeco -
SIR WALTER RALEIGH
New Beginnings, manual of freshman creative writing published annually by the English department, is looking for new material for next year’s edition. Any freshman interested in submitting manuscripts for consideration for publication should leave them at the office of Professor Robert Christin, 309 O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1961 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test y in May. These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college in the country, will be given on May 7 and October 29 at over 300 local centers throughout the country. Candidates tak- -ing the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in early fall, 4 when many medical colleges select their next entering class. Application forms for the May test are available from pre-medi-cal advisors or from the Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J. ’ Completed applications must reach the ETS office by April 23 for the May test.
I
Any senior desiring to have some cap and gown portraits taken while the Dome photographer is on campus may make an appointment in the LaFortune Student A Center, Room 2C any weekday from noon to 5 p.m. There is no sitting fee.
New and hitherto unknown materials documenting Communist suppression of religion in Russia between 1917 and 1925 « are published for the first time in “The Russian Revolution and Religion,” a new book by Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak, professor of history. The book includes the texts of antireligious laws and orders of the Bol- ' shevik government, as well as articles from “Pravda,” “Isvestiia” and other Com- 1 munist publications. According to Profes-sor Szczesniak, the Russian Orthodox faith bore tiie brunt of the Bolshevik persecution.
“The Ivory Door,” a play by A. A. Milne, will be presented by the Presby- i terian Players February 17 through.. 20. * Ray McClaine, a Notre Dame student, will play the lead part of King Perivale. John Toth, also a student here, will play the chancellor, and Hildegard Vargas, a cam- * pus worker, appears as Anna. Curtain time is 8:15 at the First Presbyterian Church, 33 W; Colfax Ave. For tickets call CE 4-0802.
26
The Scholastic
Campus Political Parties 1 Name New '60 Officers
Notre Dame’s two campus political groups have dected the officers whom they hope will put their organizations in the lead in political affairs at the University.
Tom Gannon, the new president of the Democratic group is a senior liberal arts major from Philadelphia, Pa. He will be aided by Vice President Bob Weber, a junior from Rivei- Forest, Ill. Mike Dudgeon of Frankfort, Ky. was elected - treasurer and Kevin Born of Pittsbugh, Pa., a sophomore was elected secretary. > Terry Lamb, a senior from Washington, D. C., is the new president of the •i Young Republicans organization. He is a chemistry major in the engineering school. The vice president of the organization is Joe Kloecker, a senior liberal arts major from St. Louis, Mo. Joe Beaver of Portland, Oregon was - elected secretary and Bill Reagan of White Plains, N. Y., treasurer.
* Both political clubs are immediately facing the problem of setting up “party platforms.” Receiving more attention, however, will be the Democratic platform, which will be forced to grind its way through the coming mock conven-z *■ tion here.
Major General Bush to Visit Campus Army ROTC Group
This Monday, Major General George E. Bush, recently designated Commander of the 6th United States Army Corps, will make his first command visit to the University’s Army ROTC unit. He has his headquarters at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind.
General Bush will review and inspect the Army ROTC Honor Guard, which will turn out in his honor. The rest of the day he will tour the campus. The tour will place special emphasis on the military facilities at Notre Dame.
The general polished his Army career’ with an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, where he received his commission in 1929. Before his recent designation, General Bush commanded the 1st Cavalry Division in Korea where he was cited by President Sygman Ree for exceptional meritorious service.
General Bush will end his visit with an Army ROTC Cadet Brigade Ceremony, in which Chicago Tribune Medals and Distinguished. Military Student Certificates will be presented.

$169 up. South America S499 up. Hawoii Study Tour $5Nup and Around the World |1M up.
WORLD TRAVEL
, The Young Democrats will be pref senting Professor Walter Gray of Notre Dame’s history department on next Thursday. He will speak on Earle Mazo’s recent biography of Vice Presi-
' dent Richard Nixon.
Republican, plans include biweekly meetings featuring a guest speaker and a discussion period afterwards. The method is designed to allow active mem. bers to develop a clearer understanding of the Republican principles.
TRY ONE AT
HAVE YOU CONSIDERED
A CAREER
IN FINANCE?
Associates Investment Company, one of the country’s largest financing institutions, is interviewing June graduates in Commerce, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, Marketing, and Liberal Arts for its training program in management and sales. There are definite opportunities and promising careers waiting for you.	.
A nationwide organization. Associates specializes in automobile time sales financing, commercial financing and consumer credit. Wide choice of location and numerous benefits are offered to our personnel. Fur further information, contact your placement office. Our representative, Wilbur H. Hinds, will be there to talk to you on Wednesday, February 17.
1003 N. Notre Dome Ave
Associates Investment Company
More than 300 offices throughout the U. S. and Canada
Total Assets: Over $1,000,000,000
Volume of finance business: In excess of $1,500,000,000
February 12, 1960
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Shirts Expertly Laundered RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!

ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gentlel's Surplus Sales
R.O.T.C. BRASS AND
MILITARY SUPPLIES
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
SOCIAL MATHEMATICS 488-489
Making After-Hours Count
Prof. Tangent
Principles of Accounting. Accounting for time not spent on dates by males using ordinary hair tonics. Accounting for time well spent on dates by males using 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Dr. Frightwig’s Theorem (water + hair=dustmop hair). Proof that 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces oil that water removes, makes men’s hair irresistible to women. Application of proof by application of 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. For students who have taken Applied Magnetism 405-406 but do not intend to spend weekends studying.
Materials: one 4 oz. hottie 'Vaseline3 Hair Tonic
it’s clear, it’s clean, it’s Vaseline" HAIR TONIC 'taaRaa' it a	tntaMrii
•t Ctattaa*-M's lac.
28
The Scholastic
Spo^U Pictum
REVIVED IRISH TEST WILDCATS AT LEXINGTON
t NCAA Tourney Berth Sought by Jordanmen
** Notre Dame’s basketball team, victorious in their last two starts, face a stern test tomorrow when they travel down to Lexington for a game with the Kentucky Wildcats.
Kentucky, traditionally one of the outstanding teams in the nation, again has proven to be too tough for most of its “ opponents during the 1959-60 season. Carrying a 14-5 record into the contest with the Irish, the Wildcats will be an especially formidable opponent because they are playing on their home court.
Lickert injured. Sophomore Bill Lick, ert was the man expected to lead the ' Kentucky attack. However, Lickert sus, tained a leg injury and he is a doubtful starter. But Coach Adolph Rupp has used ten different players as starters thus far this season and apparently has the depth to compensate for such a loss.
Leading the Wildcats will be 6-7 forward Don Mills, the team’s leading rebounder who also carries an average of I t 10.5 points a game. Mills is ably assisted by 6-0 guard Bennie Coffman, who . is averaging 14.4 points a game. Coffman is one of the top freethrow shoot-( ers in the nation, having hit on 57 of 65 attempts. Sid Cohen, the other- Wildcat k guard, although averaging only eight
EDDIE SCHNURR
Sophomore makes long-awaited appearance
points, is a solid and polished performer. Center Ned Jennings, 6-9, has averaged ten points and is second to Mills in rebounds. 6-4 Carroll Burchett is expected to start in place of Lickert, the Wildcat’s leading scorer.
On Tuesday the Irish will travel down to Indianapolis to meet the Butler Bulldogs. This will be the second encounter between the two teams this season. In the first contest played at the Fieldhouse, Notre Dame won by a score of 76-51. Leading the Irish in this game, were Mike Graney with 22 points and Bob Bradtke followed with 21. Butler ace Ken Pennington was held to six points while the Bulldog’s other high scorers, Jim Barrick and Larry Ramey, were unable to take up the slack.
On January 22 in Chicago Stadium, Notre Dame was soundly trounced by a strong Bradley team, 86-65. Shortly before intermission, the Irish led by a 31-25 score. However the Braves then began to employ a press and literally overran the slower Irish. Notre Dame hit on 42 per cent of their- shots but they managed to pull only 20 rebounds off the boards. Mike Graney with 23 points led the Irish followed closely by center John Dearie who registered 22.
REMAINING GAMES Feb. 13—Kentucky  .......away
Feb. 16—Butler ..........away
Feb. 20—DePaul ..........home
Feb. 23—Evansville ......away Feb. 27—Louisville .......  .away
Feb. 29—Creighton .......home
Disappointment. The Irish resumed their Chicago home stand after semesters when they met the University of Illinois in the Stadium on January 30. However, a late rally by the home team failed to produce enough points and Notre Dame went down to its second straight defeat by a score of 71-67. While Illinois hit a mediocre 37 per cent of their shots, the Irish had an even poorer night from the floor, connecting on only 28 of 87 shots for 32.2 per cent. Graney was again the leader for the home forces with 21 points, also pulling in 13 rebounds. Guard Bill Crosby followed Graney in scoring with eleven points while leading in rebounds with 14.
Notre Dame returned in the Fieldhouse on February 2 to meet Canisius. In a surprisingly close game, the Irish held off a strong Canisius threat and went on to win the game by a score of 71-65. Because of a tight man-to-man defense, Notre Dame did not take its usual number of shots. But they proved accurate on 24 of their 44 attempts for
“THE DUNKER” Bekelja soars for shot
a fine 54.5 per cent. The Notre Dame scoring was well-balanced. Sophomore center Dearie led the local marksmen with 20 points. Forward Mickey Bekelja played his top game thus far, scoring 18 points and leading both teams in rebounds with 17. Graney followed Bekelja with 15 points while Emmett McCarthy finished up the Irish doublefigure scoring with twelve points.
Notre Dame stretched its season record to 13 wins against six losses on Saturday, February 6, when it defeated the visiting Army Cadets by a score of 87-55. The smaller Cadets employed the pressing defense that had bothered the Irish in the past few games. However, the maneuver wasn’t too successful because the Irish were able to move the ball quickly for most of the game, also meriting 22 trips to the free throw line because of frequent fouls.
Graney and Dearie provided the Irish scoring thrust. Although missing six free throws, Gi-aney registered 27 points, his third highest total of the season. Dearie, playing a total of only 27 minutes, hustled his way to 21 points with 17 of these points coming in the second half. Bekelja continued his great playing as he scored 15 points and rebounded very well. McCarthy, with his usual steady performance, netted 13 points. John Tully, former regular center for the Irish, saw action late in the game and made good on eight straight free throws.
February 12, I960
29
A Fresh Start
Captain Mike Graney summed up the Army game as follows: “It isn’t the score that means so much, we’re finally looking good again.”
The Jordanmen smashed a tired Army team and the improved over-all performance of the team, especially in the second half, was very noticeable. Army coach George Hunter said aftei- the game that Notre Dame was “the best squad his club had played this year.” He also stated that “the way Notre Dame looked against us, they could have beaten Villanova and probably some other squads in the top ten.” Army lost to Villanova by an eight-point margin.
According to Coach Jordan, the Irish showing against Army was their best since the DePaul game in Chicago. Looking back over his team’s recent slump Jordan stated that the loss of Bob Bradtke has hurt the Irish even more than anticipated.
“Bradtke was beginning to score 20 points a game from his spot on the left side. We might not have lost to Detroit or Illinois if we had had those 20 points. Another important consideration is the fact that with both Bradtke and Crosby in there, it makes no difference who plays out on top in the playmaker spot. Bradtke can operate effectively from the top. And with Crosby, the better feeder of the two, on the left side, we can get the ball into Graney more often for the high percentage shot that we are looking for.
“Mickey Bekelja has done a good job replacing Bradtke and in the past couple games his point production has been just about what we would expect of Bradtke. But the trouble is he can’t switch with Crosby and take over out on top. Bekelja’s rebounding has added board strength. But it is our playmaking which caused us trouble more than rebounding.”
Jordan went on to say that he isn’t worried too much about the defense. “I think that we have one of the best defensive squads in the country. The statistics will show that we have held every team we have met, including Bradley, below* their regular offensive average. The offense is my chief problem. There have been only a few games when everyone has had a good night and we have functioned smoothly. We have in effect a four-man offense as far as scoring points is concerned. If we are going to win consistently, these four men have to score consistently. In recent games this has not always been the case.”
The landslide victory over the Cadets should give the Irish added impetus for the Kentucky game tomorrow night at Lexington. Notre Dame has lost to Kentucky two years in a row. A Kentucky scout watching the Irish against Illinois had this to say: “We’re a better team than our conference record indicates. Our two losses to Georgia Tech are no indication of our real strength.”
—Greg Rogers
30
Wilsonmen Entered in Michigan State Relays;; Gregory and Fitzpatrick Chief Irish Hopefuls is
With two straight dual meet victories safely tucked away, the Notre Dame track squad heads for East Lansing tomorrow7 to compete in the Michigan State Relays. Two weeks ago, the Irish barely pulled out a close one as they edged Missouri 53% to 50% and last Friday night they ran over a weak Purdue team, 87-17.
One of the heroes of the Missouri victory, Ron Gregory, will be anchoring two relay teams tomorrow7, the sprint medley and the two-mile. Gregory was the only dual winner against the Tigers as he w7on the mile and the 880. He was a late entry in the half-mile after a Missouri one-two in the 440 almost doomed Irish hopes. The final deciding factor in the meet was the Notre Dame sweep in the pole vault which balanced out a Tiger shot put shutout.
Jerry Fitzpatrick lowered the dual meet standard for the 60-yard dash to :03.2 in taking the blue ribbon in that
DAVE COTTON
Captain held up at the tape
event and Dave Cotton also snapped the meet mark for the two-mile with a 9:15.5 clocking.
NOTRE DAME - MISSOURI
60-Yard High Hurdles — 1. Jim Streeby (M). 2. Les Traver (ND). 3. Jim Sheeler (ND). Time: :07.6.
60-Yard Low Hurdles — 1. Streeby (M). 2. Sheeler (ND). 3. Bob Davis (M). Time: :07.1.
60-Yard Dash — 1. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND). 2. Dave Butts (M). 3. Jim Leslie (M). Time: :06.3. (Fitzpatrick’s time of :06.2 in winning preliminary heat set new dual meet record. Old mark was :06.3.)
440-Yard Dash — 1. Jim Baker (M). 2. Lane Patterson (M). 3. Frank Hemphill (ND). Time: :49.2. (New dual meet record. Old mark :50.0 by Foreman (ND), 1958.
880-Yard Run — 1. Ron Gregory (ND). 2. Dan Rorke (ND). 3. John Woolson (M). Time: 1:55.7.
One Mile Run — 1. Gregory (ND). 2. Galen Cawley (ND). 3. Ray Schmitz (M). Time: 4:14.8. V-
Two Mile Run — Dave Cotton (ND). 2. Bob I Hannekan (M). 3. Tom Dempsey (ND). Time: J 9:15.5. (New dual meet record. Old mark 9:28.5 fh' set by Ed Monnelly (ND) in 1958.)
Mile Relay — 1. Missouri (Lane Patterson. Herb I», Snedden, Morris Patterson, Jim Baker.) Time: 1 3:23.0.
Pole Vault — 1. Tom Reichert (ND). 2. Glen _■ Cividin (ND) and Mike Terry (ND). Height: 14 feet.	’ ’
Shot Put — Dan LaRose (M). 2. Donald Smith (M). 3. Richard Cochran (M). Distance: 53 feet, 9 inches. (New dual meet record. Old mark of | £ 52 feet, %-inch set by Quirk (M) in 1948.)
High Jump — 1. Dick Monjeau (ND). 2. Bob $ Silver (M). 3. Jack Reilly (ND) and Bob Davis (M). Height: 6 feet, 4 inches.	*
Broad Jump — 1. Bob Wenski (M). 2. Jerry =•" Fitzpatrick (ND). 3. Dick Monjeau (ND). Distance: 23 feet, 1% inches.	j)
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame, 53%; Missouri, 50%.
£
Jerry Fitzpatrick came through with «'• a double victory five days later against f,
Purdue, winning the broad jump and the 60-yard dash. In addition, his clocking of :06.2 for the second straight week in the sprint race broke the dual meet record. The Irish swept the field in all five running races and also picked up the relay victory by default.
The only two Purdue blue ribbons came in the high hurdles and the pole vault, the latter victory coming after top Irish vaulter Tom Reichert was forced out of competition by a broken vaulting pole.

J B
NOTRE DAME-PURDUE
60-Yard High Hurdles — 1. John Ackerman (P).
2. Jim Sheeler (ND). 3. Les Traver (ND). Time:
4
:07.7.
60-Yard Ackerman
60-Yard
5
Low Hurdles — 1. Sheeler (ND). (P). 3. Traver (ND). Time: :07.1.
Dash — 1. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND).
2.
< j
2.
Joe Baldisteri (P). 3. Dick Musial (ND). Time: :06.2. (New dual meet record. Old record :06.3.)
440-Yard Dash — 1. Steve Schwartz (ND). 2. Frank Hemphill (ND). 3. Mike Breitenbach (ND). Time: :50.4.
880-Yard Run — 1. Terry Jones (ND). 2. John Garnett (ND). 3. Dennis Boyle (ND). Time: 1:57.4.


One Mile Run — 1. Ron Gregory (ND). 2.
Galen Cawley (ND). 3. Dennis Johnston (ND). Time: 4:18.2.	1
Two Mile Run — 1. Dave Cotton (ND). 2. Tom 1 H Dempsey (ND). Dave Wehlage (ND). Time: 3^
9:25.5.	3^
Mile Relay — Notre Dame (Steve Schwartz, Chris Monahan. Frank Hemphill, Dan Rorke.) Time: 3:24.3. ’	I-f
Pole Vault — 1. Mike Johnson (P). 2. Glen
Cividin (ND). 3. Mike Terry (ND). Height: 14 feet, 10 inches.	K-j
Shot Put — 1. Mike Giacinto (ND). 2. Ken Scaraborough (ND). 3. David Gerold (P). Distance: 48 feet, 1 inch.	Wj
High Jump — 1. Dick Monjeau (ND). 2. Jack ®K-Reilly (ND) and Ed Sawicki (P). Height: 6 feet, 1% inches.
Broad Jump — 1. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND). 2. g Dick Monjeau (ND). 3. Ed Sawicki (P). Distance: B? 23 feet, 7 inches.	®
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 87, Purdue 17. W
The Scholastic B
ODDS and ENDS * Wilt Chamberlain has been breaking < records from the day he started playing basketball. Now it seems that the big fellow is going to start setting records in another field, that of popular music. In recent weeks Wilt cut a record titled “By the River.” It caught on immediately in his native Philadelphia and all copies of the record were gone in five days. This necessitated a call for more copies. Last week Wilt appeared on American Bandstand and sang his new hit tune. He also showed the teen-age set a few fancy steps of his own. If his success continues in his new found field, Wilt might be tempted to sing the opposition into submission. Incidentally, he says that he recorded the tune to prove to his family that he could J sing. . . .
TIME OUT
For the hockey fans on campus, we report that the Montreal Canadians once again are leading the field in the National . Hockey League. They sport a 33-9-9 record and also lead the league in most points scored (199) and least points allowed (122). Toronto, Detroit, Chicago, Boston and New York follow in order. . . .
Mike Terry, a sophomore on the track team, had never cleared more than 13 feet ' in practice until he vaulted 13'8" in the meet against Missouri in the Fieldhouse h last Friday. In the Purdue meet, Tom Reichert broke his fibre glass pole on one ■ of his jumps and Glen Cividin broke the bar twice on successive jumps. . . .
Oscar Robertson set a new record Saturday night with 29 points as he became the * all-time high scorer of college basketball. His totals to date include 2,600 points in 76 games for an average of 34.2 ppg. He still has seven regular season games plus the post-season tournaments in which to improve on his current statistics. The old record of 2,587 points was set by Dickie Hemric of Wake Forest in four seasons V ending in 1955. Oscar set the present record in three seasons. . . .
*	Q
Tomorrow in Jenison Fieldhouse at Michigan State, the Spartans host the 37th running of the Michigan State Relays. Leading contender for top honors are the Kansas Jayhawks, the defending NCAA champs. The contestants will be seeking 18 separate championships, six of which are of the relay variety and 12 in open races. Michigan, the Big Ten indoor titleholder, Western Michigan, the Mid-American out-। door winner, and Oklahoma and Kansas State of the Big Eight are other leading / contenders. Notre Dame is entered in the meet in which 25 colleges and universities J will be competing for top honors.
Last year after 19 games, the eagers had a 10-9 record. This season the hoopsters sport a 13-6 slate after an equal number of games. Starting with the Kentucky game, six regular season games are left and then possibly a few more if an NCAA bid is received. . . .
Notre Dame’s chances for an at-large bid to the NCAA Mideast regional tourney at Louisville in the first week of March seem very good at present. There are two at-large berths open in the region and Detroit, a leading contender along with the Irish for one of these spots, recently disqualified itself as a possible selection by accepting a bid to the NIT in New York. Marquette and DePaul are now the two main rivals competing with the Irish for the bid. Marquette has lost twice to Detroit, a team with which the Irish split. DePaul has lost once already to the Irish. A good showing against Kentucky tomorrow coupled with a win against Ray Meyer’s DePaul team when they come to Notre Dame next Saturday should earn the Irish eagers one of the at-large bids unless they are upset in other games.
The chief problem now facing the Irish is the harrassing, pressing defense which has been used so effectively against them, especially by Bradley and Canisius. If the Irish get into the NCAA tournament, they will undoubtedly find a press used against them by most teams. It is not my business to propose techniques for solving the problem and it would be wrong to do so. But I think it is clear to anyone that the correct psychological attitude towards the press is one of spirited team effort and not a “leave me alone” attitude towards the opposing players. The Army game was certainly a step in the right direction in the above respect.
A CRITICAL PROBLEM
Every time one attends a college basketball game in the Fieldhouse the obvious disadvantages of the place for such a contest are forcibly brought to his attention. The smallness of the building and its less than ideal acoustical qualities make the noise at times almost unbearable.
Last year in the St. John’s game the student body reached a point of almost frenzied excitement for about three minutes in the first half. It was impossible for the referee’s whistle to be heard and the thunderous noise caused many of the players to “feel numb.” There were many mechanical errors in dribbling and errors of judgment in passing the ball were made by experienced and poised players who never would have made such mistakes other-wise. St. John’s All-America guard Alan Seiden who scored three baskets during this three-minute period said that it was “a unique experience in basketball” for him. He said: “I just threw the ball up at the basket. I couldn’t feel it. I still don’t know how those shots ever went in. I was really shook up.”
The proximity of the spectators to the playing surface is another disadvantage, especially when the spectators are college students for the most part, and Notre Dame students in particular. At a quiet moment one isolated but shouted remark can be heard by everyone in the audience and often produces an almost volcanic response. Cheers arise spontaneously from such a crowd. It is an excellent study in group behavior, a gold mine for social psychologists. Unfortunately this spontaneous enthusiasm of the group is not very discriminating most of the time. The unsportsmanlike heckler is accorded the same response as the cheerleaders. If the stands were removed some distance from the court, such self-gratifying taunts and uncalled for abuse would not evoke the same irrational group response that they enjoy in the congested conditions of the Fieldhouse.
It is very understandable why Notre Dame has such a hard time scheduling teams to play games in the Fieldhouse. The Irish play only ten of their twenty-five scheduled games at home. The main reason for this difficulty is not the obvious one — financial profit is small because of the limited seating capacity. A more serious drawback for most opponents are the playing conditions — a din which makes it difficult to remain poised and an extremely partisan and often unfair and abusive crowd. These two points added to the initial home court advantage of any team make a trip to Notre Dame a test of courage for most basketball teams.
So it is obvious we have a problem. What can we do about it? A new Fieldhouse is needed. But a new library is needed even more. For the present we must try to contain the problem by being constantly aware of the Fieldhouse’s disadvantages both as to noise and crowd spontaneity and acting accordingly. Only when Notre Dame acquires a reputation for reasonable behavior at a basketball game will the best teams come here to play instead of the Chicago Stadium. — T. R.
February 12, 1960
Fencers Beat MSU, Falcons, Iowa, Indiana; Entertain Wayne State and Chicago Saturday
On January 30 the Notre Dame fencing team, under the tutelage of genial Coach Walter Langford, defeated both the Michigan State Spartans and the Air Force Falcons in a triangular meet. The Irish beat Michigan State 19-8 and bested the Air Force, 16-11. This latter victory meant a great deal to Mr. Langford’s crew, as the team from Colorado was directly responsible for breaking their 25-meet winning streak at the end of last year’s season. Following their usually perfect form, Jim Russomano and Jerry Johnson took easy victories in the foil event. Jim Radde clinched the meet with his win in the epee bout.
The Air Force win was the most important victory for the Irish thus far because the Air Force is rated a very strong team in collegiate fencing competition.
Last Saturday Mr. Langford’s boys won another doubleheader by defeating both Iowa and Indiana in the Fieldhouse, making it nine straight victories for Notre Dame thus far in the season.
The Irish managed to use 19 fencers for 27 bouts in their 17-10 defeat over a strong Hawkeye team. With Russomano and Johnson pulling their oft-repeated wins in the foil, the win was assured when Pete Giaimo and Jim Radde both took double Irish wins in the
COLLEGE WEEKS in BERMUDA
8 glorious days of mid-semester fun and relaxation in sun, sand and surf! Enjoy swimming, cycling, water skiing, sailing, skin diving, dancing, parties, cocktail hours and other exciting activities.
2 ALL-INCLUSIVE PLANS
BUDGET TOUR—$205* DELUXE TOUR—$260*
-New Voifc and Battan departure,. Departures from Washington. Chicago and Detroit at slightly higher rates.
Tours indudt round-trip by air via luxurious 4-engine airliners, accommodations, meals, sightseeing, entertainment, and many extras.
For full details coatoct Min Golden
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL, INC.*
20 West 38 Street-Nev Yak 18, N. Y.
OXferd 5-5070
’4 aae-arafit corporation serving U- S. sludsnfs from coasf-fo-coasf.
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a
U. S. N. S. A_SO West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y.
GenHenen:
Neese send full descriptive information and itineraries of BERMUDA
NAME_________________________________________________
A0MESS_______________________________________________.
OIY_____________________RONS STATS
epee. Gene Spejewski’s sabre triumph added the finishing touch in this victory.
When the swordsmen walloped Indiana 19-8, they used an unbelievable 23 fencers in 27 bouts. Langford’s boys swamped the Hoosiers 8-1 in foil, squeezed through 5-4 in the sabre weapon and easily won the epee, 6-3.
Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. in the Fieldhouse, Notre Dame will meet the University of Chicago and Wayne State. Chicago, once the leader of Midwest fencing competition, should not prove too high a hurdle for the Irish.
Wayne State should prove to be a real contender tomorrow. This year they are fielding a very strong team headed by sophomore foilsman Bela Szentivanyi, a Hungarian boy. Last year the Irish defeated Wayne, 14-13.
Barring an upset, the Notre Dame fencers have a good chance of going undefeated this year, at least until we meet with our traditional rivals, Wisconsin and Illinois, on the last day of the season.
Through the years, Walter Langford’s fencing team has been the “winningest” team on the campus, having compiled a record of 73 victories in 78 outings over the last four and one-half seasons.
5 SATURDAY DEPARTURE DATES
March 26, April 2, April 9, April 16, April 23
ND Wrestlers Beat Chicago; Lose To Wheaton Grapplers
Notre Dame’s wrestlers split their last two matches, beating the University of Chicago while losing to Wheaton College. This afternoon the Irish face the University of Cincinnati at four o’clock in the Fieldhouse.
On January 30, Notre Dame defeated the University of Chicago, 21-11, at Chicago. Last Friday, the Irish matmen traveled to Wheaton College and were beaten there, 21-13.
Irish captain Jerry Sachsel won both of his matches at 123 pounds. Sachsel decisioned Clyde Cicaraelli of Wheaton and won on a forfeit against Chicago.
Notre Dame’s Dick Nielsen split his two 130-pound bouts. Nielsen, a junior, defeated Fred Hoyt of Chicago and lost to Weaton’s Jack Lees.
Unfortunately the Irish had no success at 137 pounds. Larry Bunchek was defeated by Ron Chutter of Chicago, while Carmen Belafonte lost on a decision to Wheaton’s Tom Stoen.
However, Notre Dame was much more successful at 147 pounds. Veteran Dick Sapp won his two matches by pinning Wheaton’s Jim Oury and winning by forfeit against Chicago.
The Irish’s John Churnetski split his two matches in the 157-pound class. Sophomore Churnetski bested Chicago’s Phil Metzger, while he lost a decision to Bill Treat of Wheaton.
Notre Dame’s Gene McFadden, 167 pounds, won against John Measken of Chicago, but he was pinned by Wheaton’s Gil Mucher. At Wheaton McFadden competed in the 177-pound event. Regular 177-pound Irish representative Jim Kane was unable to compete against Wheaton because of an injury.
(Continued on page 33)
KEGLERS* KORNER
KAMPUS KEGLERS—RED
Rochester Club ------------------ 34-14
Beatniks ________________________ 32-16
Ray Stefani, 201-233-200-634; Don Dvorak, 170202-189—561; Dan Halloran, 210; Larry Litzau, 218.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—WHITE Sixty-Niners ____________________ 39-5
FFGM  26-18 Ted Nekic, 201-204-171—576; M. Kubiak, 209-166182—557; T. Marchoir, 213; Len LeRose, 212; J. Krauser. 209; Jim Regan, 203; T. Astrologes, 200.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 184; M. Kubiak, 175.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—BLUE
Detroit Club “A” ________________ 33-15
Aide  31-17
Earl Mossner, 190-145-233—568; B. Parker, 190161-197—548; F. Shaira, 231; Pat Heenan, 208; John Conroy, 200.
Averages: Jon Roark, 170; Earl Mossner, 167.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—YELLOW
Lucky Strikes  41-7 Shady Grove  32-16 Bill Gaynor, 254-167-225—646; Len Hanlock, 197174-198—5169; Jim Flannery, 213; John Nonovic. 210.
Averages: Em Sharkey, 168; Frank Araneta, 167.
NOTRE DAME VARSITY
DePaul  36-8 Notre Dame ______________________ 31-13
Team average: 895.
Individual averages: Dan Halloran, 188; Denny Panoezo, 182; Bill Lieber, 180; Ted Nekic, 179; Pat Heenan, 175; Jim Flannery, 172; Mike Bentley, 170.
32
The Scholastic
Irish Tankmen Journey To Kalamazoo for Meet
Notre Dame’s swimming' team, after suffering its initial setback of the 1959-60 season against Ohio University last Saturday, travels to Kalamazoo for a dual meet with Western Michigan University tomorrow afternoon.
Dennis Stark, coach of the Irish tankmen, stated that this meet should prove to be one of the toughest for his swimmers. The Broncos will field a well-rounded team and are especially strong in the medley relay and butterfly events.
The Irish were scheduled to meet the Riviera Club in a meet in the Rockne pool on January 20. However, the visitors were unable to find enough swimmers so the meet was canceled.
On February 6 at Athens, Ohio, the Green tankmen lost to Ohio University by a score of 50-45. The final event was the deciding factor. In this event, the Ohio 400-yard medley relay team defeated the Irish with a fine timing of 4.05.
Earlier in the meet, the Notre Dame 400-yard freestyle relay team of Gene Witchger, Joe Meany, Frank Dinger and Bill Cronin set a new varsity record with a time of 3:37.5. Tony Haske of Notre Dame also set a varsity record in the 200-yard butterfly event. His time was 2:27.9.
Wrestling
(Continued from page 32)
Against Chicago, Kane, a junior football player, was beaten by Warren Polans. Sophomore Ed Osowski, subbing foi* McFadden at 167 pounds against Wheaton, was pinned by Bob Oui-y.
Jim Brunette, Irish heavyweight, also split his two bouts. He lost to Chicago’s Bob Sonnenburg but came back to pin Gary Templin of Wheaton.
Notre Dame tries to make it two in a row over the University of Cincinnati today. The Irish whipped the Bearcats last year, Cincinnati’s first year of intercollegiate wrestling. This year’s Bearcats are led by 137-pound star, Bob Vega.
For information and literature write: MOTHER EYMARD, OS-C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY— Tuesday, February 23.
ASSOCIATES INVESTMENT CO.— Wednesday, February 17.
BUREAU OF SHIPS—Thursday, February 18.
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA—
Monday, February 15.
SERVICES
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING OF NAME AND ROTC CARDS—Contact: Paul Radde, 23 Morrissey Hall, or Hudson Craftsmen, 428% N. Main.
All interviews are held at the Hacement Office.
SPACE, MISSILE & JET PROJECTS AT DOUGLAS have created outstanding career opportunities for SCIENTISTS and ENGINEERS
with or working on advanced degrees
Assignments include the following areas:
Heat Transfer—relating to missile and space vehicle structures Servo-Mechanisms—relating to all types of control problems Electronic Systems—relating to all types of guidance, detection, control and communications
Propulsion —relating to fluidmechanics, thermodynamics, dynamics, internal aerodynamics. Environmental — relating to air conditioning, pressurization and oxygen systems
Structures —relating to cyclic loads, temperature effects, and the investigation of new materials, methods, products, etc.
Aerodynamics — relating to wind tunnel, research, stability and control
Solid State Physics— relating to metal surfaces and fatigue
Space vehicle and weapon system studies — of all types, involving a vast range of scientific and engineering skills
Get full information at PERSONAL ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23
We urge you to make an appointment to meet our representative through your placement office. If you cannot do so, please write to
C. C. LaVene Staff Assistant to VP Engineering DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INC. 3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
February 12, 1960
33
iack Paje
albert camus (1913-1960)
by JAMES D. ROSE
James D. Rose, author of this week's '“Back Page,” is a senior English major from Hamburg, N. Y. A frequent contributor to the Scholastic, Rose is also active in the Wranglers, Bookmen and serves as a member of the editorial board of the Juggler.
In this article Rose discusses the ideas of the late French philosopher Albert Camus and their relation to the contemporary scene.
UNDER a Mediterranean sun so intense it seems “to drench the land in blackness,” Albert Camus was born in Mondovi, a small Algerian town. He worked his way through the University of Algiers, majoring in philosophy. Within a few years, he had married and separated, joined the Communist Party to quit in disgust, and after writing several plays and essays, published his first novel, The Stranger (1942). When the Nazis occupied France, Camus joined the Resistance in North Africa, eventually making his way to Paris where he secretly edited the Resistance newspaper Combat. After the war, he continued to write novels and essays which seemed to speak for the disillusioned postwar generation of Europe. For the light he had shed “on the problem posed in our day by the conscience of man,” he received the Nobel Peace prize in 1957.
PROBLEM OF MAN
Camus’s successive philosophical encounters mirror the problem of the modern man. In The Stranger, he assumes that existence is an “absurdity”: “What is absurd is the clash between . . . irrationality and the desperate hunger- for clarity which cries out in man’s deepest soul.” Dostoyevski, Kierkegaard, Kafka, and Jaspers have taken the rationally unjustifiable “leap” of faith, destroying the tragic tension of the absurdity of life. Camus rejects any reconciliation of a faith for a person recognizing the absurd: “For the absurd mind, reason is useless and there is nothing beyond reason.” Camus blamed traditional Chris- • tianity for much of the world’s injustice. Founded on the sacrifice of the innocent and the acceptance of that sacrifice, Christianity, for Camus, created an attitude which made injustices (capital punishment, war) possible.
The result of his observation of the
34
absurd was a vigorous affirmation of life. Philip Thody, author of a critical study, Albert Camus, suggests that Valery’s introductory quotation to Le Cimetiere marin marks Camus’s development at this point: “0 my soul, seek not after immortal life, but exhaust the fullness of the present.” With the enthusiasm and without the negation (and Sartre-brand Communism) of the existentialists, Camus threw himself into political and philosophical action.
A few years later, Camus, the prisoner of a reputation as “the writer of the absurd,” repeated that “. . . everything cannot be summed up in negation and absurdity. But we have first of all to pass through negation and absurdity because we have found them on our path, and because it is with them that our generation has to come to terms.” Having passed beyond the “absurd” and finding the Christian tradition still philosophically unacceptable to him, Camus sought a morality; he wondered if man “. . . without the help of religion or of rationalist thought, could create his own value entirely by himself.” Such a man seeking values in this way was un homme revolte, a rebel. Because man needs justice merely to live with other men, Camus examines the philosophical ideas he believes behind the present political crisis in Europe in his work, The Rebel (1951).
Finding in Hegel, Marx, and Nietzsche, the nihilism and absolutism underlying the philosophy of modem totalitarian states, Camus sought an answer to the problem of the individual in modem society. Rejecting the philosophical absolutism of Christianity, and having discovered the philosophical seeds of secular totalitarianism (in Hegel and Marx) which posited war and political murder as necessary and inevitable, he began his reply by seeking the basis of justice in the face of colossal opposing ideologies of absolutes.
“Faithfulness to the human lot” and acceptance or relative aims and approximations comprise the initial goal of the man in revolt. In The Plague (1947), Camus, troubled by the apparently senseless suffering of innocent children and men, finds a humanistic solution to the problem. As Voltaire’s Candide returns “to work in the garden,” Doctor Rieux toils with a few others to control the plague. Couched in terms of despair, and coldly areligious, his solution is the discovery that men are necessary for
each other, and must unite to combat the plague which afflicts all of them.
Another development of Camus’s maturing philosophy is that the end of political freedom, justice, and prosperity, never justifies the means of murder. In his play, Les Justes (1949), the assassin returns unsuccessful from his mission because he would not sacrifice for the Revolution a few children playing close to the Grand Duke.
Camus’s recognition of the requirement of justice for every man and his elevation of human dignity and the essential human right to life, can be said to approximate a conception of the moral law of Catholicism. Coming from an announced atheist, Camus’s observation is significant.
ARTISTIC IRONY
Philip Thody has interpreted the Christian elements and tone of The Fall (1956) as either artistic use of irony, or a definite indication that Camus, passing from his humanistic attitude, was drawing toward the Catholic Church. The Fall, as it may express a full realization 4 of sin and unworthiness which precedes Grace, can be fully read and understood in a Christian manner. Thody notes the ; tolerant and sympathetic attitude of ■ French Catholic critics toward Camus; « and he believes that the religious imag- ’ ery, the essentially religious title, and ,i the central theme, man’s unworthiness, < make the book “a deeply felt cry de pro-fundis for salvation.”	’
Camus’s ship of self has steamed g straightaway through the main currents of modern thought; atheistic despair, existentialism, communism, and humanism. < The independent recognition of a moral | law by this philosopher and artist cer- j tainly adds weight to the Christian con- | cept. And Thody’s interpretation of / Camus’s philosophical direction as toward | the Catholic Church, though tenuous, is | consoling.	|
Albert Camus was a rare individual. * His artistic achievement is undeniable,' | though his hurried, unsystematic philo- j sophical outcries assume as much as his ? opponents. He once said that the Al- V gerian sun “gives the man it nourishes i both his splendor and his misery.” Al- ® bert Camus had his share of misery and S splendor. We can only regret that his II philosophical evolution was incomplete, j Last month, at the age of forty-seven, g Albert Camus was killed instantly in an E automobile crash a few miles south of I Paris.	I
The Scholastic 1
Here are the facts: The Rambler American 2-Door Deluxe Sedan above saves you at least $117 over other U. S. economy cars—4-Door Deluxe Sedan saves you at least $130—based on suggested delivered prices. Easy on gas. Parks anywhere. F ull family room. Go Rambler.
•Manufacturer’s suggested delivered price at Kenosha. Wisconsin, for 2-Door Deluxe Sedan. Optional equipment, state and local taxes, if any, extra.
SAVE
AT LEAST
*345
Rambler American station wagon is lower priced by at least $345 than any wagon ottered by the four other major U. S. car makers according to manofac-hirers' suggested factory delivered prices.
See the New Standard of Basic Excellence at Your Rambler Dealer’s
A
UNIVERSITY
of NOTRE DAME
PRESS
Diplomacy In a Changing World
*	Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that
*	with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination, diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world.
Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, Hans Morganthau, Jacques de Bourbon-Busset, Raymond J. Sontag, and Philip E. Mosely are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume.
$7.50
On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers
COLERIDGE
on Life Savers:
Tis sweeter far to me!”
from The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, part VII
The big step forward is
ns WHATS UP FRONT THAT COUNTS I
FILTER-BLEND
and only Winston has it!
Yes, Winston was the first to recognize that further improvement had to come in the tobacco end, ahead of the filter! I filter-blend I is Winston’s own formula of fine, mild tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking. That’s the key to the smooth, satisfying taste that makes Winston America’s best-selling filter cigarette. Try Winston!
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Winston tastes good like a cigarette should.'