
Off-Campus Commissioner 
CLASS OFFICE 
ELECTIONS 
FOR TIIOSE INTERESTED IN DECLARING THEIR TICKET CANDIDACY FOR TIIB OFFICES OFTI-IB CLASSES OF '89, '90, AND'91, TiffiSE DATES ARE OF GREAT IMPORTANCE:: 
Informational Meeting for Prospective Candidates: THURSDAY, February 18 
6:00 pm Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor LaFortune 
MANDATORY Meeting for Declared Candidates: TUESDAY, February 23 
6:00 pm Notre Dame Room,"2nd floor LaFortune 
Petitions Required for Candidacy Due: FRIDAY, February.Q.6 
12:00 noon in the Student Government Offices, 2nd floor Lafortune 
CAMPAIGNJNG BEGIN"S:  WESDAY, March 1  
CAMPAIGNING ENDS:  MONDAY, March 7  
at midnight  

JEJLISC1!1[(Q)N ID>Aif:  TUESDAY, March 8  
Runoff Campaigning (if necessary)  'Wednesday, March 9  
Runoff Election (Ifnecessary)  Thursday, March 10  





cholastic 
Notre Oame'S Student Magazine 
Departments 
4/Week in Distortion: 
Double Your Pleasure By John Griffin 

5/On Other Campuses: 

The Milk of Human Unkindness 
24/Coming Distractions: 

26/Music: 
Killdozer: Huber Rock 
By Tim Adams 

32/Final Word: 
Looking Back 
By Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink 

Cover· 
6/Notre Dame Comes to the Polls 
Scholastic presents its second annual panel inter­views of all the candidates in the Notre Dame stu­dent body presidential and senatorial elections. 

Sports 
27 /Sportsweek 
28/A Dream That Won't Die 
By Mike Wieber 

30/Splinters From the Press Box: 
More Than a Game 
By Nick Capece 
Scholutic ii publiah.d weekly during the school year except during examination• ud vacation period• at No,re DanMi IN 46HG 1111d printed rat Tho Papen, Inc., Milford, IN '6542. The aubilcription rate i• $20.00/year and back iBBues are available $1.00/copy. The opinion¦ expralNd ·In Sc:holestk an thi• of the aathon and editon 1111d do not neceuarily repraont the o~ol &IN enUN ecli&orial board ol lcholutlc or the Univenlty of Notre Dame, 1'8 Ddminiatration, faculty or •tudent body. Editorials rcpruent the opinion of a auuority of \be editorial board. Manu1crlpb are wolcomc. All un1olicited material become the proputy or Scholutic. Scholutic la 
"'l'NNll\ed nationally by CASS CommuDicatiom, Inc. 
• 1918 ScholuUc --,.sine. All righto reNrVed. Reprodl1clion in whole or part without permi ¦¦ ion i1 prohibited. 
February 11, 1988 




Editorial 
Vote 
iz and Boron 
This coming Tuesday, Notre Dame students will have a choice of nine tickets for student body president. Each ticket shows a great deal of enthusiasm, and all the platforms have some excel­lent ideas. But one ticket stands out. 
Scholastic endorses the ticket of Steve Viz and Chris Boron. Many of the candidates have excellent ideas, but Viz brings an exceptional savvy to the president's half of the ticket. Viz understands the way the Notre Dame hierarchy operates, and, far from being a liability, that understanding dramati­cally increases the efficiency of the student leader­ship. 
As a student senator, Viz has shown the ability to get things done. This year, he worked to imple­ment plus grades to the grading system and was one of the forces behind the student senate survey. Next year, with no incumbents among the five dis­trict senators, the students will need a president with the ability to direct student ideas through the proper channels. Viz has that ability. 
The Viz/Boron ticket also presents strong understanding of the other side of student govern­ment, social programming. Chris Boron's experi­ence with Junior Parents' Weekend and as sopho­more class social commissioner gives the ticket the background to identify with the concerns of SUB and the classes. 
But that's not to say that other tickets are not noteworthy. The Mary Berger/Mike Carrigan ticket is solid. And a number of candidates with no student government experience whatsoever still offer some worthwhile ideas. Unfortunately, visionary ideas can accomplish little when the knowledge to follow through on those ideas is miss­ing. The Viz/Boron ticket does not promise the world, but what it does promise, it clearly can deliver. 


Senate Selection 
For the first time in years, there is a senate race for each of the five, newly restructured, dis­tricts. And that's great, especially considering that none of this year's senators are running for re­election. Out of the 11 candidates for senate in the five districts, Scholastic makes the following endorsements: 
· For District 1: Pat Kiernan, a junior from Holy Cross, 
For District 2: Mary Feliz, a sophomore from Breen-Phillips, 
For District 3: Matt Thiel, a sophomore from 

Dillon, For District 4: Bob Huston, a sophomore from Flanner 
For District 5: Junior Spero Karas for the off­campus students. 
All five candidates proved .their knowledge of the vagaries of student government workings. With the withdraw! of incumbent Sean Hoffman from the District 1 race, there is no chance for any returning senator. Thus, strong leadership, as demonstrated by Karas, will be very necessary next year if the Student Senate hopes to continue mak­ing progress on issues like plus grades. 
Scholastic 

Scholastic
2 


Have an opinion? 

Write a letter to Scholastic. 
The Editor 
Scholastic 
LaFortune Center Notre Dan1e, IN 46556 
LIMITED AREA FREE DEUVERY 271-0SUB  
7"  14 II  18"  
MATEO •..•.••.•..••.....•• $2. 51  3.94  5.09  
(ham,t~rkey  &  salami)  
·TURKEY ••• , •.• ·•.••• .-....•. $2. 61  3.94  5.09  
TURKEY  BR ••..•..••....... $2.99  4.39  5.09  
HAM •..•..•...... :.\ ......$2.89  4.13  5.09  
TUNA ..•..••......•..•.... $2.89  4. 13  5.09  
ROAST  BEEF •.•...•........ $2.99  4.39  5.09  
SALAMI ...........•.......$2. 99  4.39  5.09  
CDRN  BEEF ...•...•........$2.89  4. 1 3  5.09  
MEATBALL .•..•............$2.89  4. 13  5.09  
CARDOSA ..•......••....... $ 2. 99  4.39  5.09  
(meatballs w/cheese  
mushrooms & onions) REAL ITALIAN .... , ••...... $2.99  4.39  5.09  
(cappocola,~rociutto  
&  genoa  salami)  
COMBINATION •.............$2.99  4.39  5.09  
(ham.turkey & roast beef) PIZZA SUB ................$2.89  4. 1 3  5.09  
(salami,peperoni,mushrooms  
onions.red sauce w/melted cheese) REUBEN .....••.......... ;.$2.89  4.13  5.09  
(corn beef,sour  kraut.thousand  island  
dressing w/melted swiss cheese) PEPERONI COSMO ...........$2.89  4.13  5.09  
(heated peperoni  &  cheese  w/all  
the fixings) VEGETARIAN SUB ...•.......$2.89  4.13  5.09  c  "'  
(3  diff.  types  of  cheese's with  "'..  C"'I  
all  the vegetables)  ::::.,,  =  
:,:  
C  :,  
...  
,::  
MUSHROOMS .•......•..........$. 47 X-MEAT •..•....•..•....•..... $. 47  .80 .80  1.27 1.27  z  
X-CHEESE .................... $. 28  .47  .80  ~  
X-VEGETABLES .....•.......... $.28 X-HAYO ......................$ •. 05 COSMO (heated) ...•.......... $.10  .47 . 10 . 10  .so .1s· . 10  t 3 .::. "' 
:.;  
...:l  
POTATO SALAD .....•.............•....·........ $.89 COLE SLAW .......•.......•.................... $. 89 POTATO CHIPS ................................ $.59  . 10 . 10 .39  t/l ,;; :. "'  
SOUP ...........•....... : ..........·.......... $1. 25  c..  
TASTYKAKE CUPKAKES (imported from Phila.) ... $.50 PICKLES (whole or. half) .•..•....•..••..••... $ .45 SALADS  .55  '"­Cl.. r..  
VEGETARIAN SALAD ............$2.15 CARNIVOROUS SALAD •..•...•... $2.15  EASTERN STYI.E  :.:  E ... :.::  

TRY OUR 5 FT. PARTY SUBS ONLY $45.95 



SUBS
"WE USE HORMEL .PRODUCTS" 

WbolR Wheat or White 
NOW HIRING 



3
February 11, 1988 
'. -. , ' . . , . ----------:....:.-~---=-•=....·-~-------­
·t \ • ~ •• ;.._~,-"",J...."-'•~•'-·""ha:..' ~n.>~i.i ,!_./l.~kF~ 
Week in Distortion/ John Griffin 


DoubleYour Pleasure 
... I""" ong, long ago, in  distant world chewed gum every  the wise man begged them  
a land far, far  spring. Why couldn't the people?  nonetheless to educate their peo­ 
away, the act of  Many felt that it was their choice  ple on the merits of Sugar-Free  
chewing gum  to masticate if they chose to do  gum. He told them that the epi­ 
was banned.  so and that perhaps personal  demic, or plague as some called  
The people felt  chewing was none of the elders  it, would only get worse and that  
slighted for all members of the  business. It was their own  eventually the whole community  
community were adults of sound  private affair and some felt they  could be wiped out by gum  
mind. In fact, all had been asked  should be able to chew with  disease. The wise man begged  
to join the community based on  whoever they wanted anytime  them to take action immediately.  
their achievements as youths and  they wanted. The elders  The elders were in a bind.  
the wholeness of their character.  disagreed and formed a small  On one hand if they told people  
However, the ban persisted with  army, A.R's (arch-rivals),  about Sugar-Free gum, they  
the elders claiming that chewing  trained to search out and per­ would be forced to recognize a  
gum was base behavior and could  secute such heretics.  practice which was illegal and  
only lead to the total destruction  which they considered to be  
of the soul. Punishment for  In the eighty eighth moon of  immoral. On the other, if they  
breaking the ban was severe:  the reign of King Knom, a terri­ did not they would have to deal  
ostracism from the community.  ble epidemic broke out. It seems  with the unknown consequences  
Despite the constant admon­ that careless gum chewing  of extensive chewing of gum. In  
itions of the elders, the people of  brought about a terminal disease:  a secret meeting, the elders  
the kingdom continued to chew  cavities. The people were  decided to do and say nothing.  
gum with some vigor. It should  frightened for they knew not the  The wise man was banished from  
be understood that the act of  nature or origin of the disease.  the land.  
chewing gum was an extremely  Meanwhile, a wise man came and  The people started to die,  
pleasurable experience for the  ·consulted with the council of  but the elders remained silent  
people of this land. Further, we  elders. He explained to them that  and kept the words of the wise  
are confident that the elders in  cavities were the result of men  man to themselves. Eventually  
the community had never par­ among the community who  the people and reign of King  
taken, or so they vowed. For  chewed together, but added that  Knom vanished. However, the  
some chewing was an experience  new evidence was appearing  wise man and a small band of  
like none other in their lives. It  everyday that women could also  disciples who believed in his wis­ 
was beautiful, exciting, and great  get cavities if they chewed with  dom survived the epidemic and  
exercise for the jaw muscles. For  men who already had cavities.  began a new kingdom that pros­ 
others, it bordered on the reli­ Knowing that the elders opposed  pered in the truth, enjoyment,  
gious. Also, the animals of this  gum chewing in the first place,  and safety of Sugar-Free gum.  

Scholastic 
The Milk of Human Unkindness 
A new Pennsylvania law imprisons peo­
ple who steal milk crates up to a maximum of 90 days College Press Service. The prospective milk­crate thief is typically a college student because "they find milk crates so versatile", according to Dawn Brydon of the Milk Industry Foundation. It seems that the program has had difficulty getting off the ground. In California, where similar legisla­tion exists, a person went into a police station to file a complaint on someone using milk crates and the policemen were using them to file oolice records. 

Students at most Catholic campuses in 
the U.S can learn about the 'harsh realities of AIDS' 
but can't buy condoms on campus, according to the 
College Press Service. The periodical quotes Dr. James Moriarity of 'Notre Dame University' as say­ing that "AIDS is the polio of the l 980's. It has kids scared to go out, scared to develop relationships." These problems are the reasons that Notre Dame now gives students brochures that talk about con­doms. At Notre Dame, Dr. Moriarity and his col­leagues "discuss AIDS in the context of sexually transmitted diseases. We don't educate for promis­cuity or encourage pregnancy, but we deal with the facts, with the harsh reality." With traditional Catholic doctrine calls the use of any contraceptive devices sinful, only last month did the American branch of the Church officially say that Catholic students could even learn about condoms. In response to the claim, one student commented, "I ­really don't think that it holds any water." 

The University of Texas is unable to 
curb hazing until it can break a "conspiracy of 
silence" among greek pledges. "Hazing is like pros­
titution or pornography. It is a consensual activity, and this makes it extremely difficult to deal with " said UT law professor John Ratliff in a Colle~e Press Service Report. Until students' attitudes change, universities are going to have a tough time trying to stop hazing, alcohol abuse, and disruptive behavior among greeks. In a related issue Texas' anti-hazing law may be in violation of the Fifth Amendment and therefore unconstitutional accord­ing to the legislator who drafted the bill. 'The law states that anyone with first hand knowledge of haz­ing must report it or face criminal charges. The issue came up when a Southwest Texas State University student was charged in part for refusing to admit he was involved in a hazing activity after he was found lying in a ditch wearing blue jeans soaked in motor oil. 

EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 
February 11, 1988 







otre 
ame to Polls 



Tuesday, Notre Dame students will exercise their 
right to choose their representatives to the adminis­tratfon. The race for Student Body President, Vice-President and Student Senators began last .Tuesday at midnight. Sunday, the presidential candidates will face-off in a debate in the Hes­
burgh Library Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
SCHOLASTIC interviewed all the office­seekers over a two-day period. Each candidate was asked the same questions, with a few variations for the would-be senators. What fallows is an edited transcript of those interviews. The SCHOLASTIC panel was comprised of Kathleen McKernan, Mag­gie Sieger, and Andy Hilger. 
Junior Mary Berger, the Foreign Relations Commissioner in the Student Government Cabinet, is running for Student Body President. Berger is a· Features columnist for The Observer and a WVFI newscaster. Running alongside Berger, is Sopho­more senator Mike Carrigan. Carrigan is also involved with the Logan Center in a volunteer role. 

What are your two main goals? 
BERGER: Mike and I want to make this the best year ever for students. First we're going to do that by improving the life of the students both in and out of the classroom. Like a guide to the professors and courses that will directly affect and change and improve students' lives. Our second goal would have 
to be to reach out to all the students who have a lot of ideas and talent. Something I want to do is have student forums and go out to the dorms once a month. The students should feel comfortable coming to us and saying I like this and I don't like this. Basi­cally we just want to try to get the ideas that students have and their suggestions for how thiings can be changed, pool their talents and make things happen. 
What is the Student Body President's relationship with the administration? CARRIGAN: We have a sort of unique ability to get 
things done in working with the administration. I brought up the issue (of plus grades) in the student senate. I got behind a survey and found that there was tremendous student support. Now we're on the 
Scholastic 

i:;tcTHE STUDENT VOTE ]
verge of getting the first change in the grading sys­
tem. We see ourselves therefore, as working for the students with the administration. It's important to represent the interests of the students to the adminis­tration. We know that the administration will be coming to us so wc want to represent the average stu­dent, what we see as being in their best interests. 

MIKE CARRIGAN MARY BERGER 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
CARRIGAN: We want to achieve what the average student wants. We have a lot of great ideas for improving the academic life. We have a lot of ideas for improving the life on campus. We've talked to cable companies about the possibility of installing cable and it is a real possibility. We have some great ideas to make every day life easier for the students. 
.We want to ,achieve those things and we think we do have the unique abili.ty to make great ideas into great realities. That's how we see our relationship with the students--representing those ideas and achieving them. We should share the problems with the stu­dents and bring them to the administration and fix them. 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Body President's office? BERGER: I ,think our ability to really make things happen. I created the new cabinet position in student government with the foreign study programs. Stu­dents in the programs can can vote now in the elec­tions. We sent newsletters to people in the foreign study programs. We can just really make things hap­pen. We'll explore every avenue. 
CARRIGAN: I just want to emphasize that we do have the ability. We do have the experience and ded­ication to make these great ideas --like plus grades-­things that people want but assume something can't be done. The other significant advantage we have is that we both have student body experience. 
What a:re your weaknessesl 
BERGER: Probably that we're reluctant to take no for an answer. If it's something we really believe in, we'll push it as hard as we can, put in as many hours as we have to, and keep working at it to make it hap­pen. 
CARRIGAN: Something we know that the students want we'll fight for because it's our job. 
What should be the goals of -the Alcohol Aware­.ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and 

f Drug Education? f 
I ! 

BERGER: We all participate in alcoholic activities but I don't think anybody thinks that's the only way. i We've got a lot of ideas for non-alcoholic ideas and I events but I think it's an issue that definitely has to I 
' 

be talked about. 
CARRIGAN: The student body is real touchy on 
alcohol issues. You need to be realistic, which can 
have a couple of implications. First of all, you need 
to be realistic that drunk driving and other problems 
associated with drinking can, kill. We need to 
increase education; it's easiest to do that with fresh­
man as they come on campus. The other thing you 
need to be realistic about is that students enjoy func­
tions such as SYRs that do involve alcohol. I think 
that it's important to promote alternatives, but we 
also need to remember the social aspects that we need 
to preserve. Things that pre~erve dorm unity need to 
be preserved. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­
rity and Notre Dame student relations with the 
Northeast neighborhood? 
CARRIGAN: A lot has been said about improving relations with South Bend. I think the only way to improve our relation with the community of South Bend is in reaching out to the residents, and I also think that's the way to improve security .. If we can get students to volunteer their time to. go out and paint houses, to help out elderly people-~ to shovel 

February 11, 1988 

their walks. I think there will be a tremendous improvement in security because neighbors will care and keep an eye on things for them. We'd like more positve interaction than police breaking up parties. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with 
residence life and how do you propose to alleviate 
it? CARRIGAN: Student government has not really addressed resident life problems. A lot of little things could really improve dorm life. We'd like to work with the administration so that the rectors are a little more equal and fair in their enforcement of policies. We'd like to have more competition between the dorms and quads--which will promote unity. · 
BERGER: Our goal is to make sure student govern­ment works to make changes across the board. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond to student objections to the honor code? 
CARRIGAN: The Honor Code is a perfect example 
of how student government should 'get involved. Students are not given enough input on the coae. Freshman are shown a video on the Ho nor Code that assumes they will participate. On a touchy issue such as the Honor Code, we think that we need to represent the students, formulate the student objec­tions, bring them to the administration, and express the objections of the students--which I think are very legitimate. Students should not be forced to have to rat on other students and they deserve some input. I think we could represent that input and demand that the administration listen. 
Grace Hall President Tom Doyle is running for Student Body President and has been involved with the Grrace Hall Judicial Board. In addition Doyle, a junior, has worked on a Board of Trustees' Report. Mike Paese, the vice-presidential candi­date on the ticket, has also worked on a Board of Trustees Report. 
What are your t"".o main goals? 
Doyle: I think that our two main goals are really summed up in the type of approach we would like to take. What we'd like to do is take a good thing and make it better. We would really like to address several issues. The first set of issues are student needs, student wants-trying to make student life a little bit easier. 
Paese: It's a multi-level approach that Tom is speak­ing about. Practicalities that make life easier-I think that's the first type of response that we want to make. Transportation is something that is really needed. Student Government should be the focus of that. Secondly, legal counsel for students that would have a problem. Other things would be a 24 hour student lounge where students can go. Those type of specific issues that students need and they should look to St_udent Government to do. Our second goal is communication and that Notre Dame should be on the cutting edge of political and social issues. Student government should be the place where that happens. We think that the students really have to know what's happening in Student Government and we also need 



TOM DOYLE MIKE PAESE 
to increase communication between the administra­tion and the student body. 
What is the Student Body President's relationship 
-vith the administra~ion? 
DOYLE: We feel that the administration is a great place for students to be able to expand and get things done. We don't feel that the administration is neces­sarily a body to be worked against. What we'd like to try and do is develop a working relationship. 
PAESE: They're not out to get us. They have their specific ideologies and we have ours. We want to go out and talk to them as colleagues and really work with them. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
DOYLE: That's the exciting part. That's the easiest part. We feel that's the strength of our team together. Just the relationships that we currently have and the 
Scholastic 


c;tc THE STUDENT VOTE 1 
new students.

exc1tmg possibilities of working with 
We believe that Student Government is the students. 
PAESE: We should be completely visible. I want somebody to look me in the eye and say, "That's right, or that's wrong." 
DOYLE: Our whole feeling is that we should be very in touch with the student body-as we feel we are now. 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Body 
President's office? 

DOYLE: The specific strength that we bring to office is a team. We have worked well in the past as a team. PAESE: We don't think that this experience should be a time for us to get to know each other. We've worked on a lot of things together. There's not a thing that we don't know how each other thinks on it. 
DOYLE: Even though we're very close, at the same time we represent different groups from campus. We feel we have a wide base, a good representation of campus. 
What are your weaknesses? 

DOYLE: I'd have to say that sometimes we're a little overzealous. We believe in ourselves and we believe in the student body. Whenever you take a chance on something, it really opens you up to sort of a dangerous position. 
What should be the goals of the Alcohol Aware­ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and Drug Education? 
DOYLE: It really gives us a unique opportunity and what's come of that has been fantastic. Here we have non-alcoholic alternatives for social functions. 
PAESE: We're the academic world and alcohol is a part of it. I think alcohol on this campus used responsibly is definitely what we want to do. A bal­ance of non-alcoholic events along with the SYR's and the formals that are great. In the last two years we've seen, for the first time, a counselling center at Notre Dame becoming a really important part. Now we have resources where they're given an office and publicized. That has to be continued. I think Student Government should be right out in front supporting the alcohol awareness thing, providing publicity and should be out there planning and helping organize things with the halls. 
DOYLE: Specifically, I think that that office is a step in the right direction because, no longer does it take a problem and try to hide from it, or try to force us into a dance on Stepan Court. It's a positive step in the right direction because they're treating us as responsible students and they're taking responsible steps-making information available as well as posi­tive social alternatives. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­
rity and Notre Dame student relations with the 
Northeast neighborhood? 
PAESE: Number one, we have to recognize that the mayor that was just elected is a graduate of Notre Dame. That is an excellent opportunity to .r..eally work with him to get increased police patrols where the Notre Dame students are. We'd like to provide legal counsel with the student government in the sense of putting a lawyer on retainer where, if there's a violation done to them, they can go somewhere. Moreover, more lighting and students getting involved in the community (would be positive steps). 
DOYLE: We feel that we can organize off campus students and students on campus well enough to act as a powerful body. A body that deserves serious response. Collectively we feel that we do deserve serious response. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with 
residence life and how do you propose to alleviate 
it? DOYLE: Given the alcohol policy, social alternatives is what has to be stressed about residence life. We think that there are creative social alternatives. 
PAESE: When you can take a hall identity and bring it out to campus-that is really interesting. Not only do all of these things have to be continued but really worked on. There are people out there that have zil­lions of ideas. Well, let's go find them. 
How will you, as Student Body President,· respond to student objections to the honor code? 
DOYLE: The honor code in principle is good. It's good because it stands for the same sort of things that the students who come to a University like Notre Dame stand for-things like honesty and integrity. There are a lot of practical difficulties. At the same time, looking at the values underlined in the honor code, we feel, yes, it's a good thing. 
February 11, 1988 


~tfiHIMdII•JM~iIMIt±:~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!
~ ~ weight room, I hear everybody's moans and I also 
Chris Johnson, a two year football player and current graduate assistant strength coach, is run­ning for Student Body President. He is a junior and a Government Major. Joe Shank, his running­mate, is a fourth year Arts & Letters / Mechanical Engineering major ·and has been involved in Stan­ford Hall with various roles as a commissioner. What are your two main goals! 
JOHNSON: I think our first main goal is to improve relations between the student body and Notre Dame security. You talk to a lot of the students and secu­rity has a negative connotation in their minds. That's a thing we could change. In relation to that, improv­ing the relationship between the student body and the office of student affairs. There isn't any com­munication at all. There's a policy that is somewhat of a double jeapordy here. Students go off campus and they get in trouble. We're definitely not condon­ing that, but then they're paying the penalty with whatever authority they're getting in tra.uble with, then they're coming back here and Goldrick's slap­ping them with a fine. I haven't found a person on this campus that agrees that that's a good policy at all. 
. . 
What is the Student Body President's relatio~ship · · with the administration? 
SHANK: I think we just need to open up the com­munication lines and hear from the students more and relay those messages to the administration-try to get the things done that need to be done. 
JOHNSON: Everybody talks about the Notre Dame family a lot and it is different here. But in a lot of ways we really don't reflect that. The students are pulling somebody one way, the administration is pul­ling them another way and the student government is trying . to be in between and their getting pulled both ways. I've been involved in organizations before where it hasn't been like that. The students should be able to look at the administration and think, "We're all working together." Right now I just don't think there's that feeling at all. 
How do you see your relationship with the student 
body? 
SHANK: I think that C.J. (Johnson) and I are really diverse in our ways. I think we really know a lot of people on campus. JO 
HNSON: I think that's going to be our strongest proponent Together, I think we see almost every hear the praise that they come out with about this school. I really feel that I'm not alienated to anybody at all. When I turn and think, "What about the minority interests?" Like it or not, most of the minorities on this campus are athletes. I know the minorities interests too. I'm friends with them. I hear what's on their minds so I think I could really pull a lot of the minority interests into it too. What strengths will you bring to the Student Body President's office? 

JOHNSON: I kriow that a lot of them (the other can­didates), are people that have been involved with student government and Joe and I haven't. I look at it as being fresh blood and we haven't been stuck· in a situation where we've been spending that four or five hours a day in Student Government. We're just regular students. We've been away from that. So we've been on the other side. Also, I think we may be a little bit more eager to get involved with this. Our biggest strong point might be our drive. It's going to be new. It's going to be exciting for us. 
SHANK: I think that it will help us that people won't 

see us as "politicians." Maybe the people will find it a lot easier to talk to us and not think that we're just standing there because it's our job.
What should be the goals of the Alcohol Aware­ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and 
_a_s_p_e_ct_o_f_N_o_tr_e_D_a_m_e_s_tu_d_e_n_t._li_f_e._\_1/_o_rk_1_·n...::g::..._in~t_h_:_e__!:'.D:.!..ru g Educ at iO11? 
10 Scholastic 
J 

JOHNSON: It should be just that-education. Every­thing should be accelerated. 
SHANK: I think with the deaths that we've had over the last couple of years people are really being a lot more careful. 
JOHNSON:The awareness has just skyrocketed this year alone. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­
rity and Notre Dame student relations with the 
Northeast neighborhood? 
SHANK: What we need to do is improve relations with the South Bend Police Department. We just have to try to make them more aware of what the students really want them to do. 
JOHNSON: I think that the new Student Government is gcing tc, have to sit down with the sher iff and some of ~he members of the South Bend Police Department.
What do you see as the biggest problem with residence life and how do you propose to alleviate it? 
SHANK: A bunch of people f ~om a dorm, whether it be men or women, get together at a function, and somebody ends up calling it a Grace function or a Stanford function. Somebody finds out about it and they lose their SYR. I don't think that's right. You've got a whole dorm being punished for the actions of a few people. I think that your dances and other social functions in these dorms are very important. I don't think there's enough of them. Why take them away? I think thgt there's other ways to put the foot down and get the awareness of the kids. People want gra­duated meal plans. We want the same options as off campus meal plans-where you can buy a five meal plan or a fourteen meal plan. Another thing with residence life is that I think a lot of people aren't happy with the laundry service. It's a nice service to have. You automatically pay this fifty dollars for the laundry and a lot of kids don't end up having it done. They're out this fifty dollars for a service they're not 
using. A lot of the women want the option. A large 
perce ntage of the women probably won't use it but 
they'd like that option. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond 

to student objections to the honor code? 
SHANK: This campus is a democracy. Let's vote on it. 
JOHNSON: I thirik that that's an issue that deserves a 
i:;tc THE STUDENT VOTE J 

lot of re-evaluation. I haven't met a student here that believes that it'll work. I personally don't feel that it will work. It's nice, but it's not realistic. 

MICHAEL KEEGAN 
LAURIN DODD 


Junior Mike Keegan of Alumni Hall is running for Student Body President. He has been a member of both the Freshman and Sophomore Advisory Council. Keegan's running mate, junior Laurin Dodd, is also from Alumni Hall. Dodd has been quite active with Bengal Bouts. 
What are your two main goals? 
KEEGAN: I would say our main goal is to increase communication between students and student government. We feel in the past that student government has gone about this in the .wrong way, by waiting for students to come to them. 
DODD: We want to take an active approach. We created this idea called the "Student Input Coun­sel" where we go out to the students and get their ideas first. So that we would work off the students' ideas, not just our own. 
KEEGAN: It would consist of Representatives from each dorm--we'd have no say at all. The dorm rep would survey the students and then present the ideas to us before the summer. We'd 
February 11, 1988 
11 


then take the ideas and work them through during the summer. It would be in place throughout the year. 
What is the Student Body President's relationship 
with the administration? 
DODD: We aren't going in looking for conflicts. We know you have to co-operate with them to get things done. But, if a conflict does arise between the students and the administration, we're not afraid to bring the students' opinions right to the administration and stand up for it. We're not going to back down. 
KEEGAN: Student Activities, Hall Presidents' Council, student body, they're all working for the same needs; they're serving the students. 
How do you see your relationship with the student body? 
DODD: We consider the student body as our friends. We won't put ourselves above the student body in any way. We'd continue to be friends with everyone we know and friends with everyone we meet. 
KEEGAN: We understand that the student body has a lot of ideas and that they want them imple­mented. We feel we have to take an active role in bringing the students into student government. 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Body President's office? 
KEEGAN: I think our biggest strength is that we understand that student government is run for the students and not for ourselves. Also, I've had experience in the past on the Freshman Advisory Council, Student Senate Advisory Council. So, what I bring to student government is a knowledge of how it works along with the understanding that I'm here to serve the students. 
What are your weaknesses? 
DODD: My biggest weakness is that I don't have any experience with student government at Notre Dame. But I see it as a strength in that I don't have any preconceived notions about how the job should be done. 
What should be the goals of the Alcohol Aware­ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and Drug Education? 

KEEGAN: They should promote responsible drink­ing. They should work with the students, BACCHUS, the administration, because in working together, they find out all the ideas. All the groups should work together to promote responsible drink­ing and educate the students. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­rity and Notre Dame student relations with the Northeast neighborhood? 
DODD: We'd like to establish a community council with members from off-campus, who know off­campus students' needs. We'd like to see them work with the South Bend police and the mayor, because those people know how South Bend feels. 
KEEGAN: In addition, we'd like to get a list of where all the students live off-campus. Most of the security problems occur over breaks. W~'d pre~ent it to the police and ask them to go by Just a httle bit more often. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with residence life and how do you propose to alleviate 
it? 
KEEGAN: We feel the halls are the place when.. 
friendships are formed. They don't have the funds 
and support they need to produce the events they 
want. We'd like to have student government 
interact with the Hall Presidents' Council and 
maybe create some more funds for the halls. 
DODD: We want to give the halls more money to do what they want to do. 
How will you, as a senator, respond to student objections to the honor code? 
KEEGAN: Student government has a academic advisory council that sits with the administration and different faculty members. If people had real­istic objections to the honor code, we'd present them. But, I don't know how much we'll be able to change. I don't feel right now that the objections are that strong to it. 
Matt Micros is a junior American Studies major. 
The off-campus resident is running for Student 
Body President. His running mate, Pat Sheehan, 
also resides off-campus and is a Civil Engineering 
major. 

What are your two main goals? 
MICROS: We want to come up with goals we can accomplish during the next year. The kind of 
12 Scholastic 
short-term goals that will affcct the students. Things that will make life easier, for example, the whole checkmark system and all the hassles of registration. Smaller things that arc feasible. Con­certs on the quad, making An Tostal a more united thing. Getting a bigger-name band for it. 
What is the Student Body President's relationship 
with the administration? MICROS: I think tor-casonable goals they're open­minded. Some times it doesn't seem that way but they are.-It's sort of tough to judge. ' 
SHEEHAN: When you come right down to it the administration is in charge. What they say has 'a lot 



MATIMICROS PAT SHEEHAN 
of effect on the student body. And what the stu­dents say does affect them. We just have to get our ideas, present our case to them, try to make them understand, and try to work with them. The key is to work with them, not shove against them. 
How do you see your relationship with the student 
body? 
SHEEHAN: That's the key. We don't see ourselves as politicians at all. We're students, coming out to do a job. We've been there so we know what's going on, how students feel. The whole strength of our campaign is based on student input. 
MICROS: A lot of people_ have given up on student government and that's part of why we're running, 
cA THE STUDENT VOTEJ 

we want to voice student opinion. And, get the students involved again. 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Body President's office? 
MICROS: I think it's interaction with the students. I feel we're just two students who've been here three years. We know how people feel about certain situations about as well as anyone. We're willing to do the job. 
SHEEHAN: We'll help people who have ideas for changing things. We can change things, get more social events, get people involved, because we know what people want. We're students, not politi­cians. 
What are your weaknesses? 
MICROS: Probably our inexperience. We were disappointed in student government, like every­one else. So, we decided to do something about it this ye_ar. But I don't see how it could hurt us. Everyone here is intelligent enough to know what has to be done. It takes a lot of hard work and ded­ication, and experience won't give you either of those. 
What should be the goals of the Alcohol Aware­ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and Drug Education? 
MICROS: To keep an eye on the student body. Obviously, students at this age are responsible enough to look out for themselves. But sometimes we all need help. With things like drunk driving and all. That's one of the things we'd like to do-­expand the Buzz Bus service to houses and bars so that it would be available if anyone wanted it. No one goes out to get drunk and drive, but sometimes it happens and so, if there was some alternative, you wouldn't have to drive. 
SHEEHAN: They seem to be concerned with preventative stuff. That's good. I'd rather see alter­natives to drinking and stopping things like drunk driving · instead of punishing after the fact, which the administration seems to do a lot of now. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­
rity· and Notre Dame student relations with the 

Nortbeast neighborhood? 
February 11, 1988 
ti1n1io111J&a1m1m11 ~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!~~~~!!!!!! 
MICROS: Try to encourage students to get to know their neighbors. Tell your neighbors when you're ~aving a gathering, ask them to tell you if it's get­tmg out of hand. I think one of the big problems with living off-campus and (with off campus) par­ties is parking. Too many people wandering around, cars blocking both sides of the street. 
SHEEHAN: Having a neighborhood watch program 
would help. Getting to know your neighbors is part 
of that. Having a program where students drive 
around for an hour and check the houses is an idea 
too. Sometimes the police are the problem: the; 
don't really care or there aren't enough of them or 
they get into a routine that is predictable. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with 
residence life and how do you prOJ:?OSe to alleviate MICROS: It's a little restrictive until you get used to' it. You don't know everything that's expected of you. It's a problem of adjustment. Once you get used to it, you know how much you can get away with.· 
SHEEHAN: The fines that are handed out. $200, $300 fines are a large amount. I think they're too large for what's being done. Maybe an automatic $25 fine and then more concentration on commun­ity service. More work in the dorm. The fine hurts for a little while, but the student and the rector could get more out of community service. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond to stud~nt objections to the honor code? MICROS: It depends on the objection. If someone is objecting to it because they didn't study for a test and they weren't able to cheat their way through it because of the honor code, I don't have a lot of pity for them. I don't like the idea of pitting the students against each other. It divides us. 
SHEEHAN: It's built into the honor code that one person has to tell on another. But, that's an admin­istrative policy right now, and as much as we'd like to change it, I don't think we're going to be able to do a lot about it. We'll just present student feelings about it to the administration and hope they listen. 
EJlen Nichols, the currrent Junior Class 

President and a Student Body Presidential candi­
date, has been involved with the Sophomore 
Advisory Council and was the Community Service 
Chairman during her Sophomore year. David Lese, 
currently the vice-president of Grace Hall and 
Treasurer of the Glee Club. He is runing alon~ side 
Nichols for Student Body Vice-President. 

ELLEN NICHOLS .DAVID LESE 
What are your two main goals? 
LESE: One thing that first came to my mind was the problems that surfaced this year between the Student Union Board and the Student Government and it create'ci kind of a tension among the Student Govern­ment as a whole. So the first thing is probably to try to unify the students who are working for the stu­dent body and to get them working in the same direction. 
NICHOLS: I guess our second one would be regard­ing student concerns--and that's our top priority. Everybody can say they're dedicated, but we plan to go above and beyond that. The thing that we would like to do is, instead of working for the administra­tion, or working for the students, we want to work for the students and for the student's concerns, the little things that affect the students. I think our highest priorities are student concerns and what they're affected by. We have something that is a pos­sible solution. What we would propose to do would be to have a periodic fo~um. Have it in one of the dining halls twice, maybe three times a semester and have people come in, if they want, and be able to ask people from student government what's going on with things and air their opinions. 
What is the Student Body President's relationship 
with the administration? 
NICHOLS: I feel that if we're working for the stu­
14 Scholastic 
.. 


dents, we should represent the students' opinions and not give in directly to the administration. I'm not saying that we're going to be rebels and go against the administration, because that's not it at all. I think everybody needs to work together, but I think our first priority is what the students think. 
How do you see your relationship with the student 
body? 

LESE: I would like to think of our team as friends with the student body--not president and vice president of the student body. We're going to act as sort of a liasion between the students and the administration. 
NICHOLS: We see the student government as a progress-oriented organization. We see our role as working towards concerns of students and not pro­gramming things. One thing I think there is a very serious problem with, is communication in student government this year. It's really hard for students to be able to voice their opinions and what they want to do. 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Bod)' 
President's office? 
NICHOLS: We would be dedicated and have the energy to do the dirty work and the little stuff that has to go on in order for things to be done. I think that's one thing we have to offer. I know we are completely willing to spend as much time as we need to, in order to accomplish our goals for this year and to really offer what we think is a good program for the students. 
What are your weaknesses? 
LESE: I would say personally my lack of experience upon this scale as far as the type of authority I'm going to have. Stepping into the office will be a big 
change. 
NICHOLS: I think my biggest one would be frustra­tion, because, after this year, it's been really hard sometimes. People are sort of apathetic towards what goes on because of things that happened in the past. I think sometimes I get frustrated when things aren't going as smoothly as I wish they would. 
What should be the goals ·of the Alcohol Aware­
ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and 
Drug Education? 
NICHOLS: I think it's essential to have some place like that on campus and I think the role of it is to assist people who admit that they have a problem. I see it as a place where students can go if they need 
THE STUDENT VOTE· ] 

help. I don't think that office should be used to tell students how to socialize on weekends. I don't think that the administration can put out a big hand. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu-: · 
rity and Notre Dame student relations with the 
Northeast neighborhood? 
LESE: The obvious thing is that there has to be some kind of a relations program with the South Bend community. As far as the security itself, I think we should talk to the South Bend Police Department itself. After we get the input from them we can offer advice, telling them what we think can be done. 
NICHOLS: One of the main things we want to do is "leadership with action." ·It has to be a happy medium where the police patrol, and work with the students. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with 
residence life and how do you propose to alleviate 
it? NiCHOLS: One thing that I see as obvious is the unification between the quads and the dorms. I think there's a problem in-between dorms. 
LESE: There's just not enough interaction between the two (quads). If we could pull something just to bring them together. 
NICHOLS: One thing that we were thinking about is, in Fall, for the Miami game, having a University­wide· homecoming. We think this could be a thing to unify the campus. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond 
to student objections to. the honor code? 
LESE: What we'd like to do is get some input from faculty and students who have been in honor code classes and see what the overall feeling. is about it:.if the students are strongly objected to it, I think there obviously has to be something done. Sometimes peo­ple feel violated by this strict honor code. You have to listen to them and see what they hav_e to ·say, tak.: ing note of the way they evidence their pros and cons. If we would feel the ·same way, 'then we'd take that up with the administration. If we find something striking that [the administration] hasn't realized when they instituted the program, then maybe they'll'listen and see what we have to say. · ·· 
February 11, 1988 

Bill Pelino, a junior Accounting major, is run­ning for Student Body President. Pelino has been active in Saint Ed's Hall Council. His running­mate, Dana Togni, is also a junior and is Badin Hall's vice president. Togni has been involved as a Hall Comissioner 
What are yo~r two main goals? 
PELINO: I would say increase campus activities. Work with SUB to really increase campus activities-­bands on the quad, perhaps a homecoming, a spirit week. That's our first priority. 
TOGNI: Probably to help support other groups on campus in ways that they need support. For example, hall council: going to Hall President's Council. Seeing what we could do to help them in their goal or the BCAC. Seeing what their needs are and how Student Government could help them acheive what they want to do. So, not just for student government but as a facilitator for other groups on campus. 
What is the Student Body President's relationship 
with the administration? 
PELINO: I see us as a mediator between the administration--working to acheive as much as we can for the students while realizing the mission of the administration--because they have their goals too. I really feel that we have to work with them to accomplish a lot for the students. 
Ho~ do you see your relationship with the student 
body?-· 
TOGNI: Student government, I see as more servi~e­oriented. It needs to be one where students feel hke they can go see you and also that you can go to them and see what they would like. 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Body 
President's office? 
PELINO: I've got a high energy-level, a lot of ambi­tions, a lot of things I want to see done next year. I really think we can work well together to accomplish these things. 
TOGNI: I'm more of an internal-type of person-­more of a one-to-one type of relationship, in terms of knowing the students and trying to get things done. I think to counteract Bill's high energy-level, I might be able to listen a little more. 
What are your weaknesses? 

TOGNI: I've had a tendency to probably care too much and not always realize when it's okay that something doesn't come together exactly. Or, when you have it planned exactly and it ends up happening another way. Sometimes, I probably haven't under­stood that that's fine until afterwards. 
PELINO: I would say I'm a little overzealous at times--a little over-anxious. Sometimes I push a lit­tle too hard to get things done. I would see that as a weakness but otherwise I think they balance each other out. 

DANA TOGNI 

BILL PELINO What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­rity and Notre Dame student relations with the Northeast neighborhood? 
TOGNI: That's a top issue, especially when you 
consider crime and the problems with off-campus 
parties and people's homes being broken into. It's got 
to come from the students. It can't just be Student 
Government. It can't jus't be someone from student 
government, because then it won't happen. I think 
our job is going to be to facilitate meetings between 
neighbors and the other students and to help students 
to also realize that, while they may like to see a 
reduction in crime, also it takes two. 
PELINO: With the new mayor being an alumni of 
16 Scholastic 
Notre Dame, I think we can work well with him. He'll understand the student's point of view a little better than the past mayor did. Hopefully, he'll increase security a little bit while still not impeding on _the student's personal lives. If they want to have a small get-together. We don't want the security to interfere with that. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with 
residence life and how do you propose to alleviate it? . PELINO: I think we're pretty happy on campus right now. As far as residence life--I wouldn't force the administration to change too much. I think we've got it really good here. 
TOGNI: I think the next three or four years, the thing that's going to effcct the most people is the fact that Carroll's closing down, Holy Cross is closing down, and the two new dorms are being opened. Those are where residence Iif e is really affected. Building up the new dorms and helping people change to other dorms. That problem is where I see the most adjustment. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond 


to student objections to the honor code? 

TOGNI: I can understand why there's objections on the part of upperclassmen. Freshmen came in with the idea. So, probably the next two years will be really tough for upperclassmen. As long as they don't force it upon the upperclassmen, which they're not doing so far, I think we can get through it without there being too many problems. If you came in with .it, then it would be interesting. I think we would have a task force to see how it was working. 
Chris Rado, a Finance major, is running for Student Body President. The junior, a resident of Keenan Hall spent last year studying in India. Russ Hines, the vice presidential hopeful on the ticket, junior architecture major has been involved with Holy Cross Hall. . ? 

What are your two mam goals. Rado: We've got a whole list of ideas. Our basic plat­form is: We have no experience in student govern­ment on the college level. But we always hear: "get involved." We figure that anyone can be student body president and vice president. All it takes is a lot of hard work and dedication. What differentiates us from the other candidates is the ideas. We've got plenty of ideas. 
Hines: The idea of boosting the Notre Dame campus in any way. A grand Notre Dame campai.gn to boost it country wide. 
L••THE STUDENT VOTE I 

Rado: We've been talking about a Notre Dame U.S.A. thing. Not just something for publicity. A key word here is visibility. Around this area Note Dame is really big, and with the football fans around the country, but if we could get the visibility of the stu­dent body itself, make them something special, not just the football team. But so few people in the East and the West see Notre Dame as a major school, not just a football school. 

What i1; the Student Body President's relationship 
with the '¼dministration? 

CHRISTOPHER RADO




RUSSELL HINES 
RADO: I understand that one of my jobs would be as a liaison between student body, student government, and the administration. I don't think it would be an adversarial relationship. I think it would be more of us working with the proper administrators to get what we want done. More like a working relation­
ship. 
How do you see your relationship with the student 
body? 
RADO: I didn't want to use a cliche but we're like "the average Notre Dame student." We're on the out­side. A lot of people don't know what's going on. I would picture our relationship as being brought out of the student body not only getting higher visibility 

February 11, 1988 

What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­rity and Notre Dame student relations with the 
with the students but do things for them that they would realize ·and appreciate. If (Student Govern­ment) wasn't so much a separate entity, we would be a lot closer to the student bodv. 
What are your weaknesses? 
RADO: Because we aren't in.valved in student government, some people might see that as a weak­ness, but, it means we can see what's wrong with stu­dent government; we have a fresh perspective and I think that's a big asset. HINES: Since we don't have any experience, at first, getting started, getting to know the people who are already involved (will be a weakness). I don't think that's a real weakness, because we'll have from the election to the time we take office to learn. I can't think of any big weakness that we have. 
RADO: I think the longer you work with the administration, the easier it is to get what you want and to find out who to go to. I think that's a weak­ness. It'll take us a longer time to find out how things 
work. 
What should be the goals of the Alcohol Aware­
ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and 
Drug Education? 
RADO: I'd say that there is a bad drinking problem at Notre Dame. When I was applying to this school, I heard two things: I either heard about the football program or "that's a big drinking school." I think Notre Dame has a stigma attatched to it about drink­ing. (The alcohol policy) is there to cut down on the abuses that the students put on the system before it was instituted--massive parties in the dorms, pro­perty damage. There is in fact a drug problem at Notre Dame, a lot more than people realize-you just can't ignore it-and alcohol is going to creep up on us and destroy Notre Dame. I think it's a problem that we need to address. I don't know what their approaches are with the program, but I'm in full force for that. I'm not in full force for making stricter rules and tighter controls on social gather­ings. We can't take away from the social element. A lot of people criticize that--the way it is now. 
HINES: I think a goal for them should be just to have everyone aware that there is a problem. I'm not so sure about what the drug problem is, but there is a drinking problem. If it's your birthday, nine or ten people are going to tell you to drink a beer. That's not bad, but some people have a problem. To make people aware, that's a first step. 
Northeast neighborhood? 
HINES: One thing, maybe 'llore control off campus­that's a pretty obvious suggestion. House-sitting was one thing I thought of to help out with that. 
RADO: That house-sitting idea is a fantastic idea. Say you go out for spring break, if I was living off­campus, I would pay somebody to stay in my house, just to watch it. 
HINES: I think it could be a voluntary thing, not paid in a money sense. I think off-campus, it's hard to guard (the houses) every day, the houses are so spread apart. It's one thing to guard the apartment complexes, but the houses, it's hard to have some control.· Maybe something similar to the South Bend Crimewatch, a student Crimewatch. 
HINES: This is all part of the Notre Dame, U.S.A. thing. Notre Dame, has good connotations. But, when people say South Bend, they kind of look down upon it, but I don't think it should be that way. I think Notre Dame could help South Bend in a way. If 
somebody would supply the materials to renovate buildings and then have students go volunteer to go renovate buildings in the South Bend area. 
RADO: We have social volunteering, this would be like commercial volunteering. 
HINES: If we could involve South Bend with us a lit­tle more, show that we care about giving them a better connotation with what people think of South Bend. That way, the people might have a better atti­tude towards us. Maybe they won't think so nega­tively of us. 
RADO: There hasn't been a great portion of com­plaints tied to the police breaking up parties and all that. I agree that we were abusing neighbors' rights and privacy. As far as that, I think we should be held accountable for it, but I think the reaction we received from the local authorities was a bit strong. There were even some complaints of misuse of power. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with 
residence life and how do you propose to alleviate 
it? 
HINES: We're at a turning point in Notre Dame's his­tory, with the two new girls' dorms, the conversion of Howard, and the closing of Holy Cross and Car­roll. Maybe a strong identity within the halls, but also a connection from one hall to another. To get the halls involved with one another is necessary. It'll 
18 Scholastic 
make the communiuty tighter, more unified between North and South quads. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond to student objections to the honor code? RADO: On principle, I don't think that the honor code works. I think just because other universities have it, it's not a good reason for us to implement it. There are going to be people who are going to get away with .cheating because others aren't going to want to run and tattle-tale. If I ever had a chance to vote on it, I'd vote against it. I don't think it's the student's job to proctor exams. 
HINES: Once it's in, I think there should be a vote again,. after a couple of months, to see how people like it. If it's not working, it should go. 
Steve Viz, now in his second term as a senator, is running for Student Body President. He is currently the Executive Coordinator of the Junior Parent's Weekend. The vice-presidential candidate Chris Boron, is currently on the Sophomore Advisory Council and is the Junior Parents' Weekend Sophomore Chairman. 
What are your two main goals? 
VIZ: Our main goal would be to accomplish our little goals. We're not going to come. out and tell you that we're going to have lofty or nebulous-type goals. To achieve the goals that we know through experience in student government can realistically be attained. Things that can be achieved in a short amount of time and will affect the vast majority of people's everyday life. Along those lines, such things that we derived from the student survey. 
Also, we're going to try to stress, and I think we can stress it more than anyone else, fiscal responsibility. You have to be responsible, you have to know where that $55 everybody pays in student activity fees is going. From each student it amasses well over $400,000 that the student governmment, especially the student body president and vice-president, are entrusted with. 
What is the senate's relationship with the adminis­

tration? 
VIZ: Our role with the administration is essentially going to be one of exemplifying student opinion. One thing that the student senate did this year that was done well was the student survey. Sure, it has flaws, but it really provided the means by which we could go to an administrator and show them concrete results. We can show them "Here, 83% of the stu­dents think we should add a plus grade to the grading 
Gfc THE STUDENT VOTE I 

system." One thing you have to bring to the adminis­tration is credibility in your leadership and some means of showing it. 

STEVE VIZ 
What strengths will you bring to the Student Body President's office? 
VIZ: Our overwhelming strength has to be experi­ence, and a diversity of the ticket. Chris has a strong basis with social-type programming. I have more student government background. From day 1 fresh­man year to being elected student senator, to being re-elected last year. 
BORON: We're by far the most experienced ticket and that, I think, is really essential to doing well in office. If you don't know what's going on, if you don't have the least inkling of what needs to be done and when, you're going to spend your whole time in office, just figuring out what needs to be done, and by the time you figure out what needs to be done, you won't have time to do it. 
What are your weaknesses? 
VIZ: It's hard to critique yourself. If this is a weak­ness: overoptimism. Maybe the feeling that we can do more than we can. I think that's the way you have to go, even if it leads to your downfall. Yoi.l can't sit back and think "It can't be done, so we're not even 
February 11, 1988 dedicated even at the expense of your own social life. 



What should be the goals of the Alcohol Aware­
ness Task Force and the new office of Alcohol and 
Dru2 Education? · 
VIZ: All those offices are great, and they're con­ceived with the highest intentions. But they have to do something more than educate. It's more than just awareness. The alcohol policy is not going to change. They can try to facilitate social events without alcohol. 
What do you propose to do about off-campus secu­
r1ty and Notre Dame student relations with the 
Northeast neighborhood? 
We have to realize that Notre Dame security can't be expected to handle off.campus~r.ime, and you also have to realize that the South Bend police has limited resources. There has to be more of a cooperation between off-campus students and their neighbors or off-campus students themselves. That has to be facilitiated. That might be a lofty goal, but that's the best we can accomplish. We can't say we're going to finance 500 extra policemen for South Bend or that kind of thing. It has to be a self-initiated thing for the people involved. 
\Vhat do you see as the biggest problem with residence life and how do you propose to alleviate 
i.t? 
BORON: The number of freshmen in study lounges. That has just been a major problem. Especially with the girls. Obviously something can be done. We'd like to work with the office of admissions. Another thing is to facilitate easier switching from dorm to dorm. If you're not happy where you are, you should be given the right to move to a new dorm without having all the problems of regulations. 
VIZ: There's some inconsistency in the way the rules 
are enforced. All of it goes along the lines of the 
personalities of those who do the enforcing. But 
there should be some effort to enforce the rules, 
especially with regard to alcohol and parietal viola­
tions, in some sort of consistent and equitable 
manner. 
How will you, as Student Body President, respond 
to student objections to the honor code? VIZ: That's one of the things that we'll really work for. We can already see that the student reaction is very, very negative. Maybe not the to the concept of it, but the implemenation. I think it puts an undo burden on students. It needs to be addressed with the people in the provost's office. 


· Mark Chapman, a sophomore from Fisher Hall 
is running for district 3 senator. He has bee~ 
involved with the senate through the Senate Stu­
dent Advisory Council. What are your two main goals? 
I have two primary goals: to continue the push for plus grades, to try to expand D6 parking area. Al~(), along with that, to have more security in the parking areas because too many people have cars that are broken into. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your 
district? 
The parking in D6 and DI. We need more lighting and more security. We need to expand. I'd like to re-open up the faculty dining room for studying areas. I'm going.to try to open up the Oak Room area for an extra hour of studying at night. That's basi­cally all the South quad needs, then you have the basic things like improve unity and interhall interac­tion. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to 
South Quad Residents during finals? 
No, I'm not. Not at ail. Even though North is being reconstructed. Many North quad people eat at South (Dining Hall), and it's very overcrowded. But still, that doesn't mean that much. The problem is when you study, you like to go to North dining hall just for a quick dinner, after studying at the library. I'm very mtJch opposed to closing NDH to South quad residents during finals. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate'! 
0 

My major strength is that I stand up for what I believe in and a diligence in getting student opinion known. I'm going to try to stay unbiased and propose what the students believe. I'm very much familiar with the way the senate operates; I've been involved in the senate advisory council for the past two years. I'm serving on the Sophomore student council. I know how Mike (Carrigan, current senator)'s job works and I know the things he needs. 
Kevin Crooks, a junior PLS major, is running for off campus senator (District 5). 
20 Scholastic 
~----------------. ------. ' 
--~ 

What strengths will you bring to the senate? 

CROOKS: I think my main strength is a year of living off-campus. I think I can represent them well. 
How will you, as a senator, respond to student objections to the honor code? 
CROOKS: I have some objections to the installa­tion of the honor code myself. In the Program of Liberal Studies we're trying to set up our own honor code. W; all feel like the way the Univer­sity has it set up is almost insulting. You have to go into class and sign a piece of paper. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your district? 
CROOKS: Just trying to feel like you're more a part of the University and getting involved with more of the things that go on--other that just parking your car by the stadium, walking into your classes and then going home every day. You tend to feel a little distant from the University at times. 
Tom Erhardt, the District 2 senatorial hopeful, is a Freshman from Zahm. He is a Hall Commis­sioner and a member of the College Republicans 

What are your two main goals? TE: A lot more fresh ideas. They (the Senate) spent the whole semester arguing about the food-fight bill. I think each senator needs to be more unified with his district. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
TE: I'm confident, I can express myself well. I have a lot of ideas for next year. I'm really looking forward to representing the two new girls' dorms. I feel I know how the senate works very well. I'm Zahm's representative to Sean Hoffman, I've been to meet­ings, seen how things work. 

What do you see as the particular needs of your district? 
TE: I'm not so sure about the way the new districts are arranged. I think the new girls' dorms need to belong with the Pasquerillas. It doesn't really make 


THE STUDENT VOTE j 

sense to me. They put Keenan and Stanford with Alumni and the new dorms with North quad. I think we need murals on the walls or something inside the (North) dining hall to make it more attractive. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to 
South Quad Residents during finals? 
TE: No. I never heard that issue before. I see no rea­son to. 
Mary Feliz is a sophomore majorring in Graphic Design and Advertising. She is a member of the Multi-Cultural Council and the Sophomore Advisory Council. 
What are your two main goals? MF: One would probably be communication between the senator and the district that I am going to represent. I think that there's a need for the students to know what's going on. A lot of that has not been done, and I hope to improve that. Also, just to more or less be there for my district and also to be there for the school. There's a lot that needs to be done and I think that the reason why I'm running is to get someone in there that's concerned for the students and get a voice, a strong voice, for the students. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
MF: I always believe the character of myself and just 
· a very strong and real sincere voice to the senate 
from the students. I would, more or less, be a bridge 
to the senate from the students so that I would be 
able to bring what they're concerned about and just 
strong confident feelings from the students to the 
senate. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your 
district? 
MF: Right now, I would say the Nor~h Dining Hall needs a lot of improvement. As far as parking, we're going to need a lot more parking. There's even talk of a garage going up. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to 
South Quad Residents during finals? 
MF: No, if they (South Quad students) are over there, I believe there needs to be another solution. Maybe opening the hours for eating longer or giving a better traffic system within the cafeterias. 
21
February 11, 1988 Bob Huston, a 



District 4 candidate for senator, is a sophomore 
who has been involved with College Republicans as 
well as Toastmasters. 
What are your two main goals? 
BH: What I'd like to see accomplished, especially up in the North, with the addition of the two new girl's dorms, there's going to be a big parking problem. It's already bad up there. What's going to need to be done is paving over part of white field and increasing the size of D2 North. The second thing I'd like to see done is something that was mentioned last year, and that would be the meal card. There's a system at San Diego State which gives you a certain dollar credit with the meal card such as for lunch you have a three dollar credit and for dinner, a three-fifty credit. Anything you charge beyond that you pay in cash. So we could use the existing system here at Notre Dame and apply that to what we have here. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
BH: I think one thing will be the amount of time that I am willing to spend, and will be able to spend working with the senate. It's a very time-consuming job and I'm willing to put that time in. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your district? 
HH: Stepan courts, outside, are going to have to be repaved. There are some nice cracks in there and such and hopefully, when they repave that they'll repaint It and put in a three-point line--which may seem a little silly but it's part of the game of basket­ball. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to 
South Quad Residents during finals? 
BH: I've thought about this quite a bit and I agree with currrent senator Steve Viz on a lot of issues but this is not one. I don't think it's fair to close down North Dining Hall to South. Any more fair than it is for them to close South during finals to North peo­ple. What I'd like to see done is opening up Flanner and Grace foodsales during that period. Using the soda machines they have in AB line. Putting them into either Flanner or Grace and having maybe cold cuts down there, a salad bar. It may not be the warm meal that you'd get in the Dining Halls, but you wouldn't have to wait as long. 
Spero Karas, a junior running for District 5 senator, majors in Psychology/ Pre-Med. 
What are yuur two main goals? 
Well, first --more integration of the off-campus stu­dent in on-campus life. I'd like to set up a kind of off-campus information bulletin, or maybe a place in LaFortune where off-campus students can meet. 
On a smaller scale, I'd like an extension of the buzz bus lines to Campus View and Turtle Creek apart­ments. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
A hard-working, realistic attitude towards things and an ability to talk with people my age, administration, and members of the student senate. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your district? 
Integration of off-campus and on-campus life. A better rapport and representation for off-campus stu­dents. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to 
South Quad Residents during finals? 
Personally, I'm not. We're all in this together. It is crowded. Misery loves company. We're all in the same boat. What's the big deal? 
Pat Kiernan, who is running for District 1 sena­tor, is a junior Government major. He is a Holy Cross Commisioner and has worked with the Stu­dent Senate Advisory Council. 
What are your two main goals? 
PK: First of all, a change in the "in loco parentis" policy. I think there's some definite legal questions about that. It sounds dangerously close to a restric­tive covenant. I'd meet with some lawyers and University administrators and discuss just :what the implications of such a policy are. 
The second goal :concerns the recently instituted honor code. I think it~ a good idea in principle, but I have some objections with the way the University implemented it. I would ask for a student referen­dum to see if all students agree to the honor code in principle. Then, I'd ask the senate to appoint a stu­dent committee, independent of the administration, to study honor codes around the country. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
I think my interest. I've been involved in Notre Dame student government in some fashion every year that I've been here. My experience, too. I've been involved at the hall level, the district level and also campus-wide events. I think I have a br~ader 
22 Scholastic 
range of experience than the other candidates. I have some fresh ideas. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your 
district? 
PK: Other than my two main goals, I think we need more lighting. There are only two lights all the way out to Holy Cross. Better security, improved walk­ways, nuts and bolts stuff. 
Freshman Maeve O'Donovan is running for dis­trict 3 senator. She was a senator for all four years of high school and in her junior year, O'Donovan established a SADD chapter in her school. 
What are your two main goals? 
The first goal I have is that as a freshman, I really wanted to get involved at Notre Dame. I'm in a bunch of clubs right now, but I want to see how it works behind the scenes. Because, I was in student government in high school and I got to know the administration and they knew me and we were able to talk about things on a casual basis. I know that they took a sincere interest in my opinion, rather than just some kid who, out of the blue, pops up with some question. So, I guess one of my goals is just to get to know the administration. 
The second one I have is: I want students to have a choice for either coed or single-sex dorms. I think that it's a real educational experience and some peo­ple want coed; they feel that it's a better environment for them. I'd like to work to make that a choice. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
Well, I've had lot of past experiences in leadership positions and committee work. I was head soccer coach for a little girls' soccer team for four seasons and it just took a lot of time and energy. When 1 was in high school, I co-founded a SADD chapter. We hadn't had one, and we wanted to establish one before there was a tragedy. 
I really know how to work together with people and 
how to get things accomplished. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your district? 


Being a freshman, I 'm not really sure what the 
district wants. I'm not completely aware of 
everything that's going on at Notre Dame. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to South Quad Residents during finals? 
I don't know, I think it's· only fair that people have the opportunity not to walk all the way across campus. If it's really a problem, then they should have some way of regulating it or plan ahead for the extra people. 
Tom Rask, who is running for District four senator, has been very active with the Student Union Board as well as the American Lebanese Club Board. 
Wha.t are your two main goals? 
TR: My two main goals for next year are to improve student life in my district as well as on the campus level. As far as district, I see several problems that have arisen of late that are influencing the campus but are also influencing greatly the district. Problems such as D2 parking. We need to either expand the lot or look to go with a new one. We need to improve snow removal and we need to improve maintenance to take care of those potholes out there, as well as take care of security. Having a car being broken into within viewing distance of a dorm is ridiculous. We either post a manned security station there or work towards some kind of a security system in terms of a gate or a fence. As far as activities, I'd like to better the quad. 
Mod quad, my district, is not known for anything in particular. We'd like to better that situation--put forth a better image. Maybe have a Mod quad talent show or put out Mod quad boxers. I'd like to better campus life in general. If that means working on issues such as the grading system, or things that would make things better for everyone, I'd be more than willing to look into that. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
TR: I believe, in this case, experience (is my biggest strength). I've served on the Student Union Board. I've served on the American Lebanese Club Board and I've done a lot of things on campus that give me a chance to· see what people want. Through that 
February 11, 1988 

.?\-ninliDRli1JB1J1t•~~~-•~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~ 
~ 

I 1 

experience, I understand, to a certain extent, how things function in government. I have a little bit of a step up as far as not coming in and being a newco­mer. I've sat in on several senate meetings. That experience will help me. Aside from experience, I'd say campus life, being involved as a student is good. 
What do you see as the particular needs of your 
district? 
TR: I think the dining hall is something we must look at. Under this construction area period, maybe we should look at extended hours. Also for the dining hall we need to look for alternative meal plans. The idea that if you live on campus and have to pay all or none as far as meal plans is ridiculous. 
Are you in favor of closing North Dining Hall to 
South Quad Residents during finals? 
TR: The quad seems to be expanding in a Northern direction. We're getting a lot of growth on that side of campus. It might be good to close it to South quad to help those who are in line and don't have much time. 
Matt Thiel, running for District 3 senator, has been involved with the Dillon Hall Freshman Advisory Council. 
What are your two main goals? 
MT: My first thing that I'd like to start on right away is student parking. South quad uses DI and D6. The first thing that needs to be done is that the parking has to be regulated to where there's enough spots for all the cars. I'd like to see DI assigned only enough parking permits as spaces that they have. The other thing is to see about expanding on D6 behind the ROTC building to allow more cars that park in DI now to park in D6, while that wouldn't be over­crowded. Also, I know that security is a big problem. 
think something like just simply having more patrolling of the lots or perhaps having some way to enclose the lots somehow to keep outsiders from get­ting in. As far as my second goal I think there's a lot of lesser things that I'd like to see done. A lot of them have already been started. One of them is the plus grading system. As a student senator, I'd just be fully behind it and make sure I'd do whatever was necessary to make sure that went all the way through and was implemented. 

What do you see as the particular needs of your district? 
MT: On.:: thing is over-crowding in the dining hall and the problems of theft in the So.uth Dining Hall. I think that's a problem with the South quad. I think something needs to be done to make the Dining Hall more organized aroung lunch time. I also think that in the South quad there needs to be more communi­cation between the individual dorms. The student senator should act as sort of a liaison between the hall governments on the South quad. 
What strengths will you bring to the senate? 
MT: Number one: motivation. I think this is some­thing I've really wanted to do and I'm really quali­fied for. I'm looking forward to getting started right away and bringing a lot of new ideas and energy to the position of senator. I've been involved not with just one aspect of student life but I consider myself to be well diversified. I wouldn't just be adding one aspect but many aspects that I feel I can do very well. 
Are you in favor of closing ,North Dining Hall to South Quad Residents during finals? 
MT: I think something could be done by extending the hours. I don't consider that to be a big problem. Hopefully, when they have the full dining hall, it shouldn't be a problem anyway. I don't think I would be simply in favor of closing it off to people in South quad. · 


··, 

Coming Distractions February 11 -1 7 

The Student Union Board Presents... 







YCHO 

February 10 & 11 8 & 10 pm 
§m1(gJ~fil1@@g~[IB(gJ &®@£,~@)g~~ 

Music/Tim Adams 


Killdozer: Huber Rock 

robably the record I've enjoyed the most in recent weeks (outside of the reissue of 
Charles Manson's Lie album and the new double LP compilation by G.G. Allin called Dirty Love Songs) is by a trio from Madison, Wiscon­sin, named Killdozer. Cool name for a band, taken from some trashy made-for-TV movie in which a bulldozer somehow comes to life and starts slaughtering people. So cool a moniker that there have been, at various points in time, up to three Killdozers --one from France (now defunct), one from New York City (which lost in a "battle of the Killdozers" and · subsequently changed its name to Sharky's Machine), and of course our heroes, the Real Killdozer, from the home state of such wonderments as mass-murderer Ed Gein, Huber beer, and cheese curds. 
At any rate, the band's new album, Little Baby Buntin', is a rich, solid chunk of twisted Americana, another fine collec­tion of stories both dire and more dire --an even further back­woods take on Creedence Clear­water Revival, if you will. 
Previously Killdozer has plun­

dered --with more cockeyed reverence than believe me --the images and works of such cul­tural icons as CCR (in their cover of "Run Through the Jungle"), Burl Ives ( their last EP was called Burl), Lynyrd Skynyrd (in a mammoth, drawn-out version of "Sweet Home Alabama"), Ed Gein (in a song named after the man, wherein bassist Michael Gerald sings the line, "Ed Gein, he's a ladies' man"), and even Neil Young (in their half-speed version of "Cinnamon Girl"). 
This time 'round, the band covers Neil Diamond's "I Am, I Said," and updates CCR's "Cot­ton Fields" hick-style in a tune· called "Cotton Balls." The Dia­mond song is done in a suitably · 
melodramatic way, with anthemic blasts of keyboards and cymbal-crashing serving as a backdrop for Gerald's gravel­voiced interpretation, which really is a gas to hear. With the Creedence thing, somehow I don't think the line, "Papa got himself run down by a train/ I shot him in the guts to end his pain" popped up in the pretty acoustic strum of the original, 
but that's just Killdozer's style. 
But it's their original songs and stories that make Killdozer something much more than a mere comedy act, freak show, or lame cover band. The trio is able to capture the trailer-park men­tality of lower-class, non­cosmopolitan America like no other band, filtering through arresting tales of people whose lives extend no further than their dead-end jobs and dead-end marriages, and whose train in life never did come in and likely never will. 
Don't get me wrong, though: Killdozer injects every song on Little Baby Buntin' with a darn good deal of humor. Black humor, admittedly, but humor· nonetheless. If you can laugh at a • line like, "Everyone but my old man was blown to Kingdom Come/ He was left with a face that looks like chewed bubble gum," then you and Kill dozer might get along just fine. 
Before I forget, the soundtrack to Less Than Zero is the best movie score I've heard in eons. Sure there are some clunk­ers, but the other stuff is worthy of your dough. Great songs from LL Cool J and Public Enemy (rap's hottest group), Slayer with a version of "Inna Gadda Da Vida," the Bangles with one of 198?'s best major-label singles, and even some decent material from Roy Orbison, Joan Jett, and ex-Misfit Glenn Danzig. Despite the presence of the incredibly dorky Poison, I'd say this attempt at collegiate hipness is, yeah, pretty hip. 

26 Scholastic 

sportsweek 
HOCKEY 
The hockey team improved its record to 21-2-2 this week with a sweep of Air Force at the JACC. It was the 12th win in a row for the Irish who are still hoping for an NCAA bid. 
The team will finish its eight-game homestand tomorrow and Saturday night when it takes on Villanova. Both games start at 7:30 p.m. 
In both games this past weekend, the Irish had to come back to win. Friday's game saw the Falcons take a 3-0 lead only to have Notre Dame score three goals in a four minute span to tie the game. 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
The women's basketball team split a pair of games against nationally­ranked opponents this past week. First the Irish lost to the fourth-ranked and defending national champion Tennessee 91-71 on Wednesday, but then bounced 

!back to upset 17th ranked ·Duke on Saturday 78-66. The Irish stayed close until midway through the second half when the Lady Vols pulled away. SANDY BOTHAM led the Irish with 20 points and 7 rebounds. HEIDI BUNEK and LISA KUHNS had 17 and 16 points respectively. Against Duke the team led 39-82 at halftime and then hit 25 free throws in the second half to hold off the Blue Devils. The win marked the first time in history Notre Dame has defeated a top 20 team. Freshman SARA LIEBSCHER and Kuhns led the Irish with 19 J:>Oints each. The Irish will play host to Detroit tonight at 
7:30 p.m. and Dayton Saturday at 2:00 
p.m. at the JACC. 
WRESrLING 
The Irish wrestling team pulled off 
its biggest upset of the year this past 
Saturday when it defeated 18th-l'anked 
Nebraska 21-18. 
The keys to the victory were CHRIS 
GENESER'S final period pin of Tucker 
Thompson at the 177-lb division, and 
TODD LAYTON'S upset of 8th-ranked 
Keenan Turner at 150 pounds. 
Tomorrow night the Irish take on 
16th ranked Ohio State at the JACC. The 
team then will face the Olivet Comets on 
February 16th. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
The men's tennis team will play 

Eastern Michigan on Sunday at the Eck Pavillion at 3:30 p.m. The Irish are 4-0 on the year after destroying Toledo 9-0 last Saturday. 
Number two seed BRIAN KALBAS won his match over Todd Dominiak whom he lost to last year. Also recordin~ a victory was senior captain DAN WALSH who won 6-0, 6-2 despite sprain­ing his ankle during the match. Walsh remains undefeated this year at the No. 4 spot. 
TRACK 
The track team competed in the 

Meyo Invitational this past Saturday. 
TOM KRAUS won the shot put with a 
throw of 16.44 meters. 
In addition, JOHN COLE took first 
in the high jump clearing 6-10. That was 
his season's best and it makes him the 
third highest jumper in Notre Dame his­
tory. The Irish will travel to Cedar Falls 
Iowa for the Central Collegiate Confer: 
ence meet tomorrow and saturday. 
WOMEN'S FENCING 

The women's fencing team fin­ished off its regular season this past week 
by posting a 4-1 record for the week. In a 
13-team meet at home this past weekend, 
the Irish fell to Wayne State on Friday, 
11-6, but then rebounded on Saturday to 
defeat Ohio State, Northwestern, Case 
Western Reserve, and Oakland. Soph­
more ANNE BARREDA and freshman 
LYNN KADRI will compete at the Junior 
Olympic Fencing Championships in 
Cleveland, Ohio Feb. 13-15. 
MEN'S FENCING 
The men's fencing team improved 
its record to 22-0 this past week, record­
ing seven victories against Wayne State 
Ohio State Northwestern, Chicago, Michi: 
gan, Case Western Reserve, and Oakland. 
The team has now won 97 consecutive 
meets and 119 of their last 120 dual 
meets. Among the Notre Dame fencers 
posting undefeated records this week were 
PHIL LEARY, LESZEK NOWOSIELSKI, 
and TED FAY. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING The women's swimming team enjoyed two lopsided wins this past week, 


defeating St. Louis, 94-16, and Oral Roberts, 94-17. The Irish did not fare as well against their other opponents, drop­ping two close 128-140 meets against Eastern Michigan at home and Ball State away. 
The team will close out the regular dual-meet season against Illinois-Chicago tomorrow at 6 p.m. and against Cleve­land State on Saturday at 2 p.m. Both meets are in the Rolfs Aquatic center. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
The men's swimming team will close out its regular season at home this week with meets against Illinois-Chicago tomorrow night at 6 p.m. and against Cleveland State on Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Irish won two meets comfort­ably over St. Louis, 98-15, and Oral Roberts, 67-44, this past week. However, Ball State defeated the Irish, 91-126 on Saturday. Notre Dame's ADAM HIRSCHFELD qualified for NCAA regional diving competition this week by scoring 308.70 on the one meter board, a new university record for the event. 

·COMPILED BY JOHNMONYAK 
February 11, 1988 
27 


bA "' DreamThat Won't Die 
Although chances are slim the Irish team will get a bid to the NCAA tournament, it kept the hope alive with a stunning sweep of Air Force 

H
Dame hockey team trailed the Fal­
BY MIKE WIEBER 

cons, 2-1, after a sloppy forty ad coach Ric Schafer minutes of play, and Schafer's tared blankly at the ice posture betrayed his displeasure. 
t the end of the second The 20-2-2 Irish needed to beat 
eriod in Saturday's fellow-independent Air Force if game against Air Force. His Notre they wanted to keep alive their 
Notre Dame's 5-4 and 4-3 wins over Air Force were sparked by a relentless attack on offense and the solid goaltending of Lance Madson (below). 
chances of a bid to the NCAA tournament next month at Lake Placid, N. Y., and so far something was wrong. Schafer paused while 

. his team straggled off the bench and into the locker room, waited, and followed them in. Then, Mount Schafer erupted. 
"It was one of the first times I'd ever seen him mad," said senior center and.co-captain Mike McNeil!, choosing not to elaborate. "Let's just say he was stressing out. Basically he said, 'C'mon, let's see who can get us going." Whatever Schafer told his team, McNeil! definitely got the mes­sage. The seasoned veteran skated out in the third period, and quickly set up a goal to tie. His slap shot from the point deflected off the skate of teammate Pat Foley and slid into the Falcon net. 
Good enough for the angry coach? ·"Yes," McNeil! joked. "After that, he knew we were all right." The spark set the Irish rol­ling as, even though Air Force scored once more to regain the lead,. Notre Dame attacked until the end and got two more to pull off the 4-3 victory. Tim Kuehl got the game winner at ·2:08, moments after defenseman Foley had notched his second goal of the period to tie the game at three a piece. 
Schafer's blowup could be expected. After transforming the Notre Dame hockey program from a weak and inconsistent club into a disciplined and potent skating power in his first ·season at the Irish helm, Schafer had numerous reasons to demand a victory over the Falcons. The NCAA bid is a longshot, he is· the first to admit, · 
but the possibility is there. In 
Scholastic
28 

~--= --~---------.---------~­
addition, the crowds at the JACC have been packing the rink, and Schafer has worked hard at attracting the always-finicky hockey crowd back to the Notre Dame ice. 
"I will remember these wins for a long time," Schaf er said after Saturday's victory. "Air Force is one of the better teams we've played, if not the best. The NCAA bid is still unlikely, I know, but we needed to win to have a chance and we did." 
"Coach really wanted us to look good for the crowd," said junior center Brian Montgomery, taking notice of the 2,322 fans that attended Saturday's contest. Large crowds will be crucial to the growth of the young Notre Dame program as administrators watch carefully to decide where to plant their limited number of athletic scholarships. Montgomery, and all the Irish players, seem to know this. "At home, in a big series like this, it was time to wake up," Montgomery added. "Coach just wanted to tell us in his own way." 
Schafer, however, will have a hard time telling his team the bad news if the NCAA does pass up his squad. The Irish worked very hard to turn their fortunes around after a dismal 1986-87 campaign, and played consistently in rolling to their current 21-2-2 mark, their second best start since the early '80s when the team stopped play­ing the big Division I powers. The squad will host a weak Villanova team at the JACC this weekend, before heading to Michigan­Dearborn for a difficult two-game set the following weekend. The Irish season ends March 4-5 with the ACHA playoffs also at Dear­born, Michigan. 
"The worst is by no means over. We still have Michigan­Dearborn and Lake Forest coming up," added Schafer. But as for this week's competition, Schafer remains calm since the weekend brings in a weak Villanova team to the JACC. Schafer wouldn't even comment about the strength' of Villanova's hockey team, except to laugh and say, "Let's put it this way. Villanova is a good basketball school." 

The lack of competition, though, should allow the rookies a little more time on the rink this Friday and Saturday. After keep­ing the benches warm over the tough Air Force weekend, Schafer predicts the team's younger meinbers will finally get to play. "The junior varsity players will have the chance to shine," he said. "I'm going to mix the lines up." 
Schafer won't deny the team's likely fate this year, despite its overwhelming success. Since the Irish hockey squad never faced the number-one ranked team of the independents, Merrimac, · and Notre Dame's strength of schedule was not on par with theirs, Schafer admits its "unlikely" that the selection committee will select his squad. "Merrimac would have to stumble in the next few weeks," he concluded. 
Does this mean, however that the Notre Dame hockey team is safe from any more flare ups from its fiery coach? Not a chance, according to Montgomery. "We have an attitude now that we know we can win every gar,1e we're in," he said. Maybe next year, with better competition on the schedule, Schafer will be able to convince the NCAA tournament selection committee as fully as he has Montgomery and the rest of the Irish hockey squad. II 

LaFortune Basement 

One Dozen :R.oses-$32 1/2 Dozen :R..oses

Hours: Monday-Saturday, from 12:30-5:30. Tel: 283-4242 
· Irish Gardens will be delivering all Valentine's Day Orders Saturday evening... please have orders in Friday. 

February 11, 1988 



Splinters From the Press Box 
as Irish goalie Lance Madson used 
his skates to shave the surface of 
the ice in front of the net. Expect­


More Than a Game 
Attending a Notre Dame hockey game these days can be an unusual experience 


ast Saturday even­ing the Notre Dame hockey team played its biggest 
game of the season, a game the 
Irish needed to win to assure a 
chance for an NCAA bid. That 
chance, though admittedly small, 
had been kept alive the night 
before when the Irish rallied from 
a three-goal deficit to stun a tough 
Air Force team, 5-4. The Falcons, 
who also were competing for a 
postseason bid, were certain there­
fore to be up for Saturday's game. 
Thus, donning the warmest clothes 
I could find, I braved the -20 degree wind chill to see the Irish battle Air Force at the JACC. 
Approximately 3,000 other curious hockey fans had the same idea. Arriving five minutes before game time, I picked my way through the mass of people and found my place in the small 
BY NICK CAPECE 
press box up high over center ice. 
As I settled into my seat, the pub­lic address announcer began to introduce the Irish players ­Montgomery, McNeill, Kuehl, Leherr and Madson -all names which were fast becoming recog­nizable in Notre Dame varsity ath­letics. Then, a hush fell over the arena as Peter "The Whip" Abowd was introduced. As the fans began to chant his name, "The Whip" proceeded to play his musical ren­dition of the National Anthem, a rendition which seemed to com­

bine the sounds of the traditional organ with those of a high-tech · synthesizer. . It was definitely 
unusual, but the crowd loved it. 
Finally, it was game time. After huddling up for team pep talks near their respective benches, the Irish and the Falcons skated out and readied themselves for the face-off. I watched with interest ing a barrage of shots from the Falcons, Madson knew he couldn't afford to lose his footing and slip. Then, as the loud cheers from the Irish fans echoed through the arena, the puck was dropped and they were off. 


Period one proved to be a defensive battle, as· the checking on the boards became intense. As the puck slid behind the Irish net, a Falcon skater rushed to get his stick on it. A loud "thud" echoed across the rink as Irish defenseman Mike Leherr shouldered the unsuspecting Falcon into the boards. The cheers rose from the crowd. A guy below me yelled, "Clean his clock! Make him feel it!" As the Irish cleared the puck up the ice, the plexiglass was still shaking from Leherr's ambush. 
The action continued, but by the end of the period, no goals had been scored. The crowd was get­ting a little restless. They waQted some offense, some goals. Except for section 3 of the grandstands, which was all Notre Dame stu­dents, the rest of the spectators were a little too mellow. Larry the Zamboni driver, however, did his best to excite the crowd. Complete with his tuxedo and top hat, Larry backed his "ice monster" out onto the ice, and proceeded to circle the rink. As he drove along the boards, Larry waved to the crowd and gave hi-fives to the students who reached over the dividing plexiglass. As he made his last trip around the ice, he reached down into a small box, picked up some candies, and threw them to the mass of outstretched arms. The cheers went up from the students as the newest Notre Dame cele­brity directed his unwieldy Zam­boni machine off the ice. 
Scholastic 
--~-------·­

-----~ ---' -~ --~ -,, 
As the teams took the ice in the second period, the crowd started to emerge from its silent shell. Chants of "Go Irish!" began in 
. section 3 and spread ever so slowly to the other sections. The Irish began the second period with 1:~4 left in a power play that carried over from the end of the first period. Just as the crowd was starting to make some noise, how­ever, they were silenced once again as Air Force scored two quick goals in the opening minutes of period two. A sense of despera­tion fell over me. The Irish couldn't afford to get behind too far, I thought to myself. "The Whip" tried his best to get the Irish psyched by playing his ver­sion of Queen's, "We Will Rock You." Surprisingly, the Irish responded quickly. Notre Dame made som.'.! brisk passes in front of the Falcon net before Irish center Bob Bilton deflected a shot into the goal. The crowd erupted in applause as the Irish skaters swamped Bilton. 
The defensive battle continued through the second period. "Oohs" and "Aahs" echoed through the cold arena as Irish goalie Lance Madson continued to deflect Fal­con shots. The crowd emitted chants of "Air Puck!" "Air Puck!" as the Irish forced the F~l­con wingmen to shoot wide of the net. A group of teenagers sitting along the boards in front of me began to bang on the plexiglass as the Falcon skaters passed by. When the second period came to a close, however, Notre Dame was still down 2-1. The crowd was once again silent. 
Nevertheless, the fans were not denied their entertainment. A puck shoot-out sponsored by Barnaby's Restaurant and the Ber­tles Mazda dealer was held between the second and third periods. Four winners,_ selected by ti'cket number, were pulled from the cr'owd · to try their hand at scoring a goal from center ice. To make the feat more difficult, a wooden board with a tiny puck­sized opening was placed in front of the net. The prize for scoring a goal through the small opening: free one-year use of an 1988 Mazda sports car. 
The first contestant was a boy who looked no older than six or seven. After catching sight of the boy's small stature, the crowd began to. hoot out phrases that could be summed up as, "Give him a break! Let him shoot from the blue line!" To the surprise of the crowd, the boy unleashed a brisk shot that came very close to scoring a goal. The next two con­testants, two men, shot the puck wide of the net and received a barrage of hushed boos from the crowd. The crowd erupted in applause, however, as the special contestant for the night, Larry the Zamboni driver, was introduced. Larry turned out to be the worst shot of them all. Nevertheless, his adoring fans chanted his name, and he acknowledged them with a wave of his hand. 
After Larry .had gotten back to work and refurbished the ice with the Zamboni, ·it was time for the Irish to show what they were made of. They had come back from deficits before on this surprising 20-2-2 season. Why not tonight? With their backs against the wall, Notre Dame responded in the final period. As the seconds ticked off the clock, the Irish raced to set up a play in front of the Falcon net. Passing the puck around, the Irish searched for some. daylight between the Falcon defenders. Finally, team co-captain Mike McNeill · saw an opening and 
launched a blazing slap shot at the Air Force net. The puck found the skate of Irish defenseman Pat Foley and deflected into the goal. The crowd rose to its feet in jubi­. lation. The score was now tied at 
two. 
Unfortunately, the celebration did not last long as the Falcons came right back with another goal to put the Irish in a hole once again. No cause for alarm. They can come back, I thought to myself. The Irish did. Once again, Pat Foley came to the rescue, launching a slap shot from the point that· sneaked its way past the Falcon goalie. The game was tied at three. As the checking contin­ued at a furious pace, the question -"Would the game go into over­time?" -ran through my mind. As the clock reached 2:08 remaining in the period, right wingman Tim Kuehl calmed my anxiety, at least temporarily, by scoring the go­ahead goal for the Irish. The arena exploded in celebration once again. The Whip's "We Will Rock You" blared from the speakers overhead. 
Two more minutes to go. Could the Irish hold on? The Fal­cons decided to apply the pressure by pulling their goalie out of the net and adding an extra attacker, a common last-ditch strategy. Fac­ing the five-on-six disadvantage, the Notre Dame defense buckled down, denying the Falcons a clear shot at the Irish net. Madson deflected several shots, while many others went wide. As the game clock reached ten seconds, the fans started a countdown. Finally, the Irish managed to clear the puck out of their end and "iced" the victory. As the buzzer sounded, the Irish skaters swarmed around Madson in wild celebration . Their dream of an NCAA bid was still alive. II 
February 11, 1988 
31 


Final Word 




Looking Back 
t seems like just yesterday when we sat down a year ago to write a Final Word column 
highlighting the overriding goals 
from our campaign. And here it 
is --election time again. 
This past year, we' ve tried to bring student government back to the students and to make stu­dent life a little easier. We've tried to do this by providing small, tangible services for stu­d_ents (i.e. shuttle services to and from the airport during break). While at the same time, we've tried to successfully represent student opinion to the adminis­tration. For example, thanks to the results of a student senate survey, we have beeen able to use student support/opinion in attempting to pass a "+", "-" grading system in the academic council. The issue is still presently being discussed, but we are very optimistic about its 


j: 
future. 

l 

Quite simply, we have tried to build__ on the positive attitude instilled in student government last year by Mike (Switek) and Don (Montanaro). We have been serious to our committment to improve student life, but we 



By Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink 
have also made sure that every­one has enjoyed working toward that goal. Finally, we have tried to keep you feeling good about your student government because, basically, student government is nothing without your support. 

And we continue to solicit your support as student govern­ment moves in new directions. Last year when we first took office, we realized that there is a tremendous amount of potential in the student government offices. And now that we are a month and a half away from leaving office, we realize that we've only scratched the surface of that potential. There are so 
many more services that can be offered here at Notre Dame, and there are so many ways to improve the services that already 

exist. 
This potential can only be realized, however, if you allow it to be. This year we are very excited about the fact that nine tickets are running for Student Body President and Student Body Vice President every senatorial district is being contested, and _. -· 

who knows how many ticlcets· will run for class and off-campus commissioner positions. These candidates obviously are interested in serving their fell ow students and improving student life. Please listen to their plat-. forms, go to the debate on Sun­day, February 14, (7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Audito­rium) and then vote for the tick­ets that will best serve you, that will move closer to realizing the potential of student government, and that will make you feel even better and more positive about student government. 
We would like to thank everyone with whom we have had the opportunity to work this year. There are still a . lot of ideas, however, to develop before April 1 --ideas from our platform as well as ideas that some of you have brought to us during the course of this year. Thank you for your continued support, and we hope that whether you have been involved directly or not·this past year, you have enjoyed and will continue to enjoy your student govern­ment. 










