May 22, 1931
879
COMMENT
Laxity in all forms of endeavor seems to pervade the campus at this time and this writer is not exempt from that “do-nothing” feeling. The end of school has always served to dampen the enthusiasm of students for- classwork, and this year, despite the poor prospects for a happy and prosperous vacation, is no exception. Perhaps the graduating class is not so anxious for school to end, yet the flavor of vacation has already been tasted by most of them, and it will not take much persuasion to convince them that it is time for a rest.
Many of the candidates for monograms have found out that it is one thing to win the sweater and quite another thing to go through the final stage wherein they are made members of the Monogram club. We are not familiar* with the routine carried out in the initiations, but the long faces and hurt expressions lead one to believe that the ordeal is very trying for the new monogram men.
Turn about is fair play? One of our good friends has just related the sad story of how, after he had assisted in administering a refreshing lake bath to a senior, he was mobbed by his playmates and given the same dose. And he thinks such an indignity quite overwhelming, considering the fact that he is a junior. It is to laugh, as someone said years ago—or was it centuries? The supposition maintained at Notre Dame is that freshmen were the ones who held sole ducking rights in the lake, exceptions being made for those who deserved an immersion. But the rule as carried out this year makes no class distinction, the seniors being as susceptible to the ignominious dousing as the greenest freshman. Traditions, where are you?
Speaking of noteworthy performances, we feel it is our duty to give Jimmy Bosco his dues. Jimmy, as most of you know, is the hard working little shortstop on the varsity baseball squad. Heretofore, Jim has been laboring with the second team, but last Tuesday he got a chance to display the talent so far unnoticed because of somebody’s “bushel.” Jimmy came through in great style, playing a bang-up game at short. Then Mr. Bosco produced the stinging hit which won the game in the eighth, his second of the game. Nice work, Jimmy.
—W. V. B.
| The Notre Dame Scholastic |
I Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus |
E	Founded 1867	•	=
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
z	Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor . John E. Bergan	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kibner
Z	Edward E. Brennan	Associate Editors James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
	Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
z	John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske
z	The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
z	Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
s	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz
News Staff
William C. Karl, News Editor
Edmund Stephan, Assistant News Editor
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Moliqur William Knox Walter Kennedy	Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson James Colvin John Rusnak	Joseph Degnan Lawrence Dunda Lawrence Prybylski William Bund J. Don Sullivan
Cleve Carey James E. McFeely, Jb. Edmund Moriarty	Sports Staff Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor George Belting James Kearns Joseph Kurth	T. Edward Carey Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
	Business Staff	-
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mor. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr. Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess
J. Albert Smith	Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
i Vol. LXIV	MAY 22, 1931	No. 28 |
I	The Week_____«______________________________________________881	' |
E	Knights of Columbus Elect Collins Grand	Knight_____________ 883	|
|	Book Reviews—John Pick- 884	|
: Campus Opinions—Laivrence Dunda--------.-------■------------ 887 E
=	Lemmonier Library—John E. Conley--------------------------- 889	=
=	Campus Club—Leslie Raddatz----------------------------------891	|
=	College Parade—Daniel Williams----------------------------- 892	|
=	Editor’s Page______________________________________________ 893	=
I	The Wink___________________________________________________ 894	|
:	Golfers Defeat Pittsburgh—Ediuard Carey-------------------- 895	E
E	Introducing John Lisicki—James Kearns---------------------- 896	=
=	Northwestern Baseball Game—James McFeely------------------- 898	|
=	Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B.	Asman------------- 904	|
|	On Down the Line 908	=
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC* Publications Office, Main Building.			
Entered as second-class		matter at	Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at
special	rate of postage. Section 1103* October 3* 1917* authorized June 25* 1918.		
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve thb Patronags or All Notre Dame Men.
^QaniiiiiiaiaiiiaiiaaiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiaiiaiMaaaiaiiiaMaaaaaiaaaaaiitMMiiiiaiitaiaattainMnaaaaaiaaaaaaiaitaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaiaaiaaaiiiaiaM^J
880
The Scholastic
r
A View of the University Library
c
May 22, 1931
881
♦ THE WEEK ♦
T HE Week, gentlemen, should be written by Richard J. O’Donnell, and has been written by him, with one or two exceptions, all year. But with the passing of the weeks (no pun intended) Mr. O’Donnell became more and more vague about the deadline for his copy. From September to about the middle of November he seemed to remember that it was at noon Wednesday; from the middle of November to the end of the first semester he had the idea that it was at noon Thursday; from the beginning of the first semester up to the present he was under the delusion that it was about ten seconds before the Scholastic went to press. This week he thought it would be all right to hand in his copy in ten seconds after your favorite weekly had gone to press. The editor-in-chief, with many harsh and bitter words, informed Mr. O’Donnell that he was mistaken. Mr. O’Donnell smiled, shrugged his shoulders eloquently, and consigned the editor-in-chief to Gehenna. The editor-in-chief, not to be outdone, made the usual retort courteous and dashed back to the Scholastic office. Mr. O’Donnell kept on smiling. Result: The Week is a Joseph’s coat of many colors, composed of the various efforts and vastly different styles of Mr. Hurley, Mr. Hallinan, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Raddatz, and the editor-in-chief, who is still mumbling naughty, naughty words to himself.
H. L. MENCKEN, once the idol of every high school sophomore with pretensions to intellectuality, once wrote a book, if our memory fails us not, with the startling title, A Criticism of Criticism of Criticism. In it he flayed, in the usual Menckenesque manner, the critics who flayed the critics who flayed, in the usual manner of critics, the virgin efforts of the latest crop of novelists and poets. All of which sounds very involved, but bear with us for a while. After all, this page must be filled, and if Busyman O’Donnell falls down on the job, someone must carry on, necessarily someone who must turn out a rush job. But to get back to the point. The Week also, in a rather timid manner, suggests a criticism of a criticism of a criticism.
During the past week the Scholastic was placed upon an oratorical gridiron. Termed as “gossiping old women,” charged with being all destructive and never constructive, —we hang our head with burning cheeks. Never willing to take a beating lying down, we would like to shout a few answers:
1.	A glance at our editorial pages during the past year should convince anyone that there have been just as many, and probably more, constructive moves advanced on our part, as destructive.
2.	May we quote one of the campus professors as saying that the man who tears down a dilapidated shack is just as valuable as the man who supervises the construction of a new one to replace it?
3.	Are the critics of the Scholastic satisfied with
conditions which we saw fit to criticize? And, if not, do they realize that they must advance better ones?
4.	Our “gossipy old women” have, in the estimation of those who are keenly interested (certain professors, certain students, certain outsiders), turned out a more complete, more colorful and better news-magazine than any Scholastic staff of past years.
5.	The editorial policy has awakened the students (formerly content to drowse through the Friday afternoon periodical) to a point where they realize that what the Scholastic thinks, and what they think, actually means something.
^1' HE size of the crowd which an exhibition of scientific oddities brought to Washington hall last Tuesday evening is indicative, if not of interest, at least of curiosity on the part of Notre Dame students. The fact that the names of Amos and Andy, mentioned in connection with a demonstration of tone range, received more applause than the experiment itself is regretable. However, when there was a pause sufficiently long, or when the exhibit was sufficiently amazing, appreciation was not lacking.
The value of the exhibition itself needs no emphasis. While some of the experiments seemed a bit impractical, on the whole the demonstration gave the layman some slight idea of the progress being made by modern science. Mr. Grace’s conception of the infinitude of science, and the futility of trying solve its mysteries, yet his optismism in striving to learn whatever possible, is strictly orthodox, and highly commendable.
TT HE physical education men, glowing as ever with good health and no spirits, are off for a two-week romp in the wilderness of Michigan. For two weeks they will forget that they are big college men now in the pleasure of arising at approximately six o’clock in the morning for a cold dip, a very cold dip, in the lake. While their fellow students luxuriously lie abed until six-thirty, they will already be splashing about among the ice cakes.
Why is it that the S. A. C., the Blue Circle, and the managers do not go camping in the spring? Imagine the pleasure of awakening at about five in the morning to spend a pleasant hour and a half thinking over silent cheering, A. A. book pictures, and boxing shows, and then to smile peacefully as you picture their inventors shivering in molten ice. Imagine the feeling of futility that any of these men might feel addressing a group of his fellows only to have them walk away as soon as he said, “Well, fellows.” If only one of the campers would go out too far, lose his breath, and never return! This last is, of course, too beautiful a picture for even the most optimistic to paint. No one yet has ever heard of an S. A. C. man, a Blue Circle man or a manager getting out of breath.
The Scholastic
882
LAETARE MEDAL GIVEN
TO JAMES J. PHELAN
Fr. O’Donnell Presents Award At Simple Ceremony.
James J. Phelan, recipient of the Laetare medal for this year, was presented with the medal at his home in Boston by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, on Wednesday evening, May 6.
Mr. Phelan was given his choice of a simple ceremony at his home or a public affair at Notre Dame. His reason for choosing a private one was desire for privacy. “I felt,” he said, “there was so much sacredness to the medal and its presentation, that I preferred to keep it within our own family circle.”
Father O’Donnell presented the medal with an informal talk. Mr. Phelan gave a short response in which he said: “I have always looked upon the Laetare medal with a great deal of reverence, and I have for many years considered that it was the highest recognition that could possibly come to an American Catholic from an American institution. I have always thought the recipient, and this without ever dreaming that I would become one, was indeed fortunate in being chosen for the high honor.”
Among the guests present were the Reverend John T. Creagh, pastor of St. Aiden’s church, Brookline, and the Reverend Thomas A. Fay, S.J., of Boston college. James J. Phelan, Jr., attached to the New York office of his father’s business, the brokerage firm of Hornblower and Weeks, attended the dinner along with the other members of the Phelan family.
For the past 48 years the Laetare Medal has been awarded to some outstanding Catholic layman each year on Laetare Sunday by the University. He is chosen by a special committee composed of priests and members of the lay faculty of Notre Dame. This year Father O’Donnell headed the committee which made the selection of Mr. Phelan.
Celebrates Birthday
The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, observed his 61st birthday anniversary Thursday, spending the day quietly at the Community house, where he lives.
RHiiiitHiiiiiitHiiHininiiHniiiiniiiiiiiimiiimiiiHiiiiiiiiiP]
!	FUNNY?	|
E Jokesters, artists, caricatur- : E ists, satirists, gag-men, versi- 1 E fiers, and parodists are invited = E to the first Juggler meeting to = 1 be held Tuesday evening in the E = Main building, at 6:30.	E
= Editor-in-chief Robert L. Gor- E E man and Art Editor Joseph = E Lopker will outline plans for = E next year at this meeting. = E Anyone who thinks he can = E write or draw “funny” material 1 E is urged to attend this meeting. E
Q n tu i uiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiiiniitiniituni iiiiiiiiiiiitttiiiinQ
PFEIFFER IS ELECTED TO PRESIDENCY OF THE
ENGINEERS’ CLUB
Raymond Pfeiffer, of Louisville, Kentucky, was elected president of the Notre Dame Engineers’ club at the annual election held Monday night in the journalism room of the library. The newly elected president is an electrical engineer, a resident of Corby hall, and succeeds Paul Enright.
Vance Uhlmeyer, of Rock Island, Illinois, a chemical engineer, was elected to the office of vice-president, to succeed William Karl. Joseph Heide, a chemical engineer, whose home is in Jersey City, New Jersey, received the office of treasurer. Daniel Cassidy, of Rosendale, New York, a chemical engineer, was elected secretary. All of these men who are to lead the activities of the club next year- are members of the senior class. Chester Barbeck, a mechanical engineer, of San Antonio, Texas, was elected junior secretary of the club.
President Pfeiffer appointed to his executive council Peter Trolio, a junior in the College of Architectural Engineering; Edward Donohue, a junior’ in the College of Chemical Engineering, and James Newbold, a sophomore in the College of Architectural Engineering. Pfeiffer explained his reason for appointing two men from the one college to the council was to distribute as equally as possible the members who would be running the activities of the club. Under this plan, another man to be elected from the incoming freshman class, Pfeiffer plans to have two men from each college.
The Engineers’ club is the largest of the campus clubs. There are three hundred and fifty enrolled members and all except one hundred of these are paid members.
MEMORIAL FUND TOTAL STEADILY INCREASING
Students Contribute For Altar To Honor Rockne. -
Notre Dame’s student drive for the Rockne Memorial fund was launched this week and moved forward quite rapidly under the direction of John F. Saunders, president of the senior class. The proposed student share in the memorial to be erected in Dillon
hall was announced at all masses on Sunday and in the Religious Bulletin of May 18. The organization of the drive was completed early in the week.
Workers have been covering residence halls, campus clubs, classes, and off-campus residences. Graphs have been posted in every hall and at the off-campus office to record the gains in contributions. A main graph is posted near the dining hall to show the relative standing of the halls, the clubs, and the classes as well as the leading captains. This chart is changed twice daily in order to keep the standings up to the minute.
Probably the hardest part of the drive is to reach all the off-campus students; A committee composed of the Reverend Raymond Clancy, C. S. C., Clarence Kozak, Louis O’Shea, and Norm Hartzer are attempting to reach all the non-resident students before the end of the week. To afford an opportunity for those that may be missed, though, there will be an intensive drive tomorrow (Saturday) noon at the off-campus office. Several workers will be stationed there to take care of those men who have not yet contributed.
Up until Thursday, about fifteen percent of the student body had made contributions. This was hardly as much as had been expected because of the amount of sentiment favoring the movement that appeared at the time of its inception.
At noon Thursday, the Law club was leading all other campus organizations in the race for one-hundred percent subscription among its members. Joe Yoch, president of the club, was also the leading captain among the workers. The Monogram club, under President McManmon and the managers’ organization led by Dan Halpin, were pressing the lawyers for first honors. Close competition seems assured by the interest shown at a Presidents’ club meeting during the week where over forty officers of clubs pledged support

May 22, 1931
883
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS ELECT
JAMES K. COLLINS GRAND KNIGHT
“CATALYZER” REVIEWED
Prof. Hinton and Spencer Write Leading Articles.
Will Succeed Louis Buckley; Trustee Ray Hoyer Ponic, McVean, Re-Elected
James K. Collins, of Great Falls, Montana, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected Grand Knight of the Notre Came council 1477, Knights of Columbus, Wednesday evening at a meeting in their Walsh hall chambers. Francis J. Mc-Greal, a freshman in the College of Law, was defeated by Collins by a small majority.
Collins has been a member of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus for three years. He was president of his class during his sophomore year, served on the Student • Activities Council for two years, and has been a membei* of the Dome and Scholastic staffs for three years. Collins has been very active in the Notre Dame council since the time of his initiation.
t	Vincent G. Ponic, a junior in the
College of Arts and Letters, was reelected for the position of Deputy Grand Knight for the year 1931-32. John S. Wittliff, a junior in the College of Commerce, was the othei* candidate for the office.
•	Unanimously chosen again the office,
Malcolm R. McVean will be Warden of the council. Leo T. Clark was elected as treasurer over Austin L. Boyle, and Robert Streb was elected Chancellor, defeating Phil Ott, the other* candidate. For the office of » Advocate, Dan Molloy was elected, being opposed by Leonard Donaghue. Fred Becklenberg was chosen unanimously as Recorder. Cyril Collins and Anthony Schreiner were elected to be the Inside Guards for the coming year, and James Simmons was elected »	Outside Guard, with Patrick Crowley,
Francis Marley, and Frank Consolati, the other candidates for the office.
Raymond Hoyer was unanimously re-elected trustee of the council. Mr. Hoyer was commended and thanked for his work and the active part he '	has taken in the council during the
.past years of his trusteeship.
As a part of the regular schedule followed by the council, Collins took
the chair of the Grand Knight immediately after his election and conducted the remainder of the elections. In his opening speech from the chair he thanked the council for* electing him
James K. Collins (Grand Knight-elect
and pledged his full support of it in the coming year.
The retiring officers of the council are: Grand Knight, Louis Buckley; chancellor, Neil Hurley; treasurer Francis Flannery; recording secretary, Joseph Hughes; advocate, John Keefe; inside guards, David Rusk and Thomas Gorman, and outside guard, Edward O’Brien.
Appointed officers who have served during the past year are: Financial secretary, Nicholas Bohling; lecturer, William O’Malley, and chaplain, Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C. The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and the Reverend Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., will continue in their positions as trustees of the council.
Present Grand Knight Louis Buck-ley announced that there would be a special meeting of the council Monday, May 24, to clear up the important business which remains to be disposed of. He asked that all members be present.
Henry D. Hinton, Ph.D., and R. C. Spencer, Ph.D., ’28, members of the faculty of the College of Science, are the authors of the main articles in the final issue of the Catalyzer, the publication of the department of chemistry.
Doctor Hinton in his contribution, “Beyond the Alps,” warns seniors that their period of training is over, and they go “to live among and take their place with other men, to strive and to . achieve—an opportunity to do.” He tells them that the world is looking for “honest, humble men of vision,” and that because of the depression they may find it difficult to secure positions, but he feels sure that they will bring credit to Notre Dame at whatever they undertake.
“Plant Metallurgy,” by Dr. Spencer, gives an account of the duties of the metallurgist in the world and his importance. “Little does the passive and trusting layman suspect,” writes Dr. Spencer, “of the powerful dramas behind the scenes, which harness the forces of nature to do his bidding— dramas in which, we feel sure, the metallurgist plays not an insignificant part.”
The editorial, “Ever Onward,” is also directed to the seniors and impresses upon them the necessity of continuing their studies even after they have left the University.
Romeo P. Allard, Gerald J- Ball, James S. Culligan, Marcelino Garzal William H. Ginder, Jr., Lawrence H. Halter, Ronald J. McEachen, James W. Hanley, Henry S. Kopek, Edgar H. Lloyd, Eduardo Melian, Philip J. Pendergast, Wilbert L. Terre, Thomas H. Vaughn, and Carroll J. Wilson, the graduating seniors of the department of chemistry, have their photographs in the Catalyzer.
Monogram Ball Success
The spring formal of the Monogram club, which was held Tuesday, was the most successful dance held by that organization in four years. Over 200 couples attended.
The decorations were in the gold and blue colors of the club, and were prepared by the club’s candidates. The candidates also entertained during the intermissions, with impromptu songs and dances.
I
884
The Scholastic
Book Reviews
STRING QUARTET PLAYS IN WASHINGTON HALL
Dawn: An Autobiography of Early Youth. By Theodore Dreiser. Liveright. $2.50.
Theodore Dreiser, in his searching explorations of the human soul, again turns an introspective eye upon himself in Dawn: An Autobiography of Early Youth. In all his novels and shorter fictions, from Sister Carrie and Jennie Gerhardt to An American Tragedy and A Gallery of Women, he has probed with a heavy, unrelenting hand the inner lives of his characters. With the same heavy hand and with the same lumbering and detailed profundity that has mercilessly revealed his fictional characters, he has, not infrequently, written of himself. Thus, in the past, he has written A Booh About Myself, the title of which, we take it, he has recently decided to change to Newspaper Days, while such books as The Color of a Great City, A Traveler at Forty, and a Gallery of Women are essentially autobiographical. Dawn, it is now announced, is but one of the four volumes which will constitute Dreiser’s A History of Myself. The second of the four volumes is Newspaper Days and the remaining two books, A Literary Apprenticeship and Literary Experiences, are in preparation. •
Dawn is a long book of few less than 600 closely printed pages. It begins, as it should, with a recital of Dreiser’s first conscious realization of himself as a separate and distinct identity. It is certainly not a wholly pretty picture which he offers of his childhood, a childhood which knew the hardships of poverty, which sensed, when it did not know, the ugly truths of life.
Daivn would not be one of Theodore Dreiser’s books if it were not detailed beyond all reasonable bounds and if it did not contain the most deplorable grammatical sins. But Dreiser’s readers have by this time learned what to expect from him, and his admirers, at least, are willing to overlook his faults and accept the essential greatness of many of his literary efforts. Dawn ends with Dreiser grown to young manhood, a youth about to begin carving out his career in the Chicago newspaper field. The book is important to an understanding of Dreiser the novelist, and on its own, offers a picture of American life which has seldom been equalled in its vivid, steadfast reality.
John Mistletoe. By Christopher Morley. Doubleday, Doran. $2.50.
If you have been a reader of the Saturday Review of Literature during the last year you are already acquainted with John Mistletoe. For in Christopher Morley’s regular column of that periodical Mr. Mistletoe’s thoughts and reflections have been appearing foi' some time, and it is of the material in that column, with addenda, that the volume is composed. A gentleman with whom it is well worth your while becoming acquainted, this Mr. Mistletoe, a gentleman of expansive geniality, of rare good humor and of a wisdom that is as delightful as it is wise.
It is not a fictitious character whom Christopher Morley introduces in presenting Mr. Mistletoe. Indeed, Mr. Mistletoe is very much Mr. Morley himself. Perhaps one might say that Mr. Mistletoe is just a mood, a mood sensitive and contemplative, but a mood which is an essential part of Christopher Morley. J. M., to which John Mistletoe is soon abbreviated in the book, is the creator within Christopher Morley, and his biography, or perhaps’it should be said, autobiography, is easily one of the most richly fragrant, completely fascinating volumes to come from the author of Where the Blue Begins and Thunder On the Left.
Son of Woman: The Story of D. H.
- Lawrence. By John Middleton Murray. Cape & Smith. $3.00.
A curious token to a long and intimate friendship is this book, Son of Woman. In it Mr. Murray tells the story of Lawrence’s poignantly tragic life as Lawrence, sometimes consciously, more frequently unconsciously, revealed it in his works, all of which, from his first novel, The White Peacock, to what Mr. Murray calls the greatest of his books, Fantasia of the Unconscious, and to his final literary effort, Lady Chatterley’s Lover, were autobiographical.
Cruel and devastatingly frank as the Murray portrait of Lawrence is, it offers to his readers comprehension of Lawrence’s rare and essential greatness, a greatness which grew out of the terrible inner torture and anguish of his life.
The Notre Dame String quartet presented a very diversified program of chamber music at its annual recital in Washington hall last Friday evening. The quartet is composed of Mr. Richard Siedel, first violin and director; Mr. George Z. Garza, second violin; Mr. William T. Groom, viola; and Mr. F. H. Ingersoll, violincello.
The program opened with Mozart’s “Quartet No. 2 in D Minor,” a rather heavy selection illustrating the pure form of music. The second number consisted of two descriptive selections by Raff—“Declaration of Love” and “The Mill.” Hasse’s “Barberini’s Minuet from Quartet E major” by Boccherini, the third part of the program, served to show the different forms taken by that type of music. Two favorite folk songs, “Carry Me Back to Old Virginny” by Bland, and “Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes” arranged by Ponchon, made up the fourth number and was well received. The last number on the program was “Finale from Quartet in G minor— Op. 74, No. 3” by Haydn.
The program presented by the string quartet was the third of a series given each semester in connection with the course in musical knowledge and appreciation.
New Books In Library
The following new books are now available on the shelves in the University library:
History — Rational Evolution, R. Briffault; In Search of Ireland, H. C. Morton.
Sociology—Social Psychology, J. K. Folsom; Behind the Green Lights, C. W. Willemse; The Family, E. B. Reuter.
Biography—Lincoln, The Man, Edgar Lee Masters.	'
Economics — Hard Times, R. T. Ely.
Literature—A History of English Literature, W. A. Neilson.
Fiction—The Ring of the Lowens-kolds, S. O. Lagerlof.
Religion — Freedom and Christian Conduct, J. A. Haas; The Mirror of the Months,- S. Kaye-Smith.
885
May 22, 1931
UNIVERSITY THEATRE TO PRESENT
“MERCHANT OF VENICE,” MAY 30, JUNE 5
TO HONOR N.D. DEAD IN MEMORIAL PROGRAM
Cast to Include Merdzinski, Beirne, McCabe, Walsh, Phelan, and Prominent Outsiders
The cast for “The Merchant of Venice,” which will be presented by the members of the University theatre, has been completed and includes all the well known campus actors as well as several local amateur actresses who have distinguished themselves in former productions.
The dates for the performances will be May 30 for the students, and June 5, when the play will be given as a part of the commencement exercises. It is also planned to present a matinee performance sometime between those two dates. -
Professor Frank Kelly, director of the University theatre, says that the preparations for the production indicate that it will probably be one of the best performances of the campus players. Judging from the hard work that is being done at rehearsals, Professor Kelly’s promise of “presenting not only entertainment, but Shakespeare,” will be fulfilled.	.
The role of Portia in the play will be. taken by Mrs. Rosemary Hay, teacher of dramatic interpretation at St. Mary’s college. Although this is Mrs. Hay’s first appearance here, she is by no means lacking in experience as an actress. A graduate of the Leland Powers school at Boston, and of the Phidelah Rice school at Martha’s Vineyard, she has played with several acting companies and was formerly a professional reader.
Miss Julia Huff of South Bend will
Chicago Club Dance June 7
Plans are rapidly nearing completion for the Chicago club dance which will be held at the Drake hotel on Monday evening, June 7. Music will be furnished by “Tweet” Hogan and Verne Buck’s orchestras , both prominent in Chicago musical circles by their numerous broadcasts.
Arrangements for the dance are in the hands of President Dick McShane and President-elect Edward B. Ryan. It is expected that one of the largest crowds will be present as two ballrooms are to be used by the dancers.
play the part of Merissa. Miss Huff will be remembered for her excellent performances as Viola in “Twelfth Night,” as the maid in “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” both of which were presented recently. The other female role in the show will be played by Miss Charlotte Maurer, also of South Bend. Miss Maurer has appeared in several presentations of the University theatre, having been a member of that group for several years, but will best be remembered as Maria in “Twelfth Night.”
The difficult role of Shylock falls upon the capable shoulders of Harry Merdzinski, who is finishing his fourth year as a player in the campus theatrical group. Roger Beirne, who will be remembered for his excellent character interpretations in “Journey’s End” and “Twelfth Night,” will play the part of Bassanio. William Walsh, a promising newcomer in the University theatre, will be Antonio.
Other parts in the show will be played by Joseph McCabe, J. Edward Phelan, James O’Shaughnessy, Thomas McEvitt, Frank Denny, and William C. Blind.
With this array of talent, it is hard to see, according to Mr. Kelly, how the show can be anything but successful, even with an audience as critical as the students, incidentally, it might be interesting to note that this cast is the result of the new registration system of cataloging the members of the University theatre.
Carideo Attends Banquet
Frank Carideo, all-American quarterback for the last two years, substituted at a father and son banquet held last week in Kansas City for the late coach, Knute Rockne.
Long before the fatal airplane crash which ended “Rock’s” career he had promised the Pembroke school authorities, where his two sons are in attendance, to address this gathering.
“I’m glad to be here,” the quarterback said, “but I’d give anything if ‘Rock’ was here instead.”
Fr. Walsh to Celebrate Mass at Sacred Heart Memorial.
Memorial Day services this year will follow the procedure of previous years. The exercises will begin at 9:00 a. m. Central standard time with a military field Mass celebrated by the Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., at the War memorial at the east entrance to Sacred Heart church. The Reverend Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart parish, will deliver a short address at 9:30 a. m. At 9:45 the parade to the Community cemetery will begin. It will be headed by Colonel William Hoynes, K.S.G., dean emeritus of the College of Law, acting as marshal. Colonel Hoynes was member of the 20th Wisconsin Infantry and the 2nd Wisconsin cavalry in the Civil war. He will have as aides Major Benjamin Dubois, A.G.D., and Major Walter Clements of the 327th Field artillery. Captain Clarence “Pat” Manion, who was originally to act as an aide has found it necessary to decline the appointment.
Immediately following the marshal and his aides will be the Notre Dame band headed by Joseph J. Casasanta. First Lieutenant Robert B. Riordan of the 327th field artillery will act as military escort. Next in line will be the color guard from Company “D” and the firing squad from Company “I” of the 152nd Infantry of South Bend. The remainder of the parade will consist of chaplains and visiting veterans, Notre Dame Council No. 1477 Knights of Columbus headed by Grand Knight Louis Buckley, and lastly the students and visitors.
At 10:15 the ceremonies at the graves of the deceased members of the Notre Dame GA..R. post will begin^ They will consist of the decoration of the graves; a prayer for the nation’s dead by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C1S.C., chaplain of the 332nd Infantry; a salute by the firing squad, and taps. .
The program will close at the Administration building-plaza with the 'returning of the colors and the “Star Spangled Banner”' played by the Notre Dame band. --	‘
The Scholastic
886
TELEPHONE EXHIBIT
AMAZES STUDENTS
Messrs. Grace and Pease Astound Large Crowd.
The Bell Laboratories’ exhibit last Tuesday evening in Washington hall, as presented by Sergius P. Grace and his assistant, R. M. Pease, amused, mystified, amazed and often astounded the several hundred students who literally packed the auditorium. If attendance means anything, the demonstration was a success; for standing room was at a premium.
Perhaps the most popular exhibit of the evening was artificial speech, by means of a mechanical larynx and lung, the practicability of which was demonstrated by Mr. Grace. His conversation between Amos and Andy of radio fame brought much . laughter and applause. This apparatus provides an artificial voice for those who have lost their own.
The ability of the scientist to control the frequencies of various sounds was demonstrated by means of phonograph records. A jazz piece, literally turned around, with high frequencies made low and low raised, was still jazz. Reproductions, greatly amplified of course, of the sound of a human heart, of muscular contraction, and of the pulsations heard as a picture of Herbert Hoover was sent by wire showed the potentialities of recording and amplification both in medicine and in science. Delayed transmission of sound, “scrambled speech,” a cobalt steel bar which apparently floated in air, and a mysterious current which, soundlessly, answered the question of an amazed calculus student were some of the outstanding phenomena.
Mr. Grace concluded his exhibition with a demonstration of the mechanical dial telephone. A two thousand mile hook-up with the laboratory in New York, arranged through the Indiana Bell Telephone company, allowed him to dial a number, the pulsations of which were carried to a receiver over a thousand miles away, there mechanically transformed into a human voice speaking the dialed numbers, which, some three or *	four seconds later, was heard through
the loud speaker in Washington hall.
COMING EVENTS
Dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, May 22 — Golf, Indiana state meet, Terre Haute.—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications’ office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building.—New Jersey club meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.—Track, Central Intercollegiate Conference meet, Milwaukee.
SATURDAY, May 23 — Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Iowa at Iowa City. —Golf, Indiana state meet, Terre Haute.
SUNDAY, May 24—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.
MONDAY, May 25 —Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building. — French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 3, Main building. —Golf, dual meet, Detroit university at Notre Dame.—Organ and Glee club recital, 7:15 p. m., St. Patrick’s church.
TUESDAY, May 26—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Purdue at Lafayette.— Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Science hall.—Concert, string ensemble, 8:00 p. m., Washington hall.
WEDNESDAY, May 27—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec” room.—Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room, library.
THURSDAY, May 28 — Spectators’ banquet, 6:30 p. m., Niles, Mich.
Downey To Tour South
William Downey, professor of economics in the College of Arts and Letters, will leave the University next week on a four week’s tour of the south. Mr. Downey expects to go directly to New Orleans, La., and from there through Kentucky, Ten-ne ssee, Florida, north to Pennsylvania and from there back to South Bend.
Mr. Downey was absent from the University recently on account of illness, and the trip south is being made to effect complete recovery of his health.
SCRIBBLERS ELECT HEADS
Brennan is President; McCabe, Nulty Also Get Posts.
The Scribblers held both the election of officers for next year and the election of new members at their weekly meeting Wednesday evening. After some consideration and discussion of the applicants for membership, the following men were elected: Joseph F. Willis, Joseph D. Grogan, James M. Carmody, juniors in the College of Arts and Letters, and John F. Pick, John J. Maxwell, Roger P. Beirne, sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters.
Following this, the club voted to create the office of vice-president. Louis Brennan and Joseph McCabe were then unanimously elected president and vice-president respectively, and Francis Nulty was elected secretary.
It was decided to hold the annual banquet of the club at the Oldenburg Inn next Thursday evening. Francis J. O’Malley was appointed to make arrangements for the dinner and the speakers. At this affair the new members will be formally introduced, to the Scribblers, and the graduating seniors will make their farewells.
STRING ENSEMBLE GIVES FIRST CONCERT TUESDAY
The newly organized Notre Dame String Ensemble will give its first concert on next Tuesday evening at 8:00 p. m. in Washington hall under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel, member of the faculty and forty years first violinist with the Chicago Symphony.
This will be the first time that such an orchestral combination composed entirely of students, will have played here. Three selections by famous composers will be played by the entire combination, while a violin quartet, will be rendered by Mr. Seidel, Franz Philipp, William Karl and Thomas Paradise.
Engineers Hold Picnic	T.
Nearly eighty members of the En-	•
gineers’ club attended a picnic given ■' by that organization last Saturday at ,i Christiana lake, twenty-five miles | north of South Bend. Baseball was the feature of the day with the possible exception of the generous lunch | served at noon.	.	§
May 22, 1931
887
BUCKLEY MADE DELEGATE
Will Represent State K. of C. at Supreme Convention.
Grand Knight Louis Buckley of Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, was elected to represent the state in the Supreme convention. The Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, and Nicholas Bohling, recording secretary, also represented Notre Dame at the convention, May 17-18.
At the state convention Buckley was also made a member of the Resolutions committee. He will represent the state in the Supreme convention to be held at French Lick Springs at a future date.
A report of the fund pledged by the state councils of the Knights to the Notre Dame endowment fund was made. Buckley outlined for the convention-the building program of the University, and urged that' the remainder of the money pledged by the state Knights be raised as soon as possible to aid in this program.
OLD GRADS PRESENT AT
WRANGLERS’ MEETING
The farewell banquet of the Wranglers took place last Wednesday evening in the Rose Marie tea room. The event marked the final appearance of the organization as a group for the year and paid tribute to five graduating members.
Joseph MacNamara, former president of the club and ex-editor of the Notre Dame Juggler, and Arnold Williams, a member of several years ago, were the guests of honor. Both had made a trip to South Bend from Indianapolis to attend the annual affair.
Three new members were formally initiated at the banquet. James Boyle, Lawrence Darrow, and Arthur Sandusky are the incoming men. Donald Macintosh, a recently elected Wrangler, was unable to attend.
Chemical Engineers Travel
Juniors and seniors in the department of chemical engineering made an extensive inspection trip on May 12 to 16, inclusive, visiting various chemical plants in and about Chicago. A group of twenty-six students made the trip, which was. in charge of Professor H. H. Wenzke, of the department of chemistry, assisted by Mr. Andrew Boyle and Mr. Henry Persyn, instructors in the same department.
Campus Opinions
Question: What is your opinion of the “Dome” of 1931?
Earl Roberts, off-campus, freshman—'“The Dome of 1931 compares favorably with any I have seen. It is well balanced and comprehensive, covering all the events and activities on the campus and appealing both to those who are connected with Notre Dame and to outsiders as well. The most prominent feature of the book is the excellent photography.”
Louis G. Alaman, Morrissey hall, freshman—“I am not in a position to make definite criticism as the merits of this year’s Dome, but if all preceding editions are equal to it in style and finish, the school well deserves its long-founded reputation for excellent publications.”
Martin P. Torborg, Lyons hall, junior—“The Dome of 1931 is a credit to the junior' class. This yearbook has the one feature that is lacking in most like publications — originality. The dedication is original; the art work is original; the feature section. is original. The section devoted to activities is also worthy of special comment.”
Martin J. Dowling, Lyons hall, senior—“Hallinan is to be congratulated upon the excellent standard of work in the Dome of 1931, more so when we consider the current financial situation he worked under. The snapshot editor presented the most representative scenes of campus life ever shown in a Dome.”
Albert W. Roche, Sorin hall, senior—“With the issuance of the 1931 yearbook, the Dome celebrates its silver anniversary. In celebrating its 25th birthday, the Dome could have done nothing more appropriate than to dedicate its pages ‘to those men of . Notre Dame who have expressed the Irish courage and imagination,’ and to pay tribute to ‘a race that has lived, fought and learned with an intensive courage and imagination. The Dome of 1931, because of the simplicity and originality of its art work and composition, in every respect symbolizes its Irish theme.”
FR. RAEMERS WRITES BOOK ON BROWNSON
Work Gives Complete History of His Life and Views.
America’s Foremost Philosopher, a study of the life and works of Orestes Brownson, written by the Reverend Sidney A. Raemers of the department of philosophy, has just been published by St. Anselm’s Priory.
The book covers the life of Brownson and speaks of Brownson the man, his theory of empirical intuition, the charge of ontologism, and his general contribution to philosophy. The book itself is a study of the fundamentals of Epistemology.
Foi’ those unaquainted with the great American convert, it may be said that Orestes Brownson expressed the Puritan mind, even with its restless zeal, for all the good that was in it. He renounced the beckoning of political advancement to become and remain the • champion of Catholic truth.
In speaking of Father Raemers’ book, the Reverend Patrick W. Brown, Ph.D., of the department of history at Catholic university, says: “It rescues the greatest mind in American metaphysics from obscurity.”
Father Raemers recently received a suggestion from the Commonweal, noted Catholic weekly, that he write another book on Brownson, this time in a more popular vein. America’s Foremost Philosopher is, of necessity, a book of a rather abstruse type.
GROOM TO GIVE RECITAL.
ASSISTED BY GLEE CLUB
Mr. Willard Groom, AA.G.O., of the department of music, will give an organ recital assisted by the Notre Dame Glee club on Monday evening, May 25 at St. Patrick’s church. The organ program will include the first movement of Cesar Franck D Minor Symphony. Also compositions of Bach, Russel, Yon, Rinisky, Korsakov and Wagner covering the phases of music not already illustrated in the previous concerts.
The Glee club will sing three motets by O’Connor, Reverend A. J. Hope, C.S.C., and Gounod. This is the last of the series of concerts to be presented in connection with the course in Musical Knowledge and Appreciation.
888
The Scholastic
“DOME” HOLDS BANQUET
Staff Members Receive First Copies of Year-Book.
Nearly forty-eight hours before the rest of the students received their Domes, the members of the staff had their copies. This was made possible for the first time at a dinner held Sunday evening at 6:30 at the Rose-Marie tea room.
About twenty staff members and several guests attended the affair. The guests included John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications; Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; John E. Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Robert L. Gorman, editor-elect of the Juggler; and Joseph Wilk, circulation manager of the Dome.
Although the rules of the event did not permit “speeches,” the guests, graduating members, and several others spoke a few words following the dinner.
The following staff members attended: Neil Hurley, Myron Crawford, James K. Collins, James Dubbs, Leslie Raddatz, Thomas Monahan, Austin Boyle, Henry Asman, Charles Hanna, J. Don Sullivan, William Gorman, John Pick, Edmund Stephan, Arthur Sandusky, George Belting, Anthony Anzlovar, John Conley, and Irving B. Halper.
150 Couples Attend Formal
One hundred fifty couples attended the annual Monogram Club ball held last Tuesday evening in the Progress club ballroom in South Bend. Music was furnished by the Notre Dame “Jugglers” under the direction of Al Stewart. Simple decorations consisting of monogram blankets and pennants were in effect.
John F. Saunders, former manager of the football team, was chairman of the affair. Arthur McManmon is president of the club. A feature of the dance was the act enacted by the new men being initiated into the club.
Father Miltner Gives Address
Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Let-ers,. delivered an address to. the graduates of the school of nursing at St.-Agnes’ hospital at Fond du Lac, Wis., on Monday of last week.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the news and sports staffs this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HOLDS FINAL MEETING
Last Monday evening the Notre Dame Academy of Science held its final meeting of the present school year in Science hall. The principal speaker of the evening was Professor Henry Froning, head of the department of chemistry of the University, who gave a short talk on “The Values of Chemistry as Science.”
Chemistry, according to Mr. Froning, teaches one to think clearly, to analyze situations carefully, and in addition increases one’s vocabulary to a considerable degree.
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, in another short address to the Academy, thanked the officers and the members for the splendid spirit of cooperation they have manifested this year and expressed the desire that next year’s organization will be a still larger group.
N. D. Students Honored
In the fifth analytique competition for students in the department of architecture, conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design of New York City, seven sophomores received recognition for their drawings submitted. The subject of the competition was a court in a residence. Full mentions were given to J. de la Vergne, P. Ochsenschlager, and C. Medland. Those receiving half-mentions were R. Bedan, P. Chuey, J. Malcolm and E. Sandmeier.
Journalists to Meet Monday
The annual election of officers of the Press club will take place on next Monday evening in the journalism room of the library. President Robert Balfe, who will leave for Florida after graduation to accept a position, will conduct the election.
This meeting will be the final one of the year. Talks will be given by a number of the graduating seniors.
‘SCRIP’ TO BE ISSUED SOON
Final Appearance Marked By Excellent Short Stories.
Scrip, the University literary quarterly, will make its final appearance very soon. Composed chiefly of short stories, the last number has as its contributors, Joseph McCabe, next year’s editor-in-chief, Louis Brennan, this year’s editor, George M. Spalding, winner of the Ladies’ Home Journal short story contest, and James d’Autremont, C.S.C., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, living in Moreau seminary.
The poetry section will be featured by oentributions from the Reverend Famcis Thornton and Joseph Carroll. Joseph McCabe, who won the Scribblers short story contest held recently, has written another very interesting story in his realistic manner. Louis A. Brennan, recently honored by Edward J. O’Brien, has contributed a remarkable study, while George Spalding has written another story of the same model as the one with which he won the $500 contest.
Band in Dedicatory Service
Last Tuesday the Notre Dame band took part in the Quarto-Millenial anniversary of the LaSalle Indian coun-efl and the dedication of the cornerstone of the LaSalle Memorial project. These ceremonies were also held in connection with the Lion’s state convention. Because of the inclement weather, the ceremonies scheduled to be held at Council Oak in Highland cemetery, were conducted in the gymnasium.
The massed band, comprising ten different organizations numbering 500 pieces was under the direction of Mr. Joseph J. Casasanta of the department of music here at the University.
Borland Denies Rumor
Contrary to all rumors about the campus the board bill for students in the University dining halls will not be raised. Mr. Borland, manager of the refectory, affirmed this in an interview with a Scholastic reporter early this week. He stated that the rumor had probably arisen because of the recent simplification of the tuition bill.
May 22, 1931
By JOHN E. CONLEY
THE library of the University was founded in 1873 by the Reverend Augustus Lemmonier, C.S.C. In 1879 the building in which it was housed was almost entirely destroyed by fire, and very few of the 10,000 volumes it contained were saved. The library is now housed in a modern building which was completed in 1917, and at present it numbers about 157,000 volumes, according to Miss Jeannette Murphy, A.B., the chief cataloger. Formerly the library was classified under the Dewey decimal system, but two years ago this method was replaced by the Library of Congress system.
Since its inception two years ago, 11,000 books have been classified under the new system, and this work is proceeding at the rapid rate of 1,000 books each month. At least 375 new books are added to the library each month, something to be marveled at when we discover that the budget for 1930 was only $17,000. An edition of Chaucer with wood-cuts on every page, lacking but one book to make it complete, is kept in the safe, while in the office of the librarian there is a first edition of Voyages an Canada, by explorer Champlain, which is val
ued at $875. Also stored here is an autographed copy' of General Lew Wallace’s Ben Hilt, containing the widely known dedication, “To the wife of my youth.” When complete the library stacks will have a capacity of 650,000 volumes and the card files will have a capacity of 1,000,000 cards.
Some very interesting facts were mentioned by Miss Marie Lawrence, A.B., concerning readers’ tastes, which naturally are of a great variety. In general the students prefer crime stories. There are some books that are extremely popular and are rarely to be had from the stacks. Two of these are Death Comes Far the Archbishop and Tolstoi’s Ann Karenina. From 200 to 300 books are circulated daily, and it seems that advertising plays a powerful factor in the circulation because those books advertised on the bulletin board ‘ are the most popular.
In the periodical department there is a subscription list of 417, including daily, weekly, and monthly publications. The Dante library, founded by Dr. John A. Zahm, contains 2,800 volumes in which there are forty different languages represented. Connected with the field of science there is the
Greene Botanical library and the Nieuwland Botanical library. The former was founded by Dr. Edward Lee Greene and numbers 4,000 volumes; connected with this library are 100,000 specimens in an herbarium. The Nieuwland library, numbering 3,000 volumes, many of which are rare and out of print, was presented to the University by Father Nieuwland and is used only as a reference library. These particular branches of the library are housed in special rooms of the building as is the Zahm South American library, which is now in the process of being cataloged, and is reputed to be the best of its kind.
Nineteen steps lead up to the white stone structure which is 152 feet by 108 feet. It is located on one of the prettiest spots on the campus. Each of the reading rooms seat about ninety people and measure 108 feet by 32 feet. Twelve full-time employees and 22 student part-time employees make up the personnel of the library staff.
Located on the third floor of the library is the Wightman Art gallery, containing 225 objects d’art, most of which are the gift of C. A. Wightman, and are valued at several millions of
890
The Scholastic
‘JUGGLER’ OUT THIS WEEK
Commencement Number Will Feature Fine Art Work.
The Commencement number of the Juggler will appear on the campus next week. The cover for this last issue of the school year was done by William Walsh, a freshman, who was added to the staff last month because of his brilliant art work.
Joe Lopker has done his usual finished work in the frontispiece for the final presentation by the Funny Fellow and his cast. Two full page drawings by the art editor, William O’Brien, are noteworthy and with the above make up most of the art section.
A parody on the Valedictory address is one of the most unusual features of this issue. It is remarkably well-done and deserves mention. “Campus Chatter” and “Idle Prattle” continue their exposes of local personalities. These two features have become fixtures in the Juggler
QiiiittitiiKitinHtmciiMittiiiiiiiiitatnmiiiiiiitiiiitiitiiitmQ
f NOTICE! |
i There will be a meeting of the = = Arts and Letters faculty on | = Wednesday, May 27, at 4:15 in | = Room 222 of the Main building, j QioiiiiiiiinifiiifiiuiiiiniitiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiQ and are at once the despair and delight of the students.
Funny Fellow Jack Dempsey tells us that the guest star for the issue will probably be Richard Henry Little, the well-known columnist of the Chicago Tribune.
Lay Faculty Meets
Members of the Arts and Letters lay-faculty and their guests met last Tuesday evening for the last time this school year and discussed various topics over a chicken dinner* in the Old English Gardens.
Dr. Leo Kuntz of the department of education was the featured speaker. He talked on “The History and Aims of Education.” Mr. William Downey of the department of economics had been scheduled to lecture at this meeting, but was unable to do so because of illness.
SCANLON NEW CLUB HEAD
Indianapolis Organization Has Annual Election.
John Maurice Scanlon, junior in the College of Engineering, was elected president of the Indianapolis club last week at a banquet in the Rose Marie tea room. The other officers selected were: James Kirby, vice-president; Albert Smith, secretary; and Robert Leppert, treasurer.
This year’s president, Wilfred Hab-ing, conducted the elections, and then turned over the activities to Frank J. Noll, who acted as toastmaster. All the incoming and retiring officers gave short talks.
Brother Agatho, C.S.C., the guest of honor of the evening, gave an interesting and instructive speech on “Culture: as it is understood, and what it really is.”
Lawrence Sexton, retiring treasurer of the club, made his final financial report of the year and suggested that the organization give a dance sometime during the summer vacation in Indianapolis.
dollars. This gallery contains a group of Russian ikons, some of which date back to the thirteenth century. In art gallery C there is a statue representing Dante and his conceptions of Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise. In the corridor of the third floor there is a case containing swords used by various Civil war generals. An episcopal chair used by the Rt. Reverend John England, Bishop of Charleston from 1820 to 1842, is kept in a room on the third floor apart from the art gallery.
V
A first edition of the manuscript of A Troubled Heart, by Charles Warren Stoddard, dedicated to Father Hudson, printed at The Ave Maria Press, and presented to Robert Louis Stevenson, is also on display here. Hundreds of autographs, many of them very valuable, are also kept here in the library. Flanking the entrance to the catalog files are two busts, gifts of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University. One of these is of Cardinal Newman and the other of Cardinal Manning. Decorating the office of the librarian is a trophy awarded to Notre Dame at the Tournament of Roses in 1925 for second place in the “float” contest. In the foyer of the library is stored the Bonniwell trophy, presented to the
University in 1929 for its excellence on the football field by the Veteran Athletes of Philadelphia.
Last but not least is a very interesting part of the library which few people know anything about. This is the department of archives. Contained herein are letters, articles, manuscripts, and many important documents, without which no history of the Church in the United States would be complete. To a prominent Catholic university this is indeed of the greatest importance.
There are many more facts that could be garnered concerning the Notre Dame library, but those mentioned above are the ones that should have a general appeal to the student body.


May 22, 1931
891
CAMPLr CLUB J
LA RAZA ELECTION
With little ballyhoo and no politics the LA RAZA club last Friday held its election of officers in the old Law building. Elected were: Antonio R. Diaz, president; Lucio Muniain, vice-president; Julius Arce, secretary; Edward Roxas, treasurer. Elections for all offices were nearly unanimous, an old LA RAZA custom.
Retiring President William Morphy leaves office under no cloud, more than many a club officer can say.
*	* *
PAL
Campus clubs editor of the Scholastic last year was Ramon G. Smith, now president of the ROCKY MOUNTAIN club. Last week he sent the following letter to this department:
“I’m not forgetting, old man, that I once had your job and I got in on a smoker once.
“The Rocky Mountain 'club would appreciate your presence (at a smoker Wednesday evening) though it has nothing but refreshments and elections to interest you.”
Ramon G. Smith
The Pres.
*	* *
Officers of the ROCKY MOUNTAIN club for next year are John H. Humphreys, president; Paul Murphy, vicepresident; James McFeeley, secretary; John Kramer, treasurer.
Already the new officers are planning a gigantic (according to them) summer dance to be held in Denver.
*	* *
BUFFALO ELECTION
A banquet at the local Oliver terminated the campus ■ activities of the BUFFALO club for the year. A summer dance, held annually in conjunction with the alumni, is still in the offing, however.
Elected at the banquet were new officers for 19311932. They are: William T. Hall, president; John H. Rudd, vice-president; Carlos Frank, treasurer; James F. Doyle, secretary. -
* * *
FAREWELL
The CLEVELAND club’s final banquet of the year will be held at the Oliver hotel next Thursday evening. An annual CLEVELAND club affair, the seniors are admitted free and permitted to say a few words about their careers at Notre Dame. In his talk Retiring President John Raleigh will hand over the reins of office, only slightly worn, to New President Myron (“Most Active Club on the Campus”) Crawford.
■ * * * •
NOTE
The METROPOLITAN club is resting easily after the . hectic elections of last week.
FORUM ELECTION
In the library last Friday evening the COMMERCE FORUM chose its officers for the coming year. They are: Loras T. Lane, president; Walter Noonan, vice-president; Francis J. Fogarty, secretary; Frederick J. Meyer, treasurer.
Said New President Lane, “The COMMERCE FORUM will make every effort possible next year to carry out the purposes for which the club was founded.” Said Retiring President E. F. Lee to the new members, “Welcome.”
New President Lane now joins Salvatore Bontempo (NEW JERSEY and ITALIAN clubs) in that select group who preside over two clubs. He is also president of the IOWA club.
Applications for admission to the COMMERCE FORUM may be sent to Secretary Frederick Meyer, Sophomore hall, before June 1. Freshmen as well as upperclassmen are eligible to join.
* * *
RUMOR
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, denies the rumor that he is founding a FATHERS’ club on the campus.
*	* *
TONIGHT
The NEW JERSEY club will meet this evening in the old Law building to discuss plans for its Spring Formal, to distribute bids for it.
*	* *
INDIANAPOLIS ELECTION
Officers of the INDIANAPOLIS club for next year are: John Scanlan, president; James Kirby, vice-president; Albert Smith (no relation), secretary; Robert Lep-pert, treasurer.
* * * .
CHI FORMAL
The CHICAGO club’s formal dance, postponed at Easter, will be held on June 8 in the Gold and Balloon rooms of the Congress hotel. Vetoed at the club meeting Wednesday evening was the buying of a present for the retiring president. Members blamed the depression.
* * *
DETROIT ELECTION
President Kenneth McLeod, Vice-President John Witt-liff, Secretary Edward Moriarity, and Treasurer John Laugne will lead the DETROIT club next year, members decided at a meeting Wednesday evening.
i
892
The. Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
RATINGS
It’s close enough to the end of the year to make a bow to those who have made this column possible. We don’t want to start any arguments, and we haven’t any prizes to offer, but in our opinion the college papers coming to this office should be rated like this:
1.	The Daily Princetonian.
2.	The Indiana Daily Student.
3.	The Daily Californian.	v
4.	The Southern California Daily Trojan.
5.	The Pennsylvanian.
The best editorials came from the militant pens of Princeton and Stanford; make-up honors go to Indiana; the most metropolitan looking papers were the Daily Texan and the Daily Illini; Princeton, Indiana, and the Syracuse Daily Orange had the best columnists; Nick Mamula, of Ohio State, handled the sports in the best fashion; next to the College Parade of the N. D. Scholastic, the worst column was written by the Campus Scout in the Daily Illini, but that was the fault of his contributors ....
Well. I hope nobody feels slighted.
THE ATHLETIC HIERARCHY
Two weeks ago the Princetonian editorially called attention to Columbia university’s recent abolition of the distinction between major and minor sport awards and expressed its belief in the advisability of Princeton’s following a similar course. Today we wish to urge again, with added emphasis, that the Undergraduate Athletic committee, which has complete autonomy in the matter of awarding insignia, abolish this apparently arbitrary differentiation.
The giving of letters to successful candidates for athletic teams is a custom which should unquestionably be maintained. As an incentive for serious athletic competition, the athletic award serves admirably to promote the health, sportsmanship, self-reliance and general welfare of a large portion of the undergraduate body. The question which here presents itself, however, is why the highest honor in the line of awards should be limited to a mere handful of sports, simply because they are of longer standing or are more popular among spectators than are other forms of athletics. The anomaly is particularly striking when it is realized that the so-called major sports are necessarily of no more benefit to the competitors than those sports which are • placed in the lesser category.
As has been said, the distinction between the awards was diminished last year to the point where a minor sport man by a simple expansion of the chest, can place himself in the major sport class, at least as far as the insignia . is concerned. But there seems little valid excuse for the termination of the reform at that point. We once more strongly advise the complete abolition of a distinction which is utterly incompatible with the theory behind college athletics.—Daily Princetonian.
THREE WEEKS
This is no Elinor Glyn romance. It is an educational tragedy which will be played in the collegiate theatre during the first two weeks in June. Diploma-girt seniors are going out into the cold, cold world, but the world will receive them not. From reports gathered from accurate sources, it would seem that not many of the graduating seniors are going to cause any conflagrations in the business world this year. One of the largest employers of college graduates has reduced his June quota ninety percent. The department stores of the large cities which have formerly offered jobs to 25 or 30 graduates apiece, will hire no more than 10 or 15 this June. The college man with two or three years of experience behind him is regarded as a much better employee than the' inexperienced college graduate fresh from the classroom, chiefly because the latter never wishes to stay at one job for very long. Only a small percentage of graduates hired in June are still on the payroll of the company when the next June rolls around.
Students entering the educational field have found that teachers have been very quick to sign their renewal contracts, instead of taking chances on a better job. More and more the M.A. is becoming a requisite for a good teaching position. Coupled with the fact that the larger city schools demand a year or more experience in the small town, it would appear that the field of education is not so green as in other years. Even the coveted M.A. is becoming more and more common. When Syracuse university issued announcements of a large number of scholarship awards for advanced work, it was immediately deluged with applications from all sections of the country. Other colleges are experiencing this same rush into graduate work. Standards in all professions and businesses are going higher; jobs are becoming fewer; the number of days till graduation is decreasing—see you in the breadline!
COLLEGIANA
Duquesne’s newspaper is called “The Duke”; Princeton’s is affectionately called “The Prince”; and now our own little Juggler shows royalistic tendencies . . . what is democracy coming to ... at one Midwestern university, the practice of “cutting in” at dances is effected by handing a lemon to the dancing male, who must then relinquish the girl . . . but aren’t there better uses for lemons at big dances than that? . . . Oxford university male students are raising quite a row about the influx of women students . . . The Syracuse Daily Orange columnist, who likes to take a dig at dear old Alma Mater every now and then . . . the other day he informed the world that three-fourths of Notre Dame’s senior class were either married or engaged . ; . reason for this sad state of affairs: Notre Dame men, not being bothered with co-eds, have retained all.their youthful ideals about women . . . the new collegiate magazine College Stories, with John Nanovic, ’30 on the editorial staff, and a certain student in St. Edward’s hall making contributions . . . Louis, how could you?
May 22, 1931
893
IIIIGI'f PAGE
A WORD OF PRAISE
The Scholastic this week turns its attention and remarks to something considerably more pleasant and praiseworthy than dealt with on the editorial page for the past few weeks, and at the same time hopes that none of its readers who are cynically inclined will look upon the following bit of praise as ah attempt to balance the scales, as it were, against the critical nature of some of the previous editorials. The Scholastic, rest assured, is still firm in its resolve to reveal to the students certain existing conditions in campus life that are in need of immediate correction.
Getting back to the more agreeable subject mentioned before—it is our opinion that a certain practice here at the University is especially deserving of praise. We refer to the entertainment this year in Washington hall. That it has been superior to that of any other year is beyond question. The installation of sound apparatus in the fall with the resulting up-to-date talking pictures appealed to everyone. The “movies” for the most part have been carefully selected; coming to the campus as they have during the present period of empty purses they have been particularly well received. Saturday night attendance in Washington hall speaks for itself.
The entertainment on the stage has been likewise meritorious. Interesting lectures, flashes of magic, concerts and electrical wizardry all come back to us now in an appealing manner. Some of the exhibitions had the happy faculty of being educational as well as amusing. The electrical display, for instance, of last Tuesday evening was of such a nature. It was broadening, to say the least, to see and hear some of the newer inventions at work.
The faculty members in charge of the entertainment this year are to be commended for their efforts. They have succeeded in satisfying the tastes of the students, an accomplishment which is indeed noteworthy. There will always be some, of course, who balk at the idea of seeing a motion picture which is a few weeks old, but they are the type who would have criticized it the first day it was produced. For its part the Scholastic looks with expectation towards another year of the same caliber of amusement.
AN UNAPPRECIATED ART
It is Saturday evening, the exact time six six-thirty, and a wildly dashing mob is seen to scramble up the well worn steps of Washington hall, throwing caution to the winds in the mad struggle for choice seats. Olga Hotcha is playing in “Flames of Passion.”
Some few evenings later, as the clock strikes eight, strains of music are heard coming from that same hall as two students enter unmolested and take their place among the forty other outcasts they find there. Only the compositions of the immortal Mozart and Haydn are being played by a group of well trained musicians.
The Scholastic does not attempt to explain the rather puzzling taste and judgement displayed by students in an institution of higher learning. That a similar situation exists at universities in general throughout the country is a probability, but that is poor excuse for such lack of appreciation of music by Notre Dame students. It is no excuse at all, but merely an indictment of students in other universities.
When such a man as Mr. Richard Seidel of the music department faculty calls for candidates for a symphony orchestra and receives response from fifteen students, something is wrong. When less than one-thirtieth of the total number of students in the University attend a well advertised organ recital, the first ever given at Notre Dame during the regular school year, it is evident that the noblest of the arts is being neglected—and by men who are presumably learning to appreciate all things cultural.
Music is probably the oldest of fine arts and to confess complete ignorance of this Divine gift to man is to bare to public view the smarting welt of cultural illiteracy.	.
A love of music is not of necessity inborn nor can it be gained merely at desire. Only contin-• uous association and a constant striving to understand will serve to unlock the secret portals of music and permit enjoyment of the delights within.	.
Let it be hoped that these portals will be opened to more men at Notre Dame, that they too may hold privileged communion with the Muse and that the most ancient of arts may receive its just measure of attention.
894
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINE
TRIBUTE
Let’s eat a toast For Rollo Boyle, Whose satire is
A priceless poil.
SIDE STREETS
O give to me the side-streets, The arteries of a town, Not its heart, the business part Where electric-letters frown.
And here is more tribute—to the one and only Albert— Albert who goes his rambling way about the campus, with his funny little stick picking up all sorts of stray papers and scattered bits which eventually, says Louis Brennan, comprise an issue of Scrip.
TO ONE UNJUSTLY OPPRESSED
O Albert, our Albert, of whom we all joke, You’re truly not anyone’s fool.
You continue to work, and laugh to at the yoke That’s hung on the young sap in school.
0 Albert, our Albert, content with your lot, Thar’s brains in that fuzzy old head.
And students who chaff you—they’re all not so hot.
You’re really the smart one instead.
—Mart.
THOUGHTS OF A VAGABOND
(Who’s known Highlands and Lowlands) Where the ghost-fogs flirt with the dead logs, Where the meadows skirt the low bogs, And where the highland pine-trees blow, And where the lowland cedars grow, There, and there alone is my goal, There, and there alone, is my soul.
Where the highland meets the lowland, Where the loivland greets the highland, And where the purple mountains glow, And where the lowland rivers flow, There, and there alone, will I roam, There, oh, there alone, is my home!
—Canaras.
NOUVELLE LUNE
O shine more brightly, Nouvelle Lune, To lighten up the scented dell, Where pine trees croon, And lovers spoon
Beneath thy tantalizing spell.
O beam more brightly, Nouvelle Lune, To lighten up this fated world, Where strife doth tune, And death comes soon, Though even lives are not unfurled.
So gleam more brightly, Nouvelle Lune, To brighten up the heavy sky, Where mad stars loom, And comets swoon
A million times before we die!
—Raybrook.
Just side-streets with friendly lights, And their happy, wistful sights:
High street-lamps that thrill the most, And a mail-box on each post;
Bungalows so squat and prim, With green lawns so neat and trim;
Parlor lamps of gay array, Boys and girls that laugh and play;
Fitful gusts of summer breeze, Flagstone walks and bosky trees,
(Grotesque roofs with dripping eaves, The rustle of singing leaves;
Side-streets that lead to side-streets— Pulse of life that beats and beats!
0 give to me the side-streets,
The arteries of a town, Not its heart, the business part Where electric-letters frozen.
—Bishop M.
MERRIE PIRATE SONGE
I have fought on the shores of Zanzibar For a pocket-full of pearls;
I have captured crews and passengers And been scorned by pretty girls.
I have ended the quests of treasure-chests Under a bloody moon;
And my dagger’s blade made women afraid And caused men’s deaths too soon.
. But there was one prize that struck my eyes And made my body chill;
’Twas a heart I stole off El Ferrol That was ready to do my will.
And I didrit dream what this heart could mean
To a thieving pirate bold;
But on a moonlit sea it was opened to me— And I loved it more than gold.
—Vagabond Lover.
It is a pleasant thing to find our contributors so steadfast. Stick with us, kind sirs.
—The Weary Bumper.
May 22, 1931
895
♦ SPCKTS ♦
N. D. Golfers Defeat Panthers
Captain Fran Beaupre Is Beaten By Sam Parks On Eighteenth Green
Other Three Men Win Easily; Victory Increases Hope of
Good Showing In Nationals.
Notre Dame’s golfing invincibles served notice that they are the team that must be beaten if anyone but them win the national title at Olympia fields, in Chicago, in June, when they trounced the powerful University of Pittsburgh team, 14% to 3%, last Saturday to win their seventh consecutive victory. With only one match remaining, and that with University of Detroit whom they have already beaten once, Notre Dame is looking to its second successive undefeated season.
Captain Sam Parks, one of the leading golfers in the east, played brilliant golf to win the classic match of the day from Captain Fran Beaupre of Notre Dame, but was the only member of the Pittsburgh team to register. Despite the fine golf displayed by Parks in his eighteenth hole victory over Beaupre, two other Notre Dame players bettered his score of 78, Russ Beaupre getting a 77 and Larry Moller equalling par with 73.
Staging a brilliant come-back after being three down, Beaupre lost the match on the eighteenth when a mongrel dog darted in front of him just as he shot his approach, causing him to top the ball which stopped about five feet short of the green. His thirty foot putt, which would have halved the hole, was short by an inch.
Parks won two of the first three holes, and increased his lead on the 462 fourth, when he shot an eagle 3 to beat Beaupre’s birdie. They halved the next three holes, and then Beaupre w’on one back on the eighth when
Bill McCormick
Track Captain for 1932
Parks took three putts. He evened the match when he won the ninth and eleventh, and tied it up again on the thirteenth with a birdie two, sinking a ten foot putt, after losing the twelfth. He dropped the sixteenth and made it up on the seventeenth, and then lost the match on the fatal eighteenth. Parks, playing like a
(Continued on Page 899)
TRACK TEAM ELECTS McCORMICK CAPTAIN
New Leader Stepped Into Jack Elder’s Shoes In 1930.
William H. McCormick, of Granite City, Illinois, was elected captain of the Notre Dame track team for the 1932 season at a meeting of the team held last Wednesday afternoon. He succeeds Johnnie O’Brien, star hurdler, who brings his college track career to a close tonight in the annual Central Intercollegiate conference meet at Milwaukee.
McCormick entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1928, and earned his freshman numerals as a sprinter the following spring. His work that year was good but not extraordinary. In his sophomore year, Notre Dame track followers were bewailing the loss of the brilliant Jack Elder, but when McCormick was clocked in 6.2 seconds for the 60-yard dash in the C.I.C. meet early in March, they began to realize that Notre Dame had another great sprinter.
Throughout the year McCormick was brilliant in spots. He ran good races but he didn’t run them regularly enough to be a really dependable point-getter. It was not until this year that he became consistent, and since early in February his work has been above reproach. Indoors, he tied the world’s record for the sixty yards on more than one occasion and was seldom timed in slower than :06.4. Out-of-doors his work has been even more pleasing. At the Ohio Relays he forced the world’s record-holder Tolan to the limit before admitting defeat by a foot in the fast time of 9.7 seconds. A week later, at Annapolis, Bill cut another tenth-second off his time.
McCormick is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and is majoring in sociology. He prepped at Granite City high school where he started his career on the cinder path.
896
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING—
John “Lefty” Lisicki
N.D. AGAIN VICTORS IN STATE TRACK MEET
About a week ago a syndicate Lnewspaper writer included in his Brushing Up On Sports column an item that read: “John Lisicki, star Notre Dame lefthander, has won ten college baseball games and lost but one.” There’s the introduction.
Lefty Lisicki was bom in Perth Amboy, New Jersey, and still claims it as his home though he is spending nine months of this year in a little excavation labeled 21 Sorin hall. He went to high school in Perth Amboy sometime after the other event credited to the town.
Coming to Notre Dame, Lefty played freshman baseball under Father Mooney and then stepped into a monogram in his sophomore year. He is finishing his third year and last season on the Blue and Gold nine this spring. He says that he expects to finish his A.B. course in August, at the completion of summer school.
Mr. Flannely, who sleeps downstairs from Lefty and who seems to dress spasmodically, spurred the conversation on a bit. “Look at that telegram on the wall behind you,” he advised. We looked. “Nice,” we thought, “can we print that.”
Lefty decided we couldn’t, but anyway it offered congratulations and wishes for good luck. It seems to have been sent during the southern trip a year or two ago and if you think that Lefty is saving a cheery word from his roommate for two years, you had better trot down and take a look.
We found out here, as the fifth customer entered, that Mr. Lisicki runs the best butts dispensary in Sorin. The customers unfolded a lot of information though! For instance, “Tell him about the time you burned the pajamas, Lefty.” It seems that the southpaw tried a home-patented heating pad for a wrenched back and having fallen asleep - in the curing process was forced to be rescued by the efficient Mr. Flannely from a blazing bit of sleeping wear.
Then, “Tell him about the dogs, Lefty.” Flannely did that. “He’s a swell roommate,” he started, “but he’s too fond of pets. There’s a dog or a cat or sometimes a rabbit around here all the time ’cause Lefty’s softhearted that way. Why just look at these guys in here now.”
Lefty blushingly admitted the vice and added Sorinites, crickets and day-dogs to the list of individuals that find a haven in 21. He also listed his hobbies. He likes to swim
“Lefty” Lisicki
Notre Dame’s Hurling Ace
and ride, and especially to read. He has a local reputation for being a record-breaking reader. He denied being a sun bather though, and blamed the steam pipe system of 21 for his burn. A careful estimate gave him six inches of clearance in the upper deck.
Among his ambitions and plans, he revealed the news that he is seriously contemplating matrimony, that he has always wanted to see his picture in the Scholastic and that he wishes that all the GUYS THAT OWE him money would drop in soon. Flannelly encouraged that last bit.
After graduation, Lefty hopes to pitch somewhere in Jersey for a while and later, plans on taking a place with an oil concern in New York. Till then, though, he’ll go on winning games for Notre Dame, reading, taking care of the pets, and playing . . . ah . . . “make it ‘bridge’ ” says Flannelly.
Blue Shows Strength to Nose Out Indiana, 49 to 45.
Overcoming their apparent weakness to gamer second, third and fourth places, Coach John P. Nicholson’s Blue and Gold trackmen successfully defended their Indiana State title last Saturday. The Fighting Irish took five first places and a sufficient number of seconds and thirds to lead their nearest rival, Indiana, by five full points. Butler was third in the scoring, followed by Purdue, Ball Teachers, DePauw, Earlham, and Indiana State Teachers, in the order named. Seven state records fell by the wayside during the course of the afternoon, five of these being recorded by the runners-up, Indiana.
Roy Bailie was the only Blue and Gold representative to break a record, although the others recorded some excellent marks for their day’s labors. Bailie stepped the 220-yard low hurdles in :24.2 seconds to lead his closest rival, Hatfield of Indiana, to the tape by a comfortable margin.
Bill McCormick, who has been suffering from a leg injury, opened up the program for the day by winning the century, but lost out in the 220-yard dash to Burns, of Butler, who established a new state record in winning. Hatfield of Indiana annexed a win over Captain Johnnie O’Brien in the 120-yard high hurdles, and won the event in the excellent time of 14.8 seconds.
Alex Wilson was the outstanding star of the day and was the only one to win two first places. Alex won his favorite event, the 440, in :49.2 and the half mile in 1:56.3. The latter proved to be one of the best races of the day and was nip and tuck over the whole course. Wilson, Sivak of Butler, and Brant Little were all bunched closely together until the final stretch when Wilson displayed his superiority by crossing the line well in advance of his rivals.
“Nordy” Hoffman was the other Notre Dame man to win a first place by copping the discus throw with a heave of 133 feet 5 inches. Notre Dame almost gained a slam in this event when Branfort and Shaeffer finished second and third respectively. Ralph Johnson placed second to Beecher of Indiana, who ascended to
May 22, 1931
897
a new state record of 13 feet, 4 inches to win the event. Gough took a fourth in the 100; Little a third in the half mile; Darling a third in the high jump; and Gene Howrey a third in the two mile to complete Notre Dame’s individual scoring for the day.
The mile relay placed second to Indiana’s speedy quartet of batonpassers, who won the eight furlong race in 3:20.7 to add another state record to their string for the afternoon.
The summaries:
100-YARD DASH — Won by McCormick (ND) ; Burns (Butler), second; Odom (Purdue) , third; Gough (ND), fourth. Time, :09.9.
MILE RUN—Won by Sivak (Butler) : Ur-bain (Butler), second; Kent (Indiana), third; Leas (Indiana), fourth. Time 4:26.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Koenig (Indiana), second; Melbourne (De-
Pauw), third; Miller (Purdue), fourth. Time :49.2.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Curry (Purdue) ; Felix (Earlham), second; Westerland (Purdue), third; Oren (Indiana), fourth. Distance, 188 feet.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Clouch (Indiana) ; Gohl (Purdue), second; Heckman (Indiana), third; Dick (Ball Teachers), fourth. Distance 22 feet, 10^ inches. (New State record.)
DISCUS—Won by Hoffman (ND) ; Branfort (ND), second; Schaeffer (ND), third; Elser (Butler), fourth. Distance, 133 feet, 5 inches.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Hatfield (Indiana) ; O’Brien (ND), second; Snyder (Purdue), third; Jones (Ball Teachers), fourth. Time :14.8. (New record.)
HALF-MILE RUN—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Sivak (Butler), second; Little (ND), third ; Doyle (Purdue), fourth. Time 1:56.3.
POLE VAULT—Won by Beecher (Indiana) ; Johnston (ND), second; Hollingsworth (Purdue), Kilgore (DePauw), Station (Earlham), T. Brown (Indiana), and Fishleigh (ND), tied for third. Height 13 feet, 4 inches. (New record.)
SHOT PUT—Won by Mecum (Butler) ; Biddinger (Indiana), second; Hoffman (ND), third; Elser (Butler), fourth. Distance, 45 feet, 9 inches.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Jones (Ball Teachers) ; Nelson (Butler), second; Darling (ND), third; Beecher (Indiana), fourth. Height 6 feet, 4 5/16 inches.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Burns (Butler) ; Graham (Ball Teachers), second; Kelly (ND), third; McCormick (ND), fourth. Time :21.4. (New record.)
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Brocksmith (Indiana) ; Watson (Indiana), second; Howrey (ND), third; Jones (Butler), fourth. Time 9:32.8. (New record.)
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Bailie (ND) ; Hatfield (Indiana), second; Spina (DePauw), third; Knisley (Butler), fourth. Time :24.2. (New record.)
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Indiana (Setreicher, Brown, Koenig, Menaugh) ; Notre Dame, second; Butler, third; Purdue, fourth. Time 3:20.7. (New record.)
almost
AN
ATHLETE
ALMOST a fraternity man. Almost a class leader. And on the tough college courses, he almost made the grade. What was wrong?
Loss of energy, listlessness, lack of appetite are signs of constipation. Personalities are clouded. Class and campus life are
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the
seriously handicapped.
But you can banish constipation so easily.
dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies,
Just eat a delicious cereal. Kellogg’s ALLBRAN. Two tablespoonfuls daily are guaranteed to give relief. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kellogg’s Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets
You’ll enjoy Kellogg’s Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B. C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 E.D.S. T. Also KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00, and KO A Denver at 10.30.
898
The Scholastic
PALI HURLS TEAM TO VICTORY OVER N. U.
Sullivan Stars As Blue and Gold Gains Revenge.
Piling up three runs in the first inning of the contest against Northwestern Tuesday afternoon, Notre Dame clung throughout 'the game, winning by the score of 4-3 after the umpires had called off activities in the eighth frame because of the prolonged downpour which had interrupted play several times. Behind the brilliant hurling of Palt, the home guards hit timely to chase in the necessary runs to even the count between the two schools. Northwestern won the game played recently at Evanston.
A violent downpour in the fifth inning caused play to be delayed, and, after most of the pay customers had withdrawn from the park to seek shelter, the two teams went at each other again. Had the contest been called in that stanza, Charley Palt would have recorded a shutout, the score standing at 3-0 at that time. Following this, the wet horsehide became difficult to control, and North-
FRIENDLY FIVE SHOES
National Sport Week
STYLE! QUALITY! COMFORT!
FRIENDLY ■FIV£
Friendly Five Shoes for Sport and Dress Wear. Sizes AAA A to E5 to 12. Combination last.
| The RAYMOND moccasin with caulks, No. 465.
BALDWIN SHOE CO.
Home of Friendly Fives 110 WEST WAYNE STREET
western solved Palt’s shoots to run across two runs in the seventh and one in the eighth to tie the score. Not to be outdone, Notre Dame returned to push across another counter.
Bill Sullivan, dependable Notre Dame first sacker, found himself in top form in spite of the muggy weather, banging out four hits in as many trips to the plate. In addition to his splendid work at the stick, Sullivan made several fine catches of wide heaves to first.
Greeting Kruft, Northwestern’s starting pitcher, with a volley of hits in the first inning, Notre Dame took advantage of the wildness of the visiting fielders to chalk up their three runs. After Askew had started the fireworks with a neat single, O’Keefe walked and was forced at second by Russo, Askew advancing to third. Crizewski, attempting to catch Russo streaking it away for second, threw wild to center, and Askew scored. Russo, playing Centerfield for O’Connor, was then safe at third after Lomasney’s base hit. Tapping a timely single, Sullivan scored Russo and advanced Lomasney to third, the latter gaining the base only after a clever slide. Lomasney was out at home on Koiski’s hit to Oliphant, but when the visiting catcher threw wild to first in an attempt to get Kolski, Sullivan
Shoe
RIVETED
THE SOLE

scampered across the last station with the third run of the inning.
Following this, seven scoreless innings were recorded, Northwestern finally getting to Palt in the seventh. Three hits, including a double by Oliphant, gave the Purple two runs. Then again in the eighth the Wildcats scored one run, but Notre .Dame retaliated to regain the lead, after which the game was called. Palt pitched steadily all the way, giving up seven hits while his mates ganged up to collect nine from the two Northwestern hurlers, Kruft and Fyfe.
DRIVE HOME
Speedily Perfectly Easily Evenly Dependably Enjoyably Economically
in one of SPEEDEE’S SuperSpecial Low price better used cars
Any student of Notre Dame purchasing a car from Speedee for $100 or more will be furnished license plates without additional cost.
Come to Speedee for real bargains in used cars
520-528 So. Mich St. - Louis Cohen, Prop.
May 22, 1931
899
GOLFERS DEFEAT PITT
(Continued from Page 895)

champion, although usually putting poorly, dropped a 12-foot putt to win the match. It was Beaupre’s first defeat of the season.
Larry Moller, playing No. 2, trounced Lipman, and equalled par while getting four birdies. He was one under par going out and one over coming in. O’Shea was ten up on the fifteenth when Wolff, his opponent, quit the match. Russ Beaupre had little difficulty with Rosenberg, shooting a 77 to win four up.
Notre Dame dropped but one point in the best ball matches. Moller and Fran Beaupre trounced Parks and Lipman. Lipman was out of bounds and in the traps consistently, and Parks could not outshoot both Moller and Beaupre. Wolff and Rosenberg won a point for Pitt in the other match when they were low with 37 on the first nine, but O’Shea and Russ Beaupre broke par on the last round and won the match, 2 to 1.
Outstanding cards of the day:
A Summer WALK-OVER for COOL Comfort
Parks-Beaupre Match
Out:
Par			444 543 445—37
Parks 			444 345 455—38
F. Beaupre		545 454 444—39
In:	
Par 				543 443 535—36—73
Parks			555 543 544—40—78
F. Beaupre		545 552 635—40—79
	Moller’s Card
Out:	
Par			444 543 445—37
Moller			334 443 555—36
In:	
Par			543 443 535—36—73
Moller			444 443 536—37—73
A business shoe whose business it is to keep your feet cool and comfortable. Perforations go clear through leather and lining ... each is an efficient ventilator. In lightweight Brown calfskin with flexible summer-weight soles.
THE CLUB
Moller-Beaupre Best Ball Card
Out:
Par____________444	543	445—37
Moller-Beaupre _444 443 444—35
In:
Par____________543	443	535—36—73
Moller-Beaupre _533 453 434—35—70
Summaries:
Singles
Parks (P) defeated F. Beaupre (ND), 2% to ¥2; Moller (ND) defeated Lipman (P), 3-0; O’Shea (ND) defeated Wolff (P), 3-0; R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Rosenberg (P), 3-0.
Best Ball
Moller and F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Parks and Lipman (P), 3-0; O’Shea and R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Wolff and Rosenberg (P), 2-1.
WAI
SU O f S -FOR. M -E N
ONE ■ ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET

co o o
CAMEL CONTEST!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company takes pleasure in announcing that the decisions of Judges CHARLES Dana GIBSON, Roy W. HOWARD and RAY Long in the $50,000 Camel Prize Contest have been reached and that prizes accordingly have been awarded as follows: i ■ I
First Prize, $259OOO
JAMES THOMAS SHARKEY, 101 Train Street, Dorchester, Mass.
The Scholastic

Second Prize, $10,000
Third Prize9 $5,000
MRS. WALTER SWEET, Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y.
JULIUS M. NOLTE, Glen Avon, Duluth, Minn.
5 Prises of SLOOO each
A. B. FRANKLIN, III, 52 Kirkland St., Cambridge, Mass. JOHN R. McCARTHY, 721 Main St., Willimantic, Conn. FREDERICK E. ROBINSON, Coronado Beach, Calif. WM. A. SCHRADER, Brent Apts., New Albany, Ind.
DR. D. H. SOPER, 523 E. Brown, Iowa City, Iowa. '
5 Prizes of SHOO each
F. CARTWRIGHT, Transp’t’n Bldg., Washington, D. C.
EDITH COCHRANE, Glenvale Ave., Darien, Conn. BARBARA LAWLESS, Ardmore, Pa.
JANE PARSONS, 325 E. 79th St., New York, N. Y.
RICHARD W. VOGT, Green Bay Road, Waukegan, HL
25 Prizes of $1OO each
MARIE ALBERTS, 6252 So. Spaulding Ave., Chicago W. B. BARKER, JR., 420 N. Spruce, Winston-Salem, N .C. EUGENE BARTON, 3625 La Luz St., El Paso, Texas MRS. EDW. F. DALY, 1133 Louisville St., St. Louis, Mo. WM. G. ERBACHER, 308 N. Front St., Conway, Ark.
LEROY FAIRMAN, 69 Dartmouth St., Forest Hills, N. Y. KATHRYN R. FRANCIS, 448 E. 22d St., Baltimore, Md. MRS. ALEXIS GODILLOT, 191 Waverly Pl., New York C. W. GRANGE, 2316 Central St., Evanston, Ill.
C. S. GRAYBILL, Paxtonville, Pa.
JOHN I. GRIFFIN, 1208 Jackson, Pueblo, Colorado DAVID C. HILL, Peyton and Arlington Rds., York, Pa.
ELIZABETH JARRARD, Porter Apts., Lansing, Mich.
J. W. KEATING, 523 Prospect Ave., Cleveland, Ohio
J. H. KENNEDY, 2627 W. State St., Milwaukee, Wise.
JOHN KILPELAINEN, West Paris, Maine
DR. CLIFTON B. LEECH, 211 Angell St., Providence, R.I.
EDWARD MARTIN, 121 Liddell St., Buffalo, N. Y.
MRS. L. C. MILLARD, 609 Stockley Gardens, Norfolk, Va.
EUGENE SARTINI, 745 Chapel St., Ottawa, Ill.
GREGORY LUCE STONE, 755 Texas St., Mobile, Ala.
DR. C. L. THOMAS, Mount Airy, N. C.
LEE R. WOMACK, 448 Tenney Ave., Amherst, Ohio
J. ARTHUR WOOD, 21 Burke St., Mechanicville, N. Y.
EMERY HERBERT YOUNG, Painted Post, N. Y.
May 22, 1931
IN congratulating the winners in the great Camel contest we want at the same time to thank most cordially the approximately million men and women who displayed their friendly interest by sending in an entry.
We wish also to thank the millions of smokers throughout the country for the appreciation they are showing for our new Humidor Pack as is evidenced by the notable increase in the sale of Camel cigarettes.
By means of this dust-proof, germ-proof,
Camels
moisture -proof Cellophane wrapping the rich aroma and full flavor of choice Turkish and mellow Domestic tobaccos have been air-sealed in Camels for your enjoyment.
If you have not tried Camels in the Humidor Pack all we ask is that you switch over to this brand for one day.
After you have learned how much milder, how much cooler, how much more enjoyable it is to smoke a perfectly conditioned fresh cigarette, go back to the harsh hotness of stale cigarettes if you can.
902
The Scholastic
TWO BIG TEN FOES ON TAP FOR KEOGANITES
Iowa To Be Played Tomorrow; Boilermakers On Tuesday.
On Saturday, May 23, the Notre Dame baseball team travels to Iowa City, Iowa, to meet the Iowa university team. The Fighting Irish nine defeated the lowans on the campus diamond by the score of 10 to 4, the game being pitched by “Lefty” Lisicki who allowed but nine scattered hits. Iowa played ragged ball here but since their return to their own campus they have been playing excellent ball. In their games against Big Ten opponents Iowa has been playing good defensive ball. The error column in their game here showed five miscues, but since that time it has been void of errors except for one game. The line-up that Iowa will probably use against Notre Dame is as follows: Pranger, shortstop; Kenny, second base; Koser, leftfield; Mowry, center field; Nelson, catcher; Reedquist, first base; Fiala,
right field; Riegert, third base; Bush or Stemple, pitcher.
Next Tuesday the Blue and Gold will play the Purdue nine at Lafayette. The first game in which Notre Dame was to meet the Boilermakers was rained out. It was to have been played on the Notre Dame diamond. Coach Keogan has intimated that his team may engage the Purdue nine in a double-header on the afternoon of May 26 in place of the one game as scheduled. Purdue has a well-balanced defensive nine, but their hitting is suffering in the same manner as that of Notre Dame. Purdue is in in the upper division of the Big Ten race. Since the game is being played on the Boilermaker’s home field the game should resolve itself into a defensive battle.
Coach Keogan has expressed his displeasure in regard to the hitting of the Notre Dame team. He has been working hard of late in order to fatten the batting averages of most of the Fighting Irish bat-swingers. It seems that the Blue and Gold nine is infected with the same old college bugaboo—that of not being ‘ able to garner base hits. Most of the college teams’, weaknesses lie in this department.
TATOM, SORENSON AND BYRUM WIN TITLES IN NET TOURNEY
The third annual Central Intercollegiate Conference tennis tournament, held under the direction of Notre Dame, came to a very inauspicious ending last Saturday when both singles and doubles were defaulted. Tatom of Grinnell, received the crown in the singles when Tietjen of Washington university, St. Louis, failed to put in an appearance, while Byrum and Sorenson of Western State, became doubles champs when Brody of the Jensen - Brody combination of Drake university, was not on hand at the time of the match.
The Rockne Memorial trophies were presented to the winners by ManagerTom Ashe at the close of the three days of play. Ashe, who had charge of the meet, expressed satisfaction with the tourney, although the defaults were more or less disappointing to those who had been looking forward to thrilling battles in the final matches.
Notre Dame’s representatives found themselves amid competition that proved a bit too strong and fell by
I Meyer’s Fountain
I Luncheonette
I Special From Old Virginia
| Devilled Smithfield Ham and Sliced |	Tomato Sandwich
|	20c
I I "	* STORE
|	Comer Michigan and Colfax
EnulMUumiiinHiniumniniimmnu.■■■■■■.  ■■■■»■■■.
SUNDAY—MONDAY—TUESDAY
Hold Everything! Obey that impulse to laugh! WILL
in
“A Connecticut Yankee”
By
MARK TWAIN
The Year’s Biggest Laugh Riot.
Added Attractions “Sarge’s Playmate” With Slim Summerville
“Mars”
Cartoon

May 22, 1931
the wayside in the first two rounds. Bob Kendall lost to Frank Arnold of Michigan Normal, in his first match by 6-4, 4-3, while Bill Reaume went down before the drives of the finalist Tietjen by 6-3, 6-3, after taking the measure of Atkinson of Detroit City College in the initial round. In doubles, Reaume and Kendall lost to Tietjen and Steideman in a second round match.
TENNIS TEAM TO MEET NORTHWESTERN TODAY
Notre Dame’s tennis team journeys to Evanston today to meet the Northwestern Wildcat racquet - wielders. Northwestern made a good showing in the recent C.I.C. tourney and should prove to be a formidable opponent for the Blue and Gold.
Not much is known of the men who will represent the Wildcats other than their old stand-bys, Bergerm and Riel. These two will team together in doubles and will be remembered by the veterans of the local team for the trimming they administered to the Notre Dame representatives last spring-.
LOYOLA TEAM DEFEATED
Notre Dame Scores Third Win In Row By 5-2 Count.
Despite the chilly breezes that swept across the Leeper Park courts, last Wednesday, the Notre Dame tennis team scored its third consecutive win of the season by soundly trouncing Loyola of Chicago 5-2 in a dual meet.
Maguire, the Loyola ace, was victorious in the first match of the day over Captain O’Brien. After dropping the first set to O’Brien, Maguire rallied to take the next two sets and the match. Neither player was up to his usual standard, especially Captain O’Brien, who broke his racquet shortly after the first set and faltered completely from then on.
The strong wind seemed to have no effect at all on Bob Kendall who disposed of his opponent in straight sets without the loss of a single game. Kendall was in rare form and exhibited a brand of tennis that was most brilliant as well as puzzling to the Loyola lad. Mike O’Brien and Joe Borda continued to show the form
903
that they have displayed in previous matches and both won handily in straight sets. In defeating Frisch, Mike kept intact his winning streak that has not been broken in a singles match this season. Borda toyed with his opponent and constantly kept him on the defensive by his hard driving and well-placed shots.
Bill Reaume was in the feature match of the day with Swikstra of Loyola. Reaume won the first set 614, dropped the second 7-5, and then rallied to take the final set and the match 7-5. It was a bitterly fought contest all the way through but Reaume’s uncanny steadiness pulled him through to a brilliant victory.
Mike O’Brien and Sullivan teamed up in doubles combination and experienced little difficulty in Frisch and LaMar of Loyola, who went down to defeat in straight sets 6-1, 6-4. The order was reversed in the other doubles match when Maguire and Swikstra turned the tables on Matt O’Brien and Kendall, 6-4, 12-10. For a time it seemed as if the last set would never end, and that darkness would have to finish it, but the northside youths staved off a late Notre Dame rally and eked out a well-earned victory.
STARTING SATURDAY
; A Story of Today.. Life itself written in the morning of creation.
A Mighty Conflict That Will
.. Stir Your Very Soul!
EED
A sweeping drama from the world-famous novel.
•	With
John Boles—Genevieve Tobin Raymond D. Hackett—Lois Wilson Zasu Pitts

There is love . . . Life and Romance — You’ll want to see it—and see it again— for its real life.
Last Times To-day ON THE STAGE Harris & Van, Wan Wan San Chinese, Ewing Eaton, Harvey, Devere Four.
ON THE SCREEN “The Sky Raiders’’ with Lloyd Hughes
5 BIG RKO
STARTS SUNDAY!
Mammoth Stage and Screen Show ACTS OF
VAUDEVILLE
The Smart Comedienne
MARV H AY MJ
“AMONG US MORTALS”
Holding a Song Mirror Up to Nature
Wallace Sisters
in
‘Up in the Clouds”
Large & Morgner in “Something Different”
Also Other RKO Acts
----ON THE SCREEN-- A Social Lion—when he growled, society trembled!
SPENCER TRACY
•CUICK MILLIONS*
A modern Napoleon who spurned his Josephine for a society dame. Sat. Matinee 25c till 6 P. M.
904
The- Scholastic
THE MONGREL DOG
Splinters From the Press Box
STATE CHAMPIONS
Coach John P. Nicholson’s track and field performers were successful last Saturday in the defense of the state title they won in 1930, and in topping Indiana, Butler, Purdue, and the other teams, the Blue and Gold team dispersed the fears of this column and others that they did not
possess the ability to garner enough second, third and fourth places to accompany the firsts they seemed sure to win. At Lafayette last week Notre Dame won the same number of first places as did Indiana—five—yet were able to outscore the Hoosiers by 49 2/5 to 45 2/5 to retain the championship.
THE SEASON’S END
When a little brown and white mongrel decided to run across the eighteenth fairway on the Burke golf course last Saturday afternoon, he veritably handed the Pittsburgh team 1% points and brought to an end one of the most thrilling matches yet to be played on the local course, just when it seemed destined to be forced into extra holes. Captain Fran Beaupre had made a marvelous uphill fight to draw up and remain even with the sharp-shooting Parks after a heart-breaking first five holes which found him three down with a score
If YOU'RE HAVING YOUR FORTUNE TOLD
And the Cards
Say You1 re Going On a Long Journey
Phone the South Shore Line ticket agent, 3-3111, and have him make reservations for you. He’ll probably arrange it so you can' have a few hours between trains to look around Chi-cago—and you won’t object to that.
Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago.
But one more test remains for the team to face. The Central Intercollegiate conference meet tonight, at Milwaukee, will bring the season to a close so far as the team is concerned. The Nationals at Chicago on June 5 and 6 will find several of the more outstanding men competing, but the vast majority of them will hang up their shoes after tonight’s exhibition.
Following the dismissal of one of the squad’s most brilliant stars from the team about a month ago, it appeared that the Blue and Gold was in a permanent slump. Dependable men ran races far below their usual standard time after time and- seemed incapable of winning. The past two weeks, however, seem to indicate that they have “snapped out of it.” They will be top favorites to retain this championship also and should do so in easy fashion.
card reading just about par figures.
It must have been disconcerting to the Notre Dame leader to lose in this manner. The pup, for some in-explainable reason, had been allowed to cavort unmolested about the course all afternoon. An unexpected “yelp” earlier in the match had almost caused trouble while the men were playing on the green. It seems that he could have been removed before he caused damage just as well as afterwards. As it happened, Notre Dame did not need the points!
BASEBALL!
It looked almost like a new ball club that Notre Dame put on the field for the Northwestern game last Tuesday. Wide-awake base running, good fielding and more hefty hitting made things look much better. The return of Bill Sullivan’s batting eye was especially pleasing.
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage -? ----- —
UNION TRUST COMPANY CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
I ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK
*	ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY

4
May 22, 1931
905
MASH1E-WIELDERS TO DEFEND STATE CROWN
Bill Redmond, 1930 Titlist, Also To Play Today.
Rea Park Municipal golf course, Terre Haute, Indiana, is the scene of the Indiana Intercollegiate conference golf tournament today and tomorrow. Teams will consist of four players and each member is automatically entered for the individual championship competition.
Bill Redmond, present title-holder and fifth-ranking man on the exceptionally well-balanced Notre Dame team, will be ready to defend his title and it is believed that he will have plenty to contend with when he matches scores with even any one of his teammates.
The team to be sent to Terre Haute by Father Murch will consist of Captain Fran Beaupre, Russ Beaupre, Bill Redmond, and either Louie O’Shea or Larry Moller. Both Moller and O’Shea have been turning in low scores in recent matches and, at the present writing, a decision has not been reached as to which one will be the fourth of the Notre Dame representatives.	'
Louie O’Shea ran into a string of one-hole defeats at the hands of his teammates early in the season but has made a steady comeback and has now achieved a fourth-place rating with possibilities of advancing before many days have elapsed. Bill Redmond was deprived of an opportunity to play last week when Pittsburgh brought but four men. He should be in good shape for the tourney.
HOWARD HALL’S NINE KEEPS SLATE CLEAN
The undefeated Howard hall baseball team continued their winning ways last Sunday by submerging the previously unbeaten Moreau seminary outfit by a 6-2 score. By its latest win the Gold Coast boys are in a position to claim the mythical campus title, for they have numbered among their victims the only other clubs on the campus with a logical claim for that honor.
"■LUXURY with BUS ECONOMY")
SEE the country as you "RIDE with PREMIER"
The other two seminaries fell before the Howard boys by lop-sided scores—Dujarie going down to an 112 defeat, and Holy Cross finishing on the short end of a 10-2 count.
Lagger, Huisking and Butler, the Howard hurlers, have been turning in exceptional performances while the team behind them have been pum-meling the ball to run- up big leads. Yesterday the Howardites played an exhibition game with the freshman team. This Sunday they meet the Moreau seminary nine in the second game of their series.
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW
NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCATIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in AU Cases.
Go Premier once and you’ll go Premier always. It’s the last word in enjoyable travel, combining friendliness, fascination, and economy with train comfort and luxury. Every Premier coach has a washroom and toilet, furnished with soap and linen towels. A porter is on hand at all times to look after your luggage, to see that your journey is comfortable and agreeable.
Campus Representative, Jack Lambert 234 Walsh Hall
Morning. Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar 233 Broadway, New York
PREMIER COACH LINES
CENTRAL BUS STATION 230 W. Jefferson St. ... Phone 3-6755
906
The Scholastic
Interhall Sports
Morrissey hall won the right to remain in the Championship flight of the Interhall golf tournament by decisively trouncing Walsh, 6 to 2. O’Brien and Bausback beat Tarosovic and Powell of Walsh, while Sullivan and Melchione of Morrissey downed Powers and Nelmes of Walsh.’
Badin hall lost its chance to be in the championship play-off by forfeiting the entire four matchs to Howard who gets credit for an 18 to 0 victory. The forfeit came when not • one of Badin’s golfers made his appearance at the scheduled time.
This Sunday Howard will defend the title, which was won last year, against Morrissey. Howard, due to large scores compiled in other matches this spring will rule the favorite, but Morrissey’s niblick-swingers will have let them know by the end of the contest that they were in a tough golf match.
Carroll hall won its first match by the overwhelming score of 18 to 0 when its opponent, Off-Campus, failed to put in an appearance. Carroll,
however, was present to the man.
Lyons and Freshman battled during the afternoon until the former managed to gather enough points to defeat the frosh, 10% to 7%. Pugliese, Lyons’ No. 1 man, shot enough pars to make his total equal 80, and together with O’Connor beat Fehlig and O’Connell of Freshman, 8% to %. Beacco and Devine of Freshman came in a few moments later, however, and announced that they had beaten Clarke and Webster of Lyons. But the margin by which Beacco and Devine had won wasn’t enough to gather in a team victory.
Sunday will bring to a close the Championship flight when Walsh will meet Lyons for the position of runner-up. The Consolation flight, however, will continue on for another week or so. St. Edward’s encounters Freshman, and Carroll will shoot against Badin while Off-Campus draws a bye.
The schedule for next Sunday and the time for each match is as follows :
Championship Flight
Howard vs. Morrissey for winner of the flight at 1:00 p. m.
Walsh vs. Lyons for runner-up at 1:10 p. m.
Consolation Flight
St. Edward’s vs. Freshman for win-nei* of this flight at 1:20 p. m.
Carroll vs. Badin for runner-up at 1:40 p. m.
Off-Campus, bye.
The following is the standings of the teams according to matches won and lost:
Howard 1.000
Morrissey________1.000
Lyons.667
Walsh .500
St. Edward’s_____.500
Carroll.333
Freshman_________.333
Badin_________•_:_.333
Off-Campus .000
BASEBALL
There was but one game played in the interhall playground league last Sunday when three games were forfeited. One division has already completed its schedule while the other still has one round to play.
iitiiiHiiniiinitiiiiiiitiniifiiiitii
NEW YORK JOBBER
CLEANS UP
your
Men’s $6 Golf Shoes
$2.99
EYES
SPIKE or RUBBER SOLES
ALL
SIZES
Built in the good looking, practical styles we know real golfers like best. ..Moccasin types and in blacks and whites, with grocord rubber or rivited spike, leather soles.
QCCASIONALLY
Have them examined every
year
we hear someone boast of
the extreme long life of his glasses — as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
I
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly—U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.

*
May 22, 1931
907
C. I. C. GAMES TONIGHT
Blue and Gold Favored toWin;
Rockne Trophy Offered.
Tonight approximately thirty Blue and Gold track athletes will defend their Central Intercollegiate Track and Field title at Marquette university stadium in Milwaukee in the light of glowing football floodlights.
The idea of running a series of track events under the floodlights should not interfere with the defense to be put up since it was under the floodlights that Notre Dame won the title last year with a score of 69 points. Michigan State was the runner-up with a score of 36 points and Marquette ran a close third with 33 points.
Bill McCormick, sturdy and dependable sprinter, might run into some close competition when he meets the
CLICQUOT has it!
IT S that smoother, richer mellower flavor that makes Clicquot Club the fair-haired favorite of many a campus party. It blends well with any company because it is a perfect blend itself.
thatFXTRAsometh i ng
CLICQUOT CLUB GIMBER ALES Sale Qrij ~ §olden - eJee Clkree favorite flavors on any Campus
stars from some other schools entered in the meet. Wild Bill O’Neill grid star from the University of Detroit; Johnny Sisk, Marquette football ace; and Jack Tierney, Marquette sophomore, who won several races this year, are some of the other sprint stars entered.
The mile run promises to feature this annual mid-west classic. Among the stars who are entered are Schwartz of Western State,, winner of the indoor meet held here in March; either one of the Walter brothers of Marquette, both good men, who won points for Marquette at the indoor meet; Sivak of Butler, national intercollegiate outdoor mile champion; Brant Little, and others.
Clark Chamberlain, national crosscountry champ and an outstanding two-milei’ of the nation, will be among the runners to battle Gene Howrey in the two-mile grind. Alex Wilson, no doubt will have little

trouble in running his races since past performances show that he is about the best entered. Nordy Hoffman is expected to take the discus, and Johnny O’Brien and Roy Bailie should take the hurdle honors with Beattie giving both a great battle.
The Central outdoor meet this year will be in honor of the memory of Knute Rockne. “Rock” was track coach at Notre Dame when the meet was established back in 1926 and Coach Jennings of the Hilltoppers, ' who is in charge of the meet, has announced that a large cup, the Knute K. Rockne Memorial trophy, will be awarded to the 1931 winners.
GO HOME BY BUS
MORE PLEASURE
Everyone can use a few extra dollars —even as you and I. One way to have more is to spend less for your trip home by going the Greyhound way. Best of all, it’s more funf Remember this when planning you' summer trips, too.
Goshen ................ $	.70
Ligonier ............... 1.30
Fort Wayne ............. 2.50
Detroit ........-....... 3.75
Toledo ................. 4.20
Cincinnati.............. 6.75
St. Louis............... 6.70
New York................19.35
Campus Agent
Albert Horace Monacelli 117 Brownson Hall Phone 3-0138
133 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone 3-8283
GREYHOUND
908
4——————————4-
1	I
। Residence	Optics J
| Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 »
•	Dr.	Edgar S.	Lucas	1
J	Dentist	l
1	!
|	702 J. M. S. Building	।
।	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	!
s	J
I	Cor.	Main and Washington	[

On Down the Line
WHERE
NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream
. Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 327 N. Michigan St.
. . . Throwing a BAT in the TEXAS LEAGUE this year means expulsion from the.game . . . SOMEBODY made a good shot last year . . . STRANGLER LEWIS lost his title in Montreal the other day for biting DE-GLANE ... He says that DEGLANE bit HIMSELF . . . BILL McILWEE, a right-handed outfielder of two years ago, is a good LEFT-HANDED pitcher on the MARYLAND baseball team this year . . . PAULINO UZCUDUN is willing to go twenty-five rounds with any one at RENO . . . Seems like a long time under the new laws . . .
. . . BABE RUTH is supposed to have changed his stance since he was hurt . . . And he has hit .584 since then ... He ought to fall down some stairs . .. and bat 1.000 . . . GEORGE LOTT again announces his LAST YEAR in tennis tourneys ... He ought to team with HARRY LAUDER . . . MICHIGAN will lose but one of its twelve swimming lettermen this year ... A new PRO FOOTBALL LEAGUE is being formed on the PACIFIC COAST . . . The KERRY team, FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS of IRELAND, will play in Chicago this month . . .
. . . LEFTY O’DOUL is off over three-hundred points from his average of a year ago ... LOPEZ, FREDERICK, and TERRY are all at least two-hundred short . . . CISSELL is almost out of sight . . . Apprentice jockey L. CUNNINGHAM led the winter riding with 72 winners at AGUA CALIENTE . . . BILL INGRAM asked for 500 men for spring football at CALIFORNIA . . . And got 150! . . . TEN DEFENDING CHAMPIONS will appear at the I. C. for a meet next week . . . CHICK HAFEY has graduated back to the majors ...
. . . SCHMELLING and STRIBLING are to split the gate 40-121-2 ... We hope they EARN it... BOMBARDIER WELLS, once famous for his dives in the boxing game, is golf-
The Scholastic
is trying to keep his word at HOUSTON. He pitched twenty-one scoreless innings the first week he was there . . . FATHER LUMPKIN, formerly of Georgia Tech, and HARRY KRUSKAMP, Ohio State, met as wrestlers last week . . . LUMPKIN won . . . KNICKERS are barred at a club in ALABAMA ... The PAUPERS Country club . . . LA DOU-MEGUE, France’s champion at 1,000 and 1,500 meters is barred from the ’32 OLYMPICS . . .
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria 111 East Jefferson
Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
Tell them you taw it in the SCHOLASTIC. , >
ing now ..
DIZZY DEAN evidently
□sc
TWELVE HUNDRED ACRES THAT COVER A NATION
DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENTS BY STATES
MEXICO 9
TOTAL ENROLLMENT 3227
. . . that’s the merchandising story of the Notre Dame market. It is a compact market of over three thousand men, on a campus of 1200 acres—men who come from every one of the forty-eight states and a dozen foreign countries. Tell your story of this responsive local market and you tell it also to the heart of America.
Every Notre Dame publication reaches the thousands of families vitally interested in University affairs. The additional five readers (“five to a family”, you recall), after the student subscriber, constitute a widening circle that has tremendous purchasing power. Here is the wealth that lies behind every student’s purchases.	. .
University men set definite style trends. They influence the buying habits in the home and in the home town. They lend sympathetic ears to your merchandising story properly told in the pages of their own publications.
May we aid you in planning your Notre Dame campaign?
Board of Publications
At the University
Notre Dame, Ind.
V
Ive flown with the Pathfinders of the Air
—says Chesterfield
© 1931, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
you meet me in the city’s crowded canyons


Along the invisible lanes of the air, or among jostling thousands in the city’s streets .. . it’s all the same to Chesterfield. For here’s a cigarette that goes everywhere, and that tastes right anywhere. Milder and better tobaccos —nothing else—that’s what you taste in Chesterfield. And, thanks to the "cross-blend,” all of that mild, good taste and aroma is retained!
J
- For NINETEEN yean, our Research Department has kept intimate touch with every new development of Science that could be applied to the manufacture of cigarettes. During this period there has been no development of tested value or importance to the smoker which we have not incorporated into the making of Chesterfield cigarettes.
..... Liggett & Myers T^acm Co-
(
They Satisfy —that’s Why!