



Cockroaches, Scientists Think, · May Be The Major Survivors Of A Nuclear War. 
. , . . 
Radiation and contamination from nuclear weapons would make the world uninhabitable for the rest of us. 
Our country has twice directly threatened the Russians with nuclear weapons. And now we're building more sophisticated, more accurate missiles and warheads that will make a first strike of military · targets appear feasible . and attractive. · The Pentagon claims that we could 
. "survive" a retaliation _ ·· ·· and win a nuclear war. Sounds absurd, doesn't It? 
Only the roaches are smiling. 


FELLOWSHIP OF RECONCILIATION Box 271, Nyack, New York 10960 
I'm concerned abouf survival. Send me: 
. More Information on the new weapons systems and the arms race 
DA disarmament petition 
. Ideas for what I can do on campus 
Name..................................... . 
Address ................. , ..... Zip....... ;_ .. 
You've got a good head on your shoulders. A nice · place to live. You've got a de­cent job, or at least it's going to be someday. Maybe you've even got a couple bucks in the bank. And plans, you've got plenty of them. Life is just a bowl of cherries, right? Ex­cept it's not. Something's . missing. And you're begin­ning to come up empty. Get­ting out of bed used to be easy, now it's not anymore. And you've begun to look at yourself, right to the inside, and you're asking, is that all there is? Well, it's not, you know. Not even close. There's the Peace Corps. · 
Maybe it'll be teaching nutrition. Or building a schoolhouse. Or clearing a field so the people in the vii­!age you serve cari adopt a new habit: eating everyday. You came to the Peace Corps to give and you've gotten. You've learned a language. 

.Discovered a new culture. Found out about life: theirs. Yours. Morning has become an adventure again. Sure, the hours are long and hard and the bread is lousy. But some­times, putting bread in some­one's mouth can be more re­warding to you than all the · bread in your pocket. 
The Peace Corps is alive and well. 
Join the Peace Corps. Call toll free: 800-424-8580. Or write the Peace Corps, Box A, l"'1,.,..,... Washington, C.~@ D.C. 20525. COrpS 

Give us this cJay, our daily bread. 


SCHOLASTIC. 




scholastic 
Vol. 120, No. 11, April 20, 1979 Notre Dame, Indiana 

FEATURES 
4 Nuclear Power: Two Views 
6 Tears and Joy: Frank O'Malley 
8 Faces and Tombs 18 Yaz: A Major League Domer 21 Awareness: Latin America 26 Tennis Is His Racquet 27 Building a Firm Foundation 
FICTION 
12 Poem: To Frank O'Malley 14 The Sail 22 Waiting for the Dough 
Kenneth Goodpaster John Lucey David Kubal William O'Brien Mike Kenahan Dave Gill Jim Trausch Bill Scholl 
Ernest Sandeen Tom Balcerek Chuck Wood 

Photographs: 
Jason Joyce, 4; Scholastic Archives,. 7; Sports Information, 18, 19, 20; Jim Klocke, 26. 
Artwork: 
Scholastic Archives; 3, 10, 28; Mike Carit-" well, 15. 

Front Cover: 
Mike Cantwell 
Back Cover: 
Theresa Rebeck 
REGULARS  
13  Perspective  Theresa Rebeck  
16 · Gallery  Jane S. Cutter  
Marganta Cintra  
Mary B_eth Perfett  
, 25  Perspective  Lisa Hartenberger  
30  Last Word  Jake Morrissey  

Editor . Staff . John Morrissey Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Anthony Walton,' Eileen Durkin,··Eddie Holden, Clay Managing Editor · Malaker, Tom Lucid, Greg Vansueh, Kevin McCarthy, Mary Clare Toffanetti,· Bill Scholl, Theresa Rebeck. Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Greg C. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sean F. Art Director Faircloth, Paul Hurley, John Bondaruk, Michelle Gerard, Dodee Carney, Paul Mullaney, Mike Cantwell Lou Severino, Joe Carey, Jason Joyce, Paul. Mortenson. · 
Production Manager 
Bernie Valenti 

News Editor. 
Hall Representatives:
Elizabeth Donovan · Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean Berry, Brad Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann

Culture Editor 
Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift, .Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, DaveDave Satterfield Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch; .John Cuckovich,

Sports Editor 
Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernick, Dan Letcher. 
\

Mike Kenahan ,. .. 
Fiction ·Editor Tom Balcerek 

Copy Editor 
· The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those. of the authors and editors of ScholasticBob Southard 
Layout Editor · and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Lisa. Hartenberger 
Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student 
,b~~ . .

Photography Editor 
Phil Johnson 
Business Manager 
Kimberlie Gumz The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational AdvertisingAdvertisement Manager · · Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the.school year Marcy Weigle except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are Advisory Board . available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. Elizabeth Christman, Mario Pedi, Thomas 46556i All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Werge, Thomas Jemielity, John Miriam ·copyright© 1979 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­Jones"S.C., Edward Fischer. duced without permission. · 
.Nuclear Power: Two.Views 

There once was a tribe. Its members· were known as Alcoholics Autonomous (Alcautons for short). Dur­ing times of plenty their spirits were high. But they fell on difficult times when technicians in their num­ber (in a moment of rare sobriety) discovered that the stocks of beer, wine, and whiskey were running low. They sent a representative to seek policy advice to the Man of Uncommon Sense who lived on a nearby island. The Alcauton representative described his problem to the Man of Uncommon Sense. The Man of Uncommon Sense listened. The problem was described as insuffi­cient alcohol supply -dwindling resources, need for alternative kinds of intoxicants in view of a deteriora­tion· of the "conventional" reserves. The Man of Un­common Sense -considered dealing _with his visitor's problem within. the terms of its definition:. checking out data on decreasing supplies, imports, unconven­tional sources. He even considered telling the visitor about·· options that had apparently been overlooked completely, such as LSD, cocaine, and heroin (together with risk-benefit analyses of each). 
But the Man of Uncommon Sense decided not to do these things;. He pointed out instead that the problem as the Alcauton · had described it was not the real problem at all. In fact, he surprised his visitor by pointing out that the tragedy was that the Alcautons saw the "problem" as a supply problem. He sug­gested that being alcoholic was. a more serious problem than being short of booze. · · 
. : ' . ··, ,-. . 

As you can imagine, the conversation developed in a dramatically different direction from the direction in which it might have developed .if. the issue had been left in the hands of the visitor. For now the list of alternatives included at least one entirely new branch 
. on the decision-tree: a branch which included· with-· drawal, detoxification, and -a return to more humane ways of lubricating the emotionallives_ of the Alcauton · 
( continued next page) . 
. ; . . . 
,
Iii . ·'. ·-:·. ·. 
1 . :, · -i.·t:· -~...~ ·--. 


' ' , ; : ',,: ,. :~.' : . 
~;:c,,,-~#",; 
.:::4 




~ ",•, -::·:r.r\~~~~~­
.. } ;.'.:'.ii. 

by John Lucey 
The prime concerns of the public with regard to· nuclear power are safety, both of the operating plant &nd of other components of the nuclear fuel cycle, and, to a lesse~ degree, the relative cost and availability of nuclear power for some reasonable period in the future. 
In. normal operation it is difficult to imagine amore benign source·of energy. The radioactivity released· to the environment in normal operation of a nuclear plant is less than that from a comparable fossil-fueled plant. (Coal• deposits normally contain such _radioisotopes as radium, thorium and uranium.) Even the most· dedi­cated opponent of nuclear power will agree : that, like the little girl with tp.e curl on her forehead, "when she 

. was good, she was very, very good."-~ It is the balance of the nursery rhyme that op­. ponents stress, : "when she was bad, she was horrid." How likely are nuclear plants to be "bad"? .If bad, how "horrid"? · The best available answer to .the question is _given in the Rasmussen Report. (Professor Norman C. Ras~ mussen _of MIT, January 1975.) The study involved 70 man-years of effort and an expenditure of -about four million dollars. ' Although the Nuclear Regulatory Commission recently rescinded any implicit endorsement of the re-: port's 12-page Executive Summary, the report is still the best available nuclear safety study. The report's estimate of one reactor core meltdown in 20,000 reactor .­years of operation has neither been proved nor dis­. proved. The fuel at Three Mile Island did not melt and no injury to the public resulted from that· accident; The· chances of injury or death from reactor accident are roughly the same as being struck by a meteor .. If the. operation of a nuclear reactor is not Itself dangerous, say its opponents, then surely its -wastes 
·_are. They_ represent "an intolerable legacy for genera­._ tions yet unborn" if opponents of nuclear power: are to 
. be believed. · · · · · · · · 
( continued next ']XJ,[Je) 

SCHOLASTIC 

Goodpaster •.• 
citizens. The Man of Uncommon Sense then invited his visitor to assess the enriched list of alternatives by such criteria as "moderation" and "stability." The visitor was amazed, if not a little confused, though 
. he had to acknowledge that his tribe had been having additional difficulties with other tribes regarding both grapevines and grainfields -and that there was growing impatience at the borders on the part of poor peasants (some of whom actually found ways of using booze for incendiary weapons!) .. 
The visitor returned to his home and explained to his tribesmen that they really should consider a differ­ent kind of path into the future: a more beautiful path, and one which in the long run led to renewal, harmony with nature, and justice. His tribesmen could not un­derstand. They became angry and called him a traitor. He had failed in his mission and had begun to question the Alcauton. Dream. They wanted supplies: He came home . questioning .demand! A drunken brawl ensued· during which the representative was killed. Eventually the. tribe ran out of conventional booze and· poisoned themselves _on ah unconventional but very modern replacement. · · · · 
_.: This little allegory is, of course, like all allegories, something of a caricature. Alcohol and electrical en­ergy are not the same. But perhaps the main lines of a critique of energy policy are a(least implicit here: a• critique of what has been called. the "hard path'' into . our energy future. This path is characterized by capita_l intensive, centralized, high technology-methods of en­ergy production (electrification, pressure on oil, gas, CC>al and especially nuclear power). By contrast, a "soft path'.' would _emphasize decentralized production, con­servation, __ renewable resources and alternative tech~ nologies (solar, wind, hydropower, geothermal, etc.). 
We seem faced with a criticalchoice between thes~ two-paths_ as our society enters the 21st century. And ­it is important, I think, to keep in mind that the choice is in. fact a choice among broad strategies. Like the Alcautons, we run the risk of ~efining our "1ffoblem" so as -to blind· ourselves_ to. the larger options.. Nuclear fission power, with breeders· in its wake, beyond all of its obvious and -recently dramatized hazards, must be seen as part of a pattern of hard path thinking: Reacto~ . safety, _''dispo~al" of high-level radioactive waste prod­ucts, weapons J.)roliferation .iri a. plutonium economy, and other social and economic considerations have to be seen as. part_ of this pattern for intelligent analysis and ­resp_onse. T~ee Mile Island serves to put us on notice ·­that_ the psychic and. economic·. risks of -nuclear elec­tricity_ have. been· underestimated. One can surely be forgiven for wondering•·_whether the _answer lies in 
· still more elaborate (and expensive) technological con­tainments. . · 
Th'e deepest signals from such;events relate to eli~ _· ergy strategy, not energy 'tactics. The logic of the hard path is a logic which_ is driven by questions of means. The _logic of the soft path questions both ends and 
means and is on that accoun~ more enlightened.. Hard path choices,. and especially_ the: nuclear choice, seem to commiL us to exporting our co~ts to future generations 
(continued on page 29) 

APRIL, 20,· 1979 
Lucey ... 
The main difference between coal ash and nuclear reactor wastes, other than their relative volume, is, of course, their degree of radioactivity. • Most serious are the fission products, the isotopes produced when the U-235 (or Pu-239) nucleus fissions, releasing energy. The laws of nature require that the most intensely radioactive isotopes are also the most short-lived, and vice versa. · The longest half-life (the time required for one half of the atoms originally present to undergo decay) among the fission products is about thirty years. 
When the 500-to 600-year period required for fission products to decay to negligible levels has passed, the radioactivity of the waste will be due entirely to plu­tonium and other transuranic elements. But the level of radioactivity then present ·wm be no greater than that of naturally occurring radioactive ores such as uranium. 
Five hundred years is a long time. If·we wish to insure that the radioactivity from nuclear reactor wastes is not released to the environment during that period it should be sequestered in a geologically inert environment. Bedded salt deposits appear to be a reasonable storage location. Many suitable sites have been identified and a demonstration facility is cur­rently under development in New Mexico. The tech­nology for reprocessing and ultimate storage is avail­able and has been for years. Its· commercial develop­ment is delayed, not by technological problems, but po­litical decisions (or the lack of them). 
Today's economics seem to favor nuclear power over coal. What about tomorrow's? 
Commonwealth Edison projects that coal-fired elec­tricity will cost about 15 to 20 per cent more than nuclear electricity. Commonwealth Edison .has· the largest nuclear generating capaciy of any U.S.-utility generated by its nuclear plants was -1.31 cents per kilowatt hour. The utility's most efficient coal-fired plants produced power at an average cost of.2.09 cents per kilowatt hour..Experience at other power plants has been comparable. · 
Development ofthe breeder reactor, which has been curtailed by the Carter administration, would extend these uranium reserves· substantially. In the breeder _the isotope uranium-238, which does not fission, is con­verted to plutonium-239, which is · an excellent fuel material. An alternate breeding cycle involving the conversion of thorium-232 to fissile uranium-233 is also being investigated. The possibility of_ large-scale commerce -in plutonium-239 has been given as the reason for the. Carter administration's reluctance to 
-pursue_ this option. -n should be noted, however, that there is enough ur3:nium-238 already in storage above.:. ground ·as residue of the uranium enrichment plants to fuel a breeder reactor economy for several hundred years. , 
If the natio~ wishes to continue its economic gro\rth it must do so by increasing its capacity to generate and use energy efficiently. Conservation; while it may post­pone increases in energy demand,' cannot be the total answer to our -energy needs. 
Some sources of energy -which have been discussed, notably hydropower, are nearly fully developed, -with 
(continued· on page 29) 


Tears and Joy: 




Frank O'Malley 
One did not become Frank O'Mal­
ley's student simply by registering 
for his courses. One was chosen. My 
"election" occurred, for no reason 
apparent to me at the time, midway 
in my junior year at .Notre Dame. 
I was just then becoming serious 
in my studies, beginning to develop 
an earnest regard for books and 
ideas. I had arrived at the Univer­
sity with little notion of the life of 
the mind, wanting rather to become 
a journalist, and had. joined the 
Scholastic, then a weekly newsmag­
azine, to which I gave most of my 
time, learning to count out headlines 
and to write simple sentences. I had 
also become eagerly involved in cam­
pus politics and had been rewarded 
with the chairmanship of the Soph­

omore Cotillion, my "spoils" for sup-. 
porting the winning party. My class­
work· was uneven and recognized as 
such. At the beginning of my junior 

year, and at the last moment, I had . 
decided on a major in English rather 
than one in journalism, persuaded 
by· my roommate· that the former 
was more respectable. 

.· Given these credentials I was non­plussed to· learn through a friend that Mr. O'Malley had selected me, without my having applied for the position, as an associate editor of the Juggler, the prestigious, if then -foundering, student literary quarter­ly. I was taken aback, first ofall, be­cause I did not know he was even . aware of me. During my two and a 
6 
half years on campus, I had caught only glimpses of him, usually rush­ing away, late for a lecture, always bareheaded, even during the worst of the South Bend winter, his fad­ing red hair flying, his light trench coat whipping out behind him. In my eyes, if he was rather awesome, hf! was also decidedly odd, an eccen­tric who taught an honors course of freshmen, whom he referred to as the creme de la creme, as well as classes in "The Philosophy of Lit­erature" and "Modern Catholic Writers.". He was also associated with the student intellectuals and poets, those dwelling in the base~ ment .rooms of old Sorin, who pub­li~hed one another in the Juggler and never returned the manuscripts. At the time, he himself lived in one of Sorin's tower rooms, a bachelor who had never left the University after entering as a. freshman in 1928; almost thirty years before. He was one of those lay faculty members, once familiar figures at Notre Dame, who took rooms in dormitories and devoted their lives to stu~ents. Cer­tainly there was no one in my own Chicago background ( except a Bene­dictine monk, also redheaded, who had tried at school to convinceme of the literary merits of P. G. Wode­house and Margery Sharp) ,to ex~ plain Mr. O'Malley, an "Easterner" from Clinton, Massachusetts, and an intellectual who was also something 
of an aesthete and an ascetic. 
by David Ku~al 
On reflection I would like to think · 
that he appointed me an associate editor because he had read the free verse and stories ·that I had begun to slip under the doors of Sorin's base­ment rooms. More than likely,· how­ever, he suspected I had some knowl­edge. of practical journalism, gained from ·my work on the Scholastic, and that I might help .to save the Juggler from the "underground," oz; at least to publish it four times a . year, thus guaranteeing its Univer­sity subsidy-which was, in fact, what happened. . · 
Whatever his motive, the effect of 
his recognition was decisive: his ap­
pointment confirmed me in a direc­
tion in which I ·had been moving 
with little confidence. His subsequent 
care, his love of the life of the mind, 
and his passionate dedication-to the 
vocation of the teacher, moreover, 
shaped and sustained me, along with 
a multitude of others, until his death 
in 1974. And yet because he was a 
teacher of such cogency, his influence 
remains problematical. For · Mr. 
O'Malley did not merely direct his 
students, at least those who accepted 
his "election." Rather, he entered 
their lives,· and demanded to be en­
gaged. The ensuing drama was of 
deep and lasting consequence; for it 
was not only carried on in the joy of 
discovery but it wai; also undergone 
in the pain entailed in his particular 
vision of history arid reality. So if 
the engagement often led to growth, 
· SCHOLASTIC 

it also wounded. , Such a drama is one which we know little about. To be sure, it has something to do with the nature of knowledge. But it also has to do with the mystery of the pedagogical relationship, as well as, of course, with ·the _teacher• himself. It is as a teacher of significant power • that Mr. O'Malley continues to engage me. 
It seems obvious that he did not enroll at Notre Dame primarily for scholarly reasons. In 1928 the Uni­versity had none. of its present-day academic prestige. It was not until the fifties, under· the -· guidance of Theodore Hesburgh, that it began to conscientiously seek such prizes, a change of direction that Mr. O'Mal­ley himself abetted by participating in the workings_ of the Woodrow Wilson and DaJ!forth _foundations and gaining numerous fellowships for his students. Indeed his success in this effort was phenomenal, and he was often quoted as saying his favorite pastime was "writing letters of recommendation." Still, in _the t\yenties, while the University had gained national recognition through Knute Rockne's football teams, it understood itself first as an institu­tion of Catholic apologetics, draw~ ing a large number of its students from the Chicago area, an identity that was still evident when I was an undergraduate. Mr; O'Malley, on the other hand, was a brilliant young scholar, eventually achieving-or so the myth goes-the highest scholas­tic average in the history of the College of Liberal Arts to that time. His ·record, even in an age of ·in­flated grades, may still stand. The challenge he set· for himself, at any rate, is rarely assumed in .the pres­ent. During the second semester of his senior year, for. example, he took nine courses, including six in litera­ture and one each in Latin, Greek, and · Philosophy. His average was above 97. ­
According to a . profile published in the Scholastic in his senior year, he selected Notre Dame, first of all, because it was "cosmopolitan rather than provincial." -If there was any irony behind that remark, , it is not apparent from the article. To regard a parochial university in South Bend, Indiana, as "cosmopolitan" • · may simply reveal a .. poor Irish Cath­olic's comparative assessment of his 
APRIL 20, -1979 
own educational opportunities in the -of Catholic· thought-not . the 
Boston area at that time. In fact, Catholicism of the parish and dio­
after graduating, according. to the cese, the political religiosity which 
same article, he planned to return Edwin O'Connor, one of his students, 
there, to Harvard, with the idea of satirized in his novels. That is, he 
preparing himself as a literary discovered at ithe University a mode 
critic. After· having been designated of thought and belief which had its 
valedictorian and graduating first sources neither. in America, nor 
in his class, however, he remained Rome, nor Dublin but rather in the 
at Notre Dame on a teaching assis­modern,· Catholic Renascence; par­
tantship, completing his Master's in ticularly, in those French thinkers 
1933. He was then appointed an in­and artists associated ·with the 
structor of English and History at Renouveau Oatholique who taken 
the age of 24, the youngest member together represent a renewal of 
of the University faculty. Five years Catholic thought and art in the 
later he was offered the opportunity twentieth century, a reinvigoration 
to return to the East, to Princeton, with beginnings not only' in Aquinas, 
as a University.Scholar, to work for Pascal, and Newman, but also in 
his doctorate. He decided rather to philosophical and literary · Mod­
resign ·the appointment, "to con­ernism. 
tinue," as he explained, "~ecessary It-was only after Mr., O'Malley 
work at Notre Dame," a work which joined the faculty, nonetheless, that 
occupied him the rest of his life. he became aware of, or at least 
His doctorate was not conferred began to respond to, the influence of 
until 1971, when Notre Dame gave the Renascence. In fact, as an un­
him an -honorary LLD, addressing dergraduate he had sat under G. K. 
him in the citation as "our beloved Chesterton, a visiting professor, 
Frank O'Malley." noted for his Francophobia and his 
The· other and the more serious prejudice against Continental •· Ca­
reason for his initial as well as his tholicism. His Master's thesis was on . ultimate choice, the very key to an Bishop Lamy, the French missionary understanding of his person, his who had served as · a model •for mind, and his power, was that Notre Bishop La Tour in Willa Cather's 
Dame represented a center-or more Death Comes for the Archbishop. -. 
accurately, the possibility of a center While this interest remained a part 

of his life, a:t least -insofar as it power, circumscribed as most of ing -fully with · civilization was also, touched upon the idea of the mis­them were by class and religious at­if not ignored by his students, muted sionary and the importance of tra­titudes that allowed little room .for in its effect by their own preoccupa­dition in culture, it was given a the mind and -the imagination. ·In tions,, by the. manner· of ·his life, broad, intellectual basis as well as a short, he left· them,-·to use· Lionel lived; as it seemed; 1nearly in seclu~ modern pertinence when he was in-' Trilling's phrase, "sentient and free," sion, as well as by hi~ intensity as he troduced to contemporary European beyond the dictates of -their _·own described the apocalyptic visions of Catholic thought.. That• introduction culture. the Moderns:· : ·_ I · · · took place at firsthand in the-mid­-Between .1944 and\1950, • a time in dle and late thirties when _the uni­·If-Mr. 0'Malley's Christian Mod­which he himself appear~ drawn versity, under the presidency. -of ernism, as one might define it, on the toward one side of the dialectic, to John . O'Hara, later. the Cardinal basis of his early writings for The an extreme 'arid -negative judgment of Philadelphia, began to invite a Review, was a complex idea that of the possibilities of life in culture, variety-_-of writers · and thinkers gave equal weight ·to the claims of Mr. 0'Malley explor«?d -those moderµ from Great Britain and the -Con­the self and to those of the commu-visions, the subjects which formed a tinent as visiting and as regular nity, his articulation ·of. the impera­core of· his lectures,: in a series of faculty. members. With .this_ -devel­tives of the individual -as, opposed articles for_ The•-Review of Politics. opment, Notre Dame itself, estab­to bourgeoise and totalitarianpower The titles theillSelves give us · a no­lished in 1842 by a French religious structures appealed more directly to tion of his· message: ''The Evange­order, the Congregation of Holy his students' sense of entrapment, lism ·-of · Georges -Bernanos" ; · "The Cross, was reaffirming its own roots their vague· -feelings of restriction Plight of the Soul"; "The Waste:­in European , Catholicism. Among associated with families, -neighbor­land of William' Blake"; -and "The the many who came to South Bend, hoods, and the -Church; : It -was for Passion of LeonBloy." These.essays; including . Shane -Leslie,' -Arnold this reason that Stephen Dedalus, for together-with-those he published in Lunn, Christopher Hollis, _ Robert example, was one of'their literary other journals,· notably "The Blood Speaight, Desmond Fitzgerald, heroes, despite Joyce's irony which of Robert· Lowell" in ·Renascence, Charles Du Bois, Yves Simon, and they stubbornly overlooked. Mr. were very much at one -with the . :Maritain, was Waldemar Gurian, 0'Malley's own insistence 'on :the Zeitgeist · of --the postwar · world: who together with Mr. 0'Malley evils of.-asceticism and • perfection­they revealed a: powerful attraction founded The Review of Politics in ism and on.the necessity of engag-to the ascetic life. Like Thomas 1938. 
Indeed, Waldemar. Gurian and The Review of Politics go a long way _ toward accounting for _Mr. 0'Malley's decision to remain at · ' · ·-" Notre Dame as. well as explaining At_--his reception ..~f-_ th~: Cl'!~l~ ---•-with•--the ·names-.of___ soulg.cwere as the source oi his thought. Gurian fiSheedy Award for . excellence dn . unique as:the faces lined so different­himself represented a model of the rteaching; Frank: . O'Malley Sspoke . · ly, then if·made ::i,ense Jo. conclude, Catholic intellectual who partici-i about tombstones. Those wh«i·r~ . as Frankdid that:day,that everyone pated in -the whole life of the fmeinberedhis not·jrifrequent apoc-has his_~r,her,ovvn doortoParadise. Western mind, embodying a way of LalypUc lectures'i 011 :''last''~-,!hings _ < e:Those oL his students who .bene­thought and action that was truly , were not surprised by· the image-:..-fited from, Frank's' gene~us. respect -. cosmopolitan, -extending .__ beyond ; but anyone would have marvelled··at --for their own,'fway'\lmew'.that. he America to include the major con-~what he.did witfrit that afternoon> was; iri his own,way;·inviting them. cerns of civilization. Besides, he re-[He began ~y sayingJ1e·reit1emb(?l"ed >into.a:hallowed circle of.faith, hope, 
-vealed the means by which one ithe facesj>t his· students and· the arid love whose center held firm even could -_ bring_ traditional · religious !Unes cm.tlleirface?--liries as unique· •.in tb:e contemporary.nuclear·waste­thought .to bear·_ upon the modern . 'aS.the•course·oftlle'.~tLidents','.lives land. People 'who accepted that ,in­world, incorporating 'the cogent anal-i'froni birth<Jo d~ath and the•.n'am.es . vltation; ·.became, <.as;,; Fr:\ /Sheedy yses of Modernism with Revelation Fthat·one'day/would-be' etclle<i<on. reminded :;those>who' came:•,from and Thomistic philosophy and the-'.tlieir-tombstones: ' ---. ---. across the land for ·Frank's-funeral ology. In some senses he stood at the , Frank never found death to be the and. to walk with him to his tomb­beginning of Mr. 0'Malley's mature , forbidding, formidable enemy of life stone, "friends of the work." Solitary thought, a mode of perception and that troubled so many of his con-as Frank was--,-,-and no one will ever interpretation which the latter was -· temporaries.. He constantly reminded say it better than Ernest Sandeen~ · able to work out between the two ' his students that there are things in he literally called into existence forums of the classroom ·and The . life to be shunned far more: mean-communities: . the Wranglers; ·the Review, the one enriching the other. , ness, callousness, deceit, irreverence, Juggler, theBookmen,the Brownson Mr. 0'Malley's force as a teacher re-: all the vices that disfigure the ,spirit Community, and undoubtedly others; sided, then, not only in his genius, . or contaminate a place. So perhaps Frank's eye for-the ,.invisible link but also in the nature of' his ideas, · it was natural for Frank to think of which bonded the students who hap­
-. ones which questioned his students' tombstones as doors opening to Par-pened into his ·freshman English sectarian .-values and which con-adise. And if tombstones engraved class was ·. uncanny. '.He sent his· ferred on them, in the process, a new · . . _ . ___ . 

SCHOLASTIC 






classes away with a m1ss1on, and some who spoke to him _of the 
men will'. b~ layinghand~ b~ you always· a mission-·that fit their con-___ temple, of the noble masonry and and' persecuting. you; they will • ·'. joined-personalities. ·He simply iden-. the offerings which adornedit: · give you up to the·synagogues, tified a group vocation: Those·who to these lie said; The days\will and fojuison, and ·arag' you into· ·. :responded became, as years wenton, . . . C?me when,. of all this fabric you : the-presence of kings and gov~ · 
Merton in Seven Storey Mountain, the modern apocalypse by follow­which appeared in 1948, Mr. O'Mal­ing the example of Merton and join• ley in ·the articles. urged -a religious ing the monastery. Whether the tra-. rather than a political response to dition is apocryphal or not, it is 
a civilization enervated by . war. certainly true that through his lec• Through those years his . "texts," so tures and the example of his life, he to speak, were Blake's line, "The could move his students in that di­tygers of wrath are wiser than the rection both in the late forties and horses of instruction"; and Eloy's during the fifties. statement, "There is only one sor­-Yet by the middle of the latter row...:._and that is-not to be of the decade a significant change took saints." His metaphors were bor­place in his own thinking as he at­rowed from The Wasteland. And tempted to restrike a balance of while he expressed certain reserva­idea. Beginning in 1954 with the tions . concerning Eloy's and Ber­essay, "The Culture of the Church," nanos's absolutism. and condemna­followed by a lecture, "Teaching tion of ,the. mediocre,· for example, in the Twentieth-Century Power he was willing to pardon their want World,"· which he first gave to a of flexibility and affection in light Danforth · Conference in 1957, and of their awesome truths, and because which he adapted for various other they were, like Kafka and Blake, occasions, and by articles on New­"the champions of. the soul." At one man and Guardini, he turned to the point he celebrated Lowell's lines, problem of American education and "What can the dove of Jesus give/ to the idea of the teacher, an almost You .now ~ut wisdom, exile?" Ac­exclusive preoccupation during the cording to tradition, many of his last twenty years of his life. The students . at this · tim~a ·· unique change iri his thought, nonetheless, period at the University because the was essentially one of direction and campus was populated by war veter­emphasis. · He never dismissed the . ans-responded to · his advocacy of criticism of the modern prophets. · 

tfriends of the w-ork.'' They r~mem~ , . contemplate, riot one stone will. be her,• with-. gratitude, owords ]'rank , left on another; it wm ·a11be . wrote in. The-Review of. Politics in. throwndown. And they asked him,· . 1954: · . . ' . ·.· Master, when will this be? What • 
We know th~twe IIlUSt remain; . -'sign will be given, when. it is soon . that we·mustwork and strive in to be accompHsli~? Take.care, .the best _\\Tays <>pen to us, 1iye :'. .__ · he said/thatyou· do not allow anY,~'. 

____•• with'bright andungrudging'readi-one to'deceiveyou;Mariy will ~ <ness'in;the midst ofour present;. come Illa.king use of my name; _· /painful history, in the historythaf ··. theywiir:say, HereTam{.the time ._·· is,· as theJiturgy.makes··c1ear__ to:, is.dose:at_hand; do .. not;turn . _>;us/a mysterious jumble,·an im->asideafter,them. And when you ~. /perfect and entangled thing that hear of wars:and revoits,cio not. ... wi!Lnot be rectified, with the good be alarmedby;it; such/things ' ;/ \: wheaf separated from tlle dis-. :must happen first, '. bu( the end . turl>ing chaff, untitthe worldfs .. : wm· noLcome air at '011ce. Then he . done~ So, no matter wliatcon-: ... · .. : told them, Nation willrlse in arms : ·:fusions,-frustratfons and persecu• • against nationi· and ]dngdom' •\j--· ,'tions befaifus, we·must have'the against kingdom; ·there will be.::. ...•·_endurance•·<>fChristians,· the__•-mar--· .great earthquakes in.this region or 
veious endurance toldby Christ 'iri . that; and plagues and·famines;an'd .: the Twenty~First Chapter of the ...· . sights.·_of terror. and great 'por:.: . iGospel cif St. Luke:· •~There were < . . tents from' heaver1: Before alltllis, 
. . . ~ -· ;,. . ·=--~: .•-, ·. ·-, ;_ ' . ''. ·---~ . :-' --,,,..: .,· .._.. ,_ . ·. • ;-. _·; ,... ::-, . . •. ·-.. '. ___· ' •• • • • <. ·_ .• ,_, ,••·...._ •. •~ •--,~.•.• :~ • • • •~ ... , • .-,:•.~~ .--·• d_:··:_ ,' ·_ .,• •, <::<,•'·. ,•,,:·_•_,"•~•••\,,-•••••> ..'.~-. "~-:•-•--~:-·--,',. ,• '• -•----~._,,_ 
APRIL 20, 1979 
Rather, he attended more to the mod­erate views of Newman,· Guardini, and Josef Pieper as. he began call­ing for a spiritual renewal within civilization, a renascence carried out through the right pursuit of hu­manistic studies and the work of the teacher. And instead of pronouncing · on "the goring and ganging and smashing of modern man and mod­ern existence," for example, as he did in an earlier lecture, ''Present Turning Points in American Life," he spoke with approval of Newman's unwillingness to despair in natural man and his refusal to be "tragical­ly tormented." Still what he . wrote of Guardini might be used to de­scribe his "new" voice, raised in the hope . of Christian humanism: "Throughout__ his · expression, . . . there [was]·_ always an apocalyptic undercurrent; or at · least there [was] not infrequently the radiance of apocalyptic turns and tones." 
It was during this period that I enrolled as his student and sat in both of his yearlong lecture courses, "The Philosophy of Litera~ ture," where· the subjects ranged 
, : ernors on. my-acco~rit; that will be.your opportunityfor inaking the· truth known.· Resolve;.• then, not to preparityoui--m~mier of · 'answering beforeha~d; I.will give ,• 
>you:such ·eloquence and such• , wisdom as all ·your adversaries. shall not be able to withstand, __... 
·orto,confute:You will be.given:. up by parents and· brethren and kinsmen. and: friends,: and some.< .

~ofyou will be ptitto death;.all tlie ; 
•,,: world willbe:hating_you be.:. 
. . ·ca.use you bear-my name(and yet 
.no hair of your head shall perish .. 

f' IUs ~Y endurance thatyou will.' 
. ; secure possession of your •... , souls." . <; · __·_ 
. <'William O;Brien is an· Ass~ ._ ciate Pro/essor•inthe Theology ,. Department. Among his :ivork'.is 
./ tke book St.ories to the Da;k·. ·: from Plato to existentialism, and 


"Modern Catholic Writers." Normal­
ly he would lecture twice a week in 
each course, both of them accommo­
dating some one hundred · students, 
while the third scheduled hour was 
used for the meeting of the collo­
quia. That is, he divided each class 
into groups of ten, designated a 
leader, and sent us off to discuss 
the readings. For many of us the 
colloquia provided our first experi­
ence of teaching, a profession we 
later entered. Often my particular 
group would meet in a local raths­
keller where he would occasionally 
visit us, refuse to be recognized, 
listen intently for a ·· time, and then 
disappear. 
Part · of otir Jascination in him consisted · in. just this "fugitive" quality. He would slip into his class­room, for example, deliver his lec­ture, and then leave without having asked for or answered any questions. Nor did. anyone, except his fresh­men, ever have an "appointment" as such with him. Indeed whenever he was actually seen oncampus, he was in flight, seemingly . either pursued or in pursuit. After a while, when we knew he would permit it, we would seek him out in the late after­noons at the bar of the now-demol­ished Hoffman Hotel where he would hold a kind of court. But often he would escape us, and we would spend the evening searching him out. If .we were fortunate to find him, and he was free, he would buy us dinner.. With him at. these times we began to learn of the pleasures cf cocktails, oysters, and medium­rare steaks.. 
In trying to remember these meet­
ings, which continued .after gradua­tion,· when we returned to tell .him sad stories of graduate school, I found I could .not recall what he talked about. Part of the reason for my ·failure was that Mr.· O'Malley never did say much outside the lec­ture hall. Not only was he naturally reticent with · students; but he also believed that a teacher must listen to the young without interrupting in order to allow them to talk ,their way. to knowledge, to liberate their own intuitions. The only time I saw . him "hold forth" at one of these sessions was at my expense. He had misunderstood me to be champion­ing. the Beat poets at the expense of 
Gerard Manley Hopkins and he pro­ceeded to correct my · "aesthetic." After the lesson, suffering from his outspoken chastisement, I left him in haste and anger. The next morn­ing, however, before his lecture, he walked out from behind the podium and came into the body of <the hall, something that I had never seen him do before, to return my lighter which I had forgotten the previous evening. He did not say a word, only smiled with a kind of warm delight. I may have been misinformed, he seemed to be telling me, but I was neither stupid nor wrong. His ges­ture, of course, was also an apology. 
It was this particular quality of care, which we experienced as his reverence for us, his willingness to a1low us our errors, while holding us responsible for the subject matter, and, . above all, his ardent belief in the value of our half-formed ideas, which permitted us to perform be­yond what seemed our capacities. As one of his students wrote after his death: "Most often his ·students would respond to his encouraging concern and begin to work at the edge of their ability. Sometimes their very being would seem to change." At his funeral Mass, Charles Sheedy, the former dean of 
e:,e ifuffi 
the College of Arts arid Letters, said, "But he did not love [his students] because they were gifted; The effect was the other way around. His love and concern conferred gi~tedness." 
The specific source of this creative power is · probably and finally in~ explicable. Yet it has everything to do with his idea of the teacher. Al.: though Mr. O'Malley never under­estimated the importance of infor­mation and knowledge in the making of a teacher, he understood that the teacher must first· tend to his own moral being before he could pre­sume to carry out· his work. Nor was · he vague about this require­ment. In "Teaching in the Twentieth Century Power World," he spoke quite particularly -about the neces­sity of cultivating an attitude of contemplation; of opening oneself to the "fact of the nature of things and persons"; of learning "an asceti­cism of the intellect, and ... of.the will"; of realizing the significance of community; of the need "to con~ serve and to develop the virtues of reverence and· patience"; and, last­ly, of the responsibility of meditat­ing "seriously about the final rela­tion of our existence, our relation to God." It was only in the relentless pursuit of these ideals and in assum­
. SCHOLASTIC 

ing that the profession of the teach­er is first of all a vocation, that the act of education could begin. That act for him was one which made it possible for the student to become a person;· It was, moreover, the funda­mental cultural and political act without which all· other gestures and programs are baseless. If the apocalypse were. imminent, if the life of the community, that is, were to become completely externalized and politicized, it would be accom­plished because the schools and uni­versities had first lost sight of their mission, had forgotten what it is to teach,. and had defined ifmerely as a function of spreading information, of inculcating skills, and_ of prepar­ing careerists. 
Still, I am convinced, what made l\fr. O'Malley a truly great teacher was his ability to console. Basic to this . power was his • profound under­standing of the pains entailed in late adolescence as well as his cogent sense of the tragic nature of life. He himself, of course, revealed a quan­tity .of pain to us in his vision of history and reality. And insofar as his own melancholy and need ·to withdraw influenced us, he weakened our capability -to relate to a world which was very different·· from his. But that was not what he. finally wanted to tell us-nor did he wish us_ 
to hide out in _any hole and corner. And because we· did not always lis­ten to the entirety of his thought or 
to his most important message, de­lighted . as .. some of us ·. were . to indulge our feelings of anxiety and 
alienation, pains, in fact, that we had 
· -·­

never really earned, we must take
· . . . . .
much of the respons1b1hty for any · 
. d" . . 
woun mg. · · · · He did not consider the act of i_ consolation as ·merely one option available to the teacher, but rather .·
I 
as one of his major responsibilities.·
I As he said in "The Teaching Fune­tion of An American University," "a teacher has to try to unify and not to scatter. He has to be conscious of the need and the aspiration of the mind to be freed in unity. Today a teacher has ·as one of his responsi­bilities the saving of the student's · mind from the multitudinousness of the · twentieth century-the terrible weakening distractedness in modern civilization that has tormented many of our nineteenth-and twentieth-century humanists." All too often the teacher of the present, he went on, "by ignoring order and the habit of order," and the moral dimension of knowledge, "living himself in the darkness of disunity" has "none of the priceless enlightenment of unity to offer." Like Matthew Arnold be­fore him, he realized that there was comfort available in knowledge, in an order of "fresh ideas," an ease from the discontents that can de­stroy the modern mind. If a teacher cannot or will not" offer that conso­lation, he commits an outrage upon the person of the student. That was for Mr. O'Malley the unforgiveable
. 

sin. . . 
All of this he offered us in his highly developed lectures. He also, of course, consoled us personally. 
. And there is no better example of his 
•affection for us than his last lecture of the year, "The · Vast, the Gen° eral Question," a ritual he observed for at least twenty-five years, in which he spoke to the graduating seniors in· "The Philosophy of Liter­ature" class. The title of the lecture was takeri from one.· of Virginia Woolf's letters which she wrote im­mediately before committing suicide. Her question was "What is the mean­
. ing of life?" If it was somehow an innocent question for him to ask, it was also one that we in our youth were particularly· preoccupied with. 
I do not wish to lay stress, on his 
· answer, although it is of utmost im­portance to any final understariding 
. of him. That answer resided 'in his Christian faith, an order of ideas . and beliefs wliich was for him the 
only alternative to a world . which 
h d ht · d d tr d v·
a caug up an es oye 1r­

. . . . W If · •t · f h h 
_gm1a 00 , a wn er or W om e ' haci the greatest respect and sym­pathy. What I specifically remem~ ber of that June evening in 1958 as I followed his minute description of. · her final madness and death was a quiet fear building in me, a trepida­tion attendant upon my•sense of an ending as I was leaving Notre Daine. It was all compounded by an un­usual hush in the hall. There was no scratching of pens or fluttering of notebooks as we· listened, mesmer­ized by his final words, said directly to us: 
A special · knowledge, · then, is yours and should be strong in you, and you must make it prevail. 
Your season here is · over and, in truth, it requires no ceremonious words to conclude it. Still I have come here and I have said what I regard as appropriate. and honest words, knowing· that they cannot be entirely adequate. We shall all go away now-but I shall remem­ber you. And I-hope that you will remember, at least, ·my very last words which· t speak with all my heart (and out •of my obscurity and unworthiness to you in this your present wonderful moment of achievement and promise): I hope that time will never trap you or the world triumph over you. I hope that you wilLbe happy! I 

. hope that you will. be· happy for­ever! But I ask you only to con­sider that the happiness ofhuman existence is sometimes so.rrow and suffering.•. ~ 
And then he was gone. I looked for him over graduation weekend · to offer my ·gratitude .and' farewells. But this time I could not find him, having to be satisfied with a quick glimpse , of him · in the academic procession. 
During the: .last years of Mr. O'Malley'.s life, the drama that· had always characterized him continued to an inconclusive end; . On the one hand; he dreamed· of immeasurable distances, in the form .of "Christ College,'' a utopian academy, .which he described in an essay in·.. the Scholastic in 1971. ·_. On the other, he was deeply involved, at least emo­tionally. and:intellectually, with the student unrest and rebellion which had Vietnam as its focus. The idea offounding such a college was prob­ably only a half.:serious one;. yet it was a vision that appeared to have some basis , in:_ reality... There was talk about a gift of land from a rich family; and it was a concept which he spoke about for years. Butif the college was to be in the world, it was to be decidedly not of .the world. And, if..his dream of. a Socratic, Christian community embodying his ideal of the teacher was not purely 
. an intellectual exercise, it was more of an act of criticism-perhaps· re­flecting his ambivalence about the growing sophistication and impor­tance of Notre Dame in the aca­demic community, along with the attendant dangers to the Universi­ty's teaching function-than it was a social goal which he would have . ever actively pursued; What he said about Waldemar Gurian in 1955 ap­
plied even more so to himself: "Notre Dame was his place, since the thirties the center not only of his fascination but of his existence; all the actualities and possibilities of the University were close to his heart and conscience." 
If Mr. O'Malley had reservations concerning the students' rebellion in the sixties, he saw the justice of their. cause and spoke in an address at the Notre Dame Peace Observance in January, 1973, of how the "young mind is wonderfully · conscious of freedom." Yet he was deeply upset by •the release of the_ "instincts of cruelty and brutality." And while looking forward in hope to "a new age of the spirit," he told the stu­dents: "We are not to seek for sal­vation in self-righteous cliques or claques; nor by withdrawal from the tasks with which our present, pain­ful history now confronts us." 
Still,. it was around then, about a year before his death, that Mr. O'Malley requested ·a sabbatical for the first time in his life. The need to create and maintain distances be­tween himself and that which he loved was . great,· perhaps at last overwhelming. Driven, at least par­tially by the disease that killed him, his alcoholism, he felt he had to get away, for the time being, from the University. 
In the spring of 1974, Mr. O'Mal­ley collapsed in his; rooms in Lyons Hall; After lingering briefly, he died in St. Joseph's Hospital in . South Bend. He is buried in the community cemetery at Notre Dame, his grave just .apart from .the rest, placed at the perimeter where it can be easily seen by passing students. The final words are· Ernest Sandeen's: 
But we salute you now as then 
with love, across no greater distance than you always kept, immaculate 
and warm; between yourself and us. 
. 
\ 

To Frank O'Malley . (1909-1974) 
What have you done? You lie so still . you strain belief in our mortality. . . We can't believe the body of your ghost, lithe and fleet, has now_~_!!en exorcised. 
. ' 
. . 

Our schol~r gypsy, you haunted the conscience of all our paths and corridors, · · you sharpened with light the shadow that ·was cast on what_ W!'? yearned for in dome and spire. · 
You chri~t~ned writers of indiscreetly'' visionary ~ords, the baptized and unbaptized alike, while awed 
. multitudes _of_the youn.g looked on. 
. •. . ,· 

You gospelled four decades of rich and poor men's sons showing them where the soul is; • And each day you knotted them thongs to whip the money:changers fro~ the temple door. · 
• -, ~ > ••• -• •• 
· When did you first surmise that yours · must be the gift of loneliness? -· _When did you discover that he who· is _lov.~ by all i~)oved by no oiie? 


: Foreknowing,·as you did,'.such cost of.spirit. 
.··.·. how did you decide? Or.did you? .. How can a man, amere mari, decide to n1ake nothing but himself his own?· 
..• , '.fhere w~~e days we sciircely could endute ..the fury of ~hat indifferent love ,. that.smi_led or glowered in your eye;. 
.• <·, :forgive us if we fourid i~ hard . to quite forgive in you your relentless uriderstaridin~ of yourself. 
Brit we sal~fe y~u now as the~ . 
with love, across no greater distance · · thai:i you always _kept; immaculate ­arid_wami, between yourself arid-us. 
~ :-Ernest Sandeen. 

We thank P,rof essor .Sandeen ·for allowini,· Scholastic : .to reprint this piece.
-. , .· -~ 
· 'Prof. Kubal,· a former .O'Malley 
student, is a currently a college Eng­
lish professor in California. · 

'SCHOLASTIC : 
by Theresa Rebeck
Perspecti\7e 

Picture, if you will, Mega Tech crease for the '79-'80 school year. steam pipes which have tended to Institute. It is the prototype of the Now, speaking realistically, that flood studios and ruin projects. American science-technology in-won't even cover the rising cost of After neglecting the building for so stitute; everyone on the faculty printing, so it can be technically long, the Administration finally de­holds Ph.Os and three-fourths of considered as a budget cut. At a time cided to tear it down and move the them have won the Nobel Prize at when the Engineering Department Art Department out to safer ground. least once. The average student had and the Chemistry Department are So where do they put the potters and a 790 on the Math SAT's. This insti-bestowed with huge, sparkling-new the painters? In the old Chemical tution is ,a very prestigious place to facilities, the hopeful writers and Engineering Building-that is, as study; high school seniors are poi-editors of Notre Dame are scroung­soon as the Chemisty and the Chem­soning each other over the limited ing for pennies to hold together their ical Engineering Departments move positions in the freshman class. All publications. into their newer, safer, more up-to­of them want to be great scientists Is this an absurd comparison? I date facilities. and engineers, so Mega Tech Insti-don't think so. The chemists and the My point is simply this: Arts and tute is the place to go. engineers are getting new facilities Letters students have their labs, too, 
Mega Tech Institute is unusual for because it is important for ,them to and they are every bit as essential reasons other than its highly quali-know their ways around a modern, as the chemist's. The writer needs a fled faculty and : brilliant student well-equipped lab. It would be ridicu­publication,· the actor needs a stage, bociy. Mega Tech ,Institute has no lous for a chemistry major to apply the artist needs a studio. Notre Dame laboratories. Itis a totally theoreti-for a. job without having had such has these, but they are underfunded, cal institution, based on the premise laboratory experience, but by the insufficient, or unsafe. I understand that practical. experience is unneces-same token, it would be just as ridic­the Administration's concern that sary. When asked about this unusual ulous for an English or communica­.the science laboratories are all mo·d­policy of education, the President tions major to apply for a.newspaper . ern and the equipment is the best; of the Institute, Dr. X. Peri Mentor, job without a portfolio of articles. I'm not. knocking that. But Schola.s­commented, "Our kids are so bright, ·· Practical experience is even more tic has been fighting for the funds they don't need to bother with sim~ · important for the hopeful journalist; to buy a typewriter that types with ple things like laboratory techniques.· .in most cases, their prospective em-some degree of reliability for three We figure they can learn ,that kind ployers will not even ask for. their or four years now. Who decided 'tliat of stuff when. they get out into the . college transcripts. They don't care the engineering student and his or engineering firms and research lab-about your GPA, they want to see,· her needs were more important'than oratories; We're giving them a good, what you've written, what you've the English student's? When was solid . background, we're teaching had published. this decided? . them to think in scientific terms. The dearth of funds and interest Maybe. I should just shut up and Their job experiences will teach. hits more than the student publica-transfer to some nice little Liberal them the rest.'; , tions at Notre Dame. How long has Arts College where they like English 
Sound pr~tty stupid? I'll say; the Notre Dame campus been with-· majors. Maybe I never should have there isn't an engineering firm in the out a respectable theater? For years, come here in the· first .place. _But I country that.would touch a graduat-Washington Hall has existed in a came to_Notre Dame under the im­ing senior who, didn't know. how to shocking state of disrepair. Until re~ pression that I was .coming to. a un_i­control a pressure valve. And what cently, every technical assistant.. versity, an institution _which em­research laboratory would want a approached the building with fear braced all disciplines and . v~ued chemist. who couldn't perform a .. and trepidation, certain that any them for their individual impqrt_ance. titration? It's just a stupid idea, a . second now the light board or the I liked the idea of a place. where stupid philosophy of education. It's electrical systems would short out many people with vastly .• different a stupid . philosophy of. education and blow the place to smithereens:· concerns could come and create a which is unfortunately taking root Currently, a somewhat 'halfheartel .community. I hesitate to giveup tp,is at the University of Notre Dame in effort is being made to patch the vision. because I don't think•it's an regard to the College_ of Arts and place together again~ but only after impossible dream. . •. Letters. long delays and years of paper shuf-· • But recently, questions 'continue to 
Recently, the editorial boards. of fling-in the Administratioli Building.· cross my mind: Is.the girl who lives University-funded student publica-Then there's the Art Department." down the hall more important. than tions met with John Reid.and Mario Their, plight is fairly .self-evident, me because she likes.to mix chemi­Pediof Student-Affairs to discuss For years,. the art students have cals and I like-_to write articles? next year's budgets. Student Affairs prowled around the Fieldhouse, en-Father Hesburgh,, you · spoke. up in had -received, a mandate from _Busi--. --joying· a simple, underground _exis-defense of the Liberal Arts education ness Affairs stating that. no budget · tence in spite of leaky roofs, faulty a few months ago. .What do you was to receive more than a:6%. in-.heating, and annually exploding think? [J 
Fictio-n 
The 


Sail 
A steady wind passes silently through the air as the ocean ripples below. I see no land. The wind streams freely, zipping here and there, puffing occa­sionally. It presses itself and leans against the sail of my sailboat in the sun. Many things are here, but I cannot see them, many things are in the wind. ··They are all one. My sailboat is simple, the product of neces­sity; and I, its occupant, a happy man. 
There is no more. There is no less. I can stare at the· sun forever without blinking, and my eyes do not hurt. I can feel what is happening at the bottom of the ocean as it wells.up through the currents and is refined along the way. The wave I feel at last is subtle ecstasy. 
I watch the sail and see the wind. I open my mouth and taste the air. 
No horizon. No land and no horizon. Water. Only this and never that. Never that. Sail, boat, water. Sail, boat, water. Sail, boat ... 
"C'mcin, Oliver, up! You heard·me, up!" "Let me sleep," say I. "Up," says my wife. "You know what happened last time, you almost 
lost your job. And peanut butter for breakfast? Tacos · on the run. Will that happen again, will that happen? Get up, Oliver." 
"Let me dream," say I. "I've pressed your suit and your breakfast is on the table." 
I roll over, away from the screaming lady:• I can feel the sleep drug cruising my brain once again as her voice is slowly assimilated by the pillow. The heavy feeling is padding the inside of iny head and the .voice · is gone: The gentle motion of a small fish catches my eye so I remove· it from the water and stroke it. The fine rainbow scales meet my fingertips as the fish looks up at me and smiles. I smile back. The wind is shifting 
·so I adjust the sail, knowing not why. Nowhere or 
-everywhere is my destination. I play it by ear: Sitting back, I watch the clouds play games with the sun. There seems to be a disturbance; no, my mistake. The fish wants to dance and I allow it., He's not· 
14 
\ 
by Tom Balcerek 

very good. The sun has escaped the douds again and now it_ has my eyes.. I'm seeing it,· and the longer I look, the larger it becomes. Its gaseous tentacles are visible now and they appear to reach into the water. I tum my head away for a second and i1pon my return to the sun I see that it has resumed its original size in the sky. I know now that it is gaseous. I suppose I always knew it, but never realized it. Now I realize it, and as I stare once more, it is growing enormous again. The fish doesn't like it. He scoots along the floor of the boat and fits himself under my slightly bent knee. I stand up and avert my eyes from the sun, returning it to its normal size. The fish flops fran­tically below me. I give it back to the ocean. 
With a strange tightness in my chest, I tum around in the boat, the suri now over my left shoulder. I wear it on a strap. Beautiful gulls glide lazily in a playing field of deep blue spotted with white. Their winged motion controls the scene. I aspire to join them and, I do, touching them occasionally and eventually petting them as they fly. 
"Oliver," ·says the lady. "Oliver," says · my wife. "You've got to get up now ... Oliver?" 
"Oh, pretty bird," say I. "Feathers, feathers." 
"Oliver, you're dreaming," whispers Marcia.: I hear that and sit up abruptly in my bed: My head spins. 
"I don't feel well today. I'm not going to work. I'm sick." And as I say it, I find that I really am sick, tight and woozy. I lie back down and drift away. Sleep comes willingly again to_ me. It starts in my eyes 
and... · · Back out on the boat· I hum along with the wind. !tis a beautiful song that I hear. My right hand hangs limp over the side of the boat feeling the flux of the water with all five fingers. As I reach down deeper, something enters my hand. I clasp it tightly and with­draw it from the water. It'is a long archaic key like one to the attic of a Gothic church. Inscribed on the key are the letters A and Z. I search the boat for a keyhole.and find it soon, right below my feet. 'Inserting the key and turning it, I find that the door opens easily . 
. SCHOLASTIC 


Gallery 

· · Jane S. Cutter . 



. .. . \. 
Yaz: A Major League Domer· 
. . . . . . \ 
"He was very lonely. He didn't 
like it here at first. He didn't like 
the South Bend weather, and he 
didn't like the discipline." So began, 
according to Jim Gibbons, the col­
lege career of one of Notre Dame's 
most successful student-athletes. His 
name -Carl Michael Yastrzemski. 
That's right, the present-day cap­
tain and superstar of Major League 
Baseball's Boston Red Sox was once 
a student at Notre Dame. Not many 
people know this fact, and even 
fewer know the details surrounding 
Yastrzemski's days under the Gold­
en Dome. 
Even _Yaz himself is a little hazy 
on the subject. "It was a long time 
ago, a very long time ago," he con­
ceded when asked to recall his days 
at Du Lac. It seems the best source 
of information on campus ·right now 
concerning Yaz' stay at Notre Dame 
is his former freshman baseball and 
basketball coach,· Gibbons, who cur­
rently holds the position of Director 
of Special Projects. · 
But for all concerned it was very 
long ago indeed. Yaz enrolled at 
Notre Dame in the fall of 1957, be­
fore most of the current population 
at ND were even born. His' parents 
always wanted him to attend a 
Catholic college, and . since Notre 
Dame was considered the best one 
around, that was their choice. 

Gibbons relates that Yaz had "an incredible devotion to his parents" and even though he had thoughts . -about attending a good baseball 
school, like Duke or Miami, what his · parents wanted was law to him. 
Yaz says. that the decision to at­
tend Notre Dame wasn't that diffi­
cult. "As a kid, growing up on Long 
Island, I followed football and I was 
a big Notre Dame fan. I always 
,wanted to go there and my parents 
always wanted me to go there." Gib­
bons says that Carl's dad always 
listened to Irish football games, and, 
that ·he· would have· chosen Notre 
Dame over other colleges even if his son were not an athlete. "His par­ents were very closed-minded." 
In truth, the real deciding factor was the baseball scholarship; with= . out it Yaz probably would not have been able to attend any college. His father was a potato farmer in Bridgehampton, Long. Island. It wasn't the most prosperous liveli­hood, but the family lived comfort­ably. 

Yastrzemski had built a reputa­tion as an excellent ballplayer, even before his arrival at Notre: Dame, from his experience. playing semi­professional baseball during the summer. Yaz' father, Carl Michael, Sr., played on the same team as his son. Once the two of them hit back-to-back homers in a game. Mr.. Yastrzemski was an excellent ball­player. He had offers to play in the big leagues when he was younger, but back then he opted to run a farm and raise a family. He was content enough to play semi-pro ball with his son. 

. . I 
by Mike Kenahan 

Y az learned practically everything he knew about baseball from his father, who played until he was 4Q years old. Yaz played all nine posi~ tions in high school, but he · was most frequently found in the infield. He was a very versatile athlete. Al­though only 5'11" and 175 lbs., Yaz played quarterback and halfback on the football team and was a high­scoring guard on the basketball team at Bridgehampton High School. As a senior he won the basketball scoring championship of Suffolk County, averaging 34 points per game. 
So, in the fall of 1957, Notre Dame inherited another in a long line of superb high school athletes that have graced its campus. But, as many of those stars soon found out upon their arrival, it took more than athletic ability to survive at Notre Dam~. Yaz, according to Gib­bons, found his first year at Notre Dame quite a challenge. "He went through the same kind of things as 
a freshman that everyone goes 
through. He especially didn't like 
the discipline here, when we had all 
the old things that we don't have 
anymore." 
·As Yaz remembers, those "old 

things" were that "we had to attend 
Mass three times a week. And, of 
course, we had restrictions two mid­
nights a week and the other times 
you had to be in your room by ten 
o'clock, with lights out at ten too. I 
think it's changed a little since 
then." 
Things weren't too bright for Yaz 

on the · athletic scene either. Back 
then freshmen were not allowed to 
play varsity sports. So, Carl had to 
settle· for the frosh team, one that 
didn't even have a schedule of games 
nor · uniforms to play in. '.'We just 
used to work out and play the var­
sity. once in a. while, and that was 
it." Gibbons says that this was 
pretty much an insult to Yaz's abil~ 
ity. "He was used to playing good 
baseball. When he got here he had 
nothing." 
Yaz did not have much contact 

with the legendary varsity coach, 
Jake Kline. "I only talked to him a 
couple -of times. The only time I'd 
see him was when we played : the 
varsity."-However, Kline was once 
quoted as saying that "Carl kept 
after me to let him·at least practice 
with the varsity. Finally, I let him 
hit against some varsity pitching." 
Gibbons, as the freshman basket­

ball and baseball coach, was the one 
who spent most of his time on the 
diamond and on the hardcourt with 
Yastrzemski. The former· coach ad­
mits that "Carl was head and 
shoulders above everyone else in 
terms :of . baseball talent and apti­
tude. · He used to knock the cover 
off the ball." 
· Gibbons, a '53 ND grad who also 

starred in baseball and basketball, is fond 'of relating two experiences that help to describe Yaz's baseball prowess. He says that one day dur­ing an intrasquad game Yaz hit a . ball "at least 450 feet. He hit it over the right centerfield fence. The ball landed in -the football field while the team was practicing,· soaring. all the way over a goal post." Another incident that Gibbons recalls shows the "deadly" power that Yaz har­nessed with his bat. ."One day.he hit the hardest line drive I've ever seen hit in my whole life.'' The ball was 
hit straight back to the pitcher at eye level. It was hit with such force that it almost took the pitcher's head off. "He just had enough time to turn his head, so the ball struck him on the back of the neck. He was knocked cold, and two weeks after he · still had the stitches from the baH imprinted on his neck.'' 
Even back then Yastrzemski was a dedicated athlete. Gibbons re­members that "Yaz wanted to stay after practice a lot. I used to hit him fungoes and pitch batting prac­tice . to · him. He even tried to talk me into letting him pitch in the scrimmages. He loved to pitch." 
There wasn't much Yaz couldn't do when it came to thegameofbase­ball. The only advice that his coach had to share with him was that "he tended to drag his back leg too much; he didn't keep it down. Other than that he just knew . baseball." 
But baseball wasn't Yastrzemski's whole life at Notre Dame. He was an avid handball player and became addicted to playing bridge • 1n his spare time. And, of course, there . were his studies. Yaz originally ma­jored in physical education but switched over to business, .concen­trating in management.and market­ing in what. was called•. back then "the College of Commerce.'' 
When asked what he remembers most about his days at Notre Dame, Yaz responded .that it was the peo­ple. "The place is great but U's the people that made it special. I met some real close friends out there.'' Three of these friends he still keeps in· close contact, with:. Bill McMur­trie, a teammate of Yaz's on the freshman squad and probably his best friend back then; Fr. Glenn Borman, prefect of religion and rec­tor of Breen-Phillips Hall, Carl's freshman dorm, and, of course, Jim Gibbons. 
~ile Carl was keeping occupied in the northern_ woods of Indiana, the major league _scouts were begin­ning to make their moves. Basing their judgement on Yastrzemski's semi-pro play they knew that he was a blue-chip player, and .the sooner he was playing professional ball full time, the better off one of their clubs would be. 
Yaz was luckY in that his father 

· acted as his agent. He was a very capable and shrewd businessman in terms of getting what he: thought 
APRIL 20, 1979 
was best for his son. Immediately he let it be known that his son would sign for no less than $100,000 and a guaranteed education. Mr. Yastrzemski had the help of Fr. Joe Ratkowski, a friend of the family who lived in Brooklyn and who, through his association with a lot of the Dodger players, knew his baseball. According to Gibbons, it was Fr. Ratkowski who told· Carl's dad not to let his son sign for any­thing less than six · figures. 
As the summer of '58 approached the bidding for Yaz's professional baseball services,·got heavier and heavier. Fourteen of the 16 · clubs made offers of one kind or another. "After my freshman year I went all over the place, traveling all over the country working out with differ­ent teams," Yaz recalls. 
The Yankees, a personal favorite of the Yastrzemski clan, made. an initial offer of a $40 thousand bonus, then hiked it to $45 thousand. Carl, Sr. just laughed at them. The Giants and Dodgers entered in on the bid­ding and soon just about all the clubs joined in the affair. 


The Detroit Tigers tried to use the Notre Dame family connection to haul in Yaz. John McHale, a Notre Dame alumnus, , was the general manager of the Tigers at that time. This lure almost worked as Yaz was once quoted as.·saying, · "I almost played with Detroit." 
With the help of Fr. Ratkowski, Carl's dad managed to narrow down the choices. to two clubs -Phila~ delphia and Boston. The . Phillies offered Yaz $60 thousand· to sign then increased it to $80 thousand, arid then finally hiked the price to $95 thousand with a $7 thousand big · league contract. Carl's father turned them down because they refused to pay for Carl's · remaining ·years of · education. · To Carl Sr. education 
always came first. . . • · · After rejecting Philadelphia in the summer of. '58 · Yaz returned to Notre Dame and began his sopho­. more year of . studies. Gibbons viv­. idly recalls that the pressure of the bidding was weighing heavily on Yaz. Meanwhile, Cincinnati with Gabe Paul at the helm, entered in on the bidding·. late. Paul reportedly offered Yaz $125 thousand but when· Carl's father tried to get $150 thou­sand to ensure Carl's brother's edu­
cation too, the .. whole deal was scrapped. 
•Finally, when Yaz returned home on • Thanksgiving break, he and his father were invited to Boston. · Gib­bons says that "the long and short of the affair was that both Carl.Sr. and Carl Jr. liked Boston and-they really liked; 'Bots' Nekola, the Red Sox scout who spotted Yaz and was trying to sign him. ·'Bots' really got to be a friend of the family, and the Yastrzemskis liked· .that." 
· · Also, Nekola hinted to Carl's dad 
that . the· baseball owners were con­
sidering a new rule change at the 
upcoming winter meetings. The rule, 
which was· implemented later· that 
year, made· players who. received 
over a $4 thousand bonus subject to 
a reentry draft after one year in 
the· minors. The Yastrzemskis did 
not like this idea at all. 
So, on November ·28, 1958, Carl 
Yastrzemski signed with the Red 
Sox. The contract called for· a $108 
thousand bonus, -a· two-year Triple-A 
contract of $5 thousand per year, 
plus the rest of his college expenses. 
By signing a pro contract Yaz had 
to forfeit his grant-in-aid and be­came · ineligible to · play varsity ball ·at Notre Dame; ·.Yaz finished.out his fall semester that year arid in ·the spring of 1959 he was assigned to 

·the Raleigh, North Carolina, Capitals of the Class B Carolina League. . . Carl returned to Notre Dame three times after turning pro to pur. 
sue his business . degree. He took classes in the off-season, and most of the time he had a lot of catching up· to do as the fall semesters usu­
' 
ally started before the season ended. .. This took its toll on Y:-az, and the burden became heavier ~~en in Jan­uary, 1960, he married and started to raise a family. · Soon Carl had two kids to care for, and the task'of com­pleting his education became."a real chore." But he kept his promise to his parents that he would complete his college education: 
Unfortunately he wasn't able to complete it at Notre Dame. By 1963, Carl had logged about .three years' worth of study at Du Lac. -But the combined tasks of trying to be base­ball superstar,_ family man. and stu­dent almost wore him out..In 1964 he decided to opt ·for a college closer to his new home of Lynnfield, Massa­chusetts. He 'chose Merrimack Col­lege in· North• Andover, Mass. It wasn't long· before he finished his studies and earned .his · degree in business administration. 
, Yastrzemski's relationship . with Notre Dame hasn't been the smooth­est or the most typical. As Gibbons explains, "Carl's years here were so disjointed. He wasn't able to develop strong relationships . as • most full­time students were_ able to do. Thus, it was _tough for him to have a feel for the place and_ to become attached Hke most students ordinarily be­come." 
As Yaz admits, "I lived off cam­pus in those , fall semesters. So, really, outside of going to classes and that I didn't have too much associa­tion with· the school." · . Today, Yaz does not regret the decision to attempt to finish.his edu­cation at Notre Dame. "Without a. doubt it was the right decision. I en­joyed it on the· whole, even with all the rules and regulations." 
· , Although Yaz has not been back to .the campus in six years, he says, "I · still follow all· the sports, no . doubt · about that. -And McMurtrie and Gibbons keep me informed as to everything . going . on there. So · I pretty. · much stay · up ·. with ·the school." And according to Gibbons, Carl even "goes nuts" whenever he hears that the football or basketball team has lost -'the mark of a: true Domer, if there ever was one. And a sure sign that CarLYastrzemski is still with his alma mater in spirit. O 
' .. SCHOLASTIC 

omore Literary Festival and the theater as literature," said Dragun Spanish· faculty ~f the Modern Lan­to explain his concept of the Experi­guages Department. In 1976 Jorge mental Theater. "We must think . Luis Borges appeared in the Liter­about theater as a scenario for an 
ary· Festival, and his visit aroused action, and then bring in all elements a strong interest in Latin American which are valid for that action. To _writers and literature which brought bring the action in contact with the a commitment . from the ·Literary people." 
• 
Awareness: 
·Festival· to attract additional con-William Oliver .has received the temporary South American writers. New York City Writers Conference "The commitment was made," re­Stanley Award and the Dial Press marked Dr. Albert LeMay, a pro-Award for his writing. He will speak . fessor in the Modern Languages on the tendencies, trends, and the in­Department, "and with a lot of help novative spirit that distinguish dra­from the Student Union there has matic Latin American literature and been a . follow-through with this production of the last fifteen years. action. "The Experimental Latin American "It is necessary to bring recog­Theater is a very important body of nized Hispanic artists to the Notre theater that is not imitated," he Dame community," said LeMay in noted. "Dragun's work is an original explaining the reason and nature of and vital part of modern theater, the lecture series. "We need to know and his Stories To Be Told is one ·of more· about our neighbors to the the most influential pieces of pro-' south and to the north. American vocative . theater. He .· makes, in a 
universities," he reasoned, "can no strong way, important social and po-
L. ··a·r·1·n·· 1onger neglect what's going on po-litical statements." 
litically and culturally in Latin Critic Schmidt summarized Dra­. America and Canada. The Spanish gun and his work by saying: ,CHe 
. A"m e r1·ca 

faculty 1s committed, the Literary has been able to achieve his dramatic Festival.is committed, and the Uni-intent without relying on elaborate versity, is committed to Latin . visual effects, and, at the same time, America.". . he has managed to bring cinematic 
Osvaldo Dragun, one of the most : techniques, 'such as• the flashback, to distinguished figures in con tempo-the stage' without falling into the ex­rary Latin American theater, was cesses ·to which a less mature one of the many innovative Argen-dramatist might be victim. Above tinian playwrights who broke with all," Schmidt remarked, "Dragun traditional and conventional .theater .must be credited with creating vir­in the 1950s. This generation ere-tually a new dramatic ge~re, repre­ated and. developed the most impor-• sented by Stories To Be Told." tant movement of Argentina's mod-· Through the efforts of LeMay and ern theater, the Independent Theater the Student Cultural Arts Commis­Movement, also known as the Ex-sion, the series. will progress even perimental Latin American Theater. further when Carlos Fuentes will 
Dragun is the winner of the Cuban speak to Notre-Dame students and Casa de las Americas prize in litera-faculty ori November 1, :1979_ ture. His best ·and most important Fuentes, hailed as Mexico's greatest by Dave Gill · play, Histopara ser contadas (Stories living writer, ranks· in stature and To Be Told), is done entirely with-reputation as one of the most signifl-A series of lectures by noted Latin out stage setting, and four actors play cant writers of all time in universal American authors 'continues this ·all the roles. They combine panto~ letters. Am.ong his best~knownworks month with the appearance of Os-mime, dialogue, and _direct com._. are Aura and The Death of Artemio .Valdo' Dragun, ' an internationally munication with the audience. Ac-Cruz, the latter internationally re­acclaimed Argentinian . playwright, cording to critic Donald L. ·Schmidt, •. ceived as one of the most-universal arici. William I. Oliver, professor, Stories To Be Told explores, iri a works to come from Latin-America. critic, and writer frorri. the Univer-· symbolic way, "the predicament of "We're hopeful," · stated LeMay, sity of California at.Berkeley. On modern man in a society that has .."that Fuentes' visit will permit us to April,25, 8 p.m~ in the Library Audi~ lost its human values. __The impact . bring other Latin Americari writers torium,·the two writers will discuss .. of each of these stories is heightened to campus so they _can share their the· Experimentai Latin American· both by its brevity and by the lack artistry." Some of tllose Latin Amer:­Theater and other current trends in of visual setting. Together, these ican writers include Gabriel Garcia Latin American literature. · ·qualities sharpen the focus on the Marquez, author of 100 Years of Sol­
. The lecture series began as a co-basic human conflict." · itude, and Julio Cortazar, who wrote · operative venture between the Soph-.. · "We· must stop thinking about Hopscotch and Blow Up. . 
APRIL' 20, 1979 21 ­

En Attendant L'Argent or Waiting for the Dough 
by Chuck Wood 
A walkway. A tower. A statue. Midafternoon. 
Two young men are under the statue. One, Vaurien, sits up against the statue's pedestal. The other, Nottolhere, paces, looking at the tower. Vaurien gl.ances up at Nottolhere, speaks. 
Vaurien: WiUyou please sit down? Your pacing arid thinking makes me weary!. 
Nottolhere: I will sit down when the time presents itself. Presently, I am attempting to· figure something out. But now, thanks to you,.I'v~ lost it.. Where was I? 
Vaurien: When? 
Nottolhere: When what? 

V.: When were you wherever it was you were asking where you were? 
N.: (confused) Back then, before now ... I should think. 
V.: How long before now? 

N.: (Exasperated) I was hoping you knew. If I can't 
count on you to pay attention to me, on whom can I count? (Pause) Some time ago I was on the verge of figuring something out, and now ... 
V~: (Excited) I remember! You were wondering about that tower ... or the statue, I can't remember which. (Stands to join Nottolhere) Yes, I believe you were really on'.tosomet~ng. · . 
N.: (Smiles) It's coming back to me now ... (Frowns) I recall that you were no help whatsoever! You just sat there and watched me struggling with my thoughts. 
V.: And ~twas a good fight too. (Chuckles, Nottolhere does not laugh. Vaurien becomes more serious.) And as far as not helping you, you know i see ·no reason to tax my brain any more than necessary. Just getting through is enough work for me, thank you. 
N.: Well; you have been content to. simply float through this episode since it began. (Turns away from Vaurien) V.: (Defensively) I have not been floating. I have been preparing for a stable future. . .. I have been waiting for the Dough! 
(Pause. Nottolhere, ignoring Vaurien, contemplates the tower again.) \ 
.. N.: What is that? . / V.: What, the Dough? Even you must know ... 
I 

· N.: No, no, no, not that. What is this thing we are looking at? · 
V.: It's a tower, I would say. Yes, it's definitely a tower of some sort. 
·N.: (Annoyed) I can see it's a tower. I am attempting to discover whiit kind of tower it is. 
V.: I was simply ... (Mocking.Nottolhere) attempting to discover some way to keep the conversation going. Trying to pass the time. And besides, why should I know any more about that tower than you do? I orily go in there if it will help me get the Dough; it very rarely does, actually. 
N.: (Throws up his hands in disgust) You and your precious Dough. That is all you ever talk about, all you think about, I dare say. Everything you have done is based on your expectation of how it will help you get the Dough. There must be more! 
V.: (Not at all bothered by th.;e criticism, thinks ... hard. His/ace brightens •.. an idea!) We could play games!.That would pass the time. 
N.: What? 

V.: Games. Everybody plays games around here. I'm surprised you haven't noticed that. 
N.: · (Confused, mumbles) Games? Such as ... ? 
V.: What? 

N.: (Louder) Games such as ... what? 
V.: Well ... Well ... I know! You could pretend to be . us, and I could pretend to be him. (Points to statue) 
N.: !cannot say as I like that idea very much.... 
V.: Or you could be him! 
N.: I cannot say as I like that idea.much either. I would not. know how to •begin. I know very little about Moses.· 
V.: (Throws' up his hands.· in disgust, suggestive of Nottolhere's earlier. motion.) Not Moses, the other one. ... Read the plaque on the pedestal. 
N.: . (Reads) "Moses, or perhaps the School President." (Pause) Well tha~ does shed new light on the situation. I ·am afraid I know even less about him than about Moses. 
(They both stare, puzzled, at the statue. Swwly one hand of the statue opens, revealing a piece of paper. The paper fal'ls, Vaurien catches it.) ··. 
.. SCHOLASTIC 

V.: Look, it says something! 
N.: Message ex machina, heh? 
V.: (Ignores comment by Nottolhere. Moves his lips 
· silently, reading to himself. His face brightens . . • an idea!) O.K. I'll be him(Points to statue.) You be us, and I'll start with this (holds out paper). 
N.: But I still don't know who he is. (Points to statue) 
v.: (Straightens up, smooths his clothes, b~omes President of the School. Reads from paper) If you don't know who I am, you must be living on Mars. 
N.: (Catching up, plays along now) Well, I'm sorry, sir, but you give the impressionofnever being here: 
V.:. My child, I am afraid that is an egregiously. mis­taken impression. You may not realize it, my boy, but I spend well over fifty-nine point eight percent of my time here, ·and I ... 
N.: (Pretending anger and indignation) Don't patron­ize me, padre. You're supposed to be helping me develop as an adult, not treating me like a child.. 
V.: My dear boy, ·people will be treating you like a child throughout your life, no matter how mature you may be. I am of the. opinion that we should provide you with the opportunity to acclimate yourself to this state of affairs. 
N.: · There's nothing about that in the brochures! What happened to broadening my horizons and expanding my consciousness? I keep asking myself. "When are they going to start broadening my horizons?" I didn't come here just because the Sack Race Team won the National Championship, you know! 
V.: · ··My son, I app~eciate your position. But I think you should attempt to appreciate the need for certain rules in order to . . . · 
N.: (Defiantly) Well, what if I just ignore the rules.I don't like, huh! What about that!? · · · 
V.: (Smiles) It's been tried before, my boy. But try if you like, abolish something. It will be no action of mine, butthe reaction, or lack thereof, of your fellows that 
will be yourdownfall. . . . 
N.: (Indignantly) What do you mean? 
V.: Well, they won't be so bold as to admit to agreeing with the rule, but their very inertia: will speak for itself. 
N.: (Truly angry) You think you're so damned clever! (Realizes he is getting mad at V. and not -the School · President, stops playing) Oh, this is getting us nowhere. I'm going! 
V.: (Still playing) If you insist on throwing these temper tantrums, young man, I am afraid I'll have to ... 
N.: (Shouts) Don't you know when to stop!? I am not playing anymore! (P(I(lJ,Se) You set me up and made me look like a fool! 
V.: (Ld:righs softly) Yes, I did, didn't I? (Beat) Weli, anyway, it passed-·· · 
N.: -the time; yes, you've said _that before. Well, now, what do you suggest? 
V.: (Thii,nks ••• hard. Brightens ••• an idea.) We could tell jokes! 
N.: (Cynically) It is amazing the way you keep com­ing up with these brilliant ideas. But with your jokes, the time would pass more slowly, I dare say. 
V.: · (Ignores N.) Two rabbis are walking ... · 
N.: (Turns on.V.) Does it always have to be rabbis and Jewish mothers? Don't you know any other kinds of jokes? · · · 
V.: (Patiently, begins a,gain) Two Holy Cross Fathers are walking out of the synagogue, and one says· to the other ... 
N.: (Grabs V. by the collar) Very funny! 
V.: (Pushes N. away.) Well, if you don't like my sug­gestions, you think of something~ -· 
N.: · (Thinks) O.K. You be us, and this time I'll be a president, the student·President. Ready? 
V.: You just want to get back at me for setting you up before. So no thank you. 
N.: But you must! 

V.: Who do you think you·are, telling me that I must? 
N.: (Straightens up, smooths his.clothes, becomes Stu­dent President) I am your representative, your Presi­dent. 
V.: (Decides to play) Well I didn't vote for you. 
N.: That is your problem. I represent you neverthe­less. 
V.: Well then, let's see a little representation. What did you have in mirid? , --. 
N.: (Clears his throat) Well ... in order to establish a better understanding of your needs and to ameliorate relations with the Administration . . . . . . 
,,,. "> • 
V.: Yes, yes? N.: ... I think we should have a forum. V.: (Shrugs) Fine with me: Will he be there? (Points 
to statue) 

N.: Of course. He wants ·to know how we feel. (As himself) Now go away. 
V.: 'WHAT? N.: (Whispers) Go, away ... so you can come in ... for the Forum. 
V.: If you insist. (Walks away) (Pause. N. waits/or 
V. to return. Long pause. N. begins to whistle, as if to a dog.) 
N.: Vaurien, where are you? (Beat) Vaurien! V.: (Returns slowly.) Where were you? 
N.: (Becomes Student President again.) _We were to have our Forum this evening. Where were you? I can't be expected to waste my ... 
V.: (Laughs loudly) I was at Nickie's. Good times! 
N.: .(Throws up his hands in disgust) Well no wonder 
we, I nieari they treat you like a child! 
(V. pays no attention to N. Looks out into the distance. He sees two young men running toward them from O'[)­posite directions. The two mfien are Adi and Das.) 
V.: How very intriguing. I wonder what they're doing: 
(Adi and Das come closer, slow down, address each other 
at ~he same time.) · · 

Adi: How's it going? Great! Excellent!! 
Das: How's it going? Great!! Excellent!! 
N.: (As himself, calls to stop them} Excuse me! What exactly is it that you are doing? 
-Adi: (Running in place) ~eeping in shape. It's very­
Das: -Important to stay healthy and look healthy. You two should ·be ashamed of yourselves. (P.okes N. in the stomach) All that flab. Besides, it keeps us ·occupied while wer'e ­
Adi: -waiting for the Dough. Gotta do something to-:­
D~: --pass the~ 

N.: -time. Yes, I've heard that before somewhere. (Looks at V., sighs: Raises his eyes to the sky.) How long, oh Lord? How long? 
V.: (Intrigued, finally speaks_up) How long have you been running like that? 
Das: I don't really know. It's hard to tell time when there's nothing to make one path, one hill or one minute different from-·· 
Adi::. the rest. Who can keep track of time? (Stops running in place. Scratches his head.) I never thought of that before. How long have we been running, Das? ... 
Das: (Considers the problem) Well ... ifwe knew how often we pased ,·each other within a given unit of time, and assuming we could agree upon the total number of times we have passed each other, we could then deter­mine ... 
Adi: . (Breaks in) Do you always have to show off like that? (To N. and V.) Give an Engineering major an inch and he'll take ... 
· Das: Don't start picking on me again! At least I've got some practical goals! You and your Arts and Lei­sure, where's that gonna get you? 
Adi: ·I remind you that I am in the Careerism Concen­tration and I see no reason . .-. 
-Das: Aw, forget it. We're wasting our time. I feel like _ I'm gaining weight; I don•t:want to end up like them. (Points to N. and V. Starts to run in place, Adi joins him. They run off in opposite directions--: Pause.) ' 
V.: Well! 
N.: Well? 

V.: Well ... that certainly passed .. ·. 
N.: ·(Almost screaming) Don't s~y it!\ 
V.: (Chokes as he swallows the rest of t1ie sentence. Clears his throat.) Who were they anyway?"-I'm sure I've see!1 them around ... 
N.: I am not sure. It becomes more difficult to tell 
anyone apart. We are all pretty much the same. It is 
hard to distinguish, who _is who from one day. to the 
next. It is hard to distinguish one day froni the next, 
really. Each day, each week is pretty much lik~ the one 
before. It is disheartening, almost disgusting. (He cups 
his hands to his mouth and shouts to the distance.) The 
days and the people in this episode are the same, only the nar:nes have been changed to keep us from dying of bor~om! ! (Sighs, lowers his head.) 
V.: (With feigned optimism) Don't worry, this isn't what real life is all about! ­
N.: I am worried that it is (Beat) I'm going. 
V.: (His tone a/voice should indicate that this is an old argument.) Why are you so obsessed with talking about how bad it is here? You go on 'and on, and then . you say you're going to leave but never do. (Intensely) If you think it's so awful here why don't you just leave? 
(N. turns away.) You and I both know why. You~ve ·got your eye on the Dough. You're just like the rest of us, but you complain to pass the time. (Grabs N. by the shoulders and turns him around. They. stand face to face. N. can say nothing, lowers his head. v~ continues.) 
Well, I am getting tired of hearing you insult me for waiting for the Dough. So what if I came here because it helps get the Dough? Why else would anyo'ne in his right mind come here and stay here? Well? · 
N. says nothing.··v. lets go_of his shoulders. Pause,_dur­ing which V., tired from his tirade, sits down against the pedestal of the statue.) 
N.: (indignantly) Well, this time I ~eally am leaving. (He begins to walk away. He walk$ a yard or two, stO'[)s. Sighs, shakes his head and silently returns. He looks from V. to the statue to the tower, sighs,-walks away a few feet but cannot go. He begins to pace, look­ing at the tower. V. glances up at him. v.· speaks.) 
V.: Sit down, will you? You make me tired. Why·do 
you insist on pacing? · · 
N.: .Iwill sit down. When the time presents itself. Now, if you don't mind, I will continue to pace while I try to figure something out. I was on the verge of remember­. ing :what it was I was figuring out, but thanks to you 
I've lost it. Now where was I? 
Curtain.' . · 

Chuck Wood is a freshman. planning ·t~ major in Eco­
nomics. This is his first contribution. He says he wrote 
this play •.• to pass the time. . .·• . 
.· SCHOLASTIC 



Perspective 

This' article is a response to. Paul Lauer's Perspective on rape which aweared in the April 6, 1919, issue of .Scholastic. 
.''Wooo,. woo, baby!" a construc­tion worker shouts:at the girl walk­ing past. on· the sidewalk. His fellow workers snickei-and begin to join in the ugly shouting and whistling. The girl hangs her head and· tries to ignore the stares and tasteless ~om­ments. She does not feel at all com­plimented; the men are not trying to express -an·· appreciation of her physical. appearance. They are _too far away to see what she even looks like;,they can only see that she is.a woman. Mr. Lauer mentioned .this · situation in. his article, but I wish to use the example 1n· a slightly dif­ferent context. This incident, too, is the violation ofanother person, a form of rape. I then intend to exam­ine Mr. Lauer's statement that_ the hierarchy of -capitalism, "which places one person or · group over another, underlies the phenomenon of rape.II. · 
The· woman verbally harassed by the men is, indeed, little more than an· object,· as Mr. _Lauer.. suggested. These same men would not consider shouting such . rude comments to their . mothers, sisters, wives,. ·and sweethearts.. I agree there is a fun­
-. 

damental similarity in the various types of rape Mr..Lauer cited: the violent street rape, the .rape which occurs during wars, ,the rape of an employee by the -employer who threatens to fire the person if his wishes are not met, the rape inside marriage where one partner does not feel. free to refuse sexual rela­tions .with .the other partner, .and the implied rape in the request for sexual favors as payment for an evening's entertainment. To this list, I add the verbal harassment of a woman because she is a woman .. In all these cases, rape has as its-pur­pose the degradation of the assaulted person. Rapevictims, it must be ob­served, are not.confined to women. 
The purpose of rape is not sexual gratification. Sexual desire often has very little to -do .with rape, even in the rape of 'sexual assault. A rapist attacks all kinds of people, women and children, as well as men; the black, ._white, young, old have all been victims of the_ violent sexual assault: A rapist seeks the degrada­tion of his victim, not sexual grati~ flcation.. · . · 
-!Usimportant to distinguish be­tween the origin and the purpose of rape. The purpose of rape is to de­grade the victim: The origin of rape is not to be confused with this pur­pose. ·Tei illustrate the · danger .in confusing origin and purpose, con­sider a tree. A tree may have a pur­pose_in making paper, but the tree did not originate for that reason. The tree's usefulness in· the produc­tion of paper . reveals something about the.essence, that is.to say, the peculiar . characteristics of a tree. It is equally. valid to. say rape, with 
by Lisa Hartenberger 

its purpose of degradation, reveals something about the essence of na­ture of the rapist. I cannot agree the economic system of capitalism is the origin of rape, or that capitalism actually requires this type of be­havior. 
Mr. Lauer asserted0... capitalism actually requires this (type of) be­havior toward individuals and the world." I cannot believe rape does not occur in socialist countries. True, 
_there are no pure socialist countries, but America is as far from ideal capitalism as the Soviet Union ·is from ideal socialism. Ideal capital­ism is the system by which a man achieves wealth as a reward for his pro_ductivity and work. A man re­ceives only what he merits..People do not use each other as mere · ob­jects · or as means to ·an end. A healthy respect develops. for the value and contributions of. the self and others. Ideal capitalism most certainly does not require one per­son or group to degrade another; this degradation would be, in fact, self-defeating and contradictory. 
A rapist intends to degrade his victim. This purpose does not indi­cate that capitalism is the origin of the "phenomenon" of rape. The pur­pose of rape does, however, reveal something about the nature of· the rapist. Furthermore, true capitalism does not require •the use of people as a "means to an end." Nor does capitalism.··. require the · behavior of degradation, such as we obs.erve in the act of rape, toward others. D . 
\ 

TENNIS IS HIS RACQUBr 

What is a Californian from the sunny, warm, and slightly crazy West Coast doing in staid and snowy northern Indiana? If he is Mark Trueblood then he is the captain of the Notre Dame tennis team that is 
looking forward to one of its best seasons and apossible NCAA bid. 
Trueblood, a senior in the school of Business, became captain this year by the votes of his teammates. Tom Fall~n, coach· of the Irish net­ter squad, felt this was due to the "enormous respect.the team has for Mark as a leader and as one of the guys." Mark sees his role as cap­tain as that of a unifier, one that will keep the team close.· He also sees his job as keeping the team loose and ready for each match. 
Mark is one of the hardest work­ing members of the team. He keeps himself in· tip-top shape by adher­ing to a strict regimen of running and lifting weights. Mark also works on more than just the physical as­pect of the game: He feels that "con­centration and the mental· part of tennis are just as important as a sound backhand or a powerful serve. Because I'm not particularly big and strong I have to outthink my op­ponent and make him play my game. This way I take advantage of my quickness ·and beat my opponent to the punch." · · . 
Mark, who is thin and wiry at 5'11 and 140 lbs., ·enjoyed an outstand­ing high school career before com­ing to Notre Dame. But coming to Notre Daine was an experience in it­self for Mark; he had quite a time adjusting to the weather. "That first week here at ND ·. -.. I'll never for'­get it . ·; .. it rained for one week straight. I felt like getting back on the plane and going home. You guys get some real nice weather," Mark deadpanned sarcastically. 
Mark finds playing outside in damp and windy South Bend a "real by Jim Trausch 
test in itself. The wind makes each 
shot an adventure. The cold makes 
it impossible to ever really get 
warmed up for a match and _you 
stand a· chance of pulling some­
thing/' Nevertheless, Mark has 
learned to ignore the eleml!nts and 
has been a starter since sophomore 
year. He now feels that he is playing 
as well as he has ever played. 
Mark is looking forward to an 

outstanding final year _of tennis. · "So far· I have played really well this year. Against the big schools like Michigan, Ohio State, and Southern California.... I've held my own and given some of their best players a real run. Actually; I've· been the in­dicator in each match· of how the team will do. When I win, the team wins, when I lose, well,· the team · loses." Mark proved this analysis to be sincere in a recent match against Wisconsin. Mark played outstanding­ly in athrilling three-set victory and -the team responded with an upset win over the top twenty-ranked Bad. gers. Mark and the team have been untouchable since~ "We are on the right track·. now," beamed Mark, "we're not gonna lose the rest of the 
year." 
This team ,that is "not gonna lose 
the _rest of the year" is very deep 
and therein lies its • success. At 
number one is Carlton"Crut" Har­
ris, a.junior with an excellent back­
hand. Checking in at number two is 
Herb· "Poo Bear" Hopwood, a soph­
omore who is a tough scrappy player 
who fights for every point. Number 
three is · Mark. "Hollywood" · Hoyer 
who ·sports a. mean backhand· and 
volleys well. · 
The 'second three consist o{True'­blood, Bob "Kold" Koval who hits the hardest serve on the team~ and a group of promising freshmen headed by Hartzell and Robison. Mark feels that the depth on the team at the 3-4-5 positions gives 
•SCHOLASTIC 

them a decided advantage over the teams with just one or two big guns. "Teams may be able to beat us at one or two," explains Mark, "but after that we'll whip anyone at the lower seeds." Coach Fallon likened this strategy to ,that employed by Digger Phelps this season. 
Mark likes to talk at length about the collegiate tennis scene and its future. "I feel• the game is in real good shape. It's fast and exciting and, along with the nationwide ten­nis boom, is beginning to be noticed by the public. Ohio State and Mich~ igan draw •thousands of fans to their matches. The game has really caught on at those campuses. Teams·. like Ohio State and Michigan have ex­tensive. -facilities, both indoor and outdoors," continued Mark, "and · I know ·that Coach. Fallon and the team would like to see Notre Dame add better indoor courts to the al­ready· excellent outside setup. 
· ''The college game is being played at a higher and higher level every year," according to Mark. "A guy like John McEnroe is the number one player in college. one year and the next year he's one of the highly ranked pros. There just really is not that much of a difference be­tween the top college players and those on the tour," added Mark. This upgrading of the quality of college tennis should help. the game be­cause it will bring good players into the ranks for a few years of collegi­ate seasoning. ­
Mark and fellow teammate Bob Koval will make a sma~er jump into the pro ranks this summer when they play on a satellite circuit in Europe. It is. used basically for up­and-coming pros who want to earn points towa~d qualifying for a WCT tou..,iament. While neither _ has grandiose plans of. qualifying for a big tour event, Mark feels the trip will be beneficial in that "it will give us a chance to experience Europe and.the people and play some tennis against some stiff competition." 
Playing tennis at a school ·. dom­iruited by football and . basketball enthusiasts is not .easy but Mark and the team do a good job of sur­viving. Mark-sees . a bright future . for himself and the team here in the second half of the season in spite of the blustery and cold climate. And why. not? After all, he didn't come here for the weather. 0 
Building'a Firm Foundation 
"First it is for the students." 

These are words seldom heard when 
varsity sports and first-rate athletic 
facilities are the topics of discussion, 
particularly at a national athletic 
powerhouse such as Notre Dame. 
And to be sure, these words were 
not intended to refer to Notre 
Dame's Athletic and Convocation 
Center or to the Fighting Irish var­
sity program. Rather, they were 
spoken by Kathleen Cordes, athletic 
director at St..Mary's College (yes, 
they do play sports across the 
street), and she was referring to the 
Angela Athletic Facility and the 
ever-growing list of varsity and in­
tramural sports offered at the all­
girls' school. 
"The Angela Athletic Facility is 

really an excellent facility and we 
try to remember that it's there for 
the -students," says Cordes. "We 
don't rent it out to shows and things 
of that nature very often, especially 
during the school year, because we 
want to keep it available to the stu­
dents.,.. 
The .Angela -Athletic Facility is a 
very . modern-looking structure . of . glass and steel that first opened its doors in September 1977. Since that time it has garnered several .awards for its design, the most recent of which is· American. Institute of 

by Bill Scholl 

Architects (AIA) Honor Award, the AIA's highest honor. The building offers students three.interchangeable courts which provide playing area for' tennis,' volleyball and basketball. It has a multipurpose area which a1.;. lows for· gymnastics, · fencing, exer­cise and dance, while its ·two rac­quetball/squash courts complete the facilities for intramural and recrea­tional activities. 
"Angela is really one of the main reasons that our varsity and intra­mural programs are doing as well as they are," says Cordes, who is in her second year as athletic director. Currently, Saint Mary's lists eight varsity sports which include: basket­ball, field hockey,. softball, swim:. ming, tennis, volleyball, golf and fencing. Approximately 150 girls compete in the varsity program that Cordes feels is one. of the best and most extensive programs· in Indiana. "And I'm not just talking about schools our own size," says Cordes. 
In the past, and up until the con­clusion of the •current. school year, schools participating .in women's varsity athletics have been divided into. two groups, large schools and small schools. Saint Mary's com­petes in ..·the• small school division. However, beginning next year, the schools_ will be divided into groups one, two and three. Group-on_e schools will be those that offer up to ­100% scholarships while group-two schools will be allowed to give up to 50% scholarships. Division · three, the one which Saint Mary's , . 

will compete in, will be for schools only offering up to 10% scholarship aid. 
Cordes· sees the new setup as be­ing _a type of "saving grace" for Saint Mary's. "We don't offer any scholarships to our athletes, and it was getting more and more difficult to compete with the schools who were giving them. It still won't be easy because even 10% can make . quite a difference when· it's com­pared. tono aid at all. But the new divisions will· help us out,"· says Cordes, who once served as Notre Dame's_ first female coach when she coached. the varsity women's tennis team at Du Lac. ­
_The fact that Saint Mary's· does not offer -scholarships to its athletes is an indication of the school's desire to keep -the varsity, as well as the intramural program, open to all stu­dents. "Our goal is to keep__ the var­sity program open : and yet remain competitive," says Cordes. "We like to keep it fun and active but it is not an intramural -program..It's--getting harder and harder to-. accomplish this goal but I 0think we:can ·do it.: I guess only. time will tell." ·· 
Everybody wants to be number one and many of Saint Mary's ath.; letes are no' differenL Because of this there are those ·who.wish the school would make more of a finan-­cial commitment to the varsity pro­gram. "I. think we could draw a lot more potential and develop more in-' terest and ·attention if we_: offered some scholarships,'' says ·sophomore Cindy-Schuster, who is currently the number-one singles player ·on the. tennis .team. But she -also admits that .this could detract from .the "open quality" that now exists with-0 in the program. . . .· . ' ; . 
Ellen Crowe is another Belle who wishes that it were possible fo· up­grade the'program through scholar­ships but realizes that this is "years away." -Crowe, a sophomore swim­mer who has qualified for-regionals,· feels that the swimming, program: was not·-as good as it should have been this past season but that "it's improving all the time. Things really­didn't go very -well this year," says 
Crowe. "The ·facilities just·· aren't adequate· and we had· minimal practice time. I think we had a lot •of swimmers who could• have really ·done well-·if the conditions had been better. Also, our season was only two weeks long so.it was pretty difficult to get in aqualifying time." But-Crowe feels the· season did" give the team a starting point for the future,: and.-she says -things are being done to improve the situa­-tion. For example, the school is cur­rently trying to arrange to use the facilities at Clay High School, in South Bend,-for• next year's -season. · Despite the fact that Saint Mary's does· not offer -any ·athletic scholar­ships it continues to act like a school thatfakes its athletics seriously. The Angela ·Athletic Facility is onlyone example: Another is itsrole·as host school for the Midwest Tennis Tour­nament which includes -t11e··1:op ·two 

schools -·from each -of ·six:·different ·'.selves as· far_. as _-their athletic pro­
states. -The tournament; -which was won by the Belles last year, is for schools ·with 3,000 _women or-less and will include Notre Dame> 
But varsity athletics ~ is not" Cordes' only concern. · "Right" now,· 

~bout 42% _of our·student body par-· ­tipicates in nonvarsity athletics." ' According to Cordes, the school of­
fers intramural sports in volleyball, __ basketball, racquetball, tennis, swim­' ming; softball, and track and field. 
Co-recreational volleyball and bas­-ketball are also offered withi the :students at Notre Dame: In addition, : the school also fields club sports, in , conjunction with Notre Dame, in : crew, sailing, and skiing. · · 
"We are really proud of our non­varsity programs,•~ says Cordes. : "Because of oursize,' we are able to 
run Angela very much like a private : club with the students calHng· ahead , of--time for reservations:··_Not many . schools can do that; We also·run our 1cross-country skiing -program on a . similar basis."' · ._ _ __ _ 
First it's for the students: -That · seems to be the goal that th~ Belles :of 'Saint·Mary's· have set 'for them­
-grams are _involved. •-For ..the· mo­
•merit they seem to· be accomplishing .that goal.-Hopefully;. thaf goal will .not be lost in the shtiffle ,·as it has ; been at so many other schools acro~s· '. the country. _D 
. SCHOLASTIC _ 

Goodpaster ••• 
( continued from page 5) 
and to the environment. The questionable justice of such exportation should give us pause. Some swords make. poor· plowshares. 
In the end, of course, it must be the citizens (not the technocrats) of a society who decide on ends and means, on goals and strategies. But inevitably, the de­cision made will concern future persons who have only the voice which we give them. Our energy future should be one which we can live with, but one which our children (and the children of other tribes on this globe) can live with as well. O 
Professor Kenneth E. Goodpaster teaches phUosophy · courses _in Carporate .Ethics· and Environmental Ethics. . He has ·participated for several· years in the research of Notre Dame's Phi"losophic Institute (see Values in the ­Electric Power Industry, University of Notre Dame_ Press, 1977). T_his, month Notre Dame Press will re-_ lease his 1ntest book, coedited with Pr.ofessor K. M. 
S<Il!JTe: Ethics and Problems . . of the 21st Century..
--. 
Lucey ... 
(continued from page 5) 

.little prospect of expanding their capacity significantly to meet expanding demand. Others, such as naturai gas and oil, though widely used in the past, have be­come uneconomic as reserves become depleted. Po­tential sources such as solar, tidal, wind, nuclear breeders, nuclear fusion and biomass cannot be de­veloped rapidly enough to make a significant contribu­tion by _the turn of the century (even later in some cases). 
The energy sources which have a well-developed technology and are economically viable to meet ex­panded energy demand are coal and uranium. Both, as do all the other sources mentioned earlier, can have significant, potentially adverse, effects on the en­vironment and on public health. Failure to meet ex­panding energy demands will also have an adverse effect on the economy . and, consequently, on the en­,rironment and public health.: · _ 
The question of the nation's;(and the world's) energy. future is a difficult and complex one. It does not hav~ . a simple solution, nor a cheap one. 0 
.John Lucey is an Associate Professor in the Aerosp~e ~nd Mechanical Engineering Department. 
Outward Bound is a high-adventure trip into the wilderness. 
And a lot more. . _ . It's a trip that shows you what __ you're made of. For the first time· in your life you confront yourself face-to-face: You learn you can do anything you really want to do. All this takes just three weeks ..­But the self-confidence you learn might just last you a lifetime. . · 
Sendme full information. 
Name 
Street 
City ; State 

Phone 
No experience necessary. , . Outward Bound admits-students qfany 
Check the courses that Interest you. 
sex. race. color and national or ethnic origin. \Ve are a nonprofit o,yanlzatlon. Canoeing _ Desert expeditions__ Scholarships available. 
White water WIiderness · . ·:.·.·. . . . . . 
rafting ,backpacking _ Salling Mountaineering 
U 
Outward Bound, Dept. CA.
~Outw~rd Bound• --165 W. Putnam Ave•• 
Greenwich.CT 06830. Phone toll free (800) 243•8520. 
The course tl_lat never ends ­


The· Last Word 
He was listening to' her. 
"Yeah, well, things haven't ex­actly been going badly, but they haven't been that good, either, do you know what I mean? It s.eems like everything crune together, all the shit. Life was going O.K. until my parents threw me out of the house. I usually can see things like that coming, but this took me com­pletely off guard. One simple ar­gument and, boom, ·I'm out of the house. So I packed my bags, col-. lected my pennies and nickels and dimes and headed for New York. I knew a kid who goes to NYU so I figured I could stay with him for a • while. He was kind of surprised to see me, but I think he was glad to help me· out. But his roommate definitely didn't want me there. I was just about to get the hell out of there when I met this guy at this . bar, who turned out to be a hair­dresser at Sassoon's We talked for a while and ... well ... got to know each other. A week later I moved in with him. His apartment was huge. Six rooms on the East Side. · Rent-free. I felt like a leech, · though, so I looked for a job and found one at the reception desk at the Manhattan office of the Ameri­can Automobile Association, _dis­pensing aid and assistance across the metropolis. It was awful, but it . 
only lasted about a month. They fired me because I called in sick · with sunstroke when all I wanted was a day off. So, anyway, I went to the beach and met my boss who was not thrilled with my being there. I told the hairdresser about it when I got back that night and he got really upset. He called me irre­sponsible and unambitious and lazy. He was going to kick me out but I calmed him down. Being kicked out of one place was enough. Then my sister horned in. She made me ask · him if she could move in with us. She has a job at a bank, Chase, I think, and needed a cheap place to live. I asked the hairdresser if she could move in and he, naturally, hit the roof. This time he called me every name in the book and kicked me out too~ Of course my sister went on her merry way,·and found a place down in the Village. So there I was, hitting the streets, trying to find my sister's apartment when what happens? The blackout. The goddammed New York blackout. I was mugged twice. Once by a guy with a knife who I smooth-talked . into letting me go and again by this gang of twelve-year-old kids with· rocks and glass, who nearly killed me. They took my watch and my wallet, with all of seven dollars in it. Things were_ looking pretty. bad, ·so 



by J~ke Morrissey 
I called home and asked for some money. They told me to come home, all was forgiven, provided I did them one favor. My other sister had 
·just had a baby and would I get 'rid' of it for them? 'Getting rid of it' I found out was selling on the_ baby market. Jesus, it made me sick to my stomach. I :took the baby, a little girl, back to the city. I cried when I handed her over. I went back home hating my parents, but I knew that I didn't have enough money to live ·anyplace else. So I worked at my father's gas station for a while and got some money together, and got ready to head for California. I met this guy with a 
_· ton of problems who wanted to go to California too. He fell in love with me, and his parents were rich so I 

· .married him. I don't regret it now, it's just strange to think that I would be married at all, let alone to this guy. So we started out for California. Started out is right: we · ran out of money in Kansas. We _were stuck there for awhile, so we found jobs to try to get some bucks together.... I'm sorry I didn't in­vite you to the wedding," she said to him, "but everything just hap­pened so fast I didn't get a chance to have anyone there." "I understand," he said. But he didn't.. 0 
' ; : SCHOLASTIC 



SENIORS! 
Don't leaue ND empty handed. 
Subscribe. 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 Please send me · a subscription . to SCHOLASTIC for ........... years at $5.00 a year. I am enclosing $................................ . . . ...........................CASH 
........................ CHECK Nam · · 
Address ..........................................................................................•......• 
CitY--··········································································· Stat · ...............................................~......... Zip ..................... . 
· 



. . 
-'•• '' · ..... ·"' ·---. . --. 






