2
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 76
AUGUST 28, 1942
No. 10
AL DONAHUE SIGNED FOR SENIOR BALL; DECORATIONS TO BE LATIN AMERICAN
features is proof that she’s doing very well. Lanson, recently engaged by Donahue is being enthusiastically heard on the West Coast where the band is currently playing.
“Low Down Rhythm in a Top Hat” is in store for Centennial Ballers. Music chairman Lee Raymond made this much certain last Tuesday when he announced that Al Donahue and his orchestra had been signed for the Ball. The search for a signed contract had been surprisingly long; with Donahue on the line Mr. Raymond was obviously both happy and relieved.
Al Donahue is a band-leader who almost became a lawyer. Some years ago he received degrees from Boston University of Law and the New England Conservatory of Music on the same afternoon. From then on.the music in him subdued the law, and an initial session on the bandstand of a New England resort sprung him on an orchestral career. He performed around home-town Boston first, then paced his boys southward stopping frequently along a route which ran from the Waldorf-Astoria and Rainbow Room in New York to the Colony Club in Palm Beach. Travel must have appealed to him for he has since plied back and forth between the Atlantic and Pacific.	.
Varied experience has developed Donahue’s native versatility. At one time he piloted 37 dance orchestras which served the Furness-Bermuda Passenger Line. The job paid off: Mrs. Donahue was Miss Frederika Gallatin when Al met her at the Hotel Bermudiana. Abandoning the chain-band system, he afterwards appeared with his own unit in North and South America, bounding from Monte Carlo Casino to America’s big-city hotels and back again.
If the choice must be made, Donahue favors “sweet” over “swing.” Well-schooled musically, a distinctive mark is his “low-down rhythm,” strictly neither “swing” nor “sweet.” It borrows from the classics and the w'altzes and blends the two with the lighter, brisker American rhythm. There is small chance that
a single Senior wall starve for his pet brand of music September 18: Donahue’s group has satisfied equally well the jitterbug patrons of New York’s Paramount theatre and the sombre patrons of New England’s society parties. .
In addition to the blue-eyed, rangy Donahue and the orchestra, personnel includes two vocalists, Patti Farnsworth and Snooky Lanson. Patti’s business is with “rhythm and romance” and the response to several of the recordings she
By coincidence and the foresight of the music committee Donahue’s group is especially qualified for its Rockne Memorial appearance. Herb Melton, chairman in -charge of decorations, announced last week that the Ballroom would be decked out according to a Latin American theme. Donahue’s experience south of the border has’ enabled him to integrate something of that continent’s spirit into his music, in a setting of haciendas and balconies the mature strains of his style will be happily at home.—George Kelly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 18 6 7
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	-
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr......Managing Editor
Daniel Downey.__________Campus Editor
Bill Reynolds___________________Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker______Admin. Editor
Robert Lonergan_____________Promotion
Ted Weber__________________:.....Photo	Editor
George Thompson____________________Art	Editor
James CHRisovERGis....Sta# photographer Gail Fitch, Jr_____________Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Seniors Sign Ai Donahue___________ 3
Scrip Comes Out ................   5
Love Problems Solved______________ 7
ADMINISTRATION
Social Study Seminar Next
Monday ______________________12
Frank C. Walker Speaks to K.of C. 13
Noon Hour Class Period ________15
SPORTS .
Alumni Takes Softball Title____19
Lesmitz Wins Obstacle Race_____19
Crimmins Leads All-Stars .......21
FEATURES	.	.
The Periscope__________________ 6
The Clubs __________________ 9—10
The College Parade ..._;____1...1 I
The Week __________________    18
Short Shorts ..._____________  26
Pressbox Splinters ____________28
vu	...	i	~~	wv
1 EDITORIAL |
The Summer Scholastic’s origin can probably be traced directly to the December 7th ambush at Pearl Harbor; it is but one of countless innovations in life here at Notre Dame and throughout the country that were conceived in blood when the Japs launched their treacherous attack. A year ago at this time the problems of this magazine were far from our mind. Then a happy summer vacation was fast drawing to a close and the proximity of the junior year here at the University was beginning to bear down on us. True, even then more than half the world had spilled its manpower into a war, the carnage of which had already exceeded the grimmest predictions of mechanized strife. Even then, however, the draft had created new problems in college life.
After the declaration of war we were prepared for almost anything. Surprising changes’in the regular routine of school life became a matter of course. The advent of the first regular summer semester was finally rumored into reality. Meanwhile the Howard, Lyons, and Morrissey exodus had taken place and the Gold Coast inhabitants accustomed themselves to closer quarters. Students, habitually late for classes, learned to use the long columns of marching middies as good excuses. Finally the hectic spring semester ended. We went home; “slept in” for a few days; found that most of the old cronies were in some branch of the armed forces; and finally with trepidation we headed back for the summer.
Difficulties were to be expected in putting out the first Summer SCHOLASTIC. The turnout of reporters was small, but those who worked were faithful in handing in their copy week after week in spite of the heat. -
The staff was the smallest in years, but the sincerity of each member and their willingness to work proved their value. Reporters had to ‘dig’ for news. Th'e customary school-year events were not taking place. The seniors voted down a Summer Ball and removed the one chance for a Summer “formal dress” cover. Varsity sports competition, with the exception of the golf and tennis finales, was not taking place. Interhall sports, however, opened a new field, and many a student made the spo.ts pages for the first time.
Over in the Ave Maria Press Building something-new-was-encountered. The hard working composing and press room men were taking their summer vacations and that meant double-duty for those left. For a while there were dread rumors of paper and lead shortages, but these soon faded. The ^2.Dome felt the pinch of wa/ priorities trouble and failed to appear on time. The yearbook’s tardy appearance indirectly affected the Scholastic because the magazine depends on the Dome cuts to give picture “blows” to the various B.M.O.C.
But now the Summer semester is almost over. We look back with reluctance at a Summer that was not nearly so bad as everyone predicted. We’ve come to enjoy the tension that creeps up on you as the press deadline draws near. We realize how lucky we were to have such a cooperative staff that never failed when the “more copy” cry went out. Then, too, we appreciate the steadying influence of our faculty advisor and the sage advice always forthcoming at the Publications and Publicity dffices. And we often wondered how those over at the Ave Maria building put up with our ignorance of the technical difficulties involved in putting out the magazine.	.	.
Sadly, then, we write finis to a job that has' been pleasant and profitable in experience.	-	• -	.	—R- D. L.
4
Student Council Plans
Fall Victory Dances
REVISED "SCRIP" MAKES FIRST SUMMER APPEARANCE;
REVIEWER PRAISES GILLIGAN'S INITIAL EFFORT
With eleven games in sight for fall one wonders how there will he
time for anything besides keeping the
WALT JONES
team - spirit flying high. But the Student Activities Council intends to have all those anticipated victories celebrated in fine fashion. Consequently, Walt Jones, President of the
Student Activities Council, announces that there will definitely be five Victory Dances next Fall with excellent prospects for a sixth.	-
After much deliberation on the part of the Council the following clubs were chosen as those most deserving the honor of holding a Victory Dance:
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech—sponsored by the Chemistry Club.	■
Oct. 10—Stanford—sponsored by the Student Council.
Oct. 17—Navy Pre-Flight School— sponsored by the Villagers Club.
Nov. 14—Michigan—sponsored by the Knights of Columbus.
Nov. 21—Northwestern—sponsored by the Notre Dame Federation for Decent Literature.
The choice of the band will be left up to the discretion of the respective clubs. On these chosen Saturday nights the Victory March, will very probably be resounding from the walls of the old standby, the Indiana Club, where many a Notre Dame victory has been duly celebrated. The only thing to remain unchanged by the present war will be the old price of one-dollar and ten cents (ten cents tax).
This fore-sight and anticipation is typical of the activity presented by the Student Council during this summer semester. It has been a difficult task well handled to keep the student body satisfied from week-end to week-end, for it seems summer and school are incompatible terms in our “way of life.”
—James Downey
FRANK EBNER
A Scrip revised in technique and conscious of new aims makes its lone sum
mer appearance under the editorship of
JOHN GILLIGAN
John Gilligan. Because of wartime difficulties it will be published once each term until the end of the war. This issue makes a concerted and successful effort to present a more readable and attrac
tive publication to the student body as a whole. This attempt has proved singularly effective without altering noticeably the literary qualities it has sought after in past years.
The plan to reinvigorate the publication’s techniques gives this issue the initial appeal which it has lacked in the past. The double columns of smaller type on unfinished paper are a long needed change from the dull boldness in the makeup of past issues. The small pen and ink sketches by George Barrett spattered throughout are a definite relief from the stolid, scriptural-like pages of the past. These alterations beginning with the green cover and extending throughout the issue have succeeded in vitalizing the publication and making this an issue whose contents will be more eagerly and optimistically read by the students.
This issue despite its sincere and welcome emphasis on the format does not attain its fullest power in a department which formerly has been its strongest. The issue is noticeably lacking in the fiction which it usually fosters. Big Creek, by George Kelly, is an excellently written story of sensitive “ experiences. John Gilligan’s “Inherit the Earth” is very mature. Joseph Chandler Ryan’s, The Tears . of Things, is an excellent penetration of an emotional state. Stories of Virginia, by J. H. Johnston, are two experiences related in fine, delicate prose. Together with John Hunt’s, Afternoon of Purple, and Richard Powers’, Beautiful Dreamer, these fictional pieces are the only outstanding stories presented.
The great body of the issue has been given over to personal essays. Kelly Cook’s, What is the Wind, is definitely of this type; it is an excellent portrayal of a land’s deep impression on the author. They Start at the. Third, by _ R. J. Ames, is a good, essay which captures the spirit of steel and the men who build with it.
Joseph Lanigan’s, The People of North Boston, is an attractive essay about New Hampshire men. Other informal essays are by Gerry Hogue, John Henchy, John Tuckey and Warren Leary, the last three of whom appear in Scrip for the . first time.
The Paganism of Yeats, by Charles John Kirby, the editor of Scrip in the past year, is a reprint of the major portion of an essay which was awarded the Meehan Medal for the most distinguished essay written'by a Senior. It treats of the dissipation of this poet’s art. The dislocation of William Butler Yeats’ philosophy is completely analyzed in this exceedingly well written essay. Another fine essay, Dostoievsky and the Nature of Man, by Bernard Henegan, a ’ graduate student, appears in this issue. The essay is a comprehensive study of the work of this great Russian artist and his attempt to penetrate the true destiny and nature of man; it is a concrete exposition of the metaphysic of man’s freedom. The Mask of the Devil: Perfectionist Versus Perfection, by Waldemar Gurian, marks the appearance of this professor’s work in the publication. Political philosopher of international fame, he has contributed a relatively short essay which urges the abandonment of a false perfectionism and the acceptance and practice of a vital, workable conception of our real problems.
Poetry, after a peculiar and altogether . strange absence from the issues of the past year, once again appears in this summer issue. As the editor states in . Scrivener, a short prefatory piece,' the poems are not “sentimental formulas” put in the publication to complete the range of its work, but they are poems .	.
“seeking to fulfill the requirements of . true poetry and real poets by attempting, .
'	5	<
however imperfectly, to approach reality and truth in their work. . . .” These poems. are all good and the poets display an honest effort to express themselves in this finest of imaginative methods. Neiv Songs of Innocence and Experience and Clint Harrod, 1750, by Kelly Cook, are two fine poems. A verse legend, Paul Bunyan, by John A. Lynch, and a short, clever poem, Peddler, by J. H. Johnston, round out the bulk of the issue’s poetry.
The reviews of current books contain examinations of several topical works: Victory Through Air Power, by Major Anton de Seversky, reviewed by John Battaile; The Moon is Down, by Jolin Steinbeck, and analyzed by Quentin Sturm. Franz Werfel’s, The Song of Bernadette, is reviewed by Joseph Hille-brand, and the reviewer critically penetrates the difficulties this author encountered in exploration of the supernatural.	.
The issue is successfully marked by its wholehearted effort to find a more widespread reading public within the student body. Its range of reading matter is surely complete and fairly exhaustive in view of the accelerated semester and general pell-mell pace of the student’s work during the summer months. Realizing that Scrip was almost universally thought of as a thing which could be read and understood by only a small, select group of students the editors, Gilligan, Hunt, and Kelly, have succeeded in breaking down some of these prejudices and presenting a more representatively attractive publication.
Two St. Edward's Sophs Advise the Lovelorn
Are you having heart trouble—not the cardiac-sclerosis type which baffles modern M.D.’s but the sentimental kind which confounds Cupid? If you are, it is advisable that you take a trip to room 135, St. Edward’s Hall, and consult the corporation of Lou Colleran and Ed Massulo, who claim possession of more profound knowledge on love than the combined repertoires of Dorothy D'ix and Hedda Hopper.
The College for Crushed Corda, organized, owned and operated by Professors Colleran and Massulo, who hail from Youngstown, Ohio, came into being when these two roommates decided to devote their time to the protection of purloined lovers and the instructing of rookies along the love line. With untold experience in the intricate art of handling hearts, these two sophs feel they can prevent many a cordate crackup with a few tips on the wiley ways of the famous three “w’s.”	.
To prove their professional position,
this team of advisors boasts success in the solution of several sad stories. Already they have solved the problems of two hall-mates and are currently considering the case of a third.
When John H. Jones of St. Edward’s Hall and Texas found he could not choose between a lassie who lives in South Bend and one who lives in New-York, he brought his trouble to Colleran and Massulo. After a lengthy conference, in which the two masters considered the distance to New York and the proximity of South Bend, they profoundly stated that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush and advised lovelorn Jones to cultivate the South Bend friendship.
Another manifestation of the wisdom of these two men of the world came when Bob Schellenberg, also of St. Edward’s Hall and New York, brought a serious problem to the two oracles. The disheartened Schellenberg, it seems, had been severely shaken when his girl back home got married to his worst enemy and was contemplating the injustice of this world when he thought of the advisory capacity of his two hall-mates. Upon hearing his story, the experienced sophs wisely stated “There are plenty of fish in the sea! Find another* and show her you didn’t care after all.”
The latest case to be brought to the “lovers from way back” has them completely baffled. Neil Fowler, from Sleepy Eye, Minn., has become more than a casual acquaintance with one of the Navy Officer’s daughters, but, sad to relate, the Officer and his family are moving away soon. The unhappy Neil has entrusted Iris future to the two wise men of St. Ed’s. To date, however, this complicated set-up has the marvels scratching their heads.
Rarely, however, does it happen that Colleran and Massuo are stumped. If your case needs clearing up, take it to these two professors and come away feeling happy and free once more.
Barbara Ward to Lecture on "The Sword of the Spirit"
Miss Barbara Ward will give a lecture on the “Sword of the Spirit” movement in the Engineering Auditorium on Thursday, Sept. 17, at 8:00 p.m. Miss Ward, a well known English writer, is foreign editor of The Economist, the foremost British journal of economics.
“The Sword of the Spirit,” of which Miss Ward is executive secretary, is a movement started in England by Cardinal Hinsley as a means of rallying the spiritual forces of the nation in the present emergency. The noted author, Christopher Dawson, is secretary.
Miss Ward is coming here on the invitation of the newly organized “People and Freedom” group, an organization of Catholics of this region who are particularly interested in the problems of freedom, democracy, and political morality in the modern world.
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
FRIDAY, August 28: “Notre Dame Newscast,” WSBT, 3:30. Pischke & Johnson behind the scenes at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame (and the College-All-Stars) vs. Chicago Bears; Soldier’s Field, Chicago, 8:30 p.m.
Four days to go.
SATURDAY, August 29: “Notre Dame Forum of the Air,” WSBT, 12:30. Joe Rud moderating a group of Wranglers.
The super-super Curtin-Downey extravaganza, “The Notre Dame Quiz Show,” WSBT, 5:00.	.
Movie, Walt Disney’s Dumbo; Information Please; News.
Three days to go.	•
SUNDAY, August 30: Last-minute “cramming” for 2,002 N.D. men.
Deux jours.
MONDAY, August 31: Exams—at last!
TUESDAY, • September 1: “Pacemaker” leaves South Bend at 3:37.
Then there was the fellow who had a 3:15 exam.
WEDNESDAY, September 2: “Pacemaker” arrives New York at 8:00 a.m. (?)
THURSDAY, September 3: Convocation and conferring of degrees, Washington Hall, 8 p.m. Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., commencement speaker. .	‘
WEDNESDAY, September 9: Registration for classes; Civilian Defense council of South Bend declares line can stretch no farther South than - Angela Blvd.
Ultra-modern cafeteria greets students.
THURSDAY, September 10: Classes begin. 12:00 classes for those lucky Freshmen.
THURSDAY, September 17: Lecture, “The Sword and the Spirit,” by Miss Maisie Ward, of Sheed & Ward, London: an explanation of the recent English movement for peace. Engineering Auditorium, 8 p.m. Well worthwhile.
FRIDAY,. September 18: Senior Ball. Time? Place? Band?
Scholastic returns. .
6
STUDENT- PROF MEETINGS TOTAL EIGHT FOR SUMMER;	Juniors Seek Band For
PLANS FOR FALL PROGRAM ALREADY FORMULATED Annual November Prom
During the past semester, the weekly Student-Professor meetings have remedied two deficiencies often found on a university campus. First of all, they, have supplied a meeting ground for students and profs to. hash over the present problems of the world in the light of the principles which are taught ' in the classroom. Secondly, they have provided a means for the students and the professors, to know and understand each other better.
A brief consideration of the professors and their topics is sufficient to demonstrate the truth of this claim. At the first meeting, Dr. Hermens told an assembly of students that this countryneeds an effective propaganda machine as much as a well-trained army. “The success of Wilson in this respect is notable. Unless we demonstrate something positive in our propaganda, we are destined to fiercer opposition from the enemy.”
Fr. Leo R. Ward told the second meeting about the workings of the cooperatives in Nova Scotia. “I have seen the people there, and it is inspiring to see the spirit with which they have undertaken this work. They have accomplished great things; in this country, too, we can accomplish things as great, possibly greater.”
Mr. Sheehan of the Department of Economics followed Fr. Ward the next Monday night. He outlined a solution to the problems we shall face after this war. “The principle problem is this: How maintain the purchasing power of the nation? Every other economic problem is orientated toward that. Every economist should be considering means of doing this. One means I feel will work is to taper off war production rather than drop it sharply and immediately resume full-time peace time production. We must not let the public flood the market with purchasing power.”
The Student-Professor meetings changed their scenery the following Monday and took a trip to the Science Hall. There Dr. Waldman of the physics department explained in simple language and in great detail the workings of the . much-discufesed atom-smasher. Many judged this one of the best meetings of the year. For those who were unable to attend this meeting, Dr. Waldman is going to be asked during the coming semester to repeat his talk.
Following this meeting, the various halls had their own private gatherings. For instance, Sorin Hall invited Father
Cunningham of the Department of Education to talk. Walsh invited Mr. Armstrong of the Publicity Department.
The week following these hall meetings Dr. Yves Simon of the Philosophy Department told the students in the Rockne Lounge that democracy can never hope to obtain consistently infallible leadership. Rather, he said, we must expect an occasional failure. But we should make provision to obtain the best available. To do this, the present two-party system in the United States has shown the greatest potentialities. “This system works in the United States. Here the parties choose fine men. Had this worked in Europe, we might see a different picture there.”
Then a couple of weeks ago, Dr. Karl Menger of the Mathematics Department outlined the concept of infinity from a mathematical standpoint. He proved, to the satisfaction and surprise of the students, that there are several types of infinity. He showed how infinities can be added, multiplied, and manipulated in other ways.
There is evidence enough of the fact that the Student-Professor meetings provide a means of discussing current problems. But do they result in a better understanding between teachers and students? Our only proof is this: ask one of the Professors or one of the students and you’ll have the answer. •
Next semester the meetings will continue. One of the first will consist of a lecture-demonstration by Mr. Brown of the aeronautics department. At this time he will demonstrate a new. experimental device which he has developed.
—Al Sommer
Night prayer and hymns at the Grotto — in the Summer.
“Glenn Miller is out,” said Frank Vignola, vice president of the Junior Class, when discussing plans this week for the junior prom. A three month’s engagement starting soon at New York’s Hotel Pennsylvania, according to Vignola, prevents Miller’s “Moonlight Seranaders” from playing for the prom which is scheduled November 21, the week end of the Northwestern-Notre Dame game.
Other bands being considered are Harry James, the nation’s most popular -by a recent poll, Hal McIntyre, Chas. Spivok and Johnny Long. There is nothing definite in regard to the mentioned ' bands nor is this list complete.
James Meagher, chairman of the prom, did not enroll for the summer semester, and Vignola is the only class officer who did. Those officers elected the past spring were Richard Doermer, president;. Frank Stumpf, secretary, and Frank Curran, treasurer. Meagher is from Valparaiso, Ind., Vignola is from River Forest, Ill,, Doermer from Fort Wayne, Ind., Stumpf from Richmond, Va., and Curran is from Sterling, Hl.
Since the Junior affair will be the last of the class balls this fall, it is expected to be one of the outstanding. Vice president Vignola anticipates attendance numbering 300 to 400 couples, and has been busy this week arranging the various committees on which approximately forty men will work.
With the date set for the Northwestern game week end, it is thought that the prom will be more successful than last year’s, at which Bobby Byrnes’ orchestra played.
7
SENIORS, MARTIN AND OLVANY, CONSTRUCT HELMET;
MAKE SEVERAL DIVING TRIPS IN ST. JOSEPH'S LAKE
PHIL KEEN
“Readers, you can make this simple contraption without spending a cent. It is made out of spare parts and junk and is easy to construct.” Everyone at one time or another has seen an article similar to this one in his monthly magazines. Many fellows have tried one of these ideas and are ready to attest that if you spend only ten dollars, you are very fortunate. However, a couple of seniors have proven these advertised facts as the truth. Bob Martin of Sorin and Bill Olvany of Alumni have put it to several tests and it has proven a sucess. What is it? A diving helmet.
In Bob’s sophomore year the wonders of the deep lured him into starting this helmet. He obtained an old hot water boiler and started in earnest, but soon the difficulties became great and interest died in the experiment. This year, while visiting the swimming pier, Brother Dunstan lost his watch in about 18 feet of water. Brother’s misfortune proved to be the opportunity Bob was waiting for. With the help of Brother Dunstan and Bill Olvany, Bob went to work, dusted off the “helmet” still in the • form of a dissected hot water boiler and got the materials needed to finish the helmet.
About three weeks ago Bob made the first test. With Bill working the hand pump for air, Bob went down to a depth of 18 feet, but found there was not enough weight on the helmet to keep him on the bottom. Once the weights were added, the helmet was a definite success. Since then there have been about 15 trips including one by Brother Dunstan, but no watch has been found. The divers say that the floor of the lake is so soft that a slight movement of the feet sends up a screen of black mud.	'
The structure of the helmet is composed of one-half of a hot water boiler. It is cut to fit snugly on the shoulders with the aid of some heavy-rubber padding. On the front is a three-paneled glass with an outlet valve over the left shoulder. A quarter-inch rubber air line runs from the top of the helmet to a bicycle pump. In addition, a sturdy rope guides the diver and serves as a signal cable. The entire outfit weighs 80 pounds, 58 of which are especially designed weights.
In trips taken up to date, there have been no serious accidents or'unusual incidents, but the fellows are not anxious
for a repetition of some action two weeks ago. Bill was down about eight feet when he heard the comforting hiss of incoming air come to an abrupt halt. He gave the signal to be pulled up and quickly got back on “terra firma.” The cause, a break of the air hose from the pump, was rapidly fixed and again Bill was lowered into the deep.
The engineers are at present -working on an improved source of air that will give them a more constant flow. If anyone can tell them -where they can pick up an old bellows from an organ, the divers would appreciate it. With a more constant flow of air, the pressure can be greater and allow the diver to journey farther into the depths of St. Joe lake.
Band Completes Summer
With Four Concerts
Last Friday evening, the Notre Dame Band closed the curtain on the first summer season in its history. Under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, this organization presented the fourth and final of a series of twilight concerts on the lawn in front of the Administration Building. Mr. Hope, of Hillsboro, Hl., was the third guest. conductor to take over the band this season. Within a week’s time he put the members through vigorous work-outs and presented a well-rounded concert which was enjoyed by all.
Mr. Hope obtained his master of arts degree with music as his major from the University of Michigan after finishing his undergraduate work at the James Millikin Conservatory of Music in Decatur, Ill. After spending a short period as. supervisor of instrumental music in his home town, he joined the faculty of music at Murray State College, Murray, Ky., where he is now located. Mr. Hope showed his competency by the results achieved. The following was the concert presented last week:
The Star Spangled Banner	'
Fanfare ■ _	’
The Notre Dame Victory March	’
Force of Destiny (Overture).______________Verdi
Firefly Selection___________._____________Friml
King John (Tone Poem)________________Moehmann
Washington Post (March) __________________Sousa
Prince and Pauper (Overture)  -________Johnson
Siboney (Rhumba-Fox trot)---------L - Lecuona
■The Story of The Three Little Bears - .	’ "
Novelty arrangement by H. Lee Hope " Stars and-Stripes Forever
The first summer season in the history of the band was a great success. Not only did it aid in the University’s summer activities program, but the results will be shown in the fall marching band. Due to constant practice, the members of the organization will be in fine shape when fall activities begin and will not have to start from scratch. With the addition of freshmen and returning upperclassmen, a better band is in store.
Thanks are due to the guest conductors who were present on the campus and to those responsible for the full program. Through the joint efforts of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, and Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, competent directors were obtained to take over the work in the absence of Mr. Joseph Casasanta. Mr. Franklyn Wiltse, Superintendent of Instrumental Music of schools in St. Joseph, Mich., and Director of the Municipal Band, of that city, was the first guest conductor. It was his job to organize those members of the band who had returned to the campus for the summer semester. During his stay he presented two concerts, both in the month of July.
Mr. Walter E. Cleland, director of instrumental music of Central High in South Bend, was the next conductor to take over. Within two weeks Mr. Cleland had prepared a concert, which he presented in the first days of August.
Now that the summer is nearly over, the members of the band are looking forward to the coming fall- activities. With a large football schedule on hand, including at least five home games, and centennial year celebration, a busy future lies ahead. The nucleus has been formed from the summer program, and the finishing touches are all that have to be applied.—C. S. Coco
Temporary Suspension
For N.D. Travel Service
War time economy cracked down on one of the younger student enterprises on the campus this week when Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, announced that the Student Travel Service will suspend temporarily due to a shortage of transportation facilities.
The travel Service had been set up for two purposes; first, to help, groups in mass student movements and second, to allow the service to command better transportational facilities. Both of these are now impossible because of the demands being made on American railroads and bus lines by war work.
The service reached a record peak in work this summer when it handled reservations for Navy men. •
8
Club Activities Measure
Student Summer Attitude
Ted Weber
Probably the most effective measure of the attitude of the average student towards attending college during summer “vacation” can be gained from a study of the activities of students in campus clubs this summer. Campus - club-life went on very much as usual despite the heat and the shortened semester and while some traditional features were cut from club programs, many remained, and several organizatoins undertook ‘new work.'
Several clubs, the largest being the Commerce Forum—changed from weekly to bi-weekly meetings for the summer to spare members continuous sessions in hot weather. But others, including Wranglers and Bookmen stuck to their traditional schedule and called off meetings only because of campus-wide activities that kept the majority of members from attending on certain evenings.
Suffering most from the new semester was the social side of the club picture. Town dances by the publicity-conscious Villagers made their appearance spasmodically and attracted crowds despite hot summer evenings. The Chicago Club sponsored a dance over the Assumption week-end when they presented the Colonial Club orchestra at the Knickerbocker Hotel for their first summer frolic.
The third semester gave impetus to several revivals of departmental clubs. The Press Club announced officers and plans for the year in late July while the Architects revealed that they would buy campus coats of standardized desigfi and color. The Schoolmen—composed of students interested in philosophy — also made plans for a revival of their organization.
Honor societies adjusted their rules to a three semester year and made provisions for the selection of new members; Wranglers took in four members; Bookmen, two; and the Economic Round Table, five.
Notre Dame lawyers sponsored, their annual first semester dance in July at the Erskine Country Club.
The above constitutes a general resume of the club work of Notre Dame students in the summer semester. On this and another page appear specific summaries of individual clubs that have been active this semester. The Scholastic, looking ahead to next semester’s issues, urges all club presidents or publicity chairmen to contact the club department of this magazine in order that a complete and representative coverage of clubs may be maintained throughout the fall.
Radio Club Airs Five
Weekly Summer Shows
During the past semester the Notre Dame Radio Club, under President Vail Pischke, has continued to present its student shows over the campus radio facilities, preparing many of its members for future professional work, either in the technical or broadcasting aspect of radio. Topping all other features have been the inauguration of a dance band program and the first awarding of prizes over a local radio show.
The Cavaliers show, produced by Tom Cooney, is the newest program of the club and is rapidly becoming one of its most popular and prominent presenta-' tions. Featured in the Knights of Columbus vaudeville on August 13, they have been broadcasting before a student audience in Washington Hall every Thursday night from 9:30 to 9:45 P. M. The program will continue in the fall and will play a prominent role in welcoming the new freshman class to the campus. The orchestra is fronted by sax-player “Veet” Capello, with the featured soloists being Hank Kane on the vocals, Bill Binet and Dick Pedrotty, trumpet, and Dick Hines, piano.
Every Saturday afternoon from 5:00 to 5:30 p.m., quiz-masters Dan Downey and Dave Curtin fire questions at their group of contestants, with prizes for all. Through the efforts of President^Pisch-ke, it has been made possible to - offer prizes of tickets to the Palace theater to both contestants and those students who send in questions for the quiz. This is the first time a program emanating from the local studio has offered prizes. In the future the practice will be extended, with the co-operation of South Bend merchants, to increase and vary the awards.
The Notre Dame Forum of the Air brings together a group of students, along with one or two faculty members to discuss some topic of current interest, such as Pan-Americanism and Peace Problems. The Forum, which is aired every Saturday from 12:30 to 1:00 P. M., is now moderated alternately by Mark McGrath and Joe Rud.
Completing the series of programs are the Sportscast of Pete Moritz and Lee Raymond on Wednesday afternoon at 3:30, and the Notre Dame Newscast with Vail Pischke and Boh Johnson on Friday afternoon at 3:30.
Little known to the listener is the work that goes into these shows. The un
heralded engineers, Joe Jacob, Dan Tom-cik and Bob Martina, take care of all the technical angles of the programs. With such accurate timing required, hours of preparation go into a show that lasts only 15 or 30 minutes. This is especially true for the Cavaliers, who record their entire show and then go over it for better timing and polishing.
In the future the Radio Club expects to air over the campus facilities still more programs, several of which are now being worked on by club members. As in the past there will be a broadcast from the. Senior Ball and probably the Junior Prom.—Shaun McDermott
Commerce Forum To Sell
War Bonds and Stamps
The Commerce Forum, ranking as one of the largest and most influential clubs on campus, has announced a novel activity for fall, one never before undertaken by any student- organized group. The plan, which is now up for approval by authorL ties, will make salesmen out of every commerce man, and will manifest that organizations desire to aid in the war effort. President Gail Fitch has announced that the . Forum will sell United States War Bonds and Stamps on the campus, with added zest in salesmanship at the home football games this fall. Members of the Forum are proud of this gesture on their part and are confident of making an admirable record in this undertaking.
With the end of the semester in sight, the Forums’ sports. activities are to be closed this week. The tennis tourney is going into its final rounds with five members left in competition for the . title: Jim .Madigan, Joe Pons, Bob Rogers, Joe O’Keefe and Frank Veit. The baseball team has been playing all summer with other campus organizations, and has done fairly well. The golf tournament has finished the second round mark, and the winner should I/e decided very soon.
Sports,.however, have not excluded the Forum’s other activities. The first meeting of the year was held in the Law Auditorium with one of the popular -football-movie programs. The second meeting was held on July 27th, featuring Mr. Howard E. Richardson, head of the local War Production Board, who discussed the position of the WPB in the' nations war effort. The third meeting was held early last week in Washington ’ Hall, with the movie “Spirit of Notre . Dame” presented for entertainment. ’
9
An intensive membership drive will be sponsored at the outset of the next semester, in order to afford all commerce men the advantage of belonging to this organization which affords them many opportunities supplementary to their chosen course.—Jim Clark
Economic Round Table
Has Eventful Summer
Another club to hold to their traditional pattern of weekly meetings was the Economic Round Table which every Wed1 nesday convened at a downtown hotel for dinner and a paper on some economic or international problem.
Chuck Kralovec of LaGrange, Ill., was president of the Round Table this year, and William O’Neil, Akron, Ohio, acted as secretary. Professor William Downey of the economics department is faculty moderator for the round-tablers.
New members summer meeting Sommer and Jim seph Rud, Edgar Clark. .
voted in at a midwere Sophomores Al Kelly and Juniors Jo-Pessimier, and James
Faculty members have been invited to meetings this summer as special guests. Mr. William Shanahan of the history department presented a paper, “The Mil-
the Moment” at one
itary Situation of of the meetings.
Chas. Kravolec
John Ryan
Wrangler Routine Same As During Summer Semester
Weekly papers, a downtown banquet, and four new members highlighted the Wrangler schedule for the semester. Wranglers, oldest club on the campus, is an honorary society that sponsors student research, presentation, and defense on current problems. John Ryan of Denver, Colorado, and Mark Lies, of Riverside, Illinois, filled the executive jobs as president and secretary respectively.
John Utz, Rochester, Minn., Dan Downey, West Palm Beach, Fla., Lyle Joyce, Tucapau, S. C., and John Shannon, Kenosha, Wis., were voted into the club at an early meeting and were formally initiated at a banquet downtown. Mr. Francis O’Malley, faculty moderator of the club, read a paper at this meeting.
Papers presented this summer covered topics ranging from domestic affairs to racial problems and a possible post-war program.
Bookmen Hear Papers
Detailed papers on modern authors and their works occupied the time of the Bookmen this summer as they continued theii- program of bi-weekly meetings in the seminar room of the Law Building. H. C. Adams of El Paso, Texas, is president, and T. Bowyer Campbell of the history department is faculty moderator.
Wilbur Puhr, a sophomore, was voted into membership at the first meeting of the year.
Knights of Columbus
Have Successful Summer
Since June 17 when the Knights of Columbus, under Grand Knight Jerry Killigrew, held their first meeting, the Knights have carried on one of the most successful semesters in recent years. Despite the fact that many of her former members have gone into the armed services, the local Chapter has maintained
its schedule of activities.
The annual picnic, held on July 13 at Lake Christiana, was chairmaned' by Red Lonergan, who is also in charge of the showing of the American Legion Baseball movie, “The Ninth Inning” which was presented under the joint sponsorship of the Scholastic and Knights of Columbus.
Mr. Fred J. Hum, Mishawaka, newly appointed District Deputy and Grand Knight, and members of neighboring councils attended the installation of officers on July 16. The new officers are: Grand Knight, Jerry Killigrew, Hobart, Ind.; Deputy Grand Knight, Edward Hickey, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; Chancellor, Robert Lonergan, Wilmette, Ill.; Warden, Thomas Nolan (did not return) ; Recording Secretary, James Danaher (did not return); Treasurer, Warren Leary, Rice Lake, Wis.; Advocate, William Hormberg, East St. Louis, Ill.; Inside Guard, Leo Keating, Saginaw, Mich.; Lecturer, Paul Kashmer, LaPorte, Ind.; Chaplain, Rev. Walter McInerney, C.S.C. Chairmen of committees were Warren Leary, Vince Hogan, John Fogarty, and Ed Roney.
The Knights have been assisting Father Lynch on the distribution of a Chaplain’s Digest to all military chaplains. Excerpts from different bulletins published by the various chaplains were - gathered, made into one magazine and sent out to camps all over the country.
Edward Doyle was appointed chairman to take care of the mailing and distribution.
At present it is estimated that Knights have about 150 members of Council 1477 in the armed services of our country. An attempt is being made to compile one complete list and make a permanent honor roll to hang in the chambers.
Future plans include a membership drive and a fall dance under the direction of Warren Leary and John Murray.
—John Fogarty
Reorganized Clubs Busy
Two clubs that either reorganized or took on additional work this summer were the Architects and Schoolmen.
The Architects, open to all architcture students made plans for two events: first, the purchase of standardized campus coats and second, an off-campus picnic.
The Schoolmen, a club of philosophers, was tentatively reorganized as inquiries by several interested students led to the drawing up of plans for a more active career of that organization.
Engineers Hold Dance
Nearly seventy-five couples danced to recorded music in South Bend’s St. Patrick’s Hall on August 21 as the local chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers staged the final dance before semester exams. The 150 present included many students and a few sailors.	-
Jack Harrigan was chairman for the dance which opened at 8 and closed at 11. Refreshments were sold by members of the A. I. E. E.
City Club's Activities
Curtailed in Summer
The city clubs were probably the hardest hit because of the third semester. Campus-wide activities undertaken by such clubs were limited almost completely to the Chicago Club, August 15, dance in the “Windy City.” Others held meetings and made plans for the fall but the rush of summer activities kept their out-^ side work at a minimum.
Perhaps the most far-sighted plan was presented when Jerry Currier announced to members of the Detroit Club that plans for the annual Christmas dance had been made and a date selected.
The Buffalo club released a review of their activities, emphasizing the publicity work about the University that they have been doing in and about Buffalo.
10
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
PROM STIX
With the Junior Prom being rumored about as a possibility, we recall some figures released after a prom of not so long ago. The statistics as to girls entered in the field were:
PROLOGUE
Volume 76, Number 10, is well on its way as we look back on three months of school and look forward to that one-week breather. The Parade has survived to date, through the courtesy of the faculty .moderator and the editor, and at this point would like to clear -the bottom drawer of a few residual items.
❖
"SCOOP” SCANLAN
Pvt. Bill “Scoop” Scanlan, former Scholastic promotion man, sends a swell letter from Fort Sheridan, along with a copy of the Fort Sheridan Tower. Bill is in the public relations office at the Fort and assistant sports editor and columnist for the Tozver.
“Been here since June 29,” he writes, “and the army life isn’t half bad—all except those blooming trips up and down the obstacle course. We drill five times a week. . . . I’m working in the sports department here, and you know that gives me a chance at helping to promote things, a la Scholastic.”
In his column, “Private Slants,” Bill kicks the army life around a little with things such as this: “Lieut. Thomas P. Flynn was accepting applications for furloughs at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., when a private scampered in seeking a 15-day jaunt to his home in Des Moines, la. (Before the era of the WAAC’s). “I used to be in Des Moines occasionally,” commented the Lieutenant. “Proposed to a girl there four times. By the way, maybe you know her.” Did the private know her—he married the girl!”
♦
WAR NERVES
Father: “Your new little brothei' has arrived.”	-
Modern Child: “Where’d he come from?”
Father: “From a far-away country.”
Modern Child: “Another darned.alien.”
So. Cal. .Wampus
❖
FOOTBALL ALUMNI
“What becomes of college football players?” is a question recently answered by a Northwestern University survey of . 330 lettermen. Salient facts revealed by the study are:
1.	Football alumni are a good substantial cross-section of what Americans know as “the middle class.”
2.	In business they earn more than the average college alumnus.
3.	They have better-than-usual records of public, civic, and military service.
4.	They put a definite stamp of approval on the game. Ninety-six per cent would play again, and 89 per cent want their sons to be players.
5.	The majority state that playing football helped them get established in life after college.
Other interesting facts learned are: three per cent are Phi Beta Kappas, which is twice the percentage of the total Northwestern alumni body; the median income of members of the championship 1926 team is $5,000, almost twice the median income for all college graduates; four per cent of the lettermen now have coaching positions.
" 'CALL ME A TAXI.' PARCHER!"
Sweetbriar on the St. Joe_100
Woods_____________________ 50
Home 45 South Bend	40
Rosary ____________________________30
Mt. St. Mary by the Breweries ....	25
Mundelein _________________________ 5
Unattached ________________________25
❖
PRINCETON PAYS
The Nassau Sovereign of Princeton University devotes two pages to giving the students the low-down on the “rackets” that can be worked in getting cash to help defray expenses, or keep the medicine chest well-stocked.
Positions are available in such various agencies as Express, Student Furniture Exchange, Gatemen, Lunch-Ice Cream, Sandwich Shop, Shoe Shop, Tailor Shop, Magazine, Newspaper, Press Club, Refreshment, Campus Room Service, Flowers, Directory, Parking Squad, and Tennis Shop.
11
AdmuuAbuiitofi
PLANS ANNOUNCED FOR N.D. SEMINAR SESSION;
FATHER FORRESTAL TO GIVE WELCOME ADDRESS
The program for the Notre Dame session of the Inter-American Seminar on Social Studies has been completed by the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C:S.C., chairman of arrangements for the campus session. The meeting which has been set for Monday, August 31, is to be held in the Rockne Memorial Lounge from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. The general theme of this session is “A Catholic University’s Program for Meeting the Crisis.”
Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., professor of Spanish at the University, will deliver the welcome address in Spanish to the some 25 representatives of Latin American countries. Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., will be the speaker for the first part of the meeting. His subject will be “Setting Up the Problem of this Seminar Session.”
The second part of the meeting will be devoted to “A Catholic University’s Contribution to the Solution of: I. Social and Economic Problems,” for which topic Mr. Frank T. Flynn, associate professor of Social Work at the University, and Mr. F. A. Hermens, associate professor of Politics, will be the speakers; II. “Political Problems” which will be discussed by Mr. Waldemar Gurian, associate professor of Politics at Notre Dame; and III. “The Educational Problem.” This third topic has been subdivided into the “Education Problem: a) in American Catholic Universities, and b) in Latin American Universities.” Senor Eduardo Alcayaga, graduate student in the University’s Education Department, will address the group in Spanish on the former subject, while the Very Rev. Felix Restrepo, S.J., Rector Magnificus of the Pontifical University of Bogota, Colombia, ■ will be the speaker (in English) for the second subject of this subdivision.
“A Unified Catholic Program Operative in the Two Americas to Meet Group Conflicts Inevitable after the War; the University’s Contribution,” is the topic for the third part of the meeting. Mr. Walter C. Langford, associate professor of Spanish at the University, is scheduled to be the speaker for this part of the program. In conclusion, the Rev. Raymond A. McGowan, Assistant Director, Social Action Department, National Catholic Welfare Conference (under
whose auspices the Seminal* is being conducted) will give a “Summary of this Seminar Session.”
In addition to the list, carried in the August 14th issue of the Scholastic, of prominent Latin Americans who will attend the Seminar, new delegates include the Rev. Benjamin Nunez of San Jose, Costa Rica, and the Most Rev. Robert E. Lucey, D.D., archbishop of San Antonio, Texas. Invitations have also been extended to the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese; Dr. Rafael Belaunde of Lima, Peru; and Mr. Courtenay Savage, Washington, D.C.
University faculty members attending the Seminar will be: Senor E. Alcayaga, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the Rev. J. W. Connerton, C.S.C., Mr. J. C. Corona, the Rev. W F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Mr. Frank T. Flynn, the Rev. P. P. Forrestal, C.S.C., Mr. W. Gurian, Mr. F. A. Hermens, the Rev. E. Keller, C.S.C., Mr. W. M. Langford, Mr. C. E. Manion, Mr. J. E. McCarthy, Mr. F. E. McMahon, the Rev. J. A. O’Brien, Mr. Y. R. Sjmon, and Rev. L. R. Ward, C.S.C.
Mark McGrath, a junior at the University, will accompany the Seminar for its remaining sessions in Chicago, Detroit, -Buffalo, New York City, and Washington, D.C., to act in the capacity of secretary and interpreter.
The complete schedule for the Seminar’s session at Notre Dame on August 31 is as follows:
6:34 a.m., arrival of the delegates at La Paz, 17 miles from Notre Dame.
6:45 a.m., University and faculty-member . cars will meet and drive the dele-* gates to Notre Dame.
7:30 a.m., Mass in the College Church.
8:00 a.m., after Mass, breakfast in Corby Hall dining room.
8:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., rest period and visits to points of interest at Notre -Dame.
10:30 a.m. to 12:30 a.m., Seminar session in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
12:30 p.m. to 1:00 p.m., rest period. The group will assemble for luncheon in the faculty lounge of the dining hall.
1:00 p.m., luncheon. At the beginning of the luncheon the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will address the group, but there will be no speeches following
the luncheon.
2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., visits to points of interest at the University. The Notre Dame members of the Seminar will serve as guides, and the Latin-American students of the University will - be available for the same purpose.	v
3:30 p.m., departure of the delegates by automobile for Chicago.
Lay Faculty Members
Hold Picnic on Campus
University lay faculty members with their wives relieved an accelerated wartime semester of teaching Wednesday night of last week by holding a picnic on the lawn in front of Holy Cross Seminary. The picnic, which was attended by some 150 persons, was put on by the Lay Faculty Club and the Ladies of Notre Dame; the latter taking charge of serving the supper.
Co-chairmen for the meal and program were Mr. and Mrs. J. A. McCarthy. Mr. McCarthy, Civil Engineering professor at the University, is vice-president of the Lay Faculty Club, and Mrs. McCarthy is president of the Ladies of Notre Dame.
Professor Bott
The program followed immediately after the serving of the supper. General master of ceremonies was Mr. Herbert J. Bott, professor of Foreign Commerce and president of the Lay Faculty Club. The program consisted of selections by the Notre Dame Glee Club, of which the high-light was the number, “Patriotic Medley;” a scene from “Green Pastures,” enacted by Dan Downey and Dave Curtin; and a novelty group, with Dave Curtin as master of ceremonies for a number of acts that were featured in the K.-C. Vaudeville show. .
The naval officers stationed at Notre Dame, their wives, and University administrative officers were also invited.
• 12
Rev. John A. O'Brien
Issues New Pamphlet
In his recent 60-page pamphlet, God— Can We Find Him?, “With the Light of Modern Science and Philosophy,” the Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of the philosophy of religion at the University, stresses the point that recent findings of scientists in suh-atomic physics reinforce strikingly the evidence of law and design in the universe. This fact, Father O’Brien declares, bears eloquent witness to the existence of God as the Supreme Designer and Architect of the Universe.
“As far as science has been able to peer into the depth of an atom, it has found an amazing network of law,” Father O’Brien said. “Indeed, the working out of the molecular arrangement in a grain of sand calls for a knowledge of a higher mathematics which few humans possess. . . . Will any human ever learn enough mathematics to decipher fully the algebraic formulae written on the heart of a speck of dust or on a grain of sand? Only time will tell. But if we do, it is reasonably certain that such discoveries will only open the door to a still vaster world of marvel and mysteries, as all the scientific discoveries of the past have done—all pointing like slanting rays to the omniscient mind of God.”
The pamphlet, published by the Paulist Press of New York City, has received high acclaim from ranking scholars in both the fields of philosophy and science. Rev. James M. Gilles, C.S.P., editor of the Catholic World, in his syndicated column, Harsum Corda, characterizes it as the finest treatment of God’s existence that has yet been written.
Auxiliary Firemen Stage Demonstration on Campus
More than 2,000 attentive students, naval trainees, Community members, and visitors watched auxiliary firemen from the University, St. Mary’s and Roseland, stage a special demonstration of their skill on the campus Tuesday night, August 18. The firemen have been trained at the University for the last nine weeks under the direction of Frank Logan of the South Bend fire department.
After putting up 30- and 55-foot ladders, the volunteers attacked the “burning” Badin Hall and had their full fire fighting equipment in action, all within five minutes’ time.
Included in the exhibition drill was a realistic demonstration of how to handle an incendiary bomb, which contains magnesium. Chemical and water sprays 'thrown on burning piles of magnesium
only intensified the blaze. It was then explained by the announcer that such bombs should be shoveled into a pail of sand and allowed to bum out. The giant fire truck, built at Notre Dame last year, was used in the demonstration.
Prof. Chizek Appointed
To Education Committee
Mr. Cletus F. Chizek, head of the Accounting Dept, and professor of Accounting at the University, has been appointed to serve on the Committee on Education of the Indiana Association of C. P. A’s. (Certified Public Accountants) for the present year.
Prof. Chizek, also an active member of this organization’s Board of Directors, explained that the purpose of the Association is to extend and make more prac-
Professor Chizek
tical the educational program of college students, majoring in accounting, by arranging for them to hear .a series of lectures by members of the Association in public practice.
Last year the C. P. A’s sponsored a series of lectures at Indiana University and found them to meet with great approval. This year they have decided to extend this program of eight lectures to Butler and Notre Dame where it is hoped the program will meet with the same success.—Richard Kisgen
Prof. Northcott Named
on Education Committee
Prof. John A. Northcott, head of the department of electrical engineering at the University, has been appointed to the National Committee on education of the American Institute of Electrical Engineering. The committee meets regularly throughout the year in different parts of the country and is working to solve educational problems ‘ created by the war in the field of engineering.
Prof. Northcott has also very recently been elected chairman of the South Bend chapter of the A.I.E.E. In this capacity he took office the first of August.
Profs. Gurian, Simon on Commonweal Manifesto
Two Notre Dame professors are represented among the 43 signatories of a “Manifesto On the War” in the August 21 issue of the Commonweal magazine.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Revieiv of Politics, professor in that field, and Dr. Yves Simon, professor of philosophy, join with other European Catholics living in the United States in a statement that derives great significance not only from its authors but from the fact that they represent many nations on both sides of the present struggle. Dr. Gurian is listed for Germany; Dr. Simon for France.
The Manifesto, in 12 succinct but able divisions, treats of the nature of totalitarianism and its threat to civilization and of directive principles for the institutions of the future.
Anyone, Catholic or non-Catholic, can pr.ofit from the crystallization in this Manifesto of many of the problems involved in this war.
Totalitarianism, the Manifesto states, “is the most dire threat ever to have menaced a civilization of free men . . . the issue at stake in the war is civilization itself . . . this war is not an economic oi- political war ... no more fearful spiritual crisis has appeared since the beginning of the Christian era . . . the actual issue at stake in . the present conflict is the very possibility of living as men. . . .”
Frank C. Walker, '09,
Speaks at K.C. Convention
At the annual convention of the Knights of Columbus in Memphis, Tennessee, last week, a prominent alumnus of the University delivered one of the sternest speeches ever made by an American statesman in wartime. When the National Broadcasting. Company opened its Blue Network wires at 9:15 that evening, Honorable Frank C. Walker, Postmaster General of the United States and a lay trustee of the University, started to speak with cautious coh-cem to the people of the United States.
He wasted not a word, nor even a second. Immediately he objected to the profiteering on heroism through the unfailing power of words. No matter" how much we do, we should never be satisfied with the thdught that we have done enough for “the gallant youth of this nation whose swords are drawn for our salvation.” We appreciate how gloriously our men have been fighting in all comers of the world; but we cannot yet appreciate the support they have been given. For, though much has been
13
accomplished, we have not nearly attained our capacity, or approached our best effort.
Sparing not a single remark, the ingenuous Mr. Walker, who received an honorary LL.D. degree from the University in 1934, gravely remarked: “There have been selfish stoppages of work, confusions caused by personal ambitions, interruptions caused by rivalries, (and) insufficiencies caused by
The Honorable Frank C. Walker, ’09.
pressure-groups seeking political advantage.” This must stop, he argued, because we cannot allow totalitarianism at home while we fight it abroad. It is the personal and group dictatorships that are causing the confusions and stoppages in our war program. The Honorable Mr. Walker called such actions “an imperialism of domination that would steal for itself the fruits of the sacrifice of our magnificent people.” He could not have spoken more directly or poignantly.
Again he cautions Americans to close their ears to the “patriotic protestations” of such groups, and charges them to judge their actions; for, “by their fruits you shall know them.” Perhaps it would be easier if Americans understood the gravity of our present plight; but, truly enough, Mr. Walker says: “I doubt that anyone fully understands it.” The seriousness of the present war is beyond comprehension. It is being fought for human rights, and human rights belong wherever human hearts can be found. We cannot ignore these rights, and we cannot stop fighting for them until the final victory is ours. “Our call to ‘cease fire’ will not sound over the battlefields until we have won victory and until the people of the
world, who deserve democracy, have heard the trumpets of their own triumph.”
It is folly to fight for a constructive peace unless we fight for it noiv. “Our war aims are identically the same as our peace terms,” Mr. Walker explained. Those things which we are fighting for will be written into and guaranteed by the peace treaty. We are fighting to throw the forces of evil out of the world and to keep them out! There cannot be another Versailles. The war cannot be “won by the valorous and lost, in the peace, to the adroit.” Battles make for peace; and our men, fighting all over the world, will make that peace or there will be none. But they cannot make it alone, they cannot fight for it alone: our responsibility is greater than we can possibly realize.
When our effort is unceasing then may we say with the Honorable Mr. Walker: “So, God helping us, we shall triumph; so, God sustaining us, we shall carry on to a better future,—a future in which we shall keep faith with our dead.”—W. F. T.
N. D. Alumni Responding To Financial Program
Notre Dame alumni are responding encouragingly to a program of annual giving instituted this year by the Alumni Association to offset some of the serious threats to Notre Dame’s financial position.
Hon. Harry E. Kelly, secretary of state of Michigan, president of the Association, outlined at the May Commencement some of the urgent factors involved.
Notre Dame’s endowment ($1,010,000.) is extremely low, (146 colleges and universities have two million dollars or more, up to $145,000,000), and with the lower rate of return on invested funds, produces relatively little income each year as related to the University’s needs.
Football receipts, usually exaggerated in the public mind, actually produce (as publicized last year) less than the amount expended annually by the University for student aid.
Costs at Notre Dame have been kept lower for the student than at the great majority of private colleges or universities of anywhere near comparable rank.
Under present war conditions, capital gifts for endowment may not be forthcoming. Football receipts, depending on large crowds, may be seriously affected by transportation limitations, intensified working hours, and other factors. Enrollment will almost definitely suffer from the competition of military service and high wages in industry for the high school graduate.
To meet these problems to some extent, alumni have been asked to make an annual gift to the University through the Association. Increase in the number of donors is sought—100 per cent participation in this 100th year of Notre Dame’s history is the objective.
And an increase in the individual gift is sought. There are more than 10,000 graduates, of Notre Dame, but the majority are young men affected by the financial depression of the thirties, and the war economy of the early forties.
But in all college financial programs today, the value of the smaller annual gift from a large group of givers is recognized, and Notre Dame is finding a good response to this appeal.
Assuming, too, that the 10 percent savings invested in War Bonds will tax the marginal income of most alumni, the Alumni Association has asked the alumni to give these Bonds, in part, to Notre Dame. And many have already responded by having one or more bonds made out in the name of Notre Dame.
Class representatives have been appointed for each Class among the alumni, and their personal letters, accompanying a folder telling the general story of Notre Dame’s current needs, are arousing response. Many gifts from men in the service testify to the strong Notre Dame spirit that is crystallizing to help Notre Dame through this critical period.
Notre Dame Clubs, of which some 94 are scattered throughout the major cities of the country, are rallying to stimulate their membership to achieve the 100 per cent participation sought.
The perpetuation of Notre Dame’s great contribution to American education seems in its early stages to be meeting the same all-out effort and support as the great American war effort, of which it is a vital part.
Many Professors Will
Resume Teaching Duties
Among the professors who were absent from the class room during the summer semester but who will resume their teaching duties in the fall are: Profs. Matthew A. FitzSimons, William J. Coyne, Albert L. Doyle, Vincent F. Fagan, the Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., the Rev. Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist., the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., Regid-ius M. Kaczmarek, Frank W. Kelly, Thomas P. Madden, Francis E. McMahon, John F. Nims, the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Donald J. Plunkett, Stanley R. Price, the Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., the Rev. Alfred C. Send, C.S.C., Stanley S. Sessler, Henry C. Fl Staunton, John P. Turley, and the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C.
14
Fall Semester to Have
Noon Hour Class Period
A noon hour class period will be included in the schedule of the forthcoming fall semester. This class period, which will probably be attended by freshmen and sophomores, is made possible by the new cafeteria arrangement that is being adopted in the dining hall and will be of much help in relieving the demand on classrooms that will be occasioned by a large fall enrollment and the presence of the navy on the campus.
Tentative plans have the navy eating their noon and evening meals, at 11:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., respectively. The first group of students will then have then’ noon and evening meals served at 12:10 and 6:10; while the second shift of students will be served the noon and evening meals at 12:50 and 6:50. Each student group will have 600 students eating in the East Hall and 600 in the West Hall. In this way each group can be served in ■ the amazingly short time of 10 or 12 minutes. On the new dining hall cards, the student will find directions to a certain entrance (front, side or rear) of the hall in which he is to eat. The cafeteria arrangement will be exactly the same as that now being used by the navy in the West Hall.
The room situation in the residence halls remains practically the same as it is this semester. However, Zahm will be doubled, and there is a possibility that the larger rooms in Sorin and Walsh will also be doubled. Otherwise, as is the case now, seniors will occupy Sorin and Alumni, juniors will live in Walsh and Cavanaugh, sophomores will have Dillon and Carroll, while freshmen will occupy Breen-Phillips, Zahm, St. Ed’s and Brownson.
Outdoor Performances
Mark Moreau's "Tempest"
On August 3rd, 4th, and 15th, members of the Community of Moreau Seminary, after a month and a half of intensive practicing, ably presented their- interpretation of Shakespeare’s “The Tempest.” The play was given out-of-doors, on the east lawn of the Seminary grounds. An impressionistic setting representing a cave was constructed of plaster and cement over a frame 15 feet in height.
The cast was as follows: Prospero, Robert F. Tack; Miranda, James L., Martin; Ariel, Ambrose J. Wheeler; Caliban, Norman L. Kiehm; Ferdinand, Henry E. Malone; Alonso, James P. Doll; Gonzalo, Louis F. McKeon; Antonio, Joseph W. Bickel; Sebastian, Basil G. Gillespie; Trinculo, Thomas J. Engleton; Stephano, Charles R. Schroth;
other Spirits, John J. Corcoran, Joseph W. Rehage, James E. Tobin, Edward S. Thayer, Charles A. Waechter, Robert J. Askins.
The play was directed by the Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C. Community members, lay faculty members, and members of the Shakespeare classes at the University were invited.
Exhibition by Art Dept.
Features Summer Work
The first exhibition of its kind with landscape and outdoor sketches done by members of the advanced painting classes of the Department of Fine Arts at the University opened last week for a showing of a month in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery on the top floor of the Library. The exhibition of paintings, all of which were done under the direction of Prof. F. J. Hanley, will be a special feature of the first fall commencement activities in early September.
Professor Hanley
Sixty-nine pieces of work selected from more than 125 paintings in watercolor, oil and pastel by the juniors and seniors in the art department are included in the exhibition. Of special interest are a series of studies of Negro musicians and jitterbug types executed by William Binet of Grand Rapids, Minn. One of these is entitled “Prelude to Basin Street Blues.” “Hep, Hep Solitudie,” is the title of another.
Also of much interest are six compositions in oil depicting beauty spots on the campus, done by Robert Beck, of Toledo, Ohio. A series of gouache paintings by Ray Wilmer, also of Toledo, employs a satirical theme.
Other paintings included in the exhibition are pastels by Don Birren, Chicago; watercolors by George Barrett, Louisville, Ky.; watercolor sketches by Brother Ludwig, C.S.C., and Brother Bertram, C.S.C., of Notre Dame; pastel and watercolor sketches by William Doucette, Milwaukee, Wis.; and landscapes in watercolor by Sister Eustelle Marie, Chicago.
In addition there are three large watercolors by Prof. Hanley, who is exhibiting these new sketches with those
of his students to complete the exhibition of summer work.
The month’s showing is open to students and public alike from three to five daily including Sundays.
Approximately 100 Grads
To Get Degrees Sept. 3
The first summer semester in the history of the University will come to a formal close on Sept. 3 when approximately 54 advanced and 46 bachelor degress will be conferred. Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., professor of Business Administration at the University, will deliver the commencement address. The exercises will take place in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m.
P. A. Guarino to Do Radio Research Work
Mr. Pasquale A. Guarino, instructor in Electrical Engineering at the University since September 1940, is to be added to the list of Notre Dame professors engaged in war research. He has been requested to join the ranks of young men doing research work in the Naval Research Laboratories, Washington, D. C. Mr. Guarino, who will leave immediately after the close of the semester, will be employed in radio development work.
French Inlay Binding
Presented to Library
A very valuable book with a finely worked French inlay binding has been presented to the University library as a Centennial gift by Gerald M. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., superintendent of Our Lady of Holy Cross, North Easton, Mass. This is by far the most elaborate example of French inlay binding in the library.
The book, “L’Evangile de L’Enfance de Notre Seigneur Jesus Christ selon Saint-Pierre,” is a French translation by Catulle Mendes, from a medieval manuscript in the Abbey of St. Wolfgang. There are many colored plates and floral borders by Carloz Schwabe, renowned French artist. The binding of Morocco is by Meunier and dated 1900. Mounted on the front fiy-leaf are two autographed letters from Schwabe to Meunier concerning the work.
The striking floral cover is made up of a portrait of the Virgin and Child in a pictorial inlay with robes, features and haloes in various shades of brown against a background heightened with gold and silver lacquer. The back cover has an interesting floral inlay with contrasting panels and a large crimson lily with sculptured foliage laid on in green calf against a Morocco background. The last third of the book is printed on Chinese paper. This part has no text but is made up of many fine illustrations.
15
~~	■ ■■■	• ■' — ——■ ■	—	■	_ _	' Il
> > - - Ngum, at Watte 2>gmc >
*®ES=^
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
by
ENSIGN E. C. DOLLARD
The letter contained in this column was given to the writer by one of the seamen in the Navy School. We think it is worth repriting, for it’s a letter anyone of us might receive.
Dear Bill:
I’m glad you still want to tell me things, and only hope my words will help you along. You see, I was in the same boat back in ’17, and the problem hasn’t changed much since.
About Mary. She’s a grand girl, Bill, and you know how much we at home think of her. You, could marry her after training and perhaps that’s the romantic thing to do. But look at the other side. If you’re sure she’s the girl for you, she’ll wait for you no matter how long you’re away. Materially speaking, you ■ can’t afford to keep a home in your absence, and when you come back you’ll have to go through the same tough adjustment period I did in ’19.
A fellow has got to remember, too, that some of the men who go aren’t coming back. I know you’re not afraid, and will go ’‘when my number comes up” as you say. But that won’t help Mary. It will only make it more difficult. She has a. life to live, too, and you. owe it to her to see that she gets a full share of the happiness she deserves.
I waited and certainly have nothing to regret from it. In fact, we fellows used to say it takes a lot more courage to go with no strings attached. Of course you’ll have stronger bonds than a marriage certificate. You’ll have a pride, confidence and a faith in each other that will make your marriage after the war an even more cherished thing to remember.
The gal I got, waited, as I say, and I think you’ll have to admit she is a peach. Like Mary, she’s the kind of a girl worth fighting for. She asked me to send you her best.
As ever,	Dad and Mother.
NOTES TO YOU
Nearly every member of the present V-7 group -has a hobby of some sort. Some of them present an unusual variety ; .* .' Richard E. Atkinson, 21, of
Albany, Calif., collects old knives and weapons . . . Charles B. Ayres, 22, of Wallingford, Conn., collects history books . . . Robert J. Bartelt, 21, of Fox Lake, Ill., lists hunting, fishing, athletics, woodworking and dancing as his hobbies . . . Chester G. Bingaman of Brownstown, Ill., collects Indian relics . . . John Boyl-ston, 21, of Lake Forest, Ill., climbs mountains for a hobby . . . Harry D. Brookby, ’25, of Evanston, Ill., collects stamps, minerals, and autographs . . . John E. Cassidy, 22, of Los Angeles, Calif., is another V-7 who climbs mountains for a hobby . . . Harry P. Chandler. 25, of Albuquerque, N. M., collects stamps, insects and likes camping and scouting . . . Irving J. Cohen, 22, of Atlantic City, N. J., likes to repair automobiles and build mcdel airplanes . . . Charles W. Creighton, ’20, of Austin. Tex., collects newspaper clippings of current events, reads detective stories “of the Sherlock Holmes type,” enters contests and listens to radio quiz shows . . . Kenneth R. Crittenden, 21, of Maplewood, N. J., collects pipes and keeps a scrapbook . . . Frank J. Dahlhaus, Jr., 28, of Paterson, N. J., climbs mountains,
Bishop O'Hara confirms V-7 men at first afternoon Mass — Highlight of summer semester
collects books and prints of military costumes . . . William T. Dresser, 21, of Berkeley, Calif., collects plants. . . .
* * *
“East” and “West” should get acquainted pretty soon ... or was the poet right who said never the twain shall meet? “East” is James G. East, 22, of Raphine, Va., and “West” is Leon A. West, Jr., 21, of Whittier, Calif., . . . East is in the Second Company, First Battalion, and West is in the Eighth Company, Fourth Battalion. . . . Speaking of the Fourth Battalion brings to mind that Lieut. (j.g.) E. C. Fant will be shooting for the best battalion prize for the fourth time in a row with the next class.
* * *
Albert N. Eldred, of Ionia, Mich., has held a lot of jobs although he is only twenty-one years old. He has been an office boy, time keeper, pay clerk, bell hop and hotel desk clerk, assistant to a garage mechanic and a truck driver.
$ ijt
Ernest G. Erickson, ’26, of Hoquiam, Wash., spent four months in the Merchant Marine.
16
If the mates in the Second Company want to get a line on the weather they might drop in on David F. Evans, 23, of Haddonfield, N. J. His hobby is meteorology.
By all odds the most appropriate name among the present V-7 class is that of George C. Battle, Jr., of State Park, S. C.
One of the reasons Orrin T. Viereck, 26, of Houston, Tex., joined the Navy is that he has always been interested in ships. His hobby is the study of ship construction.
Among the many former football players in this V-7 class is Benjamin Franklin Whitehill, 22, of Tulsa, Okla. He played football for Harvard.
* * *'
Lewis N. Hindley, Jr., 22, of Long Beach, Calif., is another football" star who is seeking a commission via the V-7 route. He played for Southern Cal.
* ❖ *
Good news was received this week in the form of a letter from US O-Camp Shows, Inc., informing the Navy School that one show will be sent here.
* * —
Stanley P. Wyatt, Jr., 21, of Belmont, Mass., should get acquainted with Lieut. Kenneth K. Keepers. They both have the same hobby, astronomy.
Carlo T. Guidoboni, 26, of North Portsmouth, Mass., by joining the Navy is going to be doing the same kind of work that he did as a civilian. He used to be an exterminator of Japanese beetles. $ -
That look of amazement on the faces
—Came the Admirals' inspection with Rear Admirals Randall Jacobs and John Downes present. The Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president, was host
of people in South Bend resulted from Ensign Harold B. Miller’s offer to “buy one.”
❖ *
John F. Magee, Jr., 22, of Easton, Pa., who played football for Yale and captained the crew there, is a cousin of Admiral Ramsey.
David M. Mann, 26, of Los Angeles, has held some jobs that were extreme opposites. A graduate of the University of Southern California at Los Angeles, Mann was once a violin teacher, dishwasher, messenger and gardener.
❖	❖	5?
John R. Mee, 24, of Arlington Heights, Mass., played professional hockey with the Boston Olympics. He also played three years with Boston College and in his senior year was appointed coach of the freshman team.
❖	❖ ’ -
John A. Motto, 26, of Brooklyn, N. Y., was a member of the New York City police department for two years. He is a graduate of Brooklyn College where he played football and was on the track team.
Daniel T. O’Brien, 28, of Celveland, 0., is a crack pistol shot. He is a graduate of Notre Dame, class of 1936.
4s
Clyde M. Pederson, 26, of Clifton, Tex., is the fourth member of his family to join the armed forces of this country. He has one brother in the Navy and two in the Army.
- * * *
James E. Peterman, 25, of Leechburg, Pa., has one brother in the Army and one in the Marines. He is a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh.
DID you KNOW
That in Henry the Eighth’s period to fire a naval gun twice in an hour was the average time.
From the earliest days of sea craft, launching ceremonies have had a religious significance. In Tahiti it was once the custom to shed human blood at the launching ceremonies. All Chinese junks • carry a shrine in respect to the mother of the Dragon.
Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt christened the huge flying boat, Yankee Clipper, on March 3, 1939, with a bottle of water from the seven seas.	. -
Medals and decorations are for the most part worn on the left breast. This custom may be traced from the practice of the Crusaders in wearing the badge of honor of their order near the heart.
The first record of a woman sponsor in the American Navy is that of a Miss Watson of Philadelphia, who used a mixture of water and wine when she christened the Germantown, a warship, on October 22, 1846.	.
* * * .
A pretty young girl, who lives in Sebring, Fla., hadn’t heard from her sailor boy friend in a long time. Her heart skipped a beat when the mail man brought a letter whose postmark revealed that it was from the one and only. With trembling fingers she opened the envelope. But—no letter from her sweetheart. Only a note which read: “Your boy friend loves you but he tolks too much.” Signed—the Censor.
Sophomores Eligible
For N.R.O.T.C This Fall
A number of sophomores will be accepted in the Naval R.O.T.C. in September when the new class is enrolled, the navy department announced this week. Those second year students accepted must remain at the University for eight consecutive semesters following enrollment to conform with the naval requirements.
Officials of the Naval R.O.T.C. state that all members of the present freshman class are eligible to apply for enrollment and they urge freshmen to investigate the desirability of the training offered. Students who are now enlisted in the Class V-l, U.S. Naval Reserve, of the Accredited College Program, are also eligible for enrollment in the Naval R.O.T.C.
Additional information may be oh-tained at the Naval R.O.T.C. administration office in the Rockne Memorial building. Those interested are requested to inquire before the Fall semester begins.	'
17
THE WEEK
JACK WOBUTLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Thirty days hath September.
<•
SUMMER SIESTA
Before we hit the books Sunday night for the exams Monday morning let’s take a little look at what happened during the past semester.
JUNE—We didn’t feel so bad ’til those letters started coming from the gang at home telling us about the swell beach parties, dances, etc. Pretty soon though every Notre Dame man knuckled down to real serious work. The wolfin’ was tough this semester, wasn’t it fellas? The Phy. Ed. department introduced a new course into their curriculum. It was intended to train the men for life guard positions in very shallow showers. The summer schedule of movies was published soon after we returned and fond memories of kindergarten days returned to haunt us, and Washington Hall too. New freshmen were disappointed on learning that the girls from the Rock were not in attendance for the summer session. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors were relieved. The cows went on strike early in June and the pitchers got lost somewhere in the kitchen so individual bottles of milk were introduced. We all slept well those nights. They say warm milk is good for sleep. On June 26 the date for the Sophomore Cotillion, was set. The band gave its first concert June 30. The next day the cotton market hit a new high. Oscar got ready to start his term paper.
JULY—More V-7s arrived. Mysterious jargon ran rampant over the campus such as: “Pipe the poop.” There were no fire crackers the fourth of July. That night the funny men yelled “bang” as they came in from midnights. Oscar sent his new silk polkadot sport shirt to the laundry. The next week Oscar opened his laundry and found six silk polka-dot handkerchiefs. The anthology of scenes hit Washington Hall. There was plenty of cheese for the spaghetti next Friday. The lawyers held their annual ball. Nice corpora delicious. One sunny Sunday Oscar yelled “fore” and drove a ball into his Money & Banking prof. The prof, yeled “four” on Monday when he gave Oscar back a quiz. Mid-semester exams came, so did the pink slips, so did the rains. Oscar got ready to start his term paper.
AUGUST—We still waited for the terrible Indiana heat. Instead the rains came again. The swimming meet gave the campus Tarzans a chance to shine. The meet inspired a new book titled, “How The Submarine Was First Conceived,” or “Tarzan Bites the Mud.” The dances at St. Pat’s were very successful though. Each patron was supplied with an ice bag and an oxygen tent. Novel little signs publicized the dances such as: “If you don’t care where you’re at, try dancing at St. Pat’s.” Another read: “Fellas give St. Pat’s a trial. Learn to wrestle mountain style.” The band gave another concert and did a takeoff on “The Three Little Monkeys.” The K. of C. Vaudeville then came to Washington Hall. It was really a swell show and was well arranged. We had corn on the cob for the rest of the month. The Cavaliers got regular radio time with Tom Cooney announcing. What’s Lee Douglass got that Dave Curtin and Tom Cooney haven’t got, besides Harry Nicodemus? The month came to a slam bang close and Oscar got ready to start his term paper.
♦
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“Is the prof, looking?”
BIG BLOWS
Plenty of people deserve blows for outstanding work during the summer, so let’s be serious for just a second while the week gives the blows. First a really solid and really loud blow for Professor Joe Casasanta who leaves the faculty after 23 years of faithful service. He made the band the popular outfit it is. He saw it develop from a puny 20-piece organization to the present 100-piece band. Let’s give Joe a big hand. The students are going to miss him more than they realize right now. It can well be said that the famous last words of the student body last basketball season were: “Tiger Rag, Joe!” Another blow for Gentleman Dave Curtin who can always be called upon to M.C. any affair and do a good job of it. This was best demonstrated at the K. of C. Vaudeville and at the recent band concert. As the pilot said when he saw his passenger fall out of the plane: “He’ll go far.” The fellows who did a lot to entertain you students this summer and who received a lot of publicity but very little thanks are the boys who put on those swell boxing shows each Wednesday night.
There were enough teeth lying in the ring the last night to supply the Elks for the next year. There are a lot more who deserve blows but we haven’t enough space to give them. The cooperation of the students with the administration was perhaps more deserving than any single person.
LADE DA
The size of the cones in the Huddle and Caf is getting so large, you can hardly see the ice cream. What we mean is that with the new cone dispenser you get a droop scoop with a gyp dip. . . . At last we have discovered where they catch the fish served on Fridays. Have you ever looked inside the ball washers on the golf course? . . . For some students the dining hall is going to introduce a new type napkin. Paper trunks. Just step into them and slop away. . . . Something is wrong with the blockade at the main entrance, or hadn’t you noticed all the gals in slacks? Oh, we’ll bet you haven’t! ... A sight for E.R.C. eyes the other day was Pete and his Putt-Putt pulling one of the buses up Notre Dame Ave. . . . The library reports that one of the most popular books with the English majors is Maritain’s Art and Prunes. Sounded something like that. ... La De Da staggers on.
THE LIBRARY ISN'T
ONLY FOR BOOKS
Last week the potential Rembrandts of the campus gave a public showing of their art work. The pictures were swell but the titles must have been conceived during a weekend in Chicago. Here are a few as they appeared beneath the pictures. Adonis Disinterested (sort of sounds like a St. Mary’s girl trying to pick up a Notre Dame man, doesn’t it?) Another title, Gas Pump in Latin Quarter. (No. it wasn’t a picture of the coke machine in Walsh.) Perhaps the most interesting specimen was one by Bill Binet called Hep Hep Solitudie. At first we thought it would be a picture of an old lady jitterbugging in private. There was one called House of the Far and Lost. No, not Cavanaugh Hall. The most timely painting was one that suggests the plight of a student at Notre Dame. It was, Duration Blind Date. The last one that we viewed could appropriately be placed under a picture of next year’s band. The name, They March .in Checkered Pattern, but Some Can Straggle Still. Wait, ’til you see. The art show was swell though. A number of comic magazines have sent out contracts to the boys already.
♦
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
But we only get eight.
18
Motte 2>ame SpMti
WALSH LEADS ALUMNI I TO SOFTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP; ALUMNI II AGGREGATION COPS TITLE IN LEAGUE II
FRANK RALPH
With the leadership in both leagues definitely decided and hut a few unimportant games remaining to be played, in a softball way the story is all “Gold Coast.” The seniors from Alumni are now sitting, trophies in hand, on the top perch in their respective leagues— Alumni I in league I, and Alumni II in league II.
Alumni has not only won the championship in both leagues but has definitely shown more interest than any other hall on the campus. They have had three teams competing since the start of the second round. Thus without any qualms a big blow is given to Bob Walsh. Debonair Bob was not only the hall athletic director and thus coordinator of the combined efforts of Alumni’s three teams but also the manager and star third baseman of the Alumni I aggregation.
Both of the championship teams were hustling, hard working clubs; both had terrific records. Alumni I, playing in League I, undoubtedly the toughest of the two, and led by fast pitching, hard hitting Felix Abaldo, wound up with 11 wins, 1 loss, and 1 tie. Abaldo who pitched every game and lost only the first one of the season is the choice for the award of most valuable man to his team. He is the best pitcher, in either league, a good hitter, and a fine competitor. Other boys who came through in great style for Alumni I were Jim Downey, first baseman, Bobby Murnane, hustling shortstop, and Sammy “Cyclops” Meyer, the consistent backstop.
While the lads from Alumni I were thus cavorting in their league, the boys from the other side of the hall, Alumni II, were also doing well. This outfit compiled a record of 8 wins and 2 losses. They were managed by Paul Tierney, and featured the play of George Murphy, pitcher; “Dutch” Schwartzbach, third baseman; Ken Gempel, catcher; and Bob Dunlay, outfielder.
Although no attempt has been made to name the better team of the two, there is an ugly, strictly unofficial rumor going about which states that in a non
league, grudge battle Alumni I emerged the victor by a 15-8 count.
Aside from the doings of the subjects of Father Glueckert’s domain, there were many other highlights in this summer of softball. First of all there is the following all-star team based on the play of the entire season and picked by “Commissioner” Comisa and a committee of managers from both leagues.
POSITION	PLAYER	TEAM
First Base	Bob Steck	Cavanaugh
Second Base	Bud Doyle	Alumni I
Shortstop	Bob Purcell	Cavanaugh
Third Base	John Creevy	Dillon
Left Field	Dick Creevy	Sorin
Center Field	Ed Altendorf	Cavanaugh
Right Field	Jim White	R.O.T.C.
Short Field	Dan Casey	Cavanaugh
Catcher	Bob Neff	Alumni II
Catcher	Sam Meyer	Alumni I
Pitcher	Felix Abaldo	Alumni I
Pitcher	Bucky Gallagher	Walsh
Pitcher Dick Vander Wegen Cavanaugh		
Other highlights are as follows:
Oddest play of the season: Breen-Phillips man hits long ball to outfield with bases loaded and opposing outfielder, McLaughlin, throws him out going from second to third.
Best fielding play of season: Sensational, running, one-hand catch made by Larry Tierney of Alumni II.
Biggest bones of the season: Sam Meyer of Alumni II steals second with a teammate already on that bag. -
Longest hit balls of the season: On the North Diamond, John Creevy of Dillon smashed a homer up against the Biology building. On the South Diamond, Dave McLaughlin’s drive over the trees in left field which hit Breen-Phillips hall on the fly.
Biggest laugh of the season: Wahoo Murphy, of Alumni III, bawling out his team for misplays against Alumni I.
Biggest violin player (moaner) of the season: “Young Moose” Massulo of St. Ed’s.
Most disappointing play of the season: Setting — Alumni III vs. Zahm, (Continued on page 29)
Al Lesmitz Wins Race
Over Obstacle Course
Al Lesmitz, Breen-Phillips hall, won the obstacle race last Thursday afternoon on Cartier Field. His time was 9:28. Gordon Forester, Dillon hall, was second with 10:09. Another Breen-Phillips boy, Bill Sprague, took third place in 10:15.
The obstacle race brought to a close the summer interhall track activities. The meet might have been the scene in any one of the army camps. These obstacle races are employed as conditioners for the men in the armed forces.
The first leg of the course was a jaunt around the outside of the practice field fence. The first obstacle was to climb the green fence surrounding the field. Four wooden tunnels were next on the
Climbing, crawling, jumping, running.
list of barriers. Next came four high hurdles. The last leg of the course was running the inside track and again climbing the fence surrounding the field. The short distance from this spot to the gate was reached, and the only obstacle from here to the finish line was six low hurdles.
By the time the thinlies had reached the first obstacle, the practice field fence, many of them had slowed down and were beginning to show a little wear and tear from the race. The fence being scaled the runners struggled through three wooden tunnels. Some were pretty slow coming through, others came through like they had been shot from a gun. Two high hurdles then had to be leaped by each contestant. Al Lesmitz and his two closest followers were now well ahead of the others. Upon circling the field the persevering would-be Rices were not sorry to see the finish line loom up.
—George Blackmore
19
Irish Stars Break Even
In Hard Summer Schedule
A venture turned into a success behind the green walls of Cartier Field this summer. •
When the spring semester was terminated officials of the athletic department decided to introduce to the campus sports entertainment card a schedule of interhall athletic matches. A varsitysport was needed to entertain non-competing students and the players as well but with transportation a limited item it didn’t seem posssible that any Irish nine would see organized action.
But deep in Breen-Phillips hall baseball Coach Jake Kline was working hard and determinedly. Many baseball players had gone to him and asked him to try to get summer games with neighboring Universities. Michigan and Purdue
were holding classes along with numerous other schools. Coach Kline contacted many schools, members of the Big Ten Conference, and near-by semi-pro units. They agreed to play games with the Irish but then Leon Henderson’s edict came through. It looked like there would be no diamond action for Notre Dame students to watch. But Jake Kline was . not through; he managed to book games with South Bend ball clubs and other teams that stood high in semi-pro competition throughout the St. Joseph valley.	'	.	.
Picking the blossoms from the interhall baseball flowers and throwing in several varsity seeds Coach Kline organized and put the Irish Stars, the summer varsity, on the field. Within three days after their initial practice session was held the Stars took the field against a -powerful and well-organized . Hoosier . Beer club from South Bend. Playing ragged defensive ball, but always fighting, the Stars dropped that opening contest, 5-3. In losing the tiff they proved that they were. instilled with sufficient fight and vigor to make a success of the summer campaign. -
Short days ago, after winning three. consecutive tilts, -the Stars pulled the blinds on a very successful summer program. The number of victories they piled up wasn’t too impressive but they managed to break even in the series of summer contests and one can hardly ask more from a group of lads, most of
20	-
whom had never had any varsity experience before. At least seven men played in each of the hot weather tilts that had never had their names in a collegiate box score before. These inexperienced lads fought hard and lost the hard way. Seldom beaten by more than two or three runs, ragged fielding generally brought about their defeat. -
Doing their part in the war effort the Stars drew substantial crowds whenever they appeared in benefit tilts. Often they appeared on foreign fields playing for an Army-Navy relief fray or to fill the needy spots of the U.S.O.
No tabulations were kept on the batting and fielding averages of the players during the summer months. The games the Stars played will not be tacked in Notre Dame annals as a varsity offensive because they did not play any collegiate competition. '
The Stars collapsed in their final contest of the semester before the drive of Elkhart in a benefit tussle beneath the lamps. Each team whipped out three base knocks but errors at critical moments lost the game for the Irish. A . quartet of hurlers, Dudley, .Trimbom, Fischer, and Manyak, divided the hill assignment.
So let a lusty cheer sound for the Irish Stars who tried hard and managed to slash off their share of victories although the odds were great.—Bill Boss .
Unbeaten Dillon I Cops Interhall Tennis Title
Phil Keen .	.
This week marks the end of the most successful inter-hall sports program ever undertaken at Notre' Dame. Of. these sports, tennis enjoyed a special, success; undoubtedly the toughest, most spirited and closely fought of any other year of tennis play. This summer saw two Dillon squads setting, as fast a pace as humanly possible, but still unable to shake the rest of the field until the middie of August. ’
. The climax of the fast moving league ., .play came with the meeting of the two squads. Dillon I riding on top, with an undefeated record met Dilloii II who had dropped but one match. The number one match placed Ray O’Connell of Dillon I across the net from Jim Quinn of the challengers. Both men went out for the first set and battled through -fourteen games before Quinn copped it, 8-6. Ray quickly turned the tide in the second set with a 6-3 win and went on
'to take the decisive" set, 6-3. Angular Jim "Whalen proved a hard man to pass .
as he defeated Gerry O’Reilly, 6-2, 6-2. Jack McAndrews topped Jack Collins, . 6-2, 6-3. Rangy Jim Sheridan tried to make it four straight for the pace setters, . but Al Nilles had different ideas and ran off a 6-1, 6-3 win. Jack Greene . chalked up the elusive number four win by out-maneuvering Phi Keen 7-5, 6-2. In the doubles matches O’Connell and Whalen again turned back Quinn and O’Reilly by the scores of 6-1, 6-3. Al Nilles and Eddy Ochoa out-lasted Jack McAndrews and Jim Sheridan 63, 3-6, 6-3, in the final match of the day.	.	-	’
As a result, of this-defeat and a subsequent reversal at the hands of an increasingly strong Cavanaugh team, the chances of a title for Dillon II were definitely blacked but. N.R.O.T.C., by virtue of a crisp 5 to 2 win over the Faculty, finished in second place and will be presented "with silver medals. The most determined bid for a top position was placed by the juniors of Cavanaugh. Starting slowly, the Cavaliers marched toward the leaders by winning four of their last five matches.
The Faculty, fininshing fast to cop fourth place, placed their two top men at the peak. of the win column of the league. Walter Langford led all rivals with 12 wins. His - teammate, Brother Edmund, was a very close second with 11 victories to his credit. These two “kids” spelled plenty of trouble for whomever they met. Giant Jim Quinn of Dillon II was the only other player , to reach the ten-victory circle.
Dillon I, kings of the league, have built up a total of 35 wins against 15 losses. However, this is not tops in the league. Cavanaugh has a team total of 42 and 14 while the second place N.R.O.T.C. has 36 and 14. Dillon’s last : match with sixth place Walsh should improve their record.
. Dillon’s all .winning squad deserves ; a real “blow.” Early in the season as most; of .the experts were conceding the title, to Dillon II, the champs marched along -knocking team after team in* to the defeat column and proceeded to meet and knock off Dillon II; then on to the championship.	'
Roving Ray O’Connell, the Oak Park bomber, was'the ace of the champion sophs. He marked up eight decisive wins. Ray’s consistent wins in the number one position was a big aid in getting his squad off to the lead. Lanky Jim Whal-'en, commerce man* from Wapakoneta (honest, , he spelled it for us), Ohio, chalked up six wins and three reverses. . Jim received his apprenticeship in tennis at Evansville High School. Jack Me-Andrews, known to his teammates as
the “Blonde Bombshell,’’amassed a total of five wins and one loss. Jack was undefeated in his four singles matches. Jim Sheridan from-little old New York played plenty of swell tennis in filling in a total that read eight wins and three defeats. West Virginia’s gift to tennis, Jack Greene, with four and one, carried the burden in the fifth position, but
was aided by accountant Vince Oppenheim and shufflin’ Bill O’Leary.
League Standings
*Dillon I ............ 6	0	1.000
N.R.O.T.C............. 6	1	.857
Cavanaugh ............ 5	2	.714
Faculty .............. 4	3	.571
Dillon II ............ 3	4	.429
*Walsh ............... 2	4	.333
Alumni ............... 1	6	.143
Breen-Phillips ....... 0	7	.000
* Does not include postponed match.
Coach Walter Langford, who has faithfully sent tennis through an interesting and complete schedule, summed up the season as a “very obvious and gratifying success due greatly to the very fine turnout of the players all through the schedule.” The fact that there hasn’t been one team default proves this statement. The Indiana weatherman also contributed his part as only one day’s play was rained out. The coach had special words of praise for Breen-Phillips. Despite their all-losing record, the frosh faithfully appeared for all their matches against the upper-classmen and proved that all the enjoyment is not in winning match after match.
On the basis of the quality and quantity of competition and their respective positions on their teams, the following ' men could play in any inter-hall league: Ray O’Connell and Jim Whalen of Dillon I; Roy Grumbine and Bob Bobbett of N.R.O.T.C.; Bill Scheuch and Bill Talbot of Cavanaugh; Jim Quinn and Gerry O’Reilly of Dillon II; and last, but certainly not least, Brother Edmund and Walter Langford of the Faculty.
Fifty-five Men Will Report For Fall Drills
Early on the morning of September 1, fifty-five members of the 1942 Notre . Dame varsity will tramp onto Cartier Field. This is the date Coach Frank Leahy will start the football conditioning-program which will have to be completed .within three short weeks before the Irish tangle with Wisconsin’s promising Badgers at Randall Field in Madison on September 26.
An undefeated slate will shadow the
workouts of the grid candidates. The conditioning period ■will be short but it must be strenuous and effective for Notre Dame this year is barging into the most rugged football schedule that an Irish team, has ever faced. Eleven hard games are visibly outlined ahead and eleven durable football squads are looking; forward to flattening the legi
ons of Leahy.
The "Dipper" will drive again
Coach Leahy, not too pessimistic, has said: “If we can get past Wisconsin in the opener, we may have another , representative season. We’ll consider it an excellent year if we can win 6 or 7 out of our . eleven games.”
Coach Leahy has fears of the dreaded long run ahead when he says: “But that eleven game schedule. . . ” “It is possibly ..the stiffest* ever . tackled by any '
• college team anywhere, and we . just can’t hope to win more than 6 or 7 games.”
Schedule:.	'
Sept. 26—Wisconsin at Madison..
Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame.
Oct. 10—Stanford, at Notre Dame.
Oct. 17-—Iowa Navy Pre-Flight School at Notre Dame.
Oct: 24—Illinois at Champaign.
Oct. 31—Navy at Cleveland.
Nov. 7—Army at New York. .
Nov. 14—Michigan at Notre Dame.
Nov. 21—Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Nov. 28—Southern California at Los Angeles. ■
Dec. 5—Great Lakes .at Chicago.
—Bill Boss
Crimmins Chosen to Lead
All-Star Football Team
It was announced Monday night that Bernie Crimmins, Notre Dame’s All-American guard of last fall, has' been chosen captain of the All-Star football team which meets the Chicago Bear?, professional football champions, in the ninth annual All-Star game in Chicago -tonight.	.
Crimmins is one of seven Notre Dame men who were chosen in a nation-wide-poll to participate in the gamp which, this year is being staged for the Army-Navy relief fund. The other Irish players on the squad are Steve Juzwik, John Kovatch, Captain Paul Lillis, Jim Brutz, Bob Maddock, and Bob Hargrave. Crimmins and Juzwik, by virtue of drawing the highest number of votes for. the positions, will be in the starting lineup. The other men who have all shown up exceedingly well in practice sessions are due to see plenty of action in the contest.
On coming to Notre Dame from his home in Louisville, Ky., Crimmins went out for football as a halfback. He won a monogram as right halfback in his sophomore, year. In his junior term he earned his ND as understudy to fullback Milt “Moose” Piepul. Last year Coach Frank Leahy asked Bernie to move into " the line. Always a great team man Bernie consented to give it a try. It was a real try he gave .it too, as he gained recognition on all the major All-American selections.
While here at Notre Dame Crimmins ’ also won three monograms, as a catcher on Jake Kline’s baseball teams. Last spring he captained the very successful nine which won seven out of eleven games including a victory over the strong Great Lakes Naval training station outfit.
The All-Stars starting lineup for tonight’s game will be: Ends, Mal Kutner, Texas, and Charles Ringer, Minnesota;
. tackles, Jim Daniell, Ohio State, and Al Blozis, Georgetown; Guards, Bernie Crimmins, Notre Dame, and Bob Jeffries, Missouri; center, Vincent Banonis, Detroit; quarterback, Dick Erdlitz, Northwestern; halfbacks, Steve Juzwik, Notre Dame, and Bruce Smith, Minne- . sota; fullback, Jack Graf, Ohio State. The kickoff is set for 8:30. Radio station WGN will carry a description of the game.
21
Baseball Championship Adds to Dillon Awards
Dillon Hall captured the second round playoff and then went ahead to become the University baseball champions when they met and defeated Sorin hall, first round victors in a two out of three game series early this week.
"Bud” Ahern’s Dillionites clouted heavily behind big John Creevey in the first game of the series to knock over the Sorinites, 11-8. Bud Dudley mounted the hillock for the losers and Dick Creevy was stationed behind the bat. Gene Dwyer took care of the catching chores for the south campus boys.
In the second fracas Dillon clinched the series edging out the seniors, 7-6, behind the hurling of "Bucky” O’Connor. Dudley also pitched the second fray for the seniors but couldn’t hold the potent sophomore bats down.
Andy Chlebeck, former varsity captain and one of the best ball players Notre Dame ever saw, directed all the interhall baseball play this summer and did a remarkable job. Defying rain and week-ends Andy saw that the schedule was run through on time and served as head arbitrator in most of the games.
Members of the Dillon team, the victors, will receive individual gold medals while the defeated first round winners, Sorin, will be given silver medals.
First Round Standings:
Team	Won	Lost	Pct.
Sorin 			6	1	..857
N.R.O.T.C.		5	2	.714
Dillon 			3	2	.600
Alumni ....		4	3	.555
Walsh ___________  4	3	.555
Breen-Phillips ----2	5	.286
Cavanaugh _________1	6	.143
Zahm-St. Ed’s.......0	7	.000
Second Round Standings:
Team	Won	Lost	Pct.
Dillon 			7	0	1.000
N.R.O.T.C			6	1	.857
Zahm 			4	3	.555
Sorin 			3	4	.428
Walsh 			3	4	.428
Cavanaugh 			1	6	.143
Alumni 			0	7	.000
		—Bill	Boss
Atwater Defeats Malloy In Summer Boxing Final
Bob Dunn
Cavanaugh Hall’s hard-hitting boxers took top place in the summer interhall series, Coach Dominick “Nappy” Napolitano stated Wednesday. The juniors amassed 59 points while. Dillon Hall trailed in second place with 28 marks.
Individual award winners were determined by the final fight card presented Wednesday night, July 19, “Nappy” revealed. The divisional winners and their awards are listed below:.
120 pound class—Paul Malloy (gold glove); John Quinlan (silver glove); 127 pound class — Joe Farrell (gold glove); Tom Hessert (silver glove); Mike McNulty (medal); 135 pound class—Sam Atwater (gold glove); 145 pound class—Walter Romito (gold glove); Frank Culhane (silver glove); Bill O’Hara (medal); 155 pound class —Tom O’Connor (gold glove); Ken Palmer (silver glove); Steve O’Rourke (medal); 165 pound class — Farrell Quinlan (gold glove); Bob Dunne (medal) ; Frank Finn (medal); 175 pound class—Harry Florence (gold glove); Pat O’Hara (silver glove); and heavyweight class—Bill Huber (gold glove).
Following Cavanaugh and Dillon in the hall scoring were:
Breen-Phillips 18, R.O.T.C. 16, Alum
ni 13, Walsh 5, Sorin 2, and St. Edward’s 1.
In the decisive battles Wednesday night, Sammy Atwater set Paul Malloy back for the second time this summer, to highlight the program. Both are Bengal Bout titleholders in their respective weights.
Joey Farrell, 135 pounds, New York City, and Cavanaugh Hall, decisioned Billy O’Hara, 135 pounds, R.O.T-C. fighter, in the curtain raiser. Farrell floored his opponent after two minutes of the second round. Taking, a count of nine O’Hara returned to carry the fight to Farrell. Farrell easily took the third stanza, again flooring O’Hara for a short count.
Another of those furious fights between Harry Florence, Alumni Hall light-heavyweight, and Pat O’Hara, Dillon, saw Florence repeat an earlier decision. Like their initial fray the previous week the stocky 175 pounders kept the crowd tense throughout with unrelenting slugging.
Following two uneventful rounds, Johnny Quinlan, of Chicago, decisioned Mike McNulty, of Pittsburg, with a third round flurry.
Farrell Quinlan, current 155 pound Bengal Bout diadem wearer now fighting in the 165 pound class, received the judges’ nod over Frank Finn. Both are Cavanaugh representatives.
Bouncing back from two defeats, Tommy O’Connor, out-punched Ken Palmer in the 155 pound fiasco. Walt Romito was victorious over Frank Culhane in a good contest. Both battlers rendered creditable accounts with Ro-mito’s early lead determining the margin of victory.
Officials were: Referee, George Van-derhayden; judges, Bill Lubbers, Elmer Tepe, and Scrapiron Young; timekeeper, John A. Scannell; announcer, Harry Wright.
SAVE THIS AD
When in CHICAGO, remember it is GILBERT'S in the DRAKE HOTEL
for
NAVY OFFICER'S UNIFORMS
Satisfaction or money back!
In the Drake Hotel Arcade, comer Michigan Ave. and Lake Shore Drive One Man Tells Another, Gilbert’s
22
Summer Play Increases Volleyball Popularity Jack Denniston
For years volleyball has been a required activity for the Physical Education men. Just last semester Vincent
“Commissioner” Com-
misa. sical
a senior Phy-
E ducation ma-
jor, together with John Scannell, head of the Physical Edu-
cation started VINCENT COMMISA Plans to Interhall
league.
department, formulating establish an
Volleyball
Commisa found every hall with a willing group of boys eager to absorb more facts about this exciting game. At first the league progressed slowly . . . the fellows were freshmen at this new game. Gradually play became speedier; all the “volleyballers” were interested in what place their team occupied in the league standings; and it wasn’t long before Interhall Volleyball won its permanent sta-. tion in Notre Dame Interhall sports.
St. Edward’s. hall anticipated the formation of the new league, so the sophomores formed their team early and began practice before the other teams were even organized. As a result Father Gorman’s lads jumped into the honored spot in the circuit and led by a safe margin at the three-week mark. Ed Krupa, Dick Terry, and Ray Nedwidek led the sophomores in their early season wins.
The following weeks St. Edward’s maintained its narrow margin, but Alumni II and the surprise Faculty team trailed by only a game. George
Murphy, Johnny Lanahan, and Bob Neff, along with Commisa, were Alumni Il’s initial front. The next week found a Faculty plea before the “Commissioner” stating: “that it was impossible to gather all our “start”—meaning Walt Langford, Dominick Napolitano, Gil Burdick, and John Scannell—together but one evening of the week, and why should such a stellar aggregation continue to be listed among the standings when it was unable to fulfill its engagements?” After a careful investigation, Commisa recognized their petition and dropped the “older gentlemen” from the league. This summer’s heat proved too much for Sorin hall, so Cavanaugh hall formed a second team; but taking over Sorin’s miserable won-and-lost standings was certainly a handicap.
At the mid-way mark St. Ed’s faded and a spurt by Cavanaugh I found them locked with Alumni II for first honors. Down the finishing stretch both teams scrapped furiously. Cavanaugh I mustered all its pep and power and eked past the seniors in the best game of the season. The seniors' forced the victors to five games before surrendering. Bill Amann, coach of Cavanaugh I, deserved a nod for his bit of master-minding while leading the victorious Cavanaugh haliers to the title. Others on the winning squad were: Joe Rigney, Dan Casey, Dave McLaughlin, Bob Steck, Bob Casey, and Bob Purcell.
Quite a large crowd attended the All-Star contest in which the All-Stars stopped a gallant faculty team, three games to two. Dick Terry, Ray Nedwidek, Jim White, Johnny Lanahan, Vincent Commisa, and Johnny Creevey sparkled for the stars. Again, as always, the Faculty functioned as a unit.
The managers of the teams voted Bob Purcell, lanky Cavanaugh I set-up wiz
ard, the “most valuable player of the league.”
The curtain is down on the volleyball stage for the summer but an enthusiastic student body awaits its opening either this fall in the Rockne Memorial or in the early spring of next year.
Final Standings			
TEAM	WON	LOST	PCT.
Cavanaugh I .		15	1	.939
Alumni II			.13	. 3	.813
Walsh 			.12	4	.750
St. Edward’s .		11	5	.687
Alumni I 			 7	9	.437
N.R.O.T.C			5	11	.317
Breen-Phillips		J 4	12	.250
Cavanaugh II		 3	13	J.88
Dillon 			 2	4	.125
Cotillion Plans Set;
No Band Chosen Yet
Dance chairman Jack Leahy announced last week that plans were well under way towards making this year’s Sophomore Cotillion one of the best in recent years. The annual dance will be held October 10, week-end of the Stanford game.
Byrne O’Neill and Dick Murphy have been chosen as co-chairmen for music and have had difficulty in making a selection of a suitable band, but they promise that they won’t let the boys down. Any suggestions from the students will be welcomed.
The gentleman in charge of ticket sales is Jack Herlihy, last year’s chairman of the N.R.O.T.C. Ball. The lads in charge of the decorations are Bill Griffen and Richard Dreier. The patron and reception committees are headed respectively by Jack Conway and Jim Crowley. The tea dance is in charge of Joe V. Long Jr., and Tony Earley is taking care of the publicity.
MODERN GILBERTS
is
HEADQUARTERS for NAVY OFFICER'S UNIFORMS
both in
SOUTH BEND and CHICAGO
If you are not completely satisfied you get your money back. •
Clip out this ad and save it — you’ll need it later.
In SOUTH BEND, just hop in a cab and say GILBERT’S. It’s FREE to South Bend’s largest store for Men.
In the DRAKE HOTEL’S ARCADE, just two blocks north of ABBOTT HALL, is GILBERT’S in CHICAGO. Phone Superior 2200.
25
J. B. SIMPSON
Shore -to- Shore Simpson Service
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service which literally reaches from shore to shore, with offices and shops in 30 important naval bases to serve you. This is an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, you can order uniforms here in South Bend, and they will be shipped to our New York Branch for fitting and delivery if you are assigned to the "Prairie State". . . to our Annapolis Branch if you are assigned there ... or to our 646 North Michigan Avenue store in ChicagoTf • you go to Abbott Hall-. We also have a new branch in Ithaca for those who may take post-graduate work in Engineering.
After you graduate as an officer, you will be able to secure the service you may require from time to time, at any of our branches such as Boston, San Diego, Corpus Christi or T1 others. Wherever you find ' a Simpson Naval Shop you find a trained, efficient, courteous personnel to serve you. J. B. SIMPSON SHOPS ARE LOCATED IN: - .
Chicago (3) Great Lakes Annapolis Ithaca ' Pensacola Jacksonville Corpus Christi . San Francisco
South Bend
IN CHICAGO: .
New York Boston Philadelphia San Diego Detroit Cleveland St. Louis New Haven Newark ■
Pittsburgh Kansas City Toledo . , Indianapolis
•Youngstown Ft. Wayne
, Memphis ■ Houston
North Chicago *
Midshipmen's Store ; . ' 646 N. Michigan Ave.
Officer's Naval Store
30 North Dearborn St. ;
Visit Our N
205 N. MA
SOUTH BEN
The new J. B. Simpson Shop in South Bend has been opened for the convenience of students’ at the Naval Training School at Notre Dame. Staffed by a trained and experienced personnel, this Naval Shop offers a complete line of Naval dress and service uniforms and accessories.
I
J. B. Simpson, Inc., is a long established firm inthe Naval Uniform business with offices and shops in’30 important naval bases, thus assuring the maximum in service to you.
We invite you to’visit our Naval Shop I; at 205 North Main Street, to inspect our Uni- [ forms;and accessories.-. You may be meas- ij
24
Inc
Fine Naval Tailors
ew Shop at
Finest Tailoring Liberal Credit

IN STREET
D, INDIANA
I
ured for your requirements before leaving Notre Dame, and your uniforms can be made, for you during your Midshipman training. They will be ready for you when you com-
i .	-
plete your training arid will be delivered to you through the Simpson Shop or office located wherever you may be assigned.

&
IS THE FIT OF YOUR ISSUED CLOTHING SATISFACTORY?
If your issued uniforms require alteration to improve their fit, bring them in to J. B. Simpson's convenient Service Desk in the Dining Hall opposite the Canteen on the Notre Dame Campus.
EXPERT ALTERATIONS
Prompt Return of Garments
The long experience of J. B. Simpson, Inc., assures naval officers the standard of quality, design, and tailoring which will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson urii-forms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability, and are sturdily constructed for. more days of wear. Or- ’ ders may be placed before leaving Notre Dame, without obligation to accept should you fail to graduate, or should you be dissatisfied with our service, our uniforms,_ or the fit of our garments.	,
Very liberal credit arrangements are -■ available to all who desire them. No de-. Y posit is required at. the time of ordering, ... and provisions may be made whereby you can take ten months to pay. •
Your satisfaction is.guaranteed because the comoletion of all-transactions is de- ’ '•	' I - - '	„	■*	-
completed uniforms.
25
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
By BILL REYNOLDS
By way of contrast the St. Louis Cardinals’ regulars are all products of their farm system, whereas the only man wearing a Dodger uniform who is a graduate of Larry McPhail’s ambitious minor league empire is rookie pitcher Ed Head. . . . Who said pennants can’t be bought. . . . But don’t count the Dodgers in yet, the home-grown Cardinal gang is still very much in the race. . . .
Many major league records are falling this season, but it is the pitchers rather than the batters who are gaining the glory. . . . Jim Tobin, veteran Boston Braves hurler, recently tied Hal Schumacher’s National League record of home runs by a pitcher in a season when he collected his sixth four-bagger in a losing effort against the Phils. . . . Wes Ferrell, former Boston and Washington hurler, holds the American league and major league marks in this department with eight.. . . Ted Lyons and Charlie Ruffing have each won their 250th American league game this season and Carl Hubbell, the king of the screwball, is almost sure to notch his 250th before the present season ends ... he needs only three more wins to put him in the distinctive class. . . . One of Hubbell’s teammates, “Ace” Adams, is well on the way to setting a mark as the greatest workhorse in modern major league pitching annals. . . . Having appeared in 50 games thus far it appears almost'certain that he will surpass the record of 56 games pitched in, held jointly by Christy Mathewson
MODERN GILBERT'S is HEADQUARTERS for NAVY OFFICER'S UNIFORMS
both in
SOUTH BEND and CHICAGO
★
If you are not completely satisfied you get your money back.
Clip out this ad and save it — you’ll need it later.
*
In SOUTH BEND, - just hop in a cab and say GILBERT’S. It’s FREE to South Bend's largest store for Men.
(1908) and Hugh Mulcahy (1937). . . . The Reds and Cubs set a new record when they used 12 pitchers in their recent 18-inning struggle. . . . The game was also the longest in the majors this year. . . . The second game of the doubleheader was the shortest official game of the season as it was called at the end of the fifth inning. . . .
Eighteen of Mel Ott’s first 22 home runs this year were hit in the Polo Grounds. . . . When the Yankees set a new game mark for double-plays with seven in a contest against the Athletics they brought themselves within 46 of the season record they set last year . . . with 43 more games left to play at the time they seemed a cinch to break this record and possibly reach the 200 mark. . . . The question who is the best hitting pitcher in the major leagues has popped up again. According to the latest averages the leading hitter-pitchers who have appeared in 20 or more games are Bob Wilkie of Pittsburgh in the National league with a .321 stick mark and Ted Lyons of Chicago in the junior circuit with a .314 average. . . . Bob Feller is playing second fiddle on the Norfolk Naval training station nine. Maxie Wilson, former Piedmont league pitcher, recently tossed a 3-0 no-hit game for his 17th success of the season against only two defeats. ... It was also the tiny southpaws, second no-hitter of the year. . . . . Feller ran into quite a bit of trouble recently in racking up a 1-0 decision over
In the DRAKE HOTEL’S ARCADE, just two blocks north of ABBOTT HALL, is GILBERT’S in Chicago. Tel. Superior 2200.
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
Bostonian Service Shoes.$8.95
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington
26
WELCOME. NAVY LADS
Down Town at SPIRO'S the home of
Hart, Schaffner & Marx You'll find all the
necessary Furnishings for your new outfitting, including Shoes.
★
121 South Michigan
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Raya and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South'Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
the last place Asheville Tourists of the Piedmont league. Rapid Robert pitched a one-hit game, striking out 15 but his opponent, Ken Johnson, kept pace with him by striking out 12 as he also allowed but one base knock. . . .
If size means anything the Chicago Bears should fear no opponents this fall —the total weight of the squad is 7,627 pounds. . . . There are 977 minor league baseball players in the armed services according to the latest reports. . . . The Philadelphia Phils might enlist as a group and push the total past the 1000 mark. . . . Pinch-hitters are not faring so well in the senior circuit this year; the league aggregates average is only .202. . . . When Billy Evans, former American league umpire, drew a tough assignment in the first game he worked alone—the pitchers were Rube Waddell and Cy Young, two of the games greatest. . . . That was a good picture of Coach Frank Leahy in the Chicago Tribune a couple of weeks ago in spite of the sweatshirt he was wearing which boldly displayed the lettering Northwestern University. . . . Oddities of the times: Lieut. Col. Robert Neyland and Major Wallace Wade, former football coaches at Tennessee and Duke, respectively, were probably college football’s greatest rivals before the war, now they are co-pilots of the allarmy football squad. . . .
Notre Dame's Greatest
Golf Season in Finale
The University Open Golf Championship will draw to a close this week-end and with it will fade out the greatest season in Notre Dame golfing history.
Opened by the 45th annual National Intercollegiate Golf Tourney at the Chain O’Lakes country club the tournament season swelled gradually. The consolation match of the IntercoIIegiates was played on the William J. Burke Memorial course and an Irish golfer, John Harrigan, tied for the trophy.
The University match championship tourney followed on the slate and was captured by bespectacled Dave Sullivan, of Dillon hall and Dedham, Mass. Dillon hall, with its interhall athletic monopoly, captured the team trophy in the medal play round.
The varsity is now competing in round-robin style for the John L. Harrigan trophy and university mashie wielders are on the final 36 hole lap of the University Open tournament this week.
Dick Whiting, the blond bomber from Detroit, is setting the pace in the Uni-’ versity open with a 72 hole tally of 146, two over par, and is outpointing the varsity pack in the trophy matches.
(Continued on page 30)
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE *
Take Your Pick, Gents!
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00- P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourlyserv-ice from Chicago, too.
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
WELCOME, Navy Men! Ash about special furlough rates
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
SOULU^RE
27
1
I
WELCOME V-7 MEN!
“RED” LONERGAN
We carry the regulation Navy Shoes
Florsheim's, $10.50 up
Freeman's, $6.95 up
MAtft AT
SERVICE BOUND
Notre Dame loses some more of its finest players to the Army or Navy every month. Eddie Taiboom, an understudy for Bertelli, leaves pretty soon, and Keith O’Rourke, an important high-jumper, has volunteered for the Army Air Corps. Jack Wiethoff has just completed nine of his twelve weeks’ training for his Navy commission out at Cal Tech. He was a pole vaulter par excellence. . . . -The boxing show was a success again and you can blame it on the training and matching they are given (the fighters). Some mighty close battles are beings fought. There was hardly one that wasn’t a punch for punch match, as the disagreement among the fans showed. Remember next time, that the judges, aren’t prejudiced and that they make their decisions on a well defined system. Harry Florence and Pat O’Hara put on one of the best shows of the summer and it seems that Harry has met a man who will fight it out with him. . . . Co-operation is far from impossible, if someone has told you so. Witness the fact that the students got in back of the All-Star poll and set a record. We have been informed that “Herky” Bereolos and Ray Ebli have been added to the All-Star squad, which gives us nine places, an alltime record for the number of players from one school to our knowledge. This was done without the help of newspapers, a major weapon of most colleges. For those who wondered what good our 150,000 votes did, we suggest a look at the record. It took five hundred thousand to really place the boys on top and Bereolos, Ebli, Maddock, and Hargrave would have been left in the dust. Besides, Juz-wik and. Crimmins wouldn’t have made the starting line-up. It looked good to see four Notre Dame men on the first team at practice last week. It’s still the little things that count, so keep up the co-operation spirit. Steve Juzwik, Bob Maddock, and Ray Ebli have signed contracts to play pro ball this season. All are.in the Naval Reserve (V-7), but they will probably not be called till the first of January. Till then the boys can keep in condition by playing their favorite sport, this time for money. Steve goes to the Redskins and Ray and Bob go to the Chicago Cardinals. Ray may play against Johnny Kovatch who has just been signed up with the Redskins when the Cards and Reds tangle next season.
THE LAST ROUNDUP
By the end of this week the hardball championship of the campus will have been decided. Sorin conquered the R. O. T. C. in the playoff for the first round, and Dillon took the second round without any trouble. These two will play for the championship. “Boss” Chlebeck claims that the season was a huge success, and that, with few exceptions, the enthusiasm of the teams never waned. A lot of credit goes to Andy for being so interested in his job and we want to thank him for working so hard, and we want to thank the players for helping make the season a success. Andy has picked what he would call an All-Star team and this is it:
First Base—Bill Rich of Dillon; cocaptain.
Second Base — Brother Alonzo of Zahm.
Third Base—Eddie Ghigliotti of Dillon.
Short Stop—Charley Lewis of Sorin; co-captain. •
Right Field—Dick Kisgen of Sorin.
Center Field—Dick Creevy of Sorin.
Left Field—Black Mike Mitchell of Breen-Phillips.
Catcher—Gene Dwyer of Dillon or Bill Stewart of Alumni.
Pitchers—Bo Fisher of Sorin, Bucky O’Connor of Dillon, Father Florian of Zahm.
Batboy—Ed Callahan of Sorin.
Managers—Father Brennan and John Aherne of Dillon.
Andy claims that the outstanding fielders were Charley Lewis of Sorin, Black Mike Mitchell (B-P), Fred Gore (Al), John Creevy (Dil). The leading hitters were: Nibs Trimborne (Wal), Brother Enright (Z), Bill Rich (Dil), and Dick Creevy. We remember two outstanding plays, one by “Dippy” Evans, a triple play, and the other by Fr. Florian when he struck out four men in one inning and allowed no hits. “Rocky” Moran played great ball for Sorin and received no credit. Take a bow, “Rock.” Everyone had a pat on the back for “Black” Mike Mitchell (B-P), and Jack Barry and Bud Dudley of Sorin as clowns in the field. Andy Chlebeck feels that the season was successful partly because the teams he picked as best are playing it off.
28
SOFTBALL CHAMPS
(Continued from page 19) score 4-2 in favor of Zahm, last of the' seventh inning, two out, and Manager Murphy of Alumni III at hat with two men on base: Murphy comes through with a long smash over the left fielder’s head for four bases. He walks exultantly from the plate after scoring the winning run and is feeling very happy about things in general. Suddenly the alert Zahm third baseman rushes in and starts beating the hero lightly about the body with a softball. Murphy had missed tagging third as he toured the bases.
Best umpire: Bill Stewart, Jr.
Biggest clown : Bob Casey, Cavanaugh third baseman.
Smartest pitcher: George Murphy of Alumni II who used such an exaggerated follow through that he competely blocks the vision of the umpire standing’behind him. After such occurrences George, being a fine fellow, is never reluctant to explain just exactly what the pitch the sad umpire missed, looked like.
There is no doubt but that the campus softball season was a huge success. From the very start softball has been the most popular of all summer sports. It has been good exercise as well as a lot of fun.
Much of this success has been due to the unfailing effort of Vince Commisa. Baseball czar, Kenesaw Mountain Landis, himself, could hardly have done a better job. Commisa was always on hand to see that the games started on time, and that the necessary equipment, and the umpires were right on the spot. He is to be commended for his fine work.
The final standings with five games yet to be played follow:
look at the activities of some of the varsity men of this spring.
Olen Parks, number two man, has been inducted into the armed forces and is at present stationed at Camp Perry. “Oley” and Jimmy Evert, sensational frosh star returning here next semester, have been touring the nation’s finest tennis tournaments with their records as fitting explanations of their success.
Jumping Jimmy Evert won the- Iowa State Championships and lost to Seymour Greenberg of Northwestern in the finals of the Fox River Valley Tennis Championships. He also advanced to the finals of the Upper Peninsula tourney and went on to capture the doubles title with Parks. Both Jimmy and Olen entered the Illinois State, Chicago City, North Shore, and Western Association Championships and fared very well.
Bobby Faught, who carried the burden-in the number three spot, is known to have been in but one tournament. In the Cleveland City Tournament, Bob marched through six rounds of fast - tennis only to lose in the finals.
Looking into the hazy and unpredictable future, next spring’s varsity will place Jimmy Evert in the lead-off slot, followed by Bob Faught, John Troup, Lyle Joyce, and Artie Hoffman. The remainder of the positions will be filled by some of the talent uncovered by the inter-hall tennis play of this summer. Results of the coming student tennis tournament will be a big factor in filling these vacancies.—Phil Keen
Az ike
Dining Room
You will enjoy fine •food — distinctive appointments and ■ excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. ana 6:30 to 8:00 p. m'
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
All-American Dove Leads Irish Back to Notre Dame
LEAGUE I	LEAGUE U
TEAM	WON LOST TEAM	WON LOST
Alumni I -----11	1	Alumni XI --- S	-	2
Cavanaugh ----10	4	Zahm I ------ 6	4
Breen-Phillips ..8	3	Zahm III ---- 7	3
Walsh ________ 7	4	Zahm II _____ 4	5
Dillon _______ 6	6	Law Club ---- 3	7
R.O.T.C. _____ 5	8	Dillon  1	9
St. Edward’s .... 2	10
Sorin ________ 2	11
As an added attraction and a fine climax to the season, the first Sunday after school begins in September has been tentatively set as the date of contest between the all-Star squad and the squad Alumni I team.
Parks and Evert Play in Many Tournaments
Now that the varsity tennis squad has completed its season let’s have a
Unpredictable draft boards are making nervous wrecks out of the otherwise healthy football chiefs, and just what

members of the new eleven will report for the official beginning, September 1, is by no means certain.
The latest scare thrown into the Irish ranks came when All-American Bob Dove received a call from his Youngstown, Ohio, draft board. Since
Dove is enlisted in the Marine Reserve Corps, he ironed the situation out in record time. A case that didn’t work out so easily, however, was the one in which
Spalding & Goldsmith GOLF EQUIPMENT
”T" Shirts — 45c
N. D. "T" Shirts — 65c
Gym and Tennis Shoes $1.69 to $3.50
Socks Supporters Gym Pants
SONNEBORN'S
121 W. Colfax
29
Eddie Taiboom was tagged by the bogeyman draft. Flat feet prevented Talboom from entering any of the enlisted reserve branches.
Certain to come back though, are Tom and Creighton Miller, Bob Webb, Jack Warner, Pete Ashbaugh, Lou Rymkus, Bill Earley, Walt Ziemba, Angelo Ber-telli, and others. Earley and Ziemba were employed in steel mills during the summer.
During the summer semester 32 members of the squad, 20 of whom were freshmen, were enrolled here and are all set for the ensuing season. They are:
Jack Barry, Tom Brock, Herb Coleman, Jerry Cowhig, John Creevy, Dick Creevy, Tom Creevy, Frank Cusick, Gene Dwyer, Owen (Dippy) Evans, George Frawley, Dan Hecht, Luke Higgins, Bill Huber, Joe Kremer, Ed Krupa, John Lanahan, Jim Mello, John McGinnis, Bernie Meter, Captain George Murphy, Bob Neff, Bill O’Connor, John Peasenelli, Larry- Sullivan, Frank Syzmanski, George Tobin, Bob Walsh, Jim White, Harry Wright, John Yonakor, and John Zilly.—Bob Dunne.	-
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
★ V
A. fauebuf, ■ ★
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies
GOLF FINALE (Continued from page 27)
Following Whiting’s 146 in the Open play is Bill Fisher with 150 and Paul Malloy with the same-score. John Harrigan, Bill Moorehead, Dave Sullivan, and Joe Moore are tied with 152’s.
These many interesting golf tournaments were but a sideline to the splendid play of the undefeated Notre Dame golf team which struck through the
spring semester and into the summer without a blemish on their scorecards. Northwestern finally tied them in the closing match at Evanston. The 1942 squad was the first Notre Dame golf team to go undefeated since 1934 and the Rev. George L. Holderith, C. S. C., coach of the team, can be justly proud of the fine exhibitions his boys presented on the fairways.
The University was highly commended for the splendid work of the men who were behind the organization and play of the National Intercollegiates. “Sandy” Tatum took the crown but every contestant that left the Chain O’ Lakes layout took great pride in the way the tournament was run.—Bill Boss
Cooperation Program Novel Summer Feature
Leading all .of the novel activities which students experienced at the University’s first regular summer session was the Cooperation Program instigated and backed by many of the outstanding clubs on the campus. Among the activities of the program, which was originated to foster a spirit of cooperation among students and manifest to them the need for interdependence, were the popular K. of C. Vaudeville, an all-campus swimming meet, with medals presented to winners of various stroke and diving diMsions, and an entire afternoon called “Co-hop Day” in which a special spread took place in the dining hall, followed by various sport activities and Bengal Boxing Bouts in the gymnasium. The latter
SHETLANDS, TWEEDS AND FLANNELS by	.
AMeto - RoclveAtoi
Custom made or ready to wear Suits,	-
_	Sport Coats and Topcoats
PARKER-WINTERROWD
.	175% -117^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs) .
PAUL LILLIS, Law Building	CAPTAIN GEORGE MURPHY, 130 Alumni v
30
afternoon and evening were, by far, the outstanding feature of the extensive Cooperation Program.
Marked by what Master of Ceremonies Paul Lillis termed “a spirit of school spirit,” cooperation night featured a supper with filet mignon, and such innocent games as “breaking arms” and “stork wrestling” figuring prominently in the successful get-together.
Reminiscent of a huge pep rally, the galaxy of games, food and music was staged Thursday night, August 6. Following a meal which made history, the hundreds of students participating followed the band to the gym after, stopping en route at the grotto for evening prayers.
It was in the gym that things really began to break. In the squared circle that serves Coach Dominick Napolitano’s boxing cards, twelve contests between the various halls ensued, with M. C. Lillis demonstrating the manner in which the games should be conducted. None of the participants, much less the audience, had ever- before viewed such weird sport.
First on tap was what is known as the “single leg pull,” which as the name implies, consists of an attempt to “de-leg” the foe with one’s bare hands while seated on the ring floor. The arms went
next when “breaking arms” was “played,” followed by “cat fights,” “hat sparring,” and “red-mark sparring,” whatever that was.
Highlight of the night were those dumb-bell-free-for-all affairs, that saw a dozen men battling for a bottle. In the ring’s center, only a pile of arms and legs was visible, although an occasional head did come into view.
Also on the program were: “knock off horses,” “step on toes,” “single rope pull,” “duck hunt,” and “two man horse team.” Some fun, fellows, but make mine another order of filet mignon!
—Bob Dunne
O'Connell's Imitations
Win K. of C. Vaudeville
A heavy accent plus some clever antics with the hands, helped Paul O’Connell collect first prize in the popular K. of C. Vaudeville Thursday night, August 13, in Washington Hall.
Paul, who hails from Newark, N. Y., is a Junior majoring in Chemistry and lives in Walsh Hall. During his Freshman year at Notre Dame he was tempted to imitate some of the actions of his Professors and has built the idea into somewhat of an art.
Second prize went to Ed Dunigan of Cavanaugh Hall and Oak Park, Hl., who gave out some really solid renditions on the cornet. With, the background of the Cavaliers, Ed played one of the sweetest “Night and Days” that ever will echo in Washington Hall.
A quartet headed by Kevin O’Toole and completed by Herb Clarke, Jim Madigan and Bill Murrin took over third prize, warbling old time songs in fine glee club style.
Other entertaining acts were contributed by Johnny-Baum who rattled the rafters with plenty of “boogie-woogie” on the piano. Leo Linck with his “uke” sang a comic song.
Charles “Red” McCafferty related to those present his experiences in the last war, and, from what “Red” said, a good time was had by all.
Brock Lynch exhibited his “toe-talent” in a few lively tap dances.
Between the various acts “Veet” Capello and his orchestra showed that they are in competition with any of the “name” band, closing the show with their regular Thursday night broadcast over WSBT. Serving as Master of Ceremonies for the evening’s entertainment was David J. Curtin, of Rochester, N. Y. Reggie Flynn, of Youngstown, Ohio, directed and produced the entire show for the-Knights of Columbus.—John O’Hara
victories will accrue
to the U. S. NAVY.
TO THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS AND SOUTH BEND
A hearty welcome also awaits you at the OLIVER HOTEL Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshments moderately priced, in delightful environment and pleasantly, but efficiently, served.
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc
We wish you success in your new career and hope that through your efforts glorious
Corner Washington and Main Streets
Oliver Coffee Shop Oliver Emerald Room
31
Important Notice!

NAVY V-7 WELCOME!
Important Notice!
We are proud and happy to greet you .	.	. Future Officers of the greatest
Navy in the world —-
For Your Convenience .
BOSTON has more than
500 PAIRS
of REGULATION DRESS OXFORDS
The Boston Shoe Store is justifiably proud of its record of fitting shoes properly, with emphasis on Quality Merchandise, sold at Popular Prices. We back each sale with a 43-year reputation for Integrity and Honest Value. To serve you will be deemed a privilege.
Black
Blucher, Plain Toe Oxford
available in all sizes,6 to 12,in B,C and D.
SPECIALLY PRICED to Navy V-7 Men
35
per pair
(Our regular $5,85 quality)