r
Che Notre Same Scholastic A^Cepuisements
_____ 9 PiXON’S**ELBORADO*8*rite master draining pencil -HB
Put pep into your pencil work. Use a smooth, long-lasting responsive lead that easesand quickens your pencil tasks and makes them more pleasurable —
ELdBO
SOLD BY GOOD STATIONERS—AT SCHOOL AND IN TOWN
Frank Mayr & Sons
JEWELERS
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STRHET
———————
GEORGE WYMAN & CO j • .	Come and See Us	j
I The South Bend Home for Better Luggage. | I	N. V. P. Trunks—Indestructo Trunks	1
I	Miller Boston Bags, Brief Cases, etc.	I
----------------------------------*
Kahle’s Restaurants
104-106 N. Michigan St.	119 W. JeSerson Bvld.
i« W. Wariungton Are.	ao6 So. Michigan St.
• ♦
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices -. Satisfaction Guaranteed
DR. J. BURKE & CO.,
Optomktrists and Maxupactumno Opticians
Notice: We duplicate any eBatkeaaKMdny.no	A
Mtter who fitted them. Brinsth.si«M/	230 S. Michigan St '
National Grocer Company
WHOLESALE GROCERS
402-8 South St. Joaeph Street. South Bend. Indiana "LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"
The Ellsworth Store
ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FURNISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
< e ■ ■ - ■ -	-	■	■ m? - - -
*
mgs. Careful Compounding. Prompt Service
Always at
The Eliel Pharmacy
MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE
JIMMIE & GOATS
>30 W. Washington Are.
Emil Reyer, Ph. G-. Mgr.
"WHERE THE CARS LEAVE'
lb
>16 W. Jefferson Blvd
tbb "om shop" or thbbbttbb soar
J. J. KREUZBERGER
MERCHANT TAILOR
< Arnold Building

the Notpe Same Scholastic Advertisements

Real Economy means getting real value for every dollar you spend.
A man who wears Society Brand




X

y

A

4?'
1
i

Clothes practices real economy. Society Brand Clothes are made of strictly pure wool fabricks which t have been rigidly tested g and are guaranteed to give f the very best of service.
They are tailored as I well as it is possible for clothes to be tailored. Ail frills such as belts and pleats which require extra fabrics ' and which cost more to make have been eliminated.
The styles are very pleasing, the fitting qualities perfect. The prices are as low , as is consistant with \ high-grade clothes.
$40.00
$50.00 $60.00, $70.00
ADLER BROTHERS
$nrirti( BraiiiJ UHntlirB
THE ATRETIC STORE

HARRY E. POULIN. M..
I
the Houpe Same Scholastic Advertisements
., - , , , , , , , , , , ,
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Telephone Bell je
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.
and Washington Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
Mike’s Restaurant
~ and Lunch Room
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.	■
105 E. Jefferson Ave., South Bend	Home Phone 6183
f Home Phone, 5780	Res Bell 1162
U"1® t Bell Phone. 689
DR. R. F. LUCAS
. DENTIST
6n-6ta J. M. S. Bldg.	.	.
Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS’ ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
" Honea: BeH. 602; Home. 963
Omen:	PHONES Rksidbncb:
Bell 886. Home. 5842.	Bell, 3561. Home, 5702
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY DENTIST No. 511, Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. S. Building	South Bend. Ind.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
' SURGEON DENTIST
.	and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
“WALK-OVERS”
THE STUDENT’S SHOE । WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 115 S. Michigan St.
■ ■■■■■■■ --■■■■■■■■ ,
Bell Phone 381	Will call al Utuoertiiy
Home Phone 3451	. hy sp/oiatawW.
Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence, 222 S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
, ■ -t - ■ ■ - -—■ - - -——.
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most exacting requirements. _
? L. P. HARDY CO.
417-433 S. St. Joseph St.	South Bend, Indiana
■ ■ - •
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
tSs f _ at Reasonable Prices. Special attention UfCVCteS P”" *° atadents. Branch Repair Shop, x/xvywu st. Edward Hafl. Notre Dame.
Anderson. Brothers & Bultmck
109 West Colfax Avenue	South Bend. Indiana
Baker’s Shoes
i . “FOR MEN WHO CARE” • EXCLUSIVE nr STYLE perfect in pit
' 114 W. Waahington, Ave. South Bend, Indiana ..
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
By CHRISTIAN REID 362 pp.—Price $125	' v
THE AVE'MARIA - . f NOTRE DAME, IND.
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VIGTVRVS VIVE- QUASI- CRASMOR1TVRVS
V
Vol. Lm.	NOTRE DAME» INDIANA, April 24,1920.	No. 25.
The Future.
BY ANTHONY T. BRAY, *22.
'pHE day arid hour will come too soon, I fear, When cap and gown like others I shall wear;
In fancy I can see that hour near—
School days are done, then comes a world of care.
This dear old school is like a home to me:
I love its halls, the campus, and the Jakes,
I love to hear the big bell’s melody, The friendships every day more precious makes.
It’s been a dream, and some fair morn in June
I’ll waken from my tranquil sleep and find
Its spell is past; the world and I in tune
I hope will be, and other skies as kind.
Democratic Representation in Industry.*
BY PAUL R. CONAGHAN, ’20.
THE force of democracy has wrought wonderful changes in the social and political life of nations.- It has established justice in the place of coercion; it has enthroned love in the place of hate; it has ensured right in the place of might; it has demonstrated that co-operation is better than competition, that liberty is better than slavery, that peace is better than war.
This same force of democracy which has achieved success in the political world is now at work in the industrial world, and it will not rest until its mission there will have been accomplished. The overthrow of Prussian despotism is. only the beginning of a .vast and thorough democratization of the industrial nations. Such extension of the democratic principle is necessary if true democracy, industrial as well as political, is ever to- be realized in human life. Democracy in govem-\ment and autocracy in industry cannot live
* Oration delivered in the State oratorical-contest held at Franklin College, Franklin, Indiana, on February 27, 1920.
together. There is between them an essential antagonism, an opposition of principles and spirit, which must result in perpetual conflict. Our democracy must be extended to our industrial^ life if the world is to be saved from chaos. How can this be done?
A few powerful capitalists, by their monopoly of production, have created in the hearts of their workmen an ever-growing heritage of hate which makes peace and progress impossible and threatens industrial and social disaster. Have these few capitalists a right to ignore, as they do, the interests of the great army of workmen who give to industry their labor instead of money? Have capitalists a right to imperil the welfare of the community by ignoring the human . personality and dignity of the men who make their industry possible? Such disregard of fundamental human rights makes workmen lose all. respect for their employer. Such autocracy destroys faith and generates a fierce determination to thwart coercion.
In like manner, not a few workmen, inflamed by the conviction that capitalists are making most exorbitant profits, threaten to overwhelm	~'
the country with the greatest industrial tragedy of history. They make unreasonable and unjust demands, violate contracts, and work misery to thousands of people. They follow blindly their autocratic and irresponsible leaders. Some of these leaders, realizing that they have unlimited	: «
command over their men, use their power -	5
beyond all reason to carry out their plans. They put their personal view above the law and seek ; vengeance upon the employer by punishing society. The result is simple war between laborers and capitalists. The former are striving for higher wages; the latter for huge profits— / and the stronger force will prevail, at the StJ expense of the suffering public. This industrial- 0^ war will continue and grow ever worse so long -as workmen on the one hand make radical ~ (3; demands and regard their employerwithsus- .
402
Nocre dameSchckwcic
picious enmity, and capitalists on the other are ~ unwilling to share equitably the profits of production .with those who help them produce. £ls there no remedy for the situation?\ Must ” we accept it as necessary and helplessly let it " work itself out in whatever way it will? If we'do, the industrial world will be wrecked within a decade. But the situation is not hopeless. It can be saved by the extension to industry of the democratic principles/of our democracy. This can be done only when both employers and !	employees realize that their fundamental
j	interests are identical—identical in that both
1	parties depend for their livelihood upon pro-
duction. The more goods that are produced, :	.	the greater is the amount that can go to interest,
!	to wages, and to profits. The only way to get
the workmen to produce more is to give them .	more in proportion to the amount which they
;	produce. Because of the common benefits
arising from this increased production, employers and employees should join hands in an immediate understanding and no longer be enemies.
.	Only when the two parties realize the fact of
their natural and necessary partnership can industrial peace be effected. If the employer •	- is sincere in his efforts to bring about this peace,
he must make some concessions. If the employees are sincere, they in turn must earnestly !	co-operate with their employer. Partnership
presupposes a spirit of amicable co-operation ,	and an unselfish disposition to share its advan-
,	tages with the partners. r	_ '
The labor of production entitles the workman in simple justice to a reasonable share in the fruits of his labor. The primary rights of the workmen to living wages and the demands of -the capitalists for interest on their investment f	must first be granted. Although there is no ideal
division of profits, there is a growing disposition
ment. of industry as well. In our government people elect meh to administer as their reprer
- sentatives the functions of state. There is in our industry not eVen a semblance of any such representation. A few are in complete control of production. The employer is supreme and absolute. If those who administered our civil government ruled with such autocracy, the people would rise in rebellion. Is it unreasonable that workmen who are so thoroughly imbued with democratic ideals in government should seek to extend the democratic principle to their industrial life? If the spirit of democracy is to inform nothing more than our politics, then the sacrifice of those who fought and died to create and preserve it has been in vain, and American liberty, which we love so well, is but a myth and a mockery.
Shall we fail to apply to industry the principle of democracy? Shall we continue to stand idly by and watch the^situation grow more insoluble? The spirit of American democracy has been our boast for two centuries. It has guided us through . severe trials, it has been our inspiration through the greatest cataclysm the world has experienced and has brought us finally to a pre-eminence among the nations. We have faith in that democracy. It has been the glory of our past, it is the pride of our present, and it must be the hope of our future.	;
Once the spirit of democratic representation in industry prevails, the form which it may take is secondary. Committees composed of representatives elected by the employees can meet with officers of the company to deal with matters -pertaining to working conditions, employment, wages, and other matters of common interest. Such a representation will make partners to industry realize—as they should have realized long ago—thht whatever hurts one of them hurts
among'fair-minded employers to divide the both, and that only as friends can they work profits equally between the employees and the successfully for their common welfare. -stockholders as separate groups. Each employee We know what American democracy has done receives his share of profits in proportion to the for political liberty. It is high time for us to see amount of wages which he earns andeach what that same principle of democracy can do stockholder in proportion to the number of for our industrial liberty. Tf democracy was shares which he holds. This spirit of profit- worth fighting for and was worth dying for, it sharing will create, wherever it obtains, a desire is worth carrying into our industrial life. With on the part of all to increase production; it will it as a governing principle of our political life, provide for a decent family life, and, what is most we fear not for the safety of the republic; with important, it will promote the general welfare it as the dominant ideal , in our industrial of tiie people and of the world. _	relations/we may look f orward to a solution of-
Furthermore, the workman should share not oiir^industrial^problems and to'an era of peace only in the profits of industry but in the manage- and prosperity.	<	.
$fie Moure domeSdiokBcic
‘ God speed the day when Americans, actuated by principles of liberty, wisdom, and peace, will abide by the final decisions of unbiased courts, of arbitration, when the selfish diplomacy of the two classes in industry will use their sense of justice and common interest, when all parties willzhave consideration for the public welfare. God speed the day when the spirit of brotherhood and co-operation—more powerful than any array of brute force—will- govern the conduct of all industry, the day when justice and charity will prevail, when the strong will no longer prey ' upon the weak, when all work will be done in the spirit of humanity. Then will there develop a true feeling of harmony and union. Then will there be a real democracy.
We Feign Would Critics Be.
BY CHARLES Ai GRIMES, *20.
* This is a story of Notre Dame, a tale of the Blue and Gold,—Only neither of the latter figures positively in our recital. As our fellow classicists might observe, they appear only in absentia. Blue is the hue of our friends who. tenderly part with a slice of Dad’s remittance to see at the theatre something-never intended to be farcical. But the characters in our party are at a good show,—hence, exit the blue. Gold? Ah ! ’tisthe lack of that which gives our setting. And our setting, be it known at the start, is halfway back in the second -gallery at the Oliver. We might : have been down in orchestra row had we in our pockets the gold which we haven’t.
The performance has been advertised so well that five prefects at the University mourn the _ inroads of the “flu” epidemic. But, other.things besides epidemics can take studious N. D. from books, F. O. I. F., and Chamber of Commerce. Musical comedies offer attraction from which .none of us seem immune. Eddie Leonard comes to South Bend not every day, and even if Notre Dame does have to see and to greet him from the ■ second gallery the college representation is large. Glance around! Fully a hundred dates-with-the-. dentist have been perpetrated tonight. Besides these up here, there must be several aristocrats in the lower tier who magnanimously suffered a war tax greater than ours by three cents or so. However, we see them not. This is our own " little party with our “nigger-heaven” setting.
'Ten minutes before 8 :is our part of the house is filled. Chatter is as-thick here as at one. of
Rube Goldberg’s Tuesday Ladies’ Club meetings. Four rows directly ahead sits one of our University poets. To right and to left, to. .the front and-to the rear the N. D. representation is scattered. The scattering is cosmopolitan, for in it there are freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors,—lawyers, journalists, farmers, engineers, and architects, and a song-writer or two.: And of course there are others beside nightskivers. Down in that first row parked beside, the poet are three maidens fair. One row ahead of us are three maidens old- The freshmen, we soon learn, are dose enough to kick us in the . back, and the architects and song writers near enough to be heard. Save for a sprinkling of unknowns, all others are husbands and wives fiances and fiancees. Were they not they’d be down in the parquet.	".
Poets are interesting, doubly so when .
■ bordered by beauty. Our eyes quite naturally wander to that first row, where rhythm gives away to gossip and the ladies do all the talking. Eyes other than ours must make the poet their cynosure, for the maidens old make reference to our poet friend and his friends. “There’s -Ruth and Agnes and Jennie,” one of the three remarks in no stage whisper. “I’ll bet she’s ditched Arthur.—Can. you imagine all of them. _ picking on that poor guy? No wonder he’s cheap. and brought them up here.” Were that scrawny, critical maiden in other settings we’d have her chewing gum. But South Bend girls don’t chew gum in public; it isn’t “nice.”
Three'rows back, the budding Irving Berling chirps so all his University brethren may hear:
“Huh,, guess I got a good seat after all.
There’s
down there six rows, ahead.”
Timidly the poet turns. Strangely, though, he recognizes not a single Notre Dame feature.. Maybe his eyesight’s poor. He’s been adjusting the opera glasses and perhaps they’ve thrown his vision off. And it is deucedly embarrassing to be away up in the second coop with three village charmers, even if your seats are in the front row.	.	-	-
Studious freshmen to our rear forget their feet • are as big as their conversation, “UteD yuh,” insists one, “it ain’t mother-in-laws;. it’s: mothers-in-law. Just like aides-de-camp; it ain’t aide-de-camps.” So the argument, continues. Well might our.diligent professors Jed proud of their correct English efforts. Theyhave not been in vain!
Someone downstairs daps. The orchestra
404	^fieNocre dconeadidcwcic
crawls one by one into the circle and the first The second act intensifies interest and the
sounds of music bring coughs and commotion. ।	A razzle-dazzle overture gets us all tuned up.
The lights flicker. More squirming and fidgeting and turning, and the show’s about to begin. “Notice all the commotion,” says the imper-turbed junior next seat; “there’s a good lesson .	in psychology in that. Tots of human nature
i . there,” and he puts tb application what he learned in Father Hagerty’s class!
The curtain unfolds and an Irish gardener ;	waters his roses whistling all the while “Paddy
3	Dear.” Tame tune for a musical comedy! The
'	act gains momentum as the chorus breezes in,
and by the time the plot has been unfolded |j ~ towards the end of the first act our second gallery is chuckling. “Eddie’s good, I’ll say,” and good is the “sayso” all around us.
,	“And give the girls their credit, the chorus
i.	is good, too.” Gallant N. D. is never forgetful
" of the ladies.
After the curtain closes on the first chapter :	Eddie responds to the demands of the house. He
waits for the applause to subside, then, bowing
,	and smiling: “Folks, it’s been fifteen years
*	since I’ve been in this old town and I’m appreci-
'	ative of your kind appreciation, and I thank
you. You’re kind, and you’re generous, and
;	- you’re sweet,—and,—and,—” and Eddie is a
|	great minstrel man but no impromptu speaker,
’	and he retires.	*
; .	The gallery stretches.
'	“Eddie ain’t as good as he used to be,”
i	cynical and wordly-wise ‘Noo Yawker’ fainil-
|	' j iarly reminds us. Said ‘Noo Yawker’ saw
Eddie’s picture on a theatrical sign-board once
|	down town on Broadway!
[ _	Notre Dame goes out,—speak it gently,—
\	for a “drag.” Smoking is taboo up here. The
;	Oliver has no shifting stage and the stage-hands
;	are not adepts. Ten minutes later Notre .Dame
:'	returns, “just met the spotlight operator with
!	the show outside,” our neighbor tells us. “He’s
i	been in the.show game twenty-two years;
>	followed it all his life almost and now he can’t
i	break away from the lure.”
:	Someone’s ear must be burning, for the
{	maidens old are chattering faster than any
i - Kentucky three-year-old ever paced. - A pleas-|	ingly phunp Mrs. Stranger remarks to her
pleasingly phunp bread-winner that the show is
i " pretty good. He grunts agreement. On with the show.	'	.
How they pick chorus beauties is a problem.
audience lets out not even a cough. The scene ends with a touch of pathos and a touch of humor. The lights go on. Some one snickers.
A curious someone else turns to the left.
“Tee-hee.”
N. D. is quick to see.
A happy West-End couple in the center of nigger-heavenis oblivious of all things dramatic. They see not the light. He glances sideways at her and she peeps ecstatically up into his wondrous eyes. His left arm is stretched around ' the top of her seat and his right hand nestles in hers.
But cruel onlookers interrupt the cooing.
“Hey, where do you think you are,—in Leeper Park? ” One of our freshies evokes a roar.
Another of our cold-hearted engineers begins whistling “Take your girlie to the movies, if, etc.,” and the second gallery titters.
The stretch is repeated and “fag” friends are off again. The intermission is not so long this time. Gradually and happily the plot unfolds, gradually and happily the entire troupe rolls on and gradually and happily our hero Eddie comes into his own.
Folks don’t encore finales, so, our second gallery party rushes up and then down to the exits.	'
“Good show”—“You said it.”—“Good clean show.” »	'
. Swell girl that comedienne. Know her well,” one of the “nigger-heaven” party boasts. “Gonna see her in a few minutes.”
And he is. Twenty minutes hence when she trips over to the Oliver cafeteria’for her midnight lunch he’ll be sitting in the lobby. She’ll swish by him and he’ll chirp to the fellow on his right, “Some dame, eh.” -
That’s all. Thirty minutes later after having successfully bargained with a jitney driver for a two-bit-lift to Sorin, he’ll be soliloquizing:
“You can’t have gold and be blue.” . ’ ■ ■ -
O eloquent, just, and mighty Death! whom none could advise, thou hast persuaded; what none hath dared, thou, hast done; and whom all the world hath flattered, thou only hast cast out of the world and despised; thou hast drawn together all the far-stretched greatness, . all the pride, cruelty, and ambition of man, and covered it all over with these two narrow . words, Hie facet.—(The last sentence of Sir Walter Raleigh’s History of the World.)

Varsity Verse.
Some Comfort.
I wish I could do Algeb a Or just a little Trig; .
But as I do some Business Law
I think I’m going big.—n. n. F.
Speed
The Hill street car is very dear
But it has no reputation, _	.
For when it should arrive out liere
It is generally leaving the station.—s. d.
A Few Years’ Difference.
When you give a fretful babe his bottle There’s peace for a minute or two, But when you give its Dad his bottle— Call in the life-saving crew.—o. w.
The Sorin Hale Pool Table.
Ancient and weak and full of patches '	.
The woodwork dull and marred with scratches, It lies in the subway of Sorin Hall, The lowest depths to which a thing can fall.—p. J. p.
Spring
In the warm and lazy spring I hate to jiear the class bell ring, Would rather loll upon the grass, Than go to my Accounting class.—g. a. m.
Derelict
As I was coming from my class
I noticed lying on the grass A frail bent tooth-brush
x Left by some one in a rush.—J. z.
Confidences -	-
- Jimmy came over to my room	-
And in my Morris chair did sit.
He told me he would be a groom
When he could get his girl’s permit.—w. n.
In Vain.
Today, since I’ve looked all around And worn out both my feet,
I know that it cannot be found— . A cheaper place to eat.—j. a. d.
H. C. L. '
The dew is on the mountain top, The sewers are full of beer, - -\ -
But if the price of spuds don’t drop
I’ll be eating grass next year.—h. c.
The N. D. Bun Again.
Oh, when can Prohibition take The foam off of the wind-whipped lake,
' Or by her work, so well begun, . Deprive us of our daily bun?—p. p. W, .
'5fie Nccje dame Schckwtic
405
3
The Reconstruction Period in the ' Philippine Islands. *
BY MARIANO DONATO, ’23.
Nine years before the fall of Spain in the Philippines and a few years preceding the Spanish-American War, Dr. Rizal, one of the Filipino heroes killed in the cause of liberty, acting upon the prophecy of the German professor, Mr. Jargor, announced to his people the possible advent of the American sovereignty in the Philippines and the expansion of her power over the Far East. xDr. Rizal, a bold -- visionary with a deep sense of reality and knowing the immense treasure of energy which " surged in the life of the American nation, foretold the bursting some day of the dam which ■ contained this treasure, in order that the United States might spread its power across the Pacific with its commerce and institutions, and make more intense, by thus entering the field of world politics, the struggle'for hegemony and influence in the Orient.
On May ist, 1898, the prophecy of the profound German professor became a reality in our history, and some three months later, on the 13th of August of the same year, the spiritual empire of the ages which the Gospel brought to the Philippines, forever tutored, made room for a civilization of scientific and , material advancement and for a new concept of life, called into being by the new forces of 7 the all-conquering genius of the time in which ■ we live. We, the Filipino people, were taken by surprise at the sudden and unexpected -change. We did not have at that lime the least notion of the American people, of the peculiarities of their economic development or of their power. We had never heard about -the United States of America, with the absorbing individualism of its citizens, its democracy, . and the like.
. This was our first lesson from the upheaval ' of 1898. There existed lack of preparation on the part of the people and their leader for an understanding of the strange nation, which first became known to us as our ally in the struggle for our independence, then was turned : into our enemy, and. now is our benevolent .■/ sovereign, our teacher, a valuable preceptor ; and an inestimable aid in the lofty task of building our nationality.	j
* A' Report read before the Notre Dame Chamber qf Commerce,-.March 7, 1920, - ; .	.. ’
5



406	wfie Nocre dame ochckwcic
This aid may be imagined from- the progress made in the Archipelago. It is estimated that ।	> only half of our agricultural lands are in cul-
tivation, and the development of this area has been restricted by lack of knowledge of proper agricultural methods. . The American govern^ ment since its occupation has made systematic ■ efforts to improve this condition. There are about ten agencies giving instruction in agricultural development.
The most important strictly agricultural ।	product is sugar. This industry gradually
increased in importance until it has reached the average annual exportation of 400,000 tons, valued at $50,000,000. About 85% of this sugar is shipped to the United States. The growing ;	of cocoanuts and the production of copra and
’	cocoanut oil are agricultural industries of great
importance. The Philippine Islands export rs	more copra than any other country in the world.
There are in the Islands about 50,000,000 * cocoanut palms. The average annual exportation of the products of this industry alone . amounts to 75,000,000 kilos, valued at $50,000000. The abaca, or Manila hemp, is not only :	the most important fiber, but also, the most
;	important export of the Philippines. In 1918,
■ •	the exportation of this product was 119,386,575
'	kilos, valued at $55,194,815. The principal
i	manufactures are cigars and cigarettes,—the
!	oldest industries of the Philippines. The manu: .	facture of alcohol and distilled spirits as well
;	. as the manufacture of oil are other important
I	industries.. The production of alcohol reaches
3	1-3,276,495 liters. Practically the entire output
p	is consumed locally.
:	- The public forests of the Philippines cover
.	60,000 square' miles, two thirds of which are
i	virgin forests and which are estimated to contain
200,000,000 board feet of marketable lumber. More than ninety-nine per cent of the timber
I	belongs to the Philippine government and is
£	now under the administration, of the Bureau
|__	of Forestry. Seventy per cent of the timber is
|	of the dipterocarp family. The largest specimen
I. of this family readies a height of '200 feet;
' some-specimens have a diameter, of. eight feet. , |	About a dozen distinct botanical species furnish
>	eighty-nine .per cent of the entire cut.. This
' a	number can be reduced to three, groups: the
i	“lauans,” the, “apitongs” and, the “yacals;”
-	The main wealth of the Islands’ forests lies
in the first group. It may. be divided into two : _ classes; the white andthe red lauans. Export
J	.. . ' •
>>
goods of the red are used in Europe and in , the United States as a substitute for mahogany and are frequently sold under the name of that wood. Among the minor wood products are the Nipa palm, which produces sugar and alcohol, rattan, resins, gums, and oils, gutta-. percha and rubber. The various forms of bamboo are probably put to more uses than any other single product. In addition to its domestic and industrial uses, it is found that one kind of bamboo, “caraboho,” is an excellent material for paper pulp, the cost of production being lower than that of wood pulp, and the product „ is excellent in quality. ~
Chambers of Commerce and boards of trade are active in all the cities and chief towns. Manila is connected with the . outside world by two cables, one with Europe and another with the United States. The Inter-Islands Express Co. has offices throughout the Islands and works in conjunction with the American and the European express companies. The postal service is the same as that of the United; States. -About 1000 miles of railways are operated between Manila and the provinces. There are short lines running in the ■ Visayan Islands. Trolley systems are in— operation in many commercial cities.. Inter-island telegraph service is furnished by 1000 miles of land and 2000 miles of submarine lines. In 1913 there were but 2,097.3 kilometers of first-class road in the Philippines. Today, states the Depart-' ment of Commerce and Communication/ there are 4,328.3 kilometers of such road. Excepting one line of cable and the aerial service operated by a private corporation, the wireless stations and telegraph service are maintained by the. Philippine government in. connection with its postal service.	.	.
What about the early 'education of the Filipinos? On April 28th, 1611; the-well-known Catholic “University of St. -Thomas” was	.
founded. In the year 1699, the University was	~
authorized by Pope Paul V. to confer degrees । of Bachelor, Licentiate, Master, and Doctor. . In 1871, the school of medicine and pharmacy was started; in 1895 that of philosophy and '	7
letters; in 1907 that of engineering. Private ' -schools for -boys and girls were established during the Spanish possession. One of them, the flourishing Jesuit College, the ‘ ‘ Atheneo	.
deManila/’wasfoundedintheyear 1859.	"
Our preseht educational system -is altogether : different fnmi the older one, in purpose_and	,

'Efe Nociv dome Schokrecic
407
spirit. Outlined and equipped eventually to the Islands. On September 1st of the same
meet our national aims and to promote the spiritual and physical welfare of the nation, it must respond to the end for which it was designed. At no period in the history of the American occupation has the school system been given a greater impetus than during the
year, a complete civil central govemment was established by the creation of four executive . departments in charge of secretaries: the -secretary of the interior, secretary of commerce and police,-secretary of finance and justice; and secretary of public instruction. There

•a
last six years, in which the Filipinos have had followed the establishment of the necessary control of the legislative policy of the Islands, administrative bureaus and offices. On October -
administrative bureaus and offices. On October
In 1912 there were only 440,000 public-school pupils in the Islands; in 1919 there were 785,000 pupils. During the six years of Philippine autonomy, 1,700 more schools were added. Recently the most far-reaching measure regarding education was enacted when the Philippine legislature appropriated 30,000,000 pesos to the purpose of giving the rudiments of education to every child of school age in the Islands.
The new and modem State University, the University of the Philippines, was founded in 1916. It comprises the college of liberal arts, college of medicine and pharmacy, college of law, school of veterinary science, school' of education, school of fine arts, and college of agriculture and engineering. The president
16th, 1907, the Philippine Assembly was in- : augurated, and nine years thereafter, on the 16th of October, 1916, the Philippine Senate was established. The two houses constitute the new Philippine legislature. All the secretaries of the executive department and all the members of the Philippine legislature now are Filipinos .
. You may ask whether the Philippines can maintain democratic institutions. For two decades the Filipino people have,been trained along American governmental lines. Our present government has received popular approval. •'Illiteracy at home, according to the census taken last year, is thirty per cent, which is less than in many independent countries in Europe and in South America and is about the same as
and most of the deans and professors are Fili- in the State of Louisiana, where illiteracy -is
pinos, who have been educated in American or in European universities. One of the private colleges established during the American occupation is the “Centro Escolar de Senoritas,” , founded and still directed by a Filipino woman. It has an enrollment of 900 enthusiastic girls.
The Filipino Government has been changed since the American occupation. For a time after the transfer of the Islands to United States control, the Islands were held under military government subject to the order of the President of the United States. In January, 1899, a commission was appointed by the President to aid in the humane and pacific extension of American authority through the Islands. In April, 1900, another commission was sent to the Islands to continue and perfect the work of organizing and firmly establishing the government already begun by the military. In Sep-„ tember, 1900, this body began to. exercise the legislative power and to appoint officers under the judicial, educational, and civil service-system.
twenty-nine per cent. English and Spanish are spoken throughout the Archipelago; On the question of our independence it is often asked, “Can the Filipino people defend themselves against foreign aggression?” This is the only objection now raised to Philippine independence. But would anyone seriously take the position that Belgium and France should not be independent simply because they could not withstand the German invasion? If in- . vulnerability is going to be the test of national ‘ freedom, then there are only two nations on the face of the earth .that should be free, the United States and Great Britain;	.
We are marching forward now more rapidly ' than at any other period in our history, and not in papers or records alone but chiefly-in deeds. Our trade, our .population, our publie works, our sanitation, our public education— all are steadily growing. The total importation
4g
and exportation of , the Philippines amounted to $467,587,387 for the year 1918; and about
The change from military to civil government $202,806,654 for the first rix-months of 1919;" *	'	* The Philippine budget as approved by the' .
was brought about gradually by the cooperation of the civil and military officials. On July 4th, 1901, Mr. WrH. Taft, now ex-president of'the United States, was inaugurated as the first civil governor, with' a general jurisdiction over
Philippine legislature for 1920for general welfare service in the Islands amountedto $80,923,835. Five years ago; in. 1915^^ Philippine budget was but$25,O35,373r;-T^


408
None dame Scholastic
resources of the Philippine National Bank on the 31st of August, 1918, amounted to $21,615000, and had increased to $815,000,000 on June 30th, 1919.	-
After going over the preceding figures, with millions and millions yearly appropriated to promote modern highways, sanitation, education, and trade, one will readily see that we are going forward. We are a young country, with ' absolutely no desire to spare either effort or expense to qualify ourselves both as a nation and as an agent in human progress. If at some day in the near future we obtain our independence, my wish is that at the same time our love and admiration for that free and democratic nation, the great republic of the United States, may always survive.	v
A Visit to Lourdes.
by Edward j. mEEhan, ’21.
On the morning of July 16, 1919, our train was wending its way through the beautiful foothills of the Pyrenees towards Lourdes. On this morning nature seemed to have on its best dress. The sun shone on the snow-capped mountains and made of the lofty peaks glittering jewels in the crown of nature. At last someone on the lookout shouted, “There is Lourdes.” Immediately all eyes turned towards the Rocks of Massabeille, in which is located the Grotto, where a great crowd could be seen attending the early Mass.
No time was lost in getting from the station . to the sacred grounds. Everyone was so anxious to get to the Grotto that very little attention was paid to the other beauties of Lourdes. . They were left for future enjoyment. Our party arrived at the Grotto in time to witness the cure of a young girl, who had been paralyzed for three and one half years. She had been brought to the Grotto in a wheel-chair for three weeks. This morning, whale at Mass, she said, “I can not come anymore; the pain is too great.” She had no sooner uttered the words than some unseen force lifted her up and placed her on her feet. Her friends and relatives gathered round her and sang “Ave, Ave, Ave Maria!” in thanksgiving for what had been done. It seemed as if the Blessed Virgin wished to. remind the pilgrims that this day was the sixty-first anniversary of her last appearance to Bernadette Soubirous. The next morning the girl who was
cured received communion at the Grotto. Long after |he Mass was finished she continued to kneel before the altar, her hands clasping the bars of the iron grille, which stands, in front of the altar. She was so happy that she did hot want to leave the place.	'
At the Grotto are to be seen the mute evidences of some of the cures that have been effected. Crutches and chairs are suspended from the ceiling of the Grotto. With the other ' pilgrims we pressed our lips in mute and loving reverence to that hard rock on which the feet of God’s Immaculate Mother had rested. The Grotto is closed by a grille, and by degrees the _ enormous crowd is allowed to pass before the . hallowed niche in which now stands a magnificent statue of our Lady. We are told that Bernadette, when she saw it, said: “Ah, it. is beautiful, but it is not she!”
-After leaving the Grotto we visited the upper church, which is known as the Basilica. The lower church is known as the Rosary Chapel. The .Basilica, which was begun in 1862 and finished in 1871, is famous for its ideal Gothic architecture. Especially attracting our attention was the vast number of flags, banners, war decorations, and gifts of every description that adorn the walls of this church; All these have been placed there by, pilgrims to the holy shrine. Upon leaving the Basilica our path turned to the entrance to Calvary, which is to the right . of the Basilica. The statues depicting the different incidents in the Way of the Cross are made of bronze; they are of life size and are placed about one hundred yards apart along a path which winds its way around the sides of the steep hill. The last station uses the natural cleft in the rocks to represent the burial place of our Lord.
After luncheon we returned, to thie sacred grounds, and this time we were able to observe other beauties, which we had missed in the morning. At the main entrance are the statues of the three Archangels, Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael. As we wended our way along the lovely esplanade we were reminded of our Redemption by the magnificent group representing the Cnidfixion. In the center of the. esplanade there is a representation of Our Saviour revealing His' Divine Heart to Blessed . Margaret, Mary Alacoque.. The crowned image of our ' Lady ofLourdes stands at the head of the esplanade;	.
We entered the .court, formed by the massive arches which support the wide walks leading to.
'Sfie MouredameSdwfcvcicr
409
the upper church. These passage ways are known as the “ Ramps.” At the base ot the ramp, to the left facing the church, is the statue of St. Remy, to whom the holy oil was brought by a dove in order that the saint might anoint Clovis as king. The other statues on this side are those of St. Vincent de Paul, St. Joachim, and St. John the Baptist. Oh the right are statues of St. Martin of Tours, Blessed Grignon de Montfort, St. Ann, St. Hyacinth, and St. John the Divine. In front of the Chapel of the Rosary are the statues of Saints Peter and Paul. Above the doorway is a statue of the Blessed Virgin giving the Rosary to St. Dominic. The Chapel of the Rosary, which is built in the form of a Greek cross, was finished in 1889. The walls of the chapel are lined with innumerable panels upon which are inscribed the acknowledgments of some of the thousands who have received some great favor through the intercession of the Lady of Lourdes. Upon the walls of the chapel are fifteen marvellous mosaics, depicting the fifteen mysteries of the Rosary. To the left upon entering are the pictures representing the five Joyful Mysteries; in rear of the main altar are the Sorrowful and on the right the Glorious Mysteries.
Every afternoon at four o’clock, a procession of the Blessed Sacrament leaves the Grotto and winds round by the Gave river, until it reaches the great square before the Basilica. Here on either side are ranged the litters of the sick. The priest - advancing slowly raises in Benediction the Sacred Host over each sufferer.
, On the night of July 16, the feast of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel, a procession came down' the mountain side and wound its way to the Grotto. „ The pilgrims, five thousand of them, with lighted candles, advanced singing our Lady’s Canticle. It was a wonderful sight. On they came, old men and youths, young girls and aged women, their flaming candles held aloft, their faces aglow with faith and fervor as they sang .
‘ Ave, Ave, Ave, Maria!” Then, suddenly from profiteer differ only in method: our variety, is
the top of one of the mountains a cross shone in brilliant lights. It was a sight never to be, forgotten.
. It is almost impossible to describe our feelings during the short stay at Lourdes.- We seemed to have left the cold, hard, unbelieving world
Pall Mall Sainbright MerriviDe Marquis, the dog who does not like to see his name ab-
UCHH1U) WC WCIC UWCUW^ m a ACgtuu UA icuiu, -	.	..	-	.	• "
and a region .of -continual prayer. From the first b«v>ated, must have a good memory,.
behind; we were dwelling in a region of Faith,
incense of prayer was ascending to heaven. Prayer was in the very atmosphere—not the prayer of lonely meditation or contemplation, but the loud, triumphant cry of Faith.
Thoughts.
BY JUNIORS AND SKNIOBS.
. Havana has a good chance of becoming the largest city in the New World.
Failures have often given impetus to the greatest of the world’s successes.	-
Doing a favor in such a way as not to impose an obligation is a delicate art.
A married man should make a good soldier r he is so well used to obeying orders.
The test of a man is that he maintain ^himself and his ideals in all circumstances.
IT looks as if Ireland’s battle for freedom is to be fought out on neutral territory.
Pity the poor man who has not even afifth cousin among the presidential candidates.
The matrimonial agency is the only business in which all the profits go to.the middle man. ■ /
The world is filled with pity and advice, most of which is worth about ten cents on the dollar.
Pure democracy! - Even the ordinary breadwinner of the U. S. is envied by the nobility of Austria.	_
Fellows who say the University does not offer enough are those who never have anything to offer.
The aviator who has offered himself as a , passenger in the rocket to Mars must think flying too slow. ~	.
The Mexican bandit and the American
too fat to fight.	.	.
Can you imagine England’s reply to us if we asked her to cancel a loan of a few billions, interest and all? -

faint streaks of dawn, through the long bright The Irish Bond Isisue is so successful-that hours of day, and even when the stars were the English will soon have to organize in self-glfyynipg- in the midnight sky, the-continuous defense the Friends of- British Autocracy^--; .


4io
$fie Notre ihomeSchokwrie
||Dtpe]|)tame^
DiSCE QUASl SEMPER VICTURUS VIVE QUASI CR/XS MOR1TVRVS
Entered is Second-Class Mill Matter.
boleth, “Evangelization of the World in this Generation,” was initiated in 1886, and at its most recent convention it had an attendance ot more than 4000 student-delegates, from 735 schools. Yet if Catholic students set themselves to their mission work with their characteristic

s
PabHshed every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
earnestness and enthusiasm, the thirty-year * % handicap will soon be overcome. The sons of
vol. Lin.
APRIL 24, 1920.
■ ----- Notre Dame have always striven harder when
the odds were most- against them. In this
Board of Editors.
Francis Farrington, ’20
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes,’20 WalterM.O’Keefe, ’21 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Arthur B. Hope, ’20 William Robinson, ’20
Edward W. Gould, ’23
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20 Paul .Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20
Leo L._ Ward, ’20 Jennings Vurpillat, ’20 M. Joseph Tierney, ’21
. Edwin W. Murphy, ’23
most worthy work it should be their ambition to have at Notre Dame the largest, busiest, and most efficient mission unit in the. country,— to make the supremacy pf the Gold and Blue as striking in spiritual work as in academic
and athletic activities.
w. c. H.
Allen W. Page, ’23
In July of 1918 representatives from thirty. Catholic universities, colleges, and seminaries, assembled at Techny, Illinois, and organized the “Catholic Students’ Students* Mission Mission Crusade” for the
Crusade. promotion of home and foreign missions. Since - then prominent prelates, eminent educators, and men widely experienced in missionary work have cordially commended the Crusade and are now urging its extensionand encouragement in all Catholic institutions pf higher education. Independent of any religious community or of . any mission organ, the C. S. M. C. purposes to co-ordinate and enlarge the activities of American mission associations through the medium of a national organization, the constituent units of which are to be Catholic
The figures published in. this issue of the Scholastic showing the student attendance at Holy Communion during Lent, merit serious consideration. They
Lenten Communions, show very clearly , the-educational trend of thex
University. What the Church needs in this country, what this country needs now, is a strong body of Catholic laymen who have outspoken confidence in prayer and have the spirit of sacrifice that will venture something big for an ideal. The needs of the individual Catholic are the same as those of the Church and State. And no student who made the sacrifice df earlv and uncomfortable rising in order to. dedicate the best part of the day to God arid be united with Him in Holy Communion, will ever have. reason to regret his choice of a Lenten penance. If a student practices this devotion for only a week, he has gained a new experience; he has set a bright spot in his life which will stand out in holy and comforting recollection long after other memories of Notre'Dame will have passed away.—j. o’h.	-
student
societies. These societies, which are ' The World Trade Club of San Francisco is
Si
grouped for the most part, according to the offering a prize of one thousand dollars to the
person who'will offer the best single word as
_	_	_	a name for the English-speaking
of the missions and to contribute an annual What’s in It? countries. The dub advertises
ecclesiastical provinces, are required to make out a quarterly report of their work in behalf
r- -
per-capita tax pf twenty-five cerits. Inasmuch - :	that the best name suggested
. as tiie Crusade is a movement among college so far is “Unitania.” One naturally wonders students for the glory of God, the good of the just what is the bi^idea in the project. What . .
' Church, and the salvation of souls, it should benefit can comp from it, nr ifr it perhaps ~. jm? have the ardent support of . every Catholic anup-tbLdatesample of British propaganda?
- student at: Notre Dame. The Protestant Asforourselves, we do riot see any need what- -
. Student Volunteer Movement, with the ' shib-: ev» T^ -
'5fie Nocre dameSdiciaircicr
f:
United States are not seeking eveU a nominal union with Great Britain. The union that once existed was ended forever by the Revolutionary War. In the triumph of that struggle the American people became an entirely distinct nation. The government of the United States has never sought to re-establish the union, and the people of the United States have never indicated any desire to that effect. Hence it ill behooves the World Trade Club or any other organization to be seeking a common name for the two countries. The name United States is, in view of any plausible purpose, entirely sufficient for any loyal American, and we have no need whatever for any such name as “Unitania.”—j. j. b.
Personals.
—Franklin J. Nolan (LL. B., ’09) was recently elected to the legislature of Maine as a state senator.	_
writes in enthusiastic approval of the editorial “No Compromise”, by Mr. Paul R. Conaghan, which appeared in the Scholastic of March 13th.	;
—Bi other Culhane, Superior of St. Mary’s College, Halifax, N. S., and Brother Lannon, Superior of All-Hallows Institute, New^York City, both bf the Irish Christian Brothers, were guests of the University for a few days during the Easter vacation.
—Announcement has been received of the marriage of a former student, Walton Jerome MacConnell, to Miss Marion Puckett, both of Fort Wayne, Indiana. They will, be at home after the first of June, at 1115 Washington Blvd., West. Congratulations and best wishes!.
. —E. D. Staples (Varsity football and trad: man, 1902-03), now chief accountant for the United^Fruit Co., is taking an active interest in the Foreign Trade Department at the University. He has sent a supply of application
\l —John B. Campbell (B. S. in Arch., ’15) is blanks for students who desire to seek employnow associated with the Ornamental Iron ment with his company. .	" ■	■
Company, of Louisville, Kentucky.
—Mr. Daniel P. Meyer, former law student at Notre Dame, is now acting as secretary in the American Consulate in Mexico City.
—Juan Enrique Concha, senator of Santiago, and secret chamberlain to the Pope, visited Hemicus Rosselot, of Walsh Hall, and Professor Caparo during the past week.
■'4 —Word has reached us of the. marriage of Louis T. Weadock (LL. B., ’99) to Mrs. Belle Green Rogers, in Hollywood, California. The Scholastic extends sincere congratulations.
4 —Mr. John M. Bannon (E. E., ’12) is now,
engaged in automobile production in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. Mrs. Bannon is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. N. H. Holycross now residing, in South Bend. .	.
—Desmond Cameron, former student, has
as a leader by the Post. Mr. O’Malleyis the been commissioned by the U. S.. Department reporter who a few years ago wrote “The of Agriculture to-study farming conditions, in Death of Happy Gene Sheehan,” considered Continental Europe. We wish Mr. Cameron by many as the best- story of its kind ever' success in his important mission.	. published by a'newspaper. Frank is a brother
—Jory-O’Connor (M. E-, ’10) is now in of Austin O’Malley (LL. D., 1895), prominent
business for himself. . Jerry formerly was physician of Philadelphia. ‘ ‘ cupulo expert ” for the Griffin Wheel Company,
of Chicago. Old-timers will remember him . as the head of the Notre Dame machine shop.-
-4In a recent letter Charles - Stockdale
Mitchell, of La Ward/ Texas (C. Ev 1894)}
—Dr. Frederick N. Bonine, a staunch friend of the University, was- recently re-elected mayor of Niles, Michigan, by the largest majority ever given a mayoralty candidate in that city. His opponent had the endorsement of prominent local interests, and hence his election is a tribute to the high regard in which he is held by the people of his city. The eminent physician was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws by the University at the commencement last June.	-	.	•
\ —Frank Ward O’Malley (old student) has -been particularly active recently in contributing to periodical literature. A few weeks ago lie contributed essays on theatrical subjects tbthe Saturday Evening Post and the American Magazine. Last week his article entitled -'The Street of Dreadful Draught” was carried
—Mr.james O’Shaughnessy (old student) is at present holding -the, responsible position of executive secretary for the American Association of/Advertising Agencies, with offices in New York, The'Association is composed of
aS


4i2	/$fie Nocre dame Schokrecie
one hundred and eleven agencies, banded together to establish higher standards of organization and to eliminate unworthy , men from the advertising field. During the war Mr. O’Shaughnessy acted as the general manager of the Advertising Agencies Corporation, an association formed to give service to the Government in its advertising; Mr. O’Shaughnessy is a brother of Frank O’Shaughnessy (LL- B., 1900), newspaper man and artist.
Local News. I"
—The Notre Dame Band will give its second concert in Washington Hall next Wednesday, April 28th, at 8:00 o’clock in the evening.
—Although no definite date has yet been fixed, it is certain that Admiral Benson will give his lectures at the University either in the summer session or in the fall.
—Father Lange closed the last swimming season by taking a “dip” in the lake on the j st of December and opened this year’s season with a plunge on the last day of March.
—Brother Florentins, C. S. C., superior of the Brothers’ house of studies, entertained the members of his hall Sunday evening by a fine illustrated reading of Longfellow’s Evangeline.
—In keeping with its annual custom, the Press Club will hold its outing on the St. Joseph River in the early part of May. A date will be set and the details arranged at the meeting of the Club next Saturday.	,
—Rev. Dr. Andrew Morrissey, Provincial of this province of the Congregation of the ' Holy Cross, and Rev. Dr. James A. Burns, President of the University, attended the . - .funeral of Mr. Roger Sullivan in Chicago last
Saturday.
—Last Sunday morning five Brothers of Holy Cross pronounced their temporary vows at a - Mass celebrated in Dujari£ Hall by the Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C. The newly professed are Brothers Frederick, Christopher, Severin, Alonzo, and Ernest.
The Librarian announces the.receipt of a , j^o-yohime . autobiography of Wolfe Tone, the gift of Father Thomas Walsh, of Battle Creek, Nebraska. The work is of'wonderful design and typography.and forms an excellent addition, to .the shelves.	.	.	.
—Father O’Hara will leave at some time in the early part of May- for San Francisco where
he will act as president at the educational, session of the National Foreign Trade Committee. During the Easter week he made a business trip -to Washington, New York, and Philadelphia
—During Lent a total 24,340 Communions were received in the hall chapels of the University, making an average of 558 for each day. The highest number reached in a single day was 769, on the first Friday of March; the lowest number was 404, on March 18th. During the 1 first week of Lent the average was 693.
/—On Saturday evening, April 17th, seventy sophomores and their ladies formed in Terpsi-chorean array at the Elks Temple in South Bend for the class cotillion. Under the spell of the splendid orchestra music the three hours passed all too quickly. - Blue buck-skin programs, stamped with the University seal, and favors, in the form of miniature ivory elephants, furnished attractive souvenirs of the occasion. The patrons and patronesses of the dance were Professor W. L. Benitz and Mrs. Benitz, Professor P. Tiernan and Mrs. Tieman,'Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Rockne, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dorais.	1
—The Physics Department of the University of Pittsburg is in need of several young men to assist in the physics laboratory next year. Men who have already taken their Bachelor’s degree and are expecting to study for the Master’s or the Doctor’s degree in physics are desired. The Department will probably pay $1000.00 for the service. Anyone accepted for the work will be expected to give from fifteen to eighteen • hours of service as teacher. He will be privileged to pursue graduate work free df tuition, the amount of such Work to depend upon his own ability. Those interested in these positions may -for further information write to C. N. Wenrich, Professor of Physics, University of Pittsburg.
—The 1920 editions of the ^College Anthology” and “The Best College Short Stories” afford to college students a fine medium of publication for their verse and fiction. These two books, edited by Dr. Henry T. Schnittkind, are the only books of their kind published. Poems and -stories of every sort are digible for selection _ for these volumes, whether they have appeared in other publications or not. The contributions, which must be in before May 15th, 1920, should be Addressed to Dr. Henry T. Schnitt-kind, in care of the Stratford. Company, Publishers, .Boston,.Massachusetts. Notre Dame -	- I -	.	•'****	M	.
.	• ■	- ’L ■ - -
■ * • --1""	' . . z ■ ' . .. - , ■ - ' .

None dame Schclarcic
4*3

students have been well represented in the former volumes of these annual collections of college verse and stories.
—The Notre Dame Service Club is glad to make known the following contributions to the Memorial Fund. The generosity of the donors has been most gratifying, and the memorial is now an assured success.
Mrs. Edward Ryan............
Mr. William McEachan....
Mr. William McEachan....... Mr. H. Fendrich..............
Mr. Lucius B. Andrus__________ . Mr. L. F. Sullivan__________
Mr. J. J. Hayes____________ Mr. Thomas O’Neill..._______
Mr. C. C. Mitchell.........
Mr. William J. Moore....... Mr. L. A. Murphy............ Mr.? William G. Grady....... Mr. Timothy Galvin.......... Mr. A. H. Wallace............
Mr.
Mr.
Mr. Mr. Mr.
Wm. Cleary....... Robert E. Proctor. E. J. O’Boyle____ J. L. McPartlin__ Albert J. Freund...
Mr. D. C. Grant.......
Mr. James Sanford.____
Total—
$250 500 200
_IOO ’ 50 50 25 25
IO IO . IO . IO
5 5
5 5
5 5
5 5
2 '
L9.S.
^.-..$782
—Last Tuesday evening the University Glee Club made its annual appearance before the faculty and the students of St. Mary’s in a concert which showed the club at its best. The appreciative spirit of the audience contributed not a little towards the success of the event. Two hours of dancing followed the concert and made the evening a most delightful one. The following evening the club sang at Valparaiso University. This concert also was of high quality. . The Novelty orchestra of twenty members led by Charles F. Davis, placed for both concerts, and deserves much of the credit for the success of the programs^ The specialty work of Harry Denny, of Jose Corona, of Walter O’Keefe, and of the Quartette balanced well the heavier work of the Chorus. Professor ' Stephan, director of the Symphony Orchestra of Valparaiso commended the'work of Professor John J. Becker, director of the Glee Club, stating that he possesses in a high degree the requisites of a successful conductor of chorus. Mr. Stephan was particularly impressed by ' the dioral finish and fineness of interpretation shown by the dub. Mr. Timothy Galvin, ’ a Notre Dame graduate of recent year, deserves the credit for this engagement of the dub.
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 2; Wisconsin, Notre Dame, o; Wisconsin,
1.
3-

Notre Dame opened her twenty-ninth baseball season last Saturday afternoon oh Cartier Field by dividing honors in two seven-inning games with Wisconsin. There was a large attendance of students despite the poor accommodations offered. Two games were played on Saturday in consequence of the postponement of Friday's game on account of rain. Both coaches remarked that it was the first doubleheader of college baseball within their recollection. Fielding conditions were perfect and except for the slight chill in the northeast breeze the opening games were most enjoyable.
Coach Dorais’ men got away with the first game after a disastrous beginning. Murphy’s teammates were none too steady behind him in the early innings, but the tight situations were relieved by lightning infield plays. Early in tiie contest Catcher Barry suffered a severe injury to his- hand, which may result in his retirement from the game-for the season. This mishap had a great deal to do with the lack of confidence shown in the first game. McGarty, who relieved Barry, worked well after his first few innings under fire. A hit and two errors in the third inning gave Wisconsin their lone run of the first game. Notre *Dame came from -behind in the fifth and tied the score: Connors walked, Bleivemicht sacrificed, and Fitzgerald scored Connors on a beautiful grass-cutter over second. In the “lucky seventh” Notre Dame achieved the deciding score: Connors drew a pass, Bleivemicht drove out, but advanced Connors, who then scored on Fitzgerald’s second safe drive. Although his arm was in poor condition, Murphy hurled good ball. Fitzgerald’s timely hitting was easily the feature of the game. .^Scores:
NOTRE DAME	AB R H E	WISCONSIN	AB I H g '
Moore, 2b		—3 000	Snow, cf——„		4 020	-
Donovan, rf.		...3 000	Farg’ton, ss—		2 000	-
Miles (c) ss.		...3 OOI	Falk, 3b.			.4 0 1.0 7	.
Mohardt, cf.		...3 OOO	Will’gd, ib—		3 boo
Connors, If.		...I 2 0 0	Emanuel, If...		-4 0 11	,
Bleivn’t, ib.		—2 OOI	Williams, p...	. u—3 0 0 o'	_
Fitz’gld, 3b		—3 0 2 0	Brann, rf-		j	3 0 OO- '	'
Barry, c			...O OOO	Gifford, 2b.			3.0 00 . ..
McGarty, c		...2 OOI	Davey, p......		2 11:0, -	\
Murphy, p		—2 OOO	Totals.—		.28 1 5’ V .	. -
Totals--—-	_22 2 2 3	- - - - -	
Notre Dame	--		0 0001	6'1—2- 2-'3-/ ....•■
Wisconsin.....					-O 01 b cuo'o^-i.-s-	B	
			- -- * - ' ' -
•Bi SB

i4	*66© Nacre dame Schclcwric
In the second game the Visitors’ attack prevailed over anything the Gold and Blue could offer and their defense cut off several long drives which might- easily have been hits and runs. Ogle, formerly of Brownson Hall, hurled splendid ball for the visitors and did not allow his sentiment as an old student to bother him in the least. Dorais sent in Foley td start the game for the Varsity. The Oregon man did well for his first time under fire, but two dean drives and an error in the first inning netted two runs for his opponents, which were enough to win the game. Ogle held the locals to one lone hit by Morgan. Mohardt relieved Foley - in the fifth, and fanned seven men in his three innings. An error and a three-base hit gave Wisconsin a third tally in the seventh. In both contests all the Notre Dame men found the ball regularly at bat, but could not place it safely. Scofield and Morgan, outfielders, worked in the second game, and Prokup took Fitzgerald’s place at third. Scores:	-
NOTRE DAME AB R H E Moore, 2b	3 001.	WISCONSIN Far’gton, ss		AB R H E ...4 IOO
Miles (c), ss	3 000	Snow, cf.		—3 120
Elect, ib.	2 000	Falk, 3b.			...4 OIO
Mohardt, cf, p....3 000	Will’gd, ib.		...4 I 2.0
Connors, rf	3 000	Emanuel, If		...2 OOO
Morgan, If.	2 010	Doyle, rf		...2 OOO
Prokup, 3b	2 000	Davey, c		...3 OOO
McGarty, c	2 001	Gifford, 2b.		...2 OOO
Foley, p	.0 000	Ogle, p		...3 OOO
Scofield, cf	1 000 - Totals	21 012	Total		-27 3 5 0
Notre Dame.		..<....0 00000	0 012
Wisconsin	 - *'		2 OOOOO • -	1—3 5 0
Coach Dorais has his nine on the		road at
present for the most important away-from-home series of the season. The Gold and Blue were scheduled to meet Purdue at Lafayette on Wednesday, Wabash at Crawfordsville on -Thursday, aud Illinois at Urbana yesterday and today. A squad of fourteen men were taken on the trip and it is expected that Notre Dame will return to camp with a majority of the games credited as victories. The nine of Michigan University will oppose the Gold and Blue on Cartier Field Monday afternoon., Notre Dame’s game with Michigan last year was the only defeat suffered by the Ann Arbor men in their successful campaign for the title in Western collegiate baseball, and they still remember it. Hence, Monday’s game should be one of the most interesting of the season. Indiana also is billed Tor a game on Friday,, the 30th... The
Downstaters will. doubtless furnish some real opposition to Captain Miles’ men. The Indiana team is unusually well-braced with veteran material and is an avowed contender-for the Conference title. The seniors of the University are planning to make the Indiana game a prominent' part of the “Senior Week-end” program.—E. M. s.	-
On last Saturday afternoon Coach Rocknt held the first trials for the relay teams which compete in the Drake Relays today. All the relay candidates remained at school during the Easter vacation in order to be in the best possible condition for the Western relay classic. Judging from the times made in last Saturday’s trials, it will require a record-breaking team to take the two-mile relay honors from Notre / Dame today at Des Moines. Burke, Sweeney, Kasper, and Meehan will make up the team. Trials for the one-mile team were to be held . last Tuesday afternoon, but because of the unfavorable weather and the heavy track-they were postponed until later in the week. Meredith, Hoar, Willette, Wynne, Starrett, Kasper, and Meehan are the quarter-milers from whom Coach Rockne will have to choose. Upon the showing made at the Drake Relays will depend whether or not a team will be sent to the Penu Relays at Philadelphia on the ist of May. - -
. Outdoor Track Schedule.	e
The following track meets have been arranged
for the outdoor season:
. April 24th, Drake Relays, at Des Moines, Iowa.
May 1st, Renn Relays, at Philadelphia.	-
May 15 th, Michigan Agricultural College, at-Notre Dame.	_
May 22nd, Illinois Athletic Club, at Notre Dame.
May 29th, Indiana Intercollegiate Track Championships, at Lafayette, Indiana.	.
June 5th, Western Intercollegiate Conference Track Championships, at Chicago,
- During the vacation Coach Rockne had a layer of front-furnace" cinders spread over the running track on Cartier Field. Three studentathletes were kept busy every day at improving .tiie track. There is still much work to be done on it, but it will be in best condition before the first dual meet. - The football field received a layerof top-soilandgrass seed has been sown onit.
The time-honoredr and nerve-racking Interhall Baseball League will get underway a week from, tomorrow,.May2nd. This year’s rivalry _

. 'Wie Now tonne Schoiarcic
415
bids fair to surpass that of any previous year. Each hall seems to haye the makings of a championship team. Coach Rockne announces that all games will be played on the Brownson diamonds. There will be no games on Sunday mornings. The contests will start at 2 :oo p. m. on Sundays and at 4:00 p. m. on Wednesdays. All lists of Interhall candidates for the various teams must be submitted by the rectors of the halls, before the 28th of this month, to Professor Benitz, of the Athletic Board, to be passed upon as to eligibility. The schedule:
Sunday, May 2nd: Badin vs. Corby, west diamond; Walsh vs. Brownson, east diamond.
Wednesday, Mays th: Sorin vs. Brownson, west diamond; Walsh vs. Corby, east diamond..
Sunday, May 9 th Badin vs. .Walsh, west diamond; Corby vs. Brownson, east diamond.
Wednesday, May 12 th Badin vsBrownson,west diamond; Sorin vs. Corby, east diamond.
Sunday, May 16th—Walsh vs. Sorin, west diamond; Badin vs. Brownson, east diamond.
feet, 1 inch. Nowakowski, the star distancerunner of the Seminary, was not in condition and he came two laps behind in the three-mile race, which was won by Borowinski, with Luther second.	.
Considering the circumstances under which they competed, tennis shoes and street clothes^ the marks were very creditable. John Murphy, Gus Desch, George Meredith, Chet Wynne, Gerald Hoar, and Coach Rockne were the officials of the meets. Following are the summaries:	.
i
•5
* Holy Cross Seminary Meet.
During the vacation the students of Holy Cross Seminary made good use of the University ~ gymnasium. The Seminarians are handicapped by the lack of proper athletic facilities, but when they have a chance to use the indoor track or the gymnasium they certainly put it to proper use. After the religious exercises of Holy Week, the “Sems” got down to a week of hard training in preparation for their track meets. On Friday afternoon, April 9th, the - Juniors of the Seminary donned their “sneakers” for ten athletic events. McCartney was the star of this.meet, taking two firsts, two seconds, and a third, for a total of seventeen points. He was closely pressed by Whitters, who won the shot-put, the 440-yard dash, and took second in the 40-yard dash. Keller, with eleven points to his credit, was third in scoring.
. On the following day the staid Seniors of
Junior
40-yard dash—won by McCartney; Whitters^ second; Keller, third: Time, 5 sec.	.
40-yard low hurdles—won by Keller; McCartney, second; Greene, third. Time, 5 4-5 sec.
220-yard dash—won by Keller; McCartney, second;
Ford, third. Time, 27 sec.	.
440-yard run—won by Whitters; Reilly, second;
Murch, third. Time, 65 sec. .
880-yard run—won by McCartney; Ford, second;
no third. Time, 2:27.	"
Mile-run—won by Kenna; Drummy, second;
Summerville, third. Time, 6:01.	. •
Pole-vault—won by Greene; tie for second between Murch and Pudvan. Height, 7 feet, 1 inch.
High-jump—tie for first between Massart and Reilly; McCartney, third. Height, 4 feet, 11 inches.
Shot-put—won by Whitters; Reilly, second; Sum- -merville, third. Distance, 30 feet, 2 inches.
Broad-jump—won by Summerville, Pudvan, second,'
Reilly, third. Distance, 16 feet, 8 inches. , - ' Senior.	.
40-yard dash—won by Lagan; Jehl, second;-Luther, third. Time, 5 1-5 sec. "	-	~
40-yard low-hurdles—won by Jehl; Keller, second;
Havey, third. Time, 5 .4-5 sec. Mile-run—won by McCaffery;
Luther.third. Time, 5:39.
440-yard run—won by Lagan;
Robinson, third. Time, 62 sec. 220-yard dash—won by Lagan;
Jehl, third. Time, 26 sec. 3-mile run—won by Borowinski;
McCaffery,, third. Time, 18 min>~
Casey,— second:
Norris, second;
Havey, second;
Luther, second,
Pole-vault—won by Graner; Moore,second; Baldwin, . Collins, and Peoper, tied for third. Height, 9 feet, 3 -inches.	.	.	"	'
Holy Cross held their meet, which was full of thrills from Start to finish. In connection with _ Shot-put—won by Collins; Flood, second; Jehl,
more than one event Father Finnigan looked over the list of “gym” records at the entrance to the running track, to see if one of his charges had not set a new mark. Lagan was the outstanding athlete of this meet, achieving four first places. Jehl was runner-up, with sixteen - points McCaffery won the mile, after a hard
third. Distance, 33 feet,, n inches. ~	~
Broad-jump—won by Lagan; Jehl, second; Flood,, third. Distance, 20 feet, 5 inches. • •
High-jump—won by Flood; Jehl, second; tie for. third between Graner, Peiper, and Lisewski. Height, 5 feet, 1 inch.—E. J. M.. .	. -
N. D. Men in Major Baseball.
struggle with “Tammy” Casey. Collins won The Oregonian, of Portland, Oregon, had on the shot-put witha heave of 33 feet, 1 linches. March 5th the following column concerning Flood cleared the bar in the high-jump at 5 noted baseball playas who learned their game
— <4*'
4i 6	None dame schokwdc.
at Notre Dame, done from data furnished by George C. Philbrook (B. S. Biol., 1912)—with the headings, “Notre Dame Mother of Diamond Stars—George Philbrook Chooses Team from ex-Students — Noted Sons Numerous — List Begins With Cap Anson, ‘Grand Old Man of Game,’ and Keeps Going:”
Although George C. Philbrook, former Notre Dame University all-round athlete, never played a great deal of baseball, he is still strong for Notre Dame and is a close follower of the national pastime. Philbrook’s long suit was football and track and he was one of the greatest of all times in both branches of athletics. He starred in football at Notre Dame for three years and also in track. He placed in the 1912 Olympic games, representing the Clevelena Athletic Club, and of late years has been prominent in all Multnomah Amateur Athletic Club affairs and is a member of the board of trustees. He coached the Winged M football and track teams last year with great success.
Getting back to where Philbrook comes in for baseball and Notre Dame, he felt real talkative the other day while in an argument as to whether the Beavers would finish in seventh or eighth place, and snitching the subject, he began telling what stars Notre Dame had contributed to the big leagues and if they were all banded together what a team they would make.
' The team he picks, all of whom attended Notre Dame, are:	-
Catcher—Mike Powers, Athletics.
Pitchers—Reulbach, Cubs; Dubuc, Cincinnati; Scanlon, Brooklyn; Murray, Quakers.
First base—Anson, Chicago. _
Shortstop—McCarthy, Pittsburg.
Second baser-Cutshaw, Brooklyn.
Third base—Birmingham, Cleveland.
Left field—Bescher, Cincinnati; Daniels, Yankees. Centerfield—Sockalexis, Cleveland; Williams, Cubs. Right field—“Red” Murray, Giants.
Going into detail the following was related:
"Notre Dame University has sent more baseball stars to the major leagues than any .other college in the United States. This statement, while remarkable in itself, is verily startling when one considers the fact that Notre Dame rarely has an enrollment of over 750 collegiate men, while most of her rivals have an annual-enlistment of five or six thousand. From the day the immortal Adrian C. "Cap” Anson secured his baseball diploma at Notre Dame to last spring,-when young Lefty Murray joined the Phillies, the Hoosier institution has contributed enough men to the big ' leagues to make three all-star teams, with plenty of substitutes besides.
' "The first contribution of Notre Dame to the king . of American pastimes was, of course, no less a personage than the great Anson. * Cap', now 'the grand old man of baseball,' was a student at Notre Dame when both the institution and the game he learned so well were in their infancy.	. . ’
‘ "Following Anson at Notre Dame came the meteoric and sensational Sockalexis, who had one of the most. brilliant as well as shortest careers in the history of the'
game, and the revered “Mike” .Powers, one of the greatest catchers who ever lived.
"Next in line came Norwood Gibson, who, with Phil O’Neil, formed a championship battery for the ‘Irish.’ Gibson joined Jimmy Collins’ Boston Americans the year that team copped the pennant, while his battery partner signed with the Cincinnati Reds. Ed Reulbach, the famed ‘wild man’ of the National League, was next in line. Ed was one of the very best pitchers Notre Dame ever turned out, which is saying a great deal. He held the league record for successive victories a few years ago, as well as leading the league pitchers in the same year.	.
"Roger Bresnahan, ex-manager of the Cubs, and now owner of the Toledo Mudhens, was once a Notre Dame student, as was Joe Birminghan, former manager of the old Cleveland Naps. Bert Daniels, former Yankee outfielder, broke into the big show as first baseman. He was one of the best far-gardeners in the American League before his legs went back on him: later he rendered yeoman service as a member of the Louisville club.
“George Cutshaw, of the Superbas, is another sample of Notre Dame training. George did not graduate; but stayed at Notre Dame long enough to learn a lot of baseball. Then there is ‘Red’ Murray, the old ex-Giant warhorse and considerable slugger. ‘Red’ was a catcher when he was at Notre Dame, but was converted into an outfielder after he had broken into the majors as a member of the St. Louis Cardinals. Alex McCarthy, of Pittsburg, and Ulatowski, erstwhile ‘Count’ Clemons, ex-Cub and ex-Fed catcher, were teammates at Notre Dame.	.
"Harry Curtis, who used to be Roger Bresnahan’s understudy when ‘Rojah’ was starring with McGraw’s old-time Giants, was a star catcher at' Notre Dame, and. later became coach and athletic manager at his Alma Mater. And then there was ‘Red’ Kelly, who joined the White Sox at the time when ‘Has Anybody
. Here Seen Kelly?’ broke into the song league.
"Coming down to the present generation one can ' look at any sporting sheet and find a goodly sprinkling of former Notre Dame stars at work in various training camps throughout the south. Perhaps the most noteworthy is ‘Long Cy’ Williams, ex-Cub and Quaker, one of the speediest men in the National League. ■
"Jean Dubuc, who was for years one of Jennings’ mainstays at Detroit, is also a product of Notre Dame. With him were the Scanlon brothers, who formed the oidy fraternal battery in the history of the school. The three went to the majors; but Dubuc is the sole survivor. He went to Cincinnati after his graduation, but could not hit his'stride. He was released to Montreal,- where Jennings found him.
"All in all, Notre Dame has sent over 40 men-to the major leagues. This is in itself a feather in the cap of the athletic, authorities of that school. The secret of Notre Dame’s success in baseball can be easily -traced to the system of the school itself. A stranger ’ at .Notre Dame on a spring afternoon will find that everyone at Notre Dame, from the minims of St. Edward’s Hall to the college seniors, is playing baseball. There are baseball diamonds everywhere. Even the members of the faculty surrender dignity long enough to-play‘sides’with the red-blooded students; .
the Hotpe dame Scholastic Advertisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office. Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 5515
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
. Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00
Each additional Trunk, ----- .50
Suit Case,...............- - -	.25
—■	—a
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan	-
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND
BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP -
~ BARBER SHOP
HAIR DRESSING AND _ MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS-7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc.
RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired. ",	-
DEXTER
Smart, Gool
Auditorium Hotel CHICAGO
Onthe comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
Von Collars
OLDEST BRAND IN-AMERICA UMTC D SHUT < COt-t— CO. TROT. W. Y.
mi* ar__-____
MAX ADLKR CO. SOUTH BBHD.IHD.
the Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
No. 126
The First National
Bank
South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
Mechanics Tools	Draughtman's Tools
G. E. Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard (Opposite Postoffice)
Fine Cutlery	South Bend, Ind.
A.*!,. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICE’S
W« Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Lbttbrs or Credit Payable Throughout thb World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
The Dome *
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
South Bend, Ind.
Spaldingtor Sport
Base Ball, Tennis, Golf Track and Field, Etc. Complete Equipment and Clothing for Every Athletic Sport
Send for Catalogue •	’
A. <x. Spawing & Bros.
211 So. State St: CHICAGO
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit"
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the
Notre Dame News Stand
Cox Sons & Vining 72 Madison Ave., New York CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods, I Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. ‘ Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Schuler, KHngel & Co.
Wholcaale Fruit* and Produce
p
Citizens National Bank and Trust Co.
112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd.	South Bend, Ind.


i

>r' t'’u,' f(Vl
.. j' K i'\. v»).r .ij.il i,r ,,


3 n
' , / 1 '
til
£L jUarp’s Collese anti Bcabemp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
the Noupe &ame Scholastic Advertisements
y.
College ,
Gymnasium
Academy
- Church
A
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education	'
• * > , \ ■
'	College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—Commissioned;
-	.	Credits accepted by the leading Universities	.
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection of home life. St. Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care.
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited s space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President. -	.
.	ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY	,
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
NOTRE DAME P. O., INDIANA
S^^SSS
□
/

(
(
Unibcrsiti’ of J^otre ©amt
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA

College of Arts anb Uxttersf.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modern Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of ^rienee.
.Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Ei-ology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of Architecture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engin-; eering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.
College of %ato.
College of ^ine Arto.
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.
&
4
Preparatory Reboot
Variant Courses.
$bt CttuarbHaH.
For Young Boys.
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by the press and by the public as a college whose work is of die same grade as that of the most highly endowed colleges or die best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended die University <4 Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.
e
The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullestliberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character.. Rooms at reasonable rates, Catalogue sent on application.
Address:	’
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
B