
editorial----------------------, 
Next year Notre Dame begins a new era in its history. After 34 years of ser­vice, Fr. Hesburgh will finish his last term as president. Under his guidance Notre Dame has grown and diversified, moving beyond the provincial Catholic college it once was. When Hesburgh took office in 1952, Notre Dame had no lay board of trustees, no female students and the University's academic reputation was overshadowed by its football team. Fr. Hesburgh's tenure changed all that, placing Notre Dame in the forefront of American higher education. We believe that the selection of our next president should reflect the beneficial growth and change that the Hesburgh years have brought. 
Currently, only Holy Cross priests of the Indiana province are eligible to become president of Notre Dame. This is a requirement that the University has outgrown. While the spiritual and pastoral role of the C.S.C is undeniably essential to the life of Notre Dame and its students, limiting presidential candidates to members of the order is discriminatory and detrimental to the best interests of the University. · 
Running Notre Dame is now an immense undertaking. Financially and academically, the University has expanded and improved. For this reason our next president should be chosen on the basis of character and competence, not collar. It is impractical to limit our list of candidates to the 363 Holy Cross priests in the Indiana province when so many committed, qualified persons are available. While any president must be dedicated to the Catholic mission of the University, priests are not the only people who can fit this requirement. 
· Notre Dame claims to be ·an open· Catholic community, yet its charter excludes the vast majority of the population from leadership positions. Laymen are disqualified by their life choices, women by birth. The present organization reflects an archaic system of Church hierarchy and exemplifies the current conflict in the Church between clericalism and universalism. Notre Dame must decide if a Catholic community is for all of its citizens or just for those who take up a voca­tion. It is unrealistic and unfair to assume that only a priest possesses the neces­sary qualities to run a Catholic university. Notre Dame must overcome this cleri­cal philosophy in the selection of its next president. 
-SCHOLASTIC 

contents-----'-----------------------­
Editor-in-Chief  James F. Basile  
General Manager  Maher A. Mouasher  
Design Editor  Alex Peltzer  
Managing Editor  Matthew H. Bradley  

Production Manager Barbara Blanchette 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Mike Hoffman/Asst. Gen. Manager John Zufelt/Circulation 

Editorial 
Pete Butler/Copy John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney /Student Life Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jim McGarry/Copy Jean O'Bryan/Art 


Layout 
Tim Adams Jim Doerfler Julie Oxler Sue Serrato 
Art & Photography 
Paul McLean/Cover Design Ted Faye John Murillo Jan Neruda Mychal Schulz 
The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1986 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 

April 19, 1986 

SCHOLASTIC 

Volume 127 Number 13 

FEATURES 
2/No Respect by J.A. Mackay 
5/This is Exactly What I Wanted by Gretchen Pichler 
8/A Hidden Treasure by Sean Matthews 
9/Creating On Campus by John Affleck 
12/An Issue of Censorship by Eileen Ridley 
15/An Issue of Ownership by Francis T. Cafarelli, C.S.C. 
19/The Culmination of a Dream by Barb Blanchette 
20/The Game of Life by Bill Krais 
25/ND's Having a Ball by Michael Mazza and Mary Ellen Mileski 
26/Cash Management 101 
by Ginny Blissert 

28/Back to the Future 
by Mary Hess 


DEPARTMENTS 
4/On Other Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 

16/Coming Distractions 
Compiled by Karen Dettling 

18/Restaurants: Superlatives 
by John Markey 
24/Music: Some Music to Consider by Todd Waffner 
30/Books: The Destiny of the Big Brain by Pat Manson 

32/Final Word: Mixed Blessings 
by Michelle Tripeny 



No Respect 
STUDENTS PIGEONHOLE RA'S 
By J. A. Mackay 
Are RA's an extension of the long arm of DuLac commanded to whi­plash students into obeying dorm living rules? Or, are RA's clones of the individual dorm's rector or rec­tress? Are they opportunists taking advantage of an easy paying job or simply power hungry tyrants? All of the above is nonsense yet these are some of the ways in which RA 's are categorized. They deserve more respect than they are presently receiving. 

racy if one considers the require­ments for becoming an RA in the first place: an RA is hired by the University to be fully aware of Notre Dame regulations and poli­cies and to enforce those rules. In the process of doing so, the RA must walk the thin line between student and administrator; act simultaneously as confidant, role model, and authority figure as well as perf arm any other obscure duties which may pop up unexpect­edly. Not an easy task. In one . sense, then, yes, RA's are "stereo­typical" in that they are mature, responsible, personable individuals. 

"d 
::r 
Many students seem to hold the opinion that Notre Dame RA's are stereotypically alike. These stu­dents cannot be accused of inaccu­

!. RA's are adamantly against thei perpetuation of the stereotypical 1sJ RA image. Dave Finn, a Dillon i RA, claims that Dillon's· present Flanner RA Peter Jarret (right) helps out freshman Andy Hughes staff works together smoothly par­
ticularly because each person is so 

In another sense, though, this different. He says that "categoriz­similarity among RA's does not ing RA's is like trying to describe dictate a sort of phenotypical, the color of air." Kathleen across-the-board personality for all McCarthy agrees . with Dave. An RA's. Campus rectors and rec­tresses do not team together to blueprint the perfect RA and then search those people out to be members of their staffs. Every dor­mitory has a slightly different per­sonality, so each dorm chooses its RA's in a manner reflective of that personality. 
Breen-Phillips holds an inter­view in which the present RA 's, the Rectress, and the Assistant Rcctress assemble together then proceed to interview each RA can­didate separately. After all the can­didates have been questioned, the hall staff convenes again to discuss their opinions of the potential RA's. Stanford selects RA's through a specially chosen committee of students. Dillon holds a series of interviews conducted ·by rotating groups of present RA's; the selection process is capped off by one large meeting where all staff members compare notes and choose the RA's. How could these unique methods of choosing RA's create a campus-wide stereotype? 
Present RA's · probably would not be amused to learn that stu­dents considered them all the same: dull and unoriginal. A few present 
SCHOLAS1.'IC 

RA in Breen-Phillips, she has learned that a hall benefits most from varying personalities since "Totally different personalities bring a little variety so that each RA can effectively assume a role in may be a revelation to some people, but last semester, Dillon maintained the highest gradepoint average on 
campus and probably had a great time doing it (or not doing it). 


RA Scott Zwingli (left) working with Bruno Mediate on some homework 
the staff." 
What about future RA's? Do they think all summer about how responsible they will have to be and practice to act official? Not so according to Molly McGinnis, a future Walsh RA. She felt that RA's in Walsh _were chosen chiefly because of how they handled them­selves during the two and a half years before they applied for the job. She didn't expect anyone to make any major personality shifts. "RA's are a lot alike because they are happy, stable people with rela­tively good grades and determined goals more than anything else, but you cannot categorize them," McGinnis said. 
Dillon Hall is not exactly the most quiet dorm on campus. Not many people would beg to be rec­tor of Dillon, nicknamed "Animal House," but· perhaps Father Joe Carey is in an enviable position as the present Dillon hall Rector. This 
Father Carey agrees that RA's, at least in Dillon, are not stereotyp­ical in a negative sense at all. He says that his staff members are strong and confident in themselves and use their unique personalities to work for the betterment of the hall. "I don't think of an RA as a lackey at all... the staff develops a being excellent RA's. Father Carey chuckled, repeating a student's comment; " 'Big R~d's been good to me and I want to ,be good to Big Red.'" 
Notre Dame students are taught to systematically, conscientiously reflect upon things whether they be academic, spiritual or personal. It would not hurt to apply this tech­nique to situations very near to us, such as the role of RA's. 
It might benefit those students who have fallen into the trap of only thinking of RA's as alcohol policy enforcers or tyrants who rule with an iron. fist over other stu­dents to remember that Notre Dame is a family community. The support systems here are ingeni­ously interwoven to resemble and feel like a large scale family. Stu­dents have endless counselling resources available yet the one which is probably the most com­fortable is the RA. 
The majority of incoming Fresh­men leave home half a country away along with parents, brothers, sisters and friends who had served as confidants. When a student reaches Notre Dame, he or she begins the painful and exciting transition from adolescent to adult. This is where the RA can help fill a void in the needs of a student, 

Are RA's an extension of the long arm of Dulac commanded to whiplash students into obeying dorm living rules? Or, are RA's clones of the indi­vidual dorm's rector or rectress? 
personality of dealing with situa­tions. That is a stereotype that develops sometimes." Father Carey is confident enough in his staff to encourage them to let their per­sonalities shine in whatever task they assume. He said that Dillon RA's feel that Dillon has given them a lot through the years; they feel they can return the gift by serve as a role model or as a sign of hope that, "Yes, I can make it through these four years just like him/her." 
RA's fill a vital need within our family community. They serve as examples, confidants and friends. They, like Rodney Dangerfield, get no respect. It's time that changed. • 
APRIL 19, 1986 


on other campuses 



Guts At Harvard? 
Compiled by Paul Aiello 


"Snowmobiles," "Heroes· for According to a report by the Phi­Zeros" and "P.M&A." are the nicknames for some unusually 

ladelphia Daily News, 61 sexual ~::, assaults involving college athletes 
~{.-:•'."-"•:•··•.•\.. 

popular classes at Harvard . 
!'¦'•'
:.•,1 
1.1_1.1_1
University that often· require :::~ In what may be the nation's only have been reported over the last .... three years. The report suggested
nothing more than ''guts" -a ):)~ current case of a student fighting football
word which originate with the f Selective Service registration laws, @t·hat and basketball 
~:: p)ayers were more likely to com-notion of answering questions on if the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of mit assault than their non-varsityan exam with no more prepara-lllll Appeals in Cincinatti recently male friends. 
tion than 'gut' instinct. In • · heard the case of Tom Vogel who Harvard's official course descrip­
couldn't get into Memphis State tion guide P.M&A. is called 
because he had not registered for "Politics, Mythology and Art m 
the draft. Vogel is challenging the Bronze Age China" and is 
law because he feels that the law Marking a major shift, the Unite<.
challenges the principle of "inno­
described as an appreciation of : , States Labor Department has

cent before proven guilty" by
China's ancient art. However, the ;~ reported that women now holdCrimson's "Confidential Guide" t.: denying entrance to college t the majority of professional jobs·based on student evaluations calls :::~ without a trial. If he loses . his J in the country, bypassing men by

appeal, Vogel . could be fined as 

\:\:! 29,000 jobs. Independent labor
much as $250,000 and serve as 

~-·· economists claim that this new 
many as five years in prison. 
majority demonstrates what they ·

.?t::~:~:i;~t~:~~~~:IiI 
see in colleges and universities:of Harvard's graduates were cum 
··•-•.•.•:-:::. •-.;. 
that women are breaking downlaude or better. Possibly a glut of sex barriers in what they study as .
'guts?' 

. well as in the jobs they seek. College and university presidents who used to be secure in their seats of power, today face "the :::.~
Best A.C.T Scores (by state) 

:..~ seven year hitch." This conclu­
1. Iowa 20.3 

1l1~ "Partying" headed the list of Levi2. Wisconsin 20.3 
j Strauss's "50 I" survey which3. Minnesota 20.2 
·=.'=:i·:_1::1:_• 
~:;k::;'.g~~o,r:r~~t,t0,:~i:'.

quish the power? In part, the ~~ 2.sked 6500 college students about4. Nebraska 19.7 
· their favorite pastimes. Listening
w report says that the power of the
5. Colorado 19.7 
Best S.A.:.". Scores (by state) 
1. New Hampshire 939 2. Oregon 928. 3. Ve~mont· 919 4. Delaware 918 5. Connecticut 915 

to records, sleeping, going to the sion. For the appearance of 
presidency has become an illu­

movies · and eating follow in tha[ power, many presidents give up 
order. Sixth acco'rding to the sur­much of what appeals to them ­
vey is dating, which was pu1led scholarship and privacy. 
down by its low ' preference by midwestern students.. Surprising?'• 
4 
SCHOLASTIC 


'This is exactly what 

I wanted' 

STUDENTS IN FINE DESPITE DIFFICULTIES 
by Gretchen Pichler 
"I was a business major, and it wasn't exposing me to enough. I was in kind of a dilemma, where I w&5n't interested in what I was studying..'.there was no creativity." 
The search for creativity is what led Patrick Conboy, a senior art/ALP A major, and about 200 other Notre Dame students chose a major in one of the fine arts. Most students who study music, art, or communications and theatre [COTH], at Notre Dame switch into these disciplines after finding themselves dissatisfied with another 
APRIL 19, 1986 

ARTS

AND PERFORMING 
Ed Husarik 
major. "Most come here thinking of something very practical, like engineering or business...but then they get the theatre bug or the video bug," explained Professor Mark Pilkinton, Chairman of the' COTH Department. Some students, like Conboy, add a fine arts degree to an ALP A or CAPP degree to increase their marketability, both of · which require a second major. Theresa Kilgannon, a senior in music/CAPP, says of her major, "I kind of fell into it. I was looking for computers, but I wanted to keep up my music as well. It worked out perfectly." 
Students identify parental pres­sure and a competitive and limited 


FIND SATISFACTION 

job market for their skills as two of their most discouraging problems. "The hardest thing is telling your . father that you're changing your major from a practical one to such an abstract one," said Conboy. "When parents are paying $10,000 a year, it's hard for them to under­stand what an art major can do for you." 
Ed Husarik, a junior arts and letters pre-professional major who is studying film, agrees, but hopes to find a way to combine his film studies with his plans to go to med­ical school. "All of my roommates think it's a ..." "A joke!," one roommate suggested helpfully. "It's hard for other people to see a rela­tionship. But there is a lot of use of video today, especially in medi­cine." He mentioned arthroscopic surgery as an example, a procedure which engages the use of a tiny camera to display on a large screen a picture of the area being operated on. He added that today many operations such as open heart sur­. gery are filmed. And although one 
would not necessarily need medical 
knowledge to film the operations, 
Husarik hopes to find some way to 
relate the two. 
Opportunities for successful employment are different for stu­dents with a degree in the arts than for students who have studied in the applied, or "practical" areas, and may often depend more on a student's portfolio and degree of self-motivation than a superior grade point average. Lev Chapel­sky, a senior who entered Notre Dame as an engineer and later switched to industrial design, stressed the need for self­moti vation. "You make it on your own. In business or engineering, once you get through the prograµi, you've got it made. If you get through art, you're nowhere. Even· a 4.0 in art can't help you." 


Professor Fred Beckman, chair­man of the art department, is more optimistic. "If you can make it into Notre Dame,·you come with intelli­gence and potential, and you're housed in a well-structured pro­gram. You have a running start for success." He added, "We challenge our people...they have to work. I don't know of a single graduate who has bombed." 

Comments from students indi­cate that most entered the Univer­sity in another discipline and became interested in the depart­ment by accident. Conboy explained that students in other majors see the interesting .· work being done by art students and become attracted to it. Husarik said, "When I was a sophomore, I decided I didn't want to be science pre-professional; I thought it would be monotonous." Because he had "always enjoyed film and produc­tion," he decided to pick ALPP, where he could study film as well as continue his plans to attend medical school. 
Calvin Bower, chairman of the music department, is concerned about the image of the fine and performing arts at Notre Dame. '"Arts are perceived on this campus as being entertainment. Judge­ments of aesthetic taste receive no serious consideration," he remarked. He suggested that the visibility of the music department would be considerably higher if vocal and instrumental recitals had more administrative support. 
6 

Fred Beckman 
"When I go to athletic events, I see members of the administration. Their appearance at a concert is an extreme rarity. Those are very important symbols. The students see where people go; much teach­ing through a university is through example and symbolism." 
Professor Pilkinton suggested that the lack of visibility and· sup­port for the fine arts lay partially in Notre Dame's historical emphasis on other areas. "Notre Dame tradi­tionally has not focused on fine arts. We need to get fine arts to be one of the foci of the campus; if we can do that, Notre Dame will be a much better place," he said. 
The COTH, art and music departments are trying to work 
with the Office of Admissions to recruit more students interested in fine arts. Professor Beckman explained, "We'd like to found a system of scholarships for gifted students who cannot afford Notre Dame. Wealth and talent do not necessarily go·_· hand in hand." Seven art scholarships are presently offered at the graduate level, in addition to five tuition waivers, yet none are offered to undergraduates. Professor Bower said that his department is · working with · the Admissions Office to recruit out­standing musical talent, without compromising the admissions stan­dards. "That's one area we are desperate for--undergraduate scho­larships in the arts,., he said. 
Bower and Pilkinton gave Notre Dame only mediocre marks when comparing its support of the fine arts to the support given by peer institutions to their fine arts depart­ments. Professor Bower remarked that at schools such as Stanford, Dartmouth, Carleton and Yale, activities in the arts are given greater importance, both through symbol and through funding, than they are on this campus. 
Professor Pilkinton agreed that Notre Dame ranks a little below its peer institutions in this respect. He attributed the p_roblem in part to the lack of a facilities exclusively under the control of the COTH Department. Under . the present arrangement, the department must book in advance for the use of Washington Hall. Pilkinton added, "I would ultimately like to see a fine arts center, where all fine arts could come together under .one roof. It's hard to work together in separate buildings. Notre Dame needs and deserves a fine arts center. Peer institutions have such 
a facility--Vanderbilt, for example. Even Hope College has a wonder­ful theatre facility." At present, there are no plans to build such a center. 
SCHOLASTIC 

.,Notre Dame traditionally has not focused on fine arts. We need to get fine arts to be one of the foci 
of the campus; if we can do that Notre Dame will be a much better place." 


The outlook is not completely dim, however. The COTH was recently able to spend $15,000 to upgrade the sound facilities at the Snite Museum's Annenberg Audito­rium which included a $13,000 projector of theatrical quality. Pro­fessor Beckman . reports that although only about 100 of the stu­dents enrolled in the art depart­
. ment are "intense", (about 2,000 students are enrolled in an art class of some form) the numbers are growing, especially with the advent of Riley Hall. Beckman praises the building's high visibility and overall excellence as an art facility. Previ­ously, the art department was scat­tered around, housed in O'Shaughnessy Hall, · the Field House, and the architecture build­ing. Beckman added ''the.· adminis­tration is extremely cooperative and sympathetic. I feel that cooperation has been expressed more in the last six to eight years, with the commitment ·of Riley Hall." 
Different goals may be a reason for . Notre Dame's arts departments ranking below some peer institn-
APRIL 19, 1986 
tions; Professor Bower explained that the tendency among other institutions is to create a big school of music. Indiana University has more than 1,500 music majors. "At Notre Dame, we [the music depart­ment] wants to be a part of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, and func­tion within that context," he said. 
The art department recently joined about 130 other schools who have been accredited by the National Association of Schools of ments vary according to their respective faculty and students. Professor Pilkinton said, "We are very strong in film video, and we also have a very strong theatre pro­gram. We have focused on theatre now that Washington Hall has been redone...The whole area of actor training is an area we'd like to strengthen." 

Ed Husarik noted the size of the program is restrictive but stressed the high quality of ·the COTH department especially in the area of equipment available to the students. The small size of the music depart­ment is not necessarily a negative aspect, according to Theresa Kil­gannon, who praised the personal attention available to students in the department, "You get to know everyone. The faculty support for the students is amazing; they are friends as well as teachers." She agreed that the course offerings can't offer everything for everyone, but that has been changing since she has been here. 
Professor Bower notes that "We 

want to be strong in music as a 
liberal art. Many schools, such as 
Harvard, Yale, and the University 
of Chicago, do not allow students 
to get academic credit for studying 
an instrument. We purposely offer a 
program where students can 
become a better performing musi­
chm, and at the same time become 
a better scholarly musician." 
.. When parents are spending $10,000 a year; its hard for them to understand what an art major can do for you." 
Art and Design. As a result, the department now requires portfolios to judge incoming freshmen. "It helps us as well as the students identify with the fact that we have a full-fledged fine arts ,program • here," said Beckman. · · 
. The major strengths and weaknesses of the fine arts depart-

Overall, the faculty are proud of their departments, and are enthusiastic about the opportunities. created for students by the. fine arts. "What a wonderful world it opens up," said Professor Beckman. "It's the kind of thing our students really need to be exposed to." Theresa Kilgannon agreed, "This is exactly what I wanted." • 




A Hidden Treasure 

NOTRE DAME'S SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 


by Sean R. Mathews 
When asked to comment on the Snite Museum of Art, Pangborn freshman Chuck Touhy answered, "Isn't that the place in O'Shaughnessy with the glass doors?" Chuck's response is characteristic of most Notre Dame students. They have heard of it, they know where it is, yet they have never been inside. 
While the Snite Museum of Art first opened its doors in 1980, art on the Notre Dame campus is noth­ing new. There ha~ been an art gal­lery in O'Shaughnessy since the 1950's, and before that there were a few collections on display,.at the White Memorial Libi:ary. 
According to Stephen Spiro, the museum's enthusiastic chief curr.­tor, "The Snite was introduced on campus in an attempt to bring together the art collec11,)ns of the University." Spiro further added that "there was no place where art could be shown or researched." Since the days of the WJ-.ite Library, art on campus has grown significantly. 
Having t4e proper facilities has enabled the University's permanent collections to be on display at all times. "The present museum facil­ity is a tremendous step forward in the promotion of art on campus," says Spiro. Spiro also noted that prior to the addition of the new facility traveling exhibitions wc,uld c::ome in and force the removal of permanent paintings due to a lack of space. As a result visitors could never ~ount on certain paintings being on display at any one time. A few works were absent from the gallery for up to ten years. "This was very fru:;trating for teachers and stµdents who needed to study and/or research the mi::.sing works," said Spiro. 
With the new facility ( dubbed the Snite Museum of Art because of substantial contributions made by Fredrick B. Snite), this problem was eliminated. The new facility is able to house a few major works from every time period. Mr. Spiro added that the museum plans to 

'U
::r 
·•·. --~ s­
. :-.: 
· .S­
1!?­
w sphere and free admission, · the i Snite is probably the best kept secret in South Bend.· 
continue expand~ng in the futuret We are constantly trying to get better coverage and better works of art, but this is becoming increasingly difficult because of the amounts of money involved." He admitted, "it takes extreme amounts of money and a great deal of luck." The Snite currently ranks 

The Snite currently ranks among the top ten university museums across the country. 
among the top ten university muse-. urns across the country. Despite its impressive standing, Mr. Spire., noted that "the museum is not a tradition yet" 
Spiro pointed out that "a unique quality about the museum is that it is small and intimate. People can come here and familiarize them­selves with works of art before going to a place like the Art Insti­tute in Chicago and being overwhelmed." At the Snite, "stu­dents can enjoy art on many dif­ferent ·levels without being flooded with the size of a major museum." For these reasons the Snite attempts to complement a place like the Art Institute. 
With such an · inviting atmo-
SCHOLASTIC
8 



Creating On Campus 
Sean Reardon 
need to write something down. I year and the following year moved don't know why I do it; I could. up to editor. give any number of reasons· and 

. 
by John A/fleck 
Student artists at Notre Dame feel that though the recognition of art is growing at the University, that growth is nonetheless limited because of the many people on campus who do not enjoy art. Pub­lic opinion, however, is not. neces­sarily a major concern. for the stu­dent artists Notre Dame who seem content to create for their own rea-· sons. 
"I think there is a relatively small part of the student body which is serious about art, but for the majority of students it's not something they think about over lunch or before bed," said Sean Reardon, a senior in the Program of Liberal Studies and editor of the 
Juggler. "I don't· know if you 
could expect it to be any different anywhere else, though," he said. "Society as a whole does not reflect on art. That's not meant to be eli­test. It's just not what everybody is interested in." 
A poet himself, Reardon has been reflecting on art for some time. "I used to write a lot of terri­ble maudline poetry in high school," he said. "My mom found it once and threw it away. But I showed it to a , teacher, who was impressed, and.·· encouraged me to keep writing." Reardon explained his interest in poetry, "Sometimes ­nci matter how bad it is -poetry is the . best way . to say something. 

ir. i ,,~~m.~~t~!-1~. Aa.~r.~Y., n,e~d .. to be 
· ., -' said~.th:tough poetry. ·1 enjoy writing and it works best when I feel like I 
APRIL 19, 1986 
~-~, ' 
~·····----""""'-~ 
. 
PROFILES 
11 
.Jlit · i:i,~ 
]I 
·:l 
•:t.ii!

:i
.! i:.. 

they'd all be a little bit true." 
At Notre Dame Reardon has won two awards for his work, the Ernest Sandine A ward for poetry . freshman year, and the Sophmore Literary Festi val A ward for stu­dent writing his sophmore year. Upon winning the second award Reardon had the opportunity to read some of his • pieces at the Sophmore Literary FestivaL After the Festival Reardon was invited to join the Juggler· staff. He served as assistant editor during his junior 
, ­
-~ 

OF STUDENT ARTISTS 
Kevin Quinn, a trombonist and senior from Glenview, Illinois, has played a musical instruments since childhood. Quinn's father was a musician and started his sons in music when they were very young. Kevin has· played piano since he was six years old. "We basically had a band with my family," Quinn said. "We used to do a lot of folk songs and crazy, stupid songs. Songs that probably don't even have titles." · · 
In the third grade Quinn began 
9 
--~= 


to study the trombone, the instru­ment for which he has received the most recognition. He captured a number of awards in high school for jazz performances, a scholar­ship to study music at Berklee Col­lege in Boston (where he studied the summer after his freshman year at Notre Dame) and two dis­tinguished performance awards at Notre Dame's Jazz Festival. 
Though Quinn will enter a pro­gram of music studies next fall at DePaul, he is not presently a music major. "I didn't want to study just music," Quinn explained of his decision to major in accounting. "I wanted to get a good degree and continue with music. The biggest challenge of the last three years has been juggling my musical life with my major. I've tried to maintain my musical ability." 
Quinn has a strong interest in composition which is part of the reason he wants to study music next year. "Writing is agony," he said laughing and added, "No, not agony, but I'm somewhat of a per­fectionist. I won't write it down if 
"Performing is easier than composing. It's a moment of being thrust on the audience, then it's over. Performing reaffirms one's enjoy­ment of music." 
it's not right, so I stay up nights composing. Performing is easier. It's a moment of being thrust on the audience, then it's over. It reaf­firms one's enjoyment of music." 
Mary Maglietta studies an art form Frank Lloyd Wright once called "frozen music" -architec­ture. "People don't think architec­ture is a fine art," Maglietta said. "For instance when Notre Dame 
unveiled plans for the war memorial they didn't go to the Architecture Department for opin­ions, even though it was designed by an architect. They went to the Art Department. 


To Maglietta, architecture is a powerful art form because it has a significant effect socially, often on a subconscious level. "Architec­ture has a significant impact on the social environment, especially in urban areas where architecture is the environment," she said. "It affects the subconscious more than we realize." 
In her fifth-year and final year of the undergraduate architecture program, Maglietta said she got into architecture because it combined her creative interests with her lik­ing for science and technology. She had no real experience with archi­tecture before Notre Dame. "Ulti­mately I stuck with it though because it can be used as a tool for society," she said. Maglietta's main ­interest architecturally is the urban environment, especially public areas. "Houses are fun to design, but it's more fulfilling for· me to design public open spaces, such as plazas, or civic and municipal buildings, because they are so rich in history and their impact on peo­ple is so great/' she said. 
Notre · Dame's architecture pro­gram has helped to develop Maglietta's interest in architecture, because it exposes the student to a broad range of ideas, as opposed to schools, where one perspective is given emphasis over others. "It's been a good experience," she said. "I know so much more now than I did when I started. Whether I'll stick with architecture I don't know. Th_e first three years after school -are generally spent in an internship so I do have to get over that hurdle." 
Like Maglietta, Jennifer Niederst did not come to Notre Dame with a strong artistic back­ground, but rather stumbled into an art major and is now enjoying her decision. Niederst, a junior from 
SCHOLASTIC 


· Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, entered Notre Dame with the intent to major in math and science then switched industrial design/art his­tory major. About the industrial design major, Ni'cderst commented, "It's a stricter disipline than paint­ing, but I f cit comfortable working within guidelines." 
What Niederst seems to have enjoyed most in her art major is her introduction to photography. "I like photography because I'm very visually aware .of what's going on around me. To be able to record something really absurd is interest­ing to me. You can create your own fictional reality in a photo and peo­ple think it's real because photogra­phy fools you into thinking it's objective," she said. 
Upon entering the Art Depart­ment, Niederst was surprised by the amount of artistic activity at Notre Dame. "There's a lot more activity than I was aware of at first," she noted. "A lot of stuff at 
APRIL 19, 1986 

Notre Dame and in South Bend is very safe though. Very traditional. Few people are doing really bizarre things -it's no New York scene." 
There has been a noticable amount of activity in student theater at Notre Dame in the last couple of years. One of the stu­
dents  most  involved  in  theater  is  
John  Sheehy,  a  senior  from  Wal­ 
pole,  Massachusettes.  Sheehy  first  

got into theater during his teens, seeing plays in New York and act­ing and playwriting in high school. At Notre Dame, he took, as a fine arts requirement, the "Introduction to Theater" course offered by the Communications and Theater Department. This fed his interest in theater and he began to work with student shows. 
Reflecting on his experience in theatre,· Sheehy said, "There are three stages in the whole process of theater: playwriting, in which cer­tain ideas are linked by action or dialogue; directing, when you have all that in front of you and you 
>o 
g­
! 
,.~ 
g.
!!?. 

must env1s1on it and communicate that to an actor; and acting, where you create a moment on stage that goes through the actors to the 
people." 
Sheehy is particularly interested in playwriting. He has written several one act plays (one of which he also directed in a full produc­
"It's interesting when I'm in a show and I hear people discuss going to see it in the dining hall. That's great. I think the arts are becoming more visible on campus." 
tion) and has recently completed his first full-length . play. Sheehy says the inspiration for these works comes from different sources. "The first one I wrote here came from an experience I had in O'Hare Air­port, but my new one just came out of the blue. It's about the second coming of C~rist, as a woman." 
Currently, Sheehy is working as the director for a campus produc­tion of Edward. Albee's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" "I try to let the cast do what they want with their characters, then shade it with my own ideas," he said when asked about his directing style. "You might get a different answer from/ my cast, though." Next year Sheehy hopes to attend graduate school for playwriting and acting. 
That seems to be the basic motivation for most student artists; they like what they're doing, regardless pf it's practicality, or the time it takes to create. Art is satis­fying for them, and generally, they see a growing appreciation for their work at Notre Dame. As Sheehy put it, "It's interesting when I'm in a show and . I hear people discuss going to see it in the dining hall. That's great. I think the arts are becoming more visible on campus."• 






An Issue Of Censorship 
.-. 

WSND MANAGER EXPLAINS RESIGNATION 


by Eileen R. Ridley 
How does a student-run fine ans station find itself on the front page of the Observer? The entire contro­versy started with the broadcast of a public service announcement and ended with the resignation of the station manager. That is, very briefly, what has happened to WSND-FM and me, Eileen Ridley. But to get the whole story let's start at the beginning. 

As station managef, iQ addition to keeping the station running ~ smoothly, one of my tasks is to sift :, ...
z
through a rather large quantity of i::
.,

mail. The majority of the station's !:!_ mail is public service announce-~ --"=· ments or "PSA's". The announce-ii: ments come from a variety of 
open to the entire listening audi­Dame and Saint Mary's. The textsources and are intended to inform ence. All PSA 's which have none read as follows:the listening public of groups or 
of the above listed complications

events which might be of interest. "The Gays and Lesbians at 
were put on the air for a period of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is anWSND-FM broadcasts all PSA's two weeks. Also, any PSA could organization whose membershipit receives unless the announcement be resubmitted one month after its consists of undergraduates, gradu­has one of the following complica­original broadcast. This means, of :1te students, faculty, staff, alumni

tions: . I) the announcement was course, that a great number of. and concerned persons from the
produced on a medium that is not 
announcements were read. But that 

surrounding community. Theused by the station, e.g. tapes; 2) 
was the idea of the service; to give 
organization seeks to provide . a the event or service mentioned is 
as much information · as possible 
basis of support for those who have identified themselves as gay or les­

Can the owner of a public radio station arbitrarily 
bian or are in the process of exploring ·related questions. If you

decide which public service announcements are to 
are interested in learning more
be aired? 
about this group write to Gays and 

Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint out of the probable traveling range and to allc11•1 the largest spectrum of Mary's, P.O. Box 195 Notre Dame, of the station's listening audience; the public to have a voice. Indiana 46556." 
3) the PSA is just a list of events 
~ . ­

which would take too much time to · In October of 1985, I received a I realized that . this particular sift through to create an announce­PSA from a group identifying itself PSA, due to its controversial sub­ment; 4) the event or service is not as The Gays and Lesbians at Notre ject matter, might cause some prob­
12 
SCHOLASTIC 

J_ 
!ems if it were broadcast. How­ever, I decided that since WSND­FM defined itself as a public ser­vice station it had an obligation to the public to air the announcement. After all, the public supports the station by donating money during its Fine Arts Fund Drive each year. 
More importantly, however, were the ethical questions involved. The airways are the property of the public by law. I understood that a licensed .station has earned the right "to rent" a particular fre­quency to broadcast on. Therefore the public had a right to expect a free voice from a public service sta­tion. Moreover, there was the ques­tion of free speech. If the PSA did not go on the air it would be only because someone disagreed with its content. But nothing about the PSA was obscene or offensive. Other announcements had been broadcast with which I personally disagreed, but I put them on the air because I believe everyone has the right to free speech. For me, not to allow a certain PSA to be read would be censorship. Therefore, as was the case with other PSA's, this PSA had to be aired. 
So the PSA was broadcast. Some of the staff at the station had ques­tions about the announcement and some were a little apprehensive about reading it. However, I was always willing to discuss the issue and those people who did approach me all understood why the announcement was on the air. 
WSND-FM did receive a few 
complaints. To my knowledge there were four calls to the station, one to the Assistant Director of Student Ac;tivities, Adele Lanan, and at least one letter to Fr. Hesburgh, a copy of which was sent to me. I considered this negative response to be rather small considering that the station broadcasts in a 35-40 
mile radius. · · ' · · 
At the end of the PSA's run I was informed of the controversy the announcement had caused in the Administration. In response, I 
APRIL 19, 1986 

wrote up a PSA policy statement outlining the requirements and use of PSA's on the air. I gave this pol­icy to the Administration in the middle of fall semester and heard no more about the whole matter. 
When I returned from winter break I continued to work at the WSND-FM as station manager and began preparing for the station elections. However, in mid­Februaq,, I again received the same PSA that I had received in October from The Gays and Lesbi­ans at Notre Dame and Saint ing a logo; one did not want some­one to use the word.; "Fighting Irish" without the university's con­sent. I understood the point and 
suggested that if the words "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's" be omit­ted, the PSA would no longer be found objectionable and could still be airect'. Fr. Cafarelli again disagreed and responded that the station was owned by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and therefore is affiliated with the university as is indicated by its call letters. The university ·felt that to allow this 

Mary's. Since I had not received a negative response from the Administration regarding the PSA policy I had written last semester, I decided to rebroadcast. the announcement. 
Before actually airing the PSA, I notified Adele Lanan that it was about to be broadcast in order to prepare for any negative reaction from listeners. She requested that I postpone the broadcast for two hours so she could notify Fr. Cafarelli, Assistant Vice-President for Student Affairs. Fr. Cafarelli, contacted me and requestr,d a post­ponement of the announcement until he met with me. We made an appointment for Tuesday morning and the PSA . was scheduled to be put on the air on Wednesday. 
During my two hour conversa­tion with Fr. Cafarelli, I was.. told not to air the PSA at all. Fr. Cafarelli explained the situation was analogous to the idea of licens-PSA to go over the air was to affili­ate the Gays and Lesbians' group with the university. Since certain administrators believed the ack­nowledgement of the group's existence did not fit the "mission of Notre Dame," the university's radio station ought not air the group's :PSA. At this point I ques­tioned Fr. Cafarelli as to what the mission of Notre Dame was exactly. I did not ever receive an explana­tion of the matter. 
Feeling frustrated, I informed Fr. Cafarelli of how serious I con­sidered this matter to be. I explained my decision to air the PSA was a· moral one and that not to allow the broadcast was immoral and constituted censorship. Fr. Cafarelli explained that he respected my position, but he did not see this issue as one of censor­ship. 
I explained that there were a number of PSA's that did not 
13 
necessarily reflect the views of the station, the university or the Catholic Church such as one for a women's festi val at the Century Center sponsored by a group that supported "reproductive rights for women." In addition the station aired controversial PSA's such as one for a pro-life group. Since nei­ther of these announcements were being silenced, the banning of Gay and Lesbian PSA seemed arbitrary and discriminatory. • 
Fr. Cafarelli disagreed and reiterated that the group did not fit in with the mission of Notre Dame and therefore was not to be affili­ated with the university. Moreover, he informed me that the PSA pol­icy I submitted was "too wide" and needed to be worked on. I still believed that the PSA had to be broadcast. More importantly, another issue was at stake, namely, was WSND-FM actually student run as it claimed? If so, as long as I 



Since the Administration felt that acknowledge­ment of the group's existence did not fit the_ "mis­sion of Notre Dame," the university's radio station should not air Gays and Lesbians PSA. 
took responsibility for decisions, my editorial right as station manager should not be overturned. With the decision not to air the PSA it became obvious to me that the Administration was now run-
informed Fr. Cafarelli that I still opposed the decision and would have to consider its implications. 
We left each other with that under-· standing. 
I considered the entire issue and ning the station. 
I realized that because of the principles involved I had to stand 
· against the Administration's deci­sion. I explained my position to Adele Lanan and the Executive Board of both WSND-FM and WVFI-AM Both understood· my stand and it was at the Executive Board meeting that the idea of a disclaimer was discussed. WSND­

FM and Notre Dame could dis­claim the PSA during sign on, sign off or immediately after the PSA. I offered this idea to Fr. Cafarelli as a compromise, and indicated that if it were not accepted I would resign my position on principle. 
After three days I was informed a that the Administration believed a disclaimer would either not be heard during sign on or sign off or bring too much attention to the PSA if read after it. After Fr. Cafarelli explained this to me, I told him I had no other choice but to tender my resignation which I did on February 28. According to the terms of my resignation, I would no longer take part in the . daily operation of the station nor 
would I train new staff members. 
Regardless of how one feels 

about the issue of homosexuality, 
there are many important issues in 
this entire incident. Doesn't the 
public, all the public, have the right 
. to freedom of speech? Can the 
1 owner of a public radio station 
arbitrarily decide which public ser­
vice announcements are to be 
aired? Should the administration override a station manager's edi­torial right if the station is sup­posed to be student run? These questions are now the responsibility of the community that WSND-FM serves. I resigned with the intention of fighting for the · public's right. I only hope the· community of Notre Dame as well as Michiana will con­tinue to fight for what it deserves. o 
14 
SCHOLASTIC 

An Issue Of Ownership 
AN ADMINISTRATION 
by Francis T. Cafarelli. CSC 
There has been a controversy regarding the removal of a public service announcement provided by the Gays and Lesbians of ND/SMC from WSND-FM and WVFI-AM It may be ·useful to provide some information regarding this matter. 
In the fall, an announcement was broadcast several times. This announcement came to the atten­tion of several offices at the univer­sity. At that time, some questions were raised about the announce­ment and the text of the announce­ment was finally sent to my office. At about the same time the announcement stopped according to the usual time limit imposed on such announcements. The matter of such announcements was investi­gated and considered. 
In the early spring semester, it was learned that the announcement was to be aired again. The station manager withheld the announce­ment at the request of myself and the Assistant Director of Student Activities until a discussion could be held on the matter. Eileen Rid­ley, the manager of WSND-FM, and I discussed the matter at length two or three times, as I recall. The result was that there was no agree­ment on the matter and it was indi­cated that the announcement should not be broadcast. Eileen felt that she could not agree with. this and ultimately submitted her resig­nation. 
The manager of the AM station likewise resigned for similar rea­sons. The acting managers of both stations were informed in one or other ways that the announcement should not be run. On the FM sta­tion the acting manager indicated to the staff that it could be run ­and it . was subsequently broadcast several times. The service of the 
APRIL 19, 1986 


RESPONSE TO THE WSND CONTROVERSY 
acting station manager for FM w:is ended and the Assistant Director of Student Activities was named act­ing station manager until the begin­ning of the terms of office of the new regularly chosen station managers and officers who had been chosen, coincidentally, around the same time that this _problem 
arose. 
. Several questions have been raised regarding this matter. They have to do with policy, control and censorship. The FM station has !orig been conceived of as a fine 
· arts and cultural outlet. The pro­gramming has been classical music plus some other programming which is directed to providing related services to the listening community. The public service announcements apparently had been related to fine. arts and cul­tural matters. The airing of other kinds of messages is a relatively recent addition. The policy govern­ing this aspect of the station's operation and other policies need some clarification. Announcements in the broadcast medium have to be considered from the point of view of how they-are perceived by the listener. 
There are interests and concerns of the institution as the sponsor of the station that have to be con­sidered in this regard. There are responsibilities that should be met by all concerned. · 
This, of course, raises this issue of control of the radio stations. We conceive of the stations as student operated. It is the desire of the University that this operation by the students be in the widest extent possible while at the same time allowing that all interests concerned 
. be addressed relative to policy, to financial responsibilities and -to providing for a well defined and unique service to the community or communities served by any of our media activities. It is not the inten­tion or desire of the administration to "take over" the stations. It is the intention of those of us responsible for certain matters to see that all of the needs and interests involved in the existence and operation of the i I stations be properly addressed to the best of everyone's abilities and talents and relative to the resources available. 

The issue of censorship has 

been raised regarding the public 
service announcement. We do not 
think that it is at all a matter of 
censorship. It is importa.nt to 
remember that this has to do only 
with announcements made on the 
station. Any publication or station, 
almost as a matter of course, selects 
what items it can and cannot run at 
any given time for a variety of rea­
sons. A completely limitless policy 
and practice in this regard is not 
realistic. Announcements of or for 
specific groups or events are 
matters quite different from the 
practice of discussion of issues in 
the usual formats used by the print 
and broadcast media. 
Personally, I would say that I 

regret that there has been contro­
versy over the matter of the public 
service announcement. I would 
like to hope that everyone under­
stands the many issues involved in 
this matter. The actions of those 
responsible are necessitated by our · 
sense of responsibility for all of the 
activities and actions associated 
with the many entities connected 
with this institution. My purpose 
and that of the associates con­
nected with me in the matter of 
student activities has been to help 
provide for the orderly, efficient 
and responsible operation of these 
student activities during this given .. year and for the future. • 
15 



I
,, 

t>.,e\~is ~ei) 1,,'1,1!> 


I 
I 
i: 
. 
i 
I 
I 

restaurants__________;________________ 
by John Markey 

In the last issue I let you all in on one of South Bend's best kept ' secrets: the Michiana region offers some great places to eat. And in the words of the National Restau­rant Association, "Eating out is fun." So here you are, three more ways to have fun at Notre Dame. 
Papa Joe's Casa de Pasta (1209 So. Union St., Mishawaka, 255­0890). Let's face it, relatively good Italian restaurants are a dime a dozen in this town --but Papa Joe's clearly stands apart from the crowd. Busy, crowded, and noisy this place does a week's worth of business in just two nights, Friday and Saturday, 5-10 p.m., to be exact. • The reason · for this phenomenon is simple: a unique atmosphere and fantastic food. 

What really makes this place is the food. Everything, and I mean everything, is homemade, from the pasta to the carrot cake. A dinner includes cheese· and crackers, garlic toast, large antipasta salad, main course with spaghetti, and dessert. . All priced between $5 and $IO (believe it or not!). The menu offers an extensive variety to choose from and you can't go wrong. I person­ally like the veal. A word of warn­ing though: Do not go here unless you are truly hungry or you won't be able to walk out. Also, this place specializes in nice leisurely meals and friendly service, so don't pl;:in on rushing through a quick dinner. 
Reservations are a must because it's always crowded. They take VISA and MasterCard. Group accommodations are available for up to 50. 
China Garden (900 E. Ireland Rd., just west of Scottsdale Mall, 



uperlatives 

three reasons. 
The food: The food in both variety and quality is just better enough to make a difference. There are many options besides the tradi­tional Cantonese, sweet & sour 
fare, including a good Northern Chinese selection. I think that the Hot and Sour Soup is the best I've had anywhere, and recommend their seafood dishes. The prices are very reasonable {$5 to $10), and the portions are large. 
The decor: This place is truly eclectic, combining the common, tacky oriental restaurant decor, with the traditional English, coun­tryhome, steakhouse genre. It is worth the trip just to see this place. 
The lazy-susans: There should be a law that all Chines·e restau­rants have to have lazy-susans at every table. It makes sharing food, an absolute necessity in Chinese dining, both fun and easy. 
I, ' 
ts usually not crowded, but 

The Rib Shack. (1835 Lincoln­way East, South Bend, 288-8240. and St. Rd. 23, Granger, 277-3143). I believe that the Rib Shack has the best ribs in town. As a matter of fact I think that they could stack up pretty well against any that I've had. The Rib Shack formula is sim­ple: good quality meaty ribs, real hickory smoking, an·d a great bar­becue sauce. Add to that deep­fried potato wedges and homemade cole slaw and this place is unbeat­able. Ribs, rib tips, or ribs and chicken combos are priced between $4 and $7. Chicken dinners (the chicken here is just as carefully prepared and always good) are about $4. They also have pizza, fried catfish, and a variety of sandwiches are available. 
The Rib Shack is open seven days a week and they have carry out available. They also welcome large groups and offer them special prices on all-you-can-eat. 
SCHOLASTIC 


The Culmination Of A Dream 
HICKEY NEW SMC PRESIDENT 
by Barb Blanchette 
Former College Vice-President, William A. Hickey, has been appointed President of Saint Mary's College. Acting President both in 1974-7 5 interim between Dr. Edward L. Henry, and Dr. John Duggan's terms and since Dr. Duggan's July, 1985 resignation, Hickey is familiar with the role he must now assume. 
Though there had been specula­tion about whether Dr. Duggan's successor would be one of two women nominated, the selection committee relied more heavily on 
..... this represents, for me the culmination of a dream, to preside over the institution that I have worked so hard for." 
the iss•1es of experience and dedi­cation to the College. Dr. Hickey commented, "Having been involved 

and committed to education for 25 years, 12 of those years as a senior arenas, he was elected in 1983, to administrator, this represents, for chair the Dean's Committee of the me the culmination of a dream, to Indiana Conference on Higher preside over the institution that· I Education, and has served two have worked so hard for." terms as president of the American 
Association ·or University Profes­Hickey began his career at Saint sors, Saint Mary's Chapter. 

Mary's in 1960 as an instructor, professor, and th'en Chairman of His varied honors and achieve­Biology, followed by an appoint­ments include publishing more than ment as President of Academic two dozen papers in the course of Affairs in May, 1972. Appointed his studies as an insect geneticist, Vice President and Dean of as well as many national research Faculty in 1975, he has remained · honors, and the Spes Unica Award active in the College and Commun­, given annually to outstanding ity. Among many other active posi­faculty members. He holds a B.S. in tions j ,-, both academic and cultural Biology from King's College, 
APRIL 19, 1986 


Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and MA. and Ph.D. degrees in Biology from the University of Notre Dame. 
Dr. Hickey's warm personality, that 0f an administrator who has made every effort to keep in con­tact with students, and his growth with the College over the past 25 years, will enhance his term as President. As members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Com­munity, we welcome Dr. Hickey in his new capacity, and support him in efforts for continued success at Saint Mary's College. • 
1:,1 


The Game Of Life 
MANY ATHLETES ARE UNPREPARED FOR IT 
I 

"That is the underbelly of the status he attains, and if he slips into it, he becomes a pampered pup, con­-stantly seeking favors and unable to handle even the simplest of chores. He defines himself by his athletic talent and loses touch with his truer self, and when his talent wanes and his career comes to an end, he is often a lost soul headed down a lonely road." 
-Chicago Tribune Magazine "Rookies at Reality" January 19, 1986 
20 


People often make the claim that the athlete in general, from gram­mar school to the professional ranks, lives a life of fantasy, one divorced from the reality which most of us face each day. Sport psychologist Thomas Tutko, from Northwestern University, claims that athletes "are really not . prepared for life. They're totally protected from reality." Athletes may reap the benefits from their natural · ability without examining the effects which their environment 
By Bill Krais 

exerts upon them. Often enough, this environment's influence is dangerous. It allows a basketball player to graduate from Creighton University with a seventh grade education; it creates fictitious col­lege classes for Southern Cal foot­ball players; it seduces· athletes with cocaine and illegal payoffs; The environment wreaks · havoc upon unsuspecting and often unreflective athletes. This is especially com­pounded by an educational system that churns out students who flirt 
·SCHOLASTIC 
with illiteracy. Our society, in its precarious preoccupation with sports entertainment, can destroy a person, not for a year or two, but for life. 
The synthesis of athletes and society is a difficult one. It involves careful nurturing, almost . to the point of hand-holding. The influences are so tempting that parents, high schools, colleges, and professional institutions have to go to extraordinary means in order to prevent .an athlete from failing in society. Typically, the Notre Dame athlete, contrary to the status quo, manages to succeed in society. At an outstanding rate, he has been able to handle himself adequately through grammar school and high school, tackle college life, and sur­vive the rigors of the "real world." 
Whether it is Irish propaganda or an authentic success, the Notre Dame story seems to be always the 
..Our society, in its sports entertainment, forever.'' 
blitzed with stories of athletes being pampered and being accorded special privileges, but not, according to DeCicco, at Notre Dame. He insists that at Notre Dame, tHe athlete gets what he deserves and nothing more. "If the athlete gets an F which he deserves," explained Decicco, "that's good; it's another lesson he should learn." If he is away on a road trip, however, Decicco main­tains, then he should be helped out with his studies; after all, the ath­lete went on the road trip as a ser­vice to Notre Dame and the University should pay him back. 
Perhaps, however, a student's performance should be interpreted as . an individual pursuit, not one representing the University. This being the case, should the athlete be given free tutoring and special meal privileges just for participat­ing in an extra-curricular activity ? 

precarious preoccupation with can destroy an athlete's life 
them are two recent Notre Dame graduates; namely Vagas Ferguson and Willie Fry. They have used their athletic talents as a means to -lessons which they have learned on the football field and applied them 
to the working world. 
In 1980, Vagas Ferguson gra­duated from Notre Dame with a degree in economics. At the time the degree seemed secondary; he was on his way to Foxboro, Mas­sachussetts, hoping to pursue a pro­fessional football career. Drafted in the first round by the New England Patriots, this All-American was going to strut his stuff in the pros. 
Ferguson claims that as an ath­lete, you are totally removed from reality. He had to rely upon his upbringing and the "positive direc­tion" provided by his grand­parents in order to avoid the temp­tations which confronted him. "Schools made promises to me," recalls Ferguson. "They told me that I would start right away or that they. would build their pro­grams around me. There was a lot of pressure to make the right deci­sion." 
The imbalanced, lavish praise that is bestowed on a person's ath­
letic skills at the expense of other skills can lead to delusions of gran­deur . that shield him from habitually acting socially responsi­ble. So frequently, we put our ath­letes in ivory towers. In the last ten years, we have learned that many of these towers are made of glass. Perhaps the key to the athlete's plight is actually at the root of 

· many problems in society -lack of educational and parental guidance. Ferguson readily acknowledges that athletes do not necessarily succeed in society. He attributes this failure to succeed to "a lack of direction from a young age." 
But how about the rigors of the real world; can the athlete handle everyday life ? Following a six year career which took Ferguson from New England to Houston and · most recently to the Chicago Blitz same: this university more than adequately prepares its athletes for life after sports. Athletic Academic Advisor and fencing coach Mike Decicco sees to it that the high standards set by the University are met by every athlete, at the risk of dropping that player from his team. "I bust my ass to make sure it works right," lauds a sincere and determined DeCicco. He talks of "maintaining integrity" and "achieving excellence" all in the name of the University of Notre Dame. Even if one maintains a guarded scepticism regarding Notre Dame athletes and their relation­ship to society, one is nevertheless convinced that Mike DeCicco is doing all in his power to maintain the University's "stringent regula­tions." 
Generally, the sports fan is 
APRIL 19, 1986 
The issue here is the role of the athlete in society. Are they indivi­dual performers or are they University employees? 
But if those are privileges that the Notre Dame athlete receives, (free tutoring and special meal accommodations), they are apparently the only ones. DeCicco insists that Notre Dame athletes are primarily students and that it is the University's intent to prepare them for life after sports. 
Many former Notre Dame ath­letes currently occupy professional rosters. Their inductions into real­ity, therefore, have been postponed to a later date. Many others, how­ever, have had to make that poten­tially hazardous move from sports fantasy to societal reality sooner than originally intended. Among of the U.S.F.L., Ferguson recently hung up the shoulder pads for a career in sales with the Belden Company in Indiana. "They're an ekctronics wire company and they've put me in their sales trainee program. I am six years behind most of the people I work with; they've just graduated from col­lege." Ferguson attributes his smooth transition from the gridiron to the corporate world to his edu­cation at Notre Dame.. When asked whether being an athlete gave him unfair advantages in the working world, Ferguson thought for a second. "It helps...people recognize my name, but that's all. In business, like in football, you have to prove yourself; you have to perform." 



For Vagas Ferguson, his athletic ·career was an ·enchanting prologue to a business career in southern Indiana. It was great while it lasted, but it is over now; it has yielded to a new life. For Ferguson, what is most remembered about his career are the "people you've met along the way, not the game itself." 
Willie Fry, the vice-president of investments for Shearson Lehman Brothers/ American Express, is in a very different environment from the one which he grew up in, 
"So frequently, we put our athletes in ivory 

· towers. In the last ten years, we have learned that some of them are made of glass." 
nearly thirty years ago. He was raised in the ghettos of Memphis, Tennessee and remembers his roots whenever he thinks of where he is today. "I never want to go back to the lifestyle from which I came," asserts Fry. It is this motivation which kept Fry from falling prey to the vultures of the athletic world and allowed him to make a smooth transition once his playing days were over. 

"I was always a big kid for my age. I knew in about the sixth grade that I had special athletic talents." Fry played basketball as a young­ster, but once the football coaches saw his size and ability, they would n'ot leave him alone. "As I got older I realized that I could use my ability to improve my lot in society. I had the insight and motivation which most athletes don't have. I knew that my athletic ability would get me into school." 
But Fry's primary intentions were to "get a good education, and football would be my means to that end." At Notre Dame, this two-
SCHOLASTIC 


time All-American "wasn't treated really special in the classroom. I had to do the work like everyone else. At Notre Dame you're singled out...you are showcasing your talent on a national level...you receive recognition." But his football days were numbered, and fortunately for him, he was prepared. 
After being drafted in the second round by the Pittsburgh Steelers, Fry injured his shoulder. 
••whether  an  athlete  
succeeds  . m  society  
depends  on  the  person  
himself."  

I 
He spent both. of his years in the pros on the injured reserve list. "Right after ~Y rookie season, I began my career as a . broker. I went to Wall Street and interviewed with a number of firms." Fry knew that football would not last forever and he wanted to prepare himself for what was to come. 
Once on Wall Street, the glory and fame from the football field can carry a person only so far. "Athletes tend to get a foot in the door due to their name. But a foot in the door is only one part. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER


f SOCIElY® 
Help us keep winning. 
Acknowledgement 
The two photos of Digger Phelps which appeared in the April 2 edition of the Sarcastic were courtesy of the Observer photo file. 
APRIL 19, 1986 
Delivering the goods is another 
part." Fry's experience leads him to 
assert that athletes are not pam­
pered after their careers have 

ended; they must prove their worth . in the corporate world. They are 
starting over again. 
"Sure I would have loved to have played in the NFL for ten years, but I have no regrets about where I am now." Fry considers himself very fortunate. He sees a major problem in college athletics today. "An overwhelming number of athletes don't graduate from school. [A recent study by Northeastern University puts that number at 70%] They have been 
led througl1 school and given 
breaks...to the detriment of their education. Consequently, they are left high and dry after they are done playing. It is the breaks which should be reviewed." 
Whether an athlete succeeds in society depends primarily upon the person himself. If he is motivated and has the insight and the resourcefulness which Willie Fry has displayed, or the determination of Vagas Ferguson, then he will have the necessary foundation for success in the real world. So much depends on how the athlete handles 


l"!t6f. P,ARKING 
FRONT & Rfldlla 
219 DIXIE WAY
-~­

NO. IN RC!:iEI.A!IID 
23, 

the pressures of growing up. In this respect, they are no different from any person. Aside from their visi­bility and name recognition, they face similar pressures once they leave the playing field. If they can cope with them, like everyone else, 
.§
...., 
~ 
] 
~ 
.. 

~ ... ~ 
0 

~ 

] . 
J 
0 
Willie Fry 

they will succeed. Apparently, Notre Dame, with its unusually high graduating rate of athletes iin major sports coupled with an excel.: lent education, instills that coping mechanism into its athletes and has sent them into society with the means necessary for success.• 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
To 5·J0 P.M. 
'" CARl>lN SUl•Pl.!ES 
• 
HCIJSf.W ARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPC.,R rING GOOllS 

• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PIUMBING & Elf.CTRICAL <;tJppJ lf.!:i 




272-7535 


music• _____________________________, 







Some Music To Consider 
THREE ALBUMS IN MINI-REVIEW 
by Todd Waf/ner 
10,000 MANIACS: "Sitting in the Wishing Chair" 
I had the pleasure of hearing 10,000 MANIACS' home-grown sound over Christmas break. The band is from Jamestown, New York and is popular at the colleges ·in western New York. Far from commercial, they present them­selves as something you might hear at the neighborhood bar. Indeed, one of their songs sounds like a Polish folk ditty. Do not misinter­pret this. They are definitely 3n intellectual band_ with subject matter ranging from the problems of the American Indian ·to nuclear 


10,000 Maniacs have put together an appealing, hard worked sound util­izing electric and acous­tic guitar as a base for . 
. 
Natalie Merchant's 
enchanting, Alice in 

Wonderland voice. 
concerns. 10,000 Maniacs have put together an appealing, hard worked sound utilizing electric and acoustic guitar as a base for Natalie Merchant's enchanting, Alice in Wonderland voice. If you like flea markets, you'll enjoy this one. 
DEL AMITP..l; Del Amitri 
I know Vi..~·y little about Del Amitri uther than that they are an 
..Del  Amitri"  has  a  
predominantly  sunny  
feel,  although  some  
songs  tend  to  mellow  
out the listener.  This is  




a good album for relax­ing after a hard day. 
artistic bunch from Glasgow and that their new album is extremely enjoyable. This is another folksy . band which mixes American and English folk to produce a minstrel­like quality. Their material offers a very _ textured sound. Conse-· quently, one is not soon bored with this work and it defies the test of repeated playings, The album has a predominantly sunny feel, although some· songs tend to mellow out the listener. This is-a good album for relaxing . after a hard day. The album cover is also very appealing. In fact I would purchase the album solely for its cover. 
HOODOO GURUS: Mars needs . guitars 

The Hoodoo Gurus have sup­plied t:S with another solid album, even · though it lacks some of the intensity of their previous effort, "Stone Age Romeos." A friend of min·e described the Hoodoo Gurus as "a bunch of guys who look like T-Rex." This is not far from the truth as they are influenced by six­ties guitar-bands. They, however, 
have nv apologies to make ·and describe themselves as a "fresh · sound from the past." Their music is moving. and danceable to. Their sound relies heavily on a righteous beat and driving gn:.tar, although they slow down on a couple parts of the album "Mars needs guitars". My fmal word is , if you like· the theme from "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" you might want to 
give this album a try.• 

SCHOLASTIC 


ND's Having A Bal I 
PROCEEDS TARGETED FOR WORLD HUNGER 
by Michael Mazza and Mary Ellen Mileski 
The idea for the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Charity Ball was born in a car cruising south to New Orleans for last year's Christmas break. Troubled by a news report describ­ing the spread of starvation. across Ethiopia, junior Danny Harrison, a Grace resident, puzzled over how he could help those dying daily from malnutrition. He came up with what he thought was a good idea, shared his thoughts with fel­low Notre Dame students traveling with him, discussed it with his fam­ily and on the 15 hour ride back to ND finally decided that a dance to feed the hungry was the answer. 
Danny Harrison's novel idea was a huge success last May; with only a small group of Notre Dame/St.Mary's students and a short planning period the Charity 



The Puzzle 
ACROSS 35 Temporary 2 Pay heed 
shelter 3 Near 1 Embrace 37 Playing card 4 Music: as 6 Specks 38 Southwestern written 
5 Fondles 11 Stretcher Indian 
13-Lea 40 Pierce 

14 Conjunction 42 Crimson 6 Observes 
15 Studio 43 Bridges 7 Equality 
17 Pronoun 45 Nahoor sheep 8 Hypothetical 18 Pigpen 46 Article force 
20 Goes by water 47 Put on one's 

9 Drying cloths 10 Perspire21 Edible seed guard 12 Harvest22 Leak through 49 Apothecary's 13 Moth 24 Crony: weight: abbr. 
16 Falsifier colloq. 50 Musical 19 Longed for 25 Beer ingredient instruments 21 Licenses 
26 Metal fastener 52 Empower 23 Devoutness 
28 Contradicts 54 Aroma 25 Ponders 
30 Musical 55 Attempts instrument 
Ball raised several thousand dollars for Ethiopia. The students organiz­ing the Ball this year hope to raise $10,000 for World Hunger. Its name, "The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Charity Ball: A Family Celebration of Life," promotes the dance as an affirmation of familial bonds in a 

The idea for the Notre 

Ball was born in a car cruising south to New Orle­ans for last year's Christmas break. 
celebration of life. 
The Charity Ball is a project conceived by students for students --it gives students an opportunity to respond to the world hunger crisis. Many argue that events such as the Charity Ball are drop-in­the-bucket solutions to long-term problems. The Ball's organizers respond that while there is a need to educate and implement modern aid plans, help is also needed in the form of immediate donations of food and money. The Charity Ball 
27 Confederate 
general 29 Conjunction 31 Pulpy fruits 33 Peaceful 34 Asterisk 36 Snarl 37 Snares 39 Heraldry: 
grafted 41 Reveals 43 Narrow opening 44 Dispatched 47 Yearly: abbr. 48 Daughters of 
the American Revolution: abbr. 
51 Diphthong 53 Prefix: twice 

tries to alleviate some of these immediate needs. All proceeds will be turned· over to the Catholic Relief Services which allocates them to those places designated as the neediest in the world. 
The presence of Lou Holtz as the Ball's Honorary Chairman and 

Dame/St. Mary's Charity 
various corporate sponsors like Coca-Cola would seem to predict its success. Faculty, staff, adminis­tration, undergraduates, religious and civic leaders and representa­tives from the South 
Bend/Mishawaka communities will all be invited to the event. Student support, however, is crucial. The Charity Ball is slated for May 2nd at the Athletic and Convocation Center. Students hope that this event can become a tradition of giving at Notre Dame and continue throughout the years. 
DOWN

32 Trick Solution on page 27 33 Buries 1 Social rank 





cayh Management 101 

OPTIONS FOR NEW GRADUATES 

By Ginny Blissert 
Next year many seniors will be tak­
-ing a new course--Introduction to Cash Management. Not only will many be clearing $20,000 plus but they will also be faced with expenses such as rent, transporta­. tion fees and taxes. Though initial balances may be minimal, these debits and credits mean changing 
•financial needs. What better time to investigate some of the services a bank offers to small investors. 
With the deregulation of the banking industry, savers can achieve· higher rates from a variety of products. Gone are the days of simply depositing funds in th~ trad­itional passbook savings account at the neighborhood branch. In fact, this conventional saving device will soon be obsolete. In March of this year, Regulation Q, the ceiling on passbook interest rates, will no longer be effective. This will mean a more competitive banking environment. 
Though the rate of return on these accounts is not as high as other savings accounts, they are perhaps the most important instru­ment for the new investor. They are extremely liquid, that is, money can be obtained quickly and easily. With the ending of the 5.5 percent· ceiling rate, banks will be offering higher interest rates. To remain competitive and still pay compara­tively low rates, banks will be forced to offer additional' services, 
. such as. free travelers checks and no fee credit cards. 
26 
An increasingly popular option is the Money Market Savings Account. Paying higher interest rates than passbooks, many of these accounts can be opened with as lit­tle as $250. Like the passbook, they are a liquid source of funds. Small in~estors should be aware that interest rates are based on a two­tier system. One interest rate, usu­ally 5.25 percent, is charged up to a certain level and than, on larger balances, a higher rate is earned. 
These accounts do have some disadvantages, however. For instance, only three third party ~hecks can be written per month. 
Next year, many seniors will be taking a new course -Introduction to Cash Management. 
Otherwise, stiff penalties are charged against the account for dipping below minimum deposit requirements. Both good and bad buys can be found in , money market accounts. The best are those that pay market rates to all deposits with no fees for low balances, . while the worst would cost more to 
maintain than the interest earned. 
Another option is the Negotiable Orders of Withdrawal (NOW accounts). These are basically interest bearing checking accounts. Services, as well as fees, vary from bank to bank. The average interest paid on these accounts is· 5.25 per­cent. Though NOW's pay interest, minimum balances are required. Once again, investors must compare as interest earned can quickly be 

wiped out by penalties.  
Other  savings  and  checkings  
options include:  
Regular  Checking  Accounts:  

These are best for small investors since they are primarily for bal­ances of a few hundred dollars. Traditionally, No interest is paid on balances and most do not require minimum balances. 
As the most liquid source of funds, the checking account is essential to any investor. While some of today's accounts earn interest, banks make up the differ­ence in a variety of ways. Many checking accounts have fees for writing checks, penalties for main­taining insufficient balances, tran-­saction costs for the use of automatic teller machines, fees for cancelled checks and penalties for overdrawing are included in many accounts. 
Certificates of Deposit: These pay the highest rates on savings, however, there is a catch. Deposits in .CD's cannot be withdrawn for a specific period of time. Instead, higher rates are paid as compensa­tion for the tying up of funds. CD's can have terms of 30 days, 90 days, or five years. There are usu­ally no maintenance fees, but paycheck and invest in company stock. In addition, many companies have certain agreements with local banks which include free checking 
SCHOLASTIC 


and direct deposit. Such a "can't spend what you don't see " policy could help control the urge to splurge and be profitable at the same time. 
Super Negotiable Orders of Withdrawal: These are also tiered accounts. A rate of 5.25% is paid up to a certain level, often $1000, 



HEY YOU! 
The Scholastic is searching for suave, sophisticated, fast talk­ers to be our ad salespersons. Must have car. Paid positions. 
Inquire at Scholastic Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune, 239-7419. 
APRIL 19. 1986 
and the market rate is paid above this minimum. In addition, there is an unlimited number of checks allowed. 
Another important area which should be reviewed is company benefit plans. Many offer plans which take a percentage of every penalties for early withdrawal can be steep. 

Solution to puzzle on page 25 


In addition, many com­_panies have certain agreements with local banks which include free 
checking  and  direct  
deposit.  Such  a  ..can'1  
spend  what  you  don'I  
see"  policy  could  help  


control the urge to splurge and be profitable at the same time. 

Whatever the decision, be sure to shop around and read the fine print. The industry is rapidly changing and services vary from • bank to bank. An effective way to choose an account is to monitor individual performances for several months. By simply looking at aver­age balances and the average number of checks written per month, one can decide which account would be most profitable. No matter how basic one's mone­tary needs, it is worthwhile to try to cash in on savings options. • 


Back To The Future 
1980s STUDENTS -RADICALS AT HEART 

by Mary E. Hess 
We have yet to figure out how the radical 1960s and the sexually-free 1970s have affected the campuses of the somewhat ambiguous 1980s. Critics fault today's generation for having tastes which run less to civil rights, more to Cordon Negro and truffles. 
The students of the · 1980s are written off as self-centered and apathetic, success-seeking and insufferably bourgeois. While the detractors speak with some grain of truth, a renewed interest in radical-, ism is fast sweeping universities today, both belying these critiques and confounding the heck out of us students. · 
Nowadays, it is in vogue on campus to bemoan the rise of the Yuppies and the fall of Baez and Dylan. Baez's concerts sell out immediately--most of the tickets go not to graying hippies, but to the would-be radicals of the quiet 1980s campuses. Timothy Leary's latest tour of Ivy League and midwestern universities is enjoying more than modest success. No matter that we have to pull Super­man quick-change acts, shoving gray flannel suits and burgundy paisley ties into third world burlap bags in order to be radical between interviews. No matter that few of us have neither the desire nor the 

courage to try the hallucinogenic drugs that Leary once touted. No matter that virtually none of us were born when Leary was kicking up a ruckus. Still, our hearts belong to Berkeley and Columbia, even if our minds are contracted to Arthur Anderson. 
So many of us ache to be part of a more meaningful, issue-oriented time, yet we balk at giving up the niceties we have come to accept as our due. We want to picket and boycott and petition, yet we hesi­tate too long, thinking · about our parents and our upbringing. We· spend sleepless nights mulling over the possibility of not finding a job after graduation. We feel a bit resentful at having to chcose between material goods and ideol-
SCHOLASTIC
28 
ogy --and a little guilty. We search frantically for a way to have both a "Divest Now!" T-shirt on our backs and croissants in our fridges. 
The failures of previous radicals have both benefited and limited us. In a vicarious way, the activism of the 1960s and 1970s appeals to us, but we realize that ours is a hard row to hoe. The desire is there -­we want our row to feed Africa, yet are keenly aware it won't. We become a bit jaded. We think that maybe it is ,best to leave the bleed­ing heart liberalism to those who can afford it, to those who can make a difference. We realize the world to be overwhelmingly big and ourselves so awfully small. To leave our hearts unguarded is to leave them prey to all the heels of interviewer's shoes them. them. 
Callouses form· over the tender hearts we inherited from the 1960s and 1970s radicals. We have simply seen too much; it has begun to take a lot more to shock us. Our earliest memories conjure up one president shot, the other impeached. Televi­sion announcements of our heroes' drug-induced deaths have become commonplace: Oz lost its Dorothy, the Man lost his Chico, and Satur­day Night was a little less lively without its greatest Samurai war­rior. Before we were long into our teens, we had watched Elvis, Len­non, and others trickle away like bathwater, and one learned, after a time, not to cry at bath's end. 
Growing up has meant ceasing to search for meaning in senseless murders, in sporadic hijackings, in terrorism so far removed from our everyday lives. To allow them to affect us would have meant being crushed by their sheer numbers. Passing headlines . only momentarily catch our eyes, Each one realizes its separate nightmare, whose glow then fades, only to be replaced by the sunrise of a new horror that had waited impatiently upon the horizon: Travelers shot in Paris air­port, Thousands die in Mexico earthquake.. We 1980s children 
APRlL 19, 1986 
continue to live after each with the question of "What now?" riding on our backs, nestled somewhere between our accounting and sociology textbooks. 
We flee from embroiling our­selves in controversies which might entangle us. Out of sheer necessity, we begin to tell mere accidents to 
We feel a bit resentful at having to choose between material goods and ideology and a little guilty. We search frantically for a way to have both a "Divest Now!" T-shirt on our backs and croissants in our fridges. 
call back later. We put tragedies on hold to think about tonight, or maybe tomorrow. Catastrophes may be plugged right into cons­ciousness --but that's not saying we can do anything about them. 
We're relieved when someone else becomes involved for us. "Vicarious concern" becomes the watchword for those of us who can't find time for rallies and sign­painting. Seeing an Anti-apartheid sign, we nod our heads and feel sure that our tacit agreement is support enough. We read The Diary of Malcolm X, feel duly activist, and thank God we live in a nation which now sees fit to celebrate Martin Luther King's birthday. We hear that Jessica Lange and Sally Field are speaking to Senate sub­committees and . are grateful they care so much about the poor farm­ers, although we choose to keep eating Campbell's rather. than do without chicken-noodle soup. Pub­licly, everyone loves to berate Jane Fonda and Ralph Nader. Privately, we realize that together they champion enough causes to keep millions of Americans vicari­ously activist. As long as Nader and Fonda keep getting fired up, the rest of us can get on with our lives. 

Critics condemn today's stu­dents for not caring enough to try to cure social ills. They state that we are too little concerned with nuclear prolif era ti on, too greatly caught up in who is merging with GE. They claim that we have cal­culators for minds and pocketbooks for hearts. They remark that we are far too interested in future econom­ics and far too removed from the activist world of our predecessors. This is where they probably stray most from the truth. 
It is virtually impossible to get away from the radicalism of the 1960s and 1970s. Perhaps today's conservatism is not so much inconsistent with the militancy of previous decades, as it is a natural outcome of it. Our reticence to get involved might stem less from being too distanced from previous activist decades, more from being too close. This proximity is enhanced by the media. As soon as our hearts and wounds begin to scab over, one of the networks offers us a new mini­series in which we may relive the horrors of Vietnam, Kent State, or Montgomery, Alabama 
This very inescapability inevit­ably leads to the reality now played out on the nation's campuses: today's graduates refuse to be torn by ethereal issues, instead we· clutch at professions and posses­sions in hopes that they will help us ride out the storm. Ironically, the very uneasiness which causes us to cling also prevents us from relaxing and enjoying our hot tubs and hibachis. We are caught in the awk-. ward position of having one foot in the past, the other in the future. Our footing in the present is thus all too uncertain. • 

Book Review _____________________ 
The Destiny Of The Big-Brain 
by Patrick A. Manson 
Could it be that our descendants, one million years from now,_ will trace their ancestry back to an incompetent ship captain and six Kanka-bono women? Could it be that our destiny is to return to the sea from which we originated mil­lions of years ago? 
Kurt Vonnegut's latest novel, Galapagos, is the story of the capri­ciousness of nature and history, of the uncertainty of circumstance, and most 1mportant, of the myth that we "big-brained" humans have any control over our destiny. The story is inspired by Charles Darwin's evolutionary insight: the Law of Natural Selection. 
The main event of the story is the "Nature Cruise of the Cen­
tury". Designed by a yuppie New York entrepreneur (with a stuffed iguana on his bureau), the cruise has on its itinerary the many splen­did islands of the Galapagos archapelago. The ship, the Bahia de Darwin, has an unexpected passenger: the ghost of Leon Trot­sky Trout. The hero of many of Vonnegut's novels, Trout is des­tined to die here while working as a shipwright in Switzerland. After death he makes a choice to remain aboard the Darwin Bay for one mil­lion years, rather than enter the Blue Tunnel of Light, the destiny of all souls. Because of this deci­sion, he bears witness, as the narra­tor, to the most dramatic shift in man's evolution. 
The Nature Cruise of the Cen­tury proves to be a journey quite different from what the passengers 

A REVIEW OF KURT VONNEGUT'S GALAPAGOS 
had anticipated Due to several ran­dom factors --the bankruptcy of Peru, the Peruvian attack on Ecua­dor, the ineptitude of a socialite sea captain --the Bahia de Darwin departs with a dozen 

-~ 
mismatched patrons. I he ship leaves its port, Guayaquil, Ecuador, with a New England biology teacher, a Japanese woman about to give birth to a furry product of Hiroshima-bomb mutation, a deaf girl who had just lost her father, a computer-translator named Man­darax, and the last six survivors of the Kanka-bono tribe of western South America Because the Cap­tain remains in a_ crow's nest (drunken to the gill) for much of the short-lived voyage; the Bahia de Darwin runs aground just off the beautiful island, Santa Rosalia. This small island --home to a· par­ticularly splendid variety of Darwin's finches --is to become the birthplace of the ancestors of humanity. The rest of the world 




so. 
SCHOLASTIC 
suffers extinction because of an ova-destroying virus. By chance, our survivors avoid the effocts of the virus because of their hasty departure from bomb-shelled Guayaquil. By more chance, six Kanka-bono girls are pulled aboard · the Bahia de Darwin, and so comprise the only fertile women to be stranded on Santa Rosalia. And also by chance, our biology teacher, Mary, is able to inseminate these Kanka-bono girls with the sperm of the unknowing Captain,thc only surviving male. But unknown to Mary and the others, the Captain carries in him a genetic disorder which will have a profound impact upon the future shape of human 
beings. 
Vonnegut's styk throughout the novel is delightful, hilarious, and sometimes cynically sarcastic. Vonnegut jumps from character to character, loosely telling their bizarre pasts and their varied rea­sons for attending the Nature Cruise of the Century. Each char­acter is introduced through brief anecdotes which appear in no sen­sible chronological order and which are interrelated only by the smallest strands of coherence. Vonnegut's deliberate piecemeal, segmented approach reflects the sense of chance and helplessness in the future of our long.:.term evolution. 
He has mastered a style --like that of Marquez' One Hundred Years of Solitude--in which a series of innumerable subplots continually postpone the telling of the major plot. The apparent pointlessness of these digressions embodies the sub­stance of the major theme: the Darwinian idea that the forces of nature exercise an illusory and random control over the shape of every living thing. Vonnegut rem­inds us that our big brains have often failed to direct us to do what is best for nature and ourselves. 
I recommend Kurt Vonnegut's latest endeavour, Galapagos, both for its truly sobering message and for its ironic and comic style. This novel cleverly blends Darwin's insight of nature's caprice with the absurdism and complexity of" modern life. Galapagos beckons us to re-examine the meaning of our temporality, yet also invites us to laugh at ourselves as nature's cr.ea­tions. The reader is never at a lo.ss for thoughts while turning its pages. 


(} 
APRIL "19, 1986 
------' 
final word 




Mixed Blessings 
THE BENEFITS OF A DIVERSE STUDENT BODY 

by Michelle Tripeny 
After graduation, what is it that is most remembered about college? Is it the courses taken? I don't think so; I can't recall what I took last semester. Material learned? Maybe. After all, that is the purpose of "higher education" --to instill in the students concepts, procedures and specific knowledge used in the "real world." But how much of what is learned is actually utilized and remembered? No, I do not think it is the material, either. What will remain with us is what most of our days is our interaction with other people. 
In a single day on a college campus, a student deals with many different people: professors, dining hall workers, rectors, roommates. Most of these relations, however, are with other students --people the same age. 
The transition from high school to college, whether it is a state school, a small private college, or a large university, is many· times a tumultuous experience. In high school, one's values are established and security is sought within these values. Backgrounds are basically similar and beliefs are not often challenged. In college, suddenly there are total strangers in the hall­ways, at the next desk, sleeping in the same room. And these people arc not always what you are accus­tomed to. Their clothes, hair and speech are different; their beliefs, values and life styles are unfamiliar to you. And they think you are weird, too. 
You are at school for the educa­tion, so you can't . just run home and hide. You have to forge ahead and try to learn despite these new insecurities. But why can't these people be like you? It seems an impossible task to be able to deal with all these kinds of people. Well, that is what college is for: not the transference of knowledge and skills, but the learning about how to relate to all types of people at all different levels. 
When we step out of our under­graduate careers and into an office, a firin, even another school, the people we come into contact with 
. · will be even more unique and separate from ourselves. Similar interests and · goals will be discovered, but not as many as the individual aspects found. It is impossible to function in this world without the knowledge of how to communicate with others, no matter how different from ourselves. Col­lege is the rehearsal for the perfor­mance quickly approaching. 
A homogeneous environment stagnates one's · mind. Everyoue is alike. No effort ·needs to be made to relate ideas; no views are ever challenged. It is normal to shy away from the unknown, to fear what 1s not understood. But without the effort to communicate and comprehend others, everyone is shoved into the same mold. Minds begin to shut. The world is perceived through one set of eyes. That is not peace. That is unifor­mity, slowed progress, stagnation. 

Fortunately, there seem to be people in every community who ref use to accept this oneness of humanity. They strive to be dif­ferent, unique, themselves. They are the "rebels." They make others think. They cannot be simply looked down upon; they force oth­ers to reevaluate thefr own views in their condescension. 
Not everyone can enforce their individuality so overtly. Some peo­ple are conservative; they are not just conforming. What should not be done by either extreme is · to label the other group as "wrong." Minds need to remain open or. the concept of peace will never become a reality. Mankind will judge itself out of existence. 
The fact remains: people are dif­ferent. They were made that way. To live on a campus without diver­sity is to deny reality'. It is to hope that the rest of the · world is the same as the people on campus. It is to shut minds so tightly that no air, no light can seep in. It is foolish. 
32 
SCHOLASTIC 


SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS AT THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART DON'T MISS THEM! 

Daniel Morper Zeus, o/c "66 x 49," 1983 

• REMBRANDT 'ETCHINGS' The Feddersen Collection 
May 4 -July 26, 1986 reception: May 4, 1986 2:00 -4:00 p.m. 
• DANIEL MORPER Class of '66 April 27 -July 26, 1986 
reception: Sunday, April 27, 1986 2:00 -4:00 p.m. 
• ARTISTS & DESIGNERS 
The 1986 Notre Dame Student Exhibition April 20 -May 18, 1986 reception: Sunday, April 20, 1986 2:00 -4:00 p.m. 
----. ------~ 

~~J};t~r?~c:_: .. __ •· -~~)~. 
.<it:· .· ...... 
-· r,< -,; -­
. . . 
..· \_ 
; . i 
!.' ,; 
// 
t•:-==~~ -i;1·~'E-~:::--:~-'
·~, -;,__, -•'.~ 
~ ... 
I • 
. . . .-:(----· 
,..::, 

Rembrandt Van Rijn Detail from The Triumph of Morde~i 
<ti C 
w .!!! 0 
-0 ...
WC)Q
I-<: C 
ci
<: I-
c: rn -aiZ 
~o <( E ­
<ti .§
...I a. 
:::> • A. 0 
Q) 
ID~ 
l!! a. 
:::> 
0 
z 


Power or Guidance? 

The Role of the R.A. 






