THE NEW DOBBS
NAVAL OFFICER’S CAP

TDEGULATION in every respect, yet revolutionary in a great many respects. So easy to change covers that you can almost do it blindfolded. Dobbs quality, styling and workmanship, of course. . Check the exclusive features and you’ll know why the Sea-Master is a tremendous improvement over any other naval cap made.
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
REMOVABLE GROMMET
Exclusive feature for quick changing of covers
GUIDE HOOK
For easy insertion of grommet
"SELF-STARTER"
centering pin to determine exact point for placing cover
rw modern GILBERT'S Oha HjU4 AwtluVi, -
813 - 817 S. Michigan St.	;	.
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert’s
2
a
^he SNotre Q)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
GRADUATION FOR V-7 SPECIALISTS
HELD THURSDAY
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney._____________________________Editor-in-Chief
Ralph Abell............................    Associate	Editor
Thomas SeedorFF.........................   Associate	Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole____________________________Managing Editor
Harold Berliner.____________________Asst. Managing Editor
Harry LeBien..................................  .The	Week
Bill Waddington_____________________________      Splinters
News Staff
Frank Keenan......................................   Editor
Al Lesmez.........................................   Campus
Daniel Meaney	Joe Plante	Thomas G. Fry
Thomas J. Payne	John	Frampton	Al Wagner
James Burke	John	Keleher	Bill Dotson
Ronald Lange	R. L.	Marske	Bill Russell
Vernon Mikkelson
Features
Al Broten.....................................       Editor
H. F. Ziegler	Leonard Hogan	Art Wagner
James Paris	John Knutson	Ed Madden
Leo Wren	Sam Miller	Harry Tanner
Sports Staff
Bill Carey........................................   Editor
Paul E. Brennan Thomas A. Hynes David Scheider
James H. Howard Wm. J. Whalan Arthur Nissen
Staff Photographers	-
Charles Renaud Al Schaefer Joe Haller
Circulation
John Matmiller Don Cole Howard Joyce Tom Hynes
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C__________Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue; New York City—Chicago—Boston—Dos Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.	-
4	’
November 25, 1943, marked the graduation day for the fifth class of specialists. After their two months of training here at Notre Dame, 296 men received their Ensign stripes. Capt. J. Richard Barry, Commanding Officer of the Naval Training unit, administered the oath.
The estimated new class of 400 will arrive Friday, Nov.
26, to begin their two-month training course.
CAPTAIN J. RICHARD BARRY
T'
"Stars and Stripes, Radio Show," to be Broadcast from Service Men's Center 4|
------------ ,<
Beginning Sat., Nov. 27, the new radio show, “Stars and Stripes” will be broadcast from the Service Men’s Center over WSBT at 8:45. Sponsored by the Service Men’s Center and the Studebaker Corp., the program has promises of be- < A ing a big time quiz and talent show.
All contestants will be men and women in the armed forces. A $25.00 War Bond is offered as first prize.
There is a great need for talent, and any one who can sing, play an instrument, or do any kind of act, please register with the Public Relations Officer in Howard Hall.
Prizes of a carton of your favorite cigarettes will be given to each contestant.
Don’t forget; we are looking for talent. ... Register now for the next show.	—
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80	NOVEMBER 26, 1943	NO. 2
V-12 Student Executive Committee Formed, Headed by Toole; Plans Many Activities
r4.\ Notre Dame’s V-12 unit, including ■ both seamen and marines, now has what * amounts to its own student council. On : ■■ last Tuesday evening this long-felt need . was at least temporarily satisfied, when, under the guidance of Lieut, (jg) J. J.
; Collins, six men were appointed to a ip board known as the V-12 executive committee.
*
Four seamen and two marines make ; up the new executive committee and even in its tentative state it is felt that the committeemen represent a wide variety of interests.
* John Toole, from Dillon Hall and Co. B, heads the committee, which made the first V-12 Ball in October such an outstanding success. Seaman Bill Ferrick, of Zahm and K company, was another committee chairman who will serve as a member of the group. Marine Private a Bud Davis, from Cavanaugh Hall, also served on the first Ball committee.
Seaman Tom Seedorff, associate editor of the Scholastic, from Dillon and Pvt. John Matmiller of Zahm and the circulation manager’ of the Scholastic are the fourth and fifth members of the committee.
Finally, Clayton Toddy, Co. I member * of Alumni, completes the makeup of the new board.
Representing both the 1100 seamen and the 400 Marines on campus, the six trainees composing the executive committee will have as their fundamental task the formation, supervision and guidance of trainee committees which will put on the various activities of the unit. In no way, however, will the Executive Committee be considered as possessing anything resembling absolute or final authority. Navy and Marine officers still direct the activities of the V-12 unit. On the other hand, this committee will function mainly in a steering capacity, and will inaugurate various social schemes and handle minor detail work. It is hoped and expected that the new setup will greatly simplify the work connected with putting over dances, parties, plays, etc.
Already, the future holds several very interesting affairs. Foremost is a prospective V-12 Ball Number 2, which the committee is investigating even now. A Navy musical show is another definite possibility and is in the process of being written. A big-time Christmas Party is under consideration for those stranded on campus over the holidays, as is a hall snow sculpture contest during the winter. Skating-Dancing parties on the lake and sleigh rides would do much to relieve the monotonous regularity of a trainee’s winter existence.
commissioned student officers who stepped from ranks to assume their respective commands.	.
Lieut. Commander Roy Aaron, U.S. N.R.; Lt. H. M. Ehrmann, U.S.N.R.; Lt. (jg) A. E. Coryn, U.S.N.R.; and Ens. S. J. Jablonski, U.S.N.R; officer-instructors of the Naval R.O.T.C., were also at the ceremony.
Battalion Commander Charles M. Ur-ruela retained his post and other members of the batallion staff are: John E. Herlihy, batallion sub-commander; Wm. W. Wicks, batallion adjutant; Gordon L. Forrester, commissary and supply.
FIRST COMPANY
Charles J. Merrill, commander; William A. Madden, commander, first platoon; John J. O’Rourke, commander, second platoon.
SECOND COMPANY
F. P. Crowley, commander; Joseph A. Conerty, commander, first platoon; Paul W. Hurd, commander, second platoon.
THIRD COMPANY
(Color Company)
Roy J. Grumbine, commander; Daniel J. Hecht, commander, first platoon; Charles E. Seghers, commander, second platoon.
Other appointments included petty officers and squad leaders for the six: platoons which completed the organization of the Naval R.O.T.C.
i NROTC Student Officers Commissioned at
-• Inspection; Urruela Retained in Command
BY I. D. USINA
Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commanding officer of the Naval Training School here, conducted his first inspection of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps in the Navy Drill Hall on. Thursday afternoon, November 13th.
The occasion of the inspection was the change of command in the student-officer Jt set-up, of. the Naval R.O.T.C. The entire N.R.O.T.C. battalion was addressed by
Captain Barry at the conclusion of the change over’ of commands and received his congratulations for their appearance as well as for their splendid response to the United War Chest drive.
Commander H. B. Butcher, U.S.N.R., executive officer of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, was present as Lieut. Commander H. C. Harshman, U.S.N.R., read the names of the newly-
Commission Marine Trainees
The first three men who left the Marine detachment of the university received their commissions as second lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve on November 19.
The three men: Franklin J. McGee, Louis A. Mankuo, and Lewis E. Bolts, received their college degrees after they received their order to come to Notre Dame. They were stationed here until July 27 when they were assigned, to -Parris Island, South Carolina. After receiving their commissions they began the ten weeks Reserve Officers’ Course at Quantico, Va.	.
John Knutson
5
Coaches, Grid Stars, Latin Americans, All Lead Gopher Life in Historical Sorin Sub
BY HAROLD BERLINER
Marine Murmurs
----------------------- k
By Private Knoc-E Toff
The Sorin sub, a pillar of Notre Dame history, can claim one distinction which none of its namesakes in the United States navy can boast — it cannot be sunk.
It is an established fact that no student can call his university career complete, unless he manages to make at least one short visit to the Sorin Sub, the name traditionally given to the basement of the oldest residence building on the campus.
A mechanical engineering major would d'o well to spend some time here, for in these few rooms all the secrets of plumbing are bared. Pipes are arranged about the walls, ceilings, and floor in crazy patterns: horizontally, vertically, and diagonally.
These artistic pipes range in size from the large ten-inch steam tunnels to the one-inch drinking water pipes. Room 8 has hit the jackpot with, a grand total of eight separate systems operating beneath her ceiling, each complete with valves and faucets. Men who have sojourned there have found one real “advantage” to this scheme—that is, that the radiators are placed at convenient eye-level.
In contrast to this room, is the one room which has merely four pipes running the length of the ceiling. Of course, the occupants of Room 8 must look down upon those sharing the latter abode. '
There is a great deal of intimacy among the fellows down in the Sub, due
to the construction of the walls. These are made of various kinds of beaverboard, none thicker than one-quarter inch. This permits conversations to take place readily between two rooms, adjoining or not. It also makes separate radios unnecessary, for one radio in the Sub will suitably take care of the entire wing.
George Strong, student prefect in charge, lives in a luxurious room, com-modiously furnished with two easy chairs, two rugs, and a bedspread. In addition to these, George also boasts a telephone, but he can use it fol’ official business only. Having been in the Sub since it was reopened two semesters ago, he can probably claim the privilege of being its oldest present resident.
Besides having students from every college on the campus, Sorin Sub is rather unique in having freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors, and graduate students all under the same pipes. The reason for this is unknown, but the war is presumed to have something to do with it.
It would be hard to find a more cosmopolitan place in the University. There are transfer students all the way from Stamford, Conn.’, Rem Toner’s home town, to Loogootee, Ind., where Bud Walker hails from.
Our friendly Latin Americans are congregated in great numbers in the North Wing. There are four Cubans, three Mexicans, one Chilean, one Peruvean, (Continued on Page 20)
“You, men, better settle down and get on the ball; we’re clamping down this semester,” are the familiar words of the NCO’s nowadays. According to' the size of the demerit list and the number of demerits dished out, there must be some truth to them thar words.
The Sub Lies Hidden Beneath All This
Is any one wondering ^about those several fire drills we had the other'night in our fireproof buildings? Reason, Sgt. “Terrible” Tarro needs an excuse to	‘
have us fall out several times on the	*
double to get rhythm to the thing. It appears he doesn’t appreciate the speed and agility with which we pounce out of the sack and into our sweatsuits at 0610. W. W. Smith, of Co. B was caught literally with his pants down.
Society: Pvts. Venning and Mathwig are preparing for the later things of life. They’ve been tending babies. on Sunday afternoons. Their fee— a few bottles of the frothy stuff. Pvt. Venning is quite proud of the fact that his little charge didn’t cry all afternoon.	।
Anybody wondering why Pvt. Mendelsohn displays a shortage of hair? It A appears that he was going to save himself the price of a few beers by having a fellow marine cut his hair. A dab was taken off here and there. After a few hours of dabbing nothing was left to J. dab at, and Pvt. Mendelsohn has joined the bald-headed row for a few weeks. - \
We of the Marine Detachment would । like to know why John Hyndman is -called “The Bowl.”
One of the men of this detachment . will always have a soft spot in his heart	"
for South Bend because it is here that	s
he found his bride-to-be. The fortunate Leatherneck is Chuck Dirr of Co. B and the lucky fiancee is Laure Strobel.
Here’s a tip that might interest a few of you fellows what with Christmas -	(Continued on Page 22)
36
; Dillonite Aspires to be Great Writer; Finds Math, English Dull Compared to Journalism
A
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
J Of the many weird characters around ( the campus, there are some who, under no conditions, can be captured for publi-cation. However, through supernatural efforts, one of these was aroused from j his lair in Dillon Hall this week to write 1 the following:
j Look at that, will you? “German’s .<■ Seize Leros!” in great, big capital letters ' right smack on the front page of the 7 South Bend Tribune. Boy, that writer ; must really be good.
; Confidentially, I’ve always wanted to \ create something great—something that j might shock my comrades—something that might make people laugh—or some-thing that might make history.
About an hour ago when I was studying Bay Brink’s masterpiece on mathematics (complete with illustrations), an inspiration crawled into my brain and i harassed me until I put aside that foolish math text.
x
It told me, of most importance, (I won’t narrate all the things it told me) that I should start immediately to write a story that would give me fame.
If I worked it right, my inspiration i added, I could become one who is able ? to command great audiences and maybe get to be head of O.W.I., one who can write plain old stories about his relatives in Indiana for large newspapers, or one who can use poor English or no English at all to gain renown as a nationally known sports writer.
A
Naturally an inspiration with big ideas like that was of more interest to a plodding student like myself than that ugly old figure, 34ky 102 ky-51k, which I was supposed to factor' for tomorrow’s lesson.
As a result, I removed my mathematics atmosphere with a simple thrust, ♦. and gave heed to Mr. Inspiration.
Thus, of course, I left myself open for a nice heart-to-heart talk with a prof or a prefect, who will tell me with unrestrained tenderness that I must first “ calculate the benefits I could derive from knowing what the law of co-sign is or why you can’t factor one problem but you can another.
Etcetera, etcetra—goes the chain of thought, but for my sake, my ambitions lie elsewhere.
Take, for instance, speech class—I go
there regularly. I sit and muse while my classmates take the platform, each in his turn. I swallow hard, as each time I wait for my opportunity to come and my name to be called.
One sailor drops from the dais after a killing performance. I gulp twice and take a deep breath just like my teacher told me to do back in high school. My name isn’t called. Oh, well! I don’t want to be a speaker anyhow. I want to be a writer.
From thence throughout the campus, I fluttei- (pretty sentence structure, isn’t it?) carrying books telling everything from the love affairs of Sir Gawain and what a swell guy he was—to the story of a man who swims in still water at two miles per hour and can cross a stream one-half mile wide by swimming across it—or something to that effect.
That’s no stuff for me. Just give me a pencil and some paper (I’d better have a pipe too) and I’ll write you the greatest article you’ve ever laid your eyes upon. Or maybe, two of them.
Now the first question before the house is, “What shall I write about” I’ve always wanted to be an “armchair journalist, a guy who can construct a snazzy, rip snorting masterpiece out of imagination and a general knowledge of nothing at all.
All right, I’ll start on this clean sheet of paper with its Notre Dame letterhead. What a beautiful piece of paper and what a nice pencil.
Hmrnm. That light’s a little bright. . . . My roommate should sweep the floor pretty soon. ... It sure is nice outside tonight. . . . Etc., Etc.
Well, here I am—all set to write my article, famed-to be, and I . can’t think of the first word to put down. I guess my inspiration has left me high and dry.
(Editor’s Note: There is now a pause while the author thinks in vain of what the subject of his great selection should be. It is now ten minutes later. I wonder what he has decided.)
Let me see now! What are the factors of 34 ky 4-102ky—51k?
(Editor’s Note: And thus, the world has lost another “great” journalist.)
THE SNOOPER
Snooped, Edited and Written by:
THE SNOOPER
A certain chief asked his company if anyone had any experience at handling a company; this fellow Raleigh R. Hogue (ex-squad leader) claimed he had. He is now Company Commander of Company “J”. All his correspondents have been informed that his address is:
Raleigh R. Hogue A.S., U.S.N.R.
Company Commander, Company “J” V-12 Unit
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The “Problem” of the V-12 lads—what do w*e do with our doors? It might be a good idea to take them off the hinges and pile them in the corner!
Why is Mr. Noegele (of Zahm) worrying about his incoming fan mail? Well, you see it’s like this, this Naegele fellow was on the proverbial fence in his love matters. He then decided that the best test of his “potentials” was to send each a letter on the same day, and the first one to answer would be his “one-and-only” —well, at least his No. 1. Apparently he has made up his mind since then and is really worried for fear the right letter won’t get here first!
At the beginning of the last week, the big problem was: who runs Company “B” —Hall or Johnson (Hall’s shadow)?? For two or three days, “the Shadow” was so busy running the company, that he didn’t have time to post the daily notices. The company was “in the dark” for three days. However, Mr. Hall has made a valiant comeback. At the moment there is no question that Hall is running the company. The big question now: is Johnson too good, or too indispensable to march in the ranks with the rest of the company??
Who’ was playing “hide-and-seek” with the photographers last week? None other than Johnnie Lujack! He really had two photog’s worried last week; they were running from one mess hall to the other and back again in quest of the ever elusive Quarterback of “The Fighting Irish.”
When your Snooper happened to drop into Room 380, Dillon, the other night, he saw the mark of a genius. Mr. James
(Continued on page 22) - -
7
t
The Week
XL ~^3
BY H. LE BIEN AND T. GAINS
TOP OF THE WEEK
The Fighting Irish.
SAFARI
As “Admiral Scoggins” once said: “Between me and the effervescing town of South Bend there is a fundamental incompatability which at times amounts to a chemical repulsion.” This should not be confused with the exodus that takes place each week-end, which more resembles a chemical explosion.
A small group of freshman V-12 students were observed taking a bus into town last Saturday, but the bus line officials found out about it and the overanxious young servicemen had to bring it back. However, the ever-present spirit of youth was there and the neophytes piled into another vehicle in order to get that highly coveted “rip roaring day in town.” There were quite a number of them on the bus, but it wouldn’t have been so crowded if the fellows on the second layer had taken off their shoes.
When the bus hit town, a mass of uniforms exploded from it, something like a Molotov cocktail when it hits a tank, and the town was suddenly overrun with a swirling river of blue with a little white foam represented by those fellows who had forgotten and worn their white chapeaux.
Admiral Scoggins had also journeyed in the aforementioned bus and it was noted that he was rather nervous about the driving tactics. Later he was telling of his wild trip and a small part of his dialogue was overheard: “And after a few minutes I discovered to my horror that the driver thought the red and green lights were gay and expansive manifestations of the yuletide spirit.”
Upon arriving in the teaming little metropolis our- hero has several choices. He may visit the S.M.C., go to a show, or visit the S.M.C. (There are also other unmentionable places, we will not’ mention). Of course he always has the privilege of ogling the young specimens of feminity that adorn the town. South Bend has two types of girls: those ’who work at the S.M.C., and those who don’t speak English. To obtain a dance with one of the former is very simple. If a Navy man, you quickly comb your curls, step up, ask for a dance, get turned
8
down. If a Marine you put your shoes back on, step up, ask, get knocked down. If a member of the Army you have to chase her first.
DISASSEMBLY LINE
We went over to get a haircut the other1 day, and we’re not saying it was crowded, but if the people on the third layer had only taken off their shoes, it would have made things much simpler. We were greated at the portal by an enterprising young student selling pup tent reservations for the night. We actually didn’t need a haircut, but we always start a few days early so when we do finally reach the chair our hair will be the proper length. But serious- ~ ly, we didn’t know the barbers were doing such a good business till we overheard one say he was going to exchange his airplane for a yacht. They have two kinds of haircuts: Two short! It’s really not too bad, however, and as “Pop” hands back your change, and that ear you didn’t want anyway, its nice to think you won’t have to return for six months.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“More”.
UNQUOTABLE QUOTES
Sergeant King claims he used to toss horse-shoes without removing the shoes from the horse. "Admiral Scoggins” said he was doubtful as to the veracity of the above abstract, and not only that; he didn’t believe it.	• ■ •
Do you know why the .two crackers were crying?
They were sad because their mother had-been a Wafer so long.
Do you know why the two ink spots were crying? .	•
They were sad because their father had been put in the pen for a long . sentence. '
We hope the local edition “Bell hops” didn’t read last Sunday’s edition of Superman or there would be no living with them for the next few weeks.
POME
Spring has sprung, the grass has riz, I wonder where the flowers is.
A CHAMPION'S HEART
It takes a good team to nun a game. It takes a champion team to win them all, but it takes a true champion’s heart to win from behind. Whenever a great undefeated football team of the past has been recalled there are always those who say, “they had .the .breaks” or “They were never really pushed.” In winning-over the Seahawks last Saturday, a Notre Dame team which undoubtedly will enter history as one of the greatest of all time, proved that they could not only win through the sheer strength of their ability but also possessed an immaterial power which makes them truly worthy of their fame. Twice the odds against them, they returned to win a game many are-saying is the best they ever witnessed. To the titles of “fighting”, “well balanced”, and “invincible” may we add a new—“a champion’s heart.”
UGH!
As Slaysly McScupper, ’09, once remarked, “Wrestling is for. da boids.” The great art of the grunt and groan has changed little since. Siagsly benefited mankind with.the above. However the science as explained by chiefs Robertson and “Superman”—just look at me muscle Horne,- has reached a new sublime of subjugation. • After the opening-formalities of-32 push-ups, etc., the real meat of the course begins. For demonstration purposes he drags a poor soul out from under the mat where he was hiding and begins to explain. The object of wrestling, he says, is, by the use of hands, feet, elbows, knees, fingernails, toes, and head to gently bash your opponent’s head in, so as to temporarily impair him for life. This he proceeds to demonstrate in more concrete form, later helping to carry the demonstrator away. .Wrestling is a nice thing to know, however, .and as more and more V-12’s hop around on crutches our young bodies will become more, arid more-toughened. •
Who was the joker, when after enjoying a delicious meal in a South Bend Beanery, harided the cashier a Notre Dame Dining Hall-meal-ticket, and before the poor woman could overcome her surprise, had silently slunk away into the night?..-.. Speaking of smooth-shoes, the NROTC Students never miss a trick. Rumor has it that some of the future Admirals have been writing home for money with which to purchase text books. ’Nuff Said!
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK - - . - . » -Fish today.
★
College Parade
BY RICHARD MURPHY
WILLIE, RETURNS
Willie saw some dynamite, Couldn’t understand it quite, Curiosity never pays;
It rained Willie seven days.
—Student Life
IT'S AN OLD IRISH TRADITION
According to the Daily Northwestern, Notre Dame has turned out some tough lineups, among which were the famed “Four Horsemen of 1S24.” Hmmm, so that’s why Father Sorin came to South Bend — To find a home for these four gridiron immortals 18 years later.
IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE
' In ‘ our meanderings, we ran across this headline from the Queen’s Journal: “Cafeteria prices go down; hmch, dinner cheaper as lower rates go on trial.” And they know what they’re eating, too!
4-F ROMANCE
.' The; Santa Clara tells the story about •the young man who was sitting on a bench in the park with his fiancee. in the romantic springtime. He looked longingly into the girl’s eyes and after -several minutes said: “Dear, I have always believed that to insure a happy future, it is best that a man and his wife know each other’s shortcomings as well as their good points before getting married. So to be very frank I’ll confess there are some people who say that I am color blind.”	•
And the girl looked up at him in sympathy and said, “Yassuh, honey chile, Jah knows dat.”
GEORGETOWN OPINIONS
Do you favor a fourth term for President Roosevelt?
'• Yes .....................10%
No ....................  90%
What is the best football team of the
1943 season? •	' , ;	; .
Notre. Dame ..............;___66%
. •	Army ........................  .20%
-r . Navy- ...............:.....-.... 8%
. ■ Miscellaneous ...;.............. 6%
Why do you drink?
Sociability ..............50%
Thirst ...................40 %
Taste .................... 5 %
Effect ................... 5%
—The Hoya
Occasionally, we will bring to you the opinion of collegians from other campuses, concerning topics of interest.
PIN UP TROUBLE
The Minnesota Daily informs us that not only the kids in three-cornered squares are feeling the pinch these days. It seems that the boys and girls from up north planned to hand out ribbons for their annual homecoming game. Everything went fine until it was discovered that pins just weren’t available for the maroon and gold homecoming ribbons. Ray Grismer, Homecoming chairman, immediately issued a frantic call for students to collect some ten thousand-odd pins. Now the bare facts of the case point to some tough times ahead for the kids sporting the three-cornered cottons.
NICE WORK!
And then there was the janitor at the movie studio whose salary included room and board and. all the extras he could pick up.—The Log,
NAVY, MARINES, . ATTENTION
The St. Bonaventure tells us that when soldiers miss the last bus back to the U. of Syracuse they buy a bag of peanuts. A private exclaimed: “Thumbing rides is against the rules, but there’s nothing to. keep, a man from flipping peanuts'over his shoulder.”
UGH! *
Teacher: “Give me an example of nonsense.”
Johnny: “An elephant hanging over a cliff with his tail tied to a daisy.”
G.O.P. IN SOUTH PACIFIC
Then there’s the story, of the marine sergeant and the marine private who met on an island in the Pacific. The
sergeant’s uniform was covered with medals for bravery. The marine private admired the medals for several minutes before asking the sergeant how he had received them. To which the sergeant replied that he had received them for killing Japs.
“But how,” asked the private.
“It’s simple,” said the sergeant, “when I’m in the field, I see those foxholes and I know there’s Japs in ’em, so I just shout, ‘Hirohito is a jackass!’ This makes the Japs so mad that they just jump out of their foxholes and come a runnin’, then all I have to do is to mow ’em down. Try it and you’ll see, private.”
Several days passed before the two met again, and the private reported that the plan had failed; then he explained: “I did as you said, sarg, and shouted, ‘Hirohito is a jackass,’ but nothing happened, so I shouted again at the top of my voice, ‘Hirohito is a jackass.’ Finally, a Jap stuck his head out and shouted, ‘Roosevelt is a jackass’ and you know, sarge, I just didn’t have the heart to kill a fellow Republican.”
V-12 Trainees to be
Paid in Currency
According to an announcement this . week, the V-12 naval trainees will be paid, beginning with November, in currency. This month’s pay, long anticipated by many after a financially exhausting liberty last month, is tentatively scheduled to be distributed on the seventh and-eighth of December.
Where formerly a horde of seamen in training here on paydays stampeded the American Trust Company in South Bend, the scene will be shifted to Dillon and Alumni duty chief’s offices where Lieut. Covington and Ensign Negus will hand out the “Mazuma” (money to you) from “our Uncle.” Men from Zahm will be paid at the Dillon Hall duty chief’s office.
❖ *8*	*8*	*5*
❖ ❖ ❖	IMPORTANT	❖
❖ ------------------- ❖ ’I* To all staff members—	♦
& who attended organization meetings ♦ ••• and whose names do not appear in ♦
❖ the masthead on page 4: Report to ❖ $ the editorial offices on Sunday and ♦ ’J” Monday evenings for assignments ♦ ❖ and appointments to staff depart- ♦ $ ments.	.	♦
❖	—The Editor ♦
NROTCs "Irish Pennant"
Features Beauty Contest
THE IRISH PENNANT, official newsfeature magazine of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, has put in its November appearance. This periodical is published every six weeks and contains news of the activities of the N.R.O.T.C. as well as articles and features of varying interest.
To Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., who established the Naval R.O.T.C. in July of 1941 as the first naval activity on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, the editors and staff of the IRISH PENNANT dedicated the issue.
A beauty contest conducted with the photographs of the girls of members of the unit culminated in the November number. The cover was devoted to Miss Anne O’Conor, the vanner. A page of
Miss Anne O'Conor. Winner of NJLO.T.C. Beauty Contest
photos of the runners-up also was featured. Captain Burnett made the final decision from twelve photos narrowed down from a field of eighty by the editors of the PENNANT.
Naval R.O.T.C. readers also discovered that President Roosevelt was aboard the U.S.S. Wilmette for two weeks while he fished in Canadian waters in August, 1943. The Wilmette is the training ship on which N.R.O.T.C. cadets have made two summer cruises in the Great Lakes.
The Drift Net, biographical sketches of members of the unit; Interesting Dads, word-pictures of fathers of men in the R.O.T.C.; Ho-Hum and Off the Deep End were among the features presented in the newsy and classy publication.
Joseph A. Conerty, Jr. is editor-in-chief of the publication which ranks among the best published by the Naval R.O.T.C. units throughout the nation.
By Al Lesmez
It is a simple fact to single out Notre Dame men on campus who have gained the students’ respect because of their athletic ability. On the other hand, although just a little harder, it is still possible to single out men who stand above the rest-because of their superior scholastic attainments. But when it comes to finding a happy balance of excellent scholarship and outstanding athletic ability in one man, the job is definitely not so easy. But with a student like Pat Yoklovich around, you need go only to the second floor of Sorin and talk to the All-Campus back of 1942 — the boy with a 94.5% average in four years of pre-med studies here.
Pat was born Eugene Patrick Yoklovich on Feb. 7, 1923, in Gunnison, Colo. His family lived in that city for 18 years, but two years ago moved to Pacific Beach, a suburb of Santiago, Calif.
In high school Pat captained the grid and basketball teams, played with the baseball team, and made all-state honors as quarterback in football. But these accomplishments were only one-half of the dual role which was to win laurels for Pat. He won several Colorado scholarships, medals in competition throughout the state in several subjects, was commended for his excellent showing in the state-wide competition in Biology and Chemistry when he came out first in these subjects. He had many scholarships offered to go to other colleges, but through his determination to come to Notre Dame, and the aid of a kind uncle, he was able to refuse the scholarships in favor of meeting his expenses here.
His uncle paid for his first year at school, but Pat soon learned to stand on his own feet. Through work as mailman, physical lab instructor, and calculus corrector, along with a scholastic scholarship — The Walsh, Hudson, Cavanaugh Scholarship — Tom has been able to finance the other three years here.
His average to date is 94.5%, a drop of 1.5% from last semester. Pat does not know how it happened, but the drop came, bringing his average way doion almost to the 94% mark. During his stay at Notre Dame, Pat has found difficult Comparative Anatomy to be his
1
2
4
10

b
4
toughest subject. His lowest grade has been an 88%, and his highest has been 100%. Tom was awarded §25 for having the highest freshman average in the College cf Science.
During his freshman year, Pat won his numerals in football and in baseball. A season ago he made all-campus back during the inter-hall competition. He enjoys outdoor- sports of many kinds, preferring skiing, hunting, and fishing.
Pat recalls with a smile on his face the change in environment when he spent one Christmas skiing in Colorado, his old home state, and the next Christmas swimming in the Pacific, in California, his new home state.
Pat has a sister- flying in Texas for the WAFS, another sister who is a junior at Northwestern, and a brother who is teaching at George Washington University.
Pat is a member of the V-12, but has been allowed to remain a civilian pending his admittance to Yale medical school, early next year. At the beginning of next year he will go on active duty and report to Yale for further study, after earning his degree here for four years’ work.
We are all proud of this outstanding Notre Dame man, and admire his quiet, modest manner topped by his sense of surety and accomplishment.
1
Spectacular Blaze Destroys "Scholastic" Office
Effects of the fire Tuesday night in the old Ave Maria building, the first blaze of a serious nature in a number of years at Notre Dame, were not as disastrous as feared. Most of the Scholastic equipment, some of it irreplacable because of wartime shortages, was unharmed, although the roof was completely destroyed. The Christmas Crib, usually stored on the second floor, had been removed for renovation a few days before the fire and was thus safe.
Had the firemen not been able to get the fire under control, its spread would have resulted in great losses to the University. Immediately to the west of the gutted building is the convent of the sisters of the Holy Cross, among whom are a number of aged and infirm. Father Sheedy quickly organized a crew of men who assisted him in leading the nuns from the endangered building. Then, too, the proximity of the fire to the Main Building with its world famous golden dome struck fear into those who have experienced some of the fires in years past which caused great damage to campus buildings.
"Dark Continent," Latest Sullivan Novel, Released
By Seaman John Keleher
The Dark Continent, second novel by Richard Sullivan, South Bend author and associate professor of English at the University of Notre Dame, was released by Doubleday Doran publishing house in New York recently.
Prof. Richard Sullivan
Professor Sullivan’s first novel, Sunu-mer After Summer, was released by the same publisher- last fall. The theme of The Dark Continent has to do with the adventures of a man who has lost his memory as the result of a head injury.
Mr. Sullivan, a prominent and nationally known contributor to quality magazines, appeared Friday, Nov. 19, on Reviewer John T. Frederick’s program over CBS. This latest novel of Mr. Sullivan’s which follows after a long list of short stories and a successful first novel, has been serialized in the Cosmopolitan Magazine.
The Dark Continent is an expert and ludicrous story of a man who fell into a hole—and in so doing revitalized his entire life.
Francis Rafferty, frustrated individual and more of a mouse than a man, is an instructor in a woman’s college. He would like to become a “man”, but barriers in the form of his mother and his strong willed fiancee, Edwina, have given him little opportunity to realize his ambition.
On the eve of his wedding the world changes for- this little family group as the hero accidentally falls in a hole, thereby injuring his head and causing the loss of his memory. For the next six hours, a new and different Francis Rafferty runs rampant.
This new and completely masculine Francis runs afoul of the law, engages in fist fights, meets a minx, and rescues ladies in distress. More important, he finds that he enjoys his new mode of
NOW HEAR THIS!
V-7 NEWS
By Lieut. (jg) Paul T. Sprinz, U.S.N.R.
Every one is interested in the new radio program coming from the service men’s center in South Bend. Studebaker Corp, of this city along with the Service Men’s Center is broadcasting a big time radio show every Sat. nite at 8:15. We’re looking for talent, any kind that will make good “radio!” Men in all branches of the service are to take part. Worthwhile prizes for the winners, last week a 25 dollar war bond was first prize. In last week’s case the decision was so close between Midshipman Ratchin and Midshipman Shaw that the M.C. gave two 25 dollar bonds. Ratchin says “and that ain’t hay.”
Ensign Rider of the 3rd batt, now knows what is meant by SQUASH stew; Rider thought he’d like to have a game of squash by himself (something unheard of by this writer) and took off for Rockne, squash equipment in hand and tried to find the courts. Never having been over to Rockne before, he wandered about aimlessly until he arrived at a door he thought MIGHT be the courts. Without a moment’s hesitation he stepped in the court and fell 17 feet to the hard wood floor. Someone must have been saving Stew for something else because he remained unscathed. Returning to work the next day with a simple philosophy “next time I’ll use the ladder, it’s much easier.”
The last time seen Ensign Jim Wells was sharpening up his ice-skates. The cold weather set in and Jim cuts quite a figure on it there.
The Midshipman Band is the best ever says Ensign Duda the Recreation and Welfare officer. He should know he was in the last one and the unanamous opinion was that last class gave out with the jive as well as any up-to-date.
Ensign Jack Kubish asked his class last week what the proper procedure would be if a Midshipman walking along a downtown street came across two Lt.’s fighting. The midshipman’s answer wasn’t correct but it sure is interesting. He said: “Sir, I’d stand at attention and watch them go at it.”
living immensely. His life as a mouse has become vague in his memories.
Of course, to top off his adventures, he meets a girl—Dottie James—and that is a story in itself, a warm story, full of gayety and laughter.
II
Irish Close Season at A(
Victory Over Great Lakes Will Give Notre Dame Undisputed National Championship
BY BILL CAREY
Sports Editor, Noire Dame "Scholastic"
Tiered banks of blue will roll up from the playing surface of Ross Field tomorrow, where the men of Notre Dame will battle for the niche in the football hall of fame they well deserve. Frank Leahy will lead his lads into the contest that alone stands between themselves and the first undefeated, untied season since 1930, and the immortal Rock.
The rivalry between ND and Great Lakes dates back to 1918 when a high ly favored Bluejacket eleven was stymied by a scrappy bunch of youngsters from South Bend. Last fall at Soldiers’ Field in the second game of the series, the sailors were a 13-0 leader at half time. Their margin of superiority was even greater than the score indicated. Just as they did last Saturday, .however, the Leaheymen raced back to the straw surrounded horseshoe, to tally twice on the first lengthy TD gallops of the eleven game card—runs by Cornie Clatt and Creighton Miller.
1943 Team, of Champion Stock
The 1943 wearers of the Green and Gold are of the stock of thoroughbreds. Nine foes—the sturdiest in the land— have challenged the Ramblers strength, and have fallen. Eight times have the lads from the shadow of the- Golden
Creighton Miller
Dome early bludgeoned their foes into submission, and then tempered might with mercy. On the occasion of the ninth duel, however, for two periods they ate the dirt of a mature, versatile block of ex-Professionals. Ninety-percent of the first half saw the Seahawks in complete control. The Irish, the wonder team of the age, the front runner, was down 7-0 at halftime.
The men of Notre Dame were a beaten team at intermission—but they didn’t know it, and wouldn’t admit it. They were the Fighting Irish, and had just begun to fight. Rocked in their cleats,
Frank Syzmanski
they stiffened, dug in, and drove their minds and bodies to the greatest victory of the ’43 season. Through their veins flows the blood of champions. This,- they proved themselves to be, to the 45,000 spectators -who sat frozen to the stadium planks in one of the most thrilling second halves on record.
This 1943 team, that came back off the mat to win in a sheer test of mental courage and physical prowess, is . an equal of Rockne’s 1924, 1929 and 1930 elevens. Our boys can stand with the greatest and suffer ho qualms of conscience—they are as good as the best..
Bluejackets Have Won Nine, Lost Two
Under the skillful navigation of Lieut. Paul (Tony) Hinkle, the Naval Training station pigskin destroyer has knifed its.-?, way to a seasonal record of nine wins and but two losses to date. Fort Riley,"' I Iowa, Pittsburgh, Ohio State, Marquette (twice), Western Michigan, Camp Grant ;
. and Indiana have all been flattened, ’ while only Purdue (before the exodus) and Northwestern have taken the measure of the sailors.	.
A flock of outstanding backs have greased the path for the boys in blue’*' this campaign. Gone of course is Bruce Smith, but in his place are Stevie Juz-wik, a familiar name to all Notre Darners; Tennessee veteran, Busit Warren; Steve Lach, star toter from Duke; Emiljl (Red) Sitko, the outstanding halfback on Notre Dame’s 1942 Frosh; Dewey Proc-'-tor, the human .tractor from Furman; Ray -P.olyczriski, a future great from Marquette; Paul Anderson, of Western Reserve fame, and Ray Jones, a flash from the University of Texas. The start-J ing line is comprised of college and professional standouts who pack plenty of* . beef and savvy beneath their moleksins.
- Notre Dame at Full Strength
Notre. Dame will enter the contest at full strength. The absence of injury aft- j I er. the rugged Seahawk encounter attest to the perfect conditioning of the squad.r Coach Leahy can rely upon all his operatives for this, the climactic game of the year.
: The final gun tomorrow will bark out . “finis” to the career of one of Notre,?
. Dame’s greatest athletes, Creighton Mil-
12
Great Lakes Tomorrow
Uer. Creight has been the heart of the •ND attack since the Springfield Rifle " left for Parris Island. His competitive 3 ^"\ehergy, natural ability and wildfire play v'-' .'should win unanimous All-American sv । jnention.
e ’! Pat Filley, an outstanding and exem-t ; plary Captain, will block his last half-[, ’ back and tackle his last fullback for Notre ) Dame against Great Lakes. This fiery -	leader has united the club by his own
. .spirit, and led them to the most success-vul season in history.
e u	-
Vf As usual John Lu jack will work from e his spot over center palming off the oval - to Miller, Jim Mello and Julie Rykovich. - As successor to mighty Bert, Lu has ; steered the Irish unfalteringly along the 1fectory trail.
1 i The remainder of the team, Jim White, “ Herb Coleman, John Yonakor, Paul Li’ ’inont, Joe Signaigo and Ziggy Czarobski 1 are all, no doubt, playing their last 1 Notre Dame game for the duration. They 1 . ^yiU not allow their final effort to be a "J losing one.
Coach Frank Leahy has looked for-|vard to this night since his own student ’ days on the* Rock’s last National Champions. He will not fail on the eve of his greatest triumph. Tomorrow Notre j Dame, players and coaches alike, will \throw every last ounce of their pent j¥P energy in an effort to make the final " ’test a glorious victory that will shine in the record books for later generations
' to admire; Great Lakes should be stiff
competition for the first half, but Irish
;. pverall reserve strength will walk away
>..4 Trom the Bluejackets in the final 30 minutes.	,
Lach is Chief Weapon in Great Lakes' Attempt to Down the Irish Tomorrow
BY STEVE SNIDER. Y2C
Great Lakes, III., Nov. 25—The Bluejackets of Great Lakes already have declared themselves a winner in Saturday’s football game with undefeated Notre Dame.
Regardless of the decision reached on the playing turf of Ross Field, the real winners are nearly 23,000 Bluejackets— many of them about to graduate to the fighting fronts—who will see this season’s finale for two brilliant football teams.
Money can’t buy a seat in the little portable stadium on the historic parade grounds at the U. S. Naval Training Station. It’s strictly a show for the Navy, thanks to a generous move by the Rev.
Jim Mello
Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, who agreed to transfer the game to Great Lakes rather than to Notre Dame when a shift from Chicago became necessary.
Before last Saturday’s Notre Dame-Iowa Pre-Flight game, the admitted task of Great Lakes coaches was “to make a good showing against the best team in college football.” That attitude has modified toward a feeling that with a few breaks the Bluejackets can score the upset of the year, one which would rank in Notre Dame history with the Southern California victory of 1931 which brought an end to the Rockne era.
Like Notre Dame, Great Lakes has
won nine games this fall, but along the way suffered defeats by Purdue and Northwestern. The Bluejackets will, however, face the Irish with a better record Saturday than they did in Soldier Field, Chicago, in 1942 when they won eight and lost three before playing that 13 to 13 tie.
Much of their success is due to a pair of Notre Dame men—Steve Juzwik, ’42 and Emil Sitko, ’46. Both are right halfbacks. Juzwik, the squad’s leading scorer with 43 points, started the first six games, and Sitko, who started the next five, will be in at the kickoff for the sixth time Saturday-	.
Great Lakes will need more than its power at right half back to score against the Irish. The “Sunday punch” is Steve Lach, former All-American from Duke University, whose assortment of injuries ranging from the ankles to upper lip with several stops between has kept him on the bench for all but 18 out of a possible 300 minutes since mid-season.
Lieut. Paul (Tony) Hinkle held Lach out of both the Indiana and Marquette games the last two weeks in an effort to have the 200 pound tailback ready for Notre Dame. As long as he is sound of limb, Great Lakes has a breakaway back to match the long-distance threat of a back like Creighton Miller.
(Continued on page 19)
Jim White
13
Seahawks Ninth and Toughest Irish Victim;
Earley's Toe Brings 14-13 Win Over Pre-flight
BY JOHN POWER
The Fighting Irish marched to their ninth consecutive victory last Saturday by defeating a stubborn Iowa Seahawk eleven 14-13 before a spell-bound throng of 45,000 people. Miller and Kelly scored for the Blue and Gold, and Fred Earley kicked the two conversions to give Notre Dame its 14 point total.
Notre Dame kicked off to the Seahawks and an exchange of punts followed, with Todd twice kicking out of bounds within the Notre Dame five yard line. Slowly but surely the Seahawks moved up the field to the nine yard line where Art Guepe scored standing up. Bernard McGarry kicked the extra point and the Seahawks were out in front 7-0.
To start the second quarter the Irish received, failed to gain, and Lujack kicked to Todd who returned to the 24. The Seahawks began to move. Todd sparked the attack with runs of 17 and ten yards. His 27 yard pass to Bob Timmons put the ball on the Notre Dame 13 yard line where the Irish took over on downs. The Irish attack then came to life as Lujack threw a 30-yard pass to John Yonakor, who continued 20 yards before being knocked out of bounds on the nine yard line. On third down a short pass to Kelly was good for four yards as the half ended. .
Comm. Howell on Sea Duty with Capt. Burnett
Lieut. Commander Wililam S. Howell, replaced recently by Lieutenant Commander A. R. Pierson as Executive Officer of the Navy V-12 Unit, left the station yesterday to report for active sea duty.
A graduate of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis in the class of 1933, Commander Howell has already seen sea duty on the light cruiser U.S.S.-Trenton, the destroyer U.S.S. Dorset, and the heavy cruisei- U.S.S. Louisville. He reported to Notre Dame in 1941 as a member of the faculty in the Department of Naval Science and Tactics, and since that time has served in various capacities with the N.R.O.T.C. Unit, and the V-12 Unit.
Commander Howell is to report to the
4’4‘4►❖4»♦4>❖♦❖4’4‘4►❖4►❖4, 4* The Lost and Found Department is <• ♦ located in the office of the Prefect of 4» 4» Discipline.	4»
♦ ♦4>4>4»4»^4’4>^^^4>4>4»4»4’
An inspired Irish team tore onto the green sod for the second half, received the kickoff, and moved quickly to the Seahawk’s 17 yard line after sparkling runs by Mello, Miller and Lujack. Notre Dame was penalized five yards for offside, and Lujack then completed a toss to Kelly for 15 yards. A lateral to Miller ■was good for three and Kelly went the remaining four yards through center for a score. Earley converted to tie up the game at 7-all. A short time later the Irish drove to the Iowa 18 where the Seahawks took over, started a drive of their own which carried to the Notre Dame six. The Irish brought it back to the 13, fumbled, and the Naval Cadets recovered. Todd passed to Burk on the one, and Burk scored. McGarry’s try for the extra point hit the crossbar- and bounced back. Score: Seahawks 13— Notre “Dame 7.
The Irish received as the fourth quarter began and with- a driving surge brought the ball straight up the field, with Miller scoring from the six yard line, tying the score. Earley stepped in and kicked the vital extra point that brought the house down and a well-earned, hard-fought victory for Notre Dame.
battleship U.S.S. California which is under the command of Captain H. P. Burnett, former- commandant of the United States Naval Training School here on the Notre Dame campus. Captain Burnett assumed the command of the California in October of this year.
Lt. Comm. W. S. Howell
Before proceeding to Seattle, Washington, where he will report to the Commandant of the 13th Naval District on December 5th, Commander Howell plans to spend a few days visiting his parents at their home in Macomb, Illinois.
Irish Favored to Win, Campus Poll Shows
By Jim Regan
The Iowa Seahawks were not the only ones to fall from the ranks of the undefeated last Saturday for Bob Gludo-watz, the erstwhile ace predictor, did not come the closest to the actual score for the first time this season. Gludowatz + predicted a 33 to 0 win for Notre Dame and was 32 points off the actual score of 14 to 13. F. Hugh Ward, of the NROTC and Oak Park, Ill., was only seven points from the actual score to . j hand Gludowatz his first setback of the • season.
For the last time of the football season, the Scholastic publishes the opinion of students on the campus in regard to the outcome of the Notre Dame game.	-
This week two civilians, two midshipmen,	|
one marine, and one member of the N. R. O. T. C. will attempt to take away the newly won laurels of Mr. Ward. Here are the opinions of this week’s guests:
F. Hugh Ward, NROTC, of Rockford, UI.: “I think that Notre Dame will end V their season -with a 20 to 7 victory over Great Lakes to keep their 1943 football slate unblemished.”
Robert Shaw, freshman, of Tulsa, Okla.: “If Notre Dame 'can beat Iowa Pre-Flight by one point, they can beat Great Lakes by 30. Notre Dame 33, Great Lakes 6.”
Midshipman M. Carpenter, of Rabun Gap, Ga.: “Notre Dame will defeat Great Lakes by about 14 points.”
Gus Sonnenberg, of the Marines, of Cincinnati, Ohio: “Great Lakes will have to be at their best if they are going to J be able to beat Notre Dame. I think Notre Dame will win 27 to 13.”	A
Jack Fena, N.R.O.T.C., of Hibbing, Minn.: “Notre Dame will undoubtedly come out on top by two touchdowns to end their season with 10 straight wins. 4 The outcome of the Great Lakes game will be the deciding factor as to whether * the ’43 team will be remembered for 10 years or for 100 years.”
Midshipman Edward R. Karp, of New York, N. Y.: “Notre Dame is terrific, J but the Navy spirit is pretty high too. ' Great Lakes by a tight score.”
Jake Smith, freshman, of Skokie, Ill.: “The Great Lakes game will be as tough as the Seahawk game but Notre Dame will win by 14 points. The Notre Dame spirit cannot be beaten by any team in * the country.”	/
14
Irish Cagers Face Alma Here Wednesday;
Coach Krause Undecided on New Squad
OBSERVATIONS
BY JIM FENNELLY
v-.
With the close of the football season only one day away Notre Dame is looking forward to the advent of basketball season. The Irish have always rated high in national hoop circles, and this year should prove no exception. The experiment with the peach basket has made great strides at Notre Dame, and today the game ranks second only to football in Gold and Blue athletic activities.
This season the Irish five will be green in experience as well as name, for not one letterman from last year’s great team will be around for the first tip-off. A blood transfusion in the shape of marine and naval trainees from other schools should bolster the squad considerably. Marquette University was the largest donor, sending three lettermen from their strong team.
Coach Krause has his charges working out daily in the fieldhouse, and if hard work and good coaching make for a good team, Notre Dame opponents had better beware. With the squad cut to 25 players, a red hot race has developed for every position on the team, with a starting berth as first prize.
At center Mark Todorovich, a marine trainee from Washington University at St. Louis, Mo., seems to have the inside track. A cool floorman with plenty of experience, he should be a steadying influence on Notre Dame’s young team. Mike Smith 6'7" sophomore civilian from New Orleans is a capable alternate, and should assure the team of plenty of height at the center spot. The guard positions look like a tossup between two marine and two navy men. Bob Gleason from Marquette and John Kelly, a member of last season’s freshmen squad are battling Tom Sheehan, varsity baseball catcher and Bernie Rutledge, a reserve on last year’s team that won 20 out of 22 starts. At the forward spots, six promising sharpshooters have caught Coach Krause’s eye. Again the marines are well represented by Teddy Furman, fresh from the frosh squad, and Bob Gleason and Ernie Kivisto of Marquette University. Leo Klier another substitute on last year’s squad, Carl Lloyd a newcomer, and Frank Gilhooley of last year’s freshman team round off the leading candidates.
Other members of the squad include Moon Mullin, John McLaughlin and Bob Raff all marine trainees, Bob Dunn, Pat Smid, and Tom Carlin V-12 naval men,
Irish basketball begins Wednesday
and Jack Allen, Bill Dumont, Dean Trump, Joe Kelly, Frank Kaufman, Chubby Limont, and Jack Loftus.
The team is bearing down for its opening game Wednesday night with Alma College to be played at the field house. It has been reported that Alma has received a wealth of basketball material in the naval transfer students, and should provide plenty of opposition for the Krausemen.
Though the schedule has not been officially released as yet, other games to be played during the next two weeks include Kalamazoo and Wisconsin both home games and Northwestern, to be played at Chicago.
*	RADIO	TRYOUTS	❖
»;♦ _________________
i* Tryouts for announcers, writers, ❖ actors, commentators and engineers
‘t* will be held on Monday. Nov. 29. ❖ *1* from 4 to 5:15. The new studio is lo- •> ’!• cated on the first floor of Washing- ❖ ton Hall. Vail W. Pischke is student
’•* director of the radio department.
❖	The department will begin its ❖ broadcasts tomorrow, over WSBT, at
❖	12:30.	❖
By Lieut. S. L. Beatty, U.S.N.R.
Course Officer of V-12 Unit
Your family can help prepare you for your next assignment when you leave this station. They can do so by making
Navy Achievement Test 30, Nov., 1943
one of your- Christmas gifts (in addition to buying another War Bond for you) one or more of the following books, most of which are required reading in indoctrination schools.
1.	Naval Customs, Traditions, and Usage, by Lieut. Comdr. Leland P. Lovette, U.S.N.; published in 1939 by the United States Naval Institute, Annapolis, Md.
2.	The Naval Officer’s Guide, by Comdr. Arthur A. Ageton, U.S.N.; published 1934 and 1943, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.
3.	Makers of Naval Tradition, by Dr. C. S. Alden, head of the Department of English, United States Naval Academy, and Dr. Ralph Earle, Captain, U.S.N., Rear Admiral and Chief of Bureau of Ordnance in World War I; published 1925, Ginn and Company, New York and. Chicago.
4.	Military and Naval Recognition Book, by J. W. Bunkley, Rear Admiral, U.S.N. (ret) ; published by D. Van Nostrand Company, 1942, New York.
5.	The Bluejacket’s Manual, 1940 edition, published at Annapolis by the United States Naval Institute.
Some of these excellent books that most officers and many officer candidates own can be bought second-hand from bookstores. The book by Commander Ageton and the Bluejacket’s Manual would make especially useful Christmas gifts to any V-12 man. If you are in your last year of study at Notre Dame, now is the time to be reading some of these books in your spare time.
Since men originally enlisted in V-12 are now being asked to state their preferences as to curriculum and as to service, special information on the Coast Guard may interest some. At the V-12 Office in Rockne are two bulletins recently sent by the Navy Department: Regulations Governing Appointments to Cadetships in the U. S. Coast Guard and The U. S. Coast Guard Academy. A highly recommended book on the very versatile Coast Guard was published this
(Continued on page 18)
15
Irish Cross-Country Squad is One of the Best; Tentative Meet with Great Lakes Tomorrow
BY JOE FAHEY
Hidden by the glory of one of Notre Dame’s greatest football teams is this season’s Irish cross-country squad. It has already proven itself to be one of the mid-west’s best by running off with the honors at the Indiana State Meet and the National Servicemen’s title on successive weekends. Pre-season reports did not add up to much as Doc Handy, in his second year as coach, had but one starter left of last fall’s squad. This was Walt Braemer, who himself graduated in mid-season. Service men answered the practice call and from them the nucleus of this year’s team was chosen and put through grueling one hour practice runs each afternoon. One of the brighter spots of the victorious campaign was the brilliant performance of Frank Martin, Indiana transfer. Time and again he led the squad home to triumphs over Wisconsin, Purdue, Indiana, Navy Pier, and Iowa Pre-Flight. The only defeat of the season was a second place garnered at Loyola University early in the season. A contest with Illinois was a forfeit when the Illini failed to arrive and a match with Frank Quinn’s Mid-shipmen’s squad was substituted. Out of this meet developed the idea of taking the cream of both teams
1943 NOTRE DAME CROSS COUNTRY TEAM
Indiana State Champions and National Servicemen's Champions
and entering the combination as the Notre Dame Naval Station in the National Servicemen’s in Chicago. As reported in last week’s Scholastic the boys brought home the trophy to Captain Barry, who is having a hard time trying to find a suitable inscription. The trophy will probably be placed in a showcase at the Rockne Memorial.
Following Walt Braemer’s departure on November 1, the squad was composed entirely of V-12 trainees until the belated arrival of John Lyons, a civilian freshman who made a fine showing in the state meet.
The varsity was picked on the basis of performance in the interhall meet held late in October. The first seven picked were considered varsity material. Most of these boys are expected to be on hand for next season’s squad if they stay in the V-12 program.
The season may not be actually completed yet. There is a tentative agreement for a meet at Great Lakes tomorrow, but at this writing certain difficulties have not been ironed out. Should the meet take place it will be on the sailor’s home grounds prior to the football game.
NROTC Basketball Squad Prepares for First Battle
The N.R.O.T.C. basketball team has been working out three times a week in the Freshman gym of the old field house in anticipation of opening its schedule in two weeks. The squad has been unable to locate a coach and so will be run on a co-operative basis.
Al Bolin and John Z wicker, a pair of rugged, 6ft. 2in. players, have been waging a hot battle for the center post. Both -men have played with the N.R.O.T.C. team for the last two seasons and have plenty of experience. Bohn also enjoyed a season on the University of Iowa frosh squad.
At present, Al Wade, Frank Beau-dine, Harry Gilligan, and Chuck Merrill have been the outstanding- forwards on the squad. Al Wade, 6ft. 2in., was the top-scoring man on last year’s team and should repeat this season. Harry “Red” Gilligan paced the lightweight team for 1943 and his lanky, 6ft. lin. frame should fit in nicely with the big team. Frank Beaudine played on the 1941-42 Notre Dame frosh team and is one of the sharp-shooters of the squad. Chuck .Merrill is a speedy forward who plays especially well in the fast-break style.
Jack Houghteling and Gene Moore are two veterans of N.R.O.T.C. basketball and are playing their third season on the team. Gene Moore is a high scoring guard who can move up to a forward slot when necessary while Houghteling plays more of a 'defensive game. Mark Cronin and Paul Hurd are two members of last season’s lightweight squad who will not find the step up to the varsity too difficult. Both have the necessary height with Cronin reaching the 6ft. mark and Hurd just an inch shorter.
Walter-La Berge, 6ft. 3in. guard, Tony Early,- 6ft.-,3in. forward, and Jim Harris, guard, are’ most likely to' move into the charmed. circle' of ten players.' La Berge played last season with' the heavies while both Early and Harris were with the lights.
Navy blue and gold uniforms have been purchased by the Unit Athletic Association for the squad, and blue and gold reversible “T” shirts will be worn as warm-ups. .	-
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
*♦* Members of the Notre- Dame Glee *♦* Club will meet Sunday afternoon at
‘5* 2:00. pan. in the Music Hall to pre- *2* pare for the American Legion pro- ❖ ❖ gram.
$
4 !

V.
16
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
George Tobin was the only Notre Dame vet in the Seahawk line-up Saturday. . . . By recovering ND’s first fumble, he enabled his teammates to make their second score and take another lead. ... We wonder if his conscience didn’t bother him after the touch-down. . . . The large assemblage at last Friday’s pep rally
Bill Waddington reaHy showed that many more have hopped onto the band-wagon. . . . The Notre Dame Band has frequently played “Anchors Aweigh” and “Marine Hymn” for the service men on campus. . . . The civies will stand by the “Victory March” as their corps song. . . . The pressbox at last week’s game was filled with over 75 representatives from various papers and press services, the largest aggregation of scribes ever to cover a game in the N.D. stadium. . . . Capt. Vince Banonis’ of the PreFlights called the toss at the beginning of the encounter, and it was the first one that Capt. Pat Filley had to bow to in nine flips. . . . When the above fact was mentioned in the pressbox, many of the pressmen began to mutter, “Oh, that’s a bad omen. Looks like the luck of the Irish might not hold today.”
They Know They're Hit
When Dick Todd was knocked out and unfortunately injured in tackling John Yonakor, it marked the second man who met such a 'fate this season. The first was Eddie McGovern of Illinois who was also grounded trying to bring down the big right end. . . . As the horn blew on a proved-to-be offside play, one of the gents in the pressbox was still in a carryover from the Evanston clash, “Yea, North western’s offside!”. .. . Bill Osman-ski, former; Bear fullback and now a dental officer at Great Lakes, was spotting for Tony Hinkle’s Bluejackets whom the Irish meet tomorrow at Boss Field.
.. . . Earley’s second placement, which decided the 14-13 win over Lt. Don Faurot’s Seahawks, stands out as the greatest pressure play of the season. . . . Some fans think that the Irish one-point margin was made late in the fourth quarter; however, the exact time of play that remained was eight minutes and
ten seconds. . . . Minnesota’s all-time great, Pug Lund, took an army examination last week and will soon go into the service as a buck private. . . . Coach Harry Stuhldreher gives high praise to this year’s Badger squad that has known but one victory. . . . The spirit with which these boys returned each Monday to start anew was the most startling thing to him. . . . He confesses that the spirit displayed makes football what it is. . . . Minnesota claims to have had the services of Seahawk back Ted Curran before he entered the service. . . . Ohio State reports that he belonged to the U. of Iowa. . . . No wonder there are prizefights! . . . Sixteen of Wisconsin’s 23 eagers are youths that make their home in the dairy state. . . . The “Old Oaken Bucket” that typifies the Purdue-Indiana contest each year is a genuine farmyard relic, having hung in a well in Hanover, Indiana some time in the 1840’s. . .
The three weakest defenses in major intercollegiate football have been Columbia with 313 scored against them; Wisconsin with 282 for their opposition; Nebraska having- watched 235 go oyer their goal line. . . . The three high scorers: Duke has amassed 335; Notre Dame’s total is 326; Michigan accounts for 302. . . . Harold Van Every, former Gopher grid star, is now starring for the Army Air Force transporting various officials around the country. . . . Ohio State has tentatively booked eight games for next season, six Big Ten and two
I	I
I S s 1
!
HansA Rl NTZSCH 138 N. Michigan Street, South Bend 'uqyaq* e>kcp

non-conference tussles, with no place for a service team under the present schedule. . . . Northwestern gave the ball used in the Wildcat-Minnesota game to Herman Frickey, a former Gopher. . . . Eddie Bray and Eddie McGovern of Illinois weigh only 150 pounds apiece but they are considered the heaviest burdenbearers of this year’s Illini. . . . The Minnesota varsity has had no scrimmage since October 16 due to a rapid growth in the injured list both in competition and in practice. . . . Joe Keenan, Badger center and former frosh player at Notre Dame, has been the acting captain for Wisconsin in several encounters this season. . . . The best summary of the Fighting Irish comes from The Log, official publication’of the United States . Naval Academy at Annapolis. . . . “These galloping Irishmen have a team that one sometimes dreams of but seldom sees.”
Tomorrow’s predictions:
Notre Dame over Great Lakes
Seahawks over Minnesota
Navy over Army
Georgia Tech over Georgia
Fort Eiley over Missouri
Oklahoma over Nebraska Texas Christian over S. M. U. DelMonte Pre-Flight over California Southern Calif, over U.C.L.A.
Early Holiday Mailing Urged
The postmaster general has issued the warning that Christmas gifts and greeting cards must be mailed during the month of November in order to insure delivery by Christmas. Wartime burdens on transportation and postal services, coupled with the shortage of labor, make it imperative that holiday mailing be done in the very near future.
f
When you shop for Christinas, if you wish the finest in men’s and women’s Leather Goods, Picture Frames, Luggage, Wallets or Gloves, see us for a complete selection.
PurchaseNow!
17
Interhall Basketball League Formed; Rules Announced
By Dave Scheider and Jim Regan
In order that the students of Notre Dame would not go “soft” from lack of exercise and physical contact, athletic competition between the halls was long ago organized at Notre Dame. The men of old St. Ed’s formed the historic St. Ed’s A. C. which put many elevens and quintets of college caliber in the running for the interhall medals. Always ready to uphold their supremacy on the campus, Sorin’s seniors organized some fine teams to fight off the determined bids of the impudent juniors and sophomores for athletic recognition.
All the halls soon joined in the interhall athletics, until these became almost as much a part of Notre Dame as varsity athletics. There is no denying the great need for interhall sports. In the co-operation necessary for all teamwork, friendships of everlasting length are generated. As winter approaches the interests of the Notre Dame students will soon turn from the gridiron to the game invented by Dr. Naismith over 50 years ago in the Springfield, Mass., Y.M.C.A.
As usual, this year the interhall basketball league is expected to flourish. The league will be supervised by Mr. Maxwell and, in general, the same rules . which were in effect in other years will be followed. The rules for the 1943-44 Overflow League season:
1.	Any group of eight students, regardless of hall, dub, or other connection, may enter a team in the league.
2.	No man may play on a team in this league and also play in the Rockne Memorial League.
3.	Each team must furnish one referee, either a player or an outsider, to officiate . in games other than the one in which their team is playing. The referee assignments will be evenly distributed.
4.	Two leagues will be organized. One, with the_ personnel restricted to service men, will play at 4:15. The other, open only to civilians, will play at "7. All games will be played in the upper floor of tiie old gymnasium.
5.	The leagues will be organized on a ladder basis, with the final champion being determined by an elimination tournament among the teams who finish, in the upper division. .
6.	Regular interhall medals will be awarded to the winning teams. .
7.	The league will be under the supervision of Mr. Maxwell who will accept entries on the floor at 4:15 and 7. daily, except Thursday, during the week of Nov. 21.	.
Ex-lnterhaller Keenan Voted Wisconsin's Most Valuable
Joe Keenan, ex-Notre Dame interhalier, was voted last week by his Wisconsin team-mates as the most valuable member of the Badger eleven this fall. Selected by Coach Harry Stuhldreher as game captain for five contests this six foot, 215 pounder, has anchored an inexperienced line from his center spot.
A native of Chicago, Joe played 550 minutes of a possible 600 on the rugged schedule run through by the Madisonites. After passing in his togs to Mac at the fieldhouse as an old hearty for the Dillon Hall Sunday morning grid heroes, Keenan threw his avoirdupois about to advantage for the Iowa Seahawks as a tackle and center in 1942.
Now a Naval Trainee at Wisconsin he is advancing his studies in engineering. Sheldon Biese, Minnesota scout, called him the finest defensive player in the Western Conference.
OBSERVATIONS (Continued from Page 15) year by Dodd, Mead, and Company; ALWAYS READY (Semper Paratus is the motto of the Coast Guard), by Kensil Bell. It is being ordered for the Rockne V-12 Office library.
NAVY ACHIEVEMENT TEST
On November 30, 1943, a Comprehensive Achievement Test will be given to the following V-12 students:	-
(a)	All V-12 students, including Marines, who by March 1,1944 will have completed only two terms of college work, including that taken prior to entry into the V-12 program.
(b)	V-l and V-7 transfers to V-12 who by March 1, 1944 will have completed more than two terms of college work, including that taken prior to entry
MEN IN SERVICE -PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL CASH
Travel money is sate from loss or theft when you carry AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES. Your money is always in readily spendable form. and if lost or stolen, you receive a prompt refund.
issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75f£ for each S1OO. Minimum cost 40p for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS — — TRAVELERS CHEQUES ;---------
into the V-12 program, and who did not take one of the qualifying tests given on April 20 or September, 1943.
For the stludents included in (a) above, the results on the test will be a part of the screening process through which will be determined: (1) the students who are to be selected for Naval R.O.T.C.;: (2) the students who are to be assigned to each of the other advanced phases of the V-12 program.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
4!
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE, LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS St.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
18
GREAT LAKES TOMORROW (Continued from Page 13)
Against far weaker lines than Notre Dame’s, the Blue jackets have been essentially a breakaway team, fencing for spots in which to spring loose Lach, Sit-ko or Juzwik, so there is little prospect of repeating the slow, grinding process with which they hammered Notre Dame for two first half touchdowns last season.
Here are the seven men—starting linemen—whose task it is to check the Notre Dame T:
Left End Joe Schwarting—Captain at the University of Texas last fall, he is an excellent pass receiver, has blocked three punts, one resulting in a touchdown. Recently became a proud pappy. Right End Cecil Pirkey—played his football at East Texas State, but won’t say how long ago except for an admission he has coached “for several years since then.”
Left Tackle George Perpich — played with Georgetown’s great teams the last few years. Blocked two punts against Marquette last week, one for a touchdown. Right Tackle Graham Martin— an honor student at Indiana; but little more than a bench-warmer in football. With three other Negro candidates, Martin tried out for the Great Lakes varsity after’ two games had been played and immediately became a starter.
Left Guard Russ Letlow—went to the Green Bay Packers after winding up at the University of San Francisco and was an outstanding National League guard for seven years. Right Guard Libero Bertagnolli — from Washington University at St. Louis, to the Chicago Cardinals. Like Letlow, he was listed as a starter from the first practice. He’s also a father.
Center Mike Saban—a guard at Indiana, Saban became the number one center when Dick Stealy of Ball State was -transferred recently to duty at sea. He’s a brother of Lou Saban, who did much of the blocking for Indiana’s Billy Hillenbrand.
With Lach and Sitko in the starting backfield will be Quarterback Paul Anderson of Western Reserve and Dewey Proctor of Furman University. Anderson is strictly, a blocker when the Bluejackets run from a single wing formation, but he runs and passes when they shift occasionally into a T. Proctor is the halfback type, with three touchdown runs of approximately 45 yards to his credit.
Ray Jones, formerly of Texas, Buist Warren of Tennessee and Ray Polczyn-ski of Marquette share the tailback position with Lach but the backfield depth
ends there. Anderson is the only capable quarterback. Proctor is relieved when necessary by Ken Roskie of South Carolina and Sitko and Juzwik are the only right halfbacks.
If a decision is reached Saturday it will be the first of the wartime football series between Notre Dame and Great Lakes. In 1918 they fought to a 7 to 7 ttie and ended 13-all last year. All sports have been as evenly contested. In four basketball games since Pearl Harbor, each has won twice, both games going into overtimes last winter. Lieut. Gordon (Mickey) Cochrane’s powerful baseball squad lost to the Irish in 1942 but won twice last year. In cross-country, the two squads have an even break for the year.
Just a G.I. Seamstress?
If you’re forever getting out the needle and thread, here are some tips:
When, a - button comes off, sew it on well the first time. A slip-shod job just means you’ll have to do it over again soon.
Make your next shirt an Arrow. Arrow buttons are attached with a patented stitch, which “anchors” them to a shirt.
Check your size—you may be wearing too small a shirt and therefore causing too great a strain on the buttons and seams. The Sanforized label in an Arrow shirt guarantees shrinkage no greater than 1%—no danger of an Arrow ever getting too small!
A R R 0 W
SHIRTS "TIES •HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
it BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS it
The season’s record:
Great Lakes 32, Western Michigan 6
Great Lakes 20, Fort Riley 19
Great Lakes 13, Purdue 23
Great Lakes 21, Iowa 7
Great Lakes 40, Pittsburgh 0 •
Great Lakes 13, Ohio State 6
Great Lakes 0, Northwestern 13
Great Lakes 41, Marquette 7
Great Lakes 32, Western Michigan 6,
Great Lakes 12, Camp Grant 0
Great Lakes 21, Indiana 7
Great Lakes 25, Marquette 6
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Remember those at Home with Novelty Jewelry, Bookends, Pillows, and Pennants —a 11 individualized with Notre Dame or Service Insignia.
A very nice selection of Religious articles — always appropriate for Christmas— is to be found here also.
Writing Paper, in all sizes and styles, — plain or engraved — is on display at all times.
The above rings may be had only at the Notre Dame Bookstore. These rings come with a variety of stones, and are the official University ring.
BookAio^e. «
South Wing of Badin Hall
£
GOPHER LIFE IN SORIN SUB (Continued from Page 6) and another from Bolivia. Spanish is the language spoken, which makes it quite colorful to hear, but rather hard on fellows like Frank Kent, Cesar Munecas’ room mate. To compensate for Frank’s social incapacity in a foreign tongue, he has been elected to an honorary membership in the La Raza Club.
Althugh most of them are large, there are a few rooms which are really tiny. John Adams can stretch his hands out in his room, flattening both palms against the walls.
Among- famous sub dwellers were Frank Walker, postmaster general. Frank Carver found his name carved in Room 9.
There have always been some members of the football team in the Sub. Knute Rockne is reported to have roomed with Gus Dorais in Room 15 when they were seniors. Coach Leahy also lived down under in his student days. Present stars of the Sub are Herb Coleman, John Adams, Jim Mello and Frank Syzmanski.
One thing never complained about by the residents is lack of atmosphere. It begins at five in the morning, when the gremlins play ping-pong in the steam pipes, and continues until the last mouse is asleep at night. (Stories of rats are strictly rumors, and should be treated as such when heard.) Anyone who has seen “My Sister Eileen” in the movies can appreciate the manner' in which the fine panoramic view is enjoyed.
Creighton Miller, Sub resident during the Semester Holiday says, “It’s a grand place, and it will last a good while longer if Jim Mello would walk on the floor instead of swinging from room to room on the pipes like Tarzan.” He also revealed that John Adams’ feet hang out of the end of the bed seven inches.
When Sorin Hall was built, in 1888, the sub was left unfinished. The beaverboard walls came somewhat later. Due to their lack of resilience, and many generations of repairs, the general appearance now is that of the seat of a farmer’s trousers. The Sub has not been in-habibted continuously since; it is usually saved for the use of guests, and only opened for general use when there is a large demand.
A typical room is that of Joe Jankowski and Luis Flores. They have 30 pipes on the ceiling, five vertical ones, six valves, and two doors to the room. In the middle of the floor stands a large square post. One gets to sleep very happily by counting pipes instead of sheep, and trying to figure what they all mean.
Among professional men on the floor are Coaches Ziemba and Devore; a lawyer from Bolivia, Rene Otera; and a
Latin professor, Mr. Carriedo of Mexico City. Miguel Vila, who hopes to be an English teacher in Chile, is here to fulfill the requirements of l]/2 years residence in an English speaking country. In Sorin the north wing of the Sub is the last thing that could be called an English speaking country, but we sincerely hope- Mr. Vila gets away with it.
After a short visit to the Sorin Sub, one is convinced that there is still adventure left in this world.
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00
Collected Poems of
Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
20
Writers Praise Irish
Game Against Seahawks
By Jim Howard
Sports writers throughout the nation acclaimed last Saturday’s football contest the greatest of the season and were convinced of Notre Dame’s claim to the national football title.
James Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“In the bright glinting sunlight here this afternoon, the student body of Notre Dame did an unusual thing.
“Always, here, they have saved their famous “Victory March” for playing and singing when a football game was done.
“But today, with 13 minutes playing time still left in the football game, the boys in the stands stood up and roared their song.
“ ‘What tho’ the odds be great or small,
“ ‘Old Notre Dame will win over all.’
“Out on the field, Notre Dame’s green-shirted football team was lining up to receive a kickoff. Notre Dame was behind for the second time this afternoon, the second time this season. The Seahawks were leading by 13 to 7.
“This time the odds were great, not small.
“But this time, as that old defiant song rolled out, Notre Dame won, once more, over all.
“These were the Fighting Irish, and they fought.”
Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune:
To CHICAGO-and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any ’ line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO.BEND R. R.
“Only the greatest team in Notre Dame history could have beaten an opponent the caliber of the one it faced today.”
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“The Irish of Notre Dame unleashed a brilliant rally to overcome a powerful Iowa Seahawks team before 45,000 fans in Notre Dame stadium this afternoon and establish a well warranted claim to the national championship.”
Allison Danzig, New York Times:
“Any doubts as to the majestic stature of the Notre Dame football team of 1943 melted today in the crucible of one of the great gridiron games of this or any season.”
Commerce Forum Meets;
O'Keefe New President
Last Wednesday night the Commerce Forum held it’s initial meeting of the new semester.
The newly-elected officers presented their plans for the coming year. The forum will continue its custom of having a member voluntarily present a paper for discussion at each meeting. These meetings are held in the Rockne Memorial lounge every Wednesday, with a faculty member present as guest adviser.
A trip to Chicago is planned, also a dinner and sleigh ride party scheduled for sometime in January.
The new officers are Joe O’Keefe, president; Joe Marnari, executive chairman, Bill Davis, program director; and John Toole, chairman of publicity.
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make the Navy Canteen Your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Ggarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
21
Professor John Nims Wins
Prominent Poetry Award
Professor John Frederick Nims. assistant professor of English at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the “Guarantor’s Prize.” The award was given for Professor Nims’ “In Our
Prof. John Nims
Times” and “Six Poems” published in the January and September issues of Poetry magazine this year. The poems will be published together in the November issue of Poetry and are also included in a book, “Five Young American Poets”, to be released next month.
The “Guarantor’s” which is awarded annually, is now given for the thirtieth time. Earlier winners include Vachel
Lindsay, Robert Frost, Edna St. Vincent Millay and the English poets, W. H. Onden and Stephen Spender.
Professor Nims has been on the faculty at Notre Dame since September 1939. He received his A.B. degree here in 1937 and his M.A. in 1939. Professor Nims won the Harriet Monroe lyric prize last year.
THE SNOOPER
(Continued from page 7)
A. Lawler was the genius (?). He had, it was seen, invented a new lighting system (?). This marvelous (irony) system was the turning of his lamp upside down, with a magazine propped up to produce indirect lighting. Take heed —the magazine became very warm, almost to the point of incandescence, and the desk was fast approaching that point! This Lawler fellow now must realize that as an inventor, he is an unrivaled failure!!
An appeal from your Snooper—you see fellows, I can’t get around to everyone and see everything. Some very good “subjects” are omitted because I am not at the right place at the right time. There is a box in the V-12 office labeled ‘The Snooper.” Any and all contribu
tions will be greatly appreciated. Just put the particulars and the “subject’s” name, room, and hall on a piece of paper and drop it in the box—I’ll do my best to do the “subject” justice!
THE SNOOPER
MARINE MURMURS
(Continued from page 6)
coming up next month. This extra “cush” is in payment of the meals not provided for by the Marine Corps while you were on furlough.
Is Co. D, the best company this semester? “Not so,” says Co. A. “We’re first all around — in drilling- and military bearing as well as the chow line.” (Do I hear any remarks from "the terrible”?)
Lettuce, lettuce,, day in, day out! As one private puts it, “Why the heck don’t they feed it to some rabbits and give us some meat once in a while?”
The boys at P.I. are writing that boot camp isn’t too bad after all. Their advice to you is — “Act dumb, take orders, and keep your mouth shut.”
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK:
Field shoes soon for all hands. Fortyeight hour leaves every weekend.
22
Exam Results Favorable
By Al Lesmez
Results of the V-12 examination given recently have begun to come to the campus. Altogether, 250 civilian students took either the V-12 or A-12 tests, with 210 of these taking the Navy test.
So far, all the results have been favorable. Since not all the students have heard final word, it is presumptuous to believe that all will be successful in the examination, but the results to-date are 100 per cent successful.
Many of the students have begun to prepare for the trip to Indianapolis, Ind., where they are to be interviewed and to take physical examinations.
Prominent Alumnus Attorney
Addresses Law Students
Grattan Stanford,* New York City, vice-president and legal counsel for the Sinclair Oil Company, spoke informally to the students of the College of Law of the University recently.
Mr. Stanford, a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1904, is a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University and an outstanding- attorney. He has appeared many times before the Supreme Court of the United States. His career with Sinclair almost parallels the history of that organization. He has also been active in alumni groups of Notre Dame, in the national
BUY AND USE CHRISTMAS SEALS
association and in the Notre Dame Club of New York, having acted as co-chairman with Postmaster General Frank C. Walker for the recent program at the rally preceding the Army-Notre Dame game.
Dean Clarence E. Manion introduced Mr. Stanford to the law students. The guest speaker spent the week at Notre Dame following the meeting of the trustees on Friday, Nov. 12.
Mr. Stanford was a member of the Board of Editors of the Scholastic in 1903 and 1904.	,
Notre Dame Grad, a Marine Flyer, Bags a Jap Zero
(The following story was written by . Sergeant Ralph A. Peck, of Cincinnati, Ohio, a Manne Corps Combat Correspondent.)
Somewhere in the South Pacific— (Delayed) —Driving his first contact with enemy aircraft, First Lieut. Maurice Noonan, U.S.M.C., 24, of Eagle Grove, Iowa, shot down a Japanese Zero here today.
Today’s action took place over Vella LaVella in the northern Solomon Islands area while Lieut. Noonan and another member of the Marine “Eight Ball” Squadron, to which he is attached, were on mission over this area.
“It was a cloudy and hazy day when we first spotted the enemy,” said Lieut. Noonan, “flying along at 15,000 feet.
“There were 16 of them, all Zeros, about five miles off the northeast corner of the island.
“They were traveling in four plane elements, a loose V formation.
“We made a rear beam attack a few thousand feet above and I headed for the tail-end man. He tried to turn into me but was unable to make the turn, consequently I had a good shot at his cockpit.
“I laid a short burst into him, he smoked, rolled over on his back and plunged into the water below.”
The Zero was the first score against the Japs for the Marine pilot who is now completing his third tour of duty in the South Pacific areaa.
Lieut. Noonan enlisted in the Navy, September, 1941, and entered flight training in December, 1941. He won his wings in August, 1942, at Miami Beach, Fla.
Lieut. Noonan graduated from Eagle Grove High school in June, 1936, where he played football and basketball. He was in the 1940 graduating class of Notre Dame University.
His parents are Mr. and Mrs. Maurice E. Noonan of Eagle Grove. He has one brother, Richard, in the Army and stationed at Bakersfield, Calif.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-25674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bld., South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, MJ).
M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
K D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
23