NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 8, 1890.
Vol. XXIIL
No. 22.
[From the “Ave Maria.”]
A Portrait of Anne Boleyn.
Ah, silver-tissued phantom lithe as hind
Skimming dark glades! Ah, white as moon that dips In storm-cloud black its crescent’s glimmering tips! Ah, blithesome foot, swifter than wave or wind! Were those the mocking eyes whose fiat signed Honor’s death-warrant? Those the laughing lips That o’er a realm’s Religion breathed eclipse; A King, once kingly, changed to false and blind? Salome new!* was this the babe that played With her own shadow ’mid the founts and flowers? Death-sentenced Queen! was this the girl that prayed Before Our Lady’s shrine, unmoved, for hours?
I judge her not. The night before her death
She prayed her childhood’s prayers—with tranquil breath.
Aubrey de Vere.
William M. Thackeray.
BY E. C. HUGHES, ’91.
Among the foremost of our modern writers of fiction stands William M. Thackeray with all the essential qualities that go to make up the great novelist of the day. Writers have come and gone. Their time, while they were the fashion, was once a brilliant one; but when their works began a downward course to utter insignificance their names went also, and now time could name hundreds who have thus fallen from their literary pedestal. Not so with a few of our modern writers, especially Thackeray. As Dr. Johnson says: “The sand heaped by one flood is scattered by another, but the rock always continues in its place.” So to Thackeray we can ascribe his works as the rock. His books are read with the same eagerness and carefulness as they were when first produced.
* Herodias’ daughter.
None of his fame has been lost; but it assumes larger proportions as the people of to-day read.
Dickens was very great at one time; in fact, he was the king of fiction. The writing people bowed to him as their commander; but Thackeray’s works pushed themselves before the public view. They formed a wall around the works of Dickens, and at once Thackeray was acknowledged by the world as a great novelist. Whatever Dickens lost in popularity Thackeray gained.
Thackeray had one peculiarity in writing, and that was his vagaries of- mood. For days and sometimes weeks he could not construct sentences and do himself justice; and it is for this reason that many writers attack him for his lack of industry. Certainly there is no lack of energy in his works, as his novels are full of life and animation; and one for this reason can hardly agree with this objection.
The characters of Dickens and Thackeray differ greatly. In the former there is a' sort of vulgarity and hardness; in the latter we see a far different quality. There is a soft and more refined way about them. Though the pathos in Little Nell is deeper than that of Col. Newcome, we cannot but feel a softness of Thackeray’s style of writing that seize on us.
Thackeray once said: “If we could only recollect the fine things we thought of in the cab or on our way to the ball or dinner, the speech that would follow might immortalize us.” So if we could only but remember the impressions made at the time of reading his novels, our approval of his sentiments and admiration of his style, we could write more freely of them. But they are all told so naturally and simply that they pass away like the daily and familiar thoughts of those about us. He is a gentle though merciless satirist, who holds up the mirror to
342	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the follies and the weaknesses of frail human nature. His novels give one food for reflection rather than mere amusement. He keeps up the same easy and continuous strain of limpidity of style, and the reader is never at a loss to understand his meaning. As one of our great modern novelists has said: “ Whatever Thackeray says the reader cannot fail to understand, and whatever he attempts to communicate he succeeds in conveying. This is one of the great secrets of his style. -Thackeray’s characters are simply a wonderful delineation of human nature. We seem to know that his, men and women exist about us. They are not heroic, nor do they fire us with a desire to go and do likewise, nor do they give us a desire that our own character should have been cast in their day. They do not take the hold upon our affections that Scott’s men do; but we feel that Thackeray was a great moralist and made his characters correct their follies, to show the cares and tribulations of the world. He discerns the selfishness, the cunning and meaner traits of humanity.” Walter Scott beguiles us by taking historical names that have come down the ages by tradition. He weaves them into romances with such bravery, chivalry and courtesy and such scorn for danger that they elevate our respect for man. We have not that personal regard for Thackeray’s women that we have for Scott’s Rebecca, Amy Robsarts, or Jennie Deans. When they have intellect they are shrewd, calculating or cunning Rebecca Sharps, or without intellect, weak, submissive Amelias.
In “Pendennis,” Thackeray presents to the reader a young man who has not yet developed manly characteristics. He is puzzled about beginning the first battle of strife with, the world. He falls into many traps set by his passions (especially of love). Thackeray intended to draw the young man of his day; but whether he has or not it is not for us to decide. Pendennis is made to be a fine gentleman, though he can hardly be said to be trustworthy. He misleads his poor mother and does not seem to care whether he tells her the truth or a romance. Several, times throughout the novel he comes hear to shipwreck on various occasions, and always deserving the shipwreck which he almost encountered.” But the novel .most always has its heroine. So with Pendennis: Laura is its amender—one whom the reader cannot help but regard with most fervid affection. As Anthony. Trollope has said: “Laura is our hero’s better angel—a.ngel so good as to make us wonder. that a creature so weak should have had such anangel about him.”;	.
“The Newcomes” is one of Thackeray’s'best novels, full of satire and pathos from the very beginning to the end. The story is well adapted to show the author’s power of work in all his different powers. The reader sees an old colonel fallen from his rich throne of prosperity to the humble and poor home of adversity. The old man goes to Greyfriars and there dons a gown. Left from all worldly cares, he rests on the fair hands of charity for support. The reader is surrounded with a group of wonderful characters, full of pathos, as he follows Colonel Newcome to his bed-and then Death. But the description of the death-bed scene is sublime pathos, and the reader’s heart throbs with pity as he reads:	■
“ At the usual evening hour the chapel-bell began to toll and Thomas Newcome’s hands outside the bed freely beat time, and j ust as the last bell struck, a peculiar sweet smile shone over his face, and he lifted up his head a little and quickly said ‘ adsum,’ and fell back. It was the word we used at school when names were called, and lo! he whose heart was that of a little" child, had answered to his name and stood in the presence of his Maker.”
“ Esmond ” is Thackeray’s best novel. In this work he brings out all his characteristics as a writer of prose fiction. The reader is delighted all through, and the chief lesson Thackeray teaches is what vanity leads to. Esmond is the hero; he strives for the hand of Beatrix, but is refused, because-the woman is ambitious, and probably is waiting to become a duchess, a princess or perhaps even a queen. Esmond marries Lady Castlewood, a character in which Thackeray throws all his force and casts without a flaw. The story ends by Beatrix—having been defeated in her ambitious design—marrying her brother’s tutor.
Thackeray has a noble scorn for all manner of deceit, shame and meanness, and makes it odious to the reader, not by vehement berating and scolding, as is so frequent with the moralist, but with a refined tenor of sarcasm; so skilfully used, with such a grace and humor, that we take the intended sermon with pleasure. He sees beneath the sweet smile and flattering speech how eagerly the great are served, how humble and servile the majority are to those above them, how arrogant to those below. His powers for observing have the power of the microscope to lay bare the very utmost smallness of the traits of men and women. They pierce through their fine manners and pretty prettiness, and expose selfishness or insincerity.	.
His characters are real. If they have not all historical names, they are as true to humanity as any personages of history.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
345
Sobieski and Poland.
(Conclusion.)
John Sobieski was thus raised for his talents and services to the highest office which a people can confer. He was now the King of Poland; but we shall soon see whether his apparently enviable honors brought with them peace and satisfaction. -
The new king was almost immediately called on to justify the confidence placed in him by a gallant nation. While obtaining his accustomed successes over the Tartars, he was suddenly assailed by Mahomet at the head of an immense and disciplined force. He had but 8000 men left, and the arrival of supplies was of all things the most contingent. He threw himself into Lemberg where he was speedily besieged. All Poland believed him lost; yet he sent for his queen and children, resolved that if conquered, their lives and his should pay the sacrifice.
One day, taking advantage of a heavy fall of .snow, which a high wind blew in the face of the-foe, he issued from the fortress, led on his heroic band, shouting his favorite and pious war-cry of- Christ forever! and after a sharp conflict, again routed the infidels, who fled precipitately before this second Coeur de Leon. Well might all Christendom cry A miracle! for such wonders had never been wrought since the heroic days of Crecy and Poitiers.’
It was hoped that- such disastrous defeats would deter the-Moslems from opposing a commander who appeared as if raised up by Providence to be their scourge, if not their destruction. But this time their pride was exasperated; they levied another and more formidable army (three hundred thousand strong) which they confided to the Pacha of Damascus, the most resolute and ferocious of their generals. The Polish king’s forces might reach ten thousand; yet, fearful as were the odds, he scorned to retreat. Having entrenched himself between two small villages on the banks of the Dniester, he- withstood, during twenty successive days, the most desperate efforts of the enemy, whose -formidable artillery showered continued destruction into his camp. Never before had his situation been so critical. The bombardment was terrific, and was not remitted day or.night; the ranks of the Poles were thinned by it, no less than by the frequent sallies which the king led to the very centre of the dense ranks of the Moslems. The Pacha was utterly confounded at such supernatural resistance; it gave way to admiration of the great-hero; he
proposed terms of peace, but they were rejected -with scorn.
After a pause the bombardment recommenced; and as the balls and shells fell thick among .his -heroic band, Sobieski ordered . them to be returned by his own guns and mortars. The alacrity of the soldiers in gathering up every ball and shell as they fell; in thrusting them into the ever-active engines, and dashing them into the faces of those who had sent them, would have roused the patriotism of the most insensible and inspired even cowards with bravery. The Turks were thunderstruck at seeing so brisk a fire all at once resumed; they doubted not that the Tartars, their allies, who occupied the left bank .of the Dniester had suffered supplies to be poured into the camp. Forty-eight • hours of inaction followed. On the morning of October 14, 1676, the astonishment of the Moslems knew no bounds when they saw the Pole calmly issue from his intrenchments, with his few followers drawn up for battle, apparently as confident of the result as if legions were at his command. They could not believe a mere man would attempt such a thing; from that • moment their superstition invested him with supernatural powers. The Tartars exclaimed that there was no use contending with “the wizard king.” The Pacha would not engage and offered an -honorable peace, which was immediately accepted.
In these extraordinary efforts, -Sobieski received no support from the European powers, although he promised, if assisted, to drive the Mussulmans of Turkey back into those.solitudes which had vomited them forth. The peace which followed this campaign was soon broken by a new and still more tremendous war with the Turks, who now broke in upon Hungary in irresistible force, threatening the subjugation of Austria, and terrifying.the adjacent principalities.
All eyes were again directed to Sobieski; Rome trembled; and the Pope dispatched couriers to implore his interference in saving the Church from the Moslem yoke. With the subsidies-which he received from Rome, our herd was enabled to raise an army of 16,000 men. Soon he was joined by the Austrian forces, and his exultation was extreme to-find himself at the head of 70,000 troops, having never before commanded half so many; with these he thought himself a match not only for 300,000 Turks and Tartars, but for the infidel world.	*
The celebrated campaign of Vienna was now opened, but need not be related here. On the morning of September 11,1683, the allied army
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
reached the summit of a chain of mountains, from which the Austran capital and the widespread gilded tents of the Moslems formed a magnificent prospect. Great was the astonishment of Kara Mustapha, the Turkish commander, to behold heights which he had confidently deemed inaccessible glittering with the Polish lances. He did not then know that “ the wizard king” was there—but the unwelcome intelligence was soon conveyed to him.
Next day having heard Mass and communicated—a pious practice which he never neglected when any great struggle was impending—the king descended the mountain to encounter the dense hosts of the Moslems in the plains below. The shouts of the Christian army bore to the infidels the dreaded name of Sobieski! The latter were driven from their entrenchments after some time. Five o’clock in the evening had sounded, and he had given up for the day all hope of the grand struggle, when the provoking' composure of Mustapha, whom he espied in a splendid tent calmly taking coffee with his two sons, roused him to such a pitch, that he instantly gave orders for a general assault. It was made simultaneously on the wings and the centre. He himself made towards the Pacha’s tent, bearing down all opposition, and repeating with a loud voice: Noh nobis, non nobis, Domine exercitmmi, sed nomini tuo da gloriam! (Not unto us, not unto us, but to Thy Name, Lord of Hosts, be ascribed the glory.) He was soon recognized by Tartar and Cossack, who had so often beheld him blazing in the van of the Polish chivalry; they drew back, while his name rapidly passed from one extremity to the other of the Ottoman lines, to the dismay of those who refused to believe him present.
At the moment the hussars, raising their national cry, God for Poland! cleared a ditch which would long have arrested the infantry, and dashed into the deep ranks of the enemy. They were a gallant band; their appearance almost justified the saying of one of their kings—that “if the sky itself were to fall, they would bear it up on the points of their lances.” The shock was rude, and for some minutes dreadful. But the valor of the Poles, still more the reputation of their leader, and, more than all, the finger of God, routed these immense hosts. They gave way on every side; the Khan of the Tartars -was borne along with the stream to the tent of the now despairing Vizier. “Canst thou not help me?” said Mustapha to the Tartar; “then I am lost indeed!” “The Polish king is there!” replied the other. “I know him well. Did I not tell thee that all we had to do was to get
away as quick as possible?” Still the Vizier attempted to make a stand; in vain—as well might he have essayed to stem the ocean tide. With tears in his eyes he embraced his sons and followed the universal example.
It would be impossible to describe the transports of the Christian world when the result of the campaign was known. Protestants as well as Catholics caught the enthusiasm; every pulpit in Italy, Spain and England resounded with the praises of the illustrious victor. The Pope was overwhelmed with joy and, bathed in tears of gratitude, remained for hours prostrate before a crucifix. Indeed, this successful battle of Sobieski saved a large portion of Europe from the bloody and iron yoke of the Mahommedans. This was their last attempt on Europe, and from thenceforward they acted only on the defensive.
Amidst the rejoicings of Christendom, Sobieski was unhappy. He was beset by factions in the kingdom, who rendered his reign and his life miserable. Poland continued divided against itself. There was no unanimity in its councils, and all its successes only engendered new causes of discontent. Finding himself unable to control the Polish nobles, Sobieski resolved on abandoning the load of royalty with which he had been invested. On his resolution being made known, the voice of faction was hushed, and even Eis enemies prayed him to continue their sovereign and protector. After a, short struggle between his inclination and sober judgment he submitted to the unanimous voice of the people.
He therefore continued king, but it was only in name. Sick of the court, he fled into the forests, or wandered from one castle to another, pitched his tent wherever a beautiful valley, picturesque landscape, the mountain torrent, or any natural object attracted his attention. Sick, too, of the world, he sought for consolation in religion. With his intimate friends he discoursed on the nature of the soul, the rewards of another life, and the glory and happiness of heaven.
At length the end of this great man approached. A dose of. mercury, which he had been recommended to take, was too strong for his constitution, and speedily released him from all his sufferings. -John Sobieski, or John HL, who thus died in the year 1696, was the last independent prince of that country; and with him ended the greatness of Poland.
E. R..
Our faith should be so firm that ho misfortune could make us do or say anything contrary to it.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
Egypt.

The Egyptians have undoubtedly more claim to antiquity than any other nation of which we have any record; but so lost in the oblivion of ages are their early annals as to leave no conjecture as to their first settlement, or how they rose so high in the rank of nations. Their antiquity was so great that it calls to one’s mind the words of our Lord: “Before Abraham was, I am”; for nations have come and gone, living in the brilliant light of their conquests, and, like a meteor, have left but a gleam.of their glory behind.
Egypt, however, though conquered, and handed over from one stranger to the other, has yet, by a miracle, as it were, always kept her individuality, even in her conquests, not mingling with those nations rendered tributary to her rule. Her extreme age has led to the modern notion of the nations of those days being created by God in a more advanced state of intelligence and knowledge than those which have followed, and which have not preserved the power of handing down to posterity those marvellous sciences and arts known to the Egyptians before the dawn of history.
Nations that have come into existence during or after the power of Egypt as a nation had declined, have passed, as it were, the ages of childhood and ignorance, emerging from that - barbarous condition by slow degrees, gradually rising by conquest and individual genius to fame, and have duly ranked in history as nations to ‘ flourish and pass away. But Egypt first comes upon the stage, fully equipped in power, knowledge, and wealth, learned in the sciences, and, above all, possessing a settled constitution, with its king, its nobility, and its various grades of society, and that is about 2500 B.C.
• The fine arts, brought to such perfection in after ages by the Greeks and Romans, were doubtless cradled amidst those rough figures and hieroglyphics which have for ages stood unrivalled and bidden defiance to the ravages of time, hidden beneath the dry and arid soil of the desert. Ages have rolled on, sweeping along with them nation after nation, who have left but few remains beyond the gigantic remnants of palaces or edifices, built as mementoes of their power, as the magnificent triumphal arches of the Romans, so plentifully scattered over Italy, and still further back the tombs or tumuli of the ancient Grecian chiefs which still remain along the shores of the Hellespont, mournful heaps of earth, hiding from sight the dust of-
345
those whose very deeds have passed into oblivion. But the sculptures of Egypt, finely though stiffly wrought, have brought to light commodities considered of modern invention, and show how advanced they were in the comforts of life, as in a tablet representing the sacrifice, the priest has tied to his girdle a steel to sharpen the knife. Egypt has now once more a chance to raise herself in the scale of nations, and profit by the advantages offered her by the Suez Canal. As she has passed the age of her second childhood, time may develop those vast resources which civilization and modern facilities for trade may draw from her fertile soil.
The first record of Egypt as a nation dates from about 2500 B. C., or nearly four hundred years before the call of Abraham; and then it was a nation holding a prominent position, and furnished with the commodities of life; for they possessed the art of making linen, in which it -would seem they had a large trade with other countries, especially with Rome and Greece, before and during the Persian rule, which lasted about three hundred years. The linen found on the mummies is of a coarse and firm texture, as they, would naturally not choose a fine substance, considering it was to endure for three thousand years; after which time, according to the Egyptian belief, the soul would return to the flesh, and merely suffer the inconvenience of finding it rather dryer, but still the same as when it was left.
According to Herodotus, the father of History, the empire was founded 11,806 B. C., in which he is evidently mistaken, as Adam dates only 4004 B. C., according to the Bible, and it is improbable that Egypt was inhabited by the Grauts before the creation of man. It is certain that they did dwell upon the earth; for their existence is mentioned in the Book of Genesis as a contemporary of man in the first age. Paper also was one of the conveniences early known: a material has been found in ancient tombs, formed from the papyrus torn into shreds, laid crossways and firmly stuck together, making an even surface. We have borrowed the term paper, a corruption of papyrus in its Latinized form. The hieroglyphics were for centuries incomprehensible, being considered merely a style of ornament, or a capricious idea of the sculptors. Their meaning was completely lost, until about fifty years ago a tablet was found, bearing on one side a Grecian inscription, and on the other the hieroglyphics which, after immense labor, were partly formed into an alphabet. The knowledge is still very limited, but, has led to the discovery that the Egyptians
346	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
were in the habit of using three different sorts o
of letters: one for state occasions and the others for domestic use, or for judicial purposes; but what renders their perusal so difficult is the combination of all three in one inscription.
Cleopatra was the last of the native Egyptian sovereigns, and is perhaps one of the best known; for who is there that does not associate her with one of the greatest conquerors that the world has ever seen, and by her beauty proving herself more than a match for the hero of 500 battles? After Cleopatra, Egypt seems to have sunk into utter oblivion, as though that mighty nation had worn itself out through the course of ages, and gradually sunk, dwindling away into a people without even a home, pitching their tents upon the ruins of their ancient cities, once teeming with life and vigor. It would be difficult to name the possessors of Egypt since the times of the Romans. Mahomet, as we read, drove the Romans out after it had been in their possession 700 years; next, Saladin set up the power of the Mamelukes, who became so powerful that they extended their dominions over a part of Africa, Arabia and Syria; and then Selim, a Turkish emperor, established the rule of the present, and it continued tributary to Turkey'until 1798, when it fell into the power of France, who held it only till 1801. The present population is about 3,000,000, yet in the time of the Romans it was more than double that. But when Egypt was in her glory, and her rule extended over Arabia, India and Ethiopia, her population was as great as any of the chief powers of Europe of the present day, if not greater.	J.
Machine Politics.
. In politics to-day the element which plays the most important part is the “machine” or the party organization. The influence of this branch has made itself felt in many-ways and places. The most noticeable fact is that the “machine” tends to put the government of the large,cities, and ultimately the government of the Union, into the hands of low-toned politicians. Its plans are to secure the election of some aspirant who, though morally unfit, will dispense the favors in his power to those to whom he is indebted for his. election. It is organized for the benefit of a few, generally the bosses, the man-agefs and the workers, or, as in some cases, the pocket-books of a few. Every election is a matter of party conflict, and is determined by the force of party organization. Individuals working alone have no more chance of defeat
ing the trained army led by the politicians than two or three unarmed citizens of repulsing a regiment of soldiers.
All the members of a party have indeed, intheory, equal rights, and may all take part in its government; but unless the circumstances of the time are very exceptional, professional politicians exclude volunteers or outsiders from all effective shares in the management of the partyorganization.
The arts of management, fraud and, occasionally, force, keep respectable persons away from the “primaries,” and on the control of the primaries depends the control of the party. This leaves the “machine” in the hands of the less reputable members of a party, the better class, however they may grumble, are swayed by inveterate habit of party loyalty, and prefer a bad candidate of their party to a candidate of the opposition.
The “machine,” as we are told, puts bad men into power and keeps good men out of it; for example, it excludes A from public life, because, though an eminent republican or. democrat, he does not live within a given district; and it excludes B, because, though he wishes to stand for his own district and is respected by all his neighbors, he is not a republican or, as the case may be, a democrat, equally serves the end of the managers. The character, therefore, of the government depends in the last resort, like most other things in politics, on the nature and working of the “machine.”
Another noticeable fact is that the working of the machine not only tends to exclude merit and respectability from political authority, but also, in combination with other circumstances, propagates corruption throughout the government and the country. Everyone is not aware how far public life can be corrupt.
Corruption of the coarsest kind is certainly rampant in more, than one State Legislature. When corporations find that the protection of their rights, or the promotion , of their interests, requires the use of systematic bribery for the purpose of influencing legislation, it is needless to inquire whether a legislature is or is not pure.
The Federal Government and Congress are, we should naturally suppose, of a higher character than the average local legislative body;, but it is a known fact that men have become legislators and congressmen and comparatively poor, and before their term of office is expired have become millionaires. The salary they receive, in accordance with the manner in which they live, should not make them any richer than when elected, but k seems to swell th^eir purses.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
347
The natural conclusion is that for some measure they have caused to be passed, they have received a small sum for their labor or influence in bringing about the result desired by the corporation or individual. These are but a few of the many evils caused by the party organization, without trying to show that it has a good quality. Many pages might be covered with the bad effects it has, or will have, on the country and government, while on a few could be written the good effects.	$$$
Science, Literature and Art.
—St. George Mivart will soon publish another philosophical work on the “ Origin of the Human ’Intellect.”
—The Chinese Government has just ordered a new edition of the famous Encyclopedia which was originally compiled during the reign of Kien-Lung. The index alone fills twelve folio volumes.
—William Archer’s forthcoming “ Life of Macready” will contain some interesting particulars given to the author by Mr. Browning in connection with Macready’s production of “A Blot on the ’Scutcheon.”
—One of the “Talks with Edison,” which Mr. Lathrop reports in Harpers for February, refers to the inventor’s belief in a personal God. Mr. Edison is quoted as saying: “The existence of such a God can, to my mind, be proved by physical science.”
—The losses by the burning of the palace of the King of Belgium include all of his great collection of maps and his geographical library, said to be the finest in the world. The library contained 7,000 volumes, among which were a manuscript work of Walter Raleigh, an original edition of the letters of Capt. Cook, and the first edition of the Spanish reports of Christopher Columbus. Besides the maps there were 11,000 photographs, taken in all parts of the world.
—The world of science has sustained a notable loss in the death of Rev: Stephen J. Perry, S. J., who, with the late Father Secchi, S. J., ranked among the great astronomers of the nineteenth century. The reverend gentleman was seized with his fatal illness on his arrival at Demerara, from Cayenne, where he had been engaged in charge of the English expedition sent to o'bserve the recent solar eclipse. Father Perry was an Englishman, and became a Jesuit in Stonyhurst College, England, in 1853, at the age of twenty. He was for several years Director of the Meteorological and. Astronomical Observatory of Stonyhurst College. In 1868 he undertook a magnetic survey of the west of France, and the following year the same work was done for the east of France. He was chosen head of several British Government expeditions in the interest of astronomical progress—among them that to Cadiz to observe the total eclipse of the sunin December, 1870; and that to Kerguelen,
Iceland, in 1874, to observe.the transit of Venus. He was a devoted priest as well as an. eminent scientist.
—The Highest Tide.—The Bay of Fundy forms a cul-de-sac at which the Atlantic Ocean-seems to have taken a spite, and at regular intervals pours in its waters viciously and with intent to do all possible harm. Take for instance the harbor of St. John. In most parts of the world a tide of from 6 to 10 feet is quite sufficient to satisfy all reasonable demands. In St. John harbor the tide rises 21 feet on an ordinary day, and occasionally varies the monotony by pushing the mark up three or four feet, as-the humor seizes it, and I was never struck so much with anything in my life as with this advance and receding of the waters.
I have described the narrow gorge through which the St. John Riveris forced into the Bay of Fundy. At low tide, where the water drops into the bay, there is a fall of some ten .feet, the channel being very rough and totally impassable for vessels of any description. At high water the-fall is the other way, the bay falling into the river. This was the first time that I had ever seen a river with the water flowing from its mouth toward its source, and this occurs every day in the St. John. One good-effect of the tide is this, that when it is half up or half down the river is level with the harbor, and then the immense number of timber barges and other craft, which have gathered in the river while waiting for the rise and fall, are able to run nicely and easily out into the harbor. St. John, be it understood, is a great port for shipping. At any day you can see a dozen of the largest ocean-going vessels loading deals for different parts of the world. This timber mainly comes down the St. John River.
I saw the tide come in around the headland • at the Minas Basin, and it is a sight worth going to see. The head of the advancing tide is called “a bore.” If you can imagine a straight wall of water eight feet high, curling over at the top, advancing upon you at the rate of ten miles per hour, you will get an idea of what a “bore” is and what a turn of the tide means. At the Minas Basin this wall of water comes tearing around the headland like an express train, and the man who was down on the flat sands of the bay at this time stood, a remarkably good chance of never leaving the sands alive. If he got a good start of the “bore” he might escape and if he did not he was drowned. You cannot fool with the tide of Minas Basin. It is a plaything that the native who is acquainted with the animal avoids. The rise of of the tide at Minas Basin is forty-five feet.
At the extreme head of the Bay of Fundy the tide rises from sixty-five to seventy-five feet, and runs at the rate of fifteen miles an hour. This is not only the highest tide in the known world,.but it is double the height, ! am told, of any other known tide.—Portland Advertiser.
34§
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
|9uiilisf)cD rbm) 5aturDan During Errnt Eime at X. Q. Snibrrsitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, February 8, 1890
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,
H.	P. Brelsford, ’91,	Wm. C. Larkin, ’90,
H. A. Holden, ’gi.
W. P. McPhee, ’go,	C. T. Cavanagh, ’gi,
J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
Joseph E. Berry, ’gi.	D. Barrett, ’go,
R. Adelsperger, ’90.
—It is a pleasure to announce that Rev. Father Bcerres, C. S. C., is meeting with flattering success with his schools in India. The curriculum of studies embraces such classes as Latin, Algebra, Geometry, Higher Arithmetic, English Composition, History, etc. A rival school has already succumbed to the superior worth of his establishment, and the small allowance now granted him by the Government is soon to be materially increased.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin and Father Granger arrived safe at Notre Dame last Thursday evening and received a hearty welcome from the students and members of the Community. The anxiety which for several days had been felt in regard to the beloved voyageurs, owing to the delay in the arrival of the steamship, served to intensify the general joy on their happy return. Their experience on the voyage after leaving the shores of France was indeed a terrible one. The good ship, La Normandie, first met with an accident to her machinery, causing a delay of many hours; then for several days they were in danger from icebergs and fields of floating ice. But a merciful Providence, in answer to unceasing prayers, guided them safely and rescued them from every danger. The venerable Father Founder and Father Granger are, we are glad to say, in the enjoyment of the best of health and rejoice, and we all with them, to be once more at home.
* *
By a happy coincidence the day of Father General’s arrival marked his seventy-sixth birthday anniversary. The celebration of this event belongs by right to the Princes of St. Edward’s Hall, and it was duly commemorated by them yesterday (Friday) in a literary and musical entertainment given in their Hall. The youth
ful members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association reflected the .greatest credit on themselves and entertained a select audience by the excellent manner in which they delivered ' the addresses, recitations and musical numbers that formed the programme. With them we of the Scholastic unite in extending to the venerable Superior-General our sincere congratulations on this bright anniversary and our cordial wishes of happy returns ad multos annos^
—Last Thursday was a great day for the Juniors. The long-expected Parisian banquet,, promised by Very Rev. Father General to mark the enrolment of two hundred members in the department, was given with all the eclat and enthusiasm befitting the occasion. It was an event long expected; for many weeks have elapsed since the Juniors reached and passed the-magic number 200 in their ranks. But the absence of the venerable Father Founder necessarily caused a postponement of the celebration. And so, in expectation of his arrival, preparations were begun early in the .week; and when the joyful telegram of Wednesday was received the day and the hour were fixed for Thursday at 7.30 p.m.
The Juniors’ dining hall was elegantly and tastefully decorated, while the tables were laden with all the delicacies of the season. Very Rev. Father General presided, with Very Rev. Father Granger, Very Rev. President Walsh, Very Rev. Provincial Corby and members of the Faculty. The Juniors and a number of invited guests occupied the other tables of the well-filled hall. The Menu was prepared in the highest style of the culinary art. During the repast the orchestra discoursed delightful music according to the following programme:
Overture—“Morning, Noon and Night ”.........Stepps
Aria, Opera of Falstaff.............. .'....Balfe
TOASTS.
1.	Our Holy Father, Pope Leo XIII.
Music—Le Reveil du Lion.......,...........Kontsky
Our Host, the Venerable Founder ’of Notre Dame.
Music—La Media Noche....'...................Aviles
3.	The University df Notre Dame.
Music—Danse Militaire  ...............  Bucolossi
4.	The Juniors—Past, Present, and to Come.
Music—Selection from “ The Brigands ”.  Offenbach
The toasts, in the order named, were responded to, in appropriate sentiments, by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, Rev. D. J. Spillard, Rev. President Walsh and Mr. L. Chute, ’91. The venerable Father Founder, in response to words of welcome, spoken in the name of his fellow-students by Mr. B. Hughes,’91, expressed his deep joy and pleasure to be once more with all at Notre Dame, thoughts of whom, had never been absent from his mind, His. WQrds were
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	349
received with prolonged applause expressive of the joyful feelings with which the hearts of those present were filled. All in all, the evening was most enjoyable and marked an event not soon to be forgotten by the Juniors of ’89-90. May the prosperity of the department long continue, a happy indication of the successful career of our Alma Mater!
the steep, rocky heights that lead to the gates of heaven, across our brother’s path let us cause to shine “ the bright beams of encouragement.” With a sympathizing love let us warm his heart; and when that heart pours forth its melody, perhaps some faint note may reach the ear of our Judge and plead not in vain that our souls may find rest.	H. A. Holden, ’91.
“Frozen Music.”
The National University Scheme.
“There is a frozen music in many a heart that the beams of encouragement would melt into glorious song.” No one but He who gives light to-the stars, from whom the flowers have their beauty and fragrance, can know how many hearts have been frozen into stillness by the coldness and cruelty of the world.
How many glorious strains of inspired song have thousands sung to their own soul, and God and the angels have heard, but man knew them not.
Yes, there is “ a frozen music in many a heart.” Music that might move the world to tears; music that might fill the care-ladened, sin-burdened souls of millions with joy unspeakable, with peace profound; music sweeter, purer, nearer to that of heaven than man has ever heard; music that might move men’s souls to deeds heroic, to sacrifices sublime; music that might lull to sleep the tempests of passion raging in the hearts of men; music that might teach the poor with lighter hearts, with more cheerful submission their poverty to bear; music that might raise the world from the awful abyss of degradation, make earth a paradise, spread joy among the angel bands, delight the heart of God.
Oh! did we realize but half the power of a *kind word spoken in season; of a kind look given in time; of a kind act done in need! What the clear, cool spring, bubbling up from the sands of the desert is to the weary traveller, dust-laden and thirsty almost to death, this is a kind word, a kind look, a kind action to the traveller on the road of life. “The beams of encouragement,” when have they fallen upon a heart, chill, cold, almost lifeless though it be, and not warmed its pulses into new life. Oh, heavenly beams! Often have you thawed the deep ice of despondency that has congealed the heart, arid what a flood of liquid melody has been outpoured!
Oh, that the “ beams of encouragement” might be felt more; the chilling frost of despondency less! Then would there be more of joy, less of sorrow; more of peace, less of strife; more of iQve, less of hate, As side by side vve climb
There is in this country a number of what are called educational journals that strongly advocate the establishing of a National University, to be maintained by the general Government. This idea is sometimes taken up by the State superintendents of education, and by them endorsed. Among its advocates may be reckoned nearly all those who favor high schools, State colleges, agricultural colleges, normal schools, etc. What a burden such an institution would be to the tax-payers of the United States may be imagined when we consider the cost for a year’s tuition in one of the State colleges now in running order in the State of Indiana, and we believe that in institutions similar to the one we refer to the cost of educating pupils is the same, if not more. The following, published in a periodical about ten years ago, is of equal application and greater significance at the present time: '
“There is a college or university at Lafayette, Indiana, known as the Purdue University. This institution had its inception in an act of Congress passed July 2, 1862, dedicating certain public lands, or the avails of the same, for the endowment of colleges for the benefit of agricultural and the mechanical arts. In 1874, the principal of this fund secured by this State, together with the accretions, amounted to $365,000. John Purdue also donated $150,000, in ten equal annual instalments, towards the accomplishment of the scheme; while the city of Lafayette contributed for the same purpose $50,000 in cash, and 100 acres of land, adjacent to the city, for the site of the institution. Besides these several amounts, the Legislature, since 1867, in answer to the demands of the concern, has appropriated a sum now aggregating more than one hundred thousand dollars. One would suppose that the institution would be satisfied with what it received. But not so;j for we learn that the President has stated that for the consummation of the plan adopted there would be required a draft of ten thousand dollars annually for ten years to come from the State Treasury.
35°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
B
Such being the cost of this college, we would take it that the number of students attending class therein is large. But this is not the case. The institution was formally opened for the reception of students September 16, 1874. Although it purports to be an agricultural college, yet but barely one application had been made at the date of the last report for instruction in that branch. There has been but one student graduated; and for the first year the whole number of students enrolled was 45; for the second year, 66, and for the third year, 98. The . expense for the education of the 66 students in
1875-6, the onlyyear for which I have computed, was as follows: For instructors, $12,275; for heat, light and other incidentals, S9,254.43; for farm labor, etc., $3,391.82, making in all, $25,121.25, or over $380 per student; Besides these expenditures, the student himself must pay out of his own pocket, entrance fee in academy per term, $2; entrance fee in college, per year, $5; matriculation fee in special schools, $10; inci-■ dental expenses, per term, S3; chemicals and gas,, for special students in laboratory,’"per term $10; table board, per week, S3; room rent, heat and light, per week, 50 cents; washing, per dozen, 75 cents.” ’	'
But this is not a full showing of the cost of education at this State university. The writer said further: “The cost for the year mentioned, in which the number of pupils in attendance was 66, was for each pupil S380. But of course this sum does not include the item of interest on the investment of money in the buildings and the appurtenances, which belong by right to any estimate of that kind. The university and grounds, for instance, represent at least half a million of dollars, which at eight per cent, brings the yearly interest up to the sum of $40,000. Divide this amount by the number of pupils in attendance and add to the outlay for teachers, etc., and we learn that the schooling of each for the year named was.$986! In round numbers, sixtyTsix out of the million or so of children of school age in the State of Indiana, receive tuition at an expense of a thousand dollars apiece.”
If the tax-payers of Indiana' or of any other State, will foolishly tax themselves to educate a few students when the cost is so great, they must suffer for their folly.' Would it not be far better for the State to support primary schools only, and leave to the parents the cost necessary for anything above that? Let reading, writing, arithmetic, and similar branches, be taught at the State’s expense, but nothing more. As to higher education, let those who desire it pay for it/ .	:	'	-
Books and Periodicals-

At the Sign of the Rose. A Drama in Two Acts. With Cast of Characters, Stage Directions, etc. By Maurice Francis Egan, LL.D. Notre Dame,Ind.: “Ave Maria” Press. 1890.
This forms an excellent addition to the limited number of plays, for male characters only, suitable for college and school exhibitions. Prof. Egan’s experience as a dramatic critic, and his knowledge of the requirements of academic theatricals have been brought into service in the production of this drama, and its rendition, even by ordinary talent cannot fail to meet with success. The work of preparing the play for the stage has been attended to carefully, even in the minutest points, thus adapting it particularly to the wants of amateurs. The plot is a story of colonial times, and the action is lively and varied, abounding in situations that call for the exercise of great elocutionary ability. It has been dedicated to the Rev. M. J. Regan, Director of the Thespian Association at Notre Dame.	.	,
—No patriotic American should miss the leading article in the February 67. Nicholas. It is "The Story of the Great Storm at Samoa,” retold by John P. Dunning, who was correspondent at Samoa for the Associated Press when the great disaster occurred. It is an improved, enlarged and more carefully written version of the dispatch which all the world admired at the time, and it is richly illustrated not only from photographs, but with drawings by J. O. Davidson, W. Taber, and George Wharton Edwards. Another strong and well-illustrated paper is Walter Camp’s football article.

c
among other things for the final instalment of the Lincoln biography. The chapters include the "Capture of Jefferson Davis,” “The End of
Rebellion,” and “Lincoln’s Fame.” Two poems g on Lincoln follow the close of the life (one by ' S Stuart Sterne and the other by James T. McKay*), S
and supplementary papers on the “Pursuit and | Capture of Jefferson Davis,” by General Wilson, | who commanded the Union cavalry, and by | William P. Stedman, of Company B, who was I
an eye-witness. In the “Open Letter” department is an anecdote of Jefferson Davis, showing his indignation at the proposition to use concealed explosives in the coaling stations of the United States Navy., There are comments also in the."Open Letters” on the Lincoln History, one of which defines McClellan’s political position. In a foot-note there is given a very interesting, unpublished correspondence between Edward Everett and President Lincoln on the addresses delivered by the two orators at Gettysburg. The Lincoln life has run through forty numbers of The Century Magazine. The frontispiece of the number is the enlargement of a small full-length photograph , of Ralph Waldo Emerson, taken about 1859?' .The portrait is a very characteristic one, and gives the appear- ;

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.ance of Mr. Emerson before a lecture audience. As an accompaniment to this picture there is a striking paper made up of Emerson’s talks with a college boy. In this number is begun the publication of the artist La Farge’s letters from Japan, with illustrations prepared by the author. As might have been expected, Mr. La Farge is .a most keen observer, and every paragraph is full of that extraordinary sense of color which has given him his fame as an artist. Two ex-tremely timely papers are on what Milton calls-“The Realm of Congo.” The first describes a trip made by the United States Commissioner, Tisdel, in 1884, and the second gives an idea of the Congo River of to-day. The latter is written by E. J. Glave, one of Stanley’s former officers, who is mentioned several times in Stanley’s last . book. Recent visitors to the French capital will be especially interested in Miss Balch’s account, called “A Corner of Old Paris,” of a ■visit to the Musee des Archives. This article is profusely illustrated with fac-similes of signatures of famous Frenchmen, and by copies of old prints. Joseph Jefferson devotes a large part of the current instalment of his autobiography to his reminiscences of Edwin Forrest, of whom four portraits are given,—two of Forrest off the stage, and two in character. In addition to this, Jefferson describes his own first visit to London and to Paris.
Exchanges.
—“Flowers” is the title of a peculiarly timely essay in the Elite Journal.
—The current Michigan Argonaut contains the o	o
first of what promises to be an interesting series of papers on Robert Browning.
—The action of the Philosophian Review .in endeavoring to defend an article recently no-’ ticed by us seems childish enough. We protest most earnestly that we cannot make out the persons to whom reference is made by the expressions “author, critic, ■writer.” Do these terms refer to the Scholastic critic, or are they to be applied to your valued contributor?
—The Holcad feels better now. If it takes care not to catch cold, or to get wet feet, it may do nicely yet. Its latest issue (and, by the way, it was unkind of you to criticise the last number of the Scholastic; we usually notice the latest number of contemporaries) relieved it of such a store of historical facts (?) theological acumen and “deestrick skool” eloquence that we hope for the best. Its furious spouting proves that our criticism struck home.
—The King's College Recordwas amused, to use its own language, at our leader upon the late revolution in Brazil. The Record says that it is only the “privileged few” who see “that monarchies ‘are crumbling with decay and threatened with speedy dissolution.’ ” Well, let us see. Portugal is on the verge of a revolution;, the
spirit of . liberty is rife in Spain, Germany and Russia, and, mayhap,-England has seen her last sceptred monarch. The stern-evidence of facts proclaims the triumph of republican principles.
—It is a notable fact that we Americans, so, liberal-minded in all our public institutions, are wofully bigoted in our literature. Hardly one non-Catholic author in our language fails .to sneer at what is termed the “superstition” or the “malice” of old Rome. And yet these litteratezirs all admire the poetry of our faith; they hold that to visit the shrines of Europe, and of Rome in particular, is part of a liberal education. One would think that constant association with Catholics in America, and a due allowance for the prejudices of past ages, should do much to prepare our countrymen for fair judgment in matters of history and religion. Nevertheless, the great body of non-Catholics still persist in misunderstanding or misinterpreting the character of many Catholic institutions. The Society of Jesus comes in for its full share of attention, of course. Macaulay, though he highly .admired them, wilfully belied the Jesuits as a concession to the prejudices of his readers. Every critic knows that he had the happy faculty of making history accommodate itself to startling antitheses or well-rounded sentences. Carlyle, too, had a pleasant way of snarling at those who happened to differ from him in any important matter. Y et we scarcely see how even these illustrious examples justify the attempt, recently made in the Northwestern, to prove that “Ignatius’ black militia” are men corrupt beyond qualification, serving God through the agency of the devil, pulling down empires for their own amusement and playing all sorts of absurd and impossible pranks. The article to which reference is here made is entitled “The French Republic and the Jesuits.” Now, there are too. many great questions pending solution, and too much moral work to be-done in our day, to allow such discussions as these to occupy a Christian mind. Either the writer was painfully ignorant of history—and in this case the editors of the Northwestern are to blame,—or he has wilfully misconstrued facts, and his conduct cannot be too strongly denounced. It is just possible, though, that this promising “soph” has been unable to digest what he has read, as the following sentence would seem to indicate: “The Catholic Church every where claims, tho’ it finds itself unable to exercise supreme authority.” The power claimed by the Catholic Church is the spiritual power only; nor can we understand how any church can assert its divine origin without professing to hold this universal spiritual authority, since there was but one Christ, and He came to save the whole world. It is time that this quibbling—this dropping of buckets into empty wells—should cease; when we shall have succeeded in' making the whole world Christian, there will be ample time to fall:upon one another with murderous intent.
352	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Snow/w maloney, yesterday.
—Philopatrians this week! Good!
—If you must bet, bet your skates.
—All honor to the “ Vigilance Committee! ”
—The football banquet was a great success.
—Duke has taken up new quarters at Mt. St. Vincent.
—Who had the highest average? Paradis of Sorin Hall.
—The average of the graduating class was 92. By no means a bad showing.
—Judge and Mac have decided to keep all further proceedings until the 17th of March.
—F. Wile, ’93, spent a few very pleasant days at his home this week, attending his brother’s marriage.
—The recent excellent display of drawings in the main parlor called forth much favorable comment.
—The Juniors have a new hand-ball alley in their “gym.”- “ Deadners ” can nowbe put against the barber shop door.
—Mike was working the aerodite game in o	o
excellent style, but developments made him conclude not to spring the climax.
—Isn’t it about time to hear from the candidates for base-ball captaincies? The season can be opened sooner than usual this year.
—Now is .the time to renew your subscription to the Scholastic, to send us “personals,” to •write that essay. It is always time for those little duties.
—Messrs. T. Wade, J. Delany, A. Leonard and J. Messick deserve an especial mention for their excellent work in the Drawing Course for the past session.
—The Minims gave an excellent entertainment yesterday in honor of the seventy-sixth birthday of Very Rev. Father General, of which an extended notice will appear next week.
—It is rumored that Ed and Hep are writing a' play which will embody the greater portion of “a Crazy Man’s Reveries by a Night Owl.” We expect its appearance in the near future.
—The little brick cottage on the Niles road, occupied in days of yore by the gentle Professor Howard, and around which clustered many happy memories of ye olden time, has disappeared in’the onward march of progress.
—On last Thursday morning a Mass of Requiem was celebrated in Holy Cross Seminary for the repose of the soul of Mr. McDermott, C. S. C. Many friends, whom the virtues and talents of the young man had drawn to him, were present, and the solemn chant was beautifully rendered by the Seminary choir. May he rest in peace!
—At the last regular meeting of the Leonine Society^ held bn the 2d inst., at Holy Cross Seminary, the. election of ’ officers for the coming
session resulted as follows: Rev. J. J. French, C.S. C., President; W. Houlihan,Vice-President; T. Corbett, Secretary; J. Ready, Corresponding Secretary; H. Holden, 1st Censor; T. Crumley, 2d Censor; H.Santen, Critic; F.Curry, Sergeant-at-Arms. The subject of debate for the next regular meetingis: “Was the execution of Mary Queen of Scots justifiable?”—T. A. Crumley and F. Curry, affirmative; J. Just and J. J. Gallagher, negative.
—There are some who need to be reminded that the Library is not a store-room from which to take volumes for use as text-books or as ornaments to private collections. The works in the Library are for the general good and not for the benefit of a few individuals. When permission is given to take any volume it should be returned as soon as possible, so that others who may wish to consult the same will find it in its proper place. As a general thing, the reading-rooms of the Library should be used for purposes of consultation, and the books placed in their proper shelves before leaving.
—The 12th regular meeting of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Society was held Saturday evening, Feb. 1, President H. P. Brelsford in the chair. The names of Messrs. J. Delany, W. O’Brien, J. Wright and P. Fleming were presented as candidates for admission; after a few preliminaries they were unanimously elected. An extemporaneous debate, “Resolved that the negro should be exported from the United States,” followed, and was participated in by Messrs. H. P. Brelsford, L. P. Chute, J. B. Sullivan, C. T. Cavanagh, J. R. Fitzgibbon, J. J. McGrath, C. S. Burger, E. Berry, G. Cooke and others. After the unfortunate negro was “banished” the meeting adjourned.
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Sunday evening, the 2d inst., for the purpose of reorganizing for the ensuing session. The election of officers resulted as follows: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; President, Rev. A. Morrissey; Promoter, Bro. Lawrence;. 1st Vice-President, George T. Weitzel; 2d Vice-President, James R. Boyd; Treasurer, James J. Fitzgerald; Recording Secretary, Fred W. Wile; Corresponding Secretary, M. A. Quinlan; Historian, Geo. W. O’Brien; 1st Censor, Otto H. Ibold; 2d Censor, Chas. S. Schillo. Wednesday evening the newly elected officers were installed, each delivering his “inaugural address” upon taking his place. The society, maintaining its former excellent standard, is in a highly prosperous condition.
—The tenth regular meeting of the Law Debating Society was held Wednesday evening, Feb. 5. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. The following officers were then elected for the ensuing session: Col. W. Hoynes, President; J. Flynn, 1st Vice-President; T. McKeon, 2d Vice-President; F. Vurpillat, Recording Secretary; W. Blackman, Corresponding Secretary; j. H. Cassidy, Treasurer; L. Herman, Critic; H. O’Neill, Sergeant-at-Arms. The so^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
553
ciety returned a vote of thanks to the retiring officers, as an appreciation of the able manner in which the affairs of the society had been conducted during the session just past. There will be a public debate given in the near future, under the auspicies of this society, in which the Negro Emigration Bill will be discussed. The gentlemen who will take part in this controversy are Messrs. F. Flynn, J. Hepburn, F. Long, and F. Lane. After the transaction of miscellaneous business the meeting adjourned.
—At the grand Banquet given Thursday evening by Very Rev. Father General to the Junior department, the following was the
menu: Potage. Green Turtle.	.
. Hors d’CEuvres Varies. Poisson.
Halibut Steak, Sauce Tartare. Entree.
Fricassee of Chicken.
.	Sweet Potatoes.
Roti.
Mallard Duck with Celery.
Lemon Ice.
Salade. Lobster. Dessert.'
Bons-Bons Frantjais, Gateau a la Saint Honore.
’	Neapolitan Ice-Cream.
Fruit.
French Coffee.
—The number of those who take an active interest in the local military companies is rapidly decreasing. The drills are attended by about half of the members, and it is a noticeable fact that different faces appear at each assembly. That this is not the proper way to act we must all acknowledge. When a man joins the battalion he does so with the tacit understanding that he will be ready at any time to take part in the exercises. He confers no especial favor upon the authorities when he honors the association with his society, and the sooner he realizes this fact the better it will be for his general welfare. The officers do all in their power to make the organization a success, and by their strenuous efforts they endeavor to arouse some enthusiasm. After they have instructed a recruit in the rudiments of the drill, is it honorable for him to refuse to practise the manual? It is to be hoped that they will see the error of their ways and make reparation by more attention to the training. Let us have a reform.
o
Examination Averages.
[No Average under 60 is Published}
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Adelsperger, 98; O. Ahlrichs, 98; H. Allen, 81; C. Anderson, 60; G. Abt, 80; W. Blackman, 83; B. Bachrach, 85; H. Blodgett, 60; E. Berry, 89; C. Brookfield, 70; E. Blessington, 95; J. Bovett, 60; I. Bunker, 74; R. Bronson, 70; H. Bronson, 86;-J. Burns, 85; E.-Brannick, 78; H. Brannick, 81; D. Barrett, 92; C. Burger,
90; H. Brelsford, 92; J. Cabanne, 77; J. Combe, 75; H. Carroll, 72; M. Cassidy, 71; S. Campbell, 78; J. Cooke, 80; G. Cooke, 88; C. Cavanagh, 92; L. Chute, 86; J. Cooney, 75; J. Clayton, 71; E. Coady, 85; T. Coady, 65; P. Coady, 78; S. Curtis, 84; D. Cartier, 76; F. Curry, 81; F. Chute, 81; S. Dela Pena 60; W. Dillon, 67; F. Dorsey, 61; N. Dinkel, 71; Jno. Delaney, 85; C. Dacey, 80; J. Dennis, 74; L. Davis, 81; J. Dyer, 93; H. Darroch, 60; J. Dougherty, 85; A. Daniels, 73; J. Fitzgibbons, 96; C. Flynn, 86; N. Flynn, 94; P. Fleming, 74; W. Ford, 83; D. Fisk, 80; F. Fehr, 87; E. Fack, 67; M. Guillen, 60; M. Garfias, 87; J. Giblin, 82; M. Gibbons, 77; H. Galen, 68; J. Grange, 70; J. Gough, 77; P. Houlihan, 83; L. Herman, 94; W. Healy, 88; C. Heard, 92; J. Hackett, 78; B. Hughes, 94; E. Hughes, 87; S. Hummer, 96; P. Hempier, 87; E. Hoover, 90; W. Hayes, 79; J. Hepburn, 92; F. Hynes, 60; J. Johnson, 60; O. Jackson, 65; H. Jewett, 93; J. A. Johnson, 73; W. Johnson, 71; A. Karasynski, 75; J. Kerns, 87; J. King, 96; F. Krembs, 83; F. Kelly, 81; F. Kohlman, 65; R. King, 78; R. Langan, 84; B. Lair, 81; G. Lan- caster, 74; Geo. Long, 66; A. Larkin, 83; -W.
Larkin,96; F. Lane,92; W.Lynch, 79; W.Lahey, 78; F. Long, 90; L. Long, 69; A. Leonard, 84; O. Lehman, 60; M. Louisell, 85; J. McCartney, 73; J. Meagher, 95; J. Moncada, 60; E. Mock, 74; J. Mulroney, 85; F. Mahorney, .60; J. McWilliams, 91; B. McKeon, 90; J. McAuliff, 82; J. McKee, 91; G. McAlister, 75; D. McDonald, 68; W. McPhee, 95; L. Mithen, 67; J. Mackey, 93; W. Morrison,93; J. McGrath,84; F. Murphy, 88; H. O’Neill, 88; W. O’Brien, 87; J. O’Shea, 96; A. Otero, 63; W. O’Neill, 88; D. Parker, 86; F. Powers, 80; D. Philips, 88; J. Paradis, 100; P. Pyplatz, 73; L. Pim, 83; I. Portilia, 62; H. L. Prichard, 95; F. Prichard, 83; C. Paquette, 96; E. Prudhomme, 92; J. Rebillot, 78; S; Rose, 75; C. Ramsey, 71; O. Rothert, 91; W, Roberts, 70; D. Reedy, So; F. Robinson, 75; H. Schwarz, 63; J. Sinnot, 66; L. Sanford, 60; C. Sanford, 83; N. Sinnott, 91; J. B. Sullivan, 85; H. Steiger, 66; E. Schaack, 76; J. Smith, 65; J. Sullivan, 83; F. Seeberger, 81; G. Satter, 67; L. Scherrer, 93; C. Sinclair, 79; W. Stanton, 68; B. Tivnen, 82; G. Tedeus, 77; F. Vurpillat, 95; V. Vurpillat, 85; T. Wade, 65; F. Walsh, 67; J. Wright, 87; F. Youngermann, 60.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
H. Adler, 60; H. Aarons, 64; J. Ayer, 79; M. Blumenthal, 78; H. Bachrach, 60; S. Bachrach, 66; J. Brady, 96; T. T. Brady, 76; T. M. Brady,-67; W. Brady, 66; W. Burns, 64; W. Bruel, 60; J. Bradley, 81; B. Bates, 84; W. Bates; 73; E. Barger, 61; V. Burke, 62; J. Barclay, 63; R.Boyd, 64; G. Bos, 60; E. Crandall, 82; W. Covert, 71; M. Cahn, 60; A. Cohn, 60; J. Coll, 66; W.‘ Coll-man, 60; A. Campbell, 60; J. Cunningham, 79; R. Clendenin, 86; J. Cudahy, 61; E. Connors, 75; J. Connors, 78; E. Du Brul, 84; O. Du Brul, 70; P. Dion, 71; L. Davis, 75; N. Deutch, 69; J. Delaney, 80; J; Doig, 72; D. Davidson, 65; J. Dempsey, 71; H. Des Garennes,82; E.Drumm,
35'4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
76; B. De Lormier, 61; E. Dorsey, 70; G. Elder, 76; A. Funke, 69; Jno. Flanigan, 76; Jas. FlanF gan, 64; C. Fleming, 88; J. Fitzgerald, 77; C. Fitzgerald, 85; G. Funke, 60; E. Field, 67; W. Gerlach, 75; E. Garrison, 85; J. Girsch, 65; R. Gross, 65;. A. Galen, 63; H. Grund,.60; J. Howard, 60; W. Hassenfuss, 66; O. Hassenfuss, 60; J. Hambaugh, 65; J. Hack, 62; B. Hesse, 80; G. Hahn, 77; R. Healy, 84; W. Halthusen, 61; J. Hagus, 62; P. Hague, 63; M. Hannin, 79; A. Heller, 75; H. Hull, 63; L. Hoerr, 69; O. Ibold, 89; P. Jacobs, 72; E. Jewett, 86; J. Kearney, 85; F. Keough, 76; F. Kellner, 60; L. Kehoe, 62; V. Kehoe, 78; A. Leonard, 60; J. Leonard, 8i; R. Lenard, 60; E. Lansing, 68; H. Lowenstein, 60; P. Lamberton, 60; P. Murphy, 88; W. Mealier, 68; F. Mainzer, 65; C. Merz, 93; W. Mitchell, 60; L. Monarch, 65; D. Monarch, 60; E. McCartney, 67; Jos. McPhillips, 60; Jas. McPhil-lips, 62; F. McNally, 60; A. McPhillips, 60; W. McDonnell, 76; F. McDonnell, 68; F. McKee, 82.; E. McKee, 64; E. McIvers, 79; F. Neef, 93;
’ A.. Neef, 62; J. Neenan, 60; A. Nester, 75; G. O’Brien, 85; F. O’Rourke, 73; O. Otis, 80; J. O’Mara, 76; F. Putnam, 82; R. Palmer, 76; C. Priestly, 75; A. Prichard, 63; M. Quinlan, 91; D. Quill, 65; M. Root, 60; M. Rice, 79; F. Roper, 69; W. Regan, 64; W. Rowsey, 74; B. Robbins, 63; L. Reidinger, 68; W. Stanton, 64; E. Spurgeon, 60; C. Schillo, 75; F. Schillo, 87; S. Scott, ■ 76; J. Seery, 64; G. Sokup, 64; J. Snyder, 63; C.Scherrer, 79; R. Spalding, 71; B_.Stapleton, 76; M.Smith,60; L.Sutter, 64; Talbot, 82; F.Thorn, 71; R. Tivnen, 60; H. Treff, 72; J. Walsh,-60; A. Welch, 66; W. Weston, 60; F. Wile, 86; F. Weise, 61; J. Ward, 77; T. Whalen, 60; E. Whalen, 60; J. White, 82; E. Wolf, 91; G. Weitzel, 92; W. Young, 73; W. Zinn, 60.	-	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Ayres, 82'; R. Ball, 80; O. Brown, 89; T. Brown, 95; S. Blake, 83; T. Burns, 87; J. Barbour, 90; R. Browning, 86; G. Bixby, 80; T. Cornell, 95; W. Crandall, 85; C. Connor, 98; W. Connor, 87; G. Covert, 84; W. Crawford, 90; A. Crawford, 95; A. Coquillard, 80; T. Croke, 87; H; Durand, 94; E. Elkin, 98; E. Eckler, 85; E. Ezekiel, 80; T. Finnerty, 93; A. Fisher, 84; W. Frankel, 80; E. Falvey, 92; W. Finnerty, 82; W-. Fuller, 90; C. Furthman, 92;- E. Furthman,-80; W. Furthman, 90; G. Funke, 85; J. Flynn, 96; W. Girardin, 78; A. Greene, 87; H. Gilbert, 93; D. Gilkison, 89; A. Gilkison, 85; C. Grant, 85; J. Griggs, 90; C. Griggs, 87; C. Girsch, 70; F. Hill, 88; M. Henneberry, 90; W. Hoffman, 89; W. Hamilton, 94; H. Hendry, 82; T. Holbrook, 85; E. Jonquet, 80; C. Krollman, 85; S. Keeler, 75; E. King, 84; E. Kuehl, 70; C. Kern, 82; G. Klaner, 85; H. Londoner, 93; A. Lonergan, 84; J. Lonnsberry, 80; C. Lamberton, .91; H. Lamberton, 82; M/Leyi, 70; J. Loonie, 94; B. Loomis, 86; H. Montague, 90: J. Maternes, 84; W. Marr, 90; A. Mattas, 86; H. Mestling, 85; E. Mestling, 90; H. Myers, 90; S McGuire, 89; C. McPhee, 90; T. McPhillips, 85, B. Morrison, 94; J. Marre, 80; W. Nichols; 86; C. Nic
hols, 90; W. Nichols, 86; J. O’Neill, 89; D. Oatman, 60; L. Paul, 94; C. Paul, 92; C. Packard, 80; J. Packard, 82; H. Pierce, 90; T. Roberts, 95; A. Ronning, 90; J. Ryan, 85; L. Stone, 75; G. Scherrer, 90; W. Scherrer, 92; P. Stephens, 98; D. Thornton, 82; P. Trujillo, 88; H. Vorhang, 90; G. Vandercook, 95;. V. Washburne, 92; D. Wilcox, 90; T. Wever, 98; W. Walsh, 98; W. Weber. 80; C. Zoehrlant, 88; G. Zoehrlant, 89; G. Ziegler, 98.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Allen, Anderson, Blodgett, Bachrach, Bovett, Bunker, Burns, Barrett, Benz, Cabanna, Combe, Cassin, Cassidy, S. Campbell, C. Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, Clayton, T. Coady, P. Coady, E. Coady, Cartier, Crall, Dorsey, Dacy, Davis, Dyer, Jas. Dougherty,; Dunkle, Fitzgibbon, C Flynn, Ford, Fehr, Fack, J. Flynn, A. Flynn, Fuller, Guillen, Garfias,'Giblin, Grange, Gough, Grimes, Houlihan, Herman, Hackett, Healy, Heard, E. Hughes, Hummer, Hempier, Hoover, W. Hayes, Hepburn, Hynes, E. Hayes, J. S. Johnson, J. A. Johnson, W. Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, J. King, . Keenan, Krembs, F. Kelly, Knoblauch, Kunart, Lesner, Langan, Lancaster, Lane,- Lappin, Lynch, Lahey, F. Long, L. Long, Leonard, Louisell, Latson, McCartney, Moncada, Mock, McDonald, McWilliams, McKeon, Mc-Auliff, McKee, McAlister, McDonnell, McPhee, Mithen, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, McGrath, F. Murphy, Metzger, J. Newman, W. Newman, H. O’Neill, O’Shea, Parker, Phillips, Paradis, Portilia, Paquette, Prudhomme, Rebillot, Reynolds, Rothert, J. Sinnott, L. Sanford, N. Sinnott, Steiger, Schaack, Sullivan, C. Soden, Scherrer,' Seymour, Stanton, Tivnen, Talbot, F. Vurpillat, V. Vur-pillat, Wade, Walsh, Wright, Zimmerman.
:	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Masters Adler, Aarons, B. Bates, E. Bates, J. Brady, T. M. Brady, T. T. Brady, W. Brady, Bruel, Blumenthal, Bradley, Bos, Burke, Barclay, Burns, Crandall, Cunningham, J. Connors, Campbell, Coilman, Coe, E. Du Brul, Davidson, Dempsey, De Lormier, Elder, J. M. Flannigan, J. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, Gerlach, Garrison, Gross, Grund, Howard, W. Hasenfuss, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, R. Healy, Hague, Hagus, Hatthusen, Heller, Hoerr, Jacobs, Kearney, Keough, V. Kehoe, J. Leonard, Lamberton, Lorie, Lamme, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, L. Monarch, Merz, JMitchell, Martin, Mier, McCartney, Jas. McPhillips,* Jos. McPhilips, F. McDonnell, F. McKee, McNally, McIvers, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, O’Brien, O’Rourke, Otis, O’Mara, Putnam, Palmer, Prichard, Quinlan,'Quill, Roper, Schillo, Scott, Sokup, Snyder, Scherrer, Sutter, Spalding, Stapleton, Swan, Smith, Sutherland, Treff, Thorn, Tivnen, Tetard, Tinsley, Walsh, Welch, Weston, Wile, Weitzel. Weise, Ward, Wolff, Wertheimer, White, Zinn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. '
Masters Adler, Ayers, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, T. Burns, Barbour, Browning, Bixby, Cornell, Crandall, W. Connor, C. Connor, Covert, Coquillard, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Durand, Elkin, Eckler, Ezekiel T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, Funke, Flynn, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, A. Gilkison, Grant, J. Griggs, Girsch, Hill, Henneberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Holbrook, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, King, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, ' Londoner, Lonnsberry, C. Lamberton, Loonie, Loomis, Levi, Montague, Maternes, Marr, Mattas, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, Morrison, Marre, C. Nichols, W. Nichols; O’Neill, Oatman, L. Paul, C. Paul, C. Packard, J. Packard, Pierce, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Vandercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, Weber, G. Zoehrlant, C. Zoehrlant, Zeigler, Hendry. -	:	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	355
।
i Sb. Mapy’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—February ist,the dividing line between the two sessions of the scholastic year, was a holiday. A late sleep and an entire free day gave all a rest before entering upon the new term. Needless to say, it was heartily enjoyed; an impromptu entertainment in the evening added much to the general pleasure.
—The semi-annual examinations closed on Jan. 31st, and were from first to last most satisfactory. A good will characterized the work of each class, and the session’s close found both teachers and pupils convinced that success had attended the efforts of the first half of the scholastic year. The new term opened Sunday morning, on the Feast of the Purification, when all the Catholic pupils approached the Holy Table, there to place their good resolutions for the future, and to receive grace and strength to put them in practice.
—Promotions at the close of the first session are not common, hence, when they occur, much honor is attached to them. The Misses C. Kaspar and M. Cooper have been promoted from the Second to the First Junior class; the Misses M.' McGuire and E. Wagner, from the First Tun-ior to the Junior Preparatory class; the Misses Green and L. Norris, from the Second Preparatory to the First Preparatory class; Miss D. Davis, has been promoted to the First Preparatory class in grammar, and I. De Montcourt and L. Bovett, in arithmetic; Miss H. Hutchinson, from the 3d to the 2d Preparatory class.
Purple and Fine Linen.
As far back as the records of history carry us do we find the love of display and luxury manifested by the majority of mankind; and ever since the. Tyrian sands were first tinged with the rich hue—now always associated with ideas of royalty and magnificence—and the looms of antiquity gave forth their precious fabrics, has man shown a disposition to indulge his taste for the pomps and vanities of the world, symbolized by “purple and fine linen.”
The Queen of Sheba saw the court of Solomon in all its glory, and was amazed; and yet it was more than surpassed by the transcendent beauty surrounding the court of Egypt’s Queen, “the Serpent of the Nile.” When we read of ships with sails of purple silk and oars of silver, which kept time to soft strains of music,—or of the feasts given by Lucullus, when the tables .were arranged around a lake of sparkling. wine, on
whose surface moved tiny, boats. propelled by silver oars and bearing nymph-like creatures filling golden goblets with the amber liquor, we look around for Aladdin’s lamp and the genii of old. Vesuvius, dimly outlined in a soft.. Italian mist, looks down unmoved upon the ruin it has wrought; and as the tourist stands , upon the site of Pompeii, truth and fiction blend to form a picture, unreal in all its reality; for hardly can the mind conceive the glory that crowned this favorite resort of the wealthy Romans ere the streets ran burning lava; costly villas, sumptuous baths, and luxuriant gardens made an earthly paradise, the Mecca of Rome’s Sybarites.
Its fearful fate served not as a warning, and as time brought wealth and power to different nations, they robed themselves in purple, ate. from golden vessels and drank from jewelled cups. Granada under the Moors, France in her prosperity, Spain in her days of chivalry, Venice at her zenith—all were brilliant in their pomp of court; and to-day, where is their grandeur?
While with philosophic mind we study the past, we exclaim against the degeneracy of the times; but have we no secret fondness for this same “purple and fine linen?”
Everywhere do we find a growing disposition towards luxury; the years, as they come, bring affluence to many, and even in a country which boasts democratic principles and equality in all things, there is a noticeable tightening of lines that bear a strong resemblance to caste limits, and the separating mark between the rich patrician and the poor plebeian.	•
Naturally one asks, what is the effect of indulgence in this leaning towards ease and comfort, extravagance and ostentation? The results of a winter’s sojourn of the Carthagenian soldiers in Capua were a loss of all love for discipline and order, a decline of strength, physical, mental and moral, and a general decay of all that was worthy and noble in their body, mind and soul. Such were the effects in the time-of Hannibal, and such will be the effects of luxury in this nineteenth century.
Would that the voice of a St. John the Baptist might be heard in the land, ere the evil takes a -deeper.hold upon.the people!	;	. .
A perfumed Paris and a jewelled sword are uesless in a conflict where a man’s heart and’a man’s arm are needed; and the softly-clad, gently-reared woman, whose hand: and brain and heart are brought up in idleness, may amuse in the ball-room, but will never stand before a judge, the mother, of Macchabees.. If all would but think, as a noted divine has said, that “the
356	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
diamond sparkling on a lady’s finger represents a tear frozen on the cheek of poverty,” and that the wealthy are but the stewards of that entrusted to their care, then would love of display and ease give place to holy charity and self-denial, and the rich would give generously, the poor would receive gratefully, and God would be glorified by both.
Angela Hammond (Class'go}.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ansbach, Bates, Bernhart, Bovett, Butler, Clarke, Cunningham, Cooper, Currier, Curtis, Crilly, Deutsch, Dennison, S. Dempsey, Dorsey, I. De Montcourt, Donahue, English, Flannery, Fosdick, Green, Ganong, Gordon, Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Hagus, Harmes, A. Hanson, Hellman, Hale, Hull, Hutchinson, Hamilton, Haight, Hepburn, Hughes, Hemelspeck, Jungblut, Kelso, Kimmell, Koopmann, Lauth, F. Moore, N. Morse, McLoud, K. Morse, Maher, McCarthy, McHugh, Murison, McCune, Mullaney, S. McPhee, Marley, M. Moore, Norris, Nickel, Nacey, H. Nester, O’Brien, Otis, Piper, Pierce, K. Ryan, Regan, Rinehart, Rinn, Rentfrow, Reilly,Studebaker, Spurgeon, Schiltz, Schaefer, Smith, M. Schermerhorn, N. Schermerhorn, Shrock, Thirds, Tormey, Van Mourick, Violette, Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. '
Misses Barry, E. Burns, Black, Burdick, M. Burns, M. Clifford, E. Cooper, M. Culp, M. Cooper, M. Davis, B. Davis, Ernest, Evoy, Girsch, Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, L. Kasper, Levy, Mabbs, N. McGuire, Meskill.’Mestling, O’Mara,.Patrick, Palmer, Philion, E. Quealy, E. Regan, Reeves; Ruger, Robbins, Shirey, M. Scherrer, M. Smyth, J. Smyth, Soper, K. Sweeney, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, M. Wagner, Waldron, Wood, Wright, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Crandall, A. E. Dennison, M. Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, McCarthy, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, C. Porteous, N. Smyth, S. Smyth.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
REORGANIZED CLASSES AND PROMOTIONS.
Advanced Course—Miss L. Curtis.
‘Graduating Class—Miss E. Flannery.
Under-Graduating Class—Miss O. O’Brien.
2D Class—Miss M. McFarland. Promoted to this Class—Miss D. Deutsch.	'
2D Div.—Misses M. Davis,* L. Nickel. Promoted to this division—Miss C. Hurley.
3D Class—Misses J. Currier,*,A. Tormey, M. Tormey. Promoted to this Class—Misses Stapleton, N. Morse, M. Piper.	, . .
2D Div.—Miss L. Dolan.* Promoted to this division— Misses M. McPhee, E. Healy, E. Quealy, M. Jungblut.
4TH Class—Misses A. Regan,* J. English, M. Hess,* M. Hull, A. Ansbach. Promoted to this Class—E. Nester.
2D Div.—Misses M. Bates, E. Lewis, M. Fitzpatrick. Promoted to this division—Misses Penburthy, N. Wurzburg, H. Nester, E. Hale, A- Gordon, A. Ryan, M. Otis, E. Dempsey, M. Smyth, M. McHugh, T. Balch.
Promoted to 5TH Class—Misses Pendleton, D.Davis, L. Young, M. Reinhart, G. Rentfrow, A. Thirds.
2D Div.—Misses C.Ernest*J. Calderwood,;F. Marley, A. Adelsperger. Promoted to this division—Misses M; Fosdick, R. Hero, M. Kelso, E. Burns, K. Ryan, T. Kimmell, L. Dreyer, K. Sweeney, G. Roberts, M.Collbran.
6th Class—MissesPatier* P. Harmes,* D. Spurgeon, A. Hammond, A. O’Mara, H. Hanson, H. Pugsley,* E. Davis,* S. Hamilton, M. De Montcourt, H. Hutchinson, M. Coll, L. Reeves, B. Pierce, Promoted to sixth Class-
Misses L. McHugh, E. Regan, Mabel Davis, E. Kasper J. Patrick, E. Dennison.
2D Div.—Misses M. Burns, E. Pyle, S. Bernhart,* F. Burdick, M. Byrnes, C. Daly, M. Haight, I. De Montcourt, K. Reilly, F. Soper, S. Levy, I. Cooke, K.'McCarthy. Promoted to this division—Misses Bovott, J. Holt, E. Schaefer, B. Wright, B. Davis, K. Barry, Margaret McHugh, A. Cooper, M. Hagus, E. Evoy, M. Ash, F. Krim-bill.	'	.	..
7TH Class—Misses M. Rinn, O. O’Brien, F. Murison, G. Green, C. Ruger, N. McGuire, L. Black, L. Norris, L. Ganong, M. Rose, A. Schrock, M. Wagner, K. Wood, R. Butler, A. Lynch, A. Hemelspeck, N. Schermerhorn. Promoted to this Class—Misses S. McPhee, E. Philion, M. Cooper, E. Wagner.
Promoted to 2d Div.—Misses N. Smyth, L. Ernest, E. Meskill, G. Shirey, I. Waldron, J. Smyth.
Promoted to Sth Class—Misses L. Holmes, M. Hickey, C. Kasper, D. Pellinz, K. Hamilton, M. Culp.
Promoted to qth Class—Misses L. Mestling, M. Hamilton, G. Crandall. .
HARP.
Promoted to 2d Class—2d Div.—Miss E. Nester. Promoted to $th Class—Miss M. McPhee.
ORGAN.
4th Class— Miss E. Healy.
6th Class—Miss M. Schermerhorn.
GUITAR.
Misses Hughes, M. Clifford, A. Crane.
‘	MANDOLIN.
Misses S. Smyth, A. Ansbach. violin.
Misses M. Smith, H. Nester, L. Reeves, A. Hanson. VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class, 2D Div.—Misses B. Hellman, C. Dempsey.
-2D Class—Misses N. Hale, I. Horner.
2D Class, 2D Div.—Misses F. Marley, T. Balch, O. O’Brien. -
3D Class—Misses J. English, L. Dolan, M. Fitzpatrick, M. Schiltz, I. McLoud.
30 Class, 2D Div.—Misses G. Rentfrow, M. Otis.
4TH Class—Misses M. Hughes, M. McFarland, H. Hutchinson, M. Schermerhorn. S. Dempsey, H. Nester, R. Van Mourick I. De Montcourt, M Davis, F. Soper L Holt, C. Haight, M. Rinehart, C. Beck.	’
5TH Class—Misses M. McPhee, S. Levy, M. Harmes, M. Burns, M. Bernhart, M. Smith, M. Cochrane. L Nickel.	,	,
N. B.—Pupils with names marked * were promoted in September.
- ------------<•-*-•»-----
When an academy was opened by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in Salt Lake City, Mormon children flocked to it; even the Destroying Angel (Brigham Young) put his children at the Convent school, but he never entered its precincts. When he wanted to see them he would stand on the opposite side of the wide street, and send a messenger across to have them sent to him. When invited to the convent he would say: “I cannot go into that holy house,.! am too wicked,” or, “don’t ask me, I am a bad man.” Brigham Young Was extremely polite to the Catholic clergy and Sisters. . When he met them in the street he would stop his carriage, uncover' his head, and make a deep salaam’ Sometimes he would make a sign to them to approach. And the big, showy man, in gray suit, with a red scarf about his neck and the shiniest of boots, would graciously inquire how they were doing, and emit his best wishes for their health and prosperity.—M. A. C. in American Catholic Quarterly Review. .	'	.