2
HOLY WEEK SERVICES
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
BY ORDER OF THE PROVINCIAL Rev. Leo Gorman, Master of Ceremonies
INDEX TO ADVERTISERS
Adler> Max-------------------------------4-5
American T. & T.35
PALM SUNDAY
STUDENTS’ SOLEMN MASS—8:00 A. M.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, Celebrant	Rev. Joseph Kehoe, Deacon
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, Subdeacon
PASSION
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly	Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown
(Chronista)	(Petras)
Rev. Henry J. Bolger	Seminary Choir
(Christus)	(Turba)
WEDNESDAY TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.
LAMENTATIONS
1. Chorus 2. Rev. Joseph Maguire 3. Rev. Thos. J. Brennan (Corby)
4.	Rev. Jerome M. Boyle
5.	Rev. James J. Sheehan
6.	Rev. Raymond F. Cour
LESSONS
7.	Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald
8.	Rev. Edward S. Shea
9.	Rev. Provincial
HOLY THURSDAY, Solemn Mass—6:00 A. M.
Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, Celebrant	Rev. Christopher J. O’Toole, Deacon
Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, Subdeacon
MANDATUM—2:00 P. M.
(Ministers same as for Solemn Mass)
TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.
Arrow Shirts _J__________________4
Block Bros.27
Bruggners 28
Burke 30
Cain, Dr.32
Campus Centenary Set------------32
Chesterfield 36
Coca-Cola 33
Copps Music Shop -------------- 28
Gilberts 2
Grundy, Dr. O. J. ---'-----------32
Indiana Engraving Co. —-------- 29
Jefferson Barber----------------28
Kuehns ------------------------ 30
Longines 34
Lowers 30
Lucas, Dr. R.32
Marvins-------------------------31
Priddys Studio----------------:--25
Probst & Singler----------------32
Rose Dental Group---------------32
Sonneborn’s---------------------26
South Bend Floral---------------25
South Bend X-Ray--------:--------32
South Shore---------------------31
Sunny Italy 26
Williams, The Florist -----.-----27
LAMENTATIONS
1. Chorus J 2. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 3. Rev. Edward A. Keller
LESSONS
4.	Rev. Paul E. Beichner
5.	Rev. Chester A. Soleta
6.	Rev. Herman R. Reith
7.	Rev. Louis J. Putz
8.	Rev. John J. Haley
9.	Rev. Provincial
GOOD FRIDAY, Solemn Mass of the Presanctified—8:00 A. M.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, Celebrant	Rev. Charles M. Carey, Deacon
Rev. Thomas J. Brennan (Alumni) Subdeacon
PASSION
Rev. James J. Leahy (Chronista)
Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss (Christus)
Rev. John H. Murphy (Petrus)
Seminary Choir
(Turba)
CHAPTER—2:00 P. M.; STATIONS—3:00 P. M.
TENEBRAE—7:30 P. M.
LAMENTATIONS
1. Chorus 2. Rev. John C. Burke
3. Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch
LESSONS
4.	Rev. Joseph N. Garvin
5.	Rev. John P. O’Connell
6.	Rev. Edmund J. Murray
7.	Rev. Archibald M. McDowell
8.	Rev. Gregory J. Lombardo
9.	Rev. Provincial
HOLY SATURDAY: Services begin at 6:00 A. M.—Mass at 7:30 A. M.
Rev. Philip Moore, Celebrant	Rev. Howard Kenna, Deacon
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, Subdeacon Paschale Praeconium: Exultet—Rev. Dean H. O’Donnell Prophecies by Seminarians of Moreau Seminary
I am a veteran who came to this campus first in the fall of 1927 and learned about the Spirit of Notre Dame. That the “spirit” existed then and has endured until now I am sure, but there’s a change in the spirit of friendliness among the men on the campus. Now I don’t mean that they are an unfriendly bunch, but in the old days you didn’t have to have a formal introduction to a fellow before you could say “hi” to him on the lot. In the old days we had what . was called “Hello” week during which everyone wore a card with his name “on it. After that we were all acquainted and everyone spoke without being knocked down.
To give you an example of what I am referring to: The other morning I was waiting for the Caf to open when a nice looking youngster came in. Well, I was in good spirit and it was a beautiful morning, so I said, “Good morning.” He looked at me kind of funny and said, ' “I think you have me mixed up with somebody else.” See what I mean. There are lots of guys on the lot who would
3
like to be friendly, but a thing like that would stop a young fellow cold. As for me—well—he was young enough to be my son and I’m a very fatherly old man, so I just go along saying “Hi ya boys.” Of course everybody thinks I’ve lost some of my marbles. Maybe I have, but I think being affable and friendly is wrapped up pretty closely with the Spirit of Notre Dame.
Thomas F. Golden.
Dear Editor,
At present social life at Notre Dame is dormant. During Lent the students don’t expect to find entertainment every night on the campus but they would appreciate an occasional dance, not a formal affair but a friendly Saturday afternoon tea dance; or even a Saturday night dance sponsored by one of the campus clubs at the Rockne'Memorial would afford the students a place to exhaust their Terpsichorean desires without having to frequent the more expensive spots of South Bend.
Maybe the new Student Council or Veterans’ Club will sponsor new forms of entertainment. There are many who have wondered about bridge tournaments, variety shows, golf exhibitions, and other means of keeping the students interested and satisfied in their spare time. One fellow wondered if there was any reason why the University didn’t have canoes and row boats for rent during afternoons so that a fellow might get out on the lake once in a while.
College life isn’t complete without some of these enjoyments. Let’s see if something can be worked out so that Notre Dame will not only be a “great place to be from” but also a great place to be in.’
Sincerely,
A Couple of Enjoymentseeking Students.
How to starve a spring fever (with an Arrow Sports Shirt}
Comes once again the indolence that follows the first robin. What to do?
This: Get the slickest Arrow Sports Shirt or Sport Knit you can find at your dealer’s. (That won’t be hard. Every one gets its share of fine Arrow looks and tailoring. Most of them are washable.)
The moment you’re in its trim lines, you’ll -want to dash out for some golf, tennis, or you-name-it. If not, you can always sit around in your Arrow and look like a retired champion.
P.S. If your Arrow dealer hasn’t the one you want, try him again.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
The Junior Prom committee announced that a representative of the Parker-Winterrowd Company,. South Bend Tailors, will be in the Law Building at 7:30 p. m. next Monday, April 15th. All those desiring measurements for tux (or tails) for the Prom are requested to appear at that time. Tuxes will be rented at a nominal price, which includes the tux itself, shirt, tie, studs, cuff links, and all other accessories. Check the "tux rental” bulletin on your hall bulletin board for further details.
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
IN IK CONRA... WDIIMN ( MRWMM
4
weather-sealed
Poplin Jackets
*5
Men . . . the good looking, weather-sealed poplin jackets from Adler's are ideal for spring sports and casual wear.
Styled with easy fitting . . . free action shoulders — zipper fronts and deep slash pockets. They're weather-sealed to keep out spring showers. See them in Adler's sports department.
Let's Keep the "Huddle" Open
The Huddle, which closes at 5 o’clock every afternoon (except Saturday when it closes before noon and Sunday when it doesn’t even open), has been a disappointment to the students on the north side of the campus.
One can say that the caf is open and the students are able to get a coke or a shake there during the evening, but the students who live in St. Ed’s, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, and Zahm represent at least 1100 potential customers. The nightly lines at both the soda fountain and hamburg counter are long enough now without adding this potential figure to them.
The girls and students who work at the Huddle are kept busy most of the time, particularly between classes. But if the reason for closing is because of the lack of help, it is believed that many students would welcome a chance to make a few extra dollars a week by working at the Huddle during the evenings and over the week-ends..
With warm weather coming any day now, the students will be looking for cold drinks during the evening. If the Huddle doesn’t remain open until 9 o’clock, either the Caf fountain waiters are going to be swamped or the busses to town are going to be packed.—Joe Cheney
Y. C. S. Continues
Help Yourself Series
Last week at the Y. C. S. Help Yourself Series, Father Raymond Murray, C.S.C., outlined the course for General Sociology major and Mr. Flynn for the Criminology major. Mr. John Sheehan discussed the field of Economics, presenting the courses available and the opportunities after graduation.
Last Tuesday night, the College of Commerce was presented. Dean McCarthy conducted the lecture and introduced the various heads of the Commerce departments. Mr. Davis spoke for Business Administration; Mr. Eells for Finance; Mr. Bender for Marketing; Mr. Dincolo for Accounting; and Mr. Smith, assistant dean, outlined the combination course of Commerce and Law.
ONM OMSK... MKNlMN ( WSNNMM
PROM BIDS ON SUE Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday Prom Bids go on sale April IS. 16, and 17.
12-1 335 Alumni Hall
1-3 122 Walsh Hall 7:30-9:30 338 Alumni Hall Monday for Juniors; Tuesday and Wednesday lor anyone else who is eligible.
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi S ember Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867

JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL -PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor Sports Editor
- Navy Editor
Feature Editor News Editor
¥
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	-	-	- Campus Clubs
¥
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL _	-	- Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK JOE RENINGER GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER
JAMES JOHN JIM REGAN-JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN ...	- Circulation Manager
M. E. VARGA _	-	-	-	_	_	_ Advertising
(Cover by Jim Ferstel)
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Dos Angeles— San Francisco. f^E SCHOHASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
6
In the shadow of the Cross . . .
Editorial
Sometimes values acquire depth and proportion usually not attributed to them. When is a shadow not a shadow? When it happens to be the shadow of the Cross. For then it passes into the substance of all that is good and sane in the world. And so in the shadow of Good Friday’s outstretched symbol it is good to stop and think upon life and how often we misunderstand it.
It was not strange that we mistook Christ in what was the most obvious reality of His life. We had believed that He was destined to be the King of the Jews not on a cross but on an imperial throne guarding the very crossroads of the world. We had hoped to kneel before the power of His sceptre and not that slim reed of kingly foolishness in His hand. We had dreamed of the day when His name would have been broadcast to the world by the trumpets of empire. We had not counted on seeing His shame advertised from the common bulletin of the Cross. We were largely mistaken too about His ideas on brotherhood and peace.
And as the centuries passed we kept on perpetuating mistakes, often in lame inadequacy hoping to cure one mistake by another. Even now we are undergoing the farce of determining a peace, the principles of which we do not even understand. Misled by graphic advertisements in newspapers and magazines which during the war kept on telling us to maintain things just as they were for the returning soldier, we might also feel that we are obligated to perpetuate the principles of the pre-war world, its selfishness, its religious intolerance, its feuds which pitted neighbor against neighbor and when intensified mean the pitting of one nation against another.
No, the pre-war world is dead. It is no longer a question whether we should attempt to go back to it. The issue at hand is whether or not we shall succeed in going back far enough to bring Christ from His Cross into the political consciousness of the world. The future will be won or lost not by whether we have decided in favor of Christ but whether we have decided soon enough.
Recently in a group of ambassadors, their wives and grown children, of network officials, newspaper commentators and others, someone put up this thought-provoking question: “If you were going on the air tomorrow night at 9 p.m. and you knew a big audience hoped you could tell them how not to have a war, or could suggest a way to end the Second World War—what would you say?” The most satisfying answer of all was given by an eighteen year-old girl who didn’t speak but only listened and wept. Perhaps, if we could only learn to weep, the tears might clear our eyes to the mistake that looms ahead. If we could only learn that in a shadow one often sees light.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 4
APRIL 12, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Doctor Price Receives Chemical Award
Holy Week Ceremonies to Begin Palm Sunday
Beginning with the dramatic Solemn Mass of Palm Sunday, the ceremonies of Holy Week at Notre Dame will be filled with the most moving and impressive liturgical rites of the Church. Inasmuch as Sacred Heart Church is the parish church for the University as well as the community, all the principal services will take place there. On Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday Mass is forbidden anywhere else on the campus.
Palm Sunday Mass will begin at 8 o’clock due to the length of the service. It will consist of the traditional blessing of the Palms, the Procession, and the Solemn Mass. The Passion according to St. Matthew will be sung in a manner reminiscent of the earliest origins of the liturgical drama by Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., as the Chronista, the Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., as Christus, and the Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., as Petrus. The Moreau Seminary Choir 'will interpret the imprecations of the Jewish mob at the various scenes of the Sacred Passion. On Good Friday, Reverends James J. Leahy, C.S.C., Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., and John H. Murphy, C.S.C., will chant the Passion.
On Maundy Thursday, the Altar of Repository will be arranged in the Lady Chapel where amid a regal splendor of lilies and wax tapers watch will be maintained until Good Friday morning. Among the more noteworthy parts of Good Friday’s services are the unveiling of the cross, the prostration of the clergy before the cross, and in the afternoon the rare spectacle of Benediction with a Relic of the True Cross. Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday at 7:30 p.m. Tene-brae services will be sung by Moreau choir in plain chant with polyphonic emphasis on the more dramatic parts. Holy Saturday’s Mass, anciently the dawn Mass of Easter, will be preceded
(Continued on page 31)
Close Fall Semester
Registration at N. D.
Notre Dame, Ind., April 12: Registration at the University of Notre Dame for the Fall semester beginning in September- has been closed to all applicants other than former Notre Dame students returning from the armed services, it was announced yesterday by the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Notre Dame registrar.
• Residential facilities of the University are being exploited to the utmost in order that Notre Dame can accommodate the maximum number of students. The enrollment for the spring semester which started March 14 was lifted to an alltime peak of 3,468 students, which exceeds by 200 any previous enrollment.
Thus far Notre Dame has accepted every former Notre Dame student who was in good standing when he left the University to join the ai-med forces, Father Thornton declared. He stressed that this preference to former students will continue to be shown as long as facilities are available.
According to Father Thornton, decision to close registration for the Fall semester to all applicants other than former Notre Dame students returning from the service was prompted by the large number of applications already received at Notre Dame for the Fall term. The University will be able to accommodate approximately one thousand additional students in the Fall semester. At the present time, 784 applications have been received from former students, now veterans, and more 2,000 applications already have hen received from other prospective students.
These applications, more than twice the number which actually can be accommodated at Notre Dame made it imperatively necessary at this time to announce the closing of registration to all except former Notre Dame students.
Recipient of Top
Scientific Honor
Dr. Charles Price, head of the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame, has been named recipient of the annual American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry for 1946, one of the top scientific honors of the nation.
Announcement of Dr. Price’s selection was made this week at the semi-annual meeting of the American Chemical Society. The award, sponsored by the Alpha Chi Sigma, Chemical Fraternity, is presented annually to the leading chemist under 35 years of age in the United States. It carries with at a $1,000 honorarium.
Dr. Price received the award for his outstanding work in the field of theoretical organic chemistry. He has been head of the Department of Chemisty at the University, long distinguished for its discoveries in chemistry, since November, 1945. It was at Notre Dame that processes leading to the development of synthetic rubber and other notable chemical formulae were originated.
Dr. Pi-ice came to Notre Dame from the University of Illinois where he had served for nine years as associate professor of physics. A native of Philadelphia, Pa., he was graduated from Swarthmore in 1934 with high honors and received his doctorate from Harvard in 1936. While at Harvard, Dr. Price held a university fellowship and worked under the distinguished Professor Louis F. Fieser. He went to Illinois after leaving Harvard.
Dr. Price has conducted extensive research in the field of high polymer chemistry, in which he has attained international distinction. During World War II he was engaged in important chemical warfare and antimalarial research for the United States Government. At the University he has made important contributions to the development of antimalarial drugs now being (Continued on page 31)
7
DARTMOUTH PROFESSOR TO LECTURE ON PRESENT CONDITIONS IN POLAND
The Charles Phillips Cracow Club in conjunction with the Chopin Fine Arts Club of South Bend will sponsor Prof. Eric P. Kelly of Dartmouth University in a lecture at the Progress Club, April 16, at 8:15 p.m. Prof. Kelly, internationally known lecturer and writer on Poland’s contribution to western culture, will speak on the theme, “Poland, a Barometer of World Peace.” A newspaperman, Prof. Kelly went to France in 1918 as a relief worker among the Polish legions. Here he met Polish exiles and admiring their fierce patriotism went with them to Poland to do reconstruction work after the war. Upon his return to the United States he became instructor in English and Slavic literature at Dartmouth University.
In 1925 at the specific request of the Kosciuszko Foundation, an exchange scholarship association, he returned to Poland to lecture at the University of Cracow. It was here that he wrote the best known among the 20 books that he has written, the Trumpeter of Krakow, for which he received the Newberry Medal in 1929, the only such prize awarded by the American Library Association for a book written in a foreign country. Referring to the spiritual experience that motivated the writing of the book, Prof. Kelly says: “I don’t know
Prof. Eric P. Kelly
if you call it a song exactly but it’s a kind of vibration that issues from the city of Krakow that aroused a very tumult in my heart, as I first came in Krakow after the great day when Poland rose from the grave. I suddenly heard the great bell boom over my head with its deep accent and then the tocsin, the smaller bell, which drove pigeons scrambling and shook them into the light like white snowflakes as all were settling and there was but a fluttering of wings high in the air . . . then came from above that call of the trumpet, the Heynal. ... I can’t describe my emotions. I was so happy that I wanted to scream aloud.”
The Heynal, to which Prof. Kelly alludes, is the trumpet song which was played for centuries from the high tower of St. Mary’s in Cracow and always terminated in a broken note to commemorate the death of a gallant mediaeval Polish youth who climbed to the tower to give the city warning of an invasion and forfeited his life. The broken note was his death call. In recognition of the authenticity and sympathy of his work, Prof Kelly was allowed by the City Councillors of Cracow to exhibit the original trumpet in this country.
Currently, Prof. Kelly, who sponsored a Polish refugee settlement in Mexico, is devoting his time to the restoration of
Poland. To that purpose he lectures and writes in order to create proper atmospheric sentiment among Americans for the acceleration of that day when Poland will free herself from foreign domination. Today, he is considered the outstanding authority on the mediaeval intellectual traditions of Poland. As an afterthought, it is interesting to note that the best interpreters of Polish manners and literature are the Irish, for instance, Jeremiah' Curtin, Arthur Prud-den Coleman, Eric P. Kelly and others.
Announce Photographic
Contest For Students
The Board of Editors of the Scholastic, in conjunction with the Department of Publicity at Notre Dame, announces today the First Annual Notre Dame Photographic Contest to select the 15 best pictures of people, events and still life at the University.
The contest will continue through Monday, May 13. Cash prizes and certificates will be awarded to the best first, second and third photographs. Twelve other photographs will be selected for honorable mention certificates.
All students and faculty members of the University are eligible to submit photographs in the competition except those faculty members on the Board of Judges, and student photographers working with the Department of Publicity. Any number of photographs may be submitted by a single contestant.
The three winning photographs will be printed in the May 24 issue of the Scholastic and will, in addition, be syndicated to various newspapers throughout the United States. Together with the 12 photographs to be awarded honorable mention, they also will be printed in various other publications of the University, such as the Notre Dame Alumnus.
All photographs entered in the contest must be submitted to the. Publications Office, Room 118 Main Building, by 4:30 p.m., Monday, May 13. Such photographs will become the property of the Scholastic. -
Judges for the contest will be: The Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., well-known campus photographer, who will act as chairman of the Board of,Judges; Professor Frank Hanley of the Department of Fine Arts; Dale Murphy and Ralph Hennings, South Bend Tribune staff photographers who recently won four top prize awards in the 1946 Indiana Associated Press Photo Contest; and Edward Meehan, National Advertising Manager of the South Bend Tribune.
8
Budenz Reports on Appearance
Before Congressional Committee
By LOUIS FRANCIS BUDENZ
Exclusive to the Scholastic
It is no secret that Father Frank Cavanaugh and I went to Washington last week to appear before the House Committee on .un-American Activities. The committee had subpoenaed me, and the newspapers were on their toes as usual in wanting to learn what has transpired. Most of the story is disclosed in their dispatches. It is difficult for me to say much more to the Scholastic. This is particularly the case since it will not be until October that I shall feel free to write fully on such events.
It was my privilege, I may say, to be the guest in Washington of Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen. This gave me the rare opportunity of witnessing how busy he is, to note how many hundreds of thousands of letters come to his door regularly from his radio broadcasts and other addresses. In that experience there was registered an indication of the many thousands of non-Catholic souls who are looking today to the Catholic Church for consolation and guidance.
In appearing before the House committee, it was my desire to do so in Catholic charity. It was equally my purpose to tell the truth regarding the designs of the Communist movement upon our country. These I had discovered in the course of my experience, and of them I told the committee in the executive session which lasted all day April 3. The committee’s office is on the fifth floor of the Old House Office Building, in rather small and modest quarters. There it was that the hearing took place. Representative John S. Woods of Georgia acted as chairman of the sessions.
The spirit with which I wished to tell my story to the committee was illustrated by the opening words. “In responding to the subpoena of the committee,” I stated, “there is no disposition on my part to pillory any individual Communist. Quite to the contrary, I pray for each and every one of them every day, that they may abandon their atheistic and anti-American affiliation.”
Only after this preliminary did I disclose that “the Communist Party of the United States is a direct arm of the Soviet foreign department.” To that was added the statement concerning the present program of Soviet Russia and its agents everywhere: “It was a Hitlerite policy of world domination, to be established step by step through fifth
columns.” I referred to the committee the documents within the Communist organizations, specifically the recent discussions over the so-called Jacques Duclos letter, which proved this charge.
I further observed that' the Communist persecution of religion, to which I had referred last October as planned for further intensification, was now being prosecuted openly. I particularly stressed the persecutions in Poland and Ruth-enia launched against the Catholics, “rivalling in savagery the brown-shirted and black-shirted reigns of terror.”
It is unnecessary to quote further from the declaration, except to state that I did tell the committee of the grave mistake that I thought it would be to confuse the labor movement and the Communists. That is precisely what the Communists want.
I appreciate deeply the kindness of Notre Dame and Father Cavanaugh for accompanying me on this trip. This favor I had asked, in order that the university officials would be fully advised of what took place. To this beautiful institution I owe so much in the ability to reorganize my life into one befitting a Catholic. For that I am eternally grateful. It was the sense of duty to our university which led, then, to the request that Father Cavanaugh accompany me.
It’s my hope that the Washington trip and its disclosures will be of some small help to our country in combatting its enemies and in building up world peace.
NFCCS Congress to Be
Held in Grand Rapids
Preparations are being made on the Notre Dame campus to “gather our forces” for the Ft. Wayne Regional Congress of NFCCS to be held at Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Saturday and Sunday, May 4-5. Busses have been chartered and more than forty students from N. D. and St. Mary’s are expected to make the trip to the congress which will be the first in this region since the early years of the war.
The National Federation of Catholic College Students organization in the Ft. Wayne Region had a lapse of activity during the past three years and the congress at Aquinas is the first major activ
ity on a region-wide basis to be undertaken since 1942. The congress is expected to reestablish the prestige of the region and once again place it in the spotlight as the official organ for coordination of “special-interest groups” activities on Catholic college and university campuses in Indiana and lower Michigan.
The Rev. Wm. Cunningham, C.S.C., Ft. Wayne Regional Chaplain, and Frank Grimaldi, Regional President, are directing plans on the Notre Dame campus in preparation for the congress. The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., moderator of the Veterans’ Club, is in charge of the spade work being done in the local commission on Veterans’ Affairs, the newest and most active commission in the Ft. Wayne Region. Thomas McCaffery, vice president in the club and chairman of the,Discussion Group committee, is aiding in the directing of vet delegates who will make the trip.
Delegates to the committees on Catholic Action and Liturgy are being selected and prepared by the Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., and the Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C. Pat O’Meara, Notre Dame's junior delegate to the Ft. Wayne Regional Council, will be in charge of the Catholic Action delegation.
Weekly meetings of the delegates planning to make the trip to Grand Rapids are held on Sunday mornings at 11:00 in room 108, Law Building.
Prof. Budenz’s Book
Goes on Sale in Fall
This Is My Story, the book by Louis F. Budenz dealing with the experiences that led to his return to the Church, will be published in the fall. This was announced recently by Whittlesey House, the popular book publishing branch of the McGraw-Hill Book Publishing Co.
The plan is for the book to appear on the market by Oct. 11, the Feast of the Maternity of Mary and the anniversary of the day chosen by Professor Budenz and his wife for their act of conversion.
That date will also mark the end of the year of silence and retirement to which Prof. Budenz agreed. During that time he was not to engage in public activities of any sort; neither by way of writing or lecturing. The publication of the hook will, then, signalize the end of this period. Its aim will be to present a straight - forward narrative of what transpired in Pref. Budenz’s experiences. The contents themselves, though, will undoubtedly present many vivid disclosures.
9
Junior Committee Communiques
Say Prom Plans Getting Better
By JIM BUTLER
The G2 communiques issuing this week from Joe O’Toole’s liason office in Dillon Hall are even more promising than those of last week. In other words, the Prom is getting better all the time, and May 3rd shapes up more and more as the real red-letter date on your calendar for this, or any other, semester.
With the addition of any student twenty years of age or over, regardless of his class rating, to the ranks of the eligibles for this crowning event of the ’45-’46 school year, there’s bound to be a general migration of pulchritude in the direction of Sou’ Bend come that eventful day only three weeks hence. But, even with hotel accommodations hereabouts definitely at a premium, and even with the ninth floor of the LaSalle tem
A student dreams of "that night" as he makes the choice of his prima donna for the Prom.
porarily decommissioned, there should be plenty of space in our teeming metropolis for the incoming damsels. In fact, if living space is really limited, the local authorities are considering moving some of the traditions out of Sorin Hall and letting the girls take their place for the weekend. But then again, there are those who seem opposed to that idea. Opposed, that is, I say opposed.
At any rate, the general idea is to get that date, and get it quick (quickly, if you’re an English major). Most of the campus wheels, spokes, cogs and even hub-caps have already tossed the proverbial coin to decide on the fortunate femme, and as we mentioned last week the P. O. Brothers are up to their necks in outgoing mail, each envelope daintily
soaked in brilliantine and modestly decorated with seven or eight N.D. stickers. But the P.O. Brothers don’t mind in the least—keep it up, they say in a pleading voice. The more the merrier, and all that sort of thing.
As for the lucky recipients of said envelopes, they’re already busy, getting their hair peroxided, or dyed, whichever the case may be, for the coming Prom weekend. Many of them are so excited they can’t even talk; an unfortunate situation, this, since the only girl we interviewed for this article was in precisely that condition, and consequently we can’t print any comments. At least we tried. The young lady did roll her eyeballs back in their sockets, though, when we mentioned the Prom, so from that you can get a vague idea of the “dealerish” impression you’ll make with the invitation to the dance.
And that’s about all the details you’ll need to know for the present. We can assure you that this will be one of those “ne’er-to-be-forgotten” occasions that come all too infrequently in your college career. Think of it: soft lights, sweet music, late permissions, a dazzling moon in the dazzling heavens shining down on dazzling you dazzling your dazzling woman, and a stroll—after midnight, yet!—across the campus, arm-in-arm with the sweetest of the sweet. One de-vastingly beautiful female creature plus one completely complete Prom weekend equals—are you following our chain of thought, or are you already ahead of us?
So, if you don’t have that date yet, better start immediately, if not sooner, to work out some sort of a deal with the little one back home, or with one of the St. Mary’s students. And if you’re hopelessly confused as to which of your harem to choose from, there’ll be the customary blind-date bureau, setup by the Prom committee. Interestingly enough, none of these blind dates are actually blind, although many opinions to the contrary have been circulated on the east side of the Dixie. Seriously, though, there are a lot worse things than dating a girl from across the highway.
In the next Scholastic, we’re going to run a question and answer department on the Prom in that issue, which will come out on the 26th, since nobody will be here to read—or publish—the magazine on Good Friday. Anyone with a legitimate query may. contact Joe O’Toole, in Dillon, or any of the committee chairmen, and we’ll see that you get an honest answer. Fair enough? Now, for the finest weekend you’ve had at Notre Dame, write the girl of your dreams, get a bid as soon as they come out, and skip gaily along to this Junior Prom to top all Junior Proms. .Remember, May 3rd is but three short weeks away!
10
IXIISI
Notre Dame's Contribution to Bacteriology
By ROBERT F. ERVIN—Laboratories of Bacteriology
Through the years and especially during the war years there has been an air of mystery about Notre Dame’s Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND for short). Lights burned all night, windows were frosted and doors were locked. Behind these doors was an “out of this world” array of special apparatus, a busy staff of full time scientific investigators, and a fascinating story of pioneer research.
Notre Dame’s LOBUND now occupies the ground floor of the Biology Building on the north side of the campus. In a suite of 23 specially designed laboratories, research of outstanding importance to biology, medicine, nutrition, and biological engineering is being carried on. LOBUND is a distinct and unique division of the University devoted entirely to research and is not a part of any academic department. But it has not always been so. For the complete story let us go back through the years to 1928.
In that year Professor James A. Reyniers, then an undergraduate at Notre Dame and now director of LOBUND, started a series of experiments and visualized a long range basic research program in bacteriology. After graduation in 1930, he continued as an instructor in the Department of Biology and was given a laboratory in Science Hall for his experimentation by Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., late Dean of the College of Science.
Professor Reyniers’ research program was aimed at investigating bacteria and their functions through a direct and fresh approach. Up to that time, most of the work in bacteriology had been side-tracked from “pure” research to practical or applied research. Much of the dramatic work of Pasteur and others near the turn of the century was based upon studying a disease and then searching for a bacterial cause. Therefore, the so called science of bacteriology grew by leaps and bounds and with much fanfare but with little basic knowledge. As would be expected, bacteriologists finally began to realize that a science not based upon knowledge of its
Prof. I. A. Reyniers, Director of LOBUND.
tools and basic units is very limited and tends to become sterile. It could be compared with the futility of attempting the manufacture of an atomic bomb without knowledge based upon the atomic theory.
Reyniers felt that one of the outstanding needs in bacteriology was a system or technique whereby the old bacteriological bugbear of contamination could be eliminated. Throughout the history of this science, bacteriologists have been plagued with the inability to keep out unwanted bac-
One of the first pieces of germ-free apparatus sterilized with steam under pressure. This type of equipment was used by Reyniers in about 1931 when the work was confined to Science Hall.
teria from the cultures with which they were working and to corral in one place the cultures they were investigating. As an example of the former, let us suppose a scientist isolated a germ which he suspected to be the cause of a given disease. In order to prove this suspicion, he would probably inject an animal with the germs to see if the animal manifested that disease. If in the meantime, a foreign organism got into his culture, the results in the animal would be inconclusive since he was no longer sure of the “purity” of his culture. This problem of contamination, then, was always present and ruined many an experiment after months of hard work.
The need for isolating a culture under experiment can be exemplified in this manner; suppose a bacteriologist sets out to work with a highly pathogenic (disease producing) organism. If he does not confine that organism in bottles, flasks, etc., of his own choosing, it may escape and cause disease and death to him and his fellow workers. The history of bacteriology is filled with gold stars for such men who have died that medical knowledge might progress.
Very early, Reyniers felt that if he could invent equipment and develop techniques to solve some of these basic problems, it would be possible to center at Notre Dame work
11
of outstanding importance. Thus in a Catholic university there could someday be built an institute devoted to the benefit of mankind and the advancement of science. This could not be done in a day nor could it be accomplished by merely following the well worn paths of traditional methods in bacteriology.
With these goals in mind, with little equipment, and with great ambition, Reyniers started to work. He divided his efforts between two major projects, one in the field of micrurgical research and the other in the field of germ-free research. The term micrurgy literally means “small work.” Its broad meaning is a science which concerns itself with all manipulation procedures carried out under a microscope. Instruments are now available for the dissection, isolation, injection, and manipulation of single organisms and cells so small that they may be seen only through a microscope. Reyniers began working in micrurgy because he felt that only through this one technique could he directly approach the problem of studying bacteria per se. In this field he developed several new instruments and new methods.*
His other major project, germ-free research, was on a much larger plane than micrurgy. He began experimenting with apparatus in which he could do all standard bacteriological procedures in the absence of contamination and with complete control over the environment and experimental conditions. His earlier apparatus (some of which is still on display in the Science Hall museum) consisted of a glass bell jar into which a rubber glove was sealed at the top and which could be sterilized with germicide. In this crude apparatus (which had cotton air filters attached) Reyniers was able to maintain sterile environment for a limited time and at the
same time do some manipulating of interior equipment. As a matter of fact he was able to rear germ-free guinea pigs for 22 days in this outfit. It was not long, however, before he developed a larger box-like unit in which he had two rubber gloves, a Pyrex glass window, and better air filters.
In all of these early models, attempts were made to real-germ-free animals in ordex- to test the apparatus ovex- long periods of time. At this time, the rearing of germ-free animals was not the prime objective but served as excellent test material to indicate whether ox- not the system could be used to eliminate contamination during prolonged experiments. In all of these early models, germicides were used for sterilization and it was soon apparent that this was not the correct approach. Reyniers was, at that point, confronted with the same problem which had prevented earlier- workers in Germany and France from developing successful germ-free apparatus.
At this time (1933) a young student in biology applied to Reyniers for a job helping with the experiments. His name was Philip C. Trexler, now head of the Micrurgical Division and in charge of all technical developments for LOBUND. Reyniers put him on the micrurgical instruments and assisting with the design and construction of the germ-free apparatus.
As soon as it was realized that apparatus sterilized with germicides was unsuccessful, work was immediately begun on equipment which could be sterilized with steam under- pressure. This was the big step forward—the step to eventual success through an avenue of heartaches.
With no funds for tools ox- apparatus, Reyniers and Trexler improvised, “borrowed,” and begged fox- the materials to build the early units. With full teaching schedules and no
* In this he was aided by his father and late brother, L. A. and Leon T. Reyniers ’31, skilled instrument makers of Chicago, Illinois.
A photograph taken in the Division of Biological Engineering, showing germ-free equipment combined with other apparatus to carry out some of the work described in the accompanying article.
12
trained technicians, the two worked night after night and many times all night designing, building and testing the steam sterilized cages. These first units were of the very crudest types, flimsily built, and dangerous to work with. As Eeyniers now relates, “The walls of one cage were so weak that Trex and I could see them bulge with only five pounds of steam pressure and we were never sure they would hold the pressure.” With such frail homemade apparatus, it would sometimes take 24 hours to sterilize one cage because of danger of explosions if higher pressures were used.
Professors Ervin (left) and Trexler (right) are shown working with the type of germ-free apparatus used in Science Hall about 1335. This was just prior to the removal of the Laboratories of Bacteriology into the new Biology building. It should be noted that the valves, cages, and piping necessary for the sterilization of these units were much more complicated than those illustrated in an accompanying photograph of the more modern apparatus.
About this time, both Father Wenninger and Eev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., then President of Notre Dame and now Bishop of the Diocese of Buffalo, became more interested in these experiments and the enthusiasm of the scientists. They began to make more funds available to them and also permitted some enlargement of the quarters in Science Hall. Although Father Wenninger encouraged these men, he fretted and fumed about the long hours spent on the work and even passed special rules regarding work after dark in Science Hall. Eeyniers obtained especially dark window shades and worked on night after night. The good Dean Wenninger soon gave up as he realized that these were unusual people working' on an unusual and very promising research program.
After’ months of effort, it became apparent that the basic idea for germ-free apparatus which could be steam sterilized was sound and that animals could be maintained germ-free over long periods of time. With this point proved and with promising results from the micrurgical apparatus, funds became available to have the equipment made by commercial firms outside the University. It was also apparent that the quarters (now composed of six laboratories) were too small to house the experiments. Eeyniers was therefore instructed to draw up plans for a new Biology building, one floor of which would be devoted to the Laboratories of Bacteriology. This was in 1935.
In the spring of 1936 ground was broken for the building. As construction went forward on the building the experiments continued day and night in old Science Hall. It was during this year that the group was joined by the writer of
this article after receiving his degree from the College of Science. These three, Eeyniers, Trexler, and the writer, now constitute the administrative staff of LOBUND.
As new apparatus (now made of monel metal, stainless steel, or plated brass) began to arrive, more and more help was needed to carry on the more elaborate experiments. Most of this help was obtained by using graduate assistants and even undergraduate students who were attracted to Eeyniers and “Company.”* As the work received more and more attention outside the University, a full time secretary was hired. A janitor- was converted into a stockroom keeper. An animal caretaker was employed.
With this very meager staff, the germ-free apparatus and all the other scientific paraphenalia were moved into the new building in June, 1937. This was indeed a big change. From six small crowded rooms in Science Hall, the group moved into one of the finest sets of specially designed laboratories in the country. Here were air-conditioned animal rooms, sterilization laboratories, machine shops, offices, micrurgical laboratories, classrooms, autopsy rooms, a chemistry laboratory, a darkroom and a large stockroom. In all, 23 white-tiled, fire-proof laboratories are devoted to bacteriological research and teaching.
Year aftei- year, in this building, the work has expanded and the staff increased. The seemingly insurmountable technical difficulties of the early days have been overcome and the long hours spent have been well rewarded. The early criticisms which always accompany pioneering effort have been silenced by the results.
As the research program grew and the amount of apparatus increased, a division of authority and a segregation of the main research problems became necessary. LOBUND is therefore now divided into three Divisions of Eesearch, viz: the Division of Germ-free Eesearch, the Division of Micrurgical Eesearch, and the Division of Biological Engineering. Eeyniers is Director’ of LOBUND, Trexler is Head of the Micrurgical Division and in charge of all technical develop-
* Some of these “midnight oil burners’’ were: Joseph Cordaro, 19341938 ; Aloysius Lorenc, 1936-; Arthur Phillips. 1937-; Robert Nelson, 19381941; Howard Murdock, 1938-1940: John Helmer. 1938-1939: Edward Foley. 1939-1942 ; John Reback, 1939-1945 : James Casper, 1940-1942; Morris Wagner, 1941-; John Davis. 1943-; Bernard Teah. 1943-; and Julian Pleasants, 1944-.
Illustrating the type of germ-free apparatus used at LOBUND from 1939 to the present. An operating cage in which caesarian operations on animals are performed is shown at left. The four other units in this photograph are rearing cages. This picture was taken in the Division of Germ-free Research.	-	.	~
13
ments for LOBUND, and the writer is presently Head of the Genn-free Division and in charge of all business details for LOBUND. The Head of the Division of Biological Engineering is to be appointed. One member of the group, Arthur W. Phillips, is now on leave at M.I.T. to take his doctorate in Biological Engineering. The remainder of the staff is composed of senior technicians, junior technicians, scientific helpers, machinists, secretaries, a stockroom attendant and an animal caretaker, twenty in all.
The research program has gained national and international acclaim. Scientists with a wide variety of interests are visiting Notre Dame’s LOBUND to study its unique approach to some of modern science’s most perplexing problems. Many of these world renowned individuals and organizations are bringing problems to LOBUND and are asking for cooperative research projects. For example, it is generally acknowledged that without the germ-free technique (perfected and furthest advanced at LOBUND) certain important phases of vitamin research will be impossible. The search for new vitamins will be greatly limited without germ-free animals.
Some of the more interesting problems which have been or are being worked on include: investigation of the cause of tooth decay with the University of Chicago’s Zoller Clinic; the use of germ-free life in nutrition studies with the Kellogg Company; the study of an important disease of chickens (lymphomatosis) in cooperation with the U. S. Regional Poultry Research Laboratory at East Lansing, Michigan; and germ-free chickens and their use in vitamin research with Parke-Davis and Company. In addition to these specific problems of great and immediate "practical” importance, LOBUND continuously carries on its own basic program of research. This basic or theoretical research is as important as the other.	.
Other important achievements have included the design and testing of a new method for the prevention of air-borne epidemics among infants and others in nurseries, orphanages and hospitals. This, the Reyniers Cubicle System, has been installed and in use at the Cradle in Evanston, Illinois, for more than five years. Clinical reports indicate that this system is most successful for the purpose.
Among the germ-free specimens reared and studied are monkeys, guinea pigs, rats, flies, dogs, cats and chickens. While the apparatus and the techniques presented many problems, each of these forms of life demanded separate and intensive study to overcome the difficulties inherent in the rearing of germ-free animals. For example, it takes approximately 500 man-hours of work to rear one litter of white rats to 30 days of age. Well over 50 different formulae have been tried in perfecting a satisfactory diet for a germ-free white rat.
Micrurgy has developed along many lines, one of which resulted in a method for single cell isolation. Micro-needles, sharpened electrically, and guided by mechanical fingers are used to “fish” the microscopic cells from under the microscope one at a time. Preliminary work on 'a machine for mechanically counting living bacteria was starting in 1932. Since that time circuits, as yet unpublished, similar to those used in counting the discharges of Geiger-Mueller tubes have been developed. With these circuits, plates having over a thousand groups of bacteria may be counted in less than 30 seconds with an accuracy not approachable by the human eye in routine work.
While the emphasis throughout this paper has been on the use of the germ-free apparatus for rearing germ-free
14
animals, it must be noted that this is only one phase. Of almost equal importance is the fact that organisms can be sealed into the units as well as kept from entering if not wanted. Thus, in the Germ-free Division, all bacteria are excluded from the interior while in the Division of Biological Engineering, known cultures of any organism are introduced and isolated from all other types. Neither can these organisms get out of their locked environment. Thus it is possible to perform experiments with deadly pathogens and with complete safety to the scientist.
With the beginning of hostilities in 1941, LOBUND’s activities were shielded behind the necessary security of wartime, the staff went onto an accelerated schedule, and much of the basic research program was stopped “for the duration.” Our government took over these facilities for war research. Reyniers was called into the Navy as a biological engineer. The story of these events was carried in the March 29, 1946 issue of The Scholastic.
Reconversion of LOBUND from the war effort is now almost completed. The regular peacetime schedule of research is well under way. The doors are still locked, not because of secret research but rather because of work being done with highly contagious organisms. It is necessary to prevent visitors from wandering unguided through the laboratories. However, this does not mean that visitors are unwelcome.
And so the staff of LOBUND looks back at 18 years of interesting and productive research, it works day and night on many outstanding problems of current importance and it looks ahead to contributing even greater benefits for humanity in the future.
This illustrates the type of apparatus used in modem micrurgical research. Injections and manipulations of microscopic specimens can be performed with instruments of this kind. This was taken in the Division of Micrurgical Research.
Record Review
TOPS IN WAX—Love Me and I’ve Got The World On A String. Woody Herman and the Herd, band poll winners of 1945, usher in their first pairing for the year with these titles. The former
Woody Herman
shows the great Herman trumpet section of Can-doli, Berman, Hefti, Lewis, and Rogers in rare and frantic form. Gold Award win-
ning “Flip” Phillips tenors through both sides, Frances Wayne sings Love Me, and Woody handles both vocals and the clarinet in the latter (Columbia).
BOOGIE — Decca features the powerhouse trumpeting of “Little Jazz” by Roy Eldridge in a Buster Harding tune, Little Jazz Boogie. Dynamic Roy reaches for his bag of tricks in his trumpet rides and uses punching riffs, trills, and some stratospheric notes. His high ones into the fade-away are always exciting, and an Eldridge trademark. On the reverse he solos to the Gershwin oldie. Embraceable You.
VOCAL STANDOUT — The “Voice” has a pair of winning titles—Oh! What It Seemed To Be and Day By Day. Both are sugary with sentiment in a strictly wistful vein. Frank Sina-
Frank Sinatra
tra’s handling of the lyrics, and backed on
both sides by some truly fine orchestrating by Axel Stordahl, will make his fans shout with glee, and others, fans or not, nod with approval (Columbia).
DANCE DISCS—Charlie Spivak runs the gamut of his famed “sweetest trumpet” style in The Bells of St. Mary’s, from the RKO picture of the same name. His muted trumpet is supported by soft brass which establishes the theme. Throughout;
all effects are highly pleasing, and are handled with excellent taste. Jimmy Saunders sings the vocals, and, for the fade, the band resolves into the tones of the Great Organ. On the flip-over Jimmy Saunders sings, You Can Cry On Somebody Else’s Shoulder, which is done at a lively and easy dance clip (Victor).
J*
Harry James gives an expansive treatment to the Chopin adaptation, I’m Always Chasing Rain-bows. Here the James horn is heard in a groovy, open style that is lifted by a highly dance-able beat that ;
the band drops jv. .. L in for support. Harry James Buddy Di Vito sings the vocals to an all-out sweet James arrangement. The platter-mate, Baby, What You Do To Me, has a lusty dance kick, screaming brass riffs, and vocal by chirper Kitty Kallen (Columbia).
J1
Carmen Cavallaro turns in one of his best performances to date with a dance arrangement of Warsaw Concerto. His flying fingers round out a type of piano technique seldom heard in a dance band. Throughout there is exceptionally good taste in the handling of muted brass and strings with unusual responsive effects. On the backing he plays, A Love Like This, and injects a buoyant Latin rhythm to support his piano and band, and also has the vocal sung by Gloria Foster (Decca).
NEW AND WORTHY IMPRESSIONS IN WAX SYMPHONY - Bing Crosby, Vocal (Decca)
WE'LL BE TOGETHER AGAIN - Les Brown, Dance (Columbia)
SOME SUNDAY MORNING - Louis Prima, Dance (Majestic)
HUMORESQUE - David Rose, Concert Dance (Victor)
I'M THROUGH WITH LOVE - Dick Brown, Vocal (Guild)
University of Cincinnati officials are wondering if any other family can match the record set by one generation in the Seu-berling-Burnet family in enrolling and graduating five of six grandchildren in the UC College of Commerce and Engineering.
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
It has been whispered to the College Parade that the days of machine politics were finished, but recent events have proven it isn’t so; how else did Alumni elect their Council representative? Sorin’s machine swept its candidate into office, too, but couldn’t sweep that piano on to the hallowed porch.
SHADES OF ST. MARY'S!
1st Joe College: The girls around here are biased.
2nd Joe College: Yeah, buy us this and buy us that until I’m broke.—New Rochelle Tatler
Students at Butler U. recently were treated to a series of lectures designed to aid them in good grooming. . . . We’re not interested in being good grooms (yet) but perhaps a representative from Max Adler’s could show us the latest thing in T-shirts.
The prison officer decided to boost morale by having a party at the stockade. When he asked the prisoners what kind of party they wanted the unanimous answer Was “Open House.”—Flight Time
And the second is from the Butler- Collegian:
A kiss is such a tenderness, Such ecstasy it brings!
Flavored with cosmetics, smoke, toothpaste, And all such things.
There was an excerpt from the Notre Dame Scholastic that caused considerable comment on the campus last week . .. the inside back cover . .. and very nice, too.
❖
WJOTW Department . . . from the Southern Cal Daily Trojan:
Drug Clerk : What size toothbrush do you want?
Student: A big one; there are six in the family.
The Detroit Varsity News’ latest contribution to literature is a poll on the question, “Do you believe in co-education in universities?” . . . We consider this an outrageous interrogation as the fellows in co-ed schools (like Detroit) will answer, “Yes,” while those in all-male institutions (like ND) will necessarily say, “Yes.”
❖
Dedicated to some of the more obvious of our fellow students.
Jack: Do you think that I’m stuck up?
Alma: No, why?
Jack: People as good-looking as I am usually are.
Auburn Plainsman
❖
The Villanovan contributes this item on why girls are called angels (some girls, that is . . . that is). They are always up in the air, usually harping on something, and never have a thing to wear. (And, we might add, are frequently in a cloud.)
❖
And now a little parting advice . . .
Put some toater on the comb.
15
Campus Nuisances Put in Spotlight
By JOHN A. O’CONNOR
Like many another American university whose enrollment is bursting at the seams with returned vets and pink cheeked freshmen, Notre Dame has its share of collegiate characters, most irksome of whom are the campus pests.
Type One in this chafing category is the line-bucker, a queue-crasher who always finds a friend at the head of the line, and saves himself the tedious task of sweating it out. This nuisance is usually found at the soda-fountain, where he and several fellow opportunists espy a charitable pal up front who will oblige with a handful of tickets.
Type Two is the nasal trumpeter, an adenoidal Harry James, who blows his nose like a blast of Indian pachyderm’s mating call. This honking heckler usually waits until the poignant part of a sermon or lecture before he pulls out his bandanna and blows as if he were Gabriel on the Great Day.
Another plague is the finicky individualist who holds up the cafeteria line while he deftly pulls apart a whole panful of sweetrolls in order to get at a heavily iced one in the center. This same gent goes into the post office to buy a three cent stamp and when the clerk brings out a new sheet he usually asks for the one in the middle.
Fourth among the pests, but as vexing as the first, is the library magpie. While others pore over volumes of forgotten lore, this hissing character carries on a mubbo-jumbo conversation with an intrigued buddie, distracting all who are within earshot of his jabber. He is closely related to the chair- scraper and the awkward lout who drops a heavy reference book with a thud that leaves everyone apoplectic.
Not least among the offensive is the weed-fiend, a slave to Lady Nicotine. Possessed of reefer madness this neurotic, disregarding all "No Smoking” signs, lights up immediately upon hearing the bell sound the dismissal of class. Where he really scores though is on the stairways or in the doorways, stopping to light up a fag for himself and an equally afflicted friend, thereby blocking the passage and holding up the traffic of at least 300 men by his effective roadblock. .
Lastly among the pests is the inconsiderate squatter, who, anned with the morning paper or a funny book, encamps himself in a private booth to chuckle and rustle away 15 or ‘20 minutes while others stand in line.
Comes the New Order and they all go to the wall!
Let's Get Acquainted ...
By RAY CHAMBERLAND
Hidden far behind the counters of the ever-popular Notre Dame Book Store is the little office of Brother Meinrad. Now every one who frequents this establishment knows that there is a lot of bookkeeping to be done. Who does it? Ah, that we shall try to discover!
As we make our way between the shelves of books we hear a sweet feminine voice. Well, look who’s here! It’s Rosemarion Bink.
Two years ago this June “Rose,” as she is called by her friends, came to the Notre Dame campus to work in the office of the book store. She was fresh out of Ligonier High School in Ligonier, Ind. While in attendance at L.H.S. Rose took a great interest in journalism even though her major was commerce, and in her junior year became the assistant editor of the school scandal sheet.
In her pre-kindergarten days Rose was forever playing nurse but soon gave up the idea when her mother caught her feeding the family cat castor oil. Her second love never left her, that being her love for pretty hats.
Here at N.D. Rose has made many friends through her wonderful personality and pleasant smile. One of her biggest teasers is genial Brother Conan, known throughout the campus for having kissed the Blarney stone down to a pebble. “There is absolutely no chance of me having secrets as long as he is around,” states Rose.
When asked if she has an interest in men her only reply was “Brother Conan if you let out one word I’ll . . .” and there were unseen stilettos cleaving the air.
Rosemarion Bink
Fisk Jubilee Singers
Will Present Concert
The University Lecture Series will present on April 24 at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall, the Fisk Jubilee Singers from Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn.
Established in 1865, on the site of an old slave market, Fisk University is now one of the oldest and best known institutions for the higher education of Negro people, having developed from a preparatory normal school to a liberal arts college of highest standing. The first group of Fisk Jubilee Singers, born in slavery, and named from that passage in Leviticus, proclaiming a year of “jubilee,” went to Europe in 1873. They sang before Queen Victoria, the King and Queen of Holland, Gladstone and the Earl of Shaftsbury, and in that first tour they earned enough money to build one dormitory at Fisk University. *
Their successive tours increased their triumphs in all the important centers. They filled Salle Gaveau in Paris four times, were soloists there with the Cologne Orchestra and the Societe Phil-harmonique; they made three tours along the Riviera, sang repeatedly in London, Berlin, Vienna, Munich, Amsterdam, Budapest, Prague, Zurich, gave private concerts before Lady Astor, Premier Mussolini, Ambassador Tobin of Holland and Ambassador Fletcher of Rome.
The present group of Jubilee Singers is under the direction of Mrs. James A. Myers. They have the sincere endorsement of Walter Damrosch, David Mannes, Frank La Forge, Eve Gauthier, Alma Gluck, Roland Hayes, who was formerly a Fisk student and one of the Jubilee group, and the’ French artists, Ravel and Rabaud.
They not only sing with their own accompaniment but have sung with the Chicago and New York Symphony Orchestras and have also made several famous recordings.
—James T. Manning
Vets Service Confuses
Creighton Univ. Coed
A new sign over the former mail room at Creighton University, Omaha, Nebr., now reads, “Veterans’ Service.”
A coed went in and inquired about some information.
“Oh, no,” explained the person in charge, “this is where we fix schedules and help adjust the veterans for com-.ing back to school!”
“I thought this is where they rationed out the vets,” the disappointed coed sighed. “Why don’t they specify what kind of service they offer?” •
16
Name New Residence
Hall for Fr. Farley
The announcement by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., that the new Freshman dormitory, up to recently known only as Project F, will be named Farley Hall will bring genuine approval from thousands of alumni who had the privilege to know the late Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., affectionately nicknamed “King.”
A native of Paterson, New Jersey, Fathex- Farley, was intimately connected with Notre Dame as student and latex* as priest fox- well ovex- thirty-five years.
Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C.
One of Notre Dame’s great athletes of all time, Fathex- Farley endeared himself more as fx-iend and counsellor to thousands of students from all parts of the United States. Although he was nevex-assigned to a classroom, never preached a sermon from the pulpit ox- made a public speech to the student body, his influence mainly as rectox- and prefect became such a force fox- good that no student ever felt his college life complete without knowing Father Farley.
Wix-y and tough, he captained the 1900 football team and won four letters despite his meagex- weight of 160 pounds; he won four additional letters in baseball and one in track. He was graduated with scholastic honors in 1901 and entered Holy Cross Seminary the same year. He was ordained to the sacred priesthood in 1907. With the exception of a few years spent at the University of Portland, then known as Columbia College, in Oregon, he spent the remaining years at Notre Dame.
Beloved for his rugged but friendly bantering with the students, he fostered inter-hall games to cement more firmly what he conceived necessary to a healthy school — a friendliness akin to family life. He never passed a student by without saluting him with his now almost legendary, “Hi ya.”
In 1937 he suffered a paralytic stroke
which necessitated the amputation of his right leg. But the “King” didn’t go down that easily. Despite his crippled condition he kept up a vital interest in the students,1 attending all sport events
St. Joseph's N. D. Club Honors Rockne
Honoring the memory of Knute Rockne, the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley held its 15th annual Communion breakfast on the campus of the University last Sunday morning.
The Rockne Memorial breakfast is an annual event, taking place on the Sunday closest to March 31, on which date in 1931 Rockne lost his life in an aix*-plane crash neax- Bazaar, Kan. It is held to commemorate the high ideals of clean living and sportsmanship fox- which Rockne stood.
Mass was celebrated in Dillon hall chapel at 8 a.m. by Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., ’06, chaplain of the club. Afterwards, those present, about 200, had breakfast in the uppex- dining hall.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, in speaking of Rockne, referred to the words of Oli-vex- Wendell Holmes when he said that the great coach had. mot been content to be unknown as most "men are, but rathex- he “forgot himself into immortality.”
Toastmastex- Eugene O’Brien, ’28, president of the club, introduced Ath
.Scene at grave of Rockne following Mass in Dillon Chapel. In the foreground. Father Eugene Burke, Eugene O'Brien, St. Joseph NJ). Club President, and Coach Frank Leahy
either in an automobile or wheelchair. Whenever he was wheeled into the stadium the whole crowd rose as one man to the “King.” He died on January 15, 1939. ■
letic Directox- Frank Leahy, ’30, who in tux-n introduced members of his coaching staff who were present. Ensign Johnny Lu jack, No. 1 quarterback on the 1943 national champions, on 21 day leave from the Navy, also was presented by Coach Leahy. Leahy, who had been one of Rockne’s most apt pupils, said of his coach, “Rockne has never completely departed. His spirit will hover over this campus for some time to come.”
Principal speaker at the breakfast was Gerald Hoar, ’21, now manager of the Notre Lame laundry, and formex- secretary of Rockne. Mx-. Hoar told of many expex-iences with Rockne, both in his connection as secretary to him and as athlete undex- his coaching.
Immediately following the breakfast, the meeting was adjourned to Highland cemetery, where wreaths were laid on the graves of Notre Dame’s famed triumvirate—Rockne; George Keogan, formex- basketball coach; and John P. Nicholson, track coach fox- many years at Notre Dame.
Chaix-man of the breakfast committee was J. Frank Miles.
17
NEW DORMITORY CORNERSTONE TO BE SEALED NEXT WEEK; TO CONTAIN MANY PERIODICALS
When the cornerstone of the new Dormitory is sealed next week the ceremony wil be the outgrowth of not hundreds, but thousands of years of tradition.
The chances are that no nosy Breen-Phillips freshmen will be so unfortunate ■ as to he sacrificed and buried under the masonry as was the custom 4,000 years before Christ, nor is there much chance of the multitude covering the stone with money as a contribution to the completion of the building, as became the custom in the ninth century after The Doge, John Particiaco, dedicated the first church of St. Mark in Venice.
According to Kev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., purchasing agent for the University, the six by six by twelve box that will fit into the center of the stone will contain a conglomeration of publications and coins.
Stemming from the casting of gold and silver into the foundation of the temple to Merodach by Nabopolassar, and the primitive sacrifice of human victims, several coins will be in the box. History disputes whether this custom comes from the desire to contribute or from the desire to leave tangible signs of the date laying of the corner stone.
The box will also contain copies of the Scholastic, Ave Maria, Alumnus, Sunday Visitor, Student Manual, South Bend Tribune, Chicago Tribune, Chicago Sun, Student Directory of this semester, current University Bulletin, Future Notre Dame—published by the public relations department, the 1945 lowa-Notre Dame Football Program, the South Bend Tribune Resume of the War magazine section, and a copy of the first color photograph of Pope Pius XII.
A rite entitled “De benedictione et im-positione Primarii Papidis pro ecdlesia aedificanda (of the blessing and laying of the foundation stone for the building of a church) is provided in the Roman Pontifical. This ceremony goes back to the time of Patricius Piccolomini (15th century) and may be traced further to Durandus of Mende.
Before work starts, an injunction ( rubric) directs that provisions be made for maintenance and that the foundations be marked out subject to the approval of the bishop or his delegate and that a wooden cross be placed at the future location of the altar.
The Bishop blesses holy water, sprinkles the wooden cross and the foundation cornerstone, and, aftei- a prayer, the Litany of the Saints, and appropriate antiphon and psalm, the stone is lowered into place with another prayer. The
stone is then sprinkled again with holy water. More prayers follow while the other foundations are sprinkled. The tour to each foundation is ended with a prayer.
After the singing of the “Veni Creator Spiritus” and two more prayers, the Bishop sits down, if he wishes, and asks the people to contribute. Dismissal is with a blessing and the proclamation of an indulgence. However, here at Notre Dame the blessing of the cornerstone will be of necessity very simple.
Capt. Barry Receives Commendation Award
James Forrestal, Secretary of the Navy, awarded Captain J. Richard Barry the Navy Letter of Commendation for his outstanding record while commanding officer of the Notre Dame NRO-TC, V-12 and Midshipman School units.
Capt. J. Bichard Barry
The citation is as follows: “For- outstanding performance of duty as Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana, from October 20, 1943, to October 17, 1945, with temporary additional duties as Commanding Officer of the Naval Reserve Midshipmen School and Commanding Officer of the Navy V-12 Unit at that University.
“Displaying exceptional initiative, judgement and professional ability, Captain Barry rendered invaluable service in the direction and administration of naval training units. His tireless efforts, leadership and conscientious devo-
Vaudeville Finalists
Present Show Tonight
This evening at 7:30, the Knights of Columbus Vaudeville will present its final show in Washington Hall. The winners of the three cash prizes will be chosen from the eight finalists entered in tonight’s contest. There will be no admission charged for the performance and all of the students of the University have been invited to attend, according to the announcement made by John Powers, chairman of the show.
Among the acts to be presented for student approval are the “What Four-Barbershop quartet” which is led by Gene Jones and represents the talents of Zahm Hall; the comedy routine of Ray Chamberland, well known local character; the songs of Johnny McGuire, Irish tenor, famous for his shower room rhapsodies; and the mystifying work of Joe DiSpingo, magician par excellence from Lyons hall.
Rounding out the varied and amusement-packed program will be the exhibitions of the Dischords, singing quartet from the Glee Club under the guidance of Paul Biebel; the song selections of Pat Sullivan, redhead from St. Edward’s; the impersonations of Chuck Perrin, formerly of the DePaul dramatic club of Chicago, who is the only married man to be found among the evening’s entertainers; and the renditions of West Virginia’s foremost accordion soloist, Fred Earley.
Judging these aspirants for the $60.00 worth of prize money that is to be divided among the three winning acts, will be Earl Redden, owner of Playland Park in nearby Mishawaka; Billy Richardson, manager of the Palace Theatre and a former vaudeville performer; and Greg Martin who, like the other judges, is from South Bend.
Plans have been made to present the winners of this evening’s contest over the airways through the facilities of one of South Bend’s radio stations and to have the winners give a command performance at the next meeting of the K. of C., sponsoring organization of the vaudeville show.
Since the student reaction to the different entertainment presented to them by the eight contestants will be an important factor in determining the winner of tonight’s vaudeville, the chairman urges that all of those interested be on hand to aid their favorites by their- applause.
tion to the varied and complex details of his assignments reflect the highest credit upon Captain Barry and th* United States Naval Service.”
18
"Enough Concessions to Russia,"
Review of Politics Editor Says
Next Tuesday night, April 16, the Y. C. S. Help Yourself Lecture Series presents the Department of Electrical Engineering at 7:30 in the Eiology Amphitheatre.
A firm stand toward Russia in the present situation was advocated by Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science of Notre Dame in an address to students and faculty given last week. Dr. Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics, and author of Bolshevism, Theory and Practice, and other books, told the crowd which nearly filled Washington Hall that “enough concessions have been made to Russia. A firm stand is now in order; iron firmness must be preserved,” he reiterated.
In the course of tracing the history of the Soviet regime from its beginning under Lenin in 1917 to the present day, the speaker drew attention particularly to the shifting aspects of Russian foreign policy under the influence of more and less moderate elements within the communist party. From the emphasis placed by Lenin on the world revolution, Russia has come to the present policy of aggressive and militant nationalism through a series of changing alliances with France, then with Germany, and finally the Western Allies against the armies of Adolph Hitler.
(5)	Russian leaders overestimate the power of radical and communistic groups within other nations.
(6)	They rely also on the pacifism and humanitarianism widespread in England and America, which they believe will prompt the granting of more and more concessions and the withholding of the atomic bomb from use against her.
In view of these factors Dr. Gurian urged that our attitude be one of firmness and uncompromising determination, beginning immediately with the Iran incident, which has focussed our attention upon the aims of Russia. Russian occupation of Iran is a direct violation of the Teheran agreement and is the first of a series of steps which, if not checked now, will lead to “another catastrophe.” Russian attempts to separate the United States from Britain must be prevented, so that our united stand may have the effect of bringing to the fore in Russia more moderate elements which have been out of the public eye for some time. In addition, he continued, there must be
more contact with the people of Russia; the fight for free communication must continue. And the final—and perhaps most important — consideration is that we must solve our own social problems, thus proving that the world outside Russia is hettei- able to answer post-war situations than Russia herself.
At the conclusion of his formal address, having pointed out that Russia is in no sense a democracy, but rather a totalitarian, one-party State in which even the members of the one party are -under iron control, Dr. Gurian answered questions from the audience. In response to these various queries he advocated maintenance of a strong (but not antiquated) army and navy, stated flatly that rejection of the proposed British loan would be a victory for Russia, expressed the belief that armed conflict with Russia was not inevitable (since Russia could not risk a war now), and characterized the Russian. Oi*thodox Church in Russia as a mere instrument of propaganda for the State.
Dr. Gurian pointed out that the present policy of aggression upon which Russia has apparently embarked has disappointed many in this and other countries who had hoped that the military collaboration between Russia and the Allies during the war might carry over into the political field in the post-war world. Several probable reasons were advanced to explain the current trend of Russian foreign policy:
(1)	The success of Russian arms during World War II has made the leaders of the nation “dizzy with success”; they believe that their every demand should be granted.
(2)	High-ranking Red Army officers are interested in expanding the power and territory of Russia, although very likely without any world revolution in mind.
(3)	Soviet leaders, who are able to manipulate and control popular opinion through their “free” (i.e., Communist-dominated) press, underestimate the force of this factor- in other countries.
(4)	Soviet leaders believe that disorders within and disagreements between capitalistic countries will prevent a united stand against her aggressive policies.
Officers of the Veterans' Club poised on the steps of Walsh Hall. They are: left to right, seated, Tom McCaffery, third vice president* Jim Webb, president Bill McCormick, first vice president standing. Christy Walsh, recording secretary; Ed Dixon, sergeant-at-arms; Jack Painter, corresponding secretary; Jerry Feeny, second vice president; Bev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., club chaplain; Tom Brogan, treasurer; and Jack Desmond, financial secretary.	—Photo by Cacciapaglia
19
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
As I sat down in my room to put the finishing touches to this column I noticed written on my wall, “Kilroy was here.” Kilroy has been in London, Paris, Naples, Dallas, New York and South Bend. Who is this guy and just what club is he representing? . . .
This reporter covered the Chicago Club’s elections and regardless of rumors it was all legal. Power politics were employed, however, but this is not illegal. When the dust was removed Johnny Allen and Ziggy (left tackle) Czarobski were on top of the desk as president and vice-president respectively. When quizzed about power-politics Ziggy said that he did not think Kelly’s influence had reached down here yet. The real power here is a gentle Irishman from River Forest, Ill. .. .
“Rumors and Scuttlebutt from the Vets Club”—An ex-8th Air Force pilot displaying his Air Medal, “for gallant action in Piccadilly Square.” ... a Campus Commando wondering if he could • add a Poison Ivy cluster to his Good Conduct medal for a mission over Wal-green’s Corner. He claims that he got into a dog-fight with a gal from across the lake and developed ice on his wings. . . . Jim Webb, Prexy of the Vets Club is still seeking a hall large enough to hold the complete organization for their future parties and smokers. ... Of 1700 vets only 800 are members of this terrific organization. All vets should belong so they can all voice their opinions.
The ND leg of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (whew), got together and elected Bill Dwyer and Vince Colletti chairman and vice-chairman respectively. Dean Schoenherr spoke to the group after the business was completed and later on refreshments were served. These are the kind of meetings we junior Peglers like to cover.
“Constitution” was the key word for the St. -Louis club as its Prexy Jack Tenge presented to the club its new book of rules and regulations. Vice-prexy Ben Vilvert okayed the proceedings. After formalities ceased the group recalled the formal dinner-dance they had in between semesters and decided to make this an annual affair. Ward Driscoll, Pat O’Neil, and Bob Rosenthall, it was rumored, had sore right arms due to this affair. It seems as though they did too much tipping up, and I don’t mean to the waiters.
The Met Club, New York’s best, got a
shot in the arm. Its prexy Don Degman backed down in the face of criticism and ordered re-elections for all offices. He did an honorable thing that should embarrass his critics. . . . After the business of the meeting was over some suggestions were discussed. The best of these discussions was the idea of an affiliation of the Campus Met Club with 1) The New York ND Alumni, 2) The NY Notre Dame Subway Alumni, and 3) the ND Club of New York. This would make the Met Club truly the most important and well backed organization on the campus, if and when they can accomplish all this.
Open Letter . . . Dear Students, if you are from a city, or vicinity of a city that has a club on the campus, why aren’t you a member? If you have a gripe against the fellows who represent your home town it won’t do any good for you to avoid their meetings. Join and voice your own opinions and help them make your club the best on the campus.
The Illinois Club, in no way connected with the Chicago Club, had its first meeting. All men in and around Peoria attended and nominated officers. Elections and this club’s agenda will be announced later on.
Fr. Kenna to Arrange
College's Curriculum
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies at the University, left Tuesday, April 9th, for Wilkes-Barre, Pa., where he will assist Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. in forming the curriculum for the new college that is being established by the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Connerton was registrar at Notre Dame until October, 1945, when he was appointed to the new post as provisional president of the new institution.
Kings College, named in honor of Christ the King, is being founded at the request of church officials in the East. The college will maintain temporary quarters in a building vacated by the Bucknell Junior College Business Department in the downtown section of Wilkes-Barre. Plans have already been drawn up for the erection of three buildings, a classroom building, a faculty residence hall and a gymnasium to be erected within five years upon the college’s own campus in Kingston, about six miles from Wilkes-Barre.
La Raza Club Quiz Match Highlights NFCCS Meet
Sponsored by the La Raza Club, composed of more than 60 Latin-American students attending the University, a quiz match on Inter-American cooperation -will be a highlight of the National Federation of Catholic College Students’ Congress on Inter-American Affairs at Philadelphia on April 13 and 14.
The purpose of the Congress is to further understanding and cultural relations between the Americas. Students from many universities and colleges, both Catholic and secular, will attend.
Among the speakers will be Dr. Roy T. Davis, director, Inter - American School Service, American Council of Education, Washington, D. C., whose address will be broadcast directly from the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Congress headquarters. Also scheduled to speak are: Major Bernard Samuel of Philadelphia; Lt. Edward J. Kirchner, USNR, International vice-president of Pax Romana, international federation of Catholic College students, who will give a report on the Second Inter-American Assembly of Pax Romana which was held in Lima, Peru, March 10 through 19; and Thomas Murray of Denellen, N. J., and the University of Notre Dame, "who will make a report for the Fort Wayne, Indiana Region, stressing the PanalProgram being carried on in that section’s fifth year.
Other speakers will be: Rev. Francis J. Furey, president of Immaculate College and chaplain of the Philadelphia Region of the NFCCS.; Miss Suzanne Quinn, national chariman, Immaculata College; Rev. John J. Considine, M.M., vicar general of Maryknoll; Miss Mariella O’Onofrio, of Peru, a student at Immaculata College; Dr. Edward J. Fisher, assistant director, Institute of International Education, New York; and Don Rose, author, lecturer, and columnist of the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
SENIOR MIXER
There will be a dinner party for the June graduation seniors Tuesday, April 16, 7:30 p. m., at Sunnyside Cafe (Rosie's). Meet your fellow graduates and- become acquainted.
Hand in your name to the following: John O'Neil, 228 Sorin; Ed Fisher, 201 Walsh; Bill Fahrer (Navy), Howard.
FINALS
The finals of the Breen Oratory Contest will be held at 8:00 p.m., Monday evening, April 15, 1946, in Washington hall. You are cordially invited to attend.
20
SCHOLASTIC SPORTS SECTION
Leahy Opens Spring Football Training
KLINE'S DIAMOND SQUAD OPENS SEASON AGAINST INDIANA UNIVERSITY TODAY
By DAVE WARNER
After a month of putting his charges through the paces, whittling down the roster number, and experimenting at various positions, Jake Kline was still uncertain who his starters would be in today’s inaugural against the University of Indiana which gets under way at 3:30 this afternoon out at wind swept and sun drenched Cartier Field. “There are too many good ballplayers around. It’s a puzzle,” snapped back the Notre Dame diamond mentor in reply to an inquiry as to what his starting line-up would be.
Specifically doubtful are the short . stop, second base, and right field jobs. Billy Hassett and Pete Koblosh are continuing their hot fight for the short stop position. Hassett was a permanent fixture at that spot last spring, but Koblosh is giving the happy-go-lucky Bronx Irishman plenty of competition this year. As Notre Dame comes hustling out of the dugout today, the keeper of the keystone sack will be either Georgie Schneid
The baseball team swings into action today.
er or Eddie Cordasco, both highly regarded players. The right field position, which a week ago found five in the race, has now narrowed down to “Rebel” Raba, Joe Gehring, and the fleet footed Scarpelli. Elsewhere the line-up will probably look something like this when the play ball cry rings out: Ray Petr-zelka will be holding down the initial sack and Frank Ciszcon will be over at the hot corner. Left fielder is Jack Mayo and center field finds Frank Gilhooley back at his old station. Both these boys lend plenty of necessary batting power to the line-up as does, of course, Tom Sheehan who handles the catching chores. The opening day twirling assign- . ment goes to Jack “Kewpie” Barrett, who also is considered a dangerous boy with a bat in his hands. The squad lost some power a week ago when first baseman Don Grieve returned to Yonkers, N. Y. to answer an induction notice by his draft board. Young Grieve, though only
(Continued on page 29)
Familiar, welcome faces were predominant as the first peacetime spring football practice in five years at Notre Dame was officially opened Monday, April 8, on Cartier field. Head Coach Frank Leahy was again on hand after being absent from the Irish football scene since 1942. With him were his able assistants, Ed Krause, Joe McArdle, and John Druze, also missing since 1942, plus Bernie Crimmins, Ed Doherty, and Wally Ziemba. Former stars who have returned to school to pick up their gridiron careers that were interrupted by military service were even more plentiful. Such standout performers of the past as Gerry Cowhig, Ziggy Czarobski, Jim Mello, Bob Kelly, George Tobin, Bob Livingston, and Johnny Lu jack were in on the initial practice session.
The Monday meeting was largely a day for photographers. In the neighborhood of 10 newspapers were represented along with Universal and other- newsreel organizations. The cameramen had the squad going through a variety of exercises while they had their reels spinning. A host of individual and group pictures were taken. The returned war veterans drew the most attention with Cowhig, Mello, Kelly, Livingston, and Czarobski being heavily featured. Leahy did not let the entire afternoon dwindle away without some work, however. After the photographers departed, the squad settled down to some fundamental drills. The remainder of the week was spent in “getting acquainted.” Coach Leahy knows his former players who have come home, but he has to familiarize himself particularly with the 1945 holdovers and the newcomers to the ranks.
While optimism for a great season is already running high, Leahy is not as yet predicting any overwhelming success for the team. He prefers to take each game as it comes and he frankly admits that the Irish could lose four or five games since other schools, too, have been strengthened by the return of former stars.
It is too early to tell “who’s who” but this is the way the picture’ looks at this stage, position by position. The end situation is precarious with little experience on hand. Former G.I. vets, Dave Lloyd, (Continued on page 28j
21
Sixty Bengal Bout Entrants Set
for Preliminaries on April 30
Accounting for 10 new entrants in the Bengals, 17 days away, some 60 pairs of eyes (and gloves) are keeping close tab on the calendar and April 30th, first night of the preliminaries.
Trainer Napolitano this past week untied the strings and instructed the “gentlemen” in actual body contact. Yes, the fanning exercises were for the most part eliminated. Even though Mr. Rousseve, assistant trainer sometimes hailed as “Frenchy,” fails to take the part of a perfect example, Bengal contenders have shown in contact work that they have mastered such things as the “left hook” and “right jab.” This is in spite of the fact that they sometimes fail to remember the location of a landing area. Possibly, quite possibly, such a showing is quite a compliment to Nappy’s instruction in the defensive aspects.
The Knights of Columbus sponsored Bengals are, according to Trainer Napolitano, concerned chiefly with the entrants, their training, and final workout in the ring. In the various classes, the matching of contenders beginning with the preliminaries, will be .carried out in accordance with the ability of each individual boxer. No hats; no fishbowls, will be used to place contenders on the cards. Nappy is quite insistent, that if fighters can be classified as more able than others—such men need not
fear elimination by iron-clad slugging opponents of superior boxing ability—at least not right away!
It seems there is a conspiracy afoot! The Philadelphia Club of Notre Dame plans on entering three contenders in the Bouts, a stable no less. Bob Pas-quarella, ex-navy, who fought here last year; Gus Ciffelli, of some repute in the Marine Corps; and William P. Corbitt, not THE James we hope! This bargain, and you, dear reader, may be sure it is that, comes replete with managers. The gentlemen named are, Ralph “Senator” Hayman, and Bill Mehan; all from Philadelphia—we may assume!
Bill Greenberg signed in this week at 183 lbs. for the 175 lbs. class, perhaps a figure to watch.
Life is a pretty rugged racket. Boxing too. However, with a little over two weeks remaining before that first gong, some talk has been heard that Scribes and others have been placing a few of the contenders on the block with their comments of “men worth watching.” To those men so awed at the power of the oral and printed press, the advice to you is: don’t be hitting the coffee cup so much, you are letting your nerves kid you. What is speeled about campus, in black and white or otherwise, certainly can’t be used like Ethyl for more sock when the time comes.
Irish Netters Loom
As Dork-Horse Team
* By BILLY SLAVICK
Notre Dame’s net team seems to be shaping more and more into a darkhorse contender for Middle West and national honors as practice sessions reel by and the opening match with Navy April 29 approaches. Coach Walter Langford’s prediction that the tennis team will have a hard time going through undefeated on the one hand, and his tentative numbering of the squad this week, with lettermen as far down as 13th, on the other hand, places a big question mark beside the Irish.
Captain Bill Tully will definitely hold down the No. 1 spot, and George Ratterman, after his second net letter and sixth in all in 18 months at Notre Dame, has a firm hold on the second slot.
Ed Caparo, ’43 monogram winner, is listed at third; ’45 letterman Joe Brown is No. 4; Harry Erd, who won his ND back in ’41 before entering the service, is fifth; and in sixth position is Arti Hoffman, ’42 monogram winner.
These are the men to dislodge, and Langford came up with a list of seven more whom he thinks are the ones to do the dislodging. Dick Fountain and Ralph Baiocchi from the ’45 team follow Hoffman; John Moorehead is No. 9; a ’43 competitor, Tyke Hartmann, is 10th; and Jack Franz is posted at 11th.
Wicked Swinging Frank Bonotto (right) belts at Tommy Dalenti as they train for the Bengal Bouts.
Langford attached a darkhorse label to Phil Lyons, at present in the 12th spot. “He has moved up some, and may move up more,” Langford said early in the week. He added that he had looked good every time out so far. After Lyons comes Jim Quinn, a ’43 monogram winner, then Bud Seghers and Jack Rodgers.
Notre Dame’s chances to equal its 1944 Mid-West championship and NCAA crown season will hinge a great deal on the outcome of the Annapolis trip. Navy has always come up with a tough team, and can boast of such men as 1943 national net champion, Joe Hunt. Hunt won the Intercollegiates for Navy in 1941. A year after gaining the national title he was killed in a Navy Air Corps plane crash.
Langford is presuming the Middies will be tough and has every right to believe so. If his team survives this first test, the Wisconsin, Purdue, Michigan, and Northwestern matches preceding the Indiana Intercollegiate on May 24 won’t look half as tough. The first home match comes May 13, when the Gold and Blue take on Michigan.
22
INBI<II<IN<
By JIM CLEMENS
When the umpire raises his hand and cries “Play Ball” as the 1946 edition of the Notre Dame baseball team crosses bats with the Hoosiers of Indiana, donning the mask and mitt for the Irish will be burly Thomas Joseph Sheehan, a 6' 4" 215-lb. giant who ranks as one of the best catchers in college baseball today.
The loquacious, good-natured Irishman, whose potent bat is a constant threat to the somber green fences of Cartier Field, hails from New Haven, Conn., where he was born on August 12, 1923. He attended New Haven High School from 1937 to 1941, a school which produced such stars as Albie Booth and Ken Strong for the sports world, earning three letters each in baseball and basketball and one in football along the
way, and attaining the captaincy of the baseball team in his senior year. Aside from batting well over .400 during his high school career, Tommy made the Connecticut All-Star High School Team as a catcher in 1940, which club defeated the Massachusetts All-Star aggregation with Angelo Bertelli at first base.
The summer of 1941 found Tommy playing ball for Bennington, Vt., in the amateur Northern League, which club was managed by our; own Clarence J. (Jake) Kline. Belting the ball at a .280
clip, Tommy could have gone on to play professional ball from there, but he decided on an education at Notre Dame, and the fall of 1942 found the big fellow on the Irish campus.
The following spring Tommy established himself as the first string catcher on the Irish nine through his prodigious clouting, strong throwing arm, and expert handling of pitchers. Smashing the ball at a .410 clip in eight games, he was elected to the captaincy of the 1944 squad at the end of that season.
In July, 1943, as a member of the Naval Reserve, he was called to active duty but fortunately he was placed in the V-12 program here at Notre Dame and so was available to captain the Irish nine the following season. His hitting fell off to a mere .325 that spring, but many of his hits went for extra bases, and on one occasion he went 5 for 5 against Purdue, lacing out three doubles and two singles, which Tom recalls as his greatest athletic thrill to date.
In June, 1944, he was transferred to the Great Lakes Naval Training Station and managed to play three games for Bob Feller’s 1945 club before he went on sea duty in April of that year. He served as a Quartermaster on the U.S.S. Monitor, an LSV, in the South Pacific and Japanese waters, and though he saw some action, he claims “it isn’t even worth mentioning.”
Discharged on March 14th of this year, the young Irishman was back on the Notre Dame campus the very next day, which certainly must have gladdened the heart of “Jake” Kline as he welcomed his charges to spring training that afternoon. A second semester Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, where he is a History major, Tom has two years of eligibility left. The Irish mentor can justifiably feel that his catching department will be in very capable hands as long as Tom is around to crouch behind the plate.
Like his two brothers Jim and Eddie who, as an outfielder and catcher, respectively, appeared with Knoxville, Jersey City, and the New York Giants before the war, Tommy hopes to play professional ball when he graduates. Even now he has received several tempting offers from big league clubs, but is rejecting them in favor of finishing his college education.
"Killer" Szymanski
Snarls at Opponent
The chief bottleneck in Bengal Bouts production and promotion to date was solved this week, as a challenger was found to face Frank “The Killer” Szymanski. It has been generally known about the campus for some time that Szymanski had been working out afternoons in the fieldhouse, and had taken on heavy employment downtown to round into top condition; but the purpose of these arduous and rigorous training schedules remained a mystery to us until late this week when the “Killer’s” handlers issued a challenge to anyone on or off campus, in or out of South Bend, professional or amateur, to do battle with the “Killer” in the ring with or without gloves, and no holds barred.
Tipping the scales at 227, Szymanski was heard to exclaim: “Lads, it is my earnest contention that no one in a complete state of sanity dares to accept my challenge, but if anyone on this campus gets too ambitious, I’ll square-root the fellow, and then cube him for good measure.”
Three minutes and some seconds later, Szymanski’s handlers began interviewing the line which had formed to the right for a likely subject. Forty-nine contenders were forced to withdraw from the line when Tug Pilson issued an edict forbidding those of amateur standing to meet Szymanski who was recently declared a professional. The one remaining contender, who is also a professional in his own weight, defiantly accepted the challenge. The quiet, modest, and unassuming contender was amared and astonished at the complete lack of manners and surliness displayed by the “Killer.” Upon seeing his challenge accepted Szymanski went into a rage, tore up his mattress, put his fist through the wall, and tore out the plumbing in Sorin hall.
The “Killer” known for his gridiron prowess, is mean, rough, tough, and vicious, as well as being the protege of Ziggy Czarobski. Though Szymanski, majoring in math at the University, has neither a cosmic nor a bolo punch, he expects to acquire victory through the use of two theories: first, either that of discontinuity, or secondly, through that of resonant catastrophe. Both theories are virtually unknown to the rest of the world, having been but recently expounded by Professor Karl Menger, and adapted by the “Killer” to boxing in his own inimitable manner. The theory of discontinuity will be used in the earlier stages of the battle. And if it is the mis' (Continued on page 28)
23

Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
TAKE IT EASY BOYS!
September and October football games may be won on the spring practice fields but in view of the increasing optimism spreading over Notre Dame fans, let’s just settle back and take it easy for a few months. Sure, the stars are coming back, the veteran coaches are here, and the boys are hot on the path of Army. But don’t forget that there are eight other foes on the schedule. First of all, we’d better take them one at a time, as Coach Leahy suggests. The 1946 Notre Dame season should be a great one, win, lose, or draw.
When such boys as Mello, Cowhig, Livingston, Tobin, McBride, Kelly, Czar-obski, and others come back to school, it is a natural tendency to immediately label them as stars, soundly based on theii- previous years here before the war. But remember, many of these fellows have been away from the game for two or three years and football is not a sport that one can pick up overnight and still have the same finesse and timing. This situation may not apply so much to those currently in school, for they will have the benefit of spring practice. However, those who return in the fall will have even more difficulty getting back into shape. This is not a prediction that the boys won’t come around—they will—and nine other football teams in the country will know about it after November 30.
FUTURE SCHEDULES
Director of Athletics Frank Leahy has been busy lately with the 1947 football schedule plus those of years beyond that. Teams from all over the country are being lined up as future Irish opponents. Nebraska will appear on the 1947 and 1948 schedules. Duke, southern powerhouse, is in line for a place on the schedule. Leahy is also considering some Texas teams and another coast school such as California or U.C.L.A. Georgia Tech and Notre Dame will start their rivalry again in 1948.
TAKE A LOOK
It would behoove sport fans and all Notre Dame students to drop in on Jake Kline and his baseball team in the second and final game of the Indiana series at Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon. Jake has worked hard with , the team
this year and has high hopes for a great season. Jack Barrett was slated to pitch the season opener this afternoon while any of several promising hurlers will get the call tomorrow. Ohio State will follow Indiana on the home schedule with a two game series next week-end. The official schedule has not as yet been released. The holdup is due to a controversy over the Michigan State game. The Irish are slated to appear* against the Spartans on the latter’s home diamond May 11 with a return game here May 25. However, there has been some slip-up in the final negotiations between the two schools which has not as yet been ironed out.
THIS *N THAT . . . HERE ;N THERE
Lieut. John Kelly will resume his studies here in the fall after about three years service in the Marines. Johnny was the leading scorer on the Camp Lejeune basketball team last season. . . . Former Irish grid great, Don Elser, has taken on the head coaching job at Horace Mann High School in Gary, Indiana. He was head coach there in 1941 after which time he went into service in the Navy. . . . Frank Leahy has high hopes of getting Sid Luckman, master.wizard of the T formation and Chicago Bears’ star, to stop in for a few days to help the 1946 Irish grid aspirants.. . . Johnny Lu jack was a much photographed gentleman over the week-end when LOOK magazine had a photographer here snapping Johnny in every conceivable pose. Johnny left the campus last Monday for Philadelphia. He will be discharged from the Navy in June. . . .
Knights Basketball Team Loses in Tourney. 36-32
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus basketball team suffered its only defeat of the season last weekend when the squad traveled to Fort Wayne to participate in the Indiana State K. of C. tournament, losing to a strong Elwood five, 36-32, after leading more than three fourths of the way.
Paced by Bill Meehan, “The Philly Flash,” who dumped in a total of 10 points, the N.D. Caseys were as much as 18 points ahead midway in the third quarter, but from that point on they
slipped fast and the better-conditioned Elwood team, which had won 13 of 15 games this year, gained fast. Still leading by 10 points as the last quarter-started, 29-19, the men from the local council let victory slip from their grasp by scoring only three points in the last 10-minute session while Elwood dropped in a blazing 17 points. It was the most thrilling game of the first round in the tourney.
Tom Brodan and Bill Neidhart were impressive for the N.D. team in netting five points each. Other men from here making the trip to participate in the tourney were: Jimmie Webb, Bob Luther, Fred Rovai, Frank Grimaldi, Jim Sullivan and John Powers.
Mexican Baseball
Magnate N. D. Man
The sports pages of the metropolitan papers have been filled with information on the newly formed Mexican baseball league, headed by the five super-wealthy Pasquel brothers of Mexico City. Mario Alejo Pasquel, one of the five brothers, attended Notre Dame—very briefly—in September of 1938. It seems that the dashing Mexican boy entered school in the fall semester of the 1938-39 academic year only to withdraw voluntarily on September 24, 1938, all of which proves • that he didn’t care to stay in the United States any longer than Mickey Owen and Vern Stephens, American baseball stars, have cared to stay in Mexico this spring.
Jorge Pasquel is the dean of the brother combine and backs all of his contract offers with a bank account of at least 30 million dollars. He has lured several American players to his league by offering them exceptionally large contracts. His two prize catches, Mickey Owen of the Brooklyn Dodgers and Vern Stephens of the St. Louis Browns, left Pasquel’s baseball Utopia only a few days after their arrival to return to the . American baseball scene. Therefore, Owen and Stephens have repaid the Pasquel’s for their short term visit to this country, namely, the exploits of young Mario at Notre Dame.
Philadelphia Club Elects Coughlan President
Art Coughlan, Commerce College junior, was elected president of the Philadelphia Club at a meeting held last Wednesday night in the Engineering Building. Other officers elected were: William Meehan, first vice president; Frazier Thompson, second vice president; Frank Vittori, corresponding secretary; Leon Traney, recording secretary; and Robert' McGowan, treasurer.
24
HUGHIE DEVORE, '34
Head Football Coach, St. Bonaventure College, N. Y.
(Editor's Note’. This is the sixth in a series of articles on Notre Dame men who have distinguished themselves in collegiate coaching at colleges and universities throughout the nation.)
“Notre Dame will be lucky to win half their games.” “A hopeless case. . . .” “The worst material in 25 years at Notre Dame confronts Hugh Devore.” These were but a few of the comments made by the country’s leading prognosticators regarding Notre Dame’s fate in the 1945 football season. But it was from this same “worthless material” that Hugh moulded an Irish squad that was one of the most feared on college gridirons.
A native of Newark , N. J., Devore entered Notre Dame in the Fall of 1930, playing freshman football and making a fine reputation with his vicious line play during the scrimmages ■with the varsity teams. He became a regular in his second year, playing end during the 1931-32-33 seasons under the tutelage of Notre Dame’s third football coach, “Hunk” Anderson. While acting as co-captain in his senior year he received All-American honors for his splendid play throughout that season. It was during his first year here that Hughie observed and admired the peerless Knute Rockne; the man that did more to influence his notions of football than any other individual.
Following his graduation, Devore remained here as assistant freshman coach. From that time on his travels were to make Swift’s Giilliver seem insignificant. He arrived at Fordham in ’35 as line coach, under Jim Crowley. Leaving Fordham in the spring of ’38 Hugh accepted a position at Providence College where, over a four year period, his teams amassed a not too enviable record of 12 wins, 19 losses, and two ties. However, when you take into consideration the fact that a college whose enrollment didn’t exceed 375 students scheduled such football giants as Holy Cross, this record becomes a tribute to Devore’s uncanny faculty of always getting the most from the material on hand. From Providence he moved to Holy Cross, as assistant to Ank Scanlon, where he received much credit for his scouting work in connection with Holy Cross’ historic 55-12 upset over Boston College in the ’42 season. He finally completed this involved cycle when three years ago he returned to the familiar campus as line coach under the present Irish grid mentor, Frank Leahy. It was during this year, 1943, that Leahy left the University on terminal leave to enter the Navy. And after Ed McKeever vacated to assume the coaching duties at Cornell, the 35-
year-old Devore became the logical successor.
Hughie has two deliberative requisites for a successful football player; both emanate directly from Rockne’s guiding influence. The Coach says that the ability to learn plus a deep love for the game itself are conducive for mastery of it. These qualities were instilled in last year’s team to such an extent that the results were: (1) Frank Dancewicz being named to practically every A-A team conceived, (2) John Mastrangelo getting on the I.N.S. All-American, (3) Ed Mieszkowski earning for himself a position on the I.N.S. All-Midwestern, and (4) a creditable team record of 7-2-1.
Flowers for the Easter Parade will delight her . . .
WIRED ANYWHERE OR DELIVERED
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY 114 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-8227
With Leahy’s discharge from service early last November, Hugh began receiving offers from many Eastern schools and it was announced that he accepted the job at St. Bonaventure. Devore’s impending task is twofold. The officials at the Olean, N. Y. college are desirous of watching the Indians become a potential football power and it is at this primary desire that Hughie’s aims must be directed. The other assignment given the recent Coach will be to bring home the Little Three Title, and the means toward this end will be the much used “T” formation, the same formation from which Hugh sowed and reaped success here last Fall.
It is certain that with Hughie’s sincere and affable personality, and the overwhelming consideration shown to his players, continued accomplishments in future years is inevitable.
25
Qtoeen HaHne/L
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
For the past few semesters the student council at Notre Dame has been but a name . . . now a completely new force and dignity has been added to that heretofore dormant organization .. . maybe it’s merely a matter of hitting the right combination of such men as Bing O’Grady, Nick Willet, Paul Abraham, and others too numerous to mention ... or perhaps it is because of the added responsibility and power they have acquired this semester . . . but whatever the reason . . . they are strong and can be counted on as friends of the student body if . . . we get behind them and forget the past-war cynicism that seems to have invaded the campus . . . let’s “talk up” instead of “talk down” the student council . . . for who knows ... it is possible that in the near future, more and more of the regulations governing disciplinary actions may rest in their hands. . . .
<«
Our fan mail for the week included a letter from Dogpatch on the Bulla Road in which the following statement was made . . . quote . . . the records that they play over at St. Mary’s every Sunday are so old that you can hear through to the other side . . . and no wonder . . . their Gramophone (Edison’s first) broke down last Sunday and one of the girls took over on the piano ... in a few minutes all the ND boys were over in the other corner trying to fix the record machine . . . another week and still no tea.
❖
If you’re on the market for some cute chicks, see Bud Bertsch of Badin Hall ... he has an assortment that would baffle any beauty contest judge . . . and while on the subject of pulchritude, bids are limited for the junior prom, so start bidding, you local Romeos, and get hep for the big social event of the year. . . .
You can stretch out your Easter Vacation this year providing you are willing to take triple cuts . . . you know what triple cuts are . . . scholastic judo . . . the cashier in the Caf chow line almost had the wool pulled over her eyes the other day . . . Ventura Gonzalez tried to get a five-course meal with his dry cleaning book ... he probably would have succeeded but he made the mistake of asking for change . . . campus detective Paul Sullivan has finally got the right scent ... he has been trailing the
26
same fellow for two weeks and may strike up an acquaintance any day now.
❖
The surprise package of the week went to Joe Hass ... he received a bundle of brooms in Tuesday’s mail . . . whoever is giving him the brushoff really means business . . . just because some of the fellows go around looking a bit Asiatic in the early morning haze there is no need to be alarmed r . . they are only actors trying to get in the mood for their forthcoming production, The Mikado . . . Johnny Dee asked one of the chow girls for more spaghetti and she snappily, replied . . . “One string or two?” . . . John
NAME YOUR SPORT . . .
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
came back with . . . “Make it two . . . my shoe laces are busted. . . .”
Don’t miss the local magician at the annual K of C vaudeville extravaganza ... he not only pulls rabbits out of hats ... he knows what they’re doing in there . . . she stood in front of the city hall ... he stood in front of the court house . . . and fifteen minutes later Ed Kenefec learned that there are two important land marks where people could meet in South Bend . . . familiar figures in the Dome . . . Dave Warner under-studying Brother Angelus as receptionist. . . .
The next time Art Brady gets a haircut the suggestion was made that he ask the barbel- not to use a cracked bowl . . . Bob Moore received a letter from his girl friend ... he opened it, took out a blank sheet of paper and tossed it into the waste basket . . . when his neighbor
asked him why, he answered . . . we’re not on speaking terms ... as soon as the Russians evacuated Iran eight ND students canvassed the town for rooms. . . .
❖
Working his way up from the Bungles to the Bengals, two-fisted Cacciapaglia suffered a temporary setback during his Saturday afternoon training when he took the count in the first round of a sparring workout . . . the Waldron boys, known as the GI twins because of their Khaki Wackey Wardrobe, made an appearance on the campus attired in different ensembles for the first time since they entered the University . . . been fighting, boys? . . . Tom Krass has taken a leave of absence from the old gang to spend a quiet semester in the Mission House. . . .
Cartier Field turned Hollywood this week as Tom “Golden Dome” Potter led the Irish gridders through the gate in answer to the whistle announcing that spring practice was under way . . . the team is so in earnest about giving Army the trouncing of their lives that even the cheerleaders must have ball carrying experience to make the trip . . . everywhere on the campus enthusiasm is constantly pointing to the fact that this should be the best student trip in the history of Notre Dame . . . and the worst for Army. . . .
One of the better known English profs on the campus paid the Scholastic a pretty compliment by assigning an essay entitled “What’s Wrong With The Scholastic” . . . though we have maintained the highest circulation of any local publication we are always open to suggestion and will be glad to publish some of the best essays . . . and tell what is wrong with them . . . we wonder if we are as “cute” as he claims we are. . . .
Unknown to each other, Jack Tengy and Rohan Kelley are leading the social register as campus fashion plates ... in all modesty neither of them will admit having more than twenty-five suits in their wardrobe . . . over in the department of groovy jive there was an unusual upset . . . the Cavaliers previously slated for a big SMC engagement have lost their booking because of a closed shop agreement with the village union ... to those of us who have heard the Cavaliers perform and appreciate the efforts that go into keeping a college band together, it seems a bit unfair that these boys’ hobby should suffer such a setback to satisfy the greed of a few other jealous musicians . . . surely there are enough places of public entertainment in South Bend for the union to exercise its monopoly without moving in on private property. . . .
On the lighter side . . . according to what we overheard in a Frosh bull session a few days ago the Notre Dame Archives are the tunnels running under the campus . . . big dealer Callix Miller, the flying architect, now has his own office representing a Chicago heating corporation . . . sometimes “Pinkies” are confusing . . . one student received one stating that he had flunked out of a Latin course when all the time he thought that he had been attending Spanish classes. . . .
A good combination for this weekend is the twin bill between our Ball Club and the visiting Indiana nine . . . the green athletic slip will get you in both games . . . Jake Kline’s boys guarantee all comers a full 18 innings of pre-war baseball thrills. . . .
We’ll see you all after the E aster vacation . . . happy holidays ... be sure to get on the right train. . . .
R. Parke Addresses
N. D. Metallurgists
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Metals met Wednesday night in the Engineering Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. An address by Mr. Robert M. Parke high-lighted the meeting. Before the address the members enjoyed a private dinner in the University dining hall.
Mr. Parke spoke on “The Metallurgy of Molybdenum Steels.” After a brief review of the more significant properties of molybdenum steels, Mr. Parke dis
For Appointment	5 Barbers
Phone 3-0678	Manicurist
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop"
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
UlILLIflUlS THf FLORIST
West of the Oliver Hotel
PHONE 3-5149
• You might not be able to pull a rabbit out of a hat but you can send flowers to make her Easter happy.
SAVE WIRING EXPENSE BY ORDERING EARLY
cussed the fundamental effects of molybdenum upon the hardening ability of steels. Considerable attention was given to temper brittleness. Mr. Parke illustrated many of his points, which added interest to his talk.
Mr. Parke received his bachelor’s and master’s degree from the University of Michigan in 1926 and 1933, respectively, and in 1933 he joined the metallurgical staff of Climax Molybdenum Company of Michigan. He has been co-author of several papers on the properties of molybdenum steels and since 1943 has directed metallurgical research in his organization.
On Wednesday, May 8, Mr. A. J. Williamson, chief metallurgist of the Sum-merill Tubing Company of Bridgeport, Pa., will speak on “The Manufacture, Properties, and Industrial Uses of Seamless Steel Tubing.” The technical session will be preceded by the annual business meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter.
—Joe Cheney
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Purchases gift wrapped free of charge.
Leading Credit Jewelers
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan and Washington
27
The Bengal Bouts Committee admiring their handiwork; sitting, left to right, Frank Grimaldi, Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., and John Powers, committee chairman. Standing, Bob Lewis, George Kennard, Christy Walsh, Dick Miller, and Frank Kowalski.
"Killer" Szymanski
(Continued from page 23) fortune of the contender that he survive, then the theory of resonance catastrophe will be applied. Szymanski said that, all told, the bout should last about thirty seconds, and promised all married men that their wives ned have no fear of their getting home as long as he was on the card.
Having pried the gridiron star away from his managers, we found him blowing off steam as he continued to talk freely, saking: “I’ll polish this so-called challenger off in ten seconds—the nerve of him, challenging me! I’ll differentiate him, integrate him, and show him the horizontal plane; and you^can quote me on that.”
With that ringing in our ears, we rushed to the promoter, John Powers, who verified Szymanski’s statements, and confirmed the fact that he will positively appear as the main attraction at the forthcoming bouts. “Nothing that has happened on campusin many a day,” continued Powers, “will approach the spectacle we are preparing for those who take in the Bengal Bouts, this year.”
Football Training
(Continued from page 21)
Bob Walsh, Gene Paszkiet, Jim Martin, and Bob Greenhalgl, are new men with
28	.
much promise. Bruno Opela is on hand as the only leftover from the ’45 squad. There is hope, though, that Jack Zilly and Jim Flanagan may get back to school in the fall. Paul Limont, great end on the ’43 eleven, will be back but it is doubtful whether or not he will be able to play. He was injured while in the service. Bill Huber is also expected back. He only saw service here as a freshman but was a standout in the annual College All-Star games for three years.
Returnees have a key to the tackle post with the ever-smiling Ziggy Czarob-ski and ’42 regular Bob McBride back in
yOUR HAIRCUT by ■ appointment at
South Bend’s outstand-
ing Barber Shop —
FRED SKIVES 205 S. Main Street
JfFFERSOn BflRBFR SHOP
Phone 3-9386 for appointment.
FOUR BARBERS ON DUTY
the fold. Bill Fischer, John Glaab, Bill Russell, and Jack Fallon, monogram winners in 1945, and promising newcomers Ted Budynkiewicz, Gus Cifilli, Al Zmi-jdwski, and Emil Cciconowich round out the tackle prospects. Big George Sullivan may get back to school in the fall and to say he would “help out” would be putting it mildly.
John Mastrangelo ’45 All-American, and George Tobin, ’42 regular, head a list of standout guards that also includes Fred Rovai, Tom Potter, Vince Scott,
J. D. Jump
Ah Yes, There's Good Blues Tonight
Seems Like Old Times Oh! What It Seemed To Be -Full Moon and Empty Arms
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
A wide selection of
EASTER CARDS for every person at
NERS
NEWS
CENTER
127 W. Washington Street
"In the J. M. S. Building"
and Ed Fay, monogram winners last season, and friendly Luke Higgins from the 1942 team. Like the end position, there is a shortage of centers. Freshman standout last year, Bill Walsh, is still in school but faces the prospect of induction. The leading candidate appears to be husky George Strohmeyer, All-Service center while playing ■with the Iowa Seahawks and Corpus Christi, Texas, Naval Air Station elevens. Bob Numbers and Bill Vangan will have a say in the fight for center honors, also.
The backfield is loaded—that is no secret. No shortage of material here with quarterbacks like Johnny Lujack, ’43 starlet, and Fred Earley, ’43,' and later Annapolis, leading the way. George Ter-lep, who developed into an outstanding quarterback at Great Lakes last year, should be back by September. 1945 monogram men include the versatile George Ratterman, Joe Gasparella, and Frank Tripucka. Bob Livingston, Bob Kelly, Phil Colella, Terry Brennan, Bill Gom-pers, Bob Van Sumner, and Floyd Simmons make the halfback spot seem safe. All-American Jim Mello and 1942 stalwart Gerry Cowhig stand out as fullback candidates. These two boys turned thumbs down on lucrative pro offers to return to Notre Dame. Pep Panelli and Jim McGurk from Hugh Devore’s team
will also figure into the fullback plans. Marty Wendell, ’44 fullback should be back in school in September. However, since playing under Paul Brown at Great Lakes last fall, Wendell has become a rugged center and since this position lacks experienced men, Leahy will likely move Marty into that slot.
Leahy is starting his fourth season as the head coach at Notre Dame. From 1941 through 1943, his phenomenal record was 24 victories, three losses, and three ties. Including his two previous years at Boston College, where he took 20 out of 22 starts, the entire and very excellent record of Leahy as a head coach is 44 wins, five defeats, and three ties.
Diamond Season Opens
(Continued from page 21)
eight months out of Yonkers High School, showed great promise and seemed in line to cop his first monogram.
The Indiana line-up which Coach Paul (Pooch) Harrell will send against the Irish is well peppered with lettermen. The Hoosiers’ season began last Friday with a 5-4 win over Central Normal. Harrell’s starting pitcher may be Johnny Logan, Richmond, Indiana, product who
has just returned to school after a four year hitch in the service. Logan won the Big Ten’s'most valuable player award in 1942. The infield will be Al Kralo-vansky, East Chicago, first base; Roy Kilby, Muncie, second; Ed Zabek, East Chicago, shortstop; Bob Miller, Chicago, third. Ed Cohen of Brooklyn, New York, will be behind the plate. Bob “Hunchy” Hoernschemeyer, Cincinnati; Gene Jar-ech, LaGrange, Illinois; and Teddy Zych, East Chicago, are the patrollers of the outfield.	'	.
The second game against Indiana, which starts at 2:30 tomorrow, may show some changes in the starting line-up depending upon the progress of the game. Kline will send Dick Smullen, southpaw cuiwe ball specialist, Walt Ma-hanna, or rangy Dick Klucy to the firing line as his starting flinger.
So let’s have all roads lead to Cartier Field this afternoon and tomorrow afternoon and help Jake Kline and his boys launch the 1946 baseball season, Notre Dame’s fifty-fourth, in appropriate style. College baseball, like all other collegiate sports, has taken a tremendous upswing in caliber. Many outstanding players have returned to their respective schools following their discharge from the service. Your athletic certification slip is youi- admission.
for a fale&eb faster
INDIANA ENGRAVING COMPANY
DESIGNING	COMMERCIAL	ENGRAVING
ILLUSTRATING	PHOTOGRAPHY ELECTROTYPING
29
Est.
1900
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
Try our Loafer
The college man’s
favorite campus shoe
$6.50
Ctou/d. Nedl
SWEEPINGS FROM THE TELESCOPE
It was Field Day for the South Bend tailors all last week as the 126 members of the graduating class dropped anchor at the local haberdasheries. Jim Cronin laughed when Mr. Gilbert offered to treat him to a drink. He didn’t laugh ten minutes and five drinks later after he had purchased $250 worth of uniforms. He is still wondering what he is going to do with two sets of tailored sailor blues and a gray pin stripe he found listed on his bill after he got back to the campus. Oh well, maybe he can sell the pin stripe to a civilian student. Anyone interested in a latest style suit complete with starched collar and buttoned shoes contact Jim. (Paid adv.)
Oscar Birdbrain was right in the midst of the crowd getting fitted. He claimed the white uniform was too big for him, but the tailor said he would cut holes for his eyes. . . . Speaking of clothes, with all the material sailors have on the bottom of their pants—why can’t they move it up to where they need it? . . . The uniform for graduation June 30th will be whites. The appearance of 126 men marching over to receive their commissions will present quite a sight. 126 milk bottles all in step. . . . Jack
Exclusive representative for
Nettleton — Crosby Square Walk-over — Foot Joy Stacy Adams — Matrix
£5.95 to £16.50
X-Ray Fitted by Experts
120 So. Michigan Street
Simmons will be glad to get out of the RO uniform. He alleges that he was standing in front of the LaSalle Hotel last Saturday night when a drunk rolled up to him and demanded that he call a taxi. Jack protested that he was not a doorman, but a member of the naval re-
the belated
right then,” said
serve. “All

New Year’s celebrant, “Call me a boat. I got to get home tonight.” . . . Jack’s room-mate, Max Sarff, is the fellow who is always flirting with the girls in the chow hall. Claims he’s playing for big steaks.
OUR WEAKLY POEM
There was a young girl named Bianca Who retired while ship was at anchor, But awoke with dismay
When she heard the mate say, “We must pull up the top sheet and spanker.”
. CLASSROOM CLASSIC
Adams: “What is the date, Prof.?”
Prof: “Never mind the date, finish the exam.”
Adams: “I just wanted to have something right on my paper.”
WALGREEN'S CORNER COMMENTS
Edie: “The hotel I’m staying at is swell. I have a wonderful closet with an adjoining.”
Wolf: “An adjoining what?”
Edie: “I don’t know yet. I can’t get the door open.” .
30
RO'S ARE TALKING ABOUT:
The crowdedness of the late Saturday night busses. The South Bend Bus Company’s motto, “The public be jammed.” . . . That scene Saturday night. The bus driver glaring at George Zeiber as if he hadn’t paid his fare and George glaring right back at him as if he had. ... Al D’Alonzo’s pre-liberty attempt to borrow a five dollar William. He said he didn’t know him well enough to call him Bill. . . . The rumor that one of the Army football team’s two big guns last year will graduate under a speeded up schedule late this summer. If it’s true, Notre Dame day of revenge has a good chance of occurring. This should be the game of the year since the whole ND student body is pointing towards a victory. . . . “Stop winking at the quarterback, Mabel, he’s not making those passes at you.”
DAFFYNITIONS
Wolf: A man who pays attention without intention.
Off limits: A place where all the fun is.
Restaurant: A place to eat that doesn’t sell drugs.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
And then there was the flag pole sitter who, when his wife died, sat at half mast. . . .
Dr. Price Honored (Continued from page 7) carried on at Notre Dame.
Last summer he was associated with the High Polymet Research Bureau of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, and he has recently become chairmanelect of the Gibson Island Polymer Conference to be held in 1947. Dr. Price is a member of the American Chemical So-city and of several honor societies, including Phi Beta Kappa fraternity. He has served as consultant to the Hercules Powder company, the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, the Eli Lilly and Company, and the Coca-Cola Company. Dr. Price also is an editor of the Journal of Polymer Science in New York.
Father Beichner Named
Ass't Head of English
The president of the University, the J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., has appointed Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., assistant head of the Department of English. Father Beichner is to take particular charge of the graduate teaching and research in that department, under the direction of the Department Head, and of the Dean of the Graduate School. With the fall term of this year the Department of English will begin to offer doctoral work.
Father Beichner, who was ordained in 1939, received his Master of Arts degree at Notre Dame in 1941. He was assistant prefect of religion during the spring term of the same year. In the fall he began his studies at Yale University and received the degree of Doctor of philosophy in June of 1944. Continuing his research, he remained at Yale for another year as a Sterling Research Fellow, and returned to the University for the summer term of 1945 to teach English. Toward the end of the summer he Avas appointed faculty adviser to the Scholastic, the publication of which had been suspended since the spring term. In December he was relieved of this work to afford him more time to devote to research. Father Beichner is preparing an edition of the Aurora of Petrus Riga, a late 12th-century Latin versification of the Bible, which was very popular and influential in the Middle Ages, but which has never been printed.
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHOREA SO. BEND R.R.
For first time in history, Ohio’s college of dentistry has become co-educational. Seventeen women dental hygienists are working in the Ohio clinic and 24 others are well on their way to earning AB degrees in the field.
If you plan to shop for Easter
or if romantic thoughts in Spring demand Gifts especially for “her”
VISIT
Holy Week
(Continued from page 7) by the colorful rites of the blessing of the new fire, the grains of incense, the paschal candle and the font symbolizing the fruits of the Redemption. The Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C., was appointed Master of Ceremonies for Holy Week by the order of the Reverend Provincial, Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C.
(A complete listing of Holy Week Services is given on page 3).
31
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
ACROSS THE DIXIE
For the girls ’cross the lake shed a tear, Said they, “It is just as we fear.
We will never see
The men from N.D.
Oh, nuts, they would rather have beer!”
—Thanks to Bob Stolze
THESE ARE JOKES
(WANNA BET—The editor)
New cashier: What do you do when a student forgets his change? ■
Manager: You- tap on the counter with a dollar bill.
♦j.
“I give up—why is a nickel better than a dollar?”
“Because it goes to church more often.”
Dis id spring
De boids am on the wing. How absoid!
De wings am on de boid.
«
“Wanted for responsible position Purdue man or equivalent.” A Notre Dame man answered: “In regard to your advertisement, do you mean two West Point men or one ND man working half time?”
❖
A freshman newly arrived at South Bend was watching a local farm-hand work. He knew little about farming except that eggs came from chickens.
“Oh!” he said to the farmer, “what a funny looking cow. No horns.”
“There are several reasons why a cow doesn’t have horns,” said the farmer. “Some are born without horns. Some do not grow any until the late years of their lives. Others are de-horned while young, some breeds are not supposed to have horns at all. The chief reason this cow doesn’t have horns is that it isn’t a cow . . . it’s a horse.”
❖
THE WEEKLY EPIC
Three monkeys sat in a cocoanut tree, Discussing things as they’re said to be.
Said one to the other: Now listen you two;
There’s a certain rumor that can’t be true;
That man descends from our noble race. The very idea! It’s a dire disgrace!
No monkey ever deserted his wife, Starved her baby, and ruined her life. And you’ve never known a mother monk To leave her babies with others to bunk.
And another thing; you’ll never see
A monk build a fence ’round a cocoanut tree,
And let the cocoanuts go to waste, To all other monks forbidding a taste.
Here’s another thing a monk won’t do: Go out at night and get on a stew;
Or use a gun or club or knife;
To take some other monkey’s life.
Yes, man descended—the ornery cuss, But, brother, he didn’t descend from us!
—Liberated
Due to circumstances beyond our control, our faithful ADF will be unable to appear with us this week. The mail finally got through to his pappy in Carolina and with it came a little white slip from the Director of Studies. That’s all, brother! That’s all!
In keeping with our rural note this week, it might be well to quote the hen as the farmer went by: “That’s the guy I’m laying for.”
She: “Will you love me after we’re married and I grow old?”
He: “Love you. I shall idolize you. I shall worship the ground under your feet. I shall—say, you aren’t going to look like your mother, are you?”
❖
That last joke reminds me of a conversation I overheard at Walgreen’s the other day. An N.D. man was sitting in a booth talking in a stage whisper to one of the South Bend beauties: “I worship the very ground you walk on. And that property you own on the other side of town isn’t bad either.”
❖
AND. FINALLY, A LIMERICK
A dashing young fellow named Joe Has lost all his happy glow.
He used to be sunny,
He had lots of money—	’
But that was two blondes ago.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our wi laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. w Phone 4-8251
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years"_$4.00
"Collected Poems of Charles "L. O'Donnell, C.S.C."_$2.50
THE SET —$5.00
•
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING > SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
•
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. , SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
32
Father McAvoy Declares Labor Leaders
Must Follow Encyclicals to Combat Reds
To combat Communism adequately, support must be given to a program for social reform such as the one laid down in the social encyclicals of the popes, the Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy at the University declared in an address given in Toledo this week at the fourth Labor Session of the Industrial Relations Institute.
The Institute, which will continue through the month of April, is sponsored by the Toledo Council of Catholic Men in cooperation with the University of Notre Dame.
“Specifically recommended,” stressed Father McAvoy, “is the training of leaders among the working-men themselves. Communist leaders are thoroughly trained that they can hold their- own in discussion and union meetings. Catholics must be well trained in the practical workings of our economy and the history of the labor movement so that they may be able to function well as leaders of a union and be well acquainted with effect
ive union tactics. Especially they must be trained in labor ethics.” «
Father McAvoy pointed out that if Christian leaders understand well the positive program proposed by the Popes they will be able effectively to counter Communist propaganda, and if they are thoroughly grounded in Catholic social doctrine, they will have a proper regard for the rights of others and the responsibility of labor to the general welfare.
Communism appeals to many with its false promises of equality, and its misleading promises to remove injustices found in our present social order, Father McAvoy continued. Communists were early instructed to enter into the labor unions and to take over the labor movement in the United States. They have never succeeded in taking control, but some have attained positions of influence.
“The promises of Communism are deceptive because Communism involves far-greater evils than those which may exist in any other economic system today,” he
added. “Denying the existence of God, refusing any special dignity to the human being, Communism deprives man of every liberty that Americans hold dear. The Communists that have obtained offices in labor unions have contributed -something to the cause of the laboring man, especially with their skill and zeal at organizing; but Communists have a higher loyalty to the cause of Communism and its most powerful instrument, the Communistic State in a Soviet Republic]. Their first loyalty today is to Russia and Red Fascist tyranny. Communists always follow the Party line, although it means weakening a union, or even breaking it. They refuse cooperation to responsible leaders, even in time of strike, if they have any hope of taking control away from them.”
Father McAvoy concluded: “It is in the local unions that Communism constitutes a primary threat to the Faith of the working-man and the health of the labor movement. This threat can be met effectively only by men able to point out the errors of Communism and to expound Christian social doctrine, and able to take the lead in putting this doctrine into practice. To train such men for these tasks is the aim of the Catholic labor- schools.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND	.
33
Majority of Students Disapprove
Universal Military Training Plan
BY CLARENCE ZIMMER	■
President Truman in his speech on foreign policy in Chicago, April 6, said in substance that there is now no stronger nation than the United States, and in his determination to keep it strong he maintained that the selective service act must be extended, that command of the armed forces should be unified, and that a universal training program ought to be adopted.
It is that last part which is causing most of the controversy. All over the United States people .are talking about it. On the bus, in the office, in the classroom, in the corner drugstore, and particularly in Congress. Ironically enough, those who will be effected by the law have the the least to say, namely, the eighteen year olds of America. So let’s give them a chance. Here is what some of our Notre Dame freshmen think about universal military training.
Joe Becker of 233 Breen Phillips is most emphatic in stating his views against universal military training: “I think it’s perfectly ridiculous. What possible good can present training do 10 or 15 years from now. None whatsoever. Besides, it’s undemocratic. Other countries that did it are now totalitarian. Training for war is the surest way to get in one. France had it, and it did her absolutely no good. Furthermore, history has proven that wars constantly become more and more scientific. Therefore, the best possible training for any possible future war would be in the nation’s colleges rather than the nation’s army camps.”	.
Harry De Schryver of 227 Breen Phillips comes forth with this objection: “I disapprove of universal military training. If the army would make it more attractive for men to enter by raising pay and discarding the caste system, they would have enough volunteers and compulsory training would not be necessary.”
Another student, also from Breen-Phillips, approves of the training and gives the following reason: “I believe that it’s a good idea, for a few years anyway. With the way Russia is acting up, and with the insecurity of the future, I agree with the President that we must be secure.”
Since Breen—Phillips is a good cross section of N. D. freshmen, we shall remain there and listen to another student
airing this view: “I believe that if this training program could be incorporated into a four year* college course, just as much would be accomplished and everyone would be saved from going away for a year. Most colleges have the facilities for it, and the whole program would be entered into with much more incentive.”
Since it requires too much ambition to move to another hall, let’s listen to what George F. Helmich of Room 222 has to say: “I think it is a very unwise idea. First of all, what good will the type of training given now be in 10 years, if a war should break out. Even without the atomic bomb, methods of warfare are bound to change and what good will the antiquated methods of 1946 or 1947 be then? Secondly, I think that more harm than good would come out of such a program, namely, the demoralizing aspects of army life. And thirdly, and most important of all, the next war, if there is one, will be an atomic one, and what good are masses of men against one small atomic bomb. They would make a perfect target for the devastating power of the atomic missile.”
Another student of the same hall says this: “Universal military training is O. K. Wars are inevitable, and no matter how scientific they get, a land army is always needed. A standing army is always necessary to ward off aggression from other nations.”
Now let’s move over to Zahm. One of the freshmen there claims that, “Although a year of training wouldn’t hurt anyone, that one year would disrupt one’s education just when he would resent it most, at eighteen years of age. What’s worse, if a fellow graduates at 16 or 17 he is yanked right out of college. So on the whole I disapprove.”
Thinking it a good idea to get the opinions of a couple of the veterans on the subject, we leave the younger students and turn our attention to some of the older men. In commenting on the issue, they also give their opinions on extension of the selective service act. A veteran in Zahm agrees only partially with President Truman: “I’m definitely for extending the selective service act. We need the men to back up our role in international politics. I’m against universal military training, however. Right now we need the troops, but as far as universal military training goes, I say no.”	'
34
In venerable Sorin Hall, one veteran of much experience had the following to say: “I think that the draft should definitely be continued. We are not now in a position to drop it. We must maintain an army for occupational purposes. For this reason alone I think it wise to continue it. As for universal military training, I do not believe in the present plan. It should be worked out in connection with the schools.”
And so new those who will be effected have spoken, in most cases answering with an unqualified “no” to the question of universal military training. But, as was previously stated, those who will not be effected have the most to say, and have the most power. On April 6 Truman stated, “We cannot one day proclaim our intention to prevent unjust aggression and oppression in the world and the next day call for immediate scrapping of our military might.” And on April 8 General Eisenhower said the following: “Any gamble with the national security of the United States at this time is a gamble with peace and security of the world.” With our leaders asking for both universal military training and extension of the draft, the chances are that at least one will be granted, and maybe, or should I say probably, both. And what will be the outcome? Will the results be good or bad? Unfortunately, only the future can tell.
N. D. to Award Special Degrees to Navy Grads
The Academic Council of the University passed a special regulation awarding the degree of Bachelor of Naval Science to 19 of the 22 members of the February NROTC graduating class.
Commander George Hutchinson informed the eligible members of the class as to the Council’s decision and has advised them of the requirements necessary for the degree, which are as follows :
(1)	An aggregate of 116 semester hours of credit (60 of these earned at Notre Dame).
(2)	A qualitative average of 77% or better.
(3)	Four months of active service in the navy or marine corps to the satisfaction of the individual’s commanding officer.
Upon receiving Commander Hutchinson’s letter informing them of their eligibility the men must have their commanding officer endorse the letter and attest to their service record.
...by wire and radio!
Maybe you’ve thought of the Bell Telephone System as using only wires. It uses and pioneers in radio too.
Radio waves are used to carry your voice across the seas to telephones in other lands . . . across
' water barriers here at home___to
vessels plying inland waters and
to ships out at sea. And before too
long, radio links will provide tele
phone service for cars and trucks.
Radio relay systems that will
f carry long distance messages from
city to city are now in the advanced
, experimental stage.
In every case the Bell System
uses the kind of transmission, wire
or radio, that provides the best
service for the most people.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
35
THE RIGHT COMBINATION OF THE
k * ;
jp.fi





A ALWAYS MILDER B BETTER TASTING C COOLER SMOKING
AH the Benefits of Smoking Pleasure
Copyright 1946. Ligcett & Mms Toucco Co.
Always Buy Chesterfield