- The Notre Dame Scholastic
["Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! Lat special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
December 7, 1934
No. 11
I. C. 0. PLANS TO HOLD • TRIALS AFTER HOLIDAYS
STDDENT THEATRE PRESENTS FIRST
PRODUCTION OF YEAR DEC. 10, 11
Plans for the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest for high schools, which is to be held at Notre Dame next February, are moving along rather smoothly at present. Numerous Indiana secondary schools have submitted their intention of enter-1 ing the contest, and the tournament ! promises to be a very interesting afi ’ fair as a result. The I.C.O. commit’	tee, however, hopes to induce still
♦	more schools to take part in the con-
। test by postponing the district eliminations until after Christmas.
So far the Catholic high schools of the down state area have been slow to join the growing number of entrants because they are at such a :	great distance from Notre Dame. As
a result, Professor Clarence E. Manion has been encouraging the alumni of the southern section to provide some means of transportation to the University for the representative or. ators of each of the schools and to ; help these institutions in any way i that they find possible.
i	Among those schools already en-
। tered are the Cathedral High School of Indianapolis, the Central Catholic । High School of Fort Wayne, and the i	Central Catholic High School of
■	Hammond. Timothy P. Galvin de-
i serves a great deal of credit for help’	. ing the Hammond institution to get
started and organized in choosing its !	. representative orator. He has stimu-
; lated so much interest in the coming i	contest at the school that eight or
i	nine boys from there are preparing
to entei’ it.
The success of the tournament, the finals of which will take place some • time in February, may warrant the establishment of tuition scholarships j at Notre Dame next year for those boys who win. The I.C.O. committee hopes that this tentative offer of the University will warrant a greater interest in the contest on the part of the Catholic secondary schools of the state.
At present arrangements are being '	made to provide for the entertain-
ment and comfort of the winners of the sectional contests when they come • to Notre Dame to compete in the finals.
December 7, 1934
December Number of The Alumnus Contains Many Interesting Articles
The association program is the featured article in the December issue of the Alumnus. Action, with or without prosperity, has been decided upon as the 1934-5 program. The ten major plans for the year are elaborated and explained in detail.
The decisions were evolved at a meeting of the Board, held in Chicago, on the morning of Nov. 17. A Universal Notre Dame Night over a national hook-up, is one of the proposed plans of action.
Another article reports the conferring of the Catholic Boys Brigade decoration for distinguished service in ’ the cause of youth on the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. Along with four other recipients, Fr. O’Hara received his award from the president of the Brigade in New York City.
G. Albert Lawton, editor of Scrip, announces that in the future, contributions from alumni will be accepted for publication.
The late Warren A. Cartier, ’87, is commemorated in a story which comments on his contributions to, and his place in Notre Dame history.
Judge John Eggeman, ’00, recalls his acquaintance at Notre Dame with Pat O’Dea, former Wisconsin football star. Pat, the ‘forgotten man’ of gridiron history, who disappeared for 30 years, coached at Notre Dame from 1900-02, and was a close friend of Mr. Eggeman’s. The Judge expressed his conviction that Pat O’Dea is Pat O’Dea and not another imposter.
PRE-REGISTRATION
Pre-registration for Juniors and Seniors in the College of Arts and Letters which began Monday, December 3. will continue till Monday, December 17, inclusive. It is imperative that registration for the second semester be taken care of as soon as possible.
CURTAIN TO RISE AT 8:15
On next Monday and Tuesday evenings in Washington Hall, the newly formed Student Theater will present its first performance. The show will consist of a series of vaudeville acts
Tom Flynn He has two parts.
supported by The Collegians and climaxed by the presentation of the opera, “Five Nuts in Two Acts.”
After an opening group of popular numbers by The Collegians, the Notre Dame Tumblers will make their appearance. The Tumblers, a product of the Physical Education department, have thrills galore to offer.
The second skit, “Striped Poetry,” was written by Sam Goldman, who will take the leading role and will be supported by Tom Flynn, John Lynch, and James O’Boyle. It is a takeoff on a poetry class as held in jail.
The Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., contributed a song entitled, “The Prefect,” which will be “sung” by Roy Scholz.
The final act will be the opera “Five Nuts in Two Acts.” Alberto, played by John Ryan, a debted father desires to marry his beautiful daughter, Lueciletta, Mark Finocchairo, to Walsh Hall’s Tom Flynn as Bucero. Bucero, however, is really in love with Fernando, Fred Zabarosky. The plot thickens when Ama, the witch, (Continued on Page 7)
One
Committee Draws Up Varied Program For Senior Smoker
SEANUS NACNANUS GIVES INTERESTING LECTURE
FIRST EVENT OF ITS KIND
The committee of the Senior Class meeting and smoker made public its program for the evening of Wednesday, Dec. 12, during the past week after its final meeting to complete arrangements. The affair will be held
Doctor Daniel C. O’Grady He is no Rotarian.
promptly at 8 o’clock in the Law Building auditorium.
Below is a copy of the evening’s events:
1	The address of welcome by Thomas Proctor, senior class president.
2	The business meeting at which the following topics will be discussed:
a The lethargic condition of the Notre Dame spirit;
b The problem of caps and gowns;
c The presentation of a more durable flag to the University on Washington’s birthday;
d The Senior Class Ball—where will it be held, what will the price be, and in what shall the general arrangements consist?
3	The program which will include the following numbers:
a Piano accordion solos by James Marohn.
b Tap dances by John Dasso
c Address by Doctor Daniel O’Grady of the department" of philosophy
d Tenor solos by John Ryan
e Piano accordian solos by Patrick Quigley
f Piano duet in rhythm selections by Thomas Bott and James Keough
g Address by Rev.' Eugene Burke, C.S.C., head of the department of English.
h Quartet numbers by Eugene O’Brien, Thomas Flynn, George Miller and William Casazza.
i The moving pictures of the Notre Dame-Army game in New York.
Immediately after the showing of the football pictures a buffet lunch will be served in the recreation room of the Law building.
Admittance to the Class Meeting and Smoker will be by presentation of the Senior A. A. book. Only seniors in the colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, Engineering and Science, including the various departments of these colleges, will be admitted.
Franklyn C. Hochreiter, general chairman, announced the appointment of J. Clifford Dudley to the committee on arrangements.
Interhall Debating Will Be Held at Saint Mary’s
College on January 8
At the time of printing all but one of the semi-finals of the Interhall debate contests has been run off. The following are the results to date:
St. Edward’s negative over Badin affirmative; Alumni affirmative forfeited to Walsh negative.
Dillon will meet St. Edward’s and the winner will debate Walsh Hall at St. Mary’s College the latter part of next week to determine the championship of the University.
The annual banquet, sponsored by the Wranglers and tendered the two teams going to the finals in Interhall debating, will be held on the evening of January 8, 1935. Eugene Malloy, a junior in the College of Commerce, was appointed chairman of the banquet by Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers.
Korzeneski Attends Polish Club Ass’n. District Meet
In answer to two letters, one from Anthony J. Fettych, president of the first district of the Polish Students’ association, and one from Marion J. Grochal, president at Headquarters of the association, President Arthur Korzeneski, of the Charles Philips Cracow Club of the University, attended the first annual district convention of the Polish Students’ Association of America. Korzeneski was Sergeant at arms at the convention, and was also chosen a member of the resolutions committee.
The convention was held at the Hotel Pfister in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on Saturday, December 1. Following the invocation, at 9:30 Saturday morning, by the Rev. B. Celi-chowski, a very interesting series of discussions and addresses was heard. The close of the convention came Sunday evening at the end of a banquet, which was also held in the Pfister Hotel.
Prominent speakers at the banquet included Francis X. Sweitlik, Dean of Marqueutte University; Dr. Charles M. Purin, Director of Wisconsin University Extension, Msgr. B. E. Goral, and Dr. Waclaw Gawronski, Consul General of Poland.
Among the clubs taking part in the convention were Sigma Phi Alpha of Loyola University, the Lewis Institute Polish Club, the Northwestern University Polish Club, the St. Louis University Polish Club, and the Minnesota University Polish Club.
“Ireland is the greatest story-telling country in the world”—thus did Seumas MacManus, famed Irish lecturer and author, preface his talk in the Engineering Building, on December 3.
His opening statement was proven in a most delightful and interesting manner by the recitation of a few typical folk-tales, which, he said, “have been transmitted through thousands of years by word of mouth, from generation to generation.” Proof of their antiquity lies in their coincidence all over the world.
Mr. MacManus disclosed that he has been a shanachie, or story-teller since he was seven years old.’1 He accumulated his rich store of legends’ by listening to the old shanachies of his birthplace, County Donegal. On winter nights, the people gathered in cottages, by a peat fire, and regaled one another with ancient stories. It was from these assemblies that Mr. MacManus acquired his fund of tales.
A sentimental, deep-rooted account of the presence of fairies, or ‘gentle people,’ as they are called in Ireland, was given by the speaker, who repeated the belief of the Irish that the sprites are angels who were neutral during the conflict between Lucifer and Michael the Archangel; the fairies could neither be punished nor rewarded at the end of the battle, so they were exiled from Heaven. They chose Ireland as the next best dwelling-place.
“At times of story-telling,” said Mr. MacManus, “all Irish people are children — from the age of four to fourscore.” No matter how often a tale has been repeated, neither the listeners nor the story-teller ever lose their interest or enjoyment. The explanation is simple: with the Irish, story-telling is an art that has been fostered and developed for centuries.
As Mr. MacManus regretfully admitted, “The world lost something that it may never recover when it lost the art of story-telling.”
Spanish Club
At a meeting held Dec. 4, the Spanish Club voted in favor of supporting the Communion-breakfast in which all language clubs are to participate.
John Busichio, in charge of arrangements, was the guest speaker. He outlined to the club the details to be carried out in order to make the breakfast a success.
Mark Kerin of the Spanish club was appointed to the general committee.
Secretary A. F. Dunning also announced plans for a proposed meeting with the Spanish club of St. Mary’s.
Two
The Scholastic
COYNE PLANS VARSITY DEBATE ELIMINATIONS
Symphony Orchestra Opens Season With Concert Thursday
At a meeting of the Varsity debate squad the fore part of the week, Coach William Coyne made the tentative assignments for practice debates to be staged before the Christmas vacation.
Two debates will be held on the Varsity question of armaments with the men taking the opposite side of the proposition from that assumed in the tryouts. The arrangements will be as follows:
First debate
Negative — Franklyn Hochreiter, Robert Schmelzle.
Affirmative—John Weppner, Joseph Becek, John Locher.
Second debate
Negative—Thomas Proctor, Richard Meier, Eugene Malloy.
Affirmative—James Burke, George Krug, John Heywood.
Mr. Coyne is endeavoring to negotiate several important debates for the active season that will open the latter part of January. At the present time he has at least five contests that will prove stiff competition for the Notre Dame challengers.
Irish Club Meets For Communion Breakfast
After the 8 o’clock Mass last Sunday morning the members of the Irish Club of Notre Dame gathered together in the Faculty Dining Room for the organization’s first Communion Breakfast. This will probably become a popular custom of this club in the next semester.
Acting as toastmaster William McNally introduced the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., who vividly sketched to his interested audience the efforts that have been attempted throughout all history since Christianity was started to do away with the Mass. Mr. William Farrell, of the History Department, and Mr. Walter Dick, a Rosminian seminarian, also spoke briefly on subjects that were of com-I mon interest. Musical entertainment was provided by Earnest Kling whose offerings on the accordian were greeted with enthusiastic applause.
Server’s Club
At the meeting of the Servers’ Club last Monday evening, in the Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., spoke very interestingly about the “Dies Irae.” The “Dies Irae,” Father explained, means the “Day of Wrath.” | It was written in the twelfth century by Thomas of Celano.
Sophomore Cotillion Budget Shows Profit of Over Three Hundred Dollars
The Scholastic this week prints the official budget of the 1934 Sophomore Cotillion. The budget was released this week only after every item had been carefully checked by University and class officials. The budget shows a net profit of $313.19 which was turned over to the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., prefect of religion, for the Bengal missions.
The budget:
RECEIPTS:
Ticket Sale (371 tickets plus $1.00
found in cash)-----------------$1114.00
Received from S.A.C. fund  58.82
Total receipts __________________$1172.82
DISBURSEMENTS: Orchestra $ 450.00 Hall rental  150.00 Programs (350)  105.00
Tickets (300) ______________________ 4.00
Refund to S.A.C. fund ------------- 58.00
Expenses of President _____________ 13.62
Painted Signs ______________________ 6.25
Phone Calls _______________________ 16.00
Printed Posters 	2.75
Expenses of Chairman ______________ 17.00
Refund to ticket takers 	4.00
Refund to class officers and committee
chairmen 	30.00
Expenses of Class Treasurer ________ 2.45
Total disbursements ________________$ 859.63
Total receipts _____________________$1172.82
Total disbursements ________________ 859.63
Net gain -----------------------$ 313.19
The $30 refund in the next to the last item includes refunds to the following class officials: Charles Jordan, vice-president; John Williams, secretary; Joseph Quinn, treasurer; Robert Seigfried, S.A.C. representative; Walter Niebnaber, chairman of the music committee; Philip Welsh, chairman of the program committee; Thomas Doyle, chairman of the publicity committee; Albert Smith, chairman of the patrons committee; John Brassell, chairman of the accommodations committee and Thomas Foy, chairman of the decorations committee.
This is the first Notre Dame dance budget ever released for publication.
Foreign Commerce
The entire membership of the Foreign Commerce club turned out last Monday evening to hear a very interesting lecture by Mr. Kenneth Merril, president of the Skinner Manufacturing Co., of South Bend.
PROF. SEIDEL CONDUCTS
When the curtain parts next Thursday evening, at 8 o’clock, the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra under the capable baton of Professor Richard Seidel will present the first concert of the current year.
Professor Richard Seidel To him—only praise.
As in the past the program will contain the music of the masters, portrayed in its highest form, the symphony. F. von Suppe’s famous composition the “Light Cavalry Overture” will open the program.
The principal composition of the evening will be Symphony No. 12 in G sharp major by Joseph Hayden. This symphony is one of the most delightful, yet least played of the composers works and this performance will be the first of the composition in this vicinity.
From the suite, “From Foreign Lands” by Moskowski, Professor Seidel has chosen the descriptive number, “In Germany,” a colorful tone picture of the fatherland. In response to popular request the orchestra is repeating the “Sleeping Beauty Waltz” from the Dornerchoen suite of Peter Tschaikowsky.
The program will be concluded with “The Toreador March,” from George Bizet’s opera Carmen.
The complete program follows:
Light Cavalry Overture_____F. von Suppe
Symphony No. 12 in G sharp major._Hayden Intermission
From Foreign Lands—Germany._Moskowski Sleeping Beauty Waltz_______Peter Tschaikowsky Carmen March________________George Bizet
December 7, 1934
Three
UNIV. LIBRARY GETS RARE HISTORICAL BOOKS
The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist, announced that the University library had procured within the last week two very rare Hooks which should be of special interest to students of American history. The books were very difficult to obtain as they were privately printed in a limited number.
One, The Journal of a Voyage to North America, is a translation from the French of Pierre Francois Xavier de Charlevoix, edited with historical introduction, notes, and index by Louise Phelps Kellogg, Ph.D. This is a two volume work.
The other, which contains the only contemporary account of the death of Father Allouez, the founder of the St. Joseph mission, who is supposed to have died in Niles, Michigan is a series of documents on French exploration. It tells of his visit to the St. Joseph mission and much of the local history of the neighboring country. The work is entitled Decouvertes et Etablissements d e Francais E n L’Amerique Septentrionale by Pierre Margry.
American Catholic Philosophy Society Meets During Holidays
The tenth annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association will be held at the Graduate School of De Paul University, in Chicago, on December 27 and 28.
The association has two regional groups: the southern regional conference and the Pacific coast regional conference. Each year the proceeding of these matters are published. The society is gradually building up a library of contemporary Catholic philosophical thought.
The "Philosophy of Religion” will be the general subject for discussion. Four Notre Dame professors will be on the program. Dr. Robert Pollock will speak on “The Cause in Modern Philosophy and the Traditional Argument for the Existence of God.”
In the Round Table discussion on Dec. 27, a paper on “The History of Medieval Philosophy,” will be presented by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C. On Dec. 28 the Rev. Julian Sigmar will discuss the “Teaching of Philosophy.” The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., the former president of the society, will act as chairman.
Athletic Conference
Dean McCarthy, secretary of the board in control of athletics, will attend the yearly meeting of the Indiana Intercollegiate Athletic Conference at Indianapolis tomorrow. Mr. McCarthy will act as the representative of Notre Dame.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL CLUB JOINS SOUTH BEND CHARITIES
At a dinner meeting of the South Bend Council of Social Agencies, Nov. 26, the St. Vincent de Paul Society of the University became a member of the South Bend Charity association. Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., chaplain of the society, gave a brief description of the welfare work ac-
Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C. Directing an excellent work.
complished by the University’s society.
Mr. J. Q. Ames, president of the local council, recognized the praiseworthy achievements of both the university’s society and the local welfare and social agencies. Dr. Molly Carroll, noted Chicago social worker, and several federal and local relief representatives recognized the work of the local charity agencies.
Vincent McAloon, acting in the absence of the president of the society, told the purpose of his organization. - He explained its condition and the support it gained from its members and all the students.
Joining the South Bend Council gives the university’s welfare society access to the Central Bureau statistics established by the local council. This bureau records the significant conditions of the needy families in South Bend. It is a means to prevent the many local agencies from duplicating - aid given to families, thereby serving to spread the welfare work among a larger number. Distribution of the many articles of old clothing collected from the students will be apportioned in most cases according to the needs of the families as recorded by the Bureau.
Besides the contributions of clothing and magazines from the students, the St. Vincent de Paul Society obtains subscriptions from its members, small amounts from its penny boxes, and fees occasioned by its management of the recreation room in Walsh Hall. The society boasts of 80 members, 20 of which are active in examining the needy cases in South Bend.
DETROIT CAMPUS GROUP JOINS DANCELESS CLUBS
The Christmas dance lament of the Cleveland club changed this week from a solo to a duet with the addition of the Detroit club to the ranks of “danceless” organizations.
President Ed Caldwell of the Cleveland club of Notre Dame has been definitely informed that the Alumni group in Cleveland is going ahead with arrangements to hold the traditional holiday affair.
Thomas Stringer, head of the Detroit club, has not been faced with the same difficulties that have bothered the Cleveland club, while in Cleveland the functions have been taken over by the local organization, Detroit will be without a Notre Dame function entirely.
“Repeated letters to the Alumni leaders in Detroit petitioning for the required permission have brought absolutely no response.” Stringer said. “We are not only without plans for a dance but we are absolutely without any reasons for the failure of the Alumni to communicate with us.”
Both predicaments, however, grow out of the same source—the University ruling that campus clubs must first obtain the sanction of the local Alumni groups before holding any affairs in the name of Notre Dame.
While the Detroit club dance has died a natural death, the Cleveland club has been endeavoring for weeks to arrive at some compromise with the Alumni organization in Cleveland that would permit the student group to share in the affair. Definite word of the rejection of these plans reached Caldwell this week.
In an interview this week President Caldwell stated that he was contemplating putting a motion before the Presidents’ Council recommending a petition to University officials for a change in the ruling regarding Alumni sanction.
“It is not for any selfish motive that we are thinking of presenting this motion,” Caldwell said. “Numerous campus groups are running into similar snags in their plans for activities. We realize that the rule was intended only to secure maximum cooperation between the Alumni and student groups for the greatest benefit of each, but as it is functioning now it doesn’t seem to have the desired effect.”
Because of the case work entailed many sociology majors pledge their services to the club in order to gain experience.
The most recent plan of the club is the preparation of 23 Christmas baskets of food for the needy.
Four
The Scholastic
CASASANTA DRILLS BAND FOR BASKETBALL CONCERT
This evening, preceding the basketball game, the University band, Professor Joseph J. Casasanta conducting, will present the first part its concert, the second part of which will be heard during the intermission between the halves. The pre-game concert will commence at 7:30 sharp.
For the first concert of the indoor season Prof. Casasanta has chosen to feature the music of the renowned composer* of light opera melodies— Sigmund Romberg. The concert will open with selections from Iris well known operetta, “The Student Prince.” John Ryan, tenor soloist of the University Glee Club, will sing the beautiful “Deep in My Heart, Dear.” Other semi-classical numbers including several marches by Sousa will also be heard.
During the ten minutes intermission the band will offer lighter and more popular tunes, which, according to Prof. Casasanta, will give ample opportunity for students to join in the singing.
Tabulation Shows 115
Have Averages Below 77
A recent tabulation of scholastic averages shows that there are 115 students with qualitative averages below 77%. In connection -with this number the Director of Studies emphasizes the fact that the proportion of students who have averages below the required standard is growing from semester to semester. Furthermore, those students in the underclasses who are now below the requirement will find it increasingly difficult to raise their averages at the completion of each additional semester.
The number of failing averages is divided among the following Colleges of the University; Commerce 56, Arts and Letters 35, Science 12, Engineering 11, and Law 3. Class statistics in proportion to these averages reveal that there are 18 Seniors, 38 Juniors, 39 Sophomores, and 20 are first year averages. It is imperative that those students with qualitative averages below 77% attend to the matter at once for as long as they delay the necessary improvement of their work the harder it will be for them to satisfy the requirement of the University in regard to average quality.
Central New York Club
The Central New York Club held a meeting last Friday night in Carroll Rec Room for final plans regarding the Christmas dance.
COMMERCE FORUM HOLDS WELL ATTENDED SMOKER
Seventy-five members of the Commerce Forum were present at the organization’s first smoker of the year held Wednesday night in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
Dean James E. McCarthy They dress for his class.
Professor Albert L. Doyle, of the Department of Speech, acted as toastmaster and presented several interesting speakers, among them, the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., professor of advertising, and James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce.
In addition to speakers, the program included a variety of entertaining skits and musical numbers that were well received.
Plans to have Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former President of the University, at the meeting had to be dropped because of his ill health.
Walter O’Brien was general chairman of the affair and was assisted by three committees; the ticket committee, headed by John McDonnell, was made up of Ray Margrett, Paul Rub-ly, Francis Reedy, William Smith and John Robinson. The arrangements committee was headed by Anthony Dunning who was assisted by Jack Cannon, and Joe Washko. Bill Hof-fert was in charge of the entertainment committee and had as his staff Arch Gott and Orlando Scafatti.
Library Donation
Professor Henry B. Froning has donated to the Library of the Department of Chemistry a long run of Chemical Abstracts and the Journal of the American Chemical Society. These journals have a valuation of approximately $500.
FR. O’HARA AWARDED PRO JUVENTUTE STAR
The Reverend J. F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, was one of the five recipients this year of the Star “Pro Juventute,” which is awarded annually for distinguished service in the cause of youth by the Catholic Boy’s Brigade of the United States. The others who were decorated with Father O’Hara at a dinner held at the Biltmore Hotel in New York City last Tuesday evening, Dec. 4, were former governor Alfred E. Smith, the Most Reverend James H. Ryan, rector of the Catholic University of America at Washington, D. C., the Rev. Aloysius J. Hogan, S.J., president of Fordham University, and Mrs. E. F. Ryan, founder of the Association for Catholic Action Among Boys.
In accepting the award, Father O’Hara. stressed the value of supervised sport in the formation of character and the part religion can play in this development.
Father O’Hara took occasion to pay tribute to the work of Rev. Kalian J. Hennrich, O.M.Cap., under whose direction the Catholic Boys’ Brigade has reached a position of pre-eminence among the boy guidance groups of the country. He said in part:
“On the part of the University of Notre Dame then, I wish to thank Father Kilian for being mindful of the humble contribution we have made to the spiritual upbuilding of the young men of America, and I wish to say that we esteem it a blessed privilege to be associated, even by implication, with the glorious work Father Kilian has done in a lifetime of devotion to Catholic boys.
“On the value of sport.in the formation of character I need not dwell at length. Wise direction is needed to prevent overstrain, to foster proper sportsmanship, and to keep physical exercise in its proper place, as merely a means to an end. The Christian philosophy of recreation keeps, in theory at least, the proper proportion in these various elements; in practice, common sense plays as important a part as specialized training in making recreation the hand-maiden of good citizenship and thorough-going Christianity.
“Following the injunction of St. Paul, we realize that every action that is not selfish can be made a prayer. Through the daily Morning Offering, the Catholic boy who seeks not his own glory but the glory of God in his every action, may merit a great reward in heaven by his honest play. This is the secret of teamwork; this is the secret of sportsmanship. God is the general of the Catholic Boys’ Brigade.
December 7, 1934
Five
FRANK DUFFY SPEAKS ON LABOR NOVENENT
PBARNACY CLUB TALKS OF DRUG STORE LIQUOR
Mr. Frank Duffy, first vice-president of the American Federation of Labor and general secretary of the Carpenters’ and Joiners’ union gave a two hour discourse on “The History of the American Federation of Labor.” Mr. Duffy spoke in the auditorium of the Law building, Tuesday afternoon, Dec. 4.
The speaker explained the true meaning of history, citing its requisite of truthfulness which should serve as a guiding principle in the future. In accordance with this definition, he related all of the facts of labor organization and labor problems.
Mr. Duffy stated that the American Federation of Labor is now fifty-three years old; that it is the only labor organization that has ever lasted; and he also gave a brief historic account of the labor movements preceding the one which gave rise to the American Federation.
The formation of the American Federation of Labor occurred Nov. 15, 1881 and was organized under the lengthy name of “The American Federation of Organized Trade and Labor Unions of the United States and Canada.” Mr. Duffy explained that labor unions refusing to be a part of the Federation were easily induced after its name had been changed to the present one.
The names of J. P. Maguire, father of the American Federation of Labor, Samuel Gompers, Mitchell, and other notables were brought forth in an intimate, personal explanation of the rise of our present Federation. Mr. Duffy spoke of his relations with these men, his belief in the sound principles which they taught him, and his membership and position in the Federation since the beginning of its existence. Mr. Duffy, gray-haired, stolid and forceful, is now past 70 and has been a labor leader all his life.
After elucidating the many complications of the organization in its succeeding periods, the speaker gave a summary of the important and beneficial results of the Federation. The Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C., expressed the gratitude of the faculty and students present for the reception of such a thorough historical account of the American Federation of Labor.
Chicago Club
John Jordan, president of the Chicago club, announced plans at a recent meeting of the club for a handball tournament to begin after the Christmas holidays. Members of the club only will be eligible and suitable prizes will be awarded.
Come, gather a little closer, comrades, friends, neighbors. It is 307 Walsh, this week, and Frank Shay, the current busiest, and most involved
man on the campus; Secretary of the Senior Class, Commerce Forum President, and holder of membership in so many campus organizations that he uses a special index system to keep tab on them.
It will do you no good to ask him where he hails from. Invariably he will answer “southeastern Ohio” and if pressed a little closer will admit that it is “near Columbus,” but that is all. Having carried his secret for four years now, I can sympathize with him. In reality his home is Nelsonville, a blot on the serene landscape of Hocking Valley, grazed by the Hocking River, and connected with civilization by the Hocking Valley Railroad.
A serious injury suffered in high school football has prevented Frank from engaging in competitive sports here at Notre Dame. However, he does permit himself some golf—being a protege of Cole—and by dint of much application has managed to whittle his score down to the point where he can now give McCraley and Loritsch some competition. In fact, he insists that the only reason he took Loritsch on as a roommate was to gain revenge for those last five trimmings. He is also violently pro-Izaak Walton. On the slightest provocation he will tell you about his week’s fishing trip, last summer, up in the lake country of Michigan and Canada. It was very exciting, he says, but he still thinks that his most memorable experience was.riding the elevated in Chicago.
Destined to raise comment and attract followers wherever he goes, he is now the sensation and special pride of the Commerce School for the history-making things he is doing with the Forum Board of Directors. Per-
A discussion of the preparation and differentiation of the various liquors now on the market was contained in four papers presented at the Pharmacy Club meeting Tuesday night in the Chemistry Building. Since most states has designated the drug store as the retail distribution point for liquor, this subject is of importance to the pharmacist.
These papers were given to acquaint the student with the scientific and commercial aspect of liquor. Four- sophomores prepared and delivered the papers. They were: John Williams, Henry Steiner, Bernard Marty, and Pete Krajci. An open discussion of the various commercial phases of the subject followed.
Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy department, addressed the assembly briefly, urging them to use the Pharmacy library as much as possible while in college. Robert Ervin, president of the club, announced that plans are being made for a trip next semester to the Parke Davis pharmaceutical plant in Detroit. He stressed the importance of the trip and asked the club members to make arrangements to go.
haps the manner in which he met a recent Board of Directors Committee will give you some insight into his character. The Committee approached him to learn his views on the type of constitution that should be drawn up by them. He answered that it must be plain-spoken and straight-forward and not one of those ambiguous things that mean everything and nothing.
Blessed with a quiet reserve of manner and with rare loyalty, he is known as the most courteous and considerate man on the campus. He dislikes saying no to anything or anybody and because of these qualities his friends are legion. I might also say, that he blushes profusely, being outranked in this department only by the first blusher of Walsh Hall— Andy Dineen.
Before I forget, and lest no one suspect it, Shay is of Irish descent. He considers it a sacred heritage, and proves it by the innumerable quantities of literature he keeps and reads, all dealing with Ireland. Just ask him some time about that famous ancestor of his—Kitty O’Shea!
K. of C. News
All applicants for membership in the Knights of Columbus who have not been initiated into the first degree in the recent initiation will receive notices in the very near future as to when to present themselves for the degree. The second and third degree classes will be held later.
Six
The Scholastic
DONE PICTURE TAKING IS NEARLY COMPLETED
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
SCRIBE GETS LOWDOWN ON CANPUS CONCESSIONS
Seniors who wish to turn in their Dome proofs before Christmas have until Dec. 14 to do so. The Dome office in Walsh hall will be open every weekday afternoon except Saturday from 1:30 until 5 o’clock for their convenience.
Vittorio Arcadi He takes the pictures
Those seniors who have signed up to have their pictures taken, but who have not been photographed yet will have their opportunity sometime in January when a few days will be set aside for that purpose. Activities pictures will also be taken at that time.
Plans for the next Dome are shaping up very well. Since Vittorio Arcadi, Dome photographer, has been busying himself on the job of taking pictures of all the current events on the campus, the new year book is sure to present a complete pictorial history of the school year. Arcadi is the man who did such fine work on the pictures of last year’s Dome. During this semester he has taken some good shots of the pep meetings, the football games, the lake parties, and other events that have happened since the opening of school.
Dome layout plans are also being perfected at the present time. Coincident with this work a very beautiful view section, containing pictures of campus scenes, taken late last spring, is being incorporated into the book.
The complete, new faculty section to be included in the volume will be the largest that has ever been contained between the covers of any previous Notre Dame year book. All the faculty pictures, 170 of them, have been taken, and they will go to the engravers before Christmas.
STUDENT THEATRE
(Continued fi-om Page 1)
in the person of Bob Masinic, and Chauncy Rooney, as Zarabosky’s Mercurio, enter the skit. The entire cast is supported by a chorus consisting of Bill O’Brien, John Lynch, Phil Wack, John Kirsch, Bill McCarthy, Bill Dolan, Bob Leonard, Al Butler, George Kerwin, Ernest Kling, and Jim McLaughlin.
Admission will be free, and the curtains will part at 8:15.
December 7, 193 4
COMMON PROCEDURES
The startling expulsion of 21 C. C. N. Y. students for their anti-Fascist demonstration evidently started something. Five student leaders were barred from U. C. L. A. because they tainted their offices with communistic tendencies; following the resignation of L. S. U. Reveille staff who refused to submit to faculty censorship of copy disparaging to Louisiana’s “HOOEY,” 26 members of the journalism school were suspended for “gross disrespect” in petitioning their reinstatement. . . Any students inciting riots before athletic contests were threatened with dismissal from Indiana Univ, by its Committee on Student Affairs. . . . And 14 Univ, of Mich, sophomores were barred from offices to which they were elected after “flagrant violations of all rules” of voting conduct!
* * *
PAGE SCRIP
“Jack and Jill went up the hill Something to eat for to get: Jack fell on his safety razor— Gillette.”
—Armour Tech News * * *
FEMALE FRISKINGS
Co-eds in a cooking class at Iowa State sampled some salad they had made, and the whole class fell sick. . . . Lake Forest College reports that 69 per cent of their co-eds talk over their love affairs with their mothers, while 31 per cent said they had no love affairs (11 per cent must have changed their minds) . . . Knittin’ is the rage at New Rochelle and The Woods . . . Vassar is one of the many institutions for the weaker sex where the girls ride to class on bicycyes . . . A “widow’s club” composed of those whose sweethearts do not attend school, has been formed at Northwestern. They wear yellow ribbons to signify “no dates!” . . . Co-eds at Washington College, having received permission to smoke in classes, puffed up with corn-cobs, but the wily professor smoked them back to sensibility by keeping all the windows firmly shut!
* * *
WHAT ABOUT OURS?
The Alumni Sec. at Villanova surveyed the Freshmen there and found that: the greater percentage chose Villanova for its Catholic environment; superior courses offered was next in line as a determining factor; academic recognition which the college enjoys and the educational equipment followed; and further down the line came the smallness of the school and the attractiveness of its campus. Athletic reputation, recommendation of a former student and alumni success were other reasons given.
This is the tale of those embryonic business-men whose efforts classify them as campus concessionaires.
Preference, regarding priority of presentation, always breeds enmity unsurpassed, but a beginning must be made elsewhere so we’ll begin with the jewelry “salesmen.”
Preluding the activity of these creatures is a fanfare of signs . . . “Jewelry For All Occasions” — see Joe Whosis, 101 Walsh — Campus Representative . . . signs, judiciously and conspicuously placed on hall bulletin boards. Already a marked dissension has crept into their ranks.
Jewelry sellers, we are told, are divided into two groups. One is termed “novelty-man,” • while the other holds the dual title “pin and ring-man.” The latter opine that while the novelty-man is enjoying a prosperous season, the passing of forthcoming present-giving holidays will show a distinct change in the buyer-market attitude.
Woe besets the tie merchant. Instead of that “business is good” atmosphere which has frozen on the faces of sellers of other merchandise, the man with the ties makes no pretext, admitting that “business is punk.” And then, as he puts the covers on his display boxes, “say fellows, did you hear the one about—” A story-teller, the man!
Style, comfort, and correct fitting are essential elements to the insurance of success of clothing salesmen. Voluminous quotations from satisfied well-dressed Notre Dame men do add a bit, too! What intrigues us immensely is that zipper contraption. It’s the vogue at Harvard and Yale, we’re given to know. “The guy that dug up that zip-fastener business oughta get a leather medal or sumpin’ ” is the general campus opinion.
Those picture vendors! Ranging from pencil drawings right up to photographs, with as wide a divergence in price as the distance between Canada and the Gulf. (Estimated roughly!) You can’t help but admire the independence of those Dome photo salesmen. They compliment you with “a dozen at twenty-two dollars is a good buy.” Of course there’s a three • by five size that sells at six dollars, but you wouldn’t want that!
“Say fellows, how’d you like a chance on anything from a pack of cigs up to a grand prize of twenty dollars in gold?” Or, “here’s a punchboard on that horse-racing game that goes on in Mike’s Place downtown.”
After tucking several quarters in his pocket he slinks out with a sym-uathetic “tough luck, fellas; I’ll be around again sometime.”
Seven
MATTHEW J. BRUCCOLI
SPEAKS TO PATRICIANS
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
GLEE CLUB PERSONELL ANNOUNCED THIS WEEK
The Patricians, at their regular weekly meeting last Wednesday evening in the Law Building, heard Matthew J. Bruccoli, Arts and Letters sophomore delivei* a paper titled “Julius Caesar, Claudius, and Nero.” As the speaker outlined his topic, it was a “discussion of the greatest, the simplest, and the worst of the Caesar.”
He introduced his subject by raising the question, whether these rulers of Rome were gods. He answered by saying that they were, and were venerated exactly as we venerate our God today, perhaps even more so, since they compelled veneration through the use of their imperial power.
Attention was then directed to the might of the great Julius Caesar, Bruccoli eulogizing the Emperor and analyzing his character. “Ancient Rome, ancient Europe, modern Rome, modern Europe — indeed the whole world owes everything to Julius Caesar.” He brought the strength of organized Roman government to the savage tribes, and returned with the benefits of their unharnessed power. “It is easy to believe that he was the greatest man that ever lived,” said Bruccoli. All tales of his faults are totally eclipsed by the magnitude of his services.” His versatility—author, orator, general, and ruler that he was —has sent his influence down through the ages.
The pitiable Claudius was then characterized as “an ugly duckling who retained throughout his entire lifetime a good portion of his ugliness.” The adverse conditions of his upbringing, his many physical disorders, the hatred of his family for him, were given as reasons for his weak character. “He at no time in his life felt the compassion or consolation of a friend.” But much of the stupidity attributed to Claudius was discredited by the speaker, who based his convictions on the generosity, modesty, and diplomacy of the man. He was concisely characterized by Bruccoli as: “a walking Inconsistency.”
The tyrant Nero, it was seen, acquired the atrocities of his natures from his vicious ancestors. The lives of his parents were black with un-‘ speakable crimes and depravities. What wonder that their son should not be otherwise? But upon accepting the imperial sceptre his first official acts were, to say the least, praiseworthy. Soon, however, the intense jealousy, insane craze for music, and utter bestiality of his nature overpowered him.
A description of the cowardly death of Nero concluded Bruccoli’s vivid history of the Caesars.
Eight
Our All American
Left End
Kaley—For his splendid showing throughout the home season. It was truly rich.
Left Tackle
Stanford—For good, all - around play at the Navy game in Cleveland. He can really get out of a tight spot.
Left Guard
Walters—For determined persever-ence during a crucial incident at the Northwestern game in Chicago. Until then he was unknown, but afterwards stellar.
Center Rush
Lawton — For his great work throughout the Sorin schedule. His virility was often evident.
Right Guard
Guimont— For his improved showing in side-stepping. It was well worth his uncle’s time to come from Minnesota to see him play.
Righ Tackle
O’Neil—For his defensive work this year. He will play with Milwaukee after graduation.
Right End
Tim Walsh—For his clean living all season. It helped him to beat out Dunn.
Quarterback
Breen—For his cagey play throughout the league schedule. His breath never failed him.
Right Half
Murtha—For his splendid running. It takes a fast man to catch him.
Left Half
Carey—For his clever maneuvering every Saturday. He wasn’t caught once, and did more than to block for Breen.
Full Back
Annas—For getting into every play. He didn’t miss a snatch all season.
Honorable Mention
Lynch, Alberts, Hendle, Gene O’Brien, Bulkewitz, Morris and Fran Dunn.
* * * 0
All players mentioned will please call at the office for two tickets to any show they choose to see at Washington Hall.
* * *
You Can’t Win!
After reading about Alumni’s ghost of a few weeks back, we felt unsatisfied. Not that we go in for spectres or are well read in S. S. Van Dine, but somethting eerie about the whole thing brought out the sleuth in us.
The personnel of the Notre Dame Glee club for the year 1934-35 was announced this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organization.
Tentative arrangements for the forthcoming Easter trip were discussed during the rehearsal last Saturday.
The personnel is as follows:
First Adamson, Thomas Beltemacchii, George Casazza, William Cassidy, Thomas Corrigan, James Foohey, James Gervasio, Joseph McGlynn, John
Second Sullivan, John Devine, Robert Ducey, Robert Flynn, Thomas Gorman, Vincent Goldman, Irwin Gott, Arch Hamm, Aron Hart, Norbert Halley, Thomas
First Barbush, Francis Boyle, Leo Brett, Raymond Butler, Albert Carroll, Robert Finoichiaro, Mark Flanigan, John Kane, Richard Kenyon, Herbert Mazenec, Robert McNichols, Grover Monaghan, Jack Murrin, John Schaefer, Francis
Second
Cordaro, Joseph Flynn, Thomas Foy, John Holz, Robert Kerwin, George Kirsch, John Mahoney, William Mclssac, Bernard Monaghan, Daniel Miller, George Rooney, Chauncey
Tenori
Morrison, Reginald Rowan, Edward Schlueter, Francis Vogt, Daniel Dausman, Hurdis MacDonalld, Robert O’Brien, William McCann, John
Tenori
Hines, Thomas Lynch, John McNeill, John O’Brien, Eugene O’Byrne, Robert Phoebus, Lindsay Ryan, John Scherer, Ben Kane, Owen Gruenenfelder, Marcus
Bassi Sconfietti, Donald Stapp, Robert Thurm Wayne Tulchinsky, Maurice Zintak, Francis Reidy, Francis Schemmer, John Ravarino, Albert Cardinal, Ralph Murphy, James Wallensack Maurice Deery, Francis Ley, Jack Saggau, John •
Bassi Scholz, Roy Siekemeyer, Leonard Wade, James Proop, Earl Rice, Richard Marohn, James Foley, Paul Gormley, Eugene Rich, Angelo Winterrowd, Hugo Palumbo, Leo
And armed to the teeth, we invaded the junior’s privacy.
We recruited a stooge from the first floor and wandered upwards. All went well until the third floor. Then we were baffled. Our stooge would go no further.
But the thrill of the hunt was upon us. We chercezed the femme and called upon justice to aid us. And then came the solution!
It was only a friend of Tommy Stritch he had cached high in his tower for the football season. You can’t win! i
The Scholastic
Voice of the Campus
।_________________________________
More From “M. D
Editor, The Scholastic:
May I make the following points in addition to my letter in your issue of Nov. 30 and in reply to the editorial, “School Spirit and Rowdyism?”
First, the letter did not attempt to justify the actions of the students off campus. These actions were more than “reprehensible”—they were unmanly, irrational and savage. The climax to these abominable acts came on Thanksgiving day when an orange was hurled at a player on the Palace stage.
Second, very truthfully The Scholastic states that ducking during cold weather may bring pneumonia. Since this method of awakening spirit is so objectionable why is there not a university regulation prohibiting it?
Third, failure of the students to arise at 5:45 cannot be attributed to a moronic intellect but to a natural desire to cater to the body. The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. Perhaps The Scholastic can suggest a method of having spirit dominate . . . . especially during the cold weather. . .
The upshot of the whole situation is this: school spirit is commendable but our method of displaying it is objectionable. The Scholastic pointed out the ills. Can it suggest a remedy?
M. D.
Calendar
Friday, December 7
Scholastic - Meeting, Editorial Rooms, Editorial Staff, 6:30 p.m.; General staff, 7:00 p.m. Basketball, Varsity vs. Kalamazoo, Gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday, December 8
Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m. Football, Varsity vs. University of Southern California, Los Angeles; Movie “Baby Take a Bow,” Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, December 9
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, December 10
Student Theater Production, Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Tuesday, December 11
Student Theater Production, Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Wednesday, December 12
Senior Class Meeting and Smoker, Engineering Building, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 13
Symphony Orchestra Concert, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
December 7, 1934
THE WEEK
By William Au Kennedy
Ye Breakfaste Roome
For some weeks previous we had been looking rather anxiously for the local lighting system to pull a faint, but of late we had succumbed to a ; ’ dull despair of seeing the semi-annual inevitability take place. But we never fully lost hope, and our reward came on Friday last, about 8:30.
We don’t think we missed anything by not breaking our fast by gas-light in the dining hall, because the cafe by candle-light was far more intriguing. In fact, it’s only the second time in our whole life we have been intrigued at breakfast.
We entered the door in our usual slashing manner, and then stopped short. Everyone was staring at us as if we had committed some sacriligious act. And we had. We can never forgive ourself for it.
The room was quiet. There was no radio going. No whine of the godless cash register. The room was black and gray, and yellow. The transoms showed only a sullen grey light from •without. Inside, candles flickered.
We stepped softly along the counter and ordered, chose a table, seated ourself. Even if we had wanted to, we couldn’t have read the Trib, with its compulsory and blatant political cartoons. It was more the time and place for a volume of poetry—gypsy poetry —or a rejected manuscript, perhaps. We had neither, so we just sat and ate and dreamed. We had coffee, one roll, and a slab of butter.
•
Replacement
With the lights on again, you will probably notice the new wheatcake pourer behind the counter. Slightly smaller than the other one, but with many more curves. Thinner neck, too. Rather a work of art for this section of the country. Has grace, and poise, and a sort of quiet, dignified charm. It’s aluminum, we think.
•
Outdoor Advertising
We don’t know what it is, but something seems to be crashing down on our heads when the highly-esteemed, very high class organization that is, or was, the Symphony orchestra resorts to the tree in front of the dining hall for its bulletins. Hitherto, that tree was used only for pep-meeting signs, and occasionally, a poster advertising the Sophomore Cotillion. Now, even the Debators use it for enlistment pleas.
We would like to be the first to point out to the Patricians the advantages of scribbling their meeting notices with chalk on the big stones around the campus.
No Sleep, No Eat
That three dollars a pound man whom we mentioned a few issues back as having fasted a couple of weeks, is at it again. Seems like you can’t keep a good man down, so when someone said, “Huh, bet you can’t!” he repliied, “Huh, bet I can!” and so he proceeded ot stay awake for three days running. And won again.
The last dozen hours were the toughest, but he solved them by sitting in a chair under the showers for an hour or so. The hardest part of it was staying awake in some of his classes. Or are we being unnecessary?
- •
Woman, Thy Name Is. .. .
Bill Dillon, of the paradoxical Alumni Dillons, wanted, we are informed, a week-end. Get, said the Rector, a letter from home. Said Dillon Senior to his secretary, “Write Bill permission.”
The secretary wrote the permission, sent it to last year’s address in Morrissey, Bill went on his weekend, returned, was campussed. He wrote Miss Secretary, said exactly what you would have, received a book and an original poem of 38 lines (no metre) by return mail. The book was good and the poem sounded just like a secretary who saves last year’s address. Bill has read both, but he’s still campussed. There is a glint in his eye and we, who understand such things, wish him all power two weeks hence.
•
Another One
This one concerns a sophomore who has yet to find out the literal meaning of his academic title. •
At Cotillion time he carelessly contrived to lose her address, but about two weeks ago, thinking of (1) Thanksgiving dinner; and (2) the cold, hard winter evenings ahead, he miraculously found it again in his address book, called her up, made a date, kept it, and was smugly appreciative when she invited him to the house for (1) Thanksgiving dinner.
At 12:15 last Thursday, he rang her bell. No answer. He rang again, knocked. No answer.
A little boy came running up. “No one’s there,” he announced proudly, “They moved.” He didn’t know where to.	.
Neither did the sophomore. He just stood there. It was 12:30, and you were approximately half through ripping apart that leg of turkey, duck goose, or whatever it was.
•
Come Again Some Time
On the bench in the outer office of the Prefect of Discipline is a railroad timetable.
^ine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
come away with but little knowledge of the subject as would any listener not familiar with the material. As a matter of fact, the Academy of Science has shown a fine spirit of cooperation with the Scholastic in furnishing reports of these lectures. It is lamentable that other campus clubs do not follow the same policy.
JOHN D. CARBINE.....................  Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING------------Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI ...... —------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN_____________________.___LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_______________________College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, IL_________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TAOKLEY____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN______________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN__________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL_______________—Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER____________________.HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS_______________________FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY-------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI______________________________FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH-------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-------------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN-------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JAMES MCMULLEN
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY—__..................Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated €bllesiate $ress
~sl954	Digest is>3se-
hawsom	wiscoksm
December 7, 1934
ACTION BRINGS ACTION
In recent weeks several complaints have reached The Scholastic office that some organizations on campus are receiving what our critics are wont to call “more than their share of publicity.” Behind this dissatisfaction there is evidently the feeling that The Scholastic’s editorial policy favors some organizations and shuns others.
Nothing could he further from the truth. The facts of the case probably are that those clubs and organizations which are really active are receiving the publicity they deserve. The Scholastic cannot print news stories about inert and defunct organizations.
There is another explanation of this seeming disparity. The Scholastic reporters assigned to certain beats have met with little or no cooperation from those in charge. We suggest that each of the campus clubs appoint a competent man to take care of such matters. A Scholastic reporter listening to an excellent but very technical lecture before the Academy of Science for example will
Ten
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL
Tonight in the gymnasium, Notre Dame’s 1934-35 basketball team will make its first appearance of the season. There’s something peculiar about Notre Dame basketball. There is little said about it; there is little excitement about it. And yet on the evening of every home game some fifteen hundred students tramp over to the gymnasium, regardless of rain, sleet or snow, to see Coach George Keogan’s team in action.
The Irish basketball teams have, during the past several seasons, made records which compare very favorably with—if they do not completely overshadow—the records of any other collegiate team in the country. Last year a new all-time Notre Dame record of twenty-three consecutive victories was established.
The Scholastic is confident that Coach Keogan’s present team will preserve the fine traditions of the past.
WHERE CREDIT IS DESERVED
Going about its fine charitable work in a modest and unpublicized manner, the St. Vincent de Paul Society this week started on the final stages of its drive for old clothes. The society under the capable direction of the Reverend John Kelley, C.S.C., is one of the most commendable forms of campus activity. Its record, during its short existence at Notre Dame, is remarkable. The members have not only made a personal room to room canvass of the halls in their old clothes campaign, but they also, by the judicious use of their funds, have succeeded in placing several orphans in nearby institutions.
When the representative of the society raps on your door during the next week to ask for your discarded clothes, give him as many as you can. Such an organization as the Saint Vincent de Paul Society is worthy of the support of Notre Dame men.
ESTABLISHING A PRECEDENT
The budget of the Sophomore Cotillion which appears on page three of this issue is, as far as we are able to determine, the first Notre Dame dance budget ever released for publication. Harold Miller, president of the Sophomore Class, and Leo Cormier, Chairman of the Cotillion deserve much of the credit for this noteworthy innovation. The Scholastic congratulates the sophomores and expresses the hope that the junior and senior officials will follow the example of their underclass colleagues.
The publishing of the budgets of all class dances will do much to silence the inevitable critics of the financial conduct of each social function. This criticism based, almost entirely, on ignorance of real conditions and supposition of fictitious ones will vanish in the light of printed figures.
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Basketball
Season Opens Tonight
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
A TRANSITION
The rapidly waning football season will take a temporary back seat here at Notre Dame tonight as the transition from the shoulder pads of the gridiron to knee pads of the basketball court is affected. For tonight is the night when Coach George Keo-gan’s 1934 quintet opens a season that should be doubly interesting.
As a starter, the interest will be provided by the absence of three men who have been the scoring nucleus of Keogan-coached teams of the past three years. AllAmerican Ed Krause, Joe Voe-gele, and Leo Crowe have gone the way of graduation and left telling gaps in the Irish battle front. A Notre Dame quintet minus the services of these three greats seems like a dream team. Three years of personal observation have made their names synonymous to us with Irish basketball.
The men who will fill their shoes cannot be regarded lightly. The pony forwards, Johnny Ford and Joe O’Kane, are two streamlined speedsters that are not the easiest people in the world to follow in a basketball scrimmage. Captain Johnny Jordan and George Ireland need not sfied weights to improve their speed either. Don Elser or Marty Peters, after their return from California, will probably get the finger for the tip-off assignment. But until that time, Coach Keogan must rely on men of little experience to fill the post — a spot that has been an all-important one in the pivot-playing Irish fives of the past three years.
The mention of the pivot play brings to mind another ultra-important fact. This year’s varsity will not be blessed with tile height so essential to this type of play. It seems highly probable then that Keogan will resort at least in part to a cross court or fast breaking game. The mate-
(Continued on Page 15)
Keoganites Oppose Kalamazoo To Get Campaign Under Way
Captain John Jordan Another leader from Chicago.
THE FIRST ALL-AMERICAN TEAMS SELECTED; NAME “ROBBY”
The deluge has started. Everyone from Busing, radio football broadcaster-exquisite, to the cop at the taxi stand has his All-American football team definitely selected or in the making. Notre Dame football players puncture the different all-star lineups of numerous occasions.
Jack Robinson, center on this year’s Fighting Irish layout, is just about the universal choice for AllAmerican honors. Bill Cunningham, in last Monday’s Boston Post placed Jack Robinson at the center post on his first team. Dominic Vairo, of the Notre Dame eleven, was named by Cunningham as third team right end. George Melinkovich and Bill Shakespeare received honorable mention at the halfback positions.
The United Press picked Robinson as second string and gave honorable mention to Vairo at end, Schiralli at guard, Melinkovich and Shakespeare at halfbacks, and Elser at fullback. Robinson rated the third team on the (Continued on Page 15)
Jordan Leads Quintet
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame basketball team opens its season tonight in the gym with a game with the Kalamazoo college quintet. The Irish have been victorious in the last three encounters with the Hornets and George Keogan hopes that his team will repeat their previous performances tonight.
Although the Kalamazoo outfit has lost some of the prestige which it has held for some years, the team will nevertheless give the Keoganites a good fight. This is especially true because of the fact that Notre Dame has lost three of the players who rolled up the largest part of the score against the Hornets.
The loss by graduation of Krause, Crowe, and Voegele will do much to impair the chances for victory by the Irish. Perhaps the greatest handicap under which the Notre Dame quintet labors is the absence of an experienced center. It is true that Marty Peters will be on hand to occupy that post after Dec. 15, but for the opening games Coach Keogan anticipates quite a bit of trouble at the tip-off position.
The probable lineup for the game will be Captain Jordan and Ireland at guards, O’Conner at center, and O’Kane and Ford at the forward posts. It was the combination of O’Kane and Ford at these positions last year that showed up the possibilities of the two. Put in as replacements for Jordan and Voegele, they frequently rolled up large scores against some of Notre Dame’s toughest opponents.
It will be interesting to watch the performance of Jordan at the guard position. At forward last year his play matched the more experienced work of Voegele and Krause, but it is problematical as to whether or not he is versatile enough to make the same kind of showing in Don Allen’s berth.
Tonight’s game will be a reasonable indication of the success of the team for the 1934-1935 season. Al-
(Continued on Page 14)
December 7, 1934
Eleven
Injury Epidemic Hits Irish
Prior To Final Trojan Tussle
INTERHALL PRACTICE
BEGINS FOR CAGERS
FIVE TO PLAY LAST GAME
By James A. Waldron
Thei'e was once a poet by the name of Homer who sang the praises of intrepid deeds as the powerful Trojan Empire was toppled by a wily band of Greeks. Mighty Troy held its place in the sun as capital of ancient civilization until the Greeks worked the
Captain Dominic Vairo One of the five.
original “hocus-pocus” play and let the unsuspecting men of Troy accept their great “Wooden Horse” as a gift. A modern Troy exists today which for the last several years has been the capital of the Gridiron World. In the past few weeks the enemy forces have stormed and battered at its defenses, threatening the prestige of the Southern California “Trojans.” “Priam” H. Jones, head man of Troy, is strengthening and reorganizing his forces to withstand a new onslaught as Notre Dame’s men of Green behind “Agamemnon” E. Layden sally forth to battle.
This reticent Trojan commander has as his main threat, Hector “Cotton” Warburton, the climax runner. With the departure from the protective walls of this modem Troy, of Aaron Rosenberg, Homer Griffith and Bob McNeish who opened up great holes in the enemy lines, the “Cotton Top” has been bottled up from breaking into the open and performing those sensational long runs which earned him All-American last year. In the last few games, however, the 148 pound “scooter” with big Cal Clemens clearing a path has again shown the old razzle-dazzle behind
(Continued on Page 14)
Bill Cunningham of Boston “Post” Sings Praises of Robinson
Bill Cunningham, sport columnist of the Boston Post and one of the leading football commentators in the nation, picked Jack Robinson of Notre Dame as first string center on his All-American football team for 1934. Captain Dominic Vairo was selected as third team right end on Cunningham’s mythical representatives. In regard to Robbie, Bill Cunningham paid a tribute that is rarely seen in college circles. He said:
“John Robinson of Notre Dame gets the vote, not only because he was the finest center of the lot but an additional star belongs in his crown because he played football under a ses-ies of handicaps that would have broken a heart less stout. It’s a privilege to pay tribute to a lad such as this. Robinson’s story is inspirational. It gives the everlasting lie to the frequently advanced theory that wealth always saps strength and weakens determination and character. It may in some cases. It didn’t in this.
“Robinson is the wealthiest student at Notre Dame and is probably the only football player, if not the only college student in America, who owns a string of race horses in his own name. An exceptional fine football player, he was troubled with cysts on his eyes that he not only couldn’t play football, but had to leave college. His one ambition was to make his Notre Dame monogram.
“Last year, after five operations on his eyes, he came back to school and worked faithfully in spring practice. He trained all summer, living a Spartan life and just as he was ready to report for football this fall, his father died. This delayed his start with the rest of the squad, but he eventually joined.
“Doctors fearing for his sight advised him not to play football, but he said his one ambition was to play just one season as regular on the Notre Dame team regardless of any consequences. He played and how he played! His eyes, unfortunately, continued to bother him. It isn’t known even to the squad, but in the middle of the season, he left quietly for New York, had another operation performed and joined the team in time to play against Pittsburgh.
“They say blindness may be his eventual fate, but there was nothing blind in the fashion he defended against enemy passes. There was nothing but fire and fight and courage.
Practice for interhall basketball teams will begin Sunday, Dec. 9. The experiment with early practice periods and practice games between teams of different sections was tried by the Department last year. It proved to be highly successful and is being extended this season to permit four Sundays of practice games beginning with the 16th of December. The regular league schedule will get under way, as always, with the beginning of the second semester.
The practice schedule unil Christmas is as follows:
Sunday, Dec. 9—8:30 a.m.. Freshman ; 9:30 a.m., Badin; 10:30 a.m., Sorin; 1:30 p.m. Corby; 2:30 p.m., Off-campus; 3:30 p.m., Walsh.
Monday, Dec. 10—8:00 p.m., Alumni; 9:00 p.m., St. Eds.
Tuesday, Dec. 11 — 8:00 p.m., Morrissey; 9:00 p.m., Lyons.
Wednesday, Dec. 12—S :00 p.m., Howard; 9:00 p.m„ Dillon.
Thursday, Dec. 13—8:00 p.m., Brownson; 9:00 p.m., Carroll.
First practice scrimmage schedule: Sunday, Dec. 15—8:00 a.m., Freshman vs. St. Eds. ; 9:00 a.m., Morrissey vs. Brownson ; 10:30 a.m. Sorin vs. Carroll; 1:30 p.m., Lyons vs. Howard ; 2:30 p.m., Walsh vs. Off-Campus; 3:30 p.m., Badin vs. Dillon.
Monday, Dec. 17;—8:00 p.m., Corby vs. Alumni.
Coaches will be on hand to meet their teams at these times.
Heaveyweights will practice on the basketball floor, lightweights in the apparatus room. The weight division is at 150 pounds.
and inspiration. His passing was faultless and Notre Dame is tricky. His defensive work was superb. His value to his team and the admiration and affection in which he was held by his mates was given notable testimony in the final period of Notre Dame’s winning game against Army., As he came from the field near the end of the fray, having played All-American football throughout, every Notre Dame player on the bench, as well as the coaches, arose as one man and greeted him standing while cheering his every step from the middle of the field.
“It was the most unusual tribute blase New York ever saw, or even old football men at the game could remember. It was spontaneous and it came from the bottom of every heart. If it indeed becomes this fine young man’s fate to move into eventual darkness, he can at least always carry that vision in memory, and if this small tribute of mine can mean anything to him, it is freely tendered from an old center who naturally gets his greatest thrill out of fine center play. . .
Twelve
The Scholastic
INTERHALL COACHES PICK HONOR ELEVEN
George Keogan Has Enviable Record As Basketball Coach
The All-Interhall football teams as selected by the votes of the coaches are:
Group 1	Group 2
Dunnigan (St. Eds) ....LE..Donnell (Freshman) Aberle (Alumni) ___LT....Corrigan (Br'nson)
Bowes (Alumni) ____LG.... Goucher (Br’nson)
Cannon (Alumni) ____C.____ Kehoe (Carroll) Lord (Sorin) _____________KG.... Garland (Carroll)
Huisking (Lyons) —RT....Gallen (Freshman) Herold (Sorin) ____KE.... Komere (Carroll)
Frascati (St. Eds)_QB.... Dizenzo (Carroll)
Carey (Sorin) _____LH....Ed Boyle (Carroll) DeLea (Corby) _____REL...Donahue (Br’nson) Cavender (Sorin) __FB..Zarontanello (How.)
Honorable mention goes to the following who ran close seconds: Lafferty (L.E.) Morrissey: Wertz (C.) Morrissey: Hueing (RT) Corby.
The Group 2 team lineup was almost a unanimous vote of the coaches of that league.
Besides the annual trophy which is awarded to the winner of the Interhall football race, there will be individual medals given to the members of the Carroll Hall team. Following are the men who will receive the medals:
Coaches — Salvatore Commisa, George Wentworth.
Players — John Patrick Braddock, David John Connor, John Francis Conrad, Edward Louis Boyle, Chas. Joseph Boyle, James Urban Daly, Richard Aloysius Carnet, Senatro William Dileo, Patrick Albert Dizenzo, Joseph Michael Hughes, John Francis Kane, Kevin Patrick Kehoe.
Lawrence Raphael Garland, William Michael Lusson, Anthony John Mladinich, Francis Joseph Osep, Bernard Joseph Reilly, Daniel Francis Ryan, Shelby Andrew Romere, Woodrow August Stillwagon, John Morgan Tuck, Francis Joseph Matthews, Leo Maurice Willick, Elmer John Zenner, Joseph Donald O’Brien.
The leading officials in reference to the number of games worked in this year are: Cy Connor, McKernan, Schiavone.
The men who worked intwo or more games this year are: Bonar, O’Brien, Kopczak, McKernan, Schiavone, Bow-dren, Gaul, Krause, Happel, Connors, Connor, Mitchell, Kirk, P. Smith, Costello, Crotty, Pilney, Kiszeli, D’Ain-ora, Elser, Saffa, Puplis.
Keogan’s record at Notre Dame:
1923-24—Won 1924-25—Won 1925-26—Won 1926-27—Won 1927-28—Won 1928-29—Won 1929-30—Won 1930-31—Won 1931-32—Won 1932-33—Won 1933-34—Won
15; Lost 8
11; Lost 10
19; Lost 1
19; Lost 1
18; Lost 3
14; Lost 6
15; Lost 5
12; Lost 8
18; Lost 2
16; Lost 6
20; Lost 4
Trojans and Irish Seek Fifth VictoryIn Football Series
The home and home arrangement between Southern California and Notre Dame has been one of the closest rivalries in modem football. Three of the four Irish victories fall into one point margins, while two of Troy’s three wins have been decisive. This spectacular inter-sectional classic has many times decided the gridiron title of ‘king* football.
In 1926, Knute Rockne, one week after the surprising upset administered by the Skibos from Carnegie Tech, took the Gold and Blue to Los Angeles for the lid opener of the current series with Howard Jones’ mighty Trojans. U. S. C., was leading 12-7, in the fourth period when the 'master mind’ inserted Art Pari-sien into the lineup with instructions for an aerial attack. The little southpaw made football history by tossing a forward to Johnny Niemic, who scored standing up.
Headed by Morley Drury, sensational halfback of ’27, the men of Troy fought the Irish at Soldier’s field before a record crowd of 117,000 fans. It was by the slim margin of one point, that Notre Dame eked out a victory over the sun-baked lads from the coast.
Johnny Baker, All American guard, who proved to be the nemesis of Hunk Anderson’s debut as head mentor, with his field goal late in the final chapter, spelled disaster for a superior Notre Dame team in 1931. The Irish were leading 14-0 at the fourth stanza. What then happened went down in the books, as doing the impossible. An audience of 48,000 people sat stunned to watch a powerful machine suddenly come to life, push over two touchdowns and with but 60 seconds remaining of the game, place kick the pigskin between the uprights for three points, and break the winning streak of 26 consecutive games established by the Fighting Irish.
Last year, with Cotton Warburton, paving the way the Green were again dropped by the wayside 19-0. The little 148 pound mite of a field general dominated the play by crossing the white stripes to register twice, besides careening his way along the turf to pile up the majority of 95 yards. It made three successive defeats, by the same team, for Notre Dame—something that had not been accomplished since Michigan turned the trick in 1887-88.
STARTS TWELFTH SEASON
George E. Keogan, Minnesota, ’08, is an adopted son of Notre Dame. Basketball coaches envy him, officials praise him, players worship him. That’s the Little Caesar of American basketballdom, head coach at Notre Dame.
Coach George Keogan Without doubt—the best.
Keogan came to Notre Dame 11 years ago via Valparaiso and after a two year stopover at Central High school in South Bend. Notre Dame basketball teams won an occasional game then. Now it is an occasion when they lose one.
Two western championship laurels and a tie for another have fallen to the wizardy of Little Caesar. Two national championships have eluded him by narrow margins. This year he is out for vengeance with a five, small but alert, which promises to outspeed the best.
Stars developed under Keogan include Nob Kizer and Lou Conroy, both all western for three years, Johnny Nykois and Ed Smith, also ranking western stars, Frank Crowe, Ray DeCook, the All-American Moose Krause, and a host of other satellites.
All time average is .765 which is better than any other major coach over the same period of years.
Coach Keogan explains his system, “Picture, if you can, a basketball court hung on the wall like a clock. The pivot man under the basket is the top of the pendulum. The rest is the weight of the pendulum. They swing back and forth across the court, tossing the ball to one another until they see an opening. Then they shoot the ball into the center man who either shoots, passes, or fakes a pass to one or more men breaking for the basket.”
Keogan uses a five-man offense that baffles the most alert defense. On defense Keogan combines the quali-
(Continued on Page 14)
December 7, 1934
Thirteen
INTRODUCING
By Joe Prendergast
Yonkers High vs. Mount Vernon High, an ivy covered traditional battle with the county championship depending on the outcome as an added incentive. This situation existed late in the fall of 1930. Frederick Joseph Carideo, Jr., co-Captain of Mount
Vernon High, had been instructed by his coach to kick in case he won the toss. The coin was flipped and Fred called it right. He elected to receive. “I meant to say kick but just got all twisted up and said what I wasn’t supposed to.” Needless to say the coach was panicky. He acted as King Kong with a flea in its ear.
Mount Vernon received and ran the kickoff back to their own 40 yard line. On the following play Fred Carideo shot through tackle and sprinted 60 yards to the goal posts for a touchdown. The game was won by Mt. Vernon 6 to 0, Carideo’s tally being the deciding factor.
The next September Fred hustled his clothes together and came to Notre Dame. It seems to be in the right order of things when one thinks
of a Carideo at Notre Dame. First it was Tony, Fred’s brother who meddled in football a bit; then Frank of quarterbacking fame, Fred’s first cousin—“our mothers are sisters and our fathers are brothers,” that’s how close they are related; now its Fred.
He is 22 years old, five feet ten inches tall and weighs 190 pounds. Spent four years at Mount Vernon High school and played regular fullback on the gridiron eleven for four years being elected co-Captain his senior year. He received All-County honors two years in succession, and the most valuable player and sportsmanship trophies at the end of his senior year. He was president of the Student Council as well as chairman of the athletic board.
Fred is not one of those muscle men minus brain power as many of the country’s pigskin heroes are so labeled. He was valedictorian of his grammar school class, was within the first five scholastic ranking students in his high school class and has one of the highest scholastic averages of (Continued on Page 15)
U. S. C. GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
the confusing squirrel-cage shift. Cal Clemens is the unsung hero of the Brill-Britton type. The big fellow is one of the country’s best blockers at the outside half. Occupying the other halfback post is Cliff Propst who teams up with Clemens in leading the interference. The fullback duties are taken over by Inky Wotkyns, whose 180 pounds is considered light for a Trojan linebucker. Bill Howard and Dave Davis assist “Hector Cotton” Warburton in guiding the football destinies of the Southern California “Trojans.” “Priam” H. Jones has able backfield replacements in Jim Sutherland, Max Belko, and Kidder.
The Trojan line has lost nine star performers, and the new men while heavier than last year’s forward wall, lack the important factors of speed and ability to couple with the weight. Captain “Polites” J. Bescoes, regular left end of last year’s team, is one of those cross-over specialty ends who has glue fingers for passes.
“Agamemnon” Layden will lead his “Fighting Irish” to the classic struggle of the Pacific Coast which wall mark the end of the varsity careers of “Captain “Achilles” D. Vairo, Rocco Schiralli, and “Dynamite” Dan Hanley. The great Irish right half, “Hyrtacus” G. Melinkovich, has been deprived of Ins chance to meet the Trojans by a leg injury received in the Army game, thus bringing to a close a brilliant Notre Dame varsity career. Just as the Greeks used brains rather than man-power so will the Irish. When the going gets tough Notre Dame will draw upon that mysterious something which makes the Irish fight.
KEOGAN
(Continued' from Page 11) .
ties of the man-for-man defense and the regular “five man” type of guarding.
Tins year the Keoganites face a 22 game schedule, with the opposition including Stanford in the West, Holy Cross and New York University in the East, and the cream of the Middle West.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 11)
though Kalamazoo is not as strong a team as many on the Irish schedule, most of the players have had a great deal of experience in college basketball. Probably the most outstanding men in the Hornet aggregation are the two guards, Survilla and McLellan. These men played a great brand of ball in the Notre Dame game last year and wered largely responsible for holding the Irish to a 30-22 win.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
DOUGLAS
NOTHING can pinch-hit for
LEATHER
I
Where leather is called for in a shoe, anything else falls down on the job. Wear, comfort, and appearance suffer when a shoe goes off the AllLeather standard. That’s why Douglas sticks to leather! This Fall, for as little as $3.50 ... our rockbottom price of forty years ago . . . Douglas gives you Solid-Leather shoes with no hidden substitutes.
The South Bend Douglas Store can fit you in any style you want. Every model, that’s been accepted by men’s wear experts as correct for this Fall, is in stock. See them today.
210 S. Michigan St.
Open Saturday Evening
MEN’S SHOES. .$3.50, $4.50, $5.50
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11) rial on hand would fit either style of attack very well we think.
Regardless of the lack of height, the abundance of speed, or any other factors, one thing is certain. That thing is that no other coach, given the opportunity, will get more basketball from the squad that starts play tonight than will George Keogan. We’ve always been of the opinion that the Keeg is the cream of the country’s coaches, and we’ll take all comers and back that statement to the letter.
While on the subject of basketball, and in particular, Notre Dame basketball, we can’t overlook another absence that will be keenly felt. We speak of Red Allen. The redhead came here from St. Mel’s on Chicago’s west side with a reputation of envious proportions. His play last year, his first of eligibility, proved that what was said of him was not poppy-cot. His loss through an attack of typhoid fever has necessitated the shifting of Captain Johnny Jordan from his forward post to a guard position. Johnny will give a good account of himself here, or any other place he is asked to play, but the loss of Allen leaves the Keoganites one good man short.
WE PICK
This week we close our football forecasting for the year. To date our guesses have netted us 210 wins, 57 defeats, and 15 ties for a percentage of .787 or .745. There are three games on the docket this week. The Irish will swarm over the wooden horse and demolish it before the Trojans can do or say much about it. Huey Long will dry his Tulane tears when Louisiana State drabs Tennessee. Clipper Smith’s Santa Clara Saints will top a troublemaking Texas Christian eleven. Shouldn’t go wrong on any of those.
ALL-AMERICANS
- (Continued from Page 11)
Intel-national News Service All-American football team for 1934. Vairo and Millner received honorable mention as ends, as did Schiralli, guard, and Melinkovich, Shakespeare, and Elser, backs.
The. NEA sendee gave Robinson, Melinkovich, and Pilney all honorable mention at their respective positions. “Red” Grange picked Dom. Vairo as first team right end. Jack Kofoed of the New York Journal picked Robbie as number one center on his mythical All-American. Lawrence Perry did likewise and gave honorable mention to Vairo and Melinkovich.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
any of the boys on Coach Elmer Layden’s football squad.
His debut in the Army game of 1933 reads almost like a Merriwell story. Fred in 1932 was fourth string fullback and saw nary a minute of play throughout the season. Last fall history was about to repeat itself for with eight games of the schedule by the boards and the ninth scheduled to start in a few minutes, Fred was just about resigned to his benchsitting fate. With the game all set to start Hunk Anderson proceeded over to Fred and said, “I’m starting you Fred get in there and go”; and with a slap on the back from Hunk for good measure Fred tore onto the field and proceeded to turn in the' ball game of his life. He played the whole 60 minutes, blocking savagely and tackling fiercely. Nick Lukats’ scrambles for many neat gains in that final prodigious period were in part possible because of Carideo’s destroying blocks. His defensive play throttled the last “do or die” marches of the Army. In general he performed before the home town folks just as Hunk suspected he would. Fred earned his monogram last year solely on his exhibition in downing the Cadets.	’
This season Fred has been one of the aces in the comeback flight of Layden’s warriors. In the Purdue game his interception of Carter’s pass and his 75 yard jaunt to a touchdown were masterpieces of sidestepping and driving. In the Wisconsin game he opened up the Irish scoring activities for the day with a clever 15 yard dash in the second period to go across unmolested.
Fred has played in every game this season except the Northwestern pitchbattle. The day before the Pitt encounter he suffered a severely twisted knee injury and this agitated by bruises in the Pitt and Navy games kept him out of the Wildcat affair in Chicago.
He rooms in 102 Sorin with another cousin, August Petrillo. Fred was vice-president of his class last year and belongs to the Met and Italian clubs. He expects to be a lawyer as do many of his football teammates. Stancook of the Army was the best back he ever played against and his starting of the Army game was the biggest thrill he ever received in football.
Right now he is in Los Angeles primed to do battle against Southern California. If you hear sharp cracks emitting from the loud speaker tomorrow afternoon while listening to the game, you can lay two to one odds that it is only Fred Carideo tackling one of Jones’ Trojans.
December 7, 19 3 4
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
They’re circulating a hot one on the one and only, MAXIE BAER, king of the heavies, and wise cracker de luxe ... It seems that AARON ROSENBERG, the great Southern California gridder, was being introduced to Max, and Sir Baer decided to put him in his place . . . Sir Baer: “How do you do? Let me see, I think I’ve heard of you. You’re a polo player aren’t you?” The All-American gridder doesn’t blink an eye, and replies: “No, I’m a swimmer. By the way, you look like an athlete yourself. What do you do ?” Well, he did a fade away . . . NICK LUKATS is out Hollywood way now . . . his screen tests have gone over with a bang. . . .
We talk a lot about KNOX, World champion losers, and their futility string ... but that’s overlooking the modest little Northwest Missouri State Teachers, of Kirksville, Mo., who have been matching them victory for defeat . . . They have 26 wins in a row now . . . HUNK ANDERSON had the smallest quarterback in the Southern Conference this season—
the 67 - inch, 150 - pound WILLIE DUSTY . . . PHIL WEINTRAUB, young outfielder with the Giants, is one of the best amateur billiard players in the country . . . Another OLDFIELD pops up in the auto racing game . . . this time it’s CLARENCE OLDFIELD, nephew of the original Barney . . . FRANKIE KLICK, lightweight boxer, always packs a pair of his daughter’s baby shoes in his trunk when going away from home to swap ’em . . . QUINTANT, bantamweight boxing champion of Panama, is a member of the Cholu Indian tribe and can trace his ancestry back to Montezuma . . . American tennis officials are looking out for you prospective racquet wielders . . . They’re establishing a tennis school at the Westchester County estate of FRANK A. VANDERLIP . . . CLAUDE “LITTLE MONK” SIMONS of Tulane, has scored at least one touchdown in all of the Green Wave’s games . . . AL TWITCHELL, Rutger’s center, has blocked five punts this season by hiding behind a tackle before crashing through the opposing line . . . EDWARD WISSEL, German six-day bicycle racer, eats a platter of raw hamburger mixed with raw eggs every day while competing in one of the long grinds . . . That’s a good conditioner, but listen to this: . . . WALTER HAMPDEN, famous actor,
has a one cent gymnasium . . . He buys a penny box of matches every morning, and spills them on the floor. Then he stoops and picks them up, one at a time until he has them all back in the box . . . The Docs claim five such movements bring all the muscles into play. . . .
CHRISTIAN DE LA CROIF DE CASTRIES is just one of the boys competing in the National Horse Show . . . Nah, he’s no horse . . . Army and Harvard fought an even battle this year . . . The boys who pick up the empty bottles got 782 on the Harvard side, and 764 on the Kaydet side . . . TOM OTTEY, intercollegiate runner, says he has competed in 70 or 80 six-mile races . . . The first intercollegiate baseball game was played between William and Amherst in 1859 . . . Score 73 to 32, in favor of Amhert . . . WOLF BON-NEDER, German Olympic high jumper, celebrated his 40th birthday by jumping six feet four and three-quarter inches . . . The graduate manager of Colgate (the uninvited), is Mayor of Hamilton, N. Y., and also coaches the baseball team . . .
RED GRANGE, Illinois’ “Galloping Ghost,” plans to operate a night club in Miami this winter. It will be a high hat affair and will be called the “77” club. . . .
Al Jolson... the man who made “Mammy” famous on stage and screen
C P. Lorillard Co.. Inc.
The Scholastic
S'


ThrDat taSB ?.. ucru souid a
Mcruthhd I says Al Jolson
Sixteen