WELCOME STUDENTS
Fun
120 E. Wayne Si
Ph. 2-3339
FREE PARTY DANCES EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
£
The Scholastic
sea
LEARN TO DANCE
IT'S EASY •.. XT'S EUN
Whether you’re 16 or 60, you can learn to dance the famous Arthur Murray Way. In no time at all you’ll be able to step out on the dance floor with any partner ... full of confidence and poise.
Don’t Wait . . Phone 2-3339 today for a free trial lesson.
AIR CONDITIONED
Northern Indiana’s Finest Dance Studio”
ARTHUR MURRAY’S
*	-	‘	* r
2
WELCOME, MEN OF NOTRE DAME! \

GRANADA
\ STATE
\£l
STREET - ■
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Open every evening till 9
AVON
8
G
S
B E R
Sept. 10, 1951
3
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.
J. M. S. Bld?.
iff
DESK LAMPS

"The MEN'S Corner"
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
SLIDE RULES
WELCOMES YOU MEN OF NOTRE DAME
BLOTTER PADS
KUPPENHEIMER, BOTANY, CUPPER CRAFT and CAMPUS TOGS
STETSON and LEE HATS ARROW SHIRTS FLORSHEIM and FREEMAN SHOES
SCHOOL SUPPLIES


Business Systems “Where you got the pencil” 126 South Main Across from Court House



4^04...
W'
Rvsc & Katz
1 W FOR MEN AND 1 VKO6WG MEN
* LAUNDRY CASES

* ZIP RING BINDERS
* PIPES
* PIPE RACKS
* ASH TRAYS
24 HOUR TYPEWRITER REPAIR SERVICE
* BRIEF BAGS
* BILLFOLDS
On Ail Makes and Models
Large Selection of Rentals
or MOST ANYTHING in LEATHER GOODS
Insured Storage
It's
Right at the Bus Stop
OFFICE ENGINEERS
116 South Michigan Phone 3-3118
HansZ-Rintzsch
Michigan at Colfax
The Scholastic
£



I


SUN MON	TUE	WED THUR	TRI SAT
fl	ie		
V


Top o’ the Week
Only a short time before the first football game.
Well, as fate and the draft boards will have it, we are all back home again in Indiana (where the skies are not cloudy all day) for another eight months of dining hall meals and lines, late laundries, plagiarized term papers and crack-of-dawn classes.
Now that we are all back in the fold (well, nearly all) we think it only too fitting that a note of praise be struck for those of stout heart who remained here to struggle through summer school and who held the fort for the past three months. They can be easily recognized shuffling about campus, staring vacantly ahead and mumbling almost incoherently under their breath—“They told me I’d graduate in August!”
Upperclassmen are finding that they still fit into the same old groove, and those that are Seniors discover that by this time the groove has been worn down into a well-polished rut.
But this year’s bumper crop of Freshmen are finding things a bit confusing. With that fact in mind, we thought it would be right neighborly of us to bat out a few helpful notes for our neophyte brethren. Just a few tips on Notre Dame life which we have garnered over three seasons of angling and cornercutting (the walls of our Sorin Hall cell are plastered with various sized corners we have cut over the years, and we therefore feel we may qualify as experts on the subject).
Since most Freshmen are, in the early stages at least, pretty much concerned with classes, we will begin there. First of all, make a genuine effort to attend all your classes regularly. Professors feel hurt if you don’t attend their classes. And there is no sorrier sight in the world than a frustrated professor with a no-one-will-come-to-my-classes complex.	’
Besides, there is the matter of cuts. Care must be taken that you do not overcut your classes; it is an almost unpardonable offense. But if you accidentally do overcut, we know of a guy who puts himself through law school selling forged excuse slips. Contact may be made by calling 3-0841; ask for Max.
As for studying in your room after lights out. Don’t do it. Learn to con-
by Jack Hynes
serve your strength for the three times daily trek over to the meal factory. Besides, if you make it a habit you will only be at odds with your floor Prefect. But for those who feel they must, and who tend to look lightly on floor Prefects, write in care of this column for a free candle price list. We suggest the four foot, three month, all-night burner type for only 09.9-5—rentals can be arranged.
A word or three, should be said too about the library. You will more than likely have occasion to make use of its facilities, although one Orville Kranch, class of ’34, still takes inordinate pride in the fact that during his four year sojourn he visited the library but once, and then only to escape a sudden shower.
But times have changed since ’34, and you will find the library to be an integral part of your academic life. Do not abuse the privilege of its use. Library officials will object strenuously to such actions as carving ones initials into the reading tables, ogling the female employees, card playing, or carrying on loud and lengthy arguments with Philosophy majors.
Proper conduct in the dining hall is a must also. Take care not to make disparaging remarks about the bill of fare; the cooks oflend easily, and besides, it’s bad for the digestion.
One of the major dining hall sports is line-crashing, a very specialized mealtime activity which, in recent years, has been elevated by some of the more adroit practitioners to the status of an art.
Line-crashing, naturally enough, is frowned upon by the powers that be, as is the practice of scaling one’s bread across the length of the hall.
We conclude with one final smidgin of advice aimed at those of you who plan on visits to the ranch across the Dixie. Remember- this: St. Mary’s is a college for young women. There are only 500 of them. There are almost 5000 of us. The odds, obviously, are against' you. Competition is keen, a fact you will readily note when you attend your first “tea dance” (bring your own tea). But do not discourage yourselves; if you’ve got the money, Dad, they’ve got the time.
Bottom o’ the Week
Only a short time before the first class quizzes.
JOBS OPEN
FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC
Salaries $3,000 to $12,000. Immediate need for office help, payroll clerks, timekeepers, engineers, draftsmen, skilled and unskilled- workers all types, on large Government and private contracts in United States, Hawaii, England, Belgium, Italy, Germany, Iran, South America, Far East. Living quarters, transportation, high pay. Men and Women, both. For information on these job contracts and application blanks, send $2.00 mailing charge to: Employment Information Center, Dep’t. COL. 70, P. O. Box 4, Brookline 46, Mass. No other fee or charge of any kind. We are Bonded. Members of Brookline Chamber of Commerce.
Special Student Rates For All Dances
Tuxedos, Full Dress Cutaways, White Gabardine Dinner Coats. Sizes: Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; over 500 suits to choose from.
No deposit for N. D. Students
We invite you to come in and inspect our formal attire
LOGAN'S
107 North Main, South Bend, Ind.
TYPING:
Themes, term-papers, and theses efficiently and neatly typed.
BOX 123, SCHOLASTIC
5
Sept. 10, 1951
Calendar
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10
DRILL HALL—Registration for all University courses will take place from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and will continue at the same hours Tuesday and Wednesday.
WASHINGTON HALL—The movie Knute Rockne, All-American will be shown at 8:15 p.m. for Freshmen only.
CAMPUS TOURS—The Blue Circle will supply upperclassmen guides to conduct campus tours for students, relatives and friends. They’ll originate from the Breen-Phillips-Farley and Dining Hall information booths as needed until 4 p.m.
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING—A reception by University officials to greet all incoming Freshmen and their parents will be held in the Faculty lounge from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11
WASHINGTON HALL—The University officers will officially welcome the Freshman Class at an orientation meeting to be held at 7:15 p.m.
.	WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12
FINAL DAY of registration and start of annual Freshman retreat. Check your hall bulletin board for time and place.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13
FIRST CLASSES of the Fall, 1951 semester begin at 8 a.m.
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 16
FIELD HOUSE—Student body leaders and representatives of extra-curricular organizations will meet and mingle with the Freshmen. Short talks on opportunities at Notre Dame will be followed by entertainment and refreshments. The meeting starts at 7:15 p.m.
SOUTH BEND
THEATRES
welcome the men of Notre Dame
SUBSCRIBERS
This issue begins another year for Scholastic. We hope all who did so last year will again subscribe. The rate is the same, S4 a year. If you want to continue your subscription through the 1951-52 school year, please renew it now. Students who wish to subscribe for their parents may do so at our Farley Hall office.
run
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ____________ guaranteed
Manin MMKlXZXXlZV 12 6— NOMICHIGAN ST
Defant Appointed Publications Chief
The University recently announced the resignation of Dale Francis as director of publications and the appointment of John P. Def ant, promotion manager of the Ave Maria Press, to succeed him.
Mr. Francis, who organized the unified publications system at Notre Dame and started the University of Notre Dame Press, is entering private business in Charlotte, N. C., where he is opening a Catholic information center and book store. It will be the first enterprise of its sort in the southeastern states.
Mr. Defant, a native of Weirton, W. K Va., was graduated from Notre Dame with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1948. During his undergraduate days the new director served one year as editor of the Scholastic. Before World War II, Mr. Defant served as staff writer for the Weirton, W. Va., Daily Times. A former student of Duquesne University, he served in the Army from 1941 to 1944.
Colfax State Palace Granada
The Scholastic
Zhc ^otre Dame

Vol. 93 September 10, 1951 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO......Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER..........Photography
LEON GARDNER.................Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
C. T. HULL.................Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT.Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by -National-Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185. Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER:—A familiar scene to incoming Notre Dame men is the orderly confusion of the baggage room. The growing pile of steamer trunks, foot lockers, suitcases, valises, wooden crates and even cardboard boxes has always been synonymous with the annual return to the Promised Land. This lad looks as if he might be about to disappear beneath an avalanche of baggage. And his own is probably still sitting in the depot in Podunk Heights, Neb. But sooner or later it’ll show up and oui‘ friend will settle down for another year. As for the express man, he will spend the winter getting ready for the hectic days in June when all that luggage goes the other way.
—Photo by Dick Bennett.
Welcome, *55!
To those of you who are starting your college careers today. Scholastic extends a sincere welcome. We hope you’ll like Notre Dame. We hope you get into the swing of things quickly. And we hope you do something worthwhile during your four years here.
When a sage old Senior sits down to impart a few words of wisdom to the new men, he realizes that most of it has been said before. But it won’t do any harm to repeat some things “that every' Freshman ought to know.”
For one thing, perhaps the most important thing; beware of the campus cynic. Take things as you find them here. Learn for yourself and keep in mind that like anything else, college is what you make it. What you get out of the years spent here is entirely up to you.
There’s certainly a wonderful opportunity in front of you. And there are obligations, too. Notre Dame is a great school and it’s up to you to keep it, that way. When you leave the Campus, you are representatives of ND. People ■will judge all of us by your actions. And keep in mind that it won’t be too long before your class is running the student end of activities here. It will be squarely up to you then to keep Notre Dame on top. Time passes quickly, so don’t wake up some Fall and find you’ve missed the boat.
Notre Dame means “Our Lady” and that’s the way we feel about it here. It’s Her school. Look to Her for encouragement and remember Her in all your actions. She won’t forget you; don’t you forget Her.
There’s enough here to keep a man busy in any activity he chooses. If you’re willing to take advantage of what is offered you, the next four years will be great ones. We hope you do. Welcome to ND and the best of luck to the Class of ’55.
A Serious Business
Once again, the sad familiar story is being repeated. The hopes, expectancies and ambitions that should mark the beginning of the College year are overshadowed by something called the “Cold War.”
With the world situation such as it is, it’s hard to see how anyone can attach the frivolous meaning to college life that was the vogue in many places in the days that preceded World War II. A college career is—or should be—a serious business.
Whether you choose to ignore the fact or not, all our futures are wrapped up with the uncertain future of the world. Under the circumstances, facing reality means facing the fact that college is something more than a four-year lark.
It would be kind of sillv to walk around with somber countenance because the 4
world situation is serious. That’s not what we mean. But any serious approach to a man’s education requires concentration and effort. And, these days, a cold, hard awareness of the fact that the future can be tough for all of us. That doesn’t leave much room, for flippancy.
You can enjoy this new college year to the hilt. You can make it the best ever and still not lose sight of what the country and Notre Dame will ask of you when you leave. Nothing that demands sacrifice or effort was ever easy. That’s true of a good education. There’s one here for you; why not get it?
Sept. 10, 1951
7
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME ~«f
The Foundation for Better Reading
MEET THE NEW MEMBERS OF OUR STAFF—
HAROLD MENARD, INSTRUCTOR
AB. UCLA: MA. Noire Danie
JOHN LOONEY, INSTRUCTOR
BS. Niagara U.; MS, Notre Dame
WILLIAM FLEMING, Director.
University Program: N. D. Law ’53
ABILITY TO READ WELL is necessary for success in college. From silent reading comes mosr of what is learned. Basic reading skill is often, the only difference between average and superior achievement, but even honor students rarely read as well as they could.
ABILITY TO READ BETTER through Foundation’s new, scientific, developmental reading training means that you can easily and quickly double — or even quadruple — your effective rate of reading. You get more from your reading, save hundreds of hours. You can learn more — get better grades — have more time for other activities.
N. D. Men Who Have Taken Foundation's Reading Course Say:
“TRIPLED READING RATE”
... my ability to lead at a rate over three times faster than before the course more than demonstrates its tremendous value .. .It has already been of immeasurable benefit. . . . ALFRED C. DeCRANE, SENIOR, AB
“IMPROVED COMPREHENSION”
I was amazed to find that in only 20 houis of instruction I was able to increase my reading rate from 311 words a minute to 1215 words a minute, and at the same time to improve my comprehension. I am very sorry that I did not have a chance to take the course when I was a freshman.	ROBERT J. MOSKAL, LAW
“REDUCED EYE-STRAIN”
I was especially pleased with the effect the training had in reducing eye-strain ... This course is a “must” for any serious student ...I certainly want • my younger brother to take it, too.
CHAS. H. O’BRIEN, SENIOR, AB
“CUT READING TIME IN HALF”
.. . has helped in all forms of reading. My increased reading speed enables me to cut study and outside reading time in half. Even the reading of involved and difficult material is made much more enjoyable.
JOHN J. BECKER, SENIOR, COMMERCE
GET THIS NEW HELPFUL 16 PAGE BOOKLET FREE!
Call, write, or stop in today!
....CLIP AND MAIL N O W ’
Mr. Stanley M. Gould, Director
South Bend Center
114 E. LaSalle, South Bend
Send me a free copy of “How You Can Read Better ... Faster”
Name.................................................-...
(Please Print)
Address...............................................
It tells how you can boost your academic standing and have more time for other activities.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle	3-0077
Major............................
Year.............(A)	;
.......... ............J
(OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL 9)
8
The Scholastic
z.	o II cast u e
VOLUME 93, NUMBER I	SEPTEMBER 10, 1951
Father Carey tames Student Welfare Post
University Appoints Two Vice-Presidents
Appointments of two new vice-presidents at Notre Dame and a new vicepresident at the University of Portland (Oregon) highlighted obediences of the Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross announced this summer by the Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the Indiana Province of the Congregation.
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.
Father Mehling announced the appointment of the Rev. Charles M. Carey, c.s.c., Associate Professor of English at Notre Dame, as vice-president in charge of student welfare at Notre Dame. Father Carey succeeds the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., who was named to the Notre Dame faculty.
The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, c.s.c., who for the past year has been pursuing advanced studies at Oxford University in England, was named acting vice-president in charge of business affairs here. Father Joyce, who formerly served as assistant vice-president in charge of business affairs, succeeds the Rev. John J. Burke, c.s.c., who has
been forced by ill health to take an extended leave of absence.
At the University of Portland, which like Notre Dame is administered by the Holy Cross Fathers, the Rev. Michael J. Gavin, C.S.C., who has been serving on the Portland faculty, was appointed Vice-President of the university. Father Gavin succeeds the Rev. William S. Scandlon, C.s.c., who died in April.
From the President
My Deal- Freshmen:
Welcome to Notre Dame! It’s good . to have you on Our Lady’s campus, and to know that you are joining the family.
You see, coming to Notre Dame is more than walking onto a campus, more than unpacking your grip in the room of your residence hall, more than meeting new men from all parts of the United States. Coming to Notre Dame means joining a family as wide as the world, a family that was old and established here before many of your great-grandfathers came to this country.
It will take you four years to grow into this family, to learn to cherish its ideals, and to follow its traditions. It will seem strange for awhile, but we we are sure that you will come to love the lakes, the trees, the towers, and to enjoy the companionship of all the men who make up the great family of Notre Dame.
We are glad to see the family grow, and happy to know that you, too, will share our joy in learning to live the good life here, undei- the watchful protection and guidance of Our Lady Who reigns over all from Her vantage spot atop the Golden Dome. We know She will bring you closer to Her Son Who lives in the many tabernacles around this campus.
Once again, welcome to Notre Dame! We are glad to have you with us.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Two Bishops. College Heads Speak at Vocation Institute
Addresses by two bishops of the Catholic Church highlighted the fifth annual vocation institute held July 19 to July 22 here.
Members of the hierarchy speaking at the Institute included the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, auxiliary bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., and the Most Rev. William T. Mulloy, bishop of Covington, Ky. Bishop Pursley delivered the keynote address at the institute on July 20, while Bishop Mulloy presented the concluding talk on July 22.
“Teaching as a Means of Fostering Vocations” was the subject of Sister Mary Nona, 0. P., president of Edgewood College of the Sacred Heart, Madison, Wis., at a July 20th session. Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College for Women, Notre Dame, Ind, reviewed “The Most Important Question,” an article by the Rev. Richard Butler, O. P., and pointed out how vocation counsellors can help the individual youth decide whether he or she has a religious vocation.
Sept. 10, 1951
9
Degrees Given to 166 in Summer Exercises;
Fathers Ward, Laskowski Address Graduates
Men and women “who believe profoundly in man” were hailed Aug. 10 as vital to a just and lasting peace by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy at Notre Dame.
Father Ward delivered the principal address at the August ceremonies of the 106th annual commencement exercises here. A total of 166 undergraduate and graduate students received degrees during the ceremony from the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Rev. Cornelius Laskowski
The Notre Dame professor told the new graduates that the factor that wrecks nations is “people, above all privileged people like you, seeking their own power and pleasure and profit, even at the expense of the people.”
“Privileged people of that kind are the Communist-makers,” Father Ward declared. “But even if they were not the Communist-makers, they are bad people: people who seek their own good, seek their own power, their own profit, let the social good fall where it may.
“You are privileged, you have one, two or five talents: you are privileged to serve, privileged to be the servants of the servants of God, privileged to be the servants of the servants of man. Privileged, yes. Not for power or pleasure or profit, but for God and man. You know that, according to Christ, you will not be much good at serving Christ if you do not serve man.”
Father Ward deplored those people
of the world who personally capitalize on the “people’s need of food, on the people’s need of health, of justice, of peace, of knowledge, of human freedoms.”
“We hope it will be the case that not a voice of any one here will ever be heard selling things that people do not need or over-selling them on things they do need,” the speaker’ observed. “. . . You are privileged people, and your privilege will be to serve God and man.”
Father Ward outlined a three-point program for the new Notre Dame graduates to follow in order to better . serve society.
“Frequent Holy Communion, the apostolate of Catholic aciton, the papal teachings on labor—if you do your part in those three fields, and if we, back of you and with you, do our part in those fields, we will have begun to do something of our part in society,” Father Ward said.
In the sermon at the baccalaureate Mass celebrated the morning of August 10 by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, • C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, a plea for today’s college graduates to save the world from disaster by bringing to it “the true idea of culture” was issued by the Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., assistant professor of Slavic languages at Notre Dame.
“Bring to the world the true idea of culture, that essentially it resides in the refinement of the spirit, that it is not to be measured in terms of things,” Father Laskowski told the Notre Dame graduates. “Otherwise we cannot explain the paradox that confronts us from all sides.”
“As we wheel into the second half of the twentieth century, there is no question that man’s wisdom has grown sharper, but unfortunately it has the sharp sword that is turning on its Maker. The incomparable technological developments of this century are more and more dedicated to the task of eradicating man. Man’s marvellous conquest of space by air instead of drawing the four corners of the earth into a friendly unity has set up barriers of fear by making the imminence of total warfare a more immediate danger.”
Father Laskowski pointed out in his baccalaureate sermon that “never have men been so well educated, yet never has wisdom so little influenced the political projects of men.”
“Seemingly, the world is buckling under the weight of what it has done: too much in too little time, and too foolishly,” the Notre Dame professor declared. “We have the finest museums, the best schools, the largest libraries, the most extensive collections of art under glass. And yet there must be something radically wrong with all this material hoarding of beauty if we stand poised with the atomic bomb in our hands, ruthlessly ready to snuff all this out along with the talent that created it.
“This cannot be the essence of culture; otherwise it could not be so easily expendable. The real culture is that engaged in the interior of the soul.”
Two New Buildings Begun This Summer
Construction of two new buildings began here this summer, bringing to four the number of new structures now being built at Notre Dame. Work was begun on the O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher student residence hall.
Already under construction last year on the campus were the Morris Inn, for which the late E. M. Morris of South Bend, former president of the associate board of lay trustees at Notre Dame, gave the University $1,000,000, and a new Science Building to house the Departments of Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics. The Morris Inn, designed to house visitors to the Notre Dame campus, is scheduled for completion in late November. The Science Building, for which alumni and nonalumni friends of Notre Dame already have contributed $1,750,000, is due to be completed next Spring. Due to rising costs, Notre Dame still is in the process of raising an additional $800,000 to complete and equip the Science Building.
Construction of the O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, which will house the Liberal and Fine Arts and the University’s Art collections, is being done by the McGough Construction Company, of St. Paul, Minn. Architect for the building is Elerbee and Company, also of St. Paul. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, president of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, St. Paul, and president of the associate board of lay trustees at Notre Dame, donated the building which will cost $2,173,533, exclusive of furnishings.
The contract for construction of the
- The Scholastic
-J
10
The Morris Inn
Fred J. and Sally Fisher residence hall, which will contain 144 single residence rooms for Notre Dame students, was awarded by the University to the Peter Schumacher and Sons, Inc., construction company of Mishawaka, Ind. Architect for the building is the firm of Holabird, Root and Burgee, of Chicago, Ill. The building, which with furnishings will cost $750,000, was donated to Notre Dame by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, widow of the founder of the Fisher
Peretti Replaces Beck as Metallurgy Head; University Announces 17 Other Appointments
One new department head and 17 new instructors have been appointed by the administration for the coming year, according to the office of academic affairs. Other faculty changes are forthcoming and will be announced when final arrangements are made.
Replacing Mr. Paul A. Beck as head of the Department of Metallurgy is Mr. Ettore A. Peretti, Sc. D., who served last year as associate professor of metallurgy. Mr. Peretti joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1946. He gained a degree of Bachelor of Science in Metallurgical Engineering at the Montana School of Mines in 1934, and his Master’s degree a year later at the same school. He received his Doctor of Science degree from Wurttenberg Institute of Technology in 1936.
Mr. Ernest H. Brandl, who for the last four years has been associate professor of architectural design and history at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, has been appointed visiting associate professor of architecture. Mr. Leslie
Sept. 10, 1951
Body Company, Detroit, Mich., who until his death was a member of the associate board of lay trustees. The building was part of a $1,000,000 gift to Notre Dame by Mrs. Fisher, which also included a $250,000 revolving student loan fund.
Completion of the new residence hall is scheduled in approximately one year, while the Liberal and Fine Arts Building tentatively is scheduled for completion in the late Spring of 1953.
H. Chen has been named assistant professor of mechanical engineering, coming here from Haivard University where he was awarded a Doctor of Science degree in 1950.
Mr. James P. Danehy, Ph. D., a Notre Dame alumnus, is assistant professor of the general program, and Mr. T. W. Fallon, another Notre Dame graduate, will be instructor in physical education. Mr. Paul J. Grillo has been appointed assistant professor of architecture, and Mr. George C. Ku-czynski, associate professor of metallurgy.
Others named to posts include Mr. John J. Kennedy, M. A., assistant professor of political science; Mr. John B. Logan, M. A., assistant professor of the general program; Mr. Harold W. Murphy, B. S. in M. E., assistant professor of mechanical engineering, and Mr. Ronald S. O'Neill, L. L. B., associate professor of marketing. Mr. Kennedy recently held the post of professor of public administration at the University
of Puerto Rico, and Mr. Logan comes here from St. John’s College where he was an instructor in the general program. Mr. Murphy has taught at Syracuse University since 1948, and Mr. O’Neill has been the vice-president and director of the creative department at Brooks, Smith and French for seven years.	..
Mr. Redmond J. Allman, M. A., has been appointed instructor in economics after five years as a teaching fellow here. Mr. John D. Tumpane, M.F.A., moving from "Loras College, will instruct in speech, and Mr. Walter G. Becker, M. A., from the University of Iowa, takes over as assistant professor of finance.
Rounding out the professorial appointments are Mr. Thomas J. Hailstones, Ph. D., assistant professor of economics; Mr. Stephen J. Hauser, Jr., M. S., instructor in the general program: Mr. Bohdan T. Hnatiuk (D. Aero. E.), assistant professor of aeronautical engineering, and Mr. Tlvan S-Ryan, Ph. D., associate professor of the general program. Mr. Hailstones has taught at St. Louis University for the past three years, and this year gained his Doctor’s degree there. Mr. Hauser, another alumnus, has been a teaching fellow in mathematics at Notre Dame since 1948. Mr. Hnatiuk is a native of Europe and received his Doctor’s degree at the University of Danzig in 1945. Mr. Ryan comes here from Marlboro College where he was professor of English.
Notre Dame professors who have resigned since last term include Mr. Paul A. Beck, professor of metallurgy; Mr. David L. Falkoff. assistant professor of physics; Mr. Paul J. Grogan, assistant professor of mechanical en-gineei-ing; Mr. Kenneth A. Gutschick, associate professor of geology; Mr. Robert J. Malone, assistant, professor of electrical engineering; Mr. Guv H. McMichael, associate professor of accounting; Mr. Robert D. Nuner. assistant professor of French; Mr. Paul Stoner, associate professor of economics; Mr. George J. Thaler, assistant professor of electrical engineering, and Mr. Henry E. Wrape, assistant professor of business administration.
Others among the missing will be Mr. Bernard J. Bedard, instructor in English; Mr. Thomas N. Brown, history; Mr. Richard J. Browne, modernlanguages; Mr. Thomas E. Cassidy, English; Mr. Robert F. Chipak, mechanical engineering; Mr. William P. Clancy. English; Mr. Orville R. Foster. education: Mr. John J. Glanville, philosophy; Mr. Vincent P. Goddard, aeronautical engineering; Mr. John Kiley, English; Mr. Robert A. Loehl, mechanical engineering; Mr. Charles W. Magner, accounting; Mr. Edward
11
University Calendar for the Undergraduate School for the Year 1951-52
THE FIRST SEMESTER
Sept. 10, 11, 12 ..........Registration with the Director of Student Accounts and
(Mon., Tues., Wed.) with the Deans for* courses in the first semester. (No student will be permitted to register in courses at the University after the final day of registration, Sept. 12).
Sept. 13 (Thurs.) .........Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
Sept. 16 (Sun.) ...........Formal opening of the schoolyear with Solemn Mass
and sermon by the President.
Sept. 17 (Mon.) ...........Latest date for essential class changes.
Oct. 13 (Sat.)   ..........Founder’s Day (no classes).
Nov. 1 (Thurs.) ...........All Saints Day (no classes). '
Nov. 14 (Wed.) ............Midsemester reports of deficient students.
Nov. 15 to 21 .............r............Preregistration with the Deans for courses for the sec-(Thurs. to Wed.)...........ond semester of 1951-52. (See Academic Regulation
113, General Bulletin).
Nov. 22 (Thurs.) ..........Thanksgiving Day (no classes).
Dec. 8 (Sat.) .............Feast of the Immaculate Conception (no classes).
Dec. 15 (Sat.) ____________Latest date for comprehensive examinations, and dis-
sertations of undergraduates.
Dec. 20 (Thurs.) ..........First day of Christmas vacation (no classes).
Jan. 3 (Thurs.) ...........Classes resumed at 8:00 a.m.
Jan. 17 to 24 .............Semester examinations in all courses.
(Thurs. to Thurs.)
THE SECOND SEMESTER
Jan. 29, 30 ...............Registration with the Director of Student Accounts and
(Tues., Wed.)	with the Deans for courses in the second semester. (No
student will be permitted to register in courses at the University after the final day of registration, Jan. 30).
•Tan. 31 (Thurs.) .........Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
Feb’. 4 (Mon.) ............Latest date for essential class changes.
Feb. 22 (Fri.) ...........Washington’s Birthday (no classes). Senior Class Ex-
ercise, 10:30 a.m., Washington Hall. Attendance required as part-fulfillment of the requirements for June Graduation.
March 12 to 21 .............Preregistration with Director of Student Accounts for
(Wed. to Fri.)	rooms.	,
March 28 to April 4 ........Preregistration with Deans for courses in the first se-
(Wed. to Fri.)	mester of 1952-53 and for the summer session of 1952.
(See Academic Regulation 113, General Bulletin).
March 28 (Fri.) ............Midsemester reports of deficient students.
April 9 (Wed.) .............First day of Easter vacation (no classes).
April 16 (Wed.) ............Classes resumed at 8:00 a.m.
April 21	(Mon.) ..........Latest date for comprehensive examinations, and dis-
(Wed.	to Thurs.)	sertation of undergraduates.
May 21 to 29 ...............Semester examinations in all courses.
May 22	(Thurs.) .........Ascension Thursday.
May 30	(Fri.) ...........Memorial Day.
May 31 (Sat.) ..............Senior Class Day Exercises.
June 1 (Sun.) ..............June Commencement Exercises. -
12
INTRODUCTION..
Following last year’s example, Scholastic again comes up with a registration issue, designed primarily to help orient the incoming Class of ’55.
It’s hard for any organization the size of Notre Dame to tell a new man every thing he needs to know. Freshmen always come up with a host of questions about life here at the University. Many of them are sound pertinent ones not answered in official bulletins. On the following pages, we try to answer some of them. If any upperclassman happens to learn something he didn’t know before, so much the better.
But this issue is aimed at the Frosh. We know we haven’t covered every thing so if any of the new men have more questions they just have to ask. Our office is located in the basement of Farley Hall and we’ll be glad to help them out. The first of the regular weekly issues of Scholastic will appear on September 21.
The staff wishes to thank the Blue Circle Orientation Committee, and its chairman, Vic Kroeger for supplying much of the information found in this issue. The Committee does a fine job every year in giving a hand to the new Freshmen.—Editor.
The Scholastic
Facilities and Regulations
How Late Can I Stay Out at Night?
Freshmen are allowed one midnight a week, and must be in their rooms for room check at 10 p.m. every other night. Sophomores are allowed two midnights each week, and upperclassmen may take as many as they wish. Lights are extinguished in all halls at 11 p.m. and you are then expected to go to bed. Permissions are extended to 12:30 for the regular Saturday night dances, and for the class dances and other big affairs students must be in their halls an hour after the dance is over.
What About Morning Checks? ' ~
You must get up and report to a checker at the door of your hall chapel before 7 a.m. three mornings a week, exclusive of Sunday. Miss a check and you will be campused until it is made up. On these three mornings, at least, you should attend one of the several Masses that are said daily in your chapel.
How Do You Get to Town?.	•
No student living on the campus is allowed to drive an automobile, except
at certain specific times and with written permission from the Prefect of Discipline. However, the Notre Dame bus leaves the back of Farley Hall at 15-minute intervals, stops at the Circle, and continues downtown. Remember that, when you take your midnight, that you are campused one week for each five minutes you are late.
Is It Necessary to Go Into Town To Get Things Done?
No, you will find just about everything you need on the campus. In this section is a listing of the facilities available to you and the hours they are open. The shoe shop is directly behind the Main Building. The barbershop, laundry pick-up, which will also handle your dry cleaning, jeweler’s shop, and book store are in the basement of Badin Hall. The Western Union office, the Treasurer’s Office, where you may cash checks, and the Book Exchange are in the basement of the Main Building.
How About the Cafeteria and the Huddle?
Meals can be purchased in the cafeteria anytime you have the money and

are tired of dining hall chow. The -Huddle, the small building next to j Washington Hall, has a complete soda fountain and specializes in donuts and s coffee for late-risers. The “caf” also { houses a soda fountain and newsstand, y
How Long Are Class Periods?	;
Classes last 50 minutes. The sched- 3 ule: mornings—8 to 8:50, 9 to 9:50, 10 to 10:50, 11 to 11:50; afternoons—1:15 to 2:05, 2:15 to 3:05, 3:15 to 4:05, f 4:15 to 5:05.
How Do Credit Hours Work?
Down the Steps for the First Time
To get a degree you need a specified § number of semester hours of credit, varying from 130 to 150, depending on . the college you are in. Credit hours y are determined by the number of class I periods you have each week—a course -taught three times a week will give | you three credit hours, if you pass it. At | least two periods of lab are usually required for one credit hour.
What Grading System Is Used Here?
Numerical grades, based on 100 as 1 perfect. The passing grade in any ’ course is 70/ but you must average 77	!
(figured from all courses you pass at the University) to get a degree. Maintain an 85 average and you will graduate cum laude, 90 for a magna cum laude, and if you are one of the few who pulls down a 95, you will graduate i maxima cum laude.	|
I How Many Cuts Am I Allowed?
In one-, two-, or three-hour courses < you are allowed to be absent from ! class as many periods as you have ‘ credit hours. In four- or five-hour- j courses you are still only allowed three । cuts. On the two days before and after | the Christmas and Easter vacations you i get triple cuts, so don’t oversleep if
14
The Scholastic
you want to get out of here early and then be sure to come back on time.
What Does Washington Hall Contain?
The main thing is the auditorium, in which you will see some of the best lecturers and entertainers in the country through the concert and lecture series. Free movies are presented in this auditorium each Saturday night and the' night before holidays.
Beneath the auditorium is a rec room, offering billiards, pool, ping pong, and shuffleboard—for a small fee. The old building also houses the music hall, in which any student may practice his favorite musical instrument.
How Do I Get In to See Athletic Events?
The fee for all campus athletic events is included in your bill, and all you need for admission is your identification card.
How Do I Get Student Publications?
Scholastic, which will be delivered to your room each Friday, was included on your bill, as was the yearbook, the Dome, which you will receive in May. The Juggler, the University literary magazine, and the Technical Review, the voice of the college of engineering, come out three times a year, but you must pay for them.
What About Mail? -
You can mail your letters at the Notre Dame post office, or drop them in the mail boxes located in each hall. Incoming mail will be delivered to your hall three times a day except on Saturdays (twice) and Sundays (once). You will receive a notice of any incoming package, and must pick it up at the post •office.
What Can I Do to Make My Room
More Comfortable?	"
Naturally, that is a mattei- of personal taste. The most popular addi
tions to the rooms here are an easy chair, radio, lamp, and drapes. Watch your bulletin boards for some good buys on second-hand chairs and other furniture, and there will be upperclassmen around to your rooms with things to sell along that line. Just be careful, and don’t let anybody sell you the radi1 ators or medicine cabinet.
Where Do I Get My Books?
Your professors will tell you what books you will need for your different classes. New books can be purchased in the bookstore annex, located in the Dadin basement. The book exchange, cn the ground floor of the Main Building, handles secondhand books. There you can save quite a bit of money and still get books which are in pretty good shape. For paper, ink, pencils, etc., go to the bookstore proper, which is also the place to get toilet articles. It is on the ground floor in the front part of Badin Hall.
And If I Want to Make a Phone Call?
There is a least one pay phone in each hall, and others in the Main Building and the basement of the Dining Hall, for calling South Bend numbers (price—five cents). In addition there are inter-hall phones (free) in every hall, through which you can contact just about anyone on the campus. What Is the Deal on Laundry?
A notice in your hall will tell you what day to throw your laundry down the chute, and about a week later (we
Sermon in Sacred Heart
hope) you can pick it up in the basement of Badin Hall. Laundry bags can be obtained at the laundry, which is behind Sacred Heart Church. You better keep two bags on hand because that “week later” is definitely no guarantee.
Where and When Are Sunday Masses?
In Sacred Heart Church, at 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11. Students are not allowed to attend Sunday masses in the residence halls. .
Anything Else You Can Tell Me?
You will be given a student manual containing all the University regulations. Ignorance will be no excuse in any and all points of discipline. For your own good, read this little book carefully and remember what you read.
Do not drink the water from the taps in the rooms, which comes right out of the lake. Use the fountains in the corridors for drinking water.
A maid will make your bed and clean your room each day, so you can leave your room just as is when you rush off to your 8 o’clock class.
If .you expressed your trunk, you can pick it up at the Railway Express office in the old gym. If you sent it on your railroad ticket, the Yellow Cab Co. will deliver it from the station to your hall if you make such arrangements at the station. Ask your rector where you may store your trunk. You usually are not allowed to keep it in your room.
Sept. 10, 1951
15
The University of Notre Dame
Facts:
The University of Notre Dame was founded in 18-12 by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., a French missionary priest belonging to the Congregation of Holy Cross. (His statue stands at the end of the main quad, facing the circle.) This religious Order of priests and Brothers still owns and operates the University.
The student body numbers approximately 5,000 students who come from every state in the union and 22 foreign countries. There are about 500 instructors, four-fifths of whom are laymen. The campus consists of 1,700 acres, 50 buildings, and two spring-fed lakes.
The Campus:
Notre Dame is a self-contained city providing for its students various residential, academic, and laboratory buildings, a dining hall serving 15.000 meals daily, post office, telegraph office, shoe repair shop, book store, tailoring shop, movie theater, laundry, bakery, dry cleaning plant, 18-hole golf course, and two spring-fed lakes for fishing,
swimming, boating, and skating.
A central plant provides heat for the fifty buildings on the campus.
The University also has its own two-engine fire department. Last year they were called upon to halt a blaze in the new Science Building.
Vetville is a small settlement, adjacent to the main campus, behind Farley and Breen-Phillips Halls, where 117 married veterans live with their families.
Academic:
It was at the University that the brilliant Father Nieuwland compounded the basic formulae for synthetic rubber. His work was later used as a basis for Dupont’s development of neoprene.
Anti-malarial drugs, which have proved superior to both quinine and at-abrine in fighting this dreaded disease, have been developed by Dr. Kenneth Campbell in the chemistry laboratories.
Present research includes the highly significant germ-free technique in LOBUND—Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame. Experimentation involves investigations in
heart disease, cancer, the study of nutrition, and tooth decay among others.
The chemistry department is now hard at work attempting to isolate the cause of the RH factor and discover a solution to this problem.
A supersonic wind tunnel test program is being conducted in the Department of Aeronautical Engineering.
There are 14 libraries on the campus serving general, college and departmental needs.
Important research in nuclear physics and radiation chemistry—the University now has two attorn smashers— as well as problems in metallurgy are in progress of investigation at the university.
The Mediaeval Institute, founded in 1946, is based on research and publications of the Middle Ages, and is projected as a great contribution to Christian civilization.
The first wireless message in this country was sent by Professor Jerome Green from Notre Dame to St. Mary’s college across the highway.
There are five colleges in the University, namely: College of Arts and
Hall Chapels Make Visits Easy 16
The Scholastic
Law
Letters, which includes departments of Religion, Philosophy, English, Classics, Modern Languages, History, Economics, Political Science, Sociology, Education, Physical Education, Art, Music, Speech, Journalism, Naval Science and Air Sciences. The College of Science includes the departments of Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Geology; the College of Engineering which includes the departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemi-ical Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Architecture, Metallurgy, Engineering Drawing, and EngineeringMechanics; the College of Commerce which incorporates the Departments • of Accounting, Business Administration, Finance, and Marketing; and the College of Law. There is also a graduate school which has twenty departments.
The Audio Visual Department located on the second floor of the main building, houses all the material requisite for the latest and most advanced methods of teaching techniques. .
The Ave Maria Press is a modern printing press maintained on the campus and is jointly devoted to the publications of the University and to those of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Besides printing the bulletins, announcements and other matters of the University, the Press publishes six periodicals: the Scholastic, a weekly news magazine run by the students; Alumnus, a bi-monthly magazine of the Uni-
Building
versity’s alumni association; the Ave Maria, a weekly magazine of literary character; the American Midland Naturalist, a professional scientific journal; the Revieiv of Politics, a quarterly publication; and Reports of a Mathematical Colloquim published annually by the
Engineering Building
Department of Mathematics, and the Technical Review.
The University Library has one of the finest Art collections in the midwest and included among its 286 canvasses are works of Van Dyke, Veronese, and Tintoretto.
General Information:
Notre Dame has an extremely low endowment—§6,857,852. (Harvard has $191,279,779.)
The University furnishes part-time employment to nearly one-fifth of its student body at a total cost of $337,480.
Notre Dame had a net revenue from all athletics, in the last fiscal year, of $155,000.
Notre Dame maintains a Placement Bureau to aid graduating Seniors and alumni obtain employment.
Notre Dame has a testing and Guidance Department to assist all students in choosing careers. If you are undecided as to the subject you would like to major in, then see Mr. Quinn, the head of this department, in the west wing of the Administration Building, ground floor.
Notre Dame distributed $250,000 to 255 graduate students in the form of scholarships and fellowships.
Although primarily a Catholic institution, the University welcomes anyone who wishes an education regardless of his creed. Normally about eight per cent of the student’ body is non-Catholic. Approximately thirteen per cent of the faculty is non-Catholic.
Sept. 10, 1951
17
Activities and Organization
t

What Clubs Can I Join?
There are a great number and variety of clubs, any of which you may join. There are social clubs, hobby clubs, intellectual clubs, sports clubs, and many others. The geographical clubs, consisting of men from a certain city or region, are probably the greatest in number, and you will be hearing from one of them soon. Their interests are primarily social. Watch your bulletin beards for anouncements of meetings of the different organizations.
Where and When Are Dances Held?
Some kind of a dance, usuallj' sponsored by the Student Council, is held just about every Saturday night, except during Advent, Lent, and exam periods. Then there are the class dances and other formal affairs put on by various colleges and organizations. These dances are usually held at the Palais Rcyale in South Bend, the Rockne Memorial, or the Navy Drill Hall on campus.	.
Will I Get to Wear a Tux?
Your chances are slim if you are a freshman. The Saturday dances are informal, and the only class dance you may attend is the freshman dance, which has always been semi-formal. About the only time you’ll be wearing a tux will be to the Engineers’ Ball, if you happen to be an engineer, or if you are invited to a St. Mary’s formal.
How About St. Mary's?
The facts are that there are roughly 5000 Notre Dame students to about 500 St. Mary’s girls. The Sunday afternoon tea dances, about which you will soon see a notice, are an excellent way to get acquainted, but be prepared for competition from the other 4,999 ND’ers who seem to be there. The opinions you’ll have to form for yourself, and don’t listen to the cynics.
What Intra-Mural Sports Will Be Open to Me?
Practically any that you can name. Sponsored by the Department of Physical Education, touch and tackle football leagues will soon be formed. Then there will be basketball, baseball, softball, and the University swimming meet. The campus keglers bowl downtown every Sunday afternoon.
Both dirt and hard surface tennis courts are available, and the annual fall tournament will soon be underway. An 18-hole golf course will be open as long as weather pennits, and, finally, there is the Rock.
The Rock?
The Rockne Memorial is the student’s gym. In the Rock are handball and squash courts, boxing, wrestling and tumbling rooms, basketball courts, a swimming pool, and ultra-violet lamps for a winter sun tan. Lockers and locks
Dancing at the Palais
are provided for your equipment, but there aren’t enough to go around. The lockers are given out on a first-come-first-served basis. Also, especially convenient for you freshmen, there are two handball courts hidden away on the south side of the fieldhouse.
Swimming?
There is a pier and diving board at St. Joseph’s Lake, directly behind the Biology Building. Swimming is allowed, however, only when a lifeguard is on duty. You will have a few weeks yet
The Scholastic
Racing at the Mardi Gras
this fall to try out the lake, but Indiana weather leaves only a short time in the spring. The rest of the year there is always the Rock.
What Is the Student Representation System?
The Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes last spring elected officers for this year. The presidents and vice-presidents of these classes, together with three stay members elcted by last year’s Council, will form the Student Council, the governing body of all student activities. Freshman class elections will be announced sometime this fall, and you will vote for a president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer. Besides class officers you will elect hall councils and
hall presidents, who attend the Student Council meetings.
Is There a Campus Radio Station?
Yes, and a good one, named the activity of the year last year by Scholastic. WND is the name, and it specializes in good music and in sports and news coverage. And there is always room for new men, in anything from announcing to
Listening at the Pep Rally
writing to engineering. WND’s studios are located in the front part of the fieldhouse, on the second floor.
Can I Join the Band or Glee Club?
All you have to do is try out. Again, check your bulletin boards for time of tryouts. The band and glee club both take extensive tours every spring, besides many other performances throughout the year. There is also an orchestra and a Freshman Band for you to choose from. If it’s jazz you like, maybe you could talk Gene Hull into giving you a spot in his official Notre Dame dance band.	.
Will I Be Able to Get Into Any Theatrical Activity?
The University Theater presents several productions a year, and will publish casting notices when it is ready to begin. In the past many freshmen have played leading roles.
And Last but Not Least,
How About Publications? •
Campus publications always need men, and anyone has a chance to win a spot on any of them. You can choose from Scholastic, the Dome, which is the yearbook, the Juggler, the literary magazine, or the engineers’ magazine, the Technical Review, or the lawyers’ Law Review. Any one of them will be glad to see you.
Sept. 10, 1951
19
Sclw&tde. of ^adUtie^
Church
.................. Sunday	Masses in Sacred Heart Church; 6, 7, 8, 9 (High). 10:10, 11:10 (High). Confessions at all Masses.
■ Weekday Masses in every Hall.
Late Daily Masses: 7:20 a.m. in Dillon and Cavanaugh Hall chapels.
Communion: Distributed all morning in Dillon, until 9:30 a.m. in Cavanaugh Hall.
	WEEKDAYS	SATURDAY	SUNDAY
Barbershop 						... 7:30 a.m.— 5:00 p.m.	7:30 a.m.— Noon	
Bookstore 			... 9:00 a.m.— 4:30 p.m.	9:00 a.m.— Noon	
Bookstore Annex 		... 9:00 a.m.—11:30 a.m.		
	12:30 p.m.— 4.30 p.m.		
Cafeteria 					... 7:30 a.m.— 9:30 p.m.	8:00 a.m.— 7:00 p.m.	8:00 a.m.—7:00 p.m.
Huddle 							... 8:00 a.m.— 4:30 p.m.	8:00 a.m.— Noon	
	6:30 p.m.— 9:30 p.m.		
Infirmary 				... 9:15 a.m.—11:30 a.m.	9:15 a.m.—11:30 a.m.	10:30 a.m.—11:30 a.m.
Laundry (Badin) 			... 7:30 a.m.— 5:00 p.m.	7:00 a.m.— Noon	
Library 				... 8:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.	8:00 a.m.— 5:00 p.m.	10:00 a.m.— Noon
	7:30 p.m.— 9:30 p.m.		
Shoe Repair 				... 8:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.	8:00 a.m.— Noon	
Rec Hall (Wash. Hall)...	... 9:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.	9:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.	Noon — 5:00 p.m.
	7:15 p.m.— 9:00 p.m.		7:15 p.m.— 9:00 p.m.
Rockne Memorial 			... 6:30 a.m.— 5:30 p.m.	8:30 a.m.— 4:30 p.m.	9:00 a.m.— 4:30 p.m.
	7:00 p.m.— 8:30 p.m.		
Golf Course 						 7:15 a.m. to Dark	7:00 a.m. to Dark	6:00 a.m. to Dark
Treasurer’s Office 			... 9:00 a.m.— Noon		
	1:30 p.m.— 5:00 p.m.		
Western Union 			... 8:20 a.m.— Noon		
	1:00 p.m.— 5:00 p.m.		


The purpose of the hall extension phones is for the reception of necessary long distance calls to students front family and friends. In order to keep trunk lines open, the operators on the Notre Dame switchboard have been instructed not to put through any local calls on hall extension phones. Instruct your friends locally to call the pay phone number in your hall. Please answer the phones for students’ use in your hall. You do your fellow student a service.
PAY PHONES
Alumni Hall _____3-0378 (3rd floor) 3-0745
Badin Hall _____3-0831
3-0743
Br.-Phillips Hall -3-0506 Cavanaugh Hall -3-0466 Dillon Hall ____3-0426
Farley Hall ____3-0487
Howard Hall------3-0441 Lyons Hall ------3-0621
Morrissey Hall---3-0458 St. Edward’s Hall 3-0354 Sorin Hall 3-0519 Walsh Hall —3-0707 Zahm Hall -------3-0356
Cafeteria ______3-0750
3-0729 3-0785
Law Building_____3-0732 Recreation Hall .3-0522 3-0475
Main Building —3-0308 3-0443
EXTENSION PHONES
	Alum ni		Cauanauglt		Htiicard		Sorin	
1st	Floor 		...375	1st Floor 				..284	1st Floor 			—439	1st Floor 		...282
2nd	Floor 		...435	2nd Floor 			..445	2nd Floor 		—.430	3rd Floor 		...455
3rd	Floor 		...436	3rd Floor 		 4th Floor 			..446 ..447	3rd Floor 	 4th Floor 		—441 	369	St. EdwartPs	
	Badin		Dillon		Lyons		1st Floor 			 3rd Floor 		...280 ...431
2nd	Floor 		...370	1st Floor 			..374	1st Floor 			371		
3rd	Floor 			...450	2nd Floor 	—.	...437	2nd Floor 		—456	Walsh	
			3rd Floor 		..438	3rd Floor 		—457	1st Floor 		...373
					4th Floor 		—458	3rd Floor 		...459
	B ree n -Ph ill ips		Farley		Morrissey		Zahm	
1st 2nd 3rd	Floor 	 Floor 	 Floor 		...281 -.452 -453	1st Floor 		 2nd Floor 	 3rd Floor 		...448 ...449 ...440	1st Floor 	 2nd Floor 			288 	.442 443	1st Floor 			 ' 2nd Floor 		...285 ...432
							3rd Floor 	 4th Floor 				..433 ...434
4th	Floor 		...454	4th Floor 			...451	4th Floor 			444		
20
The Scholastic

TIME 091 YOUR HODS
1

The problem of finding recreation in this immediate vicinity was encountered foi- the first time 130 years ago by one Alexis Coquillard, a French fur trapper working in the St. Joseph Valley. Tiring of indian hand-wrestling with the locals and snapping pictures of Nature at Work and Play with his Argoflex, Coquillard solved the problem neatly by building his own city.
Although such directness is admirable, it takes very few attempts at whipping up a city to convince one that there are better ways of spending a Saturday night. Next best is to be content with what he and his followers left for us.
This brings up the interesting question, “Just what did they leave for us?” Well, chances are that you spent a great portion of your free evenings at the movies while home, and you’ll probably be doing the same thing out here. Unfortunately3 however, there will eventually come a time when you’d just as soon wait foi- the Saturday matinee at Washington Hall. What to
do then? One that you can ■ ning at most
thing to keep in mind is spend an enjoyable eve-
the club and church
of
dances advertised in the paper, usually __ at 50c a head.
' If you like to Polka you’ll enjoy those frantic affairs out at German Hall, which you can find by guiding / yourself in on the “Yahahaa’s.” If it’s j sporting blood you’ve got, try the CoHop dances at the Progress Club, where / you can never tell what you’ll find, or I the occasional YMCA dances. And for I a real switch, how about a professional dance lesson at any of South Bend’s dancing studios? There’s nothing like them for a person with a sense of humor, the wherewithal to pay for & them, and a complete lack of illusions about his dancing ability.
Perhaps the best way to describe St. Mary’s, for .which any talk of dances is only a preamble, is to recall that old
game of “King of the Hill,” in which a swarm of players scramble for the position held by one lucky fellow. With about 600 girls to pick from there’s more than one “king,” but there’s also quite a few more hill-climbers on the-long end of the almost 100-1 odds. Your first chance to investigate this fascinating institution West of the Dixie High-
way will probably come on your first free Sunday afternoon, since it is on Sunday afternoons that the St. Mary’s weekly socials take place. And without mentioning anything about worms, get there early.
Quite possibly you’re content to just sit around and watch someone else do the exercising. If so, the local sports can fill the bill. Only a bus-ride away are the Sox and Indians, both fighting it out near the top of their respective circuits. You’ve hooted at the Red Sox, the “Murderers' Row” of the American Girls’ Baseball League. Actually, the gals play some pretty good ball, and a trek out to Playland Park fox-one of their games might be interesting. Then there are the South Bend Indians, a more conventional team found cavorting around Lippincott park.
If it’s auto racing you crave, ’way out on Western Avenue is the Speedway, where the midgets, hot-rods, and
stocks go at it on a dirt track. With . starts-in-reverse, yet. . For people who just can’t get enough football, School Field is the scene of some fine Friday-night hassels, and you haven’t lived until you’ve collapsed at one of the high school basketball games later in the year.	..
Mishawaka Country Club and Erskine provide some variety for the
golfer. One of the notable holes on the first entails a drive over the St-Joseph River, while Erskine has a 600-yard par 6 hole. • There’s a bowling alley across from the South Shore Station, and if you really want to “get out there yourself,” an hour or two of horseback riding at the stables east of school will get rid of that notion with, the proverbial speed and dispatch.
These are the things you’ll probably be doing the most out here, those in the medium-expense bracket. But there are also several amusements that cater, to the fellow with the filled wallet. One of these is the symphony, of which ten are given each year by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and the South Bend Junior Symphony. Another is Playland Park, where you’ll find such mechanical monsters as octopi and caterpillars.
Then there are also a few things to do that don’t cost any money, or very little. You might, for example, go out to the fair zoo in Pottawattomi Park. Closer, however, is Leeper Park, just a few blocks down Michigan from school. It’s just the thing when you’re at peace with nature and feel like feeding
popcorn to the ducks. For anyone determined to be an all-out Hoosier for four years, a good place to start is the old courthouse building, where is found “Indiana’s first historical museum.” And. some people pass an occasional free afternoon by attending a trial in any one of South Bend’s several courts.
It’s customary to end the evening with something to eat. Besides the string of restaurants on Michigan street—Albano’s, Clark’s, Jeer's, Kew-pie’s, et al—there are other good places to eat. Among them are Rosie’s, two-steakhouses, Eddie’s and Albie’s, Chicken in the Rough, China Inn, Knights of Columbus, and the Legion. .
So that’s it. Shows, dances, sports, recreations, and restaurants. An average city, which can mean four years, of boredom, or four years of pleasure. It’s your choice.
Sept. 10, 1951
21
Family Ahts and Christian Living
Family Acres is situated about five miles northeast of the University. Having a population of less than 50, comprising seven families, and a total land area of 80 acres, Family Acres is a unique Christian community.
The seven families live on the land. .They are not urban folk and yet, strictly speaking', though they grow anti raise most, of their food, they are not farmers. Of the family heads, two are professors; one is a scientist; one is an IBM man; another is a business man and ND alumnus; two, who have no connection with the University, are workers at Bendix and Studebaker.
These families, particularly the University group, lead what in this day and age might well be called a unique way of life. The first unique thing which might be noticed in the five University families is their size. The families average more than four children each. One family has six children, two others have five. In all, there are 21 youngsters. Of the five families, four have built or are building their own homes.
These people believe that living with what might be called one foot on the land and yet in community is a good way of life. Their argument Is not an economic one nor one of personal satisfaction. They feel, on the basis of histo-Tical and scientific fact, that conditions in the country are more conducive to natural Christian family living both for parents and children, and that living in the community is likewise more natural
and Christian than non-community life.
If this kind of living on the land and in the community is such that man can fulfill his social as well as his individual nature, and that he can create a. Christian environment in which helping-one’s neighbor and rearing large families is considered the normal thing, to do, then, they believe, man will have attained a way of life that is most beneficial to his human nature.
The two men most responsible for the actual founding of the Community are Eugene Geissler, instructor in the Department of English at Notre Dame, and Burnett Bauer, owner of a water softener concern in South Bend. They have been joined by Fred Govern, a Notre Dame instructor; Julian Pleasants who is an assistant Bio-Chemist at Lo-bund; and Joseph Bagiackas, an accountant in the University’s computing or IBM department. Two men who were partners with Geissler and Bauer in
purchasing' the land still own a share of ningham of South Dame, and Martin
in 1946 ana" who it are James CunBend and Notre McLaughlin, who
now is a Professor of Political Science at De Paul University.
The purchase was made in 1946 when Geissler returned from service. The Notre Dame English instructor is not sure where he first got the idea of living on the land and in community—maybe from being a farm boy, maybe from Bauer, Bagiackas, or Pleasants; perhaps from the famous Monsignor Ligutti of
the National Catholic Rural Life Conference for whom he worked as an editor in Des Moines, Iowa.
Back in 1945 from three years overseas, Geissler contacted Bauer who was agreed on settling in a rural community. They contacted Cunningham and McLaughlin, who were still in the service, and the four became joint partners in the purchase of the 80 acres of land.
These men and some of those who were to join later had become friends at Notre Dame in pre-war days when they were all enrolled in a graduate Apologetics course. The course, brainchild of Bishop O’Hara, was abandoned during the war years. Without fear of contradiction it may be said that from this group of graduate students was organized the first cell of the Catholic Action Movement in America. (This movement was the forerunner of the YCS.)
In this movement the group, under the inspiration of Father Putz, learned to work together as active Catholic laity.
Father Putz’s influence on Family Acres has been and is great. His was a task of keeping the community apostolic by using it as a generator of apostolic activities. Neither he nor the members wish it to become a “closed” or “inward” group.
Fides Publishers is the product of such a philosophy. Founded in 1947 with Bauer, Cunningham, Geissler, McLaughlin and Father Putz as directors, it has survived the first five trying years. Fides


ft
r

&•

K;-id
$
a
Everyone Participates in Catholic Life
22
The Scholastic


I
specializes in Apostolic literature of the new Catholic emphasis in modern times, the emphasis that all of us are called to restore all things in Christ. Groivth And Decline, by Suhard, is a Fides publica
tion; another book just released is Week With Christ.
The original home into which Bauers and Geisslers moved in 1946
■
The
the was
a large Indiana farm home. The place looked good, but it has a poorly constructed interior for family life anti, as the two families sadly learned after the first winter, poor protection against the howling Indiana prairie wind.
Geissler lived on the second floor of the house through 1947. During that summer the Bagiackas house was begun. Then, in the summei^of 1948, when the outside shell of the Geissler home was completed, the Geisslers moved into the basement. The vacancy left in the Bauer-house was later filled by the Govern family whose home, like the Pleasants’, was begun in 1949. The Geisslers moved to ground level last September, two and a half years after they began building. The Pleasarifs home is still expanding.
In, fact all the homes are still growing.

As one of the men put it, “The grow as the families grow.”
And you don’t have to be a worker to build your own home. .
f



houses
skilled . . All
that -is apparently needed, are qualities of courage to begin, intelligence to understand directions, humility to ask advice and some common sense—mostly common sense.
Geissler is a prime example of the spirit of the people in the community. He is an affable, capable man. The results of his belief, capabilities and determination are very concretely seen in h/7 family, his home and his accomplishments. ,
The Geisslers have five children, all girls. A sixth child is on the way. The home which Geissler, with the help of his neighbors, built for his family was designed by a Senior in the Notre Dame School of Architecture. It is a one and a half story “big family house,” constructed of large concrete blocks.
The house, which eventually will have /nine rooms, was built mainly over a period of three summers. With the exception of plastering-, all the work was accomplished by “amateur” labor. Geiss-/ ler and his neighbors worked approximately 2,000 hours during summer and week-end spare time. Figuring the cost of a house at 50% for labor and 50% for materials, the time Geissler and his crew spent as amateur carpenters, plumbers, electricians, etc., was worth $3 an hour, or $6,000 all told.
Justification for the time and labor, Geissler says, is in the principle that “it is good for the family to live on
-
. . And Seems to Enjoy It
in
of of
home tend to be true of the rooms all the homes in Family Acres.
The Geisslers own twenty acres farmland on which they raise most
the land and in community, where a fuii, natural and Christian life is possible.”
An example of a benefit for the children found in the Geissler home is the spacious, well-lighted “kids room” in which the youngsters romp and play. The size of the room is comparable to the average American living room and is matched in size by the Geisslers’ kitchen. The living room of the home is designed for community gathering as well as large family living. This feature of the rooms in the Geissler
what they eat. On social occasions they like to say that “everything on the table is off the place.” For meat they usually have -500 pounds of beef from a home grown steer and some pork stocked away in the freezer. The family also owns chickens and a milk cow. That cow is the center of the food’program.
Burnett Bauer though working six days a week still finds time to participate in the Christian Family Movement, one of the most important Catholic Action activities in the nation. He and his wife, Helene, were its founders in 1947 with the aid of Father Putz. The Bauers have five children and are expecting their sixth.
Some of the services set up by local CFM parish groups are: a Sunday school for tiny tots in the parish, Cana Conferences, and a South Bend school
for mentally retarded children which is now city-wide, supported by civic, labor and religious groups.
Joseph Bagiackas, father of three, between spells in which he plots newer and more agonizing IBM dictums and technicalities for the student body, is finding time to add a second story to his home.
Julian Pleasants, a gentleman whose name suggests his personality, aside from his duties at Lobund, writes a column “Good Health” for the Catholic daily, The Sun Herald, and is active in the Liturgical movement. He is responsible for Family Acres’ liturgical custom of Saturday night vigil preparation for which community members gather weekly.
Fred Govern, University speech instructor, is usually engaged during the evening and over the weekends In working on the interior of his planned nine room home or in turning out lettered manuscripts of prayers or wedding and birth certificates.
Recently the Governs took a trip to New York. During their absence their six children were “adopted” by the neighbors. This attitude is indicative of the social spirit of family Acres. One of the womenfolk said, “that’s the advantage of our way of life: having neighbors who have children, and who have ideas similar to our own.”
The community gets together for dinners, parties and community singing, particularly on holy days. The families
(Continued on page 31)
Sept. 10, 1951
23
DO YOU INHALE?
Then you certainly should be smohing
PHILIP MORRIS!

ITake a PHILIP MORRIS O Now, do exactly the same and any other cigarette. thing with the other
Light up either one first. Take a puff—get a good mouthful of smoke—and let the smoke come directly through your nose.
cigarette. Notice that with PHILIP MORRIS you don’t get the bite, sting and irritation that you do with your own brand.
YES, PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER I

noa&uiEnf HMGOVHi
REMEMBER: The irritation you feel in your nose is the same irritation that occurs in your throat every time you inhale!
Don’t let irritation spoil the good taste, the fine flavor, the rich pleasure of smoking. For a better smoke than you’ve ever known before, try PHILIP MORRIS—the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand.
£ PHIUP MORRIS

The Scholastic
I
Scholastic Sports______________.—
Intried Players Key to Grid Hopes
A Message From | Coach Frank Leahy ; To the members of Notre Dame’s r class of 1955 I should like to extend a i sincere welcome on behalf of the entire ' athletic department staff. You gentlemen are becoming members of one of - the finest families in American university life. Speaking for the Notre Dame ' football team I want you to know that this team is your team, and each and every member desires your support. Many football games have been won in the Notre Dame Stadium because the - unparalleled support of the Notre Dame student body inspired their team to play superior football. We open against Indiana on September 29, a team which defeated Notre__Dame in 1950. This fall our team will be relatively young and will need the whole-hearted support of all of you men. We can’t guarantee a victory, but with you men behind us on each and every play we will ■ do our utmost to make you very proud of your team.
You men are very fortunate to be attending college in a very critical time and, I ask you to please take advantage /of all the facilities offered to * you^/Notre Dame’s academic program is second to none: get all you can out
Frank Leahy
of it. Become interested in all the branches of university life. Take full advantage of the religious opportunities offered each student—and start today.
There will be days when perhaps homesickness ■will set in, or it may seem as if the academic load is a little too heavy. When these things happen the easy thing would be to pack up and leave. If such a time ever- comes, before making such a move, please say the following prayer to yourself. It has helped me over many a rough spot.
A GAME GUY’S PRAYER
Dear God, help me to be a sport in this little game of life. I don’t ask for an easy place in the lineup—play me anywhere you need me. I only ask for the stuff to give you 100 percent of what I’ve got and if all the tough breaks seem to come my way, I thank you for the compliment. Help me to remember that you won’t ever let anything come my way that you and I together can’t handle. And help me to take bad breaks as a part of the game. Help me to understand that the game is full of knots and knocks and trouble and make me thankful for them and help me to get so that the harder- they come the better I like it. And oh God, help me to always play on the square no matter what the other players do. Help me to come clean. Help me to study and think a lot about the Greatest Player that lived and other great players that are told about in the Book. And if they found out that the best part of the game is helping other guys who are out of luck, help me to find it out too. Help me to be a regular fellow with the other players. Finally, oh God, if fate seems to uppercut me with both hands and I am laid on the shelf in sickness or old age or something, help me to take that as part of the game too and help me not to whimper or squeal that the game was a frameup or that I had a raw deal. And when in the falling dusk I get the final bell, I ask for no lying compli-.mentary stones; I’d only like to know that you feel that I have been a good game guy.
Sophs Play Big Role In Rebuilding Squad
When Notre Dame opens against Indiana September 29 the public will get their first real view of just how* good a rebuilding job Coach Frank Leahy has done after last season’s disastrous campaign. Just how successful the Great Precisionist was in moulding this new grid machine guided by quarterback John Mazur will depend to a great extent on how the untried sophomores and reserves respond.
Mazur who for the past two years was in the shadow of the great Bob Williams will get his first real chance. In his not too frequent appearances last year he looked very capable of directing the team. He is a good ball handler and seems to have the confidence of his teammates. However, as far as reserve strength the Irish definitely are weak as far as signal callers go. The most promising prospect for the No. 2 quarterback
Sept. 10, 1951
25
Bill Barrett
spot is Clarence Zimmerman up from last year’s frosh squad. In Springpractice last year he seemed very capable of becoming a Leahy-type quarterback. He is very cool and should develop into a good passer.
Fullback Weak Spot
One notable weakness in the Irish lineup is at fullback. Del Gander, who won a monogram in his sophomore year, seems to have first choice on that spot right now. Right behind Gander is soph Neil Worden.
The squad’s strong point is the halfback positions. Here Bill Barrett and John Petitbon are almost sure starters. Barrett was hampered last year by injuries but as a sophomore tied All-American Emil Sitko for scoring honors. Petitbon who was outstanding his sophomore year as a defensive back broke into the offensive limelight when he gained 141 yards in ten carries against Michigan State last year. Right behind the two starters are three sophomores—John Lattner, Joe Heap and Frank Paterra.
Lattner especially is expected to see quite a bit of action after his beautiful display of running in the Old Timer’s game. Lattner is equally adept on either offense or defense and should remedy the need for a good pass defender to relieve Petitbon.
On the line, there will be several newcomers. At center soph Art Hunter will be battling with veteran Jim Bartlett. On defense Byron Boji will probably perform the center chores.
The guard position might cause Leahy his greatest worries. Pau] Burns is the only veteran and in an effort to solve this problem Leahy has moved Chet Ostrowski, a regular end last year, to the guard slot. Right behind Burns and Ostrowski are Jack Alessandrini and Tom Seaman and two sophomores, Sam Palumbo and John Lee.
Strong at Tackle
Things are brighter at tackle where four monogram winners return, led by potential All-American Bob Toneff and Tony Zambroski. The other two veterans are Jim Weithman and Tom Murphy.
Anchoring one end of the line will be another potential All-American, captain Jim Mutscheller. Last year Mutscheller set a new Notre Dame pass catchingrecord when he snared 35 heaves, seven for touchdowns. Bob Kelly or Bob Kap-ish will hold down the other flank position. Top man to come up from the freshman squad is six-foot-nine Joe Kat-chik. At the present time he has trouble holding on to the ball, but with practice he may develop into another player of the Leon Hart caliber.
Among last year’s frosh Leahy has found a real jewel in the form of Menil Mavraides. Mavraides is an extra point specialist whose educated toe seldom misses.
Thus, for the most part the Irish of
Bob Toneff
’51 are going to be very green. Still there are several factors in their favor. First, it is a team with spirit, with fight. Then there are for the most part no outstanding stars; no man is positively sure of his job so he’ll work for it. There is the slight chance that this new ruling that will allow freshmen to play varsity ball might yield a couple of potential AllAmericans. Lastly, and probably the
Paul Burns
most important, this team is a far better one than last year’s. Their blocking, especially the downfield variety, is more accurate and harder and the line is more aggressive.
John Mazur
Jim Mutscheller
John Petitbon
26
The Scholastic
Irish Grads Star on Minor League Fields
When the conversation rolls around to Notre Dame athletes who have made good in professional sport, there is always a great deal of talk about the Leon Harts, the Johnny Lujacks, and the Kevin O’Sheas. But everyone seems to overlook those Notre Dame men who have made good in professional baseball.
The list goes all the way back to Cap Anson and Ed Walsh, but there are a few ND men playing pro baseball now who are getting quite a bit of attention from the people in the know.
Jack Mayo who is now playing the outfield for the Baltimore Orioles in the International League played for the National League Champion Phillies last year and looked very sure of himself in the World Series against the Yankees. Jack graduated from the University in 1947 and was captain of the Fighting Irish nine during his Senior year.
Tom Simpson, a big right-hand pitcher, who never played with the Notre Dame varsity while a student, is the object of many rave notices in the Buffalo papers. Tom hurls for the Buffalo BisonS in the International League and has several shutouts to his credit—including a no-hit game over the Toronto Maple Leafs.
Springfield, another International "League club, boasts Ed McDade at shortstop. Ed is still a student under the Golden Dome and spent the-spring making miraculous stops during the softball games on Badin Bog. He can really “go get ’em.”
Two members of last year’s varsity are now playing pro ball. Jim Gillis is with the Phillies’ farm team in the Western Association and Bob Nemes is with the Phillies’ farm team in Wilmington, Delaware. In his first start for the Wilmington team Bob pitched a one-hit game—not bad for a beginner. In a recent exhibition game against the parent Philadelphia Phillies Bob pitched one inning and struck out Del Ennis and Willie Jones.
1951 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 29—Indiana ........Home
Oct^ 5—Detroit ..........Away
Oct. 13—Southern Methodist ..Home
Oct. 20—Pittsburgh ......Away
Oct. 27—Purdue ..........Home
Nov. 3—Navy .............Away
Nov. 10—Michigan State ..Away
Nov. 17—North Carolina ...Away ??ov. 24—Iowa ............Home
Dec. 1—Southern California ....Away
Splinters fiomthfflressboX
Won’t Be “Flop” This Year
In just a little over two weeks Coach Frank Leahy will lead his green-clad warriors into the stadium to meet Indiana and the 1951 Notre Dame football season will be underway. How successful this year’s squad will be in their ten-game campaign seems to have caused a great deal of controversy among the sports writers who every year at this time sit back and predict just how every team from Notre Dame to Podunk U. will end up in the national standings. The last few years their job was made pretty easy for them. They just picked Notre Dame to be the outstanding candidate for the National Championship laurels and they were pretty safe. Good old Frank Leahy wouldn’t let them down; he’d make his boys win that crown. But, then came last year and something happened. The pre-season National Champs, Notre Dame, in the course of nine games evolved into the “flop of the year.” So this year the sports oracles are not taking any chances and for once they seem to be heeding the pessimism of the lamenting Leahy. For once Notre Dame hasn’t been picked to win the top honors. In fact some of the more conservative predictors say that Notre Dame might not win all ten of her games. Anyway, it’s very doubtful if the Irish will be the post season “flop of the year” in ’51. They aren’t good enough in the pre-season standings for that honor.
Irish Still a Threat
Yet the synonymity of football, Frank Leahy and Notre Dame has had some influence on some of the writers. One who picked Michigan State to be tops in the Midwest and possibly the nation throws into the ring of consideration the thought that there is a good chance that the amazing Leahy just might be able to tutor his lads, green as many of them are, to such a keenness that on the Saturday night following the Notre Dame-Spartan game, Michigan State rooters might be chanting, “Oh, well, we’ll get them next year.”
The consensus of opinion is that Notre Dame is in for a rough season, but one that should be more successful than last year’s. Major obstacle in the path of the Irish will be the Spar-
by Jack Varley
tans of Michigan State. They definitely have the best chance of ruining any new victory string Notre Dame could inaugurate. However, if there is any game on the card Leahy’s lads will be “up” for it’s that one. Last year the Spartans just squeezed out a 36 to 33 victory and the Irish have just enough returning lettermen like John Petitbon and Bill Barrett to remember how close they came to providing an upset. Then too that is the seventh game of the schedule and with six games under their belts the new men should be quite at. home on a collegiate gridiron.
Watch the Ponies!
Possible sleeper on this year’s card is Southern Methodist. For some reason they aren’t rated too high in the pre-season standings. True they have lost the great Kyle Rote, but they still have the very capable passing arm of Fred Benners and he is just dangerous enough to give the Irish, safety men their biggest workout of the season. Last year against a powerful Ohio State team SMU turned in a—7 yards net rushing, but thanks to their passing, a 32-27 victory over the Buckeyes. Notre Dame has never been famous for its pass defense.	.
Another eleven that spells danger to Notre Dame is Southern California. With 28 returning lettermen and the jinx element thrown in the Trojans and their new coach, Jess Hill, could make December in California very, very hot for Leahy and company.
Notre Dame, Victorious
Still, basing our biased opinion on the very good showing of the Varsity in the Old Timers’ game last Spring, the spirit of the team and. the many good sophomores running around Cartier Field we pick Notre Dame to go undefeated.
Athletic Opportunities
For the newcomer to Notre Dame who is interested in athletics and does not feel he is talented enough to make varsity football, basketball or baseball which includes just about everything— there is an interhall program set up baseball, swimming, football, basketball, softball, tennis and golf.
Sept. 10, 1951
27
ND Hi fie Coach Moved To West Coast by USMC
Major John M. Daly, USMC, who coached the Notre Dame NROTC rifle team to two national championships in the last three years, has reported to Camp Pendleton, Calif., for new duties with the Marine Corps.
Major Daly was assigned to Camp Pendleton after three years as an assistant professor of naval science at Notre Dame. A native of Chicago, Ill., Major Daly had served with the Marine Corps in the Pacific theater during World War II and with the army of occupation in Japan before coming to Notre Dame.
During Major Daly’s assignment to Notre Dame, NROTC rifle teams which he coached won the William Randolph Hearst NROTC rifle competition in 1949 and 1950, and the Secretary of the Navy trophy in 1950 and 1951. His Notre Dame team missed by only two points winning the Hearst matches for three consecutive years, by placing second in 1951 to the University of Washington. His 1951 team set a new record in winning the Secretary of the Navy matches. .
In addition to the team championships, a Notre Dame NROTC student
won the individual rifle championship during each of Major Daly’s three years as coach. Donal J. Murphy, of Hawthorne, N. J., won the individual national rifle title in 1949, 1950 and 1951 by sweeping both the Secretary of the Navy matches and the Hearst matches.
A successor to Major Daly in the Notre Dame Naval ROTC unit will be announced in the near future.
Enrollment Figures Show 1,513 for Summer Session
A total of 1,513 attended the 1951 summer session at Notre Dame, according to the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs.
Of the total number of students, 700 were registered in the Graduate School.
Workshops and special events conducted this summer at Notre Dame included the vocation institute from July 19 to July 22, the Notre Dame writers’ conference, June 25 to June 30, the workshop in the teaching of history conducted throughout the summer session, the workshop in the curriculum from June 26 to July 17, and the workshop in special education from July 18 to Aug. 1.
The summer session, ran from June 18 to August 10.
Annual Laymen's Retreat Held Here During August
Nearly 2,000 Catholic laymen from all parts of the United States attended the 29th annual laymen’s retreat held August 16 through 19 (here), according to the Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C., director of retreats.
Rev. Bernard Pegarski, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band with headquarters at Notre Dame, served as retreat master. Father Pegarski also was retreat master for a series of three smaller “closed” retreats attended at Notre Dame by Catholic laymen from the Midwest, earlier in the summer.
Religious conferences during the laymen’s retreat were held at the Grotto. The retreat was climaxed on the final night by a candlelight procession of all participants from Sacred Heart Church to the Grotto for celebration of Solemn Benediction. The retreat formally closed with a Communion Breakfast on Sunday morning, Aug. 19.
During their stay on the campus the retreatants were housed in the University residence halls, ate their meals in the University dining hall, and in general lived the lives of Notre Dame students. Religious conferences took the place of class work.
HOME OF ARROW SHIRTS, MC GREGOR SPORTSWEAR, BANTAMAC JACKETS, BOSTONIAN SHOES
Welcome men!
CARRY YOUR BROWSER CARD...
IT ENABLES YOU TO:
•	Identify yourself as an N. D. Man
•	Cash Checks
*	Open Charge Accounts
You’ll find Adlers is not only handy, (we’re right on the corner where you board the bus from town to school) but, we try to be helpful too. Notre Dame men have carried our Browser Cards for years . . . and used them. If, by some chance you have lost, or misplaced yours, drop in and pick up a duplicate.
FREE AT ADLERS ...
A handy sports information source . . . combining Football Schedules, Team Names, Scores, Rules, Signals, Penalties, Names of Champions, and records of all sporting events. Identify yourself with your Browser Card and get one free at Adlers.
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
28
The Scholastic
I
i|	Foundation Starts Drive
h	For $3,000,000 by Midyear
‘I. The University of Notre Dame Foun--i|	dation, established in 1947 to coordinate
JI	gifts to Notre Dame, announced last
|	month the launching of a “Father Cava-
i’	naugh Testimonial Fund” with a goal of
53,000,000 by July of 1952.
y The “Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund” is designed as a tribute to the j Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., fifteenth president of Notre Dame, who currently I'1'	is in the last year of his second and
11.	final term of office. The §3,000,000 fund
li will be used by Notre Dame, through the J improvement and expansion of campus utilities systems, to carry forward and II	complete building projects inaugurated
I	during Father Cavanaugh’s administra-
।	tion.
Under Father Cavanaugh’s leadership /	the Notre Dame Foundation launched in
.	1948 a program to acquire §25,000,000
I-	during the ensuing ten year period. Since
that time alumni and non-alumni friends of the University have given §7,000,000 4 to Notre Dame. These gifts—including the Science Building, the E. M. Morris Inn, the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and , Fine Arts Building and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Residence Hall— have intensified the need for expansion of the utilities.
Notre Dame officials hope to achieve the §3,000,000 goal, and thus keep pace | with their long-range §25,000,000 pro-I \ gram, through contributions of alumni and non-alumni friends of the Univer-_ sity to the Notre Dame Foundation, - organized on an international scale with “governors” in each of the 48 states, the District of Columbia and eleven foreign ' countries. City chairmen of the Foundation also are active in 227 leading cities throughout the United States.
r A substantial portion of the fund also
■J is expected to be contributed by the many friends Father Cavanaugh has made for Notre Dame through his nationwide activities and travels since assuming the presidency in 1946.
S Philadelphia Bonus Player To Enroll at Notre Dame
A seventeen year old youth whose chief concern in signing a professional baseball contract was the opportunity to practice his religion faithfully is going , to use a portion of an §80,000 bonus received from the Philadelphia Phillies —ttrattend the University of Notre Dame.
* The Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., ■ director of admissions, has announced " the acceptance for the September semester of Theodore Kazanski, of Detroit, r * *
y Mich., who received a bonus of §80,000 f for signing a professional baseball con
tract with the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League.
Kazanski, a graduate of St. Ladislaus High School in Hamtramck, Mich., applied for admission to Notre Dame immediately upon receipt of his financial bonus from the Phillies. Sister M. Jerome, principal of St. Ladislaus High School, told Father Thornton that had it not been for the fabulous bonus received by Kazanski the youth would not have been financially able to receive a college education. He chose Notre Dame, she said, because “it will ground him still more firmly in his faith.”
Father Thornton, in making the announcement of Kazanski’s acceptance by Notre Dame, said the moral training received in the Catholic high school and the high scholastic standing in his graduating class makes the youth the type of student which Notre Dame always welcomes. Father Thornton said that Kazanski, who was graduated in the upper quarter’ of his high school class, plans to study journalism at Notre Dame.
Dean McCarthy Addresses Bond Meeting in Washington
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, was a principal speaker at a joint meeting of state chairmen and state directors of the United States Savings Bond Division of the Treasury Department held last month in Washington.
Dean McCarthy participated in a panel during the meeting on “Defense
A FREE DANCE COURSE
ADAIRE DANCE STUDIO
216 N. Lafayette	Call 2-0166
BILL SHANNON and COSETTE BENBOW IN CHARGE
Bonds in Our Defense Economy.” The Notre Dame educator spoke during the panel on “Why the Business Man Should Support Defense Bonds.”
Other nationally-prominent members of the panel with Dean McCarthy were C. E. Wilson, director of the Office of Defense Mobilization; Dr. E. G. Nourse, noted economist and former chairman of the president’s council of economic advisers; and Sylvia Porter, recognized . economist and financial columnist. Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder- delivered the closing address at the meeting.
. To the Order of Holy Cross, the N. D; Faculty and Student Body
I want to express my gratitude by offering 20% reduction on all the products sold through my appliance - store.
General Appliance Company 1916 Lincolnway West South Bend
•
DEXTER IRONERS
TWIN-TUB WASHERS
LEONARD REFRIGERATION RANGES SENTINEL TELE-RADIO AND PHONE
Sept. 10, 1951
29
FROSH-Please We
The following is a schedule of the Blue Circle’s Fall Orientation Program for Freshmen. Check it carefully and make it a point to attend every event on the agenda. The program provides the best and easiest way of getting acquainted with Notre Dame. Every meeting will be well worth your time.
FALL PROGRAM
Initial Welcome
Supervised by Al DeCrane
1.	Date: Monday, September 10, 1951.
2.	Purpose: To direct students to the campus upon arrival at the South Bend train stations; to help new students, their parents and friends find their way about the campus; and to help the freshmen make adjustment cn their first day in college.
3.	Through the cooperation of the Office of Student Accounts, a letter of welcome will be sent to all incoming freshmen telling them of the orientation program prepared for them and also making such suggestions concerning what to bring and what not to bring as experience has shown are needed.
4.	The Freshman Orientation Committee will work with the Scholastic staff in the preparation of the registration issue of the Scholastic which will appear on Monday, September 10. The committee will then distribute this issue to all the freshmen.
5.	The South Shore and New York Central trains will be met on Monday and on Sunday afternoon and the new students will be advised as to the best method of transporting themselves and their luggage to the university.
6.	Early Monday morning information booths will be set up: 1. Between Breen-Phillips and Farley Halls; 2. At the Circle; 3. Outside the Dining Hall; 4. Between the Main Building and the Music Hall; 5. Outside the Drill Hall.
7.	Maps of the groups and other material of interest will be available at these information booths.
8.	Tours for students, their parents and friends will leave from the Breen-Phillips-Farley and the Dining Hall information booths as needed from 9 a. m until 11 a. m. and from 1 p. m. until 4 p. m.
9.	The rectors of the four freshman halls will be offered help both Sunday afternoon and all day Monday in signing students into the halls and to answer routine questions.
30
10.	A sign will be erected near the Aeronautics Building, pointing out the direction of the Drill Hall.
11.	The movie, “Knute Rockne, All American,” will be shown at 8:15 p. m.
12.	Mr. Frank Leahy will say a few words about Knute Rockne before the movie.
13.	A reception by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and other administration officials to greet all incoming Freshmen and their parents will be held in the Faculty Lounge in the Administration Building, from 4:30 until 5:30 p. m. Refreshments will be served.
Official University Welcome Supervised by Ed Noonan
1.	Date: Tuesday, September 11, 1951.
Start this semester right. ..
Improve Your DANCING
the GEORGE DAVIS way!
Want to have a good time at school This year? Then ask the many N. D. men who have already become good dancers the GEORGE DAVIS Way. They’ll all tell you ... it’s easy ... it’s fun ... anyone can learn. Yes, you can start dancing after the very first lesson. Start the semester right ...enroll at the GEORGE DAVIS STUDIOS today!
CORNER MICHIGAN AND MONROE
2.	Time: 7:15 p. m.
3.	Purpose: To orient the new students to the policies of the administration regarding’ scholastic standards, student affairs, religious exercises and discipline.
4.	1. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,;
2. Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., 3. Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., 4. Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., 5. Rev. Robert Fagan, c.s.c., 6. Rev. James Leahy, C.S.C.
5.	The Chairman of the Blue Circle will introduce Fr. Cavanaugh, who, after speaking on the general aims of the University, will introduce the other administration officials.
6.	Immediately after the official welcome the movie on the highlights of the 1950 football season will be shown and narrated by a member of the coaching staff.
7.	The 10 minute Dumont film on the life of a Notre Dame student will also be shown.
Student Welcome
Supervised by Hugh Braun
1.	Date: Sunday, September 16, 1951.
2.	Time: 7:15 p. m. (or after Benediction. Theme is adoration.)
3.	Purpose: To introduce the fresh-
Alice and George Davis
• You are cordially invited to visit South Bend’s largest Dance Studio . . . today!

men to the opportunities in extra-curricular activities on campus; to teach freshmen the school songs and cheers; and to enable the freshmen to get better acquainted.
4.	Mr. Ed “Moose” Krause will introduce the captains of all sports and say a few words about athletics at Notre Dame.
5.	Mr. Jim Garvin, president of the Student Council will explain the council and other campus .organizations. Representatives of all campus organizations will be invited to mingle with the freshmen during the refreshment period.
6.	The cheerleaders will teach the freshmen the school songs and cheers.
1. Gene Hall and some of his band members will furnish music for the school songs and later during refreshments.
S. Refreshments will be served.
Academic Discussions
Supervised by Fred Hartmann and Thomas Morsch
Within two weeks after the start of the fall semester, a series of seminar type academic discussions organized under the direction of the Office of Academic Affairs will begin for the freshmen to better acquaint them with good study habits and academic regulations. Not only will the groups discuss the various general methods for efficiency in study, such as budgeting time, correct reading methods, note taking and clarity in writing, but more specific study aids such as the nature of various departmental examinations and what experience has shown to be the best methods of studying for them, as well as for other particular subjects.
St. Paul Guild Joins C.S.C.
In Publishing Magazine
According to a recent announcement The Catholic Boy magazine is now published jointly by the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame and the Catechetical Guild Educational Society of St. Paul, Minnesota, instead of, as formerly, by the Holy Cross Fathers alone.
During the past three years The Catholic Boy has increased from 49,000 to 70,000 in circulation, but it is anticipated that through the new partnership Catechetical Guild, long experienced in the juvenile publication field, will extend the benefits of “the magazine boys want” to many thousands of new readers throughout the country.
Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C., remains at Notre Dame as editor. Father
Harold W. Riley, C.S.C., formerly associate editor, moves to St. Paul to supervise circulation. And Father Louis A. Gales of the archdiocese of St. Paul, founder of the Catechetical Guild Educational Society, The Cathoic Digest, Topix and Story-Parade-Caravan, as well as producer of the radio program, “The Catechism Comes to Life,” becomes associate editor of the new enterprise.
“The Catholic Boy is a magazine which experts believe is well on its way to creating a small revolution — and maybe a mighty big revolution—in the field of Catholic publishing.” So writes Joe Breig, well-known assistant managing editor of the Catholic Universe-Bulletin, in Cleveland.
“The Catholic Boy has enlisted,” he continues, “stars of the newspaper and magazine world in the cause of raising a generation of boys for Christ. It provides all that secular magazines provide, plus the central philosophy: the need of centering one’s life in Christ.
“I am sorry,” Mr. Breig concludes, “that there was not, in my boyhood, a magazine like The Catholic Boy.’’
Single subscriptions to “The Magazine Boys Want—and Need” are available at $2.50 a year from The Catholic Boy business office, 147 East Fifth Street, St. Paul 1, Minnesota.
Family Acres
(Continued from page 23)
all try to go to the same Mass on Sunday in Little Flower parish, located just east of the University, making it a family affair.
The spirit of Family Acres, which will eventually have about a dozen families, each owning about four to eight acres, is shared in occasionally by neighbors
RENT A NEW PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
ALL makes of new portable typewriters for rent at only $5 per month. If you decide to buy, rental will apply against purchase price.
Right at the Bus Stop
not too far down the road. Folks like Robert Hohmann, an English instructor at Notre Dame; and John Thompson, a non-Catholic fellow across the road; and Willis Nutting, history professor at Notre Dame, who probably was the first university faculty member to live on the land. The farmer-historian has written a book on this way of life entitled Reclamation of Independence.
There are more faculty members at the University encouraging such a life. Frank O’Malley of the English Department and the two Fathers Ward— Leo R., head of the Department of Philosophy, and Leo L., head of the English Department—are rather enthusiastic. Father Leo R. Ward’s latest book, Concerning Mary Ann, embodies much of the life-on-the-land-and-in-community spirit.
How such a variety of professions can team harmoniously on Family Acres is best summed up in one of the men’s own words: “Work is the Great Solidifier.” And so it is.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
&
YOUTH CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 East LaSalle
SMITH CORONA ROYAL REMINGTON UNDERWOOD
OFFICE ENGINEERS
116 South Michigan Phone .3-3118
Sept. 10, 1951
31
Conference Treats History Teaching in Current Crisis
Teaching of history in the current crisis was the theme of the annual meeting of the history teachers’ club of Notre Dame held July 13, 14, and 15 at the University.
Highlighting the meeting, which was sponsored by the Department of History, was an address on July 14th by Dr. Francis Schwarzenberg, former Czechoslovakian minister to the Vatican.
Other addresses during the meeting included a talk on “Trends in Europe’’ by Dr, William 0. Shanahan, associate professor of history. Professor Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modem Languages, spoke on “The Mexican Revolution As Seen Through the Novel,” and Miss Mary Cahill, of the Academy of Our Lady in Chicago, Ill., treated “The Teaching of World News and Global Geography.”
President of the club, which consists of high school history instructors from all parts of the midwest, is Brother Keenan Judge, c.s.c., of Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, Ind. Other officers of the club include the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History at Notre Dame, moderator; Sister Mary de Sales, S.N.D., of Notre Dame Academy, Toledo, 0., editor of the club bulletin; and Miss Mercedes Muenz, of the Notre Dame archives, secretary-treasurer.
Research Corp. Gives $2,400 To Prof for Chemical Study
Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, assistant professor of Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded a $2,400 grant by the Research Corporation of New York City to aid in his research with heavy hydrogen which may help in the future synthesis of new chemicals and medicines.
Known as the Frederick Gardner Cottrell grant, the award to Dr. Eliel will provide a stipend for graduate students assisting with the experiments and also will be used to purchase chemicals for the research.
Although Dr. Eliel’s project is fundamental research, his scientific exploration is of the nature of the work which helped in the discovery of many drugs used in modern medicine.
The experiments will basically consist in observing the behavior of polarized light while passing through various molecules containing heavy hydrogen. In this way, Dr. Eliel hopes to learn more about the arrangement of these molecules, information which could help in the synthesis of new chemicals and medicines.
32
Since a great many products used by man are composed wholly or partly of carbon, much of Dr. Eliel’s experimentation will concern atoms of that element, and the first step in the research will be to observe molecules composed of carbon, light hydrogen and heavy hydrogen. Larger and more complicated molecules gradually will come under observation.
■ ■ . ■
Enrollment Figures Expected To Approximate 5000 Again
Incomplete and unofficial registration figures show that over 1,400 new students, Freshmen and transfers both, will keep the University enrollment at about 5,000 again this year.
More than 1,000 Frosh, members of the new Class of ’55, are scheduled to register for the Fall semester during the three day sign-up session which begins today, in the Drill Hall.
A record number of transfer students will probably enroll this year. These, the Freshmen and students in the graduate school will swell the total Fall, 1951, enrollment to over 1,400.
Complete official totals on Notre Dame’s enrollment will be available some time after registration.
*<>.
Steaks - Chops Seafoods
We cater to Parties
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE,	J
OR RECORD CABINET?	i
BUY IT UNPAINTED — SAVE MORE THAN HALF	I
This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture <
WILLIAMS PAINT COMPANY
Phone 6-7346	755 S. Michigan	FREE Delivery
MASS SCHEDULE, Sept. 10 to 21
10	Monday—St. Nicholas of Tolentino, p. 977
11	Tuesday—SS. Protus and Hyacinth, p. 978; Colls. 2, Saints, p-670; 3, at choice
12	Wednesday — Holy Name of Mary, p. 978
13	Thursday—Of the Season, p. 569
14	Friday—Exaltation of the Holy Cross, p. 980
15	Saturday — Seven Sorrows of BVM, p. 982
16	Sunday—18th Sunday after Pentecost, p. 585; Colls. 2, SS. Cornelius and Cyprian, p. 983; 3, SS. Euphemia, etc., p. 984
17	Monday—Stigmata of St. Francis, p. 984
18	Tuesday—St. Joseph of Cupertino, p. 986
19	Wednesday — St. Januarius, etc., p. 989; Coll. 2, Autumn Ember Day, p. 572; Last Gospel of Ember Day
20	Thursday—St. Matthew, p. 990; Coll. 2, Autumn Ember Day, p. 576; Last Gospel of Ember Day, p. 297
SOUTH BEND'S FINEST SPAGHETTI HOUSE

Phone 3-0903
The Scholastic
-	Engineer Unit Begins
•	Operations This Fall
.j With the establishment of the new |	Engineers R.O.T.C. unit on Campus,
r	Notre Dame becomes one of the few
universities in the country to offer its
V students training in all of the R.O.T.C.
]| programs: Army, Air Force, Marines and Navy.
I The new unit has been established as
I the Department of Military Science.
It will be divided into two coui’ses: basic and advanced. The basic course ■ is open to Freshmen and Sophomores | who can qualify.
‘i Only Engineering and Science stu- . p”	dents can qualify for the advanced
!	course at the present time. But if
. enough students in the non-technical I colleges are accepted for the basic • course, the University may apply to the Army for the establishment of a • non-technical advanced course.
ADDING MACHINE
Easy ia Operate Does All Kinds of Figuring Total Always Visible Clears Instantly Compact—Convenient Handsomely Finished Fully Guaranteed
OFFICE ENGINEERS 116 S. Michigan, So. Bend
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan & Washington ★
Jewelers to Notre Dome
for more than 25 years.
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Sept. 10, 1951
Vhe Pack Page
to forgive a lot of overzealousness if it’s done for His mother.
Frank Leahy is a courageous man. Courage is that which makes you persevere in what you think is right regardless of obstacles. He has done that.
This column is to the freshmen. It could be an orientation column, it could talk about St. Mary’s, the laundry, or the chow. But all of these things are secondary. They are important only because in some way they all contribute to the making of a Notre Dame man.
If you remember only one thing during your four years at Notre Dame, remember that you have came here to become a Christian gentleman. Those are trite words, Christian gentleman. But they are two most significant words. In them is contained the full meaning of the term, “a Notre Dame man.” If you are a Christian gentleman, then it does not matter a great deal whether you are a magna cum laude student, or whether you graduate with a 77.001 average. It doesn’t make a lot of difference whether or not you make the “Who’s Who Among College Students.”
There are a lot of things that go to make up this Christian gentleman. Honesty, courage, loyalty; perhaps these are the most important factors. At least they are essential. However, abstract ideas usually have little life. I would sooner tell you about a gentleman who typifies that combination of virtues which have been honored with the term: a Notre Dame man.
His name is Frank Leahy.
If you fancy yourself a cynic, you are smiling in superior contempt right now. Well, smile. But if you ever become half the man that Frank Leahy is, your smile will be a good deal more convincing.
Frank Leahy is a great football coach. No one would deny that. But more important he is a man.
Perhaps not a great man because in one sense there is no such thing as a great man. In modern times greatness has become almost synonymous with fame. A man can become famous because he has a great hunger for fame or because he has qualities that will attract fame whether or not he cares a single damn about it. Leahy, I believe, belongs in the second group.
Frank Leahy is an honest man. Remember that. You’ll hear him talk at Pep Rallies many times before you graduate. Perhaps you’ll hear him mimicked. But all the mimics, all those who make fun of him cannot detract from his honesty. He is honest because he is loyal.
His first and greatest loyalty is to Notre Dame. That means Our Lady,
By BILL RILEY
and don’t forget it. It’s an easy thing to forget because Notre Dame as an institution has a lot of faults. That includes both the administration and the student body. No one who is thinking will deny either. But remember that it is the school of Mary. Remember it! Gripe at the administration and think that everything’s being run wrong, but <• remember it. Loyalty and a desire to see wrongs righted are not contradictory. They fit together.
Frank Leahy is a man whose life is dedicated to Notre Dame. His mission is to win for Notre Dame. Someone once said that if Leahy could put fifteen men on the field to win, he’d do it. I think that that is right. But he wouldn’t do it to increase his own fame. He’d do it for Notre Dame. If you can do the same; if your greatest effort and your hardest work are done for Our Lady, you can be sure of pardon for any mistakes you make. Like anybody else, God is ready
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Woman Love a Man
The Thoroughbred of Pipe Tobaccos Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
You probably won’t ever get to know him. That is one of the penalties of modern intercollegiate athletics. It is one of the things that I think, no, am sure, are wrong. But you can get to know him nevertheless. Be honest, courageous and loyal. If you are, whatever these four years may bring, they will be well spent.
SCHOLASTIC MEETING
The Scholastic will hold its first assignment meeting of the semester this Thursday, September 13, at 7:30 p.m. All past members of the staff are invited to attend.
All those interested in joining the staff (Frosh included) are invited to attend a meeting at 8 p.m. the same evening.
There are openings in every department: News, Features, Sports, Photography, Art, and Business. Both meetings will be held in the Law Auditorium and both will last only a few minutes.
34
The Scholastic
^Ilte 1951	5>iiik
FWTMIL MWII
50^
Your handy reference work on the 1951 Fighting Irish!
■	Season's prospects " Pictures and biographies of players
" Statistics
■	Opponents' schedules
■	Action shots	‘
■	Feature stories
Everything Notre Dame fans will want to have with them when they:see:or A
♦ • • • • • • • • • • hear the games this fall!	• •
o ••	• 0	•• e • • •
*	*>’• ’a . • •	•	•	••	•
• • 0 * • ’’’ •• • • .*/.•
On Sale at the Cat, Bookstore and Publications &Bic^ • ’••• :**>'**
Fighting Irish is a twice annual publication, coming out before the football season as the FOOTBALL PREVIEW, and at the close of the season, in December, as the SCHOLASTIC FOOTBALL REVIEW. Price, 50$ each; both for $1.00. Order from
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLICATIONS ' Notre Dame, Indiana
Sept. 10, 1951
35
A
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY lemmonier library NOTRE DAME LOCAL
2
_ _______
Always Buy Chesterfield
Copynght 1951, Liggett & Mms Tobacco Ca
* THE BIGGEST
PLUS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
-added to the world’s most famous ABCs-
Always Milder Buffer Tasting (pooler Smoking
"Chesterfield’s Big Plus sold me" says
"CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste?'
Ero& the report of a well-known research organization

"No Unpleasant After-taste

See JAN
sterling
Co-Starring in “RHUBARB' A Paramount Picture
"^’s rot»