<nWHw^HDiiA5nE.
^IS^^SISEHPEnYICTUBUS’	nvr. qmisr • CMS -HOBITPRus.
Vol. XXIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 18, 1890.
No. 7.
Founder’s Day.
Inscribed -zvith Reverence, and Love
TO
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.
The woods are waxing drear and sober;
But here and there, among the brown, Glitter the gay leaves of October, Like gems from old King Edward’s cro>vn.
And, like the cloth of gold resplendent That decked his royal throne of yore, The maple’s golden boughs are pendent Above the leaf-strewn forest-floor.
Bring hither all your golden treasures, ' O royal Saint, whose help we pray!
Breathe holy blessings, chant sweet measures; To grace and gladden Founder’s Day!
And thro’ the woods and o’er the water, To Notre Dame’s lov’d Founder send The greeting of his distant daughter, Who hails him Father, claims him friend!
-Eleanor C. Donnelly.
’ Eeast of St. Edward, King, Oct. 13, 1S90.
A Talk on Letter Writing.
(Conclusion.)
The letters we write home ought to be as carefully written as possible. There is nothing too good for your father of mother. . They may not always tell you so; but you may be sure that a well-written and affectionate letter from you brightens, life very much for them. Have you - ever seen; a father who had a boy . at school \ draw from his pocket a son’s letter and show it to his friends with eyes glistening with pleasure? I have. “There’s a boy for you!” he says. “There is a manly, cheerful letter written to me, sir, and
written as well, as any man in this country can write!” If you have ever seen a father in that proud and happy mood, you know how your father feels when you treat him with the consideration which is his due. Your mothers treasure your letters, and give them a value they do not, I am afraid, often really possess. If you desire to appear well before the world, begin by correcting and improving yourself at home and at school. A young man who writes a slovenly letter to his parents will probably drop into carelessness when he writes formal letters to people outside his domestic circle.
It is a good rule to answer every letter during the week of its receipt. It is as rude to refuse to answer a question politely put as to leave a letter without an answer —provided the writer of the letter is a person you know.
Some young people are capable of addressing the President as “Dear Friend,” or of doing what, according to Mgr. Capel, a young person did in Baltimore. This uncouth young person was presented to Cardinal Gibbons, Archbishop of Baltimore. “Hello, Arch.!” he said—and I fear that his friends who were present, wished that he were dead.
“Dear Sir” is always a proper form to begin a letter with to anybody older than ourselves, or to anybody we do not know intimately. And if we begin by “Dear Sir,” we should not end with “Yours,, most affectionately.” “Yours, respectfully,” or “Yours, sincerely” would be the better form. To end a letter, with “Yours, .etc.” is justly considered in the worst possible taste; and it is almost as bad as to begin a letter with “Friend Jones,” or “Friend Smith,” or “Friend John,” or “Tom.” The Quakers address one another as “friend”; we do.not. Begin with “Dear John” or “Dear Tom”—or even “Dear Jones” or “Dear Brown,” if you like

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
but do not use the prefix “friend.” In writing to an entire stranger, one may use the third person, or begin with “Sir” or “Madam.” Suppose, for instance, you want some information from a librarian you do not know personally. You may write in this way:
“ Mr. Berry would be much obliged to Mr. Bibliophile for Dr. St. George Mivart’s book on 'The Cat’ which Mr. Berry will return as soon as possible.”
Or Mr. Berry would say:
“ Sir:
" I should be much obliged, if you would lend me Dr. St. George Mivart’s book on ‘ The Cat.’ ”
“Yours, respectfully."
No man in decent society ever puts “Mr.” , before his own name, except on visiting cards. There, usage has made it proper. A married lady or a young girl always has Mrs. or Miss on her cards, and, of late, men have got into the habit of putting Mr. on theirs. But if the card is written, Mr. should not appear there. A printed card is good for business purposes; a man’s card for social purposes must be written or engraved. When it is engraved, Mr., according to good usage, should always appear before it; and every man over. twenty-one ought to have a card of his own. No man of taste ever puts “Mr.” or “Esq.”* after his own name when signing a letter. A man capable of that would I chew gum in church. '
Another fault against taste is a habit—prevalent only in America—of writing social letters under business headings. Here is an example: “ J. J. Robinson & Co.
“New York.
“Manufactures and Dealers in the Newest Styles of Coffins, Caskets, and Embalming Fluids. Orders carefully attended to. All payments C. O. D. ’No deductions for damages allowed after thirty days.”
Under that heading appears a note of congratulation:
“Dear Tom:—I hasten to congratulate you on your marriage. Believe me, I wish you every blessing, and, if you should ever need anything in my line you will always receive the greatest possible reduction in price. May you live long and prosper!
-	“Yours very affectionately,
_	.	“J. J. Robinson.”
This is an extreme example, I admit; but who has not seen social notes written under business headings just as incongruous? When we write to anybody, not on business, let us use spotless white paper without lines; let the paper and envelopes be as thick as possible; and let
•	* The title.Esq. really belongs only to those connected
with the legal profession, but republican usage has much extended it.
us not put any ornamental flower, or crest, or coat of arms, or any bit of nonsense at the top of our letters. The address ought to be written plainly at the head of our letter-paper, or printed if you will. -And if we begin a letter with “Dear Sir,” we ought to write in the left hand corner of the last sheet the name of the person to whom the letter is addressed. But if we begin a letter with “Dear Mr. Robinson,” it is not necessary to write Mr. Robinson’s name again. If a man gets an invitation written in the third person he must answer it in the third person. If
“ Mrs. J. J. Smith requests the pleasure of Mr. J. J. Jones’ companj at dinner on Wednesday, April 23, at seven o’clock,”
young Mr. J. J. Jones would stamp himself as ignorant of the ways of society, if he wrote back:
“ Dear Mrs. Smith:—I will come, of course. If I am a little late, keep.something on the fire for me. I shall be umpire at a base-ball match that afternoon, and I shall be hungry. Good bye.
“ Yours, devotedly,
“J- J- Jones.”
You may be sure that if young Mr. Jones should put in an appearance after that note he would find the door closed in his face.
An invitation to dinner must be accepted or declined on the day it is received. One is not permitted to say he will come, if he can. He must say yes or no at once. The words “polite, “genteel,” and “present compliments” are no longer used. “Your kind invitation” now takes the place of “your polite invitation;” and “genteel” is out of date. The letters “R. S. V. P.” are no longer put on notes or cards. It is thought it is not necessary to tell, in French, people to “answer, if they please.” All well-educated people are pleased to answer without being told to do so. The custom of putting “R. S. V. P.” in a note is as much out of fashion as that of drawing off a glove when one shakes hands. In the olden times, when men wore armor, a hand clothed in a steel or iron gauntlet was not pleasant to touch. There was then a reason why a man should draw off his glove when he extended his hand to another, especially if that other happened to be a lady. But the reason for the custom has gone by; and it is not necessary to draw off one’s glove now when one shakes hands.
But to return to the subject of letter-writing. If you are addressing a Doctor of Medicine or Divinity, you may put “Esq.” after his name in addition to his title “M. D.” or “D. D.”; but “Mr.” and “Esq.” before and after a man’s name sends the writer, in the estimation of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
99
well-bred people, to “the bottom of the sea.” Paper with gilt edges is never used; in fact, a man must not have anything about him that is merely pretty. Usage decrees that he may wear a Hower in his buttonhole—and Americans are becoming as fond of flowers as the ancient Romans; but farther than that he may not go, in the way of the merely ornamental, either in his stationery or his clothes.
It is the fashion now to fasten envelopes with wax and to use a seal; but it is not at all necessary, though there are many who prefer it, as they object to get a letter which has been “licked” to make its edges stick.
I hope you will pardon me for repeating a few rules relating to this important subject of letter-writing which may have escaped your memory:
Begin, in addressing a stranger, with Madam or Sir. “Miss” by itself is never used. After a second letter has been received, “ Dear Madam ” or “Dear Sir” may be used. Conclude all formal letters with “Yours truly,” or “Sincerely yours,” not “Affectionately, yours.” Sign your full name when writing to a friend or an equal. Do not write “T. F. Robinson” or “T.T.Smith”; write your name out as if you were not ashamed of it.
Put your address at the head of your letters, and if you make a blot, tear up the paper. A dirty letter sent, even with an apology, is as bad a breach of good manners as the extending of a dirty hand. Answer at once any letter in which information is asked. Do not write to people you do not know or answer advertisements in the papers “for fun.” A man that knows the world never does this. These advertisements often hide traps, and a man may get into them merely by writing a letter. And the kind of “fun” which ends in a man’s being pursued by vulgar postal cards and letters wherever he goes does not pay.
In writing a letter, do not begin too close to the top of the page, or too far down towards the middle. Do not abbreviate when you can help it; you may write “Dr.” for “Doctor.”
Do not put a yellow envelope over a sheet of white note-paper. It is not necessary to leave wide margin at the right hand side. The custom now is to write only on one side of the paper; to begin your letter on the first page, then to go to the third, then back to the second, ending, if you have a great deal to say, on the fourth.
With a good dictionary at his elbow, black ink, white paper, a clear head, and a remembrance of the rules and prohibitions I have given,
any student here cannot fail, if he write, to impress all who receive his letters with the fact that he is a gentleman.
Ad B. P. E. Sorin*
Festa dies agitur, Sancto redeimte Patrono, Qua pia natorum pectora amore virent.
Teque tuumque decus decorat, venerande Sacerdos, Quum Regis laudes orbis uterque canit.
Gymnasii laetis resonant concentibus cedes, Ac nomen trepidant concelebrare tuum.
Nosquoque solemnem grati comitamur honorem.
Ut tibi fundamus munera nostra, preces:
“ O Deus omnipotens! Patris invigilare saluti, Et caro capiti presidium esse velis! ‘
Mellitos longosque dies perducere possis Ridentique float vita serena domo!
Innumeros valeas juvenes formare Magister, Atque diu doceas aurea verba tuos!”
Jam Sacre Crucis vulgatur fama per orbem, Luxque Dei ccecis gentibus alma patet.
Stellata Marias frontem precinge corona, •	'
Ut Nostre Dominae gloria casta micet:	.
Te Mater tua, te Virgo immaculata rependat!
Et quondam Christi regna beata feres!
-----=——a—------------
Dion and the Sibyls.
The novel has become one of the chief elements in the literature of the day. It cannot be denied that it is a great factor in education, especially for those who, when reading, are influenced by the proper motives—who, instead of hurrying through, merely for the purpose of catching the story, make it a point to fix in their minds the knowledge and instruction the work may contain, and to study well the different characters. By such as these many benefits will be derived from novel reading.
A world contained in words, the novel is the portrayal of the manners and customs of men: their ways of acting and thinking, and the circumstances which lead them to act and think in such and such a way. In a word, recourse to the novel is one of the best means to obtain a -true insight into human nature. A thorough acquaintance with human nature—with men and their ways—is, undoubtedly, true education; for by means of such knowledge we form our own character.
Novels are of different classes. Some paint one side of life, others another; some the dark side, others the bright. If you wish the aristocratic life of England read Thackeray; if the low and middle class read Dickens; for romance,
* Address from the ecclesiastical Novices, read by Mr. Joseph Just.
1OO	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
Scott; for entertaining history,’ Lord Lytton. The above is stated in reference to the advantages of good novels—those written by standard authors, men of education and character. There is another class which does not depict human nature as it is; but are written by men who care little for the effects their works may produce upon their readers, and who write simply for money. These cater to the natural dispositions and sentiments of the people at large, especially to the young who have not taken it upon themselves to look seriously upon life; filling their writings with such trash as corresponds to the inferior nature of inexperienced and unthinking youth; portraying to his view such pictures and fancies as he is wont to entertain, and increasing his natural tendency to “build castles in the air.” These writers, with an abundant flow of words, depict scenes pleasing to the imagination —scenes of romance and adventure, in which they are obliged to strain their powers in order to make the impossible turn out real, always in the end bringing the heroes out victorious. Such novels as these, instead of being a source of education, on the contrary, by showing nature in a false light, prove very detrimental to the one who is preparing to enter upon the great drama of life.
, Still further we find another class, with higher .. motives than any of the preceding, having for . its aim the elevation of our character, the directing of our moral powers, and which shows us Truth as she is; this is the Christian novel.
. *
Among this latter class, one that rightly figures in the first rank,.is Miles Gerald Keon’s work entitled “Dion and the Sibyls.” This is one that may be recommended to every Christian, be he Catholic or Protestant. It is a work care. fully prepared; and, though making no display . v of literary style, comes forth at times, when . occasion demands, with a glow of eloquent words . and language. One feature of this book, which insures its success, is its continued and increasing interest, so that the farther one reads, and the more he becomes acquainted with the characters, the more anxious is he to continue until . he reaches the end.
. The scene is laid in Italy at the time when Augustus was Emperor of Rome, when Ger- manicus .was crowning himself with glory in his expeditions against the Germans in the North, and Tiberius was waiting for the time when he should be called upon to hold the reigns of government, or rather, in his case, of misgovernment. He lost no opportunity of winning the affections of the people. For this purpose each new em
peror would strive to surpass all his predecessors in the magnitude and sublime grandeur of the gladiatorial contests prepared for the amphitheatre. These, more than anything else, pleased the depraved nature of the populace at that time. Augustus, however, was more humane and did not approve of such barbarities, though he tolerated them.	.
The chief personage of the story is Paulus ALmelius Lepidus, nephew of the former triumvir. He, with his mother and sister, was on his way from Thrace to the residence of Augustus, from whom he sought to regain certain estates which had formerly belonged to the brother of the ex-triumvir, Paulus’ father, who fought in the battle of Philippi and was supposed to have been killed. The experiences of the party in this undertaking were many and interesting. On their way they are accosted by Tiberius, who inquires into their intentions. Here Paulus, trained at the Grecian schools in the use of the sword, is unexpectedly offered an opportunity to display his ability in this line. A certain slave, taking some of his words as insulting to the Caesar, makes a thrust at him as if to fell him to the ground. Paulus wards off the blow with such dexterity as to win the admiration of Tiberius, who now determines to secure oui' athlete in order to make him the hero of a -coming gladiatorial contest. All his movements are henceforth watched. It is the object of Tiberius to steal away from Paulus his sister, and to make the result of his fortune in the arena the sole condition on which he is to recover her. This evil design is discovered, and they, of course, determine to guard against it. They are lodged at an inn where considerable is learned of the operations of the plot, being befriended by the host and hostess of the inn by whom they are kept informed.
In, the meantime, Paulus meets with an old gladiator who had won many victories in the arena and was the leader of a school of gladiators. He was struck with the appearance of Paulus, and wanted him to join his school. At this our hero, who was bred in Greece, where such shows were held in disgust and were not even permitted by law, gave a peremptory refusal and denounced gladiators as uneducated, base-born, mercenary cut-throats. Here the lanista—as the gladiator instructor was called— makes an eloquent vindication of the character of the gladiator. He asks: “Do you so utterly despise the gladiator, who displays in a greater degree the severest and highest virtues? Do you despise the man who despises life itself? Do you despise abstemiousness, fortitude, self
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	ioi
control, self-sacrifice, chastity, courage, endurance? Who is more dauntless in the combat, more sublimely unruffled when defeated, more invincibly silent under the agony of a violent death, accompanied by the hootings of pitiless derision, and whose derision, whose mockery is the last sound in his ears?” He denounces, in strong language, those who take delight in witnessing these, games, sitting in shameless safety, applauding the men as they kill their beloved comrades, and howling and hooting over their brave friends when slain; and those who have taken them when mere children and reared them expressly for the arena, thus depriving them of all chance of living anything but a contemptible and degraded life. After these words, Paulus forms a better opinion concerning the character of these men. The two are hereafter warm friends, and the gladiator does all in his power to aid Paulus.
One of the principal things of interest in this story is the wonderful feat of Paulus in taming the horse Sejanus. This was an animal of enormous size and great strength and ferocity. In order to manage him with safety, it was necessary that he be muzzled, and that two men lead him with long ropes, one on either side. The beast was kept for the purpose of affording amusement for the people at the amphitheatre. Men condemned to death were compelled to ride the animal, or according to the then common phrase to “brave the-Sejan horse.” The poor unfortunate was always torn to pieces.
One of Tiberius’ slaves was to obtain his freedom on the condition that he succeed in taming this beast; but he was also allowed the privilege of substituting in his place any friend who was willing to take the dangerous task upon himself. Paulus, whose designs had been favored 1	o
by this slave, who was not a man of courage, offered himself as a substitute. He was a firm believer in the teaching of the Sibyls, who had for years been prophesying that One was about to come from the East, who would set all things right in the world. The night before the struggle, one of these sibyls appeared to him and told him how he could conquer the steed. Relying omthe protection of this unknown Deity, he went fearlessly to the battle, and after a fierce fight, in the presence of a greater concourse of people than had ever before witnessed the games of the arena, he did completely subdue the animal: By this Paulus won the applause of all, freed the slave and obtained high.honors. .
Another personage, on whom rests the main issue of the story, is Dionysius, who afterwards turned out to be St. Dennis, the apostle of
France. He was one of the Areopagites of Athens and had made a study of the Sibylline prophecies. He was very faithful in the belief that some great Being was about to come and make general reparation for this “disorderly, tortured world.” He was instrumental inobtaining for our travellers, if not the estates sought after, at least an equivalent, and by his conversation with Paulus still further confirmed his belief in the God about to come. .
At one time, our friends were invited to a banquet where all the leading men of the place were to attend. Here, in the presence of Augustus, Tiberius and many other notables, Dionysius was called upon to explain his philosophy. He upheld the belief in one God, and spurned the notion of a plurality of gods and that of Pantheism. The arguments were based on the method of causation. He says that a god who could begin to be a god, or begin at all, could be no god; and that He is without a body—a pure and holy Intelligence; that He is antecedent to, and independent of all things, and that, all things are dependent on Him. Another point was that the force or principle within us, which thinks, reflects, reasons and is conscious of itself, will continue to live after the body has ceased to be active. The different theories against the existence of God,’as He is, which are still held by many, though nowjsuperannuated and worn out by the friction of pure logic, were proposed by different members of the company; but in every case, Dion gets the better of the argument, his answers being witty and to the point and causing much interest. One thing, however, could not then be solved—not until that Being-should come and appoint some one to teach us His will. This was the answer to Dion’s inquiry to procure future happiness for that thinking principle which still continues to live even after the decay of the body—“Why is it that some authoritative teacher has not been sent down from heaven to teach men the will of this God? Was it just, or at all in conformity with an all-merciful God, to make our doings in this life determine what is to be‘our lot for everlasting ages, rewarding those who please and punishing those who displease Him, if He does not furnish us with the means to know7 His will?”	•
As will be observed, Dion, the Athenian, was teaching the Romans. The latter were more given up to the development of the body; this was the chief education of the youth at Rome. The Greeks, on the contrary, devoted themselves more to literary pursuits—to the culture of the mind; and when tthe Romans conquered the
io2	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
Greeks by force of arms, the latter, in turn, won a more complete victory over their conquerors by elevating their nature to a higher standard through the means of letters. The saying of Germanicus at the time has become a proverb: “Learned Greece has conquered her fierce vanquishers.”
From the foregoing it is evident that this work has a high moral tendency, and is an eloquent lesson in philosophy, rendered the more interesting—the meaning being the more easily grasped—by being put in the form of a novel. It shows forth the then universal feeling that Christ was about to come to deliver man from the troubles and uncertainties that were then in the hearts of all. It brings before the reader brilliant examples of heroic courage, fortitude and nobleness of character; it is the champion of truth and justice, in the end leading us to the grand turning point of all human history, and finally bringing our souls to the contemplation of that Infinite Being who came from heaven to redeem the world.
L. P. C.
---------:------------
Infusoria.
Of all the sciences zoology is the most extensive. Its field is a world of manifold forms unlimited in number and varied in aspect. To determine the origin and development, the habits and structure, the distribution and mutual relations of these forms is the labor of the zoologist. But so many and various are the different views under which the animal creation may be contemplated that the general science is beyond the grasp of a single person.
The ideas which are excited in the mind by the observation of the planets of our system, and by the study of the sederial universe, are at once impressive and sublime. The same is true of the different forms of animal life, and especially of that called “Infusoria.” The most gigantic intellect stands awe-stricken in the contemplation of their wonderful organism. This tumult of mental excitement, however, is not calculated to produce permanent or useful impressions. A slight portion of unbelief tinges the mind of even the most sincere scientist, however unwilling he is to confess it, and this scepticism is heightened by the assertions of insincere scientists who affirm that the attributes of matter are inferred, not apprehended, by the senses.
An analysis of even a drop of water reveals to us many thousands of animalculae each perfect in itself and distinct from its fellows. The
minutest forms of life—the monads—have been found in the infusoria. They have been -regarded as the “ultimate term of animality” and Mr. Whewell not only considers them as “at the boundaries of the animal world,” but regards their homogeneity and simplicity of composition as almost excluding them from the domain of animal life. Mr. Whewell assumes that because the organs are not visible, they are therefore not in existence. He has propounded the theory of the finity of animal life, and thus decides his convictions on the subject that he seems to hesitate whether the monads constitute the unit above or below the termination of animal life. According to his views, a living monad may be considered as the lowest link of the chain of animal life; but he excludes it entirely from the chain of organic life.
The infusoria possess great powers of locomotion, and manifest in several of their vital functions a degree of complication which entitles them to a higher station in the animal kingdom than that which has been assigned to them by some of our great naturalists. Certainly they are superior to the sponges or polypi, fixed by nature in one position like plants.
Professor Ehrenberg has proved that there are monads not larger than the 24,000th part of an inch, and that they are so thickly crowded in the fluid as to leave intervals not greater than their own diameter. Therefore, each cubic or a single drop of the fluid contains about five hundred million of mopads. This able naturalist has shown that they even possess internal cavities for the reception and digestion of food, and has rendered it probable that they have an organization as complete as that of the larger infusoria, in fact, as complete as a Rotifer, in which he has distinguished traces of a muscular, a nervous, and even a vascular system.
Professor Ehrenberg has been equally successful in examining the nutritive and reproductive functions of the infusoria. In order to display their digestive organs, he conceived the idea of supplying them with colored food which tinged the membranes through which it passed. In order to show this he employed a highly colored solution of pure indigo, and disclosed the existence of a system of digestive cavities in all the known genera of this class of animals.
Their organs exhibit great variety in form, situation and arrangement. While they differ in . degree of complication, yet this difference has no relation to the size of the animalculae. The manner in which the infusory animalculae are reproduced is little known. They can be generated in three different ways: by budding, afte
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
163
the manner of plants; by sexual reproduction, and by fission or the naturaLbreaking-up of the - body into distinct surviving parts. This process is frequently very rapid, the increase of a single animalcula being numbered by millions per month.
All the infusoria seem to be provided with a mouth, generally terminal, but sometimes placed near the middle of the body. The breathing organs, so far as known, are simple openings. The sense of feeling perhaps has its appropriate organs in the mouth and the vibratile cilia by which it is surrounded. The eyes are supposed to be the dark, red or black stigmas which the microscope reveals as situated in the front on the upper side. Though colorless and translucent, they vary from green to yellow or red. The colored species give their peculiar tinge to the water. All are familiar with the story that the waters of Egypt were turned to blood, and Pliny in his natural history tells of a rainof blood which fell in Rome; and, in times nearer our own, phenomena of this kind have been observed in different localities in Europe, causing ridiculous alarms. The cause of this so-called rain of blood is now well understood. Everyone knows that they should be attributed either to mineral particles in the air or to the remains of the infusoria carried up by the winds. It is now known beyond doubt that where fresh water wears a peculiar tinge, this coloring is due to the presence of infusoria or microscopic vegetation. In short, the infusoria are to be found everywhere. We find their remains on the loft-tiest mountains and in the depths of the sea. They increase and multiply alike in the Torrid and Frigid Zones, in the seas, rivers, ponds, and flower vases, even the tissues and fluids of our bodies contain infusorial animalculae. The study of these animals is intensely interesting to the naturalist and physician. A great part was assigned to them in nature, as is seen in the formation of certain beds of rock of immense extent, in which the geologist traces their action. Our first knowledge of the infusoria was derived from the researches of the celebrated naturalist Leuwenhock, who discovered them in the seventeenth century. They were first classified as a special group among the radiates; but the theories regarding them were changed when microscopes of great power were employed in their study, and now they are recognized as a class of the protizoa.
There are two main groups of the infusoria: the monads—spoken of in the beginning—and the ciliata which are furnished with numerous vibratile cilia. The bodies of the latter class
are more or less translucent. In shape they are globular or ovoid, sometimes fashioned like a shuttle, sometimes swollen in the middle like an ampula and flattened into a discoid shape. These are the true infusorias, and are easily observed with a common microscope. They have a mouth/ a digestive cavity, and multiply by budding: Among them the parameciums are the largest. They are easily observed if a little carmine is introduced into the drop of water. A colony of these present an astonishing picture; the bells are continually contracting as if jerked from behind and the stalk forming a perfect screw in the operation. We cannot conclude our brief history of these curiously-organized beings without mentioning the doubt which still exists in the minds of our most eminent naturalists, whether some of those we have named are of an animal or vegetable origin.
■ The desmideal, formerly classed among animals, are now recognized as plants. The dia-tomaceze are still doubtful, while the monads and volocina are still subjects of discussion, and strong evidence is claimed on both sides. Several great scientists assert very plausibly that they are of a vegetable nature; but Professor Agassiz, perhaps the greatest of all, takes a firm stand on the other side.
The study of the infusoria is daily becoming of greater importance, and we may conclude these few remarks by saying: If nature had endowed us with microscopic powers of vision, and the integuments of animals had been rendered perfectly transparent to our eyes, the animal world would present a very different aspect from the apparent immobility and repose in which it is now manifested to our senses.
H. L. Prichard.
The Catholic University at Washington is destined soon to become the centre of fruitful literary activity. Several of the professors are engaged in important literary labors. There is now in preparation a large and valuable work soon to be published under the auspices of the University. It is the product of the joint labors of Rev. Dr. Hyvernat and Rev. Dr. Paul Muller-Simonis. It is entitled “From the Caucasus to the Persian Gulf.” That portion of the work relating to archaeology, ancient history and philology is being prepared by Dr. Hyvernat, and the narrative, geographical and ethnological portion by Dr. Muller-Simonis. The book will cover Persia, Caucasus, Kurdistan, Palestine, Mesopotamia, India, and Egypt, and will doubtless be an invaluable addition to the literature of Orientalism. Other members of the faculty are also engaged in literary labors of an important nature.—Catholic News.	'
104
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mtfMn.
ISuilisijrti rbtro ^aturtan Iiun'ng ®rrm UTintt at X. S. HniUrrsftn.
■ Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, October 18, 1890.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twenty-fourth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	w
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and’the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in.Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum.. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NWRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Founder’s Day.
Washington Hall presented a very lively appearance on the eve of the feast of St. Edward, Oct. 13, when the Faculty, students and many visitors from abroad assembled to tender a reception to the venerable Father General Sorin, Founder of Notre Dame, on the occasion of his patronal festival. Avery interesting programme had been prepared, and the exercises were conducted in a manner to reflect great credit upon all who took part.
First on the programme came the Overture “Crown of Gold,” by the University Orchestra. The selection was rendered with great precision, justifying the reputation of the members for musical ability, and revealing the talent and skill of the leader, Prof. Paul. This was followed by a “Grand Chorus,” “Rataplan,” from Donizetti’s “ Figlia del Reggimento,” in the rendition of which the Choral Union displayed the excel- lent training they are receiving from Professor
Liscombe.
Mr. J. E. Berry then appeared on behalf of hisTellow-students of Sorin’ and Carroll Halls, and delivered an appropriate address to Very Rev. Father General. His delivery was marked by that elocutionary excellence for which Mr. Berry.is fast acquiring a reputation at Notre Dame. The address was well conceived, and
expressed most gracefully the sentiments of esteem and respect entertained by the students towards the beloved Founder. Mr. Berry spoke as follows:
“The honor and admiration of.man for man is but the’ offspring of the nobleness of character which he has inherited from his Creator. To work for man, while self is hidden, is truly noble; to return with love an act in kindness done, is human; but the honor and esteem, the love and veneration of thousands, must be won.
: “ It is thus, dear Father, that we address you. Not only do we, in humble words, offer you the gratitude of your children’s hearts and lay at your feet our lowly, but sincere tokens of love, but also, your sons who have drifted from the shadow of Alma Mater, and have passed from beneath your gentle care to tread the path made strong by your pious counsels—they, too, return to you in prayers and salutations, the heartfelt gratitude which they owe.
“Disinterestedness in action and charity in thought have been your ’ aims through years of trials and hardships, but of successful termination; years of labor are the mile posts that mark your struggles in the cause of Christian education; the motive of love for Man has spurred you on from the days of the lonely log cabin to the present greatness of A Ima Mater. Though darkened by the cloud of disaster, your star of Faith and trust has arisen again and followed on its course. These have been your life-long aims, your treasured air castles, which have formed themselves into a city from the misty chaos of your energetic thoughts; such were your prayers, to build a home where Christian men could be formed.
“ Now, when your thoughts have become real; when the dreams of your holy days of privation have passed from the land of the possible to dwell in the real present, you rest in the love of thousands who owe to you what grateful hearts alone know how to repay.
“ Beside the sleeping lake and in the mournful echoes of a virgin forest, you raised the ax, and in the name of Mary Immaculate you felled the pine for Notre Dame du Lac. Years with their changes have rolled into the irrevocable past, and still the echo of that stroke rings through corridors of learning. The plaintive chant of the little log chapel now resounds through arches and colonnades erected to God’s glory; the woodman’s ax has turned into'the mason’s trowel; the dirge of a lonely forest has wound itself into strains of hundreds of happy voices of young and old, and the kind and gentle heart that beat with cheerfulness and holy love, years and years , ago, still beats as kind and gentle in the hour of age and rest. Still young in spirit, your indefatigable zeal for the cause of learning and Christian culture is drawing to your loving shrine the hearts of the Catholic and Christian world; worthy of yourself, worthy of your cause, you have proven yourself worthy, thrice worthy, of the love offered you.	,
“You have won! Such has been your deed; such has been your victory; and now, in tokens of deepest love, we . beg to offer you bur congratulations on this your festal day of ’90. Let this bright day, dedicated to England’s sainted king, be a jewelled link joining in bonds of love the wreath of Golden Roses of your Priesthood and the crown of Alma Mater's gold renown; let it be a day when every heart redounds with love and joy for our Father Founder; let it be a day to mark upon your life’s trials one of peace and tokens of affection from your sons of
“Sorin and Brownson Halls.”
Mr. Lamar Monarch displayed good elocution-.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Io5
ary ability in a declamation, and was followed by Master P. Gifford who rendered a beautiful vocal-solo, “Esmeralda.” Master Gifford has a • clear, ringing voice, pleasing in its tones and possessing a good register; but all its richness was not fully displayed—no doubt because of a little natural timidity. His selection was well received by the delighted audience, who insisted upon an encore, to which the youthful vocalist gracefully responded. We may say here enpassant that this entertainment has given the assurance that one of the most interestinsr features of the various college exhibitions during the present scholastic year—the music, vocal andinstrumental—will be of unusual excellence.
Mr. R. Boyd represented the students of Carroll Hall, and read a well-written address to the venerable Superior, which was as follows:
“ As the changing seasons speed down the fleeting year, they bring in their course days of sorrow and days of jubilation: mournful anniversaries when a tide of bitter memories floods the soul with the waters of woe; joyful anniversaries, fraught with gladsome reminiscences,that add new beauty to external objects and prompt the heart to kindly word and generous deed, and song and anthem and unbounded glee. Such days come to all nations and all individuals. History marks these eventful epochs in the annals of empires, and memory is the historian who regulates the calendar of each separate life.
“ As with nations and . individuals so it is with a • college. In the academic	-”.SS
calendar, too, are found these red-letter days,	Very Rev. E. Sorin,
when Alma Mater calls Superior-General, C. S. C., and Founder of Notre Dame. upon her children to participate in the sorrow or partake of the gladness incident to the event she honors. Thus, only a few. short weeks ago, Notre Dame in tears craved our sympathetic condolence and besought us to blend our faltering voices in the funeral dirge of a loved Professor; to-day, her
radiant visage decked with happy smiles, she enjoins us to echo another strain ;Jbids us swell the chorus of triumphant paeans that fittingly greet her Founder’s Feast.
“ Never was duty more congenial imposed on hearts more willing. Apart from any exceptional circumstance tending to intensify the joy with which we welcome an occasion to address you, the. recurrence of your nameday, dear Father, alone suffices to evoke the grateful expression of our esteem and love. In common with generous youth the world over, we are loyal adherents.
genuinely great, impassioned admirers of the nobly good and true. This sentiment of hero-worship is one we share with many; but we are singularly blessed in the enjoyment of a privilege accorded to but few: that of dwelling within the circle of a real hero’s influence—of having ever before our eyes a brilliant exemplar of noblest manhood. In applying to you such epithets we will not be accused of youthful exaggeration; we are merely reiterating the expressions of thousands of competent judges who have weighed you in the balance and have never found you wanting. Far worthier tongues than ours have often pronounced your eulogy; but even we can appreciate your works which are, after all, your best trumpeters; for they ‘daily praise you in the gates.’ Magnificent Nbtre Dame is but the realization and embodiment of the thought that dwelt in your soul when, in fervid youth, you consecrated to God and Our Lady the future years and their unborn trials. Only great men thinksuch thoughts; only saintly heroes can achieve such realizations. Obstacles apparently insurmountable

must often have loomed up before you; but,happily for America, and thrice happily for us, you are one who holds that
“ ‘ It becomes no man to nurse despair,
But in the teeth of clinched antagonisms
To follow up the worthies', till he die.* '

lowed up the worthiest, a worthiest nobler than the poet dreamed of, the . great applaud you, the good revere you; and we, your children, both revere and love. Be pleased, dear Father, to accept our heartfelt congratulations on your auspicious recovery from your recent illness; and believe that our prayers which, we would fain -hope, may have slightly contributed to that happy result, will unceasingly ascend to the Throne of Grace, imploring still greater length • of .years and all good gifts for the venerable Founder of our College home.
“The Students of Carroll Hall.”
Master J. O’Neill, accompanied by Masters G. Scherrer and W. Scherrer, represented the “Princes” of St. Edward’s Hall—the;youthful proteges of Very Rev. Father General. He did his part in a manner that reflected credit upon himself and the Minim department. His address was a beautiful poetic production, 'and his clear, musical voice added much to theaffec-tionate sentiments it contained.
After an excellent selection by the Orchestra, the exercises concluded with the presentation of Prof. Egan’s dramatic episode of the late
IO&
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
war, entitled “The Rising of the Moon.” The plot of this powerful little one-act drama has already been noticed in these columns, but may be briefly repeated here. The curtain rose on a guerilla camp, near Arlington, Va., about nightfall, at the time of General McClellan’s advance towards Richmond. Ted, the drummer of the guerillas, has just seen Lieutenant Arden shot for refusing to reveal General McClellan’s movements. The brother of Lieutenant Arden, Captain Arden, of the Federal army, witnessed the execution. He is seized by Tom Crawford, chief of the guerillas, and threatened with death at the rising of the moon unless he commits the treason his brother had refused to commit. The evening wears on; Captain Arden, wounded and desperate, lies in the guerilla camp, cursing his fate and almost blaspheming God. Ted, the drummer boy, remonstrates with him, and whispers in his ear, “pray.” Arden begins the “OurFather”; but whenhe gets to the words “Forgive us our trespasses,” he can say no more; he will not forgive the man who has murdered his brother. Suddenly, the camp is surrounded by the Federals. Tom Crawford’s right hand is cut off; in another minute he will be taken prisoner and get no quarter. He rushes in and implores Arden to save him—to let him leave the camp; but Arden, armed with Ted’s knife, bars the way. “Well,” Crawford cries, tearing off a Confederate button from his coat: “Take this to my boy, and tell him that his father asked a Christian to forgive him, and he refused.” Arden, touched in his conscience, seeing that his enemy cannot fight, disguises him in his brother’s coat and waistcoat, and bids him flee. He goes, and Arden kneels to finish the “ Lord’s Prayer,” forgiving at last his brother’s murderer.
The role of Captain Arden was taken by Mr. S. Hummer, who displayed an admirable conception of the requirements of his part, depicting with force and realism the struggle between the feelings of nature impelling to revenge, and the promptings of Christian sentiment urging him to show mercy. Mr. N.J. Sinnott, as Captain Tom, entered into the spirit of his role, and well portrayed the notorious guerilla. His appeal for mercy was admirably rendered. Mr. J. E. Berry took the part of Ted—the most difficult role in the play. Its descriptive speeches, as well as the varying moods of the dialogues into which it enters, demands a power of elocution and a command of voice and gesture not frequently found upon the college stage. It is great praise, therefore, to say that Mr. Berry proved himself equal to the occasion, and merited the hearty plaudits of the audience. Mr. J. R. Fitzgibbon
made an excellent Sentinel, and Messrs. L. Monarch and F. Schillo were realistic as Federal soldiers. The play was well mounted, and pro- ' duced under the direction of Rev. Father Regan and Prof. Egan.
On the conclusion of the entertainment, Father General arose and briefly expressed his thanks, and congratulated all who took part in the exercises. Rev. President Walsh also made a few appropriate remarks, and all retired. As the audience left the hall they were delightfully surprised with the brilliant illumination of St. Edward’s Hall, which made a splendid spectacle amid the darkness of the night, typifying the intensity of the affection of all at Notre Dame for their venerable Superior.
* *
Monday, the 13th, dawned bright and fair, giving presage of a beautiful day, which, however, was not fully verified. At eight o’clock, Solemn High Mass was sung by the Very Rev. Provincial Corby, assisted by the Rev. Fathers French and O’Connor as deacon and subdeacon. Father General’s happy recovery from a severe illness was too recent to permit him to officiate on this solemnity as had been his custom on each recurring St. Edward’s Day. But all rejoiced at his presence in the sanctuary, giving evidence of his rapid restoration to health and strength. The sermon was preached by the Rev. S. Fitte, who spoke eloquently of the life and virtues of the saint of the day, and paid a feeling tribute to the grand work of the venerable Superior-General.
Shortly after Mass, the College Band, under the direction of Rev. Father Mohun, played several selections in honor of Father General, who acknowledged the compliment in his own happy manner. This was the first public appearance of the Band, and they astonished all present by the correctness and beauty of their playing, notwithstanding the short time of their organization.
The members of the Faculty next waited upon Father General and presented their congratulations through the medium of Prof. M. F. Egan, who made an appropriate address, speaking of the two-fold reason for rejoicing which the day brought with it—it was the occasion of his pa-tronal festival—and it found him happily recovering from a serious illness. The venerable Superior very feelingly responded.
* . * *
At noon a grand banquet was served in the Senior dining-room at which Father General graciously presided for a short time.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	io)
Owing to the rain, the usual out-door exercises incidental to the day—the regatta, field-sports, etc., were postponed. Though this slightly marred the festivities, yet it did not dampen the spirit of joy that prevailed throughout. It was, indeed, a day of joy for all, and never were words of congratulation more heartfelt than those called forth by St. Edward’s Day, 1890; and the refrain sung through every heart was this wish and prayer: Long live the Founder of Notre Dame!
Personal.
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Academy Station, Ind., paid a flying visit to Notre Dame on Thursday.
—Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Scherrer, Mr. Denis Sheedy, and Mr. J. J. Hagus of Denver, Colo., were welcome visitors to the College during the week.
—Mrs. Philip Funke, Denver, Colo., visited her three sons at the University, and was an interested spectator of the field sports on Founder’s day.
—A letter received from N. P. Gibbs, (Law, ’87), brought the sad intelligence of the death of the father of P. J. Nelson, (Law, ’87). May he rest in peace.
—We were pleased to see among the Colorado visitors last week, the genial Mr. Thomas B. Cooke, who called to see his son Frank in the Minim Department.
—Mr. and Mrs. C. D. McPhee, of Denver, Colo., visited Notre Dame last week on their way from Prince Edward’s Island, where Mr. McPhee had been visiting his brother.
—Messrs. Patrick -Cavanagh and Michael Cudahy, of Chicago, were welcome visitors to the College on Sunday last. Their many friends here regret that their stay was so short.
—Rev. T. O’Sullivan, ’58, of Cummings, Ill., called to pay his respects to the venerable Founder of Notre Dame on St. Edward’s Day. He was warmly greeted by many friends.
—We feel assured that with a little exertion on the part of the students we could have a very interesting personal column. Send us accounts of the old boys you met during vacation, and we shall be glad to publish them.
—Rev. John Bleckman, ’67, Michigan City, Ind.; Rev. John Crowley, Laporte, Ind.; Rev. John Dempsey, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mr. Joseph Bleckman, Cincinnati; Miss C. Bleckman, Michigan City, and Miss K. Roche, Lafayette, Ind., were very welcome visitors to the College during the week.
—The Rev. L. Hoffer, Rector of St. Louis’ Church, Louisville, O., and the Rev. V. Arnould, Rector of St. Peter’s Church, Canton, Ohio, paid a very pleasant visit to Notre Dame during the
week, calling to see their old-time friend, Father Fitte, and to enjoy the festivities of St. Edward’s Day. Both the Rev. gentlemen have been engaged in missionary work for more than a quarter of a century in the Cleveland diocese, and their learning, zeal and devotedness have been productive of the most happy results. Their visit was the source of much pleasure to the many friends they made here, and we hope they will find time to repeat it often.
Local Items.
—Founder’s Day.
—He is impossible.
—Where is that hot duck?
—The tureen still holds the fort.
—Be sure you write and go ahead.
—Rain, rain, go away—come another, etc.
—Competitions next week in the Collegiate Courses.
—A series of lectures on “ epoch-making men ” will soon be opened.
—The princes wrote feast-day letters to Very Rev. Father General.
—St. Edward’s Hall was brilliantly illuminated on the nights of the 12th and 13th.
—The gentle secretaries of the various societies are again requested to be prompt in sending in their reports.
—There is talent enough this year in the Thespians to bring out some unusually excellent dramatic production.
—Rev. Father Mohun, Director of the Band, was in Chicago on Thursday securing additional instruments for that organization.
—The first appearance of our local actors was indeed a success. We shall look for great work in the histrionic art this year.
—Many have expressed the desire that a little more expedition might be used by the gentle carrier of the mails between South Bend and Notre Dame.
—Master G. Scherrer, of Denver, Colo., presented Very Rev. Father General, in the name of the “Princes,” a large basket of the choicest roses and lilies on the 13th.
—Such inelegant expressions as the “old buck” should be scrupulously eschewed. “The gentleman ” or “the man” is quite good enough for English-speaking people.
—Of all the slang expressions which, after being well worn out in the effete (?) East, are shipped to the West, “see” is the most disgusting. Perhaps those who use it so frequently are not aware of its origin.
—Rain on Monday and Thursday prevented the holding of the annual Field Day exercises of Sorin and Brownson Halls. It is hoped that the “ clerk of the weather ” will be a little more genial during the coming week.
io8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Owing to our limited space, we are obliged to omit the elegant poetic address from the “Princes,” as well as several society reports. We shall try to make amends in our next issue.
—“A red horizon in the Western sky,” said a young weather prophet last Wednesday evening, “bespeaks a fine day to-morrow for the races.” Fine day! It rained all day. A reward is in store for the young aspirant, but we “dunno who he is.”
—Bro. Augustus, Director of the Tailoring Establishment, has been honored by a letter from the Rt. Rev. Bishop Keane, Rector of the Catholic University, congratulating him upon his successful work, and extending best wishes for future prosperity.
—A reception was tendered to the members of the Athletic Association in Brownson Hall reading-room on Thursday evening. Excellent music was discoursed by the Crescent Club Orchestra, and refreshments were served through the kind attention of the Director, Bro. Paul.
—Notre Dame University, Indiana, which honored John Boyle O’Reilly’s genius and character during his life-time, is also preparing noteworthy tributes to his memory. Among other marks of honor, the Faculty propose to place a fine portrait of him in its gallery of- distin-gfuished men.—Pilot. o
—Bulletins for the months of September and October will be in order in a short time. These bulletins contain a detailed account of the progress, application and gentlemanly bearing of the students, and it. is expected that they will see to it at once that the first report in these matters will be favorable.	’
—Ernest Du Brul, who was in Europe for the last four months, returned last Saturday, and has resumed his classes in the Junior year of the Classical Course. He is preparing a series of “talks” on his adventures while on the Continent, with which he proposes in the near future to interest the St. Cecilians in whose ranks he has already enlisted as an active member.
—Since anitemin another column wasprinted, the Field-day exercises took place. Yesterday (Friday) afternoon, extra “rec” was granted, and the boys took advantage of the fine weather to carry out the programme of races and other sports that had been prepared for Founder’s Day. The hour of our going to press is too early to permit a report to be given in this issue, but we hope to publish a detailed and interesting account next week.
—The fifth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on Wednesday last. Mr. A. McPhillips read a well-prepared criticism on the preceding meeting. The following members took part in the regular debate: Messrs. Boyd, Nester, Delaney, White, P. Murphy, E. Scherrer, and E. Jewett. Mr. Schillo rendered a very pretty solo on the organ and Mr. Prichard gave a recitation. The judges—
E. Du Brul, J. Kearney and J. J. Fitzgerald— reserved their decision.
—The Leonine Literary Society of Holy Cross’ Seminary is now in full running order. The election of officers, which took place early in the session, resulted as follows: Rev. J. J. French, President; J. J. Gallagher, Vice-President; H. N. Santen, Recording Secretary; J. J. O’Rourke, Corresponding Secretary; Joseph Maguire, ist Censor; J. S. Ready, 2d Censor; T. Hennessy, Critic; James Leo, Sergeant-at-Arms. At the next regular meeting Messrs. McDonald and Marciniack will give a reading and a recitation.
—The authorities note with pleasure the earnestness with which the students of the various departments enter into the monthly competitions. This is as it should be. There is no better test of the application and progress of a student than these frequent resumes of the month’s work. It is well to remember too that class medals, premiums, etc., are awarded according to the records of these competitions; and in those classes in which there is no change or promotion during the year, any carelessness, in the matter of preparation for this work at the beginning of the year may have a serious bearing on claims to any honors.
—The tailoring establishment was moved to its new quarters in the Palais dTndustrie on Thursday last. It was intended to celebrate the event in an appropriate manner with music and speech-making; but the unpropitious state of the weather prevented any out-doorexercises. The gentlemanly Knights of the Shears are well pleased with the large and commodious rooms which have been assigned them in the grand new. building. One defect still remains—the want pf proper steam-heating apparatus. This, no doubt, will be remedied in a short time. The genial Director extends a general invitation to call upon him and see the conveniences for turning out first-class work in his line.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held a meeting in St. Edward’s Hall on the 3d inst., at which an election of officers took place with the following result: Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger, D. D., Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., and Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., were elected Honorary Directors by a unanimous vote. Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. F. Edwards, President; J. O’Neill, ist Vice-President; C. McPhee, 2d Vice-President; L. Stone, Recording Secretary; P. Stephens, Corresponding Secretary; W. Crawford, Standard-Bearer; F. Brown, ist Censor; J. Pellenz, 2d Censor; W. Hamilton, 3d Censor; T. Finnerty, ist Monitor; A. Crawford, Treasurer; W^Girardin, Sergeant-at-Arms; V. Washburne, Charge d'Affaires.
—The Carrolls’ Sports:—A large number of spectators gathered on the Carrolls’ campus on the morning of the 13th to witness the various contests. Promptly at 10 o’clock the contestants in the 100 yards dash were ready for the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
signal to start, and soon after they were speeding down the course towards the goal. Throughout the various contests, which continued until noon, the spectators showed keen interest; while • the participants in the games, encouraged by the large attendance, warmly contested for the prizes. The scramble for the apples which was postponed on account of rain, took place on, last Wednesday afternoon. The “ fleetest men ” succeeded in making the largest “grabs.” I
'	summaries: •
First race—one hundred yards run, won by M. E. Hude, J. McDonough second, and A.. McPhillips third; time n 3-4 seconds. Second race—one hundred yards run, won by W. Cope, , M. Hannin second and T. Boland third; time 12 3-8 seconds. Third race—one hundred yards run, won by C. Pope, P. Reilly second and P. ' Foley third; time 12 7-8 seconds. Fourth race —one hundred yards run, won by O. Payne, F. McDonnell second and Dela Pena third; time 13 7-8 seconds. Fifth race—one hundred -yards run, won by George Gilbert, H. Des Garennes second and H. Gilbert third; time 141-4 seconds. Sixth race—one hundred yards run, won by W. Dierkes, N. Gibson second and D. Monarch third; time 15 seconds. First three-leg race—one hundred yards run, won by Jewett and Hannin, M. Quinlan and T. Boland second; time 15 seconds. Second three-leg race—one hundred yards fun, won by N. Gibson and R-. Fox, R. Pim arid P. Wellington second; time 17 3-8 seconds. First throwing contest—won by M. Quinlan, 'distance 350- feet; second throwing contest, won by J. Ayer, distance 300 feet. Standing broad jump, won by J. McDonough, distance, 9 feet 1 inch; running broad jump, won by.J. McDonough, distance 16 feet 1 inch. Hop, skip and jump, won by M. Hannin, distance, 34 feet 9 inches; high jump, won by A. Campbell, 4 feet 9 inches. •
—Senator D. W. Voorhees, of this State, who had a son and nephew educated here, visited the College on Sunday last, accompanied by Mr. A. D. McSweeney, Democratic Candidate for Clerk of the Supreme Court, State Senator T. E. Howard, Hon. J. B. Stoll of the Times, and . other prominent, citizens of South Bend. The students, being informed of the arrival of the distinguished visitor,' assembled-in front of-the main building, where President Walsh introduced the Senator, expressing the hope that he would favor them with a short speech. Senator . Voorhees did so in a very happy manner. Thanking them for their kind reception, he said it always gave him pleasure to meet - young . people and.talk to them, for on them the country will hereafter rest its hopes. Men come and go like the waves of the sea, and they-would one day have to fulfil the duties and assume the responsibilities that now devolve upon their teachers, their parents, and those who now take an active part in the world’s work and in shaping the destinies of the country. He congratulated
his young auditors on the splendid opportunities here afforded them, and he felt confident that the education they were receiving would be a great benefit to them in after-life. He was glad to find science and morality here going , hand in hand; for knowledge combined with moral integrity is a sure guarantee of success. He spoke especially of the great value of time to the students, as they will learn more fully in after years. The student who makes the best use of his time at college will be the one most' likely to succeed in life. It is true, he said, that the smallest part of an education is that which can be obtained within the walls of college, but here the groundwork is laid. Education is a life-work of which the college training is but the beginning. Man’s whole life is but the acquisition or perfecting of an education whose rudiments were obtained in college.	* '
The distinguished orator spoke in this way for some ten or fifteen minutes, after which he again thanked the students and Faculty’ for their kind reception.	-
At the close of his remarks, three cheers were moved and heartily given by all, irrespective of party leaning, after which the visitors withdrew into the College, and the students dispersed towards the campus.	.
—Moot-Court.—Case of John Kent, Guardian ad litem, vs. the Michigan Central RR. Company. The plaintiff in this action, by his Guardian ad litem, complained of defendants, and said the defendants were a corporation on the 1st day of August, 1890 — a corporation owning and operating a railroad between Chicago and South Bend; that the defendant company, in operating its road, carried on its trains, to be used by its servants, certain signal torpedoes which were apparently harmless, but, in fact, were dangerously explosive; that on one occasion a train owned and operated by the defendant company, carrying such torpedoes as aforesaid, was stopped by its servants at a water-tank and station in the city of South Bend, county and State aforesaid; that the said servants took some of the torpedoes and placed them on the track in an exposed place without proper cause or necessity, but to have the train pass over and explode them; that the defendant company negligently failed to explode all the torpedoes; that it negligently left one unexploded, in plain view of a place where persons had been for years accustomed to pass, and where children were accustomed to go, to defendant’s knowledge and without objection from it; that this torpedo was picked up by a.boy who gave it to the defendant; that the plaintiff, in attempting to open it, not knowing its dangerous character, caused it to explode, thereby receiving severe injuries, and that for damages sustained, damages were claimed to the amount of 815,000.” The case was one of demurrer. F. Vurpillat appeared as attorney for the plaintiff, W. McWilliams for the defendant. Decision in our next report.
IIO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. A. Ahlrichs, Allen, Bovett, Brelsford, Burger, Berry, Blackman, Brady, Bachrach, Cavanagh, Cartier, Clayton, L. Chute, F. Chute, J. Dougherty, Fitzgibbon, C. Gillen, Herman, Hackett, Hummer, Hoover, Morrison, J. McGrath, Murphy, Neef, W. O’Brien, Prichard, Paradis, Paquette, Prudhomme, Reynolds, Rothert, Schaach, 0. Sullivan, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, N. Sinnott, J. B. Sullivan, R. Sinnott, Tivnen, F. Vurpillat.
BROWNSON HALL.
• Messrs. Aarons, E. Ahlrichs, Bundy, Blameuser, Bell, Barclay, Briggs, Benz, Connors, T. Coady, Cassidy, Correll, Coad, Combe, Connolly, Curtis, Cottey, Corrigan, Dechant, Dela Pena, Jno. Dougherty, Dahler, Dacy, Din-kel, Frizzelle, Flanigan, Fleming, Flynn, Guertin, Gillen, Gruber, Green, Grothaus, Hawthorn, Heinemann, Heard, Hennessy, Hauske, Houlihan, Joslyn, Jacobs, Jackson, Kearns, J King, Karasynski, Keenan, Kyle, Krembs, Layton, Langan, Lesner, Myler, Mozier, M. McGrath, McCabe, Mauly, Mock, Mug, Mitchell, Mahany, Maurus, Magnus, McAuliff, Murphy, McDonnell, McCarthy, F. McKee, J. McKee, Moncado, McConlogue, McGonigle, J. Newman, W. Newman, Norton, O’Keefe, Oide, O’Shea, G. O’Brien, S. O’Brien, Otis, Otero, Powers, Paris, Phillips, Parker, F. Robinson, Rebillot, Rudd, A. Robinson, Stanton, Schwarz, S. Scholfield, R. Scholfield, Sanchez, Sanford, J. Sinnott, Spalding, V. Vurpillat, Vidal, Vande-car, Vital, White, Wright, Wall, Walsh, Wood, Weak-land, Youngerman, Zeitler.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Anson, Ayer, Bergland, Booher, Burns, Ball, E. Bates, Brady, Browning, Boyd, B. Bates, Boyle, Cole, Casey, Carney, C. Connor, W. Connor, Cope, Cregier, Collmann, Connolly, Connell, Collins, Cummings, Campbell, Chassaing, Dierkes, DuBois, Drumm, Delany, Dorsey, Dempsey, DeLormier, Ellwanger, Foley, Fitzgerald, Falk, Alfred Funke, Arthur Funke, Fleming, Gerlach, Gillon, J. Greene, G. Gilbert, Girsch, Gifford, H.’.Gilbert, A. Greene,'Ginocchio, Hill, Hannin, Hack, Hagus, Healy, Hoerr, Haddican, Hahn, Jackson, Keough, Kearney, Kennedy, Keith, Lorie, Leonard, Luther, Monarch, Mit. chell, Mattox, Mott, H. Martin, McCartney, Marr, A. McPhillips, McDonough, McCarthy, H. Nichols, W. Nichols, Neef, O’Neill, O’Rourke, Orton, O'Mara, Pope, Payne, Pomeroy, Prichard, Quinlan, Russell, Renesh, Regan, Roper, Reilly, Sugars, Stokes, Stapleton, E. Smith, M. Smith, Treff, Tong, Tucker, Thom, Teeter, Thornton, Vandercook, Weinmann, Welch, Zinn.
st. Edward’s hall.—(Minims.)
Masters Allen, Ball, O. Brown, F. Browri, Bixby-, Burns, Blumenthal, Blake, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, A. Co-quillard, J. Coquillard, Cornell, Coon, Curry, Crandall, Chapoton, Cross, Croke, Christ, C. Donnell, S. Donnell, Everest, Ezekiel, C. Furthmann, W. Furthmann, E. Furthmann, Fuller, Fischer, Fossick, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Freeman, Girardin, Griesheimer, Hathaway, Hoffman, Haddican, Hamilton, Higginson, Howell, Jon-quet, King, Krollman, Kuehl, Kern, Keeler, Lonergan, Loomis, Levi, Lounsberry, T. Lowrey, Longevin, McPhee, Myers, McGuire, Mclnyre, McPhillips, H. Mest-ling, E. Mestling, Marre, Nichols, O'Connor, Otero, Pel-lenz,'Pieser, Paul, Ransome, Ronning, Russell, Stephens, G. Scherrer, Stone, Trujillo, Trankle, Wolff, Wilcox, Warburton, White, Washbume, Windmuller, Zoehrlaut.
’	List of Excellence. .
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
• Book-Keeping— Messrs. E. Keyes, Parker, F. Robin-■ son; Arithmetic—Messrs. Rebillot, F. Flynn, Crall, Frizzelle, Roper, McCartney; Grammar— Messrs. Burns, Des Garennes; Geography—Messrs. E. Keyes, J. Greene, Ruesch, Booher, Pope, Guertin; United States History— Messrs. Ball, Ruesch, Vandercook, Cope, Falk, Hill, H. Martin, Yingst, Fox, Weakland, Frizzelle, T. Greene, E. Keyes, Zeitler; Orthography—Messrs. Ball, Bergland,
Des Garennes, Long, Weinmann, Weakland; Reading— J. Weakland; Penmanship—Messrs. Connolly, Ramsey, McCartney, O’Rourke.
---------------------.
Class Honors
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. E. Keyes, Guertin, Stanton, Paris, Mug, J. Newman, Waugh, Frizzelle, Hospes, Grimes, Rebillot, Wall, F. Flynn, Krembs, J. Greene, McCartney, Hude, W. Bates, Ellwanger, J. Delany, Roper, E. Connors, T. Greene.
---------------------
World’s Fair Educational Exhibit.
At the rooms of the Columbus club yesterday, a score of gentlemen representing the Catholic schools, academies and universities of theUnited States met to make arrangements for an educational exhibit at the World’s Fair. The meeting was called by Archbishop Ireland, and among those present were: Bishop Spalding, who was chairman; the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, President of Notre Dame University; Prof. M. F. Egan, W. J. Onahan, the Rev. Procopius Neuzel, of St. Procopius College, the Rev. John T. Murphy, of Pittsburg, Brother Maurelian, of Memphis, the Rev. E. A. Higgins, of St. Ignatius’ College, the Rev. Thomas Hodnett, the Rev. Rayner of Milwaukee, the Rev. M. W. O’Brien, of Detroit, and the Rt. Rev. F. Wolf of Atchison, Kas.
The day was passed in discussing plans for the exhibit, which it is intended shall represent all branches of Church effort in educational matters, from the parish school to the university. Vice-President Bryan of the World’s Fair directors assured the delegates that they should have ample room for their exhibit and that the local board would be glad to assist them in any way. C. C. Bonney suggested the feasibility of a Catholic Congress in Chicago in 1893. He said that a room for meetings and proper accommodations would be provided for the Nation’s guests.
The Rev. E. A. Higgins, W. J. Onahan and Prof. Egan were appointed a committee to prepare a circular, and present a plan for the proposed exhibit.
The Rev.Father Walsh thought that the exhibit would depend on the room the directors could give them, and said: “ Wewill showwhat we have done and hope to do, and our methods in primary, intermediate and university courses. The different Orders will be given an opportunity to show what they are doing. The Christian Brothershave nearly the entire charge of the primary schools, and that exhibit will probably be left to them. Then, there are the Jesuits, the Benedictines and other Orders that will make exhibits. The literature of the Church will also have a place, and what we have done in the arts.”
Last evening an informal reception was given the visiting delegates at the rooms of the Columbus club, at 119 La Salle street. The rooms were crowded, a lunch was served, and the evening spent in a social way.—Chicago News, Oct. 9.	_
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	m
St Mapy’s A®adem\'
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The much-admired programmes of the entertainment were the work of the Edison Mimeograph, which for speed and perfection of finish seems to be unequalled.
—The “spelling match,” once so much in vogue, and, happily, not altogether a thing of the past, was revived last week in the Third Senior class, on which occasion Miss Gretchen Lauth proved herself to be the best speller of the class.
—At the recent organization of the Holy Angels’ Sodality, the following appointments were made: President, Miss N. Wurzburg; VicePresident, Miss M. Clifford; Secretary, Miss E. Quealy; Treasurer, Miss M. Hickey; Sacristan, Miss M. Scherrer.
—Among the welcome guests at the entertainment on the 13th were: Mrs. W. P. Rend, of Chicago, and her daughter Miss Minnie, Class ’87, together with Miss Mary Murphy, Class ’88, and Miss Estelle Horn, Class ’87. These three young ladies were the valedictorians of their respective classes.
St. Edward’s Day.
The name of St. Edward must be indeed “a name to conjure with” was the comment of many who were present at the entertainment given at St. Mary’s on Monday afternoon, Oct. 13. For, lol the usually prosaic study-hall, as if by magician’s art, was transformed into a scene of sylvan beauty through the combined aid of leafy sprays, over which autumn had strewn its gorgeous hues, delicate smilax, plants, ferns and trailing vines. The secret of all these graceful decorations is an open one; for, dear to all hearts who owe allegiance to St. Mary’s must be the feast of him who is its founder—Very Rev. Father General. This, then, was the stimu-4us that moved the hearts of all who took part in the entertainment, resulting in a programme creditable alike in design and execution. At 3 p. m., the lively strains of Schubert’s March announced the entrance of the honored guest, Very Rev. Father General, accompanying whom were Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Spillard, Fitte, Scherer, Zahm, Morrissey, and O’Neill, of Notre Dame; Rev. Father Sullivan, Chicago; Rev. Fathers Hoffer and Arnould, Ohio,and Rev.FatherCrowley,Laporte. Among the audience were Dr. and Mrs. M. F. Egan and
Prof. Edwards, Dr. Berteling, Miss F. Gregori, Mrs. Balch, Mrs. Hamilton; Mrs. Quinlan and Mrs. Neimann, of Chicago; Mr. J. Gilmour, Mr. F. Brady and Mr. A. Moore, Danville, Ill.
An exquisite floral piece and a profusion of choice roses—the offering of the pupils—elicited no little admiration, while they expressed in. their sweet, silent language the warm affection felt for him in whose honor the entertainment was given. The following was the .
Programme:	-
Entrance March............................Schubert
Misses M. McFarland, D. Deutsch.
Affection’s Offering..................Miss	M. Hurff
Greeting Chorus.......................   Sodermann
Vocal Class.
Voix du Cceur...................'.	....Miss T. Balch
Quintette from Martha.......................Flotow
Misses I. Horner, S. Wile, T. Balch, A.Howe, I. Dority.
A Chaplet of Wishes.........  Miss	R. Van Mourick
A Practical Tribute............;........The Minims
Festgrusz.............................Miss	K. Morse
Tarantelle...................................Thoma
Miss I. Dority.	’
Juniors’ Address......................Miss	S. Meskill
“FELICIA.”
Dramatis Persona.	,
Claudius (Roman Senator)...........      .J^Currier
Olympia (Roman Matron)....................:.S.	Wile
Julia (Their Daughter)....................N. Morse
Fulvius (Their Son).......................M. Hurff
Faustus (Roman Youth)............’........K. Ryan
Euphemia “ Lady)........................R.	Bassett
Cornelia “	“	.....................R. Bero
Octavia “	“	..................... .M. Patier
Syra (Slave).......................N.	Schermerhorn
Nydia “	...........................M. Scherrer
Lora “ ...................................L. Farwell
Naola “	..............................A. Thirds
Felicia (Blind Girl),.....................B. Quinlan
Prologue..................................H. Nacey
Scene i. The Nightingale...........................'... .Mosse
Miss I. Horner. Scene ii. '
Rhapsodic..........................•......Langer
Miss O. O’Brien	•
Scene in.
Don Geloso del Zeffiro................    .Bellini
Misses I. Homer, J. English.
Hunters’ Chorus.........................      Case
Vocal Class, Accompanied by Miss L. Nickel.
Retiring March..............................Kroeger	-
Misses C. Gibbons, D. Deutsch.	■
The vocal class, with its fresh young voices, rendered its two numbers, “ The Greeting” and “ Hunters’ Chorus,” in a spirited style, the last being particularly bright and exhilarating. Work so acceptable at this early date promises well for the future. In the duet by the Misses English and Horner, the voices blended musically; while the singing of “the Nightingale,” by the last-named young lady, was most pleasing; and it is needless to say that the Misses O’Brien and Dority sustained their well-merited reputation for musical ability in the rendition of their instrumental solos. The addresses from the different departments were prepared with unusual
ii2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
grace and skill, and were, in truth, highly artistic.
A pleasant and unique feature of the programme was the /‘Practical Tribute” by the Minims, who ^surprised the audience by their kriowledge'of'military evolutions, as well as by ' their spirited charge upon the hero.of the hour.
The scene of the play “Felicia,” the prologue of which was gracefully pronounced by Miss H. Nacey, is laid in the reign of Domitian, and the manners, incidents and costumes were in keeping with that age. The parts were well cast and well rendered, notably so those of the Misses Hurff, -Currier, Wile, Quinlan, Morse and Farwell. At the close of the entertainment - Rev. Father Sullivan of Chicago delivered an eloquent address in German, paying a glowing tribute to Very Rev. Father General; Rev. Father Walsh then followed, and in his usual happy manner complimented the young ladies on the success of their efforts, after which the audience’ • retired, well pleased with this happy ending of a memorable day.	'
Ah, what a host of memories arise,'
As"o’er the treasured past we turn our eyes!
Across Time’s plain, we see thro’ mists of years, Mt. Thabor’s joys, Gethsemani’s dread tears; . We see the labors of thy selfless life, We see thelaurels that have crowned the strife, Symbolic of the crown in.Heaven begun,, .
To wreathe thy brow when Time’s long day is done. AH this we see, as with Faith’s earnest gaze We view the work of .God in all thy days;
The smile of God, and Mary’s smile as well, The beauty of thy life-work sweetly tell.
- To-day, dear Father, with thy patron dear, Thy loving children to God’s throne draw near,-r In humble prayer, .that whatsoe’er betide,
, The grace of God may ever with’ thee bide. ' And when at last earth’s weary bondage o’er,-And heavenly joys are thine for evermore, Oh! may we meet near Mary’s blessed throne, Where, joyous thought, our hearts shall know their own.
Then, honored Priest, our Father and our friend, Our loving prayers for thee .this day ascend;
And when the chains of earthly love are riven
Oh, may they strengthened be fore’er in Heaven!
Your devoted children of the
Senior Department.
Address to Very Rev. Father General.
Our Venerated Father:
How beautiful upon the mountain height The feet of him who, to our heart’s delight, Doth bring good tidings! Judith’s sacred song, That hath but gathered in the ages long New grandeur, doth our feelings best convey, As clustered round thee, this St. Edward’s Day, . We offer heartfelt wishes on thy Feast,
And greet thee with that glorious title—Priest.
A priest of God! What varied thoughts arise As all thy priestly years our spirits’ eyes . Behold! What mysteries of sacred love Those years have held! What graces from above! The soul of holy Simeon once was thrilled As Jesus nestled in his arms; then, filled ’ With grateful joy, the poem of his heart Was sung: " It is enough, bid me depart.” Earth’s vase was shattered in that wondrous hour When it sustained the longed-for “Jesse’s Flower.”
And yet, for more than fifty golden years,	.
Each day baptized with sorrow’s priceless tears, Each hour confirmed with Calvary’s saving sign, . Thine has it been, ah, privilege divine!
To offer unto God the Precious Blood.
. And from that sacred chalice what a flood ’ ‘ Of grace, of peace, of strength in earth’s sad strife, ■ Must not have laved thy sacerdotal life!
We offer greetings, then, O honored priest, .	And. ask all blessings for thee, on this feast.
But nearer, dearer, is another name, . . .
• : ‘ -A title that our lips with love e’er frame,; ...	’
A'name that wakens many a tender thought, And ever seems with Heaven’s blessings fraught, : Our Father! see thy children gather near; Loved Father to St. Mary’s children dear!
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Anson, Allen, Balch, Buck, Bassett, Bero, Bunbury, E. Burns, R. Butler, A. Butler, Byrnes, Beach, Brady, Breen, Bradford, Black, Clarke, Currier, Coleman, Charles, Chase, Churchill, Clayton, Cohoon, Cochrane, Campbell, Cowan, G. Cooper, Crilly, Cooke, Dority, Deutsch, Dennison, B. Du Bois, L. Du Bois, D. Davis, Dempsey, Donehue, M. Donehue, Dougherty, Daley, Eisenstadt, Evoy, English, Fitzpatrick, Farwell, Fehr, Fitzsimmons, Griffith, Gibbons, Green, Galvin, Good, Grauman, Hamilton, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, Hughes, Haitz, Howe, Maude Hess, Mollie Hess, Minnie Hess, Holmes, Hutchinson, Hanson, Hunt, Hopkins, Johnson, Kimmell, Kirley, Kieffer, Kasper, Kings, baker, Loennecker, Lynch, Lauth, Lewis, F. Moore, N. Morse, McFarland, K. Morse, M. Moynahan, A. Moyna-han, Murphy, M. Moore, Murison, McCormack, McCune, •Mullaney,N. Moore, McGuire, McPhillips, Nacey,Nester, Nickel, Norris, Niemann, O. O’Brien, C. O’Brien, O’Leary, Patier, Pugsley, Pengemann, Quinlan, Quirk, Quinn, C. Ryan, A. Ryan, G. Roberts, M. Roberts, Rentfrow, Root, Rizer, Ruger, Rose, Spurgeon, Stokes, Smyth, Sanford, M. Schermerhorn. N. Schermerhorn, Thirds, Tipton, H. V an Mourick.'R. V an Mourick, Violette,Wile, Witkowski, G. Winstandly, B. Winstandly, M. Wagner, Whitmore, Wolff, Waldron, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adelsperger, A. Augustin, M. H.Bachrach, M. Bachrach, Boos, M. Burns, E. Burns, Bartholomew, Culp, Campbell, Cowan, Coady, Crandall, Clifford, Cooper, M. Davis, A. Dennison, B. Davi's, Doble, Fossick, Gilmore, Girsch, K. Hamilton; Hickey, L. Holmes, Hammond, C. ..Kasper, Kellner, Kelly, McLaughlin, McGuire, Meskill, -Mabbs, Mills, Mestling, O’Mara, Quealy, Silvey, J. Smyth, • Scherrer, S. Smyth, N. Smyth, Schaefer, Soper, Tormey, Van Liew, E. Wagner, White, Wurzburg.	-
.	MINIM DEPARTMENT. .	.
Misses Eldred, Egan, Finnerty, - Girsch, Hamilton, Henry,McPhillips, McCarthy, McKenna, Otero, L. Smith, V. Smith, Windsor.