SARCASTIC 
7 
j 

03IAPRILl2008 

news 05 
I
7 Get Your Vote On t 
Mary Skelly ) I 
Campus organization NDVotes '08 encourages student 
participation in U.S. presidential race. 
8 Politicians, Polka and Polish Sausage Jessica Farmwald 

The unique South Bend celebration of Dyngus Day becomes particularly eventful due to the upcoming Indiana primary . election.

1 1 culture 
12 Bringing Bands to the 'Bend Maria Sellers & Frances Thunder 
In light ofJack's Mannequin's recent Notre Dame gig, Scholastic examines the process of drawing live music to campus venues. 
) 
·.• 26 Campus Chatter Jen Wulf Protestors, performers and alumni partake in the annual controversy that is "The Vagina Monologues." 
I' sarcastic 15 
Scholastic Senior Staffers 
15 
Nothing is sacred in Scbolastic's yearly farce on all that makes 
Notre Dame go 'round. 

29 sports 
30 Anything You Can Do Andy Gray 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team reaches the Sweet Sixteen in ND_ basketball's longest tournament run since 2001. 

final word 36 
36 On Diversity 
Marques Camp 
Why do all the minorities sit together in the dining hall? 
03 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 


EDNOTES 
I was walking through God Quad on one of the rare days this March when the sun actually broke through the South Bend permacloud. Van Hale~'s "Running with the Devil" was blaring from a window in Sorin Hall, and then all of the sudden the bells in the Basilica began to ring in time with the music. 
Only at Notre Dame. 
Every year, the outgoing senior staffers at Scholastic create Sarcastic, a section intended to capture exactly the sentiment that we all experience on almost a daily basis at this unique university we call home. Where age-old religious 
traditions meet college-age youth, conflicts are bound to arise -and come 
on, admit it -many of them are hilarious. So, in the spirit ofApril Fools' and senioritis, ·this is your chance to reflect on the delightful absurdities found 
nowhere outside of the Golden Dome's glow. Relax, laugh, enjoy our brilliant 
departing seniors' goodbye gift, and as always, don't take it too seriously. 
The rest of the issue is filled with great stories by next year's staf( also 
exploring what it means to be a part of the distinctive community that is Notre 
Dame. On page 26, Associate Editor Jen Wulf gives a vibrant description of 
her experience of the much-contested and oft-protested performance of the 
"Vagina Monologues." Sportswriter Andy Gray provides a glimpse of the 
women's basketball team and their NCAA Tournament run on pages 30-31. 
And don't miss Associate Editor Marques Camp's essay on page 36 that 
explores the longstanding question: why do all the minorities sit together in 
the dining hall? 
One last thanks to our graduating seniors -your hard work is much­appreciated, as is all of the guidance you have given us over the years. We have enormot1s ~gigantie 8fl¼€~ ("Is that adjective necessary? No? Cross it out. Don't look back.") big shoes to fill. But we're excited to try. 
Thanks for reading, 
Jessica Farmwald, Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC 'I 03 APRIL 2008 
!· . .:'. , . ' , . . . . : . . . . ,·. . .. ·.· . . / < . . . , . ,, : . . -. , . 


Congratulations to our brothers who were ordained to the priesthood on Easter Saturday at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 

Rev. Andrew M. Gawrych, C.S.C. Rev. Stephen A. Lacroix, C.S.C. 

vocation.nd.edu 
574-631-6385 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, I.3) 
' ' . ~ 
. . 
', / -~--~~--~ ~ • • 

m Thursdays at 11 pm 
let 111e check yep, it9 s still funnyo
O e o 


www.ndtv.net 
*this is a lie. 

XT MESSAGE 
ND Alert 
t't:ir 3'1. l1:'13 

Playing It Safe 
ND Alert continues to improve 
Vanessa Adjei
''rhis is a test ofND Alert, the Notre Dame emergency notification 
system. This is only a test. No response is required." 
Almost a year after the Virginia Tech massacre on April 16, 2007, the emergency notification system on Notre Dame's campus is still a work in progress. In the fall of 2006, Notre Dame President Fr. John Jenkins, C.S.C. authorized the project and Notre Dame has since been working to develop an efficient system that will deliver accurate messages in a timely manner. Since the implementation of ND Alert, there have been three tests of the system that includes three modes of communication. Students receive emergency notices via the emergency webpage emergency.nd.edu, mass communication devices such as e-mail, text, and voice messaging, and a Comcast override that allows messages to be delivered on campus televisions. 
The first test of ND Alert took place in November 2007. After evaluating the results of the test, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) found that some e-mail messages were arriving behind schedule, and some students were having difficulty understanding the voice messages. 
There was a second test in February to measure the effectiveness of the improvements made by OIT. OIT is able to track the success rate of the messages. It showed that the improvements were helpful, resulting in faster delivery ofe-mails and better clarity ofvoice messages. A third test took place in March and returned even more impressive results, including a 96.5 percent success rate in the delivery ofvoice messages. 
Among students, there seems to be mixed feelings about ND Alert. "The text message system is effective, but may be over-tested a little," freshman Katherine Manley says. Text messages are used in the ND Alert system because, as executive assistant to the Chief Information Officer,Jay Steed says, "Students consume information differently." 
The ND Alert system is still in its early stages, and while improving upon the efficiency of the system, students can expect one test per semester. "The safety of the campus is of paramount importance to the university," Steed says. + 
• •  --,,  •  •  "•  '  '  •  I ,,.  /y  ,..  •  '  • •  •  •  ' •'  I  -• l :  
NEWS  


CLINTON ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL Presidential primary candidate Hillary RICK SANTORUM LECTURE Former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum spoke Clinton made a campaign stop at Mishawaka High School on March 28. Her on his views about radical Islam in a speech titled "Gathering Storm of the daughter, Chelsea Clinton, visited Legends on March 26 along with "Rudy" 21st Century" on February 26. The event was sponsored by NDVotes '08. 
actor Sean Astin. 
182%£6 M ¥ 3Mik5WWS& el&¼W&S&3i?ISf&#Bi9hl§iW?JWAP* 
--· 
-


I 
I 
·----­
If[[[§~§§§ 

Health food in the Huddle ... as if you weren't headed straight for the quarter dogs 
anyway. 
Earth Hour. Lights out on the Dome -what the Lady can't see won't hurt her. 
Bookstore basketball in the 
rain/snow. At least we've got 
our Natty Light jackets on. 
Hello Fajita Fridays! Goodbye Tofu]ambalaya. 
Chelsea Clinton comes to campus! And brings that stupid fat hobbitses. 
de MW# SH9%&$ri9¾18446 fMM&e&&FM a W &Mif&:f§h S · & 9 &¥¥,Mfr/6 & 



Get Your Vote On 
Campus group encourages political activism Mary Skelly 
Voting is now in. Between campaigns like "Rock the Vote" and the Washingtonian's decision to name Barack Obama one ofWashington, D.C.'s "25 Most Beautiful People," young voter turnout has jumped this year -a survey by Rock the Vote estimates an increase of 146 percent. 
NDVotes is capitalizing on this recent political fervor. A non-partisan organization, NDVotes encourages and organizes voter registration, education and mobilization efforts. "College students have come of age at a time when we've been facing many problems -all issues we'll be facing in a very short time," senior NDVotes Coordinator Mike McKenna says. "We're paying attention to candidates addressing those issues. Students are fired up because most of the candidates have fired them up. Barack Obama especially has given them a voice.'' 
NDVotes has held a number of events to remind Notre Dame students about the importance ofvoting and to raise awareness of the political parties' stances on issues. It has hosted speakers such as former Rebublican Senator Rick Santorum and columnist EJ. Dion!1e to initiate dialogue on campus. On April 18, the organization will moderate a debate among all three campus political parties (the College Republicans, Democrats and Libertarians) as a "snapshot ofwhere the parties stand," McKenna says. Representatives from each club will discuss the state ofthe economy, health eare and foreign policy. The debate will be held at Fieldhouse Mall at 4 p.m. All students are encouraged to attend and also to take part in the Red vs. Blue football game on North Quad following the debate. 
McKenna urges.students to vote by absentee ballot in their home states as they are most likely to be familiar with their own state's issues. Additionally, voting in Indiana is challenging -though not impossible -for non-residents, since voters must identify themselves as primary residents by showing an Indiana identification card. + 
Students wishing to register to vote orsign 1tp for NDVotes' online database to receive updates about their state's elections and issues can visit www.socialconcerns.nd.edu and click on "Campus Initiatives" under the "Local Community Connections" tab. 
6 f SCHOLASTIC f 03 APRIL 2008 

. . . . . ./ , . 
. , . . . . .
' .. ' ,, . . . 
. • • . • -. . ~ . • ~ 
NEWS 

NATIVE AMERICAN PRAYER As part of the Prayers From Around the World series, attendees learn about Native American prayer in Coleman-Morse. 
HAWAIIAN LUAU Participants in the Hawai'i Club's Luau learn traditional dances. 
.,I



Framing Poverty 
Photos raise awareness of plight around the world 
Molly Kring 
Best things about St. Patrick's Day 2008 
The Notre Dame bubble is bursting. On March 30-31, LaFortune Student Center hosted the first annual Framing Realities Photo Exhibit. A collection of photos from around the world displaying the effects of poverty lined the walls of the Dooley Room. The exhibit featured photographs taken by Notre Dame students who hope to raise awareness ofworld poverty. 
Photos were matted on boards with a description of the picture's context placed beside them. The pictures, however, told more than the words. Faces of smiling Mexican children peered out from behind the fence separating Mexico and the United States. An innocent-looking boy held a toy gun. The images spoke of suffering, pain and joy in the midst of it all. 
Mary Feighery, a senior American Studies and Africana Studies major, collaborated with the Africa Faith and Justice Network (AFJN) to put the photo exhibit together. Feighery studied abroad in Uganda her junior year and came back with more than just memories. "I had so many pictures. I thought I should do something with them," she says. Combined with photographs taken by other Notre Dame students, Feighery hopes her prints will be "a good way for others to share in our experiences." · 
While the exhibit focused strongly on international poverty; Feighery emphasizes the importance of recognizing the poverty in our own country. "I think a lot of times people forget about problems in America," she says. Immigration was a theme represented in several pictures. 
Photographs were sold for 15 dollars each. The money raised by the exhibit will go to benefit the American Red Cross Refugee Program in South Bend and the VEMA women's center in Tanzania, a service organization Feighery volunteered with last summer. 


The Church says St. Paddy's is Saturday, not Monday. We say, round two. 
Green beer seems so much 
healthier. 

AB you lose your inhibitions, you gain participation points. 

4 
Philosophy class never made
+ 
. this much sense before. 
' 
.. . Sbarro is packed at two 
. . . p.m.
s 
03 APRIL 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I 7 



Dyngus Day celebrations in South Bend draw former President Clinton 
Jessica Farmwald 
It's 10 a.m. the Monday after Easter, and anticipation fills the air outside South Bend's West Side Democratic Club, along with scents ofkielbasa (Polish sausage) and beer, and sounds of canned polka tunes and local politicians stumping for their favorite candidates. Every year, South Bend hosts one of the largest Dyngus Day celebrations in the country, a tradition stemming from the city's historically high concentration of Poles. Dyngus Day's orjgins are uncertain; some say it is a remnant of pre-Christian Slavic purification and fertility rites, while others associate it with the baptism of Prince Mieszko I in 966 A.D., which marked the entrance of Catholicism into Poland. In more modern times, it has been a time of courtship for young Polish people ­boys would wake the girl of their choice by dumping water over her head and switching her legs with twigs or pussy willows. 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 03 APRIL 2008 
In South Bend, however, Dyngus Day has taken a decidedly political turn, with the majority of the action on the side of the Democrats.. Former Indiana Congressman Tim Roemer, a double-Domer who earned an M.A. in 1982 and a Ph.D. in 1986, says, "It has evolved into the step-off of the political season, a time when people can debate, argue, eat kielbasa, throw kielbasa." 
Dyngus Day traditionally draws out many local Democratic politicians. But with the close delegate race for the Democratic presidential nomination this year and the upcoming battle for Indiana's primary on May 6, Dyngus Day 2008 pulled in larger names than usual, including former President Bill Clinton and his daughter, Chelsea Clinton. 
Thus, hordes of people are swarming around the already-packed West Side Democratic Club, hoping to catch a glimpse of the Clintons as they make their way into the building for a speech scheduled at 11:30 ~.m. Volunteers swathed in buttons and stickers in support of Democratic nominee hopefuls Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama carry clipboards and offer to help people registerto vote. 
Roemer is the first major speaker. Pointing out two buttons affixed to his sport coat -one reading "Obama," and the other, "Kennedy" -he draws parallels to another momentous Dyngus Day exactly 40 years ago when presidential hopeful Robert F. Kennedy made a stop in South Bend. Roemer talks about how Kennedy was able to unite people from all different backgrounds to help change Washington, D.C. "We have a candidate who will do that again for us in 2008. His name is Barack Obama," Roemer says, and the audience responds with some cheers and a smattering of boos. 
From then on, it is the Hillary Clinton show. Kathleen · Kennedy Townsend, 


NEWS 


daughter of the late Robert Kennedy, kicks it off with a speech about a "woman of passion, determination · and faith," highlighting Hillary Clinton's commitment to health care and the education system. She then pays homage to the event with the help of Rev. Leonard Chrobot by leading a traditional Polish song that Robert Kennedy sang during his 1968 visit. 
After an introduction from Chelsea Clinton, former President Bill Clinton takes the stage and tells the audience why he thinks his wife is the best candidate for the Democratic nomination. He talks extensively about her plans to try to fix the economy and healthcare system and her commitment to caring for the veterans bfthe war in Iraq. He also draws comparisons to Robert Kennedy, saying that Hillary Clinton "has spent a lifetime as a change agent for other people." 
After Bill Clinton's speech, both Clintons head outside to shake hands and sign autographs for the large crowd of people that couldn't fit into the small venue offered by the West Side Democratic Club. A man manages to snap a good picture of the former president and turns to throw an arm around the woman beside him. "Awesome," he says. "Let's go get some beer." 
And with that, it's · on to the more traditional aspect of Dyngus Day. Standing in a long line for the traditional Polish fare of a kielbasa sandwich, sweet and sour cabbage, and noodles, Jim Cronk, a South Bend resident, says he's been attending Dyngus Day festivities "on and off over the past 20 years." Asked if the extra political hype and big names make this year any different than the last, Cronk says, "It's about the same -the lines for the food were just as long last year." 
About three miles away, the party is in progress at the M.R. Falcons Club, a nest of the Polish Falcons of America that provides its members with financial and fraternal benefits. Fifteen-year member Bill Junk sells tickets by the door, redeemable for beer or Smirnoff Ice at the bar. "Usually we are the hot seat for Dyngus Day," Junk says. "The younger crowd comes here." A group of young adults building a pyramid of empty beer cans in the corner proves his point.Junk says he thinks that they are busier today than past years because people have been put off by the large crowds at other venues where the Clintons are speaking. 

The strong South Bend Dyngus Day tradition of sharing handshakes and kielbasa, of exchanging business cards and beers, pervades this party as well. Roemer and current 2nd District Congressman Joe Donnelly, also a two-time Notre Dame graduate, mix and mingle, but as the noise level rises, both make their way to the door. 
"I know to get here before five," Donnelly says, laughing, but he reiterates the value of the political side of the holiday. "Dyngus Day is a chance for everybody to see their public officials, and they are very honest and upfront. Politics is a participation sport in Indiana." + 
03 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 


The S'pread of Spirit 
Catholic Charismatic movementthat developed at Notre Dame spreads worldwide 
Mike Tresnowski 
icture this: Duringyour weekly Emmaus group meeting, the student 
next to you begins speaking in tongues. Surprised? Although this kind of experience is no longer typical at Notre Dame, it was not always unheard of. 
In 1967, a group of students and faculty members on Notre Dame's campus began holding meetings that integrated Pentecostal traditions and experiences into their group prayer. Inspired by similar meetings held at Duquesne University earlier that year, the groi.ip started what is now known as the Catholic Charismatic Renewal. 
Dorothy Ranaghan, who earned her theology master's degree in 1966 from Notre Dame, was a part of these original meetings. She describes her experience as being "baptized in the Holy Spirit." The Charismatic practice is noteworthy for its emphasis on charisms, or spiritual gifts. "Charisms, which show up in the New Testament, include healings, miracles, prophecy, praying in tongues and other signs and wonders," Ranaghan says. 
Over time, the small group touched by Charismatic Catholicism grew exponentially. Meetings began in the grotto, were later moved to the Main Building, and by the 1970s, Charismatic Catholic conferences were being held in Notre Dame Stadium. Ranaghan recalls that these large conferences often drew 30-35,000 people to Notre Dame for a summer weekend. 
"There were many other things happening all over campus: priests sitting under trees hearing confessions, people gathered in small groups to pray for the sick, people with guitars singing and praising God all over campus, and all-night prayer meetings going on in the dorms," Ranaghan says. 
Ranaghan and her husband, Kevin, who earned a doctorate in theology at Notre Dame and taught at St. Mary's College, co-authored the history of the movement in their 1969 book, "Catholic Pentecostals." The two founded People of Praise, an ecumenical community in South Bend, and Kevin Ranaghan is an ordained Catholic deacon. 
Today, Dorothy Ranaghan estimates that there are approximately 135 million Charismatic Catholics in over 100 countries around the world. 
Senior Dominic Pepper went to a K-12 school founded by a Charisma~ic Catholic community in New Jersey before attending Notre Dame. Pepper says the popularity ofthe movement is due to its experiential aspects. "There is a human tendency to be attracted to events or experiences of intense emotion," Pepper says. "The desire to 'feel something,' or 'get something out ofmass' or out of on~'s faith has made the emotional facet of the charismatic movement, its most prominent element, very popular to people." 
Despite the movement's history on campus and international success, no official· Charismatic Catholic· organization currently exists at Notre Dame. Notre Dame professor Timothy Matovina, who studies Catholicism in the United States, says the effect ofthis movement is still present both on campus and worldwide. "The charismatic movement is really a manifestation of the call of Vatican II to faith-renewal,'' Matovina says. "There is a whole series of these movements that include faith sharing, intense prayer experiences, public testimony and the enthusiastic singing ofsongs." He added that many retreats offered by Campus Ministry, or popular high school retreats like Kairos, are in the spirit and tradition of Charismatic Catholicism. + 
P



BRINGING BANDSTO THE'BEND 
Inside the process of procuring talent for campus concerts 
Maria Sellers & Frances Thunder 
From the opening notes of"Dark Blue" to the final chords of a cover ofTom Petty's "_American Girl," popular rock group Jack's Mannequin entertained a packed Stepan Center on Friday, March 28. Andrew McMahon, formerly of the band Something Corporate, had the crowd jumping, jiving and attempting to crowd surf with his intense jam session on the piano and his reference to the one and only Touchdown Jesus. But how exactly do big-time acts such as Jack's Mannequin end up waxing lyrical about Catholic religious icons to a packed geodesic dome in South Bend, Ind.? From Ben Folds to Akon to Third Eye Blind, Notre Dame has a history of bringing impressive performers to campus, and recently, Legends Nightclub was named one of the top 12 nightclub concert venues in the country by the Pollstar Concert Industry Music Awards. Artists perform in a variety of settings at.Notre Dame: at Legends, the Stepan Center and even the Joyce Center for The Show, the annual fall concert to kickoff the school year. Though 
12 f SCHOLASTIC f 03 APRIL 2008 


their processes differ, organizations such as the Student Union Board (SUB), Legends and WVFI all work actively throughout the year to make these performances possible. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) b~gan its preparation early for Jack's Mannequin's visit. The SUB committee, led by two programmers, gauged the music scene and monitored band and campus availability throughout the year. Once the committee created their proposal for a concert, they presented it to the SUB Executive Board for approval. Financially, it is within the Board's discretion to send an offer to the artist unless the expenditures of the concert will exceed 10 percent of SUB's allowance from Student Activity Fees. In this case, the proposal must be approved by the Financial Management Board. In the end, however, the band is paid by a check from the university at SUB's request. 
The Show is another musical endeavor that requires an ample amount of preparation time for a successful concert. The Show 2008 Committee is comprised of eight to 10 students, advisors Aaron Perri and Amy Geist, and chairman Matt Barloh, all of whom will begin meeting the first week ofApril to select a hip-hop artist and rock band based on price and availability. The budget is confidential, but Barloh says that the event is paid for primarily through fundraising, money received from the Office of Student Affairs, Student Activities Office and ticket sales. 
Perri, a 2008 Show advisor as well as the general manager of Legends, emphasizes the role that contracts play in The Show's booking process. Not only does each band or agency have a contract, but Notre Dame does as well. "[Contracts] are also one of the most important things to complete before having a concert as they help to both physically and legally protect the university, students, employees, contracted· workers and performers," Perri says. "Luckily, Notre Dame has an excellent General Counsels Office, who have been more than willing to help sort through many of these contracts and negotiations." 
WVFI, the "voice of the Fighting Irish," also brings in talent with three to four concerts per year, working on one concert at a time. Chad Lavimoniere, chairman of WVFI Public Relations, is in charge of booking the radio station's concerts. He says he learns of artists' availability primarily by looking at agencies' websites or newsletters. "As far as genre, we try to pick bands that are soon­to-be-big, who sound like the general sound of our station and whom the average Notre Dame student might also like to hear," Lavimoniere says. In contrast to the financing of SUB and The Show, however, WVFI's funding is controlled through Legends. Therefore, while Lavimoniere chooses the bands, Perri determines whether or not to extend an offer. 
For Legends ~oncerts, Perri plans one semester at a time, attempting to fill every calendar weekend with one or two shows. He finds popular and diverse talent through radio, television, magazines and music festivals. 
"We want our, entertainment offerings to span all genres and styles to appeal to as many people as possible and to keep things fresh," Perri says. He says that name recognition seems to be the main factor in achieving·a successful show at Notre Dame and is the first thing he looks for. He gauges this by looking at where else the artists are performing, whether they are in the media and even by looking at Facebook profiles. 
Negotiation-is key in the booking process. Perri has to determine where the artists will be touring, the dates they are available and the routing. He says Notre Dame's location near major cities has advantages and drawbacks. The band may be convinced to make a quick stop in South Bend, but it is also easily skipped. If the artists have to go out of their way to make a visit, additional money must be paid. 
As Notre Dame and Legends become more well-known in the music world, however, Perri's job seems to be getting easier. "As [Legends'] credibility increases, we're getting more and more agencies who will bring bands to us, instead of me going to them first," says Perri. + 

PUTTING ON A SHOW Jack's Mannequin plays songs from their debut album, "Everything in Transit." 
03 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 

ffice salutes its 2008 Indiana Collegiate Press Association Award Wi'nners 




Scholastic Magazine -runner-up, 2008 News magazine of the Year 
Editors: Amy Meyers & Doug Schlarman 
Staff-Best single issue, first place; Best editorial or essay, second place and third place 
Claire So.bczak -Best news story, first place; Best entertainment story, third place 
Maggie Condit -Best in-depth story, first place 
Mike Tresnowski -Best feature story, third place 
David Poell -Best opinion column, second place 
Chris Wilson -Best sports column, second place 
Marques Camp-: Best sports column, third place; best sports story, third place 
Elisa Suarez -Best entertainment/humor column,first place 
Mike Healy-Best entertainment/humor column, second place 
Phii Langthorne:... Best news photo, first place 
Adrian Lopez Medina -Best news photo, second place 
Katie Napleton -' Best feature plioto, second place 
· Emma Daugherty -Best informational graphic, third pl~ce 

··oome Yearbook-runner-up, 2008 Div. I xearbook of the Year 
Editor: Natalya Fiore · 
Staff-Best execution of theme, second place 
Staff -Best overall design, second place 
Kathleen Martinez -Best organizations si:>.read, first place; best studerit life spread, 
third place; best academics spread, third place 
Jeddy Weltner and David Prin.9-:Best sports spread, thirdplace 
Jen Velez and Kathleen Martinez -Best special section, third place 
Tara Makowski, Katy Booth and Mari Astorga -Best album/portrait section, first place 
Billy Gallagher -~est news eyent photography, first place 
Greg Ramsower :_ Best feature photography, second place I
_J
.. ~David Prina -Best sports photography, second place' 
I 
Juggler Magazine -2008 Literi:lry Magazine oftheYear­
Editor: Michael Bogacz ···· ··• 
Staff-BE;st Single Issue, first place and second place 
R.e. Melly -Best short poem, second place Alexa McMahon'-Best free verse poem, first place\ Joanne.oe la Rosa -Bestshort story, first place Mallory Laurel -Best short story, second place Chau Nguyen -Best cover design, first place; best hand-drawn illustration, first place 
. Julie Ruffin -Bes.t cover design, second place Melissa Martin -'Best overaHdesigr,, first place and second place Michael Pina -Best photographic illustration, first place and second place 



"Life is short: Break the rules. Forgive quickly. Kiss slowly. Love deeply~ Laugh uncontrollably. .And never regret anything that made you smile." 
Find a guy who calls you beautiful instead of hot, Who calls you ba~k when you hang up on him, Who will lie under the stars and listen to 
your heartbeat, Or will stay awake just to watch you sleep. Wait for the boy who kisses 
/ I 
your forehead, Who wants to show you off to the world when you are in sweats, Who holds 
.l. 
your hand in front of his friends, Who thinks you're just as pretty without·makeup. One 
who is constantly reminding you of how much he cares and how lucky he is to have you. The one who turns to his friends and says, "That's ·her!!!!" 

_, 
',"',, 
-,1 
~be ffleY l 
. . ' . . •";',. 

~~ , 
f~ 
1 
a.lwo..yr 
f&¥1wa 

,tz~
fln3en ,,, f-he_ pvlre. El r;f C4mpvr 1,fe._... ·:-:/>, 
11, e.y even u ~ e_ -the V-worr/ !I 
fas,2ft\,HfrM\1idik&11& q ...,. 
• i 

1 Hwt.<.eht I'd be&1te111, R.eSu.fe. N&1tve, 1 V\,f;IW. "&t.<.t Lcf:us. 1 w&1s e111,Y&tptt.<.Yed bl:::! its be&1uti1 &!Ml W(,l::.'­after two fw.LL !::Je&1rs of-poppt""0 sqw.&1ts OV\, So1,tth deteYIM.Ll'\-tli to cl-leek. i:t out. 1:>esptte tltie pLeas ofIM.l::l G2u&1d, pLat1t""0 slap Hte bae w.~eyaee ~t r&1~01M. wtse frte·~, r c.iitcvied · the bi:lu for traV\Sport&1tio111, tailgates, q~ scr-em,¼L""9 "Sltiots to the Facet" 9Loi-t1-rie1tit i,111, fyovi,t of """ Nt).SP-1M.obtte, whi'.te rn111,V\,L""9 t11roM-gh the vialLs of Al1,tmv..t Accordi:""0 to the police report, i:t app&1i-evi,tL1:::1 toolutil wttlitout &1111,1:J coV\Sequei,,.,c,es, 1tnougnt I was ~l'etttJ Li'.lu I was pL&1111,111,L""0 to cMve off i'.111, 1,1,\,tl v..ewfol,(.v.,/i( LVI..VLll\,C,Lbte. 1 got awi:rti uV\Sc.atnec;( t.<.11\ti'.L thts ptt1tJH-1i'.""9. r1M.&1LJA,t&1i:111, th&1t 1just wav.-tei;{ to si'.t 0111, fateful Last o!at, of classes :i.ooG. Lt foi-a wnite. 
I doli\,'t ~111,{)W how I i:ttcH.t, b1-<.t I out-ct1.<.1M.bed Notre Asii;{e fYolM. ri,,:;!i'.""0 OI'\-a stotell\, bi'.lu avw;;! J:>&11M.e secl,(.rLtt, PoLt.ce: DY r&itnel", blj some fyeate ttttempti"'-0 to ste/ilL &1 golfcttrt, i'.t was al.so a Mt.LLei­of JA,&1tw.ye,. thei:, 01,ttsV1A..&1rted me. I-Ejl,(.e5,S thctt's Tl,IM,e °E,tl{X C&1LL to 11ttve &1 f&1!ee I]::) OJA, l¾t that 111,Lght, ­
_w"1&1t ha-ppeV\S _whell\, l::lDI,(. spe~ &1 wectv..estilal:::I es-peciaLLk:J OM fyol¾ H-&1w&1££ th&1t ts i,i,i,i'.scoLol"ect Mght chi'.LLL""9 ~Lth the tax te&1111,1, at TC w.11\ti:L 4 with tl-te pi.et1,1.re 0111, the WY0""9 stcte. A111,d the111,, &!.IM.. "E-l'.J Late Vl-i.ght chi'.LLt-""9, I meas,\. bt.<.StL""0 Lv,..to bLoWL""9 &I 0::1..5 i;iftey foKY hOl,(.1'$ of sobnett, W&IS sow-e Ytt~ol¾ taxers ~p&1rti,i,i,e111,t wtth tt fne~, i::ictdttj'.0111,aLLt, i;{etril¾eV\.taL to mlj cttse. . .­Loct:tti'.l'\.0 food i'.v,.. lilts reftiger&1tor, l'leciti:""0 i'.t up £111, Mt, fnell\,i;! h&1i boLte,:;! L111,to ti-le l'\-t&1Yblj bushes'. tht:mk.rowcive, &11/1,C{ the111, gettil'l-0 ~clu,:;! 01-<.t for · · Sol¾e l¾Lght cciLL tlticit cowttrdll'.j, bl,(,t 1 ~111,ew tlti&1t 
'. i'.1M.-propYLetij; --'., · he litttd substlilll\,C,es t"" hi'.s poc~ ti-tat wei-e ml,(.clit 
L-lpowol,(,rr~ecttoV\,fyolM. the reaLI¾ ofhot &1tlittetes Woi-se thl:!1'1.-JM.1:::1 f1:1lu IJ:>. we&1YL""9 back,wttY&ts c.i;tps, 1 iiecided to spk.e up tlite As I was tttlul'I.-C!W&!tJ LV\, the bapk, of tl1e squttd ~ltit a111.,d "borrow" abk.t:Jcle fyol¾ ci Mi'.gltibori""0 c.ar,. t ~MW I liacl bee!'\, clefeated. 1 lilac! l¾OJ/\khs of apart1M.e111.,t co!M.ple.i<. 1 naa evert, [11\tel'\twll\., of .coml¾KJA,Ltl:) servk.e, al.cohoL cissessl¾e.111,ts, al'\,ol bYt""0t""0 it baeR., bl,(,t NJ:>SP woutd col¾-pile1:1te LljLl'l-0 V\A-l::1 butt off to title eo,:;!s of R.eSLife ahe&1ct IMtJ pLC!V\Sjt.<.Stlil bit. -of JM.e. "E-ut ma bole{ &I~ LIM'flYUcle111.,t actLOV\,$ dtct· 
As. Lu.cR. wo¾Lcl 11ave i,t, £1111, N'PSP sq1-Utd ear eal'V\, "1,l.e mac! street cred avw;;t &1 spot Ol'I.-Notre ttpprottched m1:1 fyie!M;{ e,ry,..cl Ij~t as I httd f!,xea .?::>&1s-u's vai-sttt, Partt, Sqt.<.ad. H-oo-rahl _ IMI:j ·Lil¾itecl ttel-'\,tfo1-1, ow Cl golf cc:irt· Ol,!.tstc;te 



play j 
-;'{·. 
,.,..~: :'.".<\ •..·.:;,.~;~::;:J~ 
I I 
f­
:1,t,;, ,1i:> · ~ \-\ 
· 
.!~~mJJffil':RJilfG111ftl{ '~tdf 1 /2~~ i=ebn.<&1111 :ts, :u>o7--I} C)' ~ 
., t:>ear VLrgLi,,.. M11r1:1,
"'~l ._.·. . fill.m.m::!imn_rm_·lli:il_"''!!ii..lli!}.·.aID,.lli'iiJlfu.h:, 
T11e c!Lfftre~ betweev.. w. grew L11rger t11st ""4,ht... l'Ve 
~­
I 
sol.t:l Vll.l:j tli\.l'l,l)Ctl/'.U to at:>011.1.t~11Ltci.o1A.S t:>iLLo~ bol:I iv.. tiryi­sic!ers 11""'111 pol.D "'-«11A.ec(.seG1111,S&£1v,1.w. "RMdl:l Mc.trpl1l:jl 
_-g_1,1.t. l'\-0. Yefl. rttsl. We.•LL b.eto.get.11_ er fo~.tverl I I.eve. h.. il\1-I
.so we were 11,1.11Ju~ 01,1.tforaboc.tttwo 1101,1.i-s;eti,,,cl ~ 
t11£i,,..g I R.1'1,0W l'I¾ cit£90£i,,..g Vi\.l:l ft.~,~-iv.to 11£.s bettlR. Sllrtetmti,,..g Nv,1.11lu me whole, l'ltlllu me whole.• MRrj1, ..IIhQ,:;I NO £,;!e11 there WRS tvtv.. QVo£c!. L,\Jll,t(t Seeti,,.. fi.LLed £t, It Wets SIA.cl, GI be111.1.ttfu.t cw.l11,1.tj.\,attoi,,..f Al'\.l::jWRl:I, l'Ve buv.. • i,\,QIA.StOIA.S alt !¾01'14~...IS this Whitt l¾OY!M~ sk.~. : £s t£1u1 I th_£~ I _rel¼el¼ber 1'\1.1:1 CoVl.l:e11,1.-por11ri:1 To-ptllS
i 
tt11eher t11LRJ.~ etbow.t thett.. · 
l. 
T1111t wo1,1.L,;! l¾Gllu l¾ed-schoolh111'{( b1-1.t the 1.t-pstde ts thett '!ltYSOlll,Ql stettev,1.tVI.I: Wlli.t!.&I rocR.I I'll c11LL £t "'71,e strnegte of 11 .st~Le-Mother-cathoLtc-sw.-per-?.ei.~.# l'Ve beei,,.. 00£11\,l:j to cov..ftssto111, G1LY11.0st ho1.trll:l st=e 
. tt h"J>7>tv..tcl; hopefc.tLL!:j se11i,,.. wU.L pro-pose to i«e 1,1.li\.&!er the L1:f0""5 Arch sooli\., The c.t'ps£c!e ts tk11t wtth 01-1.r boia.d ctl-\te~, he c""" ....ever lellve w.el l't\l. got~ to go ,:;lo ?.Lo · 
. HW_ 01.ttstc!e hts YOOI¾ QI'\,,;! tell 11~ Whtli\. he eets bac~. We dre 00£i,,..g to be so ha-p-pi::, toeetl'lerl Cjo 1r£s111 l;~..-•JJ'fffti)Httg:«m,,r~=---<.....2:i u-' ,. ~:r:.:;:..UP.friHLc11 ·
"'""W:c•.,,,,.,,.,,,: 'I' f,,o(it" . 
,, ,1!:.,c~ t/w 
,f .... ,, ~, ••.....-~­{!J • :.-11, 
----------\---~ 
-----~~,q'/!f~T --1 Take. It1,~h~.--­
.. fly It,,.,,. 
l //. 12 Y. . .. • 'lbJe ·~ 
Of cfq'l((J . /' 
r. ii I" C\ . ._,,,,, 
~ 


~ . . 4­
. t 111~erei:t 8,!P' ~­
,q "II/el . · · 
I . . . ~P
I' ...
J I.,: . 

f: ick Mn ;; 1-'JJ 
r, a I ro 
t -, . (. s 
-an--,e, 
. J; ,~i:!.]1lll'ffit . . 
,. 
:·l
--:J 
,i' 
Jc· 
'D "·~. 
'bo,,;;;;7 .., 
[c,,,..,_l .. 
; M11'1'.J,
i~ t:>i.d the Ho4:, .Sptrit hold l:low.? . • I~ TeLL l:!01.t he l.ovec;I t,01-t? · . .. ·· , :, _. ,seii"" btoc~ ~ o"" Faceboo~l 111Rte 11£11,1.1 I
F Love _doesi,,.. t t.Kist. . .. [ ,.. "' .-.,~~· ~ •~~l:rar,._m-j 

·28:09 ·0400 t <Vn> if • • <ca
nspct.org rdsend@lnspo ._. v Sl)()t.org"'1: health. via Ins
concerned friend re: your · 1.94KB~ 
<!J. '' 

' ~ ~ ---·.::=:_... 
17---~-­
I oJ<.~_d___ ­
ho_:..; P · -· Jo v!: 
---.. a.t:.J!.!'-:-­
nmm.f. . ,.,..
,s_~-------­
._ · .---·-k sho.L. · 
-----·-his_hf!.o_
ocJ.t,.:::_.--­

--~~--=:~:~ii· 
-<1--rnY-,-~­
. ~ 
:.. 
. . 
.--~ 
Ir 
'i ·c 
--111---· r------­
_:•---~-----------~---_---·-­
.. 
_ll___\__J~IJes.s__l.YL-hM-®-._1[Jter..esffl1j_f_a11r:__ \ 
• ~~cio_JJJ...Exu,ot -th.qL./»a~be.. .:Cit.e~ ~--~eqST fJQ..b/ I .k...11~....Juu,1 fo.. _. 
. \ . . -. 
___!H'_l1.1111~-:trul.e_ts__Qf.Jd....P-~1....fL-9ro~_me.._~h.!Jj~i -· \ .v.v.e~so uamed. lu,~..µ ....Jtilb-;sJr~ss . J 

, I : : 
' ·., m.a . 
1n···
.·
lJl 
.filt1r ,iJ:msh,.rs :of llhr ·filnilll'l'Sily lint mdnr lllf iL­
in ll1rm mtb • lL-· -"'!'. ~1mslrih 
, . mt "'!" Itlll1l11lll'lW :m lliJr rarrilly d 
mve.rs1f of ./\lo-ire Oalhe 
. , lp.ur rnrifrmll 14r 3rgrrr m 
I\Joth1hj 
lllll 

whq +·e.ver. 


SENIOR Bl:OS, 
Amy Meyers, 
co-editor in chief, has spent four years studying international development, immigration policy and sociological theory in her political science major. Sick of debating the best way to save the world, she has decided to ditch politics for business. She will be marketing your fabric softeners next 
year for P&G and making the world fresher, one dryer load at a time. 
Kate Dresser, 
production editor and English major extraordinaire, will be moving to New York City upon graduation. Although she lacks employment, residence and companionship, she feels deeply secure in her future. She's gonna make it after all (cue hat toss). 
Regina Gesicki, 
managing editor, has spent the past four years pursuing an English and Studio Art major and hating on strangers. With her skills honed to perfection, she will flee from the Midwest and return to her parents' suburban New Jersey home. She hopes to spend most of her free time knitting, hanging out with her mom and going to the supermarket for fun while she "plans" her 
"future." 
Doug Schlarman, 
co-editor in chief, plans on copping out by becoming a corporate lawyer on the East Coast while his fellow English and Spanish majors wallow in destitute, Dickensian poverty. He plans to revolutionize the legal system by bringing inappropriate abbreviations and curse words into legal jargon and continuing to wear sweater vests and 
pointy shoes as often as humanly' possible. He loves exercising, 
Gentleman's Quarterly and Jon Benet Ramsey. 

Emma Daugherty, 
design editor, is experiencing a sad/ happy moment-at the end of her time with Scholastic. After graduation she is going home to Minnesota and working at accounting firm Deloitte & Touche. She can only hope that her co-workers there will be as crazy and exciting as this year's Scholastic staff. Fat chance. 

Claire Sobczak, 
a soon-to-be graduate of the Program of Liberal Studies, is really well-read and really worthless. She will be packing up all her possessions and non-marketable skills after graduation and heading back to th_e South Side of Chicago where, fingers crossed, she'll land a job as a barista at the local Starbucks (they have really good benefits). She feels confident 
that she will do Aristotle proud and actualize her potential in the years 
to come. 
24 ( SCHOLASTIC I03 APRIL 2008 


Mike O'Connor, 
assistant culture editor, brilliahtly exploited ~is position as an RA to uncover the most scandalous Gipper stories (just kidding, Reslife!). Next year, he will be teaching middle school in Birmingham, Ala., through Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program. With an English major, and Irish Studies and Theology minors, he looks forward to teaching "Language Arts and Sciences" to the youths, realizing, however, that the only thing he is particularly qualified to teach is beard-growing. 

Conor McNamara, 
the Ying life-force in the metaphysical journalistic duality known to the literate as The Gipper, hath received assurances from the Lord that he shalt be the rod of God's infinite justice in this life and the hereafter.Additionally,the pretentious PLS major has accepted an executive position at the coffee shop of his 
local Barnes & Noble, where he shall supplement his barista services 
with obscure literary references intended to make those listening feel intellectually inferior. 

Michael Valluzzo, 
the other force in the judiciously metaphysical journalistic duopoly known to the scholarly as "the Gipper," utilizes his Finance major to speak English good and his English major to Finance stuff. Michael boasts a distinguished pedigree, claiming direct lineage to Mustafa I, the Sultan of 17th Century Ottoman 
Empire, via the exiled Macedonian relocation. Michael's upcoming 
novel is titled, "The Gods and Me," where he successfully likens his 
earthly qualities to that of the divine and then critic!zes the mortally 
inferior who are all in confederacy against him. Gris gris! 

Katie Napleton, 
is a Marketing ana Graphic Design major from Burr Ridge, Ill. She has no idea what she's doing next year exceptthatshe'll be ata ·sweet design job in San Francisco, Denver or Chicago. She got it from her mama. 

Mike Laskey, 
executive editor, is an English major from central New Jersey, where they pump your gas for you. He'll be working at a Catholic parish for the next two years through Notre Dame's Echo Program, which was his second choice, after being a Barack Obama speechwriter, because that's what all members of the liberal media conspiracy secretly want to be. 

Meagan McGinley, 
sports staff writer, has averted her eyes from the fluorescent light of medical school to pursue the guilty­pleasure English half of her ALPP major. And by pursue she means shunning all ·aid offered by the Career Center to live in Thoreau-esque solitude in her parents' house (the first floor bedroom -not the basement). A second Walden may never 
be written, however, as she has yet to emerge from the nebula of bliss 
that has enveloped her since her lunch date with Digger Phelps. 
Elisa Suarez, 
humor editor, has no chin. But she got over that genetic mishap years 
. ago and now spends most of her time plopped on the couch watching TV while kindly sharing all her foodstuffs with the friendly colony of mice that resides in her apartment. Next year, Elisa plans to experience life as a UCLA civil engineering graduate student, 
where she will spend her free time pretending to be a hippie and 
browsing eHarmony.com. Seacrest out. 
03 APRIL 2008 ) SCHOLASTIC I25 

CULTURE 




Campus Chatter 
For the past year, a storm has been brewing on campus, the likes of which the University of Notre Dame has never seen. At least riot since last year, and the year before that, and ... On March 26, I plunged into the eye of that storm. I went to "The Vagina Monologues." They must have been out of pig's blood and megaphones at the bookstore, because the "enraged" protestors -promised by another publication on campus -merely offered statements by Bishop John M. D'Arcy and miraculous medals. Following suit, the rest of the night was relatively calm. There were no bombings, none of the actresses were smote onstage, and I'm pretty sure that no one lost his or her virginity in the bathroom during or after the show. Instead, I witnessed a passionate show followed by an informed and respectful panel discussion. I arrived to find a handful of students passing out fliers in front of DeBartolo Hall and stopped to chat with a few of the protestors. "[The Vagina Monologues] is moral poisoning," a freshman named Michael says. "As a Catholic, I have this idea about what human sexuality is, and here it distorts it." Despite their strong disapproval, most of the protestors were respectful to patrons of "The Vagina Monologues" and endured the frequent snickers and backwards glances without too much objection. Once past the self-designated doorkeepers, the crowd diversified dramatically. The first to catch my eye was a gaggle ofgirls sporting dreadlocks and blue lipstick sitting next to a matronly:.Iooking woman in her fifties. My friend saved me a seat next to Al, a Catholic alum of '77, parent of two current Notre Dame students, and also a Notre Dame employee for the past four years. Needless to say, I tried to smother my laughter at the particularly risque parts for the first few scenes. That was until I heard Al's appreciative belly laugh as one character recounted her misadventures with "surprise orgasms." "I was expecting to see things that were more offensive," Al says. "Having seen it, I don't know why anyone would be offended by it, and I think it's an appropriate forum for a college." There were certainly those who disagreed. After the first scene, the first few rows· orchestrated a walk-out which was met with a couple whispers of ''boo-hiss" but caused minimal disruption. It's debatable whether their opinions of the show would have changed had they stayed forthe i:est ofit. The last monologue was a celebration ofchildbirth that would have had very little chance ofoffending any strong adherent to Catholic doctrine. Sophomore Miriam Olsen's monologue "My Angry Vagina," however, may have really put their 
DEPT. OF CONTROVERSY 
miraculous medals to the test. 
"I don't think we're all going to agree with this, and I hope that we don't. It's part ofwhat keeps people talking," Olsen says. "I think that people who are for "The Vagina Monologues" and people who are against "The Vagina Monologues" are [both] against violence against women. We're working for the same thing." 
As I gathered my coat and program after the show and giggled with Al about some of the racy scenes, I have to admit that my mind was preoccupied with heavier things than "Vagina Happy Facts." The show had, in fact, inspired me to think about the treatment of women and sexuality in our cultur~ and, more specifically, on our campus. 
No, I was not brainwashed by Eve Ensler. No, I did not agree with all of the messages the play conveyed. However, the play did what it set out to do; it challenged me to address uncomfortable issues and discuss them with my peers (i.e. exactly what a collegiate forum should precipitate). So, for the eighth year, it looks like the University ofNotre Dame du Lac has weathered the tempest that is "The Vagina Monologues." 
-Jen Wulf 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine 
-1 
-1 
<( 
I 
z 
w 
-1 
w 
I 
>­
m 
z 
0 
~ 
O'. 
ti 
~ 
26 [ SCHOLASTIC [ 03 APRIL 2008 

CRIBS: A LOOK AT ZAHM'S FINEST 
Courtney Ball 
The infamous halls ofZahm have gotten a bit classier. Beyond the empty cardboard Natural Light boxes and piles of laundry lies a fountain complete with DuLac approved non­carnivorous goldfish. "The Chateau de Zahm," located in a third floor quad, is easily the most sophisticated d~rm room on campus. Featuring a pond, vine-covered lattice walls and a golden chandelier, the Chateau is fit for royalty. The residents of the room, sophomores Garrett Coggon and Jim Merchun, and juniors Kevin Veselik and Eddie Gutierrez, inherited a corner room with a legacy. "It's becoming a Zahm tradition," Merchun says. Last year the room was called "The Vineyard" and inspired the new residents to take the theme to the next level. Merchun began preparing for his tenure in the room early by collecting wine corks from a country club and restaurants. "I collected corks the entire summer. I still have hundreds sitting in my closet," Merchun says. These corks form the surface of empty wine-barrel-based tables decorated with the ND logo. Coggon was the room carpenter, and built many of the quirky fixtures in the room. The most noteworthy feature is the multi-level fish fountain he constructed from pond liners. The four goldfish housed there have become section celebrities. "People just come in and feed them when we are out," Coggon says. Three of the four goldfish are lovingly named; Trogdor is the largest, Blanco Nino is the white one, and Patches O'Houlihan was won at a dodgeball tournament. The fourth fish is the surviving member of a pair of twin fish and is referred to by the names of a number of famous duos. Between reading classics and napping in their custom-made hammocks, the boys get their hands dirty keeping the pond clean. Despite living in luxury, residing in the most popular room in Zahm comes with responsibilities. "People just stop by and say they have friends in who want to see the room," Coggon says. Merchun says, "I have given more tours than I can count. I have a set tour for people who have never seen the room." They embrace visitors and encourage everyone to come back, an invitation that is rarely rejected. Legends are not created overnight; there is a rich history at the Chateau de Zahm. "There was the great marshmallow fight of last semester. If you looked under the couch you could probably find some leftovers," Coggon says. They also discovered that snowballs do not last long at room temperature. "We ended up with about an inch of standing wat~r in the room," Merchun says. The essence of the Chateau cannot be captured without a visit. "Our room is about three times brighter than any room in Zahm. It just glows from the outside," Merchun says. It is difficult to compete with a room that boasts a chandelier. "The chandelier is nice because when you are coming back from anywhere on campus, it is like the Golden Dome of north quad. You know you are getting close to home," Merchun says. + 


, . 
youre inn 


Whether you're in town for a football game, reunion, graduation, or just welcoming . family and friends to campus, you're always inn at Ivy Court Inn and Suites. 
With an unbeatable location, eco-friendly policies, and newly renovated rooms, you'll find yourself inn fuck, inn good company, and inn style. 
Visit ivycourt.com today to check out our new look and make a reservation! 
' 
~ 
IVY COURT 
INN & SUITES 
,~. '_;r,""''.:",'..,;;,'i\ ~~~:~f, ;,~~·:t'~,_,~.,,__,.;-1<·•"'::~....~ :-:::·•',.. :r: ,'i.t'S""~ ··ir"":~:~­


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LES,BIAN 





STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, anq._·resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, Melanie (Mel) Bautista, . Bautista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu ­
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
. . ­
~ • -~ • , _ ~---• • , ( • , 
I 

Golden Boy 
Speedy freshman excels on the gridiron and the diamond 
Alex Hellmuth 
Football and baseball could not be more different. Just ask freshman football and baseball player Golden Tate. He will tell you that while each sport requires hand-eye coordination, they are completely different ballgames. Junior Evan Sharpley and 2006 graduate Jeff Samardzija also played both sports, but Samardzija ultimately chose·to play professional baseball and pitches in the Chicago Cubs' farm system. Tate, an outfielder for the Irish, began playing baseball at the age ofsix. It was not until one day when his father took him to the park and threw a football to him that his fate as a two-sport athlete was sealed. In high school, Tate excelled at both football and baseball, dazzling recruiters with his speed, but he accepted a scholarship for football in order to attend the best school possible. Though Tate was drafted by the Arizona Diamondbacks during his senior year of high school, he had already decided to pursue a college education and was committed to Notre Dame. A prominent concern ofany two-sport athlete is the inevitability ofswitching sports, style of play, practice schedules, coaches and teammates. "Switching from football to baseball was easy because I was in great shape from all of the football workouts during the winter, and moving from a fast-paced game to a slower game is an easy transition. Going from baseball to football will be tough, though," Tate says. Athletes like Tate and Sharpley are not alone in their transition from one sport to another; their coaches and teammates play a significant role in helping them to make the conversion. Coach Charlie Weis was aware ofTate's desire to play baseball when he signed the high school senior to the Irish football squad. Coach Dave Schrage, the head baseball coach, is on the receiving end ofTate's sport switch, and according to Tate, he has been equally understanding. But that does not mean Tate is receiving any special treatment. "Coach Schrage told me to get used to things and get into the baseball groove, but I am still treated like any other freshman on the team," Tate says. Unlike football, the Irish baseball schedule is comprised of many games, giving players the opportunity to· quickly make up for a loss. "If you lose a game in baseball, you have a day to think about it until you are back on the field, making up for the loss," Tate says. "In football, you have seven long days until you can even think about feeling better about losing." Although Tate describes both sports as different, he does not seem to be exhibiting any problems with his switch, and he has been a major contributor to Notre Dame's winning season. The lefty outfielder has started in nine games, maintained a 1.000 fielding percentage, scored six runs while batting .275, and is happy to finally be part of a winning team. "It feels good to win," Tate says. When asked ifhe would ultimately choose baseball over football and follow in Samardzija's footsteps, Tate says, "For now, the plan is to focus on both sports." Spoken like a true two-sport athlete. + 
03 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 


Irish women prove their mettle ,n NCAA Tournament 
Andy Gray 
If you thought the Irish basketball season was over with Washington 
State's March 22 dismantling of the men's team, tl1en you don't 
knowCharel. 
Cha rel Allen is a senior guard on the Notre Dame women's basketball 
team, a 25-9 squad that garnered a five-seed in the Midwest region of 
this year's Women's NCAATournament. Allen, selected for first-team 
All-Big East honors for the second consecutive year, led the Irish in 
scoring at just under 15 points per game during the regular season. She 
notched a double-double in a first-roulfd win over Southern Methodist 
University before pouring in a career-high 35 points against fourth­
seed Oklahoma in their second-round matchup, including a perfect 
12-for-12 night at the free throw line. 
"I just had the mentality that I was not going home without a win 
because I've never been to the Sweet Sixteen," Allen told the press 
after the 79-75 overtime victory. "As for overall games, I can't think of 
a better game I've had." 
It has indeed been quite some time since an Irish basketball team 
survived the first two rounds of an NCAA Tournament -the last 
group to do so was the 2003-2004 women's squad. "I'm just so excited 
for this team to be able to experience this," Coach Muffet McGraw 
said in a March 27 press conference. "I hadn't even realized it had been 
four years, and the seniors had not been in the Sweet Sixteen. It's such 
a great feeling for them to look at the underclassmen and know you 
have this to look forward to." 
The Notre Dame faithful must have known something about 
this team, as two contests this year (versus perennial powerhouses 
Tennessee and Connecticut) sold out the Joyce Center. The attention 
was clearly well-deserved. 
Of course, Allen has not done this all by herself. Sophomore guard 
Ashley Barlow, an honorable mention All-Big East selection, keyed 
the first round victory over SMU with 20 points and a career-high 
12 rebounds, displaying a toughness on the glass reminiscent of 
Tory Jackson's performances on the men's side this year. Barlow also 
supplemented Allen's 35 points with 16 ofher own, as well as making a 
pivotal overtime steal to help knock out Oklahoma. 
Senior point guard Tulyah Gaines turned the tide in the SMU 
contest by taking a pivotal charge with the score tied late at 57-57. "We fed off ofTulyah Gaines' energy when she took the charge," Allen told reporters in a March 23 press conference. "We just took off from there." Gaines showed her penchant for ball distribution with seven 
assists against Oklahoma. 
SHARP SHOOTER Senior Charel Allen finished her college career with over 1500 points and more than 500 rebounds. 

GOING THE DISTANCE The Irish women's basketball team went further in the NCAA Tournament than either Notre Dame basketball program has gone 
since the women won the National Championship in 2001. 
Help also came from unexpected places. Freshman forward Becca Bruszewski was especially important in providing depth since fellow freshman Devereaux Peters suffered an ACL tear against Pittsburgh on . February 10. But nobody could have foreseen Bruszewski's performance against SMU in the tourney's first round. Fighting through a ring finger injury which forced her to don a brace, Bruszewski scored a career-high 16 points. "It didn't really affect me that much," the freshman said of the injury in the post-game press conference. "I tried to get offensive rebounds, crash the boards and help out my teammates as best as I could." 
Erica Williamson, a sophomore center who entered the starting lineup in the middle of the season, also made a sig_nificant impact, playing 36 minutes against the Sooners' All-American forward Courtney Paris and contributing eight points in the win. 
Barlow attested to the team's community mentality after the Oklahoma game on March 25, in which the Irish played the underdog role. "As long as we believed in each other, we knew that we could do it," Barlow said. "That was all we needed." 
And these teammates had plenty of reason to believe in one another. They played four games against teams ranked in the top four of AP polling during the course of the regular season, including Tennessee, Notre Dame's Sweet Sixteen opponent. Despite losses in all of those games, the last a close six-point defeat at Rutgers, McGraw and fans saw the team come together and significantly improve their play against the best teams in the nation throughout the year. 
"I think [Allen and Gaines] are playing with a sense of urgency," McGraw said on March 2 7. This urgency seems to have turned into incredible production rather than nervousness or uncharacteristic mistakes that some might have expected of the Irish. 
Despite a season-ending 74-64 loss to top­seed Tennessee in the Sweet Sixteen, this season brought a spark back to Notre Dame women's basketball. It marked attendance records for the program, the emergence of a Naismith Trophy candidate in Allen and the 13th consecutive time the Irish have reached the NCAA Tournament under McGraw. It saw the deepest run of an Irish basketball team in the tournament in several years. 
Nextyear, when discussing Irish basketball, consider interspersing your musings about Harangody and McAlarney with a thought or two about Bruszewski and Barlow. There may be greater things to come in the future, after all. "I think we feel like we've really accomplished something," McGraw said at a March 27 press conference. "But we don't feel like that was our goal [and] now we're done." + 
03 APRIL 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I31 




Listening In ... 
[ •."~;~t.:;,fore I passed out, I handed her the last beer and said, 'You drink this, -bedraggled victor · !·_..:'.'!Am'never having sex. You're stuck to the guy for like two and a half minutes!" f ·o• i.. i:.··.,;,-female suffering from extreme sexual repression I···;"ltwasn't so much a lap dance as a general drunken stumble in your direction." 
l: ·• ,/-male student in Waddicks 
;:,;:fil'Fst':l:s. You don't need a fake ID. Just show up with a baseball card." ~~-·· -female student to underage friend 
~~~oow who else is a really good person but a really bad teacher? Jesus." ~-student evaluating his professor . 
Thirty Years Ago 
So, I've been thinking to myself, maybe I shouldn't be going out two to three times per week, seeing as I have 18 credits and much neglected homework. I think the core of the problem is that I simply cannot pass up a good theme party. Then I found an article on Ed "Banana Face"..,_,,. O'Shea, a "typical" student at Notre Dame in 1978. This Pre-Law/Nuclear Physics double major didn't let a little calculus stand in the way ofa good time. 
He manages his course load, which might be considered somewhat impossible by many people (24 · hours), by throating out Monday through Thursday, and drinking himself into oblivion Friday and Saturday. ''Hey, I've got to have some rest and relaxation, don't I?" he points out. Sundays are set aside for recuperation, although he does make sure he doesn't miss the 10 p.111. Mass. 
Thirty years later, this still sounds like the typical Notre Dame student: doing obscene amounts ofwork to secure a good job and make lots of money by day, borderline alcoholic by night, church on Sunday. Looks like some things never change. So thank you, Banana Face, for making me feel better about my life. And my nicknames. 
-Natalie Kratz 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I 03 APRIL 2008 
HUMOR 
Hello my little gipplings! It's your one and only Gipp here, except not really, because every spring, the old Gipp gives birth to a new Gipp in a strange process of asexual reproduction. I love a good mojito and dancing on roller skates, but, like my asexual forebearer, I too have a penchant for your smarmy, slimy tales. But don't worry, the Gipp doesn't laugh at you. The Gipp laughs with you. So without further aao, put down that seventh chicken fry, resist the urge for one more fro-yo, and read on ... Our first tale takes us across mountains and oceans to the far away land of Euro for a birthday celebration. Here, the festivities included drinks, merriment and embarrassing personal ads for the birthday boy (more than one intrigued barfly was seen furiously copying down the phone number listed on said posters -surely a testament to how good our birthday boy looks in a French maid outfit). The party was a smash, and our birthday boy had just started popping, locking and dropping with his former T.A. when a wily band of brothers showed up. These foreign army officers weren't exactly peace ambassadors, and when they offended a female party guest, birthday boy had no choice but to disgrace the offender right back, in the foreign language no less. Note to self: when studying abroad, ifyou get into a fight with a native, don't repeatedly ask him if he can understand you ... as you speak his language. Because he can. Because it's his language. And, case in point, this officer certainly seemed to understand enough to want our boy to shut the duck up. He wound . up and laid out one clean blow straight across birthday boy's face. There's no gift quite like a militia smack-down to celebrate the big 2-0! And just like that, the party was over. Nevertheless, in the morning, our .amnesia­stricken lad insisted it had been his most delightful celebration to date. He had no recollection ofhis birthday spanking, though he did complain that his cheek pained him ever so slightly. 

But what about love? I know that's what you're thinking, my little Gippies, because your most mortifying moments have all happened in eyeshot of your treasured bunnies of affection. Don't worry, I have a parable from which we can all surely learn a lesson. This story is much closer to home, namely in a luxury complex dedicated to the house that Rockne built, and begins, as many stories do, with 20 solo cups and two bouncy little balls. After a night of intense competition and consequential motor-skill impairment, bedroom doors closed, and couplings of ardor ensued. Until one door opened and out stumbled a disoriented gentle blond giant, skivvies in hand. In an exposed state of glory, our hero first wandered to the wastebasket to toss out his unmentionables, then embarked on a meandering journey through the apartment. He was discovered by the apartment resident whose room he had commandeered a few hours before, and she kindly helped him re-cover his family jewels with a convenient (although small) pair of shorts. Meanwhile, back in the love­nest, his girl had awoken to find her pants mysteriously damp. She removed them and relocated to the floor. Shortly afterward, she woke up again and wondered why no one was in the bed -surely it was more comfortable than the floor! Confused and delirious, she tried to climb back onto the bed, only to find the sheets clammy once again. Upon our naked boy's return, he too made the same realization, so both our spooners took refuge on the safe, dry floor. In the morning, no one remembered why the bed was wet and empty. But luckily, our girl is a science major, so using her knowledge of bodily functions and the scientific method, she deduced this conclusion: her new part-time lover was a full-time bed-wetter. Mr. Exhibitionist flatly denied her explanation, but when someone found his crumpled, soaked boxers in a nearby trashcan, even he couldn't ignore the facts. To atone for his guilt, our hero gallantly took the soiled sheets back to campus for a washing. Naked people with bladder-control problems certainly have hearts showered in gold! Even his innocent lady friend forgave him, which makes Gipp believe that our lad found an innovative way to fertilize the seeds oflove. 
So now, refreshed and revitalized, finish your meals, my children, and continue on with your lives! Gipp hopes that you found the subliminal lesson in today's stories: the resiliency of the human spirit, of course! For even after these latest miseries, our victims awoke in the morning to states ofrenewal, joy and continued romance! The same can await you, who surely have less to be ashamed of than these rascals. But then again, ifyou find yourself wondering how you got into even more unfortunate circumstances ... then perhaps you are indeed a true embarrassment, and perhaps it's high time you shared your indignities with the Gipp. I look forward to sharing more beautiful memories with you . 
Until next time, 

The Gipper. 
© o ® ® ® o at gipper@nd.edu 
03 APRIL 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 

LASTWORD 



Marques 



CAMP 

So why do all the minorities sit ·. together in the dining hall? Today marks the beginning of the Spring Visitation Weekend for prospective minority students, during which the university tries to convince them that, yes, there are other minorities just like you thriving at our school and, no, there is nothing to worry about with regards to our campus diversity. Though I did not attend this event during my senior year, I did attend the (since renamed) African-American Catholic Leadership Development Seminar in 2005. This week-long summer experience, gave myself and 39 other "African-Americans" (many of whom I learned were not exactly so, but that's beside the point), a chance to live and dine on campus, take workshops and classes and engage in discussions, all for the express purposes of: 1) experiencing what it means to be an African-American at a place like Notre Dame and, 2) recruiting 40 of the best and the brightest African­Americans from across the country to attend Notre Dame, ostensibly to increase the school's racial diversity. And, in a sense, these efforts were quite successful; twelve of us, some for whom Notre Dame wasn't even on their college radar, eventually chose to attend. In recent years, Notre Dame has done a better job of recruiting underrepresented (or "minority,"whicheveryou prefer) groups to its campus, with programs like that seminar, Spring Visitation Weekend, the Latino Community Leadership Seminar -and, for enrolled students, programs like Balfour-Hesburgh Scholars, cultural retreats and a host of"multi-cultural" clubs and programs on campus. Even for those minorities who still en~er the university with slight trepidation, the resources provided by the university seem to go a long way into easing these concerns. 
ON _DIVERSITY 
Notre Dame and the·Dining Hall Culture 
So why do all the minorities sit together in 
the dining hall? The answer is not as complexas you might 
think. Sociological studies indicate that, at some level, we feel more comfortable with 
those who look like us. That is certainly true, but I don't think\his is indicative of our consciousness as Notre Dame students. We are all here, in some way, because we are leaders, because we take advantage of opportunities provided to us, because we are the type ofstudents willing to diversify our intellectual and cultural palates. Many of us are certainly cognizant of our slight sociological biases, but we are Notre Dame students precisely because we actively attempt to transcend them. 
Yet it seems (at least as a rough approximation) that all the minorities sit together in the dining hall. 
As evidenced by my recruitment experience and the experiences of other minority students I have talked to, it seems fair to say that Notre Dame has done an excellent job not only recruiting more students from underrepresented populations, but also providing resources and support . that help minorities feel comfortable as minorities in an otherwise racially homogeneous population. One of the rousing successes of these programs is that the university has helped to build strong bonds and friendships within these groups and, within these programs, allayed concerns about what kind of relationships they will build at Notre Dame. My best friends at this university are those who attended the pre-college seminar witl1 me. In a sense, we are a microcosm ofthe Notre Dame family. 
So,why? 
Despite these relationships, to which I owe Notre Dame much credit, they have in some sense contributed to the "dining-hall culture." I admit that when I look down the table in the dining hall, it is often the case that everybody looks like me. Most of them I met_either during my summer experience or by participating in other "multi-cultural" activities (I put the "multi-cultural" in quotation marks because that term is often equated with "minority," a view which we as Notre Dame students ought not to adopt). My dining-hall brethren and I have a shared experience in non-academic, mostly cultural, activities. As students will often say, these are the experiences that make Notre Dame what it is. These are the experiences that form long-lasting friendships. 
So, to answer the question, many minorities seem to sit together in the dining hall and participate together in extra-curricular activities not by virtue of their skin color, but rather by virtue of these pre-existing relationships the university has helped_ forge. Surely, this seems like a positive development; however, Notre Dame, as an institution, and we, as students, must do more. We must transcend the complacent diversity into which many of us seem to have settled. Diversity is not a static term. Diversity is not a percentage. Just because many minority students are thriving in their own right at this university does_n~t_mean it is racially diverse. 
Diversity is dynamic. Diversity is the process by which we actively embrace and participate in the cultural experience of many. Diversity should be a verb rather than a noun. We tend to eat with whom we feel comfortable with, and we feel comfortable not necessarily with those who look like us, but with those whom we share common experiences. Yes, the university could bolster its encouragement of real multi-cultural experiences, but the most important job belongs to us. We must actively_ create these experiences, else the dining haH remain as segregated as ever. + 
The views ofthis author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I 03 APRIL 2008 








