the Scholastic	M»y 29,1959
TOP GRADUATES
Arts and Letters
John F. Casey Robert N. Dempsey William E. McMahon Lucio A. Noto John P. O'Neill Herbert S. Riband Richard J. Sampson H. Louis Stettler III Robert A. Villegas. C.S.C. James N. Watzke, C.S.C.
Engineering
Michael J. Byrne Bernard M. Gillespie James C. Lane, Jr. John M. Maloney
David C. Miller James F. Mullen Dennis W. Readey John K. Roedel, Jr. Jerome F. Trautschold, Jr.
August Veroff
Commerce
Thomas P. Bintinger Robert M. Callero Richard A. Grimier Chester A. Hobert Frederick M. Lavin Roger J. Leto Vincent J. Maney Richard C. Raupp Joseph L. Shaw Robert S. Williams
Science
Thomas V. Abowd William M. Cross Dennis J. Garwacki David E. Glow Leon F. Keyser William G. McNally James L. Merz O. Frederick Miller Donald T. Reay William L. Wessel
PROM AND PARTY TIME ...
A WONDERFUL REASON FOR GOING FORMAL!
' \
It’s the natural “Ivy” look that makes an After Six formal so popular. It’s the casual comfort that makes it a pleasure to wear. Feather-light . . . shoulders with a minimum padding . . . narrow sleeves . . . smoother fit through chest and waist . . . slender lapels . . . center vent.. . flat pockets. Its “Ivy” all the way . . . correct, cool and comfortable.
28.50
After Six Tropical-weight Formal Trousers . ... 12.95
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY 1/3 IN JULY PAY T/3 IN AUGUST PAY 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER
No Carrying Charge -
May 29, 1959
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.’*)
the Scholastic
Vol. 100 May 29, 1959 No. 25
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
This is the last column of my fifth year of writing for Philip Morris and Marlboro. I have made it a custom in the last column of each year not to be funny. I know I have also realized this aim in many other columns during the year, but that was not for lack of trying. Today I am not trying. I am not trying for two reasons: First, because you are getting ready for final exams and in your present state of shock, nothing in the world could possibly make you laugh. And second, this final column of the year is for many of us a leave-taking, and good-byes always make me too misty to be funny.
For me the year ends neither with a bang nor a whimper, but with a glow—a warm, pleasant, mellow glow—the kind of glow you will find, for example, at the end of a Philip Morris or Marlboro.
It has been in every way a gratifying experience, my five years with the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro, and I would like to take this opportunity to ex
tend my heartfelt appreciation to these good tobacconists, to assure them that the memory of their kindness will remain ever green in my heart, and to remind them that they still owe me for the last three columns.
And in these waning days of the school year, let me address myself seriously to you, my readers. Have I
trod on any toes this year? Ruffled any feelings? Jostled any sensibilities? If so, I am sorry.
Have I occasioned any laughs? Chuckles? Sniggers? Mona Lisa smiles? If so, I’m glad.
Have I persuaded any of you to try Philip Morris and Marlboro? To taste that fine flavor? To smoke that excellent tobacco? If so, you are glad.
♦ * ♦
And now the long, lazy summer lies ahead. But for me summer is never lazy. It is, in fact, the busiest time of year. Two summers ago, for instance, I was out ringing doorbells every single day, morning, noon, and night. There was a contest, you see, and the kid in my neighborhood who sold the most bluing won a pony. I am proud to report that I was the lucky winner.
Last summer I was also out ringing doorbells every single day, morning, noon, and night. I was trying to sell the pony.	.
This summer I am not going to be out ringing doorbells. I am going to saddle the pony and ride to Hollywood, California. What am I going to do in Hollywood, California? I am going to write a series of half-hour television comedies
called THE MANY LOVES OF DOBIE GILLIS, and starting in October, 1959, your friends and mine, the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro, are going to
bring you this program over the Columbia Broadcasting System every Tuesday night at 8:30. Why don’t you speak to your housemother and ask her if she’ll let you stay up to see it?
And now good-bye. For me it’s been kicks all the way, and I hope for you it hasn’t been altogether unbearable. Have a good summer. Stay well. Stay cool. Stay loose.
© 1959. Max Shulman
mice Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quad Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
LOU STETTLER Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH._____________..News	Editor
WALT RUDGE__________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.--------------.Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON____________Sports	Editor
JON SIDDLE-----------------Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER_______________Photography
PETER HASBROOK—.Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI.________________Circulation
ROY RUBELI_____________________Assistant	News
AL GENIESSE--------------------Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK_____________________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_____________Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER___________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE_______________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER___________Assistant Sports
BOB HORN.______________Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey. Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon, Joe Finnigan.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade □arke. Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin. John Hoey, Bob Kelley, Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom Romans. Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Prem Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
For us, the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro, it’s been kicks too, and we would like to echo kindly old Max’s parting words: Stay well. Stay cool. Stay loose.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly durw the school year, except during vacation and onarimw tian periods, at the Umserrity of Notre n~rr SsAecriptioa rate, $5.00 a year. Address all maau-seripts to the Edhor, Boa 185, Notre Put, ladmaa.
4
The Scholastic

Thank You
It is with a definite sense of relief that I sit down this muggy May evening to write my last editorial for the SCHOLASTIC and, more than likely, the last that I shall ever write. During the past few weeks at least half a dozen final, ultimate, penultimate ways of writing the last editorial have been definitely decided upon. Now that I look back, the ideas that weren’t maudlin were trite and I find myself seated at my typewriter (so it’s been called) with the ever-present deadline to meet and only a very general idea of everything I would like to say. If this effort falls into either of the aforementioned categories, if my abandonment of the editorial “we” is too annoying, or if my remarks are terribly unjournalistic, please accept this page for what it is and take no umbrage at the SCHOLASTIC.
As I mentioned at the Publications Banquet two weeks ago, taking over as editor last November after the furor caused by my predecessor, a talented and much more devoted journalist than I, was not the happiest thing I have ever done; don’t get me wrong, however, I have enjoyed the job but am glad to step down. The continued success (as the recently received All-American rating from the Associated Collegiate Press testifies) of the Scholastic has been the work of many people, some of whom I would like to thank publicly:
My best friend, associate editor, and proprietor of the largest floating bridge game on campus (235 Walsh), LOUIE STETTLER . . . copy editor, proof reader par excellence, week-end commuter to the “Woods,” inhabitant and staunch, defender of the non-existent Howard Hall, WALT RUDGE . . . features editor recently pirated from us to serve as Juggler editor next year, aesthete and escort of tall blondes (can be contacted at No. 6 Algonquin Estates, Glendale, Mo. during the summer), JIM YOCH. . . . TEDDY THOMPSON, the baby-faced, “no-sweat” (though everyone else did) sports editor who last year inherited the nickname “Tyler” from Mike Fitzpatrick who, in turn inherited it from John Glavin the year before . . . this year’s news editor, RON BLUBAUGH, who collapsed on the thirty-second interview for next year’s Scholastic editor but was revived in time to learn that he’d been selected, good luck . . . temperamental cover artiste from, of all places, Davenport, Iowa, JON SIDDLE . . . the red-haired Romeo of the business staff, PETER VAN AMBERG HASBROOK, who recently amazed even Mary McGreevy by writing a “Back Page” and proving that he was literate . . . the quiet and efficient circulation manager who must have put at least twenty-three names on the complimentary mailing list for me, CONNIE SU SKI . . . the numerous assistants and legmen of the staff . . . our moderator, FATHER CAREY, who wasn’t so bad after all . . . and FATHER BERNARD, who was . . . the two happy humorists of Sorin who attempted to devastate the entire campus through “Escape” and who are always being confused, JOLLY JOHN BOWEN and CHARLIE BELLAIRS ... our music critic G. P. Scarpia who has caused some excitement and no end of speculation in the music department but, alas, will not be back next year . . . WILLIE KILBOURNE (a graduate last February) and BOB GHELARDI from Walsh who have done yeoman service at times by manufacturing “Back Pages,” letters for “Repercussions,” and so forth when we ran short of copy, which was quite often . . . JIM BYRNE, political columnist who attended student senate meetings and took down all important points but, since there were not enough to fill a column, never got a chance to print them . . . the people at the University Press . . . MR. JOHN DEFANT, director of Notre Dame publications, whose creditors are now pounding at my door—ha, ha, so what if we lost thirty-five thousand instead of the usual twenty, what’s money—ha, ha, ha, haaaaa . . . MRS. BURKE, whose kindness and understanding brought us through that dismal winter . . . GLADYSE CUNNINGHAM, HELENA SCHORK, BRO. JAMES and DON DOLAND who have given us their constant assistance . . . and the people at the Ave Maria Press . . . BRO. WILLIAM who was constantly moving the deadlines up . . . and GENE, who moved them 'back ... all the typesetters and proofreaders whom we disturbed on Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons . . ; everyone who made news throughout the school year, DENNY SHAUL who has been combing his hair of late like Senator Kennedy, BILL McCULLOUGH and the other future members of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, JOE HARRISON, possibly the last Chief Justice of the Student Court... WARREN ALBRIGHT and all our friends at WSND, including JOHN CASEY, who has taken a job with WMEX at a salary of seventy-eight chili beans per month . . . JOHN THURIN—c’mon, another chorus of “We be-long to a mu-tu-al ad-mir-a-tion so-ciety” . . . BOB DIMPSEY, who inadvertently mispronounced our names last week . . . and the students who have read the Scholastic . . . and the smart ones who haven’t . . . and a very special debt of gratitude to ROGER LAUR who claims to have read every issue from the past four years from cover to cover.
THANK YOU —Bob Sedlaek
May 29, 1959
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bep. 263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
Renew Your Scholastic Subscription NOW!
The Sleepy View
The N 6Do z View
Millions of times a year drivers and students keep awake with safe NoDoz
Let NSDoz’alert you through college, too
NoDoz keeps you alert with caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: non-habitrforming NoDoz delivers an accurate amount of dependable stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDoz, if ll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
This is a Hamilton Electric Watch. A tiny energy cell has replaced the mainspring. It is a more perfect watch, incisively accurate, strong, patrician. Some day you, too, may be given a Hamilton. It will be a day you will never forget
Z-/XI M/LTO/V the gift of a Hamilton — reward of love
The safe stay awake tablet— available everywhere
6
The Scholastic
good-bye to all that
by CHARLES BOWEN
Well, well. What’s the matter, freshmen? What’s on your mind, sophomores and juniors? You say you got up this morning and found out the mice had eaten your toothbrush and were halfway -> through your cigarettes? You say the pipes started dripping last night and that ■ cigar you were saving looks like a melted candy bar? And your razor blades ” were all rusty and you tided to shave . anyway and scraped three square inches of skin off your cheek? And all your clothes were at the laundry and they wouldn’t give them back because of that $8.00 you owe for extra shirts? And it snowed this morning and you had to go to class in a pair of tennis shoes and a ' Wash and Wear Tuxedo? You say the maid took the only copy of your last big paper to wrap her husband’s sandwiches in and now it’s out at Studebaker going up with the Lark or something? And now you’re going to flunk out unless you cream the exam and somebody stole your book and the bookstore is all out of copies? And all your exams are on the same day and that’s the only day your ' girl can get a day off from the Diesel assembly line and come down to see you? You say your uncle just wrote and said he couldn’t get that lifeguard job again this summer so he signed you up as a sandhog instead? And your best buddy asked you to deliver some medicine to a friend on the other side of campus and Father Collins stopped you and looked in the package and there was a bottle of Black & White inside?
Is that what’s bothering you, fella? Tch, tch. Vm graduating next week.
It has been an eventful year, though, hasn’t it? What a lot of fun we all had!
. Like for instance the football season. — The Indiana game! — The SMU game! The. . . ah. . . um.........
Well, there was Christmas vacation, wasn’t there! Golly gee whiz, I should say so! Holly. . . chestnuts. . . the whole family gathered around the fire. . . your Uncle George saying “Well, I think it’s criminal firing a man with four children right in the middle of the holiday season. If that’s.. .
But we were soon back at school, anyway. Remember the pure joy in our hearts as we pursued a liberal education? Or as we sought out the secrets of science? Or as we tried to find the dining hall in ten feet of snow? Ah, it
May 29, 1959	■
was a year that went too fast. Already we’re trying to figure out the latest change in oui* exam schedules. For those who think they’ve got it straight, I’ve been asked by the Office of Academic Effusions to announce the following further changes: i) In the interest of providing a greater uniformity under the new system, students who flunk will have their grades multiplied by three. Those who pass with a grade of five or over will be required to take the exam over and ovei’ until they flunk. It is hoped that in this manner the present unsightly curve will be somewhat flattened out. ii) In order to allow the seniors time for the confusing festivities and ceremonies of commencement, the date for all senior finals has been moved back to last February 17. You all ABXed. See you next year.
(While we’re on the subject, you might be interested to hear that the collected bulletins of this office have been gathered and edited by a bad senior as his thesis. A dramatized version will be presented by the University Theater next fall under the title “Corbaci Strikes Again.”)
But I’m forgetting what I started out to do. Having decided to take advantage of the privilege claimed by anyone in any way connected with the journalistic profession at the end of the year, I am going to present my own series of awards and appreciations. No special pattern or theme is being chosen; I am merely listing whatever occurs to me in no special order. I hope this will preclude complaints, and if anyone objects that such a personal method may be lacking in general interest, I can produce a squadron of blood relatives who will eagerly take up the dispute. But enough shilly-shallying.
First, I would like to cite the Notre Dame Laundry as the most improved facility on campus. When I came here they used to rip, tear, and mangle my shirts for a week at a time. Now they do the same job in only three days, and at hardly twice the cost.
Second, I would like to name as my favorite All-Round Good Fellow the moderator of the Scholastic, for allowing my columns to be printed week after week even though he could not have failed to see that each column was a thinly-disguised installment in a master plan for a still disguised as a wall sink.
Third, the 1959 Dome receives my nomination for Most Ado About Nothing. As far as I can see, the photography is greatly improved, but the way the staff toots about sputtering such terms as “revolutionary” and “dynamic” I had been expecting a great deal more. Perhaps a foreword by Ezra Pound, or a cut-and-paste senior section so you could match the portraits to the names that seem to fit them. But this is still a yearbook, and like all yearbooks, can only succeed in looking like a longer and more-expensively-bound edition of the General Motors Annual Report.
Fourth, since my erstwhile colleague, that lovable old literary duffer John Bellairs, gave no awards in his column, I would like to name him Most Unrewarding Person of the Year.
Fifth, I would like to insert a word of thanks to the National Musical String Co., of New Brunswick, N. J., manufacturers of Black Diamond Banjo Strings, thanks to the durability of whose products I have become a success in show business without having to augment my initial investment of $1.40.
Sixth, to return to larger issues, I would like to name Bob Sedlack as Scholastic Editor of the Year, since it appears that’s what he’s turned out to be.
Seventh, our student government as Most Ornamental Campus Fixture.
Eighth’. A series of ties for Lost Cause of the Year:
Darius Schmeltz, for his vain attempt to re-establish the Arian Heresy.
D. T. Garber, for trying to prove that it is possible to listen to WSND every day (he cha-cha’ed himself to death in a month).
St. Michael the Archangel, for trying to drive past the main gate without a sticker.
Last, I would like to name Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Bowen of Attleboro, Mass., Man and Woman of the Year for 1937.
In conclusion I would like to pass on two pieces of advice to those who will be reading the Scholastic next year. First, be patient with G. P. Scarpia, if he’s back. Remember that adolescence is at best a difficult time of life. Second, don’t take the name of this column too seriously.
~	- V 7
mUKMESS
g^omwtnffs
We famish every-
** *-A *■ - e—s-
1 wDf n* * WUnf K&JL A veeatioa in fame! WKSemW Qostico-Saperior wfl-AstOMg! Aluminum canoe, complete <wn»ping outfit, fine food—ell at lev deUy mte. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (FA (Sris make canoe trips, tool) Bonfor lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
OUR COVER: During the past four years the present editors of the SCHOLASTIC have felt that the real students at Notre Dame have oftentimes been neglected in favor of the “student leader” or extracurricular type college student.
In planning our last SCHOLASTIC coyer for 1958-1959 we felt that “something special” should be done for the graduating seniors who have succeeded in the academic sphere. On this week’s cover we have, in alphabetical order, the list of the top ten graduates in the four undergraduate colleges as determined by their averages at the end of three years. Congratulations to them for remembering that a university is a place of study.
todm Msad 'v»ous OJ.S4OH
IBQ I
IES I BBSS I
N
x V
3
SMA
Wv
□□□□
obhei^
a 1 v
sis n
H £ _3 a
Mb
□EQBf
IDI
□DE
3|H
3 N
M
□□QB
s n w a
xuri ms
nsci
Sil IV
a
IB BODE
S
vrN[i] nlsM
V 3|8|

3
9 9
tHMSNVKDM
KQDL ■CROSSWORD No. 26
ACROSS
1. Urges
5. There’s usually a run in it
9. Her, non-objectively
12.	With Her, he could be Hoover
13.	Agra is turned to jelly
14.	We (German) 15. This is no bull 16.18th-century hair pieces
18.	Platform that’s almost a daisy
20.	Scorch
21.	Tailor-made for both sexes
22.	liebe dich
23.	This is silly
24.	Thursday’s missile
26.	Negative
27.	la-la
28.	Gulliver’s father
31.	America’s___ Refreshing Cigarette
32.	Roman market places
33.	The Pres.
34.	He could be serious
36.	Major____
37.	Think
39. You say it before you say you’re sorry 42. Now there are
49
43.	Dash
44.	Chastisement of backward pals
45.	What little boys are around little girls
46.	Mansfiddian
47.	The Thin Man’s dog
DOWN
1. Flow’s escort
2. Whiz’s first name
3. When all thia will end
4. What one can do with relations
5. They’re taken with conviction
6. Good for whiskies, bad for girls
7. Important parts of traffic
8. He hasn’t quite got the price
9.“_____from hots____”
10. When on yours, you’re cocky
11. Gaelic
17. Stick around, kid
19. Not quite quite
21. Kools are____
23. They go with outs
25. The guy who got her away from you
29. Free (German)
30. A Kool_____
so dean and fresh
31. Southern shrub
34. Birds that disturb the muse
35. A Grimm story
36. Say it isn’t so
38. Collector’s item
40. Good standing at the poker table
41. Saratoga Springs is one
KGDL
SWITCH FROM
•	As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
•	Finest leaf tobacco... mild refreshing menthol and the worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
•	With every puff your mouth feels clean, your throat refreshed!
Qmeticc& Mosf Rfcfieshing C^aidfE
KGDL
MHDMCNTHOL
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTERI

The Scholastic

CAHILL REVEALS POLLING FAVORABLE FOR PERMANENT HALL PROPOSITIONS
“Decidedly in favor” was the result of a poll to determine student opinion on the controversial question of permanent hall residence. The survey questionnaire, administered by the student government, show that the students favor the proposed plan or some similar alternative to it.
The issue of permanent hall residence is an old one. The plan presented in the questionnaire was the result of seven years of discussion and was the work of representatives of the Blue Circle Honor Society, student government, WSND, and the Scholastic.
EDUCATED OPINIONS. The committee which administered the survey, headed by Sam Cahill, student affairs commissioner, began the year with a two-fold objective: First to educate the student body as much as possible in regard to the permanent hall residence question, and secondly to determine how the student body feels about the issue.
The problem of public education in regard to this matter was an enormous one for the committee. Four major means were used to inform the students: discussions over WSND, personal contacts with -the students, articles in the Scholastic, and publication of a booklet on permanent hall' residence.
The meetings with groups of 20 or 30 students from a hall were the most effective means of information, and produced the most enthusiastic support for the plan. Evidence of the effectiveness of such meetings were seen by the committee in the comparison of survey returns from Keenan and 'Stanford Halls. The results from Keenan Hall, where the committee conducted a discussion of the plan, gave overwhelming support to the plan compared to Stanford Hall, where such discussions were not held.
POSSIBLY 80%. Said Cahill, “If we could have thoroughly informed the student body of how the system would work, indications are that we would have been able to get probably a 80% favorable vote. Many of those voting both for and against it really had no idea of how permanent hall residence works.”
With approximately 1500 survey sheets in, the student sentiment was about 3-2 in favor of permanent hall residence. And of those who voted against the plan, around 30% were not completely against the idea of permanent hall residence in some form.
The committee noticed an apparent correlation between the popularity of a rector or prefect and the approval given to the plan. In halls or floors with more
CHAIRMAN TOM CAHILL Permanently occupied
well-liked rectors or prefects, support for the new system was much more enthusiastic.
As was expected, the seniors’ returns were the least favorable to the plan and showed the greatest lack of knowledge of its nature. According to Cahill, the sophomores’ returns were the most valuable in reflecting student feeling and interest.
ZAHM HIGHEST. In no hall was the plan for permanent hall residence defeated. The hall most in favor of the plan was Zahm; the committee feels this is significant because those in Zahm chose to remain there this year and have thus had a taste of permanent hall residence.
The questionnaire itself was carefully prepared with the aid of Prof. John Hughes and the sociology department, in order to get the most possible information out of the survey, including why the students felt the way they did about the issue. The questionnaire was pretested to assure its suitability and the time of the survey was postponed until room reservations for next year had been definitely settled. Thus personal anxieties would have less influence on the survey.
Biggest objections to the plan were the reluctance of the students to mix the classes, and the fear of the resulting disciplinary problems. It was also feared that the senior privileges would cause disciplinary conflicts. — Tom Weiss.
Nuclear Source Built For Meeh Engineers
The University’s nuclear engineering program will be strenghtened and expanded by the installation this past week of a graphite subcritical nuclear reactor.
According to Dr. Marcel K. Newman, head of the mechanical engineering department and director of the University’s nuclear engineering sequence, the new reactor will be used primarily for instruction although it will also be available for research. He said that forty Notre Dame students currently are taking nuclear engineering courses.
The new reactor, also known as an exponential graphite assembly, has been underwritten by grants totalling $65,950 from the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission. The AEC has also provided natural uranium fuel and radiation sources valued at an additional $77,000. The nuclear installation is located in the University’s heat and power laboratory in the northeast sector of the campus.
Notre Dame’s newest nuclear installation consists of 28,700 pounds of highly refined graphite bars stacked in horizontal layers to form a rectangular parallelepiped, measuring 68 inches by 68 inches in cross section, and 100 indies high. The basic fuel components are natural uranium cylinders canned in alumnium and supplied in the form of slugs by the AEC. These slugs are assembled in long aluminum tubes and are suspended in the graphite to form a cubic lattice.
Notre Dame also is engaged in nudear instruction and research in its physics and chemistry departments of the College of Science.
Two Art Students Take Midwest College Prizes
Two works by Notre Dame art students have won important prizes in the Midwest Catholic College Art Exhibition. Russell Dailey’s abstract oil painting won honorable mention in the easel painting division. Dailey, a junior from Philadelphia, Pa., is a student of Prof. Robert Leader.
Sister Mary Luke, a graduate student in Rev. Anthony Lauck’s sculpture class, walked off with the gold medal for sculpture for her wood-carved figure of St. Thomas Aquinas. Sirter is a Dominican working for her Master of Fine Arts degree.
Both of these works are on display in the show of student work now set up in the University Art Gallery in O’Shaughnessy. The gallery is open from 1 to 5 every afternoon.
Other winning entries at the college show included St Mary of the Woodsy St Francis, Alverno, and St Xavier of Chicago.
May 29, 1959
Cosocchi's 'Dixie Ramblers' to Tour Europe; Group to Appear at Finest Night Spots, Hotels
Thirty-two days in Europe, including engagements at some of Europe’s finest hotels and night spots, await Bruce Co-sacchi and his “Dixie Ramblers” this coming summer. The group which, according to Brace, “hopes to give Europeans an idea of what is indicative of American college life,” will be out of the country from July 2 to August 23.
Cosacchi, who plays trumpet for the group, is a junior AB-music education major from Harrison, N.Y. He was Drum Major of this year’s Marching Band, and belongs to the Army ROTC unit here.
Other members of the band include Ron Broussard, a junior Commerce major from Gulfport, Miss., on trombone; Kevin McCarthy, a junior music education major from Lakewood, Ohio, on clarinet and sax; Charlie Prawdzik, a sophomore music education major from New Haven, Conn., on piano; George Wenz, a sophomore Liberal Arts student from Ridgewood, N. J., on bass; and Jack Carr, a freshman in Liberal Arts from Flint, Mich., on drams.
SHOWBOAT. On June 12 the group will play on the Met club boat ride and on the 13th at Candlewood Lake, Conn. From then until their sailing date, they have engagements in New York at such places as the Village Vangard, Jimmy Ryans, and the Round Table.
The group, auditioning over Christmas, was one of three Dixieland bands selected to play on the Holland-American Line’s student ships. They were one of 18 college bands, principally from the “Ivy League” schools, vying for this position on the ships, which carry an aver
DIXIE RAMBLERS AT HIGH PITCH Cosacchi and group bound for Europe
age of 800 college students per trip. In return for free passage, they will put on daily afternoon concerts and play again in the evenings. The evening shows will consist principally of dance music plus a half hour stage show.
Leaving on July 2nd on the “Seven Seas,” they will arrive in Rotterdam the 11th. After picking up a Volkswagen Micro-Bus, which they will use for the rest of their travels, they will go directly to Paris, where they are scheduled to play from the 12th to the 15th. The highlight of the stop in Paris will be a special Bastille Day performance.
ZU DEUTSCHLAND. The next stop for the group will be at one of Frankfort, Germany’s top night spots, “Story-ville.” Alternating with the “Couriers,” a group from Yale, they will be there from the 17th to the 26th.
Moving on to Switzerland, the Ramblers will play from June 29 to August 5 at the “Jazzclub” in Lucem and in nearby towns. They are booked on Swiss television and will play at the famed “Casino” on the Swiss Independence Day, August 1.
The group will then take a week and a half off to possibly visit, unofficially, the Communist Youth Festival in nearby Vienna, and to stop at the French Riviera before boarding the return ship at Le Havre on the 14th. After playing on the return voyage, the Ramblers will arrive in New York on the 23rd and will spend a couple more weeks playing there.
According to Cosacchi, Europeans like Dixieland music even more than Americans. The college groups that have previously gone over from the United States (Continued on page 14)
Band Choses Officers For 1959 School Year
Officers of next year’s concert and marching band were recently announced by that organization. Selected as president was Paul Marto, junior from Little Neck, N.Y. An engineering science major, Marto served as social chairman for the band during the past year. He is the band’s drum captain and plays the snare dram.
Vice-president for next year is Greg Gillies, junior sociology major from Greenview, Conn. Also a snare drummer, Gillies was secretary of the band this year.
Serving as secretary will be George Albright, junior engineer from Central Islip, L. I. Albright is a member of the saxophone section of the band.
Social commissioner for next year is Brace Cosacchi, junior in music education from Harrison, N.Y. Cosacchi has been drum major of the marching band < for one year and plays the French horn in the concert band.
Next year’s alumni coordinator will be Dan Sullivan, freshman engineei- from Auburn, Me., who plays the clarinet in the concert and marching bands.
Next year’s marching band plans to try to improve the physical appearance ' of the group in a number of ways, including the acquisition of new blue and gold drums. The band will play foi' all home football games and one away game 1 next season.
Wysocki Picked to Head '60 Mardi Gras Festival
Recently selected as Chairman of the 1960 Mardi Gras Committee was Jim Wysocki, junior accounting major from Chicago. He has served on a number of dance committees in the past three years, including his work as business manager of this year’s Junior Prom, and was president of Lyons Hall last year.
Wysocki’s committee members have not all been selected as yet; Chuck । Brieger, junior from Pittsburgh, Pa., will be Carnival Chairman, and Frank Buzolits has been chosen as Ball Chairman.
Despite the fact that the committee is not yet completely formed, Wysocki and his staff already have a significant headstart on this year’s Mardi Gras plan- ■ ners; with the help of this early start, the committee hopes to be able to equal or surpass the eminently successful Mardi Gras of this year. In view of this year’s great improvement of the Carnival, prime attention next year will be given to improve the Mardi Gras Ball while maintaining the high quality of * the Carnival.
The Mardi Gras week end, profits of which are alloted to charity and the student government Scholarship Fund, will begin with the Ball on February 26. The Carnival will be held on February 27, 29, and March 1.
10
The Scholastic
PRODUCER CAHILL AND DIRECTOR KEATING
Two . . . one ... on the air
Telecom Class to Take Exam on WNDU-TV; Half-Hour Program to Deal With Job History
Tonight over WNDU, Channel 16, the Telecommunications II class will take its semester examination. Stalling at 6:30 p.m. the class will present a half-hour television program dealing with jazz and its history. The program will be “educational in its format” according to producer Tom Cahill and will be completely student-conceived and organized.
The class holds its three-day-a-week meetings at WNDU and is taught by the staff of the communication arts department of the College of Arts and Letters. Ted Doyle, public relations representative for the local station, assists the students in their work.
ENTERTAINING EDUCATION. This year’s program is geared toward education through entertainment. The order will be by schools of jazz as well as chronological. The production revolves around a narrator, Jim Bennett, who sits on his “Dave Garroway stool,” and gives the history with several fade-ins of jazz groups led by Gene Bertoncini and Bruce Cosacchi.
The origins of jazz is in the blues of New Orleans and here the program begins. The blues were originally mournful songs and any instruments used are supposed to imitate the human voice. Cosacchi’s group provides the examples.
Dixieland is the next genre to be covered. Its popularity bloomed in Kansas City in the early 20’s and crept into Chicago during the Prohibition period. The final period is, of course, the contemporary with its greats such as Ellington, Kenton, and Brubeck. “Lullaby of Birdland” and “Jeepers Creepers” are the numbers done by Bertoncini’s quin
tet. The show is brought up to the present and then closes.
COLORADO PRODUCER. “Sam” Cahill, a senior marketing major from Colorado, is the show’s producer. A Blue Circle member, he was a senator’ for two years and student affairs commissioner the past year. The show’s director, Pat Keating, is a communication aits major who was on the WSND staff and has done professional radio and TV work around the country.
The floor manager, Mort Keilty, is a senior in Arts and Letters from Oakville, Conn. Keilty, who was design coordinator for the Dome, will also do the art work for this show.
Cameramen will be Jim Egay of South Bend and John Thurin of the Dome’s “The New Look” fame. Bill Whalen of New Rochelle, N.Y., is the audio engineer and Ed Ricciuti, a senior in Arts and Letters, the video engineer. Chicagoan Bill Hawkins will be the projectionist.
Pin FOR TRIP
The week end of October 13, 14, and 15 will be the student trip for next year. The game is with Pittsburgh. Friday, the group will leave at about 4 p.m. and arrive in Pittsburgh about 1 a.m. the following morning. Saturday night will be spent in Pittsburgh. Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., has approved the sales of 575 tickets at about $30 each. The usual excused cuts will be given.
Jim Bq*** ‘Jot Want of a Quarter
As the Senate Monday night debated a motion to “instruct” the Notre Dame delegation to the NFCCS summer convention to push for a $.25 per student tax plan (Scholastic—May 15), I think the senators should have been reminded about the old jingle in which the battle was |ost for want of a horseshoe nail. The change of one vote could have put our delegation in the embarassing position of opposing a measure that appears to be one of the necessary steps in improving an NFCCS program which has been freely criticized by Notre Dame people in the past.
Two arguments were presented against the tax. Stay-senator Denny Murphy objected to it on the grounds that the wool was being pulled over the students’ eyes by having a separate tax for NF when in reality it amounted to an increase in the student activities fees.
NO OTHER WAY. Ed Butler, student affairs commissioner, was in Murphy’s corner at this period, claiming that since the tax money wouldn’t directly benefit the students in the way the student activities fee does, it would be better to collect the money in some other way. Unfortunately, no “other way” was suggested.
The other opposition argument wasn’t brought out too clearly at the meeting, though perhaps this was what vice-president Jim Naughton was attempting when he suggested devoting the major part of the present $17,000 budget to improving some selected projects in the hope of luring some foundation grants a la NSA.
As explained by SBP Bruce Babbitt after the meeting, this second group doesn’t believe the NF has shown that they merit $1200 from Notre Dame. His major objection is that they haven’t given enough thought to a more efficient organizational set-up, for instance, the adoption of full time national officers. Under the present system he fears that the additional money will not result in a significant improvement.
NF INNOVATION. Bill Scheduler, speaking against both groups, pointed out that NF has had a direct effect on the students, for example, the Mardf Gras, which was an idea originating with NF on campus. He also said there were organizational changes being considered and some that have been effected which would solve some of the problems Babbitt posed.	‘
In my view, no principle has been violated and $.25 per student is hardly a prodigal investment.
May 29, 1959
11
SINGER ROSALIND EUAS Definitely not a lecture
Archer and Gile Open '59-'6O Culture Series
Archer and Gile lead off the Concert and Lecture Series for next year. This duo of young songstresses who, as the New York Times puts it, “have a way with a song/'" will open the season Friday, November 20. Frances Archer, soprano, and Beverly Guile, contralto, will present the songs and folk ballads of 13 languages, trying to bring appealing tunes from all the corners of the world.
The New Art Wind Quartet make their appearance on Friday, December 4. This was the first chamber music group of its kind in America and is considered the best.
Catholic University’s Players Incorporated will return for its ninth consecutive year. This time they will present two of their favorite author’s works: Macbeth on Friday, January 8, and Comedy of Errors the following evening.
The man Paul Hume calls “the dean of today’s classical saxaphone players,” will be in Washington Hall on Fi-iday, January 15. Sigurd Rascher is the man and his style is the embodiment of ease.
“Terpsichoreans extraordinary,” is the phrase for Mata and Hari. A TV favorite, this dance team has amused many with their satirical routines. Notre Dame plays host to them on Friday, March 11.
Rosalind Elias of the Met will round out the program on Friday, March 25. Her “rich and velvety voice infused with spine-tingling color” should delight ND’s music lovers.
This notable program is the work of a Blue Circle committee, chaired by Jack Catalan. This committee will also handle the ticket sales which will begin in October with the offering of season tickets. Cahalan is a sophomore philosophy major from Wyandotte, Mich.
£2
Low Students Conduct Real Estate Seminar; Realistic 'Law Firm' Formed to Solve Cases
What is it like for a young lawyer to meet a client interested in arranging an estate plan for his family? How does a law firm function when it is engaged in the solution of a complicated legal problem requiring the attentions of diferent specialists? These were some of the questions answered for members of the Notre Dame Law School third year class when they initiated the first student conducted Estate Planning Seminar for Real Estate ever held at the Law School.
The idea was conceived by Professor William D. Rollison, the distinguished professor of Estate Planning at the Law School and a nationally known writer and authority in this field.
Professor Rollison envisions an opportunity for members of the third year class to supplement their heretofore academic approach to this topic with a “live” problem and one naturally designed to evoke all of the techniques and skills acquired during the past year.
WIDE KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED. As explained by Professor Rollison, “Estate planning involves knowledge of many fields of the law. Those familiar with these aspects know that integration is the most desirable way in which to handle such closely related fields.”
Dr. Banchero Appointed Chem. Engineering Head
Beginning on Sept. 1, the department of chemical engineering will be headed my Julius T. Banchero. The appointment was announced by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president of academic affairs.
Dr. Banchero, who currently is a professor of chemical and metallurgical engineering at the University of Michigan, will succeed Professor Ronald E. Rich who is giving up the post because of his health. Dr. Rich will continue as a member of the faculty, however.
A specialist in unit operations and process design, Dr. Banchero has conducted extensive research in the field of heat transfer, particularly boiling and applications of Dowtheun heating. He has served as a consultant to the Dow Chemical Co. of Midland, Mich.
Dr. Banchero was born in New York City and received undergraduate degrees in chemistry and chemical engineering from Columbia University and was awarded a doctorate in chemical engineering by the University of Michigan in 1950. He taught for three years at the University of Detroit and has been a member of the Michigan faculty.
His professional affiliations include the American Chemical Society, the American Society for Engineering Education, the American Society for Chemical Engineers, and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. -
To achieve the most efficient use of the talents of each individual, the class became, for the purposes of consideration of this problem, a law firm. Harry Contos of Kalamazoo, Mich, acted as the senior partner in charge of the planning session. Realizing that the prerequisite to solving any estate problem is a comprehensive knowledge of its client’s present assets and property interests,-the firm carefully questioned its client, a young married couple from South Bend.
After becoming thoroughly acquainted with the assets of the future estate, the firm then proceeded to elicit the client’s desires for the ultimate disposition of the property. Various contingencies were suggested to them and their intentions and wishes were carefully noted by all members of the firm, each of whom was actively participating in this “fact finding” session with the couple.
Upon the completion of a plan, the firm again met with the client and carefully and painstakingly explained each provision of the plan and the legal significance of the provisions.
ESTATES TO BE INTEGRATED. The meetings described above are, according to Professor Rollison, going to become an integral part of the Estate Planning course as taught at the Notre Dame Law School. The immediate advantage is an effective “integration of the practical aspects of estate planning along with the substantive aspects of wills, trusts and future interests.
And perhaps equally important is the eminently practical experience gained by each third year law student and the solid grasp of the steps followed in planning an estate. Such a treatment of this subject is the first of its kind in this country and another positive example of the leadership in legal education which, in late years, has been achieved by the Notre Dame Law School.
Vetvillers Hold Grad Party As Mayor Daly Leaves Post
Closing out Mayor Walt Daly’s term as mayor of Vetville was a graduation party held in the Vetville circle last Sunday night. Bruce Cossachi and his band provided the music for the dancing which was held outside.
At the party, 40 Vetville wives received “diplomas” citing their patience with Indiana winters and lauding their aid to their husbands in receiving their degrees. The citations are signed by Father Hesburgh and Father Morrison, Vetville chaplain.
During the course of the evening the new mayor, Lewis Taft was inaugurated. Taft is a grad student from Hartford, Conn, who majors in,chemistry. The new mayor and council take office Monday, June 1.	.	_
The Scholastic
New Commissioners Chosen for Next Year
New social, academic, religious, and student affairs commissioners for 1959-60 have been recently selected by the student government.
Social commissioner for next year will be John Christen. A Liberal Arts junior from Park Ridge, Ill., Christen is well qualified for his new post; he has served on the social commission for three years and was chairman of the victory dances this year. He also headed the arrangements for the recent Kingston Trio concert and was Dinner Dance chairman of this year’s Junior Prom.
The new academic commissioner is Andrew Lawlor, a sophomore in the General Program. This year he was ■ academic commissioner of the sophomore class and served as secretary of the Met club. In his new position, Lawlor plans to work for closer coordination of aca-s demic activities with those of St. Mary’s and to step up publicity of such activities. The Student Forums will be continued with greater emphasis; a larger ■ number of informal and invitational lectures are also being planned.
The newly-named religious commissioner is Bill Vivado. Vivado, a junior AB-Engineer from La Paz, Bolivia, has worked on the student government’s spiritual commission during the past year. Next year’s commission, according to the new chairman, will follow the Church’s lead in stressing the liturgy program through such means as increasing the emphasis on the dialogue Mass and community prayer. The commission will also seek closer ties with the YCS to promote an improved and enlarged retreat program,
Student affairs commissioner for the coming year will be Ed Butler. Butler, ’ now junior class president, is a commerce major from Akron, Ohio. His plans in his new capacity include the establishment of a Public Information Bureau, which would receive and send out news of such items as hall elections and student organization activities
Rounding out the administrative branch of student government next year null be Paul Rafferty who steps into a new position known as the director of student organizations. A semi-autonomous position under the student affairs commission, the post was created as a result of Senate legislation concerning graft in geographic clubs. Rafferty, junior class secretary, majors in political science.
CARDINAL COMING
His Eminence Alfredo Cardinal Ottaviani, pro-secretary of the Supreme Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office, will receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Notre Dame during a two-day visit to the campus June 5-6. The Vatican prelate will be honored at a special convocation in Sacred Heart Church June 6 at 9 a.m.
Three Priests Celebrate Fiftieth Year of Service
After the graduation celebrations of the seniors have ended, three Notre Dame priests will celebrate the golden jubilee of their ordination. They are: Reverends Thomas Irving, Eugene Burke, and Cornelius Hagerty.
Father Irving, graduated from Notre Dame in 1904, went to the novitiate for a year, then to Washington for his theology. At Catholic University he was awarded his doctorate in physics. In 1912, he was made superior of Holy Cross Seminary and seven years later he became director of studies at Notre Dame. In 1921, he headed the then new Moreau Seminary.
Graduating from Notre Dame in 1906, Father Burke, went to Washington for his theology, and studied Holy Scripture at Catholic University from which he received a doctorate. Returning to Notre Dame in 1914, he taught English until he was chosen president of the University of Portland in 1919 where he remained until 1928. He came back to Notre Dame to teach English, to head the new radio station, and to prefect. He was made editor of the Ave Maria from 1929 to 1933.
Also a Notre Dame graduate of 1906, Father Hagerty studied at Catholic University, receiving his doctorate in philosophy. He has taught at St. Edward’s in Austin, Texas, at the University of Portland, and at Notre Dame.
SHELLEY
on Life Savers:
“So sweet, the
sense faints picturing them!”
College Oirifiee Series
*	History of Europe Since 1815
*	History of the United States Since 1865
*	first Year College Chemistry
♦	Biology
*	Chemistry Problems and How to Solve Them
*	French, Spanish, and German Reviews
* Physics—Questions, Problems, and Solutions
See the Special Sale on Prints and New Books
Save Time and Money Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE aa-fte-campas
May 29, 1959
ND Glee Club Elects Adams President for '59-'6O Season
Notre Dame’s Glee Club has selected John Adams, an industrial engineering major as its president for next year. Adams has been with the club since his freshman year and has served as librarian and secretary for the last two years. He is a member of the Knights of Columbus and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and hails from Washington, D. C.
Chosen vice-president was Pat Creadon, an accounting major from Riverside, Ill. A junior this year, Creadon has been a member of the Glee Club for the past three years.
A sophomore, Steve Murray is the new secretary. Murray will major in economics in the College of Arts and Letters. He is from Park Ridge, Ill. Frank Loncar, a Dean’s List accounting student from Chicago will serve as treasurer for next year’s club.
Next year the club plans to make its annual Easter trip through the East and will appear on the Ed Sullivan Show. A swing through the southern states will complete the tour.
Phillip Romig and Mike Pando will serve as business manager and publicity manager, respectively. Pando is a NROTC contract student from Larchmont, N. Y. A senior next year, he is a marketing major in the College of Commerce. Romig was assistant business manager in his junior year and next year will receive his degree in electrical engineering. He is from Zanesville, Ohio and is an NROTC regular.
This past year* the Glee Club has entertained various groups almost every week end. This Easter they traveled along the East Coast, stopping for four days in New York and singing at a dinner in Boston honoring Cardinal Cushing.
At the Movies
Dixie Ramblers
(Continued from page 10) have always been received with warmth and enthusiasm.
GENEROUS EUROPEANS? The only expense which will be incurred, the renting of the Volkswagen, will be covered by the “generous” wages that the group has been promised. The engagement contracts include arrangements for room } and board.
By staying at a few towns for a longer :	period of time, the group hopes to meet
and get to know as many European people, particularly college students, as possible. In this way it is hoped that it will be not only an education for the six band members, but also a concrete display of American college life and American trends in music.
The group is anxiously looking forward to the trip. As Cosacchi says, f “Now that the paper work is over, we ; are planning a successful summer and • an experience to be remembered for a long time to come.”
14
AVON
The Night Heaven Fell: (May 21-June 3). Held over. The Avon Art’s latest gift to the South Bend movie-going public adds up to BB and C. That’s a good rhyme, considering Brigitte and the Legion of Decency have been antagonists for a long time. With Stephen Boyd and CinemaScope—and color.
COLFAX
It Happened to Jane: (May 29-June 4). False report last week. The COLFAX decided to favoi’ another movie. But this week you have a chance to see Doris Day and Jack Lemmon in a spirited if ridiculous fight against a railroad tycoon played by Ernie Kovacs. Ernie and Sam, the left-handed lobster, are the only funnybone assets the movie has.
GRANADA
The Young Philadelphians: (May 28-June 4). This movie, adapted from Richard Powell’s excellent novel, The Philadelphian, stars Paul Newman in the title role. Paul Newman, as Tony Lawrence, has a problem on his mind. It seems that love affairs plague the women in his family every other generation, and it turns out that he is the composite result of all of them. Lurid as this may seem, the movie does have its good points.
PALACE
A Night to Remember: (May 27-June 2). Walter Lord’s account of the last hours of the Titanic is brought to the screen by Kenneth More, one of England’s foremost performers. The movie does away with Lord’s reportorial passages and devotes its time to the tragedy, the casualty list of which reads like the Social Register.
STATE
Al Capone: (May 28-ad infinitum). A no-punches-pulled, factual stoiy about Chicago’s prominent man-about-town. Although a few fictional touches are added for color — a love affair too many and a foreign accent — the movie follows closely the gangster’s road from murder to murder to jail. Rod Steiger plays the title role with perhaps too-stark realism. A number of lesser luminaries take the roles of Scarface’s enemies, no longer with us. Included is another representation of that ever popular St. Valentine’s Day massacre. In general, the movie depicts with sincerity the days when gravedigging was in its heyday — and Capone got a cut of the proceeds.
RIVER PARK
The Old Man and The Sea: (May 28-31). Spencer Tracy stars in and narrates Ernest Hemingway’s novelette about an old man who, after nearly three months without catching a fish, finally hooks a great marlin. In the movie, though, the fish turns out to be a precise Plexiglas model. Realism is the keynote.
Co-Hit: White Wilderness. Another in the long series of Walt Disney’s sure moneymakers, this one is strictly a documental about a world of winter and the animals in it.
—Tony Wong
The Scholastic
EUROPE: 1959
Study in Vienna . . .
by Peter J. Quinn III
It couldn’t be closer than a year ago to the day that the first preposterous thought of a snow-girded, sub-arctic city crossed my mind, on a rainy and muddy plain in Indiana. Who could have thought then that the following months would be filled with the feverish preparation necessary to transform such abstractions into reality? September was a vague possibility which suddenly approached reality on the distant horizon.
Now, six months and some 16,000 kms. away, what has it meant? Nothing that I could ever attempt to entrust to these few lines, yet something which I will be appreciating for many a dank day. For, what does it mean to bob unseen and unheard on a 3,000-mile expanse of liquid wilderness? Of what value is it to see the World’s Fair, or bask in the sun drenched quays of the Seine just escaping the shadow of Notre Dame? What value to step behind the Iron Curtain to see the stifling demise of the once powerful Czech organ at the hands of the Reds or to gasp at the still embryonic renaissance of the German populace? What could possibly be derived from a visit to St. Sophia or the Blue Mosque, a prayer at the Blessed Virgin’s place of death, a stroll through the Acropolis or a ride on the Appian way? Why should one be at St. Peter’s at Easter for the Pope’s blessing? Rhetorically speaking this could go on ad infinitum but the fact remains that sitting in the middle of this whirling vortex, focusing on distinct objects is hardly possible, yet, it must be done before one is spewed forth once more with only the rapid motion as a reminder. I am most grateful for the opportunity of reflection which this article has afforded and which, I fear, will only remind me of the quick passage of time.
I personally considered a trip to Europe a fantastic proposition at any time, much less for my entire junior year of undergraduate study. I felt
quite safe in assuming that with all the barriers which would arise through my parents and the University officials, I would never be plummeted into the difficult position of having to decide on the final affirmative or negative nod for such an operation. As you scoff at this last remark, I only wish you could experience the first second of realization that you and only you are to make this decision. For then, grasping frantically on all sides for support, the spinning starts.
I believe that one has himself to consider first in such a decision. One must also consider his future and the bearing, direct or indirect, which this experience will have. Our duty to our family may for the first time become severely defined. Would it be fair to inflict the possible financial, emotional and psychological burdens on those to whom you owe your very existence? Are you willing to very possibly sacrifice school,
friends and security on a venture which could prove to be entirely disillusionment? These ideas as well as many others, streamed through my mind. In making my final affirmative decision I calculated that as far as seeing and knowing Europe was concerned, an entire year was far better than a few tourist-crowded summer months. Living with a foreign family would also give me the experience and insight into a whole new field of society. Finally, I yearned for the adventure that such a trip was bound to hold in store as well as the chance of proving to myself that I had reached a certain level of maturity whereby I could regulate my life and actions alone. Through the help of my dean, professors and other students who had been fortunate enough to avail themselves of such a trip, I concluded that providing I was correctly disposed, the proposed trip should prove highly beneficial. My parents as well as the University officials agreed so that all technicalities were quickly resolved. Having come to a decision was, at least, a step in the right direction. However, it was only the key which opened the door for hundreds of new problems. The endless packing which ensued, the making of lists for every imaginable thing, including other lists, collecting addresses, securing passports, tickets, etc., are all part of the hectic prologue which in the end make the trip an absolute necessity if only for health purposes.
When Thomas Cook or someone declared that: “half the fun of making a trip was getting there,” he certainly put it aptly. Ship travel appears to be most conducive to the above, creating the proper atmosphere from the first moment of embarkation. Amid the revelry of the bon voyage, which is something everyone should attend, you really get lost, much to the relief of all, especially when that last whistle blows. However, once underway, the voyage provides a very interesting chapter in one of the inevitable diaries.
In addition to this there is the mystery which surrounds a first ocean voyage, particularly with people who were for the most part as apprehensive as you with regard to the immediate future. Romances, drinking, bridge, all-night smokers, etc., which characterize every ocean crossing were highlighted by that magic hour of tea which has now become a mainstay in our daily diet and which we spent in.the “Palm Court,” one of the more brilliant of the ship’s salons, engrossed in German lessons to the tune of Beethoven’s 5th. The orchestra, which was composed of “students” from all over the country, quickly became integrated under the stem thumb of Prussian diwi-pline wielded by our accompanying professor. Lest we should find the 7,000 miles between the Dome and ourselves an insurmountable gap, we were considerately provided with Father Scheberle, our chaplain and a Father of Holy Cross.
May 29, 1959
For all practical purposes, we crossed without so much as a ripple and before I even had a chance to hit THAT rail, the Old Sod appeared. The decks bristled with activity as our first port of call brought fond and familiar farewells to bosom friends of five days. Almost an entire life can be lived in this shoi-t space of time which this crossing provides. It is impossible to describe the bonds constructed in this period but to reveal that they were only a few hundred hours old defies belief. Added to this was the confusion caused by the “Hard Core” Irish peasant women who came aboard to sell their wares. Reared under the tutelage of downtown New York, we quickly discovered that sour cream had been added to the potatoes. Since we had met the Irish first it was rather paradoxical for our next stop to be Holland. However, we met ’em all — the Highland, Lowland, Rotterdam and other. . . . varieties inclusive. Through Delft, Amsterdam, Eadem and Urk we sloushed, unsuccessfully attempting our newly learned Deutsch on turned heads and closed ears. It was the Jesuit editor-in-chief of the Dutch Catholic weekly Die Lignie who gave us our introduction to European mentality, but we soon learned that the composite whole signified by the one title, Europe, is as great a misnomer as exists today. Nationalism knows no bounds here and its cruel, disfiguring influence is vividly felt throughout the continent. Memories are sharp and exact. Not at all slow to forgive and forget, Europe is swelling with a problem which in its least aggressive stages overshadows any racial situation which has been so widely and adversely publicized here. Father’s vivid portrayal of the “European front” served as an excellent hors d’oeuvre for this twelve-month repast which quickly turned from a gourmet’s to a gourmond’s delight. Father also took the time to point out Ann Frank’s home and the fifteenth-century residence of the exiled Descartes, both once cited for demolition by the city. The recent success of the drama and movie concerning Ann Frank, both in the U. S. and abroad, and the absolutely amazing, profound effect which it has exercised over the European populace has stayed off this destruction. The former is to be transformed into a Jewish Youth Organization Office while the latter will house a museum.
♦ ❖ ❖
Our next visit was to the ancient city of Erugge, Belgium. This was highlighted by a morning session at the equally ancient European School at which time we were given an excellent preview of the economical and political maze which is Europe. The World’s Fair followed in rapid succession and its architecture was a sharp contrast to the hitherto highly popular and frequently seen Gothic arch. Three days at this immense spectacle merely scratched the surface. Of special interest at the time, however, was our reception at the European Coal and Iron Community headquarters in which they further emphasized the absolute futility of a “united Europe”
The author (in front of post) with ski instructors at St. Moritz. 16
future security both at home and abroad
On the steps before die Blue Mosque in Istanbul. Left to right, Sue Fitzpatrick, Peter Quinn, and Janet White from Barat.
but on the other hand gave hope of an economical association as its most plausible end.
Mentally and physically exhausted by this time we found our choice of Paris for a resting spot, very poor. After a week in this wonderful metropolis we were completely entranced with European life and fatigued by its commitments. Cocktails and lunch were a fitting conclusion to the interesting session sponsored by NATO which gave us a feeling of with a tremendous display of military might. This did much to ease the tensions which had developed during our trip across with respect to the Red threat since we would be balanced on the periphery of the Iron Curtain for a year.
Marx’s birthplace, Trier, Ger., Bonn, Rothenburg, Heidelberg, Munich as well as Luxemburg passed in rapid succession and soon the lofty spires of the Castle of Salzburg loomed into view marking the end of the trip to Austria. I will reserve comment on such things as Heidelberg’s Red Ox, Munich’s October Fest, Paris’
Lido, etc., lest I be misquoted and I leave them to the doldrums of your imaginations.
Life in Vienna is an endless merry-go-round of activity and living with an Austrian family does much to provide the proper atmosphere for such a sojourn. Our flat, conveniently located on a charming avenue, in the shadow of Belvedere Palace which in rough translation is “Street of the Six Beer Mugs,” reeks with the life of Wien. In sacrificing the luxury of central heating, almost unheard of here, we gained an experience far worth the sacrifice. Despite the rather poor economic conditions however, the electricity is on throughout the night, though emanating from an intriguing tiled contraption located in one corner of the room. Breakfast in bed is hard to take but so is the twenty by twenty room which went for below Dean’s List average. Classes start at the ungodly hour of 8 a.m., which for some means rising long before seven every day. This is prompted by the truly unfortunate fact that the custom of taking attendance, recently imported from you know where, has been avidly adhered to in order to satisfy part of the whims of our Western masters. Should this spread to the University, diplomatic relations would certainly be suspended as such a rule would seriously impair the European conception of student which I myself find to be, in short, merely a realistic conception of a matured being attempting to partake of a wealth of knowledge in an unperfunctory manner. Luckily I can make class in fifteen minutes so transportation poses few problems. Classes are held for the most part in English or translated although it is common to choose German classes once the language barrier has been successfully hurdled. The University itself consists of many buildings scattered throughout the city, the principle one being a large, baroque style in which the general A. B. courses are held. Classes here are relatively well attended to the extent of some “standing room only” conditions despite the so-called complete laxity of their disciplinary system. Neither is roll taken nor
The. Scholastic
' Champagne Party, Christmas Eve, in Saalbach, Austria. The brunette under the ceiling light is Sue Fitzpatrick, a former St. Mary’s student. The fellow on her right is Greg St. Romain, a
.	student from Notre Dame.
are seats assigned; the professorial deity enters, many times , accompanied by assistants, amid the stamping of feet and ‘ knocking on desks — small homage to these human but hardly humane gods. Many classes run for almost one and one-half to two hours and cover so much that type-written copies of the more important lectures are always available for review purposes. To say that this system is either too infoimal or ineffective is a gross error. It is formal in conduct and selfstimulating. Library facilities are always crowded and students rarely have incomes which permit anything else other than study for recreation. However, when a more intriguing form of this is desired, he usually satisfies that in the numerous excellent museums which the city offers as well as the unlimited musical performances which are at his disposal. Student tickets are available for next to nothing and the schedule of events is so varied that one could attend a performance at any one of the two operas, four large theaters or three concert halls every evening of the year and still not see the same selection twice. In this regard, there is a surprisingly popular appreciation of art so that it is not uncommon to see a black leather-coated, black leather-trousered, greasy, sideburned hood completely engrossed in Renoir or Van Dyke. Although social dictates on dress still do have effect when they attend the opera or theater, its unseemly rigidity has no effect on box office attendance. The average university student normally carries on a terribly fluent conversation in any field of the arts, something which I dare say would not only not be found on the normal U. S. campus but would almost be discouraged as an accepted conversational topic. This alone drives home in an all too obvious manner one of the basic shortcomings of our society — an appreciation of the arts. It rarely appears in any curriculum from primary to university levels of education, it is seldom mentioned in the home and is verboten in normal discourse. We consequently result in having a people more capable than any other on the face of the present day earth of supporting an almost crumbling pillar* of personal expression.
♦ ❖ ♦
The more common pastimes such as dancing and the like can all be satisfied in the numerous facilities any typical large city affords. In this do the Wieners excell. The informality of the modern age together with the normal Viennese austerity was dropped one evening as the elite of the continent danced in gold and crystal splendor at the Ball of the Vienna Philharmonic which marked the height of the Vienna Fasching Season. Those of us who were fortunate enough
May 29, 1959
to attend were astounded by the aspect of imperial magnificence which extended before us. The beautiful harmonies of black and white, the only colors permitted to be worn, together with the strains of music from five orchestras finally revealed all which is attributed to Vienna. This was a singular occasion almost lost in a year of spectacular events. In sharp contrast were the bacchanalian conditions which prevailed in Munich for the month-long feast.
Christmas was spent in the Alps in a small Austrian village. The atmosphere created by the international crowd as well as that which normally pervades a skiing resort helped to make this Christmas a most enjoyable one. Despite the fact that most of us were away from our homes and families for the first time on this holiday, I think we turned this fact to our own benefit, most of us realizing for the first time exactly what Chi*istmas and our family means. We, as most of you probably have, had fallen into the abyss of apathy in which some if not all of the benefits of merely home and parents had been forgotten. This oppoitunity to be without the multitude of “little things” which had heretofore melted into the indistinguishable mass called background, proved eye-awakening to say the least. After a country in which Christmas means the Birthday of Christ and that jolly character St. Nicholas is depicted in his robes as Bishop, Czechoslovakia proved to be a somewhat paradoxical and ironical denouement for my Christmas story. This iron laced outpost of atheism surprised all of us who made the journey there. Very probably the most imperial looking city in the world, its numerous palaces, villas and chateaux are enhanced by an almost preposterous number of churches. The remarkable fact, however, is that all of them were open and were decorated in the mode of the season, all with cribs, etc. The people were free to come and go there as they chose with respect to worship but not once did I see a religious. The State which is carrying on extensive renovation in these edifices has been careful to keep up a strangely respectful appearance, but this, on not too careful introspection, is completely dissolved. In actuality, what services are permitted, must be performed at certain specified
Roadside shrine, common in Europe, near Mouajdl, Amtria.
times at which there is always a Communist extravaganza taking place. The constant fear under which these people labor was mirrored in the vague and dumb looks which we received in response to questions concerning the location of the Shrine of the Infant of Prague. This was carried to a ridiculous extreme in which many people, before running away, replied that no such thing existed. By way of clarification, the shrine does exist in its former splendor and appears to be still • a popular center of worship for these people. The few days which we were able to spend there showed most of us that there exists a continual state of mutual agreement in which the Communists in return for a minimal amount of cooperation will not antagonize the people. However, the constant pressure of these almost hidden forces seems to be bending the will of even the most stalwart and their inevitable collapse with the emergence of genuine Communism appears imminent.
Anyone who has the opportunity of visiting Europe and who sacrifices it to fulfill some other whim is undoubtedly making one of the greatest mistakes of his life. The longer your stay, of course, the more I am sure you will reap from it. A trip such as this, while affording the many pleasurable experiences which are normally obtainable, at the same time pointing out my position in an old society while initiating me into a new one, the two effects provided a remarkable change on my previously stunted insight. The fortunate aspect of the entire situation is that I will be returning to this position after having considered its past, present and future bearing on me. That gain means a great deal to me and I presume will mean even more when I return. For this as well as other reasons, I would strongly advise anyone considering such a step, to do it in their sophomore year of college when they will have the benefit of a more complete application with two years of college rather than one remaining.
Having broken free from a sheltered life for the first time in two years, I have been able to grasp a little bit of the reality of what is the world. Believe me it can be cruel but that is not the point. It is the ability to overcome this cruelty by surmounting the barriers which it presents. That is best gained by experience. Formal education will undoubtedly help in this respect but naive formality bereft of the realistic elements which fulfill it leaves one unfortunately lacking. In general, the forces which have inundated my mind in the last six months have resulted in my opinion that apart from being advantageous this experience was absolutely necessary.
Students who wish their manuscripts considered for publication in the 1959-60 JUGGLER are invited to send their writings over the summer to:
JIM YOCH,
6 Algonquin Estates Road, Glendale 19, Missouri
FACULTY
The “Wife of Lot,” by Fr. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., a terra cotta sculpture.
The University Art Gallery is presenting an exhibition of recent work in all media by members of the Department of Art regular and summer session faculty, from May 31 through June 29. The Gallery is open daily, Saturday and Sunday from ■ one to five p.m.
The artists whose work is shown in this exhibition are: Pro- , fessor Stanley S. Ses- •» sler, Head of the Art ; Department, Profes- j sor Ivan Mestrovic,) Sculptor-in-Residence, Associate Professor Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., Associate Pro- / fessor Robert A. ' Leader, • Associate Professor Frederick . S. Beckman, Instructor John White, and the following risiting teachers: Kenneth Bates from Cleveland, O., Sy Perszyk from Indianapolis, Ind., ' Sister Michaeline, O.S.F., from Sylvania, O., and Theodore . Golubic from South Bend.
The work ranges in scope from painting and sculpture to calligraphy, stained glass window designs and enamels. It is interesting to see the varied areas of specialization represented in the work of these artists. Professor Sessler, head of the department, is exhibiting six paintings of both por- ' traiture and still-life subject matter. One of the portraits, . “Jeri and the Siamese,” is of special interest as this portrait of the artist’s wife was awarded First Prize in Oil Painting at the recent Northern Indiana Art Salon exhibition in Hammond, Indiana. The work illustrates the precise and careful technical perfection and imaginative compositional handling which typifies Mr. Sessler’s style. Associate Professor Robert A. Leader has three paintings in the show in addition to a selection of color slides illustrating both his murals in the . Church of the Little Flower in South Bend and his stained glass windows in six Midwestern churches. Mr. Leader’s paintings show his particular adherence to the abstract style. His “Souvenir of Assisi” is an oil version of a stained glass window panel shown in the exhibition New Work in Stained Glass, circulated by the U. S. Information Agency in North and South America. Associate Professor Frederick S. Beckman teaches in the field of design, and is represented here with , a large, imaginative and highly decorative panel of enamel worked in an abstract, three-dimensional form. John White, instructor in painting, drawing and design, is represented with several watercolor landscapes painted in vibrant, fresh colors and ranging in style from realistic to abstract.
Notre Dame’s distinguished and internationally famous Sculptor-in-Residence, Ivan Mestrovic, is exhibiting four recent works, including a fine bas-relief panel, “The Flute Play-
18
The Scholastic
ART SHOW
JAMES KEY REEVE
ers,” rendered in his distinctly individualistic style. The Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., Associate Professor of Sculpture, has in the show four pieces of sculpture, and in addition a photographic display of his stained glass designs, and the step-by-step process of the fabrication of the slab glass window he designed for the sanctuary of Moreau Seminary chapel. His terra-cotta sculpture, “Wife of Lot,” won the Myron Feinberg Sculpture Prize in the Indiana Artists Golden Anniversary Show.
Outstanding work by the visiting summer session teachers includes eight brilliant enamels by Kenneth Bates, nationally known enamelist and author of the highly-regarded book, . “Enameling Principles and Practices.” Mr. Bates has taught I design and enameling courses for the past 32 years at the Cleveland School of Art. A recent honor given him was the inclusion of some of his work at the Brussels World Fair last year. Sy Perszyk, a versatile artist working in crafts, paint-(ing and sculpture, is represented with a watercolor landscape, a wooden relief and a stone sculpture. Mr. Perszyk teaches at the Technical High School in Indianapolis and is a frequent exhibitor at national shows. Sister Michaeline, O.S.F., is exhibiting two examples of her illuminated manuscript designs.
The prize winning oil “Jeri and her Siamese,” by Prof. Stanley Sessler.
She teaches at the Sisters of St. Francis Convent School in Sylvania, Ohio, and returns for her third summer to teach classes at Notre Dame in lettering and illumination. Theodore Golubic, represented with four works of sculpture, is an assistant to Ivan Mestrovic and will be conducting classes this summer in figure sculpture.
The large assortment of media, style and technique shows to best advantage the versatility of the artist-teachers of the department. It also makes for a particularly interesting ex
hibition, varying as it does from the monumental works of Mestrovic, the solid style of Golu-bic, and the glowing, vibrant color abstractions of Leader to the subtle and sensitive precision of Ses-sler’s paintings and the flowing, emotionally deep sculpture of Father Lauck. Providing sparking contrast are the brightly perfected enamels of Bates, the in-triguingly designed panel of Beckman, the fresh watercolors of White
Sculptor-in-residence Ivan Mestrovic’s
and the sculptures mahogany “The Flute Players.”
of Perszyk. Sister
Michaeline’s manuscripts offer a tradition of age-old contrast
with the rest.
In all, the show is extremely rewarding to those of us interested in the great possibilities and enjoyment that is to be found in contemporary art.
James Key Reeve
Curator of the Art Gallery
After graduating from Nezu York University zuith a master's degree in Art History and Curatorship, Mr. James Key Reeve held lecture posts at New York’s Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Reeve worked for four years at the Toledo Art Gallery before assuming his present position at Notre Dame as Curator of the Art Gallery.
AT THE GALLERY
May 31 through June 29 —
ANNUAL FACULTY EXHIBITION (West Gallery) SELECTIONS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION
(East Galleries)
July 1 through 21 —
ART AND THE FOUND OBJECT (West Gallery) (a loan exhibition from American Federation of Art)
SELECTIONS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION (East Galleries)
July 26 through September 27 —
SELECTED MASTERWORKS FROM THE UNIVERSITY COLLECTION (Entire Gallery)
May 29, 1959
19
MAY WINNERS OF $5.00 Jerry Trautchould John Fitzpatrick Norbert Spitzer
Plus 10 Runners-up Winners of Hilarious New “Happy Talk” Game
Sheraton Hotels STUDENT-FACULTY
PLAN
Here’s Good News for Students, Faculty and all other college personnel. Throughout the summer, college vacations and college weekends, Sheraton offers you special low rates. Even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room.
You enjoy these advantages at any of the 53 Sheraton Hotels in 41 cities — coast to coast in the U. S. A., Hawaii, Canada.
Special Group Rates are provided for athletic teams, dubs, other college organizations.
Here’s How the Plan. Works: just present your I.D. card (easily obtainable) when you register at any Sheraton Hotd, and you’ll be entitled to these special discounts. Get your Sheraton I.D. card from
JIM CRISMAN (Student Rep.) Notre Dame Scholastic
Room 325, Walsh Hall
Notre Dame, Indiana
Phone: CEntral 4-9011 Code No. 83
Hans/- Rintzsch
LUGGAGE SMALL LEATHER GOODS GIFTS
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
Phone CE 2-5881
AQUim UBURTut BNK SHOP
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
-lt Isn't*
necessary to ship your winter garments home and
then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional
amount.
CALL CE 4-3188 OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER UNCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS UNE
The Scholastic
Spotii. Picitott
NETMEN POST PERFECT 14-0 MARK FOR FIRST UNBEATEN YEAR SINCE '26
Unbeaten in their last 18 matches, Notre Dame’s tennis squad is still waiting for the Administration’s approval to play in the NCAA Tournament at Evanston, UL, from June 22-28. Coach Tom Fallon stated that about 50 teams are expected to participate. If permitted to enter, Fallon stated that the Irish can expect strong competition from San Jose State and several other Pacific Coast schools. The outstanding Southern California squad is ineligible this year. Tulane and Miami head a strong contingent from the South.
The netters were host to Southern Illinois on Thursday, May 21, and shut out the visitors by a 9-0 score. Sophomores Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker both won their 13th straight match without a loss. Each has also won 26 straight sets without a loss. Ralph disposed of Jim Jarrett, 6-0, 6-1, while Heinbecker defeated Marvin Cohen, 6-2, 6-0.
Max Brown and Ron Schoenberg, cocaptains of this year’s Irish squad, won theii- 12th and 13th matches of the season, respectively. Brown defeated Southern Illinois’ number one man, Jerry Bud-zelek, 6-4, 6-4. Schoenberg, the number three man for the Irish, defeated Ron Underwood by a 6-2, 6-2 score.
Ray Bender and Charles Stephens, number five and six respectively for. the Iiish, also won in straight sets. Bender won over Dick King, 6-2, 6-2, while Stephens had no trouble with Jerry Gruen,
6-0, 6-0.
FIRST UNDEFEATED NOTRE DAME TENNIS SQUAD SINCE 1926 Left to right: Coach Tom Fallon, Ron Schoenberg, Max Brown, Don Ralph, Chuck Stephens, Ray Bender, Bill Heinbecker.
The Irish went on to win the three doubles matches to post a 9-0 shutout.
The Irish traveled to Detroit on Friday, May 23, and again had no trouble as they handed the University of Detroit a 9-0 defeat. Ralph defeated Bill Hersey, 6-0, 6-1, while Bender won over Ray Bellinger by a 6-2, 6-1 score. Heinbecker played the number two position for the Irish and won easily, 6-1, 6-0.
Stephens, Pete Heinbecker, and Dee Stevenson, playing the fourth, fifth, and sixth positions for the visiting Irish, also took their matches in straight sets. Stephens disposed of Bill Bellinger, 6-1, 6-1, while Heinbecker defeated Ed Goebel, 6-1, 6-2. Stevenson completed the singles sweep by a 6-1, 6-3 conquest of Fred Rizzo.
The Notre Dame netmen returned home and were scheduled to meet Marquette on Saturday, May 23. However, the match was re-scheduled for the following afternoon due to traveling difficulties of the Marquette squad.
The host Irish squad finished their regular season schedule by defeating Marquette, 9-0. Ralph, again playing the number one position for the Irish, played an outstanding match as he overwhelmed Charles Mulcahy, 8-6, 6-3. Number two man, Schoenberg, defeated Bill McCarthy by a 6-1, 6-0 score. Heinbecker, Bender, Stephens, and Stevenson also won in straight sets for the home netters. Notre Dame went on to win all the doubles matches for the 9-0 score.
Varsity Teams Select Next Year's Captains
Several of the Notre Dame sports squads have announced their captains for next year’s teams. The basketball squad was the first team to announce its captain. He is Mike Graney, 6-5, 225-pound center from Bishop Noll High in Hammond, Ind. Graney was the starting center for the Irish basketballers during the past two seasons and has proven to be an outstanding rebounder and scorer. Graney is also an outfielder on the baseball team and is one of the team’s top power hitters.
The 1959 Irish football squad has not yet elected a captain because of the coaching changes that took place during the past season. A captain will be announced during fall practice next September.
The wrestling team will be led by Jerry Sachsel, a senior from Garwood, N. J. Sachsel wrestled this past year in the 123-pound class and was undefeated in dual competition.
Jim Russomano and Jerry Johnson have been named as the co-captains of the next year Irish fencers. Both Russomano and Johnson were outstanding in this year’s competition and were prime reasons for the 13-2 record compiled by the team. Johnson hails from Newark, N.J. Russomano is also a New Jersey boy, coming from Caldwell. He was selected on the All-American squad in .the foil for the second year in a row.
The most recently named captain was Terry Lally of the golf team. Lally, who hails from Louisville, Ky., was a consistently good golfer for this year’s Irish squad and alternated between the first, second, and third positions during the matches.
The track, tennis, swimming, and baseball teams have not yet announced then-captains.
Sailors Finish Season; 6th in Midwest Sailing
The Notre Dame sailing team completed its spring season last week end at the Midwest Collegiate Championship Regatta hosted by Ohio State. As a result of the racing, Indiana and Michigan will represent the Midwest at the Nationals in Rhode Island, June 15-19. Notre Dame’s finished among the top six of the Midwest’s twenty-four MCSA (Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association) members. Skippering for the Irish were Mickey Pavia and Dan Schuster with Jack Devanney and Jim Kuras crewing.
Next fall the Irish -will start the season off with the Notre Dame Invitational on September 26. Notre Dame’s prospects for the fall racing season are excellent, with veteran skippers Pavia, Schuster, Bud Rose, and John Miller returning, along with a group of enthusiastic underclassmen with good potential.
May 29, 1959
21
A Glance at the Year by GREG ROGERS
“Irish Subdue Middies, Ron Gregory Sets New School Mile Record, Fencers Set Record For Consecutive Wins” — these are Scholastic headlines from Notre Dame’s 1959 intercollegiate athletic season. This was a year filled with many heartbreaking losses but still a successful year.
The Irish gridders opened their 70th athletic season against Indiana’s Hoosiers with an 18-0 victory. The Green were inconsistent in their offensive attack but held their downstate opponents to meager yardage. Nick Pietrosante was the Irish standout, driving for 75 of 238 rashing yards. Southern Methodist was the next victim, 14-6.
Army traveled to Notre Dame the following week and inflicted the first loss on the Irish, 14-2. The Green drove deep into the Black Knight secondary many times but could not muster a drive into the end zone. Meanwhile, Pete Dawkins and company slashed through the Irish defenses and sewed up the game late in the final stanza.
New opponent Duke fell before a Monty Stickles’ field goal from 23 yards out, 9-7. The Irish put on a fine offensive show but lost 202 yards through penalties. Purdue and Pittsburgh took two heartbreakers from the Green. Purdue led all the way but the Irish, with George Izo pitching and Stickles catching, fought back to a 29-22 deficit before the clock ran out. Pitt pushed across a score with 13 seconds left in the game to beat the Green, 29-26.
The Irish offense, hurt by penalties and the clock in the weeks before, exploded against the Naval Academy. In this game, the Irish could do no wrong.
MONTY STICKLES
The receiving end of the Izo-Stickles team.
The Middies were never in the game as the Brennanmen poured six touchdowns across and smothered the Navy attack, 40-20.
In completing the season, the Big Green knocked off North Carolina and Southern California along with a loss to the Iowa Hawkeyes.
The football team finished the season with a 6-4 record. Several players received All-American recognition. There were Pietrosante, Stickles, Izo, and CoCaptain Al Ecuyer. This completed Coach Terry Brennan’s fifth year- as Notre Dame’s football coach.
Just before Christmas, the faculty board in charge of athletics decided to
YEAR’S RECORDS, WON-LOST
Won Lost Tie
Cross-Country ........  2	0	—
Football .............. 6	4	—
Basketball ..........  12	13	—
Swimming .............. 5	5	—
Wrestling ............  5	5	1
Fencing .............  13	2	—
Track ...............   4	1	—
Golf ...............   12	5	—
Tennis ..............  14	0	—
Baseball ___________   20	5	—
Totals
93 40	1
release Brennan. Joe Kuharich, a Notre Dame footballer in the late 30’s, became the new coach. Kuharich had been coach of the professional Washington Redskins prior to taking the head coaching job. His varsity defeated the Old-Timers, 21-7, this spring.
Notre Dame’s cross-country team turned in an impressive record this year. The thinclads walloped Indiana and Marquette in dual meets and placed second in a triangular meet behind Michigan State. Wisconsin was third.
The Irish placed first in a tie with Indiana in the Indiana Big State meet. Ron Gregory finished second to help the Green tie for the crown with 36 points.
The harriers also finished second in the Notre Dame Invitational. Western Michigan won the crown. In the CCC championships, the Irish lost their crown and finished second, again behind Western Michigan.
In their final meet of the year, the Wilsonmen finished a strong fourth in the NCAA championships. The Irish were defending champs. Coach Wilson, in commenting on the season, stated that he “considered that the team had done a fine job despite their failure in their defense of the CCC and NCAA crowns.”
Captain Mike Haverty along with Gregory, Dave Cotton, Galen Cawley, Dave Wehlage, Charles Fernald, and
Dennis Johnston were the leaders for the Irish.
The basketball team had trouble getting started this year, compiling a 12-13 record. Bright spots were Tom Hawkins and John Tully.
Hawkins, despite a severe ankle injury during the season, averaged 23.4 points a game and received All-American recognition. “Hawk” just missed leading the team in rebounds by two with 335. Mike Graney grabbed off 337. Hawkins now holds many scoring records including a three-year point total of 1820, a season high of 730 points, and the game mark of 43.
Tully, a sophomore, came off the bench early in the season and in 18 games, took off 131 rebounds, and led the team with his shooting percentage of .418.
Coach Jordan’s five turned in some good games, even with their losing record. Crippled by an 18-point deficit against Xavier, the hoopsters struck back in the second half, only to lose by one point as the clock ran out. The Irish also lost a heartbreaker in the Butler Fieldhouse in triple overtime.
The eagers made a fair showing in two holiday tourneys. After losing to North Carolina, the Green turned the tables by a 65-53 triumph over host Louisville in the Blue Grass Tournament. Also, Purdue bolted the Jordanmen after the hoopsters had vanquished Indiana in the Hoosier Classic.
The highlight of the season was the final game. Marquette, having previously trounced the Irish, met the Green in the Fieldhouse. The Warriors played a slow, deliberate game in the first half, but the Irish pulled away, hitting over 40 pei- cent of their shots in the second half to crush the demoralized Marquette squad, 51-35.
Other important victories were scored over Illinois, leading the Big Ten at the time, and St. John’s, then rated seventh in the nation and eventual winner of the NIT. The highest point total was scored
JOHN TULLY
Sophomore center displays impressive hook shot.
22
The Scholastic
RON GREGORY
Turned in record 4:10 mile.
against Valparaiso. The Jordanmen won, 93-65.
Co-Captains Hawkins and Duffy graduate this June. Tom Reinhart and Mike Ireland will also be lost through graduation. Bill Crosby, Bill Noonan, Mick Bekelja, Mike Farrell, Emmett McCarthy, and Bob Bradtke made good showings this year.
Notre Dame’s wrestling team turned in a 5-5 record for the season. The Fal-lonmen lost a lot of talent through graduation last year but still managed to make a fine showing during the season. The Irish fell victim to such powerhouses as Wheaton and Northwestern but beat such rivals as Marquette and Miami of Ohio.
Bucky O’Connor, Dick Sapp, Bill Sheehy, Dom Carbone, Fred Jamroz, and Jerry Sachsel were standouts.
Sachsel was the leading winnei* for the Fallonmen, extending his streak of consecutive wins to 22 before losing in the Case Tech Invitational tourney. He went all the way to the semi-final round. O’Connor also made the semi-finals at Case, finally taking third place in the tourney.
The Irish also made a fine showing in the Wheaton Invitational. Sachsel won the 123-pound title winning four bouts.
Coach Walter Langford’s fencing team ran its winning streak to 25 matches to set a new Irish record for most consecutive victories. The Langfordmen finished the season with a 13-2 record and an eighth place finish in the NCAA.
Jim Russomano was the team leader with 34 victories as against four defeats. Jerry Johnson won 29 and lost seven and John Lauerman had a 26 and eight record. Joe Klein won 23 and lost ten while Jim Jock lost ten while winning 27. Russomano won All-American honors for the second year in a row.
The first Irish loss came at the hands of the Air Force Academy, 14-13. Illinois also took the measure of the Irish by the same score.
The Langfordmen demolished such
teams as Ohio State, Michigan State, Iowa, Indiana, and old-rival Wisconsin. The Irish have not lost a match by more than 14-13 in over four years.
Langford’s fencing squads have been the most winning squads at Notre Dame for the past three years, having run up streaks of 15 and 25 matches.
The indoor track squad had a successful year, winning both of its dual meets. The Irish opened the season with a victory over Marquette. The Green took first place in every event, and Ron Gregory set a new Notre Dame indoor mile record of 4:10. Captain Steve Dornbach and Jerry Fitzpatrick were double winners for the Irish. The Irish swept three events, the mile, half-mile, and the 440-yard dash.
In their second dual meet, the Irish beat Purdue with Gregory setting another record in the two-mile run. His time was 9:14.6, setting another Fieldhouse record. Dornbach tied the Notre Dame indoor record for the 60-yard low hurdles with a time of :06:9, and Fitzpatrick ran the 60-yard dash in :07:4 to tie the meet record. The thinclads won six of eight first places.
In the IC4A championships held in New York, Gregory and Dave Cotton placed for Notre Dame. Gregory was second in the college mile at 4:16:5 and Cotton took fifth in the two-mile run. In the field events, Glen Cividin tied for first at 14 feet and Tom Reichert tied for fifth place at 13 feet for the Irish in the pole vault.
In the CCC championships, the Wil-sonmen took second place behind Western Michigan. The Irish took five first places. Gregory and Fitzpatrick were double winners. Gregory took the mile and the 880, and Fitzpatrick won the broad jump and the 60-yard dash. Dornbach took first in the high hurdles.
In the Eighth Annual Milwaukee Journal games, the Notre Dame two-mile relay team was second to Michigan, recording a time of 7:44:3. The mile relay
JIM RUSSOMANO
Top Irish fencer in NCAA.
JERRY SACHSEL
Undefeated in 22 straight matches.
squad was fourth in the first section of the college mile relay.
Notre Dame’s newest varsity squad, the swimming team, turned in a 5-5-1 record in their first season of varsity competition. The Tankers started off slowly but came fast at the end of the year to climb to the .500 mark. The Irish coach was Dennis Stark, a Notre Dame graduate.
The tankmen knocked off such schools as St. Louis, Central Michigan, and Western Michigan but lost to North Central Michigan twice and tied Detroit Tech.
Top men for the Irish were: Paul Chestnut, who scored many firsts in the diving event; Jim Carroll, also a diver; Dick Dunn and Tony Haske, both butterfly men; Jim Garrity, 200-yard backstroke; and Gene Witchger in the 100-yard freestyle.
In the spring sports, the Notre Dame entries have been very successful. The tennis team ended their season last Sunday with a 14-0 record, extending their streak to 18. The team opened their season against Toledo' after a mildly successful Easter tour of Mexico. Toledo fell 9-0. The next victims were Ohio State, Denison, and Ohio Wesleyan, who fell in a quadrangular meet with the Irish netters. The Irish took 34 of 36 points.
In the most important meet of the year, the Irish met and beat Kalamazoo, Iowa, and Indiana here at Notre Dame. Iowa was the only team to beat the Irish last year. They lost this year, 8-1.
In other meets, the Irish beat Northwestern, Michigan, Michigan State, and Kalamazoo for the second time.
Max Brown, Ron Schoenberg, Ray Bender, Bill Heinbecker, Don Ralph, and Chuck Stephens were the top singles players. Ralph and Brown, Heinbecker and Schoenberg, and Bender and Stephens made up the doubles teams.
The Irish baseball squad posted a 20-5 final record, with a bid to the NCAA
May 29, 1959
23
assured. The Klinemen’s most recent victory came against Glenview, 8-1.
The only Irish losses have come against Western Michigan, Michigan State, and Kent State. The Klinemen have beaten such teams as Western Michigan, Wisconsin, and Northwestern.
Gene “Herman” Duffy was the leading Irish hitter. Dick Selcer, Danny Hagan, Jack Gentempo, Mike Graney, John Car-retta, and Ed Wojcik were other leading hitters. Nick Palihnich, Jim Hannon, Charlie Scrivanich, and Jack Mitchell were the leading pitchers.
The Notre Dame golf team finished the season with a 12-5 mark. Captain Gerry Webster, Terry Lally, Ray Patak, Budd Zesinger, Christie Flanagan, Jim Stahl, Frank Hund, and Tom Rose were the leading golfers this year.
The Irish knocked off such opponents as Western Illinois, Tri State, Iowa, Minnesota, and Northwestern. The Irish lost to top squads in Michigan State and Wisconsin.
The linksters placed third in the Big State Meet two weeks ago, losing to Indiana and Purdue. The squad hopes to send entries to the NCAA tourney in Eugene, Ore., late in June.
In outdoor track, the Wilsonmen have
Congratulations I
To all students who will be leaving the campus next week for good or for the summer, the Bookstore wishes to extend its congratulations for a fine year. We hope we have been able to assist you in your studies. May we suggest that before you leave the campus, you stop in and select a souvenir of this year at Notre Dame.
UNTIL NEXT FALL GOOD-BYE AND GOOD LUCK
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
made a good showing. Two weeks ago, the thinclads won the Big State meet, topping Indiana. Gregory, Mike Moran-do, Ken Scarborough and Fitzpatrick were outstanding for the Irish. Gregory won both the mile and two-mile events with Fitzpatrick winning the broad jump and 100-yard dash.
Morando broke the meet record for the javelin with a throw of 208 feet. Scarborough threw the discus 145 feet for first place.
In the Ohio State Relays, the Irish took one first, a third, and two fifths. The distance medley team of Gregory, Monahan, Rorke, and Cawley took first over Michigan State with the two-mile relay team of Monahan, Gregory, Rorke, and Clynes placing third.
In the Drake Relays, the two-mile relay team of Rorke, Clynes, Monahan, and Gregory set a new school record with a time of 7:35.1. In dual meets the Irish have beaten Army and Michigan State and lost to Missouri.
Four Notre Dame track greats were honored this year, being chosen as charter members of the Drake Relay Hall of Fame. These were the present Coach, Alex Wilson, Greg Rice, Bernie Allard, and Aubrey Lewis.
ND Nine To Participate In District Four Playoffs
Notre Dame, Minnesota, Detroit, and Western Michigan opened the District Four NCAA double elimination playoffs here at Cartier Field yesterday. The winner will go on to the NCAA championships which are being played at Omaha.	.
The Irish and Detroit received at-large berths, Minnesota won its place by virtue of its second straight Big Ten crown, and Western Michigan defeated Ohio U. for the Mid-American spot.
Last Saturday the diamondmen whipped Glenview Naval Air Station, 8-1, on the Cartier* diamond, in a game enlivened by Naval aggressiveness and temper.
The Irish got off to a slow start, with Glenview’s John Cichelli driving in their only run of the game in the first inning with a single, before Notre Dame hurler Nick Palihnich settled down for eight innings of scoreless ball.
Left fielder Mike Graney poked the first hit of the game for the Irish in the fourth inning, a sharp single to centerfield. Then in the bottom of the fifth, the / Irish attack, aided considerably by two Glenview flubs, exploded for two hits and four runs.
After catcher Ed Wojcik’s single, Palihnich was safe on a fielder’s choice, forcing Wojcik at second. Third baseman Dan Hagan belted a double, and second baseman Dick Selcei* walked, setting the scene for Gene Duffy’s double into rightfield. With the help of two Glenview errors, Duffy cleared the bags on the sailors’ costly bobbles as four,;' Irish tallies crossed the plate.
With Glenview’s Harvey Weltman replaced by Tuel on the mound, the Irish pounded out four more runs in the bottom of the seventh to end the scoring for the day.
Hagan popped out, Selcer was safe on a Texas leaguer, and once more the big bat of Duffy rapped a double. John Car-retta was safe on a bad toss from third, with two more runs coming in for the Irish.
The Great Lakes team had a total of four errors. This was the major factor in the decisiveness of the Irish victory.
Once again Duffy led the Notre Dame nine’s ten-hit barrage with two for four, both hits being run-scoring doubles. Palihnich registered his sixth win of the season against a lone setback.
RENT a One-Way Trailer to take your things home
WARNER’S RENT-A-TRAILER
901 WESTERN AVE. SOUTH BEND
BREEN'S JEWELRY . . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy: Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
24
The Scholastic
CCC and NCAA Next Events For Notre Dame Tracksters
Coach Alex Wilson has announced that his trackmen will participate in several post-season meets. He has high hopes that they will have great success.
Notre Dame will be represented by about a dozen athletes in the Central Collegiate Conference meet which is being held at Milwaukee on June 6. The following week the Irish cindermen will put forth their talents in the NCAA meet, held in Lincoln, Nebraska. Ron Gregory may represent Notre Dame in the National AAU meet at Boulder, Colo., June 19 and 20.
Gregory is entered in the Central Collegiate Conference meet in two events, the half-mile and one-mile runs. Running with him in the half-mile will be Dan Rorke. Jerry Fitzpatrick will compete in three events: the 100- and 200-
yard dashes, and the broad jump.
In the 440, Mike Breitenbach and Chris Monahan will run while Dave Cotton is featured in the three-mile event. Tom Reichert and Glen Cividin. will perform in the pole vault for the Wilsonmen as will Ken Scarborough and Bob Dixon in the discus.
Javelin star Mike Morando and Pete Sheptak will perform in that event, and Dick Monjeau in the hop, step, and jump.
Three of the Irish will be entered in the NCAA meet of the June 12-13 week end. They are: Gregory in the mile, Morando in the javelin, and Fitzpatrick in the 220-yard dash.
Last Saturday Gregory returned to his native St. Louis to capture the mile in the Ozark AAU track meet at Washington University. His winning time of 4:11.9 erased his former record of 4:21.2 set two years ago. It was his fourth best time of the year. His best effort was a 4:10 indoor clocking.
Zahm Captures Softball Title; Finishes Play with 7-0 Mark
Last Friday on the field next to the Stadium, Zahm Hall defeated the Hispano-Americano Club for the campus interhall softball championship. The score was 9-7.
Both teams had earned the right to meet in this championship playoff by copping the titles of their leagues. Zahm represented the Interhall League, and the Hispano-Americano club represented the Interclub League.
Zahm won the interhall title by outlasting Badin, Keenan Blue, and Farley in the playoffs in the interhall competition. The Hispano-Americano club won their playoff by defeating the Calumet club and the Cincinnati club. Four leauges were in operation in the interhall competition. The Interclub circuit was comprised of three teams.
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shovel
Quicker .. . closer .. . smoother .. . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus taa
SHULTON NpwYork • Toronto
Available at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
May 29, 1959
25
Back Paqe
by BILL McMAHON
cynicism
One of the fundamental attributes of our age seems to be disillusionment. As soon as a person acquires some intellectual perspective today, he tends toward an attitude of contempt. A good example of this is the views of the Princeton students in the Unsilent Generation. We come to college filled with materialistic conceptions of a happy future. Most of us were sent to school by our parents in order to be educated that we may hold lucrative positions in future life.
Many of us are untouched by the realm of speculation and continue in our naive bliss. But more and more of us are attracted to at least a superficial interest in learning. The result of this is a psychological conflict. As we begin to question the values of our materialistic society, we see in it many flaws which did not previously appear. We begin to realize that our common ideals possess many imperfections, and we are ■disturbed.
Yes, we are disturbed, so disturbed that the common reaction seems to be to go to the other extreme; our optimism develops into a radical pessimism. This negative attitude varies considerably in degree. The most extreme position is a complete nihilism and revolt as exemplified by the beat generation. One of the most mild forms of this is an attitude of perpetual complaining, a disgruntledness which manifests itself in continual petty gripes against the status quo.
We at Notre Dame are not free from this malady because of our alleged devotion to Christian ideals. We are human beings and cannot but be affected by current trends, even though we are probably less affected by them because of the stability afforded us by our religious beliefs. However, this attitude of disillusion is quite evident at Notre Dame. I would propose the following as the principle immediate cause.
Before attending Notre Dame we viewed this school as a Christian ideal, the producer of the man’s man, the epitome of Christian strength. I think that most of us came here with this idealistic
outlook. The University authorities and alumni did nothing to encourage a more realistic view. Instead they fostered the idealized conception of the invincible Christian, the “Notre Dame Man.” Continually, we were led to believe that we belong to a special group of beings, that we are a sort of super-human, superCatholic. It is always pleasing to believe oneself to be an exalted type of person, and, I think, many of us actually felt that our physical attendance at Notre Dame was in some intangible way making us better than the rest of humanity.
But Notre Dame is a university, and as we began to learn, we began to think. The result has not been very profitable for those who would like us to have an unrealistic view of the “Notre Dame Man.” For we saw the Notre Dame ideal, although essentially based on right principles, not being existentially realized. We recognized flaws in those who were supposed to be our infallible guides. We realized that our own group did not consist of ideal Catholics but of human beings, contaminated by original sin and just as prone to moral error as anyone else.
What, then, has been the result of this? I think it is reflected in a common attitude among the seniors. We have tended toward the opposite extreme from our previous idealism. We have run the gamut from being the staunchest supporters of this University and all for which it stands to its severest critics. We have had our fill of Notre Dame and are anxious to move elsewhere, where, we hope, we shall find something in which we can place a stronger faith. In short, the average senior, to my mind, appears to be a cynic, at least insofar as Notre Dame is concerned.
What is the solution to this problem? Obviously, it lies at neither extreme. Neither a naive idealism nor a destructive cynicism entails a truly realistic position. The answer is somewhere in the middle. Most of us (although often we hate to admit it to one another) deep
down have a love for this University and are rather proud to be from here. Although we may be anxious to leave these restrictive surroundings, I think we must honestly admit that we have profited from our years at Notre Dame.
Hence we must forsake an attitude of criticism which is neither perfective of the present situation nor of ourselves. We must face the facts, but not with an attitude of despair. It seems impossible that a university advocating such high ideals could be completely untrue to its tenets. However, on the other hand, we must not lapse back into the simple faith that if we let well enough alone, all will come out right. We must foster criticism, but it must not be nihilistic criticism. We must continually work for positive results, for the positive fulfillment of the Notre Dame ideals in a nonartificial way. Notre Dame is not Notre Dame without the students. It is our responsibility to continually press for improvements, and we must always foster an intellectual criticism, a criticism aimed at positive results rather than the relief of our frustrations, to make the ideal conform to the real.
In doing such, we, the students, must set an example. If we are to advocate reform, we must prove ourselves responsible enough to assume additional freedoms. This can only be done by showing that we really possess the Christian virtues that we are supposed to have and in doing this we must exhibit particularly the virtue of patience which is the opposite of a disillusioned cynicism, not a pseudo-patience which tolerates all abuses, but a strength of character which realizes that very few revolutions occur spontaneously but must be achieved in a gradual process through persistent effort. We must see man in general and the “Notre Dame man” in particular as he really is, neither a sinner nor a saint but with indications in both directions. We must foster a tendency in the right direction. Only in this way, through active efforts rather than disgruntled murmuring, can we improve the situations which we can never perfect.
26
The Scholastic

new adjustable
REMINGTON* ROLLA-MATIC
Trade Mark
ELECTRIC SHAVER
•product of fUminfton. Muut Eu^rric Shaw, DIVISION OF SPERRY RAND CORPORATION, Bridgeport 2, Connecticut
Remember, Remingtanoutselts ail electric shavers., .sells more than the • not two brands combated!
Ask for the shaver that adjusts to any shaving condition, to every < skin and beard. Just set the < ; : control panel: Left to lower? exclusive Roller Combs where beard isCtough', right to raise, where, skin is tender.: : I:: Unlimited settings: in between; See. the new Roll-A-Matic :.. Shaver^ a^yodrcamipu^store and fine;st6reseverywhere;:; ThbnT;drop a hint to. the family.. ..
Bush-flying in Alaska calls for speed and skill to whip around mountains and glaciers, through valleys and passes. Real pro pilot Dennis Branham lands passengers and provisions in his twin-motor amphibian all over the wilds.
H. J. Rej'nolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
The lure of gold, oil, and land keeps business booming in the 49th state. After the plane’s unloaded, Branham takes time for a real smoke before flying home.
TURKISH & DOMESTIC BLEND CIGARETTES
t
The best tobacco makes the best smoke

"Can't beat Camels for real flavor and easygoing mildness,” says Dennis Branham. Camel’s famous blend of Turkish and domestic tobaccos has never been equalled for real smoking pleasure. Again, for thelOth straight year, Camel outsells every other cigarette.
Have a real cigarette - CAMEL