i
The SCHOLASTIC
NOVEMBER 9
1962
.<®H- i


OUR SHEARLING-LINED FLOATER
14.95*
The most practical bad-weather campus boot you can own . . . The Campus Shop’s exclusive Floater boot. The thick crepe-rubber sole and heel is vulcanized onto the leather upper so that they’re warm, waterproof and comfortable. Wool shearling-lined. In Black Olive toned leather. Sizes
7 to 13. Medium and wide.
*Unlined floater at §12.95.
^GILBERT'S
r CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY. .
NO CARRYING CHARGE
We try to make a charge account at the Campus Shop a convenience as well as a service for you. Since every Notre Dame man has an open charge account here, we suggest that you get the clothing you need, when you need it, and use this convenient way to charge your purchases. Pay one-third in January . . . one-third in February . . . and one-third in March. Of course there is never a carrying charge for this service. Use your campus charge account soon.
^GILBERT'S
3
Oil MKMoan
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”,“The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 November 9, 1962 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
GLOOM AT THE TOP
Founded 1867
Oh, sure, you’ve been busy, what with going to classes, doing your homework, catching night crawlers, getting married —but can't you pause for just a moment and give thought to that dear, dedicated, lonely man in the big white house on the hill? I refer, of course, to the Prexy.
(It is interesting to note here that college presidents are always called “Prexy.” Similarly, trustees are called "Trixie.” Associate professors are called “Axy-Pixy.” Bursars are called “Foxy-Woxy.” Students are called "Algae.”)
But I digress. We were speaking of the Prexy, a personage at once august and pathetic. Why pathetic? Well sir, consider how Prexy spends his days. He is busy, busy, busy. He talks to deans, he talks to professors, he talks to trustees, he talks to alumni. In fact, he talks to even-body except the one group who could lift his heart and rally his spirits. I mean, of course, the appealingest, en-dearingest, winsomest group in the entire college—you, the students.
It is the Prexy’s sad fate to be forever a stranger to your laughing, golden selves. He can only gaze wistfully out the window of his big white house on the hill and watch you at your games and sports and yearn with all his tormented heart to bask in your warmth. But how? It would
hardly be fitting for Prexy to appear one day at the Union, clad in an old rowing blazer, and cry gaily, “Heigh-ho, chaps 1 Who's for sculling?”
No, friends, Prexy can’t get to you. It is up to you to get to him. Call on him at home. Just drop in unannounced. He will naturally be a little shy at first, so you must put him at his ease. Shout, "Howdy-doody, sir! I have come to bring a little sunshine into your drear and blighted life!” Then yank his necktie out of his vest and scamper goatlike around him until he is laughing merrily along with you.
* * *
Prexy and undergrad, male and female, late and soon, fair weather and foul—all times and climes and conditions are right for Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste.
Then hand him a package and say, “A little gift for you, sir.”
“For me?” he will say, lowering his fids. “You shouldn’t have.”
“Yes, I should,” you will say, “because this package is a carton of Marlboro Cigarettes, and whenever I think of Marlboro, I think of you.”
“Why, hey?” he will say curiously.
“Because Marlboros have taste, and so do you,” you will reply.
“Aw, go on,” he will say, blushing furiously.
“It’s true,” you will say. “Moreover, Marlboro has a filter, and so do you.”
“In my swimming pool, you mean,” he will say.
“Yes,” you will say. “Moreover, Marlboro has a soft pack and so do you.”
“My limp leather brief case, you mean,” he will say.
“Yes,” you will say. “Moreover, the Marlboro box has a flip-top, and so do
you.”
“But I don’t have a flip-top,” he will say.
“But you will,” you will say. “Just light a Marlboro, and taste that tasty taste, and you will surely flip your top.”
Well sir, you will have many a good chuckle about that, you may be sure. Then you will say, “Goodbye, sir, I will return soon again to brighten your lorn and desperate life.”
“Please do,” he will say. “But next time, if you can possibly manage it, try not to come at four in the morning.”
© 1962 Max Shulman
JOHN McCABE
Editor
JACK AHERN
Associate Editor
JIM WYRSCH ............ News	Editor
TOM HOOBLER ....... Features	Editor
JOHN BECHTOLD _______ Sports	Editor
JOHN PESTA .......... Layout	Editor
JAY WARD ........... Business Manager
PAT SAXE ...............Art Editor
STEVE ENRIGHT .......... Assistant Art
JIM GALVIN............. Copy	Editor
RICHARD ROGGEVEEN ................
.............  Advertising	Manager TOM DALUM .................. Circulation
BRIAN BECK..............Photography
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER ..............
	 Assistant	Sports JOE RYAN.......................  Assistant	Sports
DONALD COSTELLO .... Faculty Advisor REV. JOSEPH HOFFMAN ..............
.................. Faculty	Advisor
COPY STAFF: Al Dudash, Dick Notebaert, John Pope, Jack Rowe, Bob Zielsdorf.
FEATURES STAFF: Brian Barnes, Pat Bauer, Jim Bonnybury. Dennis Corrigan. Dick Gibbs, Frank McConnell. Bill Metz, Bob McGouan, Larry Sicking, Carl Wiedemann.
NEWS STAFF: Ken Arnold, John Buckley. Greg Callaghan. Ted Carlon. Jr.. Toe Caspar, Dick Connelly, Vince DeCoursey, Charles Dunn, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet. Jack Gerken, Bill Lesbee, Bob Lumpkins, Dick Maher. Terry Meek, John McAlcarney, Frank Smith, Tim Sullivan, Richard Weirich, Don Wharton.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. AU unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
EDITORIAL
Once again it is time for the formation of the Selection Committee for Who’s Who In American Colleges and Universities, and the beginning of the hectic, oftentimes confused, selection of candidates on the basis of a never clearly delineated rationale. Last year’s Committee tried to do a competent job but were caught in the pitfalls of ignorance of senior leaders and by ties of organizational loyalty.
Problems inherent in the Committee itself are the juniors’ (who compose the Committee) lack of knowledge of the seniors’ contribution to Notre Dame, and the fact that the Committee members, each of whom want to select his own favorites, represent eight campus organizations and the four colleges. Ideally, a letter of nomination from the senior himself or another student gives the Committee knowledge of the candidate; however, last year the letters were glossed by the nonvoting Committee head and members received only a listing of the material accomplishments of each candidate. After some candidates were unanimously chosen by their wealth of activities and their well-known campus stature, and others were similarly eliminated by their lack of qualifications, the problem of selecting those from the major portion of candidates remained. The dual deficiency showed when the Committee resorted to passing a candidate on some assumption of his good works or because at least one member of the organizations and colleges was not already selected. Perhaps interviews of this mass of candidates by Committee members would give the Committee more thorough information on which to base judgment. The initial letters of recommendation should give the extent of acquaintance with the applicant, his aptitude for leadership, his recognizable achievements, and his total contribution to Notre Dame in terms of his intellectual ability and attainment, maturity, reliability, personality, and character. This profile should be condensed and presented to the Committee along with the usual listing of activities. Organizational loyalties can be restricted only by the good common sense of the Committee members.
In regard to procedure, the Committee should not attempt to complete its work hastily. This, in the long run, would slow down the selection process when refinements of criteria force a re-evaluation of previously selected candidates. Four meetings over a two-week span would handle the selection process in the following manner: 1) terms defined and qualifications determined, with a reasoned acceptance of the relatively evident leaders; 2) elimination of all those candidates who lack one or more of the qualifications;
November 9, 1962
3) two sessions of selection and elimination on the basis of interviews.
Finally, the Committee must attempt to enforce the clarified qualifications. Last year’s ultimate criterion of “a Notre Dame man” lacked rigor. Leadership, academic proficiency, and extracurricular achievement become adequate criteria only if high minimal standards are set. Leaders should be intelligent, mature, and capable; they must have qualities of imagination and personal initiative, moral integrity, and organizational ability. Minimal academic standards should be a four-point average unless there are important qualifying factors involved. Lastly, a distinction should be made between those activities which are merely time consuming and those which significantly serve the students.
The following is a letter we received from a student who wished to take issue with certain remarks directed to the Scholastic from the pulpit Nov. 1:
I wish to address myself to the question of the “student theologians” at Notre Dame.
The desire for knozoledge is universal, and close upon knowledge follows the desire to act. Yet, behind the admonition to be good little student theologians and not meddle in the business of the elders is a premise which is made to function as a threat. The desire to know is expressed only in a question which demands an answer. And it is this attitude of questioning and answering that makes the university exist. But to be threatened zoith the idea that intellectual "indocility” leads to a loss of faith is nothing more or less than a graceless, unsubtle insult to the intellect of the student exercising his vocation to truth.
No errant child has ever been reformed by a slap on the wrist, particularly ivhen his need for “reform” must be questioned. Unfortunately, one sometimes sees a parent rebuke his son because the child — in his innocence — has embarrassed the parent. For the parent this is the highest deceit because he attempts to draw attention away from his own falling.
We have all heard the maxim that children are best seen and not heard. Which means that the young should be content with hearing and not speaking. Yet the student’s vocation, a vocation to perfecting the intellect through hard ivork, cannot tolerate this kind of stillness. We are told that young men are impetuous. Yet this haste cannot be too unlike that of the man preaching truth in the highways and byways. Perhaps this impetuosity is a manifestation of the foolishness one must expect to find in the followers of Christ.
The question to be answered with honesty and candor by all takes its form from history: In what way is the voice of the people still the voice of God?
—Harold Isbell
5
COVER: This week’s cover presents on architectural sketch by Sam Haffey of his proposed renovation of the obsolete Main Building; turn to page 16 for further details and illustration.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing
•k
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
GENUINE HOOKA
(Turkish Water Pipe)
Have a harem of your own—read on
A new smoking rage is about to sweep American college campuses. After decades. the Hooka (or Turkish Water Pipe) is now being rediscovered as a noticeably more enjoyable and safer way to get smoking enjoyment. The smoke actually bubbles through cool water before reaching your lips. The result is the coolest and best filtered smoke yet obtainable.
No statistics have yet been obtained, but we venture a guess that 9 out of 10 women prefer men who smoke HOOKAS. Probably some gals will want you to take them into your Harem. In any case, this device is a real gas. a sophisticated novelty, and, incidentally, a good gift item. Be the first in your block to own one. Comes complete with simple instructions, and full money back guarantee. Send S3.75 cash, check, or MO to: HOOKAS, P.O. Box No. 630, Oak Park. Ill.
Forum
Dear Fr. Broestl:
In response to your letter: (1) Both old and new Uniform Hall Constitutions were drawn up and approved by students in the exact same manner; (2) The new Constitution is a suggestion to individual halls, whose members may modify it in any way they see fit. (3) Notre Dame’s “unique” system of residence halls was changed last year by the adoption of Stay Hall Residence. The new Constitution is designed to accommodate the new residency system. (4) The Hall Chairmen’s Council has broad new powers and responsibilities. (5) As a resident of Dillon last year, I can attest that under the old Constitution, we enjoyed three “hall activities”: (a) an interhall football team, (b) Homecoming decorations, (c) a reception on Junior Parents’ Week End. Also, we had sandwich sales.
Given an interested hall and a cooperative rector, the new Uniform Hall Constitution should be worthy blueprint for the direction of student life for many years to come.
Kevin G. Hart
Student Body President
Dear Mr. McGowan:
This is simply to tell you that I enjoyed very much your interesting and well-written article contributed to the Scholastic and entitled: “Spirit and Tradition.” Sincere felicitations ! It is so encouraging, in these times of fuzzy and muddled thinking, to find someone among the students of Notre Dame, who can appreciate the past in relation to the present and future.
Your article emphasizes, once again, the need for a Catholic University to be really Catholic and to make no apologies about it. The ideal here at Notre Dame (and the ideal of the Church) is to have the spirit of Catholicity permeate the University, in one way or another, from top to bottom. When it has ceased to do that we no longer have a Catholic University; we just have another school which happens to be conducted and administered by persons who happen to be Catholics.
Christopher J. O’Toole, C.S.C. Former Superior General
Editor :
The letter written by a member of our faculty concerning “... the recent ‘difficulties’ in Mississippi” seems more befitting to a freshman at Ole Miss than to’ a member of our illustrious faculty.
Negroes are not fighting for anything they haven’t a right to have. They are fighting for the rights given them in the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United States of America. Negroes are regarded as first class citizens when they are called upon to fight for the country they love, they are regarded as first class citizens when they pay their taxes; yet, when they demand the rights they deserve as first class citizens, they are murdered, beaten, jailed, and intimidated.
It is time that the position of the Negro be considered. Negroes have deserved but have never been given equality and justice. The white people of the South have had over 300 years to amend their position. If Negroes had to wait until the white Southerners slowly decided to change their attitudes they would have a long, long wait.
The major reasons for a more liberal policy in the South are very basic. They are simply justice and love. Our status in world politics is only an effect of the lack of these two concepts. It has perhaps been emphasized more recently because we now realize that the rising nations of Africa, Asia, and South America will never accept the United States as the “arsenal of democracy” when we tolerate the conditions under which some of our citizens are forced to live.
The white person in the South cannot hurt the Negroes now. He can assert himself as a responsible citizen. He can help the Negroes, himself, and the Southland. He can help the Negroes — as many white Southerners are doing — but he can no longer hurt the Negroes. They are now invincible.
There is a new Negro in the South. There is now a Negro who is willing to sacrifice his fife, his home, and his livelihood to obtain his rights as a first class citizen. This new Negro is making himself known, seen, and heard. He is educated and dynamic. He has gained respect. He has a lot more to say and a lot more to accomplish. Keep your eyes open and your ears clean; you will hear a great deal more from him. . . . This new Negro is and will be pushing ever forward!
Bill Cooper
331 Fisher Hall
The Scholastic
IN THE COLLEGE
PRIZES:
1st Prize—ADMIRAL THINMAN DELUXE 19 PORTABLE TELEVISION
2nd Prize—DECCA PORTABLE FULL STEREO PHONOGRAPH with
10 Long Play Stereo Records!
3rd Prize—UNDERWOOD PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
WHO WINS:
CONTEST OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
BRAND ROUND-UP
Get on the BRANDWAGON ...it’s lots of fun!
RULES:
Just write name & address on empty MARLBORO, ALPINE, PARLIAMENT, PHILIP MORRIS Commander or Regular (or facsimile) package and deposit in ballot box. Winners to be determined by drawing. TIME, PLACE AND DATE OF DRAWING TO BE POSTED IN “THE HUDDLE” by the ballot box.
MM
WE PRESENT
Jack (“Doc”) Hildebrand, your Campus Representative, outfitting Mark Howard with a fine sharkskin suit. 100% worsted, 10-ounce weight that can be worn nine months of the year. A hard finish that gives maximum crease retention and always looks neat in traditional subdued shades.
4950
USE OUR 30 DAY OR EXTENDED PAY ACCOUNTS
118 S. MICHIGAN CE 3-4771
Michaels & Mann
— = i n c. ...	—
I mm I
-■	I
NEXT DOOR TO OFFICE ENGINEERS
November 9, 1962
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: DON BOLGER
With Michigan Bell less than four years. Don Bolger (B.S., Industrial Management, 1959) is Accounting Manager in the Saginaw Revenue Accounting Center, Saginaw, Michigan. There he supervises four groups plus all the activities of a Univac SS 80 Computer.
On one of Don's earlier supervisory assignments in the Detroit Commercial Office, he developed a unique deposit
policy that was adopted by both his District and Division. Accomplishments like this earned Don his latest promotion.
Don Bolger of the Michigan Bell Telephone Company and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
The Scholastic
•	Tony Bill visited Notre Dame last Monday on his way to New York both to finish his first movie, “Come Blow Your Hom” (he co-stars with Frank Sinatra) and to check on future offers. He taught two classes about films during his stay.
An actor in many campus productions, Bill went to California after graduation from Notre Dame last spring {cum laude) looking for a job. In August, through the efforts of director Leo McCarey, a friend of A.B. Dean Fr. Charles Sheedy, Bill secured a screen test for “Come Blow Your Horn.” He got the part, mostly because the role needed what Bill projected. “He had that fresh, naive look of a Notre Dame senior,” said the director.
Bill, when interviewed, exploded a popular Hollywood myth: he finds his job enjoyable and the actors easy to work with. “They’re the same as people everywhere else,” he said. The big people in Hollywood are the most agreeable; “They are on top and don’t need to step on anyone else.” But the movies are more demanding than the stage — “You can’t fake it in the movies.”
A big factor in his new life is the demand on his time. “One can’t imagine, when he lives at Notre Dame, how much he has to do for himself when he leaves—wash clothes, answer the phone, get cabs, etc.” On week ends he returns to his home town, San Diego (“It’s only 20 minutes by air”), to sail, rest, and paint. (Bill won several awards for his art while at Notre Dame.) But his most important interest presently is Toni Gray, St. Mary’s art student. They will be married in February.
Bill had this to say about Notre Dame: “When I was here I was top on the list of complainers. I still don’t like the institution, but some of my best friends are here. That is why I come back to Notre Dame—to see my friends.”
•	Karl Marx once advised the workers of the world to cast off their chains and become free. Two weeks ago Friday night, after an article appeared in the Scholastic commenting on the chained benches by St. Joseph’s Lake, some students sawed these chains off. Now this fine opportunity for group study has been removed. Apparently someone took Marx too literally.
•	Homecoming festivities commence tonight with the announcing of the Homecoming Queen. The queen will rule over the homecoming dance, held to the theme of “Roman Holiday.”
Tomorrow judging will proceed of the various homecoming displays
campus at a glance
which dot the campus. During the half-time of the Pittsburgh game, the band and card section will co-ordinate activities for the entertainment of the crowd. (The freshman class in a recent vote favored retention, in spite of certain occurrences, of the card section by some 6-1.) A dance will be held immediately after the game from 4 to 6 p.m., with the traditional evening Victory Dance closing out the day.
Hamlet opened last night in Washington Hall and will continue there for the next three week ends. Curtain time is 8 p.m.
Students might enjoy the festivities a bit more if they were sitting in the Pittsburgh section tomorrow, for fifteen “bunnies” from Chicago’s Playboy Club will be sitting there. They are here as guests of Hugh Hefner, head of Playboy, Inc. (Hefner runs a rather sophisticated student trip for playboys. For a fee you get to ride to South Bend with a bunny, go to the game, and have a fine bash after the game. These trips have been so successful that Hefner now has a large Notre Dame banner splashed across the wall of the Playboy Club in Chicago.)
•	The decision of University of Colorado president Quigg Newton to fire Colorado Daily editor Gary Althen, reported in the Scholastic last issue, was upheld 2,000 to 900 in a student referendum at UC last week. Newton made his original decision because Althen allowed two letters allegedly libelous to Sen. Barry Goldwater (R.-Ariz.) to be published in the school newspaper.
A petition against university disciplinary action against Carl Mitcham, author of the letters, has gained wide support in the school. The opinion is
that the university should not determine conduct unbecoming a student which has not been judged by the courts as conduct unbecoming a United States citizen.
As the Scholastic went to press Tuesday some more facts came to light about the Colorado Daily matter. After the first article appeared in the Daily by Carl Mitcham calling Barry Goldwater “a murderer, no better than a common criminal,” the President of Colorado, Quigg Newton, supported Gary Althen, editor of the Daily, in opposition to Goldwater, who wanted him fired. Newton then called Althen in, explained to him that he was supporting Althen because he believed in freedom of the press, and asked Althen not to publish articles for a while that would generate this kind of opposition. A week later Althen published another article by Mitcham, in which Mitcham called General Eisenhower “an old futzer.”
Newton felt he had been let down by Althen. He then asked the board of publications to fire him, on the grounds that Althen was “completely irresponsible.” The board refused to fire Althen. Newton then persuaded the Regents of the university to name three more members of the publications board (all of which supported Newton in the matter). The board of publications then fired Althen.
And Newton seemed to be getting almost universal support both throughout the country and at Colorado (see above). Even the liberal New Republic supported Newton. In an editorial entitled “The Right to be Rude,” the journal concluded: “Nobody seemed to know quite whose freedoms had been infringed — the editor’s or the University’s. Nobody clearly raised the question, perhaps academic for a tax-supported institution, of whether a university should not be a privileged sanctuary, even for comment that is irresponsible, inaccurate or rude."
• Danforth Foundation scholarship nominees here at Notre Dame have been announced. These scholarship awards, intended for eventual doctoral study, are among the most lucrative given. As a qualification the nominees must declare their intention to enter into college teaching.
Notre Dame’s nominees this year are John Kearney, in the General Pro-
f Continued on page 21)
November 9, 1962
9
The Mississippi Crisis
by John Pesta
William Higgs, who has spoken to Notre Dame audiences about the Civil Rights question before, did so again last Thursday. A segregationist’s point of view, which hitherto has nor been formally presented on this campus, was expressed by Sir. O. J. Bori, a Vicksburg, Mississippi City Commissioner and a founder of the state’s anticommunist league.
Higgs, a native Mississippian with a most controversial stand on Civil Rights, spoke first to an audience of two hundred in the Law Auditorium. His remarks were general and brief, possibly because of Notre Dame’s familiarity with his views.
“Even under the doctrine of sepa-rate-but-equal,” Higgs said, “you do not find the Negro getting a fair shake in terms of education.’’ This is true primarily because the educational facilities are unequal. Among the reasons offered for this inequality is the fact that most Negro teachers in Mississippi are graduates of the local Negro colleges. And Higgs proceeded to say, “I’d estimate from talking with many of these graduates that the average equivalent education is something like ninth, tenth, or eleventh grade schools in the North.” Whatever the Negro teacher could offer his own students would most likely be less than what is offered by graduates of superior white high schools.
Backing his claim of inferior facilities, Higgs pointed out that Jackson College, the state’s largest Negro institution, has a library of 35,000 volumes as opposed to Mississippi University’s higher quality 300,000 books.
There are about four Negro attorneys in Mississippi, compared to 1700 white lawyers. Medical doctors stand in roughly the same proportion. Negroes have no access to any law school or medical school in the state. This situation exists in a state where forty-three per cent of the population is colored. Higgs maintains that the Negro, working mainly in menial occupations like cotton picking or domestic work, is given little opportunity to better himself. These jobs pay very little: less than §1000 is the average annual income for rural Negro families, whereas the whites’ annual income is about $4400. “This means,” said Higgs, “that the white person can purchase the labor of the Negro for very little indeed.” In fact,
10
the going Negro wage in Jackson, Higgs’ home town, is 80 dollars a month.
As Higgs sees it, a different code of justice applies to the Negro as well. Higgs can make such a statement on the grounds of his own experience as a Civil Rights attorney. Answering those persons made indignant by the actions of the Federal Marshals at Mississippi University, he said, “Many people seem to forget that years ago the Jackson police fired tear gas at peaceful Negro marchers.”
As for housing, even in urban areas, a large percentage of Negro homes have no working sewage facilities, no hot water, no bathtubs. A large number of homes are over thirty-five years old, and stand in horrible condition.
Though the population is very heavily Negro, colored politicians are practically a nonentity. Last spring, when two Negroes ran for Congress, Civil Rights proponents had to wage a desperate fight, which eventually in-
William Higgs
volved even Washington, to gain equal time privileges on television and radio.
Basically, Higgs seeks an equality in social privileges. Restricting his remarks to general conditions, he tried to point out that the harsh prejudice which exists in his state infringes on certain fundamental rights prescribed in the Fourteenth Amendment. Satisfied that the facts of his case would speak for themselves, Higgs ceded the floor to Mr. Bori who proved the more
interesting and disputable speaker of the evening.
ori’s opening remarks were in flourishing contrast with Higgs’ figures and facts. “It is not my purpose to unduly influence you or even to influence you. I come not as an apologist. I come as a proud Mississippian and proud American, conscious of my heritage. I’d like only to stimulate your interest in the problem that exists in Mississippi.” Bori stood by his words. Nothing of contentious argument broke through his speech or the question period which followed, when some frankly antagonistic remarks were made from the floor. Bori’s position was premised from the notion of a duality of sovereignty between the Federal and state governments. He considers it an offense against the Bill of Rights for the Washington Government to force integration on sovereign states.
To the Northern mind, such strict interpretation of the Constitution often seems more stubborn than rational. Many integrationists feel that an ideological change (which has developed in America during the last two centuries) negates the validity of whatever unspoken intentions moved the authors of the Constitution. Not that the morals behind the Bill of Rights have changed, but the social aspects have; hence, so have the political. That the Southern white has recourse to “ancient” documents and seems to ignore the liberal direction through which society has been evolving appears so much illogical thinking.
If this is the case, we cannot deal satisfactorily with the segregationist’s position. That the Southern mentality responds to a distinctly different ideology must be accepted and understood. Rationally, many may question its validity. But ideologies are hardly founded on reason. There is an emotional and irrational aspect that is of far greater importance in shaping action. And such a different mentality currently holds sway in the South.
Looking deeper, then, Bori may have a point in arguing that it is not only improper for Washington to force integration, but unwise as well. For it seems that the capital is trying its hardest to antagonize further the ideologically different Southerner. This is Bori’s main thesis. He himself, whose position was described
The Scholastic
as representative of the Southern white’s, holds that Southerners would find little difficulty in accepting integration if the Negro race were socially and mentally equal to the white. Forcing integration of an inferior Negro stands as an impropriety, indeed an impudence, to the Southerner. It reveals an arrogant disrespect in Washington for the pride and sovereignty of the South.
The question arises, “How does the Negro arrive at social and educational equality if he is so generally discriminated against?” Bori’s answer is to allow the Negro to lead his own life, advance by his own means. It seems that agitators from outside the state are those most concerned with Mississippi’s interests, Bori said. These people are responsible for the “trouble” that presently exists throughout the South. Bori believes that if the Negro were allowed to proceed along his own evolutionary line, he could eventually take his place alongside the white citizen. To force this process through the federal courts and other outside bodies is to salt the wound of defeat that has festered in the South for years.
Bori believes that the Negro has not had sufficient time to advance socially since the Civil War, after which the South found itself in deplorable condition. “I feel that it was very unfortunate for the welfare of our nation that those newly set-free people were exploited,” he said. The South suffered gravely during its recovery, but with it came a kind of glory and pride in the progress made by whites and Negroes. Bringing this up to date, Bori offered, “Over the last three years we have gained some 300 new and expanded industries in Mississippi.” If the blame lies anywhere in the South for the Negroes’ inequality, Bori believes it lies with the colored race itself for not properly asserting itself since slavery was abolished.
Of course integrationists may doubt that this evolutionary process will ever finally assert itself. Perhaps the proper process is precisely what has been taking place: regional struggles of such groups as CORE and NAACP, the test cases in the Federal courts. We have here the crux of the problem, and we can ask ourselves, have we treated the Southerner too much like a twin brother without properly understanding the ideological idiosyncrasies that make him a somewhat distant cousin?
Bori pointed out that, if the quality of the Negro schools leaves something to be wished for alongside the whites’, in quantity there is less discrepancy. Negro elementary schools outnumber
the white, 588 to 562; secondary schools are predominantly white, 368 to 204. The total enrollment of both stands in favor of whites, 293,000 to 286,000. There are ten four-year white colleges and 17 two-year white colleges against six four-year and nine two-year Negro schools. For every four white high-school graduates only one Negro enrolls in college.
Armed with more figures, Bori stated that the average estimated salary increase of teaching personnel in Mississippi led the nation during the past decade. During the question period, however, this fact was somewhat effectively parried by Higgs, who pointed out that Mississippi pays the lowest instructional salaries in the country.
Bori admitted that the quality of Negro schools is presently not up to that of the white. But he contended that real progress is being made: the current $100 million allotment for schools directs 70% toward Negro institutions.
When James Meredith enrolled at Mississippi University, in the anger that sprang up, a short newsletter called “Rebel Underground” began circulating. Except for the Confed-
O. J. Bori
erate flag that served as its masthead, the first issue is reprinted here:
Tills issue will introduce the voice of the “Rebel Underground.”	'
The “Rebel Underground” is composed of students who resent the Negro, James Meredith, being forced into our University by Federal might.
This attack upon our state involves much more than the simple admission of one Negro to Ole Miss. Meredith’s registration is only the beginning of organized aggression to bring about Negro political domination and racial amalgamation throughout the South.
“To be subjected to tyranny is one thing but to submit to it is quite another.” We will ne\er accept integration at this or any other institution. We propose to resist by every effective means from now on. We serve notice to the
forces of integration that “We have only begun to fight.”
We do not believe that the people of this nation will continue to support “Brotherhood by Bayonet.”
Since armed troops occupy our campus and since there arc carpetbaggers and scalawags on the faculty our resistance is necessarily underground.
We appeal to fellow students not only at Ole Miss but throughout the South to join this movement against integration and the destruction, of our Bill of Rights.
You will have an opportunity to help.
Beware of marshals posing as students!
Bori does not condone this attitude. He feels it is part of the tragedy of the Southern situation that such delinquency arises. But he lays the principal blame for its occurrence on the Federal Government by “hasty unconsidered action.” In recent days the Oxford campus has quieted, with administration officials threatening and enforcing expulsion for violators of university regulations. A late issue of “Rebel Underground” states, “Our primary objective is to encourage James H. Meredith to transfer to some college where he would be welcomed.”
Bori next read a letter which he and some associates wrote to Sen. Eastland:
We have been joined together for some time in endeavoring to bring home to as many people, as possible, the knowledge of the spread of socialism in our country and in the everpresent threat posed by the Communist menace. We are deeply concerned at the trend toward centralized government, and the events of last week at the University of Mississippi and Oxford clearly demonstrate the extent to which politicians in power will use the full force of the government to their own selfish ends.
We met last night to discuss some phases of the situation, and. in view of your announced intention of conducting a thorough investigation, we would like to pass on some thoughts we have developed and which you may. or may not, consider helpful. At any rate we are offering them.
1.	We question the legality of the “kangaroo court” which started this whole mess.
2.	Why. in the contempt proceedings were Mississippi attorneys, including Hon. John Satterfield, barred from acting In behalf of the State of Mississippi as “friends of the court”? Has not the Justice Department been acting in this capacity for the Negroes for a long time?
3.	How could the appellate court take full jurisdiction when the case was pending in the Supreme Court? Even Arthur Krock of the New York Times, a paper which has not been sympathetic, employed this in his article.
4.	Under what legal authority did Justice Black act? His statement that the appeal from the State of Mississippi would not hold up. was at least prejudging a case which had not come before the court. And when has a cause before the Supreme Court of the U.S. been handled by telephone, as Mr. Justice Black states?
5.	Under what constitutional powers did the President order troops into Mississippi?
We also discussed the Attorney-General, whom we consider the most dangerous man in the administration. In our opinion, it was he who called all of the shots, and on his own statement, proved that the Marshals sent into Mississippi were untrained for the job, yet he had them furnished with arms and tear gas guns, and they turned the latter on students and citizens alike. The blame for sending in inexperienced men and their subsequent actions rests firmly on his shoulders. . . .
The statement has been made that the Marshals were “trigger-happy,” and wc believe this can be substantiated by Dean Love at Ole Miss and other University officials. Yet we believe the
fContinued on page 22)
November 9, 1962
II
Off into the void
Symposium ’62
It is most difficult for me to write an article that will do justice to the value of Symposium ’62, (a meeting of Midwestern students at St. Mary’s last week end, see last week’s Scholastic) and I don’t think that I am saying this as one who is blinded by pride at the successful realization of an idea by her fellow classmates. It is more as one who has been impressed by the dynamism of the speakers, the continuity and urgency of the topics, and the enthusiasm and probing discussions of the students from SMC,, ND, and other Catholic and secular colleges. It is also as one who has been personally affected by the week end and who has had many of her own ideas questioned and her level of thought challenged.
The theme of the Catholic student in the secular world is one of major concern, yet one that is difficult to approach without the sharp contrasts that are so evident outside the student environment. This idea was born last year in an effort to broaden our scope of awareness of the world, to increase the depth of our present thinking, and to examine more fully the Catholic intellectual life. The opening words of the working papers express the realization that we must live in a Christian context in a secular world. “ ‘These things I speak to the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves.’ His followers were not of the world, but they were in the world where He wanted them: ‘I pray not that Thou shouldst take them out of the world.’ ‘As Thou hast sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.’ Can Christians ask for more proof that — in every sense of the word — the world is worth going into?” (From Barry Ulanov’s comments on The Last Supper in Seeds of Hope in the Modern World.)
Was it a success? Yes. Was it THE ANSWER? NO! More it was a confirming and concretizing of ideas familiar to some but with deeper insights. For many it was a complete opening to new ideas and questions (often this is very disturbing). That there were several points of confusion and disagreement within our student community is indicative that it was by no means THE ANSWER (if such a thing exists).
It was so amazing to see how the various speeches related to one an-
12
by Arline Hagan
other that in a wild moment of poetic liberty I might equate this unity with the results of the infusion of a genuine love into life!
The keynote speech, “The Place of the Student in College and in Society,” was given by Father Andrew Greeley of Christ the King parish in Chicago. It was based on the results of a questionnaire sent to over 53,000 graduates relative to their careers and their attitudes toward their preparation in college. The resulting picture was the idealistic, religious young intellectual. Yet paradoxically over 51% thought themselves to be unhappy. Why? As an intellectual the student fails to acquire intellectual skills while in college. As an idealist he leaves college full of enthusiasm only to find no way in society to channel it. He is up against a solid wall which often results in his withdrawal to the few places where he might find happiness and security. It takes courage to be a practical idealist and to accept things as they are while seeing them as they could be. As a religious person he does not see Catholicism as a way of life that must be courageously lived in the existing society. This society is strikingly perceived by Arthur Miller in the latest issue of Harper’s. (By coincidence this quote had been used by three of the other speakers.) “I have heard most of the solutions that men have offered, and they are spiritless, they do not assume that the wrong is deep and terrible and general among us all. There is, in a word, a spirit gone. I do not know how we ought to reach for the spirit again but it seems we must flounder without it.” As a practical idealist and as a day by day Christian we must commit ourselves to bringing life and unity into the world.
Father Greeley’s challenge to acquire skills of the intellect was picked up by Mrs. Brennan, Ph.D. of Saint Mary’s philosophy department in her discussion of the distinction of the senior and junior scholar (or as we would commonly say the professor and student). Both should be actively involved in a common search for truth. There should not be this idea that one actively gives his knowledge to the passive receiver. This calls for an awakening on the part of the student. If this common search among
individuals at different stages of growth is not achieved in college, it will never continue into later life. The knowledge will never really become a part of the student and he will never experience the thrill of pursuing an idea until he has brought it within himself. In this active involvement in the search for truth his knowledge grows like a circle and the greater the circumference, the larger the area of knowledge. Yet as the circumference widens, it touches more areas in which there is a lack of knowledge. If the circle has begun growth in the college environment, it should continue throughout life.
More problems were created and questions unanswered by Michael Novak’s (novelist, Harvard teaching fellow) talk. In speaking of the Catholic student in the secular environment Novak first presented the development of the secular society which exists as rather scientific and brutal with little regard for the individual person. Of more penetrating consequence was his discussion of the Catholic student. He was urgently concerned with the fact that so many Catholic students have not become aware of the depths of their faith. He has rarely found a Catholic student who was dynamically alive. He pointed to the “middle-class Catholic” who is satisfied with mediocrity and refuses to accept the fact that it IS difficult to be a Catholic. We are too easily taken in by false, superficial joy and comfort. We are grabbing at the easy way out. We do not understand the depths of unbelief and the collapse of values. We must first cut away from “middle-class Catholicism” and from conformity. It is crucial that we get to the “void” of nothingness and “lose” our faith to gain it. We must penetrate to the very depths of Christianity. We have to know two cultures, that of the secular culture and that of the Christian culture. As Catholic students we have twice as much work to accomplish in the same space of time as other students. We must have the strength and courage to stand up for our convictions. It is an overwhelmingly difficult prospect and we can’t afford to continue taking the easy way out.
Since the symposium was directed toward the Christian student, a panel of four students developed their ideas on commitment as a personal act. The members of the panel were Phoebe Blake of SMC, John Gearen of ND, Al Leigh of Akron, and Arnold Lopez-Cepero a graduate student at I.U. They presented a development of commitment as an idea that is fulfilled in action and given (Continued on page 26)
The Scholastic
BYE BYE BIRDIE
1 remember recently talking to an excitable and literate young lady who was very enthusiastic about the musical comedy, Little Mary Sunshine —her enthusiasm, and, I suppose, the enthusiasm of all the theatre goers who made the play a success, was based on the idea that the thing was rather avant-garde, rather vicious satire, or in other words, just the thing to draw in certain types of students and spectators by the droves.
This, of course, was completely unjustified. In the first place, Little Mary Sunshine, although it is satire, and rather puerile satire, is aimed primarily at the operetta of some years back; which conjures up, for me at least, images of people flaying dead horses. In the second place, an avant-garde musical comedy is a contradiction in terms, or at least an animal not seen yet in captivity; the musical comedy is a commodity only a little different from the commercial motion picture, and possessed of no more intrinsic merit or artistic independence. It may be very easy for people to become interested, in an ostentatiously literate sort of way, in the musical comedy or in particular products thereof; but to try to explain such an art form in critical terms, either with regard to the music or with regard to the drama involved, seems to be a serious failure to grasp the real nature of the form. It is essentially an entertainment, an amusement, an excuse to forget — well, almost everything — a humane society’s substitute for bull- and bearbaiting.
All this is offered by way of perspective. Because Bye Bye Birdie is a sport; it is a highly comic, very fine and controlled musical, which achieves genuine satire, avoiding both puerile viciousness and inane Rodgers-and-Hammerstein-ish humanism. It is the work of benevolent, honest intelligence, maintaining a set of very well conceived characters in an atmosphere of almost complete farce. It is the only musical I know whose book one would be anxious to read.
Saint Mary’s presented Bye Bye Birdie last week, and did an admirable job with it. Of course, it would
be a hard show to make a botch of, and the first praise due to the Saint Mary’s Speech and Drama Department is for their good taste in choosing this play. But there was also a large and surprisingly professional contribution made to the play by the performers themselves. The role of Conrad Birdie, the rock and roll singer about whose powerful and infinitely stupid vulgarity most of the comic action centers, was played very well by Ed Stubbing. Stubbing had mastered, even more than the Birdie swagger and unconscious leer, an equally important and much more subtle bewilderment of Birdie’s at the fact that he is Birdie. This came across strongly in Birdie’s scenes with Kim MacAfee, the jerkwater town teen-ager whom Birdie is to kiss goodbye before entering the Army, played by Marilyn Petroff. Miss Petroff’s role is not as complex, but it is a part with some great lines, all of which Miss Petroff delivered with a wholly adequate sense of timing. Her first song, about full womanhood (as she pulls on a pair of blue jeans, a dirty sweater, and a baseball cap) is certainly one of ihe funniest — and, in an odd way, most affecting—songs in the show.
The most powerful character in the Saint Mary’s production, and for the reviewer the most surprising, was Peggy Hess, as Rose Alvarez, the Spanish secretary and fiancee of Albert Peterson, Birdie’s creator and manager. Miss Hess, of course, for some time now, has been the only real comedienne available for any student theatrical production in South Bend. But Miss Hess had seemed, for all her uniqueness, still a comedienne manquee. One had the impression that she was really incapable of any but a certain kind of smile, a certain kind of sarcasm, a certain kind of walk on stage. In other words, she was admittedly a funny girl, but perhaps not really an actress. In Birdie, though, she turned in a very fine performance, and a surprisingly controlled and sensitive one. The Hessian characteristics, very like those of Carol Burnett, are still there, but (Continued on page 25)
November 9, 1962
Spirit
and

Tradition: IV



$
t’*-
5g


For the past three weeks, we have been attempting to take an objective view of the role which spirit and tradition play in the life of the Notre Dame community. Initially, we took the position that tradition is not a code of laws flowing forth from some primordial oracle, and designed for the right ordering of this University for all eternity. The author believes that the Notre Dame tradition is, rather, an accumulation of principles, procedures, and attitudes sanctioned only by their continued use throughout our history. Our tradition exists today as it does simply because no individual or group of individuals was able to change it, at least not significantly.
The Administration of this University is often guilty of assuming that it alone is the guardian and interpreter of Notre Dame tradition, just as the student body is often guilty of assuming that it is the sole progenitor of Notre Dame spirit. All elements of the Notre Dame community should resent both these views. The ideal toward which we must move is this: that all elements of the University community recognize the responsibilities and prerogatives of the others, that the advancements of the various elements of the University community be synchronized so that it is the total University which forges ahead.
The students of this University are no longer content to sit back and accept the platitudes which daily spew forth from class desk, church pulpit, and speaker’s rostrum. We are sick of hearing about the greatness of Notre Dame. We are glutted with talk of the new Library. We are fed up with fine speeches praising the quality
14

of our faculty. We, the student body, are certainly guilty of neglecting the
opportunities opportunities Notre Dame, is guilty of
for a rich, full life — which are existent at But the Administration burdening us with an
academic machine. It hangs around our necks the millstones of credit hours, and grades, and quality points, and required courses, and class schedule regulations. It is guilty of impeding our intellectual advancement.
The Administration has taken the stand that its rules and regulations are necessary, that without them the student body would abuse class attendance privileges, would prove wanton and indiscriminate in its actions and attitudes toward the academic life at this school. However, attendance at classes has never been, and will never be any indication of the value a student derives from a given course. If a professor’s lectures are good, the students will attend his classes; if his lectures are dull and boring, then there is no point to the students’ attending in the first place, for- they will only be discouraged. The basic fact of academic life at this University — a fact that the Administration seems unwilling to recognize — is simply this: students who want to learn will learn; students who do not want to learn will not learn, and nothing will force them to learn. The silly rules and regulations concerning class cuts, required courses, class schedules, and the like, can only present barriers to the eager student. They serve only to impede the progress of those students dedicated to the cause of knowledge and its cultivation.
We, the student body, are guilty of failure to make ourselves into dedi
cated Christian apostles. We are guilty of leading shallow spiritual lives. Yet the priests of Notre Dame, for the most part, are guilty of generating an atmosphere of bleak moral-ism. They preach boring sermons on Sunday. They deal in run-of-the-mill homiletics. They vomit forth cliches. Their dull, monastic-type spirituality is pushed into the background only occasionally by the blazing, vibrant FAITH and works of our Dunnes, Millers, and O’Briens. The religious community at Notre Dame stands in fear of all new expression. It acts as if the faith of Christ were something that can be gotten only in the textbooks which we read — most of which are written for two-year olds. We feel insecure when on the frontier, so we harken back to the staid phrases and expressions of old. We often receive the impression at Notre Dame that the Catholic faith is merely a doctrine, worthy of nothing more than intellectual assent.
The Catholic faith will be lived by the Notre Dame student when he leaves the shadows of the Golden Dome. And it will be lived in a world that cares not a title for the neat systematizing of Saint Thomas. The denial of knowledge of other religions creates a problem of the Notre Dame student moving outward into a pluralistic reality. Is there nothing that the Protestant and Jewish theologians can impart to us while at Notre Dame? Is it such a sin to permit a Rheinhold Niebuhr to speak at Notre Dame? Must we have our faith cuddled and petted at this institution so that it can be lost the moment the world attacks it?
We, the student body, cannot shift all the blame to others, for we have done our part in retarding Notre Dame’s progress. Our student government has failed, partly because it is intrinsically incapable of dealing with the student body as a whole, partly because it has attracted to its service the active attention of but a small portion of the student community. The new stay-hall plan, however, offers this student community a chance to move forward. In the past there have been rectors who have offered the hall government total control of the hall. When this offer is made
The Scholastic

by Robert McGowan
to the hall governments, as it must be made, then the student body must accept the offer. In every hall on this campus the students must regulate themselves — must legislate rules and enforce them. Only in this way can we justify our demands for a larger voice in the major disciplinary actions of the University as a whole.
After the students have shown themselves willing to take on the burdens of a really self-governing system, then the Administration must take the initiative. Rules and regulations — academic and otherwise — must be cut to an absolute minimum, but these minimal rules must be strictly enforced. It will not shock people to learn that there is a segment of the student body which makes no use whatsoever of the opportunities offered them by life at Notre Dame. This segment, which exists in all classes at the University, must be weeded out. The prospective Notre Dame student must be made to realize that this University offers him a life that is influenced mostly by the intellectual and the spiritual. We must attract those persons most prone to be acted upon beneficially by the atmosphere and life of Notre Dame. We must recreate at this institution a paradigm of Catholic higher education.
The first step in doing this has already been mentioned. A step complementary to the relaxation of rules and regulations would be the better use of our faculty. It is to the everlasting credit of our professors that they are teachers — real people, in the classroom, not mere names in a catalogue. It is a disgrace to Notre Dame that it does not make better use of its faculty. There is a certain prescribed level at every educational institution below which a student’s academic performance is not permitted to fall, if he wishes to remain in the school. When a student at Notre Dame falls below the prescribed level of achievement, it is his professors who should meet and decide his fate. Since the professors know their students better than the Dean, it is they who should decide academic honors. And it is upon recommendations from a student’s professors that special academic permissions should be based. The mania for grades and transcripts
must be rooted out of the Notre Dame academic tradition.
The second major step in the renovation of Notre Dame is the development of a more personal and vibrant Catholicism. The factory system of Confessions must go. The inculcation of “traditional Catholic dogma” must be accompanied by a thorough study of the ramifications in the 20th century of Catholic dogma. We must create a spiritual tradition at Notre Dame, based not on strict rules in respect to Mass attendance, but based instead on love of God and neighbor. I suspect that this task will be difficult to accomplish, for the change in spiritual rules and regulations — abolition of Mass checks, etc — has come too late. There is a strong anticlerical feeling on this campus, the blame for which must be placed on the sturdy shoulders of our priests. To root out this feeling it will be necessary to offer theology courses dealing with the modern living of Catholicism. Sermons in Sacred Heart Church must concern themselves with the living of the faith of Christ in 1962. Increased attendance at lec
tures indicates that the present is an excellent time for the appearance on this campus of guest lecturers in Theology and Catholic thought. Could we not bring a Murray or a Weigel to this campus for a series of lectures? Perhaps we are afraid of these people — after all, they’re Jesuits.
Notre Dame spirit in this era is as crazy and mixed-up a group of attitudes as one could possibly find. Now what do we do? This is the feeling
on campus. Football, especially losing football, no longer possesses the force needed to unify the community. Tradition is no longer an adequate guide. Notre Dame has but one course open to it: become a Catholic university such as has never been seen since the Middle Ages, but make this Catholic university the Paris of 1962. We must build a dynamic intellectual and spiritual tradition, for this is the source of strength and greatness in any Catholic university. Yet it is precisely this dynamic spiritual and intellectual tradition which has not been a part of Notre Dame’s past. We have failed to catch up with the trend of thought in the outside world. In too many cases the Administration — like the hierarchy of the Church — have been caught napping by the “ever onward” march of the layman. The Sister Formation Movement has proved successful at Notre Dame; we need a four-year life for students that would be a Layman’s Formation Program. We have the facilities and the reputation to go forward into the future. We can create a truly great Catholic university if we want to.
Our tradition, in respect to the spiritual and the intellectual, has been generally conservative. We have been afraid to MOVE, except in “accepted” manners. The present freshman class at this University is such that the Administration should move right now. Should we decide to move ahead intellectually and spiritually, then the class of 1966 could be graduating from the greatest Catholic university in the entire world.
November 9, 1962
15
A New Campus, Maybe?
The building which now occupies the space between Washington Hall and Sacred Heart Church was conceived, designed, and, occupied within four months in 1879. It housed the whole operation of the University including dormitories and kitchen facilities. Today it is vast compared to the needs of the University for administration purposes only. Aided by its unique and bizarre combination of Renaissance dome and chateau roofs, and by its character, charm, and sensitive relationships to its surroundings, it reeks of nostalgia heaped upon it by thousands of alumni. But the construction methods of 1879 have deemed it a fire hazard today and cursed it with a tremendous insurance rate. To remodel its 121,800 square feet of floor space far exceeds the cost of tearing it down, and erecting a new building, which would require only 60,000 square feet of space. Its dome and the tower supporting it are structurally independent of the rest of the building. They are the trademark of Notre Dame. However, the building which has served the University well in the past, is now old and functionally obsolete; parts of it have been sealed off and condemned. My solution: tear it down, leave the dome. . . .
Concerned with the possibility of a fire and financial strain of the insurance rates, the University has requested some suggestions regarding the future of the Main Building. Since the exterior walls are still sound, one suggestion has been to gut the existing building, remodeling completely. Another has been to tear the building down, leaving the dome freestanding as a monument to “Old Notre Dame,” and to build a new building at another site. In the same line of thinking, a suggestion has been made to leave the building stand as a museum while relocating the administrative facilities. A fourth idea has been to tear the Main Building down completely, replacing it with the library capped by a new dome over the mural which would face the entrance to the campus. All of these pro
posals are, in my opinion, inadequate.
I feel that the character relation of Renaissance dome to French chateau is slightly ridiculous, and that to treat them as an architectural beauty to be preserved forever is also slightly ridiculous. The monument approach is also weak. In one sense it is a retreat from the problem of creating an architectural entity which was never re-	4
solved in the first place. In another sense, this proposed	|
solution ignores the efforts of the founders of the Uni-	|
versify who built it to provide the space to house the	J
function of administering the University.	*
The character of the dome should dictate the character	i
of the building. With this approach a graceful, elegant	I
whole can be achieved while still avoiding the eclectic	;
brand. Since the new building would no longer occupy	i
the end of campus but rather be the center, I have given	|
major concern to the four directions of access. The mall	;
to the rear opens a visit to St. Joseph lake. Beneath the	j
mall will be underground parking space for 500 cars, thus	‘
alleviating the day-to-day parking problem. The circle	’
approach would retain the significance of the main stairs,	:
and an open porch, which could be used as a speakers’	J
platform, has been added.	;
In the cover elevation, I placed blocks of offices to ! each side of the dome thereby unleashing the full architec-	i
tural power of the dome (a 50' by 50' by 120' block of	;
masonry covered with “baroquey” sculpture, and topped i with a 72' golden dome and statute,) by forcing the ap-	j
proacher to view the mass of it from the guts of the	:
building. The direct approach to the dome is blocked ■ by the speakers’ platform to force the approacher to enter	i
from the side with his view of the dome blocked	:
momentarily by the mass of the projecting wing to then ; become involved	suddenly in a space	of gigantic pro-	'
portions.	j
—Sam Haffey	:
16
The Scholastic
Pittsburgh: Tough but Inconsistent
by Rex Lardner
Sparked by a 20-12 conquest of Navy, the rebounding Irish are host to the University of Pittsburgh tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. This will be the homecoming game for Notre Dame and the 29th contest between the two teams. The Irish hold a 17-10-1 edge in the series which began in 1909. Last year the Green left Pittsburgh, 26-20 victors.
“We have more experience than last year,” says coach John Michelo-sen. “We should be better this year.” Through seven years of coaching Pitt football, the Panther mentor brings a 40-34-5 record into tomorrow’s game. This season’s squad has won four games, one more than last year when Pitt went 3-7. The Panthers nipped UCLA three weeks ago, 8-6, and ripped Syracuse last Saturday in their homecoming game, 24-6. A 32-9 trouncing at the hands of Navy is the worst of their three losses.
Pittsburgh’s main asset is a well-rounded, experienced backfield. Their top All-America candidate is fullback Rick Leeson. This 6-1, 194-pound junior has been called “The greatest Pitt back since Marshall Goldberg.” Leeson led the Panthers in rushing last season as a soph with 452 yards and a 4.4 average. What’s more, he didn’t fumble once throughout a ten-game schedule. This season Leeson will probably become the tenth back in Pitt history to gain over 1,000 yards. A battling runner, he is called “Crusher” by his teammates.
Jim Traficant is an experienced senior quarterback and will direct the Panther passing attack and handle the punting assignments. Lately, he has been pressed for the starting spot by sophomore Fred Masurek, a rushing specialist who was sought by some 96 colleges.
The Pitt halfback corps is led by junior Paul Martha and senior Ed Clark. Clark, a breakaway threat, completed seven of eight passes last season. Martha, a 6-0, 180 pounder, is, according to Michelosen, “the finest all-around athlete to enroll at Pitt in many, many years.” A triple threat, Martha thus far leads the team in scoring with seven touchdowns, is third in rushing yardage and has caught eight passes. He also has thrown a touchdown pass. This junior halfback, in addition to football, competes on the Panther baseball and basketball teams.
A promising halfback for Pitt is sophomore Pete Billey. A speeddemon, Billey is known as the “Miniature Mike Ditka.”
The Panthers are strong at tackle where they have another All-America candidate in co-captain Gary Kalten-bach. One of the best tacklers in the country, Kaltenbach leads a defensive unit that is called “The Head Hunters.” Junior Ed Adamchik will be at the other tackle position. Bob Long and Al Grigaliunas, both juniors, will lead a group of inexperienced ends.
Coach Michelosen has many problems to balance his team’s strong points. He must find guard replace
GARY KALTENBACH
Tackle leads Pittsburgh line.
ments who can block, develop pass catching ends, and a tighter defense which last year yielded 209 points, the most against Pitt in ten years.
In the center of the line, the Panthers are inexperienced. Cocaptain Tom Brown and Ray Popp . will be the starting guards. Sophomore Charley Ahlbom, a converted fullback, starts at the center spot.
The winner of tomorrow’s contest will probably be determined by the performance of each team’s defensive line. To ensure an Irish victory, Notre Dame must first stop Traficant’s passes and then corral the blockbusting running of fullback Leeson.
November 9, 1962
17
Don Hogan:
^Confidence Counts9

by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
■ a as we see
by JIM KELLY
WSALD Sports Director
What a year in sports! Those scientific geniuses called prognosticators must really be having ulcers. Oh, granted they were able to predict the continual domination of the New York Yankees and the outcome of the Liston-Patterson comedy. But when it comes to football, the current tendency is to throw their hands into the air in bewilderment.
Ohio State has caused choice words from Columbus to Caliente. Purdue hasn’t helped the situation much by trying to negate all the work that has gone into compiling the weekly odds. Duffy Daugherty’s Spartans have twice rifled the wallets of the investors, and Rice Institute’s academic society ruined Darrell Royal’s attempt to prove the authorities’ contention that the Texas Longhorns have the perfect football machine in the Southwest. The West Coast has methodically upset the “powers” of the Big Ten and Northwestern continues to amaze the masses. The Washington Redskins and the Dallas Cowboys — well, where have they been?
The precarious position of the “predictors” has possibly deterred the midseason All-American selections. No single figure has emerged as the Heisman Trophy candidate. All the talk is about the MM boys — not Mantle and Maris, but rather Myers and Mira. Most of the other candidates are unknown on a nationwide basis.
The expression used to be, “Never bet against Joe Louis, the New York Yankees, or Notre Dame.” This year the forecasters are saying, “Never bet on a game in which Notre Dame is involved.” This expression probably came about through the experience of the past six games. Win or lose, the Irish have been nonconformists.
We’U stick our neck out and predict the Irish will finish the season in a blaze of glory. Why not, everyone else is a forecaster. . . .
18
“We came onto the field in Philadelphia confident that we could win, and we did just that. We were aggressive from the first series of downs, and just took the initiative away from them.” That was sophomore halfback Don Hogan’s capsule analysis of the Notre Dame-Navy game.
“Confidence played a big part in that game,” said Hogan. “Not only did we have confidence in ourselves going into the game, but we gained a lot more as we went along. Daryle Lamonica’s calls mixed ’em up good. He had confidence in himself, and he instilled confidence in the rest of the team. We really believed we would gain with each play he called.
“Nothing builds confidence like success, and when we saw that our running game was working well we became more sure of ourselves. The runners expected that the blocks would be thrown for them, and our linemen knew that they could take their men out.
“Our line played as a unit for the first time against Navy,” explained Hogan. “Before that, we’d had one or two outstanding linemen — like Ed Hoerster or Bob Lehmann. But our inexperienced sophomores and juniors in the line learned by their mistakes, and Saturday you could see the difference. We blocked well, we gang tackled, and we rushed the passer. It was a real team effort.
“Our pass defense improved a lot, too. Our defensive secondary of Frank Budka, Tommy MacDonald, Bill Pfeiffer, and Gerry Gray has learned each other’s reactions and gained confidence as a unit. They only completed a couple of desperation passes against us. after we conceded them the short one.
“The crack play off left guard was our most successful play: it was good for four or five first downs. It’s a quick-opening play on which the left halfback and the fullback crack the linebacker and the right halfback slants off guard behind their block. In our first touchdown drive, we tried it from inside the 20; the hole clogged up though, and I went wide.
Navy’s defensive right end had started to pinch in, and Clay Stephens didn’t let him out, so I was able to get all the way to their two.
“We broke their back with two plays in the fourth quarter. After they had scored to take a 12-7 lead, Daryle threw that 45-yard pass to Denny Phillips on the first play from scrimmage. That really hurt them. And then when he hit Frank Budka on the one with a fourth down pass, they knew the game was over.”
Hogan himself played his finest game against Navy. He carried the ball 14 times for 81 yards and a 5.8 yards-per-carry average, the best rushing effort by a Notre Dame back this season. The Chicago Irishman, who wears Angelo Dabiero’s jersey, plays Dabiero’s position, and is his heir-apparent as a runner, took over the team lead in ground gaining with 153 total yards in 37 carries.
“I just hope,” said Hogan thoughtfully, “that maybe the students will have a little confidence in us now.”
Brilliance at Quarterback
Voice in the Crowd
Player of the Week:
Daryle Lamonica
One of the finest performances by a Notre Dame signal-caller in the past several years merits Daryle Lamonica Player of the Week plaudits. Daryle singlehandedly led an Irish attack for three touchdowns, running for two tallies and passing to Dennis Phillips for another score.
The rain seemed to hinder Daryle as he let his first pass attempt fall short into the hands of a Middie defender on the Navy three. He completed three of his next five tosses for 76 yards. Two of these completions led to touchdowns. Following a Navy surge to a 12-7 advantage early in the second half, Lamonica coupled with Phillips for a 45-yard touchdown pass play, giving the Irish the lead they needed.
With a fourth down and long yardage in the final period, Frank Budka made a spectacular grab of a La-monica-thrown pass to put the ball on the one-yard line. This set the stage for another stab by Daryle and his second TD of the day.
The two scores lifted Lamonica into a tie with Phillips for team scoring honors, each having 12 points. He also is the leading passer, completing 27 of 49 for a .551 percentage. The 47 yards he picked up on the ground moved him into fourth spot on the team in that department.
Last Saturday Notre Dame functioned as a team for the first time in the last five games, upending Navy, 20-12. Have the Irish recovered from their slump or was the victory merely a reflection of the caliber of the competition rather than a sign of improvement? It was obvious that Notre Dame was a better team than Navy. Many of the same plays that had earlier been fruitless against Big Ten squads were effective gainers against the Middies. Navy lacked the manpower to handle a rejuvenated Irish eleven.
NAVY
One reason to be optimistic is that for the first time this season Notre Dame possessed an explosive offense. After Navy took the lead for the first time in the fourth quarter, the Irish did not fold as they often have in the past. In one of the finest calls of the season, game hero Daryle Lamonica threw “the bomb” to Denny Phillips for the winning tally on the first play from scrimmage after the Middie score. For the first time this season, Notre Dame was an actual threat each time it handled the ball.
I said last week that the quarterbacking position had lacked brilliance and direction; against Navy, Lamonica gave it both. Lamonica, usually a sharp ball handler and consistent play selector, gave an offensive spark to the team with his pinpoint passing and key runs.
However, some lingering doubts remain as to how complete was the Irish recovery. It must be remembered that the Navy game was played in a driving rainstorm. Under these conditions, the pass receiver has the advantage over the opposing defender because the flanker knows where he is going while the defensive secondary can only guess. Therefore, both teams had receivers open on numerous occasions. The difference was that Lamonica was having a good day, while the inexperienced Roger Staubach was off in his passing. Whether Lamonica can duplicate last Saturday’s performance is questionable. Before Navy, he had failed to match his opening showing against Oklahoma.
Also Notre Dame suffered a great defensive lapse in the third quarter of the Navy game. The final winner was unknown until late in the fourth quarter. In the key play of the game, a fourth and long yardage situation for the Irish, the cool Lamonica lofted a long pass to the versatile Frank Budka who made a Paul Flatleylike grab on the Middie one yard line to preserve the victory. Before this, Notre Dame had been outplayed in the second half by a weak Navy eleven.
PITT
Pitt was beaten by Navy, 32-9. Therefore, it would appear that Notre Dame will continue its comeback. However, the Panthers are possibly more inconsistent than the Irish. On certain weeks, Pitt has looked like a topflight team; against the Middies, they simply played poorly. The Panthers have one of the best fullbacks in the nation in Rick Leeson, an experienced passer in Jim Traficant, and a typically tough—if not outstanding—line.
For Notre Dame to beat Pitt, the Irish streaks of brilliance must be maintained and the lapses corrected. Another outstanding performance must be given by either Lamonica or one of the forgotten quarterbacks: Budka and Denny Szot. The line play must improve as the mistakes that were covered up in the Navy victory could become decisive against the quicker Panthers.
Tomorrow is homecoming. The alumni will want to see whether the Irish have finally jelled or if they have simply received a one-week reprieve from mediocrity. Notre Dame showed a great improvement against Navy; this must be continued or else the end of this season will bring much discontent to Irish followers. Notre Dame can still salvage a decent season if they defeat Pitt. By tomorrow evening, this Irish team will have been judged either a comeback unit or a poor squad. If they show steady improvement, the verdict will be the former.
— John Bechtold
November 9, 1962
19
CRESCENDO —A Classical REQUEST SHOW 12:15 to 3:00 P.M. Every Sunday Call WSND — Ext. 640
the fourth dimension: TIME
... still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation—and surprise.
Once our master timekeeper—EARTH—IS RUNNING DOWN! Friction from ocean tides is almost imperceptibly, but definitely, slowing the earth’s rotation, gradually disqualifying the turning globe as our most accurate time measure. Science has already devised more dependable timing devices.
Creator of the World's First Electric Watch
Cheryl $55
PRECISION engineering of the Hamilton 505 Electric Watch is so advanced that the energy needed to power a 60-watt light bulb for one hour would run the 505 for 960 years!
Sea-Lectric II $95
OYSTER TIME TIDAL TELEPATHY? An Atlantic Ocean oyster will continue to open up for feeding according to ocean tides long after being moved to the Midwest, a thousand miles away.
For men who like to stay one important step ahead: Hamilton 505 Electric watches. For girls who like to wear that single important piece of jewelry all the time: lovely Hamiltons for ladies. Both make great gift suggestions. Fine Hamiltons start as low as $35. Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.

Basketball
Coach Johnny Jordan’s basketbailers this year have one thing in common with the Notre Dame football squad: a tough schedule. The Irish basketball team, which opens the season against St. Joseph’s on December 1, must face such rugged foes as Kentucky, Illinois, Creighton, Bowling Green and De Paul — teams which in most preseason polls are tabbed to be among the top twenty squads in the nation.
Coach Jordan is currently running his fourteen-member squad through six-day-a-week sessions. Decimated by graduation losses, the Irish squad has only two starters returning from last year’s hard-luck squad (7-16 record) — 6-3 forward John Andreoli and 6-0 guard John Matthews. The consensus is that Irish fortunes will depend on a talented group of sophomores which is rated the best in years. If Andreoli is shifted to a guard spot alongside Matthews, Notre Dame will possess an all-sophomore front line consisting of 6-9 Walt Sahm, 6-5 Ron Reed and 6-4 Jay Miller. This will mean inexperience under the boards, but if the sophs develop, Notre Dame should more than nullify last year’s poor showing.
The schedule:
Dec. 1 St. Joseph	at NOTRE DAME
Dec. 4 Michigan State	at NOTRE DAME
Dec. 6 St. Francis	at NOTRE DAME
Dec. 8 Valparaiso	at Valparaiso, Ind.
Dec. 11 West. Michigan	at NOTRE DAME
Dec. 13 Creighton	at NOTRE DAME
Dec. 22 Butler	at Indianapolis
Dec. 29 Kentucky	at Louisville
Dec. 31 Illinois	at Chicago Stadium
Jan. 2 Indiana	at Fort Wayne, Ind.
Jan. 5 North Carolina	at NOTRE DAME
Jan. 9 DePaul	at NOTRE DAME
Jan. 12 Detroit	at NOTRE DAME
Jan. 14 Butler	at NOTRE DAME
Jan. 16 DePaul	at Chicago
Jan. 21 Purdue	at Fort Wayne. Ind.
Feb. 7 Boston College	at Boston
Feb. 9 St. John’s	at Jamaica, N.Y.
Feb. 13 Gannon College	at NOTRE DAME
Feb. 16 U.S. Naval Acad.	at NOTRE DAME
Feb. 18 Bowling Green	at Bowling Green
Feb. 21 New York Univ.	at Madison Square Garden
Feb. 23 Detroit	at Detroit
Feb. 28 Evansville	at NOTRE DAME
Mar. 2 Bradley	at Chicago Stadium
1 I
20
The Scholastic
Campus
(Continued from page 9)
gram; John Reishman and Al Killilea, English majors; Kevin Cahill, whose major is Physics; and Tom Schlereth in History. In the past Notre Dame students have won as many as three of these awards in one year and there is every indication that we will do as well this year.
The Danforth Awards are not the only scholarships in the news. Two Notre Dame seniors are now attending school on General Motors Styling Scholarships. Thomas Weber of Waukesha, Wisconsin, a mechanical engineer; and John Mooney, an art major from Champaign, Illinois, are receiving full tuition and equipment allowances for their work in the department of industrial design.
•	Fifty-three paintings by modem Mexican artists will be exhibited from 1 to 5 p.m. in the University of Notre Dame art gallery from Sunday, November 4 through Sunday, November 25, according to the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., gallery director. Loaned to the campus gallery by Mr. Lester Wolfe, of New York City, these paintings include works by such noted artists as Diego Rivera, Jose Clemente Orozco, and Jean Chariot. Also featured are works by Raul Anguiana, who has won a number of awards in Mexican exhibitions.
•	It was announced recently that the 1962 Dome was again awarded an All-American Honor Rating from the Associated Collegiate Press. In addition, the Dome was given an Aerating from the National School Yearbook Association, and earned Medalist Honors in the 28th annual contest and critique of Columbia University.
• The Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., has announced the appointment of Prof. Thomas T. Murphy as Acting Dean of the College of Business Administration. This appointment be-‘ comes effective December 1, when the present dean, Dr. James W. Culliton, relinquishes the post to become a ! member of the U.S. Tariff Commission.
• Dr. Bernard Norling, of our history department, will present the first of the weekly Student-Faculty Lecture l Series, sponsored by the Academic Commission, Sunday, at 2:00 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. The topic of his talk will be “The Prospects of Castro’s ! Cuba.” This lecture series, with the ;	Commission’s Coffee Hours,	is	part	of
I	their attempt to bring	“total	educa-
j	cation” to Notre Dame.
I	November 9, 1962
NOTICE — Special Scholastic Advertising Rates Now available for all Campus Clubs and Organizations For Information call JAY WARD, Ext. 515
Open only to students of NOTRE DAME VICEROY Football Contest *4 (Closes November 14th)
First Prize...$100—
Second Prize...$25?2
Ten 3rd Prizes...$10^L
12 WINNERS ON THIS CAMPUS IN EACH CONTEST.
Four contests in all. . . New contest every two weeks . . . exclusively for the students on this campus! You’ll find complete rules printed on Official Football Contest Entry Blanks.
Ballot Boxes and Entry Blanks are located at:
THE HUDDLE and
THE CAFETERIA
ENTER NOW
AND WIN!
/ w* /
—--------------------/ /---------------
Not too Strong... Not too Light... /	/ A/
Viceroy^
got the Taste /	“s/ide-7bp”
that’s right!	& Case
O 1082, BROWN 4 WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
ILW TURBOW \pPTOMKTVUST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
An Agency Representative will interview undergraduate and graduate students for June, August and September 1963 employment by our Agency, during the dates of November 12th and 13th, 1962 on Campus. Please consult the Placement Bureau, Administration Building for information concerning these positions and to schedule an appointment. A review of the information on file in the library of the Placement Bureau is an essential requisite prior to scheduling an interview.
JR
It’s greasy, by George! But Vitalis with V-7 X \ keeps your hair neat all day without grease, f Vitalis I Naturally. V-7® is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® y ip with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it today !
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Mississippi
(Continued from page 11)
real “trigger-happy” culprit heads the Department of Justice in his haste to make a big political play to the Negro voting blocs, and he j’ust could not wait, even to use his “captive courts,” He pulled the trigger that set off the tragedy that took place at Ole Miss and at Oxford.
Bobby said the Government had only been in this case seven days to ten days. The truth is that this case and all others concerning his pet, so-called, civil rights, have been pushed, aided and abetted continuously since he took office. His open approval and support of freedom riders, sit-ins and all other demonstrations, belie his words.
Bobby complained that Governor Barnett was responsible for pulling out the Mississippi Highway Patrol. Up until the time the Federal Marshals seized the University, no incidents whatever had taken place. He further charged that Governor Barnett had failed to preserve law and order, but his brother, the President, had federalized the Mississippi National Guard, and had thus removed them from the control of the Governor. These 8000 Mississippi National Guardsmen would have preserved the peace and maintained law and order. In addition, the number of Marshals sent in was more than double the number of Highway Patrolmen, about which Bobby complained so bitterly. We have talked to several police and sheriffs who had been called to help maintain order at Ole Miss and who were en route to Oxford at the time the University was seized by the Marshals. They turned back because they no longer had any jurisdiction on the campus. Another rather valid reason for the pulling out of the Highway Patrol is that no policeman is supposed to stay around when the people he is supposed to be protecting shoot him in the back and tear-gas him.
Martial law was not proclaimed in the area, yet the students and citizens were detained and searched, and this is still being done. O. J. Bori, one of the signers of this letter, a Commissioner of the City of Vicksburg, was subjected to this treatment last week, and even the Sheriff of Lafayette County was herded into the compound and was released only when he was identified by a member of the FBI. We question the legality of detention and search by the military. And we condemn the judgment of any man who would compound the situation by sending in troops among which was a good per-• centage of Negroes. . . .
We believe the University of Mississippi story* has stirred the nation, and that a full expose of the facts will be enlightening. We believe, too, that there is much support throughout the country* for Mississippi’s stand in attempting to uphold the constitutional guarantees of the Tenth Amendment. . . .
We believe not only the honor of Mississippi has been challenged, but the very basic concept of our government has been grossly violated, and we believe the time has come for patriotic men and women from all over the land, regardless of Party affiliation, to look the threat squarely in the face and take action. . . .
We are not “racists” or hard-core segregationists — terms so glibly used by* the liberals, but we believe implicitly in the separation of the races as in the best interest of both. But we also believe that the integration-segregation issue has been used to cover up the real issue — Federal take-over of all phases of our national life. The views expressed by us will no doubt put us in a category* referred to by some as “super-patriots” or “right-wing extremists,” but if standing up for our rights and for our Constitutional guarantees earns us these titles, then we proudly* accept them.
A further example of the kind of unconsidered thinking pursued by Washington and lamented by Bori is the stationing of Negro troops on the Mississippi campus. To Bori, this is like rubbing sandpaper where it hurts the most. “Can you imagine,” he asks, “how the girls of Ole Miss feel to look out of their dormitories and see their campus invaded and guarded by Negro troops?”
Bori detects strong political under-
The Scholastic
22
Mitchell Travel Service LaSalle Hotel — South Bend
CE 2-2253 — Phones — CE 3-1181
Res.: CE 2-0185
•
OPEN SATURDAYS
•
*	AIRLINE RESERVATIONS
*	HOTEL & RESORT RESERVATIONS
AU at no extra charge to you.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry
★
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
For: Hamilton — Elgin Bulova — Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St.	CE 2-175G
A Most Welcome Gift For Christmas
SPECIAL 4 LOVELY GIFT MINIATURE PORTRAITS $950 N.D. Student Card Honored LIMITED OFFER o
Call Now: CE 2-2003
McDonald Studio
116 W. COLFAX
currents in the whole affair. He deplores the double standard being followed in Washington, wondering why it is that only 7000 troops are stationed in West Berlin, while airborne infantry, tanks and hundreds of Marshals make a garrison out of his state. Is it the proper concern of Washington to instigate trouble in Mississippi for what Bori sees as political reasons, when other more crucial areas of interest bubble around the world? The integrationist can answer Bori’s question. But he should be undismayed if his answers, contrived of different values and feelings, fall unheard in the South. Again, where ideologies contrast, outlooks vary vastly. It is a tightropish procedure to inaugurate change in a state of mind that is rooted in a different cultural past from one’s own, and which has, apart from the rest of America, experienced defeat and continues to imagine defeat in a regional, almost national, sense.
Bori, though stating that he would tolerate an integrated Negro race providing it came up to the white standards, emphatically stated that at the present time he could not accept it at any level. Prodded by one questioner, who offered the case of a Negro with very high college board scores and who applied to Mississippi University, Bori said that such a person should not be admitted even though he would seem to personify those ideals, those traits that Bori demands in the Negro. To answer these statements, no Northern logic will suffice. Prodded still further by the questioner, who, indeed, pushed his logic as far as possible, Bori could only claim that such admissions would be in violation of state law. An unconvincing circularity exists here. Surely, if it is the case that the law stands against what seems proper, the law must be amended. If it seems doubtful that Mississippi will shoulder this burden of its own volition, then probably the outside agitationists are performing a proper function. But such practices are seen by stalwart Southern segregationists as the efforts of so many hyper-liberal Communist dupes.
The situation is fluid, perhaps the one area of dynamic social activity alive in this country. Fortunately it has to this date been largely a peaceful process. A Northerner can only see the irrationality of the Southern position; a Southerner feels deep emotional entanglements in the matter. Understanding must prevail on both sides before a workable and acceptable solution can be had. Such a solution certainly seems possible.
DON’T MISS IT!
Annual Thanksgiving Dance Friday Night, Nov. 23, 1962 Great Hall of the PICK-CONGRESS HOTEL Continuous Music from 9 to 1 DON JERIS ORCHESTRA JUMP JACKSON TWIST COMBO CHICAGO CLUB
TAKEA BIG STEP CLOSER TO YOUR FUTURE
WED. & THURS. November 14-15
If youare a qualified engineering student who feels your future lies in research or applied engineering, be sure to see the Linde Company representative when he is interviewing on campus.
The Linde Laboratories provide an ideal growth environment for the scientific-minded. Significant is the fact that, in only 15 years, Linde research and applied engineering people have created products and facilities which now account for more than half of the company’s total sales volume.
You can grow as Linde grows. Contact your engineering placement office now for an appointment.
LINDE COMPANY
UNION CARBIDE
Linde Company, Division of Union Carbide Corporation
AN EQUAL-OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
November 9, 1962
23
The Wonderful Tales and Anecdotes About the Fighting Irish Now Available in a New Book
A TREASURY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL
edited by Gene Schoor
The near-legendary history of football at Notre Dame is colorfully chronicled as it happened! Here are tales and anecdotes by some of the magic names in sports—Red Smith, Knute Rockne, Herman Hickman, John Kieran, John Lardner, Grantland Rice and others.
This handsome book is generously illustrated with 32 pages of photographs to delight football and sports fans everywhere.
$8.50
Now on sale downtown at
THE BOOK SHOP
130 No. Michigan St.

24
The Scholastic
Birdie
(Continued from page 13) there is also a new awareness of part — of persona, if you will — which immensely enhances her native presence and sense of timing. Of course, a spectator can never be too sure of changes in what he sees. It is sure, however, that either Miss Hess or the reviewer has changed over the summer.
One reason for Miss Hess’ development is probably the presence of a new comedienne, and a fine one: Nancy Wagner, who played Albert Peterson’s shrewish, vulgar mother, Mae. Miss Wagner was excellent in the role, and displayed probably the best sense of timing in the play, in a part in which timing seems extremely important. And her scenes with Miss Hess were the funniest in the play; the two work very well together.
Others in the play turning in good jobs were Dave Van Treese as Peterson, Cathie Podjoli as Kim MacAfee’s mother, and Tom Harvey as the priceless Mr. MacAfee, in all his uppermiddle-class pomp and his philistine hypnosis by Ed Sullivan.
The music for Birdie, unfortunately, is not really distinguished, except for the uproarious paean to Birdie at the Airport, and the MacAfee hymn (complete with Palestrina-oriented voicings) to Sullivan. Both of these were done as well as could possibly be expected. The rest of the songs are solos, and since no one in the cast had an adequate voice, they suffered somewhat. One should not covet excessively, though, and at least the performances were excellent. The choreography was certainly the most original and most properly performed seen on these stages, and a vast relief after the corax in last year’s South Pacific. Unfortunately the show orchestra was the poorest heard in some time. The brass work was sloppy, the string section too weak, the drums too loud, and the reed section, good as it was, not good enough to redeem the ensemble. It is well taken that the band was probably organized only for the three performances of the show, but there is such a thing as rehearsal, such a thing as competence, and a common practice of watching the conductor. The settings were as good as they could have been on O’Laughlin’s monstrous stage, which even the cast of a Rostand play might have trouble filling. But these are on the whole, I imagine, carping criticisms. On the whole, it was a fine performance of a very fine play.
— Frank McConnell
NOTICE!
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT ROMAN INN CORNER OF NOTRE DAME & SOUTH BEND AVENUES “On the Bus Line”
— DELICIOUS FOOD — it Hungarian	it German
it American	it Italian
DANCING DOWNSTAIRS
YOUR HOSTESS	YOUR CHEF
MISS “COBY”	JOE KRONBERGER
Manager	•
Private Rooms Available for Private Parties: For Arrangements Call CE 3*0480
SHELLEY
sense faints picturing them1/’
November 9, 1962
25
Get on the nation’s top inertial guidance team with
AC’s career acceleration
program
Recent technical graduates coming into AC are offered a 32-week career acceleration program which moves them rapidly into an actively productive position. The two-phase program consists of:
phase I . . . EIGHT WEEKS OF FORMAL ENGINEERING CLASSES IN THE AREAS OF: SERVO-MECHANISMS • SEMI-CONDUCTOR TECHNOLOGY • THEORY OF INERTIAL GUIDANCE • RELATED INERTIAL NAVIGATION TOPICS
phase II... ACTUAL WORK IN THE ORGANIZATION'S three main TECHNICAL AREAS: ENGINEERING • RELIABILITY • OPERATIONS
contact your College Placement Officer regarding a General Motors-AC campus interview, and send for the informative brochure "At AC, Navigation is Our Business" . . . send the form below to: Mr. G. F. Raasch, Director of Scientific and Professional Employment, Dept. 5753, AC Spark Plug Division, General Motors Corporation, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS —THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1962
AC SPARK PLUG THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS
MILWAUKEE « LOS ANGELES • BOSTON
For more information	regarding Field Service Engineering opportunities ■
with AC, send this form	to:	I
Mr. G. F. Raasch	|
Dept. 5753, AC Spark	Plug Division	■
Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin	■
NAME_________________________________________________________________ ।
STREET_______________________________________________________________ |
CITY AND STATE_______________________________________________________ J
SCHOOI_______________________________________________________________ |
DEGREE_____________________AVAILABILITY DATE_________________________ j
________________________________________________________________________J
Symposium ’62
(Continued from page 12) meaning in an active relationship with Christ. This idea was expanded ■ from the point of finding oneself in others to include the alive Catholic : who can by his example transmit faith from person to person.
Dr. Christin of Notre Dame was the final speaker culminating the	’
week end in a message of personal	J
value to all on the witness to the faith • through love. He began by mentioning the fact that our society has split man just as it has split the atom. Everything has its own particular compartment. There is no longer a recognition of man as man, but as a member of a solid mass. And there is no place for love; we don’t know | the meaning of it and we can’t find | a compartment into which it fits. We fail to realize that genuine love tran- ’ scends any compartmentalization.
Genuine love involves an act of the will and a distinction between feelings and thought. This can be applied to every aspect of love. First one must be able to accept and love himself as he is with his talents and faults, and then he can love others. ; There will be inevitable suffering and -J frustration in this struggle for an	j
honest and true approach, yet through	j
this struggle you will develop a J greater capacity for joy and a greater and more precious ability to love. We	;
can only come to the realization of	j
the power of what it means to be a ] Christian by becoming more immersed	*
in life.	J
It is impossible to convey the	j
spirit and the full impact of the sym-	<
posium (at least as it was for me and	!
I think others, too). One of the	:
greatest results is the fact that many	;
students have begun to see that there	i
were aspects of their faith and college life they had never considered. , Discussions have lasted well into the nights and are still going on. But what worries me is that is this only . the excitement of a week end of really challenging speakers and stimulating u discussion from which we have gained only a “vague appreciation”? To be a deep success, we must continue to s search for the depths of Christianity and to salt the thirst for truth. Each ’ of us must strive to become an active . and alive thinking Catholic who is living	in	love as a witness	to our	.
faith.	To	bring into the	world the	;
spirit	that Arthur Miller	is	looking	;
for is	no	easy task. This	is	a chai-	j
lenge for our own personal renewal, : and it requires courage, love, humility, • and dear vision. Though it may sound overpowering (it is), someone has to do it. Will it be the "other guy”?
The Scholastic
26
NOTRE DAME MINIATURES
A Special Gift — Reserved for Special People
BUFF TOP STONE
REG-laR BAND
SAPPHIRE CENTER DIAMOND OVAL
TO’ V :W R!NG
"The Ideal Christmas Gift"
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS —1962-63
All rings are in durable 10K Gold
Black Onyx ......................................$17.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00
Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back..... 19.00
Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back....... 19.00
Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue ................... 19.00
Synthetic "Notre Dame” Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back ................. 19.00
Synthetic “Notre Dame” Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back ................... 19.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS All-diamond cluster .......................$165.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00
WEDDING BANDS
Lady's, plain or beaded, Regular ...........$	8.00
Lady's, plain	or	beaded,	Contour ...........  9.00
Man’s, plain	or	beaded,	Regular ..........  11.00
Man’s, plain	or	beaded,	Contour ........... 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
3 4 5 6 7 8? 1011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana