Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH i, 1884.
No. 25.
Historic Miisings.
No. 11.
FREDERICK THE GREAT.
“ Satirical verses against all the princes and ministers of Europe were ascribed to his pen ” .... “This war of couplets, following close upon the carnage of Zorndorf and the conflagration of Dresden; illustrates well the strangely compounded character of the king of Prussia.’’ —Macaulay on Frederick the Great.
Stern, blue-eyed hero, you, it seems were given
To the light warfare of malicious verse,
Sallies of wit, too free to be forgiven
That later proved the politician’s curse.
*
With all your scorn for certain persons royal, Those mocking poems cost a fatal price
Though doubtless laughed at by their subjects loyal.
Imperial ladies were less calmly wise.
Yet what red fields of wrath and strife and terror
Had never been if all vour work was rhvme.
With words the Empress might have met your error And crushed the pun in its pernicious prime.
The shaft of fancy might have done its mission
By making both ridiculous at last,
While Europe, guiltless of the coalition
Laughed at the mold in which vour thoughts were cast.
For, when a man essays to fight with women
On their own ground, he’s sure to lose the day.’
But, when he leads battalions forth, the omen
Alas, with swiftness veers the other way.
Marion Muir.
Louis XI-
By J. A. McIntyre, ’84.
France, during the Middle Ages, presented a scene of wild disorder. Under the feudal system, many of the high nobility became too independent. Proud, arrogant, ambitious, grasping and turbulent —all their efforts were directed to furthering their own peculiar ends. Jealous of each other’s increasing influence, these haughty lords were bent on enriching themselves at the expense of their weaker neighbors. What they failed to obtain by force of arms and treachery, they succeeded in
gaining through craft and matrimonal alliances. Although recognizing the king of France as their suzerain, they were really independent and absolute in their territories. Ever ready to unite with foreign powers in carrying out their private vengeances, they were always a gigantic barrier to national harmony.
England, that mighty nation whose dominion extends from pole to pole, was at this time casting the shadow of her future greatness. From the day that a Norman king first took his seat on the throne of England, her pretensions to French territory may be dated. And it was only after the brilliant victories of the Black Prince that France understood thoroughly the formidable enemy she had in her British antagonist. England hated France, and was not slow in improving the advantages she already acquired. The slightest pretext was sufficient to justify an invasion of France, and in these invasions she was invariably aided by some of the dissatisfied feudal lords.
About the year 1420, the throne of France was occupied by Charles VI, a hopeless imbecile. Philip, Duke of Burgundy, one of the most powerful of the French vassals, offered the crown of France to Henry V of England. This imprudent and traitorous action is attributed to a desire of revenge on the dauphin Charles, by whose order John Sans Peur, Philip’s father, was cruelly murdered. Philip induced Henry, who was making rapid conquests in France, to marry Catharine, daughter of Charles VI. In this he was aided by Isabeau, wife of crazy Charles. Isabeau conceived an unnatural hatred for her son the dauphin because he had sent her into exile on account of her evil life. A treaty was signed at Troyes, and the wretched king, whose hand was guided by Isabeau, transferred the heritage of his son to a foreign enemy. All France hailed this proceeding with delight. The French people feared the increasing power of the Count of Armagnac, an influential southern prince who had proclaimed himself Constable, and was the principal supporter of the dauphin Charles.
Henry hurried to England to assist at the coro-nation of his queen. Returning again to France, he was suddenly taken ill and died at Vincennes, 1422. Charles VI survived him but a few weeks. France declared young Henry of England king, and immediately his uncle, Duke of Bedford, set out to enforce his claims.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
On receiving intelligence of his father’s death the dauphin Charles wept bitterly and dressed in mourning. Next day he attended Mass in his chapel at Auvergne, and being clothed with the purple was declared-king of France by his adherents. Charles now resolved to gain the .crown which was unlawfully withheld from him. He gathered around him his followers, who for the most part were composed of Gascons, Scots and Bretons, commanded by De Richemont, brother of the Duke of Brittanv, Dunois, Aastard of Orleans, and La Hire. This small party was soon joined by many nobles who had sided with Henry V, and now that he was dead, feared to swear allegiance to his son. Perhaps the more so when they perceived the alacrity with which Bedford hastened to push his claims.
Charles marched against Bedford and sustained many heavy losses. The loss at Verneuil was so disastrous as to be ranked with Crecy and Poitiers. Almost despairing of obtaining the crown, he determined to retire beyond the Rhone. The tide of fortune changed; and there appeared on the scene one whom, had Charles served as a slave all his life, he would have scarcely requitted for the great services done him—Joan of Arc who saved France. Charles VII was crowned at Rheims, and through the assistance of Joan, drove the English from his dominion.’ Calais alone remained to his enemies. How he paid his debt of gratitude to Joan is well known, and remains forever a stain on his character. Charles was too weak to think of gratitude. Unfoitunate Jacques Coeur, the merchant prince of Bourges, who had made France rival the Italian nations in commerce and loaned large sums to Charles during the wars, was sent into exile. The king of Bourges, as Charles while fighting for his crown was sarcastically styled, was then one of the greatest monarchs of Europe, made such by his faithful subjects. The latter part of his reign was distinguished by acts of justice and wisdom.
On the death of Charles ( 1461), we find France in a prosperous condition: the civil wars quelled, and England minus her great French provinces. But the great nobles were still as powerful and warlike as ever. Louis XI ascended the throne. No idle tears were shed by him for his dead father; he had not been a loving son. Louis was then thirty-nine years old, and, as the dauphin, he had distinguished himself only by his rebellious conduct towards the king. In the famous insurrection, P raguerie, Louis was chosen leader by the insurgent nobles, and all his efforts were directed towards breaking up the army which Charles raised to prevent excesses in the kingdom. Charles sent additional forces against him, compelling the dauphin to seek refuge with his cousin, the Count of Charolais, afterwards the renowned Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy. The kingoften desired a reconciliation with Louis, but the dauphin was intractable, and his actions so alarmed his father that he feared death bj7 poisoning.
Louis, therefore, was well advanced in years on his accession to the throne; his youth, how
ever, had not been spent in idleness. No: Louis had been very busy, indeed: and it was during his dauphinage that he laid the foundation of his future career. Charolais, with whom he had taken refuge, was an ambitious man, and had planned for himself a brilliant future. Louis and he were very intimate. Charolais was haughty, impulsive and irritable; Louis impassionate, wary ! and thoughtful. He knew what a powerful op-
ponent Charolais would be some day, and sounded his ambition. Louis is now king. A profound politician, learned in Italian state-craft, exceedingly shrewd, wily and unscrupulous: his great aim was to weaken the nobility and centralize all power of state in himself. He selected as his ministers those with whose characters he was personally acquainted, and consequently removed from his council-chamber such persons as were most likely to profit by his mistakes. The authority of the Parisian Parliament was too great, and to remedy this he established parliaments throughout the different provinces; and in order to gain the good will of Europe and the Pope he sent legates to Rome, promising to revoke the Pragmatic Sanction framed under Charles VII by the States-General of Bourges, at the Council of Basle. This promise—like many others—he had not the slightest intention to keep. And the Pragmatic Sanction was secretly enforced until the Concordat of Leo X,
The good will of the people was all-important to Louis; and the better to obtain this he appeared often in public and mixed'with them, affecting extreme simplicity by his shabby clothes.
As the power of the nobles was rapidly decreasing, they became alarmed at the actions of their wily sovereign; Louis, too, perceived he had been hasty, but coolly awaited the development. Soon the crisis came. The dukes of Burgundy and Berry—the latter a brother of Louis—were placed by the nobles in command of what was called the League ofthe^ub-lic 'weal. The object of this League was to reduce the inci easing power of the king. Burgundy marched to Paris, but was intercepted at Montlhery by Louis. A short struggle ensued; both armies fled, each claiming the victory.
Lpuis saw that he must stem the rebellion, and, true to his policy, attractive promises were made, which were never to be fulfilled; money distributed, and dissension sown in the hostile ranks. The nobles were divided, and success smiled on Louis.
Louis hated the feudal lords: they were too haughty. But it was not altogether on account of their pride he hated them : he cared little for such a trifle; it was their wealth and"influence which disturbed him. To crush them required years of labor, plotting, bribery, and dissimulation. Louis was naturally gifted for the task. He accomplished by his unparalleled audacity and cunning what would have required armies, and the expenditure of millions of money. It was always his policy togain over by any possible means the councillors of his secret enemies. For this purpose he used his money freely, made, of course, large promises, and in case of either’s failure would
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 387
have recourse to that infallible snare—flattery. With evil eyes he regarded the proud Duke de Nemour, Constable St. Pol, and the Count of Armagnac; the two former were tried, condemned, and executed, the latter assassinated.
Louis was not cruel by nature, but rather from a necessity arising from selfishness. Nothing was spared which could further his immediate advantages—money, friendship, the most sacred oaths, and even pride were sacrificed. P ride, the curse of man, was looked upon by the cool-headed king merely as a means. It is well known he had the wonderful audacity to enter, unarmed, Peronne, a city belonging to Charles the Bold, although a short time had elapsed since he excited the people of Liege—subjects of Charles—to rebellion. Louis ran the risk of losing his life; but he depended on his extreme coolness to carry him through. Charles, bad it not been for his sense of the knightly treatment due to a guest, would have murdered the king. He, however, required Louis to march with him to Liege and quell the rebellion. To obey the mandate of a vassal was indeed humiliating to a king; but Louis, considering all in all, thought himself exceedingly lucky in thus escaping his enemy’s wrath-.
Charles the Bold was too powerful a vassal for the welfare of France, and Louis feared him. His power and wealth were almost equal to that of Louis. Besides, his court surpassed in splendor nearly every other in Europe, and his wife was sister of Edward IV, king of England. Louis was the more bent on his ruin now that Charles was allied to England. He summoned all his resources to weaken Burgundy. Edward IV hastened to aid his kinsman, entered France, and found Louis well prepared—liot to fight, oh, no! that was not Louis, but to use policy. The English were bribed, the dauphin promised in marriage to Edward’s daughter; thus the British mouths were hushed. Louis continued causing insurrections in Burgundy’s provinces until, finally, Charles the Bold, last of the great feudal lords of Burgundian stock, perished. The king heard of the death of Charles while praying in his chapel at Tours, and although apparently in deep devotion, he could not refrain from a cry of exultation.
The object of his fondest hopes and of his life’s scheming, deceptions, and crimes had been secured. All his great enemies were succumbing. What was easier now than to deprive the weak heiress Mary, of Burgundy and attach it, with all its great and important provinces, to his own. dominions?
Mary sought the sympathy and assistance of Austria by marrying the Arch-Duke Maximilian. At Guincgate a battle was fought without effect, and the premature death of Mary left Louis undisputed possessor of Burgundy and its splendid attachments.
Flanders and Ghent were highly exasperated on seeing their allegiance pass to the king of France. The proud Flemings rebelled. Louis insisted upon his claims so emphatically there was no opposing him. And the betrothal of Mar-guerita of Flanders to the dauphin plainly shows
that France meant to retain as subjects the gallant Flemings. France, before so divided, is now united; and its sovereign, from being a mere puppet in the hands of interested nobles, is king, indeed. And thou, O Louis, son of the weak Charles, reckless of I rightful heritage, hast done all this! Thy ancestors used force of arms and mild persuasion in conquering enemies and quelling the people, thou didst use brains and money; they, perhaps, conquered the hearts, thou subjected the wills! Thv enemies disappeared one by one. Nemour lives but in history. Burgundy has lost its Charles the Bold, and is thine. Maine, Anjou and Provence yielded to thy will. Roussilion and Cerdagne are humbled to the dust. And Switzerland trembles at thy name. Thou hast lopped the Tree of Feudalism, which a Richelieu destined will, ere long, uproot.
The ingenious, bold foreign diplomacy of Louis was productive of the best results. Nations, not friendly with France, feared him. Scotland was his best friend, and his famous life-guard was composed of trusty Scots. Portugal was an ally, Spain and Italy vied with each other for his good graces; and Navarre, subdued; all but Brittany, which, as Louis one day told the dauphin, was the weak spot in his kingdom.	•
Louis now turned his attention to strengthening his kingdom in all its departments. Commerce received a new impetus, the army was regulated, and post-offices established. As the king always respected men of learning, the University of Paris received many royal favors, and a large library was founded. Printing had just been invented, and received the patronage of Louis. But for all these improvements, heavy taxes were imposed, and the people groaned under the payments which impoverished them.
Towards the close of his career, he shut himself in his castle at Plessis-les-Tours. Around him he gathered his famous Scotch Guards, Tristan, the provost-marshal, Oliver his barber, Astrologers and Philip des Comines his historian, all of whom he trusted with great confidence. His body was fast decaying, and remorse seized his heart. He became greatly suspicious, especially of the dauphin, whom he had brought up in ignorance, confined at Ambiose.’ His suspicions led him to take extreme precautions; traps and snares were laid in the walks surrounding his castle, and it required one perfectly familiar with them to approach the castle without endangering his life. Louis, who was always fanatically devout, spent much time in prayer for the prolongation of his life. Much time was given to devotions at the Church of Our Lady of Clery, in which he was first Canon by special appointment of the Pope, and was allowed to put on the surplice and assist at the offices.
As death approached, his appeals for prolongation of life increased. His hat, which wassurrounded with leaden images of saints, was often removed, and selecting his “ Sweet Lady of Embrum,” he broke forth in some of the most remarkable prayers. It was his custom when wishing to obtain some special favor from Heaven to dismiss his attendants and, singling out.one of the leaden images,
388
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to knee!down and implore the assistance of the saint whom the image represented. In his prayers he was sometimes so foolish as to imagine he could deceive the elect of heaven. He would make promises of erecting churches in their names, and excuse his crimes by ingeniously comparing them with the great amount of reparation he would make. A story is told that on one occasion a court jester overheard the king’s confession of his brother’s murder. At a dinner next day, while joking, he revealed the confession, and his hasty departure from the court explains the aversion which Louis had. for that class of mortals. Again, when his chaplain was praying the saints to intercede for the welfare of his body and soul, Louis interrupted, ’ requesting him to omit the last two words, saying that too many requests at once might make the saints grow impatient.
When Louis noticed that death was close at hand, his cravings for life became agonizing. He summoned his physicians, humbled himself, even submitting to impudence on their part. The miracles performed at Calabria by a holy man, St. Francis of Paula, reached the king’s ears. Envoys were sent to the king of Naples, praying him to try and - induce the holy monk to attend Louis. The saint, however, hearing Louis longed merely for bodily health, did not feel himself justified in undertaking such a long journey, and this he told the envoys. Louis appealed to the Pope. An order was given St. Francis to go to the French court, which he obeyed. On entering France, Francis was received joyfully. A large procession, headed by the dauphin, escorted him to the royal palace; Louis, although enfeebled by disease, hastened to meet it, and, throwing himself at the monk’s feet, he begged for prolongation of life. St. Francis, calmly and tenderly, told Louis he had better prepare hi§ soul for death, which threatened to snatch him at any moment. It did not take long for a character such as St. Francis to persuade him of the folly of clinging to the vain hope of a long life.	.
Before he died the dauphin was called to his bedside, and Louis explained the condition of France; requiring several promises, he cautioned him to be good to the people, and, above all, to lead a strictly moral life. And with a prayer on his lips to “Sweet Ladj7 of Embrum,” the soul of Louis XI, king of France, passed to its Maker.
The death of Louis was not regretted by the people; they never loved him. But still, they
His
recognized in him the “wisest king that had ever borne rule in France, and the best obeyed.
character was an odd mixture of boldness and timidity,pride and humility; although yery devout and strangely superstitious, he was extremely unscrupulous ; y et a strong will governed all. A great mind without a conscience, whose motto was: “^zzz nescit dissimulare nescit regnare!v> Considering the state of France and the numerous obstacles he had to overcome, we must admit Louis 'XI of Valois was a great king, and vastly improved his kingdom. As to his cruelty and bad principles, he is to be condemned; not, however, without remarking that he was no worse.than many sover
eigns whose names are traditional as synonymous with ah that is good.
F
I A?
Ash-Wednesday.
BY FLORA L. STANFIELD.
Put out the garish lights, and hush the song; Hang far away the motley garb you wear;
The cap and bells are for the foolish thiono-.
Who will not see the sins their shoulders bear. Have mercy, Lord!
Silence the laughter; muffle all the bells: The dawn of Lent’s first morning reappears, The peals of joy should turn to warning knells, The smiles of mirth to penitential tears.
. Have mercy, Lord!
Even the sky above is ashen grey, The very sun seems on sad mission bent;
The winter winds, swift rushing on their way, Have but one voice to allRepent! repent!” Have mercy, Lord!
And yet of all the many blessed days That light the journey of the Christian’s year, This is the one that, over stony ways, Leads us to pastures green and waters clear.
Have mercy, Lord! ’
And to the feet most weary on the road, And to the hands worst torn by brier and thorn, And to the heart that bears the heaviest load, There will be sweetest rest on Easter morn.
Have mercy, Lord!
—The “Ave Alana.''
Are our Ideas Images?
The soul, an immaterial substance, is the seat of the sensations caused by. material objects. Now, the material cannot touch the immaterial—between the two there exists an infinite abyss which cannot be bridged over. And yet the truth remains that the soul and body—two substances entirely different: the one immaterial and the other material— are united in the closest possible union, and mutually affect each other. . The explanation of this fact has ever occupied the philosophic mind without reaching any satisfactory conclusion. From it very many questions have arisen in the Schools of Philosophy,, not the least important of which is that concerning the nature of our ideas.
Among the systems prevailing, there is one which has'held a jorominent position from the most

remote antiquity, viz., that of “Images”; or, in other words, that ideas are formed in the mind by means of images of the object. At first sight this theory would seem to be plausible enough, a's it would naturally flow from the analogy .which'exists between intellectual and physical vision. But let us consider it for a moment. . .	.. ..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

If I see the image of a person or thing, the orig-■inal of which I had not seen before, how can I say ’■that is such and such a person or thing? If you show me the portrait of his majesty, King Loo-Bengula, and I have never seen him, I cannot divine nor imagine that it represents him unless you tell me that such is the fact. To be convinced, I must necessarily make a comparison between the original and the picture. But by this system I can never make the comparison, because I can never see the original; nor can anyone else tell me unless they have seen the reality. And if one can see it, why not others? Moreover, all the objects whose images (?) I see now, I must have seen once in reality; and if so, when did I first see them ? when did I see them last? why cannot I see them always?
How curious it would be if in paying a visit to •a friend I should amuse mvself in regarding his ’photograph, and speak to it, when I can see himself in came, el facie ad faciem ! You may say, perhaps, that I see the image and the object together. Not necessarily; either I see the real object, and then I do not want nor need any picture, or I sec the image, and I am not sure that it agrees with the original, o
Besides, these so-called images are material or ammaterial. If material, the question remains the same; if immaterial, the difficulty is not solved. How can a material thing produce what is immaterial ? Nemo dat quod non habet: the effect would be greater than the cause, and yet all effects are contained in the cause—nay, the thing would even change in its species; from material it would become immaterial, which is absurd.
Not to be too severe, we will concede something for the sense of sight. It will be very difficult to admit it for any other sense. At present I am holding my pen; I feel it. Is it the image I feel? No, indeed! I partake of some fruit agreeable to the 'taste. Is it the image thereof or the fruit itself which I eat? If the former, I would, indeed, be •greatly disappointed. As a consequence of these innumerable images, the life of man himself would become an image, a shadow, a nothing. If all the 'objects that I see, feel, taste, hear, and smell, were ’nothing but mere pictures, my life woidd be but a dream and my soul an illusion. At this moment I hear music harmoniously executed—no, it is the image of the sounds! But enough!
This system, as may be seen, is in direct opposition both to reason and experience; therefore we cannot admit it.	D.
Vivisection.
Vivisection, or the dissecting of animals while alive, has been carried on more extensively than most people are aware, and long enough, certainly, to justify passing an opinion on its merits.
To warrant the terrible operation, it ought at least to be shown to have greatly aided in scientific discovery in a way to practically help humanity; and there is no defense to be made by those who practise it for their own amusement or to satisfy their curiosity.	•	’ -
The way in which vivisection is often Carried on is not only a cause of unnecessary suffering to the- dumb subject, but it shows a nature too depraved to longer deserve the name of human. The poor beast is strapped to the dissecting trough, and gagged to prevent outcry; the knife is applied by the heartless operator, regardless of the supplicating looks of the subject, who seems to have a presentiment of the approaching suffering. The operator lays open a part; when this is covered with clotted blood, he turns the animal over and commences anew; and, the most heartless of all, when that day’s operation is over, the animal, still strapped and gagged, is taken to the cellai* to await another day’s operation; and the subject— generally a dog—is sometimes left, mutilated, but still living, for days or even weeks, bound in a cramped position. And for what is all this suffering caused? For what, indeed? Thousands of dumb brutes are yearly sacrificed, and what is the result? The only apparent one is the degradation of man—the placing him below the beast.
No useful results have followed vivisection: reason tells us there never will. For what can be gained by this inhuman practice? More accurate data would be obtained from the dead subject, because there is nothing normal in the operations, under abnormal conditions, of the animal organs; and the terrible agony and consequent convulsions of the subject of vivisection must affect every part of the animal; while, if dead, the organs would relapse into nearer their proper state.
To one of the most terrible species of vivisection belongs the removal of part of the brain, or the introduction into it of red-hot irons, “ to see what will be the result.” This is often done for the purpose of ascertaining either’ if there be superfluous braincells, or if certain parts of the brain perform certain functions; but these operations are more frequently performed to gratify curiosity. However, they are unnecessary; for necessary operations on the human brain, and accidents happening to it* have established facts which the useless torture of thousands of beasts has merely confirmed.
In fact, instead of being of aid to mankind, it is claimed by the highest authorities that terrible evil has been the result of vivisection. The practice, it is claimed, not only deadens the sympathies of the operator, but creates an infernal delight in witnessing the sufferings of the helpless, tortured brute; it fosters desires the most inhuman, draws the heart from the home-circle, and leaves the being, careless of all social ties, a slave to his devilish work.	W. H. J.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—It is said that Mr. Matthew Arnold, during his visit here, collected voluminous notes, with a view to arranging them for publication in book-form.
—Lord Bute has given an order to Miss Ed-monia A. Edwards, the negro sculptress, to execute a marble statue of the Blessed-Virgin Mary for one of his chapels.- *	•	-	“	’
39°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—San Francisco invites sculptors to send competitive plans for the statue of Francis S. Key, author of the “Star-Spangled Banner.” It will be placed in Golden Gate Park. The estate of the late James Lick will pay for the statue.
—Carlyle’s prolific use of words is being digested. In “Sartor Resartus ” alone it is found that the vocabulary contains about 7,500 words: while the whole of Shakespeare’s vocabulary is put down at 15,000 words, and that of Milton at 7,500.
—It has been rumored that Mr. J. Brinsley Richards is engaged in writing an answer to Max O’Rell’s “John Bull and His Island.” As “John Bull ” is a very clever little book, it is to be hoped that anything in the shape of an answei' to it will be equally good.
—A new piano, invented by Wilhelm Fischer, has been brought out at Leipsic. In outward appearance it resembles a cottage piano, and it has the ordinary hammer action, but in lieu of the familiar strings, tuning forks are substituted for the purpose of procuring pure as well as sustained tone.
—The literary property of the works of the well-known French historian, Henri Martin, comprising “L’Histoire de France jusqu’a 17S9,” and “L’Histoire de France jusqu’a nos Jours,” was sold by auction in Paris on Feb. 2, for 250,000 francs, being 100,000 francs above the upset price.
—Among the collection of books in the Harrison Library, which were disposed of -last week by Messrs. Leavitt, of New York, was the famous Boydell edition of Shakspere, extended from nine to thirty-six volumes, and containing over four thousand inserted plates, many of them being very rare. It took over ten years to collect the material, and is said to have cost the owner over $18,000.
—A new gallery of gobelins has been opened .in Florence, in the foimer • royal palace Della Cracetta, in the Via Della Colonna. This collection contains all the gobelins of the Pitti Palace, all those that were in the Uffizi Gallery, and those that belonged to the Palazio Della Signoria, and which used to decorate the celebrated “ Loggia dei Lanzi” of Vasari during the religious and civil festivals of Tuscany.
—Miss Rosina Emmet, a direct descendant of the great Irish patriot, Robert Emmet, has just completed an oil-painting of her distinguished ancestor for the Speranza Club of Yorkville. It was copied from a small portrait by Petrie, an artist who had been allowed to attend Emmet’s execution.’ While Emmet was on the scaffold, Petrie sketched him on the palm of his hand and made the portrait from this. -
—The other evening,at the dinner of the “Odd Volumes,” where several Oriental authorities were assembled to hear Mr. Quaritch’s lecture, it was mentioned by a Chinese scholar that when Lord Tennyson wrote “Locksley Hall ” he could not have been aware of the exact nature of a Chinese, cycle. “ Better,” he exclaimed. “ fifty years of Europe thana cycle of Cathay!” It being granted that Cathay is poetical English for China, it was
stated, with the complete concurrence of an eminent mandarin who was present, that a Chinese cycle consists, and has for some centuries consisted, of sixty years. By these cycles the lapse of time has been computed in China during the whole of the present dynasty. The poet, therefore, was less complimentary to Europe than he probably in-' tended to be when he said that fifty years of Europe was only equal to sixty years of China. —Afor York Sun.
Scientific Notes.
—On the Colorado desert, near Indio, 260 feet below the level of the sea, there is a vast bed of =alt, and the Southern Pacific, in laying the track, have been obliged to grade the road for 1.200 feet with blocks of these beautiful lumps of salt crystals.
—The natives of the Chiloe Islands, make use of a curious natural barometer, to which, from -its having beep first noticed by the Captain of an Italian corvette, the name “ Barometro Araucano ” has been given. This novel weather-guide was described at a recent meeting of the Linnean Society of New South Wales, as the shell of a crab, one of the Anomura^ probably of the genus Lith odes. It is peculiarly sensitive to atmospheric changes, is nearly white in dry weather, but exhibits small red spots on the approach .of moisture, and becomes completely red in the rainy season.
—At the request of the Prussian Minister of Public Instruction, the Medical Faculty of Berlin, some months ago, appointed a sjjecial committee to report on the advisability or non-advisability of dispensing with vivisection as a means of instruction and scientific research. This committee, consisting of Privy Councillor of Medicine du Bois-Reymond, Rudolf Virchow, Westphal and Lie-brich, Professors of physiology, pathology, psychiatry and pharmacology, last wtek made their report, which was unanimously accepted by the Faculty. It was drawn up by Privy Councillor du Bois-Reymond, and asserts in a manner which cannot fail to carry conviction with it, that “vivisection is absolutely necessary for scientific research as well as for instruction.” The report is accompanied by a statement of numerous experiments made .with animals for the purpose of demonstrating the laws of the nervous system, digestion, circulation of the blood, etc., and cites a variety of striking instances in which vivisection has proved to be positively indispensable in utilizing the researches.of modern science and invention for the welfare of humanity.
—Two scientific investigators, one Swiss and the other French, have been analyzing the Alpine air. They ascertained that entirely pure air is not found until an altitude is reached of from six thousand to thirteen thousand feet above the level of the sea. The atmosphere around the lakes, below the level, however pure and healthful apparently, was found to contain bacteria. Nevertheless, it was pure enough by.comparison with that of the French
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
391
capital, where the bacteria contained in a square foot of air are seven thousand times more numer->	ous than those in the same quantity of air in one
I*	of the Swiss valleys. Professor Silvestrini has
made a series of experiments to ascertain if the miasm really exists, as is generally supposed, in the .-s	dew and the soil. He collected soil and dew from
j	notoriously unwholesome places and injected infu-
;	sions of them under his skin, having first ascer-
l	tained that they held various forms of sporiferous
j	and other bacilli. No evil results were experienced,
i	He tried similar experiments bn his wife, and he
and his friends made fifty-two experiments with dew and infusions of soil collected from many places. All of them proved innocuous. The professor denies, therefore, that a primitive infection is the cause of malarial fevers.
—There has been introduced into the New York Assembly a bill which prohibits the sale of cigarettes or tobacco to minors under 16 years of age. A law to that effect already exists in New Jersey, and its example might be advantageously followed :	in other States. Tn regard to the results of cigar-
:	ette-smoking, physicians say it affects seriously the
functions of the stomach, especially in the young. It has a tendency to increase the action of the • ' heart, causing palpitation. It is a fruitful source of indigestion. It has a decided tendency to produce catarrh in the head. This, it is said, arises from the fact, that a cigarette being much shorter than a cigar, more of the smoke finds its way into the mouth and nasal organs. Cigarette-smoking, •	*	00	O'
it is averred, has also a decided tendency to pro-;	duce asthma, and renders the system more liable
i	to attacks of pneumonia and bronchitis. In its
effects upon the nervous system, cigarette-smoking is said to be in the highest degree pernicious, both directly and indirectly. It destroys healthy appetite for solid food, and by the constant expectoration it produces leads to a morbid craving for drink. Injury or destruction of the nerves of the eyes, it is
I	alleged, has been in hundreds of instances, pro-
>	duced by cigarette-smoking.—Scientific American.
College Gossip.
i '	•—The University of Lewisburg has received a
gift of $100,000 from William Bucknell, of Phil-
1	adelphia.—High-School Index.
—Harvard has received a fund of $60,000, raised by subscription, the income of which is to increase the President’s salary.—Princetonian. •
-•	—A bronze statue of Lafayette, who laid the
corner-stone of the University of Vermont, at ;	Burlington, is soon to be unveiled on the campus,
|	in front of the University.
i	—Cornell University has received an invitation
I	signed by the Duke of Argyll, as chancellor, and
Sir Stafford Northcote, as rector, to send a repre-
I	sentative to the three hundredth anniversary of the
founding of the University of Edinburgh, next Easter. This representative is to be the guest of
3	the Edinburgh authorities.
—Mr. Eliot, ex-superintendent of the Boston public schools, is opposed to industrial education by the schools. He says:—“ It is the purpose of the schools to instruct a scholar to live, and not to earn his living. It is not the object of our schools to turn out our carpenters or cooks. Schools are . founded to train character.”
—-A point has come before a Michigan School Board. It is the point of a pin. Jocose pupils were accused of making it puncture their teacher. He had a habit of saying, after making an expla: nation and on taking his seat: “Stick’a pin there.” The temptation to put a pin upright in his chair, under these circumstances, was .irresistible. The question is whether the culprits ought to be expelled.
—The University Courier complains bitterly of the poor accommodation and worse treatment the students of the University of Kansas receive at the hands of the citizens of Lawrence. It says there is an especial aversion on the part of the townspeople to “ lady boarders” from the University.—High-School Index.
Perhaps there is good reason for the aversion. Many of the students of more than one co-educa-cational institution are attended with a bad odor.
—One of the laws of the College, requiringthat a Senior shall have at least three and one-half years in the drug business before coming up for final examination, -will prevent several members of the Senior Class from graduating.—Concordiensis. .
Would there were a few more institutions like the Albany College of Pharmacy! There are too many half-fledged “doctors” and pharmacists in the market, with hundreds of the same kind turning out every year.- There are forty-eight registered physicians in Pittsburg, Pa., who have no diplomas. Medical-diploma factories are running on half time there this winter. •
—Aristophanes’ comedy, “The Birds,” produced pit Cambridge, England, in the original tongue, filled the theatre for a week. The Spectator says: “ As a spectacle it was brilliant in the extreme—such a sight as no one that ever saw it will be likely to-forget. The trooping in of the chorus, with its grotesque bird figures—grotesque, • indeed, but never unsightly—made a visible im-pression on an assembly which is not of an excitable kind. Then the music was exquisite, and the rhythmic movements; with appropriate songs, varied now and then by the clear solo of the hoopoe, charmed both eye and ear.
—There are now forty-eight lady students in the Harvard Annex, and it is the testimony of some of the Harvard professors that the average scholarship of the classes in the annex is above that of the classes in the college. Over fifty courses are open to the pupils, and of these Greek, Latin, English, German and Mathematics attract the -largest numbers. This year thirty-five out of the forty-eight ladies have chosen Greek electives. Two enthusiastic girls from Texas sold land and travelled two thousand miles for privileges which Harvard University could offer beyond any woman’s college. In return the annex has sent a graduate to Montana as bead of a classical school.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, March 1, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
' Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names, of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.^o per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
- T. Ewing
J. A. McIntyre, '84.
Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
Steele, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
.C. A. Tinley, ’84.
AV. H. Johnston,’ 85.
to renewed exertions and to work- in earnest, to profit by their present opportunities.
—We regret that in the report of the Thespian Entertainment, as published last week, some of the. most meritorious of those taking part and really deserving of special mention should have been passed over almost in silence. We are assured that this apparent slight was not. intentional on the part of our reporter, who, we have every reason to believe, faithfully reproduced his own impressions, and tried to be just though necessarily limited by space in his notice. That the exhibition in its entirety merits the highest praise is conceded on- all sides, and to this successful and happy result all of the speaking characters in the drama contributed. Each of them entered faithfully into the spirit of his part, and showed in his rendition the marks of careful study and realization of the character «/	f
which he delineated. For this they deserve credit. If there is one thills’more than another that should be well understood by those taking part in our entertainments it is that all, even those of apparently small importance, are parts of a whole, the perfection of which depends upon the perfection of each individual part. This was well shown in the Thespian entertainment, and for this all without exception should be commended.
<
C. F. Porter, ’85.
—All should secure tickets for Bishop Spalding’s Lecture which will he delivered on the 5th inst. The scholarly attainments of the distinguished prelate give every assurance of a‘discourse that will be well worth attending. Tickets may be had the Students’ Office.
—A grand gold medal to be competed for by the students of the Minim department, and to be awarded at the Annual Commencement in June, has been donated by Mr. F. P. Ernest, of Deer Trail, Col. The conditions of the competition for this prize are the same as those for the “ Mason Medal” in the Junior department, viz.: that the winner must show the best record for progress and proficiency in. class, and gentlemanly deportment throughout the scholastic year. The record will be attested by the “ Roll of Honor,” “ Class Honors,” and “ List of Excellence,” as appearing in the ScudLASTic. It is to he hoped that this will prove for our young friends a fresh stimulus
—A recent, much prized acquisition of the Museum is a handsomely mounted “ Bird of Paradise.” It would be bard to secure a finer specimen of this rare and beautiful animal. The largest species known measure about eighteen inches from the beak to the tip .of the tail. The body, wings and tail are of a rich brown color, deepening on the breast to a dark violet or purple shade/ The top of the head as well as the neck is.of an exceedingly delicate straw color, the feathers being so short and so closely set as to resemble velvet; the lower part of the throat up to the eye is covered with scaly green feathers having a rich metallic gloss. Velvet}’ bands of a still deeper green extend across the forehead as far as the eyes which are the color: of blood. The beak is of pale, leaden blue, while the large, strong, well-formed feet are of ashy pink. There are no webs to the two middle tail plumes, except a very small one at the base and the extreme tip, forming wirelike cirrhi which expand in a graceful curve from twenty-four to thirty-four inches. Underneath the wings, on either side of the body, are long, delit'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,.
393
cate plumes, sometimes two feet in length, very glossy and of the brightest orange gold, shading towards the tips into a pale brown. These the bird can elevate and spread out at will so as almost to screen its entire body. The beauty of the Bird of Paradise is confined to the male sex; the female is a mopish-looking animal, clothed in uniform garb of a coffee-brown color. If the voice of the Bird of Paradise is equal to his plumage, he is certainly the prince of the feathered tribe. But perhaps the other sex do the singing while their masters play dude.	.
This valuable specimen was presented to the editor of The “Ave Maria” by Mrs. D. Cobb, of San Francisco.
mocked in his writings and utterances, and this thought fearfully embittered his last hours, which were spent in alternate supplications and horrid blasphemy of the Divine Being he had outraged. Do what he would, Tom Paine could not make himself the total unbeliever he wished to be. But to all intents Tom Paine was an atheist—as much of an atheist as a logical and discerning mind would allow him to be. In the hum and bustle and distraction of active life, he was a professed atheist; but retired and alone, and when his mind was permitted to form its conclusions without distraction, and in the face of death, he wasn’t—to his horror—half the atheist he imagined himself.
—A couple of controversialists are making the usually quiet columns of the University Press interesting,—the one endeavoring to prove President Bascom’s writings heterodoxical; the other, not exactly defending, but palliating the President’s views by showing that the various Protestant sects have themselves no solid claims to orthodoxy. Unfortunately, both writers prove their points beyond almost the possibility of a doubt; but, fortunately for President Bascom, his claims to orthodoxy cannot reasonably be assailed by the followers of any of the sects. They may prove him heterodox, but as they themselves, by the mouth of their ministers, are placed beyond the pale of orthodoxy, the shafts aimed at the President of the Wisconsin University fall short of the mark. As an alternative,both parties may finally compromise by sitting down to a love-feast of Sidney Smith’s “ Cheshire cheese judging from President Bascom’s “ History of Philosophy,” if we remember the title correctly, Sidney Smith’s “ Cheshire cheese” is a dish of which President Bascom is particularly fond. In connection with the controversy we find the following communication in The Badger:	-
A. paragraph in your last issue implies that Thomas Paine (not Payne as The Badger has it) was an atheist. If your writer will venture to borrow a copy of his works and read his essay on ‘ The Religion of Deism,’ and compare it with ‘ Bascom’s Ethics,’ page 88, he will discover that so far as a Supreme Being is concerned, Paine’s ideas are much like those of the President. It is as unjust as it is common to classify as atheists all who hold views at variance with the theological dogma.”
Thomas, alias “ Tom ” Paine tried hard to be a consistent atheist, but, like Voltaire and Rousseau, he couldn’t succeed, as was verified in his last illness. Do what he would, he could not ignore the existence of the Supreme Being whom he had
A Gard from Father General.	'
-	Si-
Hox. Correspondents :	'
Pray, take notice that, a few weeks ago, I was entered on the list of scriptural old age; and that my weakening sight is not sensibly strengthened by an increasing correspondence of an enigmatic character at times Therefore I take the liberty to recommend everyone, as the French would say. uUne centare modele, revelant la beaute de Vime, qui de main de maitre and sans y fenser, se feint dans ses cents.”	'
Our young “princes” here and their sisters at St. Mary’s know very well the importance I attach, as an old teacher of the art since 1S2S, to a superior excellence in hand-writing; well aware, as they are, that in our penmanship we paint ourselves, as in a glass, as zee are. Hence their extraordinary and successful efforts to appear before their scrutinizing acquaintances, not to any humiliating detriment, but to some personal gratifying advantage. For years this has proved among my young froteges the most efficient incentive to create a real ambition for excellence in penmanship. More than once, striking proofs of this rare proficiency reached me, not only here, but often even in Paris and in Rome, to the admiration of all who saw those beautiful superscriptions under the stamp, ot . Notre Dame P. O.
•But to return to my point. I must state'that with_the best .will to ans.wer all the letters I. receive, numerous as thev are, I have frequently to pause before a Dale and whit-ish'ink, irregular features and lines, strange scratches, etc., etc., and finally confess my inability to make out either the writer’s name, or the residence, or the State; and as a result, the letter has to lie unanszvered. Not so, however, with merchants: as a rule, they enclose an addressed envelope which is remailed promptly and safely. The wisdom of the world is ever cautious! We have here a postoffice, a telegraph and telephone office, in perfect working order, but we cannot approach them without knowing to whom and where to transmit an answer. Experience has taught more than one observing mind how to judge of a correspondent before opening the correspondence. I like to receive a favorable impression from the first look at an ■ envelope.
E. Sorix.
Exchanges.
is
—The Herald-Crimson, a daily from Harvard^ about; the best of all our exchanges.	-
—We owe manv thanks to the Wesieyan Bee for a very flattering notice.- Encouragement from such a source is well worth the earning..
—The editors of The Michigan Chronicle must
394	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
all be candidates for re-election. The last issue, by the present board, is incomparably superior to the January number.
—Among the first of our monthly exchanges we notice The Adelphian, from Brooklyn, New York. The frontispiece is a perfect little gem of artistic taste and execution, while the literary merit ■ throughout is reasonably high.	’
—The ^itceiPs College Journal for February comes to us as usual looking clean and fresh, and, better still, bearing signs of careful editing. Wc are, aboye all, happy to see that for once a Canadian paper can give us an issue free from a dis-, cussion of politics; or, as we say in the States, “the old flag and an appropriation.” In the exchange column we are told that the readers of the Journal may soon have a chance to judge how their paper is regarded outside the college. A good idea, that we ourselves may make use of. The rendition of a fragment from Euripides is a verv elegant, and, we should say, very faithful translation. In striking contrast are the verses entitled the“ Czar,” from which we quote, as uniquely villainous, the six concluding lines. They are:
“Watch well, | O world! | Right is not | always | ■wrong, The ghosts of his own works about him throng.
“ Watch well—nor envy him his hour of calm, Ere they arise and put forth their strength, and strip The blood-stained purple from the royal sham (/) And curse the -white-lipped leper to his lip (!) ”
—The Badger and University Press are the titles of two weekly exchanges from the University of Wisconsin. The former is so gotten up as to be of no possible interest to a non-resident of the college, while the latter seems to be entirely given up to advertisements. We presume the good people of Madison find both very interesting; but dur degenerate taste prefers, here and there, a few lines of general interest.	•
—The .North- Western from the suburbs of Chicago, has arrived for February and proves to be a very readable, number. We are especially struck with the biography of George Eliot, which is principally distinguished for that generous fairness which can often excuse where the law will not permit one to justify the temptations and frailties of a great but misdirected heart.
’	—The Varsity for Feb. qth, opens with the
old familiar grind about “ Our Right to State Aid.” Of course any decent university needs a great deal more money than it can get from the mere tuition or even board of the students; and this additional aid must come from generous alumni or ungenerous governments. The last half of the paper is, as usual, the best. The analysis of-Shakespeare’s’ Henry V would adorn the columns of any literary paper. Far different, but by no means bad, is the following parody on Edgar A.' Poe’s familiar poem—the Bells.	•
“ Listen to the Belles—‘ Fair-haired Belles—
. How their plaintive, pensive wailing
* "	. For co-education swells! .	:
How they ogle, How they sigh— For the Council will not let them Attend lectures by-and-bye!”
— The Vassar Miscellany is more dreary than usual; in point of fact, it is painfully so. While, of course, any paper is liable to be more or less uneven in literary excellence, still from a College like Vassar—with but one monthly paper, and that, too, at twenty-five cents a copy—we have a right to expect interesting and intellectual articles. The February number opens with a very dreamy, dreary, (and as the authoress would doubtless add) analytical story, entitled “ Miss Janewav’s Isolation.” The authoress rather ends all future interest in the heroine by announcing that she is thirty-five or six years old; though how on earth she ever found it out, to us, of the stronger sex, will always remain a mystery. It is very evident that from her babyhood Miss Janeway was troubled with some kind of liver complaint; and that she added to her disorder by eating mince pie for supper, and writing poetry after dinner. How else can we explain the following extracts from her life?
“Lying awake on windy nights in her childhood, she would merge her identity into that of a thistle-down left over from last summer, and airily traverse the whole range, snow-wrapped and lit by the uncanny glow of a mid-winter moon; or, sitting by her window with altogether inexplicable tears filling her eyes, when over everything was the solemn light which is a shadow that only hill-countries in November twilights know, she would be a curled, red leaf borne skurrying by the gale above the hills she loved. These images of her childhood became in a certain sense the ideals of her later years: for Miss Janeway still deems it desirable to be borne, as swiftly and uncertainly if must be. but by all means as high and far above the chill discomforts and unpleasing actualities of this world, as leaf or thistle-down above the ridge(! ! !)”
And again, further on we are told that.
“She had been from her youth up fond of lonely walks over country roads after the leaves had fallen, and she felt that it was no bad thing to take life in the mood of tender melancholy which one feels on a November day a little after sunset, when strolling alone and watching the dark branches of distant trees etched finely asrainst a yellow sky. In accordance -with this idea she thereafter lived spiritually in genteel retirement I
Of far different and inferior order is the “Nantucket Idyl.” That’s an awful funny piece; and so very cultured, you know! In justice to Vassar, we must quote a few lines to show how humor and culture can there be united:	■
“ Wal,” he said, at last, hesitatingly, “ only don’t let me set by her. The last time I see her was at a tea-party, and shiver my timbers* if she didn’t nudge me black and blue! Nobody said anything, but she’d run her elbow into me for fear I didn’t see the joke. Fast she’d nudge, and kept a-gigglin’ and a-nudgin’ till 1 was lame for a week.”
The last lines are very funny, indeed!
—Although we are a new hand at the exchanges we have already missed a few of erst-time visitors. You receive the Scholastic, gentlemen, every week, but your mailing clerks—if you have any— will not reciprocate. Prominent among dur derelict friends, we might mention The Amherst Stu-
* A nickel-library expression, for some unimaginable reason supposed to1 be used iri the Navy:	• •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
395
! dent, The Harvard Lampoon, The Brunonian, ' P rincetonian, Sunbeam, Illini, Fordham College >	Monthly, Rutger's Targum, etc. By all means,
|	let us hear from all of you soon.
Personal.
■ '	—W. E. Ruger (Com’l), ’83, is in business with
|	his father, at Lafayette, Ind. .
I	—Among the welcome visitors last week was
r	the Rev. John Henry, of Lima, Ohio.
,	—Bro. Lucian, C. S. C., Superior at Springfield,
’ Ill., paid a flying visit to the College on last Sat-i	urday.
•	—Job'1 S. Burnside, an old student of Notre
Dame, is now travelling salesman for King Bros.’
7	O	o
■ . Furnishing House, Chicago.
—Austin Thornton (Com’l). ’81, is an experienced salesman, and employed by the great dry-
1:	goods firm, Marshall Field & Co., of Chicago.
: :	—N. J. Comerford (Com’l), ’83, is engaged in
a-prosperous business at Minooka, Ill. His many friends at Notre Dame are pleased to hear of his success.	,
—M. T. Burns, of 83, has secured a very lucrative position, as Secretary of one of our most prom-	inent Senators. Mike deserves it, and will vet
make his mark in the world.
IjF	—Jas. R. Marlett (Law), ’83, is in business at
:	Vicksburg and succeeding well. Jim writes and
;	tells us he is a member of the Rowing Association
j	at that place, and pulls stroke oar.
:	—C. C. Craig, of ’83, is at the Annapolis Naval
I	Academy, and stands high in his class. Charlie
(-	gained quite a notoriety by his eminent display of
i	pluck in defending himself against a party of
!	hazers.
i	—Joseph P. O’Neill, ’83, has passed an exami-
•	nation at Leavenworth,	Kan., and received	a com!	mission to 2d Lieut, in	the United States	Army.
,	We wish all success to	Marshal, and look	for his
;	rapid promotion.	.
1J	—H. H. Noble,-of ’S3, writes from Bellevue Hos-
‘!	pital Medical College New 'York, asking to be
'	remembered to all his old friends at Notre Dame.
•	Harry, James Delaney and John E. Walsh room
i	at the same place and are studying surgery.
j	—Our genial friend, Samuel P. Terry, well
1	' known to the boys of ’82, is making an extensive
’ ( but leisurely tour of the West. He writes from Los Angeles, California, where he says flowers of every description are in full bloom, and oranges and fruit of all kinds are ripe, and can be had fresh every day. Very nice such a climate must be at this season, but—keep us from it in the dog-days! If space permitted we would like to publish Mr. Terry’s interesting letter, or at least the descriptive * passages in it. Among other things he says:
'	“I would like very much to drop in at Notre Dame, and
greet those of the old boys who are still there. If at all
convenient, I shall certainly make my ‘ annual pilgrimage' ' to the old school. I think I can give you some personals that will be of interest to all the old boys.”
That’s right, Sam; we hope others will follow your example.
Local Items.
—Total Abstinence is booming!
—The proportion is now as 9 to 1.
—The Western wing progresseth slowly.
—Blizzard, last Thursday—and Friday,‘too.
—“ Och, you’ve kissed the £ blarney stone ’! ”
—Competitions in the Collegiate Course, next week.
—Is there anything wrong in the planetary svstem ?
—The 500th student was registered on Wednesday last.
—Another good musician has been discovered among the Juniors.
—The Orpheonics are preparing an entertainment for St. Patrick’s Dav.
—The Juniors are agitating the question of reviving the military company.
—Harry Porter made an efficient prompter at the performance of ci Louis XI.”
—The corridors of the Infirmary have been handsomely frescoed by B. Frederic.
—To-morrow, tst Sunday in Lent, Mass No. 12 (p. 67) will be sung. Vespers of Sundays.
—The Juniors are to have a banquet and social “hop” on the evening of St. Patrick’s Day. .
—The Class of ’84 will tender a reception to Bishop Spalding on the occasion of his lecture.
— The Junior Billiard Association, through the kindness of Bro. Lawrence, enjoyed a little festival Thursday evening.
—We had fierce snow-storms on Wednesday and Thursday of this week. The sleighing is now perfectly splendid.
—Old man Winter doesn’t seem so much “ broken up,” after all. He still holds the fort, and evidently desires us not to forget it!
—A fine, large photograph of Mr. Alexis Coqui! lard, the first student of Notre Dame, adorns the St. Cecilia Society-room.
—Messrs. J. Solon, D. Saviers, W. Johnson, H. Steis, T. McKinnery and C. C. Kolars, distinguished themselves in Louis XI.
—The Muggletonians, it is reported, will soon produce the new opera written especially forthem, entitled “ Grandpa’s Pants will soon fit Johnnie.”
—The artistic effects of some of the paintings • in the Vandyke Room would be greatly increased by concealing the legs of the tables upon which they rest.	’	- - . .
—A grand St. Patrick’s Day entertainment will be given by the directors of the Crescent Club, to which all the students will have the privilege of securing tickets.	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Lost, or Stolen :—A lantern. Was last used in the torch-light procession. The finder will be suitably rewarded, and no questions asked, on leaving it at our den.	«
—The Columbians will appear in full force in a Literary and Dramatic Entertainment on St. Patrick’s Day. Mr. F. Callaghan, of Cleveland, Ohio, will be the orator on the occasion.
—The “Hellenists” are rehearsing the “CEdipus Tyranus,” to be given on the occasion of Bishop Spalding’s visit. B. Anselm is actively engaged in the preparation of the music.
—If you want to enjoy a good time St. Patrick’s Day, you can do so by securing tickets for the Crescent Club Festival. Apply to Messrs. Fendrich, Taylor, Devine, Spencer, or Guthrie.
—Prof. Hoyne will deliver an interesting and instructive lecture before the St. Cecilia, Philopa-trian, and Columbian Associations this evening. We hope to present it to our readers next week.
—It will be remembered that the three hundred men at Thermopohe were finally beaten; but after all it showed no great genius on the part of the million Persians whom they so long successfully resisted.
—A visit to Professor Gregori’s atelier shows him at work on life-size bust portraits of Mr. and Mrs. William Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich., parents of the Hake boys who attended class here some years ago.
—Messrs. T. Bannigan and D. C. Saviers, the efficient committee of arrangments for the socia-hie given by the Seniors on Washington’s Birthday, deserve the thanks of the students and Prefects for their untiring efforts to make the celebration a success.
—There was a demoniacal look upon his classic features, a fiendish gleam shot athwart his eyes, as he came to us and asked: “ Is the false prophet getting fat?” “Why?” we said. “Isn’t this Mahdi (Mardi) Gras?” was the reply. His funeral was numerousl}r attended.
—The members’of St. Thomas Aquinas’ Academy will probably decide to spend the day at Notre Dame. It goes without saying that for the same money they can thus obtain a much-finer dinner, and procure all the excitement likely to be gotten from an excursion to Niles or Bertrand.
-—After the snowT had fallen, the other day, the Juniors were excited over the appearance of mysterious long and narrow prints on the ground, as though of some strange animal. The mystery was, however, cleared bn Thursday, by some one remarking that “Guy Fawkes had a new pair of shoes.”-
—Scene from a celebrated tragedy:
- ist Citizen : “ What did he say ? ” .
2D • “	“ He said he voted blank.”
ist “ “Ye gods! and didst thou accuse him?”
. 2D “ . “I did.” .	‘
ist “	“ And did he nobly own his fault? ”	.
- 2D	“ His face was livid, save ears.”
(Coriolanus II; III. ‘
—At a special meeting of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, held on the 7th, the following officers were elected for the second session: Very Rev. Edward. Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General-, Director; Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Mr. M. Regan, C. S. C., President; B. Francis Regis, C. S. C., Promoter; W. McPhee, ist Vice-President; C. West, 2d Vice-President; B. B. Lindsey, Secretary; C. A. Lindsey, Treasurer; J. Fitzgerald, Librarian; R. V. Papin, ist Censor; M. O’Kane, 2d Censor; C. V. Inder-rieden, Sergeant-at-Arms; R. Inderricden, Standard Bearer.-
—On Wednesday evening, the St. Cecilians tendered a reception to Bro. Leander, chief Prefect of the Junior department. It was the eleventh anniversary of his installation as Prefect. Many friends assembled to congratulate the worthy Brother * upon .the festive occasion and to wish him many happy returns of the same. Master Taylor read ■ an appropriate poetical address, after which W. Mug.stepped forward and in the name of the society presented him with an elegantly-bound copy of Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary. President Walsh spoke a few words of congratulation, and also commended the “ Knights ” on the devotion shown their Prefect.
—The 12th and 12th regular meetings of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club took place the qth and 23d of February, respectively. Two debates were comprised in the programme of exercises: one on “ The Utility of Republican Form of Government”; the other and the principal debate was, “Resolved that Bad Literature Is More Pernicious than Intemperance.” The following members took part: L. Mathers, F. Callaghan, D. Reach, P. Howard, W. Mahon, J. Rogers, J. T. Carroll. A well-written criticism was read by F: Combe. Joseph Cusack was unanimously elected to membership, after which J. Galariiean closed the exercises with an organ selection. .
o
—A Moot Court case was tried before Judge Hoyne on the evening of the> 25th ult. The class was honored by the presence of Rev. Father O’Brien. The case tried was an action in Assumpsit, plaintiff being one J. Green; defendant, B. Sharpe. Attorney for plaintiff, Mr. J. Farrell; for defendant, J. Geiser. Witnesses for plaintiff, P. Goulding and J. Wilson; for defendant, J. Conway and H. Steis. Mr. W. H. Johnston acted as clerk, and Mr. F. Bacca as sheriff. The case was closely argued, and although the law spoke plainly, the defense was obstinate. After a few moments’ retirement, the jury, consisting of Messrs. Burke, Madden and Kavanaugh, returned a verdict for the plaintiff for the entire amount claimed.
—All the Catholic students of the University received Holy Communion during the Forty Hours’ Devotion. The exercises were brought to a close Tuesday night by a grand religious procession and Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. The high altar never looked better than on the occasion, with its myriads of lights and profusion of fresh-cut - natural flowers. . The - splendor of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
397
ceremonies in the sanctuary, and the procession was greatly heightened by the appearance of the numerous members of the clergry, together with the splendid array of altar boys (50 in number), and the order and recollection with which everything, was carried on—all of which inspired devotion and produced an impression long to be remembered.
— The Chicago Evening Journal says of the “Life of Joseph Haydn”: “Those who are not already familiar with the biography of Joseph Haydn, the renowned composer of that masterpiece, “The Creation,” will welcome this new story of his life. The reverend translator tells us in his very brief preface that upon reading See-burg’s work it so took his fancy that he determined to translate it for the benefit of English readers. The chief incidents in the Life of Haydn are brought out in clear and attractive colors; and the author dwells lovingly over the many examples of Christian virtues that characterized the master’s work and life. The volume is dedicated to Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., founder of the University of Notre Dame, Ind. It is well printed and attractively bound.”
—College life, judged by the example of Notre Dame, is not as dry and dreary as it may seem. The exuberant spirits of youth find healthful vent in various innocent and beneficial forms. What with the vigorous exercises of the playground and Gymnasium, the esthetic relaxation of literary, dramatic and musical exercises, the quiet retirement of the reading and billiard room, and last, but far from least, the “stag” dance, the monotony of study and recitation is relieved, the brain recuperated and the body invigorated. Those who have not seen the “ stag ” have missed the most novel feature of diversions at the University. There is something rude and' uncouth about the term “ stag” associated with beet, broils and blood. It recalls reminiscences of the mining camp and cow-boy society, but when applied to Notre Dame - the reality is different. The best orchestra that can be obtained furnishes the. inspiration for flying feet, and one sees how gentlemen may dance with ■ gentlemen without shocking the proprieties or violating the rules of decorum. It is at once diversion ‘ and instruction in' physical grace, and the young gentlemen enter into the spirit of it with apparently as much ardor and enjoyment as though doing the graceful to the fair sex.—South-Bend Register.
Roll of Honor.
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
. Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Baca, Bowers, Brosseau, Barron, Becerra, Browne, V. Burke, F. E. Burke, F. Combe, Coll, Cartier, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Cussen, Callaghan,* Creel,* Dunn, De Groot, Dolan, A. Dennis, W. Dennis. Danielson, Delaney, Feltz, Fogartv, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, P. Frain, J. Frain, Grothaus, Gibson, Gooley, Gonser, Goulding, Gonzalez, Geiser, Gutierrez, Gray, Galarnean, Hyde, Howard, Hausberg, Jackson,* Kelly, Kavanaugh, Kolars, Kleiber, Lister, McGinn, Morass, McErlaine, Mahon, McKinnery, Mathers, Marquez, C. Murdock, Mittendorf, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Jno. McCabe, McLaughlin, Mahoney, Madden, Muller, G. O’Brien, Ott, O.’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, O’Donnell, E. O’Brien, H. Paschel, C. Paschel,
Pour, Quinlan, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Solon, Shea, Steis, Slattery, Scholfield, Spencer, Saviers, Sanchez, J. Smith, J. Uranga, Whalen, Warren, Wendel.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo, Arkins, Borgschulze, Berth-elet, Barela, Brown, Baur, Breen, Cohen, Courtney, Crawford, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, Coleman, Dwenger,. Devereux, Devine, Dorenberg, 'Dexter, Dennis, Eisenhauer, Ewing, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fend-rich, Fierro, Foote, Finckh, Garrity, Gerlach, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. J. Howard, Halligan, Huestis, J. Henry, Houlihan, Hagen,' Houck, Hetz, Holman, Hagerty, Hilliard, Jensch, P. Johnson, M. Kelly, J. Kelly, G. Lewis, R. Lewis, Loescher, Luther, Lane,.Mulkern, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Menig, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, McDonnell, Marcotte, C. Metz, Mug, Muhler, McCabe, Major, McCullough, Martinez, O’Brien, C. Porter, E. Porter, Perley, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Rhodus, E. Ryan, Sedberry, L. Scheuerman, Schmauss, Schott, Schaefer, Stubbs, Saunders, Strauss, Talbot D. Taylor, Terrazas, Trepanier, Uranga, Wabraushek, -Weiler, Wright, Williamson, Letcher, Wilkes. ,	-
-MINIM DEPARTMENT.	-
Masters Ackerman, Amoretti, H Addington, Boose, Butterfield, Benner, Crawford, Curtis, Crotty, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, M. Coad, Dirksmeyer, Devine, Dungan, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Garrity, A. Grimes, W. Grimes, Grunsfeld, Henry, C- Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, [ohhs, Kraus, E. Kelly, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, Manzanares, M. McCourt, W. McCourt, T. McGuire, W. McGuire, E. McGrath, McGill, McPhee, Meehan, Morrison, Morgan. F. Mullen, A. Mullen, F. Nester, Noonan, Nusbaum, O’Connor, Otis, D. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Padden, Quinlin,-Quiggle, Quill, Studebaker, Stange, Schmitz, Spencer, Sokup, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, L. Scherrer, Sumner, A. Welch, Wright, Weston.	"
* Omitted for the last three weeks by mistake.
Class Honors.	-
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Stubbs, F. Rogers, E. A. Howard, Berthelet, Johnson, McLaughlin, Monschein, Hagerty, C. Carroll, Mullane, J. McCabe, De Haven, Ott, G. O’Brien, Devine, McDonnell, S. O’Brien, Holbrook, Wilson, Mulkern, W. Mahon, Fogerty, O’Dea, J. Rogers, Hamlyn, Slattery.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Cohen, Mullane, Houck, Hagerty, Cavaroc, J. McCabe, P. Wagoner, Arnold, Williamson, F. Combe, W. Wagoner, G. O’Brien, L. Anchondo, Huestis; Grammar—Messrs. Lucas, De Wolf. F. Combe, Baca, Ramsay, Leony, Crilly, Barron, C. McGordon, Cavaroc, A. Warner. Finckh, Menig, Duffin. W. Wright, Feltz, Dunn, Delgado, Cussen, Strauss, Hagerty; Geography—Messrs. Breen. F. Rogers, McDonnell, Borgschulze, Gonser, Garrity. Williamson, Baur, Jos. Shea. Dunn; United States History—Messrs. F. Brown, McDonnell, Houck, De Wolf, Dunn; Arithmetic—Messrs. Hamlyn, Lucas, Leffingwell, D. Cartier, G. Cartier, C. McGordon, Grunsfeldt, Deaderick, Loescher, Huestis, J. Warner, Fox, Hagenbarth, P. Frain, Cavanaugh, Feltz, Williamson, Ott, Strauss, W. Murphy, W. Henrv; Penmanship—Messrs. Bowers, Moross, G. O’Kane, Ramsay, Gibert, Halligan, Gerlach, Hagerty, Fen--drich, Schott; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Stubbs, M.Scheuerman, Terrazas, Holbrook. Barclay. King, Howard, Berthelet, Cohen, McDonnell, Ott, G. O’Brien. Miller, Johnson, Wabraushek. L. Scheuerman. Muhler, McMurray, Leffingwell, Paschel, McLaughlin, Hamlyn. O’Donnell, McCabe, Slattery, C. Carroll, Reynolds, Mullane, De Wolf; Algebra—Messrs. Houck, Strauss, Slattery, Stubbs, Dexter, E. Porter, Gerlach, Costigan; Latin—Messrs. Lucas, Cleary, Ancheta, E. S. Ewing, Hagenbarth, Callaghan, J. Wagoner; Greek—Messrs. Kleiber, J. Wagoner; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Ruppe, J. Nester, Wabraushek, E. S. Ewing, S. O’Brien, Cavaroc, Duffin, Hagerty. ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Gary's Academy.
Murphy, A. Gavan, M. Munger, G. Legnard, L. Williams, and A. Babcock.
One Afile TKest of Notre Dame University.
—The Misses Catharine and Anna Cunnea, of Class ’70, are spending a few days at St. Mary’s.
—The Forty Hours’ Devotion was opened, with appropriate ceremonies and an eloquent sermon, -at High Mass, on Sunday.
—On Saturday, the third Music Lecture of the year was delivered in the study-hall before the members of St. Cecilia’s Society.
—The Roman Mosaic Cross was won by Clara Richmond. Those whb drew with her were the Misses Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Fehr, H., E. and S., Jackson, Sheekey, and Snowhook. •
■	—The Children of Mary made a donation of
exquisite hot-house flowers for the Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament: the pureCalla Lilies, Carnations and Tea Roses vieing with each other in fragrance and beauty.
—In the Second Preparatory Geography Class the Misses Campeau, Brown, Cox, Chaves, Best, Stumer and Roddin received each 100. They were permitted to draw for a little prize in reward of their diligence, which Miss Cox won.
—On Monday evening, at the regular reunion, Ellen Sheekey read a pretty little poem entitled “Mother’s Room”; Clara Richmond recited “.Keeping His Word”; and Hannah Stumer, with excellent expression and manner, recited “ Papa’s Letter.”
—On Thursday evening the Juniors’ recreation hall was brilliantly adorned and illuminated, and the Elbel Bros, of South Bend having arrived, the Juniors entered with zest upon the enjoyment of their second “Fancy Dress Ball’’for the scholastic year. All enjoyed themselves greatly.
—The literary societies held their first meetings for the session on Tuesday evening. Spirited discussions were carried on in St. Teresa’s Literary Society. In St. Catharine’s and St. Angela’s, the reading was continued from the volumes used last session. In St. Agnes’ Literary Society, instructive stories from The uAvc Maria ” were read, and various historical and other instances were related.
—On Washington’s birthday, the industriously studious Seniors paused in their intellectual race to ■ honor the Father of his Country. Wishing to accomplish two objects by one effort, they transformed the stately “Washington Birthday Balls” of former times into a dance quite as informal as anyone, could wish. Suffice it to say all were amused and had plenty of active exercise. The Martha Washington costumes were really beautiful, and very becoming to those who wore them. To commend, their exceptional patriotism, we mention their, names: they were the Misses. Anna
Obituary.
Again we are called upon to chronicle the death of a beloved former teacher of the Academy, Sister Mary Blanche, who breathed her last at two o’clock, Monday morning, happy to depart with the benedictions of holy Church resting upon her, after having finished her career of usefulness as one consecrated to the service of Christian education.
May she rest in peace!
The Command of Language.
Since language is the medium of thought, we, as social, thinking beings, must bring it into con-.stant requisition. Everywhere, and at all times, to make our wishes and reflections known, we must employ the use of words, and this use must accord with the accepted signification of those words.
No great amount of shrewdness is wanted to o	e
make one discern the importance in any avocation, which attaches to a ready and wide command of language. Without it, no one can lav claim to culture. Whatever natural aptitude one may possess, if he be trammelled in his speech, his ability is sei iously crippled, and even where natural talent is more or less deficient, a quick and unembarrassed flow of language will cover this deficiency to a great extent.	'
But unite the two—a ready command of the vernacular and good abilities—and you have the accomplished lady or gentleman. They presuppose the other requisites of good breeding, for they are the foundations of all other educational advantages.
To the learner the question naturally arises, “By what means shall this command of language be best secured?” We will, in our humble way, endeavor to offer a few reflections, and perhaps the suggestions may be useful to other learners like ourselves.
First impressions are the most powerful; the most difficult to eradicate, and, we are sorry to say, that a narrow; ungraceful, and often-times incorrect mode of expression is fastened with all the power of a fixed habit upon the young, because they7 heard no other in their infancy and early •youth. We will suppose this to be the case, and that the laudable resolution has been formed to break this chain of bad habit, and to acquire a better.
Every day we may observe the superiority in conversation, of one who, at his mother’s knee, had heard nothing but the best of language, and we may wish to obtain for ourselves what he pos- • sesses. Maybe we shall be obliged to struggle through the brambles of slang, and the briers of false grammar, but our determination will carry •us through.
.Now, let us, first of all, use no words of which we do not understand the- meaning. In order to employ words correctly, we must, learn their ex
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
399
act signification. In English many terms have inore than one definition, and tyros are often betrayed by not taking this into consideration. Some have a great fear of using what are termed “ big words.” This, to some, means unusual words, whether few or many letters compose them. Good judgment will dispel this fear, because simplicity will prevent anything like pretension in conversation.'
We mention this fear, for it is one of the greatest enemies with which we have to contend in the acquirement of a good command of language. And now we will speak of the three great avenues through which we may hope to*obtain what we seek. The first is the perusal of standard English.literature, to the complete exclusion of all that is of an inferior grade. This must not be fitful and inconstant, but persevering and life-long. In this manner we not only'becomc acquainted with noble language, but with beautiful and exalted ideas. As our .ideas expand, our language will naturally improve, and we shall be in little danger of indulging in what is inelegant.
The second, but scarcely less important method of gaining the object in view, is in our associations with others; that is to say, we must shun those who use a style of expression not to be approved. We must seek the society of those whose aspirations correspond with our own. We shall naturally then support each other, and the contact of mind with mind will.arouse a noble emulation until, unconsciously, we shall find our efforts amply rewarded in a happy facility of expression, in a complete command of language at once clear, appropriate and elegant, not only in our conversations, but in our letter-writing, etc., etc.
But a third and too much neglected means is rco--ular and careful literary composition j not that everyone must aim to be an authoress, but that all should be able to use her mother-tongue in any emergency. We say regular literary composition, because “ practice makes perfect ” and renders what would otherwise he an irksome task a most pleasant occupation; we use the adjective careful, likewise, ’ because we would have mere random phrasing and written gossip excluded from our literary exercises.
One who aims seriously at securing a clear, vigorous style must necessarily embody ideas worthy of expression. Emotional writing, no doubt, often serves a good purpose, but it is far from being the proper standard of the school-girl; therefore if she be in earnest, in her reading as well as in her conversations, she will not indulge too freclv in mere sentimentality. Her writings will show the result. If, when she. goes to the library, narrative she must have, she. will, naturally select the biography of the great and good. If anecdotes form the staple of her conversations, they will always breathe edification, and be quite exclusive of whatever shall lower respect for humanity. Write noble thoughts, clothe them in corresponding words, and you will, ere long, arrive at that enviable command of language to which every scholar ought to aspire.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES. .
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adderly, Ashton, Beal, Black. Bruhn, A. Babcock, C- Babcock, Billings, Burgher, Cummings, Cirkel, Dunn, J. Duffield, Dowling, Evarts, Ewing, B. English, Fendrich, F. Fisk, Fogerty, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, A. Heckard, Helpling, Horn, Hack, Hale, Hetz, Johnson, Keenan, Kearns, Kenny, Kearney, King, Kearsey, Lintner, Leahigh, Munger, M. Murphy, McHale, McNamara, McCarthy, Neu, R. Platte, Quill, Reilly, Rosing, Ramsey, Ryan, Reynolds, S. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully, Sear, Stacked, Todd, Tynan, Taylor, Williams. 21I Tablet—Misses Call, Carney, Danforth, Fitzpatrick, M. Fisk, Keating, Legnard, A. Murphy, Mooney, O’Connell, Peak, L. St. Clair, Steele, Udall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Best, Bailey, M. Chaves, Campeau, Cox, M. Dillon, Fehr, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Metz, Richmond, E. Roddin, A. Shephard, Schmidt, Stumer, Sheekey, Snowhook. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Duffield, Lord, Lucas, Regan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses E. Chapin, J. .English, V. Johns, L. Johns, Lindsey, Paul, G. Papin, M. Reynolds, Schmauss, Van Fleet.	’
* Glass Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Johnson, Todd, Fendrich. ist Senior Class—Misses Call, Duffield, Ginz, Dunn, B. Gove, Keenan, Papin, Sheekey, Cummings, Ramsey, Ashton.
2D Senior Class—Misses Danforth, Munger, Carney, Black, Udall, L. English, Rosing, Helpling, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Heckard.
3D Senior Class—Misses M. Dillon, Horn, Kearney, Shephard, Reynolds, Sheridan, Hale, Stacked, Keyes, O’Connell, Quill, C. Ducey, E. Sheekey, Sear, A. Duffield, A. Murphj, A. Babcock, Kearsey, Legnard, Cirkell, McHale, Kenny.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Mooney, Snowhook, Lintner, Kearns, Scully, Fehr, E. Jackson, C. Richmond, Moshier, B. Halsey, Lucas, G. Wolvin, Schmidt, Regan, B. English, Gavan, Addie Gordon, /Mice Gordon, H. Jackson.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Hetz, S. Jackson, Roddin, C. Leahigh, F. Fisk. Dowling, Ewing, Otis, Castenado, Lord, Best, Brown, Campeau, M. Murphy, Steele, McCarthy, Fogerty, King, Barry.
Junior Prep.—Misses Cox. McEwen, Eldred.
ist Jr. Class—Misses Metz, Paul, Lindsey, M. Allen.
2D Jr. Class—Misses Reynolds, V. Johns.
FRENCH.
2D Class—Misses Call, Bruhn, Sheekey, Castenado.
3D Class—Misses O’Connell, Rosing, M. Adderly, L. English, Morrison. Malbceuf.
4TH Class—Misses Duffield, Gove, Ashton, Van Horn, 'Delord, Steele, Kearns.
2D Div.—Misses Moshier, A. Duffield, Lucas, Richmond, Snowhook, Regan, Brown, Barry.
5'rn Class—Misses McEwen, Roddin, Stumer, Eldred, B. Murray, M. Ducey, M. Lindsey, E. Chapin, G. Papin, M. Reynolds.
*	GERMAN.
ist Class—Miss Clara Ginz.
2D Class—Misses Keenan, Horn, Fehr.
3D Class—Misses Sheridan, Mooney, Black, Munger, Danforth, Shephard, T. Haney, Stackerl.
4TH Class—Misses Kearney, Wolvin, Lintner, M. Reynolds, Ryan.	.
5TH Class—Misses Richmond, Fox, Cirkel, McHale.
400
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKENDGRF,
FLORIST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217- JEFFERSON ST
SOUTH BEND, IND.
Tae Miuim Department.
This is a separate Department in the institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P.O., Ind.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class of’7S).
W. II. LANDVOICT.
ARNOLD & LAND VOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
470 Louisiana Avenue. N. W., WASHINGTON, DC.
L 8. & M. 8. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. iS, 1883, train* will leave South Bend, as follows:	I
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.	.
10.54 a-m-, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
S.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, to.oo p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST;
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
4.2S a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.11 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte.
2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
' 4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. . Arrives at Laporte.
4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
■ A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
.	JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Clev^-md.
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING 1 HIS MAP TH AT THE
CHICAGO, MCK ISLAM SPACIFIG R'T Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Eamous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, lias recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Past Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Polders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CA3LE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice Pres.’i Gen'l Jl'g'r, Gea'l Tkt. & Pass. Agt. CHICAGO.	.