The Notre Dame Scholastic
259

COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Well, that’s over. The “Wildcats” have been tamed, Northwestern has lost any claims that they might have had for the Middle West championship, and Hanley had his birthday present taken away from him. .Notre Dame has removed another serious obstacle in its path, has won the flag as far as oui- section of the country is concerned, and has proved beyond all doubt that a victory celebration doesn’t start until the game is over even if indications are to the contrary.
One of the Sunday papers contained a column headed “Hanley Tearful, Players Calm, After Battle.” Take that any way you want to but Hanley doesn’t need to blush in embarrassment. Northwestern played a wonderful game, no doubt, and it must have been hard for them to “take it on the nose,” but they are good sports about it. Dick Hanley and his “Wildcats” form a great combination.
Already the boys are expressing their opinions as to what kind of a schedule Notre Dame will be presented with for next season. For the last two years we have been dumbfounded at the lineup of games listed but the tougher they come, the tougher Rock gets. Mr. Rockne hasn’t expressed his views on this but we have a suspicion that he thinks along this line: “If they are going to keep on picking national champions on the rating, of the opponents and the number of games played, why not settle the question beyond doubt and play a schedule which qualifies in every way for national championship honors ? Notre Dame might as well be champions as any other team.”
The weatherman says he has held out just long enough and now he has to let go. We thought that as long as he was favoring us on these important Saturdays he might spare us the suffering which will have to be undergone next Saturday when we face the icy breezes of Lake Michigan. Bue we have some consolation . . . the radiators ■wall be working at the Stevens.
And now, is there any one who would like a nice seat for the Army game? There are still a few left on top of the Field museum. See Albert for reservations.	—W. V. B.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus
EMIL L. TELFEL.... HARLEY L. McDEVITT
Founded 1872
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
John E. Bergan...... James J. Kearney.... Edward E. Brennan.. Walter V. Beesley... Alfred E. Gall...... James K. Collins.... Austin Boyle........ Paul J. Hallinan.... Richard J. O’Donnell Ramon G. Smith......_ Frank E. Seward..... W. Leslie Raddatz...
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Assistant Managing .............Makeup .............Makeup ...........Features .............Script
■.........Associate
Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor
......The	Week The College Parade ..Music and Drama ......Campus Clubs
William C.
Karl
News Editor .Assistant Xetcs Editor
NEWS STAFF
Neil C. Hurley..........
Edward R. Brennan	Myron Crawford	John Pick
James Carmody	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dunda
William Fitzgerald	William Corr	Sanguinet Williams
John Conley	Lloyd Teske	Lawrence Prybylski
Daniel C. Williams	F. Granger Weil	Walter Joh’nson
	SPORTS STAFF	
John A.
Cleve Carey Robert Balfe
Kiener...................
James E. McFeely, Jr. George Belting James Kearns
Sports Editor
Henry B. Asman T. Edward Carey
BUSINESS STAFF
James H. Rorke. James L. Rizer.. John R. Blanda Andrew Me Guan
...Local Advertising Foreign Advertising — Local Circulation
Manager manager manager
Foreign Circulation manager
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess
Vol. LXIV
NOVEMBER 28, 1930
No. 9
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Main Entrance to University Dining Halls____l- The Week—R. J. O’Donnell and D. C. Williams_ Coming Events—William C. Karl_______________ Campus Opinions—Myron Crawford______________ A Man About the Campus—Austin Boyle_________ A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan____________ Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan__ Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward_____________ The Wightman Art Gallery—James Carmody______ Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz______________ College Parade—Ramon G. Smith_______________ The Wink____________________________________ Editor’s Page_______________________________ Army Kaydets Are Next—John A. Kiener________ Northwestern Wildcats Defeated—T. Edward Carey-. Splinters From the Press Box________________
__Frontispiece
West Point . . . Plebe to Officer—Frank W. Ebey, U. S. M. A— On Down the Line________________________________________
260
262
263
264
265
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
276
276
278
280
288
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame, Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
miun.imumlft
260
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
TT HANKSGIVING is with us again, provoking sneers from the cynics and cheers from those who did succeed in getting a check from home. After all, we do have a number of things to be thankful for. We lost no money in the stock crashes. Of course, we had no money to lose, but we therefore have no regrets to cry over. Some sage has said that nothing ventured brings about a bear market. This may account for the scarcity of books on the campus this year, but it doesn’t seem to have hurt the business of the local theaters, or the Palais Royale. Well, the necessities must come first, and the luxuries will have to be proportionate to the amount of greenbacks in the student wallet. To return to the Thanksgiving spirit which was mentioned somewhere in the early part of this vague paragraph—nature, at least, has been bountiful. Enough snow has been sprinkled about the campus to stir up a ratlier previous enthusiasm over the approach of the Christmas season. The tingling air should stimulate lagging appetites to a complete appreciation of tomorrow’s turkey treats. We have a four and a half day recess from classes, a football holiday on Saturday, and all sorts of social outings in the Windy City. All this should be enough to make the most pessimistic student that ever frowned his way out of the dining hall be thankful that he’s alive and healthy enough to take advantage of all the week-end’s excitement. If anyone feels that the vacation is lacking in sufficient excitement or entertainment, he may call at the Complaint office in 333% Washington hall, and express his disapproval. The gentleman with the red whiskers at desk No. 13 will endeavor to supply him with phone numbers and addresses, and tell him what to say if anyone asks who sent him.
CeRTAIN Arctic explorers have been known to go completely loco and babble incoherently when they find themselves lost alone in the great icy fastnesses of the North. Penologists tell us that men put in solitary confinement for any length of time, as Butch and Morgan were treated in “The Big House,” also lose their head from lack of human companionship. But of all the terrors of confinement that man is subject to, none is worse than living in a Notre Dame rooming hall during a vacation period. As they say in moving pictures, “the silence is oppressive.” No noise but the rumble of the hot water pipes; no voice but the lonely moan of a stray dog as he roams the empty campus; no human companionship but the Notre Dame police force. Ghosts of absent friends seem to roam the halls, but none have enough reality to bum a cigarette
from. It is during these doldrums of the college year, that the South Bend girls are ministering angels. Those who are prone to condemn them in the height of the season now find them the only solace for weariness. So if any readers are faced with the prospects of spending Thanksgiving on the campus, take a hint from The Week and start on a quest for telephone numbers. Make your dates before the local talent is signed up with the homecoming Indiana and Purdue students. Save yourself from the dull prospects of solitary confinement in the Silence of Silences.
CjATE crashing, as the sports reporters have so picturesquely termed it, is gradually assuming the respectability of a legitimate profession, or at least a business. There was a time in the remote past when only a ruffian or street gamin would stoop to the dishonesty of entering a theater, a baseball game, or any place of amusement or entertainment via the sans admission route. In other' days the only gate crasher. who was not frowned upon was the ambitious boy who crawled under the circus tent with the encouraging remarks of adult bystanders ringing-in his ears. Today, however, we find frock-tailed, impressive appearing gentlemen and bejeweled ladies crashing their haughty ways into the most exclusive, or would-be exclusive, functions of the Four Hundred. Every World Series witnesses the birth of all sorts of ingenious methods whereby the professional “chiseler” may get by the retinue of guards who demand a ticket for the privilege of witnessing the classic diamond conflicts. Promoters of gigantic boxing spectacles always have to figure in their accounts the losses involved in spectators who are clever enough to get by the gates by borrowing a policeman’s uniform, or carrying a typewriter, or masquerading as a bottle of pop. The king of gate crashers is, of course, the inimitable and much publicized “One-eyed” Connolly. But he will find a surprising number of rivals right here on the campus. Anyone who attended the Northwestern game at Evanston last Saturday will testify to that. Never before had the ranks of the band been so enormously swelled by aspiring musicians as it was that afternoon. Nor had so many managers ever previously escorted a Notre Dame team. Nor had the team itself ever presented such a large, formidable appearance. “Do or die” was the motto of the group which crashed that barbed wire fence surrounding the Dyche stadium, and no deaths have as yet been reported. Success smiled uuon them, and laughed out loud at the fifteen or so who sat in the Northwestern student section, while the unfortunate Wildcat rooters had to park themselves on the concrete steps.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
261
PRIZE CONTEST FOR BEST THESIS ON LEAGUE OF
NATIONS ANNOUNCED
The Educational committee of the League of Nations Association, Inc., 1 of New York City, announce the first national contest on the League of Nations for college students to be held this winter.
First prize will be a trip to Europe, including a visit to Geneva with special opportunities to study the League of Nations. Second and third prizes of $100 and $50 will also be offered and, in addition, there will be local and state prizes. The competition is to be in the nature of a thesis contest. Students may choose from several specified topics or may submit papers on other topics in which they are especially interested provided such topics have previously been submitted and approved.
The first prize will be awarded for the best thesis on one of the following subjects: (1) A critical survey of the political and economic aspects of the proposed federation of European states; (2) An estimate of the value of the mandate system; (3) Disarmament: obstacles, accomplishments and prospects; (4) An economic program for the League of Nations, designed to prevent world-wide economic depressions; (5) Harmonizing the League Covenant with the Pact of Paris; (6) Growth of international cooperation through the League of Nations; (7) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the League of Nations as the guarantor of the rights of minorities. If there are other topics in which students are particularly interested, and on which they would like to write, they may submit such topics , to the Committee on Award. If approved, the desired subject may be substituted for one of the above. Only , approved topics will be accepted.
The conditions of the contest are as follows:
;	1. Any regularly enrolled undergraduate
!	student in a university, college or junior col-
I	lege (an American citizen living in the United
States) may compete.
2.	Only registered students may submit theses to the Committee on Award. The enclosed registration blank should be sent to the First National College Contest, League of Nations Association, as soon as possible. All registrations must be in by Febivary 2, and the theses themselves must be mailed by ’	March 2.
3.	A bibliography listing all material used must accompany each thesis.
4.	Three thousand words are suggested as a minimum and 5,000 as a maximum. These limits, however, are only suggestive and not
REVEREND GREGORY GERRER, O.S.B., RETURNS FROM TRIP TO EUROPE
Made Extensive Study of Paintings in Galleries Of Six Countries
Dom Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., director of the Wightman Memorial art gallery of the University, has returned to Notre Dame after a tour through Europe in the interest of art. Father Gerrer’s trip took him through the principal art galleries of Belgium, Holland, France, Italy, and Spain. After five months of intensive' study he was able to identify some ten or twelve paintings in the Wightman gallery. Among them are two still life paintings by the great Flemish artist Boel; a painting representing St. Bruno, by the Spanish artist, Zurbaran; two landscapes by Silvatore Rosa; portraits by Sir Godfrey Neller and Sir Peter Lyly; and two paintings by Giaquinto Corrado, “who in Spain,” said Father Gerrer, “is classed with the Spanish school, though he was born near Naples, where he is claimed by the Neapolitan school.”
arbitrary- Students need not feel bound strictly to them.
5.	Theses must be typewritten in double space on one side only of paper 8^4 x 11 inches. The pages should be numbered.
6.	The student’s name must not appear on the thesis. There must be a blank sealed envelope clipped to each thesis, containing typewritten the name, age, class, home and college addresses of the student, name and address of the college and a statement signed by the student and the faculty member responsible, to the effect that the thesis is the original unaided work of the student. Forms for this statement will be furnished on registration.
7.	Theses will be judged on (a) knowledge of the subject, (b) judgment shown, (c) organization of material, and (d) style. It is important to confine the papers strictly to approved topics and to see that the whole topic is covered.
8.	Theses must be mailed not later than March 2, to Committee on Award, College Contest, League of Nations Association. 6 E. 39th Street, New York, N. Y.
9.	Lists of League of Nations documents, pamphlets, and selected books will be sent on receipt of registration blank.
Registrations blanks and further particulars about the contest may be obtained from the University officials; or from Alfred E. Stepan, president of the Spectators, Badin hall, or from the. League of Nations Association, Inc., Educational committee, 6 East 39th Street, New York City.
Father Gerrer also identified two or three paintings in the art collection at St. Gregory’s college in Shawnee, Oklahoma, and one in the home of Mr. Wightman. The art gallery director said that in spit of all our great art experts of today and of former years, there are many paintings in the great art galleries of Europe which have not been identified and are marked “anonymous.” Such is also the case in the University’s Wightman Memorial gallery. At present, Father Gerrer is busy retouching some of the paintings that have been damaged.
Among the recent paintings received by the University from Mr. Wightman are: a painting by Emmanuel Lutze; a Crucifixion belonging to the Spanish school; a Flemish primitive of the Madonna and Child; and two French primitives.
College of Law
The Lawyer, official publication of the Law school, will be issued on December’ 1. This is the first number of the current school year as the magazine is to be issued quarterly this year instead of monthly, as it has been in the past.
Honorable Dudley M. Shively, attorney of South Bend, was the principal speaker at the Law club dinner held in the faculty dining hall last Tuesday at 6:30 p. m. The subject of the talk was “Office Practices.”
The program to be followed by the Law school for the second semester has been prepared and is posted on the bulletin board of the new Law building. A new one-hour lecture course on labor laws is to be offered. Dean Konop, who for five years was a member of the state industrial commission of Wisconsin, will teach the course.
262
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I Coming Events ❖-----------:------------------❖
These dates subject to change without notice.
THURSDAY, Nov. 27—Thanksgiving day; no classes.—Masses, Sacred Heart church. — Football, Notre Dame Alumni vs. Northwestern Alumni, Soldier field, Chicago.
FRIDAY, Nov. 28—Army dinner, informal, 6:30 p. m., Lake Shore Athletic club, Chicago (tickets, $4 per plate).
SATURDAY, Nov. 29 — Football, Notre Dame vs. United States Military Academy, Soldier field, Chicago, 1:30 p. m.—Army Ball (formal), Congress hotel, 10:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, Nov. 30—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Dec. 1—Deadline for returning all Dome proofs issued to date.—A. I. E. E. meeting, Badin hall basement, 7:4-5 p. m.—Italian club meeting, Walsh hall, 7:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, Dec. 2—Wranglers meeting, Journalism room of library, 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 3 —Scribblers meeting, new Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Engineers’ club meeting, 7:45 p. m., south room of library.—Debate, Howard vs. Carroll, 7 p. m.
THURSDAY, Dec. 4 — Spectators meeting, Journalism room of library, 8:00 p. m.
DEC. 5 TO BE LAST DAY TO PAY JUNIOR DUES
Vincent Whelan, treasurer of the junior class, has announced that December 5 will be the last day for class dues to be paid.
Officers of the class have threatened not to allow any juniors to attend the Prom if these dues are not paid. A member of the class has been as. signed to each floor of all halls to aid in the collection process.
Furthermore, it is stated that unless the dues are paid, students will not be allowed to purchase the class pin.
KARL AND PICK SPEAK TO SPECTATORS CLUB
At the weekly meeting of the Spectators’ club, held last Thursday evening in the Journalism room of the library, John Pick spoke on “The Tragedy and Humanism.” In his paper he pointed out the humanistic aspect of the well known tragedies as opposed to the animalistic and spiritualistic tendencies therein.
William Karl chose as the subject of his talk “Music of Yesterday and Today.” It dealt chiefly with a comparison of music of the past' and present, with regard to difference in composition, instruments and performance.
The speakers for the next meeting will be Emil L. Telfel and Thaddeus Xelowski.
“COMMONWEAL” PRAISES NOTRE DAME GRADUATE
From The Commonweal, outstanding Catholic organ from the field of the laity, comes the following concerning George N. Shuster, A.B. ’15, A.M. ’20: “With the departure of Mr. George N. Shuster, managing editor of this journal, on October 4 for a six months’ stay abroad, The Commonweal which already owes so much to his vigorous editorial judgment, to say nothing about the inestimable benefits which have come to it through his writings, must console itself by the thought of what it will gain through his absence while doing its best to make up for what it is bound to lose . . .” The primary cause of Mr. Shuster’s journey was an invitation received from the Vereini-gung Carl Schurz to visit Germany, confer with its great leaders, and examine at first hand its more notable institutions and various social movements.
MINNESOTA CLUB MAY
HAVE PRIVATE CAR
The Minnesota club met Sunday, November 23, at 10:30 a. m. in the old Law building. Plans were discussed for the annual banquet and also a private car for the Christmas vacation trip home. It is hoped that special rates may be secured for this trip.
A meeting will be called December 2 at 6:30 p. m. in the old Law building, where final plans for the banquet and special car will be announced.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
ELECT F. J. RAHAIM OUTSIDE GUARD
Frederick Rahaim, a senior in the College of Commerce, was elected to the office of outside guard of Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, at a meeting of the council held November 24. The office was left vacant when Edward O’Brien failed to return to the University. Joseph Lauerman was also a candidate.
Entertainment for the evening consisted of a quartet of colored singers furnished by the Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., director of the South Bend Negro mission. The quartet sang spirituals and other numbers.
Business discussion during the meeting was confined for the most part to the coming publication of the Santa Maria, official organ of the council, edited by John Bergan. The first issue will appear on the campus about December 1, and the dates for the one or more succeeding issues will be announced later.
PRESIDENT’S CLUB HAS NEW NAME; ELECTS
O’HORA SECRETARY
At its second meeting of the year the President’s club officially changed its name to the President council and elected Joseph O’Hora, president of the Engineers club, as secretary.
First business taken up at the meeting was that of a club key. After getting the approval of the members, President of the council Joseph Deeb of the Grand Rapids Club appointed a committee to look into the matter. On the committee are Edward Lee of the Commerce Forum, chairman; Richard Botzum of the Akron club; Howard Maloney of the Rochester club; and Alfred Stepan of the Spectators.
Present at the meeting was Thomas Monahan, Dome representative, who talked about the club section of this year’s annual and urged the co-operation of all the club presidents in making it a success. The committee chosen to work with the Dome men consists of Robert Massey of the New Jersey club, Edward Cunningham of the Metropolitan club and James Griffin of the Physical Education club.
Joseph Dunn of the Texas club was put in charge of a Presidents council banquet to be held in the near future. Mr. Dunn’s committee and the date of the banquet will be announced later.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
263
WRANGLERS INTERHALL DEBATE TO BEGIN ON DECEMBER THIRD
The first inter-hall debate will take place next Wednesday, December 3, between the affirmative and negative teams of Howard and Carroll, it was announced tihs week by Frank J. Noll, general chairman of the contest.
The entire schedule ■will be completed by December- 16 according to the present plans, with all of the freshmen halls meeting each other in dual debates. The place for the contest has not yet been determined, but according to officials will be announced shortly. It is indicated that the old Law building will probably be used.
The debating series is sponsored by the Wranglers club of Notre Dame, the honorary forensic society of the University. It is the fifth annual event for the possession of the Lem-mer trophy, which is emblematic of victory in this field.
This year Brownson hall is endeavoring to win the cup for the third time, which will entitle them to permanent possession of the trophy, though they will have to take it from Howard, who won the cup last year.
The coaches of the various teams report stronger material than ever
FIRST SNAPSHOT CONTEST
ENDS TUESDAY
The first contest for snapshots for the 1931 Dome closes Tuesday, December 2, according to Alfred E. Gall, snapshot editor. A prize of five dollars will be awarded for the best entry.
Students are advised that any type of snapshot may be submitted. Gall and the editor will be the judges. It is not necessary that the snaps be new, as long as the picture seems interesting or typical or clever, it stands a chance of taking the five dollar-prize.
Representatives in each hall will collect all pictures Monday and Tuesday, December 1 and 2. If no one calls for the pictures, students are requested to give them to Al Gall, Corby hall.
before. Freshmen and Brownson halls appear to be among the strongest, with Howard and Carroll looming up as dark horses. Most of the teams have already drawn up their cases and work on the main speeches has begun.
The question for the debates is probably as interesting and debatable as any ever submitted for inter-hall use. Comment from the debaters themselves shows that much interest is being displayed.
“We have prospects for the best inter-hall debating season in the history of the Wranglers club,” remarked Edward Phelan, president of the organization. “There is more interest shown by the freshmen this year than in any previous season.”
The schedule announced by Chairman Noll is as follows:
Carroll vs. Howard, Dec. 3.
Brownson vs. Freshman, Dec. 5.
Carroll vs. Freshman, Dec. 9.
Brownson vs. Howard, Dec. 10.
Carroll vs. Brownson, Dec. 11.
Freshman vs. Howard, Dec. 16.
NEW BOOKS RECEIVED
BY LIBRARY
New books recently received by the University library are:
Drama—“The Green Pastures,” by Marc Connelly.
Poetry — “Glory of the Nightingales,” E. A. Robinson; “Wings of Sunset,” Ina Coolbrith, with an introduction by Professor Charles Phillips.
Fiction—“Patch,” Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C.; “Mirthful Haven,” Booth Tarkington; “Chance,” Arthur Hamilton Gibbs; “The Flying Cromlech,” Hugh de Blacam; “Spanish Lover,” Frank H. Spearman.
Biography — “Emily Dickinson,” MacGregor Jenkins; “Edward Arlington Robinson,” Ben Ray Redman; “Charlotte Bronte,” Rosamonde Long-bridge.
Campus Opinions
❖------------------------------❖
Question: “Do you think that the city and state clubs on the campus serve a useful purpose?”
Francis Gannon, Walsh hall, senior—“Yes. Fellows from the same town are brought together here on the campus through these clubs and as they are the friends for later life I would say that the clubs do accomplish a purpose.”
Paul A. Dailey, Lyons hall, junior —“City and state clubs serve the school locally and in the section of the country from which the members come by welcoming the incoming freshmen and helping them to get started. The clubs serve to get all the men from a section of a country acquainted with each other and gives the members an insight into the conducting of politics and student government. Abroad they are useful agents in the dispensing of interesting information concerning life at Notre Dame, in the recruiting of freshmen, and assisting the respective alumni clubs in their entertainments.”
George Maywalt, Corby hall, junior—“Certainly they do. The city and state clubs bring to the public an appreciation and realization of the true Notre Dame. They tend also to bring about a more friendly feeling among the students of the various communities which are represented here at Notre Dame.”
John Colville, St. Edward’s hall, junior—“Most certainly. The average freshman comes here without knowing the majority of students from his own town. These clubs afford them the opportunity of meeting the men who will become, in later life, the connecting link with their school. They are the only fraternal organizations on the campus, and as such are bound to make life more lively for the student.”
Robert J. Nesbit, Corby hall, junior—“I believe that they do because they enable the freshmen to become acquainted with the fellows here from the same town. They serve to give the new men a better view into the democratic spirit of Notre Dame. I am of the opinion, however, that the clubs could be a bit more active, and by sponsoring more banquets and smokers would make club life here much more interesting.”
264
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About The Campus
It may seem a bit queer that the “man about the campus” this week should be one of that small but valiant band known as the Exiles. To those unacquainted with Notre Dame tradition, an Exile is a homeless person in a strange land penniless and forlorn. But not so at Notre Dame. Here the Exiles, those men on the campus who do not live in any of the regular student residence halls, have the reputation of knowing as many people as the busiest “activities” man in Sorin. At any rate, this is true in the case of Anthony R. Schreiner, gym custodian and atheltic equipment dispenser extraordinary.
Tony came to Notre Dame from Catholic High school in East Chicago, Indiana, where he won monograms in three sports and captained the football team in his senior year. He lived in Brownson in his first year, where he found time to play interhall basketball and win his numerals in freshman football and baseball. Between classes he worked in the candy store.
In Tony’s sophomore year he qualified as a real exile as far as being homeless was concerned. As nearly as he can figure it, he moved five times in his second year here and insists that he was never trying to beat the rent. He started in Sophomore hall, moved two different places Off-Campus, came back to live a few weeks in Brownson hall, and finally wound up in Sophomore with a different roommate. Meanwhile he kept pushing out “Milk’n’ Oreos” to hungry students across the counter in the candy store.
As a junior he achieved exiledom by going to live in the gym and helping to give out moth-eaten football jerseys and over-sized track shoes. He has been there ever since, and now enjoys the official title of custodian of athletic equipment. He shares his double-decker bed and three-tube radio with Anthony Kegowicz, a senior manager of last year who has returned to continue his studies and follow the football team for another season.
Tony and Keg have a great deal more to do besides acting tough to athletes. They have in their charge a great stock of many different kinds of athletic equipment for all sports in which Notre Dame men compete.
Anthony R. Schreiner
Football, basketball, track, and baseball uniforms in all sizes; shoes, socks, head-gears, sweat-shirts, footballs, tape, and everything else which goes to make up a well-equipped athletic system must be accounted for by these two, with the help of the student managers. Tony accompanies the team on all the football trips, but these are no pleasure-jaunts for him. He must take care of the trunks and see that all is in readiness in the dressing-room before the game. At a home game he must see that all the necessary equipment is transferred from the gymnasium to the new stadium and then move it back again after the game. And during the contest as likely as not he will be the speedy youth who dashes out on the field with water for the team. Tony was a freshman halfback and still shows flashes of brilliance in those time-out runs.
This is no easy life, but Tony has - survived it in fine shape. He has managed his job so well, in fact, that he has found time to join the local K. of C. council, become a vice-president of the Commerce Forum, and officiate as president of the Calumet club. He is also a member of the Scholastic’s news staff, but what he writes for this publication is a deep secret between him and the editor, who roomed with him in the gym this summer.
UNIVERSITY HAS 3172 STUDENTS ENROLLED
THIS YEAR
According to the latest registration figures released by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, 3,172 students are enrolled in the University this year.
The College of Arts and Letters has the largest enrollment with 1,325 students. The Commerce school ranks second ■with 911 members. Next in order is the College of Engineering with 479 men. The College of Science numbers 317, while 79 are listed in the Law school.
At present there are 1,221 students enrolled in the freshman class. Sophomores are next in numbers with 769 men. Next in order is the junior class ■with an enrollment of 582, and lastly, the senior class with a membership of 541. There are 49 graduate students and ten special students.
Rank according to colleges in the class is, in every case, in the same order as it is in the University as a whole.
This total enrollment is nearly 400 more than the number of students desired. In the future the quota will be 2,800 students.
To aid in the reduction a qualitative average of 77% for the period of time spent at the University is required.
Tony is in the College of Commerce and will receive his degree this June. He plans then to take up law and finish in two years with the help of his summer school credits. So for two more years the Schreiner dictatorship in the gym will continue. If you visit him in his room there after working hours, you will find a quiet chap surrounded by shelves of books and magazines. Philosophy and commerce texts and works of general interest such as The Rise of American Civilization by Beard, and Fay’s Origins of the World War make up his reading diet. And if you look closely you might see Elsie Dinsmore All at Sea or The Rover Boys up the Walla Walla. These probably belong to Keg or were left by a former inmate. At any rate, Tony explains, you are always welcome to come in and look around, just as long as you refrain from asking for a size 38 football jersey or a pair of football shoes that fit.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
265
$1,000 PRIZE CONTEST FOR PICKING ALL-AMERICAN
ELEVEN ANNOUNCED
Announcement has been received by the Scholastic of a 81,000 cash prize contest by the Robt. Burns Panatela radio program based on the Grantland Rice’s All-American first eleven for 1930. Prizes will be awarded to the contestants picking a team identical with the team picked by Rice, as it will be published in the December 27th issue of Collier's, as well as for excellence shown in a sentence expressing the contestant’s appreciation of the Robt. Burns Panatela cigar. This will be judged for picturesque, apt phrasing of the peculiar appeal of the cigar, and valued from the standpoint of sincerity, advertising force, and originality. Contestants must mail their selections to General Cigar Co., Inc., 119 West 40th St., New York City. The contest closes at 5:00 p. m., eastern standard time, November 29.
The rules of the contest are as follows:
1.	Contestants are to submit their choice of eleven players to constitute their selections of an All-American football eleven for the season of 1930. They shall name a collegiate player for each of the following positions, namely, two ends, two tackles, two guards, a center, a quarter back, two half backs and a full back. Each contestant must send with his selection of names, a sentence of not more than ten words expressing in terse, forceful and picturesque phraseology, his appreciation of the virtues of the Robt. Burns Panatela cigar.
2.	Each contestant is limited to one selection only of an All-American first eleven, but may submit one or more sentences of ten words or less, concerning the Robt. Burns Panatela cigar.
3.	Men over 18 years are eligible to compete for the prizes, which will be awarded as follows: Grand prize, 8200; two second prizes, 100 each; five third prizes, 850 each; ten fourth prizes, 825 each; twenty fifth prizes, 85 each.
4.	A prize of a box of 50 Robt. Burns Panatela cigars will be awarded to every contestant who picks a team identical with Grantland Rice’s All-American first eleven, but fails to qualify for a cash prize.
5.	The decision of the judges in awarding the cash prizes is absolutely final.
4 A Man You Know £
Several members of the faculty at Notre Dame were connected with the World War in some way or other, but few of them were actually in service in France. One of the few is Mr. E. J. Payton, teacher of commercial law
Professor E. J. Payton
and associate professor of marketing.
He was born in Dunmore, Pennsylvania, in 1893. He attended the public schools and was graduated from Dunmore High in 1913. Then he went to Grove City college, at Grove City, Pennsylvania, and took the B.S. degree there in 1916. After- his graduation he returned to Dunmore and started to teach at the high school.
During the first year of his teaching, the United States entered the World War, and he enlisted in the army. He was sent to the first officers’ training camp, at Madison barracks, in Waterton, N. Y., and was commissioned as second lieutenant of infantry. Then he attended a special machine-gun school, taught by Eng-
ENGINEERING NOTES | ____________________________[
On Monday evening, November 24, the A. I. E. E. held a meeting in the south basement of Badin hall. Mr. Murray presented his usual summary of events of interest in the electrical engineering field. Student papers were presented as follows: Mr. White, a junior, presented a paper on “High Frequency Induction Furnaces,” and
lish instructors, at Camp Jackson, Columbia, South Carolina. After that he went to Camp Hancock, Augusta, Georgia, and was an instructor, in the American machine-gun school there.
He was sent to France where he joined the 3rd Division, receiving the commission of first lieutenant, and he stayed with that division until the armistice, seeing active service in the Meuse-Argonne and the St. Mihiel sectors. He remained in Germany with the army of occupation for six months after the armistice, returning to America in May, 1919.
After his discharge from the army he again taught at the high school in Dunmore, until 1920. In 1920 he attended the summer session at Columbia university, and came to Notre Dame in the fall, to teach economics in the College of Commerce and to study law. After his graduation from the Law school in 1923 he worked in the legal department of the Union Trust Company in Cleveland, Ohio, for three years.
He returned to Notre Dame in the fall of 1926 as a teacher of commercial law, and he still holds that position. In addition to his work as a teacher, he serves as attorney for- the South Bend branch of the National Association of Credit Men.
While a student at Grove City college he played both football and basketball. By waiting on table he was able to earn sufficient money to pay his expenses at college. He was a member- of the literary and debating club there. At present he is a member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and of the American Bar Association.
Mr. Staunton gave an interesting talk on “Starting and Reversing Single Phase Induction Motors.”
The principal speaker of the evening was Mr. Frank Miles of the Indiana and Michigan Electric company. He spoke about the street lighting system of South Bend and how his company met the many difficulties encountered in the maintenance of the system. Mr. Miles is a past chairman of the organization and graduated from Notre Dame in 1920.
266
The Notre Dame Scholastic
UNIVERSITY BAND HOLDS SMOKER IN MUSIC HALL ON THURSDAY
The University band held a smoker last Thursday evening for the purpose of getting the personnel of the organization better acquainted. John Weibler, vice-president, acting in the capacity of chairman, introduced the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, as the first speaker of the evening. Father Murch praised the group for appearing so regularly and punctually at the practice sessions when other occupations might have been more pleasing to them. He spoke also of the growth of the band from a very small unattractive organization to the present group of talented musicians.
McCABE AND SPALDING
READ TWO STORIES AT
SCRIBBLERS’ MEETING
Joseph McCabe and George Spalding read papers at the weekly meeting of the Scribblers held last Wednesday in Howard hall “rec” room. McCabe’s paper was a sketch entitled “Dark Room,” while Spalding’s was a short story entitled “Last Man’s Toast.” Both papers aroused a heated discussion, Spalding’s in particular causing an argument as to the proper form of a short story, and whether the stories of campus authors were not following a typical narrow form.
Application for the first election of members into the Scribblers will be closed on November 30. Several applications have been already received. These will be voted on at next meeting, December 3. Francis X. Nulty, Richard J. O’Donnell, and President Telfel will read papers at this meeting.	-
COVER FOR “DOME” TO BE SELECTED NEXT WEEK
Editor Paul J. Hallinan has announced that the S. K. Smith Company will make the Dome cover again this year. Selection of a design for the cover will be made next week.
All proofs of pictures taken recently for the Dome must be turned in by December 1. This is very necessary as work for the engravers must be taken care of immediately.
Mr. Joseph Casasanta, director of the band, was the next speaker to be introduced. He stressed the fact that the band of this year is a select group, and the competition for places on it has been so keen that some members of last year’s organization have been forced to give way to better talent.
During the evening a few of the boys could not refrain from becoming-sentimental and had to render a few vocal selections. Al Dommermuth, Patrick Mangan, and Clare Taro, members of the Jugglers and the band, stepped out of their ordinary roles and sang a few melodies that were well accepted.
MEMBERS OF K. OF C.
ATTEND ANNUAL MASS
About fifty members of Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, attended the Mass celebrated November 25 in Sacred Heart church for deceased members of the council. Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C. was the celebrant.
This Mass is celebrated annually in accordance with the by-laws of the local Knights.
AGRICULTURE STUDENTS
TO ATTEND EXPOSITIONS
Juniors and seniors in the department of Agriculture will attend two expositions of great importance and interest on December 3 and 4 of next week in Chicago. They are the international Live Stock show and the Chicago Coliseum Poultry show, the latter also a national exhibition.
CHRISTMAS “JUGGLER” TO
APPEAR DECEMBER 16
*
Editor John E. Dempsey has announced that the Christmas number of the Juggler will appear on the campus Tuesday, December 16. The deadline for all material is Sunday morning, December 7. The drawing for an original Christmas cover has been completed and should win high praise from all.	-
HOYER TO ATTEND BOYS WORK CONFERENCE
Professor Ray Hoyer, director of the boy guidance department at Notre Dame, will attend the seventh annual meeting of the International Boys’ Work conference in St. Louis, Missouri, December 1 to 3. This conference brings together the representatives of the various national organizations dealing with boys’ work and business men from the various civic and fraternal groups interested in the boy.
Professor Hoyer is on the program to speak upon the .topic, “Cooperation in Local Communities,” and will talk particularly about cities having a population of 100,000 or less. He will later lead a round table discussion on the same subject.
During the past year Professor Hoyer has served on a committee appointed at the last convention to compile a pamphlet covering the programs of the various national organizations. The report of this committee will be presented to the convention by Professor Hoyer.
FR. MILTNER ADDRESSES FRESHMAN CONVOCATION
The Reverend Charles A. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, addressed a freshman convocation in Washington hall last Friday night on “Getting Organized For College Work.” Giving practical examples of what can be accomplished in college by the proper apportionment of leisure time, he cited his ideal of a well-rounded student.
This was the first of a series of lectures to be given to freshmen by members of the faculty. All freshmen A. B. students will be required to attend and will take an examination at the completion of the series. Other students are invited to attend.
100 COUPLES ATTEND
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE
Approximately one hundred couples attended the Scholarship club dance held last Wednesday in the St. Joseph school gymnasium. The Notre Dame “Jugglers” furnished the music. Members of the Scholarship club in charge of the dance brought guests for freshmen. Upper- classmen were privileged to invite their own guests, but for some reason or other chose to compete with the “frosh.”

The Notre Dame Scholastic
267
PRE-ARMY DANCE WILL BE
HELD FRIDAY EVENING
Final arrangements have been made for the Army informal dance which will be held on Friday evening in the Pompeian and Balloon rooms at the Congress hotel under the auspices of the Chicago club of Notre Dame. Walter Kelly general chairman of the affair, has announced that this dance promises to be one of the most successful dances in the annals of the club.	•
The program at dances will be played by Art Kassell and his “Castles of the Air” and Herbie Mintz and his orchestra. Specialty numbers will be enacted during the evening by Ted Lewis, foremost impressario of jazz, and Helen Morgan, star of “Sweet. Adeline.”
There are still a few invitations left for the dance; those wishing bids should confer with Chairman Kelly at once.
WALKER WHITESIDE TO
PLAY IN SOUTH BEND
Walker Whiteside, one of the greatest living actors of the legitimate stage, will play the Oliver- theater, South Bend, on Tuesday evening, December 2, in his newest vehicle, “The Chinese Bungalow.”
This play has recently completed a sixteen months’ run in London and will open a long stay at the Studebaker theater in Chicago prior to Christmas. “The Chinese Bungalow” will be the first legitimate stage attraction in South Bend in more than two years. The attendance at this play will be a deciding factor as to whether or not other leading stage productions will play in South Bend.
Mr. Whiteside’s appearance in “The Chinese Bungalow” gives him a chance to display one of his greatest character roles, rivaling those in “The Arabian,” “The Hindu,” and “The Gaunt Gesture,” his other starring plays.
McDevitt leaves for
NEW YORK
Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, left for New York on Monday evening to take up work with the Conde Nast Publications, Inc. Mr. McDevitt has been graduate manager- of the Scholastic, Dome, Juggler and Scrip publications for a year and a half.
OFFICER WILL ADDRESS EDUCATIONAL CON-
FRATERNITY
Miss Helen Durnbach, supervisor of vocational guidance in the South Bend schools will be the principal speaker at the next meeting of the Educational Confraternity, Monday, December 1, in the journalism room of the library. Her talk will be concerned with vocational guidance in the public schools.
Miss Durnbach, an outstanding authority on vocational guidance, is now attending President Hoover’s White House conference on vocational guidance at Washington. The Educational Confraternity, in seeking the best in the way of speakers, feels that in Miss Durnbach the members of the organization will reap the benefits of one who has shown considerable ability in that particular educational field.	'
The Confraternity extends an invitation to all those interested in vocational guidance to attend the meeting, which will begin promptly at 8:00 p. m.
PRIZES OPEN TO MAJORS IN ECONOMICS
Tli e Free Trade league offers three prizes respectively, 8100, 850, and 825, in a competition open to students majoring in economics in any American college for a fair, non-partisan dissection of the new tariff, with regard to the interest as consumers of our 123,000,000 Americans and in view of the relations of farmers, wage-earners and salaried workers as both producers and consumers in face of the reduced purchasing power of the dollar, and with reference to the industries claiming permanent benefit from the protective tariff.
The papers will be judged by three members of the American Economic Association, and those proposing to compete are requested to send their names promptly and to submit their papers before December 15, 1930, to the Free Trade league, Room 908, 2 West 45th Street, New York City.
The league reserves rights of publication of the winning papers but will give specific permission to the authors and to newspapers and others desiring to. republish. There are no rules or regulations but compactness of statement will be counted.a merit.
DEBATING TRY-OUTS HELD THIS WEEK
Try-outs for the University debating team began this week under the direction of the Reverend F. J. Boland, C.S.C., coach of the squad. Ten minute speeches without rebuttal were given by over 70 candidates.
Officials in charge of the try-outs were enthusiastic over the caliber of men competing and prophesied that an excellent team will represent the University this year.
The schedule is a difficult one and calls for several trips on the part of the team. It is expected, however, to even better the excellent record made by the team last year.
Many of the speakers have been lost through graduation but the preliminary competition during the past week shows that their places may be filled quite competently by new men.
FOREIGN PRESS PRAISES
NOTRE DAME STUDIES
A clipping from the Catholic Press of Sydney, Australia, commends Notre Dame for refusing permission for the filming of a football comedy which was to have had Notre Dame for a background. “Anyone acquainted with academic history knows that the University already has a long and distinguished record of scholarship. But it also has, in common with two or three other seats of higher learning, an immediate problem arising from the super-excellence of its athletics and the wildfire appeal which they make to a sports-crazed public. This action of the Notre Dame officials is a dignified and admirable as-sertiori of the proper balance.”
“DOME” PROOFS SHOULD BE RETURNED SOON
Over 700 proofs of the pictures taken for the 1931 Dome have been returned by the White Studios, New York. The seniors are practically all here, as well as several hundred juniors.
All proofs which are on the campus now must be returned by Tuesday, December 2. Other proofs should be returned within two days after the time the student gets them. This will insure the inclusion of the photograph in the senior and junior sections of the Dome. These sections will be made up in December.
*
268
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Glances at the Magazines »
A newcomer to our news stand this month is the very attractive Bookman, featuring an essay by Mr. G. K. Chesterton, “The Spirit of the Age in Literature.” This essay is a valuable complement to the series of lectures on Victorian literature recently delivered at Notre Dame. In his usual able and engaging way Mr. Chesterton surveys generally the period of literature which began with the death of Swinburne and extends to our own time. -He begins by objecting to the word spirit, preferring as more exact atmosphere; because spirit connotes immortality. Spirit of the Ages is immortal; the spirit of an age is only “a series of monuments of mortality.”
Noting that “syncope, which in medicine is a malady, in aesthetics is a movement,” Mr. Chesterton analyzes modern literature, and discovers its atmosphere best expressed by the word “syncopation.” Though perfectly willing to be fair, he is none too favorably impressed by the patchy— sometimes called “sporadic”—form of this modern atmosphere. It is novel only, just as Byron’s Bohemianism was novel. James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, Rebecca West, and Aldous Huxley are the subjects of individual study.
Apropos the celebration of the twentieth centenary of Virgil, Mr. George Norlin describes the influence of the Latin poet on literature and education in the twenty centuries since his death.
Again in Bookman, the work of D. H. Lawrence is considered in an article by Mrs. Frisbie Moore. Also there is “Prelude,” a poem by Conrad Aiken.
Has anyone a copy of The Colo phon? The first issue of this new book collectors’ quarterly was limited to 2,000 copies, and since the two succeeding' issues have been almost as limited, it requires the sturdy persistency and enthusiasm of a true bibliophile to procure The Colophon. From their own point of view the book collectors have a highly successful periodical, rare as many of the old tomes and dusty folios they so happily pursue.
The spirit of Christmas dominates the December issue of the Ladies’ Homo Journal, and there is a short story with that very title—“The Spirit
of Christmas,” by Clarence Budington Kelland. Two other stories with holiday settings are by Alice Duer Miller and Hugh McNair Kahler. There is a Christmas play by Mrs. Don Marquis, and a full page drawing by Norman Rockwell that is cheerily suggestive of holly wreaths and mistletoe.
The prolific Mr. C. B. Kelland has stories in the Ladies’ Home Journal, the Saturday Evening Post and American. And Conrad Aiken has two poems, the one in Bookman, the other in Scribner’s, entitled the same (“Prelude”), which are beautifully poetic but very unphilosophic preludes, with puzzled wonderings about beginning and end. The stately Mr. William Lyons Phelps appears in the American with a message to the masses regarding the practical value of great literature. “Cashing in on- the Classics” is the gruesome title. J. P. McEvoy’s “Mr. Noodle” is running serially in the Post, and in next week’s issue (November 29) is a story by F. Scott Fitzgerald, and one by Thomas Beer.
In the December Harper’s that department known as “The Lion’s Mouth” contains two extremely humorous short essays, “Opus Four, Number Seven,” by Robert Utter, is side-splitting satire of musical interpretation. “Thumbs Up” is just what you would expect from James Thurber, one of the Manhatters, whose “Man About Town” humor in the New Yorker is inimitable.
Very, very seldom do we run across any of the poetry of Edna St. Vincent Millay in the magazines. But the Christmas Harper’s has a group of five new love sonnets from her pen which are exquisite lyrics. She is the author of The King’s Henchman, A Few Figs From Thistles, and other books of verse which rank her as one of our best lyricists. The Buck in the Snow was her last published volume, appearing two years ago.
“How Come Christmas?” a modern morality play by Roark Bradford, is also in Harper’s. Bradford’s book, 01’ Man Adam An’ His Chillun, was, you know, the basis of Marc Connolly’s Pulitzer prize winning play, “The Green Pastures.”
AERONAUTICS SCHOOL
ANNOUNCES ITS SECOND
ANNUAL SCHOLARSHIPS
Announcement has been received by the University of the scond annual W. E. Boeing scholarships in the Boeing School of Aeronautics for students in American colleges and universities. These scholarships are awarded to deserving college men who have determined on aviation as an avocation.
The 1930-31 awards, the winners of which may enroll in the quarter beginning either on July 6, 1931, or October 5, 1931, are as follows:
First award: The W. E. Boeing master pilot ground and flying scholarship, §5,275; second award, the'Boe-ing master mechanic course, §700.00; third award, the Boeing master, pilot ground course, §625.00; fourth award, the Boeing private pilot ground and flying course, §590.00. The scholarships cover the full tuition as indicated.
Last year Ralph J. Moore, Stanford university, won the first award, a master pilot scholarship, with a tuition value of §5,250; Lloyd H. Speel-man, Mt. Union college, was awarded the second scholarship for a master mechanic course with a tuition value of S675.00; the third scholarship, for a master mechanic course with the same tuition value, was awarded to C. Willard Sharp, University of Nebraska; and R. M. Harris, University of Washington, was awarded the fourth scholarship for a private pilot course with a tuition value of §590.00.
Full particulars about the contest, including eligibility requirements and questionnaires tor candidates, may be obtained from the administratice offices of the University or from the Boeing School of Aeronautics, Oakland Municipal Airport, Oakland, California.
SYLVESTER HAS ARTICLE IN BROOKLYN PAPER
Harry A. Sylvester, a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1930 and former sports editor of the Scholastic, has a feature article about the University in the Sunday magazine section of the Brooklyn Eagle. The article is entitled “The School Nobody Knows,” and shows how Notre Dame’s class achievements rival those of the gridiron.
At present Sylvester is on the staff of the Eagle.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
269
COMMITTEES NAMED FOR PITTSBURGH CLUB DANCE
The following committees for the annual Pittsburgh club New Year’s ball have been appointed by Richard O’Donnell, president of the club:
General Chairman—C. David Nash.
Tickets and Invitations — Charles Sheedy, chairman; Frank Totten, Rudy Crnkovic, Lawrence Smith, Robert Fulton.
Favors—Thomas Timney and John Skeehan, co-chairmen; Tom Skeehan, Frank O’Donnell,- William O’Toole, Joseph Clark.
Music—Charles Spinelli, chairman; John Hickey, James V. Burke, Robert . Hartman, Carl Link.
Patrons—Gene Coyne and James Mueller, co-chairmen; Donald Reig-hard, Sylvester Poppe, William Rock-enstein, Edward O’Brien.
Arrangements — John Kissane, chairman; Hugo lacovetti, Francis Timney, Edward Troy, Emmet McDonald.
Publicity—Thomas Dunn and Donald Martin, co-chairmen; Harry Me- • Gowan, William Suehr, Ray Braseo, Edward Hallauer.
DEFINITE PLANS MADE
FOR ALL CLUB MEETINGS
Meetings of the various organizations on the campus will be regulated in the future by a definite code of rules, it was announced at a meeting of the President’s council held last week. All club meetings will be held in the Court room of the Old Law building, and in the journalism or north and south rooms in the basement of the library. Before December 6 each club must decide the place and date of its bi-monthly meeting and must adhere to both during the rest of the school year.
For club purposes the month will be divided into two sections: one composed of the first and second weeks, the other of the third and fourth weeks. Clubs will have then- choice of any of the approved places, and any evening or Sunday morning in the two sections of the month. Weekday meetings are to start at 6:30 p. m.; Sunday meetings at 10: a. m.
« Music And Drama »
A week ago Sunday we had an afternoon of fine radio music: the Roxy Symphony, the New York Philharmonic, and the Philadelphia. The first and last orchestra mentioned played all-Wagner programs. On the Roxy hour we enjoyed most The Flying Dutchman overture, that vivid tone picture of the storm-lashed sea and the ghost ship as a background for the brooding themes of betrayal by woman and redemption by love. Stokowski played the supreme moments of each of the Ring operas: the “Entrance to Valhalla,” “Magic Fire Music,” “Siegfried’s Rhine Journey,” and the final scene to The Twilight of the Gods. This last is a masterful intertwining of themes from the four operas, repeating the whole story. The old order of gods has fallen, and the birth of man is gloriously foretold in the theme “Siegfried, Guardian of the Sword,” or as some call it, “Inheritor of the World,” which triumphs over “Brunnhilde’s Sleep,” one of the most charming strains in Wagner. Knowing and understanding so little of the great master, we always think of Wagner as at his grandest in Tannhaeuser and at his darndest in the Ring. For an ambitious music lover, the Ring music is a good several month’s study, but don’t attempt it unless you have access to a library, a piano, and a phonograph or radio, preferably both. Try this, and you will find out what amazing things can be said in music.
—❖
The Philharmonic Symphony was conducted by Arturo Toscanini, and we are reminded of the legends which have grown up concerning his extraordinary memory. He never uses a score when conducting, and once he stopped a rehearsal of the Lohengrin music to tell the orchestra they had played a note wrong. They, in evil
JOSEPH WILK TO HANDLE “DOME” SUBSCRIPTIONS
Joseph A. Wilk, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed to handle the Dome subscription campaign. Mr. Wilk’s ability to solicit subscriptions was shown last year when he won the award for
glee perhaps, pointed to the score and said they had played it exactly as written. Toscanini called for a copy of the original manuscript and proved that the note was there as he had said. The note had been played wrong probably for years until his memory caught it. Beethoven never used a score either, and the audiences objected, feeling that they were not getting the best music possible. One night the old master used the score; the applause at the end of the concert was deafening. Smiling, he bowed and showed that the score had been upside down all the time.
Well, how do you like “Body and Soul” by now? Campus opinions are about as varied on this as are those of the Chicago critics on “Hotel Universe,” about which we hope to be able to tell you more after Thanksgiving . . . Helen Morgan told radio listeners Sunday that she was bom in Danville, Illinois and attended high school on the south side of Chicago. Then she sang “Why Was I Born?” and “Here Am I” from “Sweet Adeline.” . . . Did you know that Libby Holman tramped Broadway for years trying to get producers to listen to her freak voice for more than two minutes? . . . Have you heard “The Peanut Vendor” yet? The melody is negligible, but there is an accompaniment of the chug-chugging of a peanut machine a lot like the train accompaniment for “Beyond the Blue Horizon” but much more intricate . . . For the week-end Chicago has attractions to suit every taste: “Sweet Adeline” and “Three Little Girls,” operettas; “Death Takes a Holiday” and “A Month in the Country,” dramas; “'Mendel, Inc.” and “Cradle Call,” hilarious comedies; the opera; Shakespeare with Fritz Leiber; and Fritz Kreisler.
having the greatest number of orders for the yearbook. He has been named this year to handle the campaign alone. Mr. Wilk reports that so far the subscriptions have far exceeded expectations and that a record sale for the book is in sight. Students are asked to co-operate with Mr. Wilk and hand in their names as soon as possible.
r----------
270
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GLEE CLUB TO SING IN CHICAGO
FRIDAY AFTERNOON AND EVENING
Will be Heard Over Radio Stations WMAQ WOR, And WLW
On Friday, November 29, the Notre Dame Glee club will make its annual trip to Chicago. This is the fourth one in four years and promises to be the most fruitful of all. The club has been practicing for some time under Joseph Casasanta’s direction preparing for the trip.
Friday afternoon the club begins its concert by singing over stations WMAQ, WOR, and WLW. The songs to be presented are “To Northwestern”; “Victory March”; the “Hike Song”; “Down the Line”; “Irish Backs”; a humorous number “A Hole in the Bottom of the Sea”; and “In Old Nassau.” -Coach Hanley of North western will be present and will speak at the time. This is the regular football broadcast hour -which is given daily at 5:30 p. m. under the auspices of the Williams Manufacturing Company.
At 8:30 p. m. the club will again broadcast, this time over the Armour hour. Coach Rockne will speak at this time. The Army song as well as
the campus songs will be sung.
This is to be a nation-wide broadcast over forty stations composing the hook-up. Last year the club appeared on the same hour. The officers of the club are Joseph Casasanta, director; Ronald Zudeck, president; Donald O’Toole, vice-president; and J. Edward Phelan, business manager.
The following men have been selected to make the trip to Chicago, November 28:
First Tenors-. Zudeck, J. Collins, Glasow, Scanlon, O’Neil, Breit, T. Collins, Kenedy, Moreau, Pellman, Zif-frin, Sodoski, Hagey.
Second Tenors: O’Toole, Maas, Mc-Aleer, Hickey, Petzel, Culligan, Crowley, Stenger, Tuberty, McNulty.
Baritones: Roach, Ferlini, Merdzin-ski, Waltz, Schmidt, Talbot, Menard, Quinn, Oberkoetter.	-
Second Bases: Phelan, Coogan, Len-nartz, Phillips, Haag, Dunn, Rolfs, Brennan, J. Murphy, Duerr, Walsh, Buhl, Coady.
DINNER AND DANCE BY CHICAGO ALUMNI CLUB SCHEDULED NOV. 28 & 29
A full program of Army game festivities has been planned by the Notre Dame club of Chicago. From the opening course of the informal dinner scheduled ,for Friday evening till the final strains of Tom Gerun and Victor Young in the small hours of Sunday morning, the week-end promises to be a gala affair.
On the evening preceding the Army game, the Lake Shore Athletic club will be the scene of a dinner celebrating the eighteen-year period of amicable relations between the Army and Notre Danie. Guests of honor at the dinner will be the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Major-General William R. Smith, superintendent of the United States Military academy; the coaching staff of both football teams; and many of the outstanding newspaper men of the country. The toastmaster of the dinner will be John B. Kanaley, ’09.
Saturday evening the Army ball will be held in the Gold room and .Balloon room of the Congress hotel. Dancing will begin at 10:00, with two of the leading orchestras of the Middle West in attendance. Richard Halpin, ’27, chairman of the dance committee announces that the attendance will be limited to five hundred couples.
SEMINARIANS ORGANIZE A LITERARY SOCIETY; ISSUE ‘MOROVIAN/ A MAGAZINE
A literary society, closely paralleling the Scribblers, has been organized by the students of Moreau seminary. Emil L. Telfel, president of the Scribblers, assisted the seminarians in the organization of the new club by outlining to them the plans and purposes of the campus literary society. Besides the reading and discussion of papers at their- weekly meetings, the seminarians have already published the first issue of The Moravian, which will be the official organ of the new society. Patrick R. Duffy, C.S.C., as well as being president of the club, is
also editor of The Moravian. Many of the writers who appear in the first issue of the new magazine have contributed to Scrip, Notre Dame’s literary quarterly. Chief among the contributors is Charles Carey, C.S.C., who won the Scribblers’ poetry contest last year. Other writers appearing in the issue are: John Bednar, C.S.C.; Victor Boisvert, C.S.C., and Louis Putz, C.S.C. The Moravian not only contains poetry and short stories of high order, but is artistically bound and has an attractive format. All the work is done by hand. Although only one copy of the first Moravian has been issued, the seminarians have expressed the hope that in the future the magazine will have copies for distribution among all those who wish to enjoy this ambitious magazine.
REV. EUGENE BURKE WILL ADDRESS FOUR LITERARY SOCIETIES
The Reverend Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria, will be the principal speaker at a joint meeting of four Polish literary societies Monday night at St. Stanislaus’ auditorium. The program is in charge of the K. O. Literary circle.
It will be the largest gathering of the Polish clubs younger citizens have ever planned. Taking part will be the St. John Canty Literary society, of St. Hedwige’s parish; the Young People’s Progress club of St. Casimir’s parish; the Girls’ Sport and Literary club, and the K. O. circle.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	271
' THE WIGHTMAN ART GALLERY
Paintings And Their Stories Make a Visit Very Interesting
By JAMES CARMODY
Polish Peasant in Exile—a painting in the Wightman gallery.
With the emphasis that is being placed on art today and the study of its effect on our everyday life, and with the treatment of the work of one of our own prominent painters, Emil Jacques, which appeared before in the Scholastic, it is well to call attention to a very complete and extremely interesting collection of both modern and mediaeval art that is housed here on what is generally conceived to be a most prosaic campus.
For some years now Dom Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., has been carefully and thoroughly refurbishing the old masterpieces that have come into his hands as curatoi’ of the gallery; with the care of a true lover of art, not that of the pseudo-connoisseur. He has labored to restore them to their original state, to give them the color and the lustre that were theirs centuries ago. He has even gone to Europe to add to his already great knowledge of art and artists, and to find, if possible, new methods for the
restoration and preservation of the valuable old canvasses that have come into the possession of our own art gallery. ,
A doctor of Evanston, Illinois, laid the foundation for what now is really one of the finest collections of painting in the Middle West. Doctoi-Wightman realized the influence that art has or should have in the universities, and was willing to relinquish his prized paintings to give Notre Dame the opportunity for acquainting itself with the finest in the field of art. From him have come Van Dykes, Tintorettos, di Credis; he has made numerous additions since the establishment of the gallery. Only recently he has secured for the collection a genuine di Credi, four centuries old, representing the Madonna and Child, which Dom Gregory recognizes as an original. The painting is interesting even to a layman, and fortified with the knowledge that di Credi was once a goldsmith, and worked in bronze as
well, he can detect in the drapings of the Madonna and in the pictured embroidery a certain mechanical perfection and a metallic stiffness, greatly in contrast to the smoothly modelled features of the subjects.
Every picture in the gallery has some bit of unusual history connected with it; an hour or two, or an afternoon, spent in the corridors atop the library would be highly profitable, and would bring to the ordinary student, normally passive where art and painting are concerned, a realization of the powers of the old masters and the new. If one is not affected by the canvasses, Dom Gregory himself, with his evident fervor for the pieces under his care, with his knowledge of the artists and their works, and with his capability for holding your attention by his own intense interest, will increase your respect and eventually your knowledge of Notre Dame’s own art gallery.
272
The Notre Dame Scholastic
< AMI I J CLIlf
Big names included as guests at the banquet being given on Friday evening by the alumni of Chicago are the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Major General William R. Smith of the United States Military Academy, Knute K. Rockne, Walter P. Steffen, J. B. Sutherland, Pat Page, Richard Hanley, Grantland Rice, T. A. D. Jones, Christy Walsh and Francis Wallace. The dinner will be at the Lake Shore Athletic club. Edward W. Gould, ’23, is chairman.
Saturday night the alumni group is sponsoring a formal Army Ball in the Gold and Balloon rooms of the Congress hotel. Tom Gerun and his Brunswick recording orchestra will play .
As announced in this page last week the campus CHICAGO club will hold an informal dance on the Friday evening before the game.
The CLEVELAND club held a meeting last Friday in the Old Law building. The club’s Christmas dance will, as in past years, be held at Cleveland’s Mid-Day club. The date is Monday, December, 29. So far no orchestra has been decided upon.
Another dance during the holidays will be that of the NEW JERSEY club at the Newark Athletic club on Friday evening, December 26. The Hotel Biltmore orchestra will play. Guests of honor will include Commissioner William J. Egan and John G. Andrews, both of Newark.
Under General Chairman William Gadek are the following committees: Patrons—S. A. Bontempo, chairman; Ray Geiger, Gilbert Augustine, Al Capter. Arrangements —R. Connelly, chairman; William Hawks, J. Donnelly, J. Walsh, C. Kelley. Programs—John Lisicki, chairman; D. Carton, J. Cooper, J. Guiffre. Publicity—Emil L. Telfel, chairman; J. Blanda, D. Lusardi, H. Wehrlen, S. Kocko-wicz, A. Tutella. Music—P. O’Connor, chairman; P. Quinn, W. Murphy, P. Troy. Favors—V. Whelan, chairman; J. Carton, J. Papera, G. King. Invitations—Edward Shields, chairman; R. Bohnsack, S. Addonizio, R. Driscoll. Decorations—William Blind, chairman; A. Grosso, F. Madden.
The NEW JERSEY club is planning a banquet for December 9 in the Lay Faculty dining hall. The banquet will be in honor of the freshman members of the club. Among prominent speakers will be the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., of Paterson, N. J.
Instead of one Christmas dance that most of the clubs will have during the holidays, the GRAND RAPIDS club plans upon two, one open, the other closed, both formal. On Saturday, December 27 the open dance will be held at the Pantlind hotel in Grand Rapids. Chairman is Joseph Boyland.
The closed dance, to be held on Monday, December 29, will be at the Peninsular club. Chicago orchestra will play at both affairs.
At a smoker held by the GRAND RAPIDS club on Thursday, November 13, Maitland Strong, Joseph Boyland and club President Joseph Deeb spoke on the plans for the club’s dual dances. Maitland Strong is in charge of the orchestras for the dances. The smoker was held at the Rose Marie tea room.
At the meeting of the FRENCH club last Monday evening, the ordinary procedure was departed from in that the conversation was conducted by the club’s director and founder, the Reverend Conrad Hoffman. Before the regular business of the meeting was begun, however, Father Hoffman proposed that the club publish a newspaper in French. The members being agreeable, Father Hoffman promised to look into the cost of putting it out. In it will be student talent only.
Vice-president Michael O’Hara did the reading at the meeting.
The CONNECTICUT VALLEY club held a successful meeting last Monday night in the old Law building. Over forty-five members attended and the enthusiasm displayed has practically assured the success of the club’s Christmas dance to be held at the Hotel Bond in Hartford on December 29, 1930. Negotiations are now under way to secure one of Hartford’s best bands.
After a discussion of plans for another banquet, the election of the club’s freshman vice-president was held. Hubert Gildea was elected by the close margin of three votes. President Dan Halpin officiated at the meeting.
President Anthony R. Schreiner has appointed Thomas Tobin general chairman of the CALUMET club’s Christmas dance at the meeting held last Wednesday in the south room of the library. Other officers of the club are Thomas Coughlan, vice-president, and Austin Boyle, secretary-treasurer.
The Crystal room of the Book Cadillac hotel was definitely decided upon as the location of the Christmas formal dance of the DETROIT club, at a meeting held November 24. Fredy Bergan, one of the best of Jean Goldkette’s nationally known jazz bands, was suggested as a possible orchestra.
The dance will be held December 30 from 10:00 p. m. to 2:00 a. m.
A door-prize of a football autographed by all the members of Notre Dame’s football team and its coach, Knute Rockne, will be presented at the dance.
The next meeting of the club will be December 2 at 6:30 p. m. in the old Law building. A full attendance is expected.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
273
COLLEGE PALACE
Why Not Move The School?
In Oklahoma City a school was closed more than a month ago because of its promixity to a new oil well. Parents and children are indignant because it has not been re-opened. My, how times have changed since I was a lad. (Editor’s Note: He means since he was a lad physically.)
Ed. Note:—This Is Rather Inept
Senior law students at Ohio State wear derbies. Now if we could find some place where they wear spats, and then add our lawyers’ canes, we might eke out a few well-dressed men. Then they could all enroll in the “social poise” course at Temple university.
Curfew Shall Not Ring To-Night!
At Montana State students have gone on a strike because there is a rule that co-eds must be in their rooms by 11 o’clock on Saturday nights. They insist the time limit be 1:CO a. m. “The Prisoner’s Song” is their anthem at the present time. (Editor’s Note: Well, what of it?) (Author’s Note: That is just what I want to know.)
A Bath A Minute The Only Thing
»	The co-eds at Oberlin college were informed that they
would have to “take it easy” on the water as the supply was rather low. The girls gleefully turned all the water faucets on and started packing their bags. The village inspectors immediately started a check on the meters, however, and so a vacation is not imminent.
Say Boss, You-All Got Somethin’ For Me?
At Georgia negro butlers have organized a fraternity in which initiation ceremonies require the wearing of clothes acquired from fraternity men.
Aerial Attack* Picks Up At California
The University of California has established two new courses in aviation departments. One deals with aeronautical engineering, the other with the principles of commercial aviation.
Believe It Or Not
A funeral director in Atlanta employs college men to act as pallbearers every once in a while.
Stop Me If You’ve Heard This One
In the epidemic going about the country for the relieving- of the unemployment situation, some schools even suggest taking up a collection among the students, using the money to employ carpenters to “build” the pre-big game bonfires. Lumber from local lumber yards is purchased out of the collection money. The plan was suggested when it was discovered that gathering lumber - from out-of-the-way places only robbed the poor people who had no fuel for the winter. Is this an idea for the boys?
One For The Book, Lads
When Indiana made a first down against Northwestern the Union at Indiana figured that $18.50 worth of cards were thrown away by Indiana rooters. Such extravagance! It is a good thing oui- S. A. C. doesn’t feel that way about it. (Editor’s Note: You mean it would be a good thing if they did feel that way about it!)
Just What I’ve Been Looking For!
The Student Senate at Ohio State university has proposed a plan whereby students would be permitted to grade the faculty. The senior at the end of his foui- years would grade his professors on their ability along pedagogical lines and upon knowledge of the subjects which they have taught. It wouldn’t be safe to make any comment upon such a plan, but it might be interesting- here.
We Thank You, Tech
The Technique of Georgia Tech has summed up the reason for Rockne’s lengthy stay here, despite the fact that he yearly gets many better offers, by telling the story of the time the boys came back from the Army game with a defeat. They changed trains to come in at 2:00 a. m. The students met them at the station as always. So choked with emotion was Rockne that all he could say was, “I’ll never leave Notre Dame.”
Journalism Students Please Note
Student journalists at Washington university for one day will edit the Seattle Star. This is an annual event in Seattle. Seems to me it used to be an annual event for the journalists around here to publish the Scholastic (me week out of the year. Won’t somebody please remind ro do it this year so I can get another week’s vacation? (Editor’s Note: !!??** .Blank!) (Author’s Note: Tsk, Tsk, such a temper.)
Another College Gone Wrong
And maybe you think it hasn’t. Just look at this. The Blue Circle, an organization paralleling our own, has just been organized at Seton Hall college. And this is what it means to them:
“It’s purpose is to encourage and direct spirit in- all the activities of the college. It is a team of boosters for everything that pertains to Seton Hall.” With it, the skies around Seton Hall are bluer and clearer, the air is snappier, the men are livelier, more excited and peppy. It is just the thing Seton Hall has needed for years to bring her out of the doldrums, etc., etc. It is rumored that the • chairman has our own skinned a bit, the Seton Hall “upholders of traditions” even see to it that the students go to the football games, subscribe to the college paper, get their A. A. books, and that they patronize the Varsity Shop[pe]. (Editor’s Note: As a New Jersey man, I did have some respect for Seton Hall—up to the present.)
274
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE
Toss out a shoe At Jake McCue.
He always hogs The end of the pew.
QUICK WINKS
The charming effect of Al Howard’s toothless grin . . . Also Norm Herwitt’s . . . The new name of the President’s club . . . The festive spirit on the campus, probably due to the Northwestern influence on the boys who made the trip to Evanston . . . The surprise of this here now author when he was informed yesterday afternoon that a “Wink” was due for a Wednesday issue . . . The punk column he is turning out"... Dorschel and Spinelli in Sorin discussing ways and means of promoting a fight for charity to be held at Soldier field on Thanksgiving between the “Bugs” Moran and Al Capone gangs . . . The seven boys of the class of ’30 who graduated last St. Valentine’s day will not be eligible . . . The managers next door sitting and griping cheerfully about all the work they do . . . While this slave to publications pushes his pen and rattles the Underwood furiously to beat the deadline . . . Albert A. Albert of “Week” fame is more prominent, but J. Albert of Marinette is a better pal to us.
AUTUMN
Burnished gold and cinnabar, And russet bark and drifting leaves. Cheery voices ringing far, Sharp and clear as evening star, What else are more than these?
What else are more than these?— Marks of mellow age on languid earth When lazy summer dies and droning bees Swarm high amidst the pastel trees Where once the gentle spring took birth.
Autumn, thou art passing toise To have the browns tone up the green, When toe with weary satient eyes, Bemoan the summer’s florid guise And sigh for quite a different scene.
—Attache.
Since we are confronted with deadlines ourselves, we may as well declare a few of our own. The first applies to fall poetry. We have done right by the autumn season in a big way this year, and are now ready to receive shipments of snow-covered boughs, tinkling icicles, and Santa Claus rhymes.
THE JESTER
Of all the vain pursttits that keep the mind
Of man engaged, while in this blinding glare
Of life (he comes from darkness; there will find His rest) the quest for fame is most a snare.
If he believes in piety’s reivard,
Eternal bliss makes folly of men’s praise;
If death to him means but the earthly sward, Then noble fame is but a hollow phrase.
Hie, then! for mild enjoyment, night and sun,
Hearth’s warmth, rain’s beat, the flash of cool blue sea, Earth’s common things. The tender glance of one Who holds us dear is ample eulogy.
So, lad, flee fame, that solemn, pompous cheat,
Or trade gay living for a scur conceit.
—Deirdre.
We are just in receipt of an unsigned communication addressed to one Ali Bcoboo. The writer was undoubtedly laboring under a misapprehension of the gravest order. It is true that a certain uncouth Ali Booboo once gained entrance to these austere columns, probably through the connivance of the editor-in-chief. His reception was so caustic, however, that he has not since dared to show his name in print, the big sneak. To the unsigned writer, then, who evidently seems to have been traveling without his poetic license, _we can offer no assistance, even though he promised to return his rhymed boos to Washington hall by Saturday night.
WAR’S SIRENS
“The silver, snarling trumpets • ’gan to chide.” —Keats’ St. Agnes Eve.
Men’s graves deserve a nobler requiem. The silver, snarling trumpets yet do chide When, fraught with chilling, mocking ecstasy, They sound the call to war and gayly ride To arms! (to death) in taunting jzibilee.
Their melancholy float, is heard outside The anxious mother’s cot, in savage glee.
Oh, still the siren, trumpets and the drum— Men’s graves deserve a nobler requiem.
That’s a nice trick, to write a poem against war just before we meet the Army, isn’t it? Just so there aren’t any pacifists in the cheering section Saturday afternoon.
—The Beamy Bard.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
IIIICI'J PAGE
Sv

THE ARMY GAME
Once each season for the last seventeen years the Notre Dame football team has met the team of the United States Military Academy in games that were played under the most pleasant of circumstances. These games have been of a kind that have served to strengthen the always friendly relations between the two institutions, and to make for the continuance of the annual Notre Dame-Army games. With the increase in interest in football, and since the split between the two service elevens, the Notre Dame-Army game is attracting more attention than any other contest during the successive seasons.
As a result, through the medium of a remarkable football team, the University itself has attained, or rather received, national recognition. There has been no exploitation of either team or school, as is common today, but attention has been drawn naturally to both. The critics, always willing to enlarge upon the slightest fault, have found behind Notre Danie’s football team a university as well established and as well founded in academic tradition as any in the country. They have found not an institution devoted to little more than year-round training for football, but one that is maintained for the sole purpose of education, with athletics assuming no more than a secondary position in the routine of the University. Interest in athletics has not been allowed to detract from interest in scholastic activities in any way.
This is the state of affairs that must be made plain to every person who is apt to assign to Notre Dame no other function but that of producing winning teams. The University itself has gained recognition in scholastic circles, but it is the task of the students to make our position more clear to the ever-critical public by their actions before that public. Perhaps the best way is to help in every way possible to maintain the relations now existent between our University and the United States Military Academy. The game on Saturday will bring us into the public eye, and our conduct will be the factor by which the casual observer will judge team, university, and students.
THREE CAMPUS CLUBS
This is the season when most of the campus clubs come into their own. The club presidents begin to realize the importance of their positions as they appoint their committees, make statements to the press, and begin correspondence with various hotel proprietors, orchestra leaders, and jewelry companies throughout the country. They bask in a very transitory glory which is due to fade after Christmas as ingloriously and as rapidly as the gold on the holiday dance favors. The social functions of the city and state organizations are in their own way of some significance. In most instances they serve to hold the clubs together. They advertise not only the respective clubs, but also the University.
Although it is true that the accomplishments of these groups of students are to be commended to some extent, it is unfortunate that other organizations on the campus which have more worthy purposes and more academic aims, receive neither the credit nor the publicity which is their due. The Spectators, the Scribblers, and the Wranglers, for instance, represent the true scholastic spirit of the campus. There are other clubs, such as the Engineers’ club and the Academy of Science, which are to be praised for their work, although their members are limited to men specializing in the respective colleges they represent. The Scribblers and the Wranglers have established traditions behind them. They have evoked favorable comment in every part of the country where their literary and forensic accomplishments have been before the public. The Spectators are a comparatively infant organization, but they have already received some recognition as a progressive, ambitious, intellectual group of students.
Not a few of the campus collegiates are prone to adopt the “mucker pose” toward anything even suggesting the cultural. Their artificial'attitude, of course, is an obvious manifestation of their ignorance. They prefer the atmosphere of the poolroom to that of a scholastic gathering, and thereby lies the explanation of the rapidly growing conception of college men as highly efficient loafers. This influence on the campus has to be counteracted, and such clubs as the Spectators, the Scribblers, and the Wranglers are the best means of eradicating it.
276
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
f
ARMY KAYDETS ARE NEXT
West Pointers Block Path to 18th Consecutive Win With
Strong Defense.
EIGHTEEN consecutive wins will be the goal of the Fighting Irish Saturday when they match artillery and bombardments with the Army Mule on Soldier field. That particular occasion will also mark Notre Dame’s fifth contest on the Chicago gridiron, the first four-resulting in victories for the Rockmen.
The type of offense in which the Army, under the direction of Coach Major Ralph D. Sasse has been schooled is the same Notre Dame was confronted with in the game last week with Northwestern. It is the Warner-type with double wingback formation. Earlier competition of the same sort was met in Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh.
Army will have had almost three weeks of comparative rest when it comes time for the kick-off Saturday. On the last two week-ends they have successfully thrust aside easy foes in Kentucky college and Ursinus, using for the most part the second and third Stringers throughout both contests. Last Saturday the Mules kicked Ursinus around, 18 to 0, after running up a 47 to 2 score against Kentucky college the week before.
Only fifteen points have been scored against the Army outfit in nine games so far this season. One of the two touchdowns and another point was enough-to allow Yale to tie the West Pointers, 7 to 7, on October 25. On the other hand, offensively Major Sasse’s Kaydets have amassed 256 points. Boston U. came first on the schedule and were downed, 39 to 0. Army beat Furman, 54 to 0; Swarthmore, 39 to 0; Harvard, 6 to 0; University of North Dakota, 33 to 6; Illinois, 13 to 0, besides the Yale, Kentucky and Ursinus contests.
Army suffered a great loss when Cy Letzelter, former Carnegie Tech star, was declared ineligible for play with the Kaydets but, they have an outstanding back in Ed “Spinner” Herb.
Herb has been alternating at halfback and full throughout the season gaining the name “Spinner” by the way he spins out of the grasp of enemy tacklers. He scored the touchdown that let Army beat Harvard in their encounter and he will bear much watching on the part of the Rockmen.
The remainder- of the West Pointers’ backfield will probably consist of Bowman or Carver, quarterback, Fields and Sebastian or Stecker at the halves. On the line may be found Messinger and King, two very highly experienced ends, with the two tackles, Suarez and Price, next to them. Trice will be at right guard with Captain Humber on the left side. Miller will see service at the snapper-back position.
Spinners, passes, long and wide end runs, hidden ball plays, will all be seen in the game tomorrow as displayed by the Kaydets. Broshous, a substitute backfield man, is a field goal specialist and if by chance the score should be close toward the end of the game Army may use him in an effort
NORTHWESTERN WILDCATS DEFEATED BY LATE NOTRE DAME RALLY
THE Fighting Irish of Notre Dame are still undefeated. They met the clawing Wildcats of Northwestern in the bitterest battle of the year, and licked ’em. For three long quarters the battle raged up and down the sun lit gridiron, and then the class of the Rockmen began to show. In a mighty fourth quarter drive, the team that knows not defeat pushed across two touchdowns.
Marchmont Schwartz, the winged-foot phantom of Notre Dame, crushed the Wildcats’ hopes in the fourth quarter when he galloped 28 yards to a touchdown. Dan Hanley scored another immediately after to give the Fighting Irish their final margin of victory. Carideo kicked both extra points.
to pull the tide of victory toward them.
Coach Rockne will undoubtedly start his first stringers again as has been the custom of late, but it is hoped that the Army team will be found sufficiently weak so as to allow the first team to make way for the shockers. ■ The game a week away with Southern California, will require all the rest that is obtainable and Rock probably will not hesitate in injecting his shock troops into the fray if opportunity permits.
Army has a powerful outfit this year, not losing a single game out of nine played, and only one tie, that the 7-7 deadlock with Yale. Major Sasse’s eleven is looked upon as the strongest eleven in the east and Notre Dame’s win over Northwestern last week will be quite an incentive for the West Pointers to expend all their efforts toward victory. Each team has another game left besides Saturday’s; Army meets its traditional foe, Navy, in a charity contest, and Notre Dame tackles Southern California.
Northwestern was inspired — drunk with the thought of victory over Notre Dame. They had nothing to lose. They were champions of the Big Ten. The Fighting Irish were worn; harassed by injuries; due to crack.
Northwestern was defeated by its own strategy; they over-estimated their own ability. Then- game was to keep the ball from Notre Dame but that required so much effort that when the pay-off came they lacked the stamina to withstand the Fighting Irish.
With smashing, crashing, bonecrushing plunges the Purple carried the fight to Notre Dame in the first half. Twice they penetrated to the three yard line, and twice they fumbled as Notre Dame smashed them
The Notre Dame Scholastic
277

back. For thirty minutes they were • a great team, but in those thirty minutes they shot their bolt. They gained only ten yards from scrimmage in the second half.
As Northwestern played in the first half, so Notre Dame played in the second. Northwestern failed to score; Notre Dame didn’t fail. '
The Fighting Irish passed the Wildcats dizzy in the fourth quarter. Twice Notre Dame was stopped in Northwestern territory, and both times Carideo punted out of bounds inside their three- yard line. The second kick was called back and Northwestern penalized 15 yards for slugging. This proved to be the break of the game. Mullins hit center for no gain on the next play, and then Schwartz galloped down the sidelines for a touchdown.
The second score was easy. Dan Hanley intercepted a lateral pass on the 28-yard line. O’Connor crashed through to the 13. Schwartz passed to Carideo on the one-yard line, and Hanley crashed over.
Carideo was incomparable. No man ' ever did a better job of kicking. All during the first half he was punting 50 yards into the wind from behind his own goal line. Three times during the second half he placed the ball out of bounds inside the Wildcats’ ten-yard line. He ran the team with a daring that was astonishing, especially when we know him as the most conservative of quarterbacks. He scored both extra points with accurate place kicks, and he paved the way for the second touchdown when he caught Schwartz’s pass on the one-yard line.
Marchmont Schwartz has yet to be stopped. Northwestern checked the southern speed merchant for three
Qu iiiiittmiiiiin min iiiiiitiiiiiniiiiiiiitiiiniiitiiiiiii ini in Q I PROBABLE LINE-UP 1 1 TOMORROW
>
Notre Dame	Army	
Kosky	LE	Messinger
Culver	LT	Price
Kassis	LG	Humber (c)
Yarr	C	Miller
Metzger	RG	Trice
Kurth	RT	Suarez
Conley (c)	RE	King
Carideo	QB	Bowman
Schwartz	LH	Fields
Brill	RH	. Sebastian
Mullins	FB	Herb
fglintrnmininiKinimiiiuintmiHmiHiuiHiiuniiuitiitniM
quarters of the game, but in the fourth quarter he ran through their whole team for the winning touchdown. Metzger played a great game, participating in every play and almost singlehan-ded stopped the driving Bruder. Playing with a badly injured side, Metzger gave an exhibition of nerve and ability that will not soon be forgotten.
The game was the seventeenth consecutive victory for Notre Dame and the eighth of the season. Northwestern was hitherto undefeated, and then-team was considered as the best they ever had.
NoRTHWESTEItX
Notre Dave
Bakei’ ..............LE............... Host
Engebritsen ........LT.............. Culver
Woodworth ...........LG............. Kassis
Clark ................C............... Yarr
Evans ...............RG............ Metzger
Marvil ..............RT.............. Kurth
Fencl ...............RE............. Conley
Leach ...............QB............ Carideo
Bruder ..............LH........... Schwartz
Hanley ..............RH...............Brill
Russell .............FB............ Mullins
Touchdowns—Schwartz, Dan Hanley. Points after touchdowns—Carideo (2).
Substitutions: Northwestern—Riley for Engebritsen. Dilley for Evans, Oliphant for Fencl, Moore for Russell. Gonya for Engebritsen.
Notre Dame—Koskey for Host, O’Brien for Koskey. Dan Hanley for Mullins. O’Connor for Brill. Pitrce for Kassis, Donoghue for Kurth. Jaskwich for Cadieo.
Referee—H. B. Hackett (West Point.) Umpire—John Schommer (Chicago). Field judge . —-Fred Young (Illinois Wesleyan). Head linesman—Joe Lipp (Chicago).
BROWNSON HARRIERS ARE
INTERHALL CHAMPS
Racing away from the largest field interhall cross-country has yet produced Joe Young, Howard star, easily copped individual honors at the annual harrier meet last Friday. Brownson hall, however, took the team prize with a low total of 43 points. Brownson’s Main building rivals captured second place when Carroll totaled 45 points.
Young’s performance was probably the oustanding feature that the field of twenty-four produced. There were several interesting battles for the later places and it was in these that team result was decided. The winner covered the two and a quarter mile course in 11:10. Fifteen seconds later come Obergfall of Carroll, and Else, Brownson, trailed the winner by forty seconds to capture third place. Nineteen of the starting group were checked in as finishing.
The summary: 1—Young (Howard) ; 2—Obergfall (Carroll); 3—Else
(Brownson); 4—Wallace (Off-Campus) ; 5—McDonald (Brownson) ; 6— Colvin (Brownson); 7 — Cline (Lyons) ; 8—Maher (Howard) ; 9— Frank (Carroll) ; 10—Troy (Carroll) ; 11—Donaghue (Carroll); 12— Krseminski (Brownson); 13—Crawford (Carroll); 14 — Van Petten (Howard); 15 — Wenz (Howard); 16—Scanlon (Badin); 17—Varchak (Brownson); 18—Lambert (Walsh); 19—Krause (Sophomore).
WALSH, SOPHOMORE TAKE TO ROAD FOR GAMES
Notre Dame football, as played by the inter-hall elevens, will meet two real tests Thursday when Walsh and Sophomore halls will take the road. Both these Turkey day attractions will be for the benefit of charitable funds in the respective towns. ’
The championship Walsh aggregation will display its wares farther-south in Hoosierland where they encounter the Anderson, Indiana BannerFurniture Company’s team. It should develop into a real battle as the piano-handlers are reported to be especially powerful and the Walsh lads showed plenty of ability in their recent title campaign.
Sophomore’s entry into the Thanksgiving- festivities will travel to RiverForest, Illinois, to engage the Dodgers of that city. The east-siders have •been working hard and should be in fine shape to give the Illinois outfit an afternoon full of real football.
As these games form the only basis of comparison between inter-hall gridiron efficiency and that of amateur and semi-pro teams,the results will be watched for with considerable interest.
f«]iii>i»iniMMMmi>iMmi»»»M«ni»»mntii»iiiiti»iiim»i*iiHiti|»)
|	STATISTICS OF THE	|
1	GAME	|
=	First Downs:	i
=	Notre Dame, 9.	=
=	Northwestern, 6.	=
a	Yds. Gained From Scrimmage :	a
:	Notre Dame, 90.	=
1	Northwestern, 114.	=
1	Passes Completed:	i
i	Notre Dame, 4 of 12 for	60	=
-	z
i	yards.	=
i	Northwestern, none of nine.	=
E	PENALTIES:	=
|	Notre Dame, 50 yards.	=
S	Northwestern, 30 yards.	=
278
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
UNDEFEATED, UNTIED.
■ Only four teams remain in the elite class of undefeated and untied over the whole country. In the Midwest, Notre Dame holds the supreme seat, Alabama in the South and Utah and Washington State in the Far West.
Alabama meets Georgia in a Turkey day battle which might- spoil the former team’s dinner somewhat. Utah plays Utah Aggies and will no doubt end their season with a clear record. Washington State hooks up with Alabama in the Garden of Roses battle on New Year’s day and there will be one less undefeated and untied team in the country, providing both teams retain their spotless records until the day they meet.
GRID THOUGHTS.
Wonder if the game will end in iS scoreless tie . . . and if those outside who didn’t crash know howr the game is coming . . . Dyche stadium seating capacity 48,000 . . . and holding almost 53,000 . . . regular crashers aug
mented by Notre Dame band of 350 . . . Manager- staff of 175 . . . reserve football team of 375 . . . Glee club male quartet to sing during half . . . countless others . . . from pivot men in band to fake telegraph op . . .
Schwartz’s smart pass . . . with ball on Wildcats’ 15-yard line and two ends well covered, Marchy tosses to three Northwestern players standing on goal line . . . Bruder catching it without thinking . . . and being tackled on his own five-yard line . . . O’Brien’s great blocking of Hanley during Schwartz’s run for the first touchdown . . . Metzger’s keen match with Woodworth . . . Brill’s courage although week and ill . . . Seven minutes to go and still no score . . . Rock unperturbed and still sitting the same all through the game . . . the first touchdown . . . and Rockne is now up on his feet . . . the second and the payoff for the “even money but fourteen points” fans . . . Russell’s swell bucks . . . Carideo’s swell punting . . . the terrific tackling . . . even around the neck and the ball . . .
THE DOPE BUCKET.
The total in the bottom of the bucket shows 98 winners, 35 losses and 14 ties. Some good Turkey-day battles on tap, mostly traditional scraps with the result most anybody’s.
Saturday’s tilts bring several intersectional games of much interest. Stanford is host to Dartmouth while the undefeated Washington State team goes to the Quaker city to meet Villanova. Then of course there is the Army-Notre Dame battle. Not many more than 120,000 will see that game; Soldiers’ field won’t hold any more.
We’re going to predict one score for this week: NOTRE DAME WILL BEAT ARMY, 14-0.
PRETTY GOOD BOOTING.
Frank Carideo’s two successful place kicks last Saturday bring his season total up to 20 perfect kicks out of 24 attempts. Add Jaskwich’s two good kicks in three attempts and you arrive at an .815 average. Alone, Carideo has averaged .833.
With two more games left on the schedule, both being anything- but easy the trusty toe may play a very important part in deciding the winner
I ‘Spend Now’ Sale |
| At Meyer’s Drug Store You Receive the I
| Most for the Money You Spend i g	I
I	SHAVING NEEDS FOR LESS I
I	50c	Auto Strop Blades, 5’s---------  39c	*
I	65c	Barbasol Shaving Cream___________37c	।
I	60c	Koolshave Shaving Cream----------39c	j
. I	50c	Burma Shave______________________42c	j
1	35c	Colgate’s Shaving Cream__________29c	|
I	50c	Durham Duplex Blades-------------39c	?
J	35c	Ever Ready Blades________________29c	|
I	35c	‘Palmolive Shaving Cream---------21c	|
1	25c	Palmolive Talcum_________________19c	f
j §1.00 Gillette Blades, 10’s____________77c |
n—tm——b—ni—n—m—bh—bu~—n-j
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
I I	STORE j
|	Comer Michigan and Colfax	I
*-------------—---------------—i.
j The Favorite Eating Place of
।	Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic
279
of the games with Army and Southern California. The latter team, by the way, meets the University of Washington Thanksgiving day, which team was badly trounced by Stanford.
ARMY’S WINGBACK SYSTEM.
The success of the. Warner wing-back system used by the Army outfit can well be appreciated by the fact that eight of the twelve companies having teams enrolled in the intermural oi- “inter-murder” league, as more appropriately called, use that particular system. The aim is to have all of the Army coaches employ the Warner formations universally.


VW
LYONS LOSES TOLEDO CHARITY CONTEST
About 2,000 fans turned out for the game in which Lyons hall team was defeated by the Birmingham Boosters in Toledo Saturday by a score of 15-0. The proceeds of the game were used for charity in East Toledo.
The Notre Dame hall team made a serious threat to score in the second • period after a scoreless first quarter. From their own 20-yard line the Lyons outfit pushed the ball 60 yards down the field only to find the Boosters a bit too tough on their own 20-yard stripe. As the quarter ended, Lyons lost the ball on downs and the long drive was ended.
. With but two minutes of the second period remaining the Toledo aggregation again took the ball on downs near the center of the field. One pass was good for 18 yards and on the next play another pass, Morse to Torday, netted the first touchdown of the game. The kick for extra point was good.
When a Lyons kicker attempted to punt the ball out of danger from behind the goal line, the ball was-blocked and it rolled to the ten-yard line where a Toledo player scooped it up to run the ten yards to cross the last marker. The kick after this touchdown was unsuccessful. Another Lyons punt was blocked behind the goal line, a Notre Dame player falling on it to be smothered under for a safety, bringing the score to its final status, 15-0.
Twenty-two men made the trip, accompanied by J. D. McQuaid, coach, and Bill Kenefick, manager of the outfit. They were: Citro, Conti, Gosselin, Chadwick, Bontempo, Capter, Con- * nelly, Conaton, Cox, Norris, Woods, Oelrich, Riley, Bohnsack, Bede, Em- < merick, Hilger, Wulligan, Travers, McCabe, Behrman, and Dames.
1 855 • S E V E N T Y - F I F T H ANNIVERSARY • 1930
STEEL under the microscope
Burnished mirror-bright, etched in an acid-bath, a shiny square of steel is placed in the projector microscope in the metallography room at Crane laboratories.
To the layman, the texture disclosed is surprising as the filigree design of magnified snowflakes. Sometimes it is like a relief map of mountain ranges, sometimes like finely veined marble, sometimes like cumulous clouds.
But to the scientist in metals who judges it with a connoisseur’s eye, the surface tells a far wider story. It discloses coarse uneven or beautiful fine grains, tells of disproportions and proportions of constituents in the alloy, speaks volumes concerning malleability, ductility, hardness . .. gives a key to action of the metal in service, all based upon knowledge of the product.
Careful metallographic records of all. metals used in Crane valves and fittings, painstaking microscopic examination of all new metals offered for possible use, are a part of the check and double check and triple check which is routine in Crane research and manufacturing.
The full story of Crane application of chemistry and science to metals is told in a fascinating book,tc Pioneering in Science. ’ ’ Itis a valuable reference book forstudents. Let us send you one.
I yalvet
RAN Ex
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM, LIQUIDS, OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO., GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO
NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 WEST 44th STREET
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety-six Gties
280
The Notre Dame Scholastic
WEST POINT-PLEBE TO OFFICER
Sketch of The Military Academy
General View at West Point
Showing parade ground in the foreground, Chapel in rear and up, North Barracks on right, and South Barracks in shadows at left.
West Point, which receives its name because of its geographical position, a point jutting into the Hudson River, was first emblazoned upon the pages of history in 1776 when the realization came to both contestants of the war of the Revolution that a strategical position which would control the Hudson was necessary. It was fortified by the patriots and its garrison held the river, thus preventing the British from cutting New England off from the rest of the colonies. Since that date, American troops have occupied West Point continuously.
The Military Academy was founded in 1802 and the rank of Cadet authorized by Act of Congress. In 1818, Major Sylvanus Thayer, U. S. M. A.
Charles I. Humeer, Captain
1812, and a graduate of Dartmouth College, was appointed Superintendent. Under his guidance West Point grew and prospered. It was he who inaugurated the strict discipline for which West Point is famous, established the curriculum substantially as it is today, and laid down the policy of small sections for recitations so that every cadet may recite and receive a grade every day. To him goes the title, “Father of the Military Academy.”	'	.
From its small beginning, West Point has grown into a world famous institution. Its graduates conquered the West and built the railroads, saved the Union in the War of the Rebellion, and were of invaluable aid in the Mexican, Spanish-American, and World Wars. Lee, Jackson, Beauregard, Davis, Sherman, Sheridan, Grant, Custer, Pershing, Goe-thals, and many other famous Americans were graduates of West Point. Whistler, the great American painter, and Edgar Allen Poe, were ex-cadets. It might be added that Poe didn’t like the place very well and managed to get himself court-martialed and dismissed before his plebe, or freshman, year was over.
Let me quote the opinion of that great American, Theodore Roosevelt. At the Centennial Exercises, June 11, 1902, he said: “This institution has completed its first hundred years of life. During that century, no other institution in the land has contributed
so many names as West Point has contributed to the honor- roll of the Nation’s greatest citizens.”
The academic system at West Point is unique in that every cadet takes every subject in the curriculum, which includes some difficult mathematics in the first two years of the course. There are no electives and no cut classes. Men are arranged in sections, numbering from twelve to sixteen men each. Sections form in the area of barracks at assembly, absentees are reported to the guard, and the highest ranking man in each section marches the section to the place of instruction. In addition to the academic work, practical and theoret-
Major Ralph D. Sasse, Coach
The Notre Dame Scholastic
281
ical instruction is given in infantry, cavalry, field and coast artillery, air corps, signal corps, and the corps of engineers.
It might seem that cadet life is all work and no play, but such is not the case. Intra-mural athletics in all sports are compulsory for cadets who do not make the varsity squads. Football is the most popular fall sport and baseball the spring favorite. Each of the twelve companies has a team entered in every sport and a championship series is played to determine the winner. The new Army system of double wing backs has made a hit with the Corps and eight out of twelve of the “inter murder” teams used it all fall. One man predicted that within five years there will be no less than two hundred service teams using the double wing back attack. This is not improbable as the major object of intra-mural is to prepare future officers to coach soldiers’ teams out in the army.
Social diversion is offered cadets over the weekends provided they are
not serving confinements or treading hour-long punishment tours (three hours at a time) on the area. The Point is overrun with femmes every weekend and the Saturday night hops in Cullum Hall are gay affairs.
There is no hazing at West Point, but the plebes have a hard time for all that. The plebe system at West Point is probably the most trying of all. Corps custom requires that plebes stand at attention and use “sir” in addressing upper-classmen. They must brace in ranks at all times by throwing their shoulders down and back, keeping their heads up, chins in, and eyes straight to the front. This is a prime factor in the acquisition of a smart carriage. The plebes also perform the small amount of fatigue duty incumbent upon the Corps, such as cutting meat and pouring the liquids at the table at mess, delivering mail in their own companies, and taking care of the trunk rooms. They may not attend hops or go on Christmas Leave. Theirs is not exactly a happy life, but they manage to get by.
Of all the things at West Point, we are most proud of our Honor System and our motto, “DUTY, HONOR, COUNTRY.” An infraction of honor is punished by swift dismissal. Cheating’, lying, and stealing are impossible at West Point without detection. The Corps guards nothing so zealously as its Honor.
Small space and a large amount of material make this rather sketchy sketch of West Point rather incoherent. In closing I want to say that the Corps of Cadets honor Notre Dame as a splendid rival. We would rather win tie Notre Dame game than any other, although defeat by the Fighting Irish doesn’t rankle as other defeats. Newspapermen made much of the fact that the Corps cheered wildly at the Harvard game when it became known that Notre Dame led Carnegie Tech at the half. Fight then, you fighting harps, and come to us undefeated and untied—and, darn it, if they went by the newsreels we could come to you the same way.
THE SENTIMENT OF THE CORPS
By Cadet J. W. Rudolph
NOTHING approaches the spirit with which the Army team faces Notre Dame. For sixteen years the Irish and the Mule have tangled, and out of that rivalry has come a mutual admiration unparalleled in football annals. Separated by half a continent, the two schools have tested each other to the utmost on the field of sport. From this test springs a spirit of combativeness, a desire to win, and an emotional stimulus equal to that of any local feud, yet devoid of the petty rowdyism that usually goes hand in hand with such rivalry.
Notre Dame has always been the big game on the Army calendar. And Army is reasonably certain that its midwestern opponent values a victory over the Cadets as much as any other prize of the season. Yet in spite of this keen, belligerent spirit, relations between the two institutions have always been of the most cordial and gentlemanly nature.
The desire for victory is not prompted by any indictiveness. It springs, rather, from the supreme
satisfaction of meeting and conquering the stiffest kind of opposition. An Army team that can lick Notre Dame is good, because it has to be. Inversely, a Notre Dame eleven that can win from a fighting Army team is of the highest calibre.
Whatever the result, both teams always know that they have come through a gruelling fight. The low scores of the majority of these games indicate the fierceness of the play as well as the quality of football produced.
The story of the Notre Dame-Army series is in itself a tribute to both institutions. It is a story of mutual admiration and foemen worthy of each other’s steel. This year an Army team journeys west to meet its old rival on neutral ground. The entire Corps and the service is backing the Big Team to win. If it loses it will be because Notre Dame has the better team—a great team. And either way, it’s hats off to the Irish—fine sportsmen, splendid fighters, and gallant gentlemen I
El
i STATEMENT OF CAPTAIN |
I CHARLES I. (POLLY) |
E	HUMBER: - i
E “The Corps of Cadets and the = E Army team concede that Notre = E Dame has a iconderful team. 1 E The Irish hare buried all their E E opponents in defeat. From the E 1 North, East, South, and West E E collegiate teams of major calibre E E have bowed before their machine. E : Army has not tasted such, intox- E : icating fruits of victory, but ive e E have managed to keep our slate E E clean from defeat. Ours is a E E green team just coming into the E E floiver of adolescence. Neverthe- : E less, it is a great team, always E E playing a heads-up game, fight- = E ing to the last minute.	E
E “What U'ill be the outcome to- E E morrozv? That remains to be E E decided then. Suffice it to say, E E Army is coming with every E E ounce of energzj directed tozcard E E a victory. Whether we emerge E E in defeat or victory we shall al- E i ways feel the greatest esteem e E foi' our keenest rival, Notre E E Dame.	E
E “Best of luck to Rockne and E E to the Notre Dame team; may E E thezj win them all—except one!” E
0iaB»aiaaaaaaaaaaBaaaeaia8Bmaaiainaaiaiinai»iiaaaaiaaaaaaiaaaaaamQ
282
The Notre Dame Scholastic
QUALITY EY
IILELNULIMEI
ALACK
STARTING SUNDAY
They’re warm
They’re comfortable
A Pleasing New Bill of
RKO Vaudeville
featuring four acts with an over-abundance of talent that will present you with the best entertainment you have seen in years.
They’re good looking
Our overcoats fulfill these three necessary requirements and at the same time are priced reasonably.
Insist on Quality by Kuppenheimer
GCCE> CLOTHES ECL
UNIVELJITy MEN
----------On the Screen------
“MAN TO MAN”
A picture that you will cherish in your memory for time to come I . . . .
With
PHILIP HOLMES
Constance
BENNETT
Unforgetable Star of
“Common Clay” in
A far greater role that will proclaim h e r the “star- of stars.” . . .
“Sin Takes a Holiday”
The triumph of the industry. A picture that will top the list of splendid productions you have seen at the Granada.
To miss this is to miss a real bit of entertainment.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
BROWNSON - CARROLL
PLAY SCORELESS TIE
In a game marked by more interest, more vicious tackling and better blocking than seen in any of the interhall games during the regular season, two all-star teams from Brownson and Carroll halls battled to a scoreless tie last Sunday afternoon on the Brownson gridiron.
Brownson passed up the only real scoring threat during the game in the first quarter. After Hederman passed to Conlon for a gain of 35 yards, Smith skirted right end for1 five and Stancook galloped through center for fifteen more. Aided by a penalty the Brownsonites moved up to the three-yard line but Carroll’s men held there for four successive downs.
In the next period Dixon, Carroll quarterback, intercepted a pass and scampered some 60 yards before he was brought down on the 15-yard line only to find his team penalized on the play for off-side. The second half
opened with the Carroll team forcing the ball into the Brownson territory. Stancook, Brownson’s star fullback, intercepted Kane’s pass and halted the advance for the time. During this period of the game the offense of both teams was very poor and ragged.
During the last quarter Raschei' broke through the Brownson line and blocked one of Ed Harrold’s punts on the Brownson 22-yard stripe. Carroll then passed its way to the opponents’ 12-yard line only to lose the ball on a fumble, DeNoyers recovering for Brownson.
The wonderful punting’of Harrold, Brownson’s right end, was the feature of the game. Twice he punted to t-he Carroll 10-yard line and once to their six-yard stripe. Besides Harrold at end, Conlon and Favret played well on the Brownson line. Stancook and Hederman were the team’s backfield aces. Dixon and Johnson were the Carroll backfield stars with Mueller, Shrenker, Carmody and Rasher1 the bright spots on the Carroll front wall.
Bkowxsox	Carroll
Conlon .............LE............ Meyers
Favret .............LT........... Rascher
Corley .............LG............. Shott
Ryan.................C........... Carmody
Kresminski ........RG............ Mueller
Osborne ............RT.......... Shrinker
Harrold ............RE......... Carpenter
DeNoyers ...........QB............. Dixon
Smith ..............LH........... Johnson
Hederman ...........RH.............. Kane
Stancook ...........FB........... DeHughy
Substitutions: Brownson--Connelly for Conlon. Pomasenti for Corley. Perrin for Harrold. Braux for Smith. Belting for Hederman.
Carroll—Halpin for Myers.
Officials: Referee—John Kuhn.	Umpire—•
Ed. Braescher. Head linesman—Joseph Ford.
RESERVES LEAVE FOR
VANDERBILT CONTEST
A squad of twenty-five players, led by junior manager Joe McKeon, left Wednesady morning for Nashville, Tennessee, where the Vanderbilt “B” team is to be met Thanksgiving day in a charity benefit game. Owing to the fact that Vanderbilt’s reserve team has been quite strong and Notre Dame’s reserve outfit have won six of seven tilts played, a large crowd is expected to see the two teams meet.
STARTS SAT.
fOLFAY
THEATRE/W
THRU TUES.
TOGETHER THEY ANSWER THE PUBLIC’S CLAMOR FOR A PERFECT BLEND OF EARTHLY HUMOR AND UNFORGETABLE DRAMA!..................
WALLACE EEERY MARIE CDESSLER
In a picture that sweeps you along the road of laughter, tears, tense drama, to a mighty climax.
•’MIS and BILL”
A Metro Picture
------ADDED-----
VITAPHONE
SOUND	VODVIL
ONE OF THE PUBLIX THEATERS
-----ADDED----
PARAMOUNT
SOUND	NEWS
284
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HARRIER SEASON ENDS WITH FAIR SUCCESS
Although a check-up of the win and loss column reveals a losing percentage, the 1930 cross-country season can well be called a success. The records show two victories for the Blue and Gold against three defeats, yet Coach Nicholson is pleased, and does not hesitate to say so. At the start of the season but two veterans
When Thanksgiving—born of gladness— gives the human heart a glow,
That "old home urge” keeps calling and you truly long to go;
Yet, circumstance so often halts commendable desire—
There’s just one way to ease your soul— get Mother on the wire!
By William Herschell
The Economical
Noice of MiIlions
Her glad "Hello!”, your glad "Hello!”, somehow erases miles;
You have a tear, she has a tear, but each is framed with smiles!
She hears you tell regretfully you can’t get home today,
Then thanks God for the telephone— you’re not so far away!
Each feels a thrill of gratitude for blessings you enjoy—
Your Father couldn’t say "Hello!” for solace when a boy!
To her you seem so near at hand, her old heart feels a zest
To reach right through the telephone and take you to her breast!
How times have changed! No longer miles are counted far away
When fireside ties are broken on the glad Thanksgiving Day;
We feel each other nearer, though back home we cannot go—
So let us all be grateful for the happiest "Hello!”
Indiana Bell Telephone
Company
reported for practice. Ex-captain Joe Quigley and Gene Howrey had proved their worth in previous competition. Bauers was a member of the 1929 team but could hardly be classed as a veteran. Two men on whom “Nick” had counted heavily failed to report for this sport in order to rest up for the strenuous track season ahead. The loss of such men as Alex Wilson and Jim Biggins proved a severe setback in the early part of the season.
Nicholson is not the kind to give up so easily, however, and he set to work to build up a formidable team from the material at hand. Tom Grimes, who starred in the distances as a freshman last year, started early to prove that he was of varsity caliber. He did, and, together with Rudd, Ewing, Duke, and Russnak, broke into the scoring column in nearly every meet.
Shortly before the Butler meet, which opened the season, Gene Howrey, a junior running his second year in varsity competition, was elected captain for the 1930 season to succeed Joe Quigley, who had also served in that capacity during his third year at school in 1929. Gene proved to be a good captain. He attained top-form early in the season and maintained it throughout. He led the Notre Dame harriers under the wire in every meet and set a good example to the younger men of the squad by his constant plugging and perfect condition.
The season was opened very in-auspiciously with a 25 to 31 set-back at the hands of the experienced Butler university team. The following Saturday, October 25, Notre Dame annexed third place in a quadrangalur meet with Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Illinois. The Badgers also were too strong and had things their own way for practically the entire race. The one redeeming feature for the Fighting Irish however was the performance of Captain Howrey. Gene jumped into the lead at the start and held his place for the entire distance to lower the course record by nearly one full minute. Quigley again was the next one of Coach Nicholson’s harriers to finish and he was followed by Grimes, Duke and Russnak.
On November 1, Notre Dame received its third straight defeat, at the hands of a strong Crimson squad from Indiana. Here again, Howrey took off winning honors beating such stars as Leas, Brockmeyer and Kemp. Quigley took sixth, Grimes ninth, Bauers tenth, and Duke eleventh, but Indiana had done its damage and won easily by score of 21 to 36.
The following week-end the Notre Dame team came into its own for the first time during the season, when it closed its home activities for the year with a well-earned victory over Michigan State. The Spartans were about the only team on the schedule this year who possessed an equal amount of experience as our own harriers. The squad from Michigan, however, boasted a star who ran away with the National Intercollegiate meet in New

The Notre Dame -Scholastic
285
York two weeks ago. Clark Chamberlain had things his own way against Notre Dame, also, and won by nearly four hundred yards from Howrey, Grimes, Quigley, and the rest of the Blue and Gold squad. This meet marked the second defeat of the season for the Spartans and the first in four years at the hands of a Notre Dame team.
Having once tasted victory Coach Nicholson’s men could not be stopped. They journeyed to Iowa City to deal a decisive defeat to the Hawkeyes to the tune of 21 to 36. Captain Howrey concluded his year’s work with what was possibly the best performance of his career. The entire squad showed up well however, and deserves much praise. Grimes placed third, Bauers showed fine “sticking-powers” to take fourth, and Ewing and Duke divided sixth and seventh between them. Joe Quigley was forced to drop out of the race because of illness.
And so what started out as an ill-fated season ended in a blaze of glory. As in past years Coach Nicholson demonstrated his wonderful ability to develop raw material into seasoned and capable runners. His work this season and in the past deserves better support than is accorded him by the student body. He has brought the sport of cross-country from the stage where it was about to be dropped from the list of varsity competition to its present position as a quasi-major sport. He has been handicapped all along by a dearth of material with which to work. A school the size of Notre Dame should produce far more than twenty candidates for a varsity team, yet this is the number that reported to “Nick” at the beginning of the season. To produce results as he has, then, is surely worthy of much commendation. .
Q
BY 4 P. M. their energy has gone. They listen to the lecture without paying real attention. Naturally the exam finds them unprepared.
Loss of energy, listlessness, lack
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in
INDOOR TRACK WORK
BEGINS NEXT MONDAY
Coach John P. Nicholson has set Monday, December 1, as the day for distribution of equipment for indoor track aspirants. Daily workouts will then be in order and upon return to school from the Christmas vacation the runners will get down to regular drills. Although nothing definite has been announcetl the first indoor track meet will probably be held about the end of January or the first part of February.
the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT
Ml, milton
A Fl PIT NATIONAL-VITAPHONE JTAR
Selects

PREJENW
CREATIONS
IN
^he latest ' ^Weaves
FIN WT WORSTED
-AN O
ZEPHYR YARNT
employed to insure
EXCEPTIONAL
Service.
J PerfectFitting Sweater
-with permafttr seam

of appetite are signs of constipation. This condition is a serious
handicap to class and campus life.
Yet it can be overcome so easily, so pleasantly. Just eat a delicious cereal: Kellogg’s All-Bran. Two tablespoonfuls daily are guaranteed to give relief. Ask that it be served
Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee——the coffee that lets you sleep.
at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
286
The Notre Dame Scholastic
NOTRE DAME STARS OF FORMER YEARS TO PLAY
IN N. U. CHARITY GAME
Past Northwestern Players to Be Opponents in Contest
Preparations have been macle on the campus during the week for the All - Northwestern - All - Notre Dame football game to be played tomorrow at ten o’clock on Soldiers’ field. The teams, composed of former stars of Northwestern and Notre Dame, have been invited to play by the respective coaches for the benefit of charity. The gate receipts will go to the Shriner’s charity fund.
Many of the former Notre Dame stars have returned to confer with Rockne and to hold secret practice sessions on Carter field. Among the more well known are Tim Moynihan, former All-Western center, Jack Cannon, All-Amercan guard, and Joe Nash, Ted Twomey and Jack Elder, all members of last year’s squad. Noble Kizer, coach of Purdue university, Adam Walsh and Joe Bach, all of the 1924 line, together with Don Miller and Jimmy Crowley, of Four Horsemen fame, have volunteered their services.
The present coaching staff, all former players, is to be represented- by Heartley Anderson, Rockne’s right hand man and former guard, Jack Chevigny, backfield coach and halfback of the 1928 team, Ike Voedisch, end coach, and Bill Jones, freshman coach.
Other stars who have consented to play are Vince Harrington, guard of some five or six years ago, John McMullin, tackle of 1925, Rex Enright, All-Western fullback of 1925, Art Parisien,. quarterback of the 1926 team, Fred Collins, the fullback of 1928, Tom Hearnden and Gene Edwards, co-captains in 1926, Norm Barry, of the undefeated 1919-1920 team, and Christy Flanigan halfback in 1926.
“SCRIP” OUT; CONTAINS
EXCELLENT MATERIAL
Scrip, the University literary quarterly, made its first appearance of the season Monday night. This publication, beginning its second year as a quarterly, is edited by Louis A. Brennan. The excellent quality of the first issue indicates that Scrip will exceed the high standard set by last year’s publication. Louis Heitger, editor of Scrip last year, contributes an interesting account of his impression of Dr. G. K. Chesterton, gained from a
ECONOMY!
Going Home For Thanksgiving?
Ride Colonial Stages
The Busses The Students Bide
TYPICAL LOW FARES
	One Way.	Round Trip.
Pittsburgh ...		$ 9.00	$16.20
New York....			19.00	34.20
Cleveland 			 6.75	12.15
Youngstown		 7.65	13.75
Buffalo 			 10.25	18.45
Detroit 			6.75
Toledo 			 3.75	6.75
Reliable Connections
All reclining chairs All Steel Busses
Frequent Schedules Busses Everywhere
Tickets and information, 217 W. Jefferson Blvd. Phone 3-5500
personal chat with Notre Dame’s distinguished visitor. A short story, “The Way Home,” by Mr. Brennan, the present editor, is an excellent psychological study of human emotions. “Chopin Prelude,” by Francis Thornton; “The Mystic,” by Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C.; “Northland,” by Charles Carey, C.S.C., and a sonnet by Joseph Carroll, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, are all poems of high quality. “The FiddlingSorcerer,” a phantasy in one act, by Joseph Clemens, is beautifully done.
SPEED!
LOW RATES EVERYWHERE
One Way. Round Trip.
Cincinnati 			$ 5.95	$10.70
Louisville 			 6.00	10.80
Nashville				 . 10.00	• 18.00
St. Louis			 6.00	10.80
Chicago 	...	..	..	2.25	4.05
Columbus 			 7.50	13.50
Dayton 			 6.00	10.80
TEAM TO LEAVE FOR
U.S.C. AFTER ARMY GAME
The Notre Dame football squad will leave for Chicago on Saturday morning, via the New York Central, for their game with the Army. They will remain in Chicago after the game and will leave for the Coast on Monday.
Campus Representative
Leo Kletzly, I Morrissey Hall
SAFETY!
COMFORT!

The Notre Dame Scholastic
GLEANINGS
David Lehman, remembered by the present senior class for his “Thou Swell” stories, and his Humor section of the Dome maintains his humorous bent. His work is appearing regularly in Life and Judge.
Walter (Brick) Smith is now in St. Louis, reporting foi- the Star.
Eugene Duffy is with the New York Herald-Tribune, writing advertising.
Larry Moore, chairman of the Blue Circle two years ago, has returned to Hollywood after a year in New York with the Fox Film Company.
John McMahon, of the very literary
287
class of ’28, is now on the “lobster shift” of the New York Sun.
A Leo Love, terror of sophomore commerce men, is now studying for his M.S. degree at Columbia.
Stephen Wozniak, ’28, is studying at the University of Krakow, Krow-oderska, Poland. He is specializing in international law.
George Conners, ’28, has been recently appointed associate editor of Aviation, a McGraw-Hill magazine.
Harry Olbricht, ’29, is now on the staff of McCalls and the Red Book.
Charley Judge, also of the class of ’29, is one of the sales managers for the Crowell Publishing Company.
w INN
^PAINTED
WITH LICHT"
Les Grady,, the Funny Fellow of 1927, is at present the editor of Film Fun.
WORLD'S
FAIR LIGHTING
Walter Hugh Layne, Juggler editor of 1928, is on the editorial staff of two of the McFadden publications.
Franklyn Doan, editor- of the Dome of ’27, is now connected with Collier’s.
Larry Culliney and Bernie Garber, both of the class of ’28, are also among the Notre Dame contingent in the New York magazine world.

DANCE FLOOR WITH SURFACE OF TEAK &
EBONY
'h
7.
■ Murray Young, ’29, is teaching at the City College of New York and at DeWitt Clinton High school.
Bart McHugh,of “bear with me” fame, (Only juniors and seniors will ■ recall that speech on the Court house steps) is now extolling the merits of a new master, The Pictorial Review.


H. G. LeStrange, ’27, is selling advertising for Nature Magazine.
STOP
AT HOTEL SHERMAN $2?o AND UP SINGLE 14?° AND UP DOUBLE DRIVE
YOUR CAR RIGHT INTO HOTEL SHERMAN
Jack Mullen, ’28, former editor of the Scholastic, continues in that profession. He is now with the Chicago Tribune.	'
I	$ NEW	I
COLLEGE INN
CENTER OF CHICAGOS NIGHT-LIFE 'N HOTEL SHERMAN - • • RANDOLPH AT CLARK STREET '
288
The Notre Dame Scholastic
" ON DOWN THE LINE
. . . JOE TURNESA, professional golfer, has six brothers who have followed in his steps . . . the youngest is WILLIE, aged 16 . . . The great ART SHIRES has penned his name to a movie contract . . . WHATAMAN ARTHUR will take the part of a villainous boxer in a serial . . . EDDIE BAKER, Pittsburgh star quarter, never made a touchdown till this season . . . Three of the Big Ten coaches have sons playing football . . . “HURRY UP” YOST, ALONZO STAGG, and PAT PAGE ... In seven years of high school, freshman and varsity competition, JACK JOHNSON, 220-pound tackle who plays for Utah, has never been the member of a losing team . . .
In this age when everyone seems to wcrk and play at top speed it is no easy matter
“Most Energetic
Man”
io be “most energetic man” of the senior class. But good health will go a long way toward helping you carry off the title.
the untiring stamina that campus activities demand. They promote the clear active mind, too, that makes hard work count for some-
. . . The late WALTER ECKER-SALL of the University of Chicago twice performed the rare feat of dropkicking five goals during a game . . . against Nebraska in 1905 and against Illinois in 1906 ... In their game with Princeton, Navy was penalized 110 yards in the fourth quarter alone . . . Here’s an old polo pair . . . ELMER BOESKE, the oldest candidate for a place on the United States polo team, rides THE LARK, a 17-year old pony . . .
Shredded Wheat is a natural energy builder. These crisp delicious biscuits include all the food elements needed for
thing. Eat two biscuits with plenty of rich milk every morning. It will help make you a “go-getter” in no time.
. . . When St. Mary’s, from away out there on the coast, played its first game of intercollegiate football it was defeated by the University of California . . . America’s most ancient rival in football is that between Yale and Princeton, established in 1873 . . . Yale has won 29, while Princeton triumphed 17 times and nine games resulted in ties . . . JACKSON CANNEL, head coach of the undefeated Dartmouth team, has signed a contract to coach that school for three more years . . .
... At one time Yale, Princeton, and Harvard were the only three schools which played football . .. now they are the only teams that don’t . . . Before night baseball can be adopted by the major leagues, an amendment to rule 22 will be necessary . . . this . rule stipulates that every game must start not later than two hours before sunset ... 18 of the 28 games won by “LEFTY GROVE” were taken from Cleveland, Boston and Detroit ...