
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to 
Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic l\fagazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
' 

Enclosed is a check for $25.00X __ years=$ 
BER 

STU DE N1 


ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY 6 DEPARTMENTS 
Movies 
2 
Darkman 
Editorial 
7 
3

Music 
Jane's Addiction 

On Other Campuses 
Sonic Youth 
4 

Week In Distortion 



CAMPUS LIFE COVER 
10 
5
14 

The Loyal Sons Are Marching 
"We're Back" · Women promoted at Notre Dame The Unexamined Life Three familiar faces from 1988 return for another run at the title 
19 


SPORTS Coming Distractions
NEWS 
17 
8 


Michigan Preview 
20


·Newbriefs 

New Face From An Old Place 

Final Word 





Begin 

the 
Vol. 132, No. 1 September 13, 1990 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael C. Wieber 
MANAGING EDITOR Derik T. Weldon 
NEWS EDITOR Traci Taghon 
SPORTS EDITOR Brian McMahon 
SPORTS ASSISTANT Jon Paul Potts 
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange 
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Tim Rogers 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
Mari Okuda 
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT Paul Webb 
COPY EDITOR 
Dave Raedy 
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER Patricia Doyle 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Tony Porcelli 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jim Fitzgerald 
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER 
Jeanne Naylor 

Schouzslic is pwbliskd wukly lluowglwwt th, scJwol y,ar acept dwring umnirudion mrdNCIZlianperiodsal th, Uni-ocsityofNolrt:Danu,,Nolre Dam,,IN,46556,md printed al ThePapcs,Inc.,Milford,IN 46542. The swbscription rat,is$25.00/yl!ll1' ,md backissuesar, ll'Oailableat $1.25/copy. Tkopinians apressed in Schouzsticllre llwseoflhe wl/wrs,md cditors,md do not nec=ily r,pr=t th, opinions of lk entire cdiJorW bo<zrd of Schouzstic or ofth, Unirxrsity ofNotre Dam,, its odministralion, faculty or stiuio,ts. EdilorWs signed Scholastic r,pr=I the opinion of lk maprity oflk aecwli"" cdiJorW board. Mllllwscripls ,,,, 'UJ<lamu:. All wnsolieilid malt.rims b,com, lk properly ofScholastic. 
CDpyrighl 1990 Schouzst~ Magazj,,,,_ All rights rt:SaTJcd. &production in w/wle or in par! willwvl wrill,n pmnissum is prohibited. 
So, how was your... thought we were going to say it, didn't you? Nope. 
It's impossible to say welcome back without sounding trite, so allow us the standard greeting: We hope your summers were relaxing, warm and profitable. 
Every new school year brings with it changes for Notre Dame and its stu­dents. We are proud to announce that change has also come to Scholastic. We have a new format which is easier on the eyes and will help us to accom­plish our goal for this year: to better serve you, Notre Dame's students, with stories and features that interest you and address your needs. 
If it sounds like we are using the same rhetoric that you hear in any student body election campaign, you're wrong. 
Scholastic, along with other publi­cations on campus which are funded by the university, has be.en criticized by students for being a "mouthpiece of the administration." 
To set the story straight, the admini­stration is our publisher and Scholastic's editorial board is under no more stringent guidelines than any 

Begin 

other magazine in America: They simply want us to print what is legally and journalistically correct, not to avoid talking about birth control, homosexuality or other controversial issues. 
To this end, the complete coverage of issues pei:taining to Notre Dame's students, we at Scholastic are com­mitted. But we cannot do much with­out student input. We strongly en­courage letters to the editor because they are the only way we know how well we are serving you-our audi­ence and reason for writing. 
Enjoy the 1990-91 school year. We hope to hear from you soon. 
Take it Easy, 
P~-
Derik Weldon Managing Editor 

· Lettas lo Scholastic mus! b, typed ,md incl wk lhewrita's=ne,addrtsS 
mrdphan,numba. Uni.,,,styshuimlsshouldincliuktkiryt:arinschool 
,md college. Facultyrnanbas should inclwk lkir tkpartmml. All Idlas 
musl b,signcd. Names will b, withheld •pan r,quest in calain inslll1l"5. 
Schouzstic ,,.,,,,,. lk right lo r,j,ct letters f/u,t ar, libelous or obsc,n, 
by th, laws ofthe United Slates. Schouzsticalso will cdil far copyfilling, 
grammatiCJll or spelling errors ,md Schouzstic style. Ik<•=ofspace limi· 
Wions, Sclwuzstic ""'"°' print a/I !emirs mdocd. 
Address all corr,spondmc, lo: TheEdiJor 
Schouzstic 
uifr,rlune Cmta 

Noire Dam,,, IN 46556 
SCHOLASTIC 

Comics aren't just for kids anymore 
Looking for a new and exciting major? Does American Studies seem a tad nebulous on your resume? Then consider studying comic books for the rest of your life. As reported by The Chron­icle ofHigher Education, academic researchers, apparently having found themselves with nothing else to do, have unleashed their mental faculties on comic strips. "Among all forms of popular culture, we're at the bottom of the heap," says M. Thomas Inge, a professor of humanties at Randolph-Macon College and a special­ist in the history of comics. That doesn't stop him and his col­leagues from finding deep meaning in the white balloons floating over comic strip heros. U.C.L.A. professor, David Kunzle, studies Donald Duck cartoons from a Marxist perspective. Says Kunzle, ''They're very imperialistic." 


Does your mother work here?. 
Students at Indiana University's Bloomington campus may recognize a few entrees this semester. According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education, last year the dining service staff sent letters to parents asking them to send in their favorite recipes. The university plans to use the recipes for its special "Home Cookin"' nights. The delighful evenings will include not only tasty cuisine, but gingham tablecloths and place mats to boot. The decore was the easy part, though. Cooks at the university did have trouble converting the recipes to feed 12,000. 
Shared rhetoric 
That sordid institution, the University of Miami, printed a summer issue of their paper, the First Impression. The publication was aimed at familiarizing freshmen with the grandeur of the campus and the many activities the university has to offer. Dr. William R. Butler, the vice president of student affairs, wrote a short welcome to the freshmen. He began his article with a resounding, "Wel­come to the University of Miami family!" 


R.A. bootcamp 
How would you like to see your R.A. on his hands and knees? (I realize that girls have knees, too.) According to -what else? ­the Chronicle ofHigher Education, No,rthem Illinois University put 147 R.A.'s through a fire test. University officials pumped non-toxic, environmentally friendly smoke into the halls of dormitories last month. Trainees had to escape on all fours like grovelling peasants. Robert L. Vest, director of environmental health and safety, said the training prepares R.A.'s for actual dorm emerge~cies. Mr. Vest said that tragic trash bin fires are not uncommon at the university. 
edited by Tim Rogers 



W e are now entering the Great Col­lege Lull. We are finished moving in, and most serious classwork is still a few weeks away. Without any structured activ­ity between football games, most of us use this time to investigate some of the eternal questions. How many naps can a person take in one day? How long can I whistle without my roommate telling me to shut up? Does vodka really mix with everything, including pickle juice? And so on. These projects are enough to keep the av­erage student occupied until the stress of midterms sets in. But maybe you 're above average. Maybe you already have all the answers. Maybe you 're a real wiseguy who no one can stand to be around. In that case, let me suggest a few activities to keep you busy. One of the most enjoyable forms of intel­lectual growth can be sitting in on different classes and contributing alternative opin­ions to discussion. For example, wear your favorite military fatigues to a Peace studies class and let the fun begin. Let's say the professor asks the rhetorical question, "What can we do as a nation for the Third World?" At this point you should stick up your hand and shout "Nuke 'em!" The students in the class may give you some threatening glances, but don't worry: they're pacifists, they won't hurt you. A great alternative is to attend a Gender Stud­ies class while sporting an Andrew Dice Clay t-shirt. Here's an idea that you've probably thought ofalready. The next time you go to the bookstore and find out at the cash regis­ter that your texts cost their weight in Steal th bomber components, shriek at the top of your lungs, "Help! Police! F.B.I.! I'm being robbed!" Most likely, all you will get from your outburst will be some strange looks or a visit from campus security. But you never know. Maybe you will inspire fellow students to stage a coup and transfer control of the bookstore to Wal-Mart. 

time management 

Turning to fine dining for our next play­ground, consider the possibilities presented by gelatin cubes. First ask yourself, what other things come in cubes and are fun to play with besides gelatin? Dice. In fact, the long tables at South Dining Hall would be ideal for craps tables, but it's almost impossible to put little dots onto gelatin cubes. No problem, since you can make your own game table by writing the various dining hall delicacies on napkins, then spreading the napkins across the table. Then throw your cubes, see which napkin they land on, and take a big helping of thefoodnamedon thenapkin. Ifyou'relucky, they'll land on a square marked "cereal bar." If you 're not so lucky, you may find your cubes on the dreaded seem to be most interested in accusations from people who might have good reason to be biased against Notre Dame or who might have a personal vendetta against Coach Holtz. No need to worry, though; If your story is sufficiently outrageous, it will get into print. 
After you.'ve sold your story and/or your soul, you can use part of the proceeds to start a fan club for our favorite media informant, Steve Huffman. When Huffman wentpublic with his steroid story (which also implied that Coach Holtz isn't a very nice guy), Fighting Irish fans everywhere responded with the same astonished cry: "Steve Who?" A fan club dedicated to Huffman might enable us to 
figure out just who the 
hell this joker is. To 
"grilled puck qualify for membership, o' cheese" potential members must napkin. (If be one of the following: your fellow I) a tattle-tale, 2) a cry­players are baby, 3) injuryprone,or humanitari­4) an all-around loser. ans, they may Likely prospects from allow you to each category might eat the napkin include: Jessica Hahn, instead.) Eric Dickerson, Evel If these pos­Knievel, and Jimmy 
sibilities are Johnson. not enough, Remember, there's a think about big difference between 
becoming a wasting time and crea­media infor­tive recreation. It'scru­mant. The cial to make the most press is so out of the next few 
desperate for dirt on our football program, they are printing accusations from just about everybody. Any day now, we can expect a story in Sports Illustrated revealing how Lou Holtz is using the football program as a front for shipping chemical weapons to Iraq. Unfortunately for ordinary folks like you and me, the media 
weeks. If you're not careful, you might squander some prime lei­sure time, or even worse, use your spare moments to get ahead in your classes. Don't let it happen to you. . 
by Roger Hipp 
SCHOLASTIC 



Dear Dr. Head: For years I have stared at that copy of DaVinci's Last Supper which graces our South Dining Hall. And for years, I have had but one question. Just what are those guys talking about? 
-John Kroepfl, junior, Morrissey John, I bet your mom is a proud woman. Few people actually know the real story behind that picture. DaVinci was actually an aspiring cartoonist, and the Last Supper was one of his earliest attempts at humor. In it, DaVinci depicted the scene shortly after the party received the bill for Jesus' last square meal. The total was a tad higher than they had expected and a lively argument ensued. Originally, he had balloons over each ofthe apostle's heads. After a good deal of painstaking research, I managed to uncover a sketch ofDaVinci's original masterpiece before theN.E.A. made him change it. I found it on the third floor Cartoon Section ofthe Hesburg Library. For your clarification, I have numbered the apostles and below you'll find what they were actually saying. One: My hands are clean on this one. Two: He's a Jew. Three: C'mon guys, pitch in. Four: Jesus Christ! I only had one blintz. Five: I don't even like wine. I'm not paying for something I didn't drink. Six: This guy can't add: Seven: You took two pieces of bread. I saw you. Eight: I'm broke. 
Dear Dr. Head: On occasion, I will responsibly have one or maybe two beers. In the course of my social drinking, however, I have noticed that tiplers around me always tap their beer cans before opening them. Is this an unexplain­able phenomenon, like cat juggling, or is there a reason? 
-Mike Cox, junior, off campus Firstly, the sport of cat juggling is a heinous crime and I hope you don't participate in it. Secondly, nothing is unexplainable. Remem­ber that. In the old days, when the earth was still flat and men wore wigs, fermentation was a mistery. Louis Pasteur, the ''Father ofFermenta­tion," invented the process, but hadn't a clue as to how it worked. All he knew was that it made him feel good. So being a mystic, Pasteur attributed the curious properties of stale fruit to spirits. That is how we got the term "spirits" for alcoholic refreshments. The actual practice of taping on beer cans began when Pasteur instructed his drinking buddies to tap on the wine jug in order to frighten the spirits into the drink. The superstition has continued to this day and it's up to all of us to dispel it. 
Do you have a burning question? How about a smoldering one? From the sexual identity ofearthworms to quantum mechanics, Dr. Head has the answer. Just ask him. With PhD.'s in physics, chemistry, biology and phrenology, ·Dr. Head is eminently qualified to answer even the toughest of questions. Why, he's darn near omniscient. Send your questions to Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, care of Dr. Head. Please include your place ofresidence and year. . 




Who is 


W 
ho is Darkman? Or, the more perti­
nent question, just who the hell cares? A twisted cross ofThe Phantom ofthe OperaandBatman ,Darkmanepitomizes the breakdown in motion picture quality today. This hour-and-three-quarters piece of cellu­loid garbage is full of the cliches and cheap violence found in just about every so-called action or suspense film in the theaters, and it possesses very few redeeming values outside of its special effects. 
The story starts out, predictably, by intro­ducing our villian, Durant, committing one of the numerous hideously violent acts that he and his henchmen are to execute through­out the movie. This finger-chopping psycho, protrayed by Larry Drake of L.A. Law, spends his days trying to collect documents which threaten to expose illegal payoffs to government officials. Darkman's girlfriend, Julie, a shallow, underdeveloped character portrayed by Frances McDormand, makes the tragic mistake of stumbling across memoranda describing the bribes. (Why any intelligent criminal would document such acts is beyond me, but this is only one of many examples ofpathethic writing inDark­man.) The bad guys track down the innocent scientist, Dr. Peyton Westlake (played by Liam Neeson), in his laboratory, demanding him to tum over the memo found by his girlfriend. When he refuses to tell, they beat the crap out of him and torch his lab, yet somehow manage to spare the equipment on which he is conducting tests to create human 
acting and directing 

skin. He is brutally scarred (whoa-another staggering plot twist) and afraid to return to society or his girlfriend. Thus begins his conversion to the character of Darkman and his brutal efforts to gain revenge. 
Darkman soon learns that his synthetic skin can only survive in daylight for 99 minutes, but can last forever in the dark. He uses this fact to impersonate his enemy just long enough for them to think they are being disloyal. The boss don't like it when his boys is bad, so's he cuts off their fingers for his collection and then disposes ofthem. I really don't feel like going into much more detail about this. I haven't eaten breakfast yet because I'm still nauseous from having to sit through this putrid glorification of violence. 
To be fair, I will mention the solitary re­deeming feature of the movie-the special effects. Although intense graphic scenes tend to permeate the screen, this feature takes the viewer one step further. One really feels drawn into the mind ofDarkman as the story progresses. The audience shares the flash­backs and mental disturbances that plague the protagonist from the beginning of the film. The graphics attempt to depict the gradual breakdown of his mind and person and in some ways are quite convincing. Un­fortunately, the poor acting, overuse of vio­lence, and feeble direction in this movie destroy its believability and credibility. 
Darkman is beset by acting problems usu­ally foundonlyin B-grade horrormovies. An · example ofthese problems is when the Dark-
man character creates a mask so that he looks normal to face his girlfriend who thinks he's dead, he seems quite ill at ease with the situation. Yet, the girl reacts to him like nothing unusual has happened. Moreover, she does not seem overwhelmingly inter­ested in what happened to him for the past weeks while she thought he was dead. The bad guys are typical-we have the psycho boss character and his henchmen. Regretta­bly the director gives us no more reason to believe these guys are real bad guys than in any other movie on the market today. 
The direction does show the occasional glimmer of originality, but for the most part does not break any new ground. For ex­ample, whenever we see Darkman experi­encing flashbacks or strong emotion, we are allowed to share in the intensity through tremendous graphic effects. However, in the rest of the movie, direction tricks normally used to highlight special effects such as unique camera angles are not used to any great benefit. The set gets about a two on originality. One feels this entire movie could be shot on a Universal studios tour set. It seems like every place we see in this movie has been used before. 
Now for the violence. Consistent with the trends in movies today, the violence is overly graphic and annoying. Director and co­writer Sam Raimi has concerned himself too much with finding new ways to hurt people rather than concentrating his efforts on the story. From chopping off fingers to sticking a man's head up through a manhole and into traffic, we are shown yet another competitor in the race to find the most interesting way of destroying the human body. 
The movie definitely has a few redeeming features with never before seen special ef­fects, but the storyline reminds one far too much ofan Andrew Lloyd Webber play now in Chicago. Also, the excessive violence (including, you guessed it, criminals who don't understand the concept of leading the target when they fire machine guns) and mediocre acting cause one to wonder what original point this screenwriter wanted to make with his production. 
P.S. Look this fall for Darkman, the Series, or Darkman II. The writer has left the door wide open for a sequel, like any other horror­suspense-action flick out right now. Like everything else in this movie, it wouldn't surprise me in the least. 
by Mike Wieber 
SCHOLASTIC 


ins with frenetic, often inspired guitar work by Dave Navarro and Perry Farrell's whiny but insistent vocals to end up with music that is simultaneously crude and sublime. The ground for this new fusion of ideas and music was broken on their last album, 1988's Nothing Shock­ing, Now Perry Farrell and company have continued their 
Jane's Addiction 
Ritual de lo Habitual 

Legend has it that Johnny Rot­ten got his job as lead singer of the Sex Pistols by walking into Malcolm McLaren's shop wear­ing a t-shirt which read "I hate Pink Floyd." That one statement created a gargantuan rift in rock androll that it seemed like no one would ever fill. On one side of the rock and roll chasm was the ethereal, complex world of Pink Floyd with all its emphasis on drawn out instrumentals and mystical vocals. On the other side were the punks, the Sex Pistols et al , with their vulgarity and primitive, slash-and-bum musicality. Both were equally appealing, but there was no middle ground. At least not until now. 
With the release of Jane's Addiction's new album, Ritual de lo Habitual, there is a new and exciting prospect of a link be­tween the ethereal and the pri­mal. Like singer Perry Farrell's controversial collage that graces the album's cover, the music of Jane's Addiction manages to use what is typically considered vile 
' or obscene to elevate the harsh realities they depict to new heights. Lyrics alternate be­tween deeply philosophical in­trospection and casual portrayals of characters who represent dif­ferent aspects of the human con­dition. Musically, the Janes have somehow managed to fuse the driving rhyth~s of bassist Eric Avery and drummer Steve Perk-
SEPTEMBER 13, 1990 
simultaneous exploration ofboth the psychedelic and the primeval. Nothing' s Shocking served as an adequate prelude to Ritual, but the ideas begun there have grown from flashes ofideas into fully realized concepts. 
Janes Addiction have also en­tered the fight for free expression with a vengeance. The liner notes also include a quite literate statement addressed "To The Mosquitoes" which expresses the band's frustrations with the institutions of society that have tried to censor their free expres­sion. Apparently the band members have learned much from their fight to have their album distributed with its origi­nal cover intact As the message in the liner notes says, ''Try to restrict our freedoms and we will fight even harder to preserve them." What is really amazing about this is that the rock world finally has something to fight for which might actually be con­strued as art, something which we can feel good about fighting for, unlike the juvenile, disgust­ing, misogynist raps ofthe2Live Crew. Even the alternative cover of Ritual de lo Habitual is in itself a biting commentary on the issue of censorship -the cen­sored cover bears the First Amendment in black on a plain white background. 
Whether this album is well­received or well-understood remains to be seen. It is certainly a daring experiment in its fusion of two separate musical worlds, and also in its use of"obscenity" 
to make a point about the condi­tion of society. The members of Jane's Addiction have already faced the power of the enforcers of morality in their fight to keep the album's cover intact, and they will certainly bear the stigma of iconoclasts from now . on. However, the work that they have produced on their new al­bum is without a doubt truly as­tounding in its ambition to com­bine the intensity and passion of punk with a healthy dcise ofpsy­chedelia and introspection. Rit­ual de lo Habitual is a ground­breaker that cannot be ignored. 
LP 

Sonic Youth 
Goo 

I couldn't help but notice a bit of a paradox when I picked up Sonic Youth's new album, Goo. I mean, right there, right next to the words "Sonic Youth," was the name ofa major record label. That's the last thing I thought I would ever see printed side-by­side with "Sonic Youth." Unless the words "sell-out" would hap­pen to appear in that same loca­tion. 
Fortunately, that old critics' crutch phrase doesn't belong anywhere near Sonic Youth. Even though SY now have a budget, and a video, and wide distribution, they haven't sub­stantially altered their ideology of doing everything to a guitar BUT playing it properly, and they haven't slacked off in the creativity department any, either -guitarists Lee Renaldo and Thurston Moore have continued 
to find new ways to mess with guitars, amps, and your ears and mind. The only compromise SY made on this album was the title (sorry, I can't profane the minds of the ND population with their first choice), .and even that is borderline disgusting. 
Goo has remained number one on the Gavin Report's Top Ten College/Alternative charts for nearly 6 weeks now, mostly, I would surmise, as a result of constant late-night MTV airplay. The video for "Kool Thing," an artsy, black and white clip which briefly features Chuck D ofPub­lic Enemy (Sonic Youth and PE happened to be in the studio at the same time -I was wondering how he ended up on a Sonic Youthalbummyself)isprobably the only real influence of money on this album. Apart from the video, very little has changed. Like Daydream Nation, their double-album of mindbending feedback and detuned jangle, Goo does occasionally slip into melody,possiblyeven a bit more than they've ever tried before. However, Goo also has its share of totally unmelodic, unlis­tenable garbage (namely 
"Scooter and Jinx," which is an entire minute ofwhat sounds like a motorcycle engine, and "Mary­Christ," a jumbled mess of wretched refuse which was mer­cilessly dropped between two of the best cuts on the album). 
Overall, this album is every­"'! thing you would expect from Sonic Youth, and maybe a little bit more. They haven't really broken much new ground, but they've also made the transition from an indie label to one of the industry's giants in an admirable fashion. . 
by Dave Holsinger 
Dave Holsinger is the Entertain­ment Editor for Scholastic and a regular contributor ofmusic re­views. 


Patrin To Receive AFROTC Award 
Amy M. Patrin has been named the Air Force ROTC Outstanding Cadet of the Year by the Air Force Association. Patrin, a senior electrical engineering major from Apple Valley, Minnesota, will receive the prestig­ious award during a luncheon at the Air Force Association National Convention in Wash­ington, D.C. on Monday, September 17. 
Also selected as cadet of the year for Notre Dame's Detachment 225, Patrin re­ceived the national award for excellence in a full range of endeavors. 
She was director of operations for the 225th cadet group and director oftransporta­tion for Area IX Headquarters of the Arnold Air Society, a service organization closely affiliated with the Air Force ofAmerica and Air Force ROTC. In addition, Patrin has made the Dean's List for the past3 semesters. 



"Shrew" Opens 90-91 Theater Season 
Shakespeare's comedy 'The Taming of the Shrew" will open September 19 at Wash­ington Hall as the first offering ofthe Depart­mentofCommunication and Theater's 1990­
91 season. The play will be performed by Catholic University's National Players, a group of 14 graduate students. The perform­ers are responsible not only for acting, but also for the construction of elaborate and original stage sets. 
Tickets for "The Taming of the Shrew" are $7 and are available in advance through the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office, with student and· senior citizen discounts available for Wednesday, Thursday, and Sunday performances. Subscriptions for season tickets will be on sale until September 14. 
The rest of the season includes Dario Fo's "Accidental Death of an Anarchist," an unnamed play performed by Theatre Grot­tesco, a theatrical company from Detroit, and Bertolt Brecht's "The Good Woman of Setzuan." 
In addition to the main stage plays at Washington Hall, the Department of Com­munication and Theater will inaugurate the Studio Season in the Hall's laboratory the­atre. The laboratory theater productions are designed to allow actors and directors to experiment with irregular and unusual stag­ing and acting sty Jes. Thefirst Studio Season production will be Euripides' "Trojan Women" in October, directed by Reginald 



Homeless Shelter Receives Grant, Starts Renovations 
South Bend's Center for the Homeless has received the first installment of a $400,000 grant made last December by Allied-Signal, Inc. The gift will go toward the remodelling of the building's second floor. 
Combined with other donations, this con­tribution will ultimately result in: the addition 
SCHOLASTIC 
of 13' family rooms; the relocation of the 
A discussion entitled ''The Crisis of the women's dormitory room; more space for Post-Independence African State" will take the Junior League; new offices for Madison Talk, Dinner End 
place in Theodore's on September 13 at 7:30 Center; a Notre Dame Law School legal aid 
p.m. office; classroom space for graduate equiva­Africa Week 
On September 14 at 8 p.m., special Afri­lency degree programs; a health clinic; and 
can dishes will be served at a closing recep­administrative offices for the Center. 
tion at Stepan Center. African music and In addition to the grant from Allied-Sig­Two events remain in Africa Week, a dance will also be performed. Admission is nal, Notre Dame has contributed more than 
celebration of African culture which began $2. $400,000 to the building's renovation fund, 
September 9 and will continue through Fri­Africa Week exhibitions of African art and the Junior League has contributed day, September 14. and traditional clothing continue in the $70,000 for the installation ofkitchen facili­
Hesburgh Library concourse and in the 
ties. 
Dooley Room of LaFortune. September 14 and 15 at noon and 1 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre ofLaFortune, two documentary vid­eos will be shown: "The Africans," by Ali
Night Photo Exhibit Mazrui, and "Traditional and Modem Afri­can Music."Opens at Snite Africa Week is sponsored by the Notre Dame African Students Association, the Of­
September 23 
fice of the Provost, the Snite Museuin ofArt, the Department of Government and Interna­tional Studies, the Institute of International Peace Studies, the Office of Educational Media, the Multicultural Council, and several 
"Night Light -A Survey of 20th Century Night Photography" will open Sep­student groups. 
compiled by Traci Taghon

tember 23 at the Snite Museum. The exhibi­tion consists of 85 photographs from the Hallmark Photographic Collection, organ­izedbyKeith F. Davis, curatoroftheFineArt · Collection for Hallmark Cards Incorporated. 
Although photography as a me­dium of artistic expression developed only relatively recently, artists over the centuries 
1-80 at Exit 77 
have been drawn to depicting dramatic 

·. 52825 US 33 N. 
scenes at night. The exhibit is said to reflect the complexity ofthe modem eraby showing 
South Bend, IN 
a wide range ofsubjects, social interests and 



272-9000
artistic approaches. 
Museum hours are 10 a.m. to4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday; 1 to 4 p.m. Sun­day; and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday. Admis­sion is free. 
*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST *PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS *FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN *IN ROOM MOVIESNCR (over 50 titles) *FREE LOCAL CALLS 
*KITCHENEITES 
*LAUNDRY 

*AAA AND MOBILE RATED 


FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE: 
1-800-347-8016 
SEPTEMBER 13, 1990 


Before 1972, the loyal sons of Notre Dame marched beneath the Dome alone. All students were male, almost all of the faculty was male, and the only female interaction came from across the street at St Mary's. Then in 1972, the administration decided to admit females, ending a long-standing tradition of single sexed edu­cation; and although there were only about fifty coeds on campus during this time, the 
-impact they created was very significant They offered a different perspective in the classroom and an entirely different influence on campus. For the first time, women's issues and concerns played an important role in administrative decisions and in campus life. 
Notre Dame has come a long way since the first fifty women set foot in the classroom. Now 35% of the students are women, and the administration has dedicated an entire year to the changing roles of women and to their needs in today's world. Not only that, this year Notre Dame has placed women in administrative positions.something almost revolutionary. Sister Kathleen Cannon, Ph.D. is the new Associate Provost, Dr. Ei­leen Kolman is replacing Dr. Emil Hofman as the Dean ofFreshman Year, and Professor Patricia O'Hara is the Vice President ofStu­dent Affairs. 
Dr. Cannon received her doctorate degree in ministry from Catholic University in Washington D.C. She concentrated in scrip­ture and preaching by the laity. She is from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and is the oldest of eleven children. 
As Dr. Cannon was growing up, she wanted to be a teacher. She had a sense of wanting to do something that effected the world, that made a difference. Even at an early age, she believed that how someone lived and what they did during their time on earth really mattered. Now she has the op­portunity of make a difference at Notre Dame. 
"My first job was teaching math at the high school level. I also taught English, Science, and History. I always enjoyed teaching reli­gion the best, though. That is how I decided to continue my education in religion.: Itis like opening another world. It effects things at _ different level that American History doesn't," Cannon said. 
Dr. Cannon's love of teaching and enthusi­asm for a religious way oflife enabled her to become a part ofNotre Dame. In the Associ­ate Provost office, Cannon deals with all aspects of academic life including the fac­ulty, the students, disabled students, affinna-c tive action, ROTC, faculty contracts, and_ commencement ceremonies. 
"Something I really enjoy about the Provost's office is that there are a variety of concerns. Every day, there is a new chal­lenge, every day there is something different.j One day I'll think,'Oh! this is wonderful',j and then-the next day, there's somethingi entirely new,:' Cannon said. 
_Cann?~ believes· that she was chosen ~Olj this pos1t10n because of her love of teaching and because she is able to bring a perspectiv~ of pastoral theology to the office. j 
"Also, although I feel that I wasn't chose~ for this office because I am a woman, I a~ 
-' 
! 
SCHOLASTIQ 

Arthur Leach
Eileen Kolman and Kristin Ballard discuss problems and concerns facing young women today. 
able to bring a new. female perspective to my position. I think that women have a way ora style ofadministration that is different from inen. Women are not as hierarchicallystruc­tured in management. They are more willing · to grant and understand maternity leaves, flexible scheduling, and things like that. Women are changing the way things are done." Cannon added, "I think that at Notre Dame, women need to be represented more fully in every facet of university life, like promotion and tenure. We also need to take action and not just look at the issues that concern women. Lastly, because we are an outstanding Catholic university, others should look to us for an example in relating, collaborating and moving on important is­sues like this one. We need to set that 
example." 
Dr. Eileen Kolman is the new Dean of Freshman Year. Kolmanreceivedherunder­graduate degree in math from Ohio Domini­can College. From there, she proceeded to Boston College where she obtained a masters degree in religious studies; then Kolman completed her education at Loyola of Chi­cago, with aPh.D. in higher education. 
Like Sr. Cannon, Dr. Kolman aspired to 

SEPTEMBER 13, 1990 
teach when she was growing up. She never pictured herself however,in an administra­tive position. 
"I don't know if I'd ever thought of that kind ofwork," Kolman said. "I'vefound that people are in the minority that know what they want to be in any kind ofdefinite sense. I think that life is a series ofoptions. The best that you can do is be aware of these options. I didn't think when I took my previous job,'Oh good, I'll be Dean in a year.' This seemed to be the thing I wanted to be-as my career develops, I become aware of things I never knew about," Kolman said. 
Dr. Kolman feels that she is bringing to the Dean's office a new perspective. ("Certainly no one will mistake me for Dr. Hofman!") "The office is intrinsically tied to Dr. Hofman and to his personality. I feel that it is time for a new vision of Freshman Year that will build on the strengths that are al­ready here," Kolman said. 
By focusing on the undergraduate students as a whole, Kolman hopes to convey the message that The Year ofWomen is relevant to both men and women. "Just as Dean Hofman was Dean to both men and women, I want to be Dean to men and women. I hope 

i. 
that I can provide a role model for women and for men, too. I know that some men have a problem accepting women in authority posi­tions. I want to show that a good job is done by a human, not by a man or by a woman," Kolman stated. In addition to providing a new set ofplans for the Dean's office, Kolman is concerned with other important issues on campus, including promoting The Year of Women. "I want students to understand that itis not the role of women changing. As changes take place in women'slives,menwillchange. Thisyearis dedicated to getting those role conflicts outin the open and on the table for discussion. Discrimination is subtle--it usually isn't 
· spoken. It's the way that women are treated and when these issues arefmally discussed, it opens up opportunities for examination and change. This is one of the rare cases that students cannot look to their parents for an example because the previous generation wasn't forced to deal with the same kind of conflicts facing young people today. We need to deal with these unprecedented issues here at Notre Dame," she said. 
Lastly, Kolman emphasized that women 
must decide what is best for them, and stick 
with it. "If someone wants to support a 
husband and raise a child, she should do it. 
No one should feel pressure to do orbeco·me 
anything because of societal pressures." 
Professor O'Hara was one of the first 
women to enroll at Notre Dame in 1972, a 
pioneer. Today, O'Hara is another frrst: the 
first woman in the history ofNotre Dame to 
hold an administrative position. She is the 
Vice President ofStudent Affairs, a position 
that deals with all aspects of student life 
outside the classroom. 
O'Hara was raised in California where she also attended college at the University of Santa Clara. Atthis time, she was studying to bea teacher and was only mildly interested in a law career due to the fact that there were very few women law·yers and law school was very expensive. During her junior year of college,O'Hara'sadvisorsencouragedherto consider law school. She agreed, and applied -to Yale, Stanford, and Notre Dame. O'Hara decided to attend Notre Dame because of a scholarship opportunity and because she 
loved the school. 

"I felt uniquely suited to this place," O'Hara said. "I was attracted to the strong ethical emphasis atNotre Dameand the sense of community here. There is also a strong family emphasis and a strong emphasis on faith." 
At the time of Professor O'Hara's enroll­mentin the Notre Dame Law School, she was one of ten women in a class of 160 students. She was however, undaunted in her scholas­tic efforts. ''I loved it," she said. "I had a very positive experience here. I never felt as though I was treated differently." 
O'Hara has never been shy about being "the first woman." "I never think oftrying to do anything 'as a woman.' I just concentrate on doing a good job. I don'tfeel that it is male or female issue. I just do the job to the best of my ability and hopefully people will see a good job being done, not a woman doing a job," she said. O'Harawas first interested in Legal Aid. She worked in a county welfare department and anticipated a career in that field. After her second year ·of law school however, she 


Arthur Leach 

Dr. Eileen Kolman organizes, councils, and advises the fresh­
man. This is her first semester as Dean of Freshman Year. 
shifted to legal aid and business. She stuck with that path and after school became a corporate lawyer with a large fmn in San Francisco. Six years after her graduation, Notre Dame invited Professor O'Hara to return as a visiting faculty member. She took a one year leave from her work and returned to South Bend. 
"I was very excited about returning for all the same reasons that I attended in the first place," O'Hara confided. Her one year leave turned into a permanent leave and O'Hara became a full member of Notre Dame's faculty. 
Today, O'Hara supervises ten departments and all of the residence halls. "One of the things that I thirik is really special to Notre Dame is that the school is committed to the education of the whole person: the mind, the heart, and the soul. The Provost deals with the mind, and I help take care of the heart and soul," she said . . In her first few months as VicePresidentofStudentAffairs, O'Hara is concentrating on introducing herself and making herself known around campus. During the summer, while the students were absent, she went around to the ten departments she supervises and spent a day 
·. learning about the activities ofeach. Now that the students are here, she is focusing on making her face known to them by scheduling a visit to each dorm. 
"I want the students to know that I am very accessible to them. It is a two way street for me. Obviously, I represent the Administration to the students; but I also want to represent the students to the Admini­stration." 
The hallowed halls ofNotre Dame now echo with women's voices. The changes that have occured in the recent past have altered precedents and policy forever. As the world continues to change, Notre Dame will undoubledly follow, making this university more progressive and more able to meet the needs of its diverse student body. Loyal sons and daughters march onward to victory. D 
by Kristine DeGange 
Can We Make You Look Good? 
The Notre Dame advertsing network. 

We're located on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center, make a right off the elevator. 
Open: M•W•F 2:30-5:00pm T•Th 2:30-8:00pm or just call ADW•ORKS {239-6757) 

, -i 
BYJON PAULPOITS

N otre Dame's 1988 season was the Three of the key players from that squad, stuff of which college football linebacker Michael Stonebreaker, tailback 
legends are made. A perfect 12-0 season 

Tony Brooks, and defensive lineman 
and the mythical National Championship 

George Williams all became ineligible for 
capped off a magnificent team effort for the 1989 season for various reasons leaving question: What if? .· . . 

the Fighting Irish. 

both Irish fans as well as the coaching staff These three, along with junior tail­But harsh reality struck hard and shockedandwondering abouttheprospects back Kenny Spears, are back after their fast in the months following the January 
for the 1989 campaign. one-year football hiatus and all are ready to_ 2nd 34-21 thrashing of West Virginia. 
The i989 effort wasn't acomplete leadthe Irish on arun for its secondnational 
SCHOLASTIC 
championship in the last 
drills last April strong as three years. ever. He was a defen­But for. these sive force in earning three, 1989 represented defensive player of the a greater challenge than game in the annual any that they could ever Blue-Gold contest, re­face on the football field. gaining the form that 
earned him Butkus 
"At the time of Award runner-up in the accident, I was on top 1988. of the world," said But the question Stonebreaker in an inter­remained: Could he view with The Sporting maintain that high level News. "I was a member of play once the two-a­of a national champion­days began under the ship team, I was an All­hot August sun? American, and I had "He has been been to the 'White very good this fall," House. Then ... all that says Holtz. "He has was gone and I was at the stayed healthy pretty bottom." much, and he hasn't 
Stonebreaker's missed any practices. exodus began the night We did sit him down of February 24; 1989. one day, but he's just After. attending an off­gotten better and better. campus formal, the All­You don't get away American linebacker from it for a year and fell asleep at the wheel of bounce right back, but his Jeep and crashed into he's done an excep­a roadside sign-post. tional job." Both he and a passenger, The return of Ursula Garzia, were se­"Stoney," as he's called, riously injured. Garzia will bolster a lineback­suffered internal injuries ing corps which was and many facial lacera­thin last season. Ned tions, while Stone­Bolcar, who is now breaker had broken his stuffing the run for the kneecap and jarred his National Football hip out of its socket League's Seattle 
Due to the fact Seahawks, and senior that it was his first DUI Donn Grimm played violation, he received a well, but they were year's probation and forced to play nearly community service. The every down and had 
Scholastic File Photo 
little rest. With theUniversity imposed a Th I . h d S b k "d b" l"k h" · • 

. h t e ris nee tone rea er to prov1 e 19 plays I et 1s mtercept1on 
emergence of sopho­

p~n_ 1s mh_endr~ '!'e II 'c?1'-return for a touchdown versus Michigan State in 1988. 
tar mg 1s 1vmg activ-more Demetrius ity anywhere on or around campus. But "Michael did not play in 1989 be­DuBose and the return ofStonebreaker and during the summer of 1989, he got behind cause of a decision made by the Univer­Grimm, this year's two inside linebacking the wheel of a friend's car to move it and sity," says coach Lou Holtz. "Whether he positions will be working from a solid 
was caught by campus security. He was could've played or not will never be re­three-man rotation. 
summarily suspended from the team for all solved. He did have some serious damage New defensive coordinator Gary of 1989. to his hip and his knee. Would he have been Darnell, who brings his hard-nosed style of Whether he· was physically able to recovered in time to sufficiently play? defense north from Florida this year, has 
play is debatable, but the year off could We'll never know." been impressed by Stonebreaker thus far. ortly have aided his recovery. Stonebreaker came back in spring "I didn't watch him (Stonebreaker) 
before, because it doesn't make any differ­ence," says Darnell. "You only deal with what you have now. And for what we're asking, he can do. He'sready forourdefense this year." 
The fifth-year senior will be return­ing to the "eagle" backer position which he patrolled so well in '88. Many national pub­lications are touting him as the Butkus Award favorite. Whether they are expecting too much remains to be seen, but the firsttest of his recovery will come Saturday night at the Stadium against Michigan. It's a night he's been lookingforward to for over a year. 
Of the three returning players, Tony Brooks has had the quietest return. No one has Brooks winning any awards or making any All-America teams, even though he was second on the team in rushing his sopho­more year. Perhaps the lack of recognition has been a blessing in disguise, for Brooks faced a tumultuous spring of '89. 
Brooks was at first suspended from spring practice for an undisclosed reason by the university. Eventually, he was forced to withdraw from school for all of the 1989 school year and attend Holy Cross Junior College to get his grades, and his life, back in order. 
"I really needed time to get my head straightened out," says Brooks. "But it was impossible to sit while they (his teammates) were toughing it out There is no high like football and hitting someone hard, and I missed it. Without it, I had to find ways to get all my tensions out, so I played basketball and hit the weights; but it was tough." 
Brooks was a bruising, powerful run­ner in 1988, tallying 667 yards on 117 car­ries for a sharp 5.7 yard average. The Irish are looking for Brooks to bolster an already deep backfield, what with the likes ofRicky Watters, Rodney Culver, Kenny Spears, and Dorsey Levens when he returns from injury. 
"Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters will handle the tailback position," says Holtz. ''Tony probably had as many big plays during the course ofthat (1988) season as anybody on our team, with the exception of Tony Rice. We need him to have that same type ofyear for us to be a good football team." 
The toughest adjustment for him has been mental concentration and learning Notre Dame's new run-and-shoot type of­fense under the direction of sophomore quarterback Rick Mirer. Rice ran an option­oriented offense, but Mirer will pass more, which should open up big play oppurtuni­ties for Brooks, and all the backs, in both 
rushing and receiving. 
His return, however, has been hampered by several inju­ries. A pulled hamstring the first week of summer training has nagged him since. He fell back six weeks in training because of it and developed a bad back in two-a-days in August 
However, he insists that he'satabout90%, and says he'll be ready for prime time on Satur­day night. 
"My back still bothers me a bit, but I'm better," he says. "I'll be ready Saturday night no matter what I've been waiting a long time for this." 
The defense will also re­ceive a boost from the return of senior defensive tackle George Williams from academic exile. Williams was a vital factor in the defensive front that limited op­ponents to a mere 103 yards rushing per game in 1988. He earned honorable All-America awards from The Sporting News , and Football News Sophomore All-America accolades in start­ing every game and amassing 44 After a year off, George "Boo" Williams has 
ta kles. learned to juggle academics and football. 
c 
"The toughest thing has been get­ting used to the time restraints which foot­ball places on you," says Williams. "Last year, I'd get out of class and have all day off, but now, I've had to readjust." 
Of the three, Williams faced the easiest road back. He faced no disciplinary or physical problems, and was able to con­centrate solely on the academic end of things in preparation for his senior season. While he was out, he kept in shape and feels that he's ready for a return to form. Some have him touted for All-America awards. 
"I've had a very productive fall," he says. "Adjusting to (Coach Gary) Darnell has been no problem. We 're basically play­ing the same attack-type defense, and I've worked hard. There'll be jitters on Satur­
day, but there's always jitters. I'll be ready." 
The year off has produced a bond between the four players (Stonebreaker, 

Brooks, Williams, and Spears) that helped them mentally survive their respective set­backs. Watching the loss to archrival Miami hurt, but they are back, and knowing that they were not alone has given them a boost and helped them get ready for what could be a repeat performance of their last year offoot­ball. · 
Perhaps Tony Brooks expressed this bond best. 
"We've talked about it. Definitely, there is something there between the four of us. We have something to be close about, something unspoken and powerful. When we're coming off the field after a tough practice, or we pass each otheron campus, we don't need to say anything, but we know that, hey, we made it We're back." 
SCHOLASTIC 







New Face From An Old Place 
Gary Moeller has a tough act to follow and a three-game losing streak to overcome 
Moeller was part of Bo's original staff at Michigan in 1969. 
!! BY BRIAN MCMAHON 
Gary Moeller was addresing the me­dia last week when someone asked what he thought would be the key to vic­tory in his squad's first game, slated for 8:00 this Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium against the Fighting Irish. His response was not an uncommon one, and at first glance it might appear cliche. But when one looks into the past of . this storied rivalry, one tends to believe Moeller's assessment that "the team that comes up with the big plays will win." Last year's game in Ann Arbor, for in­stance, would have turned out a little bit differently had it not been for Raghib Ismail's two kick returns for touchdowns. Two years ago, four field goals by Reggie Ho and a missed attempt by Michigan's Mike Gillette on the last play of the game were the difference in a 19-17 Notre Dame victory. Earlier that evening, Ricky Wat­ters returned a punt for a touchdown. 
The 1988 game illustrates a trend that dates back to 1980, when Notre Dame's Harry Oliver kicked a SI-yard field goal as time ran outfora29-27Irish victory. Every time these two schools have met in Notre Dame Stadium since then, the game has gone down to the final possession. 
As the rivalry enters the 90's, however, there are considerable changes, most nota­bly the departure of Bo Schembechler as coach at Michigan. He is replaced by Gary Moeller, Bo's assistant head coach and of­fensive coordinator for three years and de­fensive coordinator before that. He has been at Michigan since 1969, except for three years he spent at Illinois compiling a 6-24-3 record as head coach. 
Moeller' s record at Michigan is high­
lighted by Wolverine defenses that led the 
NCAA in scoring defense in 1974, '76 and 
'85 and the 1988 HallofFameBowl, where 
he coached the Wolverines to a 28-24 vic­
tory over Alabama while Bo recovered 
from heart surgery. 
Obviously, the Wolverines under Mo­
eller will carry on the Michigan tradition of 
stingy defense. The offense will feature 
more passing, but not enough to disturb the 
traditional 2: I run to pass ratio that symbol­
ized the Schembechler era. 

Part ofthe reason for the increased aerial · barrage is 6'5" 220 lb. sophomore quarter­
back Elvis Grbac. Grbac is the key to the 
Wolverines' offense with tailback Tony 
Boles out with a bad knee and Leroy 
Hoard's decision to forego his final year of 
eligibility for the National Football League. 
While Grbac is working with two so­
phomore receivers, Desmond Howard and 
Derrick Alexander, who combined for a 
mere 15 receptions last year, he does have 
the comfort ofworking behind an offensive 
line that returns all ofits starters, led by 6'811 320 lb. junior tackle Greg Skrepenak. 

Ifthe Irish don't mount a decent rush on Grbac, the pressure will be felt by Notre Dame's young secondary which, after All-American ToddLyght,maynotbepre­pared to answer the call. It was Grbac who rallied the Wolverines in last year's game in Ann Arbor, going 17-of-21 for 134 yards and two touchdowns. The Irish defense was concerned pri­marily with preventing the big play, however, allowing Michigan short gains under­neath. 
The Michigan running game, despite the line it will run behind, is a question 


mark. Jarrod Bunch, at 6'2" and 247 lbs., has been called the top full­back prospect in the country but is un­proven. He ran for a mediocre 208 yards 
last season on 58 car­ries. 
At tailback, Jon Vaughn gained only 57 yards last season but was impressive in spring practice, net­ting 165 yards on 26 carries. Freshman Ricky Powers, a USA Today 1st teain prep All-American in 1989 may see ac­tion against the Irish. 
Ifthe Wolverines shut down the Irish running game, so­phomore quarter­back Rick Mirer will be forced to throw into what the experts are calling the best defensive backfield in the nation. All­American Tripp Welborne heads this group, which is rounded out by re­turning starters Lance Dottin, David 
Key and Vada Murray. 

The ,questionable• status of Notre 
Dame's offensive line adds to the concern 
over the Irish passing game. Mirer will 
need time to be successful. 

While the questions surrounding Mirer, 
the offensive line and the defensive back­
field have been well chronicled since last 
spring, one question remains regarding the 
Irish running game, despite its depth. 

Who will fill the gap created by An­
thony Johnson's graduation? Irish fans 
may realize how much Johnson's short 
yardage prowess was taken for grantedifno 
one can fill that role. 
If the Irish are to win their fourth 
straight from Michigan, they will need to 

do what they have in the recent past against 
the Wolverines-get big plays and avoid 

costlymistakes. Alittlegoodfortunehelps, :-/ 
too. LostintheshuffleofNotreDame'slast 
two wins in the series is the fact that the 
Irish offense has managed only one touch­
down in the two games-and that came at 
the end ofa 24-yarddrive last year. 
One thing Bo did not know at Notre 
Dame was any semblance of good luck. It 
remains to be seen whether or not his suc­
cessor will. 

Scholastic will preview every home football game this season. 
SCHOLASTIC 

MOVIES 

PSYCHO: A tale of a _little motel and a domineering mommy. One of the all-time classic horror movies shows Thursday, Sep­tember 13 in the Montgomery Theatre of Lafortune. Sponsored by SUB. 
WAR OF THE ROSES: Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas make you think twice about getting divorced (or married, for that matter). Shows atCushing Auditorium on Friday and Saturday, September 14 and 15. Sponsored by SUB. 
AT THE SNITE: 1'Drugstore Cowboy" will be showing on Friday and Saturday, Spet 14 and 15 at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m .. On Tuesday, Sept. 18 will be "M" at 7 p.m. and "Rebecca" at9p.m. PlayingonWednesday,Sept.19are "His Girl Friday" at 7 p.m. and_"Cat People" at9 p.m. · 

THEATRE 

THE TAMING OF THE SHREW: Shakespeare's classic begins its run atWash­ington Hall on Wednesday, September 19. The show will run through Sunday, Septem­ber23. TicketsareavailableattheLaFortune information desk. 

SPORTS 

FOOTBALL vs. MICHIGAN: The first home game of the season (and also the last night game for a while) will be on Saturday, September 15 in Notre Dame Stadium. Be sure to wear "The Shirt" as the Wolverines try to break their losing streak (ha ha!) against the Irish. Kickoff is at 8 p.m. 
SOCCER: The men play Saint Louis at 7 p.m. onFriday,Sept. 14, Valparaisoat7p.m. on Monday, Sept. 17, and Detroit at 7:30 on Wednesday, Sept 19. Women's games are at 5 p.m. Friday versus Valparaiso, against Washington University on Sunday at noon, and against St. Joseph's at5 p.m. on Monday. All games are at Krause Stadium. 
BASKETBALL: The All-Star Basketball game will take place at theJ.A.C.C. Arena on Friday, Sept 14. 
WWF: If you're still into Pro Wrestling for some reason, orifyou just want to see tons of pointless violence, The WWF Super Stars of Wrestling are making one of their many in­cursions into the J.A.C.C. on Sunday, Sept. 16. 

MISCELLANEOUS: 

PEP RALLY: Freshmen, you have to go to at least one of these during your lifetime. See Coach Holtz, the Irish, the Cheerleaders, and tons ofalumni who will pay you big bucks for tickets. It's nuts, and it's at the J .A.C.C. on Friday, September 14. 




Word seems like asking Desmond 
Tutu to write a travel brochure for South 
Africa. Ususally, these articles either call 
attention to how wonderful and charming the 
Notre Dame family is, or they make some 
short-sighted criticism that gives Dr. Gold­
rick a good laugh over in Student Affairs. 
Look at it any way you please, but I've spent 
more than two years doing little of the for­
mer, and too much of the latter. 

Anyway, we all know that everybody is saying how this generation is so lazy, uncon­cerned, and apathetic. Those of you who know me are familiar with my rants and raves concerning the student body. I'm always spouting off about how most folks here at Notre Dame care about two things: sports and their G.P.A. No wonder that the Inde­pendent Weekley Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's devotes roughly 40% of its ar­ticles to sports, and that guys from Cava­naugh are apt to sign up for Father Micelli's Theology classes. Ifthe Rocket has a hang­nail, we know about it. The scary thing is that 
we care. 

What all this drivel boils down to is a call to craziness. Yes, we have that University­sponsored Irish Insanity folks, but that's not what I really mean. I mean our football team is really just like any other bunch of muscle­bound guys. Don't let their lives run yours. And as far as that G.P.A. thing goes, a "B" in theology doesn't mean eternal hellfire. 
"How," you may ask, "can I be so-crazy like you, Jeff Jotz, Most Excellent Being and Lord, and still be cool? Like, would I fail out of school and attend a heathen state school? Will my mom and dad find out?" 
Relax, my minions. Craziness is all rela­
20 


To 

tive. You might get shunned by your peers, but as my roomate once said, "screw 'em." You may get in trouble with South Bend's finest, or our own Stasi, oops, security. Your mom and dad might even find out, but stay strong! 




a 

Now that I have whetted 
your insatiable appetites, let 
me give you some concrete 
examples. 
Lizzie (names have been changed to pro­tect the innocent) could be considered the "Stuffy Domer". Here at school, Lizzie goes to all her classes and takes intense notes in discussion groups in case there might be a suprise quiz. Even though she's underage, she won't go to Bridget's (ed. note: does it matter?), because she's afraid she'll get ar­rested. She likes to stick to those on-campus "social gatherings", where she sips on her wine cooler and acts "sooo wasted." She tells her friends that Mike Stonebreaker turns her spine to jelly, and believes thatthe University is so nice for letting colored people sit in the same class with her. In fact, she feels extra crazy and racially aware, because she just bought the new M.C. Hammer CD. 
Tim, on the other hand, signifies the loose­hangin' out-of-control person. Instead of taking notes, he sacrifices his body to sci­ence, testing the theroies of sleep-induced knowledge osmosis in his AL Core class. He frequents ND's outdoor water park, the Clarke Memorial Pool. Tim believes that the golf course is a great place to spend a nice summer evening with that "special some­one", and drowning out his neighbor's really radical Billy Joel tape with Public Enemy is his idea ofbeing friendly. He puts his life on the line at an off-campus party by singing "F-Tha Police" when the South Bend Po­lice send in the shock troops. He walks into Club 23 not wearing black or tie-dyes and loudly proclaims that he's a business major and that Plato was a fool. 
Yeah, I know that some of this stuff is a bit drastic, and even kinda chauvinistic, but take it with a grin.·· Folks here are so uptight, it's great to see a few people going nuts at a place outside the football stadium. Ifyour contem­poraries give you a strange look, then you've done your job. Don't get so worked up if another "Estrogen" article comes along, or if your G.P.A. descends into the negatives. Here at Notre Dame, we get only four short years to act stupid and immature, and after that, the stoic curse of society sets in. Go a little crazy from time to time, no matter what Student Affairs or your Rector might say. Get all your infantile behavior out now, because they won't put up with it in the real world. You only have four years to swim in fountains. Once you graduate, someone else will most likely own your life. That's what a salary means. D 
by JeffJotz 


by Norman Dog 




From Chicago 

i~~!i 5aturcJ.ay, Sept. 15 .· i~ ~~ Outside Stepan 
. 4-bpm Free. l ,tl1LV A Free~ 




