th noira ramc
SCHOLASTIC
LUECHLU (WUS IWS [W/K
JU Bl LAR I AN PROF. ACKERMANN
Celebrates Fifty Years at Notre Dame (Story on Page 7)
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
ALL-STAR DEBATERS NAMED LAYDEN TO JUDGE BOUTS REHEARSE VARSITY SHOW
BOXERS IN TRAINING GRIND CAGERS TROUNCE MARQUETTE SET BASEBALL SCHEDULE
THE WEEK ON DOWN THE UNE COLLEGE PARADE
FEBRUARY 26, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
THE CREAM OF CAMPUS TALENT
Presenting
NOTRE DAME NIGHT
The Time
FRIDAY, MAR. 5th—9:30 P. M.
Doors close at 9:15 P. M.
The Place GYMNASIUM
Free Tickets For Students APPLY AT ALUMNI OFFICE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
Notre Dame has been invited to take part in Pontiac’s sparkling new radio series, “Varsity Show”—broadcast direct from a different college campus every week. The campus is being combed for the finest talent. Professional directors are building it into the gayest, liveliest show you ever saw. See a big-time radio broadcast . . . see and hear John Held, Jr. in person . . . enjoy royal entertainment . . . help the Band and Glee Club prove that Notre Dame rules the air—be at the Gymnasium on March 5th at 9:15 P.M.
SPECIAL NOTE: The Program Director will be glad to listen to any student who has any entertainment idea which might be used on the Broadcast. Ask for Mr. Miller at
BE THERE-“THE AUDIENCE IS PART OF THE SHOW”-BE THERE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
February 26, 1937
No. 17
START TICKET SALES FOR VILLAGERS1 TESTIMONIAL
PICK MULLIGAN. BRAME. AND M'DONOUGH FOR 1937 ALL-INTERHALL DEBATE SQUAD; MORRISSEY WINS LEMMER TROPHY
d
Topping the end of the present successful court season will be the annual Basketball banquet to be given by the Notre Dame Villagers on Thursday night, March 18, at the Oliver hotel.
Ted Prekowitz, president of the Villagers, announced that the tickets for the event are now on sale. Reservations at 81.50 a person can be se-
Villager Ted Prekowitz To feed Keoganmen.
cured from any member of the Villagers’ club. John Lechner, junior lawyer, is in general charge.
As yet, no definite speakers have been selected for the occasion, but arrangements are being made to secure many sport notables for the night of the banquet. Novel entertainment features also are to be presented.
Lechner this week urged that tickets for the affair be purchased immediately to insure formal reservation.
On Monday night, March 1, the Villagers will hold a joint meeting with the St. Joseph Valley Alumni club in the Columbia Athletic club. James Lahey, a junior in the College of Commerce, is chairman of the committee handling the meeting.
“It’s really much shorter in Siamese,” is the modest comment of the owner of the longest surname at Harvard University, Kaisui Nimmanahae-minda I. G. B.
In the revival of the All-interhall debate team selections Tom Mulligan, Morrissey; Frank Brame, Cavanaugh; and Ed McDonough, Dillon, were nominated by the Wranglers for their work during the past season as the members of the first all-star interhall debate team since 1931.
Pressmen Set Details For Second Annual Press Banquet
The annual Press club banquet -will be held in the Faculty dining hall, Thursday evening, March 4, at 7:15. Final arrangements for the program were completed late this week by various committees in charge of the dinner.
James Weber Linn, associate professor of English at the University of Chicago, will be the principal speaker of the evening. Mr. Linn has not revealed the exact topic of his address, but is expected to discuss some of his experiences both as a newspaperman and also as an English teacher. He is a member of the news staff of the Chicago Daily Netas and has published four novels and a text book on English composition.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., will again act as toastmaster for this annual social event. Father Burke acted as toastmaster last year at the banquet given in honor of Paul Mallon, Washington columnist, and was the perfect master of ceremonies. With such a fine toastmaster, the program can not help but move along smoothly and easily.
Paul Foley, editor of The Scholastic, will be one of the chief speakers of the evening. President John Cackley will be the first speaker of (Continued on Page S)
MINNESOTA TICKETS
Tickets for the Notre Dame-Minnesota basketball game, Monday night, March 8, will be distributed to students presenting A.A. books at the A.A. office from March 1 to 4. No tickets will be distributed in any other manner.
The revival of the All-interhall debate team has awakened much interest and it is hoped by George Morris, chairman of the Interhall debating contests, that the feature will be continued through all the
Chairman George Morris Names All-Star Squad.
coming years. The decision as to the teams makeup was determined by the coaches of the various hall teams and the members were judged as to eagerness, ability, and improvement during the season.
Honorable mention was won by Walter Hagen, Jr., Freshman; Pat Bannon, Badin; Frank Fitch, Lyons; John McNeill, Sorin; and Martin Husung, Walsh.
In the finals of the interhall debates held at St. Mary College, Feb. 17, Morrissey Hall, upholding the negative side of the question: “Resolved, that the extension of Consumers’ Cooperatives will contribute to the public welfare,” eked out a close decision over the affirmative team of Dillon. The Morrissey debaters were John Wintermeyer, Maurice Murphy, and Tom Mulligan; the Dillon representatives were Richard Foley, Tom Funk, and Ed McDonough.
The Lemmer trophy, donated to the Wranglers by Victor P. Lemmer, ’26, was presented to Pierre de la Vergne, the coach of the Morrissey
(Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
LAYDEN HONORARY JUDGE OF BENGAL BOUTS; SCHIAVONE GROOMS HORDE OF FIGHTERS FOR FINAL SCRAPS ON MARCH 19
"B" TEAM MEETS FOES IN INDIANA DEBATE TOURNEY TODAY
Honorary Judge of the Bengal Bouts for the third time will be Athletic Director, Elmer F. Layden, when sixteen University battlers meet in the field-
house on Friday, March 19.
With less than a month remaining before the championships are awarded,
details of the Bouts were progressing smoothly this week. More than seventy fighters, representing every weight division, are working out daily under the direction of Frank Schiavone.
S.chiavone Lauds Battlers
“It is the greatest crop of boxers I’ve ever seen here,” Schiavone said this week. “The boys are training hard and most of them seem ready for real scraps. The old champions have added experience and a little weight—they should be much tougher. But, believe me, the new contenders look mighty dangerous.”
Tickets for the Bouts will go on sale about March 10. The traditional price of twenty-five cents for student admissions will be continued. It has been decided to follow last year’s policy of charging ten cents admission to the preliminary rounds. Preliminaries will be held on Monday and Tuesday nights, March 15 and 16. In previous years the preliminary rounds have proved nearly as popular as the finals.
“Shadow” Hack Returns
In addition to the championship boxing bouts, two feature attractions will be presented. Headlining the bill will be last year’s favorite Jim “Shadow” Hack who will do mighty battle with a mysterious opponent as yet unknown and unnamed. Hack has been in a daily training grind and is keeping the identity and prowess of his opponent a secret.
“He hits like an army mule,” Hack said this week. “I may lose my diamond belt, but Fil be in there slugging.”
Several pairs of wrestlers are in training to provide a successor to the famous Tancredi-Conner massacres of the last two years. Selection of the team to appear on March 19 will be made within the next week.
Negotiations with several nationally known figures in the sports world are being carried on to secure an Honorary Referee. A definite selection will be named within two weeks. It is hoped that a well-known figure can be obtained.
A goodwill court in which students will be able to air their grievances has been established at Cornell Uni-■versity.
Honorary Judge Layden He'll Watch the Sluggers.
Met Club To Breakfast In Faculty Hall
On March 7
The Metropolitan Club of New York City will hold a Communion Breakfast on Sunday morning, March 7th, it was announced Wednesday by Joseph Brien, president.
It is hoped that Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will be able to appear as the principal speaker. Rev. John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the Met Club, will also address the group.
The Communion Breakfast will take place in the Faculty dining hall at 9:15 o’clock, after the 8:00 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The breakfast is open to the student body, and will cost 35 cents per plate.
This is the first in a group of activities that the Met Club is planning to hold this semester.
Officers of the Met Club are waiting to hear from the railroads regarding the possibility of a reduced fare for the Easter vacation. “Rates should be somewhat lower than those obtained for the Christmas trip,” President Brien said, “because the period of vacation will be shorter.”
By Robert McClain
The “B” debating team, accompanied by Prof. William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech and debating coach, left this morning to compete in the state tournament at Manchester College, North Manchester, Indiana.
In consequence of the entry of 15 schools, the first session of the tournament will be held this afternoon and evening. The remaining teams will compete Saturday for honors. Teams will be paired in brackets according to the size of the schools.
Determined to equal or better their ranking of last year when they placed second as a team, the “B” team terminated three weeks of intensive practice yesterday. Frank Brame and Redman Duggan will uphold the affirmative side of the question and Charles Osborn and Frank Fitch will defend the argument for the negative side.
The varsity question is: “Resolved, that the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
The Varsity squad wil inaugurate their schedule with a non-decision debate Sunday evening with St. Xavier’s college of Louisville, Ky. The debate will be held in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
With more than a month of practice Coach Coyne has selected four members of the varsity team to represent the University in the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, next Thursday and Friday. Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier, veteran debaters, will represent the affirmative team and Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan were selected to defend the negative side of the question. Osborn and Mulligan were on the “B” team last year.
The following schools have entered the tournament: Iowa, Minnesota, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Nevada, Kansas, Denver, Creighton, Wabash, Carrollton, Iowa State, and Chicago. The contestants will argue the question: “Resolved: Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry.”
Teams wil be placed in brackets prior to the first debate and the judges for tournament will be selected from the coaches of the competing teams. Each coach will judge five debates.
Last year, the Notre Dame debate team won seven contests in the Mid-(Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
5
'CATALYZER' HONORS FR. NIEUWLAND IN SPECIAL ISSUE
NEW YORK PROGRAM DIRECTOR ON CAMPUS TO SPOT TALENT FOR VARSITY SHOW
MARCH 5; BAND. GLEESTERS SET
By Frank Larwood
Dedicated to the memory of the late Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., the February issue of the Catalyzer, publication of the Chemistry department of the University of Notre Dame, contains a complete account of the memorial exercises held in memory of Notre Dame’s priestscientist, on Sunday, Jan. 10.
On the first page of this memorial edition is a full length portrait of Father Nieuwland. The second page
The Late Father Nieuwland Honored by Chemistry Students.
carries a short summary of the offices he held and the various honors conferred upon him. A reprint of the invitation to the ceremony appears on the back page. The religious program of the morning ceremonies is on the front side of page three; on the reverse side is the complete program of the morning and afternoon exercises.
The rest of the issue is devoted to an account of the speeches given during the afternoon program in Washington Hall, and attendance list of those who attended the exercises.
William Stansfield Calcott, Ch.E., in discussing Father Nieuwland as a chemist, made no attempt to evaluate his work in the field of chemistry. “A true evaluation of Father Nieuw-land’s work,” he said, “has already been expressed much more clearly and more eloquently than words could express it, through the medium of honors conferred upon him by the scientific societies of the world.”
A discussion of Father Nieuwland the botanist is presented by Marcus W. Lyon, Jr., Ph.D., M.D. Dr. Lyon was a very intimate friend of Father Nieuwland and is able to present a very human story of Father Nieuw-land’s methods and attainments in the field of botany.
Abstracts by Dr. T. K. Just and Dr. G. F. Hennion, and a short article on the relativistic theory of atomic structure by Dr. George David Birkoff complete the issue.
Albert G. Miller, of Henry Souvaine, Inc., New York radio program arrangers and producers, arrived on the campus Monday to take active charge of the University’s participation in the Varsity Show series which will go on Friday evening, March 5, from 9:30 to 10:00 C.S.T., over the coast-to-coast red network of the National Broadcasting Company.
Bruccoli To Compare New And Old Child Psychology
Matthew Bruccoli, president of the Patricians, campus classical society, will deliver an address on the “Immutability of Adolescent Behavior” over the campus radio station Monday evening, March 1.
According to plan, Mr. Bruccoli will compare the notion of the eminent Greek sociologists with the present-day acceptance of youth behavior and its guidance. The treatment of the child in Athens and Sparta will be compared, and the defects and merits of each group will be taken into consideration in the discussion.
The development and the plan of formal education among the Greeks will be the chief point in the address and should be of particular interest to students of the present day for the adaptability and comparison to their present scholastic organization.
Reorganized Wisconsin Club Elects Officers
Reorganizing after a six-year lapse, the new Wisconsin Club has elected temporary officers and chosen by-laws at meetings held in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering at various times during the past few weeks. All students from Wisconsin are eligible for membership.
The old club was suspended for financial difficulties. The new Wisconsin club, however, has started with a clean slate.
Fred Mulchey, of Milwaukee, has been named president; Jack McGuinness, of Ashland, vice-president; and Bob Tharinger, of Wauwatosa, treasurer.
With the revival of the campus club, the Milwaukee Alumni group has shown new interest. A reorganization and election of new officers will be effected so that the campus and city groups will work in harmony. A committee, composed of Dick Carney, Milwaukee; Bill Garvey, Prairie du Chien; and Ed Pick, West Bend, will meet with the Alumni club to discuss plans for an Easter dance in Milwaukee, and to work out future joint activities.
Notre Dame will be the seventh of the series which began January 22 from the University of Michigan campus. The Notre Dame program will be broadcast direct from the gymnasium.
Director Miller was highly enthusiastic over the prospective talent available for the program as outlined by the local committee which is composed of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Prof. Joseph Casasanta, Mr. James Armstrong, Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., Prof. Richard Sullivan, and Prof. Thomas Barry.
“A sufficient number of ideas has been turned over to me to insure a brilliant radio program on March 5,” said Mr. Miller. “In addition to the band and glee club some 15 or 20 dramatic and comedy sketches and musical acts having to do with campus life have been submitted.
“One of the committee has nearly completed a history of the important milestones since the founding of the University for use as a feature of the broadcast.”
All students who suceed in “making” the cast of the Varsity Show will be putting themselves in the hands of the most competent radio producers and directors in the country.
Tickets for the broadcast from the University Gymnasium will be necessary for admission.
For campus students, tickets will be distributed in the University Dining Halls at noon on March 5.
Off-campus students or campus students desiring to bring guests to the broadcast can secure tickets without charge from the Alumni Office, from the cigar counter in the cafeteria, or from Prof. Joseph Casasanta. The supply, after deducting the student tickets, is limited. No student may secure more than two additional tickets.
Fifteen thousand post-cards, announcing the program, have been sent out. Students have sent out 4,500 of these, and the Alumni Office 10,500.
By adding caraway seed to Lim-burger cheese, scientists of the dairy division of the University of California are removing, to some extent this cheese’s strongest quality.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
1,200 DELEGATES JAM CATHOLIC PRESS
CONVENTION
•
Five nationally known speakers addressed more than 1200 delegates assembled at Milwaukee last week for the first national Catholic Press Educational Congress.
Dr. Ross J. S. Hoffman, professor of history at New York University, made the first feature address in which he traced the history of press influence and stressed the attendant responsibility of journalists, especially Catholics. He was introduced by Rev. James A. Magner, of Quigley Preparatory Seminary, Chicago.
At the second general session Dr. Anton C. Pegis, professor of philosophy at Marquette, spoke on “The Philosophical basis of the Press.” In his scholarly address Dr. Pegis stressed two important points: Catholic journalists must beware of substituting pietism for knowledge and, Catholic writers must analyze problems apart from the revelations of faith.
Dr. Pegis was introduced by the Rev. Raphael N. Hamilton, S.J., of the Marquette University history department.
Rev. Dr. Paul H. Furfey, head of sociology department of Catholic University at Washington, D. C., spoke at the Saturday afternoon session. His topic was “The Social Influences of Catholic Journalism.”
“Christ established a totally new and unique social philosophy,” Dr. Furfey said. “We must remember that this is more than of historic interest—we must live under this system to live fully and well.”
At the final general session, two outstanding addresses were given. The Rev. Raphael C. McCarthy, S.J., president of Marquette university stressed the importance of the press in education.
A press which does not educate as well as inform and entertain is warping its real mission, Father McCarthy pointed out. He charged the Catholic press with an even more important task—education and missionary work.
. Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., made the last formal address of the Congress. He pointed out the more practical aspects of the convention, taking up specific problems faced by Catholic editors, especially student editors.
“Too many Catholic editors forget for whom their paper is written,” Father Lord said. “Too many Catholic . publications, and other student media as well, are run for the
(Continued on Page 20)'	.,
From Supreme Court to Undersea Searches Treated in New Books Added to Library
Nine Old Men by Drew Pearson and Robert Allen, co-authors of the widely read Washington Merry-Go-Round, is one of the 100 new books which have been added to the University library since Feb. 1. The book analyzes the situation of the present justices of the Supreme Court from the New Deal point of view; its timeliness cannot be overemphasized, especially as it was written before the president’s action on federal courts created heated disputes. •
Autumn Spring by Margaret Terry Chandler continues her reminiscences begun in Roman Spring in 1934. Both are books of autobiography and deal with the life of Mrs. Chandler’s family abroad and in their American home in the Genesee Valley. Laurence Housman, himself a writer, contributes a book of 48 lyrics selected from the unpublished works of his late brother, Alfred Edward Housman. The book is entitled More Poems. Mr. Loveday’s Little Outing — and Other Stories by Evelyn Waugh is a collection of humorous
FETE NEW MEMBERS AT WRANGLERS1 BANQUET
•
The Wranglers, campus forensic society, held induction services for seven new members at their annual formal banquet at the Rose Marie Tea Room on Thursday night, Feb. 18.
The new members, chosen from a list of candidates who had already
Wranglers Hochreiter and Proctor
Looked over the new batch.
partaken in some campus speech activity, are:
Tom Mulligan, of Cleveland Hts., Ohio; . Joseph Ronan, of Chicago; Frank Fitch, of Cherokee, la.; John Tobin; William Mahoney; Charles Brosius, of . Lime Kiln, Md.; and Frank Brame, of Alexandria, La.
At the same time, the Wranglers honored Thomas Mulligan, Maurice
cynical tales and suggests an alternative ending for Miss Waugh’s last novel, A Handfzil of Dust.
Hilaire Belloc is the author of Characters of the Reformation; 23 of the leading personages of the Reformation are treated by Belloc from the Catholic point of view.
Government in the Third Reich is ■the subject of a book built on subtle sarcasm by Fritz Morstein Marx, a ■ Harvard professor and authority on political Germany. It is said to be one of the best pictures of the phenomenon of Nazism written in the English language. It treats the causes of Hitlerism with regard to the party, the people, and the state.
Dennis Wheatley tells a wierd story of a search for an undersea paradise, its discovery, and its loss because of a crooner’s selfishness. The book is called The Found Atlantis.
New books to be found in the reference rooms and the stacks of the library come from all fields of science, literature and religion.
Murphy, and John Wintermeyer as winners of the recent interhall debating contest.
James Nerney, of Attleboro, Mass., chairman of the banquet, introduced Richard Meier, president, and Charles Meyers, secretary.
Then Pierre de la Vergne, chairman of the membership committee, announced the names of the new members. Each was asked to give a short speech.
Two honorary members present were Thomas Proctor and Franklyn Hochreiter.
Elect Stolarski Cracow Club Treasurer
Joseph Stolarski, junior engineer, was elected treasurer of the Cracow club at their regular meeting Thursday, Feb. 18. He was a member of the arrangements committee of the Polish Students’ association which met here in 1935.
(
Plans were discussed for a series of programs which will tend to create a common interest between the foreign language and the foreign culture clubs of the University. It was decided that the two groups would hold meetings at which officers and sponsors of one club would speak to the members of the other organization. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
Bookmen Plan Annual
Club Breakfast
Plans for the annual Bookmen Communion breakfast to be held Sunday were announced by President Bob McGrath at the semi-monthly Wednesday meeting of the group in
T. Bowyer Campbell
the former library of the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, moderator of the club, spoke briefly, confining his remarks chiefly to welcoming the new members and outlining for them the purposes of the literary society.
Selection of new
books was made and exchanges were arranged through the club librarian, Bill Robinson.
Le Cercle Francois To Present "Pathlin"
“Pathlin,” a French comedy of the Middle Ages,will be presented at the next meeting of the Le Cercle Fran-cais. The performance, given by the members of the club, is slated for eight o’clock in Room 117 of the Main Building.
Paul Anderson, president, said that in the future the club will attempt to retain this practice by giving plays, showing the latest French movies and reviewing books. In this way he feels that interest in the study of French will be stimulated, and that it will greatly develop the cultural background of the members.
Riordan Out Of Danger Hospital Reports
Mr. Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, who is in St. Joseph’s Hospital recovering from a severe attack of erysipelas, has been pronounced out of danger.
According to the last report before going to press, the crisis had been passed and Mr. Riordan was on the road to recovery. However, he will not be able to take up his duties at the University for at least two weeks.
To Hear Chemist
A member of the chemical staff of the Chicago office of the Standard Oil company of Indiana will address the next meeting of the Engineers’ club, March 19, in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Committees for the Engineers’ formal dance on April 9 will not be announced for two weeks.
Professor Ackermann Marks Golden Jubilee Looks Back at Fifty Year's of School Growth
By George Haithcock
A person who has watched the extensive growth of the University of Notre Dame from the time of the erection of Sorin Hall is Professor Francis Xavier Ackermann, head of the Department of Mechanical Drawing, who this year, is. celebrating his Golden Anniversary of service at Notre Dame.
Coming to Notre Dame as a student in 1887 after spending a year and a half at Purdue University, Prof. Ackermann has viewed the progress of Notre Dame for fifty years. Pointing to the remarkable growth of the University during his time here, Mr. Ackermann-remarked:
“When I came to Notre Dame they were just beginning to lay plans for the building of Sorin Hall. Corby Hall was being used as the Community House. The library was then located in the Administration Building.”
While still a student at Notre Dame, Prof. Ackermann was engaged as an instructor in free hand drawing. In 1904 he was graduated from the College of Science with a master’s degree. From 1904 up until a few
Duffy, managing
Charles Duffy
Third 'Scrip' to Appear On Friday, March 12
Issue number three of Scrip, campus literary quarterly, will be distributed on Friday, March 12, it was announced this week through Charles ~ ~	‘ editor.
“Contributors to the third issue should have their material in the hands of Editor Phil Welsh before March 5,” Managing Editor Duffy said. “Response to the first two issues was good, but we hope for even more student interest in the last two issues of the year.”
Scrip was originally scheduled to appear on March 19, but publication was advanced a week because of the Sixth Annual Scholastic Bengal Bouts, which will be held on the 19th.
Editor Welsh said this week that several contributions have already been received but that there is still plenty of room for student fiction, verse or essays. The Freshman Sketches, popular in the first two issues, will be continued, along with the Book Review section.
years ago Mr. Ackermann had been inscribing the names on the graduation diplomas. But with the rapid increase in enrollment Mr. Ackermann has found it impossible to scroll four hundred-odd names in -time for graduation each year.
Mr. Ackermann comes by his art through hereditary talents which Notre Dame has been privileged to share. The very interesting murals in the present general offices, formerly the Brownson refectory, were the work of Mr. Ackermann’s uncle, whom Father Corby commissioned to redecorate the interior of the Main Building after the fire of 1879.
Similar murals, representing in both instances the famous cathedrals of the world, found in the trunk rooms that mark the site of the former Carroll refectory, are the work of Prof. Ackermann’s father. Professor Ackermann himself renewed and restored the paintings after the changes from the refectory to the present uses were effected.
In the Notre Dame Scholastic issue of August 27, 1887 there is an interesting news article regarding the work of the Ackermann family which had shared its part of the academic responsibilities of this institution:
“Mr. Ackermann is continuing the series of mural paintings in the Junior refectory which were begun by his brother, the late Professor Ackermann. ... His son, who is assisting him in the work, has completed a painting of the Pantheon.”
The “son” in this instance is none other than the 72-year-old professor of mechanical drawing, who is now observing his 50th anniversary at Notre Dame.
During this half-century at Notre Dame Mr. Ackermann has lived in the^ Administration Building. For the past thirty-five years he has lived in his present room, No. 321.
Having reached his 50th anniversary in the best of health Mr. Ackermann appears good for another 50 years. A bachelor, he has spent the years as a resident on the campus leading a life as regular and as carefully planned as some of the drawings in his courses.
He arises at 6:30 every morning, breakfasts,' prepares for his classes, and then goes about to teach 22 hours of classroom and laboratory work each' week. One day a week he takes off and usually attends a good movie. Other favorite recreations are the radio, reading, and walking.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
Public Lecture Series Is Set By Knights Of Columbus
A series of ten free public lectures beginning Feb. 21 and ending May 9 are being sponsored by the six Councils of the second District of the Indiana Jurisdiction of the Knights of Columbus. The subject matter of these lectures are political, social, and philosophic. They are open to all people of the community in which they are given, and they are arranged so as to enable the audience to interrogate the speaker for their own information.
Members of the faculty of the University who have consented to perform this task are: Prof. Joseph Apodaca speaking on the “Cooperative Movement”; Prof. Stephen Bocskey on “Evolution and Religion”; Prof. Louis Buckley on “Social Security Act and Its Application to the Individual” ; Prof. William Downey on the “Supreme Court and the Constitution”; Prof. Frank Flynn on “Social Treatment of Crime”; Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., “The Living Wage”; Rev. Norbert C. Hoff on “Birth Control—Neither Birth nor Control”; Prof. Walter Wilkins on “Parents Look at Modern Education”; Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C', and Prof. Daniel O’Grady have not as yet selected a- topic but, however, will appear on the program.
The Notre Dame Council, besides assisting at Goshen and Plymouth, arrange for the publicity releases, transportation of the faculty members who need same and generally see that the whole program is properly executed.
Press Club Dinner
(Continued from Page 3)
the evening and will introduce Father Burke as toastmaster.
Variety has been inserted in the program through the acquisition of the services of John R. Collins, Glee club soloist, for the evening. Mr. Collins will sing a number of songs throughout the program choosing both modem and light operatic numbers.
Tickets are on sale in the Publications Office in the Main building and at the cigar counter, in the Cafeteria on the campus. Members of the Press club will circulate through the halls during the next week with tickets. A number of tickets will also be available in the offices of both the South . Bend News-Times and the. South Bend Tribune.
When you first look at him you think of Louis Wolheim or maybe even Maxie Rosenbloom . . . it’s because of a problematic proboscis. . . . He is sometimes called “Squash” . . . that gives you the general idea. . . . His friends insist it is a face only a
mother, with an effort, could love. . . . It really isn’t that of course . . . and our hero is undaunted by it all. But underneath lies one of the most affable natures on the campus . . . never known to lose his temper . . . is putty in women’s hands . . . always reducing . . . uses Mum . . . name is Martin T. Burns, and he comes from Chicago.
Our hero sprang into prominence in his Junior Year by winning the Class Presidency, despite his campaign backers . . . that in itself was a feat.... He belongs to the Literary Guild and is their own little problem child ... he forgets to pay his bills and they write him touching letters. ... he answers with a smile . . . but reads few of the books he buys. . . . Is a sucker for anyone who wants to borrow something . . . and is at times a clothes horse. . . . He will argue about anything despite his knowledge of the subject in question. . . . An active-member of the S.A.C. he is trying hard to make it something more than just three initials . . . opposition seems tough. . . .
Full of ideas . . . some good . . . some lousy. . . . He sells the boys flowers for the dances, and his girl invariably wears the biggest orchids, .w 7. He-calls her “Crumb Bun” by the
(Continued on Page 22)
SENIORS GIVE FLAG IN TRADITIONAL
CEREMONIES
•
By Frank Reilly
Presentation of an American flag to the University by the senior class at Notre Dame, officially commemorated Washington’s Birthday, on Monday morning. This traditional exercise, in which 434 seniors participated, was the. observance of the 92nd celebration held at Notre Dame. The custom of presenting the flag to the University was inaugurated in 1897.
The president of the senior class, R. Parker Sullivan, led the solemn procession from the Main Building to Washington Hall. Here he presented the flag to the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, acting for the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. The flag presented to Father O’Donnell will be raised on Commencement Day, and flown at the University for all official occasions next year.
The University Band opened the exercises with the playing of “The Star - Spangled Banner.” Following this was an address given by Charles F. Meyers, Elgin, BL, senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Meyers’ topic was “Washington’s Ideals in the America of Today.”
Said Meyers, “ ‘Of all dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. National morality cannot prevail in the exclusion of religious principles,’ so spoke Washington.
“Where does present day America stand on this question? Originally founded by religious people her tax-supported schools today ignore religion. The neutral attitude toward religion has become negative or indifferent. Morality in many parts of the non-sectarian world has simply become custom utilitarianism. What is wrong today may be right tomorrow—if the people say so. Less than one-half of America’s people attend church regularly.”
. The Washington Day Ode was read by Joseph P. O’Brien, C.S.C., senior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., received the flag, and gave a brief acceptance speech.
“Your presentation of a flag is a symbol of the offering of your hearts to the country and to the common good—not only for war, which God avert, but for the complicated and pressing problems of peace,” said Father O’Donnell.
Father O’Donnell pointing to communistic influence permeating Ameri-
( Continued on Page 9)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
THE WEEK
Boycott
The cab company versus school controversy has at last come to a head. For months now the cabs have been charging-, if not getting, high prices. On Sunday last came a new and amusing wrinkle. A boycott was launched against the cabs. On our way to the usual Sunday afternoon show we saw four cabs parked on Notre Dame avenue, just off the concrete road, near the campus police booth. Their motors were running and we were about to commandeer. one of them when some instinct advised us to take the street car. Everybody was freezing out the taxis. It was clear that the cabs were battling the students and we had a mind to tell the drivers that they had two strikes and a foul tip on them.
• * $
Three Cheers
Gowns flapped wildly in a strong wind Monday and Sullivan remembered his speech. Washington was duly acclaimed between 10 and 10:45, in virtually the same words that have accompanied his acclamation for the past 40 years. The exercises are, like death and taxes, inevitable. If there was any excitement or enthusiasm during the morning, it was in the photography after the ceremony when almost every participant posed for one or more shots. We didn’t tempt fate by having our picture taken; we’d rather wait until June and be sure.
Ennui
Every university- is supposed to - go through a period‘of enforced inactivity, in which nobody does anything, at any time, anywhere. Notre Dame is battling such doldrums now with potential toboggans and ski slides for the outdoors men and actual billiards for the more sedentary athletes. We have an individual reaction to the dull days; we bite our nails. So far we have gnawed through ten fingers and admit we’re stumped. The “Keep The Boys On the Campus” campaign was moderately effective until the past week end, when a universal expedition to town took place every day. There happened to be, wonder of wonders, three quality pictures playing, and everybody saw the trio. Still, with all the facilities for amusement, we kept seeing little hatchets and cherry trees in front of our eyes on Washington’s Birthday. We tried to read, but that failed. We played pool listlessly and poorly. We walked 200 yards and gave up. Studying was a remedy, but one to be taken cautiously and in small doses. In utter despair we went to bed at ten o’clock. Oh, for the carefree life of a college -boy!
By John A. Gillespie
Haven
Crises are being met and conquered every day behind the scenes. Monday night, at the nadir of the weekend, a mob of students were assembled on every corner of South Bend, looking for transportation. It was 11:45, anu numberless men were worrying over an impending campus. Then, like manna from heaven, the assistant prefect of discipline rode up on his snorting white charger and took com- -mand. Looking calmly over the push-. ing throngs, he . pacified them with the assurance that he would run a special trolley. A long, hearty cheer arose from the group. And in practically no time at all, two streetcars were booming their way to school. They were express conveyances and as the twinkling lights of town were left behind, the riders, as one man, thought how nice it was to be protected from the ravages of the heartless world. At approximately two minutes before 12 o’clock the boys arrived and scattered to their halls. Anxious night watchmen congratulated them on their narrow escape from a fate worse than death. That’s what you get for leading a clean life.
* * *
Marriage—1937 Model
Now’s the time to fall in love. The Scholastic received a penny postcard from a Justice-of-the-Peace in Stamford, Conn., advertising marriages on the installment or delayed payment plan. We quote from the text: “This card will entitle one ...couple .to. have .their marriage. ceremony performed in 1937 and pay for it in 1938. Write or phone in advance.” A sure-fire publicity trick, but supposing the husband, after a year of unhappiness, refuses to pay? No jury would convict him. This publication business entails all sorts of surprises and freak schemes.
* # #
Flying Machines
A glimpse of Bill Smith in the cafeteria reminded us of the latest fad at Notre Dame—aviation. It started early in the fall and has kept up steadily since then. Some of the boys are soloing now, and whenever you see a plane skimming above the campus, there is a very good chance that the pilot is a student. They are tacit men, these sky-invaders, and we could find out very little about their exploits. Perhaps a fellow gets that way, strong and silent, from zooming through space like an eagle, and being strictly on his own. It must be tedious to return to work after an hour in the clouds. We expect for-• mations and- parachute- jumping- in • the spring.
9
Prof. L, Buckley Gives Views on Sit-Downers
The Scholastic has received the following self-explanatory letter from Professor Louis F. Buckley of the department of economics:
“I would like to call your attention to a statement that appeared in the Scholastic for Feb. 12 in connection with my paper given before the Arts and . Letters Lay Faculty club that might lead to some misunderstanding since only a brief explanation of my opinion was given there.' A question was raised, in the discussion following the paper, concerning the justification of the sit-down type of strike. I stated that, as a general principle, the sit-down strike could not be justified because it was a direct violation of the law. I qualified this, however, by saying that in the case of a just strike, where the workers were not in a position to protect the right to their jobs in any other way against strikebreakers, the sit-down strike might be justified as’ a form of picketing.
“I will appreciate it if you will carry an extension of my statement in your next issue.”
Buffalo Alumni Arrange Annual Easter Dance
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo will again hold its annual Easter Monday dance, according to a recent announcement of George E. Doyle, Jr., president of the club. The 1937 affair will be held in the Terrace room of the Hotel Statler, Buf falo, on Monday evening, March 29.
Always one of the brilliant affairs . of the Easter Week festivities, this year’s dance will eclipse all others both in music and entertainment.
The purpose of the annual Easter Monday dance is to create funds for establishing a scholarship to the University, which is awarded annually to a worthy western New York student.
Flag Presentation
(Continued from Page 8)
can activities, said the communists now conduct more than 200 schools in the United States, one in New York with an enrollment of 10,000. He also saw significance in the fact that sit-down strikes were unheard of in this country eight months ago.
The program concluded with the singing of “Song of Notre Dame” written by Francis C. Schwab, ’02.
Lois Geiger, a swingstress at the University ■ of -Buffalo, is organizing an “all-Gal” dance orchestra.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, February 26
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Debating, Indiana State tourney, Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind.
Saturday, February 27
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Benediction, 11:30 a.m.; Movies, Washington hall, “Picadilly Jim,” starring Robert Montgomery and Madge Evans, 1:30 and 3:30 p.m.; Track meet, Varsity vs. Drake University, University Gym, 7:30 p.m.; Basketball, Varsity vs. Butler, Indi-apolis, Ind., 8:00 p.m.; Fencing, Varsity vs. Chicago University, Chicago, III.; Debating, Indiana State tourney, Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind.
Sunday, February 28
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights ,o f Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.; Debate, Varsity vs. St. Xavier College, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, March 1
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Meeting, S. A. C., basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, basement of Law building, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 2
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Meeting, Patricians, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.
Wednesday, March 3
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. until Lenten Services, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.
Thursday, March b
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Debating, Midwest Invitational tournament, University of Iowa, Iowa City, la.; Press club banquet, Lay Faculty Dining hall, James Weber Linn to speak.
YOU CAN’T FORGET MAR. 19 ' It’s Bengal Bout Night
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Valiant Is the Word for Darbo
Russell Darbo, a blind law student of the University of California, accomplished a feat last summer that many men with complete physical faculties would never dare • attempt. Accompanied by his trained shepherd dog, “Mia,” Darbo hitch-hiked the 3,400 miles between California and New York. When questioned as to his purpose in making the trip, Dar-bo’s simple reply was. that he only wished to demonstrate that blindness is no handicap in doing the ordinary things in life.-
Harvard’s Latest Course
If there has been any outstanding or particularly noticeable feature of exchange column this year, it is that most of them have given considerable mention to curriculum changes and additions in leading American educational institutions. The latest one to come to our attention is Harvard’s proposed course in Public Adminstra-tion. In conformity ■with a $2,000,000 bequest by the late Lucius N. Lit-tauer America’s oldest university is preparing to open a school of public administration. Because there is no precedent in the scholastic world the university must map out its own particular syllabus for aspirants to government positions.
The first session of the new school will be for exploratory purposes, and faculty members as well as officials from various governmental units will make up the student body. After the first few' months it is believed that rules will be formulated upon the experience acquired in the opening periods. The requirement regulations are to be very demanding, and as things stand now candidates need not apply unless they have either doctorate or master’s degrees.
“Muscle-Men” Don’t Flunk at Iowa State College
We might be leading with our chins in saying this but nevertheless we will venture to say that few major institutions can boast of not having one varsity athlete deficient in studies during last fall or the present winter courses. But such is the proud distinction that belongs to the “Cyclones” of Iowa State College. A recent checkup on the school’s athletes reveal that all varsity men participating in football, swimming, cross country, wrestling, and basketball have perfect scholastic records. Over 100 men of varsity calibre have been in-. eluded. . . . And to top it off only one first year man out of 50 compet-
It has been
Steve Miller
ASK OUTSIDE TALENT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE 'ABSURDITIES'
•
The Monogram club met last Thursday evening to discuss its forthcoming “Absurdities” and its annual dance, the Monogram formal.
definitely settled that the show will be presented in two acts. The background for the first act -will be that of a nightclub with a . bevy of chorus girls doing a rhumba. The second act wil contain numerous novelty numbers. Joseph Ruetz will do two specialty
numbers with his educated feet.
• Though this much of the show has been definitely planned, committees are searching the campus for any outside talent. Any person, or group of persons, are invited to see either John P. Lautar or Stephen C. Miller if they have any suggestions or ideas regarding the production of some skit which they would like to see presented.
Efforts are being made to contact William Steinkemper, last year’s popular master of ceremonies, who is vacationing in Chicago at present, to resume his role this year. In case this attempt is futile, a committee has been appointed to make another selection.
The meeting was concluded after Victor Wojcihovski was chosen chairman of the annual club dance which will take place on April 16. According to John Lautar, president, the music committee is still debating the selection of a suitable orchestra.
ing in the fall sports fell by the wayside.
Brief Flashes
Felix Waitkus, now a student at Wisconsin University, has the honor of having a Lithuanian postage stamp issued in his honor. Waitkus, in case you don’t recall the name, attempted a non-stop flight from New York to Lithuania in 1935, but was forced down in Ireland because of fuel shortage. He plans a Paris hop this year. . . ."The key to an understanding of living is to be found in the study of Latin contends Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler. It is an essential part in the preparation for the world of tomorrow and as such should be in all curricula. . . . Coeds at California U. may now take a complete course in carpentry. ... Ye gods, they are even teaching them nowadays how to be perfect-“chiselers.” 11! Why disregard that old maxim, “You can’t improve on nature”???
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937	11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
How many of you remember the days when only the seniors wore suits? Corduroys (blue one’s) and windbreakers were the hit of the day, but today the situation is reversed— everyone but a senior wears suits. . . John Sullivan (Alumni) while down at the local natatorium over the week end, by mistake found himself in the wrong shower room . . . Chick Maloney (Walsh) spent the better part of Sunday night looking for his date, he’s still looking. . . . Pinky Carroll (Walsh) “reveling” in the weather...
This column doesn’t cater to mercenaries but Pat O’Shaughnessy has been desirous of seeing the name in “White Lights.” Pat’s press agent finally prevailed your columnist for this little flicker. . . The steak dinner served Sunday night was swell if one likes hamburgers, coffee without cream or sugar and the Tea Dance too was successful if the basketball game was any indication of the results. . . .
Tops in Something or other: After meeting two young ladies from the college, two of our more enterprising "romeos,” hie hithered themselves down to the Merchants Bank to check their papas Bradstreet rating. . . At any time between seven and nine Tom Green, Frank Barbush, Roy Barron and Bud Caldwell (Alumnites) can be found in the diner eastward of the theatre. ...
Thumbnails: Jim- O’Hara — best dressed man in Brownson. . . Tom Hughes (Alumni)—big John Straet-er... Frank Hochreiter (off campus) —Donald Duck. . .
The 9:00 o’clock edition of the Monday night South Shore delivered seven carloads of week-enders back to status quo, but not until a good time was had by all, or at least by most of the folks. An authority estimated that about a third of Cavanaugh Hall was seen in one of the Windy city’s more popular dining and dancing emporiums, a top notch movie actress, Ann Sothern, put in an appearance and everybody’s pulse went clickety-clack. . . Typographical error, with regrets we "withdraw our prediction of last week that the Monogram absurdities will be tip-tops. Unless every one stops adding his two cents worth and the production is put under the head of one capable director, the show is destined for a repetition of last year.
What the majority of students want is laughter and as a conse
quence we are intent upon giving you laughter. . .
Are we men or Are We Magazines, what do you think?
Life—Joe Weiss (Alumni).
Field and Stream — Ben Mullen (Walsh).
Literary Digest — John Marbach (Alumni).
Stage—John Brassel (Sorin).
New Yorker—Bill McNally (Alumni).
Good Housekeeping — Jim Hack (Alumni).
Ballyhoo—Leo Happel ’ (Alumni).
Time—Neil O’Brien (Dillon)
Etude—Jim Manion (Alumni).
Silver Screen—John McGuire (Lyons) .
Street & Smith—Morrie Moskowitz (Off Campus).
“New' Tango Steps?”
“Naw—Rehearsing for those Bengal Bouts.”
Popular Mechanics — Tom Delker (Walsh).
Baseball—Jim Waldron (Walsh).
Financial World — Robert Hoeff-stetter (Cavanaugh).
Travel—Monte Carlo Boys.
Ring—Tex Durkin (Alumni).
Turf—Mike Tackley (Off campus).
Popular A viation — Gene Cattie (Alumni).
Hit of the Week—Frank Barbush (Alumni).
Boy’s Life—Jerry Besanceney (Alumni). ’
Strength and Health—Louie Smith (Alumni).
’ Journal of Speec/i—Francis Kop-czak (Sorin).
Neivs - Week—J ack Gillespie (Walsh)
Esquire—Dan Sheedy (Morrissey)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall. Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.......................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie______________________________The Week
Anthony F. O'Boyle__________________________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo___________________________In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra_____________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams____________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven Frank Reilly
Richard Riley____________________________Robert McClain
George Haithcock______________________Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk_________L_________________John Callaghan
Thomas Marker____________________________James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes______________________________Graham Starr
Vincent W. Hartnett)________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby______________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_________________________________James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger_________________________________Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, '26_______________________Business Manager
even by those outside Catholic press circles, but by Catholic editors, writers and educators.
There can be no denying that these statements have more than a grain of truth. The Catholic press and its readers are fair game for such virulent sniping. And the more sniping that is effectively done, the sooner the Catholic press will develop a virility that will give it importance.
For years the Catholic press, indeed the Catholic church, has* been forced into a defensive position. The natural result was that Catholic writers and their journals tended to be forever “attacking an evil” rather than proposing a good. And strangely, no one is in a better position to propose goods.
Rev. Daniel Lord, S.J., Rev. James Magner, Dr. Ross Hoffmann and other speakers at the Milwaukee Congress were outspoken in their statements on the condition of Catholic press. But they did not fail to offer practical and effective remedies for what they consider a bad situation.
First in the way of remedies suggested was that Catholic editors focus strict attention on just exactly for whom they are writing. This accomplished, the writer can aim his material sharply and accurately, hitting directly at what he knows to be of interest to his circulation.
Second in the list was the development of keen any-litical powers that enable him to look at problems apart from the revelations of faith.	>
Catholicity has a unique and perfect social order to offer a troubled world. The Catholic press is the medium to offer this doctrine—not only as dogma of faith, not only as pious practice, but as a practical, work-a-day answer to many of the world’s ills.
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	February 26, 1937	No. 17
QUESTIONING THE PRESS...
THE CATHOLIC press, like many Catholics, has lost the verve and steam necessary for it to be effective in modern life.
A mask of pietism is too often used to shield lack of knowledge on the part of Catholic writers.
The Catholic press is often aimed poorly, with the editors losing sight of their readers.
Catholic readers are inclined to “pooh-pooh” Catholic writers and Catholic journals as “stodgy,” “over-pious” and by lack of interest breed poorer publications.
These are but a few of the statements and challenges brought out by famous speakers at the first national Catholic Press Education Congress held last week at Milwaukee.
Rabid as some of the statements may sound, forceful as they -unquestionably are, it is well to remember that they were made not by enemies of the Catholic press, not
AND GLADLY TEACH ...
IT TAKES no sage to realize that teaching school is far from a holiday routine. Teaching means tedious hours of repetition, years of poring over the same familiar matter in an attempt to pass along some few grains of knowledge.
Teaching is a science, an art and a terrible cross to bear. It must be rich in rewards to those who follow it earnestly—it must have some subtle recompense for these drawbacks.
No one should realize its woes, or its rewards more than Professor Francis X. Ackermann who this week celebrates fifty consecutive years at Notre Dame.
In his years of class-room work Professor Ackermann has seen a parade of student generations. Each year brought new pupils, new problems, a new world in which to apply old principles.
Professor Ackermann has been singularly successful. Few lives can hold so much accomplishment and so little regret. Few lives have affected others so fully, so earnestly and so purposefully. His fifty years will stretch, much longer in the memory of old students.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
13
That Pepsodent Smile » By Edward Fischer
Marian Montrose was going home. At least she was Marian Montrose to Hollywood and Broadway, but to the folks back in Birchwood she was just Old Man Manning’s youngest daughter, Rosie.
Anyone in Birchwood could tell you all about Rosie. They began by informing you that Pop Manning was the ■village postmaster, and that he had three daughters. The two older girls were skipped over rapidly, but when they came to Rosie they spoke more slowly and picked the nicest ad-j'ectives they knew.
Grandpa Stetson, the town’s oldest citizen, once described Rosie to a stranger in his own homespun way. “She wuz alluys jest as pretty as a pitcher, ever since she wuz a little tot. But it wuzn’t her face so much though that made ya like her. It wuz her smile. Everytime she smiled at you she kinda made you feel warm inside. It seems like everybody kinda worshipped her. But when she got nigh onter eighteen, she got the fool notion in her head, thet she wanted to be actin’ on one of them stages up in th’ city. Maw Mannin’ wuz aginst it. Paw Mannin’ wuz aginst it. Th’ whole town wuz aginst it. Especially young Jim Robinson, ’cause he wuz Rosie’s beau an’ he wuz aginst it more than anybody. Folks around here has had them two picked out to get married ever since they wuz little tots, but it don’t look so likely now. Well Rosie wouldn’t give up. She wanted to be on th’ stage no matter who tried to stop her. Finally Maw and Paw Mannin’ gave in. The town kinda gave in, but young Jim Robinson never did give in and I don’t reckon he ever will.”
Marian Montrose was thinking of all these things as she skimmed along the highways in her sports roadster. Every mile was bringing her closer home, and the closer she came the more she thought of those days gone by — especially of Jimmie. Would Jimmie be glad to see her? Probably not after that last quarrel they had had. Jimmie said that if she went on the stage she need never speak to him again. She went on the stage. When she left, Jimmie had said she wouldn’t get very far as an actress. She had reached stardom. All this quarreling was four years ago. The miles rolled by. Maybe Jimmie had forgotten by now. But why did he have a right to be mad at her because she went on the stage ? He nevei’ did anything she wanted him to. Didn’t she want him to be a lawyer or doctor, and didn’t he tell her he would much rather be a mechanic ? Jimmie was never happy until he was
grimy. He hated those white collar jobs. They had even quarreled about the machine shop. She shuddered as she thought of those dirty overalls and greasy hands. She felt a certain degree of satisfaction in thinking that she made good aftei- Jimmie predicted her a failure.
Four years ago she started as chorus girl in one of the smaller shows. In a little more than a year’s time her name was flashing on Broadway. In another year she had reached Hollywood, the Mecca of all good little actors and actresses. It was her smile that carried her through. Her press agent nicknamed it “the Pepsodent Smile,” and the name stuck. All over the country she was headlined
A Modern Metaphor
By John Walsh
Attractiveness does not adequately describe her. She is more than attractive. When I first met her I was amazed at her verve—a quality not diminished by her wonderful age. She must be immortal for I met her only yesterday, more vivacious, more fascinating than before.
Odd it is, however, that she does not appeal to all people. Many are frightened by her frankness; others are superciliously amused by her naivete. These persons avoid her and revile her as uncouth and narrowminded.
One acquaintance of mine typified this attitude when he said: “ I really don’t like her because she belongs to no class—a rich person receives no better treatment from her than does the poorest worker. Overscrupulous, she knows no exceptions; exacting, she sees only one answer.”
“But,” I objected, “it’s hardly valid for you to condemn her without knowing her well.”
“Perhaps you are right,” he admitted, “I’ve only had one chance encounter with her, but the memory of it is vivid. I was hurrying through a misty fog. Suddenly I bumped sharply into someone. It was she. I bowed, mumbling an apology, but was startled to hear her say, ‘You’re an extremely fortunate young man, for travelers through this kind of weather seldom meet me.’ She tarried, seemingly wanting to converse, but I cut her off quickly—perhaps rudely, and groped onward. Since then I have never seen her, although I’ve often been in that doubtful darkness.”
“My poor friend,” I begged, “you needn’t look for her in the darkness. Do but open your eyes fully and you will see that Truth is everywhere.”
as “Marian Montrose, the girl with the Pepsodent smile.”
Her smile received many praises, but she thought most of that compliment paid to her by the old Jewish doorman who worked back-stage for the first show in which she had ever played. Everyone in the show called him “Rabbi.” No one knew his real name.
One day as Marian came tripping in for rehearsal she met “Rabbi” at the door. She gave him the same smile and cheery “Good Morning” as she gave everyone else. He stopped her and said, “Vwat a schmile, vwat a schmile. It’s vorth a fortune. Don’t use it too often. But vhen you vant something real bad—just schmile. You vill sure get vhat you vant.”
Marian often thought of “Rabbi’s” words, but things had come so easily those last four years that she hadn’t had much chance to try out the old man’s prophecy.
Right then her chain of thought was broken, for she was getting so close to Birchwood, and the scenery was so familiar that she began to look for any evident changes. Everything seemed the same. There was the Watterson’s homestead. Woodright’s still had that black cow that always stood in the same corner of the pasture. There was Norton’s little brown dog, “Sandy,” and he was still chasing machines. As she turned the curve which brought her into the center of Birchwood, she saw a large sign which she had never seen there before. It read, “Robinson’s Garage.” She pulled up in front of the garage door. A young man came out. It was Jimmie. He recognized her at the first glance.
“Well.” He tried to speak with cold indifference.
“Aren’t you glad to see me, Jimmie?”
“I don’t know why I should be.” “I'm glad to see you, Jimmie.” “I suppose you can see that I am still a mechanic and still wear dirty, greasy overalls.”
“Yes, but that doesn’t mean everything.”
“You used to think it meant everything. If you want any repairs made on the car I’ll make them, and if not —I’m busy.” He turned to go.
Just then the prophecy of the old Jewish doorman came to Marian’s mind. “If you ever vant anyting real bad just schmile. You vill get vhat-ever you vant.”
She called to Jimmie. He turned around. Then she flashed him one of those big Pepsodent smiles. Jimmie was only human. Marian didn’t think that greasy arms felt so bad after all.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. FEBRUARY 26, 1937
^ATHLETICS
SCHIAVONE SPURS ON BOXING HOPEFULS AS PRELIMINARY BOUTS DRAW NEAR;
SQUAD IS IN GOOD CONDITION
GYM TEAM PRESENTS LOCAL EXHIBITION MARCH 16
By Mark J. Mitchell
Besides Mr. Keogan’s cagemen, and Mr. Nicholson's thinmen, and Prof, de Landero’s bladesmen, there is a large numbei- of other strong young men working very hard every afternoon in the gymnasium. These are Mr. Schiavone’s swingmen. And three weeks from tonight they will be your swingmen, when the sixteen survivors of this aspiring group enter the squared circle to do battle for the University boxing championships, for the missions of Bengal, and for your entertainment.
From the industry shown by the fighters as they go about their daily tasks, each one of these reasons means something very special to them. With the majority of the contestants gradually rounding into shape, Trainor Schiavone this week started training under actual ring conditions. Less emphasis was placed on such things as calisthenics and road work, while punching bags and sparring partners began to realize that there must be something important coming off here.
Schiavone indicated that from his observations, the Bouts will be full of interest from start to finish. Of the eight championships, more than half are not being defended. Phil Dahar will attempt to retain his heavyweight title, and will be opposed by Red Darcy, last year’s runner-up, as well as several new men. Helland, a Golden Gloves fighter and junior welterweight champion, will go after the 147-pound title. Tommy “Tex” Durkin will be seeking his third straight championship in the lightweight division.
Tex is a senior from Wichita Falls, Texas, who has picked up all he knows (and don’t fool yourself that it isn’t plenty) about the science of boxing since coming to Notre Dame. Tommy, in his pre-coll egiate days, used to throw a few fists around. However, he admits he never took it seriously enough to bother learning how until he came here to school. As a freshman, he joined Max Marek’s boxing classes, and showed rapid development. In the Bengal Bouts of 1934 he went to the finals, and gave a good account of himself against (Continued on Page 18)
NEW HANDBALL TEAM DEVELOPS; MANY
TRY FOR BERTHS
•
Notre Dame’s newly-formed -handball team will travel to Chicago to--morrow for a return match with a Maroon team with which they broke even in their one previous encounter. After the Chicago meet the team expects to compete in a home-and-home series with Illinois.
The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., an expert at the game and probably the best handball player on the campus, is the coach of the team. Although he claims that none of his boys are really exceptional players yet, he admits that many of them are developing rapidly. They are all enthusiastic about the idea of intercollegiate competition in handball, a consideration which is very new to the great majority of colleges.
The fact that there are so many (Continued on Page 19)
Schiavone Instructs Durkin and Partner
Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, has selected Tuesday, March 16, as the date of the gym team’s exhibition in Washington Hall. Every year for the past three years, these skillful performances of his nimble phy-ed acrobats have been welcomed by the student body; they have definitely become an annual affair.
The lack of room in Washington Hall greatly handicaps the gymnasts. However, they have restrained their routines, and have restricted themselves to stunts which do not require much room, thus adjusting their performance to the limitations of the stage.
Coach Scannell has done well in teaching “elephant vaulting,” tumbling, high - bar, and parallel - bar stunts to such solidly-built football men as Larry Danbom, Andy Puplis, ■ Joe Kuharich, Pat McCarty, Gene Ely, Ed Broscoe, Joe Sternad, and Hube Gallagher, who form about half of the gymnastic squad. The other members of the group who will give the students an opportunity for admiring their physical prowess and (Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
15
WINNING IRISH TEAM CHALLENGES BUTLER TOMORROW NIGHT
ANNUAL INTERHALL BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT DRAWS TO A CLOSE; CHAMPIONS IN TWO GROUPS WILL EMERGE SUNDAY
By Nick Lamberto
A slightly jaded and schedule-worn Notre Dame basketball team will leave tomorrow morning for Indianapolis where they will meet the Butler five tomorrow night in the Butler fieldhouse before 12,000 fans.
In their first meeting of the season on January 9, the Bulldogs bowed to the Fighting Irish, 25-25. In that game a Notre Dame team still feeling the effects of injuries and sickness barely edged out the scrappy Butler team. Butler has a reputation of being hard to beat on their home floor, and should give the Irish an exciting evening tomorrow night.
Teams Better Since First Game
Butler’s eagers started slowly this season and were defeated by most of their major opposition. Since midseason the Bulldogs have looked much better and should reach a late season peak in their traditional struggle with Notre Dame. Butler’s lineup does not boast any individual star this year, but they make up for this with their excellent team play.
Notre Dame, like Butler, got off to a slow start in their early season games. After dropping three games the Fighting Irish suddenly lost their early season raggedness and developed into a classy, smooth-functioning machine which reached its peak in defeating Purdue, Illinois, and New York University.
- Conditions Ideal For Upset
In games since that with Canisius and Pitt the Irish seemed to have lost their edge. The upset situation is ideal for Butler unless Notre. Dame snaps loose from the seizure of lethargy. A victory for Butler over Notre Dame at this time would greatly enhance their prestige and turn an indifferent season into a fairly, successful one. Butler has the added advantage of going into the game as an underdog before a home crowd.
The starting lineup for Notre Dame will include Meyer and Moir, forwards; Nowak, center; and Wuko-vits and Brown, guards. The second team composed of Crowe, Knobel, DeMots, Jordan, and Gaglione will carry on the attack should the regulars fail to click. This second team, unmindful of the clippings of the regulars, has been giving them some tough scrimmages lately and stand ready for action if needed.
A , peace movement has been launched by 700 students on the campus of Kansas State Teachers College.
NICKMEN ENCOUNTER DRAKE TRACK TEAM IN DUAL MEET
•
Notre Dame will meet one of the strongest track teams in the mid-west, when Drake comes here tomorrow afternoon, to clash with Coach John Nicholson’s proteges in the local fieldhouse. The Bulldogs recently scored a 69%-34% victory over Iowa State, piling up a 52 to 16 advantage in the running events alone.
Drake is particularly effective in the distance department, having taken second behind Indiana in the C.I.C. cross-country meet last fall. In addition, Drake beat out Michigan State, which subsequently won the I.C.A.A.-A.A. meet. Greg Rice will find a worthy competitor in Captain Ray Mahannah, state and Missouri Valley champion in the mile event. The Bulldog leader was clocked at 4 minutes 24 seconds, during the Iowa State meet.
Although he is but a first-year man on the squad, nevertheless Bill Feiler has been setting a fast pace in the two-mile run. He was checked at 9:45.7, setting a new record in the Bulldog’s dual encounter with Iowa State. Two more sophomores, Bob Patterson and Bob Horstmeier, are star contenders in the half-mile. Harrison Kohl, another newcomer on Coach Pitch Johnson’s combine, is the Bulldog’s best prospect in the 440.
Don Addington, a veteran participant in the pole vault, will again represent the Bulldogs in that event. Peterson is the outstanding shotputter on the Drake team, but his throws have not been beyond the 42 foot mark. Jennings performs in the high jump, while Tulin and Baker are mainstays for the hurdles. The dash men include two veteran nunners, Smith and Robinson.
Captain Bucky Jordan and Bill Clifford will be entered in the dash events for the Irish. “T-Bone” Mahoney and Morgan are Notre Dame’s strongest possibilities in the high hurdles. The two-mile runners are likely to consist of Arch Gott, Steve Szumachowski, and Gene Gormley. Sheehan, McKenna, Rice, and Francis will probably compete in the mile and 880-yard ran.
The Irish weight team, composed of Chick Levicki, Ed Beinor, and Bud Faymonville, are practically certain to account for several Notre Dame points in the shot-put.
By Al Bride
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Group -1-	W	L	Group -2-	W	L
Brownson------6	0	Howard 5	0
Carroll ------6	1	Morrissey------3	2
Cavanaugh-----4	3	Alumni --------3	3
St. Edwards _3	2	Lyons 2	3
Badin 3	4	Sorin 2	4
Freshman______1	5	Dillon_________2	4
Off Campus __1	5	Walsh 2	4
Old Infirmary 1	6
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Group -1- W	L	Group -2-	W	L
Carroll 6	0	Dillon---------6	0
Cavanaugh----5	1	Howard --------4	1
St. Edwards — 4	2	Morrissey -----4	2
Old Infirmary 3	3	Lyons----------3	2
Brownson _____3	3	Walsh ---------1	4
Off Campus — 1	4	Alumni---------0	4
Freshman_____1	5	Sorin----------0	5
Badin---------0	5
Interhall rivalry and honor will be intensified Sunday as the heavyweight and lightweight winners in both groups clash for campus supremacy in basketball. Promptly at 2:00 o’clock Sunday, afternoon the battle of champions will get under way as the lightweights tangle. Im-
John Scannell Another Successful Season.
mediately following this battle the two heavyweight winners will battle it out.
Few games were played Sunday because of the opportunity for weekends afforded by Washington’s birthday. As a result the- final standings will not be determined until sometime during the week. In Group II the winners are set and ready for the final matches. Howard captured the title in the heavyweight division while the Dillon lightweights are at the top of the standing in their league. In Group I Brownson is leading the heavyweights but must play one game with St. Edwards during the week. Past records favor the dorm lads and if they win they will meet Howard in the finals. The Carroll lightweights must defeat the freshmen small men from Cavanaugh before they earn the right to face Dillon in the lightweight championship battle.
Three games were'played during the past week in the heavyweight di-(Continued on Page 17)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
We depart, this week, from our custom of introducing the athletes of the major teams and present to you, Frank Schiavone, the man behind the Bengal Bouts, the man who makes the bouts what they are fistically.
Frank is the trainer and tutor of every fighter who will appear in the
bouts. When the sixteen finalists appear in the ring on the night of the finals
you will know that every one of them has reached there because, in some measure, Schiavone had something to do with him.
He’ll be in the background. He “won’t be out in front to take any bows or applause but you can be indebted to him for the second year in a row for presenting as fine a bunch of amateur boxers as Notre Dame has ever seen.
Frank prefers to be in the background. .He absolutely refused to talk about himself when he was first approached for an interview. It wasn’t until three of us surrounded him and refused to let him alone that he came out with his story, and even then insisted upon talking about his early friends.
Born and reared in
Buffalo, N.Y., Frank grew up in the atmosphere of the ring. The section of Buffalo from which he came is noted for producing many a luminary of the boxing world. Naturally Schiavone joined a boxing club, as everybody else in the neighborhood did, and there he learned his boxing technique.
There were no tournaments that amateurs could enter in Buffalo at the time Frank was a member of the club. But he gained plenty of experience by sparring with other members, among them, Lou Schoza, an outstanding contender for the light-heavyweight crown a few years back. Once in a while the members of the club would give exhibitions at various smokers throughout the city and Schiavone and his pals never failed to impress the spectators.
Then came the time when Frank had to choose between professionalism or college. He chose college and remained among the “simon pures,” preferring Notre Dame to the professional ring.
In his freshman year he and Max Marek, since turned professional, made their Notre Dame debut in an exhibition at a freshman smoker. In another exhibition Frank met Bart McKernan, middleweight champ of the University. He put up a great scrap and in the opinion of many beat Bart. Opinions differed around the campus but it was definite when the Bengals were over and Frank had taken the decision over Bart. Incidentally the Bengal Bouts was the first tournament Schiavone ever entered. He did pretty good for a beginner.
The boy from Buffalo took a year off and didn’t enter the bouts in 1934. Last year he took over the trainer’s job and it was generally agreed that he performed a mighty fine job.
The training of fighters is Frank’s favorite job. He hopes to be able to handle boxers, preferably amateur boxers, when he gets, out of school and in preparation is taking Phy Ed.
Takes an active interest in every one of the boys-out for the bouts. He even worries about what they eat.
IRISH BEAT PANTHERS IN CLOSE CONTEST
BY 29-18 SCORE
•
By Fred Digby
Revenge is sweet, and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame love it.
In the beginning of the season the Northwestern quintet downed the Irish, but the latter came back to win in a return game. Illinois handed the Irish another* loss, but again they came back for blood and got it. Last Saturday night in the Notre Dame gymnasium before a capacity crowd the Irish took revenge for their only defeat, coming out with a clean record after licking the Pittsburgh Panthers, 29 to 18.	,
The Irish held the upper hand for the whole of the rather slow and ragged game. While the Pittsburgh figure eight offense was stopped, Captain Ray Meyer and Johnny Moir were banging away at the Irish goal to secure the margin of victory.
Captain Meyer led the scorers with nine points. He also contributed much to holding down the Panther score with his customy consistent defensive play. High-scoring Johnny Moir, obviously having an off-night and missing many set-up shots, pulled up with but eight points, a comparatively small total.
Starting slowly, the Irish finally worked up to a 15 to 10 lead at the half. Pitt scored the first point on a free throw by Jesko. After Meyer had tied this with anothei* free throw, Moir tallied with a field goal_The. Irish with these two points took the lead for the night.
Both teams played erratically. There was a great deal of poor passing, and at the same time shots connected but seldom. The Irish retained their lead in the second half, scoring 14 points to the Panthers’. The score stood at 29 to 18 at the final gun.
The game was primaily a defensive, one. The Irish had the figure eight stopped so that the Panthers were unable to tally from under the basket but had to be content with shooting long. In the same way, however, the Pitt zone defense had the Irish fairly well bottled up. But not enough to stop them from getting enough points to win.
Joe Garcia, who ran wild against the Irish in the first game, was held to four points. Captain Bill Jesko led the Pittmen in scoring with two field goals and two free throws.
Mail handled by Ohio State University campus carriers in - January totalled 134,317 pieces.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937	17
INTERHALL THINLIES TO RUN OFF FINALS SUNDAY MORNING
•
Sunday morning will find the track hopefuls of Notre Dame, representing every hall on the campus, vying for the winning medal in the interhall track meet and a possible place on the varsity squad.
The meet was originally scheduled for Sunday, March 7, but Coach Nicholson, fearing that the meet would possibly conflict with the beginning of spring football practice, changed it to this Sunday.
The preliminary heats have already been run off and the finalists selected. The halls were divided into two sections for the preliminary events. The first three men in each event on each night qualify foi' the finals.
The finals will start at ten o’clock, Sunday morning. The winners of first, second, and third places will all receive medals. The meet will include the pole vault, shot put, 60 yard dash, mile run, 60 yard high hurdles, 440 yard run, two mile run, 880 yard run, high jump, and the broad jump.
In addition to these events there will be a six man relay race, the winning team to run in the Drake track meet and at the Central Intercollegiate meet.
The interhall meet, an annual affair, has attracted much attention in the past, and has been the path to a berth on the varsity squad for many thinlies. The meet was instituted for just this purpose—the uncovering of hidden talent among the students in an effort to promote greater interest in the sport. It is expected that a number of the students who win places in the meet will secure permanent positions on the track squad.
Interhall Basketball
(Continued from Page 15)
vision of Group I. Badin snowed under the first year men from Freshman hall by the score of 43-13. Carroll captured their sixth victory by defeating the gold coasters from Cavanaugh 29-13. Off-Campus gained an easy victory by taking their game with the Old Infirmary by forfeit when the latter failed to put in an appearance.
In Group II the Dillonites ran up an impressive score of 56-30 over the tired Sorin heavyweights. The Walsh aggregation failed to take the floor against their classmates from Alumni and lost by forfeit. In the lightweight division the Dillon midgets continued theid winning habit by defeating the hapless Sorinites 22-9.
KEOGANMEN DEFEAT MARQUETTE CAGE TEAM IN YEAR'S HARDEST FOUGHT GAME
HILLTOPPERS START OUT STRONG
First they whispered and then they shouted. This was the mighty Notre Dame basketball team which romped to a 41-24 victory over Marquette in the local basket-hall last Tuesday-night. The Irish “whispering” took place early in the game when it looked for a short while as if the eight-game winning streak was going to be stopped at that point.
Marquette began the tilt with two fast baskets followed by a long shot by Brown putting the score at 6-2.
Tommy Wukovits South Bend is proud.
Then the Hilltoppers went to work and proceeded to run the Irish ragged for about twelve minutes, running up a 10-3 count. Notre Dame still seemed to be victim of the staleness which manifested itself in the recent Pitt game. Suddenly the tide changed and the “shouting” began. Moir hooped a couple of fast ones and away went the Fighting Irish. In a few minutes the score was tied at 1515 and from then on Notre Dame forged ahead at will. The first half ended with the Irish on the long end of a 22-18 score.
A subdued Marquette squad took the floor in the second half, and for a few minutes neither team displayed any eagerness to shoot. Again Moir found the range and the Irish were back in the game. Only this time they were able to play their own game as the opposition had tired. The original Irish team of Meyer. Moir, Wukovits, Nowak, and Brown played well into the second period with Captain Ray Meyer leading his iron men to a substantial margin over Marquette. Sadowski replaced Meyer halfway through the second half and joined in the skirmishes which were many and vigorous. For a time in the second half Officials Kearns and
NOTRE DAME FENCERS TO MEET CHICAGO FOR SECOND TIME
•
On Saturday, in the local fieldhouse, Coach Pedro de Landero’s fencing team encounters the Chicago University sword-wielders. Big Ten champions last year, and just as potent this season, they are considered the strongest outfit on the Irish fencing schedule.
To date they are undefeated, but they have been tied by Ohio State. That Notre Dame has a chance to upset the well-known dope is seen in the fact that they themselves were only edged 9% to 712 by the Buckeyes. Other teams defeated by the Chicagoans are Northwestern — who beat the Irish earlier in the season — Michigan State, and Wisconsin. Outstanding on the Midway club are Cocaptains Walters and Lemons, and sabre-man Fritz. All three are veterans.
Representing the Landero men will be the usual trio of Captain Telmo de Landero, Bob Seco, and Jack McAuliffe, plus Jack Zerbst and Sal Scarleta. The latter two are newcomers and have done exceedingly well in their initial year of competition. De Landero, Seco, and McAuliffe have kept their play on a high plane all season.
After beginning the season with two defeats, the Notre Dame fencing machine has been gathering momentum and is now rolling in high speed. In preparation for this meet with Chicago, and for the one yesterday with Purdue, Coach de Landero held a round-robin tournament last weekend between his varsity and freshmen squad-members.
Schommer must have thought they were officiating at a football game.
Moil- was high point man for Notre Dame, running up his season’s total to a staggering 224 points by sinking five baskets and five free tosses. Nowak and Wukovits were next in line with eight and six points respectively. A true picture of the second half supremacy of Notre Dame may be had when it is shown that Marquette scored only six points the entire closing period. Another factor in Notre Dame’s victory was the fact that the Irish made nine free throws out of ten attempts while Marquette made only four out of seven.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By cy STROKER
From all appearance, the Bengal Boxing Show, March 19, will be one of the best that has been put on since the event was first staged at Notre Dame. Never before has there been such competition for a chance to win one of the titles. Never before has such a large group turned out day after day to train and learn the art from capable Frank Schiavone. With the appearance of so many defending champions against such a wealth of new blood, plus the appearance of some notable figure in the sporting world as honorary referee, plus several comedy acts, the Show is bound to be an event you can’t afford to miss.
With the space of four days we saw the worst game the Irish have played so far this season, and also the hardest fought game. The Pittsburgh game of Saturday night was far below the Irish standard and we are convinced that, but for the fact that the Panthers were not “on,” the Irish percentage in the Notre Dame-Pitt athletic contests this year would have been zip. Paul Nowak’s playing, especially, was not of the kind that has made him the outstanding center in the country for the last year and a half. In due respect to the Irish, however, it must be said that Pitt’s shifting zone defense was the tightest that has made its appearance on the Notre Dame floor, and it is greatly to the credit of the Keoganmen that they broke through it frequently enough to win the game.	-
The Marquette game Tuesday night was a horse of a different color. But definitely. The Hilltoppers started out in such a whirwiiid fashion* that they seemed unbeatable, but we felt secure in the assumption that they could not keep up the dizzy pace for long. The strange part of the game was that they did keep it up, and the decisive victory for Notre Dame was more a result of the fact that the Irish became hotter as the game went along rather than from a lack of fight on the Jesuits’ part. The game bore out the frequently-made comment that when two Catholic school teams get together, it’s a fight from start to finish.	'
Elmer Layden’s program for indoor winter sports is meeting with more success and enthusiasm than we had dared to dream of. (A preposition is the ■wrong word to end a sentence with.) The sudden flare-up of interest in billiards, bowling, and handball is all that is needed to prove the value and need of the program. The efficiency with which the tournaments are being run, in spite of the crowded entry lists for all events, is evidence of the good job being done by the student managers, who seem to have a way of making things run smoothly, and by the S.A.C. The handball tournament is uncovering some surprisingly good material which may form the basis for a strong handball team to represent the school in the future. ,
HANDBALL, BOWLING. AND POOL TOURNEYS RUN FIRST ROUND
The possibilities of having an outdoor winter sports program to supplement the billiard, hand-ball, and bowling tournaments how in full swing throughout the campus were greatly enhanced during the past week by the arrival of snappy winter weather. Such an outdoor program as was at first planned depends to a great extent upon favorable weather conditions and the success of the indoor competition, which thus far has received an encouraging response from the student body.
The previously planned ice and snow events were somewhat curtailed last week as a belated cold snap froze the lakes, and allowed those in charge of the program to make plans only for the skating events. Reluctant to ■ base too much on the present ice conditions, President Phil Bondi, of the Students’ Activity Council, announced that the annual S.A.C. swimming meet is now being considered in connection with the indoor program. A campus-wide ping-pong tournament schedule is also being formulated.
Competition in hand-ball, billiards, and bowling began in earnest on Tuesday in the gymnasium, Brownson, Carroll, and Walsh “Rec” rooms, respectively. Interest in these tournaments has been at a peak since their announcement three weeks ago, and it has been pointed out that in no other program sponsored by the Athletic Association has there been such overwhelming manifestation of student interest and enthusiasm.
Because of the large number of entries in the three sports, those registered to compete have precedence over those not registered, and to facilitate the computation of the standings all competitors are urged to report the outcome of their matches as soon as possible to the manager’s office.	.
- The other day we struggled through a fierce wind over to the edge of St. Mary’s lake to make a few frost-bitten observations on the progress of iceboating at du Lac. There we found a group of pink-cheeked hearties trying to maneuver the boat (which carries on its sail the caption,. “The Spirit of Notre Dame”) against the gale that was sweeping from the general direction of the Niles road. Having finally achieved their task, the merry sportsters headed the boat into the wind and started for the Grotto end of the lake with such speed that we were sure they would land in the laundry. But just at the crucial moment, they swerved out of danger, none the worse for their trip. As we massaged our frozen ears on the trip back to the quadrangle we reflected that it is an ill wind indeed that blows nobody some good.	•
Bengal Bouts
(Continued from Page U) ,
Bud Marcy, a former Golden Gloves champ.
The next year he again met Marcy in the finals of the lightweight division, and upset all the dope by scoring a technical knockout over the Golden Glover. Last year he successfully defended his crown against Gabriel Valez, and the current Bouts will see him going after his third successive lightweight title. To our knowledge, this distinction has never been achieved in the Bengal Bouts, so Tommy should be something of an attraction in himself.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
19
NINETEEN GAMES ON BASEBALL TEAM'S CARD. OPEN HERE WITH CHICAGO APRIL 13;
OUTLOOK BRIGHT
Notre Dame’s 1937 baseball team, playing- a 19-game schedule, will again attempt an ambitious program for the coming spring. Twelve contests are carded for Cartier Field, while the remaining seven will be on foreign diamonds. Last year Coach Jake Kline’s men experienced the best season, since
the sport was first started here 26 years ago. Losing but three out of 19 starts, the Gold and Blue ranked as the sixth outstanding college baseball squad in the country.
The three opponents that proved defeat for the Irish last spring, are again on the new schedule. Wisconsin, Western State, and Michigan State constitute the trio, and in all probability they will offer the Irish plenty of competition. Each combine that Kline’s proteges will meet in the near future also had a place on the ’36 schedule. Seven Big Ten teams are listed for Captain-elect Ennio Arboit and his mates.
Louisiana Tech will appear to oppose Notre Dame in the national pastime. The southerners are to play a two-game series here, in the middle of May. Undoubtedly the Irish will receive much opposition from Purdue and Northwestern. Both squads are reputed to be unusually strong for this season’s baseball campaign. Iowa will be the feature sport attraction, during Commencement when they come here for a two-game engagement.
Although, as yet no official call has been given for baseball candidates, nevertheless Coach Kline has had the battery working out daily in the fieldhouse. Practically the entire team graduated last June, including Pilney, Fromhart, Velcheck, Scafati, Thernes, Gaul, and Wentworth. The Irish mentor will be forced to rely consid
Champion Tex Durkin Spars in Practice
erably on the pitching efforts of Johnny Goncher and Arboit.	.
Apr. 13—Chicago, here.
Apr. 17—Illinois, there.
Apr. 22—Chicago, there.
Apr. 24—Northwestern, here.
Apr. 27—Purdue, there.
May 1—Michigan State, there.
May 4—Northwestern, there.
May 5—Wisconsin, there.
May 8—Western State Teachers, here.
May 12—Louisiana Tech., here.
May 13—Louisiana Tech., here.
May 15—Purdue, here.
May 19—Western State Teachers, there.
May 21—Ohio State, here.
May 22—Ohio State, here.
May 26—Michigan State, here.
May 29—Wisconsin, here.
June 4—Iowa, here. June 5—Iowa, here.
Hand Ball Team
(Continued from Page Ik) players on the campus of almost equal ability has made it impossible to select any definite group that can actually be called the team. Notre Dame tried a different man in each match against Chicago, while the Maroons used only three players.
The five who competed for the Irish were Bill Fallon, Jack Claire, John Clifford, Jack Darcy, and Fred Mundee; however, Hank Po jman, Mark Lonergan, John Brogger, Bill Metrailer, and several others have equally as good chances of competing in future meets. The team is usually decided before each meet by round-robin tournament.
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
Honors for champion bench warmer of New York city basketball teams has narrowed down to PERRY GEFFEN of New York University and “BIG HIPS” DUFFY of Manhattan. How different they react during a game though I When Manhattan scores, Duffy jumps up on the bench and you can read his lips saying, “Come on! Let’s get them!” On the other hand, after four years of bench warming, Geffen has acquired that “so what?” look.	.
MIKLOS SZABO, Hungarian 1500-meter champ recently made a very poor showing against DON LASH in Boston. Before the race, Szabo ate a big portion of pork swimming in gravy. Perhaps the Hungarian ace has learned his lesson by now.
A New York sports writer tells the following yarn about PIGGY LAMBERT, Purdue’s excitable mentor. Years ago in an important game with the score tied and less than a minute to play, Purdue missed five or six easy shots at the basket. Lambert rushed out on the floor, grabbed the ball, and then dropped it through the net. Instead of being the winning play, it was the losing one as the opponents were given a free throw because Purdue had six men on the floor.
The time is ripe for MINNESOTA or ILLINOIS to win an undisputed Big Ten Cage title. The Gophers haven’t been at the top since 1919, and Illinois’ last undisputed crown was won way back in 1915.
The University of PITTSBURGH Alumni loaded 500 stogies in an airplane for delivery to the University of Washington Alumni Association recently. It was in recognition of good sportsmanship of the Washington football team and Alumni association in shipping to Pitt a 50-pound salmon-payment of a bet on the Rose Bowl game won by the Panthers.
Nomination for the outstanding rough player of the Big Ten must go to KENDALL PETERSEN, Chicago guard. He has committed 28 personal fouls in nine games. Other Big Ten “bad boys” are RADABAUGH, of Ohio State, with 23 in eight tilts, STEPHENS, Iowa forward, 23 in nine and ANDERSON, Purdue center and forward is close with 21 in eight contests.
IOWA STATE, always prominent in college wrestling circles, .doesn’t have an out of the state man among its grapplers.
During the 1935-36 season, including practice sessions and participations in meets, LEO MCFARLANE traveled a total of 436 miles. The Notre Dame long distance man accomplished this in cross-country, indoor and outdoor track, and in preparing for competition.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
Featured in "Esquire” for March ARROW AIKEN STRIPE SHIRTS
The shirt favored by best-dressed men 2.50 Aiken stripe cravat to harmonize 1.50
EUmmirtifs
Catholic Press Meet
(Continued from Page 6)
SHIRTS
personal exhibition of the writers.” After his formal address Father*
Lord conducted what he termed an “Examination of the Editorial Conscience.” In this discussion he brought out many qestions for answer by the delegates.
In addition to the general sessions eight discussion meetings in the form of round table forums were held to examine specific journalistic problems. For these the assemblage split into smaller groups, under separate chairmen.
Delegates to the Congress assisted at High Mass in a body at Gesu Church Sunday morning. The sermon was preached by Rev. William P. O’Connor and treated the personal virtues necessary to the true Catholic journalist.
Arrangements for the Congress and in general charge of its activities was Professor J. L. O’Sullivan, dean of the Marquette school of journalism.
The gift of $110,000 to the University of Michigan was contributed by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation of Battle Creek.
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner'
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937	21
From the Files of "The Scholastic"
•
February 25, 1902—This is but an instance of the willingness of the spirit and the weakness of the flesh. One of our third-flat friends made a Lenten resolution that 40 days would pass before a puff of smoke would cross his lips. The other day a friend called at his room and found him barricaded behind doors and the transom fast assuming a smoky color. No amount of pounding or solicitation would bring him to the door. Now he speaks of Lenten resolutions.
February 25, 1902—In an interhall track meet, the pole vault was won by Taylor at a height of seven feet.	.
February 25, 1903—A committee has been appointed to investigate the cause of the noise which occurred in the Main Building about eleven o’clock last Tuesday night. Those
who heard the terrible rumbling claim that it sounded like a vigorous young man falling down the stairway.
March 4, 1903—Some have already begun counting the days and Sundays till June 15. Has anyone counted the seconds yet? Or is that beyond the ability of those indulging in that ‘waste-time?’
February 20, 1904—Judging from the number of dainty autographed prayer books seen among certain Sorinites these days one must necessarily conclude that they are laying aside their worldly thoughts, and delving in pious meditation of the land beyond the Jordan.
February 7, 1905 — More track candidates will receive places on the training table when their work shows steady improvement.
February 14, 1905 — Vaccination has been working some havoc with the baseball and track men during the past week.
March 7, 1905 — The ping pong enthusiasts of the different halls are
considering the advisability of holding a tournament with representatives from each hall. A contest of this kind would no doubt be very interesting at the present time with basketball a dead issue. The annexationists are proficient exponents of this athletic pastime.
The canary in the commercial study hall, though not belonging like that in the Junior to the family of bell ringers, is quite a fine singer. As the boys begin filing into the hall in the morning he greets them with a glorious burst of song, and as the last squad leave it at nine o’clock he gives them a farewell warble.
March 26, 1876
Last Tuesday we had a very unusual snow storm. It not only snowed, but ti thundered and lightened at the same time.
December 9, 1876
Alexander Coquillard, the great wagon-manufacturer of South Bend, was the first student who even entered Notre Dame.
LONG FILLER
What a Pickup!! That LITTLE FENDRICH Panetela just naturally lifts you into a class above •.ordinary smokers ... So if your new car and the •girl you’re with are both “honeys”, don’t forget • to make it a threesome by having plenty of those mild ... inhalable LITTLE FENDRICH Panetelas to complete the evening . . . It’s a Honey!!!
rLlTTLE FENDRICH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 26, 1937
State Debate Meet
(Continued from Page 4)
west Invitational tournament and placed second to the University of Iowa, which won eight contests.
The schedule:
Feb. 26-27—“B” Team at Manchester tourn.
Feb. 28—St. Xavier College at Notre Dame.
March 4-5—Midwest Invitational Tournament. Iowa City, Iowa.
March 8—Mich. State College at E. Lansing.
March 11—Mich. State College at Notre Dame.
March 17—U. of Alabama at St. Mary’s col.
- March 19-20 Delta Sigma Rho tournament at Madison, Wis.
March 22—Univ, of Florida at Notre Dame.
It's a Muckle Gude BARGAIN
“Penny-wise” happens to be “pound-wise,” too, on the South Shore Line. The thrifty South Shore Line fares actually buy all the safety, speed and dependability you need to insure carefree, convenient travel. You’ll be safe and save money on the South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
^SOUTH^ORE^j
All-lnterhall Team
(Continued from Page J) team. Before the award was presented, Professor William J. Coyne, judge of the debate, gave a thorough criticism of the speeches.
The closeness of the decision can be shown by the poll of the audience, which gave the decision to Morrissey 75 to 73.
Pierre de la Vergne, coach of the winning team, saw one of his teams awarded the trophy for the second straight year; his Dillon debaters having annexed the cup last year also. George Morris, chairman of the debate, praised Pierre’s work as he presented him the trophy.
Thieves at the University of Texas " are playful. After a midnight swipe of S8, one left a note which read, “Thanks for the eight bucks! Will return later,” Signed “Ima Robber.”
GLASSES Properly FITTED
Est.
1900
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222% South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Man About Campus
(Continued from Page 8)
way . . . we think that’s pretty tender. . . . The girls at the Boarding School think he is “cute” . . . his plump pink cheeks fascinate them ... he does resemble something of a cherub. . . . Never worked a day in his life and summers at Antioch, HL, where he gains thirty pounds per summer being the local playboy, and becomes downright fat. . . . Plays handball at school to take the added “charm” off . . . confesses to be very good. . . . He dances divinely . . . just like a fawn . . . or should we say sprite? If you want to hear Nothing come over and ask him about his Army game trip . . . has been seen studying now and then . . . will graduate with the rank and file . . . probably be a coal-man. . . . her father owns a coal business. . . . Universally liked by both sexes is Martin T. Burns, and don’t let any one fool you— he is altogether a very fine lad.
Gym Team
(Continued from Page 14)
poise are Captain Don Hennessey, Phil Walker, Frank Maxwell, Phil Galetta, John Collins, and Joe Moore.
The members of the team have often displayed their repertoire in various exhibitions throughout the Mid-West and they have always been as well-received and as enthusiastically appreciated by outside audiences as they have by theii- fellow students. They give a very good example wherever they go of the type of work carried on in the regular curriculum of the Physical Education Department.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Cary Grant says:
"a light smoke rates aces high
with my throat
"Luckies have been my cigarette for five years now. I rate them a 4 star cigarette. They’re always good to the throat, and taste so much better than other cigarettes that it seems to me this 'Toasting’ process is a sivell idea. Yes, a light smoke like Luckies rates aces high with both my throat and taste,”
APPEARING IN THE NEW
COLUMBIA PICTURE, "WHEN YOU’RE IN LOVE”
AlH independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke.
Mr. Grant verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process ‘It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.
THE FINEST TOBACCOS— "THE CREAM OF THE CROP"
A Light Smoke
"It’s Toasted”—Your Throat Protection
AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH
Copyright 1937. The American Tobacco Company
Frag rance
. . . sun-cured in the tobacco fields of Turkey and Greece
make good things... and there is no mistaking the fine quality of these costly Turkish tobaccos in Chesterfield cigarettes.
. . . these are the spicy leaves that help make Chesterfields an outstanding cigarette.
FRAGRANCE. MILDNESS TASTE

These are the good things you want
in a cigarette. ..You find them in Chesterfields.
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.